Akbank Integrated 
Annual Report 
2022



We commemorate our citizens who lost their lives in the 
earthquake disaster we experienced on 06.02.2023 with mercy.

We promise to support our society in this difficult time, 

To honor the memory of the deceased by making a positive 
impact on our world, 

To work for a sustainable future where the effects of natural 
disasters can be mitigated.

We will continue to do our part in the rebuilding process.

We stand by all our stakeholders and people living in the region.



We have a dream far beyond banking.

Our dream is to be as endless as the power of art, to be as 
unique as the nature we protect at every step.

Our dream is to inspire future generations, to create the 
Türkiye of the Future.

Akbank has existed for 74 years so that Türkiye can look to 
the future with hope.



Table of Contents

About the Report ---------------------------- 6

Messages from Top Management ------- 8

Message from the Chairman ----------------- 10

Message from the CEO ---------------------- 12

Akbank for You --------------------- 16

Akbank and Our History in Brief --------------- 18

Our Values, Our Vision, Our Mission ------------ 22

Our Shareholder Structure ------------------- 24

Our Activities ------------------------------ 25

The Economic Value We Create --------------- 55

2022 Highlights ---------------------------- 58

Ordinary General Assembly Meeting Agenda ----60

Compliance Opinion Regarding Annual Integrated 
Report ------------------------------------ 61

Corporate Governance --------------- 62

Akbank Corporate Governance --------------- 64

Our Board of Directors ---------------------- 66

Advisor to the Board of Directors  
and Chairman of the Inspection Board --------- 68

Our International Advisory Board -------------- 69

Executive Management ---------------------- 74

Our Affiliates ------------------------------ 77

Changes in Our Organizational  
Structure During the Year -------------------- 77

Board Committees ------------------------- 78

Summary Board Report ---------------------- 79

Information on People and Organizations from 
Which We Receive Support Services -----------80

Transactions with the Risk Group  
That Our Bank is Included in ------------------ 83

Sustainable Financing -------------- 150

Sustainable Financing ---------------------- 152

Responsible Products & Services ------------- 153

Our Environment and Social Credit Policies ---- 156

Sustainable Borrowing --------------------- 158

Impact Investing -------------------------- 160

People & Community --------------- 162

Our Qualified Human Resource -------------- 164

Employee Satisfaction and Development  ----- 166

The Future of Work ------------------------ 170

Specialty Based Customized  
Development Journeys --------------------- 172

Diversity & Inclusion ----------------------- 174

Our Occupational Health and Safety Practices - 178

Our Social Investments --------------------- 180

Ecosystem Management ------------ 188

Ecosystem Management ------------------- 190

Digitalization and Innovation ---------------- 191

Financial Inclusion ------------------------- 194

Our Customer Experience and  
Satisfaction Studies ----------------------- 199

Our Purchasing Approach ------------------- 203

Climate Change ------------------- 204

Climate Change ---------------------------206

Portfolio Impact and Exposure ---------------208

Climate Risk and Our Portfolio --------------- 210

Our Operational Greenhouse Gas Emissions --- 222

Our Recycling-Oriented  
Environmental Approach -------------------- 226

Our Water Consumption -------------------- 227

Our Affiliation Report ----------------------- 83

Report on Compliance with  
Corporate Governance Principles ------------- 84

Corporate Governance Compliance  
Information Form ---------------------------90

Sustainability Principles Compliance Framework - 98

Statement of Responsibility ----------------- 102

Our Policies ------------------------------ 103

Risk Management and Regulatory Compliance - 104

Information Security Management ----------- 109

Our Internal Audit Infrastructure ------------- 111

Audit Committee Report -------------------- 115

Our Credit Tracking Applications ------------- 118

Our Governance Approach to  
Customer Complaints ---------------------- 118

Information About the  
Legal Actions Against the Bank -------------- 119

Other Disclosures on Corporate Governance --- 121

Our Sustainability Journey ---------- 122

Our Strategic Focus Areas and Material Issues - 124

Our Sustainability Management ------------- 128

The Development of Akbank’s  
Sustainability Journey ---------------------- 134

Our Sustainability Performance -------------- 138

Our Value Creation Model ------------------- 140

Financial Information and Risk 
Management ---------------------- 228

Financial Information and Risk Management --- 230

Auditor’s Report --------------------------- 233

Legislative Changes That Took Place in 2022 --- 234

2022 Financial Statements and Remarks ------ 240

Profit Distribution -------------------------508

Annexes -------------------------- 510

Assurance Report ------------------------- 512

Reporting Guidance ----------------------- 518

Our Performance Tables -------------------- 528

Principles of Responsible Banking Impact Report 534

Task Force on Climate-Related Financial 
Disclosures – (TCFD) Table------------------540

Decisions of The Shareholders Ordinary General 
Assembly Meeting Dated 28 March 2023 ------ 542



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

As Akbank T.A.Ş. (Akbank), we continued our sustainability 
reports, which we have been providing annually since 
2009 in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative 
(GRI) Standards, by publishing our first Integrated Report 
in 2020. In 2021, we presented our first Integrated Annual 
Report, which includes our financial and non-financial 
performance, to our stakeholders. With our sustainability 
performance in 2021, we took an important step towards 
spearheading the Turkish banking sector.

We prepared the 2022 Akbank Integrated Annual Report in 
line with global reporting standards, for the financial and 
non-financial performance of our Bank between 01.01.2022 
- 31.12.2022, in accordance with the Value Reporting 
Foundation (VRF), Integrated Reporting Framework, and 
‘Core’ option requirements of GRI Standards. In our report, 
we also took Borsa İstanbul Sustainability Index Banking 
Sector Criteria, UNEP-FI Principles for Responsible 
Banking, United Nations Global Compact, Task Force on 
Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), and the 
Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs) into account.

About 
the report

Akbank’s 2022 Integrated 
Annual Report 

Impact Report of Principles for Responsible Banking, which 
was created by the United Nations Environment Program 
Finance Initiative (‘UNEP FI’), which we signed in our report 
in June 2021, and which is included in our first Integrated 
Annual Report, also takes place in our report. In addition, 
our climate-related summary table is also included in 
the report in line with the Task Force on Climate-Related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Recommendations. You can 
access the GRI Content Index table of our report, which 
we prepared in compliance with the GRI Standards, on 
the website. The Integrated Report Mandatory Statement 
List, which we have created in line with the International 
Integrated Reporting Framework (<IR>) that is present 
within the Value Reporting Foundation, is accessible from 
here.

We create value for all our stakeholders with a 
Sustainability Strategy understanding that covers all our 
business processes, with our focus areas of Sustainable 
Finance, People & Community, Ecosystems Management, 
and Climate Change, and with our sub-focus areas. We 
share the created value with you, our esteemed readers, 
by supporting it with short, medium, and long-term 
targets. In our report, we scrutinized the activities of our 
Bank in Türkiye. Performance data in the report does not 
cover affiliates and foreign companies unless otherwise 

As the first deposit 
bank in Türkiye to 
make a long-term 
commitment in 
terms of sustainable 
finance, we 
transparently disclose 
our contribution 
to the Sustainable 
Development Goals in 
all our activities.

stated. The employment data of our Malta branch, which 
operationally takes place in the report, is reflected in our 
total employment performance.

For the non-financial Selected Information environmental 
and social performance data included in our report, we 
received “limited” assurance service in accordance with 
ISAE 3000 (Revised) and ISAE 3410 Standards from our 
independent audit firm. Independent Assurance Statement, 
which includes the list and scope of indicators that receive 
assurance, can be accessed on Pages 511-517 of the report.

Our financial information was audited by our same 
independent audit firm. Statements of Independent 
Auditors can be accessed on pages 240 - 507 of the report.

You can send your questions, comments, and suggestions 
about the report to the address 
investor.relations@akbank.com.

6 - 7About  the report

https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/year-list/sustainability-reports/60/0/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/year-list/sustainability-reports/60/0/0
mailto:investor.relations@akbank.com


Messages from 
top management

Message from the Chairman ----------- 10

Message from the CEO -----------------12



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Suzan Sabancı Dinçer 
Chairman of the Board of Directors

Message from 
the chairman

10 - 11Messages from top management

First of all, I would like to express my condolences to our 
citizens who lost their lives due to the earthquake disaster 
we experienced on February 6, 2023, and to their relatives and 
our nation. I would like to underline that we will continue the 
support, which we have shown from the first moments, also in 
the process of redevelopment of the region.

The global economy faced various shocks in 2022. The war 
between Russia and Ukraine worsened the supply-side 
problems that emerged with the pandemic. While inflation 
reached the highest levels of decades globally, the tightening 
in financial conditions, disruptions in energy supply, and the 
decline in the purchasing power of individuals slowed down the 
economy in many countries, particularly in Europe. The Zero-
COVID Policy in China has also created downward pressure on 
the global economic outlook.

While the global economy is estimated to have grown by about 
3% in 2022 despite the slowdown that became evident in the 
second half of the year, the growth expectations regarding 
2023 indicate that the slowdown trend will continue, although 
it is not as sharp as initially thought. It is expected that 
developed economies will have relatively weaker performance 
and emerging market economies, especially China and India, 
will perform better.

While Central Banks try to reduce inflationary pressures 
through interest rate increases, governments support 
households affected by rising food and energy bills by way of 
fiscal policies. Fed increased its policy interest rate by a total 
of 450 basis points to the range of 4.50 - 4.75% from March 
2022. European Central Bank (ECB) has increased its short-
term interest rates by a total of 300 basis points since July 
2022, and the Bank of England has increased its policy rate 
by a total of 390 basis points since December 2021. Central 
banks of developed countries are expected to continue to 
increase their interest rates.

While central banks continue to increase interest rates 
rapidly to reduce inflation to the targeted levels, discussions 
on whether there will be a soft drop continue. In addition, 
increasing indebtedness and climate change, as well as 
geopolitical developments are considered medium and long-
term challenges for the global economy.

Domestically, while a slowdown arising from foreign demand 
is observed in economic activity in the second half of the 
year, domestic demand continues to be the main driver of 
growth led by private consumption. Despite the strong course 
in tourism, the contribution of net exports to growth turned 
negative due to the impacts of the slowdown in foreign 
demand on goods exports and the increase in gold imports. 
Despite the loss of momentum in the last quarter, economic 
growth is expected to take place above the Medium-Term 
Program target (5%) throughout the year.

In 2022, the foreign trade deficit was realized at about the 
level of USD 109.5 billion due to the increase in international 
commodity prices, the high course of gold imports, the drop in 
the euro/dollar parity, and the weakening foreign demand. The 

strong course in service revenues, especially travel revenues, 
restricted the reflection of the foreign trade deficit to the 
current account deficit. In this way, the current account deficit 
was USD 48.8 billion, slightly above the MTP forecast (USD 47.3 
billion), in 2022. We consider that the foreign trade deficit due 
to weakening global growth and international prices and gold 
demand may also progress high in 2023.

The annual consumer inflation peaked at 85.5% in October and 
subsequently finished the year 2022 at the level of 64.3% with 
a slowdown in the main trend and the base effect. We envisage 
that in the first half of 2023, annual inflation will continue 
its downward trend due to weakening import cost pressures 
and strong base effects, while factors like high minimum 
wage increases and managed price adjustments, and policy 
incentives during the election period may keep the main trend 
of inflation high.

The CBRT stated that the fact that financial conditions 
are supportive is important in terms of maintaining the 
acceleration in industrial production and the increasing trend 
in employment in a period of uncertainties concerning global 
growth and increased geopolitical risks and reduced the policy 
rate by 500 basis points to 9% in the August-November 
period.

In 2022, the budget deficit was realized as 139 billion TL as 
a result of the increase in the budget revenues above the 
expenditures, clearly below the end-year budget deficit 
predicted as 461 billion TL in the Medium-Term Program. The 
primary balance yielded a surplus of 171.8 billion TL. 

Loans in the banking sector continue to be strong. According to 
the last February 3 data announced by the BRSA, the amount 
in the currency-protected deposit system has a 29% share 
in TL deposits with 1,456 billion TL. It is aimed to increase TL 
deposits through the macroprudential measures announced 
recently. The non-performing loan ratio in the banking sector 
has progressed at a low level of 2.1% as of December. With 
19.46%, the capital adequacy ratio is high above the legal limit.

Abroad, the monetary policies of the central banks of 
developed countries and the course of the global economic 
outlook in 2023 about it and geopolitical developments will be 
followed closely. Domestically, there are uncertainties due to 
the upcoming elections. Moreover, the loss of life caused by 
the earthquake that took place on February 6, its devastating 
impacts on the region’s production, export, and tourism income 
generation capacity, and the reflections of the additional 
financing needed for the reconstruction of the region on the 
macroeconomic balance will be closely monitored.

The global economy 
faced various shocks 
in 2022. The war 
between Russia and 
Ukraine worsened the 
supply-side problems 
that emerged with 
the pandemic. While 
inflation reached 
the highest levels 
of decades globally, 
the tightening in 
financial conditions, 
disruptions in 
energy supply, and 
the decline in the 
purchasing power of 
individuals slowed 
down the economy 
in many countries, 
especially in Europe.



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Message from 
the CEO

12 - 13Messages from top management

We continued to 
create value for our 
country with all our 
activities in 2022 
in the light of our 
multidimensional 
sustainability 
strategy. This year, in 
which we confirmed 
our belief that 
creating the Türkiye 
of the future is a 
responsibility beyond 
banking, we continued 
to move towards a 
shared goal, with all 
our business units, 
customers, employees, 
and investors.

Dear Esteemed Stakeholders,

Before presenting the evaluations regarding the developments 
and our activities in 2022, we would like to respectfully 
commemorate our citizens who lost their lives in the 
earthquake disaster that affected our country at the beginning 
of 2023. We are determined to support the redevelopment of 
the region with our banking and non-banking means. We have 
a heartfelt belief that we can overcome this difficult period 
with solidarity.

2022 has been a year dominated by uncertainties in the world 
and our country, with the impact of economic and geopolitical 
developments. Nevertheless, we have seen those countries 
facing inflation, food crisis, and energy supply problems 
continue to collaborate for a sustainable future despite all the 
challenges.

We continued to create value for our country with all our 
activities in 2022 in the light of our multidimensional 
sustainability strategy. This year, in which we confirmed our 
belief that creating the Türkiye of the future is a responsibility 
beyond banking, we continued to move towards a shared 
goal, with all our business units, customers, employees, and 
investors.

In 2022, we increased the loan support we provide to our 
economy to a total of 757 billion TL, 616 billion TL of which was 
in cash. Our total deposit reached 722 billion TL and our assets 
reached 1 trillion 147 billion TL. With our strong consolidated 
capital adequacy ratio that took place at the level of 23.2%, 
we continued to support the growth and development of the 
real sector. As Akbank, we set aside 20 billion 245 million TL for 
tax and gained a consolidated net profit of 60 billion 26 million 
TL this year.

In 2022, as Akbank, we also made significant progress in 
line with our sustainability strategy, which we made public 
intending to leave a more inhabitable world to future 
generations. We have confirmed our determination in this 
field by carrying our strategy to every field where our Bank 
operates. At the point we have arrived at the end of 2022, 
we are very pleased to see that it is not possible to think of 
Akbank as separate from sustainability activities.

We consider it as one of our most important priorities to 
support the growth of our country by creating a positive 
environmental and social impact. Accordingly, we have 
progressed significantly in achieving our sustainable 
financing targets in 2022 and provided a total of 60 billion-TL 
sustainable financing. Hence, we increased the total financing 
we have provided as of 2021 to 87 billion TL, approaching our 
target of “200 billion-TL sustainable loan financing by 2030.” 
The volume of our sustainability-themed funds, which make 
it easier for savings holders to invest in companies that are 
beneficial to the environment and society, took place as 2.7 
billion TL, reaching more than 60 thousand customers as of 
the end of 2022. Our sustainable finance-based borrowing 
ratio in total borrowing has increased above 45% as of 2022.

We were selected as “Türkiye’s Best Bank in Sustainable 
Finance” by Global Finance for our achievements in 
sustainable finance. In the Central and Eastern Europe region, 
we were deemed worthy of the “Outstanding Leadership in 
Social Bonds” and “Outstanding Leadership in Sustainable 
Project Finance” awards. As one of the most established 
institutions in our country, we will continue to support all 
our stakeholders in building a sustainable future, just like in 
important transition processes such as digital transformation.

By making another important commitment in the field of 
sustainability at the beginning of 2022, we set the target of 
becoming a net zero bank by 2050. We will do our part in the 
fight against climate change by minimizing the greenhouse 
gas emissions of our loan portfolio. In line with our target, 
we will continue to focus on the green transformation of 
carbon-intensive sectors, green technology investments, 
sustainable infrastructure investments, and the field of clean 
transportation.



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

We believe that the green transformation of SMEs, 
which have an important role in the development of our 
economy, particularly in the fields of export, production, and 
employment, is critical in Türkiye’s journey toward net zero. 
With this awareness, we designed our SME movement, which 
brought along important innovations to the Turkish banking 
sector in 2022, to be compatible with our sustainability 
strategy, and we offered the SME Eco Transformation Package, 
which is Türkiye’s first green transformation package, to our 
customers. We will continue to offer products and services for 
all kinds of needs of our customers in the transformation to a 
green and inclusive economy.

As an exemplary institution that transcends borders when it 
comes to gender equality, we are also working on important 
endeavours for female SME owners. In 2022, within the 
framework of our collaboration with the EBRD, we provided 
support of nearly 800 million TL to female SME owners. Within 
the scope of the same program, we also offered mentoring and 
networking opportunities from the EBRD and Frankfurt School.

Moreover, we added new projects to our projects in 2022, 
with a focus on empowering women’s representation and 
increasing their visibility. In addition to our “Second Spring” 
project, in which women who have taken a break from business 
life for various reasons are supported to re-participate in 
business life, and our “Strong Women in Technology” project 
implemented to increase the ratio of women working in 
technology-oriented positions, we launched the Role Model 
Women of Akbank Program.

In 2022, we also launched the Akbank+ Program, which allows 
Akbank employees to work on their entrepreneurial ideas 
full-time and which is, in this sense, a first in Türkiye. We 
believe that this important program will provide significant 
contributions to the entrepreneurship ecosystem of both our 
Bank and our country.

The issues of culture and arts, entrepreneurship, education, 
and volunteering, which will carry our society forward, are also 
among our priorities. At the point we have arrived at today, 
we are happy that Akbank is an institution that stands out 
with these activities as well as its strong financials, innovative 
banking vision, and technology investments.

Akbank Youth Academy continued to support university 
students in preparing them for the working life of the future 
this year, reaching over 28,000 young people in 2022. Within 
the scope of our 101 pieces of training that we held in 
partnership with Microfon, we reached university students in 
different parts of Türkiye and tried to raise awareness about 
today’s prominent issues such as artificial intelligence, cyber 
security, and sustainability. We brought together academics, 
investors, and financial market actors under the roof of the 
Center of Excellence in Finance (CEF), of which we are the 
founding sponsor, and continued our contribution to the 
development of financial literacy.

Akbank Volunteers continued to develop projects in many 
fields from health to education and became part of solutions 
in 2022. Within the scope of our Good State of the City 
project, which we implemented for the eighth time this year, 
and which allows young people to meet volunteerism, 2,000 
young ones volunteered in social benefit projects to be carried 
out Türkiye-wide in cooperation with 13 non-governmental 
organizations operating in various fields.

Hakan Binbaşgil 
CEO

In 2022, together with the Sakıp Sabancı Museum, we brought 
“The Arrival of Spring, Normandy, 2020” exhibition of David 
Hockney, one of the most creative and inspiring artists of 
contemporary art, to Türkiye. Akbank Jazz Festival brought 
together 120 artists from Türkiye and the world with jazz lovers 
for the 32nd time. The festival, which is one of Akbank’s longest-
running culture and arts projects, hosted 15,000 participants 
this year. Our support for contemporary art continued this year 
as well. Contemporary Istanbul opened its doors to visitors for 
the 17th time. Again, Akbank Children’s Theatre and Akbank 
Short Film Festival continued at full throttle this year.

2022 has been a year in which substantial progress has taken 
place for Akbank. We left behind a successful year in which 
we brought together our innovative products and services and 
our customers and made significant progress in the field of 
sustainability.

I extend my thanks to our customers, and shareholders, who 
always carry us forward and encourage us to be the best, 
and to all our employees who carry our bank from success to 
success.

14 - 15Messages from top management



Akbank 
for you

Akbank and Our History in Brief ----------18

Our Values, Our Vision, Our Mission -------- 22

Our Shareholder Structure ---------------24

Our Activities --------------------------25

The Economic Value We Create -----------55

2022 Highlights ------------------------58

Ordinary General Assembly  
Meeting Agenda ----------------------- 60

Compliance Opinion Regarding  
Annual Integrated Report ---------------- 61



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

As Akbank T.A.Ş., we were established in Adana on January 
30, 1948, as a privately-owned commercial bank, within 
the framework of the consent granted by the Council of 
Ministers’ decision dated 12.12.1947 and numbered 3/6710, to 
carry out all kinds of banking transactions and to perform 
any kind of economic, financial and commercial initiatives 
and activities that are not prohibited by the Laws of the 
Republic of Türkiye, for the purpose of providing resources 
and support to the cotton producers in Adana. We opened 
our first Istanbul branch in Sirkeci on 14 July 1950. After our 
Headquarters was relocated to Istanbul in 1954, we rapidly 
increased the number of our branches and we automated all 
banking transactions in 1963.

With our public offering in 1990 and our secondary public 
offering in 1998, we started to trade in international markets 
as an American Depository Receipt (ADR).

We continue to serve our customers in the fields of corporate 
and investment banking, commercial banking, SME banking, 
consumer banking, payment systems, private banking, 
investment services, and treasury transactions. In addition 
to our standard banking services, we also provide services 
in the insurance sector through our branches. We provide 
insurance agency services on behalf of Aksigorta A.Ş. and 
AgeSA Hayat ve Emeklilik A.Ş. 

We are able to develop innovative product solutions for our 
customers’ different financial needs via our affiliates of 
Akbank AG, Ak Lease, Ak Investment, Ak Asset Management, 
and Ak Öde. We possess products and services that make a 
difference in the national and international banking sector, 
such as Axess, Wings, and Private Banking, which are 
associated with the Akbank identity.

Akbank and our 
history in brief

We were established in Adana on 
January 30, 1948, as a privately - 
owned commercial bank.

Employees 
12 Thousand+

Total Customers 
10.8 Million

ATMs 
5,900+

We provide services to our over 10.8 million active 
customers through our extensive service network and 
technological infrastructure with our Headquarters in 
Istanbul, Data and Life Center, 19 Regional Directorates 
in Türkiye, 711 branches, and more than 12 thousand 
employees. Apart from the one-to-one service we provide 
at our branches, we continue to create value through 
Akbank Internet, Akbank Mobile, Call Center, approximately 
5900 ATMs, and 734 thousand POS terminals (including 
virtual POS) for our customers with the investments we 
make in digital transformation. In addition to the foregoing, 
we have brought an international dimension to our 
operations through our subsidiary Akbank AG in Germany 
and our branch in Malta by drawing strength from our highly 
reputable identity in Türkiye. 

In 2022, we increased the loan support we provide to our 
economy to the level of a total of 757 billion TL, 616 billion 
TL of which is in cash. Our total deposits reached 722 billion 
TL and our assets reached 1 trillion 147 billion TL. With 
our strong consolidated capital adequacy ratio reaching 
23.2%, we have one of the strongest capital structures in 
our sector. With the strength we take from this structure, 
we continued to contribute to the development of our real 
sector in line with the loans we offer to our companies.

As Akbank, we have been a part of many initiatives that 
contribute to the social development of our country, by 
providing financing without compromising our ethical, 
social, and environmental values for 74 years. Within the 
scope of our sustainability strategy in 2020, we have 
identified four focus areas: sustainable finance, people & 
community, ecosystems management, and climate change. 

At the beginning of 
2021, we committed 
to providing 200 
billion-TL sustainable 
loan financing to our 
country until 2030.

In 2022, we increased the loan support 
we provide to our economy to the level 
of a total of 757 billion TL, 616 billion 
TL of which is in cash.

18 - 19Akbank for you



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

We aim to strengthen our society financially with the 
products and services we provide in the field of financial 
inclusion and to ensure the participation of all our 
stakeholders, including disadvantaged groups, in the 
economy. In 2021, we became a founding member of the 
Commitment to Financial Health & Inclusion of the United 
Nations Environment Program Finance Initiative.

By adding a new one to our social investments in 2021, 
we established Akbank Youth Academy. As part of the 
Youth Academy, we provide training in different fields to 
our young people, who constitute an important part of our 
society, to gain the competencies of the future. We have 
reached 40 thousand students, exceeding the target of 
reaching 15 thousand students for the first year of the 
Academy.

In line with our work based on gender equality, we are 
included in the Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index (GEI), 
one of the most comprehensive worldwide surveys 
to measure the performance of companies that have 
committed to gender equality since 2021. While ranking 
among the top 5 banks, we were chosen as the best of the 
emerging markets, in the “Gender Balance Index” research, 
which is accepted as an important reference point at the 
international level by the Official Monetary and Financial 
Institutions Forum (OMFIF) established to encourage the 
best policies and practices in global financial markets.

We work with a long-term perspective and determination 
to leave a more inhabitable world to future generations. 
At the beginning of 2021, we committed to providing 200 
billion TL of sustainable loan financing to our country by 
2030. In proportion to this loan volume, we aim to increase 
the sustainability-related financing we will provide also 
until 2030. In addition, we are committed to increasing the 
balance of mutual funds, which are included in the category 
of sustainable investment, to 15 billion TL by 2030 as well. 
With the said commitments of ours, we became the first 
deposit bank in Türkiye to set long-term targets in the field 
of sustainability.

We endeavour to integrate sustainability into all our 
operations and banking processes. In this direction, we 
manage our environmental and social risk assessment 
processes that we actively carry out, with our 
Environmental and Social Risk Framework, which we 
developed and updated in 2022. While offering innovative 
financing products that support the low-carbon 
transformation of our companies and all our customers, we 
take place among the leading institutions of our country 
and region with our sustainability-related borrowing 
transactions. In 2021, as a signatory to the Principles for 
Responsible Banking of the United Nations Environment 
Program Finance Initiative, we also strengthened the 
international dimension of our endeavours in this field.

We prioritize our work in line with our sustainability 
strategy, with our corporate culture based on diversity 
and inclusion principles. We support the participation 
of disabled people in working life, gender and equality 
of opportunity, women’s empowerment, and equality 
of opportunity in education through our volunteering 
activities. As a signatory to The Valuable 500, which was 
established as a global initiative in 2021, we became the 
first bank and institution from Türkiye that joined the 
initiative.

We review our activities and operational processes 
within the scope of the fight against climate change and 
implement sustainable solutions that include efficiency, 
savings, and reduction works that will enable us to reduce 
our environmental footprint. We report to national and 
international sustainability indices and determine our 
development areas by ensuring that our sustainability 
efforts are rated by third-party evaluating institutions. In 
addition to reducing greenhouse gas emissions from our 
operations, becoming a “net zero bank” by zeroing the 
impact of our loan portfolio on climate change by 2050 
is also among our targets to combat the climate crisis. 
Accordingly, we announced our support to the Task Force 
on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) in 2021

In 2021, we became a founding 
member of the Commitment to 
Financial Health & Inclusion of the 
United Nations Environment Program 
Finance Initiative.

With the “Akbank LAB” that we established in 2016 
based on our innovative banking culture, we invest in 
spearheading projects and start-ups in the banking sector 
in Türkiye and abroad.

In order to respond to the changing needs of our customers 
and to adapt to the developments that technology brings 
along to our lives, we adopt a banking culture open to 
innovation and change. We are constantly improving our 
“Akbank Mobile” application so that our customers can 
easily meet their financial needs, and we safeguard our 
leading position in the digital transformation journey of the 
banking sector in Türkiye. We became the first bank in our 
country to implement the “Digital First” program to provide 
new conveniences to our customers in the use of credit 
cards during the COVID-19 pandemic, the period when 
distance services gained importance. 

Becoming a “net zero bank” by zeroing 
the impact of our loan portfolio on 
climate change by 2050 is among our 
targets to combat the climate crisis.

20 - 21Akbank for you



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Our values, 
our vision, 
our mission

Our strong 
foundations

Strong, local majority 
shareholder 

Solid capital structure

Highly-qualified team 

Prudent risk management and 
robust asset quality 

Proactive ALM and strong 
liquidity 

Favorable cost base and high 
efficiency 

Stable and broad-based funding 
mix 

Well-diversified and sustainable 
revenue generation 

Innovative initiatives that herald 
the future of banking

Our vision
To be the leading 

bank that drives 

Türkiye into the 

future.

Our mission
Creating superior 
and sustainable 
value for all our 
stakeholders 
through 
innovative and 
reliable financial 
services.

Our strategic goals

Being the best bank in Türkiye in 

terms of customer experience and 

satisfaction 

Maintaining strong asset quality 

through efficient risk management

Preserving our competitive cost 

structure

Ensuring a superior customer 

experience in all channels

Enhancing customer value through 

innovative solutions

Building the future of banking by 

investing in people, technology and 

advanced analytics

Our core 
values
We are built upon 

your trust 

We exist because 

of our clients 

We do what’s right 

We stand out 

through innovation 

We give back

22 - 23Akbank for you



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Our shareholder 
structure

We were established on January 30, 1948 as a privately 
owned commercial bank. In 2022, when we celebrated our 
74th anniversary, we continued to take innovative steps in 
line with our corporate goals, taking strength from our solid 
shareholder structure. As of 2022, our stocks continue to be 
traded on Borsa Istanbul (BIST) with a free float of 51%. 

Our Level 1 Depositary Receipts continued to be traded 
on the US OTC Market in 2022 as well. You can find our 
shareholding structure as of 31 December 2022 in the chart.

Our activities

* Shareholder composition calculation is based on the “Ordinary 
General Assembly Meeting Shareholder List” dated 28.03.2022.

Corporate and investment banking

International banking and corporate 
investors
As Akbank, we make a difference with our network of 
correspondent banks and export credit institutions in up 
to 130 countries around the world. Thanks to our strong 
relationship network, we are able to present special services 
to all our solution partners in foreign trade, payment, and 
letter of guarantee transactions in the international arena. 
With our service understanding that adapts to the various 
investment needs of our customers under all circumstances, 
we help them increase their competitive potential with 
medium and long-term resources.

The reputation we have acquired and the trust we have 
created in international markets facilitate our access to 
alternative funding sources. As of the end of 2022, a total 
of USD 5.5 billion foreign borrowing balance, which took 
place as USD 3 billion long-term and USD 2.5 billion short-
term, because of the remaining maturity, is an important 
indicator that reflects it. The fact that 48% of this amount 
is sustainability-themed demonstrates that we successfully 
implement our sustainable growth strategy.

Network 
130 Countries+

Foreign 
borrowing 
balance 
USD 5.5 Billion

Funding 
Provided 
USD 1.8 Billion

With the syndicated 
loans we received 
during the year, 
Türkiye Women in 
Business II Programme 
(TurWiB II) loans, 
our bilateral loan 
transactions, and 
our social and green 
Eurobonds we issue, 
we provided resources 
worth approximately 
USD 1.8 billion.

Free Float

Hacı Ömer Sabancı Holding A.Ş., 
Affiliated Institutions and Individuals*

51%

49%

24 - 25Akbank for you



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Our syndicated loan, which was announced to the markets 
on April 13, 2022, through the Public Disclosure Platform, 
was renewed for USD 700 million with the participation 
of 33 banks from 15 countries. This renewal amount was 
realized over 100%. The cost of the syndicated loan 
with 367-day maturity took place as SOFR+2.75% and 
Euribor+2.10%.

Our syndicated loan, which was announced to the markets 
on October 26, 2022, through the Public Disclosure Platform, 
was renewed for 400 million USD with the participation of 
14 countries and 24 banks. The cost of the syndicated loan 
with 367-day maturity took place as SOFR+4.25% and 
Euribor+4.00%.

In both of our syndicated loans, there are two sustainability 
(ESG) performance criteria as 80% of the energy 
consumed by Akbank is provided by renewable energy 
sources, and our Bank’s credit cards are produced from 
recycled plastic.

On September 6, 2022, we agreed with the European Bank 
for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) to provide a 
financing resource of USD 50 million with a maturity of two 
years. The financing was signed under the Türkiye Women 
in Business II Program (TurWiB II) within the scope of 
providing financing to meet the capital and liquidity needs 
of women entrepreneur SMEs. Accordingly, the funding 
obtained from the EBRD under the TurWiB framework 
reached USD 100 million.

On December 16, 2022, we completed the first social bond 
issuance of USD 20 million and green bond issuance of 
USD 20 million. Both issuances with a maturity of 3 years + 
1 week took place as the first issuances from Türkiye within 
the scope of the new “Green Debt Instrument, Sustainable 
Debt Instrument, Green Lease Certificate, Sustainable 
Lease Certificate Guide” issued by the CMB. In 2022, we 
received the “FI Funding Team of the Year” award at the 
Bonds, Loans & Sukuk Türkiye awards.

Our new work vision
In 2022, we reshaped our business vision by expanding its 
scope. We created it with a new structure under the title 
of “Corporate Investors” with a different approach to our 
relations with financial institutions. Within the scope of this 
approach, we aim to monitor complex financial institutions 
within relationship management specific to their structures. 
This structuring, which was shaped to expand our fields 
of work and cooperation and to reveal new potentials, 
particularly in corporate and commercial loans, by using 
our relationships of deep-rooted past, yielded significant 
results in its first year. We keep working to diversify 
products and to gain more benefits and profits from our 
relationships. In this context, we aim to escalate our buying 
and selling activities in the primary and secondary credit 
markets and create new assets on the balance sheet, 
while at the same time making a more efficient use model 
functional in terms of liquidity and capital.

Investment banking
In this period, in which project investments were 
limited, foreign exchange-indexed or state-supported 
infrastructure, capacity increases in renewable energy 
projects and hybrid power plants stood out, and 
company acquisitions navigate quite below the potential 
of our country due to the inflation environment and 
macro uncertainties dominating the entire world, we, 
as Akbank, focused on sustainable investments in 
economic, environmental, social, and managerial issues 
and on providing financing with high guarantee value 
to investors with strong balance sheets in line with our 
targets. In Investment Banking, we continued our support 
to the country’s economy and new investments in 2022. 
Especially in the second half of the year, when the appetite 
for investment was limited due to the macroeconomic 
uncertainties across the world, we provided long-term 
financing to an industrial investment that will substitute 
the imports in our country. This investment financing, which 
we provided to the world’s leading food producers, took its 
place among the outstanding transactions of 2022.

In the infrastructure and energy sectors, we primarily 
provided financing to projects with a consolidated 
structure in the form of debt undertaking and purchase-
guaranteed transactions. As the leading bank of Turkish 
investment banking, we included projects with strong 
guarantees and healthy repayment structures in our 
portfolio. Apart from these sectors, we diversified our 
portfolio in tourism, health, aviation, mining, industry, and 
transportation sectors in terms of purchasing, refinancing, 
and investment transactions. We provided value-added 
financing to tourism companies that bring foreign currency 
to our country.

Our financial support for a low-cost, environmentally 
friendly, and sustainable transportation network that 
improves the quality of transportation services in our 
country also continued without interruption in 2022. In 
2022, we provided long-term financing of 250 million 
Euros to Antalya Airport in the syndication structure with 
the participation of many domestic and foreign banks. 
The said financing was recorded as the biggest financing 
transaction of 2022. We also continued our financing 
support for the 200-km long high-speed train project in 
2022, which has the aspect of being Türkiye’s first Green 
Loan in its field. Two of our projects were deemed worthy 
of an award in the “Structured Finance Deal of the Year” 
category at the Bond & Loans & Sukuk Awards, which is 
one of the most prestigious organizations in the sector.

In the field of energy production, we have provided 
loans only for renewable energy production starting in 
2016. In order to reduce foreign dependency on energy, 
while we closely monitored different technologies such 
as battery investments, capacity increase, and hybrid 
power plant investments in the field of storage that has 
become widespread with the development of technology 
and regulation and incentive packages, we continued to 
safeguard the strength of our renewable energy portfolio in 
2022 as well.

The share allocated to renewable energy in our total 
portfolio became 76%. As of 2022, of the energy projects 
we have financed so far, 3,163 MW consisted of HEPP, 1,037 
MW consisted of WPP, 320 MW consisted of GPP, 181 MW 
consisted of SPP, and 21 MW consisted of biomass plants. 

We focused on financing sustainable 
investments and acquisitions.

Share of renewable 
energy projects in 
total portfolio 
76%

Renewable energy 
portfolio total 
installed power 
4,722 MW

26 - 27Akbank for you



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

In addition to it, within the scope of financing and market 
dynamics that vary with interest rate risks, we contributed 
to structures and products to reduce our customers’ 
currency risks, to make the currencies of loans suitable for 
investment income, and to reduce portfolio risk.

With our Sustainable Finance team that we established 
under Investment Banking, using our sectoral experience in 
project finance transactions, we accelerated sustainable 
finance studies in all segments of our Bank and our 
subsidiaries. We continued to strengthen our social/green 
loan portfolio with 16 sustainable finance products, both 
under investment banking and in other business units, 
within our body.

 – We evaluate our customers who request green/social/
sustainability-related loans, and we can recommend 
additional green investments by understanding our 
customers’ development areas.

 – We defined sectoral ESG risks, particularly climate risks, 
and structured our products and services for those risks 
to turn into opportunities through the right management: 
We categorized our sustainable finance products and 
services under the headings of “climate adaptation,” 
“carbon emission reduction,” and “transition” by taking 
the segment and sector breakdown into account.

 – In line with our target of “becoming a Net Zero Bank by 
2050,” we started working for our portfolio to be carbon-
neutral. In this context, we started to keep track of our 
customers’ work in the field of net zero commitments. 

 – We also focus on transition risks within the scope of ESG 
Risks and management. As Akbank, we have initiated 
studies to be carbon neutral for the above-mentioned 
sectors, especially the carbon-intensive sectors, for 
the transition risks that we have evaluated under the 
headings of regulation, technology, and market. For 
our customers to minimize the risks in this area and 
improve their sustainability performance, we recommend 
sustainability-related green credit mechanisms (carbon 
reduction and project investments that provide climate 
adaptation) 

Corporate banking
As Akbank Corporate Banking, we supported the financial 
development of our customers with the consultancy 
services that we provide to local and multinational 
companies, with our motto of being the pioneer of change, 
by quickly adapting to the new conditions, in 2022. With 
our team of 6 Corporate Branches and the Headquarters, a 
total of 100 colleagues closely followed the changing world 
agenda, high inflation, new market conditions after the 
pandemic, and the economic regulation changes in Türkiye, 
we continued to offer financial solutions that will make it 
easier for our customers to adapt to the conditions taking 
place.

As we left behind another year, in which we developed our 
business processes and the products and services we offer 
to our customers through our customer experience-oriented 
strategy, we once again brought the satisfaction of our 
customers to the highest level. We continue to celebrate 
our achievements with the feedback that we have received 
because of the long-term business partnership strategies 
we have established with our customers through the 
company-specific solutions we offer. We were selected as 
the ‘Sector Leader’ in Türkiye in the ‘Corporate Banking’ 
category in the “Euromoney Sector Leaders” research 
held in 2022. Moreover, Akbank was selected as the most 
popular bank in the 2022 Akbank Corporate Reputation 
Research, and the fact that the highest score among 
all stakeholders participating in the research came 
from Akbank Corporate Banking customers once again 
demonstrated the customer satisfaction we have created.

As Akbank Corporate Banking, we conveyed up-to-date 
information about the economic outlook and expectations 
in the world and Türkiye to our customers by holding our 
traditional digital economy webinars six times in Turkish 
and English this year.

Within the scope of our Perfect Service Center strategy, 
we prioritized digital transformation while focusing on 
improving our team and working models. In this context, we 
started a long-term training program with our teammates, 
who are experts in the field, in cooperation with Sabancı 
University and CEF. Based on our customer experience-
oriented actions, we advance our endeavours by holding 
regular meetings with our Information Technology teams 
to develop the Corporate Internet Branch, to update 
it frequently in view of new needs, and to renew all our 
digital tools with which our colleagues carry out customer 
transactions. We always prioritize realizing our strategic 
targets together with our Bank by strengthening our 
synergy with other business units.

While evaluating all our experiences as valuable data in 
2023 and renewing them in harmony with the digital world 
through a customer experience-oriented strategy and 
determining the possible risks that our customers may 
encounter, beforehand, by prioritizing the motto of “risk 
consultancy,” we will continue our industry leadership 
journey by providing consultancy services regarding how our 
customers will position themselves in the face of such risks.

We support domestic and 
multinational companies in their 
financial development by providing 
consultancy services.

Sectors we have 
prioritized in line 
with our target 
of becoming a 
Net Zero Bank: 
Cement, iron and 
steel, aluminium, 
automotive, energy 
generation, oil-
natural gas, and 
aviation

Despite the market 
volume shrinkage 
in 2021 and 2022, 
we adopted the 
principle of adding 
transmission line, 
capacity increase, 
hybrid power plants, 
electric vehicles, 
and battery 
investments that 
focus on energy 
generation in the 
energy sector, to 
make our loan 
portfolio size 
and structure 
sustainable, by 
maintaining our 
strong collateral 
structure and 
profitability in 2023.

In 2022, we continued 
to be accessible under 
all conditions and to 
visit digital customers 
with the motto of 
“digital solutions we 
developed in every 
field” during the 
pandemic period.

28 - 29Akbank for you



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Commercial banking

We continued to expand our high-quality portfolio base, in 
the field of project finance. We continued to provide long-
term financing to many renewable energy investments, 
including industrial energy efficiency, thermal rehabilitation 
of buildings, and geothermal, solar, biomass, and biogas, 
despite the exchange rate/interest rate fluctuations 
arising from the conjecture. We contributed to studies 
that prioritize environmental, social, and governance 
issues. We organized high-value-added training seminars 
on ESG issues for our customers through collaborations 
with academicians who are experts in their fields. We 
included HEPP, RES, and GPP project finance in our other 
renewable energy project financing efforts on energy. In 
the challenging 2022 conditions, we managed to protect 
our portfolio, number, and volume in the fields of corporate 
finance and project finance. 

 
Commercial 
Branches 
15

Mixed Commercial 
Branches 
136

 
Corporate 
Digitization  
Projects 
3. Phases

We work to support our customers with our 15 commercial 
branches, 136 mixed commercial branches, and our 
Commercial Banking team focused on relationship 
management, bringing their growth to a sustainable 
structure. We continue to be the solution partner of our 
customers by creating value for all their business processes 
by way of physical and digital visits in 2022.

In international markets, we continued to support 
companies, for which we act as an intermediary in foreign 
trade transactions in different parts of the world, with our 
wide correspondent network.

In 2022, when the regulation on loan utilization changed, we 
continued to ensure customer satisfaction while managing 
our loan portfolio dynamically and efficiently by adapting 
quickly to these changes.

We evaluate our customers with a sophisticated approach 
according to their fields of activity, product trends, 
managerial characteristics, and size. In light of our data and 
analyses, we offer suitable products to our customers and 
conduct studies to increase product sales and after-sales 
efficiency.

In 2022, we established our priorities with the focus of our 
customers and sectors with high strategic importance. 
We designed our products with the use of considering the 
feedback from the use of digital banking and converting 
the incoming comments into data. We worked on the 
determination of banking and non-banking needs by 
conducting one-on-one interviews with our customers. As a 
result of our visits, we took our steps toward creating holistic 
solutions for the needs. We will focus more on this issue with 
the 3rd phase studies of the Corporate Digitization Project.

Consumer banking and 
digital solutions

With our Treasury 
team, we offer 
various solutions with 
treasury products 
suitable for changing 
market conditions to 
our customers who 
want to be protected 
from currency, interest 
and commodity price 
fluctuations.

We offer a wide range 
of services to our 
Commercial Banking 
customers through 
the products of 
Aklease, Aksigorta, 
Ak Investment, Ak 
Portfolio, and AgeSA, 
which are subsidiaries 
or affiliates of 
Akbank. 

In order to holistically manage the interaction our 
customers establish with our Bank, we revised our 
organizational structure on a segment-based basis, with a 
focus on customer needs and experiences.

Consumer banking
Digitalization gained new momentum in line with the 
changes in the needs, consumption, and behaviour of 
our customers during the pandemic period. While this 
momentum continued in the normalization period that 
took place following the pandemic process, mobile banking 
further strengthened its position of being the main channel 
in the sector. The approach that meets all the banking 
needs of customers instead of meeting their product needs 
one by one, has brought along the need to review and 
redesign the way of doing business in recent years. Putting 
our customers at the centre and shaping all our designs 
accordingly played a key role in our Consumer Banking 
success. 

Making it easy for our consumers to access 
finance 
The digital processes, which we have designed with our 
approach that considers consumers’ ease of access to 
finance as a key success factor, ensure that our customers’ 
loan needs are fulfilled 24/7. We offer loans such as 
housing loans, vehicle loans, consumer loans, and overdraft 
accounts with interest rates suitable for the conditions 
of the period and fast, easy, and customer-friendly loan 
extension processes. We make the necessary support ready 
for possible needs, with the limits regularly prepared for our 
customers, without an application. 

The digital processes we designed 
with our approach that considers 
consumers’ ease of access to finance 
as a key success factor ensure that 
our customers’ loan needs are fulfilled 
24/7.

30 - 31Akbank for you



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

While the main channel for consumer loans 
is Akbank Mobile, we continued to stand by 
our customers with our network that we have 
expanded with strong business partners and 
shopping loans that we offer on in-store 
and online platforms at the time of need. In 
addition, we continued to implement new 
products and services that facilitate our 
customers’ lives. We started to offer our 
customers our Debt Transfer Loan product, 
which makes it possible to bring together 
consumer loans from other banks under one 
roof, through Akbank Mobile and Customer 
Communication Center. We stood by young 
people between the ages of 18 and 26, with our 
“My First Loan” product for the financial needs 
that they may encounter while starting their 
lives. Our youth, who use their first consumer 
loan from Akbank, benefit from the advantage 
of not paying allocation fees for consumer 
loans they will receive from our Bank for three 
years.

In vehicle loans, we have presented our 
customers with the opportunity to have the 
vehicle they want, with different pricing options, 
via up-to-date parent-company agreements. 
Beyond a success reflected in numbers, we 
have entirely renewed our AKON - Vehicle 
system, which supports the sales processes 
of our business partners by providing credit at 
the point of sale and provides consumers with 
access to credit quickly and easily. We have 
added the Motorcycle Loan for motorcycle 
financing, which is an important part of today’s 
mobility, to our product range. We continue 
the advantage of pricing with stability in our 
Environmentally Friendly Vehicle Loan product. 

By undersigning a first in housing loans in 
the sector, we established collaborations 
with fintechs operating in the real estate 
sector. With the synergy we have created, we 
opened new channels so that the companies 
and consultants operating in the real estate 
sector can easily access Akbank branches. It 
provided the opportunity to open new windows 
to both our business partners and customers 
by conducting joint marketing activities with 
contracting companies for project loans. 

The year 2022 was left behind as a year in which Currency 
Protected Deposits were felt exceedingly in the deposit 
market. We complied with the regulations on Currency 
Protected Deposits, which allow our customers to evaluate 
their savings without being affected by the exchange rate 
difference, and started to offer products organized by the 
Treasury and the CBRT via digital channels and branches 
as soon as possible. Accordingly, we offered both our 
individual and corporate customers and our domestic and 
abroad resident customers the opportunity to open an 
appropriate Currency Protected Deposit account.

While continuing to offer attractive opportunities in our 
e-deposit product, which we offer through digital channels, 
with our strategy within the scope of the expansion of 
our deposit base, we increased our deposit upper limit 
which can be opened via digital channels to 10 million TL. 
The results, which show that the branch usage habits of 
customers with high deposits can change with a stable 
pricing policy, revealed that customer habits will change in 
a much more radical manner in the near future.

With WinWin Account, our customers continued to 
earn interest in addition to their savings, thanks to the 
payments they made from their current accounts, like EFT, 
remittance, rent, building administration fees, invoices, and 
the expenses they made from their bank cards. While our 
customers manage their daily cash flows, they also have 
the opportunity to make use of their savings at attractive 
interest rates.

Our special privileges for pensioners 
Within the scope of our SGK retirement customer 
acquisition work, we increased the number of our SGK 
retired customers approximately 3.7 times compared 
to 2021. We continued to offer attractive promotional 
opportunities throughout the year for our customers who 
want to transfer their SGK pension to the accounts of our 
Bank. We also offer the possibility of withdrawing funds 
from their accounts two days before their pensions are 
deposited. With this privilege, which is available to the 
benefit of our customers who receive a pension from our 
bank and in whose pension account a plus money credit 
limit is defined, they are offered the opportunity to use 
their existing plus money credit limits without interest-
between two days before the pension payment date and 
the pension payment day. In this way, they can easily and 
advantageously overcome their cash setbacks in the last 
days of their pension. 

Private banking for youth
We are aware of the social and financial needs that young 
people must prepare for the future in the best conceivable 
way and to shed light on their development. We aim 
to evaluate young people under two different groups 
according to their lifestyles as “Ones to Start Working 
Life” and “Ones Newly Started Working Life” and to offer 
opportunities with different value propositions based on 
their financial and social needs.

We attach importance to the fact that they have the 
financial knowledge and can make the right decisions 
about their budgets when they start working life, and for 
this purpose, we continue to work intensively to increase 
their awareness of “financial literacy” so that young people 
can manage their savings and are directed to the right 
investment and savings from the moment they earn their 
first income. 

With “Akbank FAV,” which is a completely digital experience 
we established for university students in 2020, we offer 
free banking transactions and free overdraft accounts to 
university students between the ages of 18 and 26 and 
facilitate their access to financial transactions, while 
helping them meet their social needs with campaigns 
comprising their favourite brands. The number of our young 
customers has increased 1.5 times compared to 2021. The 
number of our university students increased by 2.5 times 
and the number of customers participating in our program, 
which we offer exclusively for university students, increased 
by 4.5 times.

As Akbank, we think that young people are too young to 
worry about financial issues. With the privileges we offer 
for this purpose, we want young ones not to worry about 
financial issues. We proceeded with the motto “Let Akbank 
Think” in our communications, for which we set off with this 
mission.

1-on-1 banking
We continue our banking privileges with special service 
packages such as notaries public, physicians, dentists, and 
lawyers in order to meet the different needs of professional 
occupational groups, and we respond to the financial needs 
of our expat customers via our expat hotline and expat 
customer specialists.

Prioritized and customized product suggestions in line with 
the needs and requests of new customers in the segment 
started to be put into service within the scope of the Mobil 
onboarding program. The developments regarding the flow 
and process continue with the addition of new product 
suggestions.

Implementation and development studies on the 1-on-1 
Meeting Platform designed for our customers to access 
details about investment products continue. We offer 
the opportunity to make use of investments with a wide 
range of mutual funds such as stock certificates in the 
Ak Investment model portfolio and Ak Portfolio Future 
Investments.

While producing personalized financial solutions for 
the needs and expectations of our customers, we offer 
privileged services in travel and daily life through the 
new Wings programs. Our customers with assets of 600 
thousand TL or more can earn Miles for card spending and 
banking products within the scope of the Wings Black Plus 
Program, while benefiting from free banking transactions 
and discounts at airports, hotels, and restaurants in their 
daily lives.

We continue to offer 
advantages for the 
first loan needs of 
youth.

Within the scope of 
our strong service 
model, we offer 
privileged services 
to our customers 
via 1-on-1 Banking 
Managers, My 1-on-
1 Bank, and 1-on-1 
Specialist Hotline 
teams.

We are expanding the 
deposit base.

32 - 33Akbank for you



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Bancassurance 
As Akbank, we cooperate with Aksigorta A.Ş. and AgeSA 
Hayat ve Emeklilik A.Ş., which are among the most 
successful companies in their sectors. We ensure that our 
customers access all the private pension, life and non-life 
insurance products they need, under the same roof while 
meeting their banking needs.

We make use of our analytical capabilities to bring the right 
customer together with the right insurance products in the 
right channel. We include our customers’ banking transaction 
experiences in our insurance product processes in line with 
their lifestyle and channel use habits.

On the other hand, in order to support the importance, 
we attach to the health of our customers, we created 
a comprehensive product range that can meet all the 
expectations in the field of health insurance. In addition to 
health insurance, we focused on delivering our customers’ 
preferred Private Pension and Savings Life Insurance 
products to ensure that they can secure their future.

By keeping close track of the trends, we focus on developing 
products that will fulfil new insurance needs. We have 
started the sale of Complementary Health Insurance 
to mitigate the health anxiety that increased with the 
pandemic and to meet the costs with more economical 
solutions. We are getting ready to add Economic Vehicle 
Insurance, Electronic Device Insurance, and Pati Health 
Insurance to our product range.

We offer Eco Housing Insurance to our customers with a 
special advantageous premium for ecological house owners 
through our strategy of integrating sustainability into all our 
ways of doing business. We will also continue to work on new 
products in this field in 2023.

We continue our growth by creating value for our customers 
and business partners under the umbrella of bancassurance. 
With this understanding, we made the Insurance menu 
available to our customers on Akbank Mobile, by focusing on 
making our Bancassurance model customer-oriented and 
expanding our product range through digital channels. In the 
menu that we designed by prioritizing customer experience 
and plainness, we ensured that all insurance needs are 
accessible from the same menu. 

Digital banking 
As Akbank, we have been implementing a holistic 
digitalization strategy for a long time. We continuously renew 
our service models and ways of doing business, and we always 
keep our interaction points with our customers up to date.

As of May 2021, with the end-to-end digital process in 
which we put customer needs and experience on the focus 
of our design, both individual customers and personal 
companies can become our Bank’s customers in a short 
time by downloading the Akbank Mobile application and 
filling in their information.

Our digital customers become Akbank customers within 
minutes with an extremely simple and fluid experience, and 
in a short period of one year with the advantages we offer 
and our campaigns that make a difference in the sector.

While our digitally acquired customers become Akbank 
customers within minutes with an extremely lean and smooth 
experience, the number of customers acquired digitally 
reached 1 million in a short time like a year, with the effect 
of the advantages we offer and our campaigns making a 
difference in the sector. We continue to grow fast. In 2022, 
we tripled the number of active customers acquired digitally 
compared to 2021. By the end of 2022, one out of every three 
customers had been acquired by means of this service.

We explain the benefits of being a digital customer in all our 
communication channels and aim to increase the number of 
customers we acquire through them. 

 
Digitally acquired 
customers 
1 Million+

Transactions that 
can be conducted 
via Akbank Assistan 
+200

Qualified Banking 
API 
36

ATM Transactions 
200 Million+

Renewed Akbank Mobile
We have enriched our personalized and proactive content to 
make it easier for our customers to monitor their financial 
status and take action. As one of the top four banks in the 
sector as of January 2023, we offer open banking payment 
services, while our customers can manage their other bank 
accounts via Akbank Mobile. In the forthcoming period, 
we will work to provide our users with a holistic financial 
management experience as well.

With Akbank Assistant, we assist users in nearly 200 
transactions by actively using artificial intelligence 
algorithms on our digital channels. We provide easy 
communication to our customers with Akbank Assistant’s 
comprehension rate of nearly 90% of the conversations. 
We also completed our infrastructural investments so that 
Akbank Assistant, which has more than one million monthly 
users and which continues to develop as it is used, can set 
up voice communication in the forthcoming period.

We brought the renewed credit card application function 
together with our customers. Our customers can receive the 
application result in a brief time, like an average of seven 
seconds, and immediately start using our credit cards, which 
have an instant activation feature, for internet and mobile 
payments.

In the second half of 2022, we offered our customers the 
Application Specialist through our transparent banking 
principle, where we presented the reasons why our 
customers’ credit card applications resulted negatively 
and the things they could do to make the next application 
positive.

With our renewed invoice and corporate payments 
infrastructure and the user experience that improved in 
line with it, we ensured that the needs of our customers are 
responded to more easily and quickly. For our customers, we 
offered solutions for setting alarms for, naming, tracking, 
and viewing their payments, and flexibly managing their 
expenses through various payment options.

By integrating Foreign Equity Fund transactions into Akbank 
Mobile, we made it possible for our customers who want 
to make use of their investments in international markets 
to easily perform buying/selling, depositing/withdrawing 
guarantees, portfolio viewing, and many other transactions.

We renewed end-to-end the experience of the Akbank 
Investor Application, which we also access via Akbank 
Mobile. In this way, our users can follow the stock 
certificates, VIOPs, warrants, fund, and foreign currency 
markets and easily perform their transactions in Borsa 
Istanbul with instant data, by logging into the application 
with their Akbank Mobile information.

We continued to 
develop Akbank 
Mobile with new 
products and 
services that make a 
difference in 2022.

We switched to a structure where we offer product 
application and after-sales services together, with our menu 
that has different insurance options and that has been newly 
added to Akbank Mobile. 

Under our corporate digitalization program, we started to 
renew our Corporate Internet Branch and Mobile channels 
and made our infrastructure investments about it. As of 
2023, our Akbank Internet Corporate channel will start 
to provide important services that will facilitate the daily 
financial management of our customers with its simple 
and modern design. We aim to offer the comprehensive 
products needed by corporate companies digitally in the 
forthcoming year.

In 2023, we will continue to renew our Akbank Corporate 
Internet and Mobile channels with new functions and 
improvements.

With all these innovations we have put into practice, 
Akbank customers can fulfill a substantial portion of their 
daily banking needs through digital channels. In 2022, the 
number of our digital customers reached approximately 
nine million. The number of monthly logins to the app 
increased by approximately 39% compared to the end of 
2021.

Majority of our customers, who previously used digital 
channels for viewing and receiving information, started 
to conduct their financial transactions through mobile 
channels. During this period, the number of our customers 
making financial transactions via Akbank Mobile increased 
by 40%. Total payments made through Akbank Mobile 
increased by 33%. While the share of digital channels 
in consumer loan sales reached to 83%, almost 60% of 
our credit card sales are made via our digital channels. 
The share in Akbank Mobile’s mutual funds and stock 
transactions increased by 4 points each.

In summary, the interaction frequency of our customers, 
who already switched to digital, increased thanks to our 
digital interaction interfaces and our mobile banking 
application Akbank Mobile. 

The number of 
monthly logins 
to the Akbank 
Mobile increased by 
approximately 39% 
compared to the end 
of 2021.

34 - 35Akbank for you



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Open banking
We continued our work in 2022 in line with the open 
banking payment services regulation within the scope of 
PSD2 (Payment Services Directive 2) in Europe and the UK, 
published by the Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey 
(CBRT) in 2021. Upon the completion of the studies, we 
started to offer open banking payment services as one 
of the top four banks in the sector as of January, before 
28.02.2023, which was decided as the harmonization date 
by the CBRT. Akbank API Portal, which we launched for the 
first time in 2016 was renewed in terms of user experience 
and design by adding 21 new and qualified banking APIs 
focusing on the main needs of the ecosystem and the 
Service Banking business model provided by the BRSA to 
the sector, within the scope of the relaunch work we carried 
out in April 2022. With this work, we continue to provide 
services through the Portal with a total of 36 qualified 
banking APIs.

Digital banking design office
Thanks to our design office, we brought design competence 
to our structure. While working to spread the design culture 
in all units, we also design new products and services by 
proving close contact with different teams. By considering 
the Akbank Design System approach and tone of voice 
studies, we ensure the integrity of all visual and contextual 
design elements and try to create a consistent language. 
When necessary, we retrospectively change the flows that 
we can test very quickly and aim to continuously improve 
the customer experience. 

Digital customer experience
As Akbank, we implement a management model that puts 
customer experience at the centre of all our services and 
products at every step starting from design.

By designing the “User Experience Research & Design 
Strategy” sub-unit, which makes it easier for us to keep the 
customer at the centre of product and design decisions; 
we ensured the integration of customer needs and data 
into digital production processes. We structured our data 
acquisition and design practices. In this structure, where 
we position customer data at the centre of development 
processes and stay connected with business requirements, 
we prepare the foundation for new developments and help 
turn opportunities into actions.

The data obtained as a result of research and analyses 
conducted during the Akbank Mobile transformation 
process guides all units in designing personalized customer 
journeys. We continue to develop the new world of Akbank 
Mobile on this path we set off together with our customers. 

ATM 
As Akbank, we have one of the most widespread networks 
in Turkey with 5,900 ATMs, which stand out with their wide 
geographical distribution and ease of access. More than 
200 million transactions are made annually at our ATMs. 
9 out of 10 cash transactions are conducted by using our 
ATMs. We expanded our collaborations this year and added 
Papara and Fibabanka, in line with our strategy of turning 
our ATMs, which are lean, and which offer personalized 
features by placing customer experience in the center, 
into cash transaction points easily accessible to everyone, 
including bank customers, through our bank’s holistic 
design approach. 

We started to 
measure self-service 
in digital channels via 
channel experience 
metrics. In this way, 
we understand the 
digital experience 
while the user is in 
the channel and 
right at the end of 
the transaction, 
and we can develop 
suggestions for 
solutions accordingly.

 
Credit Cards 
7.7 million

Debit Cards 
11.6 million

 
Registered Member 
workplaces 
369,562

 
Increase in Debit 
Card Sales 
91%

Payment systems 
From past to present, we have been continuing to lead 
innovations in every field of banking. As of the end of 2022, 
the number of our customers using cards was recorded as 
6.1 million, the number of our credit cards as 7.7 million, the 
number of our debit cards as 11.6 million, and the number of 
our member workplaces as 369,562.

In 2022, we continued taking important steps to digitalize 
the products of the Akbank payment systems. Our 
customers showed great interest in Axess/ Wings, which we 
put into service in September 2020 in Turkey for the first 
time, and which has the feature of instant use, in 2022 as 
a result of our experience in this field and the features we 
added. Compared to 2021, our instant-use credit card sales 
increased by 164%, while 77% of our sales comprised new 
card applications.

By undersigning a first in Turkey in June 2021, we 
introduced our “Pay with Chip-money” application, which 
allows our customers to delete the non-lost chip-money 
they have accumulated for any period they wish, with a 
single click on Juzdan. In September of 2022, we announced 
our feature of “Multiplied Chip-money,” where we ensure 
that our customers make use of their chip-money through 
periodic campaigns. We observed that this new feature of 
ours was appreciated, with over 80 thousand customers 
deleting their payments of 10 million TL in more than 150 
thousand transactions with their multiplied chip-money.

Our bank’s credit card Wings which offers special privileges 
in all areas of life, from travel to daily life, was renewed with 
its brand identity in its 15th year, its flight schedule, and its 
privileges, and met with its customers in October 2022.

With the renewed Wings, we provide our customers with 
high Mile Points and ensure that they use the Miles they 
earn without an annual usage quota. In this way, we now 
bring our customers together with a gift flight ticket from 
any airline they wish faster and make them enjoy privileges 
in a shorter time. Moreover, our customers can also pay 
their international taxes with the Miles they earn. Alongside 
our flight program, we offer privileges to our customers in 
their travel and daily lives. Wings owners enjoy being a part 
of Wings with discounts at hotels and restaurants while 
having new experiences.

With the innovations we carried out as of October, the 
sales of our card increased by 2.2 times.

36 - 37Akbank for you



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Commercial cards
The number of our commercial credit card customers 
increased by 17% and reached 300 thousand in 2022. 
We diversified our campaigns by increasing our periodic 
benefits that will provide support to our customers’ sectoral 
needs and daily expenditures. 

Bank cards 
Our Akbank Card sales exceeded our growth targets with 
record sales by 91% in 2022 compared to last year. Within 
the scope of our digitalization strategy, the number of 
customers who have Akbank Cards with instant use feature 
increased to 1.5 million. 44% of our customers with this 
card actively use their cards.

The number of active shopping customers of our Akbank 
Card, which achieved a 60% growth in its shopping 
turnover in 2022, reached 2.7 million with an increase of 
30%, thanks to the efforts specific to Akbank Card. By 
highlighting in our communications, the point that Akbank 
Card is not just a cash card, but one that earns chip-
money in shopping, we reached our customers with our 
campaign schemes oriented to this purpose.

Card acceptor merchants 
We rapidly continued to expand Akbank Cebe POS, which 
is our mobile POS application and one of the important 
steps of digitalization in Akbank Payment Systems. In 2022, 
we offered an end-to-end digital experience to customers 
of corporate businesses. We continued to expand our card 
acceptor merchant network with our application that 
enables them to receive a card and mobile payments.

At the end of the year, we increased the number of card 
acceptor merchants to 369,562 and the number of POS 
terminals (including virtual POS) to 734,165. Thanks to the 
agreements we entered into with the leading companies in 
their sectors, we strengthened our position in the market 
with our growing card acceptor merchant network and 
consumer-oriented campaigns and realized our card 
acceptor merchant turnover market share as 8.49%. As 
of the end of the year, we offer our Axess cardholders the 
opportunity of making payments in instalments and winning 
rewards at 180 thousand card-acceptor businesses.

In 2022, we continued to expand our Bank’s contactless 
POS network. The number of POS that can make 
contactless transactions exceeded 406 thousand, and 
our turnover realized via contactless POSs grew by 202% 
and reached 9.9 billion TL per month. Our ratio of terminals 
accepting payment with QR code was 82.44%.

Juzdan
The Axess Mobile application, which met with users in 2017 
with the aim of presenting campaigns according to their 
spending habits, turned into the “Juzdan” application with 
brand new features fulfilling the changing customer needs 
in the first half of 2022.

With the Juzdan application, users can make physical 
and digital payments in a fast and secure manner with 
their mobile phones. By adding any debit or credit card 
they want, all Juzdan users, whether they are Akbank 
customers or not, can pay with any of the cards they 
want by using the Pay with Juzdan option in continuously 
contracted e-commerce sites. Moreover, they can make 
these payments by using shopping credits at the moment 
of payment.

While users access campaigns and advantages specific 
to them from Juzdan; they continue to earn special 
installment advantages and shopping points for their 
cards in their purchases with debit or credit cards. In 
this way, we ensure that they can benefit from both 
advantages specific to their cards and Juzdan campaigns 
in their purchases.

Juzdan, which response to the needs of its users in 
e-commerce and physical payments, met more users at 
a rate of 58% compared to the previous year. In addition, 
we have accelerated our campaign and brand activities 
by considering customer needs, and enriched Juzdan’s 
campaign world, and in this way users’ participation in 
campaigns increased by 91%

Customer communication centre

In 2022, we, as 
a Customer 
Communication 
Center made close to 
80 million customer 
contacts with our over 
3,000 experienced 
employees.

In addition to increasing the customer 
experience by ensuring that our customers 
receive service from our employees compatible 
with their needs and profiles, we continue to 
make a difference with value-added activities.

By combining modern technologies and 
effective sales features in 2022, we continued 
to increase our share of sales in the bank 
with approximately 3 million sales we realized 
through our call channels.

We ensured by increasing the variety of 
transactions in the Voice Response System 
that many transactions are conducted in a 
short time without connecting to a customer 
communication consultant. In this way, we 
made the voice response system a preferred 
channel for our customers.

We ensured that our Customer 
Communication Consultants easily switch 
between different channels such as voice, 
text, and video calls. In this way, we continue 
on our way with an expert staff who can 

provide services on many issues from different 
channels.

In 2022, we tripled the number of our 
employees with sign language knowledge 
to ensure that hearing impaired customers 
access banking services much more easily and 
to increase their satisfaction and experience.

We ensured that customers carry out banking 
transactions such as loans and plus money 
initiated from the Customer Communication 
Center, faster on Akbank Mobile.

With digital customer acquisition, we brought 
in 1.5 million new customers who want to 
become Akbank members without having to 
visit a branch.

We offer our customers more active and more 
contact points by increasing the number of 
channels we serve in social media, with the 
continuous development of digitalization and 
its easy accessibility. 

Remote customer management
We carry out portfolio management for approximately 100 
thousand customers who prefer to receive service remotely, 
with our CMB-licensed employees who are experts in 
their fields. We provide this service by making video calls 
according to customer requests as well.

By focusing on customer satisfaction through the remote 
service model, we contacted over 600 thousand customers 
and sold more than 50 thousand products in 2022. 

38 - 39Akbank for you



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

SME banking

As Akbank SME Banking, we provide services to SMEs 
through more than 1,200 expert customer representatives in 
approximately 650 branches throughout Turkey. Within the 
scope of the legal SME definition, our market share in private 
sector SME Loans increased by 205 basis points during the 
year. By adding 85,000 customers to the number of Active 
Customers, we exhibited a performance nearly four times the 
highest annual net increase ever exhibited.

Digitalization
We are experiencing how important digitalization is in the post-
pandemic period. With this awareness, we keep our service 
models and ways of doing business up to date at all times 
and redesign them when necessary. We try to develop digital 
services that will make our customers’ lives easier.

This year, we undersigned an innovation that we will be 
a pioneer of and that offers solutions to accelerate the 
endeavours commonly needed by SMEs. With the Corporate 
Digital Transformation Project, we created packages that 
contain banking products and non-banking advantages 
according to the needs of customers and enabled them to 
receive these packages via the mobile channel with a fast 
experience and without interruption. With the project, our SMEs, 
which apply for POS, Commercial Credit Card, and Commercial 
Loans via Akbank Mobile, can obtain these products quickly 
through completely digital processes or in the form of 
packages containing more than one product and covering the 
advantages as well as the needs and non-banking advantages.

In addition, we ensured the integration of the Smart Finance 
Technology product so that the financial awareness of 
our SMEs can be increased and that they manage their 
transactions quickly and easily. With this technology, our SMEs 
can better understand their financial transactions thanks 
to the insights and graphics created on their daily financial 
transactions, and they can manage their financial calendars 
more easily by monitoring their cash flows on forward and 
backward graphics. 

Women SME
We provided a fund worth 100 million dollars from the European 
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) within the 
scope of the Financing and Advisory Support to Women’s 
Businesses in Turkey program. In 2022, enterprises having 
women in their management benefited from a financing 
opportunity of 1 billion TL with 80% KGF guarantee and 
suitable interest rates. In addition, we supported our female 
SME customers through non-financial services. We came 
together with our women SMEs in a total of 17 activities, both 
online and physical. In the forthcoming period, we aim to 
support women SMEs in every subject they may need, with 
one-to-one mentoring, seminars, and training that we offer free 
of charge. 

By breaking new ground at the beginning of 
this year, we launched a comprehensive SME 
Movement to support our SMEs, which are 
the driving force of the country’s economy, 
and which have an important position in the 
economy with the employment, production, 
exports, and added value created.

Green transformation
Due to the Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism, we 
started acting in order for all SMEs to evaluate the risks 
and opportunities they will face and to increase their 
competitiveness. We introduced the SME Eco Transformation 
Package, which is the first and most comprehensive 
package designed specifically for SMEs within the scope 
of sustainability in the sector. With this package, we aim to 
comprehensively encourage and also finance the activities 
of SMEs to reduce their carbon footprints and their energy 
costs. Our objective is to provide financing to SMEs with 
various loan products that serve different purposes within 
the scope of green transformation.

In 2023, we aim to be the biggest supporters of SMEs in 
their green transformation journey. In this context, we 
make it possible for SMEs to identify their current status 
and development areas by means of carbon footprint 
measurement and company ESG analysis applications.

SMEs assume a key role in our country’s adaptation to the 
green transformation process launched by the European 
Union. Based on it, we implemented the Project of Green 
Transformation for SMEs, in cooperation with TÜRKONFED 
and Konrad-Adenauer-Stiftung, in order to raise the 
awareness of enterprises in Anatolia on this subject.

Hosted by TÜRKONFED member federations and 
associations, we held meetings in Kocaeli, Adana, Gaziantep, 
Elazığ, İzmir, Samsun, and Ankara in parallel with Sustainable 
Development Goals such as accessible and clean energy, 
industry, innovation, and infrastructure, responsible 
consumption and production, and climate action. We carried 
out comprehensive studies on why green transformation is 
important and how institutions should be prepared. 

In the Risks, Opportunities, and Prospects in Green 
Transformation Report, we made public the results of the 
workshops we organized in the seven provinces mentioned 
within the scope of the Green Transformation Project for 
SMEs.

In addition to the said workshops, we became a supporter 
of the “Importance of Green Transformation for SMEs” panel 
of the “I Can Manage My Business” project, implemented 
through the support of 30 banks and e-money institutions 
and in cooperation with TÜRKONFED, VISA, and UNDP in 
2019. In this context, we organized training in Çanakkale, Van, 
Ordu, Eskişehir, and Malatya. We interacted with our SMEs 
through a total of 12 events regarding sustainability.

Guarantee programs
With responsibility for our vision of being the first bank 
that comes to mind in terms of exports and for our 
sustainable growth strategy, we added a new one to the 
products and services we offer to our exporting SMEs.

With our cooperation with İhracatı Geliştirme AŞ (İGE), we 
became the first bank to provide financing to exporting 
SMEs that have difficulty creating guarantees with 80% 
İGE guarantee support.

In addition to İGE, as every year, within the scope of our 
cooperation with the Credit Guarantee Fund, we offered 
the Business Expenditures Support Package designed 
to meet the working capital needs, the Export Support 
Package designed to support SMEs operating in exporting 
or foreign exchange earning sectors, and the Investment 
Support Package programs designed to provide financing 
in order to be used in investment and investment-related 
operating expenses of SMEs and non-SME enterprises that 
are planning to invest. Within the scope of these programs, 
we provided a financing amount of approximately 7.4 billion 
TL to our customers.

E-commerce
This year, we rapidly continued our collaborations to grow 
SMEs. We offer advantages specific to SMEs, which are 
the suppliers of Turkey’s leading marketplaces such as 
Hepsiburada, Trendyol, n11, ÇiçekSepeti, and Teknosa. In 
this context, SMEs that collect their progress payments 
from the respective marketplaces through Akbank make 
use of many opportunities such as commercial plus money 
with 0% interest to meet their cash needs with 1-year free 
money transfer and check transactions. Discounted POS 
commission rate, 50% discounted transaction fees, and 
chip money rewards for SMEs that have commercial credit 
cards are among the other advantageous offers presented 
within the scope of the collaborations.

With the interest shown by over 1,000 participants, we 
held the Hepsiburada My Business Partner Meetings in 
Ankara, Izmir, and Istanbul. In this event, alongside the 
development of e-commerce and general economic data, 
we presented the free and discounted banking services 
that we offer to Hepsiburada suppliers in detail to the 
participating SMEs.

In addition, we organized conferences on e-commerce and 
e-export with Worldef company in Gaziantep, Konya, and 
Denizli. With the event we held in Adana, we came together 
with SMEs that want to export to Germany or improve their 
exports. We informed our SMEs for 25 days with a total of 
nine events within the scope of e-commerce and e-export.

Let my SME earn
In the last quarter of 2022, we stood by our SMEs with a 
set of advantages that we designed for our customers 
who will work with our Bank for the first time or who have 
previously worked but do not currently work. They won 
2,000 TL- 4,000 TL chip-money according to the active 
usage share of Akbank Mobile, Commercial Debit Card, 
Automatic Invoice, Card acceptor merchants, Commercial 
Credit Card, Checkbook, and SGK Payment Order products. 
While increasing customer satisfaction within the scope of 
the model we established with our customers on a win-win 
basis, we have taken an important step towards developing 
sustainable and long-term relationships.

Non-banking services
In addition, we offer Taxpayer membership to SMEs that 
have established their companies with Mükellef and Propars 
membership, which offers the opportunity to open stores 
domestically and abroad and to make transactions from 
a single screen in many marketplaces to our SMEs at a 
discount.

Alongside these advantages we offer for the financial needs 
of Akbank SMEs, we facilitate their access to the tools 
they need in their e-commerce, e-export, and digitalization 
journeys.

40 - 41Akbank for you



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Transformation Academy
We established the Akbank Transformation Academy with 
the target that our SMEs are digitalized and financially 
empowered. This academy, which is oriented to financial 
and digital transformation with seminars, customized 
training programs, networking, and collaborations that 
provide our SMEs with the opportunity to follow the agenda 
closely, ensures that all our SMEs make use of a variety of 
training programs. We carried out these training programs 
in Ankara, Bursa, Balıkesir, Çanakkale, and İzmir.

In 2023, we will continue to support all our SMEs, 
particularly green transformation, women SMEs, 
e-commerce, exports, and entrepreneurs, by providing 
training, mentoring, and discounted or free-of-charge 
transportation to certain products and services.

Cash management 
As Cash Management, we created a Transaction Banking 
Marketing directorate within our department by making an 
organizational change to focus more on money transfers, 
invoices, and the marketing of our check products, within 
the scope of our digital and widespread banking strategy, 
this year. We enhanced our marketing communication on 
these products by conducting data analysis with business 
analytics expertise. In order to improve the experience of 
our customers when paying their invoices, we enriched 
our invoice campaign infrastructure while changing our 
designs on the mobile channel. With the MİM resource we 
provided in 2022, the newly developed invoice campaign 
infrastructure, and our other campaign works, we increased 
our ordered invoice collection rate in the SME and Personal 
segments from 45% to 53%.

We support our customers with our 24/7 online and fast 
payment infrastructures such as Payment Institutions, 
E-Money Companies, and E-Commerce Companies.

In 2022, we completed the work on the integration into 
Takasbank Gold Transfer System (ATS), which allows our 
customers to transfer their gold balances in their drawing 
gold deposit accounts at our Bank electronically, from 
person to person between banks. In this way, our customers 
can transfer gold to their drawing gold deposit accounts 
opened personally or on behalf of others at banks that are 
members of the Gold Transfer System, or they can send 
balances to their gold accounts at our Bank from their gold 
accounts in other banks that are members of the system.

In 2022, we organized 
a total of 67 events 
that lasted 85 days, 
with our collaborating 
companies online and 
face-to-face. We 
reached approximately 
45 thousand SMEs in 
all our programs.

By integrating the 
“Central Bank Instant 
Transfer of Funds to the 
System - FAST” system 
into both our corporate 
mobile channel and our 
Open Banking Money 
Transfers services for 
our corporate customers, 
we enabled them to 
transfer money 24/7.

We collaborated with the international financing platform 
Wefi Technology for Supplier Financing solutions. We 
ensured the integration of the company into the Izzy 
Platform. We started to conduct Foreign Currency invoice 
discount transactions via this platform used especially 
in the hardware industry. By switching our integrations 
with Supplier Finance platforms, with which we cooperate 
in Turkey, to an online structure, we started to transact 
through APIs. In this way, while accelerating our customers’ 
discount transactions, we increased our operational 
efficiency in transactions such as reconciliation with 
companies and pricing changes.

As Cash Management, we will continue to offer our 
customers fast and low-commission payment alternatives 
in their low-amount individual payments in international 
money transfers for 2023. In addition, we will continue our 
studies to improve the experience of our customers in our 
corporate digital channels, increase our channel diversity, 
and develop new products and collaborations in line with 
market needs for trade financing. 

Foreign trade 
We continue our strong position in the sector in line with 
our vision of producing digital solutions for the needs 
of our customers in foreign trade transactions. With 
our wide range of products in the field of foreign trade 
financing, our long years of knowledge and experience, 
our technological infrastructure, and our widespread 
international correspondent network, we continue our 
foreign trade services with a focus on customers through 
all channels with high quality. Our global trade experts, who 
are knowledgeable about foreign trade instruments and 
legislation, keep supporting our customers in traditional 
and structured foreign trade products.

Thanks to our import transfer solution, which we offer to 
our customers through our Akbank Corporate Internet 
Branch, we increased our digitalization rate in foreign 
currency transfer transactions to the level of 65%. In 2023, 
we started working on providing our customers with a new 
foreign trade experience through our Corporate Internet 
Branch. 

In addition to loans originating from banks, we continue to 
fulfil the financing needs of companies carrying out export 
and foreign exchange earning services and activities, 
by intermediating Turkish Eximbank loans and export 
rediscount loans originating from the CBRT. We discount 
export receivables with post-dispatch export loans and 
export receivables. We also support our exporters in terms 
of financing new technology products. We discount their 
forward receivables against foreign bank-guaranteed 
policies and bonds and provide them with credit guarantees 
within the scope of factoring for their exports arising from 
the sales of open account goods or services, and with 
financing before maturity in case of need. We provide 
financing before maturity by irrevocably discounting the 
forward export letters of credit opened to our exporters 
following the submission of appropriate documents.

Akbank AG, our Germany-based subsidiary, continues 
to provide cost-effective resources and irrevocable and 
revocable discount services, particularly to exporters with 
sales targeting Europe.

For supporting our SMEs with our financial and non-
financial services, we participated in the panels held in 
Anatolia by cooperating with consultancy companies. In 
2023, we will continue to support our SMEs with activities 
we will organize in coordination with exporter unions and 
official institutions in different provinces.

We aim to reach our exporters and potential exporters in 
different regions of Turkey through physical and online 
events at Akbank Exporters’ Meetings that we will organize 
in 2023. We are firmly progressing towards our goal of 
“being the first bank that comes to mind when we talk 
about foreign trade. We will continue to be the bank that 
plays a key role in the development of exports by increasing 
the support we provide to our customers.

With the project we implemented 
in 2022, we provided our exporter 
customers with the opportunity to 
issue an Export Value Acceptance 
Certificate (EVAC) via Akbank 
Corporate Internet Branch.

We continued our 
support to our 
exporters by improving 
the Exporter’s 
Power Package 
with solutions for 
digitalization and 
foreign trade tariffs in 
2022.

While diversifying our services and channels in common 
segments, we continue to offer our corporate customers 
tailor-made solutions for their business needs. We provided 
speed and flexibility to our customers’ approval processes 
by renewing our designs with the developing technology 
and infrastructure means in the Bulk Payment System, 
which is widely used by our corporate customers for supplier 
payments. Our customers can complete their transactions 
at user approval levels, which dynamically change in line with 
the signature type and signature levels they use for approval 
and the amount of the transaction to be approved through 
the Corporate Branch. The completion of the transaction, 
approved by users with sufficient limits, with a dynamic 
approval structure, and the fact that no additional approval 
is required, accelerated the transactions of our customers. On 
the other hand, we completed the Mobile Approval Integrated 
Bulk Payment System studies. With this new application, it 
was ensured that payment orders are received as integrated 
into the mobile application, they are opened for user 
approvals via mobile phones in line with the authorization 
and limit hierarchy, and their approvals are tracked. In the 
light of these studies, full compliance with the company’s 
payment infrastructure was provided and by ensuring instant 
approval and follow-up of transactions on the company 
system, it was made possible for it to work as a portal to 
which other group companies of our customers can be added.

In addition to the foregoing, we continued to finance trade 
with our credited cash management products as cash 
management. By ensuring that the loan offer screens and 
KKB data work in an integrated manner, we ensured that 
loan offer alerts are issued for potential DBS and Check 
customers to branch users. We improved the application 
receipt processes by communicating with potential DBS 
dealers for the first time over the corporate Internet.

42 - 43Akbank for you



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Private banking and 
wealth management

We reached 83 billion 
TL fund size and 
increased our market 
share to 13% in 
comparison with 2021 
by doubling our growth 
in the investment 
funds managed by Ak 
Portföy. Besides, the 
total assets managed 
by Ak Portföy reached 
200 billion TL.

The rate of our customers who used the digital channels for 
their share certificate transactions exceeded 95% in 2022, 
thanks to the evolving strong infrastructure of Ak Yatırım. 
We keep increasing the services and products available in 
our channels by improving the experience we offer to our 
customers based on our innovative approach. By renovating 
our mobile application for Investors in 2022, we offer a 
user-friendly experience to our customers engaging in 
share certificate transactions, futures and options market 
transactions, and warrant transactions. With our latest 
improvements, our customers started to open foreign stock 
accounts easily through Akbank Mobile and transact at 
international markets. 

Our Akbank Gold Deposit Accounts continued to be a 
focus of interest for investors in 2022. The balance of our 
gold accounts, in which we offer different options to our 
customers in Akbank Mobile through the alarm, order, and 
instant foreign exchange transaction functions, reached 
33 billion TL. Moreover, we brought the mattress savings 
of about 250 kg of gold into the economy by being 
included in the so-called KAD-SİS (Jeweller Gold Valuation 
System) project of İstanbul Gold Refinery in June. With the 
Exchange Rate Protected TL Deposit Account for Physical 
Gold Participation (FATSI), we protect our customers’ 
investments against the exchange risks and allow them to 
earn an additional yield in advance at the time of account 
opening. Our Bank was included in the Gold Transfer 
System of Takasbank at the end of November. In addition to 
gold, we achieved a size greater than 100 tons in our silver, 
platinum, and precious metal accounts. 

In 2022, 94% of our 
investor customers fell 
into the group called 
“digital investors” 
who transact through 
mobile and online 
channels. The digital 
channels were used by 
95% of our customers 
performing share 
certificate transactions, 
93% of our exchange 
transactions, and 82% 
of our investment fund 
transactions.

Founded in 2021 under Akbank Wealth Management 
within the frame of Akbank’s Sustainability Goals, the 
“Sustainable Investments Management” uninterruptedly 
maintained its operations in 2022. The size of our 
sustainable investments fund was 2.7 billion TL, whereas 
our market share reached 26% in 2022. We included a 
new fund in our Investment Funds category in 2022 and 
established our Variable Fund of Ak Portföy for Electric and 
Autonomous Vehicle Technologies.

We continue to bring our customers together with products 
that will contribute to a better and more sustainable 
world and offer various ESG product alternatives to many 
domestic individual investors with different asset/risk levels.

We will keep offering many sustainable investment 
products which contribute to the development of our 
country and customers and are intended to improve the 
welfare of individuals in the upcoming period.

Akbank private banking
In addition to our high quality, reliable, and accessible 
financial services in our branches and service points across 
Türkiye, we make value propositions to our customers and 
their families, contributing to their lifestyles. 

We use the capabilities provided by technology and digital 
banking with utmost efficiency by strengthening customer 
experience through our digital transformation. 

We adopt a holistic approach for our customers with 
greater financial assets than 30 million TL in the light of 
our UHNW service model. We aim to ensure the passing 
down of family estates to the next generations by offering 
customized and innovative solution suggestions.

We maintain the special development program with 
financial and life culture content to enhance our Private 
Bankers’ capabilities and offer them a common insight with 
our customers.

As Akbank Private Banking, we consider the services 
provided to our customers. We offer a chance for our 
customers to experience this service in all areas of their 
lives. We work to protect family estates and values and for 
their passing down to the next generations based on our 
belief in long-term relationships rather than short-term 
acquisitions. 

We provide services to our customers 
having 3 million TL and greater 
financial assets with our product 
range at global standards through 
the well-qualified “Private Bankers” 
of Akbank Private Banking and our 
digital infrastructure.

We respond to 
the needs and 
expectations of our 
customers from a 
single point thanks to 
our business model 
built on the synergy 
of Ak Portföy, Ak 
Yatırım, and Akbank 
Treasury.

With this perspective, we aim to raise the awareness of 
high school and university students (topics concerning the 
responsibility for family estates, diversity of investment 
products, the concept of risk, the global economy, 
philanthropy, etc.) within the scope of our “Next Generation” 
program launched in 2015 by breaking new ground in 
Türkiye. 

We organize events annually concerning entrepreneurship, 
global trends, real estate properties, arts, social 
responsibility, and so on. 

We continue to provide a market information platform 
service for investors through Winvestors Investor Meetings, 
introduced in 2020.

We also continue to bring our worldwide known figures 
in arts, sports, and sciences together with our customers 
during our “Influencers” meetings introduced in 2021.

We share the latest developments in arts, technology, 
architecture, fashion, music, and many other cultural 
fields with our customers through the blog and Instagram 
account of AJournal, a digital life culture platform.

Our structure in the Private Banking and Wealth Management 
Unit positioned our Bank among the most important players 
in the market in the field of Investment Services through 
leading outstanding innovations since its foundation.

Akbank Wealth Management 
As Akbank Wealth Management, we continued to focus 
on the growth and development potential of the capital 
markets in Türkiye in 2022. Thanks to our digitalization 
investments, which have recently been our top priority, we 
managed to be one of the banks with the highest share in 
the growth of the investment market in recent years.

With the development and renovation initiatives launched 
in 2019 and maintained in 2022, we offer an investment 
experience to our customers in “Akbank Mobile,” where 
technological innovations stand out. Akbank Mobile 
remains as our most important customer channel among all 
investment products in this process.

Our Ak Portföy, Ak Yatırım, and Akbank Treasury products 
under the roof of “Akbank Wealth Management” delivered 
a strong performance in 2022 in line with the goal of 
becoming the leading brand of Türkiye in the investment 
sector. We continue to expand our diversity in such 
main investment products as investment funds, share 
certificates, and bonds/bills and to grow our share in the 
sector using our technological infrastructure. 

We kept diversifying our products for investment funds. 
We offered various products that would meet the needs 
of our customers in their service in dynamic markets. We 
expanded the scope of Wealth Management transactions 
in Akbank Mobile with improved experiences for Share 
Certificates, Investment Funds, and Foreign Exchange 
Transactions. This initiative turned our Bank into a leader 
among portfolio management companies. 

We reached 30 underlying assets in 2022 in the warrants 
included in our product range in 2020 through Ak Yatırım. 
Furthermore, the index certificates were issued, which 
allowed investment in underlying assets by Borsa İstanbul 
for the first time in Türkiye.

44 - 45Akbank for you



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Treasury

We focus on serving stability in the 
economic balancing process through 
our pricing policies.

Our Liquidity and Funding team manages our Bank’s 
short-term foreign currency and Turkish Lira liquidity by 
supervising the market conditions and using all available 
instruments. By doing this, we use borrowing, placement, 
and repo-reverse repo instruments in TL at the money 
markets based on foreign currencies and TL. We try to 
manage the liquidity most effectively by performing swap 
transactions between different currencies. 

In line with the monetary policy practices of the Central 
Bank, we fulfilled the required reserve liabilities of our Bank 
in TL and foreign currencies with the effective use of TL and 
foreign currency markets. We carried out our operations by 
dynamically assessing the over the counter and organized 
market conditions.

Treasury marketing department
By identifying the needs of our Corporate, Commercial, 
SME, One-to-One, Consumer, and Private Banking 
customers, we provide services with foreign currency 
buying-selling, derivatives, Government and Private Sector 
bonds and bills, Eurobond, etc. for the exchange rate, 
interest, and commodity hedging which might occur at the 
financial markets and for revenue increase.

We will keep our creative solutions by developing suitable 
treasury products for the needs of our customers.

Economic research
We analyse macroeconomic data in light of domestic and 
foreign market developments. We regularly share these 
analyses with internal and external stakeholders and ensure 
they are informed about the current developments. 

We form assumptions for critical economic data for the 
business units in the Headquarters and for the Holding, 
make estimations at different intervals for the requested 
macroeconomic indicators, and prepare additional notes 
about the developments that might affect our assumptions 
and estimations. We regularly inform the Board of Directors, 
the Holding, foreign investors, and customers about the 
current economic situation and market data.

Credit underwriting

We keep contributing 
to protecting our 
flexible balance 
sheet composition 
based on our 
rigorous pricing and 
effective interest risk 
management in light 
of our sustainable 
profitability principle.

Our technological infrastructure 
and operations

In 2022, we continued to develop 
advanced analytic decision-making 
models where the scorecards, 
segmentation models, and limit 
models generated by machine learning 
algorithms were placed at the center 
thanks to our infrastructure allowing 
us to manage all our retail credit 
portfolios dynamically in compliance 
with the objectives of our Bank and 
the business cycle.

We implemented 433 projects in the 
operating period of 2022 through a 
holistic digitalization strategy. 

Cloud-based technological 
transformation journey 
We continued the transformation of our architectural 
components in the extensive Cloud Based Technological 
Transformation journey that started in 2022 as the new 
phase of our holistic digitalization strategy to offer 
a superior customer experience in all channels with 
innovative solutions. Within this scope, we keep renewing 
our applications with more modern, flexible, modular, and 
scalable architecture understanding in all layers, from 
channels to main banking applications. By using robust 
methodologies and the latest engineering practices, we will 
continue to develop high-quality products and services for 
our customers.

As the Treasury Business Unit, we keep offering effective 
solutions jointly with the Trading, Balance Sheet 
Management, Treasury Marketing, and Economic Research 
units operating within our structure and making a difference 
in the sector through our service quality.

Trading department
Thanks to our high transaction volume, we continue to be 
among the leading players in the Turkish money markets. 
We pioneer the deepening of the market based on our 
leadership in different markets. In light of our customer-
oriented approach, we keep ensuring fair and fast pricing in 
all products for which our Bank wants to provide a service 
based on the needs of our customers.

By enhancing the use of technology day by day, we protect our 
leading position in utilizing the opportunities in the industry. 

Balance sheet management department
We target to manage our balance sheet and income 
statement by the risk management principles. We carry 
out interest and money swap transactions, structured 
derivative transactions, and repo transactions with 
effective management of our interest risk. In addition, with 
our Securities and Derivatives Group, we undertake the 
management of our Bank’s Securities Portfolio and carry 
out the necessary transactions. We support the financial 
stability of our country with our market-maker role in the 
bonds and bills market. 

The fund transfer pricing to different business units within 
our structure is under the responsibility of our Asset-Liability 
Management team. Besides, it submits proposals to the 
Asset-Liability Committee regarding the actions required to 
be taken by monitoring our balance sheet.

As Akbank Credit Underwriting Business Unit, we assess 
credit offers in line with our Bank’s objectives and credit 
policies. For this purpose, we ensure the management of 
risk analysis, financial analysis, risk monitoring, scoring, and 
intelligence processes accurately and play an active role in 
the smooth growth of our Bank. 

Thanks to our dynamic practices sensitive to cyclical 
developments, rating policies, and periodical portfolio 
surveillances, we work to maintain our Bank’s adherence to 
robust asset quality. 

We provide a quick response to the demands of our 
customers through regular and competent credit 
committees organized at all levels and in all segments. We 
continued to enhance the efficiency of our processes and 
prioritize the offers intended for new customer gains by 
standardizing our credit practices in 2022.

We aim to maintain our course of smooth growth also in 
2023 by taking the necessary actions in accordance with 
changing needs of customers, industrial developments, 
and macroeconomic indicators. We will keep managing 
our credit portfolio with a digitalization focus by using 
data-driven and advanced analytic approaches to our 
automatic decision-making systems based on the principle 
of continuous development.

Our technical infrastructure 
As Akbank Technology and Operation, we developed 
new product and service projects in 2022 to provide our 
customers with faster, uninterrupted, and higher quality 
service. Moreover, we conducted some studies which would 
result in such a technological infrastructure that could 
improve our strength and was measurable, reliable, and 
sustainable. In parallel with these studies, we continued to 
implement our vision of developing more modern, modular, 
and cloud-based applications through sustaining our 
technological transformation programs uninterruptedly.

Information technologies 

46 - 47Akbank for you



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Technology continuity program
We carried out some activities to enhance the strength of 
application and infrastructure components and dynamize 
capacity planning through the effective governance model. 
We started to ensure the uninterrupted functionality of 
our services within the scope of the Technology Continuity 
Program.

We deployed our Emergency Center Infrastructure for the 
purpose of ensuring the continuity of the systems in case 
of emergency. By making the required arrangements for 
the active-active operation of our applications, we ensured 
that certain servers in some applications could be operated 
from the secondary data center in parallel with the first 
data center. We aim to increase the number of applications 
functioning in parallel with the first and secondary data 
centers in a controlled manner in the upcoming period 
through the installed infrastructure.

The Business Continuity Department completed the 
organizational structuring of Management of Business 
Continuity Risks, Threats, and Crises so that they could be 
handled by the same directorates thanks to the Business 
Continuity Governance and Strategy established on the 
grounds of the importance attached to business continuity 
and achievement of more effective governance. We got 
such new functionalities to a level that they could operate 
at full strength. 

We completed integrating the inventory management 
applications and processes within the frame of managing 
the inventories of the Information Systems assets. We 
ensured effective management of the information systems’ 
inventories by developing an organized, holistic, and live 
mechanism. 

We will maintain the development activities in various 
areas of improvement also in the upcoming period within 
the scope of the Technology Continuity Program.

Digital sales and service models  
Within the scope of our Corporate Digitalization 
programwe initiated many different studies by focusing on 
the evolving and changing digital needs of our corporate 
customers. We will continue to work with the same vision 
next year. Highlights of our innovations are listed below:

We enriched our digital product sales infrastructure, which 
we improved to offer our commercial products with financial 
and non-financial advantages. We put it into service through 
the Member Business application. We will maintain our 
efforts to improve our flows based on the feedback received 
from our customers and digitalize new products as well.

We renovated our intensively used operations (such as profile, 
desktop, etc.) by starting our transformation initiative in 
our branch application in line with the needs of corporate 
customers. We offered new additional features to companies 
and group companies, including holistic perspective, portfolio 
development, comprehensive customer analysis, etc. We 
maintain our enrichment initiatives every year.

We expanded and put into the service of our customers the 
so-called Finish with Mobile Application approval structure 
which is based on the paperless branch approach in such a 
manner that it would be available not only to Personal and 
Private companies but also to our Incorporate firms. 

We renewed the designs to improve the digital experiences of 
our corporate customers through the transformation of the 
Corporate Internet Branch. Moreover, we started the shift to 
the new digital channel architecture, which was established in 
line with the vision of cloud-based application development. 
We will offer them for the use of our customers soon, starting 
from the renewed functions, and we will uninterruptedly 
maintain our transformation initiatives both for the 
Corporate Internet Branch and Corporate Mobile Application. 

We continued our transformation activities in which we 
visually, functionally, and technologically renewed our Akbank 
Mobile application in consideration of user experience and 
needs throughout the year. In 2022, we introduced 41 new 
functions and renewed 20 existing functions. In addition to 
the transformation of our mobile application, we keep the 
transformation of the corporate mobile application.

We renew our operation model to become simpler, more 
digital, compliant with all channels, end-to-end, and 
customer oriented. We continued our improvement works in 
the POS processes in 2022. We achieved an increase in our 
metrics and customer satisfaction thanks to our activities 
for such products as cards, e-mortgage, wages, lump sum 
payments (TÖS), foreign currency transfers, import letters of 
credit, certificates of acceptance for the export price (İBKB), 
and check and for such processes as cash operations and 
ATM complaints. We will keep improving our branch and card 
operations in a customer-oriented manner through digital, 
easy, and quick solutions. 

We continue to develop our Next-
Generation Sales and Service models 
within the scope of digitalization.

Ecosystems and open banking 
We keep expanding the first Open Banking application of 
Türkiye through our new collaborations. We increase the 
number of services provided not only to corporate firms 
but also to third-party developers. By renovating our API 
gateway infrastructure, we intend to offer our increasing 
service delivery needs for use more resiliently.

We can establish more manageable collaborations through 
a greater ecosystem along with the portal. We will keep 
making value-added services to the ecosystem and our 
customers through B2B, banking as a service, and our 
publicly available APIs. 

We will implement account details and payment starting 
services in the upcoming period within the scope of the 
regulations of the Central Bank that we started to work on 
in 2021. 

Next-generation payment systems 
While we have a position in the digital payments universe 
through the digital card, digital campaign, and card 
package infrastructure features, we continue to streamline 
our infrastructures for the existing Payment Systems. 
Within this scope, we keep enriching the open system 
transformation of our campaign infrastructure. 

We support important collaborations by accelerating 
digitalization with Cebe POS and Android POS. We also 
digitalize cash registers following the POS in our capacity 
as the operator company. We introduced the Safe Financial 
Application sales capability for Cebe POS.

We made new collaborations with Juzdan in which we 
digitalized our wallets with the use of the card on file 
structure. We keep our studies on firm integrations so 
that e-commerce collaborations will enhance. By bringing 
end users and member businesses together with mutual 
advantages, we continue working for Juzdan to offer a 
customized user experience, customer gain, and increased 
market share.

We started our efforts for the “Renovation of Credit Card, 
Loyalty, and Issuer Switch Systems,” the first phase of the 
“Payment Systems Modernization” program, in January 
2022, to meet critical business needs while we were 
renovating our Payment Systems infrastructure. We will 
start working for the second phase, “Renovation of POS, 
Member workplace, and Acquirer Switch Systems,” in 
January 2023. 

We designed and 
included in the production 
of the functions with an 
approximate transaction 
volume of 89% in 2022 by 
preparing infrastructure 
for corporate MİM.

Data technologies and governance 
We generate big volumes of data thanks to our technology-
oriented business processes. We make use of these data to 
offer value-added services to our customers. We ensure more 
effective use of the data being our corporate information 
assets by way of managing them within the frame of the roles, 
policies, and processes, and we support the decision-making 
processes through the enhancement of data quality. 

We strengthen our infrastructure with the latest technologies 
to provide accurate data. We keep enriching common data 
layers in compliance with the singularized data definitions 
in line with the data governance program. We support our 
employees with self-service and mobile tools to use the data 
effectively. In this way, we aim to make data users capable of 
responding to their own analysis needs quickly without the 
necessity to get help from other teams or technology groups. 

We ensure access to data by the branches and regions 
through a modern platform by way of completing the 
mainstream process of the reporting application in the 
field, which was offered for the use of our employees in the 
Headquarters. With this platform, we create the opportunity 
to access the data easily and analyse the same for our users. 

While we mainstream the data-driven culture, we continue 
to keep our sensitivity to data privacy at the highest level. 
With this project, we ensure that the personal and sensitive 
data, obtained periodically in accordance with the GDPR, PCI/
DSS, and the Banking Regulations, are dynamically masked 
depending on the authorizations of the users accessing them 
in the analytical environments used in the strategic decision-
making processes of our Bank and that data security is 
achieved in these environments effectively. 

Advanced analytics and artificial 
intelligence technologies 
We turned advanced analytics and artificial intelligence 
methodologies into a part of our business manner. We continue 
to industrialize our artificial intelligence models. We are able to 
implement our artificial intelligence projects without delay by 
making the MLOps practices a part of our work. 

Thus, we target to constantly offer our precise product and 
service suggestions by proactively estimating our customers’ 
needs. We create value for our customers and operational 
efficiency for our Bank through data technologies. By 
monitoring the use of channels, we can provide quick support 
to our customers who have difficulty. We can instantly identify 
ATM failures, times of money withdrawal/deposit processes, 
and the prevalence of any problems in the channels and 
ensure a faster response. 

We started offering the high design 
quality intended for our customers and 
employees by ensuring the receipt of 
reports through tablets.

48 - 49Akbank for you



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Infrastructure
In 2022, we moved the Emergency Data Center of our Bank 
from İzmir to Ankara. The Data Center of the Credit Bureau 
in Ankara has become the New Emergency Data Center 
for Akbank. With this project, we established a backup 
data center at a greater capacity and a more advanced 
infrastructure. In this way, our target is that the continuity of 
the services we provide to our customers can be improved 
and that they contribute to the resilience of our Bank for a 
long period. 

To protect the superior level of service offered to the growing 
customer portfolio of our Bank, we will keep updating 
our technological infrastructure and making the required 
investments therein.

Business Intelligence applications
Argus
Within the scope of financial transformation, we diversified 
our “Mobile ARGUS” application based on the current needs 
which was developed as a digital and innovative solution and 
offered for use at the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic 
period and were deemed worthy of the championship award 
in IDC DX Awards 2020 in the category of “Digital Trailblazer.” 
We keep supporting the decision-making processes of our 
directors at all levels through well-equipped screens and 
updated data and meeting any information needs quicker and 
easier at high quality in a mobile environment on a 24/7 basis 
without any space or time restriction.

Our mobile application, in which over 65 billion data are 
processed, converted into information, and submitted for 
review per day, not only makes sure that key points are 
captured at first sight thanks to the “tailor-made” screens 
designed for our directors and strong visuals that can 
enhance financial literacy, but also offers the opportunity to 
perform analytical reviews in different perspectives through 
interactive objects and related screens and take a look at the 
details of summarized data. 

We continue to offer a competitive advantage by ensuring 
its intensive and active use in the top management’s 
medium-term and strategic decision-making processes 
(including some tactical decisions like daily operation, sales 
management, marketing activities, campaigns, etc.) and 
performance and efficiency measurements and enabling fast 
and accurate decision making.

Profitability system
Our Profitability System keeps being a guideway for 
multidimensional measurements, playing an important role in 
achieving our sustainable profitability goal, and has shown to 
be among the “best practices” in Europe and the USA.

We use the results obtained from the system in our various 
decision-making processes, such as determining our 
managerial and marketing strategies, optimizing the services 
provided to our customers in the branches, and making daily 
pricing decisions. We also use these results effectively as a 
critical performance indicator in success assessments across 
Akbank.

We regularly analyze our profitability daily and monthly and 
at different dimensions through our Profitability System. 
Our infrastructure was completely renewed so that the 
profitability of the channels, customers, branches, and CRM 
could be measured more effectively and efficiently, in which 
about 35 billion data are processed daily.

Expense and investment management 
As Akbank, we have been using the zero-base budgeting 
methodology for ten years. We keep carrying out such 
analysis and modelling studies that will reinforce our position 
as the most effective bank in the sector within the scope 
of strategic expenditure and investment management 
initiatives. Within this framework, we continue to focus 
on and implement the studies intended for achieving 
sustainable expenditure savings with the study groups 
established across our Bank in which we have achieved 
substantial efficiency. 

We also renewed our application which provides users with 
information for expenditure management by updating our 
activity-based expenditure follow-up processes.

Budget
Our Bank has an integrated, efficient, and dynamic 
budgeting process based on business units, regions, 
branches, and CRM. 

We review the strategic plan study for three years along 
with the budget on an annual basis and identify our 
medium and long-term goals and action plans. We support 
the smooth financial development of our Bank through 
estimation studies which are performed during the year 
and updated on a monthly and -in volatile periods- weekly 
basis. Furthermore, we monitor our overall performance by 
making a periodic comparative analysis of the financial and 
operational realizations and the budget. We make revisions 
to the budget as required by the cyclical economic changes. 
We also conduct performance measurements through 
effective reporting for the performance follow-up of our 
business units and the field and provide some feedback and 
suggestions for enhancing our Bank’s performance.

Our subsidiaries

 
AuM Level 
950 Million USD

Public Offer 
+3 Billion USD

Managed Portfolio 
215.4 Billion TL

 
Number of the 
Managed Pension Fund 
64

For the sake of effective measurement of the 
Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) risks, one of 
the most important megatrends in recent years, and for the 
reinforcement of the Sustainability approach, we launched 
the ESG Strategy project in 2022. We developed an ESG 
plan for putting the initiatives in this regard into practice 
as a part of the business and risk strategies of Akbank AG. 
We also started some studies for the Sustainable Finance 
framework. Our target is the sustainability strategy and 
risk-opportunity management under the roof of the Akbank 
AG Sustainability Committee.

Akbank AG
As Akbank AG, we continue to work to improve the 
satisfaction of our customers and employees despite the 
macroeconomic changes taking place last year and focus 
on serving stability in the economic balancing process.

We managed to maintain our performance in the 
diversification of our fields of activity and profitability in 
2022. The balance sheet of our Bank was 3.6 billion EUR, 
and its equity was 940 million EUR in December 2022.

The capital adequacy ratio of our Bank, which had been 
calculated under Basel III criteria, was 32.9%, whereas its 
liquidity coverage ratio was 484% on 31.12.2022.

As Akbank AG, we continue to have the largest balance 
sheet among the banks in Germany with Turkish capital 
thanks to our strong capital structure. Our share in the 
consolidated assets reached 6.26% in 2022.

As Akbank AG, we provide trade finance, factoring, invoice 
finance with credit insurance, supplier finance, and deposit 
services with our wide range of credit instruments. The 
target customer group of our Bank in the field of credit 
facilities consist of international companies domiciled in 
Türkiye and the EU, where foreign trade is growing. We 
continued not to compromise on our asset quality and 
asset risk management in 2022.

Alongside our corporate and personal deposits with a wide 
funding range, we keep providing funds within the frame 
of our usury products and the funding program (MRO and 
LTRO) offered by the European Central Bank.

Within the structure of Akbank AG, we reach over 20 
thousand personal deposit customers in Germany through 
our direct banking system. Our funding sources contribute 
to our Bank’s efforts to offer a wide range of deposit 
structures. Moreover, we have expanded our product ranges 
and services in the rapidly growing private banking services.

With our mobile banking application put into service 
in 2022, we strengthened our direct banking system to 
accelerate our initiatives for the purpose of turning Akbank 
AG into a more modern and digital bank. We are carrying 
on our additional modernization activities by making use 
of the latest technologies and prioritizing cyber security 
requirements.

Ak Yatırım
Being a 100% subsidiary of Akbank T.A.Ş. and showing 
a fast and stabilized development from its foundation 
to today, Ak Yatırım offers domestic and foreign capital 
market products to its personal and corporate customers 
through its experienced sales staff, comprehensive research 
reports, and customer-oriented service understanding. 

Within the scope of intermediation services for public 
offering, we provide services to our customers in pre-initial 
public offering structuring, valuation, management of CMB 
and BIST processes, management of advertisement and 
promotion campaigns for public offering, and performance 
of domestic and foreign marketing and sales activities. 

50 - 51Akbank for you



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

As Ak Yatırım, we successfully completed the public offering 
and sales transaction of 13 shares with a total amount of 
8.8 billion TL since 2010 in our capacity as the consortium 
leader. 

We provide investor-friendly, high-quality, quick, and reliable 
service at all capital markets through our nine branches 
located at important centers, the central sales team, and 
the specialist and experienced staff in the Headquarters.

We convey all kinds of transactions of investors at domestic 
and international markets to the respective markets in a 
safe, easy, and fast manner with the “TradeAll” brand. 

Furthermore, we achieved the success of making history as 
an organization providing digital investment consultancy 
service in Nasdaq, S&P 500, and Dow Jones exchanges in 
Türkiye for the first time through TradeAll UP Plus that we 
put into the service of our customers last year in Turkish 
Capital Markets as a first implementation.

In addition to all of the foregoing, Ak Yatırım will carry on 
its activities in line with this goal and vision also in 2023, 
which has also proved that it is a leader organization in its 
sector thanks to the social media community management 
reaching almost 250 thousand people in total with its 
successful initiatives in communication processes through 
the TradeAll brand.

Ak Portföy 
Ak Portföy Yönetimi A.Ş. was founded in 2000 to provide 
investment funds and portfolio management services 
to corporate and personal investors in capital markets. 
Our organization is 100% affiliate of Akbank and carries 
out activities in the business lines of Investment Funds, 
Pension Funds, and Corporate and Personal Portfolio 
Management.

We are the largest private portfolio management 
company in Türkiye, with an asset size of about 215.4 
billion TL at the end of 2022. The total assets we managed 
in 2022 increased by 114%.

In 2022, our investment funds reached the size of 90 
billion TL, with a 120% increase in comparison with the 
previous year. We are managing 64 pension funds founded 
by such leading global pension corporations as AgeSA, 
Allianz, and Axa. We protect our position as the sector 
leader among private organizations thanks to our 80.7 
billion TL fund size and 18.6% market share in this field. 

We increased our assets managed in the business line of 
Corporate and Consumer Portfolio Management to 44.9 
billion TL in 2022 with a 206% increase.

We focus on the needs and expectations of our account 
owners. By understanding our investors, we develop new-
generation products and services at global standards through 
our innovative products offered to them. 

We take important steps for our sector in the generation of the 
future world with our investment products developed in line 
with the sustainable finance understanding and also create 
new investment options for our account holders. In this way, 
we contribute to our investors in the effective management of 
their savings and designing a sustainable future.

We put the “Ak Portföy Agriculture and Food Technologies 
Variable Fund,” which is the newest product range we 
designed in the fields that will transform the future world 
from new technologies to alternative energy and from health 
to tourism under the theme of “Future of Investing,” into the 
service of our investors. With this fund, we provide investment 
opportunities with the selected 20 global and domestic 
corporations operating in the agriculture and food sector.

Within this scope, we launched “Spread a Seed for the Future” 
project with the ‘ecording’ technology enterprise, which 
develops sustainable and innovative environmental solutions 
for the climate crisis. 

We aim to afforest the lost forest lands through “ecoDrone” 
unmanned aerial vehicles developed by ‘ecording,’ a 
sustainable and innovative environmental technologies 
enterprise. We spread the seeds produced by the women who 
live in hard-to-reach territories and are directly affected by 
the negative outcomes of the climate crisis in economic and 
social terms with the help of “ecoDrone.”

We ensure that our investors can become a partner with 
an investment opportunity at a high potential and with 
a sustainable future thanks to the Agriculture and Food 
Technologies Variable Fund.

Our Alternative Energy, Health Industry, Electric and 
Autonomous Vehicle Technologies & Agriculture and Food 
Technology Funds from the members of the Fund Group of 
the Future of Ak Portfolio Investment received the ESG scores 
from Refinitiv and MSCI for the first time in Türkiye. 

Within this framework, we maximize our support for ESG 
practices. Thus, we aim to contribute to the sustainable 
growth of Türkiye and expand its green transformation.

Besides, with our Ak Portföy Exporting Companies Share 
Certificate Fund with the feature of being the first and only 
investment fund that invests in the export power of Türkiye, 
our GDPs established by Ak Portfolio for the first time in 
Türkiye, and our similar products, we present companies with 
high potential that we have chosen in our country with the 
opportunity to invest.

By designing the product and service model of Robo 
Consultancy, which can be offered to millions of investors 
simultaneously at a high standard for the first time in Türkiye 
and will pave the way for the growth of the investment fund 
sector, we started to offer it to account owners in 2016 under 
the roof of “Portfolio Ideas.” Within this scope, we scale the 
Robo Consultancy services of Ak Portföy through digital 
technologies and ensure its reach to large masses.

We conduct “Investor Profile Analysis” for pension 
participants through FonPRO, which we developed in 
collaboration with AgeSA, featuring to be the first mobile 
pension investment management platform in our country. 
In this way, we brought our pension participants together 
with the most suitable fund distribution to their personal 
preferences. We provided assistance to over 80 thousand 
account holders of ours to manage their investments 
through FonPRO at the end of 2022.

We allowed our participants to invest in a wide portfolio 
divided into categories by age scale from a single fund 
through our AgeSA Hayat ve Emeklilik Fund Basket Funds 
developed in 2022 with the Life Cycle approach.

Thanks to this approach of ours which understands the 
changing needs and expectations of our investors and our 
successful fund management, we won the appreciation of 
international organizations. As Ak Portföy, we were selected 
as the “Türkiye’s Best Investment Management Company” 
by World Finance, which is one of the most prestigious 
publications in the world, for 4 consecutive years, in 2022. 
We also ranked among the world’s top 500 portfolio 
management corporations announced in the IPE Top 500 
List also this year.

Ak Finansal Kiralama A.Ş. 
As AK Finansal Kiralama A.Ş. (AKLease), our 100% 
subsidiary, we offer financial leasing solutions for 
investments from various industries, ranging from production 
to construction, transportation to energy, and health to 
logistics. We assume important roles in the future and 
development of our country by supporting the investments 
of organizations and particularly our existing customers that 
want to make investments, enter new markets, and grow.

We have been providing our customers with services through 
our innovative, long-term, and affordable leasing solutions 
since our foundation. We introduce the leasing advantages 
to our new customers from many different industries. 

As AK Finansal Kiralama A.Ş., we protected our leader 
position in the nonbank finance sector in 2022. We increased 
our net profit by 199% and our total asset size by 64% at 
the end of 2022 in comparison with the same period of 2021. 
We continue to provide services to all investors in 2022 

within the frame of the customer satisfaction principles 
through our robust financial structure, strong equity level, 
10 branches, widespread funding network, and, most 
importantly, our specialist and dynamic employees.

Within this scope, we renewed our Corporate Governance 
Principles. We established and announced our sustainability 
strategy with the participation of all our stakeholders. As AK 
Finansal Kiralama A.Ş., we develop authentic products in the 
field of sustainability, carry on our digitalization activities, 
and enhance the efficiency of the investments made in 
our employees within the scope of this strategy. We aim to 
comprise the whole portfolio of green investments, minimize 
our portfolio’s climatic impact, and achieve net zero carbon 
emission as a result of our operations by 2030.

We consider employee satisfaction as one of our priorities. 
The employee satisfaction surveys conducted this year bring 
new successes to us in this area. We managed to be among 
the best employers in 2021 and 2022 as a result of the 
assessment made by the Great Place to Work Institute. As 
a result of the assessment made by Kincentric, we also won 
‘The Best Workplace’ award within the scope of ‘Kincentric 
Best Employers 2022.’

We intensified our relationships with our creditors during 
our sustainability journey in 2022. We will keep financing 
our investments in this field with USD 50 million, being the 
first and only credit provided by the Asian Infrastructure 
and Investment Bank-AIIB in the leasing sector in Türkiye 
and all geographies it operates with the due date of five 
years throughout 2022. During the same year, we executed 
a syndication loan at the total amount of 100 million 
EUR with a due date of five years in total with the Dutch 
Entrepreneurial Development Bank (FMO). With this loan, we 
set the target to finance energy efficiency, renewable energy, 
and investments of SMEs. Additionally, we continued to 
introduce ECOLease to our customers, which was launched 
in 2021 and is the first and only product of the Turkish 
leasing sector with a sustainability theme. We supported 
the investments in energy efficiency and renewable energy 
with convenient due dates and payment advantages. We 
provided a credit facility of 2 billion TL under the roof of 
ECOLease in 2022. Within the scope of the Sustainability 
Awards organized by the European Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (EBRD), we managed to receive the first 
and only award of the year granted in the leasing sector in 
the ‘Financial Intermediaries’ category. Moreover, we won the 
TurSEFF Excellence Award with the Roof Solar Energy Plant 
financing transaction within the scope of the Sustainable 
Energy Financing Program of Türkiye. 

We made substantial progress in digital transformation 
with fast and easy processes by updating our software for 
financial leasing transactions compatible with mobile usage.

52 - 53Akbank for you



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

As AKLease, we ensure full compliance with the applicable 
legislation by taking well-organized steps to support the 
need of our customers, employees, and all other stakeholders. 
We contribute to the development of our sector through our 
ongoing profitability. We protected our position among the 
leader and reference corporations of the sector also in 2022 
thanks to our stable and strong capital structure.

We will keep making efforts to pass down a more sustainable 
world to the next generations with a focus on sustainability. 
We continue to stand for the complementary power of growth 
and economy with our uninterrupted support of investments.

AkÖde
We meet any financial needs of our young and innovative 
target mass who have not been included in the banking 
system yet in an easy, quick, and interactive manner through 
Tosla, our first product launched in 2019 under the roof of 
AKÖde. By increasing the number of transactions we offer, 
we gain customers and enhance interaction. Students and 
young professionals can instantly benefit from discount 
opportunities at many digital platforms such as Toslayanlar 
series/movies and music, online shopping, and any stores 
through Tosback, allowing them to earn as they spend.

We grew 4.5 times greater than the net growth ratio of the 
previous year in terms of active customers by focusing on 
the goal to increase the number of customers as a result of 
all these initiatives in 2022, and the number was 2.3 times 
greater at the end of 2022. 3.3 times greater growth than 
the net growth ratio of the previous year in terms of the 
number of customers performing monetary transactions was 
achieved, and the number was 2.5 times greater at the end of 
2022.

At the time of all these initiatives, we tried to provide the 
fastest and most reasonable solutions for users’ needs by 
closely following their opinions and the developments in the 
finance world. We maintain our activities in such a manner 
that the best user experience will be achieved with a holistic 
perspective in line with the vision of introducing a financial 
ecosystem to the users. 

One of the most important initiatives we launched in 2022 
was that AKÖde became a Payment Facilitator (PF) based 
on its license. We started to render payment services to 
customers via Virtual POS and link under “AKÖde POS.” 
We will keep enriching and offering B2B services to our 
customers by increasing the member business network and 
service diversity.

We launched a Digital Only card, which 
will ensure easy and fast participation of 
customers as well as mobile contactless 
(NFC) and QR payment and QR money 
withdrawal projects that will increase our 
digital payment share.

We made an application to the CBT for 
the expansion of our current field of 
activity by integrating the bill payments 
service. 

We introduced the first campus card 
project at Sabancı University with a 
focus on university students being 
our target mass. We allow them the 
opportunity to turn their student cards 
into Tosla cards and use the same 
digitally both inside and outside the 
campus.

In collaboration with Helpsteps, 
we provide our customers with the 
opportunity to live a healthy life by 
taking steps, providing support within 
the scope of social responsibility, turning 
their steps into TL balances, and using 
them in Tosla.

The economic 
value we create

We believe that the economic and social value we create 
through our banking activities will increase exponentially 
with the participation of our stakeholders. The economic 
value we create in cooperation with various stakeholder 
groups through the payments we make to our employees, 
for social investments, and to the government, our investors 
and suppliers has reached 67,729 million TL, an increase of 
179% compared to the end of 2021.

ECONOMIC VALUE CREATED AND DISTRIBUTED (MILLION TL) 2020 2021 2022

Direct Economic Value Generated 40,303 65,958 164,962

a) Incomes 40,303 65,958 164,962

Economic Value Distributed 25,978 41,655 97,210

b) Operating Costs 4,532 5,982 12,734

c) Employee wages and other benefits 3,040 3,537 6,894

d) Payments to investors and funders 15,484 28,338 56,170

e) Payments to the government 2,898 3,778 21,385

f) Social investments 24 20 51

Protected Economic Value 14,326 24,302 67,729

Note 1: Provisions for non-performing loans are included in the calculations of the Protected Economic Value. 
Note 2: The data in this table include our subsidiaries under consolidation.

The economic value we created 
reached 67,729 million TL, with an 
increase of 179% by the end of 2022.

54 - 55Akbank for you



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

BOARD OF DIRECTORS

International 
Banking and 

Institutional Clients

Corporate and 
Investment 

Banking
Special Credits

Corporate  
Banking Special Credits

Investment 
Banking

Trading Core Banking 
Technologies 

Treasury Technology

Infrastructure 
Technologies

Chief Economist Customer and 
Sales Technologies

Balance Sheet 
Management

Technology 
Governance

Payment Systems 
Technologies

Treasury Marketing Architecture and 
Data Technologies

Cash Management 
and Trade Finance

SME Banking Credit Monitoring 
& Collections

Brand and 
Communications Risk Management Compliance Information Risk 

Management

SME Banking 
Marketing

Commercial 
Credits Monitoring 

and Collections

Brand 
Management

SME Banking Sales 
Management

Consumer and 
Micro Credits 

Monitoring and 
Collections

BOARD MEMBER 
AND CEO

Akbank Experience 
and Academy

Private Banking 
and Wealth 

Management
People and Culture

Treasury and 
Capital Markets 

Operations

Customer 
Experience and 
Service Design

Private Banking Career 
Development

Digital Payment 
Operations

Branch Operations

Wealth 
Management

Organizational 
Development

Business 
Continuity

Architectural 
Solutions

Office of Board of 
Directors

Affluent Banking 
Sales and 
Marketing

Credit Analytics and 
Consumer-Micro 

Credits Underwriting

Consumer Banking 
and Digital 
Solutions

Credit 
Underwriting

Digital Design and 
Innovation

Legal Advisor Internal ControlInternal Audit

Consumer 
Banking Product 

Management

Consumer Banking 
and Digital 
Marketing

Corporate and 
Commercial 

Branch Credit 
Underwriting

Analytics

Payment Systems

Consumer Banking 
Sales Management

Commercial 
Credits 

Underwriting

Customer Contact 
Center

Region Commercial 
Sales and 

Marketing B

Investor Relations 
and Sustainability

Commercial 
Banking CFO

Strategy

Commercial 
Branches Sales 
and Marketing

Financial 
Coordination and 

Reporting

Procurement

Region Commercial 
Sales and 

Marketing A

Budgeting and 
Management 

Reporting

Organizational 
chart

56 - 57Akbank for you



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

2022 highlights

January

Our SME Movement 
increased the speed 
of the business 
and strength of 
enterprises.

By breaking new ground in Turkey, we launched a 
comprehensive SME Movement for SMEs, which have a 
prominent position in the economy with the employment 
they create, production, exports, and added value.

February

4 awards from 
Euromoney to Akbank 
Private Banking.

According to the 2022 results of the Euromoney Private 
Banking and Wealth Management Survey, Akbank Private 
Banking was chosen first in 4 different categories in Turkey. 

March

Turkey’s first in-
pocket commercial 
credit card from 
Axess.

After retail banking customers, SMEs of Akbank started 
using their cards without waiting for the Axess and Wings 
commercial cards they applied for to reach their addresses.

April

Axess Mobile turned 
into a brand-new 
digital wallet called 
Juzdan independent of 
the bank.

Juzdan enabled the debit and credit cards of all banks to 
be used in the same application.

May

SMEs prepared for the 
future with Akbank 
Transformation 
Academy. 

The launch of the Akbank Transformation Academy 
was held with a summit, and the topics of SMEs’ green 
transformation, digital transformation, and entrepreneur 
women were addressed.

June

The green 
transformation 
journey of our SMEs 
started.

We started acting to help SMEs turn the risks they 
will encounter due to the Carbon Border Adjustment 
Mechanism into opportunities and increase their 
competitiveness.  

July

With “Akbank+,” we 
supported the members 
of the Akbank family to 
establish their initiatives.

We put an innovative program that allows our employees to 
work on their start-up ideas full-time into practice.

August

Applications 
were opened for 
the “Akbank ReFi 
Hackathon.”

With Akbank Lab’s program, which addresses the theme of 
restorative finance, it was aimed to find solutions to global 
problems by making use of Web3 technologies.

September

We continued our support 
of women’s enterprises with 
the resources provided by 
the EBRD.

The EBRD provided US$50 million in funding under its 
Financing and Advisory Support to Women’s Businesses in 
Turkey program.

October

The Leader of the Sector 
at the Euromoney 2022 
Excellence Awards is 
Akbank.

In addition to the “Best Bank in Türkiye” award, we were 
selected as the “Sector Leader” in Turkey in the fields of 
“Digital Solutions,” “Corporate Banking,” and “Corporate 
Social Responsibility.”

November 

We collaborated 
with İGE to support 
exporters.

Within the scope of our cooperation with İhracatı 
Geliştirme A.Ş. (İGE), we provided financing to exporting 
SMEs, which have difficulties in creating guarantees, with 
80% İGE surety support.

December

We offered disability-
free banking services 
to our visually 
disabled customers.

We collaborated with BlindLook to provide equal service to 
our customers in line with our inclusive banking principle.

58 - 59Akbank for you



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Ordinary general 
assembly 
meeting agenda

Compliance opinion 
regarding annual 
integrated report

2022 Ordinary General Assembly 
Meeting Agenda:

1. Opening and creation of the Meeting Council,

2. Reading and discussion of the 2022 Board of Directors Activity Report,

3. Reading of the 2022 Auditor’s Reports,

4. Reading, discussion and approval of the Financial Statements for 2022,

5. Release of the Members of the Board of Directors,

6. Adoption of a resolution on distribution of the profit for the year 2022,

7. Taking a decision on meeting the special fund related to the revaluation transaction made in accordance with the temporary 
article 32 of the Tax Procedure Law and the paragraph (Ç) of the repeated article 298 from the extraordinary reserves,

8. Submitting the share repurchase process initiated with the decision of the Board of Directors dated 16.02.2023 to the 
information and approval of the shareholders,

9. Election of the Members of the Board of Directors and determination of their terms of office,

10. Determination of the payments to be made to the Members of the Board of Directors,

11. Election of the auditor,

12. Provision of information on donations made in 2022,

13. Determination of the Bank’s donation limit for 2023,

14. Authorization of the Board of Directors to empower the Members of the Board of Directors on matters falling within the 
scope of Articles 395 and 396 of the Turkish Commercial Code.

COMPLIANCE OPINION REGARDING ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT

To the General Assembly of Akbank T.A.Ş.

1. Opinion

We have audited the annual report of Akbank A.Ş. (the “Bank”) and its 
subsidiaries for the 1 January - 31 December 2022 period.

In our opinion, except for the effect of the matter described in the 
basis for the opinion paragraph below, the financial information and 
the analysis made by the Board of Directors by using the information 
included in the audited financial statements regarding the Bank’s 
position in the Board of Directors’ Annual Report are consistent and 
presented fairly, in all material respects, with the audited full set 
consolidated and unconsolidated financial statements and with the 
information obtained in the course of independent audit.

2. Basis for Opinion

Our independent audit was conducted in accordance with the 
Independent Standards on Auditing that are part of the Turkish 
Standards on Auditing (the “TSA”) issued by the Public Oversight 
Accounting and Auditing Standards Authority (“POA”) and the scope of 
“Regulation on Independent Audit of Banks” published on the Official 
Gazette No.29314 dated 2 April 2015. Our responsibilities under those 
standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities in 
the Audit of the Board of Directors’ Annual Report section of our 
report. We hereby declare that we are independent of the Bank in 
accordance with the Ethical Rules for Independent Auditors (including 
International Independence Standards) (the “Ethical Rules”) and the 
ethical requirements regarding independent audit in regulations issued 
by POA that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements. We 
have also fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with 
the Ethical Rules and regulations. We believe that the audit evidence 
we have obtained during the independent audit provides a sufficient 
and appropriate basis for our opinion.

3. Our Audit Opinion on the Full Set Consolidated and Unconsolidated 
Financial Statements

We expressed opinion in the auditor’s report dated 31 January 2023 on 
the full set consolidated and unconsolidated financial statements for 
the 1 January - 31 December 2022 period.

4. Board of Director’s Responsibility for the Annual Report

The Bank management’s responsibilities related to the annual report 
according to Articles 514 and 516 of Turkish Commercial Code (“TCC”) 
No. 6102, Capital Markets Board’s (“CMB”) Communiqué Serial II, 
No:14.1, “Principles of Financial Reporting in Capital Markets” (the 
“Communiqué”) and “Regulation on Principles and Procedures Regarding 
Preparation and Promulgation of Annual Reports by Banks” published in 
Official Gazette No.26333 dated 1 November 2006 are as follows:

a) to prepare the annual report within the first three months following 
the balance sheet date and present it to the general assembly; 

b) to prepare the annual report to reflect the Bank’s operations in that 
year and the financial position in a true, complete, straightforward, 
fair and proper manner in all respects. In this report, financial position 
is assessed in accordance with the financial statements. Also, in the 
report, developments and possible risks which the Bank may encounter 
are clearly indicated. The assessments of the Board of Directors in 
regard to these matters are also included in the report.

c) to include the matters below in the annual report:

 – events of particular importance that occurred in the Bank after the 
operating year,

 – the Bank’s research and development activities,

 – financial benefits such as salaries, bonuses, premiums and 
allowances, travel, accommodation and representation expenses, 
benefits in cash and in kind, insurance and similar guarantees paid 
to members of the Board of Directors and senior management.

When preparing the annual report, the Board of Directors considers 
secondary legislation arrangements enacted by the Banking 
Regulation and Supervision Agency, Ministry of Customs and Trade and 
other relevant institutions.

5. Independent Auditor’s Responsibility in the Audit of the Annual 
Report

Our aim is to express an opinion and issue a report comprising our 
opinion within the framework of the TCC, Communique and “Regulation 
on Independent Audit of Banks” published on the Official Gazette 
No.29314 dated 2 April 2015 provisions regarding whether or not the 
financial information and the analysis made by the Board of Directors 
by using the information included in the audited financial statements in 
the annual report are consistent and presented fairly with the audited 
consolidated and unconsolidated financial statements of the Bank and 
with the information we obtained in the course of independent audit.

Our audit was conducted in accordance with the TSAs. These 
standards require that ethical requirements are complied with and that 
the independent audit is planned and performed in a way to obtain 
reasonable assurance of whether or not the financial information and 
the analysis made by the Board of Directors by using the information 
included in the audited financial statements in the annual report 
are consistent and presented fairly with the audited consolidated 
and unconsolidated financial statements and with the information 
obtained in the course of audit.

PwC Bağımsız Denetim ve 
Serbest Muhasebeci Mali Müşavirlik A.Ş.

Zeynep Uras, SMMM 
Partner

Istanbul, 6 March 2023

Convenience translation into 
English of
Independent auditor’s report
On the board of directors’ 
annual report
Originally issued in Turkish

60 - 61Akbank for you



Corporate 
governance

Akbank Corporate Governance -------------------- 64

Our Board of Directors --------------------------- 66

Advisor to the Board of Directors  
and Chairman of the Inspection Board -------------- 68

Our International Advisory Board ------------------ 69

Executive Management ---------------------------74

Our Affiliates ------------------------------------ 77

Changes in Our Organizational  
Structure During the Year -------------------------- 77

Board Committees -------------------------------78

Summary Board Report ----------------------------79

Information on People and Organizations from  
Which We Receive Support Services ---------------- 80

Transactions with the Risk Group  
That Our Bank is Included in ----------------------- 83

Our Affiliation Report ---------------------------- 83

Report on Compliance with  
Corporate Governance Principles ------------------ 84

Corporate Governance Compliance  
Information Form -------------------------------- 90

Sustainability Principles Compliance Framework ------ 98

Statement of Responsibility ---------------------- 102

Our Policies ----------------------------------- 103

Risk Management and Regulatory Compliance ------ 104

Information Security Management ---------------- 109

Our İnternal Audit Infrastructure ------------------- 111

Audit Committee Report--------------------------115

Our Credit Tracking Applications -------------------118

Our Governance Approach to Customer Complaints---118

Information About the Legal Actions Against the Bank 119

Other Disclosures on Corporate Governance --------- 121



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Akbank 
corporate 
governance

As one of Türkiye’s leading and well-established 
institutions, we are working to create long-term value for 
all our stakeholders with our strong corporate structure and 
practices. We add new ones to our financial achievements 
and adopt the principles of sustainable and responsible 
banking. While ensuring that high returns are delivered 
to our investors and shareholders, we also comply with 
all legal regulations and processes, at both national and 
international levels, with the awareness and responsibility 
of being a public company.

We continue all our activities with the target of full 
compliance with corporate management principles. To 
achieve it, we work in cooperation with all our stakeholders. 
With our professional corporate management approach, 
we effectively manage both our long and short-term risks 
and opportunities. We address our corporate management 
activities within the scope of the following subjects:

 – Our Relations with Shareholders

 – Our Public Disclosure and Transparency Policy,

 – Duties, Responsibilities, and Rights of our Board of 
Directors

 – Our Relations with Stakeholders 

We strictly adhere to the Corporate Management Principles 
designated by the Capital Markets Board. 

We are pleased to have a trust-
oriented reputation in the presence 
of our stakeholders, with the 
contribution of our Ethical Principles, 
which each of our employees adopts 
and effortfully follows.

With the awareness that one of the basic principles of 
corporate responsibility is stakeholder communication, 
we work to develop continuous and trust-oriented 
communication with our corporate management practices, 
which we follow by taking the opinions and expectations 
of our stakeholders into account. We regularly inform our 
stakeholders via many platforms such as Akbank Website, 
Akbank Investor Relations Website, Akbank branches, 
Customer Communication Center, Public Disclosure 
Platform, and social media, and share our environmental-
social and financial value creation performance with 
the public through our annual reports. Our shareholders 
may exercise their right to vote in person at our General 
Assembly Meetings or they can also vote in person 
regardless of whether he/she is a shareholder. In addition, 
our beneficiaries who have the right to attend our General 
Assembly Meetings can attend such meetings via our 
Electronic General Assembly System and vote.

We are pleased to have a trust-oriented reputation in the 
presence of our stakeholders, with the contribution of our 
Ethical Principles, which each of our employees adopts 
and painstakingly follows. At the same time, we make 
a difference in our sector with our performance of high 
efficiency. Thanks to our Ethics Hotline, which we have 
put into service within our bank, we are able to effectively 
maintain our monitoring of ethical attitudes and behaviour 
with our employees both inside and outside the bank.

With our Diversity and Inclusion Approach, which we 
maintain in line with our corporate management principles, 
we select our employees from among qualified people 
without any discrimination and convey our professional 
corporate culture to the future of our work.

Our main priority is to recruit innovative and forward-
thinking young people who are in line with our strategies, 
values, and vision, and to place them in working areas 
where they can create value for our organization and for 
themselves. Thanks to it, we aim to be in a continuous 
development process with our employees.

As a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact, 
we exhibit our commitment and support to the universal 
principles of human rights, working conditions, the 
environment, and a clean society in Türkiye. With this 
awareness we have, we have progressed a lot in this long 
period of time since then and become an institution that 
creates value both nationally and internationally with our 
sustainable activities. With our integrated report, which 
we presented to your attention this year, we share the 
value we have created and the pioneering steps we have 
taken while carrying Türkiye to a sustainable future.

As Akbank, we have been guiding the corporate 
management approach in Türkiye since the day we 
were founded. We are bearing the banner in the Turkish 
banking sector with our firsts and stand out with our good 
practices. 

2003
 – The first to disclose its dividend policy to the public,

2004
 – The first to announce the Corporate Management 

Principles on its website,

2005
 – The first to buy back the founder shares,

2007
 – Signatory to the United Nations Global Compact,

2010
 – Publishing the Global Compact Report,

 – The first to publish the sustainability report according to 
GRI Standards among the deposit banks,

 – Supporting the implementation of the Carbon Disclosure 
Project (CDP) in Türkiye,

2018
 – Being among the spearheading banks to publish Digital 

Trust Principles, 

2019
 – Selected as “World’s Best Digital Bank” within the scope 

of “Awards for Excellence 2019” by Euromoney, one of the 
world’s respected finance publishing groups,

2020
 – Issuing the first Green Bond during the COVID-19 

pandemic,

2021
 – Taking part among the founding members of the UNEP FI 

Commitment to Financial Health and Inclusion.

2022
 – Announcing its commitment to be a “Net Zero Bank” by 

2050

…We are proud and happy to be the leading bank that 
carries Türkiye to a sustainable future.

64 - 65Corporate governance



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Our board of 
directors

Suzan Sabancı Dinçer - Board Chairman

Eyüp Engin - Vice Chairman and Executive Board Member

Ahmet Fuat Ayla - Executive Board Member

Yaman Törüner - Member

Emre Derman - Member

Prof. Dr. Özgür Demirtaş - Member

Orhun Köstem - Member

Tuğrul Belli - Member

Levent Demirağ - Member

Hakan Binbaşgil - Member and CEO

Suzan Sabancı Dinçer - CBE - Chairman

Suzan Sabancı Dinçer is the Chairman of Akbank. Mrs. 
Sabancı Dinçer is also a board member of Sabancı 
Holding and a member of the Board of Trustees of Sabancı 
University and the Sabancı Foundation. In 2009, Mrs 
Sabanci Dinçer founded the Akbank International Advisory 
Board and currently serves as its chairman. 

Suzan Sabancı Dinçer began her career in banking in 1986 
and joined Akbank as Executive Vice President in charge 
of Treasury in 1989. Having specialized in Treasury and Risk 
Management, she has been active in these two subjects 
since 1993. In 1997, she was named Executive Board 
Member for Treasury and International Banking Relations. 
Mrs Sabancı Dinçer was appointed as Executive Board 
Member to oversee the bank-wide change and transition 
program in 2001. She was named Chairman in March, 2008.

Mrs. Sabancı Dinçer is a member of the Institute of 
International Finance Board of Directors and Emerging 
Markets Advisory Board, Harvard University’s Global 
Advisory Council, Harvard Business School’s Global Leaders 
Circle, and an emeritus member of the Harvard Business 
School’s Middle East and North Africa Advisory Board. 
Suzan Sabancı Dinçer is also co-chair of the New York-
based American-Turkish Society, as well as a member of 
the Global Board of Advisors at the Council on Foreign 
Relations (CFR), the Board of Managing Directors of 
Venetian Heritage, Inc, and the Cultural and Social Affairs 
Committee of the Serpentine Council respectively.

From 2010 to 2014, Suzan Sabancı Dinçer served as the 
chairman of the Turkish-British Business Council for two 
terms. From 2009 to 2016, Mrs. Sabancı Dinçer sat on the 
Global Board of Advisors of Chatham House. In 2012, Her 
Majesty Queen Elizabeth II awarded Mrs. Sabancı Dinçer 
the title of “Commander of the Most Excellent Order of the 
British Empire (CBE)” in recognition of her proactive and 
influential contributions to the development of Türkiye-UK 
relations.

Suzan Sabancı Dinçer is strongly committed to corporate 
social responsibility activities and assumes various positions 
in the fields of culture, education, and the promotion of 
entrepreneurship. Between 2014 and 2018, Sabancı Dinçer 
acted as the Advisory Board President of the Women on 
Board Association Türkiye, dedicated to promoting social 
development by increasing female representation on 
boards. She is a founding member and board member of the 
leading high-impact entrepreneurship movement, Endeavor 
Türkiye, a founding and honorary member of the Women 
Entrepreneurs Association of Türkiye, and chairman of the 
Executive Advisory Board and member of the board of 
patrons of the Contemporary Istanbul Art Fair. Mrs. Sabancı 
Dinçer acted as Luxembourg’s Honorary Consul in Istanbul 
between 2005 and 2022 for 17 years. In 2014, Mrs. Sabancı 
Dinçer was given the Order of Civil Merit (Orden del Mérito 
Civil) of the Kingdom of Spain by King Felipe VI of Spain for 
her contributions to the relations between the two countries 
and for her support to the cultural convergence.

Suzan Sabancı Dinçer holds a BA in Finance from Richmond 
College in the UK and an MBA from Boston University in the 
USA. Ms. Sabancı Dinçer is married with two children.

Eyüp Engin - Vice Chairman and Executive Board Member

Eyüp Engin joined Akbank in 1978 as an Assistant Internal 
Auditor. Following his auditing assignment, Eyüp Engin 
served as Department Head in Treasury, International 
Banking and Overseas Financial Institutions. He was 
appointed as the Executive Vice President in charge 
of Corporate Banking in 1996 and after 1998, Engin 
continued to serve as Executive Vice President in charge of 
International Banking and Overseas Financial Institutions 
Marketing. Eyüp Engin was appointed to the position of 
Head of Internal Audit in 2007 and during 2007-2019 he 
served on Boards of Directors of Bank’s subsidiaries as 
the President of Audit Committee. He is a graduate of 
Middle East Technical University, Faculty of Economics and 
Business Administration. Engin was elected as Executive 
Board Member in March 2019 and he was elected as Vice 
Chairman and Executive Board Member in March 2020. 
Additionally, Eyüp Engin is Banking Unit President and 
Executive Committee Member of Sabancı Holding.

Ahmet Fuat Ayla - Executive Board Member

Ahmet Fuat Ayla was elected as Executive Board 
Member in charge of credits as of 12 July 2017. Ahmet 
Fuat Ayla joined Akbank as Corporate Branch Manager 
in 2002, became the Senior Vice President in charge 
of Corporate and Commercial Credits Approval Unit in 
2005 and was appointed as Executive Vice President in 
charge of Corporate and Commercial Credits Approval in 
2007. Before joining Akbank, Ahmet Fuat Ayla worked in 
marketing and sales department positions at Head Office 
and branches at different private sector banks. Ahmet 
Fuat Ayla is a graduate of Middle East Technical University, 
Faculty of Economics and Administrative Sciences, 
Department of Business Administration.

Yaman Törüner - Member

Yaman Törüner became a member of the Board of Directors 
in March 1998. Having served as a Member of Parliament 
between 1995 and 1999, Yaman Törüner also served as a 
Minister of State in 1996. Between 1990 and 1994, Yaman 
Törüner served as the President of the Istanbul Stock 
Exchange and from 1972 until 1990 he worked in various 
administrative positions within the Central Bank of Türkiye, 
also serving as the Governor of the Central Bank of Türkiye 
between February 1994 and January 1996.

Emre Derman - Member

Emre Derman has led numerous large cross-border 
transactions in Türkiye as a partner with the international 
law firm White & Case between 1989 and 2008. In addition 
to his work in Türkiye he has worked in the New York and 
London offices of the firm and also in former Soviet Union 
and Eastern European countries during his term as a lawyer 
for the EBRD in 1994 to 1995. A former board member 
of Akbank in 2010, Derman has served as a Managing 
Director and the Senior Country Officer of JP Morgan in 
Türkiye between 2011 and 2014. He is a member of various 
organizations relating to education and yacht racing and 
serves as a freelance consultant. Derman holds an LL.B. 
from Istanbul University Law School and an LL.M. from 
Harvard Law School.

Prof. Dr. Özgür Demirtaş - Member

Özgür Demirtaş got his BS degree in Electrical and Electronics 
Engineering from Boğaziçi University in 1998. He earned his 
Ph.D. degree in Finance from Boston College in 2003. In the 
same year, he was appointed as a tenure track Assistant 
Professor at Baruch College, City University of New York. 
In 2007, he earned a tenured Associate Professor position. 
He was awarded with one of the prestigious medals of the 
University: The presidential Award for Teaching Excellence. His 
research is also awarded by Eugene M Lang foundation and 
Marie Curie Reintegration program. He published more than 
30 academic articles in various academic journals. He taught 
at Boston College, CUNY, NYU Stern School of Business and 
in 2012, he joined Sabancı University as a Chair Professor 
of Finance. Since 2014, Professor Demirtaş is the founding 
chairman of the Center of Excellence in Finance (CEF) at 
Sabanci University.

Orhun Köstem - Member

Orhun Köstem received his bachelor’s degree from Middle East 
Technical University Mechanical Engineering Department in 
1991 and completed his MBA program at the same university. 
He also has a master’s degree in Finance and Corporate Law 
from Bilgi University. 

Mr. Köstem joined Anadolu Group in 1994 and held various 
management positions until 2008. In 2008, he was appointed 
as the CFO of Efes Breweries International and in 2009 
continued his career as Corporate Finance Coordinator of 
Anadolu Group. Mr. Orhun Köstem pursued his career in Coca-
Cola İçecek where he worked from 2010 to 2016 as the CFO 
and from 2017 to 2018 as the Regional Director responsible 
for Middle East and Pakistan. Mr. Köstem served as the CFO 
of Anadolu Efes between 2019 and 2021. Mr. Köstem is the 
Group CFO of Sabancı Holding since July 1, 2021. He is also 
the Chairman of Carrefoursa, Vice Chairman of Sabancı İklim 
Teknolojileri, Supervisory Board Member of Cimsa Sabanci 
Cement BV and Member of the Board of Directors of Kordsa, 
Enerjisa Enerji and Enerjisa Üretim.

Mr. Köstem is one of the three authors of the book “A Window 
to Capital Markets: The A to Z of Public Offering and Investor 
Relations” published in 2009. In 2016, 2019, 2020 and 2021 
he was listed among “Türkiye’s Most Influential 50 CFOs”, 
according to a research conducted by BMI Business School in 
collaboration with DataExpert. He was awarded as Türkiye’s 
Best CFO in the Investor Relations Awards organized by 
Thomson Reuters Extel in 2011 and 2013, while he was 
also honored with the “Best CFOs” by Sell Side analysts in 
Consumer Sector in Emerging EMEA by Institutional Investor 
Magazine and Institutional Investor Research Group in 2020. 
Mr. Köstem ranked as Best CFO for the Institutional Investor 
2022 Emerging EMEA Equity Awards, among industrial 
institutions. He also named among C-Suite Series – Fortune 
CFO 2022 list. He is also a member of CFA Society and 
CFO Network of the World Business Council for Sustainable 
Development (WBCSD).

66 - 67Corporate governance



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Erol Sabancı - Advisor to the Board

Erol Sabancı served as Akbank Board Member from 1967 
to March 2018. He served as the Chairman of the Board of 
Directors for 10 years starting from March 1998 and has 
been serving as the Advisor to the Board of Directors since 
26 March 2018. Erol Sabancı is also the Vice Chairman of 
Sabancı Holding’s Board of Directors.

Savaş Külcü - Chairman of the Inspection Board

Savaş Külcü joined Akbank as an Inspector in 1998 and later 
served for 10 years as the Vice Chairman of the Board of 
Inspectors and for 2.5 years as the Head of Internal Control 
and Compliance. In 2019, he was appointed as the Chairman 

Tuğrul Belli - Member

Tuğrul Belli started his professional career at Iktisat 
Bank’s Corporate Finance Department in 1990. He started 
serving as General Secretary at Turkish Bank in 1994, and 
participated in the foundation of Turkish Yatırım in 1997, a 
subsidiary of the bank. He served as a Member of the Board 
of Directors of the company until 2005, and also served 
as General Manager for a period. He still serves as an 
Economics Advisor at Turkish Bank. Belli taught at İstanbul 
Ticaret University on “Banking Management” between 
2006 and 2012. Belli has been an op-ed columnist of Dünya 
Daily since 2008. An alumni of American Robert College, 
he holds an undergraduate degree from London School of 
Economics and Political Science, and a graduate degree 
from CUNY Baruch College.

Levent Demirağ - Member

Levent Demirağ joined Sabancı Holding as a Consultant 
in 1994, became Financial Affairs Director in 2007, and 
served as the President of Financial Affairs, Accounting 
and Investor Relations from May 2010 to September 2021. 
He also served as a member of the board of directors 
in Sabancı Holding group companies. He has Sworn-in 
Certified Public Accountant and Independent Auditor 
certificates. Levent Demirağ graduated from Ankara 
University, Faculty of Political Sciences in 1980 and worked 
as a tax inspector at the Ministry of Finance before joining 
the Group.

Advisor to the board of 
directors and chairman 
of the inspection board

Our international 
advisory board

Suzan Sabancı Dinçer - Chairman

Hamid Biglari - Member

Sir Winfried Bischoff - Member

Stephen K. Green - Member

Michael Klein - Member

Lubna Olayan - Member

Dante Roscini - Member

Tom de Swaan - Member

Lorenzo Bini Smaghi - Member

Hakan Binbaşgil - Member

Eyüp Engin - Member

Ahmet Fuat Ayla - Member

Suzan Sabancı Dinçer - CBE -Chairman

Sir Winfried Bischoff - Member

After serving as the Chairman of the Board of 
Directors of Citigroup from December 2007 until 
February 2009, Sir Winfried Bischoff currently 
serves as the Chairman of the Board of Directors 
of Lloyds Banking Group since September 2009. 
Following his tenure at the Schroders Group as 
an executive, he was appointed Chairman of the 
Board of Directors of Schroders in May 1995 and 
with the acquisition of Schroders’ Investment 
Banking division by Citigroup, Sir Bischoff 
became the Chairman of the Board of Directors 
of Citigroup Europe in April 2000. Sir Winfried 
Bischoff served as a member of the Akbank Board 
of Directors from January 2007 until February 
2008. Sir Winfried is currently a member of the 
Board of Directors of Eli Lilly and McGraw-Hill in 
the United States and Prudential in the United 
Kingdom as well as the Chairman of the Board of 
Directors of the UK Career Academy Foundation. 
Sir Winfried Bischoff continues to serve as the 
Chairman of the European Advisory Board of 
Citigroup Inc. Sir Winfried entered the Honor List 
and was knighted in 2000 for his contributions to 
the banking industry.

Hakan Binbaşgil - Member and CEO

Hakan Binbaşgil joined Akbank as the Executive 
Vice President in charge of Change Management in 
October 2002. He initiated the Bank’s “Restructuring 
Programme” which has transformed Akbank into one 
of Türkiye’s most customer-focused, modern and 
innovative financial institutions. Hakan Binbaşgil 
was appointed Executive Vice President in charge of 
Retail Banking in November 2003, Deputy CEO in May 
2008, and since January 2012 as Board Member and 
Chief Executive Officer of the Bank. He also serves as 
Chairman of Akbank AG Supervisory Board. Prior to 
joining Akbank, Binbaşgil worked as a Management 
Consultant in the London and Istanbul offices of 
Accenture, and as Executive Vice President in a 
different private sector bank. Binbaşgil also served 
on the boards of directors of numerous companies 
domestically and abroad. 

After graduating from Robert College, Hakan Binbaşgil 
graduated from Boğaziçi  University, Faculty of 
Mechanical Engineering. Binbaşgil also holds MBA 
and MS degrees in Finance from Louisiana State 
University-Baton Rouge, USA.

of the Akbank’s Board of Inspectors. Külcü is also a member 
of the Board of Directors of Akbank’s affiliates AKLease, 
Ak Portföy and AkÖde, and is the Chairman of the Audit 
Committee at AKLease and AkÖde. Külcü graduated from 
Boğaziçi University with a Bachelor of Economics and from 
Sabancı University with an Executive MBA. Külcü holds CIA 
(Certified Internal Auditor), CAMS (Certified Anti-Money 
Laundering Specialist), CAMS – FCI (Advanced Financial 
Crimes Investigator), CGSS (Certified Global Sanctions 
Specialist) and CDPSE (Certified Data Privacy Solutions 
Engineer) certificates. He also speaks advanced level of 
English, German, Dutch and Arabic.

Hamid Biglari - Member

Hamid Biglari is formerly Vice-Chairman and Head of 
Emerging Markets at Citigroup. He was a member of 
Citigroup’s Operating Committee and held various senior 
management roles throughout his tenure at the institution, 
including Chair of the Business Development Committee 
(the most senior client committee in the bank) and Chief 
Operating Officer of the Institutional Client Group (the 
investment and corporate banking arm of the bank). Prior 
to joining Citigroup, Dr. Biglari was a Partner at McKinsey & 
Company, where he co-led the Firm’s investment banking 
consulting practice. In that role, he advised CEOs at several 
bulge-bracket investment banks, commercial banks, 
insurance companies, investment management companies, 
and private equity firms. His experience base spans the 
entire spectrum of financial services. Prior to that, Dr. 
Biglari was a theoretical nuclear physicist at Princeton 
University’s Plasma Physics Laboratory, the nation’s leading 
center for controlled thermonuclear fusion research. He 
is a member of Council on Foreign Relations as well as a 
Trustee of Asia Society. He also sits on the Advisory Board 
of the Bendheim Center for Finance at Princeton University. 
In 2009, Dr. Biglari was awarded the Ellis Island Medal of 
Honor, given for outstanding contributions to the United 
States by immigrants. Dr. Biglari holds a Ph.D. degree in 
Astrophysical Sciences from Princeton University.

68 - 69Corporate governance



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Stephen K. Green - Member

Stephen Green was educated at Lancing College, Sussex, 
and at Oxford University where he graduated in 1969 with 
a BA (First Class Honours) in Politics, Philosophy and 
Economics. He also obtained a Masters Degree in Political 
Science from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology 
in 1975. He was created a Life Peer in 2010 and was 
appointed Minister of State for Trade and Investment in 
January 2011. He retired from this position in December 
2013. Lord Green began his career in 1970 with the British 
Government’s Ministry of Overseas Development. In 1977, 
he joined McKinsey & Co Inc, management consultants, 
with whom he undertook assignments in Europe, North 
America and the Middle East. He joined The Hong Kong and 
Shanghai Banking Corporation in 1982 with responsibility 
for corporate planning activities, and in 1985 was put in 
charge of the development of the bank’s global treasury 
operations. In 1992, he became Group Treasurer of HSBC 
Holdings plc with responsibility for the HSBC Group’s 
treasury and capital markets businesses globally. In 1998, 
he was appointed to the Board of HSBC Holdings plc as 
an Executive Director. He became Group Chief Executive 
in 2003 and Group Chairman 2006. He retired from HSBC 
in December 2010. Lord Green was Chairman of the British 
Bankers’ Association from 2006 to 2010. He also served 
as a Trustee of the British Museum. He served as a non-
executive director of BASF.se until 2010. He is Chairman of 
the Natural History Museum, Chairman of the International 
Advisory Council of the British Chambers of Commerce and 
is a member of the House of Lords EU Select Committee. 
Stephen Green has written four books – Serving God? 
Serving Mammon? [1996]; Good Value, Choosing a Better 
Life in Business [2009]; Reluctant Meister - How Germany’s 
Past is Shaping its European Future [2014]; and The 
European Identity – Historical and Cultural Realities We 
Cannot Deny [2015]. Stephen Green is married with two 
daughters.

Michael Klein - Member

Michael Klein is the Managing Partner of M. Klein and 
Company, LLC, which is a leading independent financial and 
strategic advisor to companies, investors, and governments. 
Mr. Klein was previously the Chairman of Citi’s Institutional 
Clients Group and Vice Chairman of Citi, Inc. In that 
capacity, Mr. Klein was responsible for managing the Bank’s 
relationships with leading companies, investment funds, 
and governments in more than 100 countries. Prior to that 
time, Mr. Klein held a number of positions at Citigroup 
and Salomon Smith Barney including Head of Investment 
Banking. Mr. Klein led the efforts to build Citigroup’s 
European businesses including the acquisition of the 
Investment Bank Schroder’s PLC. He was also the founder 
of the firm’s efforts advising and raising funds for private 
equity and other alternative investment firms. Mr. Klein is a 
member of various boards including: the Board of The Dow 
Chemical Company Agrosciences, IHS Inc., the Peterson 
Institute for International Economics, the American 
Academy of Berlin, Mount Sinai Medical Center and the 
Harvard Belfer Center. He is also an inaugural member of 
the United Nations’ World Food Programme Investment 
Advisory Board. Mr. Klein has served as a guest lecturer at 
Columbia, Harvard, The London School of Business, The St. 
Petersburg University and at various educational programs 
arranged by the US Government, including the Federal 
Reserve and the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

Lubna Olayan - Member

Lubna S. Olayan is the Deputy Chairman and CEO at 
Olayan Financing Company (OFC), the holding company for 
the Olayan Group operating in Saudi Arabia and the Middle 
East. Olayan is also a Member of the Board of Directors of 
Saudi Hollandi Bank, a publicly traded company in Saudi 
Arabia, and a Member of the Board of WPP since March 
2005. Lubna Olayan is a Member of the International 
Advisory Board of the Council of Foreign Relations, a 
Member of the Board of INSEAD, and a Member of the 
Board of Trustees of Cornell University and KAUST (King 
Abdullah University of Science and Technology). Olayan was 
also elected as a Member of the Rolls Royce International 
Advisory Board in October 2006.

Dante Roscini - Member

Dante Roscini teaches Managing International Trade 
and Investment in the Business, Government and the 
International Economy Unit at Harvard Business School. He 
joined the Harvard Business School faculty in 2008 and has 
published a number of cases and notes related to sovereign 
debt, monetary policy, central banking and international 
investment. He holds an M.B.A. from Harvard and a summa 
cum laude Laurea degree in Nuclear Engineering from the 
University of Rome, Italy. Before coming back to HBS Prof. 
Roscini spent twenty years in investment banking with 
senior positions at three of the top US bulge bracket firms 
in New York and London. 

Roscini was Head of European Capital Markets for 
Goldman Sachs, Head of Global Equity Capital Markets 
and Head of the European Capital Markets and Financing 
Group for Merrill Lynch where he was also a member of the 
Capital Commitments Committee and of the Managing 
Directors Promotions Committee. Finally, he was Country 
Head of Italy and Chairman of European Capital Markets 
for Morgan Stanley as well as a board member of Morgan 
Stanley International Bank. Prior to his career in investment 
banking Prof. Roscini worked as a researcher in nuclear 
archaeometry at the University of Rome, as a design 
engineer and project manager with Westinghouse Electric 
Corp. in the US and as a management consultant with the 
Boston Consulting Group in Paris.

Tom de Swaan - Member

Tom de Swaan has served in the banking industry of the 
Netherlands for over 40 years. He joined De Nederlandsche 
Bank N.V. in 1972 and from 1986 until 1998 was a member 
of the governing board. In January 1999, he became a 
member of the managing board and chief financial officer 
of ABN AMRO Bank. He retired from ABN AMRO in May 
2006, but continued as an adviser to the managing board 
until June 2007. Between 1987 and 1988, Mr. de Swaan 
was chairman of the Amsterdam Financial Center and 
from 1995 to 1997, chairman of the banking supervisory 
sub-committee of the European Monetary Institute. He 
was also a member of the Basel Committee on Banking 
Supervision from 1991 to 1996, its chairman from 1997 
to 1998, and a non-executive director on the board of 
the UK’s Financial Services Authority from January 2001 
until the end of 2006. From 2006 until May 2015 he was a 
non-executive member of the board of GlaxoSmithKline 
Plc. From 2008 until February 2016, Mr. de Swaan was a 
member of the supervisory board of Van Lanschot NV, 
the holding company of F. van Lanschot Bankiers, an 

independent Dutch bank. He also served as its chairman 
until December 2015. He has been a member of the 
boards of Zurich Insurance Group Ltd and of Zurich 
Insurance Company Ltd since April 2006. In March 2012 
he was elected vice-chairman, acting as chairman from 
August 2013 on. He was elected chairman of the Board in 
September 2013. In addition Mr. de Swaan has been Chief 
Executive Officer a.i. from December 2015 to early March 
2016.

Lorenzo Bini Smaghi - Member

Lorenzo Bini Smaghi has a degree in Economic Sciences 
from the Université Catholique de Louvain (Belgium) 
and a Ph.D in Economic Sciences from the University of 
Chicago. He began his career in 1983 as an Economist at 
the Research Department of the Banca d’Italia. In 1994, he 
was appointed Head of the Policy Division of the European 
Monetary Institute. In October 1998, he became Director 
General of International Financial Relations in Italy’s 
Economy and Finance Ministry. He was Chairman of SACE 
from 2001 to 2005. From June 2005 to December 2011, 
he was member of the Executive Board of the European 
Central Bank. From 2012 to 2016, he was Chairman of 
the Board of Directors of SNAM (Italy). He is currently 
Chairman of the Board of Directors of Italgas (Italy) and 
Societe Generale since 2015.

Hakan Binbaşgil - Member

Eyüp Engin - Member

Ahmet Fuat Ayla - Member

70 - 71Corporate governance



Executive 
management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Executive 
management

Hakan Binbaşgil 
Board Member and CEO

Bülent Oğuz 
Executive Vice President - SME Banking

Bülent Oğuz joined Akbank in March 2003 and served 
as Vice President and Senior Vice President of SME and 
Consumer Banking respectively. Oğuz was appointed as 
Executive Vice President in charge of SME Banking in 
July 2013. He served as Executive Vice President of Retail 
Banking between November 2018 and December 2021. He 
has been in charge of SME Banking since January 2022. 
Bülent Oğuz is the Vice Chairperson of AkÖde and a Board 
Member of Ak Lease. Before joining Akbank, Oğuz held 
various managerial positions at Corporate Banking and 
Loans divisions at different private sector banks. Oğuz is 
a graduate of Middle East Technical University, Political 
Science and Public Administration and holds an Executive 
MBA degree from Sabancı University.

Burcu Civelek Yüce 
Executive Vice President - Consumer Banking and Digital 
Solutions

Burcu Civelek Yüce joined Akbank in 2006 and was 
appointed as Senior Vice President of Strategic 
Management in 2009, Executive Vice President in charge 
of Human Resources and Strategy in 2014. She served 
as Executive Vice President in charge of Strategy, Digital 
Banking and Payment Systems between 2019 and 2021. As 
of January 2022, she has been serving as Akbank Retail 
Banking and Digital Solutions Executive Vice President. 
Prior to joining Akbank, she worked in international 
consulting and technology companies. Burcu Civelek Yüce 
has a B.Sc. degree in Industrial Engineering and an MBA 
degree from Boğaziçi University, both first in rank. She also 
participated in courses at Harvard Business School and 
Koç University.

Yüce acts as the Chairperson of AkÖde, Board Member 
of Akbank AG, Ak Investment, Aksigorta, Agesa, Sabancı 
Ageas Health Insurance, MMA EMEA and SabancıDX. She 
is a mentee in Women on Boards Program, Mastercard 
European Advisory Board Member and Boğaziçi University 
Foundation Trustee. She served at the boards of BKM and 
Woman in Technology Association in the past.

Ege Gültekin 
Executive Vice President - Credit Monitoring and 
Collections

Ege Gültekin joined Akbank in February 2015 as Executive 
Vice President in charge of Credit Monitoring and 
Collections. Before joining Akbank, Ege Gültekin held 
various senior management positions at different banks 
and asset management companies. Ege Gültekin is a 
graduate of Middle East Technical University, Department 
of Faculty of Economics and Administrative Sciences and 
holds a Master’s degree from John Hopkins University, 
Faculty of Engineering, Department of Information and 
Telecommunication Systems. Gültekin is also Board 
Memeber of Aklease and Vice Chairperson of Kredi Kayit 
Bürosu(KKB). 

Levent Çelebioğlu 
Executive Vice President - Corporate & Investment Banking

Levent Çelebioğlu joined Akbank in May, 2015 as Executive 
Vice President in charge of Corporate and Investment 
Banking. Prior to joining Akbank, he held various senior 
management positions at different private sector banks. 
Çelebioğlu is also the Vice Chairman of Akbank AG and 
Chairman of AkInvestment. Additionally, he is Chairman of 
TUSIAD Banking Group. Levent Çelebioğlu is a graduate 
of 9 Eylul University, Faculty of Economics, Monetary 
Economics & Banking Department.

Gökhan Gökçay 
Executive Vice President – Technology

Gökhan Gökçay joined Akbank in May 2017 as Senior 
Vice President of Dijital Banking and Payment Systems 
Technologies Department. After taking on different 
roles in the Technology and Operations business family, 
in January 2023, he was appointed as Executive Vice 
President in charge of Technology. Gökçay started his 
career as a software engineer in 1992, held the positions of 
managing partner and department head of leader banks 
and consultancy firms in Türkiye and Europe in the field of 
Financial Technologies. Gökhan Gökçay is a graduate of 
Boğaziçi University, Department of Computer Engineering. 
He has a master’s degree from the same department. 

Çetin Düz 
Executive Vice President - Commercial Banking

Çetin Düz joined Akbank in 2004 and after taking various 
responsibilities in Internal Audit division, he worked as 
Deputy Head of Internal Audit between 2014-2015. He 
was appointed as Executive Vice President of AKLease 
in charge of Credit Allocation in August 2015. He worked 
as Board Member and General Manager of AKLease 
since 2019 January. Çetin Düz was appointed as Akbank 
Commercial Banking Executive Vice President in February 
2023. Çetin Düz graduated from Boğaziçi University, 
Department of Political Science and International Relations 
and he holds an Executive MBA degree from Sabancı 
University.

Türker Tunalı 
Chief Financial Officer (CFO)

Türker Tunalı joined Akbank in September 2008 as Senior 
Vice President in charge of Financial Coordination 
and International Reporting. Prior to joining Akbank, he 
held various managerial positions since 1999. He was 
appointed as Executive Vice President (CFO) in charge 
of Financial Coordination in October 2017. Tunalı is also 
a member of Corporate Governance Committee. Tunalı 
is the Vice Chairperson of Ak Investment, also a Board 
Member and Audit Committee Chairperson of Akbank AG, 
Board Member of AkLease and AkÖde. Türker Tunalı is a 
graduate of Boğaziçi University, Department of Business 
Administration and is a CFA charterholder since 2006.

Şahin Alp Keler, PhD 
Executive Vice President - Private Banking and Wealth 
Management

Alp Keler was appointed as Executive Vice President 
in charge of Wealth Management and Private Banking 
in January 2018. Prior to this appointment, he was 
serving as CEO of Ak Asset Management since 
2011. Alp Keler has over 20 years of experience in 
capital markets and asset management. Keler is also 
the Chairman of Ak Asset Management. Keler is a 
graduate of METU Civil Engineering Department. He 
also received an MBA degree from İhsan Doğramacı 
Bilkent University, the Master of Law in Economics 
(LLM) from Galatasaray University, Management 
Program of Harvard Business School and PhD in 
Banking from Marmara University. He is a CFA 
charterholder. He served as a chairman, board and 
audit member in various local and global capital 
market associations.

Yunus Emre Özben 
Executive Vice President - Credit Allocation

Yunus Emre Özben, after working at various companies 
since 1996 joined Akbank in October 2005 as 
Assistant Manager in Project Finance Division and 
promoted as Senior Vice President in charge of 
Investment Banking in March 2011. He was appointed 
as Executive Vice President in charge of Credit 
Allocation in August 2018. Özben is the Vice Chairman 
of the Board of Ak Leasing and a Member of the Board 
of Ak Yatırım Menkul Değerler.

Özben is a graduate of Marmara University, Faculty of 
Economics and Administrative Sciences, Department 
of Business Administration and holds an Executive 
MBA from Sabancı University.

74 - 75Corporate governance



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Our affiliates

Eser Okyay 
AKLease CEO 

Eser Okyay joined Akbank in 2002 at Internal Audit Division 
as an Assistant Auditor. Between 2007 and 2019, Okyay 
served as Commercial Banking Sales and Marketing Manager, 
Commercial Banking Marketing and Sales Manager, Branch 
Manager, and Regional Manager. Okyay, was working as 
Senior Vice President of Commercial Banking until he was 
appointed as AKLease General Manager and Board Member 
in 2023 February. After graduating from TED Ankara College, 
Eser Okyay graduated from METU Political Science and Public 
Administration. Okyay, also holds Executive MBA degree from 
Boğaziçi University. 

Mert Erdoğmuş 
Ak Investment CEO

Mert Erdoğmuş was appointed as CEO of Ak Investment in 
January 2015. Before joining Ak Investment, he worked in 
different positions in banks and financial institutions for more 
than 20 years. Erdoğmuş graduated from Istanbul University, 
Department of Business Administration in English, and 
received an MBA from Bloomsburg University of Pennsylvania.

Changes in our 
organizational structure 
during the year

As of 04 January 2022, Burcu Civelek Yüce, who was 
Executive Vice President of Strategy, Digital Banking and 
Payment Systems, became Executive Vice President of 
Consumer Banking and Digital Solutions on, thereby taking 
on additional consumer banking responsibilities. 

As of 04 January 2022, Bülent Oğuz, who was Executive Vice 
President of Retail Banking, was appointed as Executive Vice 
President of the newly established SME Banking Business 
Unit.

As of 27 March 2022, İsmail Aydın Günter and Nafiz Can 
Paker resigned from Board of Directors Membership.

As of 06 April 2022, Nusret Orhun Köstem and Levent 
Demirağ assumed the duties of Board Members.

As of 20 January 2023, Nesip İlker Altıntaş resigned from 
his position as Executive Vice President of Technology and 
Operations; As of January 20, 2023, Gökhan Gökçay was 
appointed as the Executive Vice President of the newly 
established Technology Business Unit.

Pınar Anapa, who served as the Executive Vice President 
of People and Culture, continues to serve as the Executive 
Vice President of People and Culture as of January 20, 
2023, assuming the responsibilities of Branch Operations, 
Treasury and Capital Markets Operations, Digital Payments 
Operations, Customer Experience and Service Design and 
Business Continuity.

As of January 31, 2023, Mehmet Tugal has resigned from his 
position as Executive Vice President of Commercial Banking; 
Çetin Düz has been appointed as Commercial Banking 
Executive Vice President as of February 01, 2023. 

Mehmet Ali Ersarı 
Ak Asset Management CEO

Graduated from Middle East Technical University Civil 
Engineering department, Ersarı completed his MSc in Civil 
Engineering at the same university and his MBA at Bilkent 
University. Before joining Ak Portföy as Executive Vice 
President in 2008, he served as Treasury Director of ABN Amro 
Bank. Mehmet Ali Ersarı has held senior management positions 
in leading financial institutions for more than 20 years

Emel Arseven 
AkÖde CEO

Emel Arseven joined Akbank in 2000 at Internal Audit division. 
After taking various responsibilities in Product Management, 
Direct Banking and Akbank Academy between 2006 and 2017, 
she started to serve as Digital Banking Senior Vice President in 
2017. Since the beginning of 2022, Arseven has been assigned 
as the CEO of Aköde. Emel Arseven is a graduate of METU 
Economics and received an Executive MBA degree from 
Sabanci University.

Zeynep Öztürk  
Executive Vice President - Special Credits

Zeynep Öztürk, after working at various companies in the 
sector since 1990 joined Akbank in January 2011 as Senior 
Vice President in charge of Commercial Credits Monitoring 
and afterwards worked as Senior Vice President in charge 
of Corporate And commercial monitoring and collection, 
and Head of Special Restructring Consulting respectively. 
Zeynep Öztürk was appointed as Executive Vice President 
in charge of Special Credits in January 2019. Zeynep 
Öztürk is a graduate of METU Business Administration 
and received MBA degree from İhsan Doğramacı Bilkent 
University.

Gamze Şebnem Muratoğlu 
Executive Vice President – Treasury

Şebnem Muratoğlu joined Akbank in April 1995 as 
Management Trainee. Muratoğlu has been working at the 
Risk Management since 2002 and appointed as Vice 
President in charge of Risk Management in November 2003, 
Senior Vice President responsible from Risk Management 
in November 2006 and CRO in March 2017. Lastly, she was 
appointed as Executive Vice President in charge of Treasury 
in January 2019. Şebnem Muratoğlu is Vice Chairperson 
of Ak Asset Management and Board Member of AkLease. 
Muratoğlu is a graduate of University of Kent Economics 
and holds a Master’s degree from Macquarie University and 
FRM (Financial Risk Manager) certificate holder since 2003. 

Pınar Anapa 
Executive Vice President - People and Culture

Pınar Anapa joined Akbank in 1999 and after taking various 
responsibilities in Internal Audit division, she worked as 
Deputy Head of Internal Audit between 2007-2014. Anapa 
started to serve as Career Development Senior Vice 
President in 2014, and she has been serving as Executive 
Vice President in charge of People and Culture since June 
2019. Her areas of responsibility cover career development, 
organizational development, training, architectural 
solutions and operations. Pınar Anapa is a graduate of 
METU Economics and received an Executive MBA degree 
from Sabanci University in 2006.

Anapa is also a Board Member of Akbank AG and Women 
in Technology Association. 

Beril Alakoç 
Head of Branding and Communication

Beril Alakoç has worked in international companies 
since 1998 and started to work as Head of Branding 
and Communication in October 2021. Alakoç received 
a bachelor’s degree in Economics from the University of 
Kent and completed her master’s degree in marketing 
at the University of West of England. She is a member 
of Interactive Advertising Association, Advertisers 
Association, and Private Sector Volunteers Association.

Berna Avdan 
General Counsel

Berna Avdan started to work at Akbank in August 2021. 
Before joining Akbank, she worked in the field of law 
at various private sector banks. A graduate of Ankara 
University Faculty of Law, Avdan completed her LLM degree 
in Information and Technology Law at Bilgi University and 
on International Issues at New York University. She is a 
board member of Aksandık.

76 - 77Corporate governance



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Board 
committees

Approximately 50 committees work within our Bank 
in order to ensure effective management of all of our 
processes and to make sure that long and short-term risks 
and opportunities are taken into account in all strategic 
decisions. Below you can find the list of committees that 
our Board members are also members of:

Audit Committee
Eyüp Engin, Vice Chairman of Board and Executive Board 
Member

Levent Demirağ, Member (Board Member) 

Our Committee which is responsible for auditing and 
supervision for the Board of Directors convenes at least 4 
times a year and ensures the effectiveness of the internal 
control, risk management and internal audit systems. It 
makes preliminary evaluations of the independent audit 
firms to be selected and regularly monitors the activities of 
such institution to be selected by our Board of Directors. In 
addition, it notifies the Board of Directors of matters that 
may adversely affect the activities of our Bank and/or be in 
conflict with the legislation and internal regulations.

Audit  
Committee

Corporate 
Governance 
Committee

Executive Risk 
Committee

Credit 
Committee

Innovation 
Advisory Board

Customer Experience 
and Clean 

Banking Oversight 
Committee

Remuneration 
Committee

Corporate 
Credits 

Committee

Commercial 
Credits 

Committee
Sustainability 

Committee

Credit Committee
Ahmet Fuat Ayla, Chairman (Executive Board Member)

Eyüp Engin, Member (Vice Chairman of Board and Executive 
Board Member)

Hakan Binbaşgil, Member (Member of Board of Directors and 
CEO)

It is the final loan allocation decision centre that examines 
the compliance of loan offers passed through our General 
Directorate with the legislation, banking principles and the 
Bank’s policies. Our Credit Committee convenes twice a week. 
However, meeting frequency can be changed when deemed 
necessary.

Executive Risk Committee
Eyüp Engin, Chairman (Vice Chairman of Board and Executive 
Board Member)

Ahmet Fuat Ayla, Member (Executive Board Member)

Hakan Binbaşgil, Member (Member of Board of Directors and 
CEO)

Our committee creates our risk management strategies 
and policies and ensures that the application principles, 
measurement methods, risk appetite and risk limits are 
determined in accordance with these elements. It convenes at 
least twice a year.

Asset-Liability Committee 
Hakan Binbaşgil, Chairman (CEO)

Türker Tunalı, Member (CFO)

Şebnem Muratoğlu, Member (Executive Vice President - 
Treasury)

Çetin Düz*, Member (Executive Vice President - Commercial 
Banking)

Bülent Oğuz, Member (Executive Vice President - SME 
Banking)

Levent Çelebioğlu, Member (Executive Vice President - 
Corporate and Investment Banking)

Alp Keler, Member (Executive Vice President – Private Banking 
and Investment Services)

Burcu Civelek Yüce, Member (Executive Vice President - Retail 
Banking and Digital Solutions)

Emre Kahraman, Member (Head of Risk Management)

Our Asset-Liability Committee convenes twice a week and 
is responsible for issues such as daily liquidity and cash 
management. It develops our investment, pricing and funding 
strategies by closely following the developments in the economy.

Corporate Governance Committee
Eyüp Engin, Chairman (Executive Board Member; 
Member of the Remuneration Committee)

Yaman Törüner, Member (Board Member; Member of 
the Remuneration Committee)

Türker Tunalı (CFO – Responsible for Investor 
Relations)

Our Committee, which convenes at least twice a 
year, audits compliance with Corporate Governance 
Principles and ethical values. It determines the 
relations with our investors and institutions and 
ensures the formation of an honest communication 
platform with our stakeholders. Responsible for 
determining policies regarding social responsibility 
projects, checking compliance of digital channels with 
principles, protecting our Bank’s reputation, evaluating 
suitable candidates for our Board of Directors, and 
preparing annual activity reports and sustainability 
reports.

Summary board 
report

As Akbank, we maintained our leading position in the 
Turkish banking sector in 2022, thanks to our strong 
balance sheet, effective risk management, customer-
oriented approach, and solid and long-term relationships. In 
2022, our consolidated gross profit reached 80,271 million 
TL, our consolidated net profit reached 60,026 million TL, 
our return on equity was 54.7%, and our return on assets 
was 6.2%. 

Our consolidated total assets amounted to 1 trillion 
147 billion TL, cash loans extended to 616 billion TL, and 
deposits amounted to 722 billion TL. Our capital adequacy 
ratio remained at a very high level at 23.2%, well above the 
12% recommended rate in the Turkish banking sector. 

Our bank’s goal is to create sustainable and high value 
for all its stakeholders in every field of banking. We will 
continue our efforts and investments in the upcoming 
period in order to efficiently grow by taking our successful 
performance in 2022 even further with a focus on the 
sustainability strategy. 

We would like to thank our employees, partners and social 
stakeholders for their contributions and support.

* * Çetin Düz appointed as Executive Vice President of Commercial banking 
as of February 1, 2023. 

78 - 79Corporate governance



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Information on people 
and organizations 
from which we receive 
support services

Within the scope of the Regulation on Banks’ Procurement 
of Support Services; there are software, maintenance/repair, 
and patch and product development services in our areas 
of archiving, call centre, security, card and chip supply, card 
personalization, courier, operational services, marketing, 
and information systems. As of the end of 2022, we receive 
support services from 82 companies (7 companies are 
subcontractors). You can find these companies and their 
fields of activity in the table below.

In addition to the aforementioned companies and services, 
as of 31 December 2022, marketing services for vehicle 
loans are received from 145 vehicle dealers within the 
scope of services received from dealers/stores (AKON). In 
AKON consumer loans, marketing services are received 
from 751 main dealers and 642 sub-dealers in total.

SUPPORT SERVICE ORGANIZATIONS
ACTIVITIES FOR WHICH WE RECİEVE 
SUPPORT SERVICES

1 Hobim Arşivleme ve Basım Hizmetleri A.Ş.

Archiving Services / Statement, Letter etc. 
Printing, Enveloping and Operational Service

2 USS Lojistik A.Ş. (subcontractor of Hobim Arşivleme)

3 Tepe Servis ve Yönetim A.Ş.

4 Atos Müşteri Hizmetleri A.Ş.

Call Centre Service

5 CMC İletişim ve Çağrı Merkezi Hizm. A.Ş.

6 COMDATA Teknoloji ve Müşteri Hizmetleri A.Ş.

7 Global Bilgi Pazarlama Danışmanlık ve Çağrı Servisi Hizmetleri A.Ş

8 Sestek Ses ve İletişim Bilgisayar Teknolojileri San. Tic. A.Ş.

9 Webhelp Çağrı Merkezi ve Müşteri Hizmetleri A.Ş. 

10 Tepe Savunma Güvenlik Sistemleri A.Ş. Security Service

11 Austria Card Türkiye Kart Operasyonları A.Ş.

Card and Chip Supply, Card Personalization 
Services, Check Printing Service

12 E-Kart Elektronik Kart Sistemleri San. ve Tic. A.Ş.

13 Plastikkart Akıllı Kart İletişim Sistemleri San. ve Tic. A.Ş.

14 MTM Holografi Güvenlikli Basım ve Bilişim Tekn. San. Tic. A.Ş

15 AGT Hızlı Kurye Hizmetleri A.Ş. 
Courier Service (Contracted Company for Card 
Distribution Services)

16 Kurye Net Motorlu Kuryecilik Ve Dağıtım Hizmetleri A.Ş.

17 Bilkay Danışmanlık ve Destek Hizmetler A.Ş.

Operational Services

18 Brinks Güvenlik Hizmetleri A.Ş.

19 Desmer Güvenlik Hiz. Tic. A.Ş.

20 Loomis Güvenlik Hizmetleri A.Ş.

21 Fu Gayrımenkul Yatırım Danışmanlık A.Ş

SUPPORT SERVICE ORGANIZATIONS
ACTIVITIES FOR WHICH WE RECİEVE 
SUPPORT SERVICES

22 Hangisi İnternet ve Bilgi Hizmetleri A.Ş. (Hangikredi)
Marketing Service for Submitting Requests for 
Credit/Credit Card Applications to the Bank 
(Trade loan service to be made through the 
e-commerce platform)

23
BHL Türkiye Teknoloji A.Ş.  
(Previous name: Konut Kredisi Com TR Danışmanlık A.Ş. - Hesap Kurdu)

24 DSM Türkiye Teknoloji Hizmetleri A.Ş. (Trendyol)

25 Evren Yönetim Danışmanlığı ve Bilişim Tekn. Paz. LTD. ŞTİ.

Website Software Development and Design 
Services

26
KA Dijital İnternet Pazarlama Reklamcılık Danışmanlık ve Bilişim Ticaret Ltd.
Şirketi

27 MAGICLICK Teknoloji A.Ş. 

28 MAGICLICK ARGE A.Ş.

29 Luckyeye Bilgisayar Tanıtım Hizm.Yay.ve Tic.A.Ş.

30 Amaris Teknoloji İstanbul Danışmanlık Limited Şirketi
Information Systems, Software, Testing

31 Argedor Bilişim Teknolojileri Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş

32 Bilge Adam Bilgisayar ve Eğitim Hizm. San. Tic. AŞ.

Software Maintenance/  
Repair, Patching and Product 
Development Services

33 Bilişim Bilgisayar Hizmetleri A.Ş. (Banksoft)

34 Cyberwise Siber Güvenlik Ticaret A.Ş.

35 DIP Bilgisayar Yazılım Ticaret Ltd. Şti.

36 EGA Elektronik Güvenlik Altyapı A.Ş.

37 Elite Consulting Bilişim ve Danışmanlık Hizmetleri Ltd. Şti.

38 Eretim Bilgisayar Hizmetleri ve Dan. Ltd. Şti.

39 Etcbase Yazılım ve Bilişim Teknolojileri A.Ş.

40 Evrensel Yazılım Teknolojileri Bilişim San. ve TİC. LTD. ŞTİ.

41 Fineksus Bilişim Çözümleri Tic. A.Ş 

42 Foreks Bilgi İletişim Hizmetleri A.Ş.

43 Genbil Yazılım Ticaret ve Sanayi A.Ş.

44 Genex Yazılım A.Ş. 

45 G Teknoloji Bilişim Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş.

46 ICterra Bilgi ve İletişim Teknolojileri San. ve Tic. A.Ş.

47 Infina Yazılım A.Ş.

48
Ingenico Ödeme Sistem Çözümleri A.Ş. 
(Company’s new title: Worldline Ödeme Sistem Çözümleri A.Ş.)

49 Innova Bilişim Çözümleri A.Ş.

50 Innovance Bilgi Teknolojileri A.Ş. 

51 Karbil Yazılım ve Bilişim Teknolojileri Tic. A.Ş.

52 Key Yazılım Çözümleri A.Ş. 

53 Kibele İletişim Sistem ve Servisleri Tic. Ltd. Şti.

54 Koç Sistem Bilgi ve İletişim Hizmetleri A.Ş.

55 Komtaş Bilgi Yönetimi Danışmanlık ve Ticaret A.Ş.

56 KKB Kredi Kayıt Bürosu A.Ş.

80 - 81Corporate governance



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

SUPPORT SERVICE ORGANIZATIONS
ACTIVITIES FOR WHICH WE RECİEVE 
SUPPORT SERVICES

57 Mirsis Bilgi Teknolojileri A.Ş.

Software Maintenance/  
Repair, Patching and Product 
Development Services

58 Mobtech Yazılım Danışmanlık San. ve Tic. A.Ş. 

59 MOS Bilişim Danışmanlık Sanayi ve LTD (Master of Service Academy)

60 MUREX SAS

61 Netaş Telekomünikasyon A.Ş.

62 NCR Bilişim Sistemleri Ltd. Şti.

63 NGN Bilgi ve İletişim Hizmetleri Ticaret A.Ş.

64 Novosoft Yazılım Teknolojiler Bilişim Sanayi ve Tic. A.Ş.

65 NTT Data Business Solutions Bilgi Sistemleri A.Ş.

66 Oredata Yazılım Ltd. Şti.

67 OBSS Teknoloji A.Ş.

68 Payten Teknoloji A.Ş. 

69 Prozek Bilişim Çözümleri Ltd. Şti.

70 Protel Bilgisayar A.Ş.

71 Platin Bilişim A.Ş.

72 Sabancı Dijital Teknoloji Hizmetleri A.Ş. 

73 Smartin Bilgi Teknolojileri Hiz. Tic. Ltd. Şti.

74 Seri Bilgi Teknolojileri ve Destek Hizmetleri ve Ticaret Limited Şirketi 

75 Software Arge Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş.

76 UCS Bilişim Sist. Ltd. Şti.

77 VBT Yazılım A.Ş.

78 Vega Bilgisayar Hizmetleri Ltd. Şti.

79 Verifone Elektronik ve Danışmanlık Ltd. Şti.

80 Veripark Yazılım A.Ş. 

81 Westerops Bilişim ve Yazılım Hizmetleri Ltd. Şti.

82 Zenn Bilişim Teknolojileri San.ve Tic. A.Ş.

83 32BİT Bilgisayar LTD. ŞTİ.

84 Detay Bilgi Hizm. San. Diş. Tic. A.Ş. (subcontractor of Sabancı Digital)

85 Glasshouse Bilgi Sistemleri Tic. A.Ş. (subcontractor of Sabancı Digital)

86 Teknova Yazilim Dan. Bil. Turz. Rek.Org.Tic.Ltd (subcontractor of Sabancı Digital)

87 BDH Bilişim Destek Hizmetleri San. ve TİC. A.Ş (subcontractor of Netaş)

88
Destek Bilgisayar ve İletişim Hizmetleri Ticaret A.Ş. (subcontractor of Seri Bilgi 
Tekn.)

89 Datassist Bilgi Teknolojileri A.Ş. (subcontractor of Seri Bilgi Tekn.)

Transactions with 
the risk group that our 
bank is included in

The Bank’s relations with the risk group it is included 
in cover all kinds of banking transactions within the 
framework of normal bank-customer relations and market 
conditions in accordance with the Banking Law. Detailed 
explanations about these transactions are included in the 
Unconsolidated Financial Statements to be disclosed to 
the public as of December 31, 2022, the Related Disclosures 

and Footnotes, and footnote VII of the fifth section of the 
Independent Audit Report. In addition, the aforementioned 
information is also included in the Consolidated Financial 
Statements, Related Disclosures and Footnotes, and 
footnote VII of the fifth section of the Independent 
Auditor’s Report.

Our affiliation 
report

The Bank’s relations with the risk group it is included 
in cover all kinds of banking transactions within the 
framework of normal bank-customer relations and market 
conditions in accordance with the Banking Law. Detailed 
explanations about these transactions are included in the 
Unconsolidated Financial Statements to be disclosed to 
the public as of December 31, 2022, the Related Disclosures 
and Footnotes, and footnote VII of the fifth section of the 
Independent Audit Report. In addition, the aforementioned 
information is also included in the Consolidated Financial 
Statements, Related Disclosures and Footnotes, and 
footnote VII of the fifth section of the Independent 
Auditor’s Report. Our Akbank Board of Directors has 
prepared a Affiliation Report on our Company’s relations 
with the controlling shareholder and its subsidiaries for the 
2022 operating year, and the conclusion of this report is 

given below in accordance with Article 199 of the Turkish 
Commercial Code No. 6102. The necessary explanations 
about the transactions we, as Akbank, have made with the 
related parties are included in the Fifth Section Note VII of 
the Disclosures and Footnotes Related to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements. In the report prepared by our Akbank 
Board of Directors, the following explanation is given: “The 
legal transactions made by our bank with the controlling 
company Hacı Ömer Sabancı Holding A.Ş. and Sabancı 
Group Companies are stated above. Due to the fact that 
our bank is included in the group of companies, it has no 
financial loss. All transactions have been concluded in 
accordance with market precedents, within the framework 
of ordinary customer relations.”

82 - 83Corporate governance



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Report on compliance 
with corporate 
governance principles

COMPLIANCE STATUS EXPLANATION

Yes  Partial No Exempted
Not 

Applicable

1.1. Facilitating the exercise of shareholder rights

1.1.2- Up-to-date information and 
disclosures which may affect the exercise 
of shareholder rights are available to 
investors at the corporate website.

X

1.2. Right to obtain and review information

1.2.1 - Management did not enter into any 
transaction that would complicate the 
conduct of special audit.

X

1.3. General Assembly

1.3.2 - The company ensures the clarity of 
the General Assembly agenda, and that 
an item on the agenda does not cover 
multiple topics.

X

1.3.7- Insiders with privileged information 
have informed the board of directors 
about transactions conducted on their 
behalf within the scope of the company's 
activities in order for these transactions to 
be presented at the General Shareholders' 
Meeting.

X

1.3.8 - Members of the board of directors 
who are concerned with specific agenda 
items, auditors, and other related persons, 
as well as the officers who are responsible 
for the preparation of the financial 
statements were present at the General 
Shareholders' Meeting.

X

1.3.10 - The agenda of the General 
Shareholders' Meeting included a 
separate item detailing the amounts 
and beneficiaries of all donations and 
contributions.

X

1.3.11 - The General Shareholders' Meeting 
was held open to the public, including the 
stakeholders, without having the right to 
speak.

X

Article 65 of the Articles of 
Association states "Right to 
Participate in Meeting". According 
to this, the General Shareholders' 
Meeting  is not held open to public 
nor to the stakeholders. 

COMPLIANCE STATUS EXPLANATION

Yes  Partial No Exempted
Not 

Applicable

1.4. Voting rights

1.4.1 - There is no restriction preventing 
shareholders from exercising their 
shareholder rights.

X

1.4.2 - The company does not have shares 
that carry privileged voting rights.

X

1.4.3-The company withholds from 
exercising its voting rights at the General 
Shareholders' Meeting of any company 
with which it has cross-ownership, in 
case such cross-ownership provides 
management control.

X

1.5. Minority Rights

1.5.1 - The company pays maximum 
diligence to the exercise of minority rights.

X

1.5.2 - The Articles of Association extend 
the use of minority rights to those 
who own less than one twentieth the 
outstanding shares and expand the scope 
of the minority rights.

X

There are no members elected 
by minority rights in the Board of 
Directors of the Bank. Minority rights 
are not determined as less than one 
twentieth of the Bank's capital in 
the Articles of Association of the 
Bank. Meanwhile, utmost attention 
is paid to the use of minority rights 
in conformity with the Turkish 
Commercial Code (TTK) and Capital 
Markets Board (SPK) regulations.

1.6. Dividend right

1.6.1 - The dividend policy approved by the 
General Shareholders' Meeting is posted 
on the company website.

X

1.6.2 - The dividend distribution policy 
comprises the minimum information to 
ensure that the shareholders can have an 
opinion on the procedure and principles of 
dividend distributions in the future.

X

1.6.3 - The reasons for retaining earnings, 
and their allocations, are stated in the 
relevant agenda item.

X

1.6.4 - The board reviewed whether the 
dividend policy balances the benefits 
of the shareholders and those of the 
company.

X

1.7. Transfer of shares

1.7.1 - There are no restrictions preventing 
shares from being transferred.

X

2.1. Corporate website

2.1.1. - The company website includes all 
elements listed in Corporate Governance 
Principle 2.1.1 

X

2.1.2 - The shareholding structure (names, 
privileges, number and ratio of shares, and 
beneficial owners of more than 5% of the 
issued share capital) is updated on the 
website at least every 6 months.

X

2.1.4 - The company website is prepared in 
other selected foreign languages, in a way 
to present exactly the same information 
with the Turkish content.

X

84 - 85Corporate governance



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

COMPLIANCE STATUS EXPLANATION

Yes  Partial No Exempted
Not 

Applicable

2.2. Annual report

2.2.1 - The board of directors ensures that the 
annual report represents a true and complete 
view of the company's activities.

X

2.2.2 - The annual report includes all elements 
listed in Corporate Governance Principle 2.2.2. X

3.1. Corporation’s policy on stakeholders

3.1.1- The rights of the stakeholders 
are protected pursuant to the relevant 
regulations, contracts and within the 
framework of bona fides principles.

X

3.1.3 - Policies or procedures addressing 
stakeholders rights are published on the 
company's website.

X

3.1.4 - A whistleblowing programme is in 
place for reporting legal and ethical issues. X

3.1.5 - The company addresses conflicts of 
interest among stakeholders in a balanced 
manner.

X

3.2. Supporting the participation of the stakeholders in the corporation's management

3.2.1 - The Articles of Association, or the 
internal regulations (terms of reference/
manuals), regulate the participation of 
employees in management.

X

3.2.2 - Surveys/other research techniques, 
consultation interviews, observation method 
etc. were conducted to obtain opinions from 
stakeholders on decisions that significantly 
affect them

X

3.3. Human resources policy

3.3.1 - The company has adopted an 
employment policy ensuring equal 
opportunities, and a succession plan for key 
managerial positions.

X

3.3.2 - Recruitment criteria are documented X

3.3.3 - The company has a policy on human 
resources development and organises 
trainings for employees. 

X

3.3.4 - Meetings have been organised to 
inform employees on the financial status of 
the company, remuneration, career planning, 
education and health.

X

3.3.5 - Employees, or their representatives, 
were notified of decisions impacting them. 
The opinion of the related trade unions was 
also taken.

X

3.3.6 - Job descriptions and performance 
criteria have been prepared for all employees, 
announced to them and taken into account 
to determine employee remuneration.

X

3.3.7 - Measures (procedures, trainings, 
raising awareness goals, monitoring, 
complaint mechanisms) have been taken 
to prevent discrimination, and to protect 
employees against any physical, mental, and 
emotionalmistreatment.

X

3.3.8 - The company ensures freedom of 
association and supports the right for 
collective bargaining.

X

3.3.9 - A safe working environment for 
employees is maintained. X

COMPLIANCE STATUS EXPLANATION

Yes  Partial No Exempted
Not 

Applicable

3.4. Relations with customers and suppliers

3.4.1-The company measured its customer 
satisfaction and operated to ensure full 
customer satisfaction. 

X

3.4.2 - Customers are notified of any 
delays in handling their requests.

X

3.4.3 - The company complied with the 
quality standards with respect to its 
products and services.

X

3.4.4 - The company has in place adequate 
controls to protect the confidentiality of 
sensitive information and business secrets 
of its customers and suppliers.

X

3.5. Ethical rules and social responsibility

3.5.1 - The board of the corporation has 
adopted a code of ethics, disclosed on the 
corporate website.

X

3.5.2-The company has been mindful of 
its social responsibility and has adopted 
measures to prevent corruption and 
bribery.

X

4.1. Role of the board of directors

4.1.1 - The board of directors has ensured 
strategy and risks do not threaten the 
long-term interests of the company, and 
that effective risk management is in place

X

4.1.2 - The agenda and minutes of board 
meetings indicate that the board of 
directors discussed and approved strategy, 
ensured resources were adequately 
allocated, and monitored company and 
management performance.

X

4.2. Activities of the board of directors

4.2.1-The board of directors documented 
its meetings and reported its activities to 
the shareholders.

X

4.2.2 - Duties and authorities of the 
members of the board of directors are 
disclosed in the annual report.

X

4.2.3-The board has ensured the company 
has an internal control framework 
adequate for its activities, size and 
complexity.

X

4.2.4 - Information on the functioning 
and effectiveness of the internal control 
system is provided in the annual report.

X

4.2.5 - The roles of the Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer are separated and 
defined.

X

4.2.7-The board of directors ensures that 
the Investor Relations department and the 
corporate governance committee work 
effectively. The board works closely with 
them when communicating and settling 
disputes with shareholders.

X

4.2.8 - The company has subscribed to a 
Directors and Officers liability insurance 
covering more than 25% of the capital. 

X

The Bank has insured itself against 
any damages resulting from  
unintentional errors by members of  
senior management, with an upper  
limit of USD 50 million. 

86 - 87Corporate governance



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

COMPLIANCE STATUS EXPLANATION

Yes  Partial No Exempted
Not 

Applicable

4.3. Structure of the board of directors

4.3.9 - The board of directors has approved 
the policy on its own composition, setting 
a minimal target of  25% for female 
directors. The board annually evaluates its 
composition and nominates directors so 
as to be  compliant with the policy

X

"Akbank's Chairman is female. 
However, the target ratio and timing 
regarding female member ratio is not 
determined by Board of Directors. In 
2022, 10% of Board of Directors was 
composed of female members."

4.3.10 - At least one member of the audit 
committee has 5 years of experience in 
audit/accounting and finance.

X

4.4. Board meeting procedures 

4.4.1-Each board member attended the 
majority of the board meetings in person.

X

4.4.2 - The board has formally approved a 
minimum time by which information and 
documents relevant to the agenda items 
should be supplied to all board members.

X

4.4.3 - The opinions of board members 
that could not attend the meeting, but did 
submit their opinion in written format, were 
presented to other members.

X

4.4.4 - Each member of the board has one 
vote.

X

4.4.5 - The board has a charter/written 
internal rules defining the meeting 
procedures of the board.

X

4.4.6 - Board minutes document that 
all items on the agenda are discussed, 
and board resolutions include director’s 
dissenting opinions if any.

X

4.4.7-There are limits to external 
commitments of board members. 
Shareholders are informed of board 
members external commitments at the 
General Shareholders’ Meeting.

X

The Bank’s Articles of Association 
stipulate that members of the Board 
of Directors cannot undertake 
commercial transactions with the 
Bank in areas where the Bank is 
actively engaged either in person 
or by proxy, unless they have 
received the approval of the General 
Assembly. The provisions of Article 
396 of the Turkish Commercial Code 
pertaining to the non-compete 
clause and the provisions of the 
Banking Law are reserved. 

4.5. Board committees

4.5.5 - Board members serve in only one of 
the Board’s committees.

X

Some board members serve in more 
than one Board committee. This 
enables increased coordination 
between different Board committees.

4.5.6 - Committees have invited persons 
to the meetings as deemed necessary to 
obtain their views.

X

4.5.7 - If external consultancy services are 
used, the independence of the provider is 
stated in the annual report.

X

4.5.8 - Minutes of all committee meetings 
are kept and reported to board members.

X

COMPLIANCE STATUS EXPLANATION

Yes  Partial No Exempted
Not 

Applicable

4.6. Financial rights 

4.6.1-The board of directors has conducted 
a board performance evaluation to 
review whether it has discharged all its 
responsibilities effectively  

X

Board members are selected in 
General Assembly  Meeting on a 
yearly basis. There is not any special 
performance evaluation conducted 
at the board level.

4.6.4-The company did not extend any 
loans to its board directors or executives, 
nor extended their lending period or 
enhanced the amount of those loans, or  
improve conditions thereon, and did not 
extend loans  under a personal credit title 
by third parties or provided guarantees 
such as surety in favour of them.

X

The loans provided by Akbank to 
be used by the Board members 
are limited through a framework 
specified by the Article 50 of the 
Banking Law.  No other loans are 
extended to the Board members 
outside this framework.

4.6.5 - The individual remuneration 
of board members and executives is 
disclosed in the annual report.  

X

This is disclosed as a total amount 
in the Annual report. In 2022, TL 
194 million financial benefits were 
provided to the Group’s senior 
management.

The Corporate Governance Compliance Report (URF), 
Corporate Governance Information Form (KYBF) and 
Sustainability Principles Compliance Report documents 
approved by our Bank’s Board of Directors can be accessed 
from the links below on the Public Disclosure Platform:   

https://www.kap.org.tr/en/Bildirim/1120601

https://www.kap.org.tr/en/Bildirim/1120602

https://www.kap.org.tr/en/Bildirim/1120600

88 - 89Corporate governance

https://www.kap.org.tr/en/Bildirim/1120601
https://www.kap.org.tr/en/Bildirim/1120602
https://www.kap.org.tr/en/Bildirim/1120600
https://www.kap.org.tr/tr/Bildirim/1120600


Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Corporate governance 
compliance 
information form

1. SHAREHOLDERS

1.1. Facilitating the Exercise of Shareholders Rights

The number of investor meetings (conference, seminar/etc.) organised 
by the company during the year

A video web cast was made by the Investor Relations and Sustainability 
Department at the beginning of 2022, where the guidance was 
announced. In addition, in 2022, with the participation of senior 
management, a total of 4 web-casts were organized, which gave 
information about the quarterly financial results and included a question 
and answer section. In 2022, a total of 33 domestic and foreign investor 
conferences/roadshows were attended and meetings were held with 
approximately 238 different international investor funds and two rating 
agencies. In addition, 2 online panels were organized with the senior 
management. In addition, questions sent by investors and analysts via 
telephone and e-mail were also answered. During the year, more than 
500 questions were answered via telephone and e-mail

1.2. Right to Obtain and Examine Information 

The number of special audit request(s) None.

The number of special audit requests that were accepted at the 
General Shareholders’ Meeting 

None

1.3. General Assembly

Link to the PDP announcement that demonstrates the information 
requested by Principle 1.3.1. (a-d) 

https://www.kap.org.tr/en/Bildirim/1007539

Whether the company provides materials for the General 
Shareholders’ Meeting in English and Turkish at the same time 

Both in Turkish and English

The links to the PDP announcements associated with the 
transactions that are not approved by the majority of independent 
directors or by unanimous votes of present board members in the 
context of Principle 1.3.9

None

The links to the PDP announcements associated with related party  
transactions in the context of Article 9 of the Communique on 
Corporate Governance (II-17.1) 

None

The links to the PDP announcements associated with common 
and continuous transactions in the context of Article 10 of the 
Communique on Corporate Governance (II-17.1) 

None

The name of the section on the corporate website that demonstrates 
the donation policy of the company 

https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/
detail/Donation-and-contribution-policy/170/310/0

The relevant link to the PDP with minute of the General Shareholders’ 
Meeting where the donation policy has been approved 

https://www.kap.org.tr/en/Bildirim/269794

The number of the provisions of the articles of association that 
discuss the participation of stakeholders to the General Shareholders’ 
Meeting 

None

Identified stakeholder groups that participated in the General 
Shareholders’ Meeting, if any 

There was no  participation from unindentified stakeholders for the 
Ordinary General Assembly Meeting held for the year 2021.

1.4. Voting Rights

Whether the shares of the company have differential voting rights No

In case that there are voting privileges, indicate the owner and 
percentage of the voting majority of shares. 

-

The percentage of ownership of the largest shareholder 40.75%

1. SHAREHOLDERS

1.5. Minority Rights

Whether the scope of minority rights enlarged (in terms of content or 
the ratio) in the articles of the association 

No

If yes, specify the relevant provision of the articles of association -

1.6. Dividend Right 

The name of the section on the corporate website that describes the 
dividend distribution policy 

https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/
detail/Dividend-policy/165/287/0#:~:text=Provided%20that%20
no%20adverse%20conditions,40%25%20of%20the%20Bank’s%20
distributable

Minutes of the relevant agenda item in case the board of directors 
proposed to the general assembly not to distribute dividends, the 
reason for such proposal and information as to use of the dividend 

-

PDP link to the related general shareholder meeting minutes  in 
case the board of directors proposed to the general assembly not to 
distribute dividends

-

GENERAL MEETINGS

General Meeting Date 28.03.2022

The number of information requests received by the company 
regarding the clarification of the agenda of the General 
Shareholders’ Meeting

0

Shareholder participation rate to the General Shareholders’ 
Meeting

69.55%

Percentage of shares directly present at the GSM 0.00%

Percentageof shares representedby proxy 69.55%

Specify the name of the page of the corporate website that 
contains the General Shareholders’ Meeting minutes, and also 
indicates for each resolution the voting levels for or against

https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/
detail/Annual-general-assembly-documents/38/14/0

Specify the name of the page of the corporate website that 
contains all questions asked in the general assembly meeting and 
all responses to them

-

The number of the relevant item or paragraph of General 
Shareholders’ Meeting minutes in relation to related party 
transactions

-

The number of declarations by insiders received by the board of 
directors

425

The link to the related PDP general shareholder meetingnotification https://www.kap.org.tr/en/Bildirim/1007539

90 - 91Corporate governance

https://www.kap.org.tr/en/Bildirim/1007539
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Donation-and-contribution-policy/170/310/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Donation-and-contribution-policy/170/310/0
https://www.kap.org.tr/en/Bildirim/269794
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Dividend-policy/165/287/0#:~:text=Provided%20that%20no%20adverse%20conditions,40%25%20of%20the%20Bank’s%20distributable
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Dividend-policy/165/287/0#:~:text=Provided%20that%20no%20adverse%20conditions,40%25%20of%20the%20Bank’s%20distributable
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Dividend-policy/165/287/0#:~:text=Provided%20that%20no%20adverse%20conditions,40%25%20of%20the%20Bank’s%20distributable
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Dividend-policy/165/287/0#:~:text=Provided%20that%20no%20adverse%20conditions,40%25%20of%20the%20Bank’s%20distributable
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Annual-general-assembly-documents/38/14/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Annual-general-assembly-documents/38/14/0
https://www.kap.org.tr/en/Bildirim/1007539


Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

2. DISCLOSURE AND TRANSPARENCY

2.1. Corporate website https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/tr/

Specify the name of the sections of the website providing the information requested by the 
Principle 2.1.1. 

https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-
governance/detail/Capital-and-trade-registry-information/31/9/0

If applicable, specify the name of the sections of the website providing the list of shareholders 
(ultimate beneficiaries) who directly or indirectly own more than 5% of the shares. 

https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/about-akbank/
detail/Shareholder-structure/16/19/0

List of languages for which the website is available Both in Turkish and English

2.2. Annual Report

The page numbers and/or name of the sections in the Annual Report that demonstrate the information requested by principle 2.2.2. 

a) The page numbers and/or name of the sections in the Annual Report that demonstrate the 
information on the duties of the members of the board of directors and executives conducted 
out of the company and declarations on independence of board members 

2022 Annual Report, pages 66-67; 121

b) The page numbers and/or name of the sections in the Annual Report that demonstrate the 
information on committees formed within the board structure 2022 Annual Report, pages 77,78

c)  The page numbers and/or name of the sections in the Annual Report that demonstrate the 
information on the number of board meetings in a year and the attendance of the members to 
these meetings 

2022 Annual Report, page 96

ç)  The page numbers and/or name of the sections in the Annual Report that demonstrate the information 
on amendments in the legislation which may significantly affect the activities of the corporation 2022 Annual Report, pages 234-240

d) The page numbers and/or name of the sections in the Annual Report that demonstrate the 
information on significant lawsuits filed against the corporation and the possible results thereof 2022 Annual Report, pages 188,189

e) The page numbers and/or name of the sections in the Annual Report that demonstrate 
the information on the conflicts of interest of the corporation among the institutions that it 
purchases services on matters such as investment consulting and rating and the measures 
taken by the corporation in order to avoid from these conflicts of interest 

-

f) The page numbers and/or name of the sections in the Annual Report that demonstrate the 
information on the cross ownership subsidiaries that the direct contribution to the capital exceeds 5% 

2022 Annual Report, pages 50-53

g) The page numbers and/or name of the sections in the Annual Report that demonstrate 
the information on social rights and professional training of the employees and activities of 
corporate social responsibility in respect of the corporate activities that arises social and 
environmental results

2022 Annual Report, pages 180-187

3. STAKEHOLDERS

3.1. Corporation’s Policy on Stakeholders

The name of the section on the corporate website that demonstrates the employee remedy 
or severance policy 

https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-
governance/detail/Compensation-policy/171/311/0

The number of definitive convictions the company was subject to in relation to breach of 
employee rights 399

The position of the person responsible for the alert mechanism (i.e. whistleblowing mechanism) Board of Internal Control

The contact detail of the company alert mechanism. etik@akbank.com, 02123857777

3.2. Supporting the Participation of the Stakeholders in the Corporation’s Management 

Name of the section on the corporate website that demonstrates the internal regulation 
addressing the participation of employees on management bodies. -

Corporate bodies where employees are actually represented No bodies present

3.3. Human Resources Policy

The role of the board on developing and ensuring that the company has a succession plan 
for the key management positions 

The bank has a succession plan for the key management 
positions and it is developed with the Board.

The name of the section on the corporate website that demonstrates the human resource 
policy covering equal opportunities and hiring principles. Also provide a summary of relevant 
parts of the human resource policy. 

https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/
pdf/Akbank_Diversity_and_inclusion.pdf

Whether the company provides an employee stock ownership programme There is no employee stock ownership programme.

The name of the section on the corporate website that demonstrates the human resource 
policy covering discrimination and mistreatments and the measures to prevent them. Also 
provide a summary of relevant parts of the human resource policy. 

https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/
pdf/Akbank_Diversity_and_inclusion.pdf

The number of definitive convictions the company is subject to in relation to health and 
safety measures None.

3.5. Ethical Rules and Social Responsibility 

The name of the section on the corporate website that demonstrates the code of ethics https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/
pdf/2018-0307-krm-etik-ilkelerimiz-ing-web.pdf

The name of the section on the company website that demonstrates the corporate social 
responsibility report. If such a report does not exist, provide the information about any 
measures taken on environmental, social and corporate governance issues. 

Any measures combating any kind of corruption including embezzlement and bribery 
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-
governance/detail/Anti-Bribery-Anti-Corruption-
policy/164/502/0

4. BOARD OF DIRECTORS-I 

4.2. Activity of the Board of Directors 

Date of the last board evaluation conducted -

Whether the board evaluation was externally facilitated No

Whether all board members released from their duties at the GSM Yes

Name(s) of the board member(s) with specific delegated duties and authorities, 
and descriptions of such duties 

Suzan Sabancı Dinçer - Chairman

Eyüp Engin - Vice Chairman and Executive Board 
Member, responsible for overseeing all activities of 
the Bank, member responsible for Internal Systems, 
member responsible for Compliance Program

Ahmet Fuat Ayla - Executive Board Member, 
responsible for overseeing and management of 
lending activities

Number of reports presented by internal auditors to the audit committee or any 
relevant committee to the board 

Akbank’s Audit Committee held 4 meetings in 2022.  
Board of Internal Auditors, Board of Internal Control, 
Board of  Compliance, Board of Risk Management 
and Board of Information Risk Management regularly 
report on Committee Meetings and  their related 
activities as well.

Specify the name of the section or page number of the annual report that 
provides the summary of the review of the effectiveness of internal controls

Report of the Audit Committee can be found on page 
114-117 of Akbank Annual Report 2022

Name of the Chairman Suzan Sabancı Dinçer

Name of the CEO Sabri Hakan Binbaşgil

If the CEO and Chair functions are combined: provide the link to the relevant 
PDP announcement providing the rationale for such combined roles 

-

Link to the PDP notification stating that any damage that may be caused by 
the members of the board of directors during the discharge of their duties is 
insured for an amount exceeding 25% of the company’s capital 

None

The name of the section on the corporate website that demonstrates current 
diversity policy targeting women directors 

None

Number of women members and percentage 1 - 10%

92 - 93Corporate governance

https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Capital-and-trade-registry-information/31/9/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Capital-and-trade-registry-information/31/9/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/about-akbank/detail/Shareholder-structure/16/19/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/about-akbank/detail/Shareholder-structure/16/19/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Compensation-policy/171/311/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Compensation-policy/171/311/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/pdf/Akbank_Diversity_and_inclusion.pdf
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/pdf/Akbank_Diversity_and_inclusion.pdf
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/pdf/Akbank_Diversity_and_inclusion.pdf
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/pdf/Akbank_Diversity_and_inclusion.pdf
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/pdf/2018-0307-krm-etik-ilkelerimiz-ing-web.pdf
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/pdf/2018-0307-krm-etik-ilkelerimiz-ing-web.pdf
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Anti-Bribery-Anti-Corruption-policy/164/502/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Anti-Bribery-Anti-Corruption-policy/164/502/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Anti-Bribery-Anti-Corruption-policy/164/502/0


Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

COMPOSITION OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS 

Name-Surname

Real Person 
Acting on Behalf 
of Legal Person 
Member

Gender Title Profession The First Election 
Date To Board

Whether 
Executive 
Director or Not

Positions Held in 
the Company in 
theLast 5 Years

Current Positions Held 
Outside the Company

Whether She/
he has at 
least 5 Years 
of Experience 
in Audit, 
Accounting 
and/or 
Finance or 
not

Share in 
Capital 
(%)

The Share 
Group that 
the Board 
Member 
Representing

Independent 
Board 
Member or 
not

Link To PDP 
Notification 
That 
Includes The 
Independency 
Declaration

Whether the 
Independent 
Director 
Considered 
By The 
Nomination 
Committee

Whether She/He 
is the Director 
Who Ceased 
to Satisfy the 
Independence 
or Not

Committees 
Charged and 
Task

Suzan Sabancı 
Dinçer - Female Chairman of the 

Board Banker 22.09.1997 Non-Executive

Chairman 
of the Board 
and Executive 
Director

H.Ö. Sabancı Vakfı - Trustee 
Committee Member, H.Ö. 
Sabancı Holding A.Ş. - 
Member of the Board, 
Sabancı Üniversitesi - 
Trustee Committee Member

Yes 0.63 - Dependent 
Member - -

Eyüp Engin - Male

Deputy Chairman 
of the Board 
and Executive 
Director

Banker 25.03.2019 Non-Executive
Executive 
Director, Head of 
Board of Audit

Akbank T.A.Ş. Mensupları 
Tekaüt Sandığı Vakfı-
Chairman

Yes - - Independent 
Member -

Audit 
Committee 
Chairman, 
Executive Risk 
Committee 
Chairman, 
Corporate 
Governance 
Committee 
Chairman, 
Credit 
Committee 
Member.

Ahmet Fuat Ayla - Male Executive 
Director Banker 12.07.2017 Executive Executive 

Director - Yes - - Dependent 
Member -

Credit 
Committee 
Chairman, 
Executive Risk 
Committee 
Member.

Şakir Yaman 
Törüner - Male Member of the 

Board Banker 17.03.1998 Non-Executive Member of the 
Board

Basın Konseyi - High 
Advisory Board Member Yes - - Dependent 

Member -

Corporate 
Governance 
Committee 
Member.

Emre Derman - Male Member of the 
Board Banker 26.03.2010 Non-Executive Member of the 

Board

RC UK - Trustee Committee 
Member, Robert Kolej 
- Trustee Committee 
Member, Turcas Petrol A.Ş.- 
Independent Board Member, 
Dragut Limited - Member 
of the Board, Eczacıbaşı 
Holding A.Ş. - Member of the 
Board

Yes - - Dependent 
Member - -

Kemal Özgür 
Demirtaş - Male Member of the 

Board Banker 26.03.2018 Non-Executive Member of the 
Board

Sabancı Üniversitesi - 
Chair Professor in Finance, 
Enfen Group Danışmanlık 
Hizmetleri A.Ş. - Advisor

Yes - - Dependent 
Member - -

Mehmet Tuğrul 
Belli - Male Member of the 

Board Banker 23.03.2020 Non-Executive Member of the 
Board

Sera Filmcilik San. Tic. A.Ş. - 
Member of the Board, Turkish 
Bank - Economics Advisor

Yes - - Independent 
Member - Considered -

Levent Demirağ - Male Member of the 
Board Banker 28.03.2022 Non-Executive -

Ak Finansal Kiralama A.Ş. 
- Member of the Board, Ak 
Yatırım Menkul Değerler A.Ş. - 
Member of the Board

Yes - - Independent 
Member -

Audit 
Committee 
Member

Nusret Orhun 
Köstem - Male Member of the 

Board Banker 28.03.2022 Non-Executive -

H.Ö. Sabancı Holding A.Ş. 
- Group CFO, CarrefourSA 
Carrefour Sabancı Ticaret 
Merkezi A.Ş. – Chairman, 
Kordsa Teknik Tekstil A.Ş. 
- Member of the Board, 
Enerjisa Üretim Santralleri 
A.Ş. - Member of the Board, 
Enerjisa Enerji A.Ş. - Member 
of the Board, Sabancı İklim 
Teknolojileri A.Ş. - Deputy 
Chairman of the Board, 
Sabancı Building Solutions BV 
– Supervisory Board Member

Yes - - Dependent 
Member - -

Sabri Hakan 
Binbaşgil - Male Member of the 

Board Banker 5.01.2012 Executive Member of the 
Board and CEO

Akbank AG - Chairman of 
the Supervisory Board Yes - - Dependent 

Member -

Credit 
Committee 
Member, 
Executive Risk 
Committee 
Member.

94 - 95Corporate governance



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

4. BOARD COMMITTEES-II

4.4. Meeting Procedures of the Board of Directors 

Number of physical board meetings in the reporting period (meetings in person) 5 physical, 1 online meetings

Director average attendance rate at board meetings 93.5% (for the year 2022)

Whether the board uses an electronic portal to support its work or not 

Number of minimum days ahead of the board meeting to provide information to directors, as per 
the board charter 

Information to directors, as per the board charter, is 
provided around 3 days ahead of the board meeting 

The name of the section on the corporate website that demonstrates information about the 
board charter

Information about the board charter is detailed in 
Articles of Association of Akbank ( Article 27&31)   
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-
governance/detail/Articles-of-association/37/13/0

Number of maximum external commitments for board members as per the policy covering the 
number of external duties held by directors 

External commitments for board members are allowed 
in accordance with regulatory restrictions.

4.5. Board Committees 

Page numbers or section names of the annual report where information about the board 
committees are presented. 

‘Akbank Annual Report 2022, on pages 78 - 79

Link(s) to the PDP announcement(s) with the board committee charters

The information regarding the Board Committees is at 
the Bank’s website:  
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-
governance/list/Board-committees/549/1170/0

BOARD COMMITTEES-I

Names Of The Board Committees
Name Of Committees 
Defined As "Other" In 
The First Column

Name-Surname 
of Committee 
Members

Whether 
Committee Chair 
Or Not 

Whether Board Member 
Or Not

Combo seçenekleri: 1-Denetim Komitesi (Audit 
Committee) 2-Kurumsal yönetim komitesi (Corporate 
Governance Committee) 3-Aday göstermeKomitesi 
(Nomination Committee) 4-Riskin Erken Saptanması 
Komitesi (Commttee of Early Detection of Risk) 5-Ücret 
Komitesi (Remuneration Committee) 5-Diğer (Other)

Combo seçenekleri 
1-yes 2- no

Combo seçenekleri 1- 
Yönetim kurulu üyesi 
(Board member) 2- Yönetim 
kurulu üyesi değil (Not 
board member) 

Audit Committee - Eyüp Engin Yes Board member

Audit Committee - Levent Demirağ No Board member

Corporate Governance Committee - Eyüp Engin Yes Board member

Corporate Governance Committee - Yaman Törüner No Board member

Corporate Governance Committee - Türker Tunalı No Not board member

Remuneration Committee - Eyüp Engin Yes Board member

Remuneration Committee - Yaman Törüner No Board member

Other Credit Committee Ahmet Fuat Ayla Yes Board member

Other Credit Committee Eyüp Engin No Board member

Other Credit Committee Hakan Binbaşgil No Board member

Other
Executive Risk 
Committee

Eyüp Engin Yes Board member

Other
Executive Risk 
Committee

Ahmet Fuat Ayla No Board member

Other
Executive Risk 
Committee

Hakan Binbaşgil No Board member

4. BOARD OF DIRECTORS-III

4.5.  Board Committees-II 

Specify where the activities of the audit committee are presented in your annual report or 
website (Page number or section name in the annual report/website) 

https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-
governance/list/Board-committees/549/1170/0

Specify where the activities of the corporate governance committee are presented in your annual 
report or website (Page number or section name in the annual report/website)

https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-
governance/list/Board-committees/549/1170/0

Specify where the activities of the nomination committee are presented in your annual report or 
website (Page number or section name in the annual report/website) 

 - 

Specify where the activities of the early detection of risk committee are presented in your annual 
report or website (Page number or section name in the annual report/website)

https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-
governance/list/Board-committees/549/1170/0

Specify where the activities of the remuneration committee are presented in your annual report 
or website (Page number or section name in the annual report/website) 

https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-
governance/list/Board-committees/549/1170/0

4.6.  Financial Rights

Specify where the operational and financial targets and their achievement are presented in your 
annual report (Page number or section name in the annual report) 

 Akbank Annual Report 2022, on page 76

Specify the section of website where remuneration policy for executive and non-executive 
directors are presented.

 - 

Specify where the individual remuneration for board members and senior executives are 
presented in your annual report (Page number or section name in the annual report) 

 Akbank Annual Report 2022, on page 177

BOARD COMMITTEES-II

Names Of The Board 
Committees

" Name Of 
Committees  
Defined As ""Other"" 
In The First Column"

The Percentage 
of Non-executive 
Directors

The Percentage 
of Independent 
Directors in the 
Committee

The Number of 
Meetings Held in-
person

The Number of Reports 
on its Activities 
Submitted to the 
Board 

Audit Committee 100% 100% 4 online meetings -

Corporate 
Governance 
Committee

67% 33% 2 online meetings -

Credit Committee 33% 33%
Convening on an as-
needed basis. 

-

Executive Risk 
Committee

33% 33% 2 online meetings -

96 - 97Corporate governance

https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Articles-of-association/37/13/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Articles-of-association/37/13/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/list/Board-committees/549/1170/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/list/Board-committees/549/1170/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/list/Board-committees/549/1170/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/list/Board-committees/549/1170/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/list/Board-committees/549/1170/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/list/Board-committees/549/1170/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/list/Board-committees/549/1170/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/list/Board-committees/549/1170/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/list/Board-committees/549/1170/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/list/Board-committees/549/1170/0


Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Sustainability 
principles compliance 
framework

Compliance

Yes No Partial Irrelevant Explanation Information on publicly disclosed information 

A. General Principles

A1. Strategy, Policy, and Targets

A1.1

Material environmental, social and corporate governance 
(ESG) issues, risks and opportunities by the board of 
directors of the partnership have been determined.

X

https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/
en/sustainability/detail/Our-sustainability-
strategy/61/51/0 

https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/
sustainability/detail/Akbanks-sustainability-
governance/204/339/0

ESG policies (eg Environmental Policy, Energy Policy, Human 
Rights and Employee Policy etc.) have been created and 
disclosed to the public by the board of directors of the 
partnership.

X
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/
corporate-governance/detail/Policies/34/10/0

A1.2
Short and long-term targets set within the scope of ESG 
policies have been disclosed to the public.

X
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/
sustainability/detail/Akbanks-sustainability-
commitments/74/54/0

A2. Implementation/Monitoring

A2.1

The committees and/or units responsible for implementing 
ESG policies and the highest level officials in the partnership 
related to ESG issues and their duties have been identified 
and disclosed to the public.

X

https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/
sustainability/detail/Akbanks-sustainability-
governance/204/339/0

2022 Integrated Annual Report, pages, 126-128

Activities carried out within the scope of policies by the 
responsible committee and/or unit were reported to the 
board of directors at least once a year.

 X    2022 Integrated Annual Report, pages, 126-128

A2.2
In line with the ESG targets, implementation and action plans 
were created and disclosed to the public.

 X    2022 Integrated Annual Report, pages, 126-133

A2.3
The ESG Key Performance Indicators (KPI) and the level of 
reaching these indicators on a yearly basis were disclosed 
to the public.

X

 2022 Integrated Annual Report, pages, 129-133

https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/
en/sustainability/year-list/Sustainability-
reports/60/0/0 

A2.4
Activities to improve the sustainability performance of 
business processes or products and services have been 
disclosed to the public.

X  2022 Integrated Annual Report, pages, 129-133

A3. Reporting

A3.1
In the annual reports, information regarding the sustainability 
performance, targets and actions of the partnership is given 
in an comprehensible, accurate and sufficient manner.

 X   
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/
en/sustainability/year-list/Sustainability-
reports/60/0/0 

A3.2
Information on which of its activities are related to the 
United Nations (UN) 2030 Sustainable Development Goals 
has been disclosed to the public by the partnership.

X

2022 Integrated Annual Report, pages, 129-
133,135,137 and 139-147

https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/
sustainability/detail/Akbanks-sustainability-
commitments/74/54/0

A3.3
Lawsuits filed and/or concluded against ESG issues, which 
are important in terms of ESG policies and/or will significantly 
affect activities, have been disclosed to the public.

X  2022 Integrated Annual Report, pages, 118,119

A4. Verification

A4.1
ESG Key Performance metrics by the partnership have been 
verified and publicly disclosed by an independent third party.

 X    2022 Integrated Annual Report, pages, 512

Compliance

Yes No Partial Irrelevant Explanation Information on publicly disclosed information 

B. Environmental Principles

B1

The partnership has made public its policies and practices, 
action plans, environmental management systems (known 
by the ISO 14001 standard) and programs in the field of 
environmental management.

X

https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/
images/pdf/Environmental-Policy-of-Akbank.pdf 

2022 Integrated Annual Report, pages, 205,206

B2

The scope of the report, the reporting period, the reporting 
date, and the limitations on the reporting conditions 
were disclosed to the public regarding the environmental 
reports prepared to provide information on environmental 
management.

X
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/
en/sustainability/year-list/Sustainability-
reports/60/0/0 

B3 It is included in A2.1.  

B4

Environmental targets included in the rewarding criteria 
within the scope of performance incentive systems based 
on stakeholders (such as members of the Board of Directors, 
managers, and employees) have been disclosed to the public.

 X    2022 Integrated Annual Report, pages, 129

B5
Integration of material environmental issues into business 
goals and strategies has been publicly disclosed.

 X   
 2022 Integrated Annual Report, pages, 123,125-
129 and 132

B6 It is included in A2.4.  

B7

It has been publicly disclosed how environmental issues 
are managed and integrated into business objectives and 
strategies throughout the partnership value chain, including 
the operational process, suppliers and customers.

X

2022 Integrated Annual Report, pages, 135-146

https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/
corporate-governance/detail/Supplier-code-of-
conduct/638/1619/0

B8

Participation in the policy-making processes of 
environmental institutions and non-governmental 
organizations and the collaborations with these institutions 
were disclosed to the public.

X  2022 Integrated Annual Report, pages, 135-146

B9

Environmental indicators (GHG emissions (Scope-1 
(Direct), Scope-2 (Indirect), Scope-3 (Other)), information 
on air quality, energy management, water and wastewater 
management, waste management, biodiversity impacts) are 
periodically disclosed to the public on a comparable basis.

X

2022 Integrated Annual Report, pages, 528

https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/
en/sustainability/year-list/Sustainability-
reports/60/0/0

B10
Details of the standard, protocol, methodology, and base 
year used to collect and calculate data have been made 
public.

X

 2022 Integrated Annual Report, pages, 5-6

 https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/
en/sustainability/year-list/Sustainability-
reports/60/0/0

B11
Compared to previous years, the increase or decrease 
of environmental indicators for the report year has been 
disclosed to the public.

X

https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/
en/sustainability/year-list/Sustainability-
reports/60/0/0

2022 Integrated Annual Report, pages, 137,138 
and 511

B12

Short and long-term targets have been determined to reduce 
their environmental impacts, and the progress of these 
targets and the targets determined in previous years has 
been disclosed to the public.

X

https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/
en/sustainability/year-list/Sustainability-
reports/60/0/0 

2022 Integrated Annual Report, pages, 129-138

B13
A strategy to combat the climate crisis has been created 
and the planned actions have been publicly announced.

X

https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/
en/sustainability/year-list/Sustainability-
reports/60/0/0 

https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/
corporate-governance/detail/Policies/34/10/0

98 - 99Corporate governance

https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/detail/Our-sustainability-strategy/61/51/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/detail/Our-sustainability-strategy/61/51/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/detail/Our-sustainability-strategy/61/51/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/detail/Akbanks-sustainability-governance/204/339/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/detail/Akbanks-sustainability-governance/204/339/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/detail/Akbanks-sustainability-governance/204/339/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Policies/34/10/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Policies/34/10/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/detail/Akbanks-sustainability-commitments/74/54/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/detail/Akbanks-sustainability-commitments/74/54/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/detail/Akbanks-sustainability-commitments/74/54/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/detail/Akbanks-sustainability-governance/204/339/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/detail/Akbanks-sustainability-governance/204/339/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/detail/Akbanks-sustainability-governance/204/339/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/year-list/Sustainability-reports/60/0/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/year-list/Sustainability-reports/60/0/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/year-list/Sustainability-reports/60/0/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/year-list/Sustainability-reports/60/0/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/year-list/Sustainability-reports/60/0/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/year-list/Sustainability-reports/60/0/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/detail/Akbanks-sustainability-commitments/74/54/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/detail/Akbanks-sustainability-commitments/74/54/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/detail/Akbanks-sustainability-commitments/74/54/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/pdf/Environmental-Policy-of-Akbank.pdf
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/pdf/Environmental-Policy-of-Akbank.pdf
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/year-list/Sustainability-reports/60/0/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/year-list/Sustainability-reports/60/0/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/year-list/Sustainability-reports/60/0/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Supplier-code-of-conduct/638/1619/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Supplier-code-of-conduct/638/1619/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Supplier-code-of-conduct/638/1619/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/year-list/Sustainability-reports/60/0/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/year-list/Sustainability-reports/60/0/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/year-list/Sustainability-reports/60/0/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/year-list/Sustainability-reports/60/0/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/year-list/Sustainability-reports/60/0/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/year-list/Sustainability-reports/60/0/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/year-list/Sustainability-reports/60/0/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/year-list/Sustainability-reports/60/0/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/year-list/Sustainability-reports/60/0/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/year-list/Sustainability-reports/60/0/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/year-list/Sustainability-reports/60/0/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/year-list/Sustainability-reports/60/0/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/year-list/Sustainability-reports/60/0/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/year-list/Sustainability-reports/60/0/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/year-list/Sustainability-reports/60/0/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Policies/34/10/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Policies/34/10/0


Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Compliance

Yes No Partial Irrelevant Explanation Information on publicly disclosed information 

B. Environmental Principles

B14

Programs or procedures have been established and publicly 
disclosed in order to prevent or minimize the potential 
negative impact of products and/or services on the 
environment.

X  

Actions have been taken to reduce Greenhouse Gas 
emissions of third parties (e.g., suppliers, subcontractors, 
dealers, etc.), and these actions have been disclosed to the 
public.

X

Akbank takes 
commitments 
from all suppliers 
to comply with its 
ethical principles and 
sustainability policies 
and continues 
to encourage 
compliance with the 
UN Global Compact.

2022 Integrated Annual Report, pages, 221-224

B15
The environmental benefits and cost savings of initiatives 
and projects aimed at reducing environmental impacts have 
been disclosed to the public.

X

The actions, projects, 
and initiatives 
undertaken to reduce 
the environmental 
impact are being 
disclosed in our 
Bank’s annual 
sustainability reports. 
The environmental 
benefits and cost 
reductions of these 
actions in question 
are planned to be 
disclosed in the 
upcoming period.

https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/
en/sustainability/year-list/Sustainability-
reports/60/0/0

B16
Energy consumption (natural gas, diesel, gasoline, LPG, coal, 
electricity, heating, cooling, etc.) data are disclosed to the 
public as Scope-1 and Scope-2.

X
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/
en/sustainability/year-list/Sustainability-
reports/60/0/0

B17
Public disclosure was made about the electricity, heat, steam 
and cooling produced in the reporting year.

X
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/
en/sustainability/year-list/Sustainability-
reports/60/0/0

B18
Studies on increasing the use of renewable energy and the 
transition to zero or low carbon electricity have been made 
and publicly announced.

X  2022 Integrated Annual Report, pages, 221-224

B19
Renewable energy production and usage data is publicly 
disclosed.

X  2022 Integrated Annual Report, pages, 221-224

B20

Energy efficiency projects have been carried out and the 
amount of energy consumption and emission reduction 
achieved through energy efficiency projects has been 
disclosed to the public.

X  2022 Integrated Annual Report, pages, 221-224

B21
Water consumption (if any, amounts of water drawn from 
underground or above ground, recycled and discharged 
sources) and procedures have been disclosed to the public.

X

https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/
en/sustainability/year-list/Sustainability-
reports/60/0/0 

https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/
images/pdf/akbank-cdp-water-security-2022.pdf

B22
Any carbon emissions of operations or activities whether it is 
included in the pricing system (Emission Trading System, Cap 
& Trade or Carbon Tax) has been disclosed to the public.

X

Our operations and 
activities are not part 
of a carbon pricing 
system

 

B23
Information on carbon credits accumulated or purchased 
during the reporting period has been disclosed to the public.

X

As there are no 
transactions on 
carbon credits, 
no information is 
disclosed on the issue.

 

B24
If carbon pricing is applied within the partnership, the details 
are disclosed to the public.

X

As there are no 
transactions on 
carbon credits, 
no information is 
disclosed on the issue.

 

B25
The platforms where the partnership discloses its 
environmental information are publicly disclosed.

X
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/
en/sustainability/year-list/Sustainability-
reports/60/0/0

Compliance

Yes No Partial Irrelevant Explanation Information on publicly disclosed information 

C. Social Principles

C1. Human Rights and Employee Rights

C1.1

Universal Declaration of Human Rights, ratified by 
TürkiyeTürkiye A Corporate Human Rights and Employee 
Rights Policy has been established to cover ILO Conventions 
and other relevant legislation, those responsible for the 
implementation of the policy have been identified, and the 
policy and those responsible have been disclosed to the public.

X
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/
corporate-governance/detail/Human-rights-
policy/620/1523/0

C1.2

Considering the effects of supply and value chain, fair 
workforce, improvement of labor standards, women’s 
employment and inclusion issues (gender, race, religion, 
language, marital status, ethnic identity, sexual orientation, 
gender identity, family responsibilities, union activities, 
political opinion, disability, social and cultural differences, 
etc., such as non-discrimination) are included in its policy on 
employee rights.

X

https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/
corporate-governance/detail/Human-rights-
policy/620/1523/0

https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/
corporate-governance/detail/Diversity-and-
inclusion-policy/614/1504/0

C1.3

Sensitive to certain economic, environmental, social factors  
segments (low-income segments, women, etc.) or minority 
The measures taken along the value chain in respect of the 
rights/equal opportunities have been disclosed to the public.

X

https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/
corporate-governance/detail/Human-rights-
policy/620/1523/0

https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/
corporate-governance/detail/Diversity-and-
inclusion-policy/614/1504/0

https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/
corporate-governance/detail/Policies/34/10/

C1.4
Developments regarding preventive and corrective practices 
against discrimination, inequality, human rights violations, 
forced and child labor were disclosed to the public.

X

https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/
corporate-governance/detail/Human-rights-
policy/620/1523/0

2022 Integrated Annual Report, pages, 156-173

C1.5

Investment in employees (education, development policies), 
compensation, fringe benefits, right to unionize, work/life 
balance solutions and talent management are included in 
the employee rights policy.

X

https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/
corporate-governance/detail/Human-rights-
policy/620/1523/0 

2022 Integrated Annual Report, pages, 165

Mechanisms for employee complaints and dispute resolution 
were established, and dispute resolution processes were 
determined.

X 2022 Integrated Annual Report, pages, 165

Activities carried out within the reported period to ensure 
employee satisfaction were disclosed to the public.

X 2022 Integrated Annual Report, pages, 165-168

C1.6

Occupational health and safety policies have been 
established and made available to the public.

X  2022 Integrated Annual Report, pages, 177,178

In order to prevent occupational accidents and protect 
health, precautions and accident statistics are made public.

X  2022 Integrated Annual Report, pages, 177,178

C1.7
Personal data protection and data security policies have 
been established and disclosed to the public.

X
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/
corporate-governance/detail/Policies/34/10/0

C1.8 Ethics policy is established and disclosed to the public. X
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/
en/corporate-governance/detail/Ethical-
principles/29/8/0

C1.9  

C1.10
Information meetings and training programs were organized 
for employees on ESG policies and practices.

X  2022 Integrated Annual Report, pages, 130,175

C2. Stakeholders, International Frameworks & Initiatives

C2.1
The customer satisfaction policy regarding the management 
and resolution of customer complaints has been prepared 
and disclosed to the public.

X

https://www.akbank.com/en-us/Content/Pages/
bat-customer-complaints-arbitration-board.aspx

Customer Satisfaction Policy

C2.2
Information about the communication with stakeholders 
(which stakeholder, subject and frequency) is publicly 
disclosed.

X  2022 Integrated Annual Report, pages, 135,136

C2.3
International reporting standards adopted in reporting are 
explained.

X  2022 Integrated Annual Report, pages, 5

C2.4
Principles adopted regarding sustainability, signatory or 
members of international organizations, committees and 
principles have been disclosed to the public.

X  2022 Integrated Annual Report,- Annexes

C2.5
Improvements have been made and studies have been 
carried out in order to be included in the sustainability 
indices of Borsa Istanbul and/or international index providers.

X  2022 Integrated Annual Report, pages, 20

 D. Corporate Governance Principles

D1
Opinions of stakeholders were sought in the determination of 
measures and strategies in the field of sustainability.

X  2022 Integrated Annual Report, pages, 127,128

D2
Social responsibility projects, awareness activities and 
trainings have been carried out to raise awareness about the 
issue of sustainability and its importance.

X  2022 Integrated Annual Report, pages, 180-186

100 - 101Corporate governance

https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/year-list/Sustainability-reports/60/0/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/year-list/Sustainability-reports/60/0/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/year-list/Sustainability-reports/60/0/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/year-list/Sustainability-reports/60/0/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/year-list/Sustainability-reports/60/0/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/year-list/Sustainability-reports/60/0/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/year-list/Sustainability-reports/60/0/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/year-list/Sustainability-reports/60/0/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/year-list/Sustainability-reports/60/0/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/year-list/Sustainability-reports/60/0/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/year-list/Sustainability-reports/60/0/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/year-list/Sustainability-reports/60/0/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/pdf/akbank-cdp-water-security-2022.pdf
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/pdf/akbank-cdp-water-security-2022.pdf
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/year-list/Sustainability-reports/60/0/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/year-list/Sustainability-reports/60/0/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/year-list/Sustainability-reports/60/0/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Human-rights-policy/620/1523/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Human-rights-policy/620/1523/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Human-rights-policy/620/1523/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Human-rights-policy/620/1523/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Human-rights-policy/620/1523/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Human-rights-policy/620/1523/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Diversity-and-inclusion-policy/614/1504/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Diversity-and-inclusion-policy/614/1504/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Diversity-and-inclusion-policy/614/1504/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Human-rights-policy/620/1523/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Human-rights-policy/620/1523/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Human-rights-policy/620/1523/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Diversity-and-inclusion-policy/614/1504/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Diversity-and-inclusion-policy/614/1504/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Diversity-and-inclusion-policy/614/1504/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Policies/34/10/
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Policies/34/10/
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Human-rights-policy/620/1523/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Human-rights-policy/620/1523/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Human-rights-policy/620/1523/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Human-rights-policy/620/1523/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Human-rights-policy/620/1523/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Human-rights-policy/620/1523/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Policies/34/10/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Policies/34/10/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Ethical-principles/29/8/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Ethical-principles/29/8/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Ethical-principles/29/8/0
https://www.akbank.com/en-us/Content/Pages/bat-customer-complaints-arbitration-board.aspx
https://www.akbank.com/en-us/Content/Pages/bat-customer-complaints-arbitration-board.aspx
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/year-list/sustainability-reports/60/0/0


Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Our policies

POLICIES OUR APPROACH

Ethical Principles We follow the principles set to enlighten and guide us in all our transactions, conduct 
and decisions.

Anti-Bribery & Anti-Corruption Policy We aim to fully comply with anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws and regulations, clean 
banking rules, ethical principles and universal guidelines. 

Dividend Policy We distribute cash and/or share value up to 40% of the distributable profit. 

Disclosure Policy We follow close and transparent communication with the shareholders.

Gifts and Hospitality Policy We maintain strict policies against giving and receiving gifts. 

Remuneration Policy We follow a management approach that complies with the BRSA and CMB Corporate 
Governance Principles. 

Donation and Contribution Policy In accordance with the Capital Markets Law and the Banking Law, we donate up to a 
maximum of 0.4% of equity. 

Compensation Policy We ensure full compliance with the Labour Law. 

Diversity and Inclusion Policy We aim to maintain a participatory, free and open corporate culture and work to create 
opportunities to unleash the human potential of our country. 

Human Rights Policy

We follow the principle of creating a modern and respectful work environment, 
conveying the approaches and principles in the field of human rights, and being 
sensitive on human rights issues within the framework of these principles in our 
relations with all our stakeholders. 

Supplier Code of Conduct As Akbank, we act in accordance with published policies and ethical rules in all 
purchasing processes. 

“Zero Tolerance to Violence” policy
We know that it is important for a person to feel safe and secure at home and at work, 
and in parallel with this, we stand against all kinds of violence and abuse, which are the 
most critical factors that damage trust. 

Cookie Policy We are working to provide convenience to users visiting our website and to improve the 
way it works. 

Internal Control and Supply Chain 
Compliance Program Policy

We are working towards the procedures and principles of our Bank’s Internal Control and 
Supply Chain Compliance Program in line with Borsa Istanbul regulations.

Akbank Disclosure Text on Prosessing 
of Personal Data

We take the necessary precautions in the stages of keeping, processing and transferring 
personal data in accordance with the principles of privacy of private life and protection 
of fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals.

Akbank E&S Risk Framework 
We evaluate the environmental and social risks of our customers we lend, and work with 
them related to their commercial activities so that they can continuously improve their 
environmental and social performances.

Sustainable Finance Framework We determine the sustainable projects that we will finance according to our green and 
social principles in accordance with the relevant international export standards.

Environmental Policy
We build the right governance structure and control systems for the management of the 
risks and opportunities we encounter in the protection of the environment and the fight 
against climate change, and we carry out our work in a performance-oriented manner.

Statement of 
responsibility

Statement of responsibility for the Integrated Annual Report and 
Corporate Governance Reports for the period 
January 1, 2022 - December 31, 2022
The Integrated Annual Report for the period 01.01.2022 - 31.12.2022 prepared by our company in accordance with the 
Communiqué on Financial Reporting Principles in the Capital Markets (Communiqué) numbered II-14.1 of the Capital 
Markets Board (CMB) and the Corporate Governance Reports consisting of the Corporate Governance Compliance Report 
(KYUR) and the Corporate Governance Information Form (KYBF), which were prepared in accordance with the Capital 
Markets Board’s (CMB) decision dated 10.01.2019 and numbered 2/49, were submitted to our review pursuant to Article 9 of 
the Communiqué; 

a) Integrated Annual Report and Corporate Governance Reports have been reviewed by us, 

b) Within the framework of the information we have as per our scope of duty and responsibility in the Bank, the Annual 
Report and the Corporate Governance Reports do not contain any untrue statement on important matters or any 
deficiencies that may result in misleading information as of the date of the disclosure, 

c) Within the framework of the information we have as per our scope of duty and responsibility in the Bank; 

We disclose to the public that;

 – The Integrated Annual Report, prepared in accordance with the Communiqué, honestly reflects the development and 
performance of our Company, as well as the financial position of those within the scope of consolidation, together 
with the significant risks and uncertainties faced, 

 – Corporate Governance Reports provide sufficient information to our stakeholders about our corporate governance 
practices in line with the criteria determined in the Corporate Governance Principles and relevant regulations of the 
CMB, and we declare that we are responsible for the statements made.

102 - 103Corporate governance

Eyüp Engin 
Audit Committee Chairman

S. Hakan BİNBAŞGİL 
CEO

Türker TUNALI 
Deputy CEO



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Risk management and 
regulatory compliance

As Akbank, we not only maintain our multidimensional 
approach covering risk management, compliance with legal 
regulation, and environmental-social impact analysis in such 
key issues as balance sheet management, capital allocation, 
portfolio/investment preference, new product and activity 
decisions, etc. but also keep directing and accelerating 
our operations in line with our long-term strategies and 
goals. We analyze the risks and opportunities in advance 
and determine the steps to be taken through our Risk 
Management System implemented by our Board of Directors 
in collaboration with our Audit Committee and Executive 
Risk Committee. Our Board of Risk Management continues 
its duty by reporting directly to our Board of Directors. 

We examine our risks within the baseline risk categories 
(credit, market, interest, liquidity, operational) and 
demonstrate a holistic approach by sharing the actions 
to be taken for each of these risks with all our units 
and employees. As in every reporting year, the Board 
of Risk Management, Board of Internal Control, Board 
of Compliance, Board of Internal Audit, and Board of 
Information Risk Management assumed their coordination 
and assessment responsibilities prudently and actively 
took the expected actions in 2022 as well and thanks to our 
multidimensional risk management approach, we managed 
to keep the risks at the optimum level.

We analyze the risks and 
opportunities in advance and 
determine the steps to be taken 
through our Risk Management 
System implemented by 
our Board of Directors in 
collaboration with our Audit 
Committee and Executive Risk 
Committee.

As Akbank, we effectively operate our management and 
decision-making mechanisms through the committees we 
established by subject. Participation in the committees 
takes place at the office level of the Board of Directors 
and/or CEO/Executive Vice President. 

Our Audit Committee was established for the purpose 
of managing the authorities and responsibilities of 
internal audit, internal control, risk management and legal 
compliance activities separately but in harmony with each 
other. It ensures that the activities of our Bank are carried 
out safely and without disruption during the monitoring of 
audit organizations.

You can review the Audit Committee Report section of our 
Annual Report to get detailed information about our 2022 
Audit Committee Report and the boards supervised by our 
Audit Committee.

We actively manage the risks by integrating internationally 
accepted risk management regulations and models into our 
business processes. The simulations, scenarios, analyses, 
calculations, stress tests, and other studies we carry out 
within the scope of risk management play a decisive and 
supportive role in the strategic decisions taken by our 
Bank’s Board of Directors and Executive Management.

We calculated the impacts of crises at different severity 
levels on the capital and equity adequacy ratios by 
increasing the number of stress tests we conducted 
considering the current market conditions. In this way, 
we aim to provide our Bank with an identity that is more 
resistant to shocks. We constantly monitor our reserves 
through the internal capital adequacy assessment 
processes (İSEDES) and other stress tests conducted 
based on the risk types in order to keep our capability to 

Thanks to our 
multidimensional risk 
management approach, 
we managed to keep 
the risks at the optimal 
level also in 2022.

We constantly monitor 
our reserves through 
the internal capital 
adequacy assessment 
process (İSEDES) 
and other stress 
tests conducted 
on the basis of risk 
types to keep our 
capability to fulfil 
our responsibilities 
towards our customers 
in a timely manner at 
the highest level.

fulfil our responsibilities towards our customers in a timely 
manner at the highest level. We also update and share 
with the BRSA the “Prevention Plan,” which contains the 
planning process for the measures that can be taken in 
case of stress as a systemically important bank on an 
annual basis.

The phases of risk identification, assessment, and 
monitoring take shape in accordance with the strategies 
of the Bank based on the risk appetite structure and 
management, and we follow national/international 
methodologies in our activities. Being determined on the 
basis of the vision and mission of the Bank, its strategic 
goals, and its medium-term plan, besides such external 
factors as the markets, in-sector competition, and legal 
revisions, the risk appetite provides feedback about 
whether the existing and planned capital is sufficient for 
the business plans of the Bank even in case of negative 
scenarios. Risk limits, applicable directives, procedures, and 
reporting to the executives accurately and comprehensively 
play an important role in the management of risk appetite. 
The status of compliance with the risk limits determined 
for the Bank and affiliates annually is closely followed 
according to the regulations and changing market 
conditions and managed dynamically through impact 
analyses and action plans.

By supporting our employees’ compliance with the 
Principles of Clean Banking and the applicable legislation 
and methodologies, we protect the value of our Bank and 
establish more sustainable relationships with both our 
customers and stakeholders.

New product and service 
evaluation process

In addition to the risks determined for our existing products 
and activities, we also conduct risk assessments for 
newly developed products and services. The possible 
financial, legal, operational and reputational risks of our 
new product or service, the practices to be followed in 
their measurement and management, and the control 
mechanisms are determined with the participation of our 
relevant units. Since 2011, the suitability of all our proposed 
products and services is evaluated by our New Product 
and Service Evaluation Committee, which includes the 
managers of all units involved in the product development 
process. After the comprehensive evaluation made by 
the committee members and the latest opinion from the 
Compliance Department, we launch our new products and 
services following the approval of our Board of Directors.

The risk categories identified by our Audit Committee and 
Executive Risk Committee as a result of its assessments 
made with the Board of Directors are as follows:

Market and counterparty credit risk
Besides setting limits by measuring the market risks that 
are faced as a result of the potential changes in the market 
prices of exchange rates, share certificates, and interest 
rates within the frame of the internationally accepted 
models, we constantly monitor compliance with these 
limits.

We set the limits based on risk matrices, portfolio structure, 
transaction type, maturity, and currency to monitor the 
market risk. At the same time, we manage the model 
development and verification processes by continuously 
following market developments.

Since 2011, the 
compliance of all 
recommended products 
and services has been 
assessed by our New 
Product and Service 
Evaluation Process 
Committee, consisting of 
the directors of all units 
involved in the product 
development process.

104 - 105Corporate governance



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

While our Board of Directors regularly reviews the limits, 
the Board of Risk Management appointed by the former is 
responsible for making any necessary changes in line with 
our strategies and the market conditions. In the Market Risk 
Committee, important issues in terms of market risk are 
discussed, and necessary actions are ensured to be taken 
in the meetings held regularly at the Top Management level.

We monitor the highest value to which the derivative 
transactions in the portfolio of our customers might reach 
based on the probable market prices in the future as the 
counterparty credit risk. Besides, we make credit valuation 
adjustments with the use of some parameters based on the 
internal model. APKO (Asset-Liability Committee) and the 
Market Risk Committee play a role in the management of 
the market risk.

Liquidity risk
We have established a liquidity management framework 
that will provide the required sources of liquidity for us to 
fulfil our legal responsibilities towards our depositors, the 
firms to which we committed, and our creditors providing 
a fund in a timely manner. We secure ourselves against 
any negative impacts which might arise from the liquidity 
risk through our strong capital structure, extensive deposit 
base, and diversified domestic and foreign borrowing 
sources. Furthermore, we can use the limits and liquid 
marketable security portfolio allocated before the Central 
Bank, Money Market of Takasbank, ISE Repo Market , and 
banks as additional liquidity sources whenever necessary. 
We act cautiously in the liquidity management for foreign 
currencies, and besides maintaining sufficient reserves 
to fully meet our liquidity need, we also effectively use 
swap transactions. We constantly monitor our liquidity 
status through the liquidity stress test we conduct at 
regular intervals. The results of such a stress test direct our 
liquidity risk management policy and strategy. We manage 
our liquidity risk in compliance with our liquidity risk 
understanding outlined in this framework policy. The Market 
Risk Committee, APKO (Active-Passive Committee), and, if 
required, the Liquidity Emergency Management Committee 
play a role in the management of the liquidity risk

Interest rate risk
Whereas the level of the interest rate risk is effectively 
managed in the framework policy approved by the Board 
of Directors, we follow the risk limits set for controlling 
and restricting the risks. We carry our sensitivity analyses 
for the impacts which might arise from the fluctuations 
in the interest rates in the financial statements of our 
Bank regarding interest-sensitive assets and liabilities. We 
closely follow measures and report the interest sensitivity 
and scenario analyses prepared for identifying and 
managing structural interest rate risk that might be faced 
due to any potential maturity mismatch in the balance 
sheet structure. In these analyses, the interest rates are 
subjected to a shock. The changes that might occur in the 
short-term net interest income of the Bank and its interest-
sensitive non-interest income/expense are calculated. The 
impact of the economic value change approach and the 
changes in interest rates on the equities of the Bank in the 
long term is analyzed. The committees playing a role in the 
management of the interest rate risk are APKO (Active-
Passive Committee) and the Market Risk Committee.

Credit risk
We manage all our banking products involving a credit 
risk with the help of our proactive credit policies and 
procedures. We use the internal assessment notes and 
scores calculated by the internal models we have developed 
for regular monitoring of the quality of our current credit 
portfolio, assessment of new credit applications, and 
setting the provisions to be set aside for the credits. We 
develop all models used in the credit processes within 
the scope of a certain procedure, validate the same 
simultaneously, and monitor their performances constantly.

Similarly, we set limits at many levels, such as firms, 
groups, industries, countries, etc., to control and closely 
monitor our credit risk. We also carry out innovative 
studies by closely following global developments. We 
particularly adapt the machine learning techniques to 
our model development and verification processes and 
enhance the efficiency of such processes. We make the 
Expected Credit Loss Provision calculations daily under 
the TFRS-9 standards and follow the changes. We monthly 
report any amount and rate changes in the provisions 
calculated by the model, in line with the expert opinion 
and review the underlying reasons for change. Additionally, 
we monitor and measure the risks related to doubtful 
receivables in a detailed and holistic manner. Within this 
scope, we secure the quality by conducting secondary 
controls in classification as a doubtful receivable, 
monitoring, restructuring, subjecting to impairment, write-
down, and reporting doubtful receivables.

We conduct all model development and validation 
transactions for the parameters considered as input 
for the Expected Credit Loss Provision calculations. We 
simulate the impact of the regularly performed model 
update studies and other parameter changes in the 
system. We also undertake the system calculations and 
controls of the provision amounts. The Credit Committee, 
APKO (Active-Passive Committee), and Retail Credit 
Committee play a role in the management of credit risk.

We aim at ensuring proactive assessment and 
management of the activities financed under the 
Environmental and Social Risk Framework in consideration 
of the environmental and social risks. We review the 
environmental and social risks of our customers in terms 
of the environmental and social impacts in their fields of 
activity, climate risks, production processes, product and 
service quality, governance structure, and relationships 
with stakeholders. While we minimize the outcomes of 
any transactions with negative environmental and social 
impacts on credit facility through proper management 
plans, we pay attention to prioritize the projects with 
positive environmental and socioeconomic impacts, 
including but not limited to renewable energy investments, 
environmentally-friendly technology projects, circular 
economy investments, resource efficiency, waste 
management, gender equality, access to essential social 
services, employment generating investments. 

We aim at ensuring 
proactive assessment 
and management 
of the activities 
financed under the 
Environmental and 
Social Risk Framework 
in consideration of 
the environmental and 
social risks.

Operational risk
Another area that is considered to be in the risk category 
in terms of our main operations is operational risks. We 
regard the failure of both our Executives and employees 
to act in a timely manner and compliance with the 
conditions, omission of any errors and irregularities 
resulting from the delays in the control of our business 
processes, any errors or delays in our information 
technology systems or natural disasters and other 
external factors as the sources of our operational risks. 
We effectively use such mechanisms as the follow-up of 
internal loss data, differentiated and diversified controls, 
key risk indicators, scenario analyses, insurance, etc., to 
manage our operational risks associated with all risk 
categories, particularly the legal risk and compliance risk. 
Founded in 2011 at the Executive level, our Operational 
Risk Committee discusses important issues in terms of 
operational risk during its regular meetings and effectively 
monitors the actions taken. 

Other committees playing a role in the management of 
operational risk are the Audit Committee, Information 
Security Committee, Business Continuity and Information 
Systems Continuity Committee, Information Risk 
Management Committee, Internal Committee, Customer 
Experience and Clean Banking Committees, Compliance 
Committee, Outsourced Services Management 
Committee, and New Product/Service Assessment 
Committee.

To avoid legal risks, we consider error-free and complete 
operations our main priority in compliance with the 
applicable legislation. Our various units ensure compliance 
with the legal regulations in the follow-up of the legal 
banking regulations, our systematic infrastructure for 
compliance with any developments and changes, and our 
business processes, rules, and restrictions.

106 - 107Corporate governance



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Other risks
Other risks in our Bank include information technologies 
and information risk, fraud risk, reputation risk, climate 
change risk, clean banking risk, strategy risk, settlement risk, 
business risk, model risk, transfer risk, and residual risk. You 
can find the explanations related to the types of risk that 
stand out among the other risks below:

Reputation risk
Reputation risk is among the important risks in terms of 
our sustainability management. All members of Akbank 
and particularly our Board of Directors, are responsible for 
the management of the reputation risk. Within this scope, 
we identified and documented our policies and practices 
in such important areas as ensuring full compliance with 
legal regulations, developing fiduciary relationships with 
stakeholders, solving our customers’ complaints effectively 
and quickly. In this regard, we consider our Ethical Principles 
as important guidance.

Climate change risk 
Since the average temperature increase is expected to reach 
1.5 degrees* in 2030, the importance of the strategies to 
be developed and the actions to be taken against climate 
change and its destructive effects increases for corporations. 
Within the scope of the management of the climate change 
risk considered as a component of the financial risks, we 
established a methodology that would be employed in 
the studies for the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment 
Process (İSEDES) to identify, measure, and monitor the 
climate change risk. We also identified our risk limits within 
which the climate change risk would be monitored. 

Clean banking risk
As Akbank, we define the losses incurred by customers due 
to our stakeholders, customers, and our unfair practices 
and conduct affecting the markets, financial penalties, 
or loss of reputation as a Clean Banking Risk. Within the 
scope of Clean Banking, we protect customers’ interests 
besides the legal regulations in our practices and conducts 
intended for our customers. We believe that the Clean 
Banking Principles are of utmost importance for better 
management of the operational and reputation risks, 
eliminating any probable legal risks, and a sustainable 
customer relationship.

Within the scope of the management 
of the climate change risk considered 
as a component of the financial risks, 
we established a methodology that 
would be employed in the studies 
for the Internal Capital Adequacy 
Assessment Process (İSEDES) to 
identify, measure, and monitor the 
climate change risk.

Privacy and information security risk
Privacy and Information Security are regarded as prioritized 
risks for organizations. The fact that value-added services 
can be provided online to users at any time and the 
services provided have become globally available upon the 
introduction of digital transformation naturally increases 
the digital risks. As a result of this transformation, 
digital trust has become an important phenomenon, 
and organizations are required to manage privacy and 
information security risks well to ensure digital trust.

We, in turn, put the required governance and operation 
models into practice for handling information security and 
privacy properly, keeping pace with the change, and paying 
the required attention to the risks introduced by innovation 
in a rapidly changing world.

Information security 
management

Our priorities are ensuring information security, managing 
information risks, and protecting our customers against 
fraud incidents. In this sense, we do not restrain ourselves 
with the framework offered by the applicable laws and 
regulations and aim for the better.

We make sure that the strategies related to the information 
security and fraud risks are managed at the highest level 
and directly by the Board of Directors. The Head of the 
Information Risk Management, an Executive member 
with experience in IT and cyber security, reports directly 
to the Board of Directors. As one of few corporations 
implementing this organization model worldwide, Akbank 
is the first in the Turkish banking sector to have this 
implementation. This model provides the opportunity to 
collect the information security risks and fraud risks, which 
are interconnected under a roof and separate the same 
from other technology risks. This separation facilitates 
an effective, holistic, and independent risk management 
approach. As a part of this structure, such risks are 
managed with the participation of the executives of the 
Bank. 

We established the “Information Risk Management 
Strategy” for the purpose of ensuring cyber security and 
managing fraud risks. We update this strategy annually and 
in case of material changes in the threats and implement 
it with the approval of the Board of Directors. With this 
business model, we also achieve the organizational and 
technical structure required to govern the risks. 

We establish the governance structure of the information 
risks in our Information Security Policy and the documents 
supporting the policy. This policy covers all units, products, 

We make sure that the strategies 
related to the information security 
and fraud risks are managed at the 
highest level and directly by the Board 
of Directors.

and processes of the Bank and its affiliates. All standards 
are based on the best practices under this policy, and they 
are periodically reviewed and updated depending on the 
status of threats, technological development, and business 
needs.  

With the Information Security strategy and policies, the 
risks faced by the Bank are regularly reviewed with the 
Information Security Committee chaired by the Board of 
Directors. 

We recognize the importance of industrial collaboration 
and intelligence sharing against cyber and fraud threats. 
We not only maintain our active membership in FS-ISAC 
at an international scale and in different organizations at 
a national scale but also procure the services of global 
leading corporations rendering intelligence services.

Our centre carries out its operations on a 24/7 basis to 
monitor any cyber and fraud threats, respond to the same, 
if required, and generate a solution. We lead the sector 
by investing in innovative technologies in this area. The 
technology platforms using big data, artificial intelligence, 
and machine learning technologies make defence and 
identification mechanisms effective against complex 
threats. We plan the security technology investments to 
allow backup operations against systemic errors. Moreover, 
security technologies are updated online through global 
intelligence networks. Besides preventing cyber and fraud 
threats, we consider the capabilities and processes for 
resolving incidents with minimum loss.

We carry out 
necessary assessment 
and control activities 
within the scope of 
the services procured 
from third parties as 
required by our policy.

* United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) 
Report, 2021.

108 - 109Corporate governance



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

We are aware that we provide our services and products 
within the structure of an ecosystem covering our affiliates 
and business partners. We carry out necessary assessment 
and control activities within the scope of the services 
procured from third parties as required by our policies. With 
risk-scoring practices, we also monitor the security levels of 
the service provider firms. 

We regard the security of new services and the technology 
infrastructures and processes making these services 
possible as a factor in the design phase. In this way, we 
have provided services with reduced risks since day one.

For access to information, we grant authorization within 
the scope of the lowest authorization need. We introduce 
additional restrictions regarding access to data and 
processing, including masking, monitoring, and prevention.

We prepare the required plans for responses to data 
leakage, fraud, and other incidents affecting business 
continuity and periodically test these plans. 

Our operating model allows regular measurement of our 
maturity level in these areas and determination of the 
areas of development. We regularly procure audit services 
from leading international independent audit companies 
within this scope. Acting as the local legal and regulatory 
authority, the BRSA obligates some regulations in terms of 
the management of information risk. Based on ISO27001 
and COBIT frameworks, these regulations must be 
followed by our Bank to manage the information risk. The 
compliance status with such regulations is audited and 
reported to the BRSA by independent audit firms.

We prepare the required plans for 
responses to data leakage, fraud, and 
other incidents affecting business 
continuity and periodically test these 
plans.

For Cyber Security Centre and Fraud Risk Management, we 
work with international specialist technology and system 
providers. We regularly procure review and testing services 
to improve the maturity and effectiveness of our Cyber 
Security and Fraud Risk management technologies and 
processes.

We carry out continuous vulnerability activities for the 
systems and practices through our internal resources and 
the services procured from specialist corporations. We 
perform periodic control activities with the information risk 
control unit working under the supervision of the Board of 
Directors of the Bank. 

In case of information and data security breaches by the 
employees, such as data leakage, damage to account 
privacy, damage to the system, or other conducts that 
might result in a vulnerability to cyber and fraud threats, we 
take the required administrative and legal actions within 
the frame of the disciplinary regulations.

We provide awareness-raising training in terms of 
Information Security and Cyber Threats for the employees 
of our Bank and of the affiliates. In this way, we try to 
minimize the role of the human factor in information 
risk. These awareness-raising activities are periodically 
updated. We update the same with immediate effect 
without waiting for the period in case a new threat with a 
high risk emerges.

We carry out regular activities to increase our customers’ 
awareness of the risks that might occur while using banking 
products. Additionally, we offer the digital insurance 
package of our business partners to our customers, which 
ensures protection against identity theft, phishing, harmful 
software, and other cyberattacks and frauds. With these 
initiatives, we ensure that our customers’ risks and losses 
resulting from cyber and fraud threats are minimized. We 
take measures to the greatest extent for our customers to 
carry out safe banking transactions through the devices 
used for procuring financial services. We also operate 
mechanisms to identify harmful software in our customers’ 
mobile devices. When this mechanism makes a warning, we 
contact our customers and inform them about the actions 
required.

We provide awareness-
raising training in terms 
of Information Security 
and Cyber Threats 
for the employees of 
our Bank and of the 
affiliates.

Our internal audit 
infrastructure

Our control and audit 

infrastructure
We carry out our activities in an effective, efficient, and 
compliant manner with the applicable legal regulations 
thanks to our implementation operated within the scope of 
the internal control activities. In this regard, we protect our 
assets and aim at the continuity of a holistic accounting 
and financial reporting system. In Akbank, all our employees 
personally assume the responsibility to maintain our Bank’s 
internal control system and infrastructure effectively. 
Besides this responsibility, our Audit Committee has 
been appointed to assist in the activities of the Board of 
Directors. 

To comprehensively follow the tax liability arising from 
our activities, internal systems such as the Board of 
Internal Audit, Boards of Compliance, and Internal Control 
work sensitively and assume the internal audit, internal 
control, and compliance processes. We are among the 
corporations paying the highest Tax to the Republic of 
Türkiye regularly in all direct and indirect taxes we pay, 
particularly the Corporate Tax. In consideration of the 
impact of the Tax element, especially on the “development” 
strategy of our country, we are aware of the fact that 
complete management of this element will contribute to 
the development of the country in the first place and to 
the development of the field of activity of our Bank. We 
recognize its importance in all departments of our Bank.

We carry out our activities in an 
effective, efficient, and compliant 
manner with the applicable 
legal regulations thanks to the 
implementation of the internal control 
system we have established.

Our internal control division
Our Board of Internal Control assumes a critical responsibility 
in the assessments related to the design and operation of 
the control systems for the business processes of the Bank. 
Within this scope, it is responsible for properly managing 
our activities’ effectiveness, efficiency, and compliance with 
legal and domestic regulations. Playing an important role in 
the management of operational, legal, reputation, and clean 
banking risks, our Board of Internal Control helps us keep the 
losses arising from operational risks at low levels. 

Different areas are also controlled, including the design of 
systemic control processes, integrity, and reliability of the 
financial reporting systems. Additionally, the misconduct 
probabilities of our employees are regularly assessed through 
the monitoring systems designed and developed within 
the structure of our Internal Control Division. We update 
and increasingly make this system more effective in line 
with the evolving technological innovations and the digital 
transformation process of our Bank.

110 - 111Corporate governance



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Our board of inspectors

Our Board of Inspectors is responsible for the internal 
audit of our Bank’s activities. In this regard, it carries out 
risk-oriented audit activities with a holistic and integrated 
perspective covering all units, processes, and activities. 
The duties of our Board of Internal Audit include the 
assessment of compliance of the transactions performed 
in our branches with domestic and foreign legislations and 
investigation, review, and elimination of the risks which 
occurred and will likely occur in our branches, units, and 
affiliates due to omission, misconduct, fraud, corruption, 
and similar causes. Besides these, some other activities are 
performed for information processing and data security. We 
carry out our audits in this area by ensuring full compliance 
with the regulations published by the international 
regulatory authorities (OFAC, EU, UN, etc.) and work in 
coordination with our Board of Compliance whenever 
necessary.

Our Board of Internal Audit is responsible for reviewing in 
detail and solving any probable irregularity notifications 
made internally (including the Ethics Hotline) and by 
customers besides legal authorities. Moreover, the reliability 
audit for the information systems of our Bank is among the 
duties of the Board. The operating outcomes of our Board 
of Internal Audit and, the Board of Internal Audit, the Board 
of Compliance are regularly monitored and assessed by the 
Audit Committee and Board of Directors. 

We carry out all our business processes under international 
banking regulations and locally applicable legal regulations. 
We take effective measures to prevent laundering crime 
revenues and terrorism financing. Within this scope, 
the details of the measures and principles intended 
for the definition, ranking, monitoring, assessment, and 
prevention of potential risks are determined, considering 
the obligations related to the recognition of the customer. 
The controls of our Bank with full compliance with the 
regulations published by the international regulatory 
authorities (OFAC, EU, UN, etc.) in this area are undertaken 
by our Board of Compliance.

All our employees contacting our customers, including the 
Board of Brand and Communication, are responsible for 
complying with our Bank’s communication activities with 
the applicable laws and legislations. As Akbank, we attach 
great importance to maintaining the confidentiality of our 
customer’s information. We adopt high ethical standards 
in all our communication activities for product promotion, 
sales, and marketing, including advertisements and 
sponsorships. Adopting the explicit information policy in 
product and service promotions, our Bank manages all its 
business processes for customer relations management 
in the light of its explicit information policy to prevent 
customers’ forfeitures. 

The Business Continuity and Emergency Management 
System operates within the structure of our Bank and is 
managed under ISO 22301:2012 Social Security Business 
Continuity Governance System standard. The Business 
Continuity Committee, which holds at least two meetings 
per year, is responsible for monitoring and supervising 
the activities performed within the scope of the Business 
Continuity and Emergency Management System.

According to ISO 22301:2012 standard, we maintained 
the Business Continuity Governance Program in 2022 to 
ensure the continuity of our critical business processes, 
making the system functional within the anticipated delay 
times in case of a delay, preventing customer losses, and 
protecting the reputation of the organization. Implementing 
the Technology Continuity Program established within the 
structure of the Bank is monitored and maintained at the 
Board of Directors level. 

Our compliance department

Our Department ensures the performance of such activities 
intended for achieving full compliance with the Law on 
the Prevention of Laundering Proceeds of Crime and other 
regulations within the scope of the respective legislation 
and the national and international regulations concerning 
financial crime risks. Within the scope of its activities to 
prevent financial crime risks, it establishes and implements 
control standards with protective and preventive policies 
regarding laundering, terrorism financing, international 
financial sanctions, and prevention of bribery and 
corruption by considering international standards. Within 
the scope of the abovementioned regulations, we act in 
line with a corporate policy approach of the financial group 
covering all our domestic and foreign units in planning 
our activities to achieve legal compliance. Our units and 
employees assume necessary responsibilities within the 
frame of this policy. We organize regular and comprehensive 
trainings to raise our employees’ awareness about the 
regulations within the scope of financial crime risks and 
refresh their memories.

Since 2021 when the financial group structure was 
established, the processes for compliance controls 
which are based on the legislation and international 
best practices, are continued to be improved constantly 
according to the requirements of the applicable legislation 
and best practices within the scope of the financial 
group governance structure. Developments are ongoing 
also for the analysis of new technological solutions and 
their adaptation to the Bank in terms of compliance with 
our Bank’s obligations for struggle with financial crimes 
upon the organization of the Financial Group Compliance 
Program established within the structure of our Board in 
April 2022. 

Through our internal audit and internal control practices, we 
aim to identify and prevent any existing and potential risks 
and generating solution suggestions. In case of detection 
of a breach of our anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy 
as a result of the audits conducted, we introduce the 
sanctions according to the provisions of the Disciplinary 
Regulations of our Bank following the inspections of the 
Board of Internal Audit. By carrying out inspections also 
for the organizations whose services are procured by us 
and which include our business partners, we inform the 
Board of Internal Audit upon the confirmation of breach 
and terminate our business relationship with the specified 
organizations as a result of the inspections of the Board 
of Internal Audit. All our employees are subjected to our 
Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy which is easily 
accessible on our corporate website.

You can find our Anti-Bribery & Anti-Corruption policy on 
our website. 

We ensure compliance with the anti-bribery and anti-
corruption laws and regulations applicable in all countries 
where our Bank operates, as well as clean banking rules, 
codes of ethics, and universal rules. We also maintain 
our activities with full compliance with the obligations 
concerning preventing financial crimes. For the avoidance 
of any negative incidents, we identify our strategies for 
managing the relationships with our stakeholders within the 
scope of our Conflict of Interest Policy and minimizing any 
probable risks by assessing our products and services with 
a risk-oriented approach as well as our respective controls 
and measures, operational rules and responsibilities and pay 
attention to inform all our employees in these regards. 

You can find our Ethical Principles on our website.

Our anti-bribery & 
anti-corruption policy

112 - 113Corporate governance

https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Anti-Bribery-Anti-Corruption-policy/164/502/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Ethical-principles/29/8/0


Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

In line with our Ethical Principles, we aim at preventing the 
inflow and laundering of any crime revenues originating 
from bribery and corruption, eliminating and identifying 
any situation which could pave the way for the emergence 
of a bribery and corruption crime among the employees, 
customers, and business partners of our Bank as much as 
possible and fulfilling the obligations and undertakings 
concerning the bribery and corruption crime. We protect our 
Bank against legal risks and the reputation risk and ensure 
the management of our relationships with our customers 
and 3rd parties within the frame of a fiduciary relationship 
through the policies established for the prevention of 
corruption and bribery risks in the countries we operate in 
consideration of the regulations of the countries where our 
customers, suppliers, business partners and corresponding 
bans we cooperate are located and our national regulations.

We carry out our assessments in terms of the risks that 
might probably emerge within the scope of the control and 
analysis activities performed for the persons defined as 
politically exposed person (PEP) and their related persons; 
the works performed for risky sectors and business lines and 
some services whose confidentiality related matters are 
at a high level with respect to the services we provide with 
our customers. The number of incidents associated with 
corruption events and subjected to an inspection within the 
scope of our monitoring and control activities related to 
financial crime risks corresponds to 0.01% of our activities 
performed in this area. We identified that no corruption 
event has occurred in our Bank due to our audit report, 
which was prepared this year and set forth in our annual 
report.

By providing special training to our employees concerning 
corruption and financial crimes, we aim to enhance their 
sensitivity to our ethics and reliability understanding. Most 
of our trainings with a corruption and bribery prevention 
focus is intended for the employees in our branches. All our 
employees receive the trainings related to Ethical Principles, 
Information Security, Data Leakage, and Law on the 
Protection of Personal Data. We also provide International 
Embargo / Prevention of Crime Revenues training in the 
form of in-class and online training for our employees in 
the Head Office and branches. We continuously update 
the subjects and contents of our anti-corruption training 
in line with the developments and needs within this scope. 
Critical trainings (high-risk transactions at pay desks, 
document security, detection and prevention of fraud crime, 
operational risk, etc.) are assigned to and provided with 
suitable target masses

Ethics Hotline
Our employees and stakeholders can report any incidents 
which are considered to involve an ethics breach to us  
via etik@akbank.com e-mail address and  
212 385 77 77 telephone number within working hours. The 
notifications made to the Ethics Hotline are assessed and 
communicated to the respective teams if required. Our 
employees are entitled to make notifications through our 
Ethics Hotline anonymously and keep their identifying 
information

Audit committee 
Report

Audit Committee Evaluation on Operations of Internal 
Control, Internal Audit, Risk Management Systems and 
Activities in 2022

Akbank Audit Committee held 4 meetings in 2022. At these 
meetings, Akbank Audit Committee worked to fulfil its duties 
and responsibilities, which are listed on page 78 of the annual 
report. 

Internal audit, internal control, risk management and legal 
compliance activities at the Bank are carried out by the 
Inspection Board, Internal Control Department, Compliance 
Department, Risk Management Department, and the 
Information Risk Management Department, duties and 
responsibilities of which are separated and which report 
directly to the Board of Directors, and are organizationally 
independent from but working in coordination with each other. 

Evaluating the internal systems established to cover all 
branches and units and subsidiaries subject to consolidated 
audit and ensuring the continuity of their functioning, 
adequacy and effectiveness are among the top priority 
responsibilities of the Akbank Board of Directors. Within the 
scope of internal systems, the duties and responsibilities 
of the Board of Directors are carried out by the Board of 
Directors, Audit Committee, Senior Risk Committee, Internal 
Audit, Internal Control, and the Officer in charge of Risk 
Management activities and Internal Systems. 

Inspection Board made significant contributions to the 
management of risks that may arise from the Bank’s activities, 
the compliance of transactions, practices, systems and models 
with internal and external legislation, the improvement of 
service quality, efficiency and performance, the improvement 
of cost management, the protection of assets, and the 
protection of the Bank’s reputation and brand value. 

Planning and executing its activities with a risk-oriented 
perspective and in line with legal obligations, Inspection 
Board evaluates possible risks in branches, subsidiaries, Head 
Office units and all Bank activities and practices, identifies 
areas that are open to development and improvement, and 
ensures compliance with internal control, risk management 
and corporate governance examines whether it is effective 
and sufficient. Reporting of the findings reached as a result 
of the audits is not the only process that is followed, and all 
kinds of recommendations for development and improvement 
as well as for reinforcing the internal systems, and value-
added suggestions are also made, and the outcome of the 
actions taken in relation to them is monitored effectively and 
continuously. 

Inspection Board carries out its internal audit activities in 
accordance with the International Internal Audit Standards 
and Professional Ethics rules determined by the International 
Institute of Internal Auditors (IIA). As a matter of fact, as a 
result of the Quality Assurance Evaluation Study carried out 
by the independent external evaluation, it has been confirmed 
that the efficiency, quality and value-added to the institution 
of internal auditing are at the level of International Internal 
Audit Standards. Inspection Board uses technology intensively 
in every field in order to continuously develop and improve its 
activities, creates certification and training opportunities for 
the professional development of inspectors, and makes sure to 
contribute to the Bank with its experienced, trained, qualified 
and equipped human resources. 

As a result of the audits and evaluations carried out in 2022, 
no significant factor has been identified that may adversely 
affect the Bank’s operations and prevent it from fulfilling its 
obligations. It has been determined that the Bank’s internal 
control, risk management and corporate governance are 
working successfully and effectively, operations are generally 
low-risk, financial and legal reports are correct, and the 
legislation is complied with. 

As a result, the internal audit system is effective and 
successful in preventing, detecting and eliminating risks 
with its risk-oriented approach, qualified human resources, 
intensive use of technology, experienced and prudent 
management, thanks to its strong, experienced and competent 
management staff.

114 - 115Corporate governance

mailto:etik@akbank.com


Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

The main purpose of the Internal Control Department is to 
ensure that the Bank’s activities are carried out effectively 
and efficiently in compliance with the laws and other 
regulations within a strong internal control environment. 
In this context, control testing activities were carried out 
by internal control employees who are competent and 
experienced in their fields, in branches and Head Office 
units, both locally and centrally, supported by smart 
monitoring systems. 

In the studies carried out; the internal control system 
continued to be continuously developed and updated, 
technical competency assessments were made for the 
companies that received support services, and local/
central control tests were carried out at the Bank branches 
determined with a risk-oriented approach. 

Studies carried out by the Internal Control Department 
made significant contributions to keeping the losses arising 
from operational risks at low levels, and to the continuation 
of our activities in an effective, efficient, regulatory and 
effective control environment. 

The Compliance Department ensures that our Bank is fully 
compliant with the Banking Law and its sub-regulations, 
regulations on Competition Law and Protection of Personal 
Data, the responsibilities of the Precious Metals Supply 
Chain Internal Control and Compliance Officer, and the 
national and international regulations on financial crime 
risks. In its works within the scope of prevention of financial 
crime risks, by taking into account international standards, 
it establishes and implements protective and preventive 
policies and control standards for the prevention of money 
laundering, financing of terrorism, international financial 
sanctions, bribery and corruption. Within the scope of the 
regulations, in the planning of our efforts to ensure legal 
compliance, we act with the Financial Group Compliance 
Program approach, which covers all our domestic and 
foreign units, and our units and employees undertake 
the necessary responsibilities within the framework 
of the Financial Group Institution Policy. Regular and 
comprehensive training activities are carried out in order 
to increase the awareness of our employees on legal 
compliance and to update their knowledge.

The Compliance Department, which has an important function 
in the management of our legal compliance and reputational 
risk, is responsible for taking effective measures against 
money laundering and financing of terrorism, maintaining 
monitoring and control activities, monitoring developments 
regarding international financial sanctions, taking preventive 
measures, controlling risky business and transactions and in 
this context. This year, it continued to provide consultancy, 
direction and solution suggestions to the bank management 
and business units in the business, transaction and related 
regulations regarding risks. In this context, the Compliance 
Department assumes important roles and responsibilities 
in developing and presenting our new banking products and 
services designed with our current activities in line with 
the banking legislation. The Financial Group Compliance 
Program and the Competition Group Compliance Program, 
which includes both banks and financial group companies to 
cover our activities, were implemented in 2021. Our efforts to 
implement the subjects in our areas of responsibility at the 
Financial Group continue, and the KVK Compliance Program is 
planned to be implemented by the Group. 

The Risk Management Department continued its efforts 
to calculate and report the risks that the Bank may be 
exposed to in the most reliable way, within the framework 
of the materiality criterion, thanks to effective risk 
management measurements and techniques. Financial and 
economic developments in our country and world markets, 
Basel Principles and other international regulations and 
developments in the field of risk management were followed 
and improvements were made in current practices. Stress 
tests were renewed with different scenario analyses and 
assumptions, especially considering the fluctuations and 
developments in market conditions in the recent period, and 
vulnerabilities that may arise were measured. In addition, 
regulatory changes and temporary regulations were followed 
closely, impact analyses were carried out, and necessary 
systemic arrangements were made to ensure the consistency 
of reporting. 

The Risk Management Department, with its qualified and 
qualified staff, increases its contribution to the Bank by 
closely following the changes and innovations in internationally 
accepted risk management principles, regulations and models. 

Analyses, calculations, simulations, scenarios, stress tests and 
other studies carried out within the scope of risk management 
provide continuous and systematic input to the strategic 
decision process of the Bank’s Board of Directors and senior 
management and support the decision-making mechanism. 

The 2022 ISEDES report, which was prepared under the 
coordination of the Risk Management Department, and 
the validation and audit reports related to the report were 
evaluated and approved by the Audit Committee, and the 
2022 ISEDES report set was sent to the BRSA following 
the approval of the Board of Directors. In addition, the 
“Measure Plan” study and audit report requested by the 
BRSA from systemically important banks were submitted 
to the Agency after receiving the approval of the Board of 
Directors as of the end of June 2022. 

Bank information risk and fraud risk management activities 
are carried out by the Information Risk Management 
Department. Within the scope of activities, there are 
processes related to monitoring, detection, measurement, 
system management, reduction, control, and reporting of 
information security and external fraud risks. Information 
Risk Management Department determines policies, 
manages and implements security systems in order 
to ensure that the information processed within the 
Bank or shared and managed with external parties on 
the Bank’s information systems is reliable, complete, 
traceable, consistent and in a way that meets the Bank’s 
requirements and control activities. In addition, all kinds of 
external fraud (fraud) monitoring, detection, prevention and 
reduction activities are also carried out by the Information 
Risk Management Department. 

Within the scope of information, risk controls are carried 
out by the Information Risk Management Department, 
BRSA legislation and COBIT, ISO, ITIL, COSO, NIST, PCI 
DSS etc. Studies are carried out for the controls created 
based on international standards. The controls take a broad 
view of information technology and utilize best practices 
and robotic automation opportunities when implementing 
controls. 

Studies carried out by the Information Risk Management 
Department made significant contributions to keeping the 
risks arising from information systems and external fraud 
risks at manageable levels, and to establish an effective 
control environment for the Bank’s activities to be carried 
out effectively, efficiently, safely and in compliance with the 
legislation. 

When the activities and functioning of Akbank’s 
internal control, internal audit, legal compliance and risk 
management systems in 2022 are evaluated in general; it is 
thought that the studies carried out are quite successful, 
effective, value-added, qualified and satisfactory.

Eyüp Engin 
Chairman of the Audit Committee

Levent Demirağ 
Audit Committee Member

116 - 117Corporate governance



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Our credit tracking 
applications

At Akbank, we have an integrated Credit Monitoring and 
Tracking process consisting of credit evaluation, analysis, 
reporting, early warning, monitoring, and tracking systems 
designed by the respective article of the Banking Law, BRSA 
regulations, and International Banking Standards.

This process, approved by our Board of Directors, operates 
according to the main policy text and detailed workflow texts 
adapted to it. Roles and job descriptions for each work step 
in this process are clearly included in our respective policy 
document. All of our employees assigned to work in the 
credit monitoring and tracking process have access to the 
policy document. Our monitoring and tracking organization 
operate under a separate vice general manager position at 
the bank, reporting to the general manager and also to the 
executive member of the Board of Directors responsible for 
credits.

All necessary restructuring opportunities are provided to all 
our customers, whether individual, corporate, or commercial, 
who experience, or we consider likely to experience problems 
in credit repayments, within the limits set by the banking 
authority in the country and in accordance with our bank’s 
credit policies.

It is among our main priorities that our employees assigned 
to work in credit monitoring and tracking operations 
complete all necessary vocational training by their field of 
specialization. In addition, every year, our credit monitoring 
and tracking team can participate in professional or personal 
development training programs, conferences, and other in-
bank or external activities designated for them at the rate 
determined by the quotas, in accordance with our Bank’s 
“training” and “personal development” strategies. 

As Akbank, we resolve complaints regarding our products 
and services, submitted by our customers through various 
channels, from a single point, with a centralized and end-
to-end approach. We resolve incoming complaints in favor 
of the customer at a rate of 66%, and we use artificial 
intelligence, robotic applications, and analytical indices in 
the solution process in an effective manner.

We regularly monitor the developments regarding customer 
complaints throughout the year and share it with the 
respective units within our Bank on a monthly basis and with 
the Audit Committee and the relevant Official Institutions 
(BAT/BRSA) on a quarterly basis and we renew our ISO 
10002:2018 Customer Complaint Management certificate 
annually with an audit conducted by BSI.

In addition, customer complaint data shared with the public 
are consolidated by BAT and bank rankings are determined 
in line with the principles subject to reporting, and sectoral 
and institution-based developments are periodically 
reported to banks four times a year by BAT.

Our governance 
approach to customer 
complaints

Apart from our branches, Mobile/Internet Banking 
applications, ATMs, and Customer Communication 
Center, we learn about the experiences and feedback of 
our customers who receive service regarding customer 
complaints through the “CES (Customer Effort Score 
Measurement)” method and keep track of the developments.

Developments related to customer complaint management 
processes carried out by our Bank concerning our products 
and services are monitored and audited by our Internal 
Audit Department and Internal Control Departments, 
which report to the Board of Directors. Within the scope of 
legal compliance-oriented issues and when necessary, its 
follow-up is also carried out and compliance performance 
is monitored by the Compliance and Information Risk 
Management Department. 

Information about 
the legal actions 
against the bank

Information about the legal actions against the Bank that 
may affect the financial status and operations of the Bank 
and their possible consequences.

We do not have any lawsuits of this nature in the 2022 
operating year. 

1. Action for cancellation of the 
administrative fine imposed 
by the competition board
As stated by our Bank in our statements on the Public 
Disclosure Platform dated 21.11.2011 and 05.08.2019; with 
the Competition Board’s decision dated 02.11.2011 and 
numbered 11- 55/1438 - M, as a result of the investigation 
initiated against 12 banks, which include Akbank T.A.Ş., 
and two companies operating in financial services, it was 
determined that with the Competition Board decision 
dated 08.03.2013. and numbered 13-13/198-100, 12 banks, 
which include our bank, made an agreement between 
21.08.2007 and 22.09.2011 in terms of the determination of 
the “interest rate, fees, and commissions for deposit, loan, 
and credit card services” and, hence, violated the Law on 
the Protection of Competition and, due to the violation 
of Article 4 of the Law on Protection of Competition, 
an administrative fine was imposed in accordance 
with Article 5.1.b of the Penalty Regulation, and an 
administrative fine of 172,165,155 TL was imposed against 
our Bank. The penalty amount in question was paid as 
129,123,866 TL at a discount of ¼. Our Bank litigated an 
action for annulment on 13.09.2013 with the request for 

the cancellation of this decision of the Competition Board 
and the refund of the penal amount paid. This lawsuit was 
rejected on 05.12.2014 by Ankara 2nd Administrative Court, 
the rejection decision was appealed to the Council of 
State as of 09.04.2015, our appeal request was rejected by 
the decision of the 13th Law Office of the Council of State 
with the decision numbered 2015/2974 Docket, 2015/4612 
Resolution and dated 16.12.2015.On 01.07.2016, our Bank 
filed a request to rectify the decision before the Council of 
State, and the local court’s decision was reversed in favor 
of our Bank, and it was decided to send the case file to 
the Ankara 2nd Administrative Court, which took the first 
decision. However, the Ankara 2nd Administrative Court 
did not adhere to the reversal decision of the Council of 
State and persisted in its previous decision. This decision 
was appealed by our Bank to the Council of State Board 
of Administrative Case Divisions on 02.08.2019. Our 
Bank’s appeal request was accepted by the Council of 
State Board of Administrative Case Divisions, and it was 
decided on 31.05.2021 this time to reverse the insistence 
decision of the Ankara 2nd Administrative Court, which is 
the subject of appeal. The Competition Authority applied 
correction to the decision in line with the decision of the 
Council of State Board of Administrative Case Divisions. 
However, their request for the correction of the Decision 
was rejected. The file was re-evaluated by the Ankara 2nd 
Administrative Court, and it was decided to cancel the 
administrative fine in favor of our Bank and to return the 
paid amount with interest. Although the case has not 
been finalized in formal terms as the Competition Board 
has filed an appeal against this decision, the cancellation 
and principal refund has been ensured in favour of our 
bank in principle.

118 - 119Corporate governance



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

2. Action for cancellation of 
the administrative fine imposed 
by the Ministry of Trade

As stated by our Bank in our statements on the Public 
Disclosure Platform dated 26.09.2016 and 25.12.2020, 
our Bank’s contracts and practices, along with other 
banks in the sector, were audited in 2014 by the Ministry 
of Trade Guidance and Inspection Department “within 
the framework of the Consumer Protection Law No. 
6502 and respective implementing regulations.” As a 
result of the scrutiny conducted, an administrative fine 
of TL 116,254,138.00 was notified to the Bank. ¼ of the 
respective fine amounting to TL 87,190,603.50 was paid in 
advance prior to resorting to legal action and a lawsuit was 
filed before the Administrative Court with an annulment 
request of the said fine on 24.10.2016. The court decided 
to reject the case on 13.02.2019. We filed an appeal. The 
Regional Administrative Court decided to obtain additional 
reports from the experts and objections were raised for the 
issues in the report that were unfavourable. The Regional 
Administrative Court decided to reject our appeal request 
for appeal. We have filed an appeal application to the 
Council of State and its result is awaited. 

Other 
disclosures 
on corporate 
governance

Statement of Independence of Independent Board Member 
Tuğrul Belli 

“I hereby declare that

I am a candidate to serve as an “independent member” of 
the Akbank T.A.Ş. (Company) Board of Directors, within the 
scope of the criteria designated in the legislation, articles 
of association, and the Corporate Governance Principles 
announced by the Capital Markets Board; and accordingly:

a) Between the company, the partnerships in which the 
company has management control or significant influence, 
the partners having the management control of the 
company or significant influence in the company, and the 
legal entities on which these partners have management 
control, and myself, my spouse, and my relatives by blood 
and marriage up to the second degree, there has not been 
an employment relationship in the managerial position who 
will assume important duties and responsibilities in the 
last five years, more than 5% of the capital or voting rights 
or privileged shares are not owned jointly or individually, 
or a significant commercial relationship has not been 
established;

b) In the last five years, mainly the audit of the company 
(including tax audit, legal audit, and internal audit), rating, 
and consultancy, I have not been an executive employee 
or a member of the board of directors or partner (5% 
and above) who will undertake important duties and 
responsibilities, in companies where the company buys or 
sells significant services or products within the framework 
of the agreements, during the periods when the service or 
product is purchased or sold; 

c) As I am an independent member of the board of 
directors, I have the professional education, knowledge, and 
experience to fulfill the duties I will undertake;

ç) I do not currently work full-time in public institutions 
and organizations, and I will do so if I am elected as an 
Independent Member of the Board of Directors;

d) I am considered to have settled in Türkiye according 
to the Income Tax Law (G.V.K.) dated 31/12/1960 and 
numbered 193;

e) I have strong ethical standards and professional 
reputation and experience that can contribute positively 
to the company’s activities, maintain my impartiality 
in conflicts of interest between the company and the 
shareholders, and make me decide freely by taking into 
account the rights of the stakeholders;

f) I will be able to devote enough time to company 
businesses to the extent I will be able to follow the 
functioning of the company’s activities and fully fulfill the 
requirements of the duties I have undertaken,

g) I have not acted as a member of the board of directors 
of the company for more than six years in the last ten 
years;

ğ) I have not been assigned as an independent member 
of the board of directors in more than three of the 
companies in which the same person, company, or the 
partners holding the management control of the company 
have management control, and in more than five of the 
companies traded in the stock exchange in total;

h) I have not been registered and announced on behalf 
of the legal entity elected as a member of the board of 
directors.”

Explanations on administrative or 
judicial sanctions imposed on the 
Bank and members of its governing 
body due to practices in breach of 
legislative provisions 
In 2022, a total of TL 34,228,605.62 administrative fines 
were notified to our Bank by regulatory and supervisory 
authorities. The fines in question were paid as TL 
25,038,535.17 in 2022 by using the advance payment 
discount and recording as an expense.

120 - 121Corporate governance



Our sustainability 
journey

Our Strategic Focus Areas and Material 
Issues ------------------------------124

Our Sustainability Management --------128

The Development of Akbank’s  
Sustainability Journey --------------- 134

Our Sustainability Performance ---------138

Our Value Creation Model ------------- 140



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Our strategic 
focus areas and 
material issues

We are working for and supporting 
the financing of a sustainable future.

We continue our sustainable future-oriented endeavors 
at full throttle, with our vision of “Being the Leading Bank 
that Drives Türkiye into the Future,” by listening to the 
voices of all our stakeholders. We started communication 
with our wide stakeholder network to actively involve our 
stakeholders, who are at the core of our sustainability 
efforts, in the process. We have listed our stakeholders, 
which we have classified as those who have a direct 
economic impact, those who have an indirect economic 
impact, and those who bring new opportunities, knowledge, 
and understanding to our processes.

While determining our priority issues, we took the survey 
results into stakeholder views, current developments, 
global trends, our Bank’s long-term vision, good practice 
examples, Senior Management meetings, our business 
strategy, and the SASB 4-Stage Impact Analysis studies 
account. In addition, we finalized the position of our priority 
issues by including the impact of priority issues in Akbank 
practices. In our prioritization matrix, we positioned our 
priority issues by considering “Importance for Stakeholders” 
and “Importance for Akbank.”

We continue our 
endeavors to accelerate 
the transition to a low-
carbon economy, in 
the regions where we 
operate, particularly in 
our country. Our target 
of providing sustainable 
loan financing of TL 200 
billion to our country by 
2030 provides us with 
the qualification of 
being the first deposit 
bank in our sector to 
set a concrete target 
in sustainable finance. 
Accordingly, we continue 
to progress in our 
sustainability journey 
with all our heart and 
with our target-oriented 
works.

Those With Direct Economic Impact Those With Indirect Economic Impact
Those Bringing New Opportunities, 
Knowledge, and Understanding

 – Employees

 – Affiliates

 – Customers

 – Business Partners and Suppliers

 – Investors and Analysts

 – Financial Institutions

 – Rating and Evaluation Institutions

 – Non-Governmental Organizations

 – Media

 – Entrepreneurs

 – Universities

Sustainable finance

1. Responsible products 
and services

2. Impact investing

Ecosystem management

3. Innovation

4. Open banking

5. Customer experience 
and journey

6. Financial inclusion

7. Data privacy and 
security

8. Financial literacy

9. Thematic banking

People & community

10. Talent management

11. Diversity and inclusion

12. Social investments

13. Future of work

14. Employee satisfaction 
and engagement

15. Human rights

16. Sustainable 
Procurement

Climate change

17. Portfolio effect/
exposure

18. Climate change

Integrated governance

19. Integrated risk 
management

20. Financial stability and 
regulation

21. Brand reputation

22. Clean banking

Im
po

rt
a

nc
e 

fo
r S

ta
ke

ho
ld

er
s

Importance for Akbank

2

11

12

14

13

6

7

21

1

3

4

20

5

10

18

17

19

9

16

15

22

8

Moderate

High

Very High

We assume the main 
responsibility in Türkiye’s 
transition to a sustainable 
economy.

124 - 125Our sustainability journey



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Responsible Products & Services

Impact Investing

Future of Work

Diversity & Inclusion

Community Investment

Digitalization

Financial Inclusion

Operational Emissions

Portfolio Impact

Portfolio Exposure

To be the leading 
Bank that drives 

Türkiye into the future

Integrated Governance Financial Performance

Sustainable Finance Ecosystem Management

People & Community Climate Change

We periodically monitor our long-term, 
measurable, and traceable performance 
targets in our four strategic focus areas: 
Sustainable Finance, People & Community, 
Ecosystem Management, and Climate 
Change, to leave a more inhabitable world 
to future generations, and we focus on 
continuous improvement.

Why sustainable finance?
An annual investment of around USD 5 - 7 bn is needed 
worldwide to meet the Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs) requirements and reach the 2030 targets. As the 
first and only Bank in Türkiye to set targets in the field of 
sustainability-related funding, we assume responsibility 
for Türkiye’s transition to a sustainable economy and take 
our environmental and social criteria into account in our 
loan activities. To accelerate our country’s transition to a 
sustainable economy, we aim to increase the amount of 
our sustainable financing support and our products yearly. 
We have started to apply the Environmental and Social 
Management System to all our commercial customers to 
be able to evaluate our projects’ environmental and social 
impacts more clearly. By achieving important successes 
in the Central and Eastern Europe region as well in 2022, 
which is the year in which we were selected as “Türkiye’s 
Best Bank in Sustainable Finance,” we received the 
“Outstanding Leadership in Sustainable Project Finance” 
and “Outstanding Leadership in Social Bonds” awards. 

In the Sustainable Finance section of our Report, you 
can access the work we have implemented focusing on 
Sustainable Finance.

Why climate change?
According to the World Economic Forum’s 2022 Global 
Risks Report, the top three risks in the next ten years 
include failure of the Climate Action plan, extreme 
intensification of climate conditions, and declining 
biodiversity. As Akbank, we evaluate climate change, 
which affects the entire world in numerous ways, from a 
risk and opportunity perspective, and integrate it into our 
business model. We continue our endeavors to become a 
Net Zero Bank by 2050 by minimizing the impact of our 
loan portfolio on climate change. In addition, we commit 
to being a carbon-neutral bank by zeroing our operational 
greenhouse gas emissions by 2025. With the awareness 
of the importance of transparency and international 
cooperation in the fight against climate risks, we support 
the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures 
(TCFD). We will share our TCFD-compliant reporting with 
the public in 2023.

In the  Climate Change section of our Report, you can 
access the work we have implemented with a focus on 
Climate Change.

Why people & community?
Employing a qualified workforce and increasing the 
value of each person employed at Akbank daily has 
a special meaning for us. Hence, we carry out all our 
human resources processes by focusing on fairness, 
diversity, inclusiveness, and continuous improvement. 
Accordingly, we have been included for the third time in 
the Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index (GEI), one of the 
most comprehensive surveys conducted worldwide to 
measure the performance of companies that commit to 
gender equality. We are working hard to strengthen the 
communities, which play a key role in the development 
of our country, alongside our employees. We implement 
various social responsibility projects to increase the 
participation of young people, women, disabled people, and 
people who have been away from work life for a long time 
in our country and to increase their access to training and 
development programs

In the People & Community section of our Report, you can 
access the work we have implemented with a focus on 
People & Community.

Why ecosystem management?
We conduct our activities for all stakeholders in our 
ecosystem to be able to access our products and services 
easily and effectively. While empowering the financial 
health of our customers, we offer services beyond 
traditional banking by diversifying our products and 
services specific to disadvantaged groups and those 
who have difficulty accessing financial products. In this 
direction, we plan to develop and expand the digital and 
innovative products and services we offer to our customers 
until 2030 at Akbank, and we are committed to increasing 
the number of financially empowered people.

In the Ecosystem Management section of our Report, you 
can access the work we have implemented with a focus on 
Ecosystem Management.

126 - 127Our sustainability journey



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Our 
sustainability 
management

Four Preliminary Committees, which we formed based 
on our strategic focus areas, are present under our 
Sustainability Committee. These committees meet 
regularly under the coordination of our Investor Relations 
and Sustainability Department, with the leadership of 
our relevant SVPs and our function representatives. We 
evaluate the developments specific to our strategic focus 
areas together and follow over 100 actions every year 
with more than 40 Akbank employees from the respective 
business units.

Sustainability governance

Responsibilities of the 
Sustainability Committee

Preparing a sustainability strategy in line 
with our Bank’s business strategy, market 
conditions, and developments,

Carrying out all sustainability activities 
within the framework of our Bank’s 
sustainability strategy, material areas, 
and targets, and strengthening our 
sustainability performance,

Integrating sustainability into all our ways 
of doing business, identifying respective 
risks and opportunities, and ensuring that 
our Bank’s priority issues are in line with 
sustainability subjects,

Our Bank’s progress in harmony with the 
Sustainability Principles and other relevant 
legislation, follow-up and communication of 
the legislation,

Prioritizing and managing risks and 
opportunities arising from climate change

Following the national and international 
legislation and standard approaches 
concerning environmental and social risks 
taken into account in the loan process of 
the Bank,

Integrating sustainability-related policies 
into business processes,

Submitting opinions and suggestions to the 
Board of Directors regarding the activities 
carried out throughout the Bank in the field 
of sustainability,

Designating and supervising the relations 
within the framework of sustainability with 
national and international organizations 
and authorized institutions relating to 
sustainability,

Creating and supervising an honest and 
transparent communication platform with 
our Bank’s stakeholders on sustainability,

Ensuring the reports containing our Bank’s 
sustainability activities and performance 
indicators, our corporate website, and 
similar promotional channels are prepared 
and supervised under the Corporate 
Governance Principles and Sustainability 
Principles.

We have determined performance criteria for all our 
employees, especially our CEO, in 2021 to measure our 
sustainability performance. By adding sustainability 
performance to the Bank’s performance criteria, we took 
a step that will bear the banner in our sector. At the same 
time, owing to the importance we attach to sustainability, 
we doubled the weight of sustainability performance in 
bank performance criteria in 2022.

The successful realization of our action plan, diversification 
of our sustainability reporting and policies, and active 
communication with our stakeholders were positively 
reflected in our scores in the International Sustainability 
Reports and Indices.

We aim to reduce our environmental footprint while working 
to increase our positive impact across our entire value 
chain by integrating sustainability into our entire business 
model. We constantly update ourselves by continuing to 
consider international and local initiatives, global trends, and 
expectations and views of our stakeholders to create holistic 
value with our strategic focus areas on Sustainable Finance, 
People & Community, Ecosystem Management, and Climate 
Change.

With our Sustainability Committee, we ensure that our 
sustainability activities and performance are monitored 
and reported on behalf of the Board of Directors. Our 
Executive Board Member, Independent Board Member, 
CEO, CFO, SVP of Investor Relations (IR), and Sustainability 
are among the permanent members of our Sustainability 
Committee. Our committee meets at least twice a year. 
Our IR & Sustainability Department, responsible for the 
general sustainability coordination and monitoring of the 
Bank, prepare our meeting agenda and the functional status 
of the decisions taken. We carry out the improvements or 
arrangements in sustainability actions and activities in 
parallel with the feedback provided by our Sustainability 
Committee. Upon the decision of our Committee and Board 
of Directors, we completed our Sustainable Finance and 
Climate Change project in 2022. Thanks to it, we updated our 
Environmental and Social Risk Framework and conducted our 
portfolio heat map study. Also, upon the senior management’s 
decision, we started the roadmap development project 
preparations for our Bank’s 2050 Net Zero Target. 

SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE

Sustainable Finance 
& Climate Change

Ecosystem 
Management

Operational 
Emissions

People & 
Community

Loans Operational Releases Future of Work

Committee Members: 
Executive Board Member, 

Independent Board Member, CEO, 
CFO, SVP of IR & Sustainability

At least 2 meetings 
per year

Akbank Volunteerism

Digitalization

Diversity & Inclusion

Community Investments

Financial InclusionFunding

Wealth Management

Portfolio Impact & 
Exposure

Preliminary 
Committees

Stakeholder 
Teams

CDP Climate Change: B

CDP Water Security: B

Refinitiv: A 

MSCI: BBB

Sustainalitycs: 16.1 (Low Risk)

128 - 129Our sustainability journey



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Our targets and contributions to 
sustainable development goals

OUR MATERIAL ISSUES RELEVANT STAKEHOLDERS RELEVANT SDG OUR GOALS OUR CONTRIBUTIONS AS AKBANK

Sustainable Finance

Responsible Products & 
Services

Customers, Shareholders, 
Investors, and Analysts, 
International Finance 
Institutions           

 – To provide sustainable 
financing of TL 200 billion 
by 2030.

 – To increase our 
sustainable investment 
funds balance to TL 15 
billion by 2030.

 – Provided TL 60 bn in sustainable finance in 2022, reaching TL 87 bn in total

 – Completed ESG training for all corporate & commercial branch employees

 – Total ESG-themed funds AuM reached TL 2.7 bn, with 62K investors

 – All four ESG-themed funds of Ak Asset Management were rated by MSCI & Refinitiv.

 – 75% of wholesale funding transactions in 2022 ESG linked

 – 45% of total wholesale fundingin 2022 ESG linked

 – Received three awards, including “Leader in Sustainable Finance” in Türkiye

Impact Investing

Shareholders, Investors, and 
Analysts, Local Community, 
Non-Governmental 
Organizations, International 
Finance Institutions, University 
Youth

       

People & Community

Human rights
Employees, Suppliers, Non-
Governmental Organizations

   

 – To increase the 
effectiveness of 
investments made in our 
employees.

 – To keep our total woman 
employee ratio above 
50%.

 – To increase the 
social return of social 
investments.

 – To increase the share 
of Akbank volunteer 
activities in social 
investments.

 – Strong gender balance: ~ 50% of employees who report directly to CEO are women

 – Introduced Zero Tolerance to Violence Guide and Hotline

 – Expanded paid parental leave to 10 days for men.

 – Launched the “Strong Women in Tech” internship program to encourage gender diversity in technology 
roles.

 – Introduced training to foster disability awareness, conducted accessibility audits for HQ & Branches

 – Social Impact Assessment completed for community programs

 – Launched a digital platform for Akbank volunteers in collaboration with Ability Pool.

 – Akbank Youth Academy Reached 28K young people, partnerships with Microsoft, Cisco, Pearson & 
UPSchool.

Employee Satisfaction & 
Loyalty

Employees

   

Talent Management Employees

 

Future of Work Employees, Local Community

   

Diversity & Inclusion
Employees, Suppliers, Local 
Community

   

Community Investment

Customers, Non-Governmental 
Organizations, Local 
Communities, Entrepreneurs, 
Universities    

At Akbank, we contribute to the United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals (UN SDG) with our projects and works 
that we implement in line with our focus areas and the priority 
subjects we have identified.

You can reach the  
United Nations 
Sustainable 
Development Goals 
(UN SDG) and Akbank 
table here.

130 - 131Our sustainability journey

https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/tr/surdurulebilirlik/yil-liste/Surdurulebilirlik-raporlari/323/0/0


Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

OUR MATERIAL ISSUES RELEVANT STAKEHOLDERS RELEVANT SDG OUR GOALS OUR CONTRIBUTIONS AS AKBANK

Ecosystem Management

Financial Inclusion
Customers, Employees, 
International Finance 
Institutions

       

 – To increase the number 
of financially empowered 
people.

 – To increase the range and 
scope of our digital and 
innovative products and 
services.

 – Launched “SME Eco-transformation Package”: 1st comprehensive sustainability package in Türkiye for 
SMEs.

 – USD 100 mn secured from EBRD for women-owned SMEs.

 – New partnerships with leading e-commerce companies & retail technology chains.

 – “Green transformation” themed seminars with UNDP and industry organizations Turkonfed & KAS.

 – Collaboration with Frankfurt School & EBRD for women-owned SMEs. 

 – Akbank Transformation Academy reached 14K SMEs.

 – Fostered sustainable entrepreneurship ecosystem with ReFi Hackhaton, Akbank+

 – Accelerated disability inclusion through the power of technology, endorsed by BlindLook

 – Helped youth in achieving financial health through digitalization ( 1.5x increase in active young 
customers).

Clean Banking Suppliers

   

Customer Experience & 
Journey

Customers

     

Financial Literacy Customers

   

Innovation
Employees, Shareholders, 
Investors and Analysts, 
Universities

   

Data Privacy & Security
Employees, Customers, 
Legislators, and Regulators

   

Climate Change

Climate Change Investors, Local Community

     

 – To be Net Zero by 2050

 – To be a Carbon Neutral 
Bank by 2025. (Scope 1 
and Scope 2)

 – To reduce the impact 
of our loan portfolio on 
climate change by 2030. 

 – Committed to becoming a Net Zero Bank by 2050. Introduced enhanced Environmental & Social Risk 
Framework to mitigate portfolio exposure

 – A completed pilot project to quantify the impact of climate risks on the portfolio.

 – Completed sectoral heat map, which we examine the physical & transition risks.

 – On track to become carbon-neutral in operational emissions by 2025.

 – 80% of the Bank’s electricity is sourced from renewable resources

 – Sun panels supply 5% of electricity use at Akbank Data Center.

 – Capacity building in energy efficiency and waste management.

 – ISO 50001 (Energy Efficiency Management) & 14000 (Environmental Management) training 
completed in 270 branches (more than 300 branches in total).

 – Published Environmental Policy, Improved CDP Climate score to B, published 1st CDP Water Security 
report (receiving B rating).

Portfolio Impact/Exposure
International Finance 
Institutions

   

Integrated Governance

Integrated Risk Management

Employees, Customers, 
Suppliers, International Finance 
Institutions, Legislators, and 
Regulators  

 – To maintain asset quality 
with effective risk 
management.

 – To maintain the 
advantageous cost 
structure.

 – To build the banking 
of the future with 
investments in human 
resources, technology, 
and advanced analytics.

 – In 2022, our MSCI ESG assessment increased by two points from B to BBB.

 – In 2022, we took place in the “Low Risk” category in the Sustainalytics ESG risk assessment.

 – In 2021, we started our membership in the United Nations Environment Program Finance Initiative 
(UNEP FI). By signing the United Nations Responsible Banking Principles, we provided our activities in 
this area with an international identity.

 – We announced our support for the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) in 
2021.

 – We have strengthened our integrated governance structure with our newly created policies or the 
policies we update yearly. (Environment, Human Rights Policy, Zero Tolerance to Violence Policy, 
Diversity and Inclusion Policy, etc.)

 – You can find all our Policies on our corporate website.

132 - 133Our sustainability journey

https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/


The development 
of Akbank’s 
sustainability journey

We are building sustainable banking 
together.

Akbank became the first Bank to disclose its dividend 
policy publicly. It became the first Bank to publish its 
Corporate Governance Principles in the Annual Report.

Akbank was the first Bank to publish its Corporate 
Governance Principles on its website.

Akbank was the first Turkish Bank to become a signatory of 
the UN Global Compact.

Akbank started collaborating with Endeavor, an 
international non-governmental organization established to 
contribute to economic development by supporting high-
impact entrepreneurs in developing countries.

Corporate Governance and Social Responsibility 
Committee (CGSRC) were established under the Board of 
Directors.

2003

2004

2007

2009

Akbank became the first Turkish Bank to publish a UN Global 
Compact Communication on Progress Report. Akbank 
increased awareness of environmental transparency by 
supporting the implementation of the Carbon Disclosure 
Project (CDP) in Türkiye.

It became the first Turkish deposit bank to publish a 
Sustainability Report under the Global Reporting Initiative 
(GRI) standards.

Became the first and only Turkish company to be featured 
in the CDP 2010 Global 500 report, with a high score that 
placed the Bank in the World Industry Leaders category.

The Akbank Energy-Friendly Loan was launched.

 
 

Akbank became a signatory of the Cancun and Durban 
agreements prepared before the United Nations 2010 and 
2011 Climate Change Conferences.

The Akbank Volunteers System was initiated.

Against the savings deficit, which is an important obstacle 
to the development of Türkiye, Akbank initiated “Savings 
Mobilization,” a social responsibility project to complement 
its banking products and services.

Akbank signed the Pledge for Action, an opportunity for 
non-party stakeholders to welcome the Paris Agreement 
on climate change and participate in implementing the new 
roadmap established at the COP21 Conference of Parties 
in Paris.

Center for Excellence in Finance (CEF), an important 
initiative in the field of education, started its activities with 
the collaboration of Akbank and Sabancı University.

Akbank launched Akbank LAB to create the Banking of the 
Future today.

Akbank published its Digital Trust Principles as part of its 
digital transformation process.

Participation in updating the Sustainable Finance 
Declaration signed in 2017 with the UN Global Compact 
working group.

2010

2010

2011

2012

2015

2016

2017

2018

2022 Akbank Entegre Faaliyet Raporu 134 - 135Our sustainability journey



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Relations with our stakeholders - 
our strong stakeholder interaction

2019

2020

2021

2022

Akbank reduced its ESIA (Environmental Social Impact 
Assessment) limit to USD 20 mn for project finance Loans, 
under the UN Global Compact Türkiye Declaration of 
Sustainable Finance, as one of its signatories.

Akbank reduced its ESIA (Environmental Social Impact 
Assessment) limit to USD 10 mn for project finance Loans 
to better manage the impact of projects it supports.

Akbank launched Sustainability Finance Framework.

Akbank entered Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index.

Akbank became the first company in Türkiye to join 
Valuable 500.

Akbank became a supporter of UNEP FI Principles of 
Responsible Banking and TCFD. 

Akbank became the first deposit bank in Türkiye to disclose 
long-term targets in Sustainable Finance.

Akbank committed to becoming a “Net Zero Bank” by 2050.

Akbank updated its Environmental and Social Risk 
Framework.

RELEVANT 
STAKEHOLDER

COLLABORATION 
FOCUS

AKBANK'S 
RESPONSIBILITY

COMMUNICATION 
FREQUENCY

RELATED PRIORITY 
SUBJECT

CONTRIBUTED SDG

Shareholders, 
Investors, 
Analysts

Communication 
based on 
“openness, 
responsiveness, 
and regular 
informing” with 
shareholders, 
investors, and 
analysts

Informing 
shareholders, 
investors, and 
analysts in 
writing and 
verbally

Continuously

Responsible 
Products 
and Services 
Innovation Impact 
Investing    

Employees
Employee 
motivation and 
satisfaction

Projects 
oriented 
to ensure 
employee 
satisfaction

Continuously

Talent 
Management, 
The Future of 
Work, Diversity 
and Inclusion, 
and Employee 
Satisfaction and 
Loyalty

       

Customers
Customer 
satisfaction

Product 
and service 
development 
studies 
oriented 
to ensure 
customer 
satisfaction

Continuously

Customer 
Experience and 
Journey, Brand 
Reputation, Clean 
Banking    

RELEVANT 
STAKEHOLDER

COLLABORATION 
FOCUS

AKBANK'S 
RESPONSIBILITY

COMMUNICATION 
FREQUENCY

RELATED PRIORITY 
SUBJECT

CONTRIBUTED SDG

International 
Financial 
Institutions

ESG-focused 
communication 
with 
international 
financial 
institutions

Compliance 
with 
environmental 
and social 
standards 
defined by 
international 
financial 
institutions

Continuously

Thematic Banking 
Portfolio Impact 
/ Exposure, 
Responsible 
Products and 
Services Impact 
Investment, 
Financial Inclusion

 

Legislators 
and 
Regulators

Complete 
adherence 
to laws and 
regulations

To keep close 
track of the 
developments 
and legislative 
changes 
concerning the 
banking sector

In case of need
Data Privacy and 
Security

 

Suppliers

Transparent, 
sustainable, 
reliable, and 
quality business 
relationships 
with suppliers, 
which create 
value 

To follow the 
sustainability 
performance 
of suppliers 
in supply 
processes

In case of need

Sustainable 
Purchase, Open 
Banking, Human 
Rights, Data 
Privacy, and 
Security

 

University 
Youth

Benefit-oriented 
communication 
with university 
youth

Developing 
projects for 
the requests, 
views, and 
expectations 
of young ones

Continuously
Social 
Investments, 
Impact Investing

   

Local 
Community

Reaching the 
local community 
within the scope 
of social benefit

Developing 
products 
and services 
as well as 
projects that 
touch the local 
community

Continuously
Social 
Investments, 
Impact Investing

 

Non-
Governmental 
Organizations

Collaborations 
with NGOs

Developing 
social 
contribution 
projects in 
collaboration 
with NGOs

In case of need

Social 
Investments, 
Impact Investing, 
Human Rights  

Media

Constant 
communication 
with national 
and international 
media

Preparing press 
conferences 
and releases 
about products 
and services

In case of need Brand Reputation

 

You can access the details of our strong stakeholder interaction here. 

You can access the list of our memberships here. 

136 - 137Our sustainability journey

https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/year-list/sustainability-reports/60/0/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/year-list/sustainability-reports/60/0/0


Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

STRATEGIC FOCUS AREA KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (KPI) 2020 PERFORMANCE 2021 PERFORMANCE 2022 PERFORMANCE TARGET

Sustaınable fınance

Greenhouse gas emissions prevented through renewable energy investments 5.8 million ton CO2e 3.8 million ton CO2e 3.8 million ton CO2e

Number of projects for which environmental and social impact assessments were made 4 14 10

Number of projects rejected due to environmental and social impact assessment 26 25 20
To provide sustainable financing of TL 200 bn  
by 2030

Number of site visits to projects due to environmental and social impact assessment 13 27 24
To bring the balance of sustainable mutual 
funds to TL 15 bn AuM by 2030

Amount of investment in renewable energy projects 1,577 million US$ 1,321 million US$ 1,092 million US$

Renewable power financed and installed

HPP 2,967 
WPP 955 
TPP 320 
SPP 181 
Biomass 9 
Total 4,162 MW

HPP 3,163 
WPP 1,037 
TPP 320 
SPP 181 
Biomass 9 
Total 4,722 MW

HPP 3,163 
WPP 1,037 
TPP 320 
SPP 181 
Biomass 21 
Total 4,722 MW 

Ratio of renewable energy themed loans in energy generation projects 84% 84% 83% 

Ecosystem management

Number of the digital banking users 5.5 million people 6.6 million people 8.7 million people

Percentage of consumer loans provided via mobile channels 74% 84% 82% 
To promote digital and innovative products 
and services

Share of credit cards sold via digital channels 65% 52% 54% 
To increase the number of financially 
empowered people

Number of initiatives contacted and evaluated 243 311 197

Climate change

Water Consumption 180,592 m3/year 144,450 m3/year 184,583 m3/year 

Scope 1 emissions 10,298 ton CO2e 18,187 ton CO2e

Scope 1: 15,249 
Scope 2: 15,415.88 
Scope:3 11,195  
total: 528,191.51

To become a carbon neutral bank by zeroing 
operational emissions by 2025

Scope 2 emissions 47,770 ton CO2e 24,300 ton CO2e
To reduce the impact of our loan portfolio on 
climate change by 2030

Scope 3 emissions - 10,169 ton CO2e

Total energy consumption (Gj) 513,356 511,568

People & community

Female employee ratio 53% 53% 52%  

Duration of training  provided per employee 30 35 33 

Return-to-work ratio of the employees who have taken maternity and parental leave 99% 97% 100% 
To increase the effectiveness of investments 
made in our employees

Employee turnover ratio 6.67% 7.02% 7.21% 
To increase the social return of social 
investments

Number of employees taking part in in-house volunteer activities Close to 1,000 Close to 1,000 Close to 1,000
To increase the impact of Akbank volunteering 
in social investments

Ratio of the female employees in senior management 37.2% 40% 35% 

Note (1): Events that repeated a few times in the physical environment were published once in the online channel.

.Our sustainability 
performance

138 - 139Our sustainability journey



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Our value creation model

Input Output Key Performance Indicators (KPI) Emerging Value Affected Stakeholder 
Group SDG Relation

Strong equity and financial 
structure

(Total capital amount of 
5,200,000,000 TL)

Loans provided to our 
economy and operating 
profit

At Akbank, we continue 
to grow by providing 
contributions to our 
economy with our strong 
capital structure.

Shareholders, 
Investors, Analysts

Employees

Customers

International 
Financial 

Institutions

Local Community

Banking products and 
services oriented to different 
customers’ expectations

Investment Banking and 
Project Finance Loans, 
Corporate, Commercial, 
SME, and Individual 
Banking Services

We offer pinpoint solutions 
oriented to the needs 
and expectations of our 
customers.

Sustainable and widespread 
funding base: 

International correspondent 
network, Sustainability-
related external borrowing 
(Ratio of sustainability-
related to total amount of 
financing received to provide 
for 48%)

Projects and activities 
provided within the 
scope of sustainable 
financing

Provided TL 60 bn in sustainable finance 
Sustainable shareholder 
return/share

We strengthen our loan 
portfolio with financing 
diversity and various 
analyses.

USD 1,092.23 mn investment in renewable energy projects (renewable energy loans, cash and non-cash 
total)

We provide support to the 
sustainable development of 
our country by prioritizing 
the financing of facilities 
that generate energy from 
renewable energy sources.

USD 100 mn secured from EBRD for women-owned SME and 80% Credit Guarantee Fund (KGF) 
guarantee support to women businesses

3.8  tons of emissions prevented by financed  
renewable energy projects

54.7% Return on Equity

20.8% Capital Adequacy 
Ratio

19% Operational Expense - 
Income Ratio

Cash loans Breakdown, of 
which 64% are corporate, 
commercial, and SME loans

Individual loans and credit 
cards with 36%

Launched “SME Eco-
transformation Package”: 
1st comprehensive 
sustainability package in 
Türkiye for SMEs 

10 projects included in the 
Environmental and Social 
Impact Assessment

A total of  
3,163 MWh as HPP  
WPP 1,037 MWh 

Our bank’s stocks are 
traded in both Borsa 
Istanbul and the OTC 
market in the US as of 
December 31, 2022 with 
a market value of US$ 
5.437 mn 

The support we provided in 
2022 reached the level of a 
total of TL 757 bn, TL 616 bn  
of which was in cash.

Total ESG-themed 
funds AuM reached 
TL 2.7 bn, with 62K 
investors

20 projects rejected 
within the scope of the 
Environmental and Social 
Impact Assessment

TPP 320 MWh 
Solar Energy 181 MWh  
Biomass 21 MWh 

6.2% Return on Assets

17.7% Core capital ratio

TL 8.1 bn payments 
made to the suppliers

Approximately TL 7.4 
bn  financing amount 
provided to SME 
customers within the 
scope of the Surety 
Programs.

Basic sustainability, 
sustainable finance, and 
climate change initiation 
training for 100% of our 
corporate & commercial 
branch employees and 
approximately 25% of our 
Mixed Commercial branch 
employees

24 site visits and 
observations within the 
scope of Environmental and 
Social Impact Assessment

16  Sustainable 
Finance Products

Financial Capital (Sustainable Financing Focus Area) 

140 - 141Our sustainability journey



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Human Capital (Human and Society Focus Area)

Manufactured Capital (Ecosystem Management Focus Area) 

Input Output Key Performance Indicators (KPI) Emerging Value Affected Stakeholder 
Group SDG Relation

Diversity and inclusion 
activities

Innovative ideas and 
business models that 
emerged thanks to 
human resources 
practices created by 
considering diversity

98 branches where all disabled accessibility applications are made available

We build long-term 
employment relationships 
by increasing the happiness 
and loyalty of our employees.

Employees

Customers

The diverse and inclusive 
corporate culture 
nurtured by differences

307 disabled employees

Ratio of woman in income generating roles 56% 

Ratio of employees with university degree 97%

Women working in senior management at a ratio of 35%  

Ratio of female employees in technology teams: 39.6%

1,838 new jobs

7.21%  employee turnover ratio

Talent management at 
Akbank / Development and 
training activities conducted 
by Akbank Academy

Employee development 
and performance 
management

Ratio of employees made subject to performance evaluation: 100%

With our developing 
and diversifying human 
resources, we add value to 
the future.

Speciality-based  initiatives for 326 people in 59 different specialization

33  hours of training per person

Number of Employees recieved training  12,393

Innovative ideas and 
ways of doing business 
with competence 

Work outputs in high 
standards

6 ideas developed by in-house entrepreneurs with  
Akbank+ and a 10-week incubation  period

Input Output Key Performance Indicators (KPI) Emerging Value Affected Stakeholder 
Group SDG Relation

Digital and Technological 
Infrastructure, Modern, 
Widespread Branch and ATM 
Network activities

Uninterrupted service

Number of New Generation Akbank Branches: 542 We became the first Turkish 
bank to crown our banking 
approach that carries the 
future to the present with its 
technological investments, 
with the title of “Best Bank 
in Developing Markets.”

Employees

Customers

734k+ POS terminals

 Increase in customer feedback with enrichment of the process  50%

Financial inclusion 
understanding and studies

Providing services that 
will ensure financial 
inclusion to all segments 
of society, including dis-
advantaged groups

 “Right Approach to Disability” training with the guidiance of  “Alternatif Yaşam Derneği”  
(Alternative Life Association)  for all our employees in the field With our understanding 

of financial inclusion, we 
ensure that our customers 
from different segments  
participate in the financial 
ecosystem more effectively.

Access applications for the disabled people in 98 branches,  
Tactile Paving in 680 branches.

Environment-friendly card made of recycled plastic,  
which we have been offering to our customers as of 2022.

142 - 143Our sustainability journey



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Intellectual Capital (Ecosystem Management Focus Area) 

Social and Relational Capital (Humans and Society) 

Input Output Key Performance Indicators (KPI) Emerging Value Affected Stakeholder 
Group SDG Relation

Studies conducted for 
integrating innovation and 
digitalization into corporate 
culture

Investments made in 
digital channels and 
sales taking place via 
digital channels

The number of our customers using our Akbank digital 
channels from the end of 2020 : 3.2 mn We include digital transformation in all our business 

processes and create a continuous innovation environment 
in order to continuously improve the experience and service 
quality we offer to our customers.

Employees

Customers

Local Community

82% Consumer loans given through digital channels 
54% Credit cards sold via digital channels

Studies conducted 
within the scope of 
Akbank Innovation 
Center (Akbank LAB)

Interaction with over 400 innovation HUBs, initiatives, and 
universities in the ecosystem in 2022

In our innovative ecosystem, where all Akbank members and 
our stakeholders are present, we continue to invest in the 
future of our country with the support that we provide to 
entrepreneurs.

13 projects  implemented within Akbank LAB in 2022 , 
mentoring support for nearly 80 initiatives of 30 employees 
since 2020

Input Output Key Performance Indicators (KPI) Emerging Value Affected Stakeholder 
Group SDG Relation

Strong relationships with 
stakeholders

Strong collaborations 
with stakeholders and 
fast solutions that 
meet the problems and 
expectations of them

10.8 mn customers
In our innovative ecosystem, where all Akbank members and 
our stakeholders are present, we continue to invest in the 
future of our country with the support that we provide to 
entrepreneurs.

Customers

Suppliers

Non-
Governmental 
Organizations

Shareholders and 
Investors

Media

 Local Community

2,216 suppliers

Meeting with 250+  investors

Solutions focused on 
the satisfaction of our 
customers through the 
Clean Banking approach

1-point improvement in our customer satisfaction (NPS) 
score compared to 2021 

With the awareness that trust lies on the foundation of our 
way of doing business, we provide our customers and all 
other stakeholders with clear, understandable, and accurate 
information, and offer services that are timely and complete  
and in line with the promises made. We contribute to 
sustainable growth through the strong brand reputation we 
have and the trust of our customers.

Social responsibility 
management

Operations with NGOs 
and Local Organizations

85 events were held, and 73,957 participated from all 
208 universities, with the participation of students from 
different regions of Türkiye.

In the light of our environmental and social responsibilities 
we keep working to provide added value to our society.

We bring 75 young people to the entrepreneurship 
ecosystem with the CaseCampus bootcamp Live Program 
in collaboration with Endeavor.

4 Social return on investment (SROI) projects in 2022

Akbank Volunteers

In 2022, we reached over 28,349  young people as part of 
Akbank Youth Academy.

We continue our endeavors with approximately 1,000 
Akbank Volunteers.

Endeavors for contribution to 
culture and arts

Akbank Art
We organized  Akbank Jazz Festival in 22 different venues 
with 120 different artist.  
 
As part of the Akbank Short Film Festival, we evaluated a 
total of 2,081 short film applications in 2022. 
 
We have reached two million children so far with Akbank 
Children’s Theater.

We have been working to support the development of art in 
our country and to convey the local and universal heritage to 
future generations.

Akbank Jazz Festival

Akbank Short Film 
Festival

Akbank Children’s 
Theater

144 - 145Our sustainability journey



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Natural Capital (Climate Change) 

Input Output Key Performance Indicators (KPI) Emerging Value Affected Stakeholder 
Group SDG Relation

Environment-friendly 
banking understanding

Environmental and social 
management system studies

Sustainable management 
understanding

Effective use of natural 
resources in our operations

Banking operations, in 
which resources oriented 
to low carbon economy 
and circular economy are 
used effectively

47% reduction in the Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions  
compared to 2020 

We decrease our 
environmental footprint 
while increasing our positive 
impact

Shareholders and 
Investors

Local Community

Media

Our water consumption 184,583 m3  

The recycled waste rate 97%

14 mn tons of plastic consumption prevention achieved by 
ending the use of single-use plastics in food service

Number of branches and buildings with  
ISO 14001 Environmental Management,  
ISO 50001 Energy  standards:  315

Taking part in 
sustainability platforms 
that investors follow 
closely 

By taking transparent 
reporting as the basis, 
we ensure uninterrupted 
communication with our 
stakeholders about our 
efforts to combat climate 
change.

Environment-friendly 
products and services

We provide support to our 
companies and individuals to 
use natural resources more 
efficiently by means of the 
products and services we 
provide for the transition to 
a sustainable economy.

We have been included 
in the BIST Sustainability 
Index since 2014.  
 
Our 2022 CDP Climate 
Change Program rating 
is: B 
Our 2022 CDP Water 
Safety Program rating 
is: B 

The Blue Financing 
Product Package, 
to minimize the 
environmental footprint 
in the tourism, port and 
transportation sectors

We have been in the MSCI 
Developing Countries Index 
since 2002. 
 
In the MSCI ESG 
assessment, our score 
increased by two grades 
from B to BBB as of 
October 2021. 

SME Eco Transformation 
Package to encourage 
transformation of SMEs

In the Sustainalytics ESG 
risk assessment, we were 
placed in the “Low Risk” 
category as of November 
2021.

146 - 147Our sustainability journey



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Awards

CHANNEL AWARD PROGRAM AWARD 

Global Finance World’s Best Private Bank Awards 2022 Türkiye’s Best Private Banking Unit - Best Private Bank in Türkiye

Euromoney Euromoney Private Banking and Wealth Management Survey 2022

[Türkiye] Philanthropic Advice (1) - Philanthropic Consulting 
[Türkiye] Next Generation (1) - Next Generation Service 
[Türkiye] Serving Business Owners (1) - Service to Business Owners 
[Türkiye] Technology(b) Data Management and Security in Private Banking and Wealth Management (1) - 
Security and Data Management 

Global Finance World’s Best Banks 2022 Awards Best Bank in Türkiye 

PWM PWM Wealth Tech Awards 2022

Best private Bank for digital customer service, CEE (“Best Private Banking Unit in Digital Customer Service 
in Central and Eastern Europe” award) 
(Highly Commended) for Best private Bank for use of technology, CEE (“Highly Commended” in the 
category “ Best Private Banking Unit for Use of Technology in in Central and Eastern Europe”)

Global Finance Sustainable Finance Awards 2022

Country: 
Türkiye (Türkiye’s Best Bank in Sustainable Finance) 
Regional (CEE)  
Outstanding Leadership in Social Bonds (Outstanding Leadership in Social Bonds in the Central and 
Eastern Europe Region) 
Outstanding Leadership in Sustainable Project Finance (Outstanding Leadership in Sustainable Project 
Finance in the Central and Eastern Europe Region)

Euromoney Awards for Excellence 2022 Best Bank in Türkiye

Institutional Investor Emerging EMEA Equities Awards 2022 
“Best Company for Investor Relations’ among financial institutions” 
‘Best Investor Relations Program,’ ‘Best Investor Relations Team,’ ‘Best Environment, Social Policies, and 
Governance,’ ‘Best Analyst/Investor Event,’ ‘Best CEO,’ ‘Best CFO,’ #2 ‘Best Investor Relations Professional’

Euromoney Market Leaders
‘Sector Leader’ in Türkiye in the fields of ‘Digital Solutions,’ ‘Corporate Banking,’ and ‘Corporate Social 
Responsibility’

PWM/The Banker Global Private Banking Awards 2022 Türkiye’s Best Private Banking Unit

148 - 149Our sustainability journey



Sustainable 
financing

Sustainable Financing -------------------152

Responsible Products & Services ----------153

Our Environment and Social Credit Policies -156

Sustainable Borrowing ------------------158

Impact Investing ---------------------- 160



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Sustainable 
financing

We classify the projects that we provide 
sustainable financing in accordance with 
green and social criteria.

Responsible 
products & services

We provided basic 
sustainability, 
sustainable finance, and 
introduction to climate 
change training to 
100% of our corporate 
and commercial 
branches and 
approximately 25% of 
our Mixed Commercial 
branch employees.

Providing sustainable financing loan of 200 billion TL

To reach the balance of sustainable mutual funds to 15 million TL

Increasing sustainable financing in proportion to the volume of loans related to sustainability

As a financial institution, we are aware of the fact that 
the most important source of our impact on our economy, 
environment, and society is our financing activities. In order 
to provide long-term added value to the solution of problems 

such as climate change and inequality of opportunity, we set 
ourselves long-term commitments in the field of sustainable 
financing in 2021. In this way, we became the first deposit 
bank in Türkiye to declare a long-term target in this field. 

With Our Sustainable Finance Framework that we 
published in 2021, we use green and social criteria to 
categorize projects to which we provide sustainable 
financing. We also provide green, social loans in keeping 
with the Green and Social Loan Principles governed by the 
LMA (Loan Market Association). In addition, we issue bonds 
in compliance with the principles of ICMA (International 
Capital Market Association) (principles of green, social, and 
sustainable bonds). Considering that Türkiye has set a net 
zero emission target until 2053 with ratification of the Paris 
Climate Agreement, we aim to offer new and innovative 
sustainable finance products and solutions in all sectors in 
order to accelerate the transition to a low carbon economy. 

By zeroing the impact 
of our loan portfolio 
on climate change, we 
aim to be a “net-zero 
bank” by 2050.

In previous years, we have determined the sectors with the 
highest carbon emission intensity in our portfolio as cement, 
aluminium, machinery, automotive, textile, iron and steel, 
and chemistry, and we have started our studies for the 
transition to a low carbon economy in all sectors, especially 
in these sectors. In this context, we will continue to focus 
on the green transformation of carbon-intensive sectors, 
green technology investments, sustainable infrastructure 
investments, and the field of clean transportation. We 
started the decarbonization of our portfolio within the 
scope of our target of “Becoming a Net Zero Bank by 

2050.” We also focus on regulation, technology, and 
market expectations, which are transition risks that will 
affect our portfolio. After our analysis studies, we offer 
recommendations to our customers who need green 
investments by making use of comprehensive methods. 
We have categorized our sustainable finance products and 
services under the headings of “mitigating the impacts of 
climate change” and “climate adaptation,” by also taking 
into account the segment and sector distinction.

In the award program organized by 2022 Global Finance, we 
won the:

 “Outstanding Leadership in Social Bonds in Central 
and Eastern Europe” award with 340 million TL of 
social bonds for Domestic Individuals issued within 
the scope of social loans in our portfolio;

 “Outstanding Leadership in Sustainable Project 
Finance in Central and Eastern Europe” award with 
the spearheading sustainable finance projects in our 
Project Financing portfolio,

 “Türkiye’s Best Bank in Sustainable Finance” award 
in the transactions we conducted in all our segments 
throughout the Bank.

While we work on the integration of sustainability into all 
our financing activities, we also provide technical training 
to our employees in these areas and organize awareness 
activities. In 2022, we provided basic sustainability, 
sustainable finance, and introduction to climate change 
training to 100% of our corporate and commercial 
branches and approximately 25% of our Mixed Commercial 
branch employees.

2020

2022

2030

2020 2021 2022

The status in sustainable finance targets (TL mia) Share of sustainability-related transactions in total borrowing

Sustainable 
finance

200 10% >40% 45%

87

15

2.7

Sustainable 
mutual funds

Our long-term sustainable financing goals from the beginning of 2021 to 
2030:

152 - 153Sustainable financing

https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/pdf/Akbank-Sustainable-Finance-Framework.pdf


Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

We aim to increase our added value by working with 
different stakeholders, while supporting sustainable 
activities with our products and services. We take place as 
the Türkiye partner in the United Kingdom Government’s 
Climate Finance Acceleration (CFA) Programme, which 
aims to contribute to Türkiye fight against climate change. 
Some of the projects within the scope of CFA focus on 
the increase in energy efficiency in buildings, while others 
support the promotion of electric vehicles in Türkiye. 
Alongside the consultancy to be provided in the fields of 
gender equality and social inclusion, it is aimed to increase 
the preferability of the selected projects in investment 
decisions of Turkish and international financiers by also 
providing capacity-building support in areas such as the 
mixed-use of finance from public and private sources, 
developing financial models, and promoting materials in 
an effective manner.

Green financing

We aim to reduce our country’s dependence on foreign 
energy in the field of energy by conducting renewable energy 
projects thanks to our green financing supports. We carry 
out widespread and pioneering studies that prioritize electric 
vehicle production, electric vehicle fleet purchase loans, 
and low-carbon transportation/carriage solutions financing 
models for the transition of mobility from fossil fuels to a 
low carbon economy. In addition to commercial solutions, we 
also offer financing solutions for our individual customers 
for the base-wise widespread growth of low-carbon mobility. 
We aim to support the green transformation of our carbon-
intensive sectors (cement, iron-steel, aluminium, fertilizer, 
electricity) that may be affected by the Carbon Border 
Adjustment Mechanism. We encourage green transformation 
by taking sectoral demands, trends, and best practices in 
the chemical, automotive, plastics, and textile industries with 
high environmental footprints into account.

While we carried out sustainable finance studies in all 
our segments with our Sustainable Finance department, 
which we established under Investment Banking in 2021, 
we continued to strengthen our green and social loan 
portfolio in all our units with 16 sustainable finance 
products as of 2022.

 – We provided support to our customers in their journey 
towards transition to low carbon with our Green Foreign 
Trade Loan, Transition Loan to a Low Carbon Economy, 
and Roof GES Investment Loan product. While our 
Transition to a Low Carbon Economy Loan product 
serves our Corporate, Commercial, and SME segments, 
we worked for our Roof GES Loan to serve all segments.

 – We provide a transformation opportunity with our Blue 
Financing Product Package to our customers in the 
tourism, port, and transportation sectors who want to 
invest in the green investment subcategories included 
in our Sustainable Finance Framework. We perform our 
ESG analyzes (via site visits or online) for the respective 
sectors in order to provide suggestions to our 
customers to improve their sustainability performance.

We implemented a 
structure where we 
can easily monitor 
our sustainable 
financing loans in 
our systems into 
service. In addition, 
we strengthened 
our reporting 
infrastructure by 
also identifying 
companies that are 
green* due their 
activities.

* As defined in the Sustainable Finance Framework, Akbank may extend 
loans for certain assets and projects or companies defined as the ones 
that are expected to generate ≥90% of their turnover from assets that 
meet defined eligibility criteria. For such companies, the entire loan that 
Akbank extends to the borrower in question is eligible to be used within 
the scope of the funds obtained from the 100% Sustainability Financing 
(Borrowing) Instrument issuance.

 
Sustainable Finance 
Products 
16 

 – We continued the sustainable financing loans that 
we provided for the high-speed train project with 
a line length of 200 km in 2021, this year as well. 
In order to serve the goals of establishing a low-
cost, environmentally friendly, and sustainable 
transportation network, we have increased the quality 
of transportation services with the financing that has 
the feature of being a Green Loan (“Green Loan”).

 – We provide drip irrigation credit to prevent wild 
irrigation, provide efficient irrigation, and safeguard 
water resources.

 – We designed 7 sustainable finance products included 
in the “SME Eco Transformation Package,” which we 
have put into practice in order to support our SME 
customers in their green transformation journey 
and meet their financing needs, to provide support 
to our SMEs in developing their climate adaptation 
strategies and mitigating their carbon emissions by 
accelerating their transition to a low carbon economy. 
Thanks to it, we also aimed to provide market and 
competitive advantage especially for businesses that 
will be subject to the obligations brought along by the 
European Green Deal.

 – We offer our electric and hybrid vehicle loan product 
to our individual and commercial customers in 
order to create a clean and environmentally friendly 
transportation alternative.

We are the first and 
only bank in the sector 
with the Blue Financing 
product, which we 
have prepared in 
order to minimize the 
environmental footprint 
in the tourism, port, and 
transportation sectors.

The SME Eco 
Transformation 
Package is the most 
comprehensive product 
package that is offered 
in this segment and 
that promotes green 
transformation!

We aim to share the analysis of the data we collect from 
our customers in order to calculate the positive impacts 
of the sustainable finance loans we made in 2021 and 
2022, in the Impact Report, which we plan to publish in the 
forthcoming reporting period.

As of the end of the year, 3,163 MW of the energy projects 
we have financed so far consisted of HEPP, 1,037 MW 
of WPP, 320 MW of GPP, 181 MW of SEP, and 21 MW of 
Biomass. By the end of 2022, the number of renewable 
energy projects we supported reached 185.

PROJECT
2022 TOTAL 
INSTALLED 

CAPACITY (MW)

2022 LOAN 
BALANCE* (MN USD)

HEPP 3,163 496.2

WPP 1,037 380.3

GPP 320 149.6

SEP 181 53.5

Biomass 21 12.7

Total 4,722 1,092.3

* Loans living as of the end of 2022, includes cash and non-cash loans.

Social financing

We aim to privatize our support and facilitate access 
to finance in order to support the development and 
inclusiveness of our country’s social policies and improve 
living standards. As Akbank, we provided sector-specific 
purchase loans in order to expand access to healthcare 
services to the general public, increase the quality of 
service in the healthcare sector, to construct, renovate, 
and modernize hospitals, and to provide free primary 
healthcare services. Within the scope of the related 
financing, we focused on increasing the number of female 
employees in the health sector, providing basic health 
services, and observing social and environmental targets. 
We provided USD 100 Million funding from the European 

Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) within 
the scope of the Financing and Advisory Support to 
Women’s Businesses in Türkiye (TurWiB) program In 2022, 
businesses with women in their management benefited 
from a financing opportunity of 1 billion TL with 80% CGF 
guarantee and favourable interest rates.

We addressed the opportunities we offer to our SMEs, in 
detail in Ecosystem Management section of our report.

From our Sustainable Finance website you can pore 
over our sustainable finance products that we provide 
at Corporate, Commercial, SME, and Individual scale.

 
US$100 Million EBRD 
funding for women

154 - 155Sustainable financing

https://www.akbank.com/en-us/Products/Pages/akbank-sustainable-finance.aspx
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/pdf/Akbank-Sustainable-Finance-Framework.pdf
https://www.akbank.com/en-us/Products/Pages/akbank-sustainable-finance.aspx


Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

In 2022, we expanded the scope and content of our 
environmental and social loan policies with reference 
to good practices and standards and turned it into the 
Akbank Environmental and Social Risk Framework. We 
established the Environmental and Social Management 
System (ESMS) and Environmental and Social Impact 
Assessment (ESIA) System in order to identify and 
effectively manage environmental and social risks and/or 
opportunities that may arise as a result of the financing 
we provide. We apply the ESMS to all customers having 
commercial activities with which our Bank has a loan 
relationship. With this system, we started to systematically 
monitor the scoring, due diligence, and assigned actions 
with the IT improvements made on the loan offer screens. 

Our environment 
and social credit 
policies

In all our activities, we strive to 
increase our positive impact on nature 
and society, while mitigating our 
environmental footprint within the 
framework of our responsible banking 
approach and sustainability vision.

As of October 
2022, we started 
to implement the 
Environmental and 
Social Management 
System for all 
our commercial 
customers.

Credit Committee within our Board of Directors or Credit 
Allocation Unit authorized by our Board of Directors 
approves the loans that we provide in line with our policy. 
Concerning the financing transactions remaining within the 
scope of the ESIA, our technical expert inform the allocation 
teams and the Credit Committee about the environmental 
and social risk of the transaction and the measures to be 
taken. Our policy, which is reviewed every year in line with 
the approval of our Board of Directors and developing 
needs, is revised in accordance with current conditions.

As of October 2022, when our framework enters into force, 
we examine all project financing loans in detail in the ESIA 
system and work with independent consultants according 
to the risk score of the project. In addition, we subject new 
investment loans with an investment amount of over USD 
10 million and very high-risk projects (‘A Category Project 
List’) to examination in the ESIA System in more detailed 
than the ESMS according to good practices and standards. 
We classify new investment projects (or loan requests) for 
which financing is requested as Very High (A), High (B1), 
Medium (B2) or Low Risk (C) as a result of the assessment 
to be made in light of the environmental and social impacts 
they may potentially create. Within the scope of the “List 
of Activities Not Subject to Credits,” we evaluate all 
commercial loans that we have extended regardless of the 
amount limit, with the systemic controls we provided to our 
infrastructure in 2019. In 2022, as a result of such studies, 
we determined that 20 of the 505 loan applications were 
included in the list of activities that will not be subject to 
credits, and we rejected their requests. In 2022, a total of 10 
projects were included in the scope of the Environmental 
and Social Impact Assessment, and we categorized 1 
project as A category (very high), 2 projects as B1 category 
(high), 3 projects as B2 category (medium), and 4 projects 
as C category (low) risk. In accordance with the current 
conditions, we completed a total of 24 environmental and 
social risk monitoring studies for our infrastructure, energy, 
and production projects that are due in our portfolio, 
through field monitoring and online meetings. We continue 
the contribution of our portfolio to environmental and social 
sustainability by updating the actions to be taken as a 
result of monitoring process.

Since the implementation of our framework in October 
2022, we have comprehensively reviewed all the project 
financing loans in the ESIA system and worked with 
independent consultants according to the risk assessment 
of the project. We base our decisions on impacts on 
factors like employment and working conditions, resource 
management and pollution control, expropriation, public 
health and safety, biodiversity, and cultural heritage. 
We check compliance with the internationally valid UN 
declaration of human rights, the International Labour 
Organization’s (ILO) basic conventions that set standards 
in areas such as child labour, collective bargaining 
agreements, unionization, forced labour, equal opportunity, 
and workers’ rights, which are approved by our country. 
In the event that prohibited activities are observed 
within these frameworks, we undertake not to finance 
the proposed activity without performing a further 
environmental and social assessment.

We aim to minimize our impacts on wildlife, animal welfare, 
and biodiversity. Before making a financing decision, we 
check whether the proposed project is carried out in areas 
of critical importance for endangered species, and we do 
not finance activities like trading endangered species. In 
the projects that we finance, we question the existence of 
a biodiversity action plan in cases when it is understood 
that there are impacts on biodiversity. We demand that 
the biodiversity action plan be drawn up and implemented 
by experts where it does not exist. We determine the 
possible impacts of the project on aquatic, terrestrial, 
and avionic species through these reports, designate the 
mitigation measures to be taken in order to reduce the 
impact, monitor the success level of mitigation measures 
with monitoring studies, and ensure their regular follow-up 
through key performance indicators.

We execute processes for sectors and transactions that 
have a high impact on our customers’ effect on climate 
change and the potential to be affected by the physical 
and transition risks of climate change. You can find our 
practices regarding the management of climate change 
risk in loan decisions and studies at portfolio level in the 
section Portfolio Impact and Exposure.

In the ESIA System, 
we removed the 
USD 10 million limit 
in project finance 
transactions.

Responsible Lending and 
Financial Inclusion

By offering cutting-edge digital solutions, we put our 
customers’ daily banking transactions in order and increase 
financial access by facilitating transactions conducted. 
We adhere to the responsible lending principles in our 
allocation processes. In addition to sustainable production 
and consumption, we support innovative and social 
initiatives as well.

We add the requirements of our environmental and social 
credit policies to the General Credit Agreement, and we 
also revise the relevant areas in the agreement with our 
updated policy articles.

Our policy practices activated 
by developing competencies and 
awareness
We strive to equip our employees with the competencies 
they need in order to efficiently measure and monitor the 
environmental and social risks of the projects financed 
among our primary objectives. In 2022, we ensured the 
participation of one of our employees from our ESIA team 
Green Growth Fund (GGF)- Green Finance Expert Training 
and we also ensured that 2 of our employees from our ESIA 
team attended TCFD for the Financial Sector Sector Focus 
for Banks Webinar. In 2022, a total of 2,830 employees 
completed our e-learning trainings on Environmental and 
Social Credit Policies. In 2022, our ESIA Team took part in 
the Akbank Employee Meetings on “Climate Reality and its 
Reflections on the Sector” organized by Akbank Academy.

156 - 157Sustainable financing

https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/pdf/Akbank-ES-Risk-Framework.pdf


Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Sustainable 
borrowing

Sustainability-related borrowing

With our international banking network whose scope 
we have increased, we are further strengthening our 
sustainable financing supports in order to bring a 
sustainable quality to our national economy. At this point, 
we work with many international financial institutions such 
as the International Finance Corporation (IFC), European 
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD), 
European Investment Bank (EIB), and U.S International 
Development Finance Corporation (DFC).

In order to make our support to renewable energy projects 
sustainable, we signed a 15-year loan agreement with DFC 
in October 2014, amounting to USD 175 million. With this 
loan package, which offers attractive opportunities for 
investors and project owners, we financed renewable energy 
investments as well as machinery equipment supplies and 
energy efficiency investments that provide energy savings 
of at least 20%. In addition to the loan agreement we 
signed with DFC, we signed a 12-year loan agreement with 
the EBRD in October 2015 and June 2016, totalling USD 
220 million. 

In August 2020, we made our first green bond issuance of 
USD 50 million with a maturity of 4 years. In June 2021, 
we made the first sustainable subordinated bond issuance 
among the deposit banks in the Turkish banking sector. The 
size of the transaction, which has a maturity of 10 years and 
an early redemption option at the end of 5 years, was USD 
500 million. As Akbank, we became the first Turkish bank to 
associate both syndication transactions with sustainability 
in 2021. In July 2021, we signed a loan agreement with a 
7-year maturity, worth USD 100 million, with the Asian 
Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) to repair the negative 
impacts of COVID-19, becoming the first Turkish deposit 
bank to fund from the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank. 
Within the scope of the cooperation started in November 
2021, we provided financing for the elimination of the 
effects of the COVID-19 pandemic to meet the capital and 
liquidity needs of women entrepreneurs SMEs, by obtaining 
a fund of USD 50 million with a maturity of 2.5 years from 
the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. As 
Akbank, we have provided access to financing to support 
small enterprises in 22 provinces in the South and Southeast 
with a new resource of USD 50 million, with a maturity of 
3 years + 1 week, within the scope of the Impacted Areas 
project with the International Finance Corporation.

Within the scope of financing from the EBRD for meeting 
the capital and liquidity needs of women entrepreneur SMEs 
under the Türkiye Women in Business II Program (TurWiBII), 
USD 50 million on 10 November 2021 and USD 50 million 
on 6 September 2022; We have secured a total of USD 100 
million in funding.

On December 16, 2022, we completed our Bank’s first social 
bond issuance of USD 20 million and green bond issuance 
of USD 20 million. Both issuances with 3 years + 1 week 
maturity also became the first issuances made from Türkiye 
within the scope of the CMB’s new “Green Debt Instrument, 
Sustainable Debt Instrument, Green Lease Certificates, 
Sustainable Lease Certificates Guidelines.” At the same 
time, both issuances became the first transactions to be 
listed in the ESG segment of the Vienna Stock Exchange by 
a Turkish bank.

Loan balances as of the end of 2022

Company
AMOUNT 

(MILLION, US 
DOLLARS)

SHARE

AIIB (Asian Infrastructure 
Investment Bank)

100 12%

DFC (U.S International Development 
Finance Corporation)

96 11%

EBRD (European Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development)

230 27%

EIB (European Investment Bank) 172 20%

IFC (International Finance 
Corporation)

249 29%

Total 846 100%

 
First international 
social bonds: USD 
20 million

We continued to provide financing to 
our country by renewing sustainable 
syndication transactions in 2022.

We became the first Turkish deposit 
bank that provided funds from the 
Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank 
(AIIB).

As of the end of 2022, our foreign borrowing amount of USD 
5.5 billion, which was USD 3.0 billion long-term and USD 2.5 
billion short-term, is an important indicator that reflects 
it. The fact that 48% of this amount is sustainability 
themed reveals that we have successfully implemented our 
sustainable growth strategy.

The total amount of financing we obtained from abroad 
within the scope of the Sustainable Finance Framework 
became USD 590 million. While financial support to 
our SMEs, regional development and employment, and 
development studies are among the projects with a social 
scope, we consider endeavours such as renewable energy, 
clean transportation, and sustainable management of 
natural resources in the green projects category. We will 
continue to offer our financial support, whose inclusiveness 
and diversity we increase rapidly every year, in order to 
bring our country to the sustainable future it deserves.

We set our sustainable 
funding share target 
as 100% for 2030.

We realized all our 
foreign borrowings in 
2021 with the theme 
of sustainability.

158 - 159Sustainable financing



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Impact investing

We support the impact investing ecosystem by creating 
investment solutions that allow our customers to channel 
their savings into environmentally friendly companies 
and activities. While evaluating their savings, an ever-
growing number of investors consider which projects 
their investments contribute to with a high sustainability 
sensitivity. Within the scope of our sustainability strategy, 
we played an important role in making this understanding 
widespread in Türkiye. In this context, we want to encourage 
investment owners in Türkiye to invest in fields and 
companies that will benefit the entire planet. In 2022 and 
beyond, we wish to raise awareness on impact investing in 
Türkiye and expand our sustainable product alternatives in 
a wide variety of perspectives.

Sustainable investments

We offer various investment options such as investment 
funds, bonds/bills or stocks to investors with different 
asset and risk expectations in order to ensure that our 
customers invest in projects in the environmental, social, 
and governance fields.

At the beginning of 2021, we presented to deposit holders 
Ak Asset Management Funds, which consist of the themes 
of Alternative Energy, Health, and Domestic and Foreign 
High Technology which will allow investments to be made 
to the future of our world, country and economy under 
the umbrella of “Investments of the Future”. As of 2022, 
we increased our diversity by also adding Electric and 
Autonomous Vehicle Technologies and Agriculture and 
Food Technologies funds to our Fund portfolio. We broke 
new ground in Türkiye by receiving ESG ratings from 
Refinitiv and MSCI for each of these four sustainability-
themed funds of ours. We aim to develop and continue the 
sustainability assessment studies through independent 
institutions for our sustainable investment funds in the 
forthcoming period.

 
Sustainable 
investment funds 
volume: TL 2.7 billion

Ak Asset Management Agricultural and Food 
Technologies Variable Fund allows you to invest 
approximately equally in the world’s largest 
fertilizer producers, agricultural technologies, 
multinational companies such as food processing 
and food trading companies, and 20 companies 
like Türkiye’s agricultural machinery companies. 
The investment objective of the Fund is to invest 
in the fields of agriculture and food technology, 
which have stood out in the recent period, within 
the framework of the demand supported by the 
increase in the world population and rising living 
standards.

With the Ak Asset Management Health Sector 
Fund, which is the first fund to invest in the 
health theme, we enabled investors to easily 
invest equally in 20 selected global companies 
in the fields of pharmaceuticals, vaccines, 
biotechnology, genetics, and advanced health 
technology.

Ak Portfolio Health Sector and Alternative Energy 
Investment Funds became the first funds to be 
evaluated in Türkiye according to ESG criteria 
by Refinitiv (London Stock Exchange Group), 
which is one of the world’s leading financial data 
providers.

Ak Asset Management Electric and Autonomous 
Vehicle Technologies Variable Fund is a fund that 
invests in companies operating in fields such 
as electric and autonomous vehicle production, 
semiconductor, batteries, charging technologies, 
and software used in such vehicles. As the fund’s 
investment objective, we enabled companies that 
produce products and solutions in and around 
the autonomous driving technology areas in the 
rapidly growing electric vehicles sector to make 
easy investments.

As the first Turkish 
bank among deposit 
banks to set a 
long-term target 
in this regard, we 
are committed 
to increasing our 
sustainable mutual 
fund balance to TL 15 
billion AuM by 2030.

With the communication activities carried out in this area 
in 2022, the awareness level of investors increased, and 
awareness of impact investing spread to a wider group of 
people.

Our Sustainable Investment Funds balance, which covers 
all these products, reached such a significant size as TL 
2.7 billion thanks to the high interest of our investment 
customers.

You can access detailed information about the 
Investment Funds of the Future, from web pages Ak Asset 
Management and Akbank.

160 - 161Sustainable financing

https://www.akbank.com/en-us/Pages/default.aspx


Our Qualified Human Resource ----------164

Employee Satisfaction and Development  -166

The Future of Work --------------------170

Specialty Based Customized  
Development Journeys ----------------- 172

Diversity & Inclusion ------------------- 174

Our Occupational Health and  
Safety Practices -----------------------178

Our Social Investments ---------------- 180

People & 
community



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Our qualified 
human resource

Our competent and influential employees mean a lot for 
our Bank and our qualified human resource is our strongest 
capital. In this regard, we attach importance to offer a 
promising, inclusive and equitable working environment 
to our employees which supports continuous learning and 
development. 

The persons who are open to 
development, innovative, compatible 
with our values and respectful to 
differences can work in Akbank.

Overview of our employees

97% university graduates 

About 12.2 years of experience in the 
banking sector 

Averagely 11.1 years of experience in 
Akbank

We keep making a difference 
in our sector with our specialist 
and competent employees. 
Based on the People and Culture 
understanding of our Bank, we 
aim to:

Work with the employees who are highly 
competent in their jobs, 

Enrich our corporate culture every passing 
day which is supported with different ideas, 
participative, innovative, value to people and 
focus on continuous learning and thus, add 
more value to particularly our employees, 
customers, business partners and society, 

Prepare our employees for the business life 
and competencies of the future in advance 
through our investment made in them and 
ensure continuous development, 

Encourage and reward sustainable 
performance in parallel with our transparent 
and fair performance management that 
prioritizes equality of opportunity, 

Maintain such team works that take more 
initiatives and ensure coherence altogether 
effectively, 

Establish long-term business relationships by 
enhancing our employees’ satisfaction and 
loyalty. 

We monitor the experiences and performances of our 
employees in Akbank actively in line with our corporate 
goals through the Performance Management System. We 
subject our employees in the Head Office to a performance 
assessment once a year and our field personnel twice a 
year in order to make our line of performance sustainable 
which is transparent, responsive to changing needs without 
delay, open to development and flexible. As a result of 
our assessments, we identify the areas that require 
improvements for our employees and prioritize organizing 
various trainings and development opportunities for these 
areas and effectively support their career development. We 
subjected all our employees to a performance assessment 
in the reporting period.

In our Bank, we offer internship programs which prepare 
young people for business life with complete experiences. 
We provided an internship opportunity to a total of 89 
young people in our Bank in 2022. What is more, the young 
people we employ have a chance to work in the Head 
Office units on certain days of the week through our job 
advertisement for a part-time team assistant position 
which is actively published throughout the year. We carry 
on our studies to make the shift to prospective executive 
staff following internship and part-time working more 
comprehensive. 

We maintain the feedback provided to our employees 
until they leave the job. We make detailed interviews 
with our employees during their leaving process, assess 
the underlying reasons of their leaving one-to-one and 
identify our improving actions based on the outcomes of 
these assessments. We thank our leaving employees for 
their contributions to our Bank by donating to TEMA and 
we aim to stand by them in their career paths after their 
employment in our Bank within the first 6 months following 
the process.

You can access the tables showing our Human Resources 
indicators in the Annexes - Performance Indicators page.

164 - 165People & community



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Employee 
satisfaction and 
development 

Employee satisfaction is a very important criterion to 
keep work efficiency at the highest level. At this point, 
in addition to the rights we offer to our employees 
such as wages, bonuses, performance bonuses, foreign 
language compensation, remote working support, we 
also grant different rights depending on their place of 
work. In the category of fringe benefits that we provide 
according to the position; we also offer benefits and 
rights to our employees such as cash compensation, 
vehicle, petrol limit, OGS/HGS, mobile phone and/or 
voice line, internet access, tablet, laptop computer, 
service, parking lot, road fee, clothing assistance. In 
addition, within the scope of our social assistance 
category; they can benefit from rights such as 
migration compensation, goods transportation fee, 
death and injury compensation, natural disaster relief. 
In the event that material changes occur with respect 
to the employment agreements of our employees, we 
comply with the notice periods which vary depending 
on the length of service of the employees as specified 
in the applicable directives. Forced labour is excluded 
from the working principles of our Bank.

Main titles of its activities as of 31.12.2022:

 Total assets of the Foundation reached TL 4,650 million.

 The number of members whom pensions were allocated 
increased to 12,695.

 TL 930 million was paid to the retired, disabled, widows 
and orphans.

 Healthcare benefits amounted to TL 361 million during 
the year.

Our maternity leave applications

We offer 16 weeks of maternity leave in total 
pre and postpartum in order to facilitate the 
lives of our female employees both before 
and after the delivery. They also enjoy the 
right of unpaid maternity leave up to six 
months and 1.5 hours of breast-feeding 
leave until the child is 1-year-old. Upon the 
request of our employees, we allow them 
to take a leave for 1 day per week as the 
breast-feeding leave. Our male employees, 
on the other hand, whose spouses give 
birth can enjoy a 10 working days of paid 
leave. In case of adoption, we grant 8 weeks 
postpartum leave to either parent for the 
babies who have not completed the age 
of 3 yet. Following the legal paid maternity 
leave, we allow our employees to work 
part-time which is equal to the half of the 
weekly working hours at certain times. Upon 
their request, we provide them with the 
opportunity to work part-time for 60 days 
in the first birth, 120 days for the second 
birth and 180 days for the subsequent 
births. In case of multiple pregnancy, these 
periods can extend for further 30 days and 
if the baby is disabled, the duration of right 
can be extended to 360 days. Furthermore, 
it is possible to work part-time until the 
compulsory primary school age of the child 
following the legal maternity leave and 
maximum 6 weeks of unpaid maternity 
leave, if required. They can actually work 4 
hours per day and 20 hours per week in 5 
business days. The rate of our employees 
who return to work after maternity leave 
was 100% in 2022.

Akbank T.A.Ş. Members of the Pension 
Fund Foundation (Aksandık), founded 
for our current and retired employees 
and their dependent family members, is 
a social security institution with its own 
legal personality which provides the social 
security benefits of its members through 
the insurance premiums collected from the 
employees and employer. All our employees 
can benefit from healthcare services directly 
from the center of Aksandık if they are in 
the city they live; otherwise, they can benefit 
from the healthcare institutions that provide 
services under their contract with Aksandık. 

In any case requiring an operation, they can 
procure services from the institutions having 
a contract with Aksandık. The renovated 
Healthcare Center keeps providing services 
with its specialist and experienced doctors 
and its modern, refreshing and comfortable 
structure. With the established call centre, all 
employees were provided with appointment 
and consultancy services.The renewed 
website can be both used as an appointment 
platform and provides services with many 
interactive applications such as user-friendly 
e-provision, e-dispatch, follow-up of test 
results etc.

With the Private Pension System, another application we 
offer to our employees, we help them save and maintain 
their current standard of living in their period of retirement. 
Within the scope of this practice which is on a voluntary 
basis, we pay our employees an additional contribution fee 
at a certain rate of their monthly gross salary. As of 2022, 
7,220 of our employees were secured under the Private 
Pension System.

166 - 167People & community

https://www.aksandik.org/
https://www.aksandik.org/


Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

 Semih Demirağ, Assistant Manager in Akbank SME Banking 

Selçuk Şirin, Academician 

“Akbank was more than a workplace for me since the day I started 

to work there. That’s because we strengthen our relationships during 

our cooperation with the awareness that we are human beings and 

then employees. I always feel the support of Akbank and Akbank 

members while I am working and I can keep my energy without 

demotivation. While I am doing my job entertainingly, I can come up 

with an activity that will improve me both socially and professionally. 

This also contributes to my socialization and differentiates the working 

environment from a four-wall structure and makes me feel comfortable 

just like at home. Besides all these, Akbank’s support and development 

for innovation create value for its both employees and customers. As 

we mentioned in the Red Book of Akbanker, we are encouraged to 

take initiatives by going into actions without being hindered by the 

limitations of our responsibilities and we are appreciated when we do 

so. As employees, we can freely express all kinds of our opinions and 

receive support in return. It’s so good to be a member of Akbank!”

We follow an equal, fair and encouraging process with 
our merit-orientated remuneration policy. We ensure that 
our employees performing similar duties receive close 
remuneration. At the same time, according to our Performance 
Evaluation System results, we prioritize our employees who 
show outstanding performance development and effort in 
remuneration and rewarding practices, thus highlighting 
competence and performance. 

We introduced the Development Hour application in 
December 2021 during which our employees could spare 
time for their personal or professional development at an 
hour designated by them per week during the working hours. 
We shared 2 Development Hour recommendations per week 
and totally 98 Development Hour recommendations with the 
members of Akbank from December 2021 to the end of 2022. 
We enriched and maintained the use of our unlimited learning 
catalogue in 2022 which was designed in 2021 so that it would 
contribute to the development and career of our employees 
and included thousands of different resources from book 
summaries to online trainings, development journeys to audio 
records.

We organize some rotation programs in order for our 
employees to be encouraged to experience different jobs, 
responsibilities, perspectives and duties, to diversify their 
career routes and enhance their knowledge, skills and 
competencies. By including our 560 employees in rotation 
processes in different units through 6 different rotation 
programs in 2022, we ensured that they observed different 
business manners and gained new experiences and insights. 
In this way, we not only improve the understanding and 
coherence in the organization and between the units, but also 
support our culture to learn from each other. We also support 
the personal development journeys of our employees with 
such source suggestions as books, movies, TED talks, MOOC 
(free online learning). We broadcast program related videos, 
tablet trainings and interviews in the so-called Mirror of the 
Future Akbanker channel in Academy TV.

In 2022, we founded My Akbank Family Academy in order 
for Akbank members and their families and loved ones to 
benefit from different development opportunities in the 
designated areas of focus. The relatives of Akbank members 
can subscribe through the website of My Akbank Family 
Academy and have a chance to be informed about and 
benefit from all opportunities as a member. Within this 
scope, we offer special contents both to children and adults 
in terms of sustainability with a focus on diversity, inclusion 
and environment besides the contents of child development, 

Work-Private Life Balance and 
“İyi Bir Sen” Well-being Program

With the so-called “Iyi Bir Sen” wellbeing 
program, we introduce supportive 
practices for physical, mental, emotional, 
social, digital and intellectual wellbeing 
of all our stakeholders. By organizing 
more than 30 competitions with different 
contents so far, we shared various 
desktop messages with our employees 
related to healthy life, environment, family 
and motivation themes for the purpose of 
reminding them of basic exercises in the 
course of a busy day and making them 
feel the theme of “For your Well-Being.” 
Within this framework, we provided a 
mobile application with all our employees 
on a free of charge basis which allowed 
weekly free interviews with dietitians, 
trainers and psychologists through 
special contents and supported their 
wellbeing with monthly themes. Moreover, 
we collect the recommendations from all 
our employees through our designated 
“wellness ambassadors” and we jointly 
shape and implement our actions. We 
made over 50 collaborations in 2022 in 
order to meet our employees’ needs for 
technology, supermarket, training and 
household consumption products more 
smoothly within the scope of special 
discount agreements. We raised their 
awareness with our “For your Well-
Being.”messages through about 140 
communication initiatives for sharing all 
practices with our employees.

We donated 60 thousand books to 10 
thousand families by supporting the so-
called 1 Million Books project launched by 
Prof Dr Selçuk Şirin with the awareness 
that the return of investment made in 
children in their pre-school period would 
be high. 

We took the road to make sure that each 
child has a library through the book set 
specially prepared for children in this 
period. We delivered the books donated 
within the scope of the project to state 
hospitals across Türkiye and non-
governmental organizations, families and 
children.

We also started to deliver the “Child 
Development and Social Gender Equality 
Guideline” prepared with the contribution 
of the Gender and Women’s Studies 
Research Center of Kadir Has University 
to Akbank members having children 
together with 1 million book sets as of 
2022.

parenting, physically and emotionally healthy life, STEM for 
children, culture and art. We introduce such events as online 
seminars, workshops, certificate programs etc. for different 
age groups from birth to old age with specialists and the 
members can benefit from our e-learning pool depending on 
their needs. We announce the monthly calendar in advance 
every month. We organized 53 events and reached the 
approximate participation number of 3,000 in My Akbank 
Family Academy launched in June 2022.

168 - 169People & community

http://akbankliailemakademisi.com/


Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

The future of work

In Akbank, we design our development programs in parallel 
with the needs of the future, on the basis of competency 
and in a customized manner. We use and make employee 
trainings more enjoyable by offering them a gamification 
infrastructure through customized learning tools with different 
options from in-class trainings to digital training materials. 
We offer customized development solutions which ensure 
learning through Training Analytics and are supported by need 
oriented data. Besides, we closely monitor their development 
processes with the use of dashboards and take actions 
accordingly. Furthermore, we support our employees in 
certifying their job-related competencies with national and 
international certificates. While we are doing these, we make 
use of our specialties, identify the development needs and 
design our plans in parallel with such needs. We bring Akbank 
members together with a number of specialists and raise 
their awareness through the Meetings of Akbank Members 
that have been maintained for about 8 years. We continued 
to enrich our Healthy Life and Parent School channels in 
Academy TV with short videos prepared by specialists also 
this year.

Within the scope of our “Mirror of the Future Akbanker” 
program, we offer such tools that will support our employees’ 
personal development, allow them to improve their social and 
cognitive abilities and turn their potential to performance. 
The fact that our program introduces the “customized” 
development understanding specifically for each employee 
and covers all of them distinguishes the program from the 
others. We took the road with the motto of “Development 
is not equal to training only” in the program. In the program 
that we designed the personal development plan process 
as the building block thereof, we offer some tools to our 
employees to discover themselves and identify their strengths 
and weaknesses. This application allows our leaders to 
closely monitor the development of our employees’ personal 
competencies and skills and makes sure that our employees 
can also monitor their own development and support it through 
feedback, customized career and development opportunities. 
We shared the “Mirror of Today” application with our 
employees which is introduced once every 2 years and allows 
the employees to identify their strengths and weaknesses for 
designing the development route for the upcoming year and 
review the change in their previous assessments. In addition, 
what are the strengths and development areas of their teams 
in 2022, we also shared the “Mirror of the Team” application 
with our Akbank leaders, where they can see the change in 
the previous evaluation. In 2022, approximately 10 thousand 
employees contributed to their personal development and 
career by preparing their own personal development plan. 

We improve our development 
programs in parallel with the needs 
of the future, on the basis of 
competency and in a customized 
manner.

In consideration of the fact that adaptation to new 
technologies has currently gained a great importance and 
these developments have changed the needs and business 
manners of customers, we consider that the improvement 
and development of our employees’ technological capabilities 
which will meet customer demands in the best way and 
improve new products and processes are critical points. 
Within this scope, we continued to establish talent centers 
by diversifying the “Center of Excellence” program designed 
in previous years under the leadership of Akbank Academy. 
Besides the advanced analytics, design oriented thinking, 
new generation marketing, open banking and innovation 
areas available in the program, we launched the Business 
Continuity program. We carried on our studies for the “Zero 
Gravity” program covering entrepreneurship and preparation 
for disruptive transformation in which we targeted to introduce 
different and innovative perspectives to the work, processes 
and experience by supporting the innovation ecosystem also 
in 2022. On the other hand, we launched the Experience and 
Service Design Program intended for equalizing the level 
of knowledge of our specialist teams shaping the services, 
processes and UX/UI design under the supervision of the 
Customer Experience and Service Design Unit in terms of 
research and insight analysis, experience design, process 
design etc.

We ensure recognition inside and outside the Bank by 
delivering certificates through digital certification agreements 
we make for our qualified programs. Moreover, we keep 
providing development opportunities such as trainings/
seminars, platform memberships, professional coaching, 
mentorship, technical/personal development trainings and 
certificate programs for individual participation. In 2022, we 
increased the diversity of the Executive MBA (EMBA) and 
postgraduate programs designated in connection with the 
positions of the employees in terms of both universities and 
departments.

Skills center – (open banking)

We introduced the Open Banking Program in 2021 in 
which we focused on the developments in our country 
and followed the open banking trends across the world 
for the purpose of getting prepared for new conditions of 
competition and ranking among the leading organizations 
in competition with a focus on open banking. We started a 
series of seminars dedicated to this area in 2022 in order to 
raise awareness across the Bank.

We have been continuing training and development 
programs such as orientations, career training, sales 
support programs and clean banking programs since 
recruitment. In addition, we continue with many of our 
programs that prepare us for the business life of the future.

Dynamic sales development 
program

We maintained our activities in the reporting period and 
extended the use of the program to all our sales teams 
to facilitate the workflow processes of our employees for 
the purpose of laying the foundations of an analytical 
sales culture in all our sales channels that we directly 
contacted with our customers, gaining a customer oriented 
and multidimensional insight and solving the needs and 
demands more effectively by way of reviewing the sales 
outcomes. Our program which involved 2,365 Akbank 
employees in 2022 substantially supports the competency 
and development processes of our employees. We create 
value for our customers and stakeholders with our platform 
featuring many different learning models from games to 
virtual applied classes. With the Next Generation Sales 
Development Coaching intended for the competency 
development of the sales teams, we share the sales cycle 
covering the whole sales process and the competencies 
required to be owned in each phase of this cycle with 
our employees. Within this scope, we made one-to-one 
development interviews with about 2 thousand CRM sales 
coaches under the supervision of the Business Unit of 
Private Banking and Digital Solutions, SME Banking and 
Commercial Banking in 2022.

Our Dynamic Sales 
Development program 
which involved 
2,365 Akbank 
employees in 2022 
substantially supports 
the competency 
and development 
processes of our 
employees. 

170 - 171People & community



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Specialty based 
customized 
development journeys

We offer personal development opportunities for proper 
identification of the employees’ areas of development 
and for taking them to the levels required by their jobs 
for the duties that are deemed to be necessary for their 
jobs or that they want to master in through a specialty 
assessment process being the first step of the so-called 
“Impression of Akbank Members” project designed 
for creating a customized experience. Our employees 
score themselves in the targeted specialties with the 
organization of workshops with team leaders for each 
duty in parallel with the strategies of our Bank in the 
course of the specialty assessment process and such 
scores are submitted for the approval of the supervisor. 
For the specialties with differences between the expected 
level and the supervisor’s score, calibration discussions 
are made with the career teams and respective directors/
department heads and the areas of development are 
identified on the basis of employees and specialties. 
As Akbank Academy, we offer personal development 
opportunities addressing the development needs resulting 
from overall assessments and calibration discussions. 
Within this scope, we provided development initiatives to 
326 persons in 59 different areas of specialty in 2022. 

Next generation leadership program
We continued to enrich the competency and leadership 
development programs with experience sharing sessions 
supporting the culture of learning from each other also in the 
reporting period within the scope of our program specially 
designed for our employees at the executive level in our Bank. 
During the program, our employees can acquire different 
capabilities for both their current positions and other roles 
they can assume in line with their potential and preference 
through these practices we maintain in a flexible, dynamic, 
renewable and digital structure. In 2022, we offered the 
so-called Psychological Environment of Trust e-learning 
to our employees which would support the establishment 
and reinforcement of the psychological environment of 
trust for the purpose of contributing to the development 
of their leadership competencies. We made substantial 
progress in the development of 12,393 employees with 1,967 
virtual classes and averagely 33 hours of training per person 
throughout 2022. 

 
Number of 
employees 
benefiting from the 
training 
12,393

 
Areas of specialty 
59 

 
Number of virtual 
classes 
1,967 

 
Average hours of 
training per person 
33 hours 

Akbank Academy

 Selçuk Şirin, Academician 

“Akbank stands for productivity and professionalism for me. 

During one year of My Akbank Family Academy process, I learnt 

that there is no obstacle we cannot overcome if we take the road 

with a professional team that is dedicated to their jobs passionately. 

Akbank offered me a chance to introduce a program that I have 

been theoretically designing for years. The goal of My Akbank Family 

Academy that we developed with a highly competent team from 

Akbank is to support both Akbank employees and their relatives from 

birth to old age. It makes me very happy that this challenging project 

will soon reach to such a level that it can be presented as a model 

practice both to the other organizations in Türkiye and to the rest of 

the world.”

 Aysun Barın, Avvartes Partners 

“Akbank is an organization where we can jointly develop projects 

with positive impacts on the society. There is a high level of cooperation 

understanding, respectful relationships are displayed, there is strong 

and open communication, we embrace shared values and get excited 

about thinking, creating and working together. On the grounds that 

our joint activities address people and community, make a difference 

and focus on becoming a better person and society, we are in such 

a cooperation that fully matches with all our corporate values and 

mission. I believe that the social impact created by the Female Akbank 

Employees as Role Models program for which we collaborate as 

business partners to improve the representation of women in business 

life and society is very important and the fact that the impact of our 

joint projects on individuals, organizations and the society carries on 

by getting stronger and is sustainable makes our business partnership 

more meaningful and valuable. Being with Akbank in this journey brings 

along substantial visibility and strength and gives us hope for the 

future.”

Career opportunities
In order to increase talent mobility, create equal opportunities 
for employees in all processes, and diversify career paths, 
we aimed to increase the number of job transitions between 
bank subsidiaries, in addition to increasing the job transfers 
between Akbank’s own units through the internal posting 
(Career Opportunities) system. In this process, we create 
multi-faceted development opportunities for employees 
through the announcements made within the company. While 
all vacancies for the institution are published within the 
Bank, Akbank employees can apply for these postings and go 
through the evaluation processes.

As a result of the evaluation based on the competencies and 
performances of Akbank employees, we give personalized 
feedback to all employees who apply for the job. In 2022, we 
published a total of 332 internal job postings. We held one on 
one interviews with 246 people who were in compliance with the 
announcement criteria and appointed 69 candidates who were 
successful as a result of their interviews to their new duties. 

Learning from each other
Within the scope of the learning organization strategy of our 
Bank, we attach importance to the culture of learning from 
each other and make use of various platforms for extending 
this culture. We carry out our training activities in many 
aspects with our internal trainers and benefit from their 
experiences and specialties through the Academy TV channels, 
You Are the Expert platform, We Catch the Update in Digital 
WhatsApp group and coaching and mentorship processes. 
We also organize experience sharing sessions to which we 
invite speakers from our Bank for the purpose of ensuring and 
reinforcing the continuity of our qualified programs. 

You are the expert
In order to expand our learning organizational structure, 
we develop a culture of learning from each other, in which 
information is not one sided, but spreads through a systematic 
method involving all our employees. In this sense, we have 
implemented our platform, which we call “You are the Expert”. 
Akbank employees can share any subject they are specialized 
in with all of our employees by shooting videos on their 
own phones.Videos that include social skills such as Golf, 
Mountaineering, Handmade Jewellery Design, as well as critical 
experiences for business life, are highly appreciated. Thus, we 
believe that while contributing to the technical and social skills 
of Akbank employees, we also add a different dimension to the 
learning culture.

172 - 173People & community



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Diversity & 
inclusion

We believe that differences and diversities are our essential 
wealth sources at the workplace. As Akbank, we also 
assume a responsibility for the sake of a sustainable 
future where people are embraced without alienation, no 
inequality is observed, and people from every walk of life 
can be easily involved in economic activities. Within the 
framework of our Diversity and Inclusion Policy, the issue 
of social-gender equality stands out as an element in 
our working environment that we reflect on our business 
culture and prioritize. In this regard, we follow the rate of 
female employees in our Bank at different breakdowns, 
namely at the executive level, in income-generating and 
STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics) 
positions. Furthermore, we never use any expressions that 
bring discrimination to mind in our job advertisements. We 
do not exclude any persons with disabilities or any young 
men from business life due to driving license and military 
service requirements, respectively. In Akbank, we respect 
the rights of our employees within the frame of national 
and international regulations. We require our suppliers to 
commit to standing against child labour, forced labour, and 
other practices incompatible with human rights and we 
adhere to these principles during our joint activities.

We closely follow up on implementing our policies to ensure 
equality of opportunity for our employees and stakeholders 
and support an inclusive corporate culture within the scope 
of our sustainability strategy and our diversity and inclusion 
approach: Zero Tolerance Policy Towards Violence and 
Human Rights Policy.

As Akbank, we also assume a 
responsibility for the sake of a 
sustainable future where differences 
nourish each other. 

 
The first bank 
and organization 
participating in The 
Valuable 500 from 
Türkiye 

 
Employees who have 
received the ethics 
training: 11,750

 
UN Women 
Unstereotype 
Alliance membership

In 2016, we became a signatory of the “Women’s 
Empowerment Principles (WEPs)” of the United Nations, 
which aim to empower women to ensure their involvement 
in all sectors and levels of economic life. You can review 
our Progress Report on the Women’s Empowerment 
Principles (WEPs) and the GRI Content Relationship table 
here. Moreover, we are a member of the “30% Club,” which 
has been founded to enhance the role of women in Top 
Management, with a 35% female employment rate among 
our executives. In 2021, on the other hand, we became 
a member of the UN Target Gender Equality. We joined 
the global Unstereotype Alliance introduced by the UN 
Women in 2022, aiming to transform harmful social gender 
stereotypes in media content. 

We come together and conduct joint studies with some 
organizations like the UN Women, Yeniden Biz, Mor 
Çatı Women’s Shelter Foundation, ES Career, Kadir Has 
University Social Gender and Women’s Works Centre, and 
Upschool to develop projects regarding social gender and 
equality of opportunity. 

Within the scope of the “İkinci Bahar” Project, which we 
launched jointly with Yeniden Biz Foundation, we offer 
flexible working opportunities (either full-time or part-
time) with different working methods (distant/hybrid/in 
the office) to female candidates who had to discontinue 
their career due to elderly care or childcare for a certain 
period and want to participate in the labour force again. We 
include the women joining the project in our recruitment 
pool and allow them to come together with our respective 
executives. 

Average age of our 
employees: 38

We fulfil the 
requirements of 
the international 
conventions to which 
our country is a party, 
particularly the UN 
Declaration of Human 
Rights, the European 
Convention on Human 
Rights, and the 
essential principles 
of the International 
Labour Organization 
(ILO) on labour rights, 
human rights, and 
social justice.

 With the belief that the role of women in business life 
and society must be empowered and made more visible, 
we launched the Role Model Akbank Members Program 
in 2022. We aim to ensure that the women being Akbank 
members establish a value network for women so that 
a social impact will be created both inside and outside 
the bank for an inclusive future. For this purpose, the 
participants expand their sphere of influence through the 
mentorship process after completing the program, which 
includes webinar training, inspiring women’s meetings, and 
project initiatives covering women’s empowerment. The first 
group of the Role Model Akbank program consisting of 20 
persons, was completed, and the second group has been 
started.

We are working to facilitate access to our branches and 
ATMs to minimize inequalities and allow our customers 
with disabilities to benefit from our services in the most 
effective way. You can access detailed information 
about our high-quality services and products offered 
to customers through all our channels, including any 
disadvantageous groups in our Ecosystem Management 
section.

We qualified to be included in the 
Gender Equality Index (GEI) of 
Bloomberg for the 3rd time, which 
is one of the most comprehensive 
surveys conducted across the world 
in order to measure the performance 
of corporations guaranteeing gender 
equality.

174 - 175People & community

https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Diversity-and-inclusion-policy/614/1504/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Zero-tolerance-policy-towards-violence/621/1524/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Human-rights-policy/620/1523/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/year-list/Sustainability-reports/60/0/0


Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

We are the first bank and organization to join The Valuable 
500 global community from Türkiye, which aims to provide 
equality in business with individuals with disabilities. Within 
the scope of our Disability Access project, we identify 
the areas of development concerning a more accessible 
working environment for our disabled colleagues. We made 
assessments inclusive of our Headquarters buildings 
and pilot branches throughout 2022. We determined 
our architectural areas of development in the working 
environments and developed our action plans considering 
different disability types. We will keep following these 
action plans also in 2023. 

We improve our customer experience and employee training 
in line with our ethical understanding, which is prioritized 
based on our Clean Banking principle. We provided training 
with 11,750 persons at the end of 2022 within the scope of 
our Ethical Principles training designed based on the UN’s 
Human Rights in order to turn these values into a part of 
the corporate culture. Besides, 5,748 persons were trained 
in 2022 in anti-bribery and anti-corruption training. In 
this way, the rate of employees who received training on 
human rights reached 96%. Moreover, we provided Basic 
Sustainability training to 10,655 persons and Unconscious 
Bias training to 7,328 persons across the Bank in 2021. We 
reached 5,357 persons with the training to foster disability 
awareness and 7,080 persons with the Zero Waste training, 
both of which were introduced in 2022. On the other hand, 
we maintained the awareness training in virtual classrooms, 
which had been introduced in 2021 for the leaders within 
the scope of the Zero Tolerance to Violence Policy, and we 
offered this training across the Bank during 2022. Thus, 
we provided the training to 3,696 persons within the scope 
of Zero Tolerance to Violence. We reached 89% of our 
employees at the end of 2022 through different training 
focusing on sustainability. 

We have an “Ethics Hotline” within the structure of our 
Bank, which encourages the adoption of our values and 
constitutes a smooth notification process. This hotline 
is working to assess the notifications of any negative 
incidents that could not be solved by our employees among 
their teams and the notifications of conflicting behaviours 
with our ethical understanding quickly and eliminating the 
source of risk thereof. 

In parallel with our diversity and inclusion approach, we 
know that being and feeling safe at home and work is 
important for everyone. Accordingly, we stand against all 
forms of violence and abuse, which are the most critical 
elements that damage confidence. We identified the 
principles and approaches related to preventing all kinds 
of violence and the processes to be followed in case of 
behaviour involving zero tolerance to create a safe and 
supportive working environment for all our employees in the 
light of our Zero Tolerance to Violence Policy. We stand by 
our employees in this regard through our “Zero Tolerance to 
Violence Guide and Hotline.”

Furthermore, we have the Feedback Assessment Process 
for Human Resources Processes through which our 
employees can directly submit their feedback to the 
Human and Culture teams. During 2022, we received 12 
notifications. We maintain our improvement processes by 
taking the required actions after reviewing the incoming 
notifications promptly. The “Zero Tolerance to Violence 
Guide and Hotline” was implemented in 2022 to follow up 
on domestic violence and mobbing cases. 20 notifications 
were received through this line with the contents of 
psychological, domestic, and discriminatory violence and 
digital abuse (1 notification) and the action process was 
completed for 17 of them.

All our employees can become a member of the Bank and 
Insurance Workers Union (BANKSİS) at their discretion. The 
Collective Labour Agreement for the 18th period expired 
on 31.12.2021 and the Union did not submit a letter of 
authorization to our Bank in this respect. Within the scope 
of the current legal regulations in our Bank, the membership 
to the Union and resignation from membership processes 
are not interfered with. Our employees can exercise the 
organization’s rights, become Union members, and freely 
enter a collective labour agreement. The announcement of 
the Bank in this regard is published in the HR portal.

Other details about our operations
 194 million TL of financial right was provided to the 
Executive Management of the Group in 2022.

 Information is provided in the General Meeting about 
the grants and aids made during the year through an 
individual agenda item.

Gender distribution in the top management

Woman Man35% 65%
35%  Rate of female executives 

52%  Rate of female employees

56% Rate of female employees in income 
generating positions 

39.6% Rate of female employees in 
technology teams 

43%  Rate of female employees in STEM 
roles

176 - 177People & community



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Our occupational 
health and safety 
practices

As Akbank, we care about the health and safety of all 
our stakeholders. Within the scope of our Occupational 
Health and Safety Policy, we regard the achievement and 
maintenance of a safe and healthy working environment 
as an indispensable part of our continuous obligations and 
operations by way of following national and international 
legal requirements in our processes. Within this framework 
we comprehensively implement all our OHS processes 
under the supervision of the Top Management. An 
Occupational Safety Specialist and Onsite Doctor take 
charge in our Headquarters buildings under the supervision 
of the Human and Culture Unit. Our OHS Board therein 
holds meetings on a quarterly basis for the follow-up of the 
processes. These meetings are attended by the Employer 
Representative, OHS Specialist, Onsite Doctor, HR/Social 
Affairs Representative and Employee Representative. Many 
developments such as accidents, training, audits, details 
of the actions to be taken etc., are submitted for the 
Information of the Board of Directors of Akbank in the form 
of an OHS Information Report quarterly.

Preliminary hazard analyses are conducted proactively in all 
our working environments against any negative impacts of 
the factors that threaten occupational safety and human 
health. The identified risks are ranked using the Fine-Kinney 
Method, and the control measures are determined. The Risk 
Assessment and Contingency Plans are developed as a 
result of the hazard and risks analyses. We conduct onsite 
audits on a regular basis through the OHS professionals for 
the purpose of creating and maintaining a safe and healthy 
working environment at all our locations. We review the risk 
assessments periodically by following up the actions and 
monitoring the efficiency of the measures.

In case of a near miss, hazardous situation and occupational 
accident, we carry out a root cause analysis and generate 

fast and effective solutions in compliance with the accident/
incident inquiry procedure as defined in the Codes of OHS 
Practices of our Bank. We digitalized and introduced the 
“Occupational Health and Safety Notification” screen for 
the Headquarters and Field teams in October 2022, which 
would contribute to the prompt notification of any near miss, 
hazardous situation, and occupational accident incidents 
encountered in the working areas of our Bank, taking of the 
required measures without delay and prevention of a bigger 
accident that might occur in the future through the analysis 
of the root causes of the occurring accidents. In 2022, 
interim audits were conducted at 42 locations for ISO 45001 
Occupational Health and Safety Management System within 
the scope of the Integrated Management System and we also 
successfully completed the certification processes for 271 
locations. 

We communicate our OHS policies and practices to our 
employees using such main channels as Bizbize Akbank 
portal, Kolektif, Akbank Academy, and mailing. We share 
some widgets with an OHS team monthly to raise our 
employees’ awareness. 

In Akbank Academy, we provide face-to-face and distant 
OHS trainings monthly. Moreover, we share essential 
e-learning materials and informative content with respect 
to disaster awareness, occupational safety at workplaces 
for telecommuting and OHS which are available for use all 
the time. We also offer OHS conversations and instructive 
videos through the Academy and wellness. We raised the 
occupational health and safety awareness of our 3,169 
employees in total through our face-to-face training 
and e-learning activities in 2022. We not only inform our 
employees about the pandemic or important diseases all the 
time through Aksandık webpage, but also provide disaster 
training through fire and earthquake drills organized on a 
regular basis. 

Within the scope of struggle with 
COVID-19 which exercised its influence 
all over the world, we took all necessary 
measures in our Headquarters and 
branches starting from the outbreak 
of the first case in our country. We also 
organized different events to identify 
telecommuting principles and support 
physical and emotional wellbeing of our 
employees to maintain the business-
private life balance in the pandemic 
period.

As Akbank, we care about the health 
and safety of our employees.

We generate fast 
and effective 
solutions for 
our employees’ 
notifications about 
hazardous situations 
that might lead to 
an accident.

 
Number of 
employees who 
received the OHS 
training: 3,169

 
Number of the 
locations subjected 
to an interim audit 
within the scope of 
ISO 45001: 42

Number of locations 
whose certification 
process was 
completed: 271

The suitability of our employees to the job is assessed 
by our onsite doctors through employment examination 
in order to protect their health. During their employment, 
they are periodically subjected to medical screening 
by our onsite doctors, and in this way, their well-being 
is maintained. Furthermore, we offer a Dietitian, Sports 
Instructor, and Psychological Counsellor services on a free-
of-charge basis to ensure the continuity of our employees’ 
healthiness, fitness and psychosocial wellbeing.

Our occupational health and 
safety performance

The number of employees and subcontractors included in 
the occupational health and safety system is 19,045. 67% of 
these persons are Akbank’s employees, whereas 33% are the 
subcontractors’ staff.

Thanks to the operations of our Bank in its business areas 
and in the area of occupational health and safety, no 
occupational disease or fatal occupational accident took 
place in Akbank and situations which can be characterized 
as an occupational accident are very rare. In 2022, 11 
occupational accidents occurred and reported within the 
structure of our Bank. The total number of sick leaves taken 
by our 4,804 employees as a result of illnesses corresponded 
to 45,091 calendar days. When this number is proportioned 
to the average number of employees, the average number of 
sick leaves per capita is 3.5 days in a year.

178 - 179People & community



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Our social 
investments

Building the Türkiye of the future is possible with a holistic 
approach covering social, cultural, and environmental 
transformation rather than simply economic development. 
In this sense, we do not limit our responsibility to banking, 
and we make social investments with our understanding 
of corporate responsibility understanding. We launch 
distinguishing projects in the areas of focus such as 
training, entrepreneurship, culture, arts, and Volunteering. 
We attach great importance to the training and design 
comprehensive training programs with specialists for the 
provision of training at the highest quality. We believe 
that the initiatives resulting from our collaborations 
will make substantial contributions to the social and 
economic development of our country. We extend arts 
to large masses through our culture and art projects 
that we have been determinedly maintaining for years, 
and we mainstream creativity and critical perspective. 
We make longer-lasting contributions to more people’s 
lives every passing day with these initiatives of us that 
are strengthened and accelerated with the volunteering 
synergy of all Akbank members.

We have been supporting social 
transformation and progress in our 
country for 74 years.

 
Total number of 
events and training 
organized by the 
Akbank Youth 
Academy: 85

 
Total number of 
participants of 
the Akbank Youth 
Academy: 73,957

 
Amount of 
investment in arts: 
TL 27 million 

 
Number of our 
volunteering 
ambassadors: 40

Number of our 
Akbank volunteers: 
1,000

 
A SROI value above 
the threshold of 1 for 
our Youth Academy, 
CaseCampus, 
Akbank Jazz 
Festival, and 
Goodwill of the City 
projects

We create strengthening values specific to our 
different stakeholder groups by implementing impact-
oriented and measurable social projects in Akbank. By 
conducting social impact analyses for the projects we 
directly implemented, we started to give meaning to 
the project outcomes in financial terms.

In 2022, we calculated the social impact created 
by each project we executed in our areas of focus 
of social investments with the “Social Return on 
Investment – SROI” methodology.* The SROI values 
of the Youth Academy in the area of training, the 
CaseCampus project in the area of entrepreneurship, 
Akbank Jazz Festival in the area of culture and 
arts, and the Goodwill of City project in the area 
of Volunteering were, respectively, 3.16, 3.89, 2.23 
and 4.38. The fact that the SROI value of each of 
our projects is above the threshold of 1 shows the 
valuable contribution and success of our projects. 
Besides, we developed an action map for the future by 
identifying the areas of development of our projects in 
order to increase our social impact further.

* *A SROI value at the rate of 1:1 means 1 TL social value is created for each 
1 TL investment. From this point of view, the SROI rates calculated on the 
basis of the rate of 1:1 indicate the success of the program.

 Prof. Dr. Yiğit Atılgan, Sabancı University 

“The Center of Excellence in Finance (CEF) of Sabancı University 

was founded in 2016 with the mission of building a bridge between 

the finance sector, real sector and academy. Prioritizing social 

responsibility, the CEF made progress with the support of Akbank, 

its founder sponsor, in the journey of realizing this mission. Akbank’s 

financial support and contribution to our organizational processes 

played a critical role in our access to thousands of participants with 

the certificate programs executed by the leading trainers of Türkiye 

and the world with constantly updated curriculums and seminars 

delivered by academicians from the most prestigious universities at 

the global scale. While we were developing the skills of professionals in 

the finance sector and achieving our objective to enhance the overall 

financial literacy of society through research reports and training 

videos, we placed Akbank’s priorities in ESG and financial inclusion at 

the center of our focus. Today, we endeavour to offer the skills needed 

by young people by developing joint programs with Akbank Youth 

Academy, being one of the newest social investments of Akbank, 

and contribute to the sector by designing joint projects with Akbank 

LAB that coordinates Akbank’s innovation-oriented activities. Being 

launched with the economic support of Akbank, the CEF keeps getting 

strength from the intensive ecosystem surrounding Akbank while it is 

achieving its social goals.”

We strengthen the extent of our social 
impact through our social projects.

180 - 181People & community



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Training
We continue to ensure equality in training conditions with 
our investments made for the next generations besides our 
employees and be a value-creating part of the projects with 
a high added value with our different programs introduced 
for society.

We believe that the right development investments made 
in people will benefit the organization’s processes and 
continuity, stakeholders, and society. In this regard, we 
maintained our activities in Akbank Youth Academy also 
in 2022, a training initiative launched to support university 
students in improving their competencies and getting 
prepared for the business life of the future in advance. We 
aim to introduce new competencies to young people who 
will have a place in the future’s business life in artificial 
intelligence, advanced analytics, robotics, design-oriented 
thinking, etc., with evolving technologies and changing 
processes and establish collaborations with various social 
initiatives or organizations within this scope. 

We support young people in learning through experience 
with application-intensive programs and events in addition 
to the training for introduction to competencies and 
structured long term competency development programs 
under the roof of Akbank Youth Academy. Furthermore, we 
continue to offer a chance to the ones who participate in 
the programs and complete them successfully to intern 
or start their career in Akbank either part-time or full-
time. 73,957 people participated in 85 events and training 

Within the scope of our 101 training provided in 
collaboration with Microfon, we accessed university 
students all over Türkiye and tried to raise their awareness 
in the emerging subject matters, including career, artificial 
intelligence, cyber security, metaverse, cloud technologies, 
innovation and entrepreneurship, analytics, climate crisis, 
and sustainability, equality of gender in society, etc. 
Besides, we started the experience-sharing meetings in 
many qualified areas with the voluntary support of Akbank 
Technology teams. In 2022, we provided 101 training with 
the participation of 39 Akbank Volunteers and Leaders, 7 
specialist guests, and 14,000 students.

Akbank Fellowship Program, introduced in 2021 and 
produced its first graduates in July, is a transformation 
program implemented to trigger transformation in 
business life by focusing on the competencies of the 21st 
century with the Fellows maintained for ten months with 
20 university students. It is a very intensive program that 
also supports peer learning through reverse mentorships 
in which Akbank executives listen to and learn from young 
people as well as inspirational meetings, design-oriented 
thinking processes, and learning cycles besides the 
training provided by inspiring figures within the scope of 
the program. A total of 28,349 people participated in 46 
training and events organized by the Youth Academy in 
2022, consisting of 54% women and 46% men. The 2nd term 
of the Fellowship program, whose design and execution 
are mainly undertaken by young people, continues 
uninterruptedly.

Each 1 TL investment made in the Goodwill of 
the City provided a 4.38 TL social return.

Each 1 TL investment made in CaseCampus 
provided a 3.89 TL social return.

Each 1 TL investment made in the Youth 
Academy provided a 3.16 TL social return.

Each 1 TL investment made in Akbank Jazz 
Festival provided a 2.23 TL social return.

Goodwill of the City Youth Academy

CaseCampus Akbank Jazz Festival

programs, with the rate of 59% women and 42% men so 
far from 208 universities and from all corners of Türkiye. 
With Akbank Youth Academy, we accessed over 28,000 
young people in 2022. We will keep designing our training 
on analytics, technology, design, finance, innovation, 
entrepreneurship, well-being, and arts events with our 
existing Introduction to Competencies 101 training and 
competency development and complementary programs in 
upcoming years.

In Akbank Youth 
Academy, we 
design structured 
competency 
development programs 
through strategic 
collaborations and 
provide long-term 
and project-oriented 
training in which 
we bring the sector 
specialists together 
with young people. 

We are the first 
private sector 
organization to launch 
a fellowship program 
in Türkiye for the 
youth.

24%
6%

2%
8%

13%

38%

9%

Regional distribution of participation

Gender Distribution

Women54.2%

Men45.8%

182 - 183People & community



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

With the Center of Excellence in Finance 
(CEF), for which we are acting as the 
founding sponsor, we have been supporting 
both the self-development of participants 
and their academic contributions to the 
sector since 2016 by building a bridge for 
our 6,500 participants from the academy, 
finance sector, real sector, and many other 
different groups within the structure of 
Sabancı University.

The CEF assumes the role of a strong 
means in establishing dialogues among 
academicians, finance market actors, and 
investors through certificate programs, 
conferences, seminars, research, and 
YouTube. In this way, the CEF also 
contributes to developing and deepening 
financial literacy in Türkiye. 3 online 
seminars were organized in 2022. 3 reports 
were published on the performances of 
the sectoral indexes in BIST during the 
pandemic period, performance comparisons 
between cryptocurrencies and conventional 
assets, and financial, fiscal, and managerial 
characteristics of the shares included in the 
Sustainability Index of BIST.

Entrepreneurship
Our CaseCampus Bootcamp Live program, which is jointly 
implemented with Endeavor, covers the students who consider 
entrepreneurship as a career option, are below the age of 
30, and study in the 3rd and 4th grade of a bachelor’s degree 
program as well as postgraduate students and the young 
people who graduated from these programs in the last five 
years. We bring 75 young people interested in entrepreneurship 
together with successful entrepreneurs, experienced 
academicians in the field of entrepreneurship, investors, 
and specialists every year within the program’s scope. We 
ensure that young people get to know the entrepreneurship 
ecosystem more closely by providing such content in this 
communication environment as case studies, workshops on 
entrepreneurship and innovation, investor and entrepreneur 
meetings, etc. We have come together with more than 600 
university students so far. Having continued its business 
partnership with Akbank since 2018, the StartUpCampus 
Program of Endeavor Türkiye has been supporting Startups as 
the “Boost of the Future” since 2021 with its improving content 
and mentor network. With Boost the Future, we support 
technology Startups in scaling and growing their businesses 
and expanding abroad through an online program for 10 weeks. 
Twelve technology entrepreneurs selected for the program 
have a chance to work closely with Akbank LAB throughout 
the process by participating in specially designed training and 
workshops in order to carry their companies into the future.

Our culture and art activities
We uninterruptedly maintain our activities that are intended 
to support the love of society for art and culture. We keep 
the pioneering role that has been assumed for years in the 
development of modern art in Türkiye and its expansion to 
large masses through our activities, allowing us to reach 
hundreds of art lovers. In 2022, we hosted many art pieces in 
exhibitions at Akbank Art Center, which created a brand for 
our innovative and visionary identity in arts and organized 
over 700 events per year.

The so-called “Selected Ignorance” was among the 
outstanding events until February 2022 that addressed the 
nature of knowledge, the issues we select not to know, and 
the underlying reasons for this selection under the curatorship 
of Ekmel Ertan and consisted of seven pieces of art and eight 
video-speeches. You can access the other exhibitions we 
hosted in 2022 on the website of Akbank Art Center.

FUTURE OF WORK

 – We maintained our collaboration with UP-School 
also in 2022, a young social enterprise targeting to 
raise role model women in technology. 

 – We supported the 10Million.Al project launched 
by Global Al Hub, headquartered in Switzerland, 
worldwide as the first and only National Training 
Partner. Within the scope of the global social 
responsibility project aiming at offering qualified 
training to young people in Türkiye in artificial 
intelligence, deep learning, machine learning, and 
data analyses, we supported the training of young 
people through the training delivered in Akbank 
Youth Academy.

 – The Center of Excellence in Finance (CEF) that we 
established in 2016 within the structure of Sabancı 
University in our capacity as the founding sponsor 
provides services for bringing academicians, finance 
market actors, and investors together and turn core 
knowledge into applications that are practicable in 
real life. 

 – The young people participating in the Introduction 
to Competencies-101 Training organized jointly with 
Microfon receive the training which focuses on the 
technologies and approaches of the future and are 
prepared in a wide perspective from innovation to 
entrepreneurship, artificial intelligence to design, 
cyber security to the climate crisis. The training in 
which Akbank leaders share their experiences allows 
them to learn how theory turns into practice in 
digital.

We accelerate 
sustainable growth 
by focusing on the 
competencies of 
young generations.

We rank among the organizations which give wide coverage 
to digital art in their programs, and we take our activities in 
this field to campuses. We organize digital art exhibitions, 
speeches, movie screenings, and workshops in different 
universities of Türkiye under the roof of “Digital Art on 
Campus”. By including national and international artists, the 
pioneers of digital art, in our program, we intend to bring them 
together with students. Following the pandemic period, the 
Digital Art on Campus program was organized at Boğaziçi 
University, Özyeğin University, İstanbul Bilgi University, and 
Bahçeşehir University between 4th – 30th April 2022. 

 – Drawing heavy attention, the “Philosophy Seminars” 
and “Cinema Psychiatry Seminars” continued online. 
The “Modern Art and Curatorship” program, which offers 
a comprehensive international training platform for 
curatorship and where training last for 7 months, was held 
online also this year. Starting in October, the series of 
“Philosophy Seminars,” “Cinema Psychiatry Seminars,” and 
“Design Idea Club” were physically started in the multi-
purpose hall.

 – The Dance Workshop in Akbank Art Center introduced 
all its online and physical dance events to the audience 
under the roof of “Dance Is Always There” and “Duos & 
Duets” in 2022. We combined dance with many projects 
of ours, from exhibitions to festivals as a part of life in 
line with the mission of interdisciplinary interaction. Our 
Modern Dance Technique courses continued every day 
on the weekdays at beginner and upper-intermediate 
levels. In October, Eyal Dadon’s masterclass workshop 
worked with professional dancers, and a creative process 
was launched with the participants at the end of the 
workshop. They held dance shows with national and 
international choreographers and dancers during the year.

 – We also maintained our workshops in which children 
could participate by using the materials available at 
home, either alone or with the support of their parents. In 
addition to our workshops broadcasted on the YouTube 
channel of Akbank Art Center every Saturday, we 
organized online conversations with parents and teachers 
on the contribution of art to child development.

184 - 185People & community

https://www.akbanksanat.com/en/exhibitions


Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

 – Being one of the longest-lasting culture and art projects 
of Akbank, which has supported the art and artists since 
its foundation, the Akbank Jazz Festival was held at 22 
different places with special performances of over 120 
artists from the World and Turkish Jazz stage. During the 
32nd Akbank Jazz Festival, the concerts were organized 
at Akbank Art Center, Museum Gazhane, Babylon, Zorlu 
Performing Arts Center, AKM, The Badau, Nardiss Jazz 
Club, Bizim Tepe, Bova, and the ones included this year, 
such as HOOD Base, Alan Kadıköy, Dada Salon Kabarett, 
Decollage Art Space, Postane İstanbul, Yeniköy Panayia 
Eastern Church, Gregor By The Badau, Zuhal Müzik Kanyon, 
Outro Record Store, CoBAC Workspace and Yeldeğirmeni 
Art Center. The festival was accompanied by workshops for 
children and talk shows. The special project of the festival 
was the performance of “Kaygılar Sahnesi,” that combined 
jazz with dance this year. The dancers, choreographed by 
Ebru Cansız and Çağıl Kaya, displayed a performance in 
which dance and music were together for each other with 
all differences and similarities rather than a concert where 
dance accompanied music or vice versa. Besides this, 
different contents were provided through terrace concerts 
and “Dance Is Always There” performances within the 
scope of The City in the State of Jazz

 – In 2022, we celebrated the 50th anniversary of Akbank 
Children’s Theatre. Leaving a half-century behind and 
meeting with the 5th generation audience, Akbank Children’s 
Theatre celebrated its 50th birthday with a musical adapted 
from the story of Peter Pan under the joint production of 
Akbank Art Center and Zorlu Performing Arts Center. “Peter 
Pan and Neverland,” whose first premiere was started to 
be presented in Zorlu Performing Arts Center on April 23rd 
and drew heavy attention, displayed 20 performances in 
total throughout the year. Moreover, the “Storm Kid” play 
of Akbank Children’s Theatre delivered 10 plays in many 
festivals and on different stages, particularly the Atta 
Festival and Winter Meetings of the Bergama Theatre 
Festival in 2022.

 – We have been uninterruptedly supporting Contemporary 
Istanbul for 17 years, which greatly contributes to modern 
art development in our country. Introducing modern art to 
large masses and carrying up the culture and art agenda 
in Türkiye, Contemporary İstanbul turned into a modern 
art event at a global level under our main sponsorship. The 
work of the artist Jannis Kounellis was displayed outdoors 
at Contemporary İstanbul Bloom Fair held in Akbank Art 
Center between 10th-15th May 2022. The sculpture of the 
artist was placed at the outdoor sculpture area in front of 
the Tersane building. In the 17th edition of Contemporary 
İstanbul held in Tersane İstanbul 17th-22nd September 2022, 
the works of the artist Clement Valla were displayed at 
the stand of Akbank Sanat (Akbank Art Center). Digitally 
presented works of the artist met with the audience in the 
Exhibition under the curatorship of Hasan Bülent Kahraman.

 – Within the scope of SSM, the “David Hockney: The Arrival 
of Spring, Normandy, 2020” Exhibition organized under the 
main sponsorship of Akbank, Akbank Art Center, prepared 
a side event schedule. Five exhibition speeches titled Art 
of David Hockney / Akbank Art Center Talks, Jazz Concert 
(Sinan Altıparmak Trio/ Argın-Tankal-Tılmaz Trio/ Esra 
Kayıkçı Trio) for 3 Years and 4 “Once Upon a Spring” Dance 
Performances choreographed by Alper Marangoz were held 
between the dates of 11th May – 29th July 2022. 

The art expenditure 
of Akbank was TL 27 
million in 2022.

We develop projects in many areas 
with a high added value and sphere 
of influence together with our 
volunteers.

 – The 18th Akbank Short Film Festival, which constitutes 
an effective platform in Türkiye in the field of short films, 
supports new ideas, and contributes to the short film 
culture, was launched online between the 21st – 31st March 
2022. With total 2,081 short film applications, Akbank Short 
Film Festival consisted of the following parts: “Short Films 
of the Festival,” “Short Films from the World,” “From Short to 
Long,” “Experiences,” “Documentary Cinema,” “Perspective,” 
“Private View” and “Forum” and Young Perspectives. A new 
competition part called “Young Perspectives” was started 
and included in the festival calendar in 2022 for the first 
time to bring the interests of young people at and below 
the age of 20 in short films together in the festival and 
encourage the productions in this area. Besides many films 
shown in global festivals, 81 short and 3 full-length films 
from 33 countries met with the audience at the festival, 
including many new films with pending Türkiye premieres. 

Volunteering

 – By cooperating with the School Support Foundation, 
which delivers free maths and physical sciences lessons 
to 5th, 6th, and 7th graders of state schools in online 
classrooms through volunteer trainers according to the 
curriculum, we were among its volunteers. Within this 
scope, we aim to stand by about 500 students for their 
development in the 2022-2023 academic calendar.

 –  Within the scope of computer grants we regularly 
maintain, we granted 702 devices to primary, secondary, 
and universities students in 2022.

 –  Our Akbank Volunteers continue to provide saving 
training with the students in state schools regularly.

 –  Within the scope of our Wish Tree project implemented 
in religious festival periods every year, we delivered our 
support to a total of 114 families affected by the disaster 
in many different cities like Diyarbakır, Şanlıurfa, Hatay, 
and Adana for their food and supermarket needs through 
our donation campaign executed jointly with the Support 
to Life Foundation in 2022. Moreover, Akbank Volunteers 
delivered gifts for the needs of 111 young people the ages 
of 12-18 whose treatments were ongoing or completed for 
the new year through our Wish Tree project launched in 
collaboration with KAÇUV.

 –  We mobilized to relieve the consequences of fires that 
broke out in different regions of our country and deeply 
affected all living creatures. We supported the Tema 
Foundation by donating 50,000 saplings in the name of 
Akbank volunteers to revive our forests.

 –  We joined the street animal feeding groups on December 
5th, International Volunteer Day, jointly with the Patika 
Respect to Nature and Life Foundation. We supported the 
feeding of dogs living in the forested land in Beykoz.

We ground on our Volunteering Policy when carrying out 
volunteering activities in Akbank. Akbank members actively 
participate in the volunteering projects we implement to 
solve social problems. We continue to develop projects in 
coordination with our customers, business partners, and other 
key stakeholders and produce an effect on our stakeholders 
through our Akbank Volunteers platform introduced in 2012. 
Our 40 Akbank Volunteering Ambassadors and about 1,000 
Akbank Volunteers develop projects with a high added value 
in many areas, from healthcare to education, and generate 
solutions for the almsmen by working jointly with the local 
community, NGOs, and local administrations. In 2022, we 
launched our digital platform for Akbank volunteers in 
collaboration with the Ability Pool. In this way, our volunteers 
can design their projects and be involved in any existing 
ones at their will. Moreover, we work to measure our impact 
through the reports we regularly receive from the platform.

 – Akbank Volunteers participated in the Happy Tales project 
implemented by the Laughter Heals Association and 
dubbed some beautiful tales. 80 tale records dubbed by our 
volunteers from the Customer Communication Center and 
Specialist Lines units were delivered to 30 children treated 
in the Oncology and Haematology service of S.B.Ü. Bursa 
Special Training and Research Hospital.

 –  They ran for the Turkish SMA Foundation, this time in 
the Akbank Redrunners (Kurumsal Koşu Takımı) 2022 
İstanbul Marathon, which collected the greatest amount of 
donations at one time so far, reached the highest number 
of donors, and passed into the marathon history with 
the most crowded corporate running team. Our runners 
collected 115,652 TL donations from 647 donors to supply 
the cough-inducing devices which support SMA patients in 
smooth breathing at home because their pectoral muscles 
do not work.

 – We provided the chance to meet 35 different NGOs and 
take charge of volunteering initiatives concerning climate, 
environment, women, and disability-free individuals to 
over 22,000 young people in the last eight years within 
the scope of the volunteering project of Goodwill of the 
City, which bring university students at the ages of 18-26 
together with NGOs. In 2022, we implemented volunteering 
projects with 1,800 students and 13 NGOs. 

 –  In parallel with our ESG strategy, we took action to support 
the so-called “Mentor for A Million Women,” which targets 
to bring university students or working young women (at 
the age of 18-25) together with sector leaders through a 
digital platform to enhance the representation of women 
in the areas of STEM in line with diversity and inclusivity 
principles.

The expenditures 
for culture and 
art events and 
sponsorships were 
TL 36.8 million in 
2022. Additionally, 
the amount of our 
aid and donation 
was TL 14.7 million 

186 - 187People & community



Ecosystem Management ------------- 190

Digitalization and Innovation -----------191

Financial Inclusion --------------------194

Our Customer Experience and  
Satisfaction Studies ------------------199

Our Purchasing Approach ------------- 203

Ecosystem 
management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Ecosystem 
management

We make life easier with our Ecosystem 
Management practices, one of our focus areas, 
and specially designed products for our customers 
from all segments. We support our customers, 
female operators, young people, and SMEs in our 
digitalization journey with the products and services 
we offer and our modern and extensive branch and 
ATM network. In line with our ecosystem banking and 
transparent banking approach, we communicate 
with our stakeholders flexibly and transparently. In 
2022, we tripled the service scope provided to our 
business partners in the Akbank API Portal that 
were launched in 2016 as the first bank API portal 
of Türkiye and renewed it in 2022 from end to end 
with the inclusion of service banking capabilities 
and we aim to expand it further every passing day. 
We interacted with over 400 innovation HUBs, 
entrepreneurship, and universities in 2022. We 
diversify the initiatives launched to become more 
active in the local and global ecosystem every year 
and improve our important role in the innovation 
and entrepreneurship ecosystem by making 
close contacts with such partners as incubation 
centres, techno-cities, technology transfer offices 
(TTOs), acceleration programs, investor and 
mentor networks, etc. In addition to our banking 
activities, we establish valuable collaborations 
in the ecosystem with various stakeholders, from 
non-governmental organizations to start-ups, 
from universities to our suppliers. In addition, 
we implement such practices that will make our 
branches and ATMs accessible to our disabled 
customers and facilitate their financial transactions. 

 
Digital penetration 
rate:  
75%

 
Number of SMEs 
contacted:  
45 thousand

 
Number of 
feedbacks received 
from our customers: 
2.2 million

Digitalization
and innovation

We increase the added value by creating a positive impact 
for our stakeholders thanks to the strong digital infrastructure 
of our Bank and our collaborations in innovation. By well 
analysing the changing trends and customer expectations, we 
work to offer an easy, simple, and practical banking experience 
through customized solutions. We maintained high-quality 
services with our customers uninterruptedly with the help 
of our global transformation program, supporting the digital 
transformation we started in 2018. We had a very fruitful year 
with our 75% digital penetration rate.

We also continue to develop a solution partnership with 
FinTechs, which produces digital applications for the needs of 
SMEs. Within this scope, we introduce an affordable platform 
to businesses that want to carry out online trading activities 
with IdeaSoft, the e-commerce infrastructure provider which 
offers web and mobile-based software solutions. Moreover, we 
offer SMEs our financial package, including commercial credit 
cards with special campaigns that contribute to their working 
capital and can be used for low-interest credit and product 
purchases in addition to the virtual POS. With the “Safe 
Payment System” we have introduced, we ensure that the risk 
of cash availability for second-hand car sales is eliminated 
and the sales price can be simultaneously and safely 
transferred through the transfer and registration transactions 
for motor vehicles. 

We maintained our robotic process automation activities 
that reduced the operational workloads of our employees, 
contained many specialties including ATM, POS and member 
businesses, credit cards, money transfers, insurance, and 
internal system controls, and were started in 2018 to ensure 
that our employees can focus of the works with a higher added 
value and improving their experiences also in 2022 with about 
20 virtual colleagues and three awards including international 
competitions. We started to meet end-to-end digital 
experience needs with smart solutions by means of integrating 
our studies into ACR and AI and expanding our technology 
pool with next-generation technology solutions. In 2023, we 
aim to enhance the service quality and upgrade customer and 
employee experience by continuing to expand the application 
areas in our Bank and the integrated solutions we offer. 

We also continue to 
improve our solution 
partnership with 
FinTechs that develop 
digital applications for 
the needs of SMEs.

Our instant cards for digital use

We introduced the instant credit card for digital use for the 
first time in Türkiye and for the third time in the world. All 
our personal and commercial Axess and Wings cards and 
Akbank cards can be instantly downloaded to mobile phones 
and used in online shopping and in-store mobile payments 
before the physical card is delivered to customers. 92% of 
the applications for the downloadable credit card, which 
distinguishes by its design due to the fact that it does not 
have any numbers on it consist of new customers, and we will 
keep offering advantages to the customers for mobile usage 
and internet expenditures with this value proposition.

92% of the applications for the 
downloadable credit card consist of 
new customers.

Akbank CEBE POS
With Akbank CEBE POS, we ensure that credit card 
or mobile payments can be collected easily and safely 
through a PIN code without the necessity for an additional 
device thanks to the POS application that can be 
downloaded to smartphones with the Android operating 
system by member businesses. All transactions that are 
performed via fixed POS devices can be achieved with 
CEBE POS, which offers instalments for Akbank cards and 
the use of chip points as well. Besides, we minimize paper 
consumption through the digital delivery of the slips related 
to the transactions in the application to our customers.

ReFi Türkiye
Following the positive responses to and successful 
outcomes of our so-called Sustainable Finance Program 
for the Future, we introduced “Regenerative Finance” (ReFi) 
this year by deepening the focus on Sustainable Finance 
further in the form of a “collective work.” We are looking 
for finance-oriented solutions for such global problems 
that affect our lives, like climate change, environmental 
pollution, and carbon emissions, in this program with the 
use of Web3 technologies.

In 2022, we tripled the service scope 
provided to our business partners 
in Akbank API Portal and renewed 
it in 2022 from end to end with 
the inclusion of service banking 
capabilities.

190 - 191Ecosystem management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

With the “ReFi Türkiye Podcast” series 
hosting the leading figures and instructive 
video series, we target to enhance ReFi and 
Web3 literacy in society and also provide 
NFTs with our audience that will be used as 
a benefit token specially developed for each 
podcast episode,

We target to bring Web3 developers, impact 
ecosystem players, university students, 
entrepreneurs, and the persons who are 
interested in ReFi and work in this area 
together through the organized group 
meetings called “Web3 for Good” to create 
an ecosystem that will remedy the Future 
and to ensure the birth of new ideas and 
projects in the field of ReFi in this way,

We target to convert ReFi-oriented 
innovative ideas into an application, 
product, or service through the “Akbank 
ReFi Hackathon” held with the “Avalanche” 
technology between the dates of 30th 
September – 2nd October, where the first 
steps of designing a new economy are taken 
for the remedy of the world through the 
Web3 transformation launched with the ReFi 
Türkiye program and the impact ecosystem,

We also target to make the literature 
studies available to everybody that will 
piece all contents in the program together 
through the instructive video series and the 
ReFi Türkiye Report to be published at the 
end of the process.

As an important step, we designed the so-called refiTürkiye.
com platform in an accessible manner to all partners who 
create added value for the ecosystem, work and want to 
work through the ReFi, and desire to involve in the process 
voluntarily. We regularly share bulletins and informative 
content through the platform and social media channels to 
increase ReFi and Web3 literacy.

As one of the first organizations in Türkiye to embrace 
ReFi, being the first hackathon organized by a bank in 
Türkiye through the blockchain network with “Akbank ReFi 
Hackathon,” on the other hand, we organized the first ReFi 
Hackathon in the world. 19 teams consisting of students 
from 7 different cities, 11 different blockchain clubs, and 
23 different universities, in addition to private sector 
employees, had a chance to design a project for their 
ideas focused on Regenerative Finance in 48 hours with 
the support of specialist mentors through the impact and 
Web3 ecosystem. Not only the sustainable dimension of 
the Avalanche platform that did not require mining but also 
the regenerative finance theme of the hackathon led to the 
development of environmentally conscious projects. These 
projects attained a global scale with the effect of Web3.

As one of the first organizations in Türkiye to embrace 
ReFi, being the first hackathon organized by a bank in 
Türkiye through the blockchain network with “Akbank ReFi 
Hackathon,” we organized the first ReFi Hackathon of the 
world.

In addition to the ReFi Türkiye program, we partner with 
many programs with a sustainability focus. One of these 
programs is the “ClimAccelerator 2022” acceleration program 
which is an EIT Climate KIC initiative conducted by Viveka in 
Türkiye. ClimAccelerator incorporates technology-oriented 
initiatives generating climate-positive solutions in the 
fields of environment, industry, city, and agriculture. We 
aim to organize POCs in line with the climate technologies 
within the program’s scope. We also support the so-
called “PartnerUp” program conducted by Impact Hub, 
where social impact initiatives are brought together with 
corporate partners, and their cooperation is intended within 
the framework of sustainable development goals. In this 
regard, the initiatives in the program are reviewed, and the 
opportunities for working with the respective business units 
are assessed.

We are preparing 
our Bank for the 
technology of the 
Future already now by 
assessing the options 
of collaboration with 
the players in the 
entrepreneurship 
ecosystem.

Akbank innovation centre: 
Akbank LAB

We launched Akbank LAB at the end of 2016 in order to 
develop innovative projects for the needs of our business units 
and achieve the objective of an excellent customer experience 
through such financial solutions that would carry Akbank 
into the Future. With this structure, we took some steps to 
prepare our Bank for the technology of the Future in advance 
and ensuring that innovation was adopted as a part of our 
culture and supporting the innovation ecosystem in Türkiye by 
way of assessing the options of collaboration with the players 
in the entrepreneurship ecosystem. We inform the members 
of Akbank about new developments by sharing Innovation 
Bulletins containing global developments across the Bank; we 
share our assessments about the developments in financial 
technology and innovation and current studies of Akbank LAB 
on our Medium account and organize conversations with the 
specialists of the sector in compliance with our area of focus 
through our live nexTalk events on YouTube.

We design projects for the ideas we develop in parallel with 
the innovation processes specially created for the needs of 
Akbank by Akbank LAB as well as the areas of focus and 
goals designated with the help of our business units to render 
financial services with added value. Following the assessment 
process, we test the practicality of the ideas by subjecting 
them to the “PoC” (proof of concept) process and evaluate the 
acquisitions for our Bank and customers. Within this scope, 
we mainstreamed and implemented 15 projects out of 40. So 
far, we conducted a proof of concept process in many areas, 
including machine learning, blockchain, artificial intelligence, 
big data, face recognition, customer experience, etc.

Akbank+
With Akbank+, we allow internal entrepreneurs to work on 
their ideas full-time. While the employee personal rights of the 
participants survive in their capacity as Akbank employees, 
all participants can work as full-time entrepreneurs. Within 
the scope of the project, six ideas experimented by the 
employees of Akbank are subjected to the “empathy,” 
“definition,” and “idea generation” processes of the design 
thinking methodology in the incubation phase of 10 weeks 
and three ideas determined through the presentations 
delivered to the Investment Committee of Akbank proceed to 
the second phase of the period for 14 weeks and converted 
into MVP in line with the “prototype” and “test” steps. We 
implement the program jointly with GOOINN, which provides 
consultancy services in innovation and entrepreneurship. 
Additionally, we establish an advisory board that will mentor 
the participants in their MVP development and investment 
journey after their business models are clarified.

Plug and Play 
We included a new initiative in our leading and innovative 
activities in 2022 and became the first financial partner 
of Plug and Play in Türkiye, an investor in Silicon Valley for 
PayPal and Dropbox technology initiatives. As the first 
financial partner of the ecosystem created by Plug and Play, 
which started its operations in Türkiye in 2021, we aim to 
accelerate the information and experience exchange in the 
ecosystem and create projects, cooperation, and investment 
opportunities in the field. Following the assessment and 
prioritization of 50,000+ initiatives available in the Plug 
and Play network according to the focus areas, we will try 
to develop innovative products and services out of these 
initiatives. In the upcoming period, we will continue to offer 
the financial system of the Future to our customers from this 
day forward by adopting the changing customer expectations 
and technologies with the contributions of important 
stakeholders like Plug and Play.

TTGV 250(k) Applied Idea Assessment 
and Talent Development Program
Technology Development Foundation of Türkiye (TTGV) 
introduces the 250(k) Applied Idea Assessment and Talent 
Development Program for the purpose of collecting the ideas 
and needs that can create an opportunity in certain areas 
of focus from leading organizations in different sectors and 
combining them in the talent pool. Through the activities 
performed within the scope of the program, the idea sponsors 
mentor the talents with an entrepreneurship dynamism in 
idea evaluation and business development areas. The idea 
generation process ends up with the delivery of presentations 
by the teams on Demo Day. As Akbank LAB, we acted as a 
mentor for idea sponsorship in the financial services sector 
in the 2022 period of the program in which the ideas in the 
Sustainability and Climate Technologies area were evaluated. 
As Akbank, we supported the initiatives in the “Development” 
process of 5 weeks by sharing the experiences and fund of 
knowledge of our teams working on sustainability with these 
teams. 

With our “For Your Business 
/ Business Finance 
Management (BFM)” project, 
we received an award in 
the category of “Data 
Strategies / Customized 
Finance Recommendations” 
within the scope of “Sardis 
Awards 2022” and became 
the “Financial Organization 
with the Most Strategic 
Data Use.”

192 - 193Ecosystem management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Financial 
inclusion

According to the statistics of the World Bank, about 70% 
of the population consists of the segment having a bank 
account. However, about half of this segment consists of 
“semi-banked members” who use 1 or 1 product in their 
banking relationship and perform two or fewer transactions 
per month on average, and cannot benefit from the 
services in the financial system in real terms. These rates 
vary depending on gender, region, and age as well. For 
instance, we observe that even though the rate of usage 
of financial products in the household, this rate remains to 
be lower among women in the household. Although many 
customers of ours have become digitalized, some of our 
customers above a certain age can still prefer to benefit 
from the physical channels, particularly for their financial 
transactions. We are aware of the fact that we have to carry 
out substantial studies to enhance the access of SMEs to 
innovative financing products in addition to our customers. 
Young people know that they quickly access financial tools 
thanks to digitalized products and services, and our area of 
development in this respect is financial literacy.

We have been radically renewing Akbank Mobile since 2019 
to meet the digital interaction needs of our customers in 
the most effective way. We focus on offering a simplified 
experience with a more modern design. Our customers can 
navigate the application easily in 2 basic ways: They can 
promptly access their daily banking needs on the homepage 
and enrich their journey through smart interactions 
depending on the login purposes. Another support we are 
providing is our “Akbank Assistant,” the chatbot of our Bank, 
and smart search functions. Our customers can access 
more than 300 functions in our mobile application. By doing 
so, they can easily find the transaction they seek in the 
application through Akbank Assistant or the Discover menu.

Our goal is to design all our products 
and services in a simple and 
understandable manner by ensuring 
financial inclusion with a focus on 
financial inclusion.

Being our chatbot, Smart Assistant has a usage rate of 700 
thousand per month, whereas this number is about 2 million 
per month in our smart search function available in the 
mobile application. We believe that an ever-increasing rate 
of successful directions indicates that our customers can 
find any information they look for easily. In Akbank Mobile, 
we try to keep financial terminology in the background by 
predicting the mistakes that our customers might make, 
and we focus on showing only what our customers need 
and making our language friendlier.

Within the frame of the directive published by the Central 
Bank of Türkiye (CBT), we have been among the first four 
banks introducing open banking services in Türkiye at the 
beginning of 2023. Thanks to the services we render, our 
customers can consolidate and display their accounts in 
other banks in the Akbank platform, monitor their financial 
position holistically, and manage all their accounts through 
a single platform. Additionally, we will work to deliver our 
banking services to larger masses in 2023 through our 
initiatives within the scope of Service Banking introduced 
by the Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency (BRSA). 
We aim to enhance financial inclusion in the ecosystem by 
positioning the financial solutions needed by our existing 
and potential customers in the interfaces of the Fintechs, 
being our nosiness partner and non-financial players. 

Within the framework 
of the directive 
published by the 
CBT, we were among 
the first four banks 
to introduce open 
banking services 
in Türkiye at the 
beginning of 2023. Financial literacy

In Akbank Mobile, we provide support to both our individual 
and SME customers in the facilitation of their daily financial 
management activities by offering meaningful and customized 
insights to them based on their big data. With these financial 
clues, we support them in becoming healthier individuals in 
financial terms and raise their awareness about the issues 
they must be conscious of in a simple, understandable, and 
proactive manner. At this point, we offer our customers over 35 
million fully customized smart clues and more than 45 videos 
on average per month on various channels such as our website, 
YouTube, etc. Our podcast series with 10 episodes which was 
moderated by Atilla Köksal, acting as the Chairman of the 
Financial Literacy Foundation, and went live in which we put 
financial literacy, behavioural finance, inflation, investment, 
financial technologies, and many other subjects on the agenda 
in collaboration with Aposto.

Environmental card

We offer our 
customers over 
35 million fully 
customized smart 
clues and more than 
45 videos on average 
per month in various 
channels such as our 
website, YouTube, etc. 

We started to produce Axess, Wings, Akbank Card, Free, 
and all other commercial and individual cards offered to 
our customers out of recycled plastic as of 2022 within the 
scope of our project covering all credit and bank cards of 
Akbank under the leadership of Axess featuring instant 
digital use. The papers and envelopes delivered together 
with the cards were also made of recycled materials. Today, 
about 19 million cards are used by our customers in our 
Bank. In this regard, we aim to minimize the consumption 
of natural resources and the environmental impact by 
recycling and reusing the materials as much as possible. We 
reduce the use of plastics by producing millions of cards 
out of recycled materials.

194 - 195Ecosystem management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Our TOSLA applicationYouth banking

We are aware of young people’s social and financial needs 
to prepare for the Future in the best way possible and to 
light the way for their development in all areas. As Akbank, 
we categorize young people into two different groups: the 
ones who will begin to work and those who have begun to 
work. We aim to enhance their loyalty through different value 
propositions based on their financial and social needs. 

We pay attention to their ability to be knowledgeable about 
financial aspects and make proper decisions about their 
budgets when they begin to work, and for this purpose, we 
intensively maintain the initiatives intended for improving 
their “financial literacy” level for them to manage their pocket 
monies and refer to the right investments and savings from 
the moment they earn their first incomes. 

We not only facilitated 18-26 years old university students’ 
access to financial transactions by offering them free 
banking transactions and free overdraft accounts but also 
acted as an intermediary for meeting their social needs 
through the campaigns covering their favourite brands within 
the scope of “Akbank FAV” that was founded in 2020 for 
university students with a completely digital experience.

As Akbank, we consider that it is too early for young people 
to be concerned about financial issues. For this purpose, we 
intend to ensure that they will no longer worry about financial 
issues thanks to the privileges we offer. We proceed with the 
motto of “Akbank Düşünsün” (Let Akbank think for You) in our 
communications dedicated to this mission.

We protect our position as the bank 
meeting the financial needs of young 
people by offering some advantages 
for their first credit needs.

We keep working on TOSLA, our digital application developed 
jointly with our AkÖde affiliate with the motto of “Social 
version of money.” In our second year, we put many options in 
use through the Tosla application offered to students, young 
professionals, and working young people. Within this scope, 
we offer discounts in various digital channels like series/
movies, music, online shopping, and face-to-face shopping. 
We expanded the options offered to TOSLA users due to our 
collaborations with İstanbul Card, Zorlu PSM, Community 
Volunteers Foundation (TOG), Starbucks, and HelpSteps.

You can find detailed information about our TOSLA 
application in the section where the business operations of 
Ak Pay are outlined. 

Our accessible banking approach
Paying attention to the access of all its customers to banking 
services with equal opportunities, Akbank had an important 
cooperation with BlindLook, a social initiative that develops 
technologies for the visually impaired. Within the scope of this 
cooperation, the Bank started to offer its visually impaired 
customers the chance to use Akbank Mobile and the Internet 
more easily thanks to the audio simulation technology that 
was announced to a larger mass by BlindLook.

Access practices for the disabled
Perceivable surface practice 
680 branches

Induction cycle system 
98 branches

Anti-slip tape practice 
680 branches

Audio-lighted directions to the 
emergency exit 
98 branches

Call button for the disabled 
100 branches

Handrail writing in Braille alphabet 
98 branches

We aim to communicate 
properly with our 
disabled customers by 
providing the so-called 
“Human Rights-based 
Approach to Disability” 
e-training with all our 
field personnel under 
the guidance of the Life 
Foundation.

All accessibility practices 
for the disabled are 
available in our 98 branches.

Our SME inclusion & thematic banking

We provide service to SMEs with our more than 1,200 
specialist customer representatives in about 650 branches 
across Türkiye within the scope of Akbank SME Banking. 
We started the SME Movement by breaking new ground in 
Türkiye to support our SMEs, the driving force of the national 
economy. With the Incorporate Digital Transformation Project, 
we developed some packages containing banking products 
and non-banking advantages depending on customers’ 
needs. We ensured that our customers could get these 
packages uninterruptedly through a fast experience in the 
mobile channel. Making a POS, Commercial Credit Card, 
and Commercial Credit application through Akbank Mobile 
within the scope of the project, our SME customers can singly 
obtain these products with fully digital processes in a fast 
way, and they can also obtain them in the form of packages 
containing multiple products and non-banking advantages 
suitable for their needs in addition to banking advantages.

To digitalize our SMEs and make them financially stronger, we 
established Akbank Transformation Academy. This academy, 
in which we allow our SMEs to take action for financial and 
digital transformation through seminars, customized training 
programs, networking, and collaborations that provide the 
opportunity to catch up on the agenda, enables all our 
SMEs to benefit from various training programs. Within this 
framework, we provided training programs in Ankara, Bursa, 
Balıkesir, Çanakkale, and İzmir. We organized 67 online and 
physical events for 85 days in 2022 for our organizations 
scheduled with the firms we have been collaborating with. We 
contacted about 45 thousand SMEs with all our programs. 
Furthermore, we contacted over 11,000 SMEs in 2022 with 
the “Green Transformation Project for SMEs” launched in 
collaboration with TÜRKONFED and KAS and with the support 
of Akbank; “I Can Manage My Business” project launched 
in collaboration with TÜRKONFED, Visa, and UNDP and 
E-Commerce and E-Export Webinars launched with Worldef 
every week. We will keep supporting them in 2023 by providing 
the opportunity to access certain products and services 
either with a discount or on a free-of-charge basis in addition 
to financing all our SMEs, particularly green transformation, 
female SME, e-commerce, export, and entrepreneurs.

We integrated our Smart Finance Technology product to 
raise our SMEs’ financial awareness and allow them to 
manage their transactions quickly and easily. Thanks to this 
technology, our SMEs can better understand their financial 
transactions with the insights and graphics created based 
on their daily financial transactions and manage their 
financial schedules much more easily through monitoring 
their past and future cash flows through some graphics.

We stood by our SMEs with a setup that offered some 
advantages and was designed specifically for our customers 
who would work with our Bank for the first time or worked 
with our Bank in the past but do not have a current 
transaction. Depending on the active use of Akbank Mobile, 
Commercial Debit Card, Automatic Payment, Member 
Business, Commercial Credit Card, Check Book, and SSI 
Payment Order products, the SMEs who were members of 
Akbank earned 2,000 TL and 4,000 TL chip-points. Within 
the scope of the win-win model, we established for our 
customers, we not only enhanced customer satisfaction but 
also took an important step for developing a sustainable and 
long-term relationship.

We obtained 100 Million dollars of funds within the scope 
of the so-called Financing and Consultancy Support for 
Businesses Managed by Women in Türkiye program from the 
European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD). 
In 2022, the business with female executives benefited 
from 80% surety for credit guarantee funds and 1 billion TL 
financing at proper interest rates. In addition, we supported 
our female SME customers with non-financial services. We 
came together with our female SMEs in 17 online and physical 
events. We aim to support female SMEs in all aspects they 
might need in the upcoming period through free one-to-one 
mentorships, seminars, and training.

Within the scope of 
the legal definition 
of SME, our market 
share in SME Credits 
in the private sector 
increased by 205 base 
points. We included 85 
thousand customers 
in the number of our 
active customers 
and displayed a 
performance that was 
close to 4 times the 
highest net annual 
increase that has been 
achieved so far.

196 - 197Ecosystem management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

We took action for all SMEs to take advantage of any risks they 
might face due to the Carbon Border Adjustment and improve 
their competitive powers. With the SME Eco-Transformation 
Package being the first and most comprehensive package 
designed specifically for SMEs in the sector within the scope 
of sustainability, we aim to encourage and finance all activities 
intended for minimizing the carbon footprints of the SMEs and 
reducing their energy costs. We also target to provide finance 
with SMEs through various credit products serving different 
purposes within the scope of green transformation with such 
a package. We aim to allow the SMEs to identify their current 
situations and areas of development and be a pillar of strength 
in their green transformation journey in 2023 through carbon 
footprint measurements and ESG (Environmental and Social 
Governance) analyses.

We launched the so-called Green Transformation Project 
for SMEs to raise the awareness of businesses in Anatolia in 
this respect in collaboration with TÜRKONFED and Konrad-
Adenauer-Stiftung and with the support of Akbank. In parallel 
with the Sustainable Development Goals such as accessible 
and clean energy, industry, innovation and infrastructure, 
responsible consumption and production, and climate action, 
we conducted comprehensive studies on the importance 
of green transformation and the ways to get prepared for 
organizations during the meetings that were held in Kocaeli, 
Adana, Gaziantep, Elazığ, İzmir, Samsun, and Ankara and 
hosted by the federations and foundations being the members 
of TÜRKONFED. Moreover, we announced the results of the 
workshops organized in these seven cities within the scope 
of the “Green Transformation Project for SMEs” in the Report 
on the Risks, Opportunities, and Expectations in Green 
Transformation. 324 firms participated in the workshop surveys, 
with 52% from industry, 34% from service, and 4,6% from 
agriculture sectors.

In the survey, the opinions of the firms about the European 
Green Deal (EGD) were asked. 65% of the firms regarded 
the EGD as an opportunity, whereas 8% considered it a risk. 
Additionally, one in every five firms stated they were unaware 
of it.

The areas considered to be an opportunity by the 
organizations in this process were listed as “access to 
big markets and/or cost advantages,” “new business 
opportunities,” “provision of finance and technical assistance,” 
“foreign trade with the EU” and “geographical opportunities 
for Türkiye.”

We interacted with our SMEs regarding sustainability, with 
twelve events in total. In addition to this, we organized 
nine events lasting for a total of 25 days for our SMEs on 
e-commerce and e-export in Gaziantep, Konya, and Denizli 
jointly with Worldef. 

We offer special advantages to the SMEs being the suppliers 
of leading Turkish marketplaces such as Hepsiburada, 
Trendyol, n11, Çiçeksepeti, and Teknosa. Within this scope, 
the SMEs who collect their progress payments from such 
marketplaces through Akbank can benefit from many 
opportunities, including free money transfers for one year, 
check transactions, and commercial overdrafts with 0% 
interest for their cash needs. We offer a chip-point award 
for the SMEs having a commercial credit card along with 
discounted POS commission rate and 50% discounted 
transaction fees. We organized Hepsiburada Business Partner 
Meetings attended by more than 1,000 participants whose 
business partnership was assumed by us in Ankara, İzmir, and 
İstanbul. We highlighted free and discounted banking services 
provided to Hepsiburada suppliers and the development of 
e-commerce and general economic data during this event. 

Surety programs
In line with our vision to become the first bank to come 
to mind regarding export and the responsibility of our 
sustainable growth strategy, we included a new one in 
our products and services provided to our exporter SMEs. 
Besides, we put the Business Expenditures Support Package, 
designed for meeting the working capital needs of our 
SME customers; the Export Support Package, designed for 
supporting the SMEs operating in the field of the export or 
foreign currency earning sectors and the Investment Support 
Package, designed for providing finance to be used in 
investment and investment related operating expenditures by 
SME and non-SME businesses planning to make investments 
into the service of our customers within the scope of the 
collaboration with the Credit Guarantee Fund also this year 
just like we do every year. With these programs, we provided 
our customers about 7.4 billion TL in finance.

Our customer experience 
and satisfaction studies

We supported the so-
called “Importance of 
Green Transformation for 
SMEs” panel of the “I Can 
Manage My Business” 
project launched in 
2019 with the support 
of 30 banks and 
e-money organizations 
in collaboration with 
TÜRKONFED, VISA, and 
UNDP.

We were the first 
Bank providing 
finance with exporter 
SMEs that had 
difficulty in creating a 
guarantee with 80% 
İhracatı Geliştirme 
A.Ş. (İGE) surety 
support within 
the scope of our 
collaboration with İGE.

Next-generation sales and 
service design

We support the customer experience we have been offering 
in our branches since 2018 with digital and self-service 
processes to make it faster and paper free. In the meantime, 
we architecturally and technologically restore our branches. 
At the end of 2022, the number of Next-Generation Akbank 
branches with an innovative and simple approach reached 542.

We completed the Next-Generation Operation transformation 
started in January 2021 to adapt ourselves to the sales 
and service strategy of Next-Generation Akbank. Thanks 
to the structure in which our 12 operation teams that are 
formed based on customer journeys are in contact with 
both customers and internal stakeholders all the time, we 
place our customers and employees at the center and 
continuously improve their experiences. Our teams maintain 
the transformation story with which we received five awards 
for the best transformation structure and management in 
national and international competitions.

We started our end-to-end service and experience studies 
for critical Individual and SME Banking products and services 
in such a manner that they could also be maintained in 2023 
for the purpose of responding to the changing customer 
needs and profiles faster with a focus on the experience. As a 
result of these studies, we aim to offer faster, simpler, digitally 
integrated, and more responsive products and services to 
customers’ needs.

1001 Idea Suggestion System 
We have been assessing the recommendations of 
our employees and customers through the “1001 
Idea Recommendation System,” being an important 
element of our innovation culture for 14 years 
through our platform. We have assessed more than 
100 thousand innovative recommendations so far.

In 2023, we will continue to assess the 
recommendations of our customers and employees 
and create added value.

Improvements for You
We have been maintaining the “Improvements 
for You” program since 2012. We have improved 
2,300 processes until today, with about 150 
improvements focusing on digitalization, employee 
and customer satisfaction, and efficiency in 2022.

“For You” – Analytical Change 
Management
We made the interaction and behavior monitoring 
of our employees and customers possible with 
“Integro,” our essential banking sales service 
platform used in critical business manner changes 
affecting the employee and customer experience. 
We will keep enriching the analytical change 
management designed to ensure sustainable 
growth with social learning, reward, and recognition 
with this platform in 2023 with appropriate 
scenarios and insights.

198 - 199Ecosystem management

https://www.akbank.com/Documents/doc-mc/TURKONFED_yesil_donusumde_rapor.pdf
https://www.akbank.com/Documents/doc-mc/TURKONFED_yesil_donusumde_rapor.pdf
https://www.akbank.com/Documents/doc-mc/TURKONFED_yesil_donusumde_rapor.pdf


Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Akbank Design Office – 
employee applications design

We extended our branch banking application Integro in 
2021 by designing it from scratch and completing its 
infrastructural transformation. We strengthened Integro, 
which offered similar device-independent experiences thanks 
to its responsive/adaptive infrastructure under the roof of 
“Incorporate Integro” in 2022, depending on the needs and 
expectations of corporate roles, and offered it for use by our 
branches. Besides, we will continue designing more integrated 
and coherent experiences with our digital channels to 
functionally enrich Incorporate Integro in 2023.

We continued to functionally improve our holistic employee 
platform in 2022, which offered dynamic and social displays 

and processes supporting development with “Collective,” 
whose first phase had been introduced to Akbank members 
in 2021. We received four prestigious awards in global 
competitions. We applied with the strong designs of 
Collective and its vision focusing on employee experience. 

We created a unique development platform with the mobile 
application Biblio that had been offered for use by our leaders 
in 2022 to support their personal development and increase 
the synergy with their teams. We will turn Biblio which 
provides fast-moving summarized content in 20 different 
categories, into an application offering more personal 
experiences in 2023 by supporting it with analytical data.

Customer experience management

With our studies for 
the so-called I Want 
a Card journey, we 
won the second prize 
in the “Customer 
Interaction” category 
in the “Captains 
of Technology” 
competition which 
was assessed by 
the jury and public 
opinion.

We continue to 
identify our areas 
of development and 
take action for these 
areas by measuring 
Clean Banking 
communication and 
awareness with the 
help of a survey 
covering all our 
employees who are 
in contact with our 
customers.

Clean banking

We also maintained the experience measurements in 2022 
that we performed with the CATI (telephone) method to pay 
attention to our customers’ opinions receiving services from 
our channels (Branch, Mobile Banking, Internet Banking) 
more closely and learn about their experiences before they 
go down. We continued to follow up on our experience 
measurements (NPS, CSAT, CES) through the Customer 
Experience Management Platform introduced in 2017.

In addition to our online surveys conducted via telephone and 
digital channels to hear our customers more frequently and 
instantly, we launched the survey method via SMS in 2022. 
We will keep our efforts to integrate customer experience at 
all points we contact them in 2023.

In 2022, we started the Experience Measurement Based 
on Customer Journey studies to measure our customers’ 
experience on an end-to-end basis specific to the products 
in addition to our channel and transaction-based studies. 
Being the first of our Customer Experience researches in 
which we mainly used the e-mail survey method and focused 
on constant data collection, the so-called “I Want A Card” 
journey allowed us to hear our customers at 22 points of 
contact in total from application to closure and identify our 
areas of action. Following the “I Need Credit” and “I Want to 
Become an Akbank Member” journeys launched in 2022, we 
are planning to introduce five different journeys in 2023, with 
the “I Want to Become a Member Business” journey being in 
the first place.

We increased the number of feedbacks from our customers 
to 2.2 million, with about a 50% increase in 2022 compared 

We maintained our Clean Banking activities also in 2022, 
which were performed to protect the interests of our 
customers in addition to the legal regulation in the practices 
and conducts of our Bank and its employees for the 
customers. We introduced many practices in the fields of 
culture, training, communication, new product/service process, 
and customer complaint management for the management 
of Clean Banking within the frame of the principles identified 
in our Bank, extension of it across the organization, and 
adoption of the same as a working principle.

We held meetings with 8 Regional Directorates to share our 
observations about the Clean Banking practices, obtain 
feedback, and reflect this feedback to our processes. We 
performed two focus group studies with our branches 
throughout the year. In 2022, we rewarded our successful 
employees twice during the year who combined their high 
performance with the awareness and sensitivity of Clean 
Banking and, thus, made a positive contribution to customer 
satisfaction. 

Customer satisfaction

We pay great attention to customers’ feedback and 
generate quick and customized solutions within the frame 
of our vision to convert complaints into satisfaction. We 
enhance our solution generation capability while we intend 
to finalize any complaints, requests, and recommendations 
received from our customers digitally or through live support 
channels in 2 days. We manage all notifications end to end 
and centrally to solve the incoming notifications promptly 
beyond the legal compliance goals and inform our customers 
in all phases of the solution process.

On the other hand, we updated the customer sensitivity 
index model in which we employed advanced analytic 
solutions at customer contact points to manage the 
experience and solution process more effectively in customer 
notifications sent independently from our channels. We also 
deployed the customer contact history solution, where all 
interactions with our customers were combined, the indicator 
panel for customer-oriented service management and the 
score measurement for customer efforts.

We started to automatically categorize 50% of total 
notifications sent to our Bank thanks to the artificial 
intelligence-assisted text analytics solution that was 
deployed for more effective management of the solution 
process for customers’ notifications, including live support 
channels. We will keep improving and expanding the scope 
of the model in the upcoming years.

We successfully 
renewed our ISO 
10002 quality 
certificate also in 
2022, which has been 
renewed every year 
since 2007.

Customer-focused service 
management
Bankamız genelinde uygulanan SLA yönetim stratejisini, We 
re-reviewed the SLA management strategy implemented 
across our Bank in a more customer-oriented, open, and 
inclusive manner to consistently enhance the experience 
and service quality offered to our customers. We focused 
on creating a proactive management structure based on 
the comprehensive measurement and effective monitoring 
to improve service quality. We will continue cooperating 
with all our stakeholders in 2023 to make the new model 
more useful.

to the previous year, by enriching our feedback collection 
channels and new channel/product measurement processes. 
Our bank-wide general net promoter score (NPS) increased 
by 1 point in 2022 compared to 2021, thanks to all these 
activities performed with a focus on customer satisfaction.

Within the scope of the Competition Based Channel 
Satisfaction Research in which, the satisfaction level of our 
customers who received our services through Akbank ATMs, 
Mobile Banking application, and Customer Communication 
Centre was compared with the satisfaction level of users 
receiving the services of competitor banks through the same 
channels, we made about 20,000 interviews throughout 
the year. We keep taking action all the time in our areas of 
development.

We performed 43 different ad-hoc research projects with our 
internal resources during the year that were requested by our 
business units and in which we assessed the opinions of our 
customers about various issues, including satisfaction level, 
product usage habits, etc.

With Internal Customer Satisfaction Survey, the leading 
study we conducted throughout 2022 by receiving our 
employees’ opinions, we reviewed the extent to which the 
employees of Akbank deemed the units they cooperated 
successfully on the basis of various elements.

We will work on new experience measurements and analytical 
models in 2023 that allow us to review the experiences to be 
offered to our customers more detailedly on an end-to-end 
basis with a critical product and service breakdown.

200 - 201Ecosystem management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Customer data privacy Our purchasing practices

Our 6,530 employees 
received 1,593 hours 
of training in total 
about personal data 
protection in 2022.

In 2022, the KVRS – Governance unit was established 
within the structure of our Legal Consultancy 
Department to develop action plans and ensure the 
governance of the actions required to be taken in 
this respect for the sake of compliance with legal 
regulations in terms of the Personal Data Protection 
Law, Competition Law and Directive on Sustainability 
and Disclosure of Secret Information. Within this 
scope, it directly supports the respective departments 
in ensuring compliance processing and sharing 
of personal data with the applicable legislation, 
prevention of data breaches, design of the processes 
in parallel with this purpose and under the legislation, 
and taking of measures. Studies are carried out for 
full compliance with the applicable legislation by the 
committees covered by the KVRS Governance Board, 
the Bank, and its affiliates.

We implement the “Dynamic Data Masking Expansion 
Project” in our Bank to ensure the security and privacy 
of the customers’ data and enhance the maturity in 
this regard. The dynamic data masking solution allows 
our Bank’s specialists and analytical applications to 
carry out analyses by data masking at the time of 
inquiry and secure collective data access. We launched 
some integration studies of the dynamic masking 
structure into analytical reporting environments (BO, 
SAS, etc.). We aim to expand its scope and maintain 
our activities by improving the flow in upcoming years.

In 2022, we enriched our functions of creating self-
service-based test data by adding new functions 
commonly used in application tests and generated the 
banking data that are hard to produce.

As Akbank, we attach importance to managing cyber and 
fraud risks in the digitalizing and globalizing world. We 
adopt the principle of managing these risks in the most 
effective way in the fields of the bank, customer, fund 
holder, business partner, and sector. We comply with all legal 
regulations in our digital platforms, particularly the Personal 
Data Protection Law (KVKK/PDPL) and the requirements of 
the Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency (BDDK /
BRSA). Our technologies for storing customer data safely 
are periodically checked by the control teams and regularly 
audited by bank examiners and independent auditors 
certified by the BRSA. Moreover, we offer safe banking 
capabilities to our customers through high-level security 
measures based on the best practices to ensure data 
security and privacy.

We implement the required systemic transfer controls, data 
access controls, safe transfer controls, business continuity 
controls, and other necessary corporate controls at the point 
of taking the required technical and administrative security 
measures to protect personal data against unauthorized 
access, damage, loss, or disclosure concerning the 
maintenance of privacy and security of personal data. We 
inform our customers about the purpose of personal data 
processing, the persons to whom their personal data can be 
transferred and the purposes of such transfer, the method 
and legal basis of personal data collection, and some other 
rights they enjoy. We process our customers’ data with 
their explicit consent to provide privileged services to them 
within the scope of disclosure of the services they procure 
or beyond other legal bases stipulated in the applicable law. 
Our customers can withdraw this consent at any time.

We develop organizational and process-based management 
mechanisms with the Information Sharing Committee we 
have established in line with the technical studies for the 
sharing of customer data with third-party stakeholders in 
compliance with the applicable regulations.

Besides, we introduced Test Data Management (TDM) in 
2020 for the purpose of ensuring the safe usage of our 
customers’ data and carrying the practices in this field a 
step forward. Within this scope, we ensure customer privacy 
by means of achieving product implementation of the Test 
Data Management and anonymizing the customers’ data. 
Thanks to the processes we designated in this workflow, 
we ensured that our business development teams always 
had the test data. We redesigned the processes so that the 
respective technology and self-service test requests could 
be implemented. We developed and maintained the TDM 
processes also in 2022.

We pay attention to working with local suppliers, particularly 
in our supplier selections performed for the purchase activities 
within the scope of our operations. In this way, we aim to 
contribute to the national and regional economy by means of 
supporting our local suppliers, being one of the main players in 
our economy, and building the Future of our business on solid 
bases.

We continued to increase our collaboration with local suppliers 
in this reporting period compared to the previous years. 

We eliminate the risks by managing our purchase activities 
that involve a risky environment in which the sustainability 
activities of our Bank might expose to an external impact 
in parallel with our sustainability policies. Thus, we make the 
positive value created in environmental and social aspects 
sustainable in our purchase activities.

We carry out transparent and accountable operations through 
our purchase activities that are performed in compliance with 
our ethical principles, and we maximize the contribution and 
value we create.

We aim to contribute 
to the national and 
regional economy by 
means of supporting 
our local suppliers, 
being one of the 
main players in our 
economy, and building 
the Future of our 
business on solid 
bases.

Total number of suppliers 
2,216

Number of local suppliers 
1,760

Total amount of supplier payments 
8,089,682,100 TL

Amount of local supplier payments 
6,147,507,749 TL

Number of new suppliers 
133

Our purchasing 
approach

We carry out our purchase activities in line with our 
ethical principles. Our main goal in the purchase 
activities is to maximize the contribution and value 
resulting from effective, cost-sensitive, and dynamic 
operations according to the sustainability policy of our 
Bank

As Akbank, 

 – We comply with all our published policies and codes of 
conduct in all our purchase processes, 

 – Our Procurement Department and authorized units for 
purchase implement an effective mechanism for the 
prevention of conflicts of interest in our Bank, 

 – Our units which are authorized to carry out purchase 
activities, identify the general codes of conduct 
required to be observed by the suppliers and 
communicate these codes of conduct to them, 

 – We obtain a statement from our suppliers for 
compliance with all provisions of the UN Global 
Compact,

 – We prioritize the suppliers working with more sensitive 
systems to the society and environment in the 
provision of the services, 

 – We make efforts to obtain a commitment letter and 
annual survey form to assess the works and working 
conditions of the third-party employees whose 
services are procured by us within the scope of their 
commitments to international organizations,

 – We perform all our product and service procurements 
within the scope of the financial authorizations 
designated by our Board of Directors,

 – We regard the procurement of the products and/
or services that achieve optimum quality and price 
balance from our suppliers who are capable of meeting 
the needs of request holders in line with the needs of 
our business units and the interests of our Bank as a 
main priority.

202 - 203Ecosystem management



Climate Change ---------------------- 206

Portfolio Impact and Exposure ---------- 208

Climate Risk and Our Portfolio -----------210

Our Operational Greenhouse  
Gas Emissions ------------------------ 222

Our Recycling-Oriented  
Environmental Approach ---------------226

Our Water Consumption ---------------- 227

Climate 
change



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Climate change

Environmental pollution and the greenhouse gases 
accumulated in the atmosphere increase every passing 
day upon the industrial development. In short-, medium- 
and long-term Climate Action Problems stand out as 
the most important risk items in the 2022 Global Risk 
Report published by the World Economic Forum (WEF). All 
ecosystems in the world are irreparably affected by the 
consequences of climate change including the increase 
in the frequency and negative impacts of excessive 
weather events, glacier melting, rise of the sea level and 
increase of the acid rate in the sources of water. We, in 
turn, deal with this issue as one of our four areas of focus 
in our sustainability strategy. By effectively managing the 
negative impacts of climate change, we take firm steps 
forward in our struggle with climate change in parallel with 
the responsibility we assume towards the next generations.

We are increasingly getting closer to the goals we identified 
with active participation of our concerned teams in line 
with our roadmap developed jointly with our Sustainability 
Committee in the light of our strategic areas of focus. In 
this regard, we assess all our credits in consideration of 
the Environmental and Social Risk Framework and check 
whether all commercial credits are within the scope of the 
“List of Non-creditable Activities” being a part of our policy 
or not. Besides all these, we assess every detail from the 
water consumption of the trees located at the garden of 
our Bank to the heat reflection feature and environmental 
impact of the interior and exterior paintings of our buildings 
with great sensitivity and take the required measures.

We build accurate governance structures and control 
systems and carry out our activities with a performance 
focus for the management of the risks and opportunities 
with respect to environmental protection and climate 
change. Within this scope, we published our Environment 
Policy in 2022 in which we described our initiatives. 

We actively integrate 
the measures focusing 
on climate change into 
our bank strategy and 
consider them at the 
high importance level 
among our prioritized 
issues.

2010
We became the first Turkish Bank which 
published the United Nations Global Compact 
Communication on Progress. 

We ranked among the World’s Sector Leaders 
category thanks to our high score as the first and 
only company included in the Global 500 Report of 
the Carbon Disclosure Project for 2010 from Türkiye. 

We introduced the Energy Friendly Loan as a result 
of the importance we attached to environmental 
sustainability.

2012
We were among the first companies in the world 
undersigning the “The Carbon Price Communiqué” 
which was prepared by the Prince of Wales 
Corporate Leaders Group on Climate Change and 
pointed out the necessity to improve a clear and 
transparent pricing policy for carbon emission.

2015
For the sake of developing a new roadmap for 
struggle with global climate change, we undersigned 
the notice which was submitted for signature in the 
COP21 Conference of Parties in Paris and encourage 
the parties to struggle with climate change.

2017
We were among 
the first banks 
undersigning 
the UN Global 
Compact 
Declaration of 
Sustainable 
Finance.

2020
We identified our 
sustainability 
strategy and goals 
within the structure 
of our Bank. We 
started to pursue our 
actions in line with 
these goals.

2021
We reduced the limit for the Environmental and Social Impact Assessment to the level of 
10 million USD for better managing the outcomes of the projects financed by us.

We convert all our cards into an environmentally friendly material under the leadership of 
Axess. We will produce all our Akbank Cards with recycled materials by 2025.

We planted 50,000 saplings with an aim to enrich both life and hope. 

We installed the ISO 14001 Environmental Management System and ISO 50001 Energy 
Efficiency Management System in our Head Office, Banking Centre and 42 branches. 

We published our Sustainable Finance Framework. 

We supported the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures – TCFD.

2022
We announced the goal of becoming Net Zero Bank by 2050. 

We updated our Environmental and Social Risk Framework and published our 
Environmental Policy. 

We started to draw up CDP Water Security Reporting. 

We installed the ISO 14001 Environmental Management System and ISO 50001 
Energy Efficiency Management System in our Head Office, Akbank Banking Centre 
and totally 313 branches.

The milestones in our struggle 
with climate change

The scope of the Declaration of Sustainable Finance 
prepared by the UN Global Compact and undersigned by 
us in 2017 was updated in 2021. We committed to develop 
innovative sustainable finance mechanisms along with 
new principles, raise the awareness of our stakeholders 
about the climate related risks and opportunities and 
support the minimization of carbon footprint also by 
our customers through cooperation with other banks 
and innovative products. You can access the detailed 
information about there via the link. 

We have goals in many subjects including energy 
consumption, greenhouse gas emission, paper and water 
use, recycling of technological wastes etc. within the 
scope of struggle with climate change. In this regard, 
we introduce different projects and practices in order to 
achieve our goals. 

206 - 207Climate change

https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Policies/34/10/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/pdf/Akbank-Sustainable-Finance-Framework.pdf


Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Portfolio impact 
and exposure 

Claiming almost 80% of the emissions leading to climate 
change across the world results from the energy sector, we 
prioritize to ensure that the energy sector in our portfolio is 
renewable and has clean sources of energy for the solution 
of this problem. We aim at spending all the finance reserved 
for our projects in the construction phase since 2016 for 
renewable energy projects in 2030.

As Akbank, we pay regard to the environmental and social 
impact-value creation of our projects and operations in 
order to make our portfolio more sustainable. Within this 
scope, we pay attention to these impact factors in our 
credit facility processes. We work for leaving a sustainable 
future to the Turkish economy and our stakeholders 
within the scope of our credit facility activities. We carry 
out analyses for our impact on climate change and for 
the sectors and transactions with a high potential to be 
affected from physical and transition risks of climate 
change within the scope of Akbank’s Environmental and 
Social Risk Framework.

 – We announced that we would not finance coal-driven 
new thermal power plant projects in any segments 
starting from 2021. We committed in Akbank’s 
Environmental and Social Risk Framework published in 
September 2022 that we would not finance coal-driven 
Thermal Power Plant capacity increases and new coal 
mine investments. 

 – We do not finance production or trading activities unless 
the trees and other forestry products resulting from the 
forestry activities are managed sustainably. 

We will become a “Net-Zero Bank” 
by 2050 in such a manner that the 
impact of all our activities including 
our credit portfolio on climate change 
is minimized.

 – We require the minimization of tree cutting during the 
projects and question the existence of a plan that can 
compensate the number of trees to be affected thereby 
and the forested land to be destroyed if tree cutting is 
inevitable as well as the extent of the greenhouse gases 
to be caused by the projects with a high impact in terms 
of carbon emission during the projects and the resultant 
cost of carbon.

We question the following aspects particularly for our 
customers who have a high impact in climate change and 
operate in the sectors leading to intensive greenhouse gas 
emission* and are subjected to an assessment by the ESIA 
(Environmental and Social Impact Assessment) Team and we 
follow the emission quantities of the customers and projects:

 – Responsibility of the top management for the issues 
related to climate change, 

 – Commitments about climate change, 

 – Short, medium and long-term strategic goals for the 
minimization of the greenhouse gas emission, 

 – Reporting about such goals, and 

 – Emission data for the last three years and existence of 
various emission control mechanisms. 

* Activity categories within the scope of Annex-1 of the Regulation on the 
Monitoring of Greenhouse Gas Emissions dated 17.05.2014

We question the awareness of our customers about acute-
chronic and physical impacts of climate change and its 
transitional effects and pay attention to the inclusion of 
the information concerning physical and transition risks 
of climate change in independent advisor’s reports as 
defined by the Task Force for Climate Related Financial 
Disclosures – TCFD for all category A and acceptable 
category B projects with a large scale that are included in 
our ESIA (Environmental and Social Impact Assessment) 
process. Besides, we require the customers and projects 
with a high potential to be affected by the physical and 
transition risks of climate change to develop action plans 
for struggling with climate change and we closely follow up 
these processes.

We obligate our customers to minimize emissions in 
their projects and identify the environmental and social 
impacts on the working conditions, prevention of pollution 
and source efficiency, expropriation management, public 
health and safety, biodiversity, cultural heritages and 
local communities through risk and impact assessment 
processes. We aim to enhance their skills to manage these 
impacts through our periodical monitoring activities. 
We keep playing a leading role in our sector thanks to 
this practice. Besides collecting data on the biodiversity 
impacts in the projects considered to fall into the scope of 
ESIA (Environmental and Social Impact Assessment), we 
implement various management plants to ensure that our 
customers take the required actions for the management 
of the impacts considered to involve a high risk.

We do not provide a credit facility for new investments to 
be made in the regions identified by the Alliance for Zero 
Extinction – AZE and we recommend some measures that 
can be managed by firms with respect to the biodiversity 
impacts exposed by our portfolio. Furthermore, we 
encourage our customers to take special measures against 
the financial activities with a negative impact on aquatic 
biodiversity and carry out some activities for the protection 
of the seas in our country and region within the scope of 
blue financing. 

We protect our nature through our decarbonization and 
environmental compliance activities intended for our 
customer portfolio besides our renewable energy practices 
across the Bank. In 2022, we maintained all our activities 
addressing decarbonization in full compliance with the 
environmental compliance laws and legislations in force. 
We were not subjected to any fine or sanction in terms of 
compliance with the applicable laws and legislations. 

208 - 209Climate change



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

We make sure that the Sustainable 
Finance products specially designed 
for the needs and operations of our 
customers support local and international 
efforts as well for struggling with climate 
change. Two main categories through 
which we handle our climate financing 
initiatives were “relief of the outcomes of 
climate change (minimization of carbon 
emission)” and “climate adaptation.” 

SME Eco Transformation Package and 
Blue Financing Product Package both 
provide assistance in the minimization 
of the impacts of climate change, and 
they are among our credit products that 
produce a positive effect within the scope 
of climate adaptation. 

Roof Solar Power Plant Investment Loan, 
Environmentally Friendly Vehicle Credit 
and Ecolease, being our affiliate Aklease’s 
product, are among our other sustainable 
financing credit solutions which help the 
minimization of the impacts of climate 
change. 

Our agricultural credits product continues 
to produce a positive effect within the 
scope of climate adaptation.

Climate risk and 
our portfolio

We will zero our carbon emissions 
resulting from our credit portfolio by 
2050.

As Akbank, we announced our commitment in 2022 to 
become a net zero carbon bank by 2050. We believe that 
the greatest value we will create in our journey in becoming 
a net zero bank is the transformation of our customers. 
Besides such carbon intensive sectors as energy (based 
on fossil fuel), cement, iron, steel, aluminium and fertilizer, 
we are taking the road with the goal of transforming 
all sectors. During this journey, we will keep providing 
the financing support needed by the sectors through 
sustainable financing credit products and services. In 
addition to financial services, we are working to provide 
non-financial innovative services that might be needed by 
our customers in this journey jointly with our stakeholders 
and collaborations.

We closely follow our customers’ net zero goals and 
strategies. We carried out preliminary assessment studies 
in 2022 within the scope of net zero carbon strategies of 
our customers operating in automobile, cement, textile, 
tourism and petroleum-natural gas sectors. 

With our net zero carbon roadmap and initiatives, we not 
only minimize the impact of our Bank on climate change 
but also produce a positive effect for the management 
of the risks in the field of climate change. We make sure 
that our customers detect any sectoral opportunities 
in advance in our preliminary net zero assessments 
conducted for our customers in certain sectors and we 
also minimize the risks for them to be affected by any 
probable transition risks such as regulation changes. 
We help our customers take actions beforehand for any 
probable transition risks and opportunities like regulation 
changes and any deviations in market expectations thanks 
to our sustainability related credit facility mechanisms 
specially designed for our customers. By prioritizing R&D 
investments made within the scope of the minimization 
of climate change’s impacts and compliance, we support 
our customers in taking the risks and opportunities with 
respect to the technological transition. 

We prioritize the definition, assessment and management 
processes of our credit portfolio for the risks and 
opportunities associated with climate change. Within this 
scope, we performed the following activities in 2022:

 – We qualitatively completed the sectoral climate 
change analysis study for the definition of the risks and 
opportunities associated with the credit portfolio of 
Akbank. 

 – We assessed the location and sector specific climate 
risks for the geography-based climate change analysis 
of the Project Finance Loans by making use of the 
outcomes of our sectoral climate change analysis study. 

We aim for these initiatives of us in connection with 
climate change to provide inputs for all business units 
particularly the Project Finance Loans of Investment 
Banking in the first phase for them to develop strategies 
to manage the climate risks and take any potential 
opportunities.

210 - 211Climate change



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Climate change analysis and 
heat map
We reviewed the qualitative impacts of the risks and 
opportunities which might result from climate change 
on the operations of one of our customers as well as its 
quantitative impacts on the credit portfolio in 2022. We 
identified the vulnerabilities which could concern our credit 
portfolio utmost by way of benefiting from the commonly 
used scenario models of “Representative Concentration 
Pathways” (RCPs) and “Shared Socio-economic Pathways” 
(SSPs). In order to understand the risks and opportunities of 
such vulnerabilities, we took the framework of “Task Force on 
Climate-related Financial Disclosures” into consideration.

We identified the vulnerabilities that 
were related to our credit portfolio 
most closely.

We developed the scenario details for 1.5 and 3.5 degrees 
increase in temperature with a political, economic, social, 
technological, environmental and legal perspective. By 
focusing on the political developments that might be 
caused by 1.5 degrees increase in temperature in Türkiye 
and on the legal regulations that could be introduced in 
Türkiye, we reviewed the reflections of these changes on 
the sectors financed by Akbank. 

Physical Legal and 
regulatory SocialMarket TechnologicalReputation

 – Excessive 
precipitation and 
increased severity 
of extreme weather 
events (acute) 

 – Natural forest fires 
(acute) 

 – Increase in heat 
waves (acute) 

 – Loss of biodiversity 
(chronic) 

 – Water scarcity – 
chronic droughts, 
low water level etc. 
(chronic) 

 – Temperature 
increase (chronic) 

 – Rise of sea level 
(chronic)

 – Land shortage 
and soil erosion or 
failure (chronic)

 – Compulsory 
labelling

 – Greenhouse gas 
arrangement / 
emission pricing 

 – Exposure to 
litigation 

 – Regulation / 
pricing in water 
usage

 – Increase in 
social problems 
(immigration, 
illness, modern 
slavery)

 – Reduction of 
insurance capacity 

 – Change in the 
expectations of 
business partners 

 – Shortage of 
resources

 – Change in 
consumers’ 
expectations

 – CCUS feasibility

 – New low carbon 
development 
technologiesi

 – Loss of reputation 

 – Invisibility 
of the brand 
commitment for 
struggling with 
climate change

212 - 213Climate change



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

We organized a 
workshop with the 
respective teams 
in the Bank in 
consideration of the 
specified outcomes 
and scenario details. 
We developed a 
heat map as a result 
of the workshop 
with the use of the 
qualitative risk and 
opportunity level to 
be caused by each 
vulnerability for the 
relevant sectors.

Type of vulnerability Potential impact
For Akbank’s clients 
Operational impact

Potential financial 
implications
For Akbank 
Financial impact

Physical risks

Transitional 
risks

Acute

Policy and legal

Market

Real estate, construction and infrastructure
 – Asset damage to due extreme weather events
 – Additional costs due to increasing insurance premiums
 – Increased demand due to renovation need of assets

Real Estate, construction and infrastructure
 – Limitations on construction areas and material due to regulatory changes
 – New opportunities on green transport infrastructure (e.g. railways)

The financial burden of 
the damage to property 
can fall on households 
and companies, 
impairing asset values 
and reducing the value 
of investments held by 
banks (in case these 
losses are not insured)

The financial burden 
of carbon price can 
fall on households 
and companies 
impairing asset values 
and profitability, e.g. 
petroleum refinery, 
and reducing the value 
of investments held by 
banks (in case these 
losses are not insured)

Increased rate of 
default and NPLs due 
to credit exposure 
to companies with 
business models that 
are not prepared to 
transform to a low-
carbon economy, and 
are unable to repay 
loans

Loan portfolio 
expansion due to 
new investments 
opportunities of 
clients

Increased rate of 
default and NPLs due 
to credit exposure 
to companies with 
business models that 
are not prepared to 
transform to a low-
carbon economy, and 
are unable to repay 
loans

New loan products 
to address client 
needs to mitigate 
and adapt to climate 
change

Tourism
 – Sales decrease, operational disruptions and asset damage due to extreme weather events
 – Increase in demand for local tourism

Tourism
 – Increased cost due to biodiversity protection request of legislators
 – Price volatility due to market change (e.g. decrease in international travel and increase 

in local demand)

Energy
 – Asset damage due to extreme weather events
 – Supply security disruptions

Energy
 – New energy generation technologies as an opportunity for renewable
 – Increased cost but better reputation due to use of CCUS technologies

(Petro)chemicals & mining
 – Increased cost due to additional cooling need
 – Operational disruption due to water scarcity

(Petro)chemicals & mining:
 – Reputational damage. lawsuits and increased cost due to high emissions
 – Market volatility due to raw material scarcity

Transportation & logistics
 – Operational disruptions due to road infrastructure damage
 – Safety issues during extreme weather

Transportation & logistics
 – New business opportunities due to improving fuel technology
 – Increased cost of fossil fuel powered transportation due to carbon pricing

Agriculture & food
 – Yield reduction and crop damages

Agriculture & food
 – Dietary changes enabling shift in agricultural practices
 – New investment opportunities due to climate resilient crops and seeds

Manufacturing: textile; retail
 – Operational disruption due to water and raw material scarcity

Manufacturing, textile; retail
 – Increased cost due to increasing investor scrutiny and new investments required by 

legislators

Chronic

Technology

Reputation

214 - 215Climate change



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Relevance of vulnerabilities 
per sector

Tr
a

ns
it

io
n

Regulatory

Mandatory labeling

Regulation/pricing on GHE emissions

Regulation/pricing on water usage

Exposure to litigation

Technological
Development or new low-carbon technologies or solutions

CCUS feasibility

Reputation 
& social

Both risk and opportunity

Risk (low to high)

Opportunity

Reputation impact

Increase in social issues (migration, disease, modern slavery)

Market

Shift in consumer expectation

Shift in business partners (suppliers, alliances partners) expectation

Resource scarcity

Both risk and opportunity

Risk (low to high)

Opportunity

Relevance of vulnerabilities 
per sector

C
on

st
ru

ct
io

n 
a

nd
 in

fr
a

st
ru

ct
ur

e

M
a

nu
fa

ct
ur

in
g

 
a

nd
 e

le
ct

ri
ca

l 
eq

ui
pm

en
t

C
em

en
t

E
ne

rg
y 

no
n-

re
ne

w
a

b
le

N
a

tu
ra

l r
es

ou
rc

es
 

in
cl

. m
et

a
ls

 &
 

m
in

in
g

(P
et

ro
)

ch
em

ic
a

ls

R
et

a
ile

r

Te
xt

ile

To
ur

is
m

Tr
a

ns
p

or
ta

ti
on

 
&

 lo
g

is
ti

c

A
g

ri
 &

 f
oo

d

E
ne

rg
y 

- 
re

ne
w

a
b

le

Climate vulnerability heat map - transition vulnerabilities

216 - 217Climate change



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

P
hy

si
ca

l

Acute

Increase in extreme precipitation and weather event

Wild fires

Increase in heatwaves

Droughts (dry-spells and/or low riverine water levels)

Chronic

Biodiversity loss

Water scarcity (chronic droughts, low water table etc)

Increase in mean temperatures

Sea level rise

Land scarcity, and soil erosion and degradation

Both risk and opportunity

Risk (low to high)

Opportunity

Relevance of vulnerabilities 
per sector

C
on

st
ru

ct
io

n 
a

nd
 in

fr
a

st
ru

ct
ur

e

M
a

nu
fa

ct
ur

in
g

 
a

nd
 e

le
ct

ri
ca

l 
eq

ui
pm

en
t

C
em

en
t

E
ne

rg
y 

no
n-

re
ne

w
a

b
le

N
a

tu
ra

l r
es

ou
rc

es
 

in
cl

. m
et

a
ls

 &
 

m
in

in
g

(P
et

ro
)

ch
em

ic
a

ls

R
et

a
ile

r

Te
xt

ile

To
ur

is
m

Tr
a

ns
p

or
ta

ti
on

 
&

 lo
g

is
ti

c

A
g

ri
 &

 f
oo

d

E
ne

rg
y 

- 
re

ne
w

a
b

le

Climate vulnerability heat map - physical vulnerabilities

218 - 219Climate change



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

We reviewed the financial impacts by conducting a pilot 
project specific to a customer and assessed how they could 
turn into a credit risk for Akbank. With the experiences 
we gained from this pilot project launched specific to a 
customer, we aim to mainstream this project on the whole 
portfolio in the upcoming period and we continue to establish 
methodologies and enhance our risk management capacity.

Akbank - Çimsa case study

We conducted a study to analyze the 
impacts of physical and transition risks 
of climate change specific to Çimsa, 
being one of our customers operating 
in the cement sector, on the firm’s 
operations and financials for the purpose 
of identifying the sectoral risks and 
opportunities of the impacts of climate 
change. Within this scope, we dealt 
with two most critical risks specific to 
the operations of Çimsa: chronic water 
drought risk (physical risk) and carbon 
tax risk (transition risk). Sectoral risks, 
firm specific operations, operating 
geographies, production processes 
and similar criteria were taken into 
consideration for the selection of these 
risks. We studied the climate risks with 
1.5 ⁰C and 3.5 ⁰C climate scenarios for 
the projection of 2030. We will maintain 
the implementation in the upcoming 
period by extending similar studies to our 
partners in different sectors.

Management of climate change 
risk

We assess the impact of climate change on our Bank 
within the frame of both our credit portfolio and operations.

Calculation of the capital 
requirement 
We decided to reflect climate change risk to the capital 
requirements starting from 2023 for the purpose of 
projecting the increasing importance of the risks related to 
climate change to our capital calculations and supporting 
our goal to become a net zero bank by 2050. Within this 
scope, we will take the capital required to be set aside for 
climate change risk into consideration as well in the Internal 
Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) starting 
from 2023.

As the first step, we identified the potential transition and 
physical risks that might be exposed by the credit portfolio 
in the establishment of the methodology for the calculation 
of the capital requirement. We determined a methodology 
to calculate the capital required to handle climate change 
risks with the use of the heat map study resulting from 
the review of the risks related to climate change based 
on sectors. In this way, we digitized the impact of climate 
change risk and calculated the capital requirement that 
had to be set aside for such a risk type.

Setting the risk limits 
We also conducted a study in 2022 to be able to integrate 
the climate related risks into the risk limit framework of our 
Bank. We set the risk limits for monitoring purpose within 
the scope of the management and monitoring of climate 
change risk. We used the following criteria at the time of 
setting such limits by sectors:

 – The sectors that will possibly be exposed to the carbon 
cost within the scope of the “Emission Trading System 
Directive”, 

 – Risky sectors in the heat map developed jointly with the 
consultant firm in terms of the transition risk.

We aim to review the restrictions and guiding principles in 
parallel with the legal regulations and developments to be 
published in 2024. 

In 2023, we will share our first Task Force on Climate-Related 
Financial Disclosures – TCFD with the public.

Our approach to the impact of the 
climate risk on our operations
For identifying the impact of the climate risks on our 
operations, we reviewed our Head Office building and the 
Data Centre of the Credit Registration Bureau in Ankara as 
the New Emergency Data Centre in 2022. In these reviews, 
we discussed the actions taken against any disasters that 
might lead to business interruptions such as earthquakes, 
fires and floods etc. as well as the current situation with our 
internal and external stakeholders. 

We will keep assessing the environmental, physical 
and disaster related risks which might affect business 
continuity at the local scale also in the upcoming year by 
way of expanding our field visits within this scope inclusive 
of our Regional Directorates as well. In our Business 
Continuity and Information Systems Continuity Committee 
meetings, we will regularly present the risks we have 
identified in our work with the relevant business units of 
our Bank (OHS, Security, Architectural Affairs) to our top 
managers.

Within the framework of the Crisis Response Plans we 
started to develop in 2022, we will continue with 15 risks 
also in 2023 and develop a scenario for the first 10 risks 
that might have an impact on our Bank. In line with these 
studies, we will develop our action plan jointly with our 
respective units for flood risk, fire and explosion related 
incidents and crises.

220 - 221Climate change



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Our operational 
greenhouse gas 
emissions 

As Akbank, we monitor our greenhouse gas emissions 
resulting from our operational activities within the scope 
of our struggle with the climate crisis. We ensure the 
combination of our actions to be taken in this area with 
the governance system of our Bank. Last year, we started 
the initiatives for the establishment of the Integrated 
Management System covering ISO 14001 Environment, 
ISO 50001 Energy Efficiency and ISO 45001 Occupational 
Health and Safety Management Systems. Within this 
framework, we carried out some revisions by adopting a 
proactive approach in all our processes and performance 
indicators. We completed the establishment, operation 
and supervision processes of our Integrated Management 
System in our Head Office, Akbank Banking Centre and 313 
branches. We aim to include our 250 branches in the scope 
of the Integrated Management System in 2023. Moreover, we 
achieved our internationally recognized accreditation and 
certification processes through an independent certification 
agency also this year.

We aim to include all locations of 
Akbank in the scope of the Integrated 
Management System by 2024.

We commit to become a Carbon 
Neutral Bank by 2025.

How will we become a carbon 
neutral bank?

By using the 
consumed 
energy, water 
and paper 
consciously

By raising the 
awareness of 
our employees 
on climate 
change

By integrating 
resource 
efficiency into 
our operations

By expanding 
our 
international 
collaborations

As Akbank, we focus on achieving less energy consumption 
by increasing energy efficiency in all our buildings including 
the branches for the purpose of minimizing our greenhouse 
gas emissions. Within this framework, we remotely control 

and report our electricity, water, natural gas, diesel oil etc. 
consumptions through the so-called Ak-E4 (Akbank Industry 
4.0) introduced in 2021.

By making our greenhouse gas emissions transparent and controllable 
through our Ak–E4 System,

We are able to monitor alarms resulting from 
the excess of the set values for the electricity 
infrastructure in our branches and prevent 
any failures before they take place.

We prevent any systemic interruptions related 
to the infrastructure that might occur in our 
branches.

We can store in the server database and 
report our electricity, water, natural gas and 
diesel fuel consumptions and infrastructure 
failure details.

We protect and strengthen our corporate 
identity through switching on and off our 
advertisement lightings.

222 - 223Climate change



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

We consider that one of our most important minimization 
practices in achieving our goal to become a Carbon Neutral 
Bank by 2025 is to use the renewable sources of energy for 
our electricity consumption which is the biggest source of 
emission of our Bank. The solar energy power plant which 
had been installed on the roof of ABM in 2022 and started to 
generate energy in April generated 360,00 kWh energy in a 
period of 6 months. This amount meets 8% of the electricity 
consumption of the area outside the Data Centre and we 
intend to ensure a 5% reduction in our energy consumption 
through the network thanks to the solar energy panels to be 
installed on the roof of ABM.

For the purpose of minimizing our greenhouse gas 
emissions, we carry out our activities under the coordination 
of our Architectural Solutions, Information Technologies 
and Sustainability teams. Air-conditioner replacements 
of 250 branches were completed in 2022. In this way, we 
anticipate that the energy consumption resulting from air-
conditioning will reduce by 40% in the branches subjected 
to the air-conditioner replacement. We aim to achieve the 
replacements with LED armatures in the common spaces 
of ABM, Silivri Archive and 100 branches in 2023 for the 
purpose of minimizing our greenhouse gas emissions. By 
doing so, we anticipate that the energy saving we achieve in 
our locations will be around 50% in comparison with 2022.

We calculate our greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and 
Scope 2) in compliance with ISO 14064-1 Greenhouse Gas 
Emission Reporting Standards and have them verified by 
independent accredited agencies. As a result of our efforts 
made throughout 2022, we managed to reduce our Scope 1 

Our Akbank data centre 
Thanks to our Akbank Data Centre, we manage our struggle 
with climate change in a healthier and more systematic 
manner through our decisions, actions and analyses as a 
bank which carries Türkiye into a sustainable future. Being 
located at the heart of all our operations, “Akbank Data 
Centre” continues to provide services to our customers 
every passing day. We have documented that our Akbank 
Data Centre meets international standards with its design 
and practices through the “Uptime Institute Tier III Design 
Certificate” and “Uptime Institute Tier III Constructed 
Facility Certificate” we obtained.  

We can monitor the carbon footprint resulting from all 
our operations thanks to our Akbank Data Centre. We 
paid attention to this building to consume as less energy 
as possible. This building has become the focus of our 
activities for becoming carbon neutral which were started 
in 2010. We made use of the “free cooling” technology 
(cooling with low energy consumption involving cooling 
through the outdoor air) in the construction of our Data 
Centre having the LEED Gold (Leadership in Energy and 
Environmental Design) Certificate in order to enhance 
energy efficiency.

We collect the rainwater, store it in large underground tanks 
(190 thousand litres) and use it as we need in compliance 
with the LEED Gold Standards. We make use of LED 
lighting solutions to lighten the whole structure. Moreover, 
we chose all the trees we used in the landscaping from 
special types that consume less water, and by painting the 
roof of our building with a special paint, we prevented it 
from emitting heat to the environment .

As of 2022, we started to supply 80% 
of the electricity energy we used in 
all our buildings and operations from 
renewable energy. 

and Scope 2 carbon emissions to 30,665 tons CO2. Thanks 
to this, we have achieved significant success in our fight 
against climate change. Despite our increasing number 
of customers, we contribute to our country’s transition 
to a sustainable and clean economy with our operational 
greenhouse gas emissions, which we managed to reduce by 
25% compared to the previous year.

Share of renewable 
energy in the electricity 
used in all our locations 
as of 2022

The energy we saved 
in 2022 through 
replacement with 
environmentally friendly 
air-conditioners

The energy we plan to 
save in 2023 through 
replacement with LED 
armatures

80%

40%

50%

Location
Current consumption of the 

armatures to be replaced 
with LED (kwh)

Consumption after 
replacement with 

LED (kWh)

Saved consumption 
amount (kWh)

Savings rate (kWh)

ABM 875,299.64 448,867.88 426,431.76 49%

Silivri Archive 29,459.88 10,985.04 18,474.84 63%

Branches 1,546,776.00 848,232.00 698,544.00 45%

Total 2,451,535.12 1,308,084.92 1,143,450.6 52%

The efficiency 
rate of our Data 
Centre is 1.4 being 
the best rate that 
can be achieved 
by a building in 
İstanbul at a 
similar scale.

224 - 225Climate change



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Our recycling-oriented 
environmental 
approach

Since 2021, we have been sorting out wastes in Sabancı 
Centre, being our Head Office, in line with the “Zero Waste 
Management System” according to the Zero Waste Directive. 
As a result of our practices, we were granted the Basic 
Level Zero Waste Certificate. We are planning to deploy the 
zero-waste system in our Banking System as well in 2022. 
Within this scope, our employees participated in the “Zero 
Waste in All Aspects, Installation of the Zero Waste System 
and Implementation of the Zero Waste Information System” 
training provided by ÇEVKO Academy in 2021.

We discontinued the use of disposable plastics in our 
Head Office buildings as of May 2022 and started to use 
porcelain plates for food service. Upon the discontinuation of 
disposable plastics, about 14 tons less plastic was consumed 
per year. Furthermore, we started to distribute water bottles 
to our employees for use in the offices for the purpose of 
minimizing the consumption of plastic/paper cups.

Our paper consumption
We carry out some activities to minimize our paper 
consumption in parallel with our strategy for effective use 
of natural resources. With our digitally integrated solutions, 
we ensure the approval of agreements and documents in 
our products and services through digital environments. In 
this way, we offer fast, simple and paper free experiences 
both to our customers and employees inside and outside 
the branches without the necessity for physical signature, 
document scanning and archiving. Our customers can also 
quickly perform their monetary transactions in a self-
service mode without paper through the so-called Pay 
Desk Extra kiosks inside the branches.

As Akbank, we prioritize the recycling of different wastes 
resulting from our workflow processes and pay attention 
to their minimization. We aim to handle our waste 
management in a more comprehensive manner in line 
with our Integrated Management System parameters 
through ISO 14001 Environmental Management System 
accreditation we plan to implement in all our branches in 
the future. We also aim to certify all our branches with the 
use of the results of these research within the next two 
years.

We sort such wastes as used papers, plastics, glasses 
and metals in special boxes and refer them to recovery. 
We classify batteries, accumulators, oils, toners, 
fluorescents and such other various products in these 
boxes. Additionally, we collect waste oils thanks to the oil 
retainers between the wastewater line in our dining hall 
kitchen and urban sewage line and ensure their recycling 
by sending them to recovery stations. 

We introduced a recycling initiative in 2010 for the 
purpose of recovering our used toner cartridges for 
our printers. The toner cartridges collected from all 
our buildings including the branches are recycled. We 
provide the wastes from the Banking Centre of Akbank 
by contacting the recycling firm through the Integrated 
Environmental Information System in which we have 
become a member. We send the metal and electronic 
parts of an electronic appliance that does not meet the 
criteria of our Bank to suitable recycling plants and ensure 
their recirculation. Based on the demands, we put some of 
these appliances into use by means of donation.

We sort the wastes at source and 
refer them to recovery.

Our water 
consumption

We focus on the use of natural resources in the most 
efficient manner in all our operations and business 
processes. Within this scope, we effectively monitor and 
assess our overall water consumption. We use the water 
supplied from urban networks for our cleaning activities 
and irrigation of our green areas. In our Akbank Data 
Centre, rain waters are collected in underground tanks and 
used in reservoirs and irrigation of green areas in case of 
need. We use the mains water in our business units and 
thus, there is no special source of water affected by our 
water consumption. We started to monitor the wastewater 
discharge for our Bank within the scope of our Integrated 
Management System initiatives. In this regard, we carry 
out our monitoring and measurement activities through 
periodical tests for wastewater.

We identify the environmental risks (physical risks, water 
stress, drought risk and river flood) and the legislator and 
reputational risks for our Data Centre, Banking Centre of 
Akbank, Head Office and Silivri Archive buildings with the 
use of the Aqueduct tool of the World Resources Institute 
(WRI). We monitor the risks of water existence and water 
quality at reservoir level, impact of water on raw materials, 
water regulation frameworks and their impact on the 
ecosystem which are available in our supply and value 
chain through various means, data, standards and internal 
methods according to the environmental risk assessment 
procedure.

We responded to the CDP Water 
Security Survey for the first time in 
2022 and got score B.

We monitor our water consumption through annual and 
monthly follow-ups. We consolidate all data at the end 
of the year and check the consumption amounts for the 
accuracy of data. In 2022, our total water consumption in 
all our buildings was 185 million tons. We monitor the total 
water quantity drawn through water meters and bills. We 
replaced all taps with photocell types in order to minimize 
the water consumption in our Data Centre. We use sensor 
type armatures in the washbasins, and we conduct daily 
failure follow-ups in all areas to minimize losses/leakages 
and we respond to any failures in the same day.

You can review our Environmental Performance Indicators in 
the Annexes section.

 
The savings 
achieved with the 
discontinuation of 
disposable plastics 
in food service: 
14 million tons of 
plastic 

226 - 227Climate change



Financial Information and  
Risk Management ------------------- 230

Auditor’s Report ----------------------233

Legislative Changes  
That Took Place in 2022 -------------- 234

2022 Financial Statements and Remarks 240

Profit Distribution ------------------- 493

Financial 
information and 
risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Summary of the 2023 expectations of our Bank:

2023 2022

TL Loan Growth ~ 40% 77.8%

FC Loan Growth (USD) Low single digit level -8.8%

Net Interest Margin (Swap adjusted) 4-5% 8.2%

Net Fee and Commission Increase ~ 60% 95.6%

Increase in Operational Expenses Improvement(1) 106.2%

Operational Expenses/Income(2) Low 30% level 19.0%

Non-Performing Loans Ratio < 3% 2.8% 

Net Loan Cost (excluding currency effect) ~ 100 basis points 54 basis points

Equity Profitability ~ 30% 54.7%

(1) Lower annual increase compared to 2022.
(2) In the calculation of Operational Expenses/Income; foreign exchange profit/loss impact arising from 1&2 Group loan provisions is excluded.

2022 summary financial results 
and the future expectations 
of the bank

By maintaining its strong balance sheet structure with the 
strategies it followed in 2022, Akbank continued to grow in 
line with its healthy profitability target with its unfaltering 
asset quality.

We achieved a significant momentum in customer 
acquisition with the focus on customer acquisition on 
a segment basis and the competitiveness of digital 
capabilities. In 2022, we realized a total of 2.3 million 
net active customer acquisitions. We increased the new 
customer acquisition 3.8 times compared to 2020 and 
the customer activation rate 1.6 times in the same period. 
We achieved 40% of new customer acquisition by way of 
digital customer acquisition and our innovative applications 
like “Juzdan” and “Tosla” continued to support the growth. 
In 2022, we managed to increase cross-sales alongside the 
momentum in active customer acquisition. We doubled our 
fee and commission income compared to last year.

Despite the challenging conditions in global markets, we 
managed to achieve healthy profitability growth in line with 
our targets for our stakeholders in 2022. We continued our 
support to the economy with our sturdy balance sheet and 
long-term resources we obtained from abroad.

We increased our consolidated assets to the level of 1 
trillion 147 billion TL in 2022. In the same period, our loans 
reached a total of TL 757 bn, TL 616 bn of which is cash. Our 
Bank’s total deposits reached the level of TL 722 bn .

We recorded an increase of approximately 65 basis points 
in commercial loans, approximately 200 basis points in SME 
loans, and approximately 90 basis points in consumer loans 
in line with our growth targets in the retail segment in 2022.

In 2022, when fluctuations were observed in the markets 
both in our country and at a global level, we continued to 
carry out our activities in this area in line with international 
standards by maintaining our understanding of effective 
and cautious risk management.

The total external resources we brought to our country’s 
economy in 2022 reached USD 5.5 bn thanks to our solid 
financials and strong position in the sector.

With our strong consolidated capital adequacy ratio 
reaching the level of 23.2%, we maintained our strong 
capital structure also in this period.

Assessment on financial condition, 
profitability, and ability to pay

The Bank continues its activities with high profitability and 
safeguards the strong level of its equity. The free equity of 
the Bank with a very small portion of its equity directed to 
fixed investments such as fixed assets and subsidiaries is 
at high levels and is made use of in interest-earning assets. 

Akbank has a capital adequacy standard ratio above the 
minimum rate determined in the relevant legislation and 
a high level of liquidity that can pay its debts under all 
market conditions, with its strong capital structure, thanks 
to its effective risk management.

Credit rating notes

Moody's (August 16, 2022)

Outlook Static

Long Term Foreign Currency Deposit Rating B3 (Static)

Long Term TL Deposit Rating B3 (Static)

Short Term Foreign Currency Deposit Rating Not-Prime 

Short Term TL Deposit Rating Not-Prime

Basic Credit and Adjusted Credit Assessment b3

Unsecured Borrowing Rating (Eurobond) B3

Subordinated Bond Rating Caa2 (hyb)

Fitch Ratings (July 26, 2022)

Long Term Foreign Currency Issuer Default Rating B-/Negative Outlook

Long Term Local Currency Issuer Default Rating B /Negative Outlook

Short Term Foreign Currency Issuer Default Rating B

Short Term Local Currency Issuer Default Rating B

Financial Capacity Rating b 

National Long Term Rating A+(eng) /Negative Outlook

Long-Term Unsecured Bonds  B- 

Subordinated Bond Rating CCC+

Financial information 
and risk management

230 - 231Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Five-year summary financial ınformation

Five-Year Summary Consolidated Financial Information (million TL)

2018 2019 2020 2021 2022

Total Assets 354,682 387,172 478,317 762,798 1,147,294

Loans 13,937 226,776 279,233 396,750 616,109

Deposit 208,630 244,712 292,519 453,551 721,562

Equity Capital 43,787 54,362 62,924  75,959 153,606

Net Profit 5,709 5,352 6,260 12,127 60,026

Five-Year Summary Unconsolidated Financial Information (million TL)

2018 2019 2020 2021 2022

Total Assets 327,642 360,501 446,101 708,911 1,075,186

Loans 185,125 203,834 253,319 353,372 560,350

Deposit 188,391 224,054 268,570 413,261 679,325

Equity Capital 43,809 54,382 62,919 75,955 153,600

Net Profit  5,690  5,417 6,267 12,126 60,024

Remarks on post-balance sheet 
events

Remarks on post-balance sheet events are available in the 
Unconsolidated Financial Statements drawn up as of 31 
December 2022 to be disclosed to the public, the Related 
Disclosures and Footnotes, and footnote IX of the fifth 
section of the Independent Auditor’s Report. In addition, 
the information in question is included in the Consolidated 
Financial Statements, Related Disclosures and Footnotes, 
and footnote IX of the fifth section of the Independent 
Auditor’s Report.

Auditor’s 
report 

AUDITOR’S REPORT ON THE EARLY DETECTION OF RISK SYSTEM AND COMMITTEE

To the Board of Directors of Akbank T.A.Ş.
1. We have audited the early risk identification system and committee established by Akbank T.A.Ş. (“Bank”). 

Board of Directors’ Responsibility  
2. Pursuant to subparagraph 1 of Article 378 of Turkish Commercial Code (“TCC”) No. 6102; Board of Directors is required 
to form an expert committee, and to run and to develop the necessary system for the purposes of early identification 
of causes that jeopardize the existence, development and continuity of the Bank; applying the necessary measures and 
remedies in this regard; and managing the related risks.

Auditor’s responsibility  
3. Our responsibility is to reach a conclusion on the early risk identification system and committee based on our audit. 
Our audit was conducted in accordance with TCC and “Principles on Independent Auditor’s Report on the Early Risk 
Identification System and Committee” issued by the Public Oversight Accounting and Auditing Standards Authority. Those 
principles require us to identify whether the Bank established the early risk identification system and committee or not and, 
if established requires us to assess whether the system and committee is operating or not within the framework of Article 
378 of TCC. Our audit does not include evaluating the adequacy of the operations carried out by the management of the 
Bank in order to manage these risks

Information on the Early Risk Identification System and Committee
4. The Bank established the early risk identification system and High Priority Risk Committee and it is comprised of 3 
permanent members and other participants. The Committee has submitted the relevant reports for the period 1 January 
– 31 December 2022 to the Board of Directors that had been prepared for the purpose of early identification of risks that 
jeopardize the existence of the Bank and its development, applying necessary measures and remedies in this regard, and 
managing the risks.

Conclusion
5. Based on our audit, it has been concluded that Akbank T.A.Ş.’s early risk identification system and committee is 
sufficient, in all material respects, in accordance with Article 378 of TCC.

PwC Bağımsız Denetim ve 
Serbest Muhasebeci Mali Müşavirlik A.Ş.

Zeynep Uras, SMMM 
Partner

Istanbul, 6 March 2023

Convenıence translation into 
English of
Independent Auditor’s Report
on the early risk identification 
system and committee 
Orıgınally issued in Turkish

232 - 233Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Legislative changes 
that took place in 2022

Regulation Name Remark

Circular on the Implementation of Some Articles of the Regulation on Insurance Practice Principles Related to Personal Loans dated 21 
February 2022 and numbered 5/2022

https://tsb.org.tr/media/attachments/BKBS_Genelge_2022-5_Wb9XFqT.pdf

With the regulation, it was stipulated that the customer must be informed via SMS when the insurance agreement related to individual 
loans was established, and updates were made in the content of insurance documents.

4“Regulation on Sharing Confidential Information” published in the Official Gazette dated 4 June 2021 and numbered 31501, 
“Circular on Sharing Confidential Information” published by the BRSA dated 11.08.2022 and numbered 2022/1

https://www.bddk.org.tr/Mevzuat/DokumanGetir/1135

The purpose of the regulation is to determine the scope, form, procedures and principles regarding the sharing and transfer of 
information in the nature of bank secrets and customer secrets.

A Circular on the implementation of the Regulation was published in order to eliminate the hesitations that may be experienced in the 
implementation of the said Regulation.

“Banking Sector Good Practices Guide on Protection of Personal Data” published by the Personal Data Protection Authority on 5 August 
2022

https://kvkk.gov.tr/SharedFolderServer/CMSFiles/12236bad-8de1-4c94-aad6-bb93f53271fb.pdf

The guide includes detailed explanations and examples of good practices regarding the protection of personal data in the banking 
sector.

Board Decision of the BRSA on “Restrictions on the Provision of Cash Commercial Loans in Turkish Lira Compliant with its Objective” 
dated 24 June 2022 and numbered 10250 

https://www.bddk.org.tr/Mevzuat/DokumanGetir/1127 
https://www.bddk.org.tr/Mevzuat/DokumanGetir/1147 
https://www.bddk.org.tr/Mevzuat/DokumanGetir/1131 

In 2020, the BRSA provided instructions to banks to take maximum care to prevent the use of loans for transactions that are not 
suitable for their intended use. Despite this, expressing that it is observed that companies that do not have foreign currency debt/foreign 
currency obligation or even have excess foreign currency position purchase foreign currency using TL loans and that the loans do not 
go to production, employment, investment, and the BRSA informed that the Board Decision (Decision) dated 24.06.2022 and numbered 
10250 was taken as a necessary macro precautionary measure in order to ensure that the credit system can operate effectively by using 
the resources in more efficient and productive areas and that loans are used in line with their intended purpose.

According to the decision in question, among the companies other than banks and financial institutions,

The companies subject to independent audit pursuant to Decree Law No. 660 and related regulations

 – If the Turkish Lira (TL) equivalent of its foreign currency (FC) cash assets is above 10 million TL as of the date of loan application, and

 – In the event that the FC cash assets of these companies exceed the higher one of 5 percent of the total assets or the last 1 year’s net 
sales revenue according to the most recent financial statements (including temporary tax periods) drawn up in accordance with the 
Tax Procedure Law (VUK) and related regulations and submitted to the tax office,

a new commercial loan in TL must not be provided to the said Companies.

Cash commercial loans in TL can be provided to Companies that are within the above scope, but that are unable to use FC loans 
pursuant to the respective legislation, provided that they must declare that there is a FC net position gap within three months from the 
date they apply for a loan to the bank and the amount of the position gap, and that it will be limited only to the declared position gap in 
the three months following the application date. Nevertheless, the accuracy of the statement indicating the gap must be confirmed in 
writing by independent audit firms/YMM.

Companies applying for loans are provided loans if they declare and undertake that they comply with the above-mentioned issues and 
threshold values   and will not exceed the threshold values. However, a letter drawn up by an Independent audit firm/CFC stating that the 
said threshold values   are not exceeded until the evening of the last business day of the month following the end of each three-month 
calendar period after the date of use is required.

In cases where a company fails to provide the above-mentioned information and documents or if it is understood by the Banks that it is 
not compliant with the said threshold and rules,

 – New TL cash commercial loan will not be provided to the said company.

 – The Risk Center will be notified.

 – For all commercial cash loans provided to companies within this scope as of 30.06.2022 in accordance with the “Regulation on the 
Measurement and Evaluation of Capital Sufficiency of Banks,” a 500 percent risk weight will be applied when calculating the amount 
subject to credit risk.

234 - 235Financial information and risk management

https://tsb.org.tr/media/attachments/BKBS_Genelge_2022-5_Wb9XFqT.pdf
https://www.bddk.org.tr/Mevzuat/DokumanGetir/1135
https://kvkk.gov.tr/SharedFolderServer/CMSFiles/12236bad-8de1-4c94-aad6-bb93f53271fb.pdf
https://www.bddk.org.tr/Mevzuat/DokumanGetir/1147
https://www.bddk.org.tr/Mevzuat/DokumanGetir/1147
https://www.bddk.org.tr/Mevzuat/DokumanGetir/1131


Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Regulation Name Remark

CBRT Establishment of Securities Application

https://www.tcmb.gov.tr/wps/wcm/connect/TR/TCMB+TR/Main+Menu/Banka+Hakkinda/Mevzuat/Bankacilik/

The CBRT announced that within the scope of the “Liraization Strategy” and with the press release dated 20 August 2022, it was decided 
to establish a Securities Establishment (CCP)* according to three different criteria in TL cash loans. The basic regulations concerning the 
application are as follows:

A. At the ratio of 30% according to the loan type (except for the loans within the scope of the exception and SME, export, and investment loans 
with conversion accounts),

B. Pro rata the loan amount if the loan growth ratio becomes above 3% (If the growth rate is above 3 percent from the calculation date of 
26/08/2022 until the calculation date of 25/11/2022 (inclusive) compared to the previous calculation date, pro rata the amount of the loan 
exceeding this ratio, establishment of a security for one year, equal to the loan amount exceeding the loan growth rate of 10 percent as of 
30/12/2022 compared to the date of 29/07/2022),

C. According to the loan interest rate, securities will be established at the ratio of 20% and 90% (of the loan to be provided with the interest 
rate 1,4 times higher and 1,8 times higher than the annual compound reference rate announced by the CBRT,, respectively).

In the CCP Implementation Instruction (Instruction) published subsequently, exceptions were brought to certain loan types. They are SME loans, 
Tradesmen loans, Export loans, Investment loans, Agricultural loans, Loans generally provided to public institutions and Organized Industrial 
Zone legal entities, Corporate credit cards (excluding jewelry expenditures and cash withdrawals), Loans provided to financial institutions, 
Consumer loans.

In order for SME, Investment, and Export Loans over 50,000 TL to be included in the exemption, it must be proven that they are provided against 
expenditure.

“The Law on Amending the Banking Law and Some Laws and the Decree Law No. 655” published in the Official Gazette dated 28 May 
2022 and numbered 31849. 
 
https://www.resmigazete.gov.tr/eskiler/2022/05/20220528-1.htm

With the amendments made in the Banking Law, the objective was basically, set to expanding the scope of deposit insurance; complying with 
the European Union Deposit Insurance criteria; determining the rules regarding the establishment of technical infrastructure, operation, and 
supervision of banks on this subject, by the SDIF Board; revising the administrative structure of the SDIF to ensure that the increasing workload 
is carried out effectively and to accelerate the processes; and making adjustments in the articles related to the follow-up and collection of SDIF 
receivables within the scope of the needs that arise over the course of time.

“The Law on Amending the Income Tax Law No. 7420 and Some Laws and Decrees” published in the Official Gazette dated 9 November 
2022

https://www.resmigazete.gov.tr/eskiler/2022/11/20221109-10.htm

With the amendments made in the Banking Law, It was regulated that the BRSA is authorized to issue an operating license for a bank or bank 
group by imposing limitations or restrictions on the basis of the fields of activity listed in Article 4 of the Banking Law, that it is authorized to 
impose administrative fines in case of non-compliance with operational limitations or restrictions, and that it is authorized to determine and 
authorize for the procedures and principles that other service providers, in addition to support service institutions, must comply with while 
providing services.

“The Law on Amending the Law on the Protection of Consumers” published in the Official Gazette dated 1 April 2022 and numbered 
31796

“Regulation on Amending the Regulation on Consumer Loan Agreements” and “Regulation on Amending the Regulation on Housing 
Finance Agreements” published in the Official Gazette dated 23 September 2022 and numbered 31962

https://www.resmigazete.gov.tr/eskiler/2022/04/20220401-17.htm 
https://www.resmigazete.gov.tr/eskiler/2022/09/20220923-5.htm 
https://www.resmigazete.gov.tr/eskiler/2022/09/20220923-4.htm

With the said Law and Regulations, regulations were made basically on the following issues:

1- In the event that the entire loan debt is paid early within the right of withdrawal period, the withdrawal provisions will have to be applied 
without seeking notification.

2- It was regulated that in case of an increase in the interest rate determined in the agreement, it is necessary to notify the customers.

3- It will not be possible to take out credit-linked insurance without the express request of the consumer by means of a written or permanent 
data custodian. Provided that the creditor also offers an agreement that does not include credit-linked insurance to the consumer, it will be able 
to offer a credit agreement that includes credit-linked insurance to the consumer.

4- The guarantee provided by the consumer from the insurance company of its choice has to be accepted by the creditor. The loan-linked 
insurance must be compatible with the amount and maturity of the remaining debt in the fixed sum insurances, in order to ensure the 
guarantee of the repayment of the loan debt.

5-Consumer loan agreement may not be bound to the condition of purchasing ancillary financial products and services, excluding those related 
to the loan.

The procedures and principles regarding the amendments to the Law were regulated in the “Regulation Amending the Regulation on Consumer 
Loan Agreements” and the “Regulation on Amending the Regulation on Housing Finance Agreements.”

“Communiqué on Deposit and Participation System (YUVAM) Accounts for Citizens Residing Abroad (No: 2022/7)” published in the 
Official Gazette dated 1 February 2022 and numbered 31737

https://www.mevzuat.gov.tr/mevzuat?MevzuatNo=39333&MevzuatTur=9&MevzuatTertip=5

It is the regulation on the conversion of foreign currency deposit accounts and participation funds in foreign currency of persons residing 
abroad and companies in which such persons are shareholders and whose legal place of residence is abroad and whose qualifications are 
determined by the Central Bank, in banks into (YUVAM) accounts in Turkish lira.

“Communiqué on Supporting the Conversion from Gold Accounts to Deposit and Participation Accounts in Turkish Lira (No: 2021/16)” 
published in the Official Gazette dated 29 December 2021 and numbered 31704

https://www.mevzuat.gov.tr/mevzuat?MevzuatNo=39157&MevzuatTur=9&MevzuatTertip=5

It is the regulation on the support to be provided to deposit and participation fund holders if the gold deposit and participation fund accounts 
of domestic resident natural and legal persons are converted into Turkish lira time deposit and participation accounts.

“Communiqué on Supporting the Conversion of Turkish Lira Deposit and Participation Accounts (Number: 2021/14)” published in the 
Official Gazette dated 21 December 2021 and numbered 31696

https://www.mevzuat.gov.tr/mevzuat?MevzuatNo=39118&MevzuatTur=9&MevzuatTertip=5

It is a regulation on the support to be provided to deposit and participation fund owners if the foreign currency deposit accounts and foreign 
currency participation funds of domestic resident natural and legal persons are converted into Turkish lira time deposit and participation 
accounts. There is no date limitation for natural persons. The balances of foreign currency deposit accounts in US dollars, Euros, and British 
pounds and participation fund accounts in foreign currency of legal entities residing domestically on any date between 31/12/2021 and 
31/12/2022 are converted into Turkish lira at the conversion currency rate if the account holder requests it. It is essential for the account holder 
to protect its principal in foreign currency at the end of the term under all circumstances.

“Decision on Supporting Deposits and Participation Accounts Against Foreign Currency Increases (TL Time Deposits with Currency 
Protection)” published in the Official Gazette dated 24 February 2022 and numbered 31760

https://www.hmb.gov.tr/haberler/kur-korumali-tl-vadeli-mevduatlara-ve-katilma-hesaplarina-iliskin-uygulama-esaslari-hakkinda-
basin-aciklamasi-i-24-12-2021

Natural persons residing in Turkey (natural persons who have a legal residence in Turkey including Turkish citizens who are workers abroad, 
self-employed and independent business owners) can benefit from it. Currency protected accounts (“CPA”) can be opened in Turkish lira with 
a maturity of 3 months, 6 months, 9 months, and 12 months. CPA can be opened with maturities 10 days below or above the said maturities, 
provided that such maturities are not less than 90 days or more than 370 days.

Communiqué on Bringing Physical Assets in Gold to the Financial System (No: 2022/11)” published in the Official Gazette dated 14 
March 2022 and numbered 31778

https://www.mevzuat.gov.tr/mevzuat?MevzuatNo=39422&MevzuatTur=9&MevzuatTertip=5

It is a regulation on allowing the physical gold assets deposited by domestic resident natural and legal persons through authorized jewelers 
and refineries or by visiting bank branches directly to their gold accounts in banks, to be converted into Turkish lira deposit and participation 
accounts and on the support to be provided to account holders. Physical gold refers to “1 kilogram and less of standard unprocessed gold in the 
form of bullion and bar, non-standard unprocessed gold in the form of scrap, and processed gold, which are received by authorized jewelers or 
banks and defined in the Decision No. 32 on the Protection of the Value of Turkish Currency.”

236 - 237Financial information and risk management

https://www.tcmb.gov.tr/wps/wcm/connect/TR/TCMB+TR/Main+Menu/Banka+Hakkinda/Mevzuat/Bankacilik/
https://www.resmigazete.gov.tr/eskiler/2022/05/20220528-1.htm
https://www.resmigazete.gov.tr/eskiler/2022/11/20221109-10.htm
https://www.mevzuat.gov.tr/mevzuat?MevzuatNo=39333&MevzuatTur=9&MevzuatTertip=5
https://www.mevzuat.gov.tr/mevzuat?MevzuatNo=39118&MevzuatTur=9&MevzuatTertip=5
https://www.hmb.gov.tr/haberler/kur-korumali-tl-vadeli-mevduatlara-ve-katilma-hesaplarina-iliskin-uygulama-esaslari-hakkinda-basin-aciklamasi-i-24-12-2021
https://www.hmb.gov.tr/haberler/kur-korumali-tl-vadeli-mevduatlara-ve-katilma-hesaplarina-iliskin-uygulama-esaslari-hakkinda-basin-aciklamasi-i-24-12-2021
https://www.mevzuat.gov.tr/mevzuat?MevzuatNo=39422&MevzuatTur=9&MevzuatTertip=5


Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Regulation Name Remark

“Regulation Amending the Regulation on the Implementation of the Turkish Citizenship Law” published in the Official Gazette dated 6 January 
2022 and numbered 31711

https://www.resmigazete.gov.tr/eskiler/2022/01/20220106-12.pdf

One of the exceptional cases of acquiring Turkish citizenship within the scope of the Regulation on the Implementation of the Turkish 
Citizenship Law (“Regulation”) was stipulated as the deposit of the amount set out in the Regulation to banks operating in Turkey.

The Regulation has regulated that individuals “who are determined by the BRSA to have deposited at least 500,000 US$ or equivalent foreign 
currency deposits in banks operating in Turkey on condition of keeping it for three years” can acquire Turkish citizenship and it was stated that 
the BRSA will determine whether such conditions are met or not.

BRSA’s Board Decision on “Changing Consumer Loans General Maturity Limit and Credit Card Minimum Payment Ratio” dated 9 June 2022 
and numbered 10222

https://www.bddk.org.tr/Mevzuat/DokumanGetir/1121

With the decision,

 – The general maturity limit for consumer loans determined as twenty-four months for loans with an amount over fifty thousand Turkish Liras 
was designated as twelve months for loans with a loan amount over one hundred thousand Turkish Liras,

 – Pursuant to Article 22/7 of the Regulation on Bank Cards and Credit Cards, for credit cards with a minimum limit of more than twenty-five 
thousand Turkish liras, it was determined as forty percent of the term debt.

BRSA’s Board Decision on “Changing the Limits on Vehicle Loans” dated 21 February 2022 and numbered 10099

https://www.bddk.org.tr/Mevzuat/DokumanGetir/1099

 – Loan maturity limits were determined. For vehicles with a final invoice value between 400 thousand TL and 2 million TL, a 12 month - 48 
month maturity was regulated.

 – LTV rates were regulated at different rates according to the final invoice value and the issue of not being able to grant a loan for vehicles 
over 2 million TL was regulated.

BRSA’s Board Decision on “The Loan Value Ratio and Maximum Loan Amount to be Applied in Housing Loans and Collateralized Housing 
Loans” dated 23 June 2022 and numbered 10249

https://www.bddk.org.tr/Mevzuat/DokumanGetir/1126

Loan value ratio for 1st hand houses whose energy class is A,

 – 90 percent for houses under 2 million TL,

 – It was determined at different rates for 2 million TL - 10 million TL,

 – It was regulated that there is no housing loan facility for houses with a house value of over 10 million TL.

 – Loan value ratio for second-hand houses whose energy class is A,

90 percent for houses under 500 thousand TL,

 – It was determined at different rates for 500 thousand TL and 10 million TL,

 – It was regulated that there is no housing loan facility for second-hand houses with a house value of over 10 million TL.

“Regulation Amending the Regulation on Participation Funds and Deposits Subject to Insurances and Premiums to be Collected by the 
Savings Deposit Insurance Fund” published in the Official Gazette dated 22 August 2022 and numbered 31936

https://www.resmigazete.gov.tr/eskiler/2022/08/20220827-4.htm

“All deposits other than those belonging to official institutions, credit institutions, and financial institutions” were included in the cover of the 
insurance,

in the scope of “deposit and participation fund not subject to insurance”,
 – those “qualified shareholders and legal entities under the control of them and the controlling shareholders” and

 – those “legal entities and partnerships that are individually or jointly controlled by the chairman and members of the board of directors or 
executives, general manager, and his/her assistants, of the respective credit institution” were also included.

“Decision of the Fund Board of the Savings Deposit Insurance Fund dated 15.12.2022 and Numbered 2022/595” published in the Official 
Gazette dated 22 December 2022 and numbered 32051

https://www.resmigazete.gov.tr/eskiler/2022/12/20221222-7.pdf

It is stated that with the Decision of the Fund Board of the Savings Deposit Insurance Fund with the date of 15.12.2022 and Decision No. 
2022/595, it was decided to determine the amount of deposit and participation fund subject to insurance, which is currently 200,000 TL, as 
400,000 TL as to be effective from the beginning of the 2023 calendar year.

The Presidential Decision No. 5729 on Changing the BITT Rate in Consumer Loans was published in the Official Gazette dated 11.06.222 and 
numbered 31683

https://www.resmigazete.gov.tr/eskiler/2022/06/20220611-9.pdf

The BITT rate in consumer loans was increased to 10% with the Presidential Decision published in the Official Gazette dated 11 June 2022 and 
numbered 31863.

BRSA’s Board Decision on “Risk Weights to be Applied in Case of Derivative Transactions with Abroad Residents” dated 23 June 2022 and 
numbered 10248

https://www.bddk.org.tr/Mevzuat/DokumanGetir/1125

It was decided that in the event that domestic residents other than banks and financial institutions conduct derivative transactions after 
the date of this Decision, a five hundred percent risk weight will be applied to the commercial cash loans in TL and FC to be provided to these 
persons after the date of this Decision, independently from the approach used in calculating the amount subject to credit risk (standard 
approach or internal rating-based approaches) in the calculation of the capital adequacy ratio, without considering credit risk mitigation 
techniques, credit ratings, and real estate mortgages pursuant to the “Regulation on the Measurement and Evaluation of the Capital Adequacy 
of Banks.”

“Open Banking Press Release” dated 1 December 2022 published on the CBRT’s website

TCMB - Açık Bankacılık Basın Duyurusu (2022-48)

By adding the payment order initiation service (paragraph f) and the service of presenting consolidated information regarding the payment 
account on online platforms (paragraph g) to the first paragraph of article 12 of the “Law No 6493 on Payment and Securities Settlement 
Systems, Payment Services, and Electronic Money Institutions,” the types of services in question were defined as payment services under the 
law. With these two services referred to as Data Sharing Services for Payment Services (DSSPS), open banking services in the field of payments 
are defined.

A “GATEWAY” infrastructure, where financial service users can manage their accounts with different payment service providers from a single 
access point and place payment orders was established. Offered by BKM, the GATEWAY was positioned as a common DSSPS infrastructure.

Amendment of CBRT Export Circular 

https://tcmb.gov.tr/wps/wcm/connect/e90670f7-fc2e-453c-acd3-88098334b484/%C4%B0hracat+Genelgesi.pdf?MOD=AJPERES&CACHEI
D=ROOTWORKSPACE-e90670f7-fc2e-453c-acd3-88098334b484-ohh-qzB

Effective as of January 3, 2022, 25% of the export fees linked to the IBKB or DAB is sold to the bank issuing the IBKB or DAB. These amounts 
are sold to the Central Bank and transferred to the Central Bank’s account in the bank on the same day at the foreign currency buying rate 
valid for the transaction day and announced by the Central Bank. The full equivalent of the amount in question is paid by the bank to the 
exporter in Turkish currency.

Instruction for Implementation on the Sales of Foreign Currency to the Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey within the scope of the 
Additional Article 1 of the Export Circular and Circular on the Invisible Transactions dated 13 January 2000 and numbered 2000/YB-4

https://tcmb.gov.tr/wps/wcm/connect/509c233f-94d1-430d-9015-c0abbd479fd5/%C4%B0hracat_Bedeli_40_Uygulama_Talimat%C4%B1.
pdf?MOD=AJPERES&CACHEID=ROOTWORKSPACE-509c233f-94d1-430d-9015-c0abbd479fd5-o0XLU4D

40% of the export fees linked to the IBKB or DAB are sold to the bank issuing the IBKB or DAB. These amounts are sold to the Central Bank on 
the same day and transferred to the Central Bank’s account in the bank at the foreign currency buying rate valid for the transaction day and 
announced by the Central Bank. The full equivalent of the amount in question is paid by the bank to the exporter in Turkish currency. In case the 
foreign currency obtained from foreign currency earning services/transactions is sold to banks, at least 40% of these foreign currencies are 
sold to the Central Bank by the bank. The full equivalent of the amount in question is paid by the bank to the foreign currency seller in Turkish 
currency.

CBRT regulations on Wire Transfer-EFT-SWIFT Notifications

TCMB Yazıları

Within the scope of the CBRT’s regulations on Wire Transfer-EFT-SWIFT Notifications, it was regulated that the reasons for sending 
international transfers of EFTs and money transfers of 10 million TL or more made by domestic residents to abroad residents, and 50,000.- US 
Dollars or equivalent Turkish Lira or foreign currency transactions made from Turkey to abroad within the framework of Decision No. 32, must be 
provided and reflected in the notifications made to the CBRT, and that it must be authenticated with the necessary documents.

238 - 239Financial information and risk management

https://www.resmigazete.gov.tr/eskiler/2022/01/20220106-12.pdf
https://www.bddk.org.tr/Mevzuat/DokumanGetir/1121
https://www.bddk.org.tr/Mevzuat/DokumanGetir/1099
https://www.bddk.org.tr/Mevzuat/DokumanGetir/1126
https://www.resmigazete.gov.tr/eskiler/2022/08/20220827-4.htm
https://www.resmigazete.gov.tr/eskiler/2022/12/20221222-7.pdf
https://www.resmigazete.gov.tr/eskiler/2022/06/20220611-9.pdf
https://www.bddk.org.tr/Mevzuat/DokumanGetir/1125
https://www.tcmb.gov.tr/wps/wcm/connect/TR/TCMB+TR/Main+Menu/Duyurular/Basin/2022/DUY2022-48
https://tcmb.gov.tr/wps/wcm/connect/e90670f7-fc2e-453c-acd3-88098334b484/%C4%B0hracat+Genelgesi.pdf?MOD=AJPERES&CACHEID=ROOTWORKSPACE-e90670f7-fc2e-453c-acd3-88098334b484-ohh-qzB
https://tcmb.gov.tr/wps/wcm/connect/e90670f7-fc2e-453c-acd3-88098334b484/%C4%B0hracat+Genelgesi.pdf?MOD=AJPERES&CACHEID=ROOTWORKSPACE-e90670f7-fc2e-453c-acd3-88098334b484-ohh-qzB
https://tcmb.gov.tr/wps/wcm/connect/509c233f-94d1-430d-9015-c0abbd479fd5/%C4%B0hracat_Bedeli_40_Uygulama_Talimat%C4%B1.pdf?MOD=AJPERES&CACHEID=ROOTWORKSPACE-509c233f-94d1-430d-9015-c0abbd479fd5-o0XLU4D
https://tcmb.gov.tr/wps/wcm/connect/509c233f-94d1-430d-9015-c0abbd479fd5/%C4%B0hracat_Bedeli_40_Uygulama_Talimat%C4%B1.pdf?MOD=AJPERES&CACHEID=ROOTWORKSPACE-509c233f-94d1-430d-9015-c0abbd479fd5-o0XLU4D


Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

AKBANK T.A.Ş.

PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND RELATED 
DISCLOSURES AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 TOGETHER 
WITH INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT

(Convenience translation of publicity announced unconsolidated 
financial statements, related disclosures and auditor’s review 
report originally issued in Turkish, See Note 1.b of Section three)

  
 
 

 
  
  
  
 
 

CCOONNVVEENNIIEENNCCEE  TTRRAANNSSLLAATTIIOONN  IINNTTOO  EENNGGLLIISSHH  OOFF  IINNDDEEPPEENNDDEENNTT  AAUUDDIITTOORR’’SS  RREEPPOORRTT  
OORRIIGGIINNAALLLLYY  IISSSSUUEEDD  IINN  TTUURRKKIISSHH  

((SSeeee  NNoottee  II  ooff  SSeeccttiioonn  TThhrreeee))  
  

IINNDDEEPPEENNDDEENNTT  AAUUDDIITTOORR’’SS  RREEPPOORRTT  
 
TToo  tthhee  GGeenneerraall  AAsssseemmbbllyy  ooff  AAkkbbaannkk  TT..AA..ŞŞ..  
 
AA.. AAuuddiitt  ooff  tthhee  UUnnccoonnssoolliiddaatteedd  FFiinnaanncciiaall  SSttaatteemmeennttss    
 
11.. OOppiinniioonn    
 
We have audited the accompanying unconsolidated financial statements of Akbank T.A.Ş. (the “Bank”), which comprise the statement of 
unconsolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2022, unconsolidated income statement, unconsolidated statement of profit or loss, 
unconsolidated statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income , unconsolidated statement of changes in shareholders’ equity, 
unconsolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended and the notes to the unconsolidated financial statements and a summary of 
significant accounting policies and unconsolidated financial statement notes. 
 
In our opinion, the unconsolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the unconsolidated financial position of the Bank 
as at 31 December 2022, and its unconsolidated financial performance and its unconsolidated cash flows for the year then ended in accordance 
with the Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency (“BRSA”) Accounting and Financial Reporting Legislation which includes “Regulation on 
Accounting Applications for Banks and Safeguarding of Documents” published in the Official Gazette No.26333 dated 1 November 2006, and other 
regulations on accounting records of Banks published by Banking Regulation and Supervision Board and circulars and interpretations published 
by BRSA and Turkish Financial Reporting Standards (“TFRS”) for those matters not regulated by the aforementioned regulations. 
 
22.. BBaassiiss  ffoorr  OOppiinniioonn    
 
Our audit was conducted in accordance with the “Regulation on Independent Audit of Banks” published by the BRSA on the Official Gazette 
No.29314 dated 2 April 2015 and the Standards on Independent Auditing (the “SIA”) that are part of Turkish Standards on Auditing issued by the 
Public Oversight Accounting and Auditing Standards Authority (the “POA”). Our responsibilities under these standards are further described in 
the “Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Unconsolidated Financial Statements” section of our report. We hereby declare that we are 
independent of the Bank in accordance with the Ethical Rules for Independent Auditors (including Independence Standards) (the “Ethical Rules”) 
and the ethical requirements regarding independent audit in regulations issued by POA that are relevant to our audit of the unconsolidated 
financial statements. We have also fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the Ethical Rules and regulations. We believe 
that the audit evidence we have obtained during the independent audit provides a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion. 
 
33.. KKeeyy  AAuuddiitt  MMaatttteerrss  
 
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the unconsolidated financial 
statements of the current period. Key audit matters were addressed in the context of our independent audit of the unconsolidated financial 
statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

240 - 241



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

  
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Key Audit Matters   How Our Audit Addressed the Key Audit Matter  

  
VVaalluuaattiioonn  ooff  PPeennssiioonn  FFuunndd  OObblliiggaattiioonnss  
 
The Bank has booked provision amounting to TL 935.201 thousand for 
Pension Fund Liabilities in the accompanying unconsolidated financial 
statements as at 31 December 2022. Explanations on Valuation of Pension 
Obligations are presented in the section III part XVII-b and section V part II-h 
in the accompanying unconsolidated financial statements. 
 
The Bank’s Personnel Pension Fund Foundation (“Pension Fund”) is 
established in accordance with the Social Security Law numbered 506 
article No 20 and is within the scope of Funds to be transferred to the Social 
Security Institution (“SSI”). The President of the Republic of Turkey is 
authorized to determine the transfer date. The total obligation of the fund is 
estimated using separate methods and assumption for benefits to be 
transferred and for non-transferrable benefits. The valuations of the 
pension obligations require significant judgement and technical expertise in 
choosing appropriate assumptions. The Bank’s management uses external 
actuarial consulting firm for the purpose of valuations of pension 
obligations.  
 
The reason we focused on this area during our audit is; uncertainty of the 
transfer date, the importance of the actuarial and economic assumptions 
such as technical interest rate determined by the law, salary increases, 
demographic assumptions used in the valuation of pension obligations with 
respect to social benefits and the significant impact that may arise from the 
possible change in the assumptions used in the evaluation of pension fund 
liabilities. 
 

 
 
Within our audit, we tested on a sample basis the accuracy of the 
employee data supplied by the Bank management to the external 
consulting firm for the purpose of evaluation pension obligation. 
In addition, we have verified the existence and values of the 
Pension Fund assets. 
 
We checked whether significant changes in actuarial 
assumptions used in calculation, employee benefits in the year, 
plan assets and liabilities, and laws and regulations related to 
valuations exist, and tested significant changes.  
 
Through use of actuarial specialists, we assessed the 
reasonableness of assumptions and evaluation made by the 
external actuaries in the calculation of the liability. 
 
In addition to the above procedures, we evaluated the adequacy 
of the disclosures made with respect to Pension Fund in the 
accompanying unconsolidated financial statements. 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
 

 
 
 
 
 

Key Audit Matters   How Our Audit Addressed the Key Audit Matter  

  
IImmppaaiirrmmeenntt  ooff  llooaannss  iinn  aaccccoorrddaannccee  wwiitthh  TTFFRRSS  99  
  
The Bank has total provision for impairment of TL 21.462.642 thousands in 
respect to loans of TL 560.350.188 thousands which represent a significant 
portion of the Bank’s total assets in its unconsolidated financial statements 
as at 31 December 2022. Explanations and notes related to provision for 
impairment of loans are presented section III part VII-e, section III part VIII, 
section IV part II-h, section IV part II-I, section IV part II-j, section IV part X-c, 
section V part I-f and section V part II-h in the accompanying unconsolidated 
financial statements as at 31 December 2022. 
 
The Bank recognizes provisions for impairment in accordance with “TFRS 9 
Financial Instruments” requirements in line with the “Regulation on the 
Procedures and Principles for Classification of Loans and Provisions to be 
Provided” as published in the Official Gazette dated 22 June 2016 with 
number 29750. TFRS 9 is a complex accounting standard which requires 
considerable judgement and interpretation. These judgements are key in 
the development of the financial models built to measure the expected 
credit losses on loans recorded at amortized cost. In addition, the operation 
of the models requires large data inputs that are generated through more 
than one system and the accuracy and completeness of the data are key in 
the determination of expected credit losses on loans. Impairment 
allowances are calculated on a collective basis for portfolios of loans of a 
similar nature and on individual basis for significant loans taking into 
account Management’s best estimate at the balance sheet date and 
historical losses incurred.  
 
Our audit was focused on this area due to existence of complex estimates 
and information used in the impairment assessment such as developing 
macro-economic scenarios and their weightings, current conditions, 
historical loss experiences; the significance of the loan balances; the 
appropriateness of classification of loans as per their credit risk (staging) in 
accordance with applicable regulation and the importance of determination 
of the associated impairment allowances. Timely and correctly identification 
of loss event and the level of judgements and estimations made by the 
management have significant impacts on the amount of impairment 
provisions for loans. Therefore, this area is considered as key audit matter.  
 

 
 
 
Within our audit procedures, we assessed policies and 
procedures together with the overall governance established by 
the Bank with respect to classification of loans and estimation of 
impairment in-line with the TFRS 9 framework. We have tested 
the design and operating effectiveness of controls implemented 
by the Bank in line with its governance, policies and procedures.  
 
Together with our modelling specialists, we have evaluated and 
tested the methodologies used in building impairment models in 
line with the requirement of TFRS 9 and the Bank’s policies for 
the significant portfolio of loans. We have tested model 
calculations through re-performance together with our 
modelling specialists on a sample basis. We have independently 
assessed together with our related specialists methodologies 
used in the models with respect to segmentation, life time 
expected credit losses, losses given default and use of macro-
economic expectations, life time expected credit losses, losses 
given default.  
 
We have carried loan review on a selected sample of loans with 
the objective to identify whether the classification of loans is 
performed appropriately in accordance with the applicable 
regulation, whether the loss event had occurred and whether the 
provision for impairment has been recognized in a timely manner 
within the TFRS 9 framework.  
 
In addition, for non-performing loans and other significant loans 
that are subject to individual assessment based on the Bank 
policies, we have evaluated the appropriateness of specific 
impairment provision with supportable input. Based on our 
discussions with the Bank management, we have evaluated and 
challenged whether the key assumptions and other judgements, 
underlying the estimation of impairment were reasonable. 
 
We have reviewed the appropriateness and sufficiency of 
disclosures made in the financial statements of the Bank with 
respect to loan and related impairment provision. 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

242 - 243Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

  
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of 
the unconsolidated financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s 
report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a 
matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the 
public interest benefits of such communication. 
 
 
BB.. OOtthheerr  RReessppoonnssiibbiilliittiieess  AArriissiinngg  FFrroomm  RReegguullaattoorryy  RReeqquuiirreemmeennttss  
 
1. No matter has come to our attention that is significant according to subparagraph 4 of Article 402 of Turkish Commercial Code (“TCC”) 

No. 6102 and that causes us to believe that the Bank’s bookkeeping activities concerning the period from 1 January to 31 December 2022 
period are not in compliance with the TCC and provisions of the Bank’s articles of association related to financial reporting. 

 
2. In accordance with subparagraph 4 of Article 402 of the TCC, the Board of Directors submitted the necessary explanations to us and 

provided the documents required within the context of our audit. 
 
AAddddiittiioonnaall  PPaarraaggrraapphh  ffoorr  CCoonnvveenniieennccee  TTrraannssllaattiioonn  
 
BRSA Accounting and Financial Reporting Legislation explained in detail in Section Three differ from International Financial Reporting Standards 
("IFRS") issued by the International Accounting Standards Board including the application of IAS 29 - Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary 
Economies as of 31 December 2022. Accordingly, the accompanying unconsolidated financial statements are not intended to present fairly the 
unconsolidated financial position, results of operations, changes in equity and cash flows of the Bank in accordance with IFRS. 
 
 
 
PwC Bağımsız Denetim ve 
Serbest Muhasebeci Mali Müşavirlik A.Ş. 
 
 
 
 
Zeynep Uras, SMMM 
Partner 
 
Istanbul, 31 January 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  

  
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
44.. RReessppoonnssiibbiilliittiieess  ooff  MMaannaaggeemmeenntt  aanndd  TThhoossee  CChhaarrggeedd  wwiitthh  GGoovveerrnnaannccee  ffoorr  tthhee    UUnnccoonnssoolliiddaatteedd  FFiinnaanncciiaall  SSttaatteemmeennttss    
 
The Bank management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the unconsolidated financial statements in accordance with the 
BRSA Accounting and Financial Reporting Legislation, and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the 
preparation of unconsolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. 
 
In preparing the unconsolidated financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Bank’s ability to continue as a going 
concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless management either 
intends to liquidate the Bank or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.  
 
Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the Bank’s financial reporting process. 
 
55.. AAuuddiittoorr’’ss  RReessppoonnssiibbiilliittiieess  ffoorr  tthhee  AAuuddiitt  ooff  tthhee  UUnnccoonnssoolliiddaatteedd  FFiinnaanncciiaall  SSttaatteemmeennttss  
 
Responsibilities of independent auditors in an independent audit are as follows: 
 
Our aim is to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due 
to fraud or error, and to issue an independent auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance expressed as a result of an 
independent audit conducted in accordance with “Regulation on Independent Audit of Banks” published by the BRSA on the Official Gazette 
No.29314 dated 2 April 2015 and SIA is a high level of assurance but does not guarantee that a material misstatement will always be detected. 
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error. Misstatements are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be 
expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these unconsolidated financial statements. 
 
As part of an independent audit conducted in accordance with “Regulation on Independent Audit of Banks” published by the BRSA on the Official 
Gazette No.29314 dated 2 April 2015 and SIA, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We 
also: 
 
 
 Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement in the unconsolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design 

and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for 
our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud 
may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.  

 
 Assess the internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not 

for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Bank’s internal control.  
 
 Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made 

by management. 
 
 Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence 

obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Bank ability to 
continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to 
the related disclosures in the unconsolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our 
conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our independent auditor’s report. However, future events or 
conditions may cause the Bank to cease to continue as a going concern.  

 
 Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the unconsolidated financial statements, including the disclosures, and 

whether the unconsolidated financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair 
presentation. 

 
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant 
audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. 
 
We provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence.  
We also communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where 
applicable, related safeguards. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

244 - 245Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

  
 
 

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  

SSEECCTTIIOONN  OONNEE    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PPaaggee  

General Information about the Bank 
I. Bank’s foundation date, start-up status, history regarding the changes in this status  1 
II. Explanation about the Bank’s capital structure, shareholders of the Bank who are in charge of the management and/or 

auditing of the Bank directly or indirectly, changes in these matters (if any) and the Group that the Bank belongs to  1 
III. Explanation on the board of directors, members of the audit committee, president and executive vice presidents, if available,  
 shares of the Bank they possess and their areas of responsibility  1 
IV. Information on the individual and corporate shareholders having control shares of the Bank  2 
V. Information on the Bank’s service types and fields of operation  2 
VI. Existing or potential, actual or legal obstacles to immediate transfer of shareholder’s equity between Parent Bank and its subsidiaries or repayment of debts  2 

SSEECCTTIIOONN  TTWWOO  
Unconsolidated Financial Statements of the Bank 

I. Balance sheet  3 
II. Off Balance Sheet Commitments   5 
III.     Income statement  6 
IV.     Income and expenses accounted under shareholders’ equity                                                                                                     7 
V.     Statement of changes in shareholders’ equity   8 
VI.     Statement of cash flows  10 
VII. Statement of profit appropriation  11 

SSEECCTTIIOONN  TTHHRREEEE  
Explanations on Accounting Policies 

I. Explanations on basis of presentation    12 
II. Explanations on strategy of using financial instruments and explanations on foreign currency transactions    13 

III. Explanations on equity investments    13 
IV. Explanations on forward transactions, options and derivative instruments    13 
V. Explanations on interest income and expense    14 

VI. Explanations on fee and commission income and expenses    14 
VII. Explanations on financial assets    14 

VIII. Explanations on expected credit losses    18 
IX. Explanations on offsetting financial instruments    19 
X. Explanations on sales and repurchase agreements and securities lending transactions    19 

XI. Explanations on assets held for sale and  related to discontinued operations(Net)   20 
XII. Explanations on goodwill and other intangible assets   20 

XIII. Explanations on property and equipment     20 
XIV. Explanations on leasing transactions    21 
XV. Explanations on provisions and contingent liabilities    21 

XVI. Explanations on contingent assets    21 
XVII. Explanations on obligations related to employee rights    21 

XVIII. Explanations on taxation    22 
XIX. Explanations on borrowings    23 
XX. Explanations on issuance of share certificates    24 

XXI. Explanations on avalized drafts and acceptances    24 
XXII. Explanations on government grants    24 

XXIII. Explanations on segment reporting    24 
XXIV. Profit reserves and profit distribution    24 
XXV. Earnings per share    24 

XXVI. Related parties    25 
XXVII. Cash and cash equivalent assets    25 

XXVIII. Reclassifications    25 
XXIX. Disclosures of TFRS 16 Leases    25 

SSEECCTTIIOONN  FFOOUURR  
Information Related to Financial Position and Risk Management of the Bank 

I. Explanations on equity    27 
II. Explanations on credit risk    35 

III. Explanations on currency risk    45 
IV. Explanations on interest rate risk    47 
V. Explanations on position risk of equity securities    49 

VI. Explanations on liquidity risk management and liquidity coverage ratio    49 
VII. Explanations on leverage ratio    56 

VIII. Explanations on presentation of financial assets and liabilities at their fair values    57 
IX. Explanations on the activities carried out on behalf and account of other persons    60 
X. Explanations on risk management target and policies    60 

XI. Explanations on hedge transactions    79 
XII. Explanations on qualitative disclosures on remuneration policies    82 
XIII. Explanations on business segments    83 

SSEECCTTIIOONN  FFIIVVEE  
Information and Disclosures Related to Unconsolidated Financial Statements 

I. Explanations and notes related to assets    86 
II. Explanations and notes related to liabilities   103 

III. Explanations and notes related to off-balance sheet accounts   111 
IV. Explanations and notes related to income statement   114 
V. Explanations and notes related to unconsolidated statement of changes in the shareholders’ equity   120 

VI. Explanations and notes related to statement of cash flows   121 
VII. Explanations and notes related to risk group that the Bank belongs to    122 

VIII. Explanations and notes related to domestic, foreign, off-shore branches and foreign representatives of the bank    123 
IX. Explanations and notes related to subsequent events    124 

SSEECCTTIIOONN  SSIIXX  
Other Explanations 

I. Other explanations      124 
SSEECCTTIIOONN  SSEEVVEENN  

Explanations on Auditor’s Report 
I. Explanations on auditor’s report      124 

 II. Explanations on notes prepared by independent auditors       124 
  
                                                                                                                                                                                            
  

  
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION 

OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, RELATED DISCLOSURES 
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, 
SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 

 
THE UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL REPORT OF AKBANK T.A.Ş. AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2022 

 
Address : Sabancı Center 34330, 4. Levent / İstanbul 
Telephone : (0 212) 385 55 55 
Fax : (0 212) 319 52 52 
Website : www.akbank.com 

E-mail : http://www.akbank.com/tr-tr/genel/Sayfalar/Iletisim-Formu.aspx 
 
The unconsolidated financial report, prepared in accordance with “Communiqué on the Financial Statements and the Related 
Policies and Disclosures to be Publicly Announced” as regulated by the Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency, is 
consist of the sections listed below. 
 
 SSeeccttiioonn  OOnnee - GENERAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE BANK 
 SSeeccttiioonn  TTwwoo - UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE BANK 
 SSeeccttiioonn  TThhrreeee - EXPLANATIONS ON ACCOUNTING POLICIES  
 SSeeccttiioonn  FFoouurr - INFORMATION RELATED TO FINANCIAL POSITION AND RISK MANAGEMENT OF THE BANK 
 SSeeccttiioonn  FFiivvee  -  INFORMATION AND DISCLOSURES RELATED TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
 SSeeccttiioonn  SSiixx              -  OTHER EXPLANATIONS  
 SSeeccttiioonn  SSeevveenn - INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT 
 
The accompanying unconsolidated financial statements and notes to these financial statements which are expressed, unless 
otherwise stated, in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL), have been prepared based on the accounting books of the Bank in 
accordance with the Regulation on Accounting Applications for Banks and Safeguarding of Documents, Turkish Accounting 
Standards, Turkish Financial Reporting Standards, and the related appendices and interpretations on these, and have been 
independently reviewed. 
 
31 January 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Suzan SABANCI DİNÇER  Eyüp ENGİN  Levent DEMİRAĞ  S. Hakan BİNBAŞGİL  Türker TUNALI  Gökhan KAZCILAR 
Chairman of the  Head of the  Member of the  CEO  Executive Vice  Senior Vice 
Board of Directors  Audit Committee  Audit     President  President 
    Committee       
 
Contact information of the personnel in charge of addressing questions regarding this financial report: 
 
Name-Surname / Title : Gökhan KAZCILAR / Senior Vice President 
Phone No  : (0 212) 385 55 55 
Fax No    : (0 212) 325 12 31 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  

246 - 247Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
2 

 

IV. INFORMATION ON THE INDIVIDUAL AND CORPORATE SHAREHOLDERS HAVING CONTROL SHARES OF THE BANK: 

NNaammee//CCoommmmeerrcciiaall  TTiittllee  
SShhaarree  AAmmoouunnttss  

((NNoommiinnaall))  
SShhaarree

PPeerrcceennttaaggeess
PPaaiidd--iinn  CCaappiittaall  

((NNoommiinnaall))  
UUnnppaaiidd  
PPoorrttiioonn

Hacı Ömer Sabancı Holding A.Ş. 2.119.027 40,75% 2.119.027 -
 

V. INFORMATION ON THE BANK’S SERVICE TYPES AND FIELDS OF OPERATION: 

The Bank’s core business activities consist of consumer banking, SME banking, commercial banking, corporate-investment 
banking and private banking and wealth management, foreign exchange, money markets, securities transactions (treasury 
transactions) and international banking services. In addition to regular banking operations, the Bank also provides insurance 
intermediary services as an agency of Aksigorta A.Ş. and AgeSA Hayat ve Emeklilik A.Ş. As of 31 December 2022, the Bank has 710 
branches dispersed throughout the country and 1 branch operating abroad (31 December 2021: 710 branches and 1 branch 
operating abroad). 
 
As of 31 December 2022, the Bank has 12.717 employees (31 December 2021: 12.184).  

VI. EXISTING OR POTENTIAL, ACTUAL OR LEGAL OBSTACLES TO IMMEDIATE TRANSFER OF SHAREHOLDER’S EQUITY 
BETWEEN PARENT BANK AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES OR REPAYMENT OF DEBTS: 

None. 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
1 

 

SECTION ONE 
GENERAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE BANK 

I. BANK’S FOUNDATION DATE, START-UP STATUS, HISTORY REGARDING THE CHANGES IN THIS STATUS: 

Akbank T.A.Ş. (“the Bank” or “Akbank”) was established on 30 January 1948 as a private commercial bank, in accordance with the decision of the 
Council of Ministers, No.3/6710 and is authorized to perform all economic, financial and commercial activities which are allowed by the laws of the 
Turkish Republic (“T.C.”). The status of the Bank has not changed since its foundation. 

II. EXPLANATION ABOUT THE BANK’S CAPITAL STRUCTURE, SHAREHOLDERS OF THE BANK WHO ARE IN CHARGE OF THE MANAGEMENT 
AND/OR AUDITING OF THE BANK DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY, CHANGES IN THESE MATTERS (IF ANY) AND THE GROUP THAT THE BANK 
BELONGS TO: 

The Bank’s shares have been quoted on the Borsa Istanbul (‘’BIST’’) since 1990. In 1998, 4,03% of the outstanding share capital of the Bank was 
offered and sold in an international offering outside of Turkey in the form of Ordinary Shares and American Depository Receipts (“ADRs”).  
As of 31 December 2022, approximately 51% of the shares are publicly traded, including the ADRs (31 December 2021: 51%). 

The major shareholder of the Bank, directly or indirectly, is Sabancı Group. 

III. EXPLANATION ON THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS, MEMBERS OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE, PRESIDENT AND EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENTS, 
IF AVAILABLE, SHARES OF THE BANK THEY POSSESS AND THEIR AREAS OF RESPONSIBILITY: 

TTiittllee  NNaammee  RReessppoonnssiibbiilliittyy  EEdduuccaattiioonn  
CChhaaiirrmmaann::  Suzan SABANCI DİNÇER Chairman of the Board of Directors Graduate 
     
BBooaarrdd  ooff  DDiirreeccttoorrss::  Eyüp ENGİN Vice Chairman and Executive Board Member Undergraduate 
  A. Fuat AYLA Executive Board Member Undergraduate 
  Ş. Yaman TÖRÜNER Board Member Undergraduate 
  Emre DERMAN  Board Member Graduate 
 N. Orhun KÖSTEM Board Member Graduate 
 K. Özgür DEMİRTAŞ Board Member PhD 
 Mehmet Tuğrul BELLİ Board Member Graduate 
 Levent DEMİRAĞ Board Member Undergraduate 
 S. Hakan BİNBAŞGİL Board Member and CEO Graduate 
CCEEOO:: S. Hakan BİNBAŞGİL CEO Graduate 
HHeeaadd  ooff  IInntteerrnnaall  AAuuddiitt:: Savaş KÜLCÜ Head of Internal Audit Graduate 
EExxeeccuuttiivvee  VViiccee  PPrreessiiddeennttss:: Bülent OĞUZ SME Banking Graduate 
 H.Burcu CİVELEK YÜCE Consumer Banking and Digital Solutions Graduate 
 Ege GÜLTEKİN Credit Monitoring and Follow-up  Graduate 
  Levent ÇELEBİOĞLU Corporate and Investment Banking Undergraduate 
 N. İlker ALTINTAŞ Technology and Operation PhD  
 Mehmet Hakan TUGAL Commercial Banking Graduate 
 Türker TUNALI Financial Management Undergraduate 
 Şahin Alp KELER Private Banking and Wealth Management PhD 
 Yunus Emre ÖZBEN Credit Allocation Graduate 
 Zeynep ÖZTÜRK ŞARSEL Special Credits Graduate 
 Gamze Şebnem MURATOĞLU Treasury Graduate 
 Pınar ANAPA People and Culture Graduate 
    
IInntteerrnnaall  AAuuddiitt  CCoommmmiitttteeee:: Eyüp ENGİN Head of the Audit Committee Undergraduate 
 Levent DEMİRAĞ Member of the Audit Committee Undergraduate 
    
 
 
    
 

The shares of individuals above are insignificant in the Bank. 

 
 

248 - 249Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

II..  UUNNCCOONNSSOOLLIIDDAATTEEDD  BBAALLAANNCCEE  SSHHEEEETT  AASS  OOFF  3311  DDEECCEEMMBBEERR  22002222  ((SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTT  OOFF  FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  PPOOSSIITTIIOONN))
(Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL).)

CCUURRRREENNTT  PPEERRIIOODD PPRRIIOORR  PPEERRIIOODD
LLIIAABBIILLIITTIIEESS Note ((3311//1122//22002222)) ((3311//1122//22002211))

(Section Five) TL FC Total TL FC Total
II.. DDEEPPOOSSIITTSS ((IIII--aa)) 337700..335522..991133          330088..997711..884499          667799..332244..776622                115511..997755..004488          226611..228855..668866          441133..226600..773344          
IIII.. FFUUNNDDSS  BBOORRRROOWWEEDD ((IIII--cc)) 221177..442200                          6644..117799..334400                6644..339966..776600                    223355..557755                          5533..226611..223388                5533..449966..881133                
IIIIII.. MMOONNEEYY  MMAARRKKEETTSS 2266..220077..994400                2277..882211..991155                5544..002299..885555                    3344..551155..335522                2266..449911..228833                6611..000066..663355                
IIVV.. SSEECCUURRIITTIIEESS  IISSSSUUEEDD  ((NNeett)) ((IIII--dd)) 22..771166..111144                    1199..772233..445555                2222..443399..556699                    88..771111..884444                    2200..883300..660033                2299..554422..444477                
4.1 Bills -                          -                          -                             6.317.699            -                          6.317.699            
4.2 Asset Backed Securities -                          -                          -                             -                          -                          -                          
4.3 Bonds 2.716.114            19.723.455          22.439.569             2.394.145            20.830.603          23.224.748          
VV.. FFUUNNDDSS --                                                    --                                                    --                                                        --                                                    --                                                    --                                                    
5.1 Borrower Funds -                          -                          -                             -                          -                          -                          
5.2 Other -                          -                          -                             -                          -                          -                          
VVII.. FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  LLIIAABBIILLIITTIIEESS  AATT  FFAAIIRR  VVAALLUUEE  TTHHRROOUUGGHH  PPRROOFFIITT  OORR  LLOOSSSS --                                                    --                                                    --                                                        --                                                    --                                                    --                                                    
VVIIII.. DDEERRIIVVAATTIIVVEE  FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  LLIIAABBIILLIITTIIEESS ((IIII--bb,,  IIII--gg)) 1111..223399..668877                33..221122..332233                    1144..445522..001100                    2211..998822..229966                33..330044..993399                    2255..228877..223355                
7.1 Derivative Financial Liabilities at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss 10.745.211          3.212.322            13.957.533             21.706.040          3.091.924            24.797.964          
7.2 Derivative Financial Liabilities at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income 494.476               1                          494.477                  276.256               213.015               489.271               
VVIIIIII.. FFAACCTTOORRIINNGG  LLIIAABBIILLIITTIIEESS --                                                    --                                                    --                                                        --                                                    --                                                    --                                                    
IIXX.. LLEEAASSEE  LLIIAABBIILLIITTIIEESS  ((NNeett)) ((IIII--ff)) 779999..116666                          --                                                    779999..116666                                553355..444400                          --                                                    553355..444400                          
XX..  PPRROOVVIISSIIOONNSS ((IIII--hh)) 55..227700..448855                    339955..000033                          55..666655..448888                        33..009944..883344                    113300..336677                          33..222255..220011                    
10.1 Restructuring Provisions -                          -                          -                             -                          -                          -                          
10.2 Reserve for Employee Benefits 2.183.677            -                          2.183.677               745.039               -                          745.039               
10.3 Insurance Technical Provisions (Net) -                          -                          -                             -                          -                          -                          
10.4 Other Provisions 3.086.808            395.003               3.481.811               2.349.795            130.367               2.480.162            
XXII.. CCUURRRREENNTT  TTAAXX  LLIIAABBIILLIITTYY ((IIII--ii)) 1100..119911..110044                447788..115566                          1100..666699..226600                    11..997755..662222                    225577..447733                          22..223333..009955                    
XXIIII.. DDEEFFEERRRREEDD  TTAAXX  LLIIAABBIILLIITTYY ((IIII--ii)) 33..002277..224488                    --                                                    33..002277..224488                        117711..334411                          --                                                    117711..334411                          
XXIIIIII..

--                                                    --                                                    --                                                        --                                                    --                                                    --                                                    
13.1 Held for Sale Purpose -                          -                          -                             -                          -                          -                          
13.2 Related to Discontinued Operations -                          -                          -                             -                          -                          -                          
XXIIVV.. SSUUBBOORRDDIINNAATTEEDD  DDEEBBTT  IINNSSTTRRUUMMEENNTTSS ((IIII--jj)) --                                                    1166..880000..008822                1166..880000..008822                    --                                                    1188..772255..553344                1188..772255..553344                
14.1 Loans -                          -                          -                             -                          -                          -                          
14.2 Other Debt Instruments -                          16.800.082          16.800.082             -                          18.725.534          18.725.534          
XXVV.. OOTTHHEERR  LLIIAABBIILLIITTIIEESS ((IIII--ee)) 2244..227711..224422                2255..771111..112299                4499..998822..337711                    1111..552288..667755                1133..994433..119944                2255..447711..886699                
XXVVII.. SSHHAARREEHHOOLLDDEERRSS''  EEQQUUIITTYY ((IIII--kk)) 116611..443300..220066          ((77..883300..332222))                115533..559999..888844                8833..557711..777700                ((77..661166..881199))                7755..995544..995511                
16.1 Paid-in capital 5.200.000            -                          5.200.000               5.200.000            -                          5.200.000            
16.2 Capital Reserves 5.400.628            -                          5.400.628               5.400.628            -                          5.400.628            
16.2.1 Share Premium 3.505.742            -                          3.505.742               3.505.742            -                          3.505.742            
16.2.2 Share Cancellation Profits -                          -                          -                             -                          -                          -                          
16.2.3 Other Capital Reserves 1.894.886            -                          1.894.886               1.894.886            -                          1.894.886            
16.3 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income or Loss Not Reclassified Through Profit or Loss 8.001.283            677.895               8.679.178               3.325.779            649.363               3.975.142            
16.4 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income or Loss Reclassified Through Profit or Loss 26.733.806          (8.508.217)           18.225.589             12.494.457          (8.266.182)           4.228.275            
16.5 Profit Reserves 56.070.405          -                          56.070.405             45.024.998          -                          45.024.998          
16.5.1 Legal Reserves 1.903.795            -                          1.903.795               1.808.635            -                          1.808.635            
16.5.2 Status Reserves -                          -                          -                             -                          -                          -                          
16.5.3 Extraordinary Reserves 53.991.428          -                          53.991.428             43.068.048          -                          43.068.048          
16.5.4 Other Profit Reserves 175.182               -                          175.182                  148.315               -                          148.315               
16.6 Income or (Loss) 60.024.084          -                          60.024.084             12.125.908          -                          12.125.908          
16.6.1 Prior Periods' Income or (Loss) -                          -                          -                             -                          -                          -                          
16.6.2 Current Period Income or (Loss) 60.024.084          -                          60.024.084             12.125.908          -                          12.125.908          

TTOOTTAALL  LLIIAABBIILLIITTIIEESS  AANNDD  SSHHAARREEHHOOLLDDEERRSS''  EEQQUUIITTYY 661155..772233..552255          445599..446622..993300          11..007755..118866..445555          331188..229977..779977          339900..661133..449988          770088..991111..229955          

                                                                                                            The accompanying explanations and notes form an integral part of these financial statements.

LLIIAABBIILLIITTIIEESS  FFOORR  AASSSSEETTSS  HHEELLDD  FFOORR  SSAALLEE  AANNDD  RREELLAATTEEDD  TTOO  TTHHEE  DDIISSCCOONNTTIIUUEEDD  
OOPPEERRAATTIIOONNSS  ((NNeett))

    4  

II..  UUNNCCOONNSSOOLLIIDDAATTEEDD  BBAALLAANNCCEE  SSHHEEEETT  AASS  OOFF  3311  DDEECCEEMMBBEERR  22002222  ((SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTT  OOFF  FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  PPOOSSIITTIIOONN))
(Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL).)

CCUURRRREENNTT  PPEERRIIOODD PPRRIIOORR  PPEERRIIOODD
AASSSSEETTSS Note ((3311//1122//22002222)) ((3311//1122//22002211))

(Section Five) TL FC Total TL FC Total
II.. FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  AASSSSEETTSS  ((NNeett)) 114477..884444..000088                  222288..550099..555577                  337766..335533..556655                  9922..555566..776699                      220000..997711..444455                  229933..552288..221144                  
11..11 CCaasshh  aanndd  CCaasshh  EEqquuiivvaalleennttss 2266..556644..445588                      113344..002277..882288                  116600..559922..228866                  1144..885500..994433                      112288..551100..889900                  114433..336611..883333                  
1.1.1 Cash and Balances with Central Bank (I-a) 23.686.721               103.846.022             127.532.743             11.895.572               79.991.153               91.886.725               
1.1.2 Banks (I-d) 1.423.105                 30.182.611               31.605.716               132.292                    48.520.144               48.652.436               
1.1.3 Money Markets 1.459.782                 -                                1.459.782                 2.823.223                 -                                2.823.223                 
1.1.4 Expected Loss Provision (-) 5.150                        805                           5.955                        144                           407                           551                           
11..22 FFiinnaanncciiaall  AAsssseettss  aatt  FFaaiirr  VVaalluuee  TThhrroouugghh  PPrrooffiitt  oorr  LLoossss ((II--bb)) 22..118888..007788                            994477..885500                                  33..113355..992288                            11..444477..553377                            88..336600..004466                            99..880077..558833                            
1.2.1 Government Debt Securities 146.840                    164.826                    311.666                    133.543                    337.168                    470.711                    
1.2.2 Equity Instruments -                                555.909                    555.909                    -                                282.498                    282.498                    
1.2.3 Other Financial Assets 2.041.238                 227.115                    2.268.353                 1.313.994                 7.740.380                 9.054.374                 
11..33 FFiinnaanncciiaall  AAsssseettss  aatt  FFaaiirr  VVaalluuee  TThhrroouugghh  OOtthheerr  CCoommpprreehheennssiivvee  IInnccoommee ((II--ee)) 8877..887722..554499                      7766..999988..110066                      116644..887700..665555                  3355..773399..776655                      5544..994411..550066                      9900..668811..227711                      
1.3.1 Government Debt Securities 82.359.177               57.983.499               140.342.676             34.746.069               41.067.134               75.813.203               
1.3.2 Equity Instruments 96.962                      109                           97.071                      15.610                      109                           15.719                      
1.3.3 Other Financial Assets 5.416.410                 19.014.498               24.430.908               978.086                    13.874.263               14.852.349               
11..55 DDeerriivvaattiivvee  FFiinnaanncciiaall  AAsssseettss ((II--cc,,  ll--ll)) 3311..221188..992233                      1166..553355..777733                      4477..775544..669966                      4400..551188..552244                      99..115599..000033                            4499..667777..552277                      
1.5.1 Derivative Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss 12.404.259               14.473.293               26.877.552               27.275.288               8.969.678                 36.244.966               
1.5.2 Derivative Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income 18.814.664               2.062.480                 20.877.144               13.243.236               189.325                    13.432.561               
IIII.. FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  AASSSSEETTSS  MMEEAASSUURREEDD  AATT  AAMMOORRTTIISSEEDD  CCOOSSTT  ((NNeett)) 447777..777766..999955                  115599..221144..555500                  663366..999911..554455                  226633..777744..661188                  112233..554433..887788                  338877..331188..449966                  
22..11 LLooaannss  ((II--ff)) 440088..992255..774400                  115511..442244..444488                  556600..335500..118888                  223366..226644..772299                  111177..110077..110011                  335533..337711..883300                  
22..22 LLeeaassee  RReecceeiivvaabblleess ((II--kk)) --                                                          --                                                          --                                                          -                                -                                --                                                          
22..33 FFaaccttoorriinngg  RReecceeiivvaabblleess --                                                          --                                                          --                                                          -                                -                                --                                                          
22..44  OOtthheerr  FFiinnaanncciiaall  AAsssseettss  MMeeaassuurreedd  aatt  AAmmoorrttiisseedd  CCoosstt ((II--gg)) 8866..117744..553300                      1111..998800..114466                      9988..115544..667766                      4422..116699..886622                      1100..441155..669988                      5522..558855..556600                      

Government Debt Securities 86.174.530               10.660.402               96.834.932               42.169.862               9.446.135                 51.615.997               
Other Financial Assets -                                1.319.744                 1.319.744                 -                                969.563                    969.563                    

22..55  EExxppeecctteedd  CCrreeddiitt  LLoossss  ((--)) 1177..332233..227755                      44..119900..004444                            2211..551133..331199                      1144..665599..997733                      33..997788..992211                            1188..663388..889944                      
IIIIII.. AASSSSEETTSS  HHEELLDD  FFOORR  SSAALLEE  AANNDD    RREELLAATTEEDD  TTOO  DDIISSCCOONNTTIINNUUEEDD  

OOPPEERRAATTIIOONNSS  ((NNeett)) ((II--rr)) 556655..337788                                  --                                                          556655..337788                                  117700..775566                                  --                                                          117700..775566                                  
3.1 Held for Sale Purpose 565.378                    -                                565.378                    170.756                    -                                170.756                    
3.2 Related to Discontinued Operations -                                -                                -                                -                                -                                -                                
IIVV.. EEQQUUIITTYY  IINNVVEESSTTMMEENNTTSS 44..881100..223333                            1188..773366..776622                      2233..554466..999955                      22..886622..775566                            1133..221155..550033                      1166..007788..225599                      
44..11 IInnvveessttmmeennttss  iinn  AAssssoocciiaatteess  ((NNeett)) ((II--hh)) 1188..995577                                      --                                                          1188..995577                                      1188..112299                                      --                                                          1188..112299                                      
4.1.1 Associates Valued Based on Equity Method -                                -                                -                                -                                -                                -                                
4.1.2 Unconsolidated Associates 18.957                      -                                18.957                      18.129                      -                                18.129                      
44..22 SSuubbssiiddiiaarriieess  ((NNeett)) ((II--ii)) 44..779911..227766                            1188..773366..776622                      2233..552288..003388                      22..884444..662277                            1133..221155..550033                      1166..006600..113300                      
4.2.1 Unconsolidated Financial Subsidiaries 4.791.276                 18.736.762               23.528.038               2.844.627                 13.215.503               16.060.130               
4.2.2 Unconsolidated Non-Financial Subsidiaries -                                -                                -                                -                                -                                -                                
44..33 JJooiinntt  VVeennttuurreess  ((NNeett)) ((II--jj)) --                                                          --                                                          --                                                          --                                                          --                                                          --                                                          
4.3.1 Joint Ventures Valued Based on Equity Method -                                -                                -                                -                                -                                -                                
4.3.2 Unconsolidated Joint Ventures -                                -                                -                                -                                -                                -                                
VV.. PPRROOPPEERRTTYY  AANNDD  EEQQUUIIPPMMEENNTT  ((NNeett)) ((II--mm)) 1155..008899..001122                      3388..227700                                      1155..112277..228822                      55..881111..555599                            1177..666688                                      55..882299..222277                            
VVII.. IINNTTAANNGGIIBBLLEE  AASSSSEETTSS  ((NNeett)) ((II--nn)) 22..665522..002211                            --                                                          22..665522..002211                            11..446655..663388                            11                                                        11..446655..663399                            
6.1 Goodwill -                                -                                -                                -                                -                                -                                
6.2 Other 2.652.021                 -                                2.652.021                 1.465.638                 1                                1.465.639                 
VVIIII.. IINNVVEESSTTMMEENNTT  PPRROOPPEERRTTYY  ((NNeett)) ((II--oo)) --                                                          --                                                          --                                                          --                                                          --                                                          --                                                          
VVIIIIII.. CCUURRRREENNTT  TTAAXX  AASSSSEETT --                                                          --                                                          --                                                          --                                                          --                                                          --                                                          
IIXX.. DDEEFFEERRRREEDD  TTAAXX  AASSSSEETT ((II--pp)) --                                                          119922..228855                                  119922..228855                                  --                                                          7733..661100                                      7733..661100                                      
XX.. OOTTHHEERR  AASSSSEETTSS  ((NNeett)) ((II--ss)) 1199..113300..111122                      662277..227722                                  1199..775577..338844                      44..330011..334477                            114455..774477                                  44..444477..009944                            

TTOOTTAALL  AASSSSEETTSS 666677..886677..775599                  440077..331188..669966                  11..007755..118866..445555            337700..994433..444433                  333377..996677..885522                  770088..991111..229955                  

 The accompanying explanations and notes form an integral part of these financial statements.

    3  

250 - 251Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

IIIIII..  UUNNCCOONNSSOOLLIIDDAATTEEDD  IINNCCOOMMEE  SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTT  FFOORR  TTHHEE  PPEERRIIOODD  EENNDDEEDD  3311  DDEECCEEMMBBEERR  22002222
(Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL).)

IINNCCOOMMEE  AANNDD  EEXXPPEENNSSEE  IITTEEMMSS Note CCUURRRREENNTT  PPEERRIIOODD PPRRIIOORR  PPEERRIIOODD
(Section Five) ((0011//0011--3311//1122//22002222)) ((0011//0011--3311//1122//22002211))

II.. IINNTTEERREESSTT  IINNCCOOMMEE ((IIVV--aa)) 112277..881155..446688                            4488..880022..000088                                
1.1 Interest on Loans (IV-a-1) 66.507.535                    33.535.367                    
1.2 Interest on Reserve Requirements 282.414                         881.784                         
1.3 Interest on Banks (IV-a-2) 536.015                         76.740                           
1.4 Interest on Money Market Transactions 192.015                         143.079                         
1.5 Interest on Marketable Securities Portfolio (IV-a-3) 60.165.274                    14.066.747                    
1.5.1 Fair Value Through Profit or Loss 27.487                           21.365                           
1.5.2 Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income 21.443.232                    6.960.492                      
1.5.3 Measured at Amortised Cost 38.694.555                    7.084.890                      
1.6 Financial Lease Interest Income -                                     -                                     
1.7 Other Interest Income 132.215                         98.291                           
IIII.. IINNTTEERREESSTT  EEXXPPEENNSSEE  ((--)) ((IIVV--bb)) 5500..994433..776633                                2255..996677..229966                                
2.1 Interest on Deposits (IV-b-4) 38.408.677                    17.529.660                    
2.2 Interest on Funds Borrowed (IV-b-1) 2.598.141                      994.281                         
2.3 Interest Expense on Money Market Transactions 4.104.135                      4.600.231                      
2.4 Interest on Securities Issued (IV-b-3) 3.605.253                      2.720.752                      
2.5 Interest on Leases 109.794                         85.599                           
2.6 Other Interest Expenses 2.117.763                      36.773                           
IIIIII.. NNEETT  IINNTTEERREESSTT  IINNCCOOMMEE  ((II  --  IIII)) 7766..887711..770055                                2222..883344..771122                                
IIVV.. NNEETT  FFEEEESS  AANNDD  CCOOMMMMIISSSSIIOONNSS  IINNCCOOMMEE 1100..331155..554499                                55..223322..552266                                    
4.1 Fees and Commissions Received 13.662.846                    6.909.828                      
4.1.1 Non-cash Loans 982.481                         571.025                         
4.1.2 Other 12.680.365                    6.338.803                      
4.2 Fees and Commissions Paid (-) 3.347.297                      1.677.302                      
4.2.1 Non-cash Loans 4.722                             5.062                             
4.2.2 Other 3.342.575                      1.672.240                      
VV.. DDIIVVIIDDEENNDD  IINNCCOOMMEE ((IIVV--cc)) 3322..333388                                                55..224466                                                    
VVII.. TTRRAADDIINNGG  IINNCCOOMMEE  //((LLOOSSSS))  ((NNeett)) ((IIVV--dd)) 1155..005599..550099                                66..444499..220088                                    
6.1 Trading Gains / (Losses) on Securities 851.571                         660.783                         
6.2 Gains / (Losses) on Derivative Financial Transactions (12.860.617)                  (841.552)                        
6.3 Foreign Exchange Gains / (Losses) 27.068.555                    6.629.977                      
VVIIII.. OOTTHHEERR  OOPPEERRAATTIINNGG  IINNCCOOMMEE ((IIVV--ee)) 33..773355..559999                                    22..224444..226622                                    
VVIIIIII.. GGRROOSSSS  OOPPEERRAATTIINNGG  IINNCCOOMMEE  ((IIIIII++IIVV++VV++VVII++VVIIII)) 110066..001144..770000                            3366..776655..995544                                
IIXX.. EEXXPPEECCTTEEDD  CCRREEDDIITT  LLOOSSSS  ((--)) ((IIVV--ff)) 66..885599..331133                                    55..113399..883300                                    
XX.. OOTTHHEERR  PPRROOVVIISSIIOONN  EEXXPPEENNSSEESS  ((--)) 33..883300..665566                                    77..779911..332299                                    
XXII.. PPEERRSSOONNNNEELL  EEXXPPEENNSSEE  ((--)) 66..333388..006600                                    33..227744..227755                                    
XXIIII.. OOTTHHEERR  OOPPEERRAATTIINNGG  EEXXPPEENNSSEESS  ((--)) ((IIVV--gg)) 1122..880000..000044                                66..005511..889977                                    
XXIIIIII.. NNEETT  OOPPEERRAATTIINNGG  IINNCCOOMMEE//((LLOOSSSS))  ((VVIIIIII--IIXX--XX--XXII--XXIIII)) 7766..118866..666677                                1144..550088..662233                                
XXIIVV.. EEXXCCEESSSS  AAMMOOUUNNTT  RREECCOORRDDEEDD  AASS  IINNCCOOMMEE  AAFFTTEERR  MMEERRGGEERR --                                                                  
XXVV.. IINNCCOOMMEE//((LLOOSSSS))  FFRROOMM  IINNVVEESSTTMMEENNTTSS  IINN  SSUUBBSSIIDDIIAARRIIEESS  CCOONNSSOOLLIIDDAATTEEDD  --                                                                  

BBAASSEEDD  OONN  EEQQUUIITTYY  MMEETTHHOODD 33..007733..773355                                    11..555577..551177                                    
XXVVII.. IINNCCOOMMEE//((LLOOSSSS))  OONN  NNEETT  MMOONNEETTAARRYY  PPOOSSIITTIIOONN --                                                                  --                                                                  
XXVVIIII.. PPRROOFFIITT//LLOOSSSS  BBEEFFOORREE  TTAAXX  FFRROOMM  CCOONNTTIINNUUEEDD  OOPPEERRAATTIIOONNSS  ((XXIIIIII++......++XXVVII)) ((IIVV--ii)) 7799..226600..440022                                1166..006666..114400                                
XXVVIIIIII.. TTAAXX  PPRROOVVIISSIIOONN  FFOORR  CCOONNTTIINNUUEEDD  OOPPEERRAATTIIOONNSS  ((±±)) ((IIVV--jj)) 1199..223366..331188                                33..994400..223322                                    
18.1 Current Tax Provision 19.823.331                    2.969.973                      
18.2 Deferred Tax Expense Effect (+) 5.767.410                      5.272.335                      
18.3 Deferred Tax Income Effect (-) 6.354.423                      4.302.076                      
XXVVIIIIII.. CCUURRRREENNTT  PPEERRIIOODD  PPRROOFFIITT//LLOOSSSS  FFRROOMM  CCOONNTTIINNUUEEDD  OOPPEERRAATTIIOONNSS  ((XXVVIIII±±XXVVIIIIII)) ((IIVV--kk)) 6600..002244..008844                                1122..112255..990088                                
XXIIXX.. IINNCCOOMMEE  FFRROOMM  DDIISSCCOONNTTIINNUUEEDD  OOPPEERRAATTIIOONNSS -                                       -                                       
20.1 Income from Non-current Assets Held for Sale -                                     -                                     
20.2 Profit from Sales of Associates, Subsidiaries and Joint Ventures -                                     -                                     
20.3 Income from Other Discontinued Operations -                                     -                                     
XXXX.. EEXXPPEENNSSEESS  FFOORR  DDIISSCCOONNTTIINNUUEEDD  OOPPEERRAATTIIOONNSS  ((--)) --                                                                  --                                                                  
21.1 Expenses for Non-current Assets Held for Sale -                                     -                                     
21.2 Loss from Sales of Associates, Subsidiaries and Joint Ventures -                                     -                                     
21.3 Expenses for Other Discontinued Operations -                                     -                                     
XXXXII.. PPRROOFFIITT//LLOOSSSS  BBEEFFOORREE  TTAAXX  FFRROOMM  DDIISSCCOONNTTIINNUUEEDD  OOPPEERRAATTIIOONNSS  ((XXIIXX--XXXX)) ((IIVV--ii)) --                                                                  --                                                                  
XXXXIIII.. TTAAXX  PPRROOVVIISSIIOONN  FFOORR  DDIISSCCOONNTTIINNUUEEDD  OOPPEERRAATTIIOONNSS  ((±±)) ((IIVV--jj)) --                                                                  --                                                                  
23.1 Current Tax Provision -                                     -                                     
23.2 Deferred Tax Expense Effect (+) -                                     -                                     
23.3 Deferred Tax Income Effect (-) -                                     -                                     
XXXXIIIIII.. CCUURRRREENNTT  PPEERRIIOODD  PPRROOFFIITT//LLOOSSSS  FFRROOMM  DDIISSCCOONNTTIINNUUEEDD  OOPPEERRAATTIIOONNSS  ((XXXXIIII±±XXXXIIIIII)) ((IIVV--kk)) -                                       -                                       
XXXXIIVV.. NNEETT  IINNCCOOMMEE//((LLOOSSSS))  ((XXIIXX++XXXXIIVV)) ((IIVV--ll)) 6600..002244..008844                                1122..112255..990088                                

Earning/(Loss) per share (in TL full) 0,11543                         0,02332                         

                                                                                                       The accompanying explanations and notes form an integral part of these financial statements.

   6  

IIII..  UUNNCCOONNSSOOLLIIDDAATTEEDD  OOFFFF--BBAALLAANNCCEE  SSHHEEEETT  CCOOMMMMIITTMMEENNTTSS  AASS  OOFF  3311  DDEECCEEMMBBEERR  22002222
(Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL).)

CCUURRRREENNTT  PPEERRIIOODD PPRRIIOORR  PPEERRIIOODD
Note ((3311//1122//22002222)) ((3311//1122//22002211))

(Section Five) TL FC Total TL FC Total
AA..  OOFFFF--BBAALLAANNCCEE  SSHHEEEETT  CCOOMMMMIITTMMEENNTTSS  ((II++IIII++IIIIII)) 552233..338877..225522                    11..000077..884400..112244                  11..553311..222277..337766              333344..007755..994433                  886699..008888..666666                  11..220033..116644..660099              
II.. GGUUAARRAANNTTEEEESS  AANNDD  WWAARRRRAANNTTIIEESS ((IIIIII--aa--22,,  33)) 6688..005599..555588                          7722..554422..114488                            114400..660011..770066                    3322..776644..441111                      5555..005577..993399                      8877..882222..335500                          
1,1 Letters of Guarantee 51.739.505              44.729.387                96.468.892              26.592.620             31.278.272             57.870.892              
1.1.1 Guarantees Subject to State Tender Law 1.375.563                6.044.920                  7.420.483                1.155.719               3.175.131               4.330.850                
1.1.2 Guarantees Given for Foreign Trade Operations -                               2.582.504                  2.582.504                -                             2.601.276               2.601.276                
1.1.3 Other Letters of Guarantee 50.363.942              36.101.963                86.465.905              25.436.901             25.501.865             50.938.766              
1.2 Bank Acceptances 4.785                       190.323                     195.108                   -                             159.525                  159.525                   
1.2.1 Import Letter of Acceptance 4.785                       190.323                     195.108                   -                             159.525                  159.525                   
1.2.2 Other Bank Acceptances -                               -                                 -                               -                             -                             -                               
1.3 Letters of Credit 2.058.977                19.240.609                21.299.586              49.289                    15.073.346             15.122.635              
1.3.1 Documentary Letters of Credit 2.058.977                16.898.022                18.956.999              49.289                    13.479.532             13.528.821              
1.3.2 Other Letters of Credit -                               2.342.587                  2.342.587                -                             1.593.814               1.593.814                
1.4 Prefinancing Given as Guarantee -                               -                                 -                               -                             -                             -                               
1.5 Endorsements -                               -                                 -                               -                             -                             -                               
1.5.1 Endorsements to the Central Bank of Turkey -                               -                                 -                               -                             -                             -                               
1.5.2 Other Endorsements -                               -                                 -                               -                             -                             -                               
1.6 Purchase Guarantees for Securities Issued -                               -                                 -                               -                             -                             -                               
1.7 Factoring Guarantees -                               12.651                       12.651                     -                             23.003                    23.003                     
1.8 Other Guarantees 5.349.753                8.363.051                  13.712.804              100.457                  8.507.143               8.607.600                
1.9 Other Collaterals 8.906.538                6.127                         8.912.665                6.022.045               16.650                    6.038.695                
IIII.. CCOOMMMMIITTMMEENNTTSS ((IIIIII--aa--11)) 115544..227799..333322                    1155..116611..550022                            116699..444400..883344                    6688..226666..336622                      3399..884466..441122                      110088..111122..777744                    
2.1 Irrevocable Commitments 152.086.287            15.161.502                167.247.789            66.901.506             39.846.412             106.747.918            
2.1.1 Asset Purchase Commitments 1.025.346                6.826.708                  7.852.054                7.164.528               14.383.952             21.548.480              
2.1.2 Deposit Purchase and Sales Commitments -                               -                                 -                               -                             -                             -                               
2.1.3 Share Capital Commitments to Associates and Subsidiaries -                               -                                 -                               -                             -                             -                               
2.1.4 Loan Granting Commitments 23.069.404              8.330.744                  31.400.148              13.266.649             6.041.228               19.307.877              
2.1.5 Securities Issue Brokerage Commitments -                               -                                 -                               -                             -                             -                               
2.1.6 Commitments for Reserve Requirements -                               -                                 -                               -                             -                             -                               
2.1.7 Commitments for Cheque Payments 4.523.116                -                                 4.523.116                3.394.242               -                             3.394.242                
2.1.8 Tax and Fund Liabilities from Export Commitments 5.260                       -                                 5.260                       5.934                      -                             5.934                       
2.1.9 Commitments for Credit Card Limits 106.067.149            -                                 106.067.149            34.314.098             -                             34.314.098              
2.1.10 Commitments for Credit Cards and Banking Services Promotions 125.777                   -                                 125.777                   130.112                  -                             130.112                   
2.1.11 Receivables from Short Sale Commitments of Marketable Securities -                               -                                 -                               -                             -                             -                               
2.1.12 Payables for Short Sale Commitments of Marketable Securities -                               -                                 -                               -                             -                             -                               
2.1.13 Other Irrevocable Commitments 17.270.235              4.050                         17.274.285              8.625.943               19.421.232             28.047.175              
2.2 Revocable Commitments 2.193.045                -                                 2.193.045                1.364.856               -                             1.364.856                
2.2.1 Revocable Loan Granting Commitments 2.193.045                -                                 2.193.045                1.364.856               -                             1.364.856                
2.2.2 Other Revocable Commitments -                               -                                 -                               -                             -                             -                               
IIIIII.. DDEERRIIVVAATTIIVVEE  FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  IINNSSTTRRUUMMEENNTTSS ((IIIIII--bb)) 330011..004488..336622                    992200..113366..447744                        11..222211..118844..883366              223333..004455..117700                  777744..118844..331155                  11..000077..222299..448855              
3.1 Hedging Derivative Financial Instruments 31.550.734              137.049.473              168.600.207            38.163.770             122.991.616           161.155.386            
3.1.1 Fair Value Hedges 20.741                     57.422.029                57.442.770              2.471.040               56.739.869             59.210.909              
3.1.2 Cash Flow Hedges 31.529.993              79.627.444                111.157.437            35.692.730             66.251.747             101.944.477            
3.1.3 Foreign Net Investment Hedges -                               -                                 -                               -                             -                             -                               
3.2 Trading Derivative Financial Instruments 269.497.628            783.087.001              1.052.584.629         194.881.400           651.192.699           846.074.099            
3.2.1 Forward Foreign Currency Buy/Sell Transactions 41.831.750              63.823.351                105.655.101            15.801.559             38.391.025             54.192.584              
3.2.1.1 Forward Foreign Currency Transactions-Buy 40.929.678              13.131.610                54.061.288              15.557.894             10.352.662             25.910.556              
3.2.1.2 Forward Foreign Currency Transactions-Sell 902.072                   50.691.741                51.593.813              243.665                  28.038.363             28.282.028              
3.2.2 Swap Transactions Related to Foreign Currency and Interest Rates 193.562.550            568.870.277              762.432.827            160.953.319           505.546.140           666.499.459            
3.2.2.1 Foreign Currency Swap-Buy 19.963.353              219.565.005              239.528.358            14.906.795             187.588.786           202.495.581            
3.2.2.2 Foreign Currency Swap-Sell 128.901.159            139.793.964              268.695.123            87.801.938             129.344.010           217.145.948            
3.2.2.3 Interest Rate Swap-Buy 22.349.019              104.755.654              127.104.673            29.122.293             94.306.672             123.428.965            
3.2.2.4 Interest Rate Swap-Sell 22.349.019              104.755.654              127.104.673            29.122.293             94.306.672             123.428.965            
3.2.3 Foreign Currency, Interest Rate and Securities Options 15.707.125              54.269.717                69.976.842              9.735.945               43.924.035             53.659.980              
3.2.3.1 Foreign Currency Options-Buy 14.853.112              9.143.046                  23.996.158              6.157.981               6.443.609               12.601.590              
3.2.3.2 Foreign Currency Options-Sell 854.013                   22.589.883                23.443.896              3.577.964               10.124.782             13.702.746              
3.2.3.3 Interest Rate Options-Buy -                               11.268.394                11.268.394              -                             13.677.822             13.677.822              
3.2.3.4 Interest Rate Options-Sell -                               11.268.394                11.268.394              -                             13.677.822             13.677.822              
3.2.3.5 Securities Options-Buy -                               -                                 -                               -                             -                             -                               
3.2.3.6 Securities Options-Sell -                               -                                 -                               -                             -                             -                               
3.2.4 Foreign Currency Futures 17.799.388              17.211.205                35.010.593              8.206.775               8.114.789               16.321.564              
3.2.4.1 Foreign Currency Futures-Buy 16.167.045              1.519.274                  17.686.319              8.206.775               -                             8.206.775                
3.2.4.2 Foreign Currency Futures-Sell 1.632.343                15.691.931                17.324.274              -                             8.114.789               8.114.789                
3.2.5 Interest Rate Futures -                               -                                 -                               -                             -                             -                               
3.2.5.1 Interest Rate Futures-Buy -                               -                                 -                               -                             -                             -                               
3.2.5.2 Interest Rate Futures-Sell -                               -                                 -                               -                             -                             -                               
3.2.6 Other 596.815                   78.912.451                79.509.266              183.802                  55.216.710             55.400.512              
BB..  CCUUSSTTOODDYY  AANNDD  PPLLEEDDGGEESS  RREECCEEIIVVEEDD  ((IIVV++VV++VVII)) 11..664499..998866..332277              11..110055..556600..997766                  22..775555..554477..330033              11..007755..445555..220033            779900..997722..554477                  11..886666..442277..775500              
IIVV.. IITTEEMMSS  HHEELLDD  IINN  CCUUSSTTOODDYY 112200..330011..665577                    114455..003322..332211                        226655..333333..997788                    7700..885544..551166                      8877..005544..881199                      115577..990099..333355                    
4.1 Customer Fund and Portfolio Balances 46.396.383              12.805.794                59.202.177              17.288.136             6.693.055               23.981.191              
4.2 Investment Securities Held in Custody 3.422.376                28.918.489                32.340.865              4.032.388               19.165.189             23.197.577              
4.3 Cheques Received for Collection 59.865.366              9.750.401                  69.615.767              41.556.021             8.993.088               50.549.109              
4.4 Commercial Notes Received for Collection 9.930.098                14.741.077                24.671.175              7.595.783               10.212.171             17.807.954              
4.5 Other Assets Received for Collection -                               -                                 -                               -                             -                             -                               
4.6 Assets Received for Public Offering -                               -                                 -                               -                             -                             -                               
4.7 Other Items Under Custody 687.434                   78.816.560                79.503.994              382.188                  41.991.316             42.373.504              
4.8 Custodians -                               -                                 -                               -                             -                             -                               
VV.. PPLLEEDDGGEESS  RREECCEEIIVVEEDD 443322..990022..995566                    228800..111144..111155                        771133..001177..007711                    226611..441177..007766                  221111..115577..995588                  447722..557755..003344                    
5.1 Marketable Securities 481.495                   5.799.505                  6.281.000                449.676                  4.510.927               4.960.603                
5.2 Guarantee Notes 1.004.209                2.039.754                  3.043.963                797.853                  1.391.005               2.188.858                
5.3 Commodity 842.908                   653.844                     1.496.752                347.908                  305.712                  653.620                   
5.4 Warranty -                               -                                 -                               -                             -                             -                               
5.5 Immovables 267.693.248            223.653.844              491.347.092            181.905.088           164.039.171           345.944.259            
5.6 Other Pledged Items 162.881.096            47.967.168                210.848.264            77.916.551             40.911.143             118.827.694            
5.7 Pledged Items-Depository -                               -                                 -                               -                             -                             -                               
VVII.. AACCCCEEPPTTEEDD  BBIILLLL,,  GGUUAARRAANNTTEEEESS  AANNDD  WWAARRRRAANNTTEEEESS  11..009966..778811..771144              668800..441144..554400                        11..777777..119966..225544              774433..118833..661111                  449922..775599..777700                  11..223355..994433..338811              

TTOOTTAALL  OOFFFF--BBAALLAANNCCEE  SSHHEEEETT  CCOOMMMMIITTMMEENNTTSS  ((AA++BB)) 22..117733..337733..557799              22..111133..440011..110000                  44..228866..777744..667799              11..440099..553311..114466            11..666600..006611..221133            33..006699..559922..335599              

                                                                                                                           The accompanying explanations and notes form an integral part of these financial statements.

    5  

252 - 253Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

VV..
  UU

NN
CCOO

NN
SSOO

LLII
DD

AA
TTEE

DD
  SS

TTAA
TTEE

MM
EENN

TT  
OO

FF  
CCHH

AA
NN

GG
EESS

  IINN
  TT

HH
EE  

SSHH
AA

RR
EEHH

OO
LLDD

EERR
SS''

  EE
QQ

UU
IITT

YY  
FFOO

RR
  TT

HH
EE  

PPEE
RR

IIOO
DD

  EE
NN

DD
EEDD

  33
11  

DD
EECC

EEMM
BB

EERR
  22

0022
22

(A
m

ou
nt

s 
ar

e 
ex

pr
es

se
d 

in
 th

ou
sa

nd
s 

of
 T

ur
ki

sh
 L

ir
a 

(T
L)

).

N
ot

e
(S

ec
ti

on
 

Fi
ve

)
Pa

id
-i

n 
Ca

pi
ta

l
Sh

ar
e 

Pr
em

iu
m

s

Sh
ar

e 
Ca

nc
el

la
ti

on
 

Pr
of

it
s

O
th

er
 C

ap
it

al
 

R
es

er
ve

s

A
cc

um
ul

at
ed

 
R

ev
al

ua
ti

on
 

In
cr

ea
se

/D
ec

r
ea

se
 o

f 
Pr

op
er

ty
  a

nd
 

Eq
ui

pm
en

t

A
cc

um
ul

at
ed

 
R

em
ea

su
re

m
e

nt
 G

ai
n/

Lo
ss

 o
f 

D
ef

in
ed

 B
en

ef
it

 
Pl

an
 

O
th

er
 (I

nv
es

tm
en

ts
 V

al
ue

d 
by

 
Eq

ui
ty

 M
et

ho
d 

in
 O

th
er

 
Co

m
pr

eh
en

si
ve

 In
co

m
e 

N
ot

 
Cl

as
si

fi
ed

 T
hr

ou
gh

 P
ro

fi
t o

r 
Lo

ss
 

an
d 

O
th

er
 A

cc
um

ul
at

ed
 A

m
ou

nt
s 

of
 

O
th

er
 C

om
pr

eh
en

si
ve

 In
co

m
e 

It
em

s 
N

ot
 R

ec
la

ss
if

ie
d 

Th
ro

ug
h 

O
th

er
 

Pr
of

it
 o

r 
Lo

ss
) 

Fo
re

ig
n 

Cu
rr

en
cy

 
Tr

an
sl

at
io

n 
D

if
fe

re
nc

es

A
cc

um
ul

at
ed

 
R

ev
al

ua
ti

on
 a

nd
/o

r 
R

em
ea

su
re

m
en

t 
G

ai
n/

Lo
ss

 o
f t

he
 

Fi
na

nc
ia

l A
ss

et
s 

at
 F

ai
r 

Va
lu

e 
Th

ro
ug

h 
O

th
er

 
Co

m
pr

eh
en

si
ve

 In
co

m
e

O
th

er
 (C

as
h 

Fl
ow

 H
ed

ge
 G

ai
n/

Lo
ss

,  
In

ve
st

m
en

ts
 V

al
ue

d 
by

 E
qu

it
y 

M
et

ho
d 

in
 O

th
er

 C
om

pr
eh

en
si

ve
 

In
co

m
e 

Cl
as

si
fi

ed
 T

hr
ou

gh
 P

ro
fi

t o
r 

Lo
ss

 a
nd

 O
th

er
 A

cc
um

ul
at

ed
 

A
m

ou
nt

s 
of

 O
th

er
 C

om
pr

eh
en

si
ve

 
In

co
m

e 
It

em
s 

R
ec

la
ss

if
ie

d 
Th

ro
ug

h 
O

th
er

 P
ro

fi
t o

r 
Lo

ss
)

Pr
of

it
 R

es
er

ve
s

Pr
io

r 
Pe

ri
od

 
Pr

of
it

 o
r 

(L
os

s)
Cu

rr
en

t P
er

io
d 

Pr
of

it
 o

r 
(L

os
s)

To
ta

l 
Sh

ar
eh

ol
de

rs
' 

Eq
ui

ty

CCUU
RR

RR
EENN

TT  
PPEE

RR
IIOO

DD
((33

11//
1122

//22
0022

22))

II..
PP

rrii
oorr

  PP
eerr

iioo
dd  

EEnn
dd  

BB
aall

aann
ccee

5.
20

0.
00

0 
3.

50
5.

74
2 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

1.
89

4.
88

6 
2.

99
7.

83
2 

(3
56

.6
91

)
1.

33
4.

00
1 

9.
17

3.
81

8 
(1

.7
25

.4
42

)
(3

.2
20

.1
01

)
45

.0
24

.9
98

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
12

.1
25

.9
08

 
75

.9
54

.9
51

 
II

.
CCoo

rrrr
eecc

ttii
oonn

ss  
aann

dd  
AA

cccc
oouu

nntt
iinn

gg  
PPoo

llii
ccyy

  CC
hhaa

nngg
eess

  MM
aadd

ee  
AA

cccc
oorr

ddii
nngg

  ttoo
  TT

AA
SS  

88
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
2.

1
Ef

fe
ct

s 
of

 C
or

re
ct

io
ns

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

2.
2

Ef
fe

ct
s 

of
 th

e 
C

ha
ng

es
 in

 A
cc

ou
nt

in
g 

Po
lic

ie
s

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

IIII
II..

AA
ddjj

uuss
ttee

dd  
BB

eegg
iinn

nnii
nngg

  BB
aall

aann
ccee

  ((II
++II

II))
5.

20
0.

00
0 

3.
50

5.
74

2 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
1.

89
4.

88
6 

2.
99

7.
83

2 
(3

56
.6

91
)

1.
33

4.
00

1 
9.

17
3.

81
8 

(1
.7

25
.4

42
)

(3
.2

20
.1

01
)

45
.0

24
.9

98
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

12
.1

25
.9

08
 

75
.9

54
.9

51
 

IV
.

To
ta

l C
om

pr
eh

en
si

ve
 In

co
m

e
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
6.

15
2.

99
7 

(1
.3

09
.9

69
)

(9
.2

57
)

4.
45

2.
29

8 
10

.2
91

.3
77

 
(7

46
.3

61
)

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
60

.0
24

.0
84

 
78

.8
55

.1
69

 
V.

C
ap

ita
l I

nc
re

as
e 

by
 C

as
h

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

VI
.

C
ap

ita
l I

nc
re

as
e 

by
 In

te
rn

al
 S

ou
rc

es
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
1.

36
4 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

1.
36

4 
VI

I.
Pa

id
-i

n 
ca

pi
ta

l i
nf

la
tio

n 
ad

ju
st

m
en

t d
iff

er
en

ce
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
VI

II.
C

on
ve

rt
ib

le
 B

on
ds

 to
 S

ha
re

s
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
IX

.
Su

bo
rd

in
at

ed
 D

eb
t I

ns
tr

um
en

ts
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
X.

In
cr

ea
se

/D
ec

re
as

e 
by

 O
th

er
 C

ha
ng

es
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
(1

31
.0

99
)

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
13

1.
09

9 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
XI

.
Pr

of
it 

D
is

tr
ib

ut
io

n
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

10
.9

14
.3

08
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

(1
2.

12
5.

90
8)

(1
.2

11
.6

00
)

11
.1

D
iv

id
en

ds
 p

ai
d

(V
-a

)
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
(1

.2
11

.6
00

)
(1

.2
11

.6
00

)
11

.2
Tr

an
sf

er
s 

to
 R

es
er

ve
s

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
10

.9
14

.3
08

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
(1

0.
91

4.
30

8)
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

11
.3

O
th

er
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 

55..
2200

00..
0000

00  
33..

5500
55..

7744
22  

--
      

      
      

      
      

      
      

  
11..

8899
44..

8888
66  

99..
0011

99..
7733

00  
((11

..66
6666

..66
6600

))
11..

3322
66..

1100
88  

1133
..66

2266
..11

1166
  

88..
5566

55..
9933

55  
((33

..99
6666

..44
6622

))
5566

..00
7700

..44
0055

  
--

      
      

      
      

      
      

      
    

6600
..00

2244
..00

8844
  

1155
33..

5599
99..

8888
44  

A
cc

um
ul

at
ed

 O
th

er
 C

om
pr

eh
en

si
ve

 In
co

m
e 

or
 E

xp
en

se
 N

ot
 

A
cc

um
ul

at
ed

 O
th

er
 C

om
pr

eh
en

si
ve

 In
co

m
e 

or
 E

xp
en

se
 R

ec
la

ss
if

ie
d 

th
ro

ug
h 

Th
e 

ac
co

m
pa

ny
in

g 
ex

pl
an

at
io

ns
 a

nd
 n

ot
es

 fo
rm

 a
n 

in
te

gr
al

 p
ar

t o
f t

he
se

 fi
na

nc
ia

l s
ta

te
m

en
ts

.

 
  8

 

IIVV..  UUNNCCOONNSSOOLLIIDDAATTEEDD  SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTT  OOFF  PPRROOFFIITT  OORR  LLOOSSSS  AANNDD  OOTTHHEERR  CCOOMMPPRREEHHEENNSSIIVVEE  IINNCCOOMMEE
FFOORR  TTHHEE  PPEERRIIOODD  EENNDDEEDD  3311  DDEECCEEMMBBEERR  22002222
(Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL).)

CCUURRRREENNTT  PPEERRIIOODD PPRRIIOORR  PPEERRIIOODD
((3311//1122//22002222)) ((3311//1122//22002211))

II.. CCUURRRREENNTT  PPEERRIIOODD  IINNCCOOMMEE//LLOOSSSS 6600..002244..008844  1122..112255..990088  
IIII.. OOTTHHEERR  CCOOMMPPRREEHHEENNSSIIVVEE  IINNCCOOMMEE 1188..883311..008855  11..553366..113300  
22..11 NNoott  RReeccllaassssiiffiieedd  TThhrroouugghh  PPrrooffiitt  oorr  LLoossss 44..883333..777711  ((331188..558866))
2.1.1 Property and Equipment Revaluation Increase/Decrease 7.317.241 13.183 
2.1.2 Intangible Assets Revaluation Increase/Decrease -                               -                               
2.1.3 Defined Benefit Plan Remeasurement Gain/Loss (1.776.350) (155.155)
2.1.4 Other Comprehensive Income Items Not Reclassified Through Profit or Loss (9.257) (205.008)
2.1.5 Tax Related Other Comprehensive Income Items Not Reclassified Through Profit or Loss (697.863) 28.394 
22..22 RReeccllaassssiiffiieedd  TThhrroouugghh  PPrrooffiitt  oorr  LLoossss 1133..999977..331144  11..885544..771166  
2.2.1 Foreign Currency Translation Differences 4.452.298 5.137.658 
2.2.2 Valuation and/or Reclassification Income/Expense of the Financial Assets at Fair Value through Other 

Comprehensive Income 13.431.770 (2.588.189)
2.2.3 Cash Flow Hedge Income/Loss 2.555.107 3.176.188 
2.2.4 Foreign Net Investment Hedge Income/Loss (3.815.477) (4.698.557)
2.2.5 Other Comprehensive Income Items Reclassified Through Profit or Loss -                               -                               
2.2.6 Tax Related Other Comprehensive Income Items Reclassified Through Profit or Loss (2.626.384) 827.616 

IIIIII.. TTOOTTAALL  CCOOMMPPRREEHHEENNSSIIVVEE  IINNCCOOMMEE  ((II++IIII)) 7788..885555..116699  1133..666622..003388  

The accompanying explanations and notes form an integral part of these financial statements.

   7  

254 - 255Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

VVII..  UUNNCCOONNSSOOLLIIDDAATTEEDD  SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTT  OOFF  CCAASSHH  FFLLOOWWSS  FFOORR  TTHHEE  PPEERRIIOODD  EENNDDEEDD  3311  DDEECCEEMMBBEERR  22002222
(Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL)).

Note CURRENT PERIOD PRIOR PERIOD
(Section Five) (31/12/2022) (31/12/2021)

AA.. CCAASSHH  FFLLOOWWSS  FFRROOMM  BBAANNKKIINNGG  OOPPEERRAATTIIOONNSS

1.1 Operating Profit before changes in operating assets and liabilities 10.957.713                9.083.942                  

1.1.1 Interest received 77.938.548                40.557.946                
1.1.2 Interest paid (46.149.742)              (25.282.392)              
1.1.3 Dividend received 32.338                       5.246                         
1.1.4 Fees and commissions received 14.081.661                6.938.297                  
1.1.5 Other income (13.160.914)              (6.989.804)                
1.1.6 Collections from previously written-off loans and other receivables 3.903.880                  2.855.106                  
1.1.7 Cash Payments to personnel and service suppliers (6.964.236)                (3.532.182)                
1.1.8 Taxes paid (12.156.830)              (2.825.944)                
1.1.9 Other (VI-b) (6.566.992)                (2.642.331)                

1.2 Changes in operating assets and liabilities 31.277.398                39.686.965                

1.2.1 Net Increase/Decrease in Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss 15.829.836                (8.312.650)                
1.2.2 Net (increase) / decrease in due from banks and other financial institutions 8.938.673                  (13.179.692)              
1.2.3 Net (increase) / decrease in loans (220.296.965)            (96.498.644)              
1.2.4 Net (increase) / decrease in other assets (76.440.736)              (44.027.041)              
1.2.5 Net increase / (decrease) in bank deposits 1.965.784                  1.689.343                  
1.2.6 Net increase / (decrease) in other deposits 259.942.395              142.539.875              
1.2.7 Net Increase/Decrease in Financial Liabilities at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss -                                -                                
1.2.8 Net increase / (decrease) in funds borrowed 10.426.579                17.291.372                
1.2.9 Net increase / (decrease) in payables -                                -                                
1.2.10 Net increase / (decrease) in other liabilities (VI-b) 30.911.832                40.184.402                

I. Net cash provided from banking operations 42.235.111                48.770.907                

BB.. CCAASSHH  FFLLOOWWSS  FFRROOMM  IINNVVEESSTTIINNGG  AACCTTIIVVIITTIIEESS

II. Net cash provided from investing activities (52.054.063)              (47.247.206)              

2.1 Cash paid for acquisition of investments, associates and subsidiaries (70.000)                     (10.180)                     
2.2 Cash obtained from disposal of investments, associates and subsidiaries -                                -                                
2.3 Purchases of property and equipment (4.112.971)                (1.078.757)                
2.4 Disposals of property and equipment 63.083                       219.394                     
2.5 Purchase of Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income (79.364.378)              (53.514.673)              
2.6 Sale of Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income 28.078.861                14.615.419                
2.7 Purchase of Financial Assets Measured at Amortised Cost (12.928.334)              (17.887.458)              
2.8 Sale of Financial Assets Measured at Amortised Cost 6.056.237                  15.853.467                
2.9 Other 10.223.439                (5.444.418)                

CC.. CCAASSHH  FFLLOOWWSS  FFRROOMM  FFIINNAANNCCIINNGG  AACCTTIIVVIITTIIEESS

III. Net cash provided from financing activities (10.716.437)              21.323.857                

3.1 Cash obtained from funds borrowed and securities issued 29.888.261                44.356.091                
3.2 Cash used for repayment of funds borrowed and securities issued (38.979.583)              (22.115.394)              
3.3 Issued equity instruments -                                -                                
3.4 Dividends paid (1.211.600)                (626.080)                   
3.5 Payments for finance leases (413.515)                   (290.760)                   
3.6 Other -                                -                                

IV. Effect of change in foreign exchange rate on cash and cash equivalents (VI-b) 11.958.820                10.377.982                

V. Net increase in cash and cash equivalents (I+II+III+IV) (8.576.569)                33.225.540                

VI. Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the period (VI-a) 43.756.671                10.531.131                

VII. Cash and cash equivalents at end of the period (VI-a) 35.180.102                43.756.671                

                                                                         The accompanying explanations and notes form an integral part of these financial statements.

   10  

VV..
  UU

NN
CCOO

NN
SSOO

LLII
DD

AA
TTEE

DD
  SS

TTAA
TTEE

MM
EENN

TT  
OO

FF  
CCHH

AA
NN

GG
EESS

  IINN
  TT

HH
EE  

SSHH
AA

RR
EEHH

OO
LLDD

EERR
SS''

  EE
QQ

UU
IITT

YY  
FFOO

RR
  TT

HH
EE  

PPEE
RR

IIOO
DD

  EE
NN

DD
EEDD

  33
11  

DD
EECC

EEMM
BB

EERR
  22

0022
11

(A
m

ou
nt

s 
ar

e 
ex

pr
es

se
d 

in
 th

ou
sa

nd
s 

of
 T

ur
ki

sh
 L

ir
a 

(T
L)

).

N
ot

e
(S

ec
ti

on
 

Fi
ve

)
Pa

id
-i

n 
Ca

pi
ta

l
Sh

ar
e 

Pr
em

iu
m

s

Sh
ar

e 
Ca

nc
el

la
ti

on
 

Pr
of

it
s

O
th

er
 C

ap
it

al
 

R
es

er
ve

s

A
cc

um
ul

at
ed

 
R

ev
al

ua
ti

on
 

In
cr

ea
se

/D
ec

r
ea

se
 o

f 
Pr

op
er

ty
  a

nd
 

Eq
ui

pm
en

t

A
cc

um
ul

at
ed

 
R

em
ea

su
re

m
e

nt
 G

ai
n/

Lo
ss

 o
f 

D
ef

in
ed

 B
en

ef
it

 
Pl

an
 

O
th

er
 (I

nv
es

tm
en

ts
 V

al
ue

d 
by

 
Eq

ui
ty

 M
et

ho
d 

in
 O

th
er

 
Co

m
pr

eh
en

si
ve

 In
co

m
e 

N
ot

 
Cl

as
si

fi
ed

 T
hr

ou
gh

 P
ro

fi
t o

r 
Lo

ss
 

an
d 

O
th

er
 A

cc
um

ul
at

ed
 A

m
ou

nt
s 

of
 

O
th

er
 C

om
pr

eh
en

si
ve

 In
co

m
e 

It
em

s 
N

ot
 R

ec
la

ss
if

ie
d 

Th
ro

ug
h 

O
th

er
 

Pr
of

it
 o

r 
Lo

ss
) 

Fo
re

ig
n 

Cu
rr

en
cy

 
Tr

an
sl

at
io

n 
D

if
fe

re
nc

es

A
cc

um
ul

at
ed

 
R

ev
al

ua
ti

on
 a

nd
/o

r 
R

em
ea

su
re

m
en

t 
G

ai
n/

Lo
ss

 o
f t

he
 

Fi
na

nc
ia

l A
ss

et
s 

at
 F

ai
r 

Va
lu

e 
Th

ro
ug

h 
O

th
er

 
Co

m
pr

eh
en

si
ve

 In
co

m
e

O
th

er
 (C

as
h 

Fl
ow

 H
ed

ge
 G

ai
n/

Lo
ss

,  
In

ve
st

m
en

ts
 V

al
ue

d 
by

 E
qu

it
y 

M
et

ho
d 

in
 O

th
er

 C
om

pr
eh

en
si

ve
 

In
co

m
e 

Cl
as

si
fi

ed
 T

hr
ou

gh
 P

ro
fi

t o
r 

Lo
ss

 a
nd

 O
th

er
 A

cc
um

ul
at

ed
 

A
m

ou
nt

s 
of

 O
th

er
 C

om
pr

eh
en

si
ve

 
In

co
m

e 
It

em
s 

R
ec

la
ss

if
ie

d 
Th

ro
ug

h 
O

th
er

 P
ro

fi
t o

r 
Lo

ss
)

Pr
of

it
 R

es
er

ve
s

Pr
io

r 
Pe

ri
od

 
Pr

of
it

 o
r 

(L
os

s)
Cu

rr
en

t P
er

io
d 

Pr
of

it
 o

r 
(L

os
s)

To
ta

l 
Sh

ar
eh

ol
de

rs
' 

Eq
ui

ty

PPRR
IIOO

RR
  PP

EERR
IIOO

DD
((33

11//
1122

//22
0022

11))

II..
PP

rrii
oorr

  PP
eerr

iioo
dd  

EEnn
dd  

BB
aall

aann
ccee

5.
20

0.
00

0
   

   
   

  
3.

50
5.

74
2

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

1.
89

4.
88

6
   

   
   

  
3.

01
6.

53
4

   
   

   
  

(2
32

.5
67

)
   

   
   

   
 

1.
53

9.
00

9
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

4.
03

6.
16

0
   

   
   

  
34

2.
10

0
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
(2

.0
04

.7
01

)
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
39

.3
54

.6
63

   
   

   
   

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

6.
26

7.
16

7
   

   
   

   
  

62
.9

18
.9

93
   

   
   

  
II

.
CCoo

rrrr
eecc

ttii
oonn

ss  
aann

dd  
AA

cccc
oouu

nntt
iinn

gg  
PPoo

llii
ccyy

  CC
hhaa

nngg
eess

  MM
aadd

ee  
AA

cccc
oorr

ddii
nngg

  ttoo
  TT

AA
SS  

88
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
2.

1
Ef

fe
ct

s 
of

 C
or

re
ct

io
ns

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

2.
2

Ef
fe

ct
s 

of
 th

e 
C

ha
ng

es
 in

 A
cc

ou
nt

in
g 

Po
lic

ie
s

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

IIII
II..

AA
ddjj

uuss
ttee

dd  
BB

eegg
iinn

nnii
nngg

  BB
aall

aann
ccee

  ((II
++II

II))
5.

20
0.

00
0

   
   

   
  

3.
50

5.
74

2
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
1.

89
4.

88
6

   
   

   
  

3.
01

6.
53

4
   

   
   

  
(2

32
.5

67
)

   
   

   
   

 
1.

53
9.

00
9

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
4.

03
6.

16
0

   
   

   
  

34
2.

10
0

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

(2
.0

04
.7

01
)

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

39
.3

54
.6

63
   

   
   

   
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
6.

26
7.

16
7

   
   

   
   

  
62

.9
18

.9
93

   
   

   
  

IV
.

To
ta

l C
om

pr
eh

en
si

ve
 In

co
m

e
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
10

.5
46

   
   

   
   

   
 

(1
24

.1
24

)
   

   
   

   
 

(2
05

.0
08

)
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
5.

13
7.

65
8

   
   

   
  

(2
.0

67
.5

42
)

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
(1

.2
15

.4
00

)
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

12
.1

25
.9

08
   

   
   

   
13

.6
62

.0
38

   
   

   
  

V.
C

ap
ita

l I
nc

re
as

e 
by

 C
as

h
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
VI

.
C

ap
ita

l I
nc

re
as

e 
by

 In
te

rn
al

 S
ou

rc
es

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

VI
I.

Pa
id

-i
n 

ca
pi

ta
l i

nf
la

tio
n 

ad
ju

st
m

en
t d

iff
er

en
ce

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

VI
II.

C
on

ve
rt

ib
le

 B
on

ds
 to

 S
ha

re
s

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

IX
.

Su
bo

rd
in

at
ed

 D
eb

t I
ns

tr
um

en
ts

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

X.
In

cr
ea

se
/D

ec
re

as
e 

by
 O

th
er

 C
ha

ng
es

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

(2
9.

24
8)

   
   

   
   

   
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

29
.2

48
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

XI
.

Pr
of

it 
D

is
tr

ib
ut

io
n

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
5.

64
1.

08
7

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
(6

.2
67

.1
67

)
   

   
   

   
 

(6
26

.0
80

)
   

   
   

   
   

 
11

.1
D

iv
id

en
ds

 p
ai

d
(V

-a
)

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

(6
26

.0
80

)
   

   
   

   
   

 
(6

26
.0

80
)

   
   

   
   

   
 

11
.2

Tr
an

sf
er

s 
to

 R
es

er
ve

s
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

5.
64

1.
08

7
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

(5
.6

41
.0

87
)

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

11
.3

O
th

er
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  

55..
2200

00..
0000

00
      

      
    

33..
5500

55..
7744

22
      

      
    

--
      

      
      

      
      

      
      

    
11..

8899
44..

8888
66

      
      

    
22..

9999
77..

8833
22

      
      

    
((33

5566
..66

9911
))

      
      

      
  

11..
3333

44..
0000

11
      

      
      

      
      

      
      

      
      

      
      

      
      

      
99..

1177
33..

8811
88

      
      

    
((11

..77
2255

..44
4422

))
      

      
      

      
      

      
    

((33
..22

2200
..11

0011
))

      
      

      
      

      
      

      
      

      
      

      
      

      
    

4455
..00

2244
..99

9988
      

      
    

--
      

      
      

      
      

      
      

      
1122

..11
2255

..99
0088

      
      

    
7755

..99
5544

..99
5511

      
      

    

A
cc

um
ul

at
ed

 O
th

er
 C

om
pr

eh
en

si
ve

 In
co

m
e 

or
 E

xp
en

se
 N

ot
 

A
cc

um
ul

at
ed

 O
th

er
 C

om
pr

eh
en

si
ve

 In
co

m
e 

or
 E

xp
en

se
 R

ec
la

ss
if

ie
d 

th
ro

ug
h 

Th
e 

ac
co

m
pa

ny
in

g 
ex

pl
an

at
io

ns
 a

nd
 n

ot
es

 fo
rm

 a
n 

in
te

gr
al

 p
ar

t o
f t

he
se

 fi
na

nc
ia

l s
ta

te
m

en
ts

.

 
 9

 

256 - 257Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

    
                                                                                                                      

   

  
 

12 

SECTION THREE 
EXPLANATIONS ON ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

 

I. EXPLANATIONS ON BASIS OF PRESENTATION: 

aa.. TThhee  pprreeppaarraattiioonn  ooff  tthhee  ffiinnaanncciiaall  ssttaatteemmeennttss  aanndd  rreellaatteedd  nnootteess  aanndd  eexxppllaannaattiioonnss  iinn  aaccccoorrddaannccee  wwiitthh  tthhee  TTuurrkkiisshh  
AAccccoouunnttiinngg  SSttaannddaarrddss  aanndd  RReegguullaattiioonn  oonn  AAccccoouunnttiinngg  AApppplliiccaattiioonnss  ffoorr  BBaannkkss  aanndd  SSaaffeegguuaarrddiinngg  ooff  DDooccuummeennttss::  

The unconsolidated financial statements are prepared within the scope of the “Regulation on Accounting Applications for Banks 
and Safeguarding of Documents” related with Banking Law numbered 5411 published in the Official Gazette no.26333 dated 1 
November 2006 and in accordance with the regulations, communiqués, interpretations and legislations related to accounting and 
financial reporting principles published by the Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency (“BRSA”), Turkey Accounting Standard 
34 ("IAS 34") Interim Financial Reporting Standard which is constituted by Accounting and Auditing Standards Authority (“POA”) 
and in case where a specific regulation is not made by BRSA, “Turkish Financial Reporting Standards” (“TFRS”) and related 
appendices and interpretations put into effect by Public Oversight Accounting and Auditing Standards Authority (“POA”). The format 
and content of the publicly announced unconsolidated financial statements and notes to these statements have been prepared in 
accordance with the “Communiqué on Publicly Announced Financial Statements, Explanations and Notes to These Financial 
Statements” and “Communiqué On Disclosures About Risk Management To Be Announced To Public By Banks” and amendments 
to this Communiqué. The Bank maintains its books in Turkish Lira in accordance with the Banking Law, Turkish Commercial Code 
and Turkish Tax Legislation.  

The unconsolidated financial statements have been prepared in TL, under the historical cost convention except for the financial 
assets and liabilities carried at fair value. Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated. 

The preparation of unconsolidated financial statements in conformity with TFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting 
estimates by the Bank management to exercise its judgment on the assets and liabilities of the balance sheet and contingent 
issues as of the balance sheet date. These estimates, which include the fair value calculations of financial instruments and 
impairments of financial assets are being reviewed regularly and, when necessary, suitable corrections are made and the effects 
of these corrections are reflected to the income statement. Assumptions and estimates that are used in the preparation of the 
accompanying financial statements are explained in the following related disclosures.    

EExxppllaannaattiioonn  ffoorr  ccoonnvveenniieennccee  ttrraannssllaattiioonn  ttoo  EEnngglliisshh::  

The differences between accounting principles, as described in these preceding paragraphs and accounting principles generally 
accepted in countries in which unconsolidated financial statements are to be distributed and International Financial Reporting 
Standards (“IFRS”) have not been quantified in these unconsolidated financial statements. Accordingly, these unconsolidated 
financial statements are not intended to present the financial position, results of operations and changes in financial position and 
cash flows in accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted in such countries and IFRS. 

bb.. AAccccoouunnttiinngg  ppoolliicciieess  aanndd  vvaalluuaattiioonn  pprriinncciipplleess  uusseedd  iinn  tthhee  pprreeppaarraattiioonn  ooff  tthhee  ffiinnaanncciiaall  ssttaatteemmeennttss::  

Accounting policies and valuation principles adopted when preparing financial statements are in line with the legislation, 
communiqué, explanation and circular released by BRSA concerning accounting and financial reporting, and, for matters which 
are not regulated by the foregoing, with the provisions of TAS/TFRS (together “BRSA Accounting and Financial Reporting 
Legislation) put into force by Public Oversight.  

On 20 January 2022, the Public Oversight Authority made a statement on whether the Financial Reporting Standard (“TAS 29”) in 
Hyperinflationary Economies shall be applied within the scope of Turkish Financial Reporting Standards, Financial Reporting 
Standard for Large and Medium Sized Enterprises. Accordingly, it has been stated that companies applying TFRS do not need to 
make any adjustments in their financial statements for 2021 within the scope of TAS 29 Financial Reporting in High Inflation 
Economies. As of the preparation date of these financial statements, no new announcement has been made by the Public 
Oversight Authority in this context, and no inflation adjustment has been made in the financial statements dated 31 December 2022 
within the scope of TAS 29 Financial Reporting Standard in Hyperinflationary Economies. 

The tension between Russia and Ukraine since the beginning of 2022 has turned into a crisis and a hot conflict and continues as of 
the date of preparation of these financial statements. The Bank does not have operations in either country, and the said crisis is 
not expected to have a direct impact on the Bank's operations. Developments are followed and their estimated effects are 

VVIIII..  PPRROOFFIITT  AAPPPPRROOPPRRIIAATTIIOONN  SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTT
(Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL)).

CURRENT PERIOD PRIOR PERIOD
(31/12/2022) (31/12/2021)

II..  DDIISSTTRRIIBBUUTTIIOONN  OOFF  CCUURRRREENNTT  YYEEAARR  IINNCCOOMMEE

1.1 CURRENT YEAR INCOME 79.260.402               16.066.140               
1.2 TAXES AND DUTIES PAYABLE 19.236.318               3.940.232                 
1.2.1 Corporate Tax (Income Tax) 19.823.331               2.969.973                 
1.2.2 Income Withholding Tax -                                -                                
1.2.3 Other taxes and duties (587.013)                   970.259                    

AA.. NNEETT  IINNCCOOMMEE  FFOORR  TTHHEE  YYEEAARR  ((11..11--11..22)) 6600..002244..008844                          1122..112255..990088                          

1.3 PRIOR YEAR LOSSES (-) -                                -                                
1.4 FIRST LEGAL RESERVES (-) -                                -                                
1.5 OTHER STATUTORY RESERVES (-) -                                -                                

BB.. NNEETT  IINNCCOOMMEE  AAVVAAIILLAABBLLEE  FFOORR  DDIISSTTRRIIBBUUTTIIOONN  [[((AA--((11..33++11..44++11..55))]] 6600..002244..008844                          1122..112255..990088                          

1.6 FIRST DIVIDEND TO SHAREHOLDERS (-) -                                260.000                    
1.6.1 To Owners of Ordinary Shares -                                260.000                    
1.6.2 To Owners of Privileged Shares -                                -                                
1.6.3 To Owners of Preferred Shares -                                -                                
1.6.4 To Profit Sharing Bonds -                                -                                
1.6.5 To Holders of Profit and (Loss) Sharing Certificates -                                -                                
1.7 DIVIDENDS TO PERSONNEL (-) -                                -                                
1.8 DIVIDENDS TO BOARD OF DIRECTORS (-) -                                -                                
1.9 SECOND DIVIDEND TO SHAREHOLDERS (-) -                                951.600                    
1.9.1 To Owners of Ordinary Shares -                                951.600                    
1.9.2 To Owners of Privileged Shares -                                -                                
1.9.3 To Owners of Preferred Shares -                                -                                
1.9.4 To Profit Sharing Bonds -                                -                                
1.9.5 To Holders of Profit and (Loss) Sharing Certificates -                                -                                
1.10 SECOND LEGAL RESERVES (-) -                                -                                
1.11 STATUTORY RESERVES (-) -                                -                                
1.12 EXTRAORDINARY RESERVES -                                10.818.494               
1.13 OTHER RESERVES -                                95.160                      
1.14 SPECIAL FUNDS -                                654                           

IIII.. DDIISSTTRRIIBBUUTTIIOONN  OOFF  RREESSEERRVVEESS

2.1 APPROPRIATED RESERVES -                                -                                
2.2 SECOND LEGAL RESERVES (-) -                                -                                
2.3 DIVIDENDS TO SHAREHOLDERS (-) -                                -                                
2.3.1 To Owners of Ordinary Shares -                                -                                
2.3.2 To Owners of Privileged Shares -                                -                                
2.3.3 To Owners of Preferred Shares -                                -                                
2.3.4 To Profit Sharing Bonds -                                -                                
2.3.5 To Holders of Profit and (Loss) Sharing Certificates -                                -                                
2.4 DIVIDENDS TO PERSONNEL (-) -                                -                                
2.5 DIVIDENDS TO BOARD OF DIRECTORS (-) -                                -                                

IIIIII..  EEAARRNNIINNGGSS  PPEERR  SSHHAARREE  ((**))

3.1 TO OWNERS OF ORDINARY SHARES 0,115                        0,023                        
3.2 TO OWNERS OF ORDINARY SHARES ( % ) 11,5                          2,3                            
3.3 TO OWNERS OF PRIVILEGED SHARES -                                -                                
3.4 TO OWNERS OF PRIVILEGED SHARES ( % ) -                                -                                

IIVV..  DDIIVVIIDDEENNDD  PPEERR  SSHHAARREE

4.1 TO OWNERS OF ORDINARY SHARES -                                0,002                        
4.2 TO OWNERS OF ORDINARY SHARES ( % ) -                                0,2                            
4.3 TO OWNERS OF PRIVILEGED SHARES -                                -                                
4.4 TO OWNERS OF PRIVILEGED SHARES ( % ) -                                -                                

((22)) Profit appropriation is being done according to unconsolidated financial statements.

(*) Amounts are expressed in TL.

NNOOTTEESS::  

((11))  Authorized body for profit appropriation of the current period is the General Assembly. On the preparation date of these financial statements, yearly 
ordinary meeting of the General Assembly has not been held yet.

The accompanying explanations and notes form an integral part of these financial statements.

 11 

258 - 259Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

    
                                                                                                                      

   

  
 

14 

As of 31 December 2022, the Bank has no embedded derivative instruments (31 December 2021: None). 

V. EXPLANATIONS ON INTEREST INCOME AND EXPENSE:  

Interest income and expenses are recognized in the income statement by using the “Effective interest rate method”. Starting from 
1 January 2018, the Bank has started to calculate interest accrual on non-performing loans. Net book value of the non-performing 
loans (Gross Book Value – Expected Credit Loss) are rediscounted with effective interest rate and recognized with the gross book 
value of the non-performing loan. Non-performing loans rediscounts are evaluated on customer basis and are discontinued if 
there is in case of low collectibility. 

VI. EXPLANATIONS ON FEE AND COMMISSION INCOME AND EXPENSES: 

Fees and commission income/expenses are primarily recognized on an accrual basis or “Effective interest rate method” and TFRS 
15 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” according to the nature of the fee and commission, except for certain commission 
income and fees for various banking services which are recorded as income at the time of collection. Contract based fees or fees 
received for services such as the purchase and sale of assets on behalf of a third party or legal person are recognized as income at 
the time of collection. 

VII. EXPLANATIONS ON FINANCIAL ASSETS: 

The Bank categorizes its financial assets as “Fair Value Through Profit/Loss”, “Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income” 
or “Measured at Amortized Cost”. Such financial assets are recognized or derecognized according to TFRS 9 Financial Instruments 
Part 3 Issued for classification and measurement of the financial instruments published in the Official Gazette No. 29953 dated 19 
January 2017 by the Public Oversight Accounting and Auditing Standards Authority (“POA”). Financial assets are measured at fair 
value at initial recognition in the financial statements. During the initial recognition of financial assets other than "Financial Assets 
at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss", transaction costs are added to fair value or deducted from fair value. 

CCllaassssiiffiiccaattiioonn  aanndd  mmeeaassuurreemmeenntt  ooff  ffiinnaanncciiaall  aasssseettss  

According to TFRS 9 requirements, classification and measurement of financial assets will depend on the business model within 
which financial assets are managed and their contractual cash flow characteristics whether the cash flows represent solely 
payments of principal and interest. 

AAsssseessssmmeenntt  wwhheetthheerr  ccoonnttrraaccttuuaall  ccaasshh  fflloowwss  aarree  ssoolleellyy  ppaayymmeennttss  ooff  pprriinncciippaall  aanndd  iinntteerreesstt::  

For the purposes of this assessment, “principal” is defined as the fair value of the financial asset on initial recognition. “Interest” is 
defined as consideration for the time value of money, for the credit risk associated with the principal amount outstanding during a 
particular period of time and for other basic lending risks and costs (e.g. liquidity risk and administrative costs), as well as a profit 
margin. 

In assessing whether the contractual cash flows are solely payments of principal and interest, the Bank will consider the 
contractual terms of the instrument. This will include assessing whether the financial asset contains a contractual term that could 
change the timing or amount of contractual cash flows such that it would not meet this condition. In making the assessment, the 
Bank consider: 

- Contingent events that would change the amount and timing of cash flows; 
- Leverage features; 
- Prepayment and extension terms; 
- Terms that limit the Bank’s claim to cash flows from specified assets  
- Features that modify consideration for the time value of money – e.g. periodic reset of interest rates. 

 
The Bank fulfills the on-balance sheet classification and measurement criteria by applying the procedures described above for all 
financial assets. 

Upon initial recognition each financial asset will be classified as either fair value through profit or loss, amortised cost or fair value 
through other comprehensive income.  
The Bank recognize a financial asset into financial statements when it becomes a party to the contractual terms of a financial 
instrument. During the first recognition of a financial asset into the financial statements, business model determined by Bank 
management and the nature of contractual cash flows of the financial asset are taken into consideration. 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

    
                                                                                                                      

   

  
13 

evaluated within the scope of the relevant accounting standards and reflected in the financial statements. 

II. EXPLANATIONS ON STRATEGY OF USING FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND EXPLANATIONS ON FOREIGN CURRENCY 
TRANSACTIONS: 

The Bank’s core business activities include consumer banking, SME banking, commercial banking, and corporate-investment 
banking and private banking and wealth management, foreign exchange, money markets, securities transactions (Treasury 
transactions) and international banking services. By nature, the Bank’s activities are principally related to the use of financial 
instruments. As the main funding source, the Bank accepts deposits from customers for various periods and invests these funds in 
high quality assets with high interest margins. Other than deposits, the Bank’s most important funding sources are equity, 
marketable securities issued, money market borrowings and mostly borrowings from foreign financial institutions. The Bank 
follows an asset-liability management strategy that mitigates risk and increases earnings by balancing the funds borrowed and the 
investments in various financial assets. The main objective of asset-liability management is to limit the Bank’s exposure to liquidity 
risk, interest rate risk, currency risk and credit risk while increasing profitability and strengthening the Bank’s equity. The Asset-
Liability Committee (“ALCO”) manages the assets and liabilities within the trading limits on the level of exposure placed by the 
Executive Risk Committee (“ERC”). 

Foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities are translated with the exchange rates prevailing at the balance 
sheet date. Gains and losses arising from such transactions are recognized in the income statement under the account of “Net 
foreign exchange gains/losses”.  

As of 31 December 2022, foreign currency denominated balances are translated into TL using the exchange rates of TL 18,6983 
and TL 19,9349 for USD and EURO respectively. 

III. EXPLANATIONS ON EQUITY INVESTMENTS: 

Investments in associates and subsidiaries are accounted in accordance with the “Turkish Accounting Standard on Consolidated 
and Separate Financial Statements Standard” (“TAS 27”).  

Financial associates and subsidiaries are accounted by using the equity method as described in the “Turkish Accounting Standard 
for Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures” (“TAS 28”). The carrying value of financial subsidiaries with the equity method is 
reflected to the financial statements considering the Bank's share of the net assets of the subsidiary. While the Bank’s share on 
profits or losses of financial subsidiaries are accounted in the Bank’s income statement, the Bank’s share in other equity of 
financial subsidiaries are reflected in the Bank’s shareholders’ equity. Dividend income from those subsidiaries are accounted by 
reducing the book value of the subsidiary. 

Non-financial associates and subsidiaries are stated with their cost values at the financial statements in accordance with the 
“Turkish Accounting Standard on Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements Standard” (“TAS 27”). The right to receive 
dividends from non-financial subsidiaries is reflected to the income statement. 

IV. EXPLANATIONS ON FORWARD TRANSACTIONS, OPTIONS AND DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS: 

The Bank's major derivative instruments consists of foreign currency and interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps, currency 
options and currency forwards.  

The Bank classifies its derivative instruments as “Derivative Financial Assets and Derivative Financial Liabilities Measured at Fair 
Value Through Profit and Loss” in accordance with “TFRS 9 Financial Instruments" (TFRS 9).  

Liabilities and receivables arising from the derivative instruments are followed in the off-balance sheet accounts at their 
contractual values. 

Derivative instruments are remeasured at fair value after initial recognition. In accordance with the classification of the derivative 
instrument, if the fair value of a derivative financial instrument is positive, it is recorded to the account “Derivative Financial Assets 
Measured at Fair Value Through Profit and Loss” or “Derivative Financial Assets Measured at Fair Value Through Other 
Comprehensive Income”; if the fair value difference is negative, it is disclosed in “Derivative Financial Liabilities Measured at Fair 
Value Through Profit and Loss” or “Derivative Financial Liabilities Measured at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income”. 
Differences in the fair value of trading derivative instruments are accounted as income/loss from derivative financial transactions 
under “trading income/loss” item in the income statement. The basis on accounting of derivative instruments for hedging purposes 
are explained in Note XI of Section Four. The fair values of the derivative financial instruments are calculated using quoted market 
prices or by using discounted cash flow models. 

260 - 261Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

    
                                                                                                                      

   

  
 

16 

dd.. DDeerriivvaattiivvee  FFiinnaanncciiaall  AAsssseettss::  

The major derivative instruments utilized by the Bank are foreign currency and interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps, 
currency options and currency forwards. 

Derivative financial instruments of the Bank are classified under "TFRS 9 Financial Instruments" ("TFRS 9"), "Derivative Financial 
Assets Designated at Fair Value through Profit or Loss". 

Payables and receivables arising from the derivative instruments are recorded in the off-balance sheet accounts at their 
contractual values. 

Derivative transactions are valued at their fair values subsequent to their acquisition. In accordance with the classification of 
derivative financial instruments, if the fair value is positive, the amount is classified as "Derivative Financial Assets Designated at 
Fair Value Through Profit or Loss" or "Derivative Financial Assets Designated at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive 
Income", if the fair value is negative, the amount is classified as "Derivative Financial Liabilities Designated at Fair Value Through 
Profit or Loss" or "Derivative Financial Liabilities Designated at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income". The fair value 
differences of derivative financial instruments are recognized in the income statement under trading profit/loss line in profit/loss 
from derivative financial transactions. The principles for the recognition of derivative transactions intended for hedging purposes 
are disclosed in the note numbered XI of Section Four. The fair value of derivative instruments is calculated by taking into account 
the market value of the derivatives or by using the discounted cash flow model. When inactive market conditions exist, observable 
inputs used in the determination of fair values are adjusted using appropriate assumptions and considering the volume and level of 
activity in the markets. 

ee.. LLooaannss  

Loans are financial assets that have fixed or determinable payments terms and are not quoted in an active market. Loans are 
initially recognized at acquisition cost plus transaction costs presenting their fair value and thereafter measured at amortised 
cost using the "Effective Interest Rate (internal rate of return) Method". 

1. Loans measured at amortised cost: 

These financial assets are divided into three categories depending on the gradual increase in credit risk observed since their 
initial recognition: 

Stage 1: 

For the financial assets at initial recognition or that do not have a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition. 
Impairment for credit risk is recorded in the amount of 12-month expected credit losses. 

Stage 2: 

In the event of a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition, the financial asset is transferred to Stage 2. 
Impairment for credit risk is determined on the basis of the instrument’s lifetime expected credit losses. 

Stage 3: 

Stage 3 includes financial assets that have objective evidence of impairment at the reporting date. For these assets, lifetime 
expected credit losses are recognized. 

2. Loans measured at fair value through profit or loss: 

Loans at fair value through profit and loss, terms of the contract for loans, if at certain dates it does not result in cash flows 
involving interest payments arising from the principal and principal balances, it is recorded at fair value and is subject to fair value 
assessment following the recognition. Gains and losses resulting from the valuation are included in profit/loss accounts. 

In certain circumstances cases, restructuring or altering the contractual cash flows of a financial instrument may result in the 
disposal of the existing financial asset in accordance with TFRS 9. A revised financial asset is considered as a new financial 
asset when the change in the financial asset is once excluded from the financial statement and the revised financial asset is 
recognized in accordance with TFRS 9. 

The Bank assesses whether the new financial asset contains solely payments of principal and interest when the new conditions 
for the instrument have determined that there are significant changes compared to the initial conditions in the relevant 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

    
                                                                                                                      

   

  
15 

When the business model determined by the Bank management is changed, all financial assets affected by this change are 
reclassified and the reclassification is applied in the future. In this case, no adjustment is made for the gain, loss or interest rates 
previously recognized in the financial statements. 

aa.. FFiinnaanncciiaall  aasssseettss  aatt  tthhee  ffaaiirr  vvaalluuee  tthhrroouugghh  pprrooffiitt  oorr  lloossss::  

“Financial assets at fair value through profit/loss” are financial assets other than the ones that are managed with business model 
that aims to hold to collect contractual cash flows or business model that aims to collect both the contractual cash flows and cash 
flows arising from the sale of the assets; and if the contractual terms of the financial asset do not lead to cash flows representing 
solely payments of principal and interest at certain date; that are either acquired for generating a profit from short-term 
fluctuations in prices or are financial assets included in a portfolio aiming to short-term profit making. Financial assets at the fair 
value through profit or loss are initially recognized at fair value and remeasured at their fair value after recognition. All gains and 
losses arising from these valuations are reflected in the income statement.  
 
bb.. FFiinnaanncciiaall  AAsssseettss  aatt  FFaaiirr  VVaalluuee  TThhrroouugghh  OOtthheerr  CCoommpprreehheennssiivvee  IInnccoommee  

In addition to financial assets within a business model that aims to hold to collect contractual cash flows and aims to hold to sell, 
financial asset with contractual terms that lead to cash flows are solely payments of principal and interest at certain dates, they 
are classified as fair value through other comprehensive income. 

Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income are recognized by adding transaction cost to acquisition cost 
reflecting the fair value of the financial asset. After the recognition, financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive 
income are remeasured at fair value. Interest income calculated with effective interest rate method arising from financial assets at 
fair value through other comprehensive income and dividend income from equity securities are recorded to income statement.  

“Unrealized gains and losses” arising from the difference between the amortized cost and the fair value of financial assets at fair 
value through other comprehensive income are not reflected in the income statement of the period until the acquisition of the 
asset, sale of the asset, the disposal of the asset, and impairment of the asset and they are accounted under the “Accumulated 
other comprehensive income or expense to be reclassified through profit or loss” under shareholders’ equity. When these 
securities are collected or disposed of, the related fair value differences accumulated in the shareholders’ equity are transferred 
to the income statement. 

Equity instruments classified as financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income are accounted at their fair 
values. Exceptionally, cost can be an appropriate estimation method in determining fair value. This is only possible if there is 
insufficient recent information on the measurement of fair value or if fair value can be measured by more than one method, and 
the cost reflects the fair value estimate in the best way. In the case of using this method, the accumulated fair value differences 
will not be reflected in the income statement. 

During initial recognition the Bank can choose in an irrevocable was to record the changes of the fair value of the investment in an 
equity instrument that is not held for trading purposes in the other comprehensive income. In the case of this preference, the 
dividend from the investment is taken into the financial statements as profit or loss.  
 
cc.. FFiinnaanncciiaall  AAsssseettss  MMeeaassuurreedd  aatt  AAmmoorrttiizzeedd  CCoosstt::  

Financial assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows where those cash flows represent solely payments of 
principal and interest are classified as financial assets measured at amortized cost. 

Financial assets measured at amortized cost are initially recognized at acquisition cost including the transaction costs which 
reflect the fair value of those instruments and subsequently recognized at amortized cost by using effective interest rate 
method.Interest income obtained from financial assets measured at amortized cost is accounted in income statement. 

“Fair value through other comprehensive income” and “measured at amortized cost” securities portfolio of the Bank include 
Consumer Price Indexed (CPI) Bonds. These securities are valued and accounted using the effective interest rate method based on 
the real coupon rates and the reference inflation index at the issue date and the estimated inflation rate. The reference indices 
used in calculating the actual coupon payment amounts of these assets are based on the Consumer Price Index (CPI) of prior two 
months. The Bank also sets the estimated inflation rate accordingly. The estimated inflation rate used is updated as needed within 
the year.  

At the end of the year, the real inflation rate is used. 

262 - 263Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

    
                                                                                                                      

   

  
 

18 

will be removed from the financial statements.  Regarding the write-off (asset disposal) process; the effect of the amount written 
off during the period and the amount written off on the NPL ratio is disclosed in the footnotes of the financial statements. 
  

VIII. EXPLANATIONS ON EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES: 

The Bank allocates impairment for expected loss on financial assets measured at amortized cost and measured at fair value 
through other comprehensive income. 

As of 1 January 2018, the Bank recognize provisions for impairment in accordance with TFRS 9 requirements according to the 
“Regulation on the Procedures and Principles for Classification of Loans by Banks and Provisions to be set aside” published in the 
Official Gazette dated 22 June 2016 numbered 29750. The expected credit loss estimates are required to be unbiased, probability-
weighted and include supportable information about past events, current conditions, and forecasts of future economic conditions. 

EExxppeecctteedd  CCrreeddiitt  LLoossss  ((EECCLL))  CCaallccuullaattiioonn  ––  IInnppuutt  aanndd  FFoorreeccaassttiinngg  MMeetthhooddoollooggiieess  

Expected Credit Loss (ECL) is calculated as 12 months or lifetime, depending on whether there is a significant increase in credit 
risk after initial recognition or whether an asset is considered as a credit loss. Expected Credit Loss is calculated by using the 
Probability of Default (PD), Loss Given Default (LGD) and Exposure at Default (EAD) components. 

- Exposure at Default: Specifies the amount of risk that the borrower should pay in case of default. It is kept in the system by 
constantly calculated until the maturity of the borrower. The amount of extra risk that can be incurred in the event of default is 
included in the calculations by using the credit conversion rate (CCR) calculated for the irrevocable commitment products. 

- Probability of Default (PD): PD indicates the probability of default due to inability of the borrower to meet its debt obligations. It 
has been calculated for 12 months or lifetime depends on increase on borrower’s credit risk. Calculation of the lifetime default 
rate is carried out by drawing the actual default rate figures to the long term using various functions, based on historical data. 

- Loss Given Default (LGD): In case of default of the borrower, Loss Given Default has been calculated as dividing Expected Credit 
Loss to Exposure at Default (EAD). LGD models includes data such as product type, customer segment, collateral structure, 
customer repayment performance.  

Expected Credit Loss is calculated over the remaining maturity using the PD, LGD and EAD components. Calculated values are 
discounted on a monthly basis using the original effective interest rate or an approximate value of the discount rate. The expected 
credit loss value is calculated for all customers over the maturity period. However, for those who do not have a significant increase 
in credit risk, the 12-month ECL is taken into account, and for those with a significant increase in credit risk, the ECL value 
calculated over the remaining period is taken into account. 

Within the scope of TFRS 9, models of Probability of default (PD), Lost given default (LGD) and Exposure at default (EAD) have been 
developed. The models used by the IRB “(Internal Rating Based Approach)” are taken into account when creating these models. 
The models developed under TFRS 9 have a detailed segment structure. Loans that have similar characteristics are segmented in 
order to reflect the expected credit losses collectively in financial reports. When creating the segmentation structure, the following 
information of the loans is taken into consideration. 

1. Customer type (retail or corporate / commercial) 

2. Product type 

3. IRB rating notes /scores 

4. Customer credit performance 

5. Collateral type  

6. Collection Period 

7. Exposure at default 

In addition, in the calculation of Expected Credit Loss in accordance with TFRS 9, certain part of commercial and corporate loans 
are subject to individual assessment on a customer basis due to internal policies. This calculation is made by discounting the 
expected cash flows from the customer or the collateral sales to their present value with the effective interest rate. Within the 
scope of individual evaluations, regional developments are also taken into account as well as sectoral risks. 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

    
                                                                                                                      

   

  
17 

contracts. 

In the event that the contractual conditions for the financial asset do not result in cash flows that include solely payments of 
principal and interest on certain dates, the related financial asset is recognized with its fair value and is subject to valuation. 

SSiiggnniiffiiccaanntt  iinnccrreeaassee  iinn  ccrreeddiitt  rriisskk::  

If the credit risk of financial assets determined to be significantly increasing, afore-mentioned assets are transferred to the stage 
II. For stage I loans expected loss (provision) amounts are calculated for 1-year and for stage II loans expected loss (provision) is 
calculated for the remaining life of the loan. 

In addition, the key considerations in determining whether a significant increase in the credit risk of financial asset and 
transferring it to stage 2, but are not limited with these, the following; 

- Past due date is 30 or more 

- Restructuring of loans 

- If the loan classified as under follow-up 

- Assessment of significant increase in the probability of impairment based on rating notes. 

Definition of increase in the probability of default is the comparison between the probability of default on loan’s opening date, 
obtained from bank’s internal rating-based credit rating models and probability of default on reporting date. If the loan’s estimated 
probability of default on reporting date exceeds the threshold values determined, it is considered to be worsening of the probability 
of default. 

DDeeffiinniittiioonn  ooff  DDeeffaauulltt::  

The Bank considers that there is a default on the relevant debt in the following two cases: 

1.  Objective Default Definition: It means that the debt is overdue by more than 90 days. The definition of default, which is applicable 
to the Bank and its consolidated financial institutions, is based on the criteria that the debt is overdue by more than 90 days. 

2. Subjective Default Definition: It means the determination that the debt will not be paid. If it is determined that the borrower 
cannot fulfill its debts related to the loan, regardless of whether there is a balance in delay or the number of days of delay, the 
debtor is considered in default. 
  

WWrriittee--ooffff  PPoolliiccyy::  

Within the framework of the provisions of the “Regulation Amending the Regulation on the Procedures and Principles Regarding 
the Classification of Loans and Provisions for These” published in the Official Gazette dated 6 July 2021 and numbered 31533 the 
portion of the loans that are classified under “Fifth Group-Loans with a Loss Qualification” and for which a lifetime expected loan 
loss provision or special provision is made due to the default of the borrower, for which there are no reasonable expectations for 
the recovery of the loans, within the scope of TFRS 9, as of the first reporting period (interim or year-end reporting period) 
following their classification in this Group, deducted from the records within the period deemed appropriate by the bank, taking 
into account the situation of the debtor. In determining the cluster within this scope, the following indicators are used; 
 
- In the corporate, commercial, SME and consumer segment follow-up portfolio, with very low or no collection expectation 
- Monitored in the 5th group as of the last reporting period, 
- Having a provision rate of 90% or more, 
- No active payment plans 
- No Credit Guarantee Fund (CGF) secured loan 
Loans and provision ratio of 100% all abusive and fraudulent tracking accounts are included in the deletion of the active account. 
 
The process of write-off the loans is an accounting practice and does not result in waiving the right to receivable regarding the 
related loans. Existing administrative and legal follow-up processes regarding the loans deducted from the record are continued. 
Partial write-off transactions mean that the financial asset will be repaid at a certain rate by the debtor, and the remaining amount 
after the payment or the part within the Bank that is classified under group 5 and has no reasonable expectations for its recovery 

264 - 265Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

    
                                                                                                                      

   

  
 

20 

Funds given against securities purchased under agreements to resell (“Reverse repos”) are accounted under “Receivables from 
money market” in the balance sheet. The difference between the purchase and resell price determined by these repurchase 
agreements is accrued evenly over the life of repurchase agreements using the “Effective interest rate method”.  

As of 31 December 2022, the Bank has marketable securities amounting to TL 1.733.498 (31 December 2021: TL 1.024.696). 

XI. EXPLANATIONS ON ASSETS HELD FOR SALE AND RELATED TO DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS (NET): 

Property and equipment held-for-sale consist of tangible assets that were acquired due to non-performing receivables, and are 
accounted in the financial statements in accordance with the regulations of “Turkish Financial Reporting Standard for Assets Held 
for Sale and Discontinued Operations (TFRS 5)”. 

The Bank has no discontinued operations.  

XII. EXPLANATIONS ON GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS: 

The Bank has no goodwill. 

Intangible assets are measured at cost on initial recognition and any directly attributable costs of setting the asset to work for its 
intended use are included in the initial measurement. Subsequently, intangible assets are carried at historical costs after the 
deduction of accumulated depreciation and the provision for value decreases. 

Intangibles are amortized over three to fifteen years (their estimated useful lives) using the straight-line method. The useful life of 
the asset is determined by assessing the expected useful time of the asset, technical, technological and other kinds of wear and 
tear and all required maintenance expenses necessary to utilize the economic benefit from the asset.  

XIII. EXPLANATIONS ON PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT: 

Property and equipment is measured at its cost when initially recognized and any directly attributable costs of setting the asset in 
working order for its intended use are included in the initial measurement. Subsequently, property and equipment is carried at 
cost less accumulated depreciation and provision for value decrease. 

The Bank has started to account properties under the tangible assets with their revalued amount instead of cost values in 
accordance with “TAS 16 Plant and Equipment”. The revaluation difference arising from the valuations made by the appraisal firms 
authorized by Capital Markets Board (“CMB”) and BRSA is accounted in Investment Properties Revaluation Differences line under 
the Shareholders’ Equity. 

As of each reporting date, the Bank evaluates whether there is any indication that its assets may be impaired; If such indication 
exists , it estimates the recoverable amount of the related asset in accordance with TAS 36 - Impairment in Assets and if the 
recoverable amount is below the book value of the related asset, it reserves provision for impairment. 

Depreciation is calculated over the cost of property and equipment using the straight-line method over estimated useful lives. The 
estimated useful lives are stated below: 

Buildings   50 years 
Vault       5-50 years 
Transportation Vehicles  5 years 
Other property and equipments 3-15 years 

Gains and losses on the disposal of property and equipment are determined by deducting the net book value of the property and 
equipment from its sales revenue. 

Expenditures for the repair and renewal of property and equipment are recognized as expense. The capital expenditures incurred 
in order to increase the capacity of the tangible asset or to increase the future benefit of the asset are capitalized on the cost of the 
tangible asset. Capital expenditures include the cost components that increase the useful life, or the capacity of the asset, increase 
the quality of the product or decrease its costs. 

 

 

 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

    
                                                                                                                      

   

  
19 

 
 

Macro-economic indicators are taken into account in determining the PD component in the expected credit loss calculation. Future 
macroeconomic forecasts are reflected in the ECLs using more than one scenario. 

The risk parameters used in the TFRS 9 calculations include prospective macroeconomic information. While macroeconomic 
information is included, models and estimates reflecting the relationships between model risk parameters and macroeconomic 
variables are taken into consideration. The main macroeconomic indicator of these estimation models are the Gross Domestic 
Product (GDP) growth rate. Macroeconomic estimation models include more than one scenario and the related scenarios are 
taken into account in the expected credit loss calculations. 

Expected credit loss calculations are reviewed at least once a year, and the macroeconomic model used in the process has been 
revised during the reporting period.   
No revisions were made to the scenario weights after the review.  

- The expected credit loss calculation is made by considering 3 different scenarios the best, the worst, and the base. 

Within the scope TFRS 9, macroeconomic expectations directly affect provisions (Expected Credit Loss-ECL). Related impact is 
realized when the default ratio of the Bank moves the default rate calculated for each maturity up or down. The main parameters 
of default ratio model are macroeconomic variables and the provision figures change when prospective estimations are revised.  

The PD values subject to the ECL calculation have been obtained for the following portfolios. 

CCoonnssuummeerr//CCoommmmeerrcciiaa PPoorrttffoolliioo  

Retail Consumer 

Retail Automotive 

Retail Mortgage 

Retail Credit Card 

Retail Overdraft Account 

Commercial Micro 

Commercial Company 

Commercial Commercial 

Commercial Corporate 
 
In prospective expectations, 3 scenarios are being used as the base, the worst and the best. Final provisions are calculated by 
weighting on the possibilities given to the scenarios.  
 

IX. EXPLANATIONS ON OFFSETTING FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS: 

Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the balance sheet when the Bank has a legally 
enforceable right to offset the recognized amounts and there is an intention to collect/pay the related financial assets and 
liabilities on a net basis, or to realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. 
 

X. EXPLANATIONS ON SALES AND REPURCHASE AGREEMENTS AND SECURITIES LENDING TRANSACTIONS: 

Securities subject to repurchase agreements (“Repos”) are classified as “Financial assets at fair value difference through profit or 
loss”, “Financial assets at fair value difference through other comprehensive income” and “Measured at amortized cost” in the 
balance sheet according to the investment purposes and measured according to the portfolio of the Bank to which they belong. 
Funds obtained under repurchase agreements are accounted under “Funds provided under repurchase agreements” in liability 
accounts and differences between the sale and repurchase prices determined by these repurchase agreements are accrued evenly 
over the life of the repurchase agreement using the “Effective interest (internal return) method”.  

266 - 267Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

    
                                                                                                                      

   

  
 

22 

Following the publication of the reasoned decree of the Constitutional Court, Turkish Grand National Assembly commenced to 
work on a new law regarding the transfer of the members of funds to the Social Security Institution; the related articles of the 
Social Security Law (“New Law”) numbered 5754 regarding the transfer of the funds, were ratified by the TGNA General Meeting on 
17 April 2008 and came into effect following the publication in the Official Gazette numbered 26870, dated 8 May 2008. 

The main opposition party had appealed to the Constitutional Court for the cancellation of some of the articles of the New Law    
including transfer of the Funds to the SSI on 19 June 2008. The Constitution Court has dismissed the appeal with the decision 
taken in the meeting dated 30 March 2011. The reasoned decision has been published in the Official Gazette numbered 28156 dated 
28 December 2011. 
The New Law was requiring that present value of post-employment benefits at the transfer date shall be calculated by a 
commission consisting of the representatives of SSI, Ministry of Finance, Undersecretariat of Treasury, Undersecretariat of State 
Planning Organization, BRSA, SDIF and banks and funds, by using a technical discount rate of 9,8 percent taking into consideration 
the transferrable contributions and payments of the funds including any monthly payment differences paid by the funds above the 
limits within the framework of SSI regulations. Accordingly the transfer required by the New Law was to be completed until 8 May 
2011. According to the decision of the Council of Ministers published on the Official Gazette dated 9 April 2011 no. 27900, the time 
frame for related transfer has been extended for two years. Within the postponement right granted to the Council of Ministers 
through the change in the first clause of the 20th provisional article of the ‘’Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Law no. 
5510’’ published on the Official Gazette no. 28227 dated 8 March 2012, the transfer process has been postponed for one more year 
with the decision of the Council of Ministers published in the Official Gazette no. 28987 dated 30 April 2014.The Council of Ministers 
has been authorized to determine the transfer date in accordance with the last amendment in the first paragraph of the 20th 
provisional article of Law No.5510 implemented by the Law No. 6645 on Amendment of the Occupational Health and Safety Law 
and Other Laws and Decree Laws published on the Official Gazette dated 23 April 2015 and numbered 29335. According to 
paragraph (I) of Article 203 of Law no. 703 which published on the Official Gazette no. 30473 dated 9 July 2018, the phrase, placed in 
20th provisional article of Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Law no.5510, “Council of Ministers” is authorized to 
determine the date of transfer to the Social Security Institution has been replaced with “President”. 
According to the New Law, following the transfer of the members of the fund to the SSI, the funds and institutions will continue to 
provide the non-transferrable social benefits and payments which are included in the articles of association of the fund.        

As of December 31, 2022, the Bank has booked provision in its financial statements within the scope of TAS 19 - Employee Benefits 
for the entire technical gap determined by the report prepared by an actuary registered in the actuaries register. This amount has 
been classified as other provision item. 

XVIII. EXPLANATIONS ON TAXATION: 

aa.. CCuurrrreenntt  TTaaxx::  

As of 31 December 2022, the current corporate tax rate is 25%. In accordance with the Law No. 7316 published in the Official 
Gazette dated April 22, 2021, starting from the declarations that must be submitted as of 1/7/2021 and to be valid for the taxation 
period starting from 1/1/2021, the corporate tax rate is 25% for the taxation period of 2021, this rate was determined as 23% for the 
taxation period of 2022. However, with the publication of the Law No. 7394 in the Official Gazette dated 15 April 2022, for banks, 
consumer finance companies, factoring and financial leasing companies, electronic payment and money institutions, authorized 
foreign exchange institutions, asset management companies, capital market institutions, insurance and reinsurance companies 
and pension companies, the corporate tax rate has been permanently increased to 25%. The tax rate applied to the cumulative 
earnings of 2022 is taken into account as 25%. 
 

The corporate tax rate is applied to tax base which is calculated by adding certain non deductible expenses for tax purposes and 
deducting certain exemptions (like dividend income) and exclusion of deductions on accounting income. If there is no dividend 
distribution, no further tax charges are made. 
Dividends paid to non-resident corporations, which have a place of business in Turkey or are resident corporations, are not subject 
to withholding tax. Otherwise, dividends paid are subject to withholding tax at the rate of 10%. An increase in capital via issuing 
bonus shares is not considered as profit distribution and thus does not incur withholding tax. 

Corporations calculate advance tax with their current rate on quarterly profits and pay until the evening of the same day by 
declaring until the 17th day of the second month following that period. 
Advance tax paid by corporations which is for the current period is credited against the annual corporation tax calculated on their 
annual corporate income in the following year. Despite the offset, if there is temporary prepaid tax remaining, this balance can be 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

    
                                                                                                                      

   

  
21 

XIV. EXPLANATIONS ON LEASING TRANSACTIONS: 

With the “TFRS 16 Leases” standard which became effective as of 1 January 2019, the difference between the operating lease and 
financial lease was removed and the lease transactions were started to be recognised under “Tangible Fixed Assets” as an asset 
(tenure) and under “Liabilities from Leasing” as a liability. 

XV. EXPLANATIONS ON PROVISIONS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES: 

Provisions and contingent liabilities are accounted in accordance with the “Turkish Accounting Standard for Provisions, Contingent 
Liabilities and Contingent Assets” (“TAS 37”). 

Provisions are recognized when the Bank has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable 
that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of the 
amount of the obligation can be made. A provision for contingent liabilities arising from past events should be recognized in the 
same period of occurrence in accordance with the periodicity principle.  

A liability is recognized as a contingent liability where a possible obligation that arises from past events and whose existence will 
be confirmed only by the occurrence or non-occurrence of more than one events not wholly within the control of the Bank; or a 
present obligation that arises from past events but it is not probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will 
be required to settle the obligation; or the amount of the obligation cannot be measured with sufficient reliability and disclosed in 
the footnotes. 

XVI. EXPLANATIONS ON CONTINGENT ASSETS: 

Contingent assets usually arise from unplanned or other unexpected events that give rise to the possibility of an inflow of economic 
benefits to the entity. Contingent assets are not recognized in financial statements since this may result in the recognition of 
income that may never be realized. Contingent assets are disclosed where an inflow of economic benefits is probable. Contingent 
assets are assessed continually to ensure that developments are appropriately reflected in the financial statements. If it has 
become virtually certain that an inflow of economic benefits will arise, the asset and the related income are recognized in the 
financial statements in which the change occurs.  

XVII. EXPLANATIONS ON OBLIGATIONS RELATED TO EMPLOYEE RIGHTS: 

a. EEmmppllooyymmeenntt  tteerrmmiinnaattiioonn  bbeenneeffiittss  aanndd  vvaaccaattiioonn  rriigghhttss::  

Obligations related to employment termination and vacation rights are accounted in accordance with “Turkish Accounting 
Standard for Employee Rights” (“TAS 19”). 

Under the Turkish Labor Law, the Bank and its subsidiaries operating in Turkey are required to pay a specific amount to the 
employees who have retired or whose employment is terminated other than the reasons specified in the Turkish Labor Law. 
According to the related regulation, the Bank is obliged to pay termination benefits for employees who retire, quit for their military 
service obligations, who have been dismissed as defined in the related regulation or who have completed at least one year of 
service. The reserve for employment termination benefits represents the present value of the estimated total reserve for the future 
probable obligation of the Bank arising from this liability. In accordance with TAS 19, actuarial gains and losses are recognized in 
equity. 

b. RReettiirreemmeenntt  RRiigghhttss::    

The Bank’s personnel are members of the “Akbank T.A.Ş. Personnel Pension Fund Foundation” (“Pension Fund”) established in 
accordance with the Social Security Law numbered 506, temporary article No.20. The financial statements of the Pension Fund 
have been audited as of year ends by an independent actuary in accordance with the 38th article of the Insurance Supervisory Law 
and the “Actuarial Regulation” based on the same article. 

Temporary 23rd article paragraph (“the paragraph”) 1 of the Banking Law No 5411 published in the Official Gazette no. 25983 dated 
1 November 2005 envisaged that Banks would transfer their pension funds to the Social Security Institution (“SSI”) within three 
years following the publication date of the Banking Law, and regulated the principles of this transfer. The first paragraph of the 
related article was rescinded as from the 30 June 2007, the publication date of the decision of the Constitutional Court dated 22 
March 2007. The reasoned decree regarding the rescission of the mentioned paragraph was published in the Official Gazette 
numbered 26731, dated 15 December 2007.            

268 - 269Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

    
                                                                                                                      

   

  
 

24 

XX. EXPLANATIONS ON ISSUANCE OF SHARE CERTIFICATES: 

There is no share certificate issuance in 2022. 

XXI. EXPLANATIONS ON AVALIZED DRAFTS AND ACCEPTANCES: 

Avalized drafts and acceptances shown as liabilities against assets are included in the off-balance sheet commitments. 

XXII. EXPLANATIONS ON GOVERNMENT GRANTS: 

As of 31 December 2022 and 31 December 2021, there is no government grant for the Bank. 

XXIII. EXPLANATIONS ON SEGMENT REPORTING: 

An operating segment is a component of an entity: 

a.   that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses (including revenues and expenses 
relating to transactions with other components of the same entity), 

b.  whose operating results are regularly reviewed by the entity's chief operating decision maker to make decisions about 
resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance, and, 

c.    for which discrete financial information is available. 

Reporting according to the operational segments is presented in Note XIII of Section Four. 

XXIV. PROFIT RESERVES AND PROFIT DISTRIBUTION:  

Retained earnings as per the statutory financial statements other than legal reserves are available for distribution, subject to the 
legal reserve requirement referred to below. 

Under the Turkish Commercial Code, legal reserves consist of first legal reserve and second legal reserve. First legal reserve, 
appropriated at the rate of 5%, until the total reserve is equal to 20% of issued and fully paid-in share capital. Second legal reserve,  
appropriated at the rate of 10% of distributions in excess of 5% of issued and fully paid-in share capital, but Holding companies are 
not subject to such transaction. According to the Turkish Commercial Code, legal reserves can only be used to compensate 
accumulated losses and cannot be used for other purposes unless they exceed 50% of paid-in capital. 

The Ordinary General Assembly Meeting of the Bank was held on 28 March 2022. In the Ordinary General Assembly, it was decided 
to distribute TL 1.211.600 cash dividend over the TL 12.125.908 net income from 2021 operations to the Bank’s shareholders. It was 
also resolved in the General Assembly to transfer TL 654 to special funds account under other capital reserves, to allocate TL 
95.160 as legal and TL 10.818.494 as extraordinary reserves. 

XXV. EARNINGS PER SHARE: 

            Earnings per share disclosed in the income statement are calculated by dividing net profit for the period by the weighted average 
number of shares outstanding during the related period concerned. 

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  
Net Profit for the Period 60.024.084 12.125.908 
Average Number of Issued Common Shares (Thousand) 520.000.000 520.000.000 
EEaarrnniinnggss  PPeerr  SShhaarree  ((AAmmoouunnttss  pprreesseenntteedd  aass  ffuullll  TTLL))  00,,1111554433  00,,0022333322  

In Turkey, companies can increase their share capital by making a pro-rata distribution of shares (“Bonus shares”) to existing 
shareholders from retained earnings. For the purpose of earnings per share computations, the weighted average number of 
shares outstanding during the year has been adjusted in respect of bonus shares issued without a corresponding change in 
resources by giving them a retroactive effect for the year in which they were issued and for each earlier period. In case bonus 
shares are distributed after the balance sheet date but before the preparation of the financial statements, earnings per share is 
calculated considering the new number of shares. 

No bonus shares issued in 2022 (2021: None). 

 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

    
                                                                                                                      

   

  
23 

refunded or used to offset any other financial liabilities to the government.           

A 75% portion of the capital gains derived from the sale of equity investments and a 50% portion of the capital gains derived from 
the sale of immovable properties held for at least two years is tax exempt, if such gains are added to paid-in capital or held in a 
special fund account under liability for five years. 

Under the Turkish Corporate Tax Law, losses can be carried forward to offset against future taxable income for up to five years. 
Tax losses cannot be carried back to offset profits from previous periods.       
In Turkey, there is no procedure for a final and definitive agreement on tax assessments. Companies file their tax returns until the 
last day of the following fourth month after the closing of the accounting year to which they relate. Tax returns are open for five 
years from the beginning of the year following the date of filing during this period the tax authorities have the right to audit tax 
returns, and the related accounting records on which they are based, and may issue re-assessments based on their findings.  

Current tax, related to items recognized directly in equity is also credited or charged directly to equity. 

As of the end of the 2021 calendar year, the conditions sought for inflation adjustment in the calculation of corporate tax have been 
fulfilled, within the framework of the repeated provision of Article 298/A of the Tax Procedure Law. However, with the regulation 
made with the Law No. 7352 dated 20 January 2022, the application of inflation adjustment in the calculation of corporate tax was 
postponed to 2023. According to this; TPL financial statements for the 2021 and 2022 accounting periods, including the provisional 
tax periods, will not be subject to inflation adjustment, and for the 2023 accounting period; will not be subject to inflation 
adjustment as of the provisional tax periods, and the TPL financial statements dated 31 December 2023 will be subject to inflation 
adjustment regardless of whether the inflation adjustment conditions are met or not. Profit/loss difference arising from inflation 
adjustment in VUK financial statements will be shown in previous years' profit/loss accounts and will not affect the corporate tax 
base. 

bb.. DDeeffeerrrreedd  TTaaxx::  
The Bank calculates and accounts for deferred income taxes for all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets 
and liabilities and their carrying amounts in these financial statements in accordance with “Turkish Accounting Standard for 
Income Taxes” (“TAS 12”) and the related decrees of the BRSA concerning income taxes. In accordance with the Law No. 7316 
published in the Official Gazette dated 22 April 2021, starting from the declarations that must be submitted as of 7 January 2021 
and to be valid for the taxation period starting from 1 January 2021, the corporate tax rate is 25% for the taxation period of 2021, 
and this rate will be applied as 23% for the taxation period of 2022, this rate was applied as 20% for the taxation periods of 2023. 
However, with the publication of the Law No. 7394 in the Official Gazette dated 15.04.2022, for banks, consumer finance companies, 
factoring and financial leasing companies, electronic payment and money institutions, authorized foreign exchange institutions, 
asset management companies, capital market institutions, insurance and reinsurance companies and pension companies, the 
corporate tax rate has been permanently increased to 25%, and the tax rate applied to the cumulative earnings of 2022 is 
considered as 25%. As of 31 December 2022, deferred tax is calculated over 25%, and as of 31 December 2021, the enacted tax 
rates valid in accordance with the tax legislation in force as of the reporting dates are used, in accordance with their lives, for the 
items subject to deferred tax calculation. 
 

Deferred tax liabilities are recognized for all resulting temporary differences whereas deferred tax assets resulting from 
temporary differences are recognized to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the 
deferred tax assets can be utilized.  

Deferred tax asset had not been provided over provisions for possible risks and general loan loss provisions according to the 
circular of BRSA numbered BRSA.DZM.2/13/1-a-3 and dated 8 December 2004.Deferred tax rate calculation has started to be 
measured over temporary expected provision losses differences according to TFRS 9 articles from 1 January 2018. Deferred tax 
calculation is not made for free provisions. 

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are presented on a net basis by considering the domestic and foreign branches’ financial 
statements separately. 

Deferred tax, related to items recognized directly in equity is also credited or charged directly to equity. 

XIX. EXPLANATIONS ON BORROWINGS: 

Debt instruments with different characteristics such as syndicated and securitized borrowings and post-financing obtained from 
foreign financial institutions, marketable securities issued in domestic and foreign markets and money market borrowings are 
major funding source of the Bank. Mentioned borrowings are carried initially at acquisition cost and subsequently recognized at 
the discounted value calculated by using the “Effective interest rate method“. 

270 - 271Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

    
                                                                                                                      

   

  
 

26 

Details based on the asset with regard to the recognised right of use is as follows: 

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  

Real estate 1.061.102 766.666 
TToottaall  rriigghhtt  ooff  uussee  aasssseett  11..006611..110022  776666..666666  

 

Details of depreciation expense based on the asset with regard to the recognised right of use asset is as follows: 

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  
Real estate 381.778 348.114 
TToottaall  rriigghhtt  ooff  uussee  aasssseett  ddeepprreecciiaattiioonn  eexxppeennssee 338811..777788  334488..111144  

 

Lease agreements for vehicles and ATMs, which are determined as low value by the Bank with short-term lease agreements with 
a duration of 12 months or less, have been evaluated within the scope of the exemption granted by the standard. Within this scope, 
TL 212.846 has been paid in the relevant period. 

The right and obligation of the lessee to use assets classified as finance leases has been measured at the carrying amount of such 
assets before the transition period. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

    
                                                                                                                      

   

  
25 

XXVI. RELATED PARTIES: 

Parties defined in Article 49 of the Banking Law No.5411 are deemed as related parties. Transactions with related parties are 
presented in Note VII of Section Five. 

XXVII. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENT ASSETS: 

For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash includes cash effectives, cash in transit, purchased cheques and demand 
deposits including balances with the Central Bank; and cash equivalents include interbank money market placements, time 
deposits at banks with original maturity periods of less than three months and investments on marketable securities other than 
common stocks. 

XXVIII.  RECLASSIFICATIONS: 

None. 
 
XXIX.  DISCLOSURES OF TFRS 16 LEASES: 

TTFFRRSS  1166  ""LLeeaasseess""  SSttaannddaarrdd  

BBaannkk  ––  lleesssseeee  ::  

The Bank assesses whether the contract has the quality of a lease or whether the lease includes the transaction at the beginning 
of a contract. In case the contract is transferred for a certain period of time to control the use of the asset defined for a price, it is 
either leased or includes a lease. The Bank reflects the existence of a right of use and a lease liability to the financial statements at 
the effective date of the lease. 

Right of use assets: 

The right to use asset is first recognized by cost method and includes: 

a) The initial measurement amount of the lease obligation, 

b) the amount obtained by deducting all the rental incentives received from all lease payments made at or before the beginning of 
the lease; 

c) all initial direct costs incurred by the Bank 

When applying the cost method, the existence of the right to use: 

a) accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses are deducted and 

b) Measures the restatement of the lease obligation at the restated cost. 

The Bank applies the provisions of depreciation regulated under the TAS 16 Tangible Assets Standards, while depreciating the 
rights of use assets. 

The Lease Obligations: 

At the effective date of the lease, the Bank measures its leasing liability at the present value of the lease payments not paid at that 
time. Lease payments are discounted using the Bank's average borrowing interest rates. 

The lease payments included in the measurement of the lease liability consist of the payments to be made for the right of use 
during the lease term of the underlying asset and the unpaid payments at the effective date of the lease. 

After the effective date of the lease, the Bank measures the leasing liability as follows: 

a) Increase the book value to reflect the interest on the lease obligation 

b) Reduces the book value to reflect the lease payments made and 

c)     The book value is measured to reflect reassessments and restructuring, or reflect to fixed lease payments as of revised 
nature. 

The interest on the lease liability for each period in the lease period is the amount calculated by applying a fixed periodic interest 
rate to the remaining balance of the lease liability. 

272 - 273Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

    
                                                                                                                      

   

  
 

28 

  

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  

AAmmoouunnttss  rreellaatteedd  ttoo  
ttrreeaattmmeenntt  bbeeffoorree    

11//11//22001144  ((**))  
AADDDDIITTIIOONNAALL  TTIIEERR  II  CCAAPPIITTAALL    
Preferred Stock not Included in Common Equity and the Related Share Premiums -  
Debt instruments and premiums approved by BRSA -  
Debt instruments and premiums approved by BRSA (Temporary Article 4) -  
AAddddiittiioonnaall  TTiieerr  II  CCaappiittaall  bbeeffoorree  DDeedduuccttiioonnss  -  
DDeedduuccttiioonnss  ffrroomm  AAddddiittiioonnaall  TTiieerr  II  CCaappiittaall    
Direct and indirect investments of the Bank in its own Additional Tier I Capital -  
Investments of Bank to Banks that invest in Bank’s additional equity and components of equity issued by financial institutions with 

compatible with Article 7. -  
Total of Net Long Positions of the Investments in Equity Items of Unconsolidated Banks and Financial Institutions where the Bank 

Owns 10% or less of the Issued Share Capital Exceeding the 10% Threshold of above Tier I Capital -  
The Total of Net Long Position of the Direct or Indirect Investments in Additional Tier I Capital of Unconsolidated Banks and Financial 

Institutions where the Bank Owns more than 10% of the Issued Share Capital -  
Other items to be defined by the BRSA -  
TTrraannssiittiioonn  ffrroomm  tthhee  CCoorree  CCaappiittaall  ttoo  CCoonnttiinnuuee  ttoo  ddeedduuccee  CCoommppoonneennttss  -  
Goodwill and other intangible assets and related deferred tax liabilities which will not be deducted from Common Equity Tier 1 capital 

for the purposes of the first sub-paragraph of the Provisional Article 2 of the Regulation on Banks’ Own Funds (-) - - 
Net deferred tax asset/liability which is not deducted from Common Equity Tier 1 capital for the purposes of the sub-paragraph of the 

Provisional Article 2 of the Regulation on Banks’ Own Funds (-) -  
Deductions to be made from common equity in the case that adequate Additional Tier I Capital or Tier II Capital is not available (-) -  
TToottaall  DDeedduuccttiioonnss  FFrroomm  AAddddiittiioonnaall  TTiieerr  II  CCaappiittaall  --    
TToottaall  AAddddiittiioonnaall  TTiieerr  II  CCaappiittaall  --    
TToottaall  TTiieerr  II  CCaappiittaall  ((TTiieerr  II  CCaappiittaall==CCoommmmoonn  EEqquuiittyy++AAddddiittiioonnaall  TTiieerr  II  CCaappiittaall))  114499..334488..996644         
TTIIEERR  IIII  CCAAPPIITTAALL      
Debt instruments and share issue premiums deemed suitable by the BRSA 16.695.703   
Debt instruments and share issue premiums deemed suitable by BRSA (Temporary Article 4) -   
Provisions (Article 8 of the Regulation on the Equity of Banks) 8.018.164   
TTiieerr  IIII  CCaappiittaall  BBeeffoorree  DDeedduuccttiioonnss  2244..771133..886677    
DDeedduuccttiioonnss  FFrroomm  TTiieerr  IIII  CCaappiittaall     
Direct and indirect investments of the Bank on its own Tier II Capital (-) -   
Investments of Bank to Banks that invest on Bank’s Tier 2 and components of equity issued by financial institutions with the conditions 

declared in Article 8. -   
Portion of the total of net long positions of investments made in equity items of banks and financial institutions outside the scope of 

consolidation where the Bank owns 10% or less of the issued common share capital exceeding 10% of Common Equity of the Bank 
(-) -   

Portion of the total of net long positions of investments made in Additional Tier I Capital item of banks and financial institutions outside 
the scope of consolidation where the Bank owns 10% or more of the issued common share capital exceeding 10% of Common 
Equity of the Bank  -   

Other items to be defined by the BRSA (-) -   
TToottaall  DDeedduuccttiioonnss  ffrroomm  TTiieerr  IIII  CCaappiittaall  -   
TToottaall  TTiieerr  IIII  CCaappiittaall  2244..771133..886677    
TToottaall  CCaappiittaall  ((TThhee  ssuumm  ooff  TTiieerr  II  CCaappiittaall  aanndd  TTiieerr  IIII  CCaappiittaall))  117744..006622..883311    
DDeedduuccttiioonnss  ffrroomm  TToottaall  CCaappiittaall        
Deductions from Capital Loans granted contrary to the 50th and 51th Article of the Law -  
Net Book Values of Movables and Immovables Exceeding the Limit Defined in the Article 57, Clause 1 of the Banking Law and the 

Assets Acquired against Overdue Receivables and Held for Sale but Retained more than Five Years -  
Other items to be defined by the BRSA (-) 56.738  
IInn  ttrraannssiittiioonn  ffrroomm  TToottaall  CCoorree  CCaappiittaall  aanndd  SSuupppplleemmeennttaarryy  CCaappiittaall  ((tthhee  ccaappiittaall))  ttoo  CCoonnttiinnuuee  ttoo  DDeedduucctteedd  CCoommppoonneennttss    
The Sum of net long positions of investments (the portion which exceeds the 10 % of Banks Common Equity) in the capital of banking, 

financial and insurance entities that are outside the scope of regulatory consolidation, where the bank does not own more than 10% 
of the issued common share capital of the entity which will not be deducted from Common Equity Tier 1 capital, Additional Tier 1 
capital, Tier 2 capital for the purposes of the first sub-paragraph of the Provisional Article 2 of the Regulation on Banks’ Own Funds  -  

The Sum of net long positions of investments in the Additional Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital of banking, financial and insurance 
entities that are outside the scope of regulatory consolidation, where the bank does not own more than 10% of the issued common 
share capital of the entity which will not be deducted from Common Equity Tier 1 capital, Additional Tier 1 capital, Tier 2 capital for 
the purposes of the first sub-paragraph of the Provisional Article 2 of the Regulation on Banks’ Own Funds  -  

The Sum of net long positions of investments in the common stock of banking, financial and insurance entities that are outside the 
scope of regulatory consolidation, where the bank does not own more than 10% of the issued common share capital of the entity, 
mortgage servicing rights, deferred tax assets arising from temporary differences which will not be deducted from Common Equity 
Tier 1 capital for the purposes of the first sub-paragraph of the Provisional Article 2 of the Regulation on Banks’ Own Funds  -  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

    
                                                                                                                      

   

  
27 

SECTION FOUR 
INFORMATION RELATED TO FINANCIAL POSITION AND RISK MANAGEMENT OF THE BANK 

 

I. EXPLANATIONS ON EQUITY: 
Total capital amount and Capital adequacy ratio have been calculated in accordance with the “Regulation on Equity of Banks” and 
“Regulation on Measurement and Assessment of Capital Adequacy of Banks”. Additionally, calculated according to BRSA regulations 
dated 21 December 2021, numbered 9996 and 28 April 2022, numbered 10188. As of 31 December 2022 based on recent regulation 
changes; 
1) In the calculation of the amount based on credit risk, the CBRT exchange rate for 31 December 2021 can be used when calculating 
the valuation amounts in foreign currency, 
2) In case the net valuation differences of the securities owned by banks and acquired before 21 December 2021 in the “Securities at Fair 
Value through Other Comprehensive Income” portfolio are negative, these differences may not be taken into account in the equity 
amount. 
As of 31 December 2022, taking into consideration the above-mentioned regulations, the current period equity of the Bank has been 
calculated as TL 174.006.093 (31 December 2021: TL 100.057.828), and the capital adequacy ratio is 24,60% (31 December 2021: 22,17%). 
This ratio is above the minimum ratio required by the legislation. 

aa.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  aabboouutt  ttoottaall  ccaappiittaall  iitteemmss::  

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  

AAmmoouunnttss  rreellaatteedd  ttoo  
ttrreeaattmmeenntt  bbeeffoorree  

11//11//22001144((**))  
CCOOMMMMOONN  EEQQUUIITTYY  TTIIEERR  11  CCAAPPIITTAALL    

Paid-in capital following all debts in terms of claim in liquidation of the Bank  7.094.886   
Share issue premiums  3.505.742   
Reserves  56.070.405   
Gains recognized in equity as per TAS     36.560.844     
Profit      60.024.084     
     Current Period Profit     60.024.084     
     Prior Period Profit  -   
Shares acquired free of charge from subsidiaries, affiliates and jointly controlled partnerships and cannot be recognized within 
profit for the period   13.490    
CCoommmmoonn  EEqquuiittyy  TTiieerr  11  CCaappiittaall  BBeeffoorree  DDeedduuccttiioonnss              116633..226699..445511    
DDeedduuccttiioonnss  ffrroomm  CCoommmmoonn  EEqquuiittyy  TTiieerr  11  CCaappiittaall    
Common Equity as per the 1st clause of Provisional Article 9 of the Regulation on the Equity of Banks  286   
Portion of the current and prior periods’ losses which cannot be covered through reserves and losses reflected in equity in 

accordance with TAS      7.514.331     
Improvement costs for operating leasing     89.961     
Goodwill (net of related tax liability)  -   
Other intangibles other than mortgage-servicing rights (net of related tax liability)     2.279.464    2.279.464    
Deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability excluding those arising from temporary differences (net of related tax liability)  -   
Differences are not recognized at the fair value of assets and liabilities subject to hedge of cash flow risk  4.036.445   
Communiqué Related to Principles of the amount credit risk calculated with the Internal Ratings Based Approach, total expected 

loss amount exceeds the total provision  -   
Gains arising from securitization transactions  -   
Unrealized gains and losses due to changes in own credit risk on fair valued liabilities  -   
Defined-benefit pension fund net assets  -   
Direct and indirect investments of the Bank in its own Common Equity   -   
Shares obtained contrary to the 4th clause of the 56th Article of the Law  -   
Portion of the total of net long positions of investments made in equity items of banks and financial institutions outside the scope 

of consolidation where the Bank owns 10% or less of the issued common share capital exceeding 10% of Common Equity of the 
Bank  -   

Portion of the total of net long positions of investments made in equity items of banks and financial institutions outside the scope 
of consolidation where the Bank owns 10% or more of the issued common share capital exceeding 10% of Common Equity of 
the Bank  -   

Portion of mortgage servicing rights exceeding 10% of the Common Equity  -   
Portion of deferred tax assets based on temporary differences exceeding 10% of the Common Equity  -   
Amount exceeding 15% of the common equity as per the 2nd clause of the Provisional Article 2 of the Regulation on the Equity of 

Banks  -   
Excess amount arising from the net long positions of investments in common equity items of banks and financial institutions 

outside the scope of consolidation where the Bank owns 10% or more of the issued common share capital  -   
Excess amount arising from mortgage servicing rights  -   
Excess amount arising from deferred tax assets based on temporary differences  -   
Other items to be defined by the BRSA  -   
Deductions to be made from common equity due to insufficient Additional Tier I Capital or Tier II Capital  -   
TToottaall  DDeedduuccttiioonnss  FFrroomm  CCoommmmoonn  EEqquuiittyy  TTiieerr  11  CCaappiittaall       1133..992200..448877      
TToottaall  CCoommmmoonn  EEqquuiittyy  TTiieerr  11  CCaappiittaall           114499..334488..996644         

274 - 275Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

    
                                                                                                                      

   

  
30 

 
 
 

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211    

AAmmoouunnttss  rreellaatteedd  ttoo  
ttrreeaattmmeenntt  bbeeffoorree  

11//11//22001144((**))  
CCOOMMMMOONN  EEQQUUIITTYY  TTIIEERR  11  CCAAPPIITTAALL    
Paid-in capital following all debts in terms of claim in liquidation of the Bank  7.094.886   
Share issue premiums  3.505.742   
Reserves  45.024.998   
Gains recognized in equity as per TAS     15.757.476     
Profit      12.125.908     
     Current Period Profit     12.125.908     
     Prior Period Profit  -   
Shares acquired free of charge from subsidiaries, affiliates and jointly controlled partnerships and cannot be recognized within 
profit for the period   12.126    
CCoommmmoonn  EEqquuiittyy  TTiieerr  11  CCaappiittaall  BBeeffoorree  DDeedduuccttiioonnss              8833..552211..113366    
DDeedduuccttiioonnss  ffrroomm  CCoommmmoonn  EEqquuiittyy  TTiieerr  11  CCaappiittaall    
Common Equity as per the 1st clause of Provisional Article 9 of the Regulation on the Equity of Banks  1.657   
Portion of the current and prior periods’ losses which cannot be covered through reserves and losses reflected in equity in 

accordance with TAS      3.331.876     
Improvement costs for operating leasing     52.113     
Goodwill (net of related tax liability)  -   
Other intangibles other than mortgage-servicing rights (net of related tax liability)     1.158.817    1.158.817    
Deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability excluding those arising from temporary differences (net of related tax liability)  -   
Differences are not recognized at the fair value of assets and liabilities subject to hedge of cash flow risk 2.263.950  
Communiqué Related to Principles of the amount credit risk calculated with the Internal Ratings Based Approach, total expected 

loss amount exceeds the total provision  -   
Gains arising from securitization transactions  -   
Unrealized gains and losses due to changes in own credit risk on fair valued liabilities  -   
Defined-benefit pension fund net assets  -   
Direct and indirect investments of the Bank in its own Common Equity   -   
Shares obtained contrary to the 4th clause of the 56th Article of the Law  -   
Portion of the total of net long positions of investments made in equity items of banks and financial institutions outside the scope 

of consolidation where the Bank owns 10% or less of the issued common share capital exceeding 10% of Common Equity of the 
Bank  -   

Portion of the total of net long positions of investments made in equity items of banks and financial institutions outside the scope 
of consolidation where the Bank owns 10% or more of the issued common share capital exceeding 10% of Common Equity of 
the Bank  -   

Portion of mortgage servicing rights exceeding 10% of the Common Equity  -   
Portion of deferred tax assets based on temporary differences exceeding 10% of the Common Equity  -   
Amount exceeding 15% of the common equity as per the 2nd clause of the Provisional Article 2 of the Regulation on the Equity of 

Banks  -   
Excess amount arising from the net long positions of investments in common equity items of banks and financial institutions 

outside the scope of consolidation where the Bank owns 10% or more of the issued common share capital  -   
Excess amount arising from mortgage servicing rights  -   
Excess amount arising from deferred tax assets based on temporary differences  -   
Other items to be defined by the BRSA  -   
Deductions to be made from common equity due to insufficient Additional Tier I Capital or Tier II Capital  -   
TToottaall  DDeedduuccttiioonnss  FFrroomm  CCoommmmoonn  EEqquuiittyy  TTiieerr  11  CCaappiittaall       6.808.413      
TToottaall  CCoommmmoonn  EEqquuiittyy  TTiieerr  11  CCaappiittaall           7766..771122..772233         

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

    
                                                                                                                      

   

  
29 

 
 
 
 

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  

AAmmoouunnttss  rreellaatteedd  ttoo  
ttrreeaattmmeenntt  bbeeffoorree  

11//11//22001144((**))  
TTOOTTAALL  CCAAPPIITTAALL        
Total Capital  174.006.093  
Total Risk Weighted Amounts 707.367.032  
CCaappiittaall  AAddeeqquuaaccyy  RRaattiiooss    
Core Capital Adequacy Ratio (%) 21,11%  
Tier 1 Capital Adequacy Ratio (%) 21,11%  
Capital Adequacy Ratio (%) 24,60%  
BBUUFFFFEERRSS    
Total additional Common Equity Tier 1 Capital requirement ratio (a+b+c) 2,51%  
a)  Capital conservation buffer requirement (%) 2,50%  
b)  Bank specific total common equity tier 1 capital ratio (%) 0,01%  
c)  Systemic significant bank buffer ratio (**) (%) 0,00%  
The ratio of Additional Common Equity Tier 1 capital which will be calculated by the first paragraph of the Article 4 of Regulation on 

Capital Conservation and Countercyclical Capital buffers to Risk Weighted Assets (%) 13,11%  
AAmmoouunnttss  bbeellooww  tthhee  EExxcceessss  LLiimmiittss  aass  ppeerr  tthhee  DDeedduuccttiioonn  PPrriinncciipplleess     
Portion of the total of net long positions of investments in equity items of unconsolidated banks and financial institutions where the 

bank owns 10% or less of the issued share capital exceeding the 10% threshold of above Tier I capital -  
Portion of the total of investments in equity items of unconsolidated banks and financial institutions where the bank owns 10% or 

less of the issued share capital exceeding the 10% threshold of above Tier I capital -  
Amount arising from mortgage-servicing rights -  
Amount arising from deferred tax assets based on temporary differences   (2.834.963)  
LLiimmiittss  rreellaatteedd  ttoo  pprroovviissiioonnss  ccoonnssiiddeerreedd  iinn  TTiieerr  IIII  ccaallccuullaattiioonn    
General provisions for standard based receivables (before tenthousandtwentyfive limitation) 10.756.607  
Up to 1.25% of total risk-weighted amount of general reserves for receivables where the standard approach used 8.018.164  
Excess amount of total provision amount to credit risk Amount of the Internal Ratings Based Approach in accordance with the 

Communiqué on the Calculation -  
Excess amount of total provision amount to &0,6 of risk weighted receivables of credit risk Amount of the Internal Ratings Based 

Approach in accordance with the Communiqué on the Calculation -  
DDeebbtt  iinnssttrruummeennttss  ssuubbjjeecctteedd  ttoo  AArrttiiccllee  44  ((ttoo  bbee  iimmpplleemmeenntteedd  bbeettwweeeenn  JJaannuuaarryy  11,,  22001188  aanndd  JJaannuuaarryy  11,,  22002222))  -   
Upper limit for Additional Tier I Capital subjected to temporary Article 4   
Amounts Excess the Limits of Additional Tier I Capital subjected to temporary Article 4 -  
Upper limit for Additional Tier II Capital subjected to temporary Article 4 -  
Amounts Excess the Limits of Additional Tier II Capital subjected to temporary Article 4 -  

(*) Amounts in this column represents the amounts of items that are subject to transition provisions in accordance with the temporary Articles of 
“Regulations regarding to changes on Regulation on Equity of Banks” and taken into consideration at the end of transition process. 
(**) Systemically Important Bank Buffer ratio represented as 0.00% since it is necessary to fill systemically Important Bank Buffer Ratio for 
systematic important banks that are not obligated to prepare consolidated financial statements in accordance with the “Systemically Important 
Banks Regulation, Article 4 paragraph 4”. 

276 - 277Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
32 

 

 

   

 
 

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  

AAmmoouunnttss  rreellaatteedd  ttoo  
ttrreeaattmmeenntt  bbeeffoorree  

11//11//22001144((**))  
TTOOTTAALL  CCAAPPIITTAALL        
Total Capital  100.057.828  
Total Risk Weighted Amounts 451.398.782  
CCaappiittaall  AAddeeqquuaaccyy  RRaattiiooss   
Core Capital Adequacy Ratio (%) 16,99%  
Tier 1 Capital Adequacy Ratio (%) 16,99%  
Capital Adequacy Ratio (%) 22,17%  
BBUUFFFFEERRSS   
Bank specific total Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Ratio 2,51%  

a) Capital conservation buffer requirement (%) 2,50%  
b) Bank specific counter-cyclical buffer requirement (%) 0,01%  
c) Systemic significant bank buffer ratio (**) (%) 0,00%  

The ratio of Additional Common Equity Tier 1 capital which will be calculated by the first paragraph of the Article 4 of Regulation on 
Capital Conservation and Countercyclical Capital buffers to Risk Weighted Assets (%) 8,99%  

AAmmoouunnttss  bbeellooww  tthhee  EExxcceessss  LLiimmiittss  aass  ppeerr  tthhee  DDeedduuccttiioonn  PPrriinncciipplleess    
Portion of the total of net long positions of investments in equity items of unconsolidated banks and financial institutions where the 

bank owns 10% or less of the issued share capital exceeding the 10% threshold of above Tier I capital -  
Portion of the total of investments in equity items of unconsolidated banks and financial institutions where the bank owns 10% or 

less of the issued share capital exceeding the 10% threshold of above Tier I capital -  
Amount arising from mortgage-servicing rights -  
Amount arising from deferred tax assets based on temporary differences   (97.731)  
LLiimmiittss  rreellaatteedd  ttoo  pprroovviissiioonnss  ccoonnssiiddeerreedd  iinn  TTiieerr  IIII  ccaallccuullaattiioonn   
General provisions for standard based receivables (before tenthousandtwentyfive limitation) 7.358.048  
Up to 1.25% of total risk-weighted amount of general reserves for receivables where the standard approach used 4.858.574  
Excess amount of total provision amount to credit risk Amount of the Internal Ratings Based Approach in accordance with the 

Communiqué on the Calculation -  
Excess amount of total provision amount to &0,6 of risk weighted receivables of credit risk Amount of the Internal Ratings Based 

Approach in accordance with the Communiqué on the Calculation -  
DDeebbtt  iinnssttrruummeennttss  ssuubbjjeecctteedd  ttoo  AArrttiiccllee  44  ((ttoo  bbee  iimmpplleemmeenntteedd  bbeettwweeeenn  JJaannuuaarryy  11,,  22001188  aanndd  JJaannuuaarryy  11,,  22002222))    
Upper limit for Additional Tier I Capital subjected to temporary Article 4 -  
Amounts Excess the Limits of Additional Tier I Capital subjected to temporary Article 4 -  
Upper limit for Additional Tier II Capital subjected to temporary Article 4 -  
Amounts Excess the Limits of Additional Tier II Capital subjected to temporary Article 4 -  

(*) Amounts in this column represents the amounts of items that are subject to transition provisions in accordance with the temporary Articles of 
“Regulations regarding to changes on Regulation on Equity of Banks” and taken into consideration at the end of transition process. 
(**) Systemically Important Bank Buffer ratio represented as 0.00% since it is necessary to fill systemically Important Bank Buffer Ratio for 
systematic important banks that are not obligated to prepare consolidated financial statements in accordance with the “Systemically Important 
Banks Regulation, Article 4 paragraph 4”.  

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

 
  

 
31 

 

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211    

AAmmoouunnttss  rreellaatteedd  ttoo  
ttrreeaattmmeenntt  bbeeffoorree    

11//11//22001144  ((**))  
AADDDDIITTIIOONNAALL  TTIIEERR  II  CCAAPPIITTAALL     
Preferred Stock not Included in Common Equity and the Related Share Premiums -  
Debt instruments and premiums approved by BRSA -  
Debt instruments and premiums approved by BRSA (Temporary Article 4) -  
AAddddiittiioonnaall  TTiieerr  II  CCaappiittaall  bbeeffoorree  DDeedduuccttiioonnss  -  
DDeedduuccttiioonnss  ffrroomm  AAddddiittiioonnaall  TTiieerr  II  CCaappiittaall    
Direct and indirect investments of the Bank in its own Additional Tier I Capital -  
Investments of Bank to Banks that invest in Bank’s additional equity and components of equity issued by financial institutions with 

compatible with Article 7. -  
Total of Net Long Positions of the Investments in Equity Items of Unconsolidated Banks and Financial Institutions where the Bank 

Owns 10% or less of the Issued Share Capital Exceeding the 10% Threshold of above Tier I Capital -  
The Total of Net Long Position of the Direct or Indirect Investments in Additional Tier I Capital of Unconsolidated Banks and Financial 

Institutions where the Bank Owns more than 10% of the Issued Share Capital -  
Other items to be defined by the BRSA -  
TTrraannssiittiioonn  ffrroomm  tthhee  CCoorree  CCaappiittaall  ttoo  CCoonnttiinnuuee  ttoo  ddeedduuccee  CCoommppoonneennttss  -  
Goodwill and other intangible assets and related deferred tax liabilities which will not be deducted from Common Equity Tier 1 capital 

for the purposes of the first sub-paragraph of the Provisional Article 2 of the Regulation on Banks’ Own Funds (-) - - 
Net deferred tax asset/liability which is not deducted from Common Equity Tier 1 capital for the purposes of the sub-paragraph of the 

Provisional Article 2 of the Regulation on Banks’ Own Funds (-) -  
Deductions to be made from common equity in the case that adequate Additional Tier I Capital or Tier II Capital is not available (-) -  
TToottaall  DDeedduuccttiioonnss  FFrroomm  AAddddiittiioonnaall  TTiieerr  II  CCaappiittaall  --    
TToottaall  AAddddiittiioonnaall  TTiieerr  II  CCaappiittaall  --    
TToottaall  TTiieerr  II  CCaappiittaall  ((TTiieerr  II  CCaappiittaall==CCoommmmoonn  EEqquuiittyy++AAddddiittiioonnaall  TTiieerr  II  CCaappiittaall))  7766..771122..772233         
TTIIEERR  IIII  CCAAPPIITTAALL      
Debt instruments and share issue premiums deemed suitable by the BRSA 18.509.855   
Debt instruments and share issue premiums deemed suitable by BRSA (Temporary Article 4) -   
Provisions (Article 8 of the Regulation on the Equity of Banks) 4.858.574   
TTiieerr  IIII  CCaappiittaall  BBeeffoorree  DDeedduuccttiioonnss  2233..336688..442299    
DDeedduuccttiioonnss  FFrroomm  TTiieerr  IIII  CCaappiittaall     
Direct and indirect investments of the Bank on its own Tier II Capital (-) -   
Investments of Bank to Banks that invest on Bank’s Tier 2 and components of equity issued by financial institutions with the conditions 

declared in Article 8. -   
Portion of the total of net long positions of investments made in equity items of banks and financial institutions outside the scope of 

consolidation where the Bank owns 10% or less of the issued common share capital exceeding 10% of Common Equity of the Bank 
(-) -   

Portion of the total of net long positions of investments made in Additional Tier I Capital item of banks and financial institutions outside 
the scope of consolidation where the Bank owns 10% or more of the issued common share capital exceeding 10% of Common 
Equity of the Bank  -   

Other items to be defined by the BRSA (-) -   
TToottaall  DDeedduuccttiioonnss  ffrroomm  TTiieerr  IIII  CCaappiittaall  -   
TToottaall  TTiieerr  IIII  CCaappiittaall  2233..336688..442299    
TToottaall  CCaappiittaall  ((TThhee  ssuumm  ooff  TTiieerr  II  CCaappiittaall  aanndd  TTiieerr  IIII  CCaappiittaall))  110000..008811..115522    
DDeedduuccttiioonnss  ffrroomm  TToottaall  CCaappiittaall        
Deductions from Capital Loans granted contrary to the 50th and 51th Article of the Law -  
Net Book Values of Movables and Immovables Exceeding the Limit Defined in the Article 57, Clause 1 of the Banking Law and the 

Assets Acquired against Overdue Receivables and Held for Sale but Retained more than Five Years -  
Other items to be defined by the BRSA (-) 23.324  
IInn  ttrraannssiittiioonn  ffrroomm  TToottaall  CCoorree  CCaappiittaall  aanndd  SSuupppplleemmeennttaarryy  CCaappiittaall  ((tthhee  ccaappiittaall))  ttoo  CCoonnttiinnuuee  ttoo  DDeedduucctteedd  CCoommppoonneennttss    
The Sum of net long positions of investments (the portion which exceeds the 10 % of Banks Common Equity) in the capital of banking, 

financial and insurance entities that are outside the scope of regulatory consolidation, where the bank does not own more than 10% 
of the issued common share capital of the entity which will not be deducted from Common Equity Tier 1 capital, Additional Tier 1 
capital, Tier 2 capital for the purposes of the first sub-paragraph of the Provisional Article 2 of the Regulation on Banks’ Own Funds  -  

The Sum of net long positions of investments in the Additional Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital of banking, financial and insurance 
entities that are outside the scope of regulatory consolidation, where the bank does not own more than 10% of the issued common 
share capital of the entity which will not be deducted from Common Equity Tier 1 capital, Additional Tier 1 capital, Tier 2 capital for 
the purposes of the first sub-paragraph of the Provisional Article 2 of the Regulation on Banks’ Own Funds  -  

The Sum of net long positions of investments in the common stock of banking, financial and insurance entities that are outside the 
scope of regulatory consolidation, where the bank does not own more than 10% of the issued common share capital of the entity, 
mortgage servicing rights, deferred tax assets arising from temporary differences which will not be deducted from Common Equity 
Tier 1 capital for the purposes of the first sub-paragraph of the Provisional Article 2 of the Regulation on Banks’ Own Funds  -  

 
   

278 - 279Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
34 

 

 

  
  

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222 

DDeettaaiillss  oonn  SSuubboorrddiinnaatteedd  LLiiaabbiilliittiieess::    
Issuer AKBANK T.A.Ş 
Identifier(s) (CUSIP, ISIN vb.)                                                                                      XS2355183091 / US00971YAJ91 

Governing law (s) of the instrument 
Subject to British Common Law and in terms of certain articles to Turkish 

Regulations. It is issued within the scope of the Debt Instruments Disclosure of 
the Capital Markets Board and the Regulation on Equities of Banks of the BRSA.  

RReegguullaattoorryy  ttrreeaattmmeenntt      
Subject to 10% deduction as of 1/1/2015 No 
Eligible on unconsolidated and /or consolidated basis Unconsolidated and Consolidated 
Instrument type Subordinated Liabilities (Securities)  
Amount recognized in regulatory capital (Currency in mil, as of most recent reporting 
date) 

9.349 million TL (in full TL amount) 

Nominal value of instrument  9.349 million TL (in full TL amount) 
Accounting classification of the instrument Subordinated Loans (347011 Accounting Number) 
Issuance date of instrument 22 June 2021 
Maturity structure of the instrument (demand/maturity) Maturity 
Original maturity of the instrument Maturity date: 22 June 2031 
Issuer call subject to prior supervisory (BRSA) approval Yes 

Optional call date, contingent call dates and redemption amount 
There is an early repayment option on 22.06.2026. The reimbursement amount is 

9.349 million TL (in full TL amount) 
Subsequent call dates, if applicable  - 
CCoouuppoonn//ddiivviiddeenndd  ppaayymmeenntt      
Fixed or floating coupon/dividend payments  Fixed 
Coupon rate and any related index 6,8% 
Existence of any dividend payment restriction None 
Fully discretionary, partially discretionary or mandatory None 
Existence of step up or other incentive to redeem None 
Noncumulative or cumulative  Noncumulative 
CCoonnvveerrttiibbllee  oorr  nnoonn--ccoonnvveerrttiibbllee  iinnttoo  eeqquuiittyy  sshhaarreess      
If convertible, conversion trigger (s) None 
If convertible, fully or partially None 
If convertible, conversion rate  None 
If convertible, mandatory or optional conversion None 
If convertible, type of instrument convertible into None 
If convertible, issuer of instrument to be converted into None 
WWrriittee--ddoowwnn  ffeeaattuurree      

If bonds can be written-down, write-down trigger(s) 

Due to the losses incurred, where the Bank is at the point at which the BRSA 
may determine pursuant to Article 71 of the Banking Law that: (i) its operating 
license is to be revoked and the Bank is liquidated or (ii) the rights of all of its 

shareholders (except to dividends), and the management and supervision of the 
Bank, are to be transferred to the SDIF on the condition that losses are deducted 

from the capital of existing shareholders (occurrence of either condition means 
the issuer has become non-viable), or (iii) it is probable that the Issuer will 

become non-viable; then the bonds can be written-down. 
If bond can be written-down, full or partial  Partially or fully 
If bond can be written-down, permanent or temporary Continuously 
If temporary write-down, description of write-up mechanism There are no any temporary write-up mechanisms. 
Position in subordination hierarchy in case of liquidation (instrument type 
immediately senior to the instrument) 

In priority of receivables, it comes after the debt instruments which are non-
subordinated loans. 

In compliance with article number 7 and 8 of '' Own fund regulation '' The instrument is in compliance with article number 8.  
Details of incompliances with article number 7 and 8 of '' Own fund regulation'' The instrument is not in compliant with article numbered 7. 

 

 

 

 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

 
  

 
33 

 

bb.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  aabboouutt  iinnssttrruummeennttss  tthhaatt  wwiillll  bbee  iinncclluuddeedd  iinn  ttoottaall  ccaappiittaall  ccaallccuullaattiioonn::    

  
  

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222 

DDeettaaiillss  oonn  SSuubboorrddiinnaatteedd  LLiiaabbiilliittiieess::    
Issuer AKBANK T.A.Ş 
Identifier(s) (CUSIP, ISIN vb.)  XS1772360803 / US00972BAC37 

Governing law (s) of the instrument 
Subject to British Common Law and in terms of certain articles to Turkish 

Regulations. It is issued within the scope of the Debt Instruments Disclosure of 
the Capital Markets Board and the Regulation on Equities of Banks of the BRSA.  

RReegguullaattoorryy  ttrreeaattmmeenntt      
Subject to 10% deduction as of 1/1/2015 No 
Eligible on unconsolidated and /or consolidated basis Unconsolidated and Consolidated 
Instrument type Subordinated Liabilities (Securities)  
Amount recognized in regulatory capital (Currency in mil, as of most recent reporting 
date) 

7.473 million TL (in full TL amount) 

Nominal value of instrument  7.473 million TL (in full TL amount) 
Accounting classification of the instrument Subordinated Loans (347011 Accounting Number) 
Issuance date of instrument 27 February 2018 
Maturity structure of the instrument (demand/maturity) Maturity 
Original maturity of the instrument Maturity date: 27 April 2028 
Issuer call subject to prior supervisory (BRSA) approval Yes 

Optional call date, contingent call dates and redemption amount 
There is an early repayment option on 27.04.2023. The reimbursement amount is 

7.473 million TL (in full TL amount) 
Subsequent call dates, if applicable  - 
CCoouuppoonn//ddiivviiddeenndd  ppaayymmeenntt      
Fixed or floating coupon/dividend payments  Fixed 
Coupon rate and any related index 6,8% 
Existence of any dividend payment restriction None 
Fully discretionary, partially discretionary or mandatory None 
Existence of step up or other incentive to redeem None 
Noncumulative or cumulative  Noncumulative 
CCoonnvveerrttiibbllee  oorr  nnoonn--ccoonnvveerrttiibbllee  iinnttoo  eeqquuiittyy  sshhaarreess      
If convertible, conversion trigger (s) None 
If convertible, fully or partially None 
If convertible, conversion rate  None 
If convertible, mandatory or optional conversion None 
If convertible, type of instrument convertible into None 
If convertible, issuer of instrument to be converted into None 
WWrriittee--ddoowwnn  ffeeaattuurree      

If bonds can be written-down, write-down trigger(s) 

Due to the losses incurred, where the Bank is at the point at which the BRSA 
may determine pursuant to Article 71 of the Banking Law that: (i) its operating 
license is to be revoked and the Bank is liquidated or (ii) the rights of all of its 

shareholders (except to dividends), and the management and supervision of the 
Bank, are to be transferred to the SDIF on the condition that losses are deducted 

from the capital of existing shareholders (occurrence of either condition means 
the issuer has become non-viable), or (iii) it is probable that the Issuer will 

become non-viable; then the bonds can be written-down. 
If bond can be written-down, full or partial  Partially or fully 
If bond can be written-down, permanent or temporary Continuously 
If temporary write-down, description of write-up mechanism There are no any temporary write-up mechanisms. 
Position in subordination hierarchy in case of liquidation (instrument type 
immediately senior to the instrument) 

In priority of receivables, it comes after the debt instruments which are non-
subordinated loans. 

In compliance with article number 7 and 8 of '' Own fund regulation '' The instrument is in compliance with article number 8.  
Details of incompliances with article number 7 and 8 of '' Own fund regulation'' The instrument is not in compliant with article numbered 7. 

 

 

 

 

280 - 281Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
36 

 

bb.. Control limits exist on forward transaction and option agreements and other positions that are held in terms of similar other 
agreements. Credit risk born out of these types of instruments is managed together with market risk. 

cc.. The risks of the forward, option and other similar type agreements are followed regulary and as deemed necessary based on 
the credit risk, the risks are tried to be minimized.  

dd.. Non-cash loans turned into cash loans are included in the same risk group as overdue cash loans which are not collected upon 
maturity. Credit risk management is applied for all positions involving counterparty risk. Rescheduled or restructured loans 
are followed in their relevant groups until all receivables from the loans are collected. Monitoring also continues until the 
receivables from the loans are completely collected. 

The Bank considers that long-term commitments are more exposed to credit risk than short-term commitments, and   points 
such as defining risk limits for long-term risks and obtaining collateral are treated in a wider extent than short-term risks. 

ee.. The Bank’s banking activities in foreign countries and credit transactions do not constitute an important risk in terms of the 
related countries’ economic conditions and activities of customers and companies. 

When considered within the financial activities of other financial institutions, the Bank as an active participant in the national 
and international banking market is not exposed to significant credit risk concentration. 

As seen in the Bank’s balance sheet, the ratio of loans under follow-up to total loans is 3,0% (31 December 2021: 5,0%). 

ff.. 1. The proportion of the Bank’s top 100 and 200 cash loan customers’ in total cash loans is 35% and 43% respectively. (31 
December 2021: 37% and 46%). 

2. The proportion of the Bank’s top 100 and 200 customers’ non-cash loan balances in total non-cash loans is 52% and 63%.(31 
December 2021: 62% and 74%) 

3. The proportion of the Bank’s top 100 and 200 customers’ cash and non-cash loan balances in total balance sheet assets and 
non-cash loans is 19% and 24% respectively. (31 December 2021: 20% and 25%) 

gg.. The Bank provided a general excpected credit loss provision (Stage 1 and Stage 2) amounting to TL 10.074.318 (31 December 
2021 : TL 7.015.433). 

hh.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  llooaann  ttyyppeess  aanndd  eexxppeecctteedd  ccrreeddiitt  lloossss  pprroovviissiioonnss:: 

CCoommmmeerrcciiaall  LLooaannss  CCoonnssuummeerr  LLooaannss  CCrreeddiitt  CCaarrddss  TToottaall  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd--  
3311..1122..22002222  BBaallaannccee  

EExxccppeecctteedd  
CCrreeddiitt  LLoossss  BBaallaannccee  

EExxccppeecctteedd  
CCrreeddiitt  LLoossss  BBaallaannccee  

EExxccppeecctteedd  
CCrreeddiitt  LLoossss  BBaallaannccee  

EExxccppeecctteedd  
CCrreeddiitt  LLoossss  

LLooaannss  440000..335577..001133  1155..555566..772266  9988..113399..113366  22..994400..559966  6611..885544..003399  22..996655..332200  556600..335500..118888  2211..446622..664422  
Stage 1 353.003.247 1.106.903 92.226.596 911.107 58.220.799 1.448.193 503.450.642 3.466.203 
Stage 2 33.725.176 5.595.866 3.911.213 473.599 2.356.173 538.650 39.992.562 6.608.115 
Stage 3 13.628.590 8.853.957 2.001.327 1.555.890 1.277.067 978.477 16.906.984 11.388.324 
FFiinnaanncciiaall  AAsssseettss  229966..009944..884433  447799..775577  --  --  --  --  229966..009944..884433  447799..775577  
OOtthheerr  3344..007788..990022  5566..660088  --  --  --  --  3344..007788..990022  5566..660088  
NNoonn--CCaasshh  LLooaannss  114400..660011..770066  445577..008833  --  --  --  --  114400..660011..770066  445577..008833  
Stage 1 and 2  139.044.002 145.924 - - - - 139.044.002 145.924 
Stage 3 1.557.704 311.159 - - - - 1.557.704 311.159 
TToottaall 887711..113322..446644  1166..555500..117744  9988..113399..113366  22..994400..559966  6611..885544..003399  22..996655..332200  11..003311..112255..663399  2222..445566..009900  

 

 

 

 

 

 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

 
  

 
35 

 

cc.. The difference between Total Capital and Equity in the unconsolidated balance sheet mainly arises from expected credit loss 
provisions arising from loans classified under stage I and stage II and subordinated loans. In the calculation of Total Capital, up 
to 1,25% of expected credit loss from stage 1 and stage 2 over the credit risk amount and subordinated loans with nominal 
amounts, by reducing 20% each year if the remaining maturity is 100% less than 5 year, are taken into consideration as Tier II 
Capital. Additionally, the losses reflected to equity under TAS which is subject to deduction from TIER I capital are determined 
by excluding the losses from cash flow hedging. On the other hand, in the calculation of the Total Capital, improvement costs 
for operating leases followed under tangible assets in the balance sheet, intangible assets and related deferred tax liabilities, 
other items defined by the regulator are taken into consideration as amounts deducted from Total Capital. 

II. EXPLANATIONS ON CREDIT RISK: 

aa.. Credit risk is the risk that the counterparties may be unable to meet the terms of their agreements. This risk is monitored by 
reference to credit risk ratings and managed by limiting the aggregate risk to any individual counterparty, group of companies 
and industry. Credit risks are determined for each individual customer, enterprise, business group and risk groups separately. 
While determining credit risk, criteria such as the customers’ financial strength, commercial capacities, sectors, geographic 
areas and capital structure are evaluated. Analyses of the financial position of the customers are based on the statements of 
account and other information in accordance with the related legislation. Previously determined credit limits are constantly 
revised according to changing conditions. The type and amount of collateral and guarantees to be obtained are specified on a 
customer basis during the determination of credit limits. 

 

During loan extensions, limits determined on a customer and product basis are essentially followed up; information on risk and 
limits is closely monitored. 

For daily treasury operations limit allocation and follow-up is performed by the Treasury.Business Unit. 

Credit worthiness of loan and other receivable debtors are watched regularly and in line with related regulations. In case of an 
increase in credit debtor’s risk level credit limits are re-determined or additional guarantee is taken. For new credit accounts, 
account follow-up documents are taken in accordance with the related regulation.  

The explanations on definition of overdue and impaired loans and information related to impairment and loan loss provisions 
are provided in Note X-c-4-a of Section Four. 

RRiisskk  CCllaassssiiffiiccaattiioonnss  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  RRiisskk  

AAmmoouunntt  ((**))  AAvveerraaggee  RRiisskk  AAmmoouunntt    
Conditional and unconditional receivables from central governments and Central 
Banks             352.881.781           299.928.854   
Conditional and unconditional receivables from regional or local governments                    70.956                   99.669   
Conditional and unconditional receivables from administrative bodies and  non-
commercial enterprises                  875.624                  547.131   
Conditional and unconditional receivables from multilateral development banks                           -                          -   
Conditional and unconditional receivables from international organizations                            -                          -   
Conditional and unconditional receivables from banks and brokerage houses            121.473.649           124.866.340   
Conditional and unconditional receivables from corporates            386.638.831           343.802.933   
Conditional and unconditional receivables from retail portfolios            273.573.527           184.461.204   
Conditional and unconditional receivables secured by mortgages              42.125.640             35.943.141   
Past due receivables               5.582.249               5.980.509   
Receivables defined under high risk category by BRSA              74.713.162             45.415.207   
Collateralized securities                           -                          -   
Securitization positions                           -                          -   
Short-term receivables from banks, brokerage houses and corporate                           -                          -   
Investments similar to collective investment funds               1.176.544                  880.211   
Equity security investments              24.105.665             20.153.565   
Other receivables              44.286.820             29.336.051   
TToottaall          11..332277..550044..444488               11..009911..441144..881155      
(*) The figures represent total risk amounts before Credit Risk Mitigation and before credit conversion factor.  

282 - 283Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
38 

 

 

kk.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  ddeebbtt  sseeccuurriittiieess,,  ttrreeaassuurryy  bbiillllss  aanndd  ootthheerr  eelliiggiibbllee  bbiillllss::  

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  --  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222 

FFiinnaanncciiaall  AAsssseettss  aatt  
FFaaiirr  VVaalluuee  TThhrroouugghh  

PP&&LL  

FFiinnaanncciiaall  AAsssseettss  aatt  FFaaiirr  
VVaalluuee  TThhrroouugghh  OOtthheerr  

CCoommpprreehheennssiivvee  IInnccoommee  

FFiinnaanncciiaall  AAsssseettss  
MMeeaassuurreedd  aatt  

AAmmoorrttiisseedd  CCoosstt  TToottaall  
MMooooddyy’’ss  RRaattiinngg      
Aaa 8.216 10.866.459 - 1100..887744..667755  
A1, A2, A3 - - - --  
Baa1, Baa2, Baa3 - - - --  
Ba1 - - - --  
Ba2  - - - --  
Ba3  - - - --  
B1, B2, B3  326.981 152.372.710 98.154.675 225500..885544..336666  
C and lower than C 2.217 - - 22..221177  
NR - 129.843 - 112299..884433  
TToottaall  333377..441144  116633..336699..001122  9988..115544..667755  226611..886611..110011  
  

  

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  --  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211 

FFiinnaanncciiaall  AAsssseettss  aatt  
FFaaiirr  VVaalluuee  TThhrroouugghh  

PP&&LL  

FFiinnaanncciiaall  AAsssseettss  aatt  FFaaiirr  
VVaalluuee  TThhrroouugghh  OOtthheerr  

CCoommpprreehheennssiivvee  IInnccoommee  

FFiinnaanncciiaall  AAsssseettss  
MMeeaassuurreedd  aatt  

AAmmoorrttiisseedd  CCoosstt  TToottaall  
MMooooddyy’’ss  RRaattiinngg      
Aaa - 1.326.892 - 11..332266..889922  
A1, A2, A3 - - - --  
Baa1, Baa2, Baa3 - - - --  
Ba1 - - - --  
Ba2  - - - --  
Ba3  - - - --  
B1, B2, B3  495.492 88.552.685 52.585.560 114411..663333..773377  
C and lower than C 91.320 - - 9911..332200  
NR - 105.496 - 110055..449966  
TToottaall  558866..881122  8899..998855..007733  5522..558855..556600  114433..115577..444455  

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

 
  

 
37 

 

ii.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  tthhee  eexxppeecctteedd  ccrreeddiitt  lloossss  ooff  llooaannss::  ((******))  

SSttaaggee  11  SSttaaggee  22  SSttaaggee  33  
OOppeenniinngg  ((3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211))  11..551133..224433  55..550022..119900  1111..660055..003388  
Additions (*) 1.821.299 2.186.902 13.450.580 
Disposal (**) (379.827) (909.906) (1.031.718) 
Effect of change in foreign exchange 28.712 1.604.978 - 
SSttaaggee  11  aanndd  22  mmoovveemmeenntt  
Loans classified under Stage 1 in two periods (Model effect) 11.152 - - 
Loans classified under Stage 1 in two periods  (Change in balance effect) 478.531 - - 
Transfers from Stage 1 to Stage 2 (Stating and balance change effect) (52.079) 423.728 - 
Loans classified under Stage 2 in two periods (Model effect) - 2.651.891 - 
Loans classified under Stage 2 in two periods  (Change in balance effect) - (4.317.616) - 
Transfers from Stage 2 to Stage 1 (Stating and balance change effect) 59.159 (366.906) - 
SSttaaggee  33  mmoovveemmeenntt  
Transfers from Stage 1 to Stage 3 (13.987) - 358.559 
Transfers from Stage 2 to Stage 3 - (177.040) 953.642 
Transfers from Stage 3 to Stage 2 - 9.894 (193.007) 
Transfers from Stage 3 to Stage 1 - - - 
Loans classified under Stage 2 in two periods  
(Change in balance and model effect) - - 392.356 
Write-offs - - (14.146.324) 
Sold Portfolio effect - - (802) 
CClloossiinngg  ((3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222))  33..446666..220033  66..660088..111155  1111..338888..332244  

(*) Loans which are not included in the loan portfolio as of 31 December 2021 and included in the loan portfolio and calculated provisions 
as of 31 December 2022. 
(**) Loans which are included in the loan portfolio and calculated provisions as of 31 December 2021 but which are not included in the 
loan portfolio as of 31 December 2022. 
(***) In the calculations the transitions between the records in both periods have been considered by making additions and disposals. 

jj.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  mmoovveemmeenntt  ooff  llooaannss::  

SSttaaggee  11  SSttaaggee  22  SSttaaggee  33  TToottaall  
OOppeenniinngg  ((3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211))  229966..554455..555500  3399..005577..773344  1177..776688..554466  335533..337711..883300  
Additions  308.877.153 5.796.966 13.505.599 328.179.718 
Disposals (122.825.026) (8.310.822) (1.705.873) (132.841.721) 
Sold portfolio - - (802) (802) 
Write-offs - - (14.146.324) (14.146.324) 
Transfers to Stage 1 3.841.884 (3.841.884) - - 
Transfers to Stage 2 (2.188.594) 2.416.314 (227.720) - 
Transfers to Stage 3 (542.155) (1.171.403) 1.713.558 - 
Foreign exchange effect 19.741.830 6.045.657 - 25.787.487 
CClloossiinngg  ((3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222))  550033..445500..664422  3399..999922..556622  1166..990066..998844  556600..335500..118888  

 

 

 

 

 

284 - 285Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CO
N

VE
N

IE
N

CE
 T

R
AN

SL
AT

IO
N

 O
F 

PU
B

LI
CL

Y 
AN

N
O

U
N

CE
D

 U
N

CO
N

SO
LI

D
AT

ED
 F

IN
AN

CI
A

L 
ST

AT
EM

EN
TS

  
O

R
IG

IN
A

LL
Y 

IS
SU

ED
 IN

 T
U

R
K

IS
H

, S
EE

 N
OT

E 
I.b

 O
F 

SE
CT

IO
N

 T
H

R
EE

 
 A

K
B

AN
K

 T
.A

.Ş
. 

N
O

TE
S 

TO
 U

N
CO

N
SO

LI
D

AT
ED

 F
IN

AN
CI

AL
 S

TA
TE

M
EN

TS
 A

T 
31

 D
EC

EM
B

ER
 2

02
2 

(A
m

ou
nt

s 
ex

pr
es

se
d 

in
 th

ou
sa

nd
s 

of
 T

ur
ki

sh
 L

ir
a 

(“
TL

”)
 u

nl
es

s 
ot

he
rw

is
e 

st
at

ed
.) 

    
 40

 
 

mm
.. RR

iiss
kk  

PP
rroo

ffii
llee

  aa
cccc

oorr
ddii

nngg
  ttoo

  ss
eecc

ttoo
rrss

  aa
nndd

  cc
oouu

nntt
eerr

ppaa
rrtt

iiee
ss::

  

CC
uurr

rree
nntt

  PP
eerr

iioo
dd  

((**
**))

 
RR

iiss
kk  

CC
llaa

ssss
iiff

iicc
aatt

iioo
nnss

  ((**
))  

  
  

  
  

3311
  DD

eecc
eemm

bbee
rr  

2200
2222

  
11  

22  
33  

44  
55  

66  
77  

88  
99  

1100
  

1111
  

1122
  

1133
  

1144
  

1155
  

1166
  

1177
  

TTLL
  

FFCC
  

TToo
ttaa

ll  

Ag
ri

cu
ltu

ra
l 

- 
- 

1 
- 

- 
- 

58
2.

73
1 

53
9.

71
8 

43
7.

23
7 

4.
54

1 
73

.0
00

 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
1.

44
6.

78
6 

19
0.

44
2 

11..
6633

77..
2222

88  
  F

ar
m

in
g 

an
d 

ra
is

in
g 

liv
es

to
ck

 
- 

- 
1 

- 
- 

- 
10

.9
51

 
31

5.
93

3 
25

6.
93

4 
1.

62
9 

21
.5

44
 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

60
1.

74
5 

5.
24

7 
  

6600
66..

9999
22  

  F
or

es
tr

y 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
57

1.
78

0 
21

8.
49

4 
17

5.
92

1 
46

5 
50

.9
89

 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
83

2.
45

4 
18

5.
19

5 
11..

0011
77..

6644
99  

  F
is

hi
ng

 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

5.
29

1 
4.

38
2 

2.
44

7 
46

7 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
12

.5
87

 
- 

1 122
..55

8877
  

M
an

uf
ac

tu
ri

ng
 

- 
- 

92
.5

50
 

- 
- 

- 
14

4.
39

3.
62

0 
11

.6
41

.8
54

 
8.

78
8.

58
6 

1.
13

3.
43

0 
8.

00
1.

53
9 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

11
4.

09
9.

19
8 

59
.9

52
.3

81
 

1177
44..

0055
11..

5577
99  

  M
in

in
g 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

19
.2

28
.9

59
 

1.
87

6.
81

7 
1.

23
4.

30
4 

16
3.

34
8 

66
1.

04
9 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

13
.4

54
.0

02
 

9.
71

0.
47

5 
2233

..11
6644

..44
7777

  
  P

ro
du

ct
io

n 
- 

- 
92

.5
50

 
- 

- 
- 

92
.5

77
.8

69
 

9.
57

4.
04

4 
7.

17
9.

28
9 

31
8.

45
8 

6.
95

0.
19

1 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
89

.7
11

.8
28

 
26

.9
80

.5
73

 
1 111

66..
6699

22..
4400

11  
  E

le
ct

ri
ci

ty
, G

as
, 

W
at

e r
 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

32
.5

86
.7

92
 

19
0.

99
3 

37
4.

99
3 

65
1.

62
4 

39
0.

29
9 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

10
.9

33
.3

68
 

23
.2

61
.3

33
 

  
3344

..11
9944

..77
0011

  
C

on
st

ru
ct

io
n 

 
- 

- 
56

4 
- 

- 
- 

51
.4

50
.0

11
 

3.
86

9.
64

3 
3.

22
2.

31
4 

1.
94

9.
80

3 
2.

80
4.

62
1 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

23
.5

36
.5

10
 

39
.7

60
.4

46
 

6633
..22

9966
..99

5566
  

Se
rv

ic
es

 
13

3.
84

6.
90

0 
70

.9
56

 
59

2.
75

6 
- 

- 
11

0.
35

9.
04

9 
13

5.
90

2.
58

2 
39

.9
74

.2
68

 
18

.0
19

.3
55

 
1.

81
7.

46
9 

20
.7

97
.2

45
 

- 
- 

- 
- 

23
.5

57
.7

85
 

- 
26

8.
50

5.
03

4 
21

6.
43

3.
33

1 
4488

44..
9933

88..
3366

55  

 W
ho

le
sa

le
 a

nd
 

R
et

ai
l T

ra
de

 
- 

- 
22

1.
18

4 
- 

- 
- 

53
.9

44
.9

46
 

26
.2

20
.3

32
 

10
.4

88
.9

14
 

44
5.

50
2 

12
.7

75
.8

90
 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

94
.8

31
.9

70
 

9.
26

4.
79

8 
  

1100
44..

0099
66..

7766
88  

H
ot

el
,F

oo
d,

B
ev

er
ag

e 
Se

rv
ic

es
 

- 
- 

25
6 

- 
- 

- 
13

.1
36

.7
45

 
2.

34
1.

77
0 

3.
05

3.
41

1 
49

5.
23

9 
19

5.
10

7 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
8.

24
9.

19
2 

10
.9

73
.3

36
 

  
1199

..22
2222

..55
2288

  
  T

ra
ns

po
rt

at
io

n 
an

d 
 T

el
ec

om
m

un
ic

at
io

n 
- 

- 
30

.7
80

 
- 

- 
- 

11
.8

34
.8

83
 

3.
89

9.
46

0 
87

3.
20

9 
25

.5
81

 
1.

79
5.

27
9 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

10
.3

15
.8

07
 

8.
14

3.
38

5 
  

1188
..44

5599
..11

9922
  

  F
in

an
ci

al
 

In
st

itu
tio

ns
 

13
3.

84
5.

17
8 

- 
13

0 
- 

- 
11

0.
35

9.
04

9 
46

.4
72

.9
53

 
19

1.
48

0 
66

9.
94

4 
66

9.
91

8 
3.

75
3.

98
7 

- 
- 

- 
- 

23
.5

48
.2

11
 

- 
13

3.
40

4.
43

9 
18

6.
10

6.
41

1 
  

3311
99..

5511
00..

8855
00  

  R
ea

l E
st

at
e 

an
d 

Le
nd

in
g 

Se
rv

ic
es

 
- 

- 
6.

35
1 

- 
- 

- 
1.

44
4.

59
1 

50
4.

73
4 

33
8.

14
5 

25
.2

03
 

14
3.

67
7 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

2.
38

0.
26

4 
82

.4
37

 
  

22..
4466

22..
7700

11  
  S

el
f e

m
pl

oy
m

en
t 

Se
rv

ic
e 

69
1 

70
.9

56
 

13
8.

38
1 

- 
- 

- 
6.

72
3.

88
8 

4.
79

2.
57

1 
1.

71
6.

39
4 

13
8.

62
3 

1.
72

2.
63

6 
- 

- 
- 

- 
9.

57
4 

- 
14

.6
55

.8
53

 
65

7.
86

1 
  

1155
..33

1133
..77

1144
  

  E
du

ca
tio

n 
Se

rv
ic

e 
1.

03
1 

- 
38

.0
66

 
- 

- 
- 

27
9.

58
7 

44
4.

41
6 

18
0.

19
0 

1.
62

7 
12

8.
43

4 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
88

8.
81

6 
18

4.
53

5 
11..

0077
33..

3355
11  

  H
ea

lth
 a

nd
 s

oc
ia

l 
Se

rv
ic

es
 

- 
- 

15
7.

60
8 

- 
- 

- 
2.

06
4.

98
9 

1.
57

9.
50

5 
69

9.
14

8 
15

.7
76

 
28

2.
23

5 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
3.

77
8.

69
3 

1.
02

0.
56

8 
  

44..
7799

99..
2266

11  
O

th
er

 
21

8.
93

0.
34

0 
- 

59
.6

58
 

- 
- 

1.
95

6.
65

6 
5.

23
4.

26
8 

82
.2

93
.8

28
 

9.
26

2.
69

7 
67

7.
00

6 
42

.4
46

.4
96

 
- 

- 
- 

1.
17

6.
54

4 
54

7.
88

0 
44

.2
86

.8
20

 
34

6.
39

3.
83

4 
60

.4
78

.3
59

 
4400

66..
8877

22..
1199

33  

TToo
ttaa

ll  
3355

22..
7777

77..
2244

00  
7700

..99
5566

  
7744

55..
5522

99  
--  

--  
1111

22..
3311

55..
7700

55  
3333

77..
5566

33..
2211

22  
1133

88..
3311

99..
3311

11  
3399

..77
3300

..11
8899

  
55..

5588
22..

2244
99  

7744
..11

2222
..99

0011
  

--  
--  

--  
11..

1177
66..

5544
44  

2244
..11

0055
..66

6655
  

4444
..22

8866
..88

2200
  

7755
33..

9988
11..

3366
22  

    33
7766

..88
1144

..99
5599

  
  

11..
1133

00..
7799

66..
3322

11  
 

(*
) S

ta
nd

s 
fo

r 
th

e 
ri

sk
 c

at
eg

or
ie

s 
lis

te
d 

in
 “

R
eg

ul
at

io
ns

 o
n 

M
ea

su
re

m
en

t a
nd

 A
ss

es
sm

en
t o

f C
ap

ita
l A

de
qu

ac
y 

R
at

io
s 

of
 B

an
ks

.”
  

(*
*)

 It
 r

ep
re

se
nt

s 
th

e 
ri

sk
 a

m
ou

nt
s 

be
fo

re
 c

re
di

t r
is

k 
m

iti
ga

tio
n 

an
d 

af
te

r 
co

nv
er

si
on

 to
 c

re
di

t. 
 

1.
   

   
   

   
 C

on
di

tio
na

l a
nd

 u
nc

on
di

tio
na

l r
ec

ei
va

bl
es

 fr
om

 c
en

tr
al

 g
ov

er
nm

en
ts

 a
nd

 C
en

tr
al

 B
an

ks
  

 
9.

 
C

on
di

tio
na

l a
nd

 u
nc

on
di

tio
na

l r
ec

ei
va

bl
es

 s
ec

ur
ed

 b
y 

m
or

tg
ag

es
 

2.
 

C
on

di
tio

na
l a

nd
 u

nc
on

di
tio

na
l r

ec
ei

va
bl

es
 fr

om
 r

eg
io

na
l o

r 
lo

ca
l g

ov
er

nm
en

ts
 

 
 

10
. 

Pa
st

 d
ue

 r
ec

ei
va

bl
es

 
 

3.
 

C
on

di
tio

na
l a

nd
 u

nc
on

di
tio

na
l r

ec
ei

va
bl

es
 fr

om
 a

dm
in

is
tr

at
iv

e 
bo

di
es

 a
nd

 n
on

-c
om

m
er

ci
al

 e
nt

er
pr

is
es

 
11

. 
R

ec
ei

va
bl

es
 d

ef
in

ed
 u

nd
er

 h
ig

h 
ri

sk
 c

at
eg

or
y 

by
 B

R
SA

 
4.

 
C

on
di

tio
na

l a
nd

 u
nc

on
di

tio
na

l r
ec

ei
va

bl
es

 fr
om

 m
ul

til
at

er
al

 d
ev

el
op

m
en

t b
an

ks
 

 
 

12
. 

C
ol

la
te

ra
liz

ed
 s

ec
ur

iti
es

  
5.

 
C

on
di

tio
na

l a
nd

 u
nc

on
di

tio
na

l r
ec

ei
va

bl
es

 fr
om

 in
te

rn
at

io
na

l o
rg

an
iz

at
io

ns
  

 
 

13
. 

Se
cu

ri
tiz

at
io

n 
po

si
tio

ns
 

6.
   

   
   

   
 C

on
di

tio
na

l a
nd

 u
nc

on
di

tio
na

l r
ec

ei
va

bl
es

 fr
om

 b
an

ks
 a

nd
 b

ro
ke

ra
ge

 h
ou

se
s 

 
 

14
. 

Sh
or

t-
te

rm
 r

ec
ei

va
bl

es
 fr

om
 b

an
ks

, b
ro

ke
ra

ge
 h

ou
se

s 
an

d 
co

rp
or

at
es

 
7.

 
C

on
di

tio
na

l a
nd

 u
nc

on
di

tio
na

l r
ec

ei
va

bl
es

 fr
om

 c
or

po
ra

te
s 

 
 

 
 

 
15

. 
In

ve
st

m
en

ts
 s

im
ila

r 
to

 c
ol

le
ct

iv
e 

in
ve

st
m

en
t f

un
ds

 
8.

 
C

on
di

tio
na

l a
nd

 u
nc

on
di

tio
na

l r
ec

ei
va

bl
es

 fr
om

 r
et

ai
l p

or
tfo

lio
s 

 
 

 
16

. 
Eq

ui
ty

 s
ec

ur
ity

 tr
an

sa
ct

io
ns

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

17
. 

O
th

er
 r

ec
ei

va
bl

es
 

CO
N

VE
N

IE
N

CE
 T

R
AN

SL
AT

IO
N

 O
F 

PU
B

LI
CL

Y 
AN

N
O

U
N

CE
D

 U
N

CO
N

SO
LI

D
AT

ED
 F

IN
AN

CI
A

L 
ST

AT
EM

EN
TS

  
O

R
IG

IN
A

LL
Y 

IS
SU

ED
 IN

 T
U

R
K

IS
H

, S
EE

 N
OT

E 
I.b

 O
F 

SE
CT

IO
N

 T
H

R
EE

 
 A

K
B

AN
K

 T
.A

.Ş
. 

N
O

TE
S 

TO
 U

N
CO

N
SO

LI
D

AT
ED

 F
IN

AN
CI

AL
 S

TA
TE

M
EN

TS
 A

T 
31

 D
EC

EM
B

ER
 2

02
2 

(A
m

ou
nt

s 
ex

pr
es

se
d 

in
 th

ou
sa

nd
s 

of
 T

ur
ki

sh
 L

ir
a 

(“
TL

”)
 u

nl
es

s 
ot

he
rw

is
e 

st
at

ed
.) 

    
 39

 
 ll..  

PP
rroo

ffii
llee

  oo
nn  

ssii
ggnn

iiff
iicc

aann
tt  rr

iiss
kkss

  iinn
  ss

iigg
nnii

ffii
ccaa

nntt
  rr

eegg
iioo

nnss
::    

CC
uurr

rree
nntt

  PP
eerr

iioo
dd  

((**
**))

  
RR

iiss
kk  

CC
aatt

eegg
oorr

iiee
ss  

((**
  ))  

  
3311

  DD
eecc

eemm
bbee

rr  
2200

2222
  

11  
22  

33  
44  

55  
66  

77  
88  

99  
1100

  
1111

  
1122

  
1133

  
1144

  
1155

  
1166

  
1177

  
TToo

ttaa
ll 

D
om

es
tic

 
33

8.
68

0.
62

4 
70

.9
56

 
74

5.
52

9 
- 

- 
24

.8
81

.4
02

 
33

4.
45

9.
36

4 
13

8.
24

4.
55

4 
39

.7
02

.5
21

 
5.

58
2.

14
5 

74
.1

18
.5

01
 

- 
- 

- 
1.

17
6.

54
4 

- 
44

.2
86

.8
20

 
11..

0000
11..

9944
88..

9966
00  

Eu
ro

pe
an

 U
ni

on
 C

ou
nt

ri
es

 
6.

35
0.

50
9 

- 
- 

- 
- 

66
.5

10
.7

34
 

1.
53

8.
41

0 
46

.7
81

 
12

.0
92

 
85

 
3.

28
7 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

7744
..44

6611
..88

9988
  

O
EC

D
 C

ou
nt

ri
es

(*
**

) 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

7.
34

5.
16

6 
22

 
3.

35
6 

2.
32

3 
- 

19
5 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

77..
3355

11..
0066

22  
O

ff-
 S

ho
re

 R
eg

io
ns

 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

24
8 

11
8.

40
0 

14
 

- 
2 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
1111

88..
6666

44  
U

SA
, C

an
ad

a 
7.

74
6.

10
7 

- 
- 

- 
- 

12
.3

13
.7

81
 

- 
4.

32
9 

6.
46

6 
- 

17
7 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

2200
..00

7700
..88

6600
  

O
th

er
 C

ou
nt

ri
es

 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

1.
26

4.
37

4 
1.

44
7.

01
6 

20
.2

77
 

6.
78

7 
17

 
74

1 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
22..

7733
99..

2211
22  

In
ve

st
m

en
t a

nd
 

as
so

ci
at

es
, s

ub
si

di
ar

ie
s 

an
d 

jo
in

t v
en

tu
re

s 
 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
24

.1
05

.6
65

 
- 

2 244
..11

0055
..66

6655
  

U
nd

is
tr

ib
ut

ed
 A

ss
et

s 
/ 

Li
ab

ili
tie

s(
**

**
) 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
--  

TToo
ttaa

ll  
3355

22..
7777

77..
2244

00 
7700

..99
5566

 
7744

55..
5522

99 
--  

--  
1111

22..
3311

55..
7700

55 
3333

77..
5566

33..
2211

22 
1133

88..
3311

99..
3311

11 
3399

..77
3300

..11
8899

 
55..

5588
22..

2244
99 

7744
..11

2222
..99

0011
 

--  
--  

--  
11..

1177
66..

5544
44  

2244
..11

0055
..66

6655
 

4444
..22

8866
..88

2200
 

11..
1133

00..
7799

66..
3322

11  
 PP

rrii
oorr

  PP
eerr

iioo
dd  

((**
**))

  
RR

iiss
kk  

CC
aatt

eegg
oorr

iiee
ss  

((**
  ))  

  

3311
  DD

eecc
eemm

bbee
rr  

2200
2211

  
11  

22  
33  

44  
55  

66  
77  

88  
99  

1100
  

1111
  

1122
  

1133
  

1144
  

1155
  

1166
  

1177
  

TToo
ttaa

ll 
D

om
es

tic
 

20
9.

73
4.

22
1 

13
4.

45
2 

39
0.

38
1 

- 
- 

16
.0

19
.5

53
 

22
1.

26
0.

18
5 

88
.6

57
.3

43
 

25
.8

07
.7

45
 

6.
18

8.
56

4 
18

.2
74

.2
44

 
- 

- 
- 

54
6.

62
2 

- 
17

.6
53

.7
89

 
6600

44..
6666

77..
0099

99  
Eu

ro
pe

an
 U

ni
on

 C
ou

nt
ri

es
 

1.
15

8.
91

1 
- 

- 
- 

- 
42

.2
35

.4
94

 
1.

81
5.

28
7 

24
.1

30
 

13
.6

02
 

59
 

2.
00

1 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
4455

..22
4499

..44
8844

  
O

EC
D

 C
ou

nt
ri

es
(*

**
) 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
7.

14
7.

51
6 

44
2 

3.
03

5 
97

6 
2 

21
7 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

77..
1155

22..
1188

88  
O

ff-
 S

ho
re

 R
eg

io
ns

 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

16
5 

37
5.

94
8 

9 
- 

2 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

3377
66..

1122
44  

U
SA

, C
an

ad
a 

88
0.

63
7 

- 
- 

- 
- 

21
.7

11
.3

99
 

2 
8.

52
2 

2.
59

2 
4 

22
8 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

2222
..66

0033
..33

8844
  

O
th

er
 C

ou
nt

ri
es

 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

2.
43

7.
32

8 
68

1.
28

1 
9.

52
6 

2.
49

5 
6 

1.
36

2 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
33..

1133
11..

9999
88  

In
ve

st
m

en
t a

nd
 

as
so

ci
at

es
, s

ub
si

di
ar

ie
s 

an
d 

jo
in

t v
en

tu
re

s 
 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
21

2.
42

8 
1.

51
9.

74
5 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

16
.4

74
.3

53
 

- 
1188

..22
0066

..55
2266

  
U

nd
is

tr
ib

ut
ed

 A
ss

et
s 

/ 
Li

ab
ili

tie
s(

**
**

)  
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

--  
TToo

ttaa
ll  

2211
11..

7777
33..

7766
99  

1133
44..

4455
22  

3399
00..

3388
11  

--  
--  

8899
..77

6633
..88

8833
  

2222
55..

6655
22..

8899
00  

8888
..77

0022
..55

6655
  

2255
..88

2277
..44

1100
  

66..
1188

88..
6633

77  
1188

..22
7788

..00
5522

  
--  

--  
--  

5544
66..

6622
22  

1166
..44

7744
..33

5533
  

1177
..66

5533
..77

8899
  

7700
11..

3388
66..

8800
33  

(*
)  

St
an

ds
 fo

r 
th

e 
ri

sk
 c

at
eg

or
ie

s 
lis

te
d 

in
 “

R
eg

ul
at

io
ns

 o
n 

M
ea

su
re

m
en

t a
nd

 A
ss

es
sm

en
t o

f C
ap

ita
l A

de
qu

ac
y 

R
at

io
s 

of
 B

an
ks

.”
  

(*
*)

 It
 r

ep
re

se
nt

s 
th

e 
ri

sk
 a

m
ou

nt
s 

be
fo

re
 c

re
di

t r
is

k 
m

iti
ga

tio
n 

an
d 

af
te

r 
co

nv
er

si
on

 to
 c

re
di

t. 

 
1.

   
   

   
   

 C
on

di
tio

na
l a

nd
 u

nc
on

di
tio

na
l r

ec
ei

va
bl

es
 fr

om
 c

en
tr

al
 g

ov
er

nm
en

ts
 a

nd
 C

en
tr

al
 B

an
ks

  
 

9.
 

C
on

di
tio

na
l a

nd
 u

nc
on

di
tio

na
l r

ec
ei

va
bl

es
 s

ec
ur

ed
 b

y 
m

or
tg

ag
es

 
2.

 
C

on
di

tio
na

l a
nd

 u
nc

on
di

tio
na

l r
ec

ei
va

bl
es

 fr
om

 r
eg

io
na

l o
r 

lo
ca

l g
ov

er
nm

en
ts

 
 

 
10

. 
Pa

st
 d

ue
 r

ec
ei

va
bl

es
 

 
3.

 
C

on
di

tio
na

l a
nd

 u
nc

on
di

tio
na

l r
ec

ei
va

bl
es

 fr
om

 a
dm

in
is

tr
at

iv
e 

bo
di

es
 a

nd
 n

on
-c

om
m

er
ci

al
 e

nt
er

pr
is

es
 

11
. 

R
ec

ei
va

bl
es

 d
ef

in
ed

 u
nd

er
 h

ig
h 

ri
sk

 c
at

eg
or

y 
by

 B
R

SA
 

4.
 

C
on

di
tio

na
l a

nd
 u

nc
on

di
tio

na
l r

ec
ei

va
bl

es
 fr

om
 m

ul
til

at
er

al
 d

ev
el

op
m

en
t b

an
ks

 
 

 
12

. 
C

ol
la

te
ra

liz
ed

 s
ec

ur
iti

es
  

5.
 

C
on

di
tio

na
l a

nd
 u

nc
on

di
tio

na
l r

ec
ei

va
bl

es
 fr

om
 in

te
rn

at
io

na
l o

rg
an

iz
at

io
ns

  
 

 
13

. 
Se

cu
ri

tiz
at

io
n 

po
si

tio
ns

 
6.

   
   

   
   

 C
on

di
tio

na
l a

nd
 u

nc
on

di
tio

na
l r

ec
ei

va
bl

es
 fr

om
 b

an
ks

 a
nd

 b
ro

ke
ra

ge
 h

ou
se

s 
 

 
14

. 
Sh

or
t-

te
rm

 r
ec

ei
va

bl
es

 fr
om

 b
an

ks
, b

ro
ke

ra
ge

 h
ou

se
s 

an
d 

co
rp

or
at

es
 

7.
 

C
on

di
tio

na
l a

nd
 u

nc
on

di
tio

na
l r

ec
ei

va
bl

es
 fr

om
 c

or
po

ra
te

s 
 

 
 

 
 

15
. 

In
ve

st
m

en
ts

 s
im

ila
r 

to
 c

ol
le

ct
iv

e 
in

ve
st

m
en

t f
un

ds
 

8.
 

C
on

di
tio

na
l a

nd
 u

nc
on

di
tio

na
l r

ec
ei

va
bl

es
 fr

om
 r

et
ai

l p
or

tfo
lio

s 
 

 
 

16
. 

Eq
ui

ty
 s

ec
ur

ity
 tr

an
sa

ct
io

ns
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
17

. 
O

th
er

 r
ec

ei
va

bl
es

 
 (*

**
)  

   
EU

 c
ou

nt
ri

es
, O

EC
D

 c
ou

nt
ri

es
 o

th
er

 th
an

 U
SA

 a
nd

 C
an

ad
a 

 
(*

**
*)

  A
ss

et
s 

an
d 

lia
bi

lit
ie

s 
th

at
 a

re
 n

ot
 d

is
tr

ib
ut

ed
 a

cc
or

di
ng

 to
 a

 c
on

si
st

en
t p

ri
nc

ip
le

   
   

   
   

   
 

 

286 - 287Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
42 

 

 
nn.. TTeerrmm  ddiissttrriibbuuttiioonn  ooff  rriisskkss  wwiitthh  tteerrmm  ssttrruuccttuurree  ((**))::  

TTiimmee  ttoo  MMaattuurriittyy  
  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  
  RRiisskk  CCaatteeggoorriieess    11  mmoonntthh  11--33  mmoonntthhss  33--66  mmoonntthhss  

66--1122  
mmoonntthhss  OOvveerr  11  yyeeaarr  UUnnaallllooccaatteedd  

Conditional and unconditional receivables from central 
governments and Central Banks  30.689.288 91.452.196 14.496.894 15.365.477 200.773.385 - 
Conditional and unconditional receivables from regional 
or local governments - - 431 31.576 38.949 - 
Conditional and unconditional receivables from 
administrative bodies and  non-commercial enterprises 98.787 40.097 104.282 379.340 123.023 - 
Conditional and unconditional receivables from 
multilateral development banks - - - - - - 
Conditional and unconditional receivables from 
international organizations  - - - - - - 
Conditional and unconditional receivables from banks 
and brokerage houses 41.672.295 15.037.331 9.839.683 8.916.178 36.850.218 - 
Conditional and unconditional receivables from 
corporates 15.427.679 53.702.238 58.591.358 68.039.883 141.802.054 - 
Conditional and unconditional receivables from retail 
portfolios 2.490.729 6.319.228 15.589.616 44.246.337 69.673.401 - 
Conditional and unconditional receivables secured by 
mortgages 685.108 2.478.435 2.824.509 8.882.820 24.859.317 - 
Past due receivables - - - - - 5.582.249 
Receivables defined under high risk category by BRSA 1.198.064 3.954.651 7.377.131 13.919.950 47.673.105 - 
Collateralized securities - - - - - - 
Securitization positions - - - - - - 
Short-term receivables from banks, brokerage houses 
and corporates - - - - - - 
Investments similar to collective investment funds 1.176.544 - - - - - 
Equity security investments - 24.105.665 - - - - 
Other Receivables - - - - - 44.286.820 
TToottaall  9933..443388..449944  119977..008899..884411  110088..882233..990044  115599..778811..556611  552211..779933..445522  4499..886699..006699 

(*)It represents the risk amounts before credit risk mitigation and after conversion to credit. 

 

 

 

CO
N

VE
N

IE
N

CE
 T

R
AN

SL
AT

IO
N

 O
F 

PU
B

LI
CL

Y 
AN

N
O

U
N

CE
D

 U
N

CO
N

SO
LI

D
AT

ED
 F

IN
AN

CI
A

L 
ST

AT
EM

EN
TS

  
O

R
IG

IN
A

LL
Y 

IS
SU

ED
 IN

 T
U

R
K

IS
H

, S
EE

 N
OT

E 
I.b

 O
F 

SE
CT

IO
N

 T
H

R
EE

 
 A

K
B

AN
K

 T
.A

.Ş
. 

N
O

TE
S 

TO
 U

N
CO

N
SO

LI
D

AT
ED

 F
IN

AN
CI

AL
 S

TA
TE

M
EN

TS
 A

T 
31

 D
EC

EM
B

ER
 2

02
2 

(A
m

ou
nt

s 
ex

pr
es

se
d 

in
 th

ou
sa

nd
s 

of
 T

ur
ki

sh
 L

ir
a 

(“
TL

”)
 u

nl
es

s 
ot

he
rw

is
e 

st
at

ed
.) 

    
 41

 
   

PP
rrii

oorr
  PP

eerr
iioo

dd  
((**

**))
 

RR
iiss

kk  
CC

llaa
ssss

iiff
iicc

aatt
iioo

nnss
  ((**

))  
  

  
  

  

3311
  DD

eecc
eemm

bbee
rr  

2200
2211

  
11  

22  
33  

44  
55  

66  
77  

88  
99  

1100
  

1111
  

1122
  

1133
  

1144
  

1155
  

1166
  

1177
  

TTLL
  

FFCC
  

TToo
ttaa

ll  

Ag
ri

cu
ltu

ra
l 

- 
- 

1 
- 

- 
- 

2.
14

5.
25

9 
47

1.
37

0 
21

8.
20

3 
4.

24
8 

11
.0

54
 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

2.
28

6.
83

1 
56

3.
30

4 
22..

8855
00..

1133
55  

  F
ar

m
in

g 
an

d 
ra

is
in

g 
liv

es
to

ck
 

- 
- 

1 
- 

- 
- 

2.
11

1.
31

4 
37

6.
31

9 
18

8.
39

2 
3.

70
7 

9.
62

9 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
2.

14
6.

91
3 

54
2.

44
9 

22..
6688

99..
3366

22  

  F
or

es
tr

y 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
33

.9
45

 
90

.2
99

 
28

.8
75

 
47

4 
1.

05
3 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

13
3.

79
1 

20
.8

55
 

1155
44..

6644
66  

  F
is

hi
ng

 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

4.
75

2 
93

6 
67

 
37

2 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
6.

12
7 

- 
66..

1122
77  

M
an

uf
ac

tu
ri

ng
 

- 
- 

78
 

- 
- 

- 
73

.8
58

.8
21

 
6.

41
5.

56
6 

4.
42

6.
88

1 
1.

36
8.

94
1 

11
3.

90
3 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

42
.4

32
.6

93
 

43
.7

51
.4

97
 

8866
..11

8844
..11

9900
  

  M
in

in
g 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

9.
92

2.
68

3 
1.

05
9.

88
5 

71
0.

28
9 

41
7.

68
0 

25
.4

85
 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

5.
30

0.
41

2 
6.

83
5.

61
0 

1122
..11

3366
..00

2222
  

  P
ro

du
ct

io
n 

- 
- 

78
 

- 
- 

- 
37

.4
14

.9
47

 
5.

22
3.

29
4 

3.
59

1.
09

3 
23

8.
43

7 
76

.8
94

 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
28

.4
60

.2
46

 
18

.0
84

.4
97

 
4466

..55
4444

..77
4433

  
  E

le
ct

ri
ci

ty
, G

as
, 

W
at

e r
 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

26
.5

21
.1

91
 

13
2.

38
7 

12
5.

49
9 

71
2.

82
4 

11
.5

24
 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

8.
67

2.
03

5 
18

.8
31

.3
90

 
2277

..55
0033

..44
2255

  

C
on

st
ru

ct
io

n 
 

- 
- 

75
1 

- 
- 

- 
29

.5
11

.4
38

 
2.

29
9.

01
4 

1.
75

7.
74

2 
1.

65
3.

79
0 

40
5.

17
7 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

13
.9

59
.6

96
 

21
.6

68
.2

16
 

3355
..66

2277
..99

1122
  

Se
rv

ic
es

 
2.

02
0.

73
2 

13
1.

09
5 

32
3.

23
7 

- 
- 

89
.7

58
.2

73
 

10
2.

81
5.

85
3 

23
.6

90
.6

51
 

9.
63

0.
90

0 
1.

82
6.

42
8 

43
9.

97
7 

- 
- 

- 
- 

16
.0

83
.3

18
 

- 
11

7.
94

1.
49

5 
12

8.
77

8.
96

9 
2244

66..
7722

00..
4466

44  

 W
ho

le
sa

le
 a

nd
 

R
et

ai
l T

ra
de

 
- 

- 
16

1.
27

7 
- 

- 
- 

42
.3

12
.7

25
 

18
.6

71
.1

59
 

6.
39

9.
36

9 
72

4.
26

3 
23

6.
85

7 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
61

.1
97

.3
60

 
7.

30
8.

29
0 

6688
..55

0055
..66

5500
  

H
ot

el
,F

oo
d,

B
ev

er
ag

e 
Se

rv
ic

es
 

- 
- 

63
 

- 
- 

- 
9.

26
0.

81
0 

1.
26

7.
55

3 
1.

55
5.

99
9 

49
6.

05
2 

32
.8

00
 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

4.
06

7.
30

9 
8.

54
5.

96
8 

1122
..66

1133
..22

7777
  

  T
ra

ns
po

rt
at

io
n 

an
d 

 T
el

ec
om

m
un

ic
at

io
n 

1.
03

1 
- 

11
.7

67
 

- 
- 

- 
15

.9
94

.8
83

 
1.

95
9.

61
1 

53
6.

47
3 

33
.8

55
 

45
.5

19
 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

5.
21

1.
79

5 
13

.3
71

.3
44

 
1188

..55
8833

..11
3399

  

  F
in

an
ci

al
 

In
st

itu
tio

ns
 

2.
01

8.
84

6 
- 

16
5 

- 
- 

89
.7

58
.2

73
 

31
.8

78
.1

20
 

64
.9

21
 

18
3.

04
0 

51
6.

88
9 

9.
33

7 
- 

- 
- 

- 
16

.0
83

.3
18

 
- 

42
.5

70
.6

27
 

97
.9

42
.2

82
 

1144
00..

5511
22..

9900
99  

  R
ea

l E
st

at
e 

an
d 

Le
nd

in
g 

Se
rv

ic
es

 
- 

- 
5 

- 
- 

- 
35

7.
09

3 
19

5.
87

7 
20

7.
80

6 
1.

12
9 

13
.1

40
 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

71
0.

76
3 

64
.2

87
 

7777
55..

0055
00  

  S
el

f e
m

pl
oy

m
en

t 
Se

rv
ic

e 
- 

- 
10

2 
- 

- 
- 

43
1.

87
6 

31
5.

52
7 

14
9.

58
6 

80
3 

48
.5

17
 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

80
9.

48
1 

13
6.

93
0 

9944
66..

4411
11  

  E
du

ca
tio

n 
Se

rv
ic

e 
3 

- 
59

.4
48

 
- 

- 
- 

13
0.

85
5 

26
4.

81
5 

19
2.

07
1 

38
.8

16
 

7.
70

9 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
65

5.
07

6 
38

.6
41

 
6699

33..
7711

77  
  H

ea
lth

 a
nd

 s
oc

ia
l 

Se
rv

ic
es

 
85

2 
13

1.
09

5 
90

.4
10

 
- 

- 
- 

2.
44

9.
49

1 
95

1.
18

8 
40

6.
55

6 
14

.6
21

 
46

.0
98

 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
2.

71
9.

08
4 

1.
37

1.
22

7 
44..

0099
00..

3311
11  

O
th

er
 

20
9.

75
3.

03
7 

3.
35

7 
66

.3
14

 
- 

- 
5.

61
0 

17
.3

21
.5

19
 

55
.8

25
.9

64
 

9.
79

3.
68

4 
1.

33
5.

23
0 

17
.3

07
.9

41
 

- 
- 

- 
   

 5
46

.6
22

 
   

   
39

1.
03

5 
17

.6
53

.7
89

 
23

0.
00

9.
44

7 
99

.9
94

.6
55

 
3333

00..
0000

44..
1100

22  

TToo
ttaa

ll  
2211

11..
7777

33..
7766

99  
1133

44..
4455

22  
3399

00..
3388

11  
--  

--  
8899

..77
6633

..88
8833

  
2222

55..
6655

22..
8899

00  
8888

..77
0022

..55
6655

  
2255

..88
2277

..44
1100

  
66..

1188
88..

6633
77  

1188
..22

7788
..00

5522
  

--  
--  

--  
      

  55
4466

..66
2222

  
1166

..44
7744

..33
5533

  
1177

..66
5533

..77
8899

  
4400

66..
6633

00..
1166

22  
2299

44..
7755

66..
6644

11  
7700

11..
3388

66..
8800

33  
 

(*
) S

ta
nd

s 
fo

r 
th

e 
ri

sk
 c

at
eg

or
ie

s 
lis

te
d 

in
 “

R
eg

ul
at

io
ns

 o
n 

M
ea

su
re

m
en

t a
nd

 A
ss

es
sm

en
t o

f C
ap

ita
l A

de
qu

ac
y 

R
at

io
s 

of
 B

an
ks

.”
  

(*
*)

 It
 r

ep
re

se
nt

s 
th

e 
ri

sk
 a

m
ou

nt
s 

be
fo

re
 c

re
di

t r
is

k 
m

iti
ga

tio
n 

an
d 

af
te

r 
co

nv
er

si
on

 to
 c

re
di

t. 

1.
   

   
   

   
 C

on
di

tio
na

l a
nd

 u
nc

on
di

tio
na

l r
ec

ei
va

bl
es

 fr
om

 c
en

tr
al

 g
ov

er
nm

en
ts

 a
nd

 C
en

tr
al

 B
an

ks
  

 
9.

 
C

on
di

tio
na

l a
nd

 u
nc

on
di

tio
na

l r
ec

ei
va

bl
es

 s
ec

ur
ed

 b
y 

m
or

tg
ag

es
 

2.
 

C
on

di
tio

na
l a

nd
 u

nc
on

di
tio

na
l r

ec
ei

va
bl

es
 fr

om
 r

eg
io

na
l o

r 
lo

ca
l g

ov
er

nm
en

ts
 

 
 

10
. 

Pa
st

 d
ue

 r
ec

ei
va

bl
es

 
 

3.
 

C
on

di
tio

na
l a

nd
 u

nc
on

di
tio

na
l r

ec
ei

va
bl

es
 fr

om
 a

dm
in

is
tr

at
iv

e 
bo

di
es

 a
nd

 n
on

-c
om

m
er

ci
al

 e
nt

er
pr

is
es

 
11

. 
R

ec
ei

va
bl

es
 d

ef
in

ed
 u

nd
er

 h
ig

h 
ri

sk
 c

at
eg

or
y 

by
 B

R
SA

 
4.

 
C

on
di

tio
na

l a
nd

 u
nc

on
di

tio
na

l r
ec

ei
va

bl
es

 fr
om

 m
ul

til
at

er
al

 d
ev

el
op

m
en

t b
an

ks
 

 
 

12
. 

C
ol

la
te

ra
liz

ed
 s

ec
ur

iti
es

 
5.

 
C

on
di

tio
na

l a
nd

 u
nc

on
di

tio
na

l r
ec

ei
va

bl
es

 fr
om

 in
te

rn
at

io
na

l o
rg

an
iz

at
io

ns
  

 
 

13
. 

Se
cu

ri
tiz

at
io

n 
po

si
tio

ns
 

6.
   

   
   

   
 C

on
di

tio
na

l a
nd

 u
nc

on
di

tio
na

l r
ec

ei
va

bl
es

 fr
om

 b
an

ks
 a

nd
 b

ro
ke

ra
ge

 h
ou

se
s 

 
 

14
. 

Sh
or

t-
te

rm
 r

ec
ei

va
bl

es
 fr

om
 b

an
ks

, b
ro

ke
ra

ge
 h

ou
se

s 
an

d 
co

rp
or

at
es

 
7.

 
C

on
di

tio
na

l a
nd

 u
nc

on
di

tio
na

l r
ec

ei
va

bl
es

 fr
om

 c
or

po
ra

te
s 

 
 

 
 

 
15

. 
In

ve
st

m
en

ts
 s

im
ila

r 
to

 c
ol

le
ct

iv
e 

in
ve

st
m

en
t f

un
ds

 
8.

 
C

on
di

tio
na

l a
nd

 u
nc

on
di

tio
na

l r
ec

ei
va

bl
es

 fr
om

 r
et

ai
l p

or
tfo

lio
s 

 
 

 
16

. 
Eq

ui
ty

 s
ec

ur
ity

 tr
an

sa
ct

io
ns

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

17
. 

O
th

er
 r

ec
ei

va
bl

es
 

288 - 289Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
44 

 

qq.. MMiisscceellllaanneeoouuss  iinnffoorrmmaattiioonn  rreeggaarrddiinngg  iimmppoorrttaanntt  sseeccttoorrss  oorr  ccoouunntteerrppaarrttyy  ttyyppee::  

                                                      LLooaannss  ((**))                                                                                                                            PPrroovviissiioonnss  ((**))  
IImmppaaiirreedd  RReecceeiivvaabblleess  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  
SSeeccttoorrss//CCoouunntteerrppaarrttiieess  

SSiiggnniiffiiccaanntt  IInnccrreeaassee  iinn  
CCrreeddiitt  RRiisskk  ((SSttaaggee  IIII))  

CCrreeddiitt--IImmppaaiirreedd  LLoosssseess  ((SSttaaggee  
IIIIII  //  SSppeecciiffiicc  PPrroovviissiioonn))  

EExxppeecctteedd  CCrreeddiitt  LLoossss  
PPrroovviissiioonnss  

Agricultural 17.774 22.701 20.693 
Farming and raising livestock 13.364 13.290 13.843 
Forestry 4.298 3.092 2.965 
Fishing 112 6319 3885 

Manufacturing 5.738.922 3.607.597 4.019.132 
Mining 4.572 132.644 106.333 
Production 1.779.860 1.599.945 1.550.633 
Electricity, Gas, Water 3.954.490 1.875.008 2.362.166 

Construction 15.529.508 5.859.554 5.891.619 
Services 3.945.367 4.203.488 3.356.635 

 Wholesale and Retail Trade 1.091.456 1.797.333 1.637.654 
 Hotel, Food, Beverage Services 2.251.124 569.832 666.888 
Transportation and   
Telecommunication 

93.203 116.799 112.493 

Financial Institutions 3.378 1.275.682 606.533 
 Real Estate and Lending Service 16.232 72.539 50.302 
 Self Employment Service 48.200 288.889 172.726 
Education Service 18.821 14.889 15.723 
Health and social services 422.953 67.525 94.316 

Other 14.760.991 3.213.644 4.708.360 
TToottaall  3399..999922..556622  1166..990066..998844  1177..999966..443399  
(*) Breakdown of cash loans  
 

rr.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  rreellaatteedd  ttoo  iimmppaaiirrmmeenntt  aanndd  llooaann  lloossss  pprroovviissiioonnss::  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  OOppeenniinngg  BBaallaannccee    

PPrroovviissiioonnss  
rreeccooggnniisseedd  
dduurriinngg  tthhee  

ppeerriioodd  
PPrroovviissiioonn  
rreevveerrssaall  

OOtthheerr  mmeeaassuurreemmeennttss  
((**))  

CClloossiinngg  
BBaallaannccee  

Stage 3 Provisions 11.605.038 15.655.137 (1.724.725) (14.147.126) 11.388.324 
Stage 1 and 2 Provisions 7.015.433 3.058.885 - - 10.074.318 

(*) Consists of write-offs and sold portfolio from non-performing loans. 

 

ss.. RRiisskk  iinnvvoollvveedd  iinn  ccoouunntteerr--ccyycclliiccaall  ccaappiittaall  bbuuffffeerr  ccaallccuullaattiioonn::  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  

CCoouunnttrryy  ooff  uullttiimmaattee  rriisskk  
PPrriivvaattee  sseeccttoorr  ccrreeddiitt  

eexxppoossuurreess  iinn  bbaannkkiinngg  bbooookk  
RRiisskk  WWeeiigghhtteedd  EEqquuiivvaalleenntt  

ttrraaddiinngg  bbooookk  TToottaall  
Turkey 512.396.445 9.375.517 521.771.962 
Ireland 1.340.127 8.607 1.348.734 
Russian Federation 509.271 5.679 514.950 
United Arab Emirates 257.364 267 257.631 
Other 941.292 3.415 944.707 

 

 

 

 

 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
43 

 

oo.. EExxppllaannaattiioonnss  rreeggaarrddiinngg  rriisskk  ccaatteeggoorriieess  mmeennttiioonneedd  iinn  66tthh  ccllaauussee  ooff  CCaappiittaall  AAddeeqquuaaccyy  MMeeaassuurreemmeenntt  aanndd  EEvvaalluuaattiioonn  
CCoommmmuunniiqquuéé::  

Ratings given by Fitch Ratings are used in determining risk weight class of the counterparties. Countries’ credit note is considered 
all risk class of receivables  from central governments and Central Banks. The ratings of Fitch Ratings are used for Banks and 
Corporate Receivables asset class and are limited to receivables that have counterparties abroad. If the risk weight class solely 
consists of receivables from central governments and central banks, the credit ratings of the countries are taken into account.  
The ratings given by JCR-ER are used for TL receivables whose counterparty is corporate asset class. “Credit Quality Degrees” 
corresponding to the grades of Fitch Ratings and JCR-ER are given in the table below. 
 
 
 

CCrreeddiitt    
QQuuaalliittyy  DDeeggrreeeess  

FFiittcchh  JJCCRR--EERR  

11  AAAAAA  aanndd  AAAA--  AAAAAA  aanndd  AAAA--  

22  AA++  aanndd  AA--  AA++  aanndd  AA--  

33  BBBBBB++  aanndd  BBBBBB--  

BBBBBB++  aanndd  BBBB--  

44  BBBB++  aanndd  BBBB--  

55  BB++  aanndd  BB--  

BBBB--  bbeellooww  

66  CCCCCC++  aanndd  bbeellooww  

 

pp.. RRiisskk  aammoouunnttss  aaccccoorrddiinngg  ttoo  rriisskk  wweeiigghhttss  ((**))::  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  
22002222  00%%  1100%%  2200%%  2255%%  3355%%  5500%%  7755%%  110000%%  115500%%  225500%%  

OOtthheerr  RRiisskk  
WWeeiigghhttss  

DDeedduucctteedd  
ffrroomm  EEqquuiittyy  

RRiisskk  WWeeiigghhttss                         
Amount Before 
Credit Risk 
Mitigation 331.230.355 - 64.290.250 - - 75.571.542 125.515.314 349.780.449 44.813.245 - 29.635.859 - 
Amount After 
Credit Risk 
Mitigation 336.798.721 - 63.866.758 - 14.150.599 95.396.071 102.390.350 327.691.425 44.648.690 - 29.635.859 - 

(*)Excludes counterparty credit risk and securitization positions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

290 - 291Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
46 

 

IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  rreellaatteedd  ttoo  BBaannkk’’ss  CCuurrrreennccyy  RRiisskk::    

The table below summarizes the Bank’s net foreign currency position, categorized by currency. Foreign currency indexed assets are 
classified as Turkish Lira assets according to the Uniform Chart of Accounts. In currency risk calculation, foreign currency indexed 
assets are considered as foreign currency items. In accordance with the “Communiqué on Calculation of Foreign Currency Net 
Position/Capital Standard Ratio by banks in stand-alone and consolidated basis”; prepaid expenses in assets and shareholders’ 
equity in liabilities are excluded in the currency risk calculation. Therefore, there are differences between the amounts of foreign 
currency denominated assets and liabilities demonstrated on the table below and the amounts on the balance sheet. 

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  ––  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  EEUURROO  UUSSDD  OOtthheerr  FFCC  TToottaall  
AAsssseettss       
     Cash and Balances with Central Bank (*) 39.089.730 59.873.434 4.882.858 110033..884466..002222  
     Banks  (*******) 6.130.636 20.657.782 3.394.193 3300..118822..661111  
     Financial Assets at Fair Value through Profit or Loss 19.962 927.888 - 994477..885500  
     Money Markets - - - --  
     Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income 3.684.128 71.087.918 2.226.060 7766..999988..110066  
     Loans and Lease Receivables (**) 89.536.020 62.150.220 45.725 115511..773311..996655  
     Investments in Associates, Subsidiaries and Joint Ventures 18.736.762 - - 1188..773366..776622  
     Other financial assets measured at amortised cost - 11.980.146 - 1111..998800..114466  
     Hedging Derivative Financial Assets - 3.805.172 1.118.351 44..992233..552233  
     Tangible Assets (Net) - 38.270 - 3388..227700  
     Intangible Assets (Net) - - - --  
     Other Assets (***) (22.676) 8.107.954 22.824 88..110088..110022  
TToottaall  AAsssseettss  115577..117744..556622  223388..662288..778844  1111..669900..001111  440077..449933..335577  

LLiiaabbiilliittiieess  
     Bank Deposits (****) 2.344.703 7.984.892 2.217.719 1122..554477..331144  
     Foreign Currency Deposits (****) 83.688.704 167.452.558 45.283.273 229966..442244..553355  
     Money Markets - 27.821.915 - 2277..882211..991155  
     Borrowings 12.441.601 51.737.739 - 6644..117799..334400  
     Securities Issued (Net) (*****) 201.621 36.321.916 - 3366..552233..553377  
     Miscellaneous Payables 1.678.536 23.358.845 61.669 2255..009999..005500  
     Hedging Derivative Financial Liabilities - 1 - 11  
     Other Liabilities 1.661.504 2.965.824 70.232 44..669977..556600  
  TToottaall  LLiiaabbiilliittiieess  110022..001166..666699  331177..664433..669900  4477..663322..889933  446677..229933..225522  

NNeett  oonn  BBaallaannccee  SShheeeett  PPoossiittiioonn  5555..115577..889933  ((7799..001144..990066))  ((3355..994422..888822))  ((5599..779999..889955))  
  
NNeett  ooffff--BBaallaannccee  SShheeeett  PPoossiittiioonn  ((************))  ((5511..882200..228844))  8800..666611..773311  3366..118844..224499  6655..002255..669966  
     Financial Derivative Assets 32.546.408 226.483.305 48.608.795 330077..663388..550088  
     Financial Derivative Liabilities 84.366.692 145.821.574 12.424.546 224422..661122..881122  
          NNoonn--ccaasshh  LLooaannss    3333..553399..111155  3366..116600..225544  22..884422..777799  7722..554422..114488  
       

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  --  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211          
     Total Assets 130.023.020 197.882.758 10.416.660 333388..332222..443388  
     Total Liabilities 84.442.741 277.356.738 36.430.838 339988..223300..331177  
NNeett  oonn--BBaallaannccee  SShheeeett  PPoossiittiioonn  4455..558800..227799  ((7799..447733..998800))  ((2266..001144..117788))  ((5599..990077..887799))  
NNeett  ooffff--BBaallaannccee  SShheeeett  PPoossiittiioonn  ((************))  ((4455..117700..777733))  8822..995555..003399  2266..668888..775533  6644..447733..001199  
     Financial Derivative Assets 40.338.733 180.244.654 33.508.475 225544..009911..886622  
     Financial Derivative Liabilities 85.509.506 97.289.615 6.819.722 118899..661188..884433  
          NNoonn--ccaasshh  LLooaannss  2233..229944..118899  3300..334433..669944  11..442200..005566  5555..005577..993399  
(*) Of the Cash Equivalents and Central Bank and Other FC, TL 4.174.588 (31 December 2021: TL 2.152.617) are precious metal deposit account in demand.  
(**) The foreign currency indexed loans balance in the Turkish Lira accounts is TL 307.517 (31 December 2021: TL 470.265). 
(***) Derivative financial assets and expected credit losses are classified under other assets. The expected loss amount of foreign currency indexed loans balance is TL 
2.716 (31 December 2021: TL 10.333). Prepaid assets amounted TL 130.140 (31 December 2021: TL 105.347) is excluded in the financial statements. 
(****) Of the foreign currency deposits TL 35.783.135 (31 December 2021: TL 25.869.116) and Bank Deposits Other FC of the TL 58.579 (31 December 2021: TL 36.900) are 
precious metal deposit account in demand. 
(*****) Securities issued as subordinated loan classified under subordinated loans in the balance sheet are included. 
(******) Presents the net balance of receivables and payables from derivative transactions. Foreign Exchange spot dealings shown under “Asset purchase 
commitments” in the financial statements are included in the net off-balance sheet position. 
(*******) Derivative collaterals given to foreign banks are included. 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
45 

 

III. EXPLANATIONS ON CURRENCY RISK: 

The difference between the Bank’s foreign currency denominated and foreign currency indexed assets and liabilities is defined as 
the “Net Foreign Currency Position” and is the basis of currency risk. Foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities, 
together with purchase and sale commitments, give rise to foreign exchange exposure. The Bank keeps the foreign exchange 
exposure amount within the limits set by the ERC. The ERC, taking into account the economic conditions and market 
developments, sets a limit for the size of a foreign exchange exposure.  

Those limits are individually determined and followed for both the net overall foreign currency position and for the foreign 
exchange exposure. Derivative financial instruments like forward foreign exchange contracts and currency swaps are used as tools 
for foreign exchange exposure management. 

The Bank’s foreign exchange bid rates as of the date of the financial statements and for the last five days prior to that date are 
presented below: 

  UUSSDD  EEUURROO  
Balance Sheet Evaluation Rate TL 18,6983 TL 19,9349 
   

1.Day bid rate TL 18,6983 TL 19,9349 
2.Day bid rate TL 18,6966 TL 19,8816 
3.Day bid rate TL 18,6964 TL 19,8946 
4.Day bid rate TL 18,6813 TL 19,9087 
5.Day bid rate TL 18,6649 TL 19,8324 
 
The simple arithmetic average of the Bank’s foreign exchange bid rates for the last thirty days preceding the balance sheet date for 
major foreign currencies are presented in the table below: 
 
 
USD : TL 18,6404 
EURO : TL 19,7480 

As of 31 December 2021; 
  UUSSDD  EEUURROO  
Balance Sheet Evaluation Rate TL 13,3290 TL 15,0867 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  

292 - 293Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
48 

 

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  ––  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  
UUpp  ttoo  11  
MMoonntthh 11  ––  33  MMoonntthhss 

33  ––  1122  
MMoonntthhss 

11  ––  55  
YYeeaarrss 

55  YYeeaarrss  
aanndd  OOvveerr 

NNoonn--IInntteerreesstt  
BBeeaarriinngg TToottaall  

AAsssseettss          
     Cash and Balances with Central Bank 9.933.401 - - - - 81.953.324 9911..888866..772255  
     Banks (*****) 2.996.556 1.782.285 16.483 - - 43.857.112 4488..665522..443366  
     Financial assets at fair value through profit 
     or loss (Net) 

584 17.380 7.456.963 327.949 126.846 1.877.861 99..880077..558833  

     Money Markets 2.823.223 - - - - - 22..882233..222233  
Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Other 
Comprehensive Income 

9.667.117 10.748.997 16.616.256 34.187.908 18.764.795 696.198 9900..668811..227711  

     Loans and Lease Receivables (*) 108.411.508 44.159.654 92.451.148 71.556.484 19.024.490 17.768.546 335533..337711..883300  
Other financial assets measured at amortised 

cost 
16.202.199 2.776.285 24.752.525 8.685.943 168.608 - 5522..558855..556600  

     Other Assets (**) 11.740.870 25.574.866 12.959.667 178.860 206.566 8.441.838 5599..110022..666677  
TToottaall  AAsssseettss  116611..777755..445588  8855..005599..446677  115544..225533..004422  111144..993377..114444  3388..229911..330055  115544..559944..887799  770088..991111..229955  

LLiiaabbiilliittiieess          
     Bank Deposits  5.942.155 5.071.358 1.358.720 - - 1.754.508 1144..112266..774411  
     Other Deposits 174.083.002 65.319.532 8.337.728 64.899 - 151.328.832 339999..113333..999933  
     Money Markets 44.765.335 8.471.826 7.769.474 - - - 6611..000066..663355  
     Miscellaneous Payables 3.016.018 5.696.232 4.243.520 178.528 - 8.442.224 2211..557766..552222  
     Securities Issued (Net) (***) 2.317.988 2.535.651 9.633.865 15.119.756 18.660.721 - 4488..226677..998811  
     Borrowings 10.955.391 27.868.588 14.446.921 225.913 - - 5533..449966..881133  
     Other Liabilities (****) 6.015.032 10.979.535 8.672.213 658.154 421.567 84.556.109 111111..330022..661100  
TToottaall  LLiiaabbiilliittiieess 224477..009944..992211  112255..994422..772222  5544..446622..444411  1166..224477..225500  1199..008822..228888  224466..008811..667733  770088..991111..229955  
     Balance Sheet Long Position - - 99.790.601 98.689.894 19.209.017 - 221177..668899..551122  
     Balance Sheet Short Position  (85.319.463) (40.883.255) - - - (91.486.794) ((221177..668899..551122))  
     Off-balance Sheet Long Position 8.883.879 31.499.430 - - 144.887 - 4400..552288..119966  
     Off-balance Sheet Short Position - - (19.309.639) (11.307) - - ((1199..332200..994466))  
TToottaall  PPoossiittiioonn  ((7766..443355..558844))  ((99..338833..882255))  8800..448800..996622  9988..667788..558877  1199..335533..990044  ((9911..448866..779944))  2211..220077..225500  
(*) Non-performing loans are presented in the” non-interest bearing " column. Interest rediscount started to be calculated for non-performing   
loans as of 1 January 2018, said amount was indicated on “without interest” column since there is no other suitable column in the above table. 
(**) Derivative financial assets and expected credit losses are classified under other assets. 
(***) Securities issued as subordinated loan classified under subordinated loans in the balance sheet are included 
(****) Shareholders’ equity is presented under “Other liabilities” item at “Non-interest bearing” column. 
(*****) Derivative collaterals given to foreign banks are included. 

bb.. AAvveerraaggee  iinntteerreesstt  rraatteess  ffoorr  mmoonneettaarryy  ffiinnaanncciiaall  iinnssttrruummeennttss  ((%%))::  

         Average interest rates in the above tables are the weighted average rates of the related balance sheet items.  

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  ––  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  EEUURROO  UUSSDD YYeenn TTLL
AAsssseettss    
     Cash and Balances with Central Bank        -        -        -          -
     Banks        - 2,38        -     20,17 
     Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss (Net)     4,89     7,36        -     10,78 
     Money Markets        -        -        - 14,88
     Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income (Net)     4,20     5,73     3,09     29,35 
     Loans and Lease Receivables     5,83     9,29        -     18,18 
     Other financial assets measured at amortised cost     -     6,22        - 76,44
LLiiaabbiilliittiieess   
     Bank Deposits (*)     2,77     4,84        -     14,51 
     Other Deposits (*)     0,23     1,71     0,01     15,79 
     Money Markets        -     5,06        -       9,14 
     Miscellaneous Payables        -     3,65        -          -
     Securities Issued (Net) (**)     4,00     6,43        - 13,17
     Borrowings     4,18     6,72        -     19,40 

(*) Demand deposit balances are included in average interest rate calculation. 
(**) Securities issued as subordinated loan classified under subordinated loans in the balance sheet are included. 
 
 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
47 

 

IV.  EXPLANATIONS ON INTEREST RATE RISK: 

“Interest Rate Risk” can be defined as the impact of interest rate changes on interest-sensitive asset and liability items of both on 
and off-balance sheets of the Bank. The ERC sets limits for the interest rate sensitivity of on and off-balance sheet items and the 
sensitivity is closely monitored and reported weekly. In the case of high market fluctuations, daily transaction based reporting and 
analyses are made. 

The Bank manages the interest rate risk on a portfolio basis and tries to minimize the risk effect on the profitability, financial 
exposure and cash flows by applying different strategies. Basic methods such as using fixed or floating interest rates for different 
portfolios and maturities, setting the fixed margin in floating rates, or varying the rates for the short or long-term positions are 
applied actively. 

aa.. IInntteerreesstt  rraattee  sseennssiittiivviittyy  ooff  aasssseettss,,  lliiaabbiilliittiieess  aanndd  ooffff--bbaallaannccee  sshheeeett  iitteemmss  ((bbaasseedd  oonn  rreepprriicciinngg  ddaatteess))::  

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  ––    3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  
UUpp  ttoo  11  
MMoonntthh 11  ––  33  MMoonntthhss 

33  ––  1122  
MMoonntthhss 11  ––  55      YYeeaarrss 

55  YYeeaarrss  
aanndd  OOvveerr 

NNoonn--IInntteerreesstt  
BBeeaarriinngg TToottaall  

AAsssseettss          
     Cash and Balances with Central Bank 22.974.985 - - - - 104.557.758 112277..553322..774433  
     Banks (*****) 3.559.377 3.725.053 15.156 - - 24.306.130 3311..660055..771166  
     Financial assets at fair value through profit 
     or loss (Net) 

1 291 53.036 119.991 164.095 2.798.514 33..113355..992288  

     Money Markets 983.080 476.702 - - - - 11..445599..778822  
Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Other 
Comprehensive Income 

16.585.316 17.444.458 38.539.336 67.104.478 23.695.425 1.501.642 116644..887700..665555  

     Loans and Lease Receivables (*) 172.880.005 110.168.717 172.805.178 70.132.041 17.457.263 16.906.984 556600..335500..118888  
Other financial assets measured at amortised 

cost 
40.382.262 1.103.650 38.665.799 14.935.049 3.067.916 - 9988..115544..667766  

     Other Assets (**) 7.919.920 31.292.454 10.805.340 291.211 - 37.767.842 8888..007766..776677  
TToottaall  AAsssseettss  226655..228844..994466  116644..221111..332255  226600..888833..884455  115522..558822..777700  4444..338844..669999  118877..883388..887700  11..007755..118866..445555  
LLiiaabbiilliittiieess          
     Bank Deposits  5.749.449 6.638.654 2.369.133 - - 1.448.252 1166..220055..448888  
     Other Deposits 272.044.950 131.472.144 29.441.298 89.219 - 230.071.663 666633..111199..227744  
     Money Markets 41.657.450 10.871.401 1.501.004 - - - 5544..002299..885555  
     Miscellaneous Payables 5.001.718 10.685.700 7.748.181 342.177 - 20.340.264 4444..111188..004400  
     Securities Issued (Net) (***) 79.732 358.202 1.493.577 20.413.088 16.895.052 - 3399..223399..665511  
     Borrowings 9.547.202 36.820.956 17.915.065 113.537 - - 6644..339966..776600  
     Other Liabilities (****) 3.514.341 6.543.715 5.908.849 847.825 614.619 176.648.038 119944..007777..338877  
TToottaall  LLiiaabbiilliittiieess 333377..559944..884422  220033..339900..777722  6666..337777..110077  2211..880055..884466  1177..550099..667711  442288..550088..221177  11..007755..118866..445555  
     Balance Sheet Long Position - - 194.506.738 130.776.924 26.875.028 - 335522..115588..669900  
     Balance Sheet Short Position  (72.309.896) (39.179.447) - - - (240.669.347) ((335522..115588..669900))  
     Off-balance Sheet Long Position 8.835.650 41.732.537 - - - - 5500..556688..118877  
     Off-balance Sheet Short Position - - (23.559.562) (1.048.630) - - ((2244..660088..119922))  
TToottaall  PPoossiittiioonn  ((6633..447744..224466))  22..555533..009900  117700..994477..117766  112299..772288..229944  2266..887755..002288  ((224400..666699..334477))  2255..995599..999955  
 
(*) Non-performing loans are presented in the” non-interest bearing " column. Interest rediscount started to be calculated for non-performing   
loans as of 1 January 2018, said amount was indicated on “without interest” column since there is no other suitable column in the above table. 
(**) Derivative financial assets and expected credit losses are classified under other assets. 
(***) Securities issued as subordinated loan classified under subordinated loans in the balance sheet are included 
(****) Shareholders’ equity is presented under “Other liabilities” item at “Non-interest bearing” column. 
(*****) Derivative collaterals given to foreign banks are included. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

294 - 295Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
50 

 

reports prepared to be discussed in the ERC and ALCO meetings, stress tests, scenario analyses, risk limit compliance reports 
and legal liquidity reports.  

bb))  IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  tthhee  cceennttrraalliizzaattiioonn  ddeeggrreeee  ooff  lliiqquuiiddiittyy  mmaannaaggeemmeenntt  aanndd  ffuunnddiinngg  ssttrraatteeggyy  aanndd  tthhee  ffuunnccttiioonniinngg  bbeettwweeeenn  
tthhee  BBaannkk  aanndd  tthhee  BBaannkk’’ss  ssuubbssiiddiiaarriieess::  

Each of the Bank’s subsidiaries within the consolidation scope manages its own liquidity. Nevertheless, there are defined limits 
related to the funding amount that the Bank will provide to a subsidiary, in case of liquidity issues. Cumulative liquidity gap 
resulted in stress scenarios of subsidiaries, should not exceed the fund limits provided by the Bank. 

cc))  IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  tthhee  BBaannkk’’ss  ffuunnddiinngg  ssttrraatteeggyy  iinncclluuddiinngg  tthhee  ppoolliicciieess  oonn  ffuunnddiinngg  ttyyppeess  aanndd  vvaarriieettyy  ooff  mmaattuurriittiieess::  

The Bank targets to obtain additional funding sources besides the strong capital structure, from the most possible diversified, long 
term stable sources, considering cost factors. In this direction, concentration ratios such as share of retail funding sources in total 
funding sources, share of deposits of high amount in total deposit, share of borrowings made from the market in total market 
volume are monitored and limited with the applied risk limits. Treasury Unit performs necessary work to obtain long term foreign 
funding. 

dd))  IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  lliiqquuiiddiittyy  mmaannaaggeemmeenntt  oonn  tthhee  bbaassiiss  ooff  ccuurrrreenncciieess  ccoonnssttiittuuttiinngg  aa  mmiinniimmuumm  ooff  ffiivvee  ppeerrcceenntt  ooff  tthhee  BBaannkk’’ss  
ttoottaall  lliiaabbiilliittiieess::    

Almost all of the Bank’s liabilities are in TL, USD or EUR currencies and TL funds comprise of mainly equity and deposits. The 
Bank’s liquidity in TL is managed with repurchase agreements made at CBRT/BIST using high quality securities owned by the 
Bank. Together with keeping the main purpose as using liabilities in TL in funding assets in TL, foreign currency liabilities are used 
in creating assets in TL using foreign exchange swaps, when necessary. Liquidity management is performed in the scope of 
internal risk limits, such as short term borrowing limits from markets determined by the Bank, market concentration limits, 
liquidity stress scenario, and cumulative liquidity gap.   

Foreign currency funds are obtained through foreign exchange deposit accounts, foreign based, foreign currency loans, securities 
issued and repurchase agreements. Foreign currency liquidity management is performed using internal risk limits defined for 
liquidity buffer kept at correspondent banks and monitored daily in the scope of the Bank’s risk limits, and cumulative gap in the 
scope of liquidity stress scenario, and other risk limits defined for wholesale funding and concentration. The Bank has available 
foreign currency borrowing limits at CBRT/BIST and other banks. 

ee))  IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  lliiqquuiiddiittyy  rriisskk  mmiittiiggaattiioonn  tteecchhnniiqquueess::  

Liquidity risk is mitigated by using techniques such as maintaining high quality liquid asset buffer to cover possible fund outflows, 
diversification of funding sources so far as possible and inclusion to the base, homogenizing the maturity distribution of 
repayments as far as possible, obtaining limits from funding institutions to use when necessary and ensuring that a determined 
portion of funding sources are comprised of deposit.  

ff))  IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  tthhee  uussee  ooff  ssttrreessss  tteessttss::  

In cases of negative conditions such as an impairment in the securities in the Bank’s portfolio, inability to replace short and long 
term borrowings, fast cash outflow, increase in non-performing loan ratio, high margin calls, the extent and duration of sufficient 
liquidity is analyzed by the stress tests made by the Risk Management Department. Risk limits determined according to analysis 
results exist within the Bank. It is ensured that the necessary actions are taken by sharing the analysis results and risk limit 
compliance status with the ALCO, ERC and related business units. The effects of cash inflows and outflows under different stress 
scenarios have been studied and evaluated. 

gg))  GGeenneerraall  iinnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  uurrggeenntt  aanndd  uunneexxppeecctteedd  lliiqquuiiddiittyy  ssiittuuaattiioonn  ppllaannss::  

Necessary strategy and procedures for the management of possible liquidity crisis are determined with the Liquidity Contingency 
Plan, which is approved and reviewed every year by the ERC. The actions to be taken favor the benefits of depositors, creditors of 
the Bank and shareholders. In case one or several emergency situations occur, Bank’s Liquidity Contingency Plan is put into use. 
After Liquidity Contingency Plan is put into use, Liquidity Contingency Management Committee is responsible from the 
determination of actions to be taken. 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
49 

 

 
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  ––  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  EEUURROO UUSSDD YYeenn                                     TTLL  
AAsssseettss  
     Cash and Balances with Central Bank        -          -        -  8,50 
     Banks        -        0,15        -  22,70 
     Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss (Net)     2,48      6,66        -  18,07 
     Money Markets        -          -        -  17,05 
     Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income (Net)     4,10      5,27     3,09  18,35 
     Loans and Lease Receivables     4,13      5,33        -  17,59 
     Other financial assets measured at amortised cost     -      5,89        -  20,90 

LLiiaabbiilliittiieess   
     Bank Deposits (*)     0,20      1,19        -     17,60 
     Other Deposits (*)     0,05      0,37     -     14,67 
     Money Markets        -       0,82        -     13,95 
     Miscellaneous Payables        -       0,08        -          -
     Securities Issued (Net) (**)     4,00      6,31        -     16,76 
     Borrowings     1,64      2,46        -     15,88 

(*) Demand deposit balances are included in average interest rate calculation. 
(**) Securities issued as subordinated loan classified under subordinated loans in the balance sheet are included. 
 

V. EXPLANATIONS ON POSITION RISK OF EQUITY SECURITIES: 

The Bank doesn’t have any subsidiaries and affiliates that are traded on the ‘’BIST’’. 

VI. EXPLANATIONS ON LIQUIDITY RISK MANAGEMENT AND LIQUIDITY COVERAGE RATIO: 

The liquidity risk of the Bank is the risk of being unable to fulfill its payment obligations on time due to not having enough cash 
sources or cash inflows to finance its cash outflows fully and on time due to cash flow instabilities.  

Liquidity risk arises from situations in which the Bank is unable to meet the cash outflows with its cash sources and borrowing 
opportunities over collateralizing marketable securities, in case of sudden fund withdrawals by the individual/institutional funders of 
the Bank.  

aa))  IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  rriisskk  ccaappaacciittyy  ooff  tthhee  BBaannkk,,  rreessppoonnssiibbiilliittiieess  aanndd  ssttrruuccttuurree  ooff  lliiqquuiiddiittyy  rriisskk  mmaannaaggeemmeenntt,,  tthhee  BBaannkk’’ss  
iinntteerrnnaall  lliiqquuiiddiittyy  rriisskk  rreeppoorrttiinngg,,  ccoommmmuunniiccaattiioonn  bbeettwweeeenn  tthhee  BBooaarrdd  ooff  DDiirreeccttoorrss  aanndd  bbuussiinneessss  lliinneess  oonn  lliiqquuiiddiittyy  rriisskk  
ssttrraatteeggyy,,  ppoolliiccyy  aanndd  aapppplliiccaattiioonn::  

The Bank’s liquidity and funding policy is to own sufficient liquidity reserve and funding opportunities to meet Bank’s liabilities even 
in cases of stress, resulting from the market conditions or other conditions specific to the Bank. 

The Bank has capacity to meet a high risk with broad and stable deposit, strong base capital structure and diversified foreign 
borrowing sources and is capable of providing additional liquidity with high quality liquid securities in its portfolio and available 
limits at both the Central Bank of Turkey and other Money markets. 

Management of liquidity risk is shared by the ERC, ALCO, Treasury Department and Risk Management Department. The ERC 
determines the liquidity management policies and the appropriate liquidity risk level in line with the Bank’s risk appetite and 
monitors whether the liquidity risk is managed under the framework of determined policies and within the defined limits. 

The different categories of defined limits are; 

- Limits related to wholesale funding sources, 
- Limits related to liquid asset buffer, 
- Limits related to the cash inflows coverage capacity to cash outflows, 
- Limits related to cash outflow coverage capacity in the stress environment 

ALCO takes decision to use alternative funding sources, pricing of obtained funds and granted loans, and other decisions of Daily 
liquidity management. Treasury Department ensures that the Bank meets its short, middle and long term liabilities, with the 
transactions made in accordance with ALCO decisions order to utilize excess funding or close the funding gap, occurring on 
foreign currencies or maturity terms. Risk Management Department measures and monitors the liquidity risk, with the reports 
prepared and analyses made, and informs the top management. Liquidity risk reporting consists of periodic and special purpose 

296 - 297Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
52 

 

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  ––  3311..1122..22002211  

RRaattee  ooff  ““PPeerrcceennttaaggee  ttoo  bbee  
ttaakkeenn  iinnttoo  aaccccoouunntt””  nnoott  

IImmpplleemmeenntteedd  TToottaall  vvaalluuee  ((**))  

RRaattee  ooff  ““PPeerrcceennttaaggee  ttoo  bbee  
ttaakkeenn  iinnttoo  aaccccoouunntt””  

IImmpplleemmeenntteedd  TToottaall  vvaalluuee  ((**))  
TTLL++FFCC  FFCC  TTLL++FFCC  FFCC  

HHIIGGHH  QQUUAALLIITTYY  LLIIQQUUIIDD  AASSSSEETTSS  ((HHQQLLAA))  
1 High quality liquid assets 127.987.254 84.617.634 

CCAASSHH  OOUUTTFFLLOOWWSS  
    2 Retail and Customers Deposits 257.423.356 150.585.489 23.875.798 15.058.549 
    3 Stable deposits        37.365.709                   -   1.870.033                        -   
    4 Less stable deposits    220.057.647 150.585.489 22.005.765 15.058.549 
    5 Unsecured Funding other than Retail and Small Business 

Customers Deposits 
   

128.011.403  77.886.498 
   

71.077.883        44.417.187 
    6 Operational deposits 2.661                        -   665    -   
    7 Non-Operational Deposits 109.360.446 66.560.770 54.262.902 33.091.965 
    8 Other Unsecured Funding 18.648.296 11.325.728 16.814.316       11.325.222  
    9 Secured funding - - 551.794 551.794 
  10 Other Cash Outflows 16.696.243 24.763.153 7.961.919 16.305.384 
  11         Liquidity needs related to derivatives and market 

        valuation changes on derivatives transactions 
7.026.808 15.406.811 7.026.808 15.406.811 

  12   Debts related to the structured financial products 12.184 - 12.184 - 
  13         Commitment related to debts to financial markets    

        and other off balance sheet liabilities 
   

9.657.251  
   

9.356.342 
   

922.927             898.573  
  14 Commitments that are unconditionally revocable at any time 

by the Bank and other contractual commitments 
   

1.209.668  - 
   

60.483       -  
  15 Other irrevocable or conditionally revocable commitments 101.950.967 35.586.890 5.097.548 1.779.345 
    1166  TTOOTTAALL  CCAASSHH  OOUUTTFFLLOOWWSS          110088..662255..442255  7788..111122..225599  
CCAASSHH  IINNFFLLOOWWSS  
  17 Secured Lending Transactions 598.501                        -                     -                          -   
  18 Unsecured Lending Transactions 49.882.914 30.697.608 37.059.615 26.016.029 
  19 Other contractual cash inflows 5.742.586 27.341.042 5.725.878 27.340.750 
    2200  TTOOTTAALL  CCAASSHH  IINNFFLLOOWWSS  5566..222244..000011  5588..003388..665500  4422..778855..449933  5533..335566..777799  
      UUppppeerr  lliimmiitt  aapppplliieedd  aammoouunnttss  
    2211  TTOOTTAALL  HHQQLLAA  SSTTOOCCKK    112277..998877..225544  8844..661177..663344  
    2222  TTOOTTAALL  NNEETT  CCAASSHH  OOUUTTFFLLOOWWSS  6655..883399..993322  2244..775555..448800  
    2233  LLiiqquuiiddiittyy  CCoovveerraaggee  RRaattiioo  ((%%))      119944,,3399  334411,,8811  

 (*) Simple arithmetic average calculated for the last three months by using the amounts calculated based on weekly simple arithmetic averages. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
51 

 

 
LLiiqquuiiddiittyy  CCoovveerraaggee  RRaattiioo::  

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  ––  3311..1122..22002222  

RRaattee  ooff  ““PPeerrcceennttaaggee  ttoo  bbee  
ttaakkeenn  iinnttoo  aaccccoouunntt””  nnoott  

IImmpplleemmeenntteedd  TToottaall  vvaalluuee  ((**))  

RRaattee  ooff  ““PPeerrcceennttaaggee  ttoo  bbee  
ttaakkeenn  iinnttoo  aaccccoouunntt””  

IImmpplleemmeenntteedd  TToottaall  vvaalluuee  ((**))  
TTLL++FFCC  FFCC  TTLL++FFCC  FFCC  

HHIIGGHH  QQUUAALLIITTYY  LLIIQQUUIIDD  AASSSSEETTSS  ((HHQQLLAA))  
1 High quality liquid assets 239.433.160 144.339.483 

CCAASSHH  OOUUTTFFLLOOWWSS  
    2 Retail and Customers Deposits 444.770.037 213.952.822 41.236.127 21.395.282 
    3 Stable deposits 64.817.551                        -   3.240.878                      -   
    4 Less stable deposits 379.952.486     213.952.822 37.995.249 21.395.282 
    5 Unsecured Funding other than Retail and Small Business 

Customers Deposits 244.650.107 134.155.002 129.295.179 78.376.010 
    6 Operational deposits -                        -   -    -   
    7 Non-Operational Deposits 206.805.836 105.508.556 94.876.343 49.731.489 
    8 Other Unsecured Funding 37.844.271 28.646.446 34.418.836 28.644.521 
    9 Secured funding - - 491.846                491.846 
  10 Other Cash Outflows 21.175.052 33.073.310 8.642.808 25.245.405 
  11         Liquidity needs related to derivatives and market 

        valuation changes on derivatives transactions 7.261.888 24.383.177 7.261.888 24.383.177 
  12   Debts related to the structured financial products 9.240         -  9.240 - 
  13         Commitment related to debts to financial markets    

        and other off balance sheet liabilities 13.903.924 8.690.133 1.371.680 862.228 
  14 Commitments that are unconditionally revocable at any time 

by the Bank and other contractual commitments 1.994.365 - 99.718 - 
  15 Other irrevocable or conditionally revocable commitments 192.018.843 58.576.360 9.600.942 2.928.818 
    1166  TTOOTTAALL  CCAASSHH  OOUUTTFFLLOOWWSS          118899..336666..662200  112288..443377..336611  
CCAASSHH  IINNFFLLOOWWSS  
  17 Secured Lending Transactions 36.841                        -   -                        -   
  18 Unsecured Lending Transactions 62.926.251 26.551.939 44.050.892 24.085.689 
  19 Other contractual cash inflows 3.225.651 88.243.815 3.217.596 88.241.580 
    2200  TTOOTTAALL  CCAASSHH  IINNFFLLOOWWSS  6666..118888..774433  111144..779955..775544  4477..226688..448888  111122..332277..226699  
      UUppppeerr  lliimmiitt  aapppplliieedd  aammoouunnttss  
    2211  TTOOTTAALL  HHQQLLAA  SSTTOOCCKK    223399..443333..116600  114444..333399..448833  
    2222  TTOOTTAALL  NNEETT  CCAASSHH  OOUUTTFFLLOOWWSS  114422..009988..113322  3322..110099..334400  
    2233  LLiiqquuiiddiittyy  CCoovveerraaggee  RRaattiioo  ((%%))      116688,,5500  444499,,5522  

 (*) Simple arithmetic average calculated for the last three months by using the amounts calculated based on weekly simple arithmetic averages. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

298 - 299Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
54 

 

BBrreeaakkddoowwnn  ooff  aasssseettss  aanndd  lliiaabbiilliittiieess  aaccccoorrddiinngg  ttoo  tthheeiirr  oouuttssttaannddiinngg  mmaattuurriittiieess::  

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  ––  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  DDeemmaanndd  
UUpp  ttoo  11  
MMoonntthh  

11  ––  33  
MMoonntthhss  

33  ––  1122  
MMoonntthhss  

      11  ––  55  
YYeeaarrss  

55  YYeeaarrss  
aanndd  OOvveerr  

UUnnaallllooccaatteedd  
((**))  TToottaall  

AAsssseettss           
Cash and Balances with Central Bank 68.481.617 59.051.126 - - - - - 112277..553322..774433  
Banks (******) 24.306.130 3.559.377 3.419.448 320.761 - - - 3311..660055..771166  
Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Profit 
or Loss (Net) 

2.798.514 - 291 52.380 120.648 164.095 - 33..113355..992288  

Money Markets - 983.080 476.702 - - - - 11..445599..778822  
Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Other 
Comprehensive Income 

1.501.642 90.645 1.241.335 22.824.434 98.028.189 41.184.410 - 116644..887700..665555  

Loans and Lease Receivables (*****) - 121.353.670 95.937.644 161.401.803 109.244.617 55.505.470 16.906.984 556600..335500..118888  
Other financial assets measured at amortised 
cost 

- 431.008 544.883 12.231.910 47.499.344 37.447.531 - 9988..115544..667766  

Other Assets (*) - 3.348.392 1.526.080 6.299.149 19.034.910 20.100.394 37.767.842 8888..007766..776677  
TToottaall  AAsssseettss  9977..008877..990033  118888..881177..229988  110033..114466..338833  220033..113300..443377  227733..992277..770088  115544..440011..990000  5544..667744..882266  11..007755..118866..445555  

LLiiaabbiilliittiieess          
  Bank Deposits  1.448.252 5.749.449 6.638.654 2.369.133 - - - 1166..220055..448888  
  Other Deposits 230.071.663 272.044.950 131.472.144 29.441.298 89.219 - - 666633..111199..227744  
  Borrowings - 254.967 5.471.988 33.346.755 23.853.458 1.469.592 - 6644..339966..776600  
  Money Markets - 37.498.073 7.558.568 1.906.130 4.813.837 2.253.247 - 5544..002299..885555  
  Securities Issued (Net) (**) - 79.732 358.202 1.493.577 20.413.088 16.895.052 - 3399..223399..665511  
  Miscellaneous Payables - 1.582.762 660.560 6.902.415 11.708.476 2.923.563 20.340.264 4444..111188..004400  
  Other Liabilities (***) 2.183.677 5.122.476 450.486 5.394.797 7.756.203 2.391.545 170.778.203 119944..007777..338877  
TToottaall  LLiiaabbiilliittiieess 223333..770033..559922  332222..333322..440099  115522..661100..660022  8800..885544..110055  6688..663344..228811  2255..993322..999999  119911..111188..446677  11..007755..118866..445555  
                  
NNeett  LLiiqquuiiddiittyy  EExxcceessss//  ((GGaapp)) ((113366..661155..668899))  ((113333..551155..111111))  ((4499..446644..221199))  112222..227766..333322  220055..229933..442277  112288..446688..990011  ((113366..444433..664411))  --  
           
NNeett  ooffff--bbaallaannccee  sshheeeett  ppoossiittiioonn    --  11..337799..550055  11..448899..555599  11..999933..773388  88..002200..440099  1133..007766..778844  --  2255..995599..999955  

Financial Derivative Assets - 194.423.409 112.489.759 80.767.340 146.191.938 93.520.414 - 662277..339922..886600  
Financial Derivative Liabilities - 193.043.904 111.000.200 78.773.602 138.171.529 80.443.630 - 660011..443322..886655  

NNoonn--ccaasshh  llooaannss  ((********))  --  55..663311..009911  996699..001177  4400..556688..668844  4455..115599..006622  4488..227733..885522  --  114400..660011..770066  
 

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  --  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211          
     Total Assets 93.310.705 133.116.739 61.380.826 107.862.840 186.426.354 100.603.447 26.210.384 770088..991111..229955  
     Total Liabilities 153.828.379 233.613.998 85.732.063 66.418.920 51.245.245 28.790.917 89.281.773 770088..991111..229955  
NNeett  LLiiqquuiiddiittyy  GGaapp ((6600..551177..667744))  ((110000..449977..225599))  ((2244..335511..223377))  4411..444433..992200  113355..118811..110099  7711..881122..553300  ((6633..007711..338899))  --  

 
NNeett  OOffff--bbaallaannccee  sshheeeett  PPoossiittiioonn  -- 44..226611..441122 ((998899..774444)) 33..113355..330066  66..773333..776622 88..006666..551144 -- 2211..220077..225500

Financial Derivative Assets - 110.483.665 100.896.928 95.842.008 135.226.656 82.455.429 - 552244..990044..668866
Financial Derivative Liabilities - 106.222.253 101.886.672 92.706.702 128.492.894 74.388.915 - 550033..669977..443366

NNoonn--ccaasshh  LLooaannss  ((********))  -- 44..114422..444433 993333..444455 2255..009999..221155  2222..885566..550088 3344..779900..773399 -- 8877..882222..335500
 (*) Assets that are necessary for banking activities and that cannot be liquidated in the short-term, such as fixed and intangible assets, investments, 
subsidiaries, stationery, prepaid expenses and loans under follow-up, are shown in this column. Expected credit losses are included.  
(**) Securities issued as subordinated loan classified under subordinated loans in the balance sheet are included. 
(***) Shareholders’ Equity is presented under “Other Liabilities” item in the “Unallocated” column. 
(*****) Amounts related to Letters of Guarantee represent contractual maturity and related amounts. Amounts are demand and can be withdrawn 
optional. 
(******) The non-performing loans are stated in the "Unallocatable" column. 
(******) Derivative collaterals given to foreign banks are included. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

 
  

 
53 

 

Liquidity coverage ratio is calculated by comparing the high quality liquid assets owned by the Bank to net cash outflow in one month 
maturity. Balance sheet accounts that are significant on the ratio can be listed as reserve requirements maintained at CBRT, 
marketable securities that are not subject to repurchase agreements or not given as collateral, corporate deposits, bank deposits, 
foreign funds and borrowings from banks. The effect of these accounts on the liquidity coverage ratio is higher than other accounts, 
since these accounts have a higher share in liquid assets and net cash outflows.   

Periodic increases are observed in the liquidity coverage ratio during the weeks where the foreign currency reserve option is used in 
reserve requirements in CBRT, high amounts are maintained in bank placements or repurchase agreement volume decreases, on 
the other hand, fluctuations may occur in the liquidity coverage ratio during the weeks where the share of corporate or bank funds 
increase, or long term foreign funds which are replaced when due, such as syndicated loans are due in one month. Despite these 
fluctuations, it is observed that the ratio does not decrease below 150% during the period and remain at a quite higher level that the 
legal lower limit. 

Although the derivative transactions create net cash flow of small amount in terms of total liquidity coverage ratio, fluctuations in 
foreign currency derivative transactions, especially in foreign exchange swaps cause the foreign currency liquidity coverage ratio to 
be affected. 

The Bank’s high quality liquid assets mainly comprise of CBRT accounts by 50% and securities issued by Undersecreteriat of the 
Treasury by 39%. Funding sources are mainly distributed between individual and retail deposits by 62%, corporate deposits by 26%, 
and borrowings from banks by 3% and collateralized borrowings such as repurchase agreements by 4%. 

Cash outflow amounting to TL 669 million (in full TL amount) is calculated based on the change of margin call amounts of 
derivative transactions and repurchase agreements during the last two years. 

The Bank follows up and manages the liquidity coverage ratio including its foreign branch. There is no limitation which avoids 
liquidity transfer between the Bank and the foreign branch. In this context, the foreign branch does not create any additional liquidity 
risk for the Bank. The Bank follows up and manages the liquidity coverage ratio including its foreign branch. There is no limitation 
which avoids liquidity transfer between the Bank and the foreign branch. In this context, the foreign branch does not create any 
additional liquidity risk for the Bank. 

In accordance with the “Regulation On Calculation of Bank’s Liquidity Coverage Ratio”, published in Official Gazette no. 28948, dated 
21 March 2014, the weeks in which the highest and the lowest liquidity coverage ratio is calculated over the last three months are 
presented below. 

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  ––  3311..1122..22002222  
TTLL++FFCC  FFCC  

Lowest 150,09 408,68 
Week 16.12.2022 30.12.2022 
Highest 190,61 523,59 
Week 4.11.2022 11.11.2022 

  
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  --  3311..1122..22002211  

TTLL++FFCC  FFCC  
Lowest 155,41 192,95 
Week 1.10.2021 1.10.2021 
Highest 259,07 493,52 
Week 3.12.2021 3.12.2021 

  

300 - 301Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
56 

 

 
VII. EXPLANATIONS ON LEVERAGE RATIO: 

aa.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  ssuubbjjeeccttss  tthhaatt  ccaauusseess  ddiiffffeerreennccee  iinn  lleevveerraaggee  rraattiioo  bbeettwweeeenn  ccuurrrreenntt  aanndd  pprriioorr  ppeerriiooddss::   

As of 31 December 2022, the leverage ratio of the Bank calculated from 3 months average amounts is 10,47% (31 December 2021: 
8,71%). This ratio is above the minimum ratio which is 3%. 

bb.. DDiisscclloossuurree  ooff  LLeevveerraaggee  rraattiioo  tteemmppllaattee::  

 
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  ((**))  

  

  
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd    

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  ((**))  

1 
BBaallaannccee  sshheeeett  AAsssseettss  
Balance sheet assets (excluding derivative financial assets and credit 
derivatives, including collaterals) 1.004.782.453 623.115.015 

2 (Assets deducted from Core capital) - - 
3 Total risk amount of balance sheet assets (sum of lines 1 and 2) 1.004.782.453 623.115.015 

DDeerriivvaattiivvee  ffiinnaanncciiaall  aasssseettss  aanndd  ccrreeddiitt  ddeerriivvaattiivveess      
4 Cost of replenishment for derivative financial assets and credit derivatives   40.359.075 23.823.423 
5 Potential credit risk amount of derivative financial assets and credit 

derivatives 10.090.907 5.680.557 
6 Total risk amount of derivative financial assets and credit derivatives (sum 

of lines 4 and 5)  50.449.982 29.503.980 
FFiinnaanncciinngg  ttrraannssaaccttiioonnss  sseeccuurreedd  bbyy  mmaarrkkeettaabbllee  sseeccuurriittyy  oorr  ccoommmmooddiittyy      

7 Risk amount of financing transactions secured by marketable security or 
commodity 9.465.773 5.065.628 

8 Risk amount arising from intermediary transactions - - 
9 Total risk amount of financing transactions secured by marketable 

security or commodity (sum of lines 7 and 8) 9.465.773 5.065.628 
OOffff--bbaallaannccee  sshheeeett  ttrraannssaaccttiioonnss    

10 Gross notional amount of off-balance sheet transactions  288.053.067 176.342.934 
11 (Correction amount due to multiplication with credit conversion rates) (1.812.291) (1.129.588) 
12 Total risk of off-balance sheet transactions (sum of lines 10 and 11) 286.240.776 175.213.346 

CCaappiittaall  aanndd  ttoottaall  rriisskk    
13 Core Capital 141.505.576 72.517.950 
14 Total risk amount(sum of lines 3, 6, 9 and 12) 1.350.938.984 832.897.969 

LLeevveerraaggee  rraattiioo    
15 Leverage ratio 10,47 8,71 

(*) Three months average values. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

 
  

 
55 

 

BBrreeaakkddoowwnn  ooff  lliiaabbiilliittiieess  dduuee  ttoo  tthheeiirr  rreemmaaiinniinngg  ccoonnttrraaccttuuaall  mmaattuurriittiieess::  

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  --  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  
UUpp  ttoo  11  
MMoonntthh  

  
11--33  MMoonntthhss  33--1122  MMoonntthhss  

  
11--55  YYeeaarrss  

55  YYeeaarrss    
aanndd  OOvveerr  TToottaall  

LLiiaabbiilliittiieess       
Deposits 545.456.712 105.991.060 33.864.615 103.263 - 668855..441155..665500  
Funds borrowed from other financial institutions  393.547 5.976.639 35.893.887 26.057.693 1.588.130 6699..990099..889966  
Funds from interbank money market 37.616.959 7.701.286 2.260.876 5.789.756 2.459.951 5555..882288..882288  
Marketable Securities Issued (Net) 86.516 535.070 3.322.211 28.031.189 19.516.453 5511..449911..443399  

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  --  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  

  
UUpp  ttoo  11  
MMoonntthh  

  
11--33  MMoonntthhss  33--1122  MMoonntthhss  

  
11--55  YYeeaarrss  

55  YYeeaarrss    
aanndd  OOvveerr  TToottaall  

LLiiaabbiilliittiieess       
Deposits 363.858.990 41.053.180 9.876.619 75.382 - 441144..886644..117711 
Funds borrowed from other financial institutions  153.360 3.031.785 27.960.057 23.231.886 1.987.463 5566..336644..555511  
Funds from interbank money market 43.251.945 2.460.315 10.298.806 1.491.234 4.077.582 6611..557799..888822  
Marketable Securities Issued (Net) 2.447.928 2.814.154 11.562.886 23.126.380 21.634.758 6611..558866..110066  

BBrreeaakkddoowwnn  ooff  ddeerriivvaattiivvee  iinnssttrruummeennttss  dduuee  ttoo  tthheeiirr  rreemmaaiinniinngg  ccoonnttrraaccttuuaall  mmaattuurriittiieess::    

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  --  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  UUpp  ttoo  11  mmoonntthh  11--33  mmoonntthhss  33--1122  mmoonntthhss                            11--55  yyeeaarrss  
55  YYeeaarrss    

aanndd  OOvveerr  
DDeerriivvaattiivveess  hheelldd  ffoorr  ttrraaddiinngg              
Foreign exchange derivatives:       
- Inflow 173.549.935 100.663.808 54.617.044 19.808.607 6.313.217 
- Outflow (183.619.423) (116.195.702) (55.711.346) (18.671.335) (5.827.772) 
Interest rate derivatives:       
- Inflow 654.473 944.056 5.165.553 8.197.593 1.358.391 
- Outflow (551.571) (960.684) (4.341.652) (7.855.240) (1.250.171) 
DDeerriivvaattiivveess  hheelldd  ffoorr  hheeddggiinngg      
Foreign exchange derivatives:       
- Inflow 945.384 303.012 2.379.012 5.980.162 20.591.405 
- Outflow (316.205) (246.364) (896.534) (3.163.337) (7.337.791) 
Interest rate derivatives:       
- Inflow 423.413 1.040.097 4.117.787 8.784.124 1.638.450 
- Outflow (412.244) (790.608) (2.217.546) (5.170.987) (1.486.620) 
TToottaall  IInnffllooww  117755..557733..220055  110022..995500..997733  6666..227799..339966  4422..777700..448866  2299..990011..446633  
TToottaall  OOuuttffllooww  ((118844..889999..444433))  ((111188..119933..335588))  ((6633..116677..007788))  ((3344..886600..889999))  ((1155..990022..335544))  
  
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  --  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  UUpp  ttoo  11  mmoonntthh  11--33  mmoonntthhss  33--1122  mmoonntthhss                            11--55  yyeeaarrss  

55  YYeeaarrss    
aanndd  OOvveerr  

DDeerriivvaattiivveess  hheelldd  ffoorr  ttrraaddiinngg         
Foreign exchange derivatives:       
- Inflow 95.152.423 93.499.696 56.144.544 29.859.646 6.393.372 
- Outflow (99.684.375) (105.587.069) (55.679.894) (29.646.639) (5.920.722) 
Interest rate derivatives:       
- Inflow 379.106 934.972 2.334.452 4.078.103 1.235.062 
- Outflow (379.445) (848.877) (2.076.920) (3.616.493) (1.093.669) 
DDeerriivvaattiivveess  hheelldd  ffoorr  hheeddggiinngg      
Foreign exchange derivatives:       
- Inflow 3.004.059 99.193 1.838.063 4.694.245 14.653.748 
- Outflow (659.456) (253.115) (1.353.414) (4.010.544) (7.341.117) 
Interest rate derivatives:       
- Inflow 217.937 786.064 2.819.865 5.904.526 1.780.110 
- Outflow (295.460) (954.479) (2.803.513) (4.721.133) (1.909.851) 
TToottaall  IInnffllooww  9988..775533..552255  9955..331199..992255  6633..113366..992244  4444..553366..552200  2244..006622..229922  
TToottaall  OOuuttffllooww  ((110011..001188..773366))  ((110077..664433..554400))  ((6611..991133..774411))  ((4411..999944..880099))  ((1166..226655..335599))  
 
 

302 - 303Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
58 

 

Fair value hierarchy of the financial assets and liabilities of the Bank according to the foregoing principles is given in the table 
below: 
 
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  --  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  11sstt  LLeevveell  22nndd  LLeevveell  33rrdd  LLeevveell  TToottaall  
Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss     
 - Government Debt Securities 311.666                         -                     -  311.666 

 - Share Certificates 555.909                         -                     -  555.909 

 - Other Financial Assets  227.115 2.041.238 - 2.268.353 

Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income     
 - Government Debt Securities 140.342.676                         -                     -  140.342.676 

 - Share Certificates 97.071                         -                     -  97.071 

 - Other Financial Assets 17.246.977 7.183.931                    -  24.430.908 

Derivative Financial Assets     
 - Derivative Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss -  26.877.552                    -  26.877.552 
 - Derivative Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive 
Income                       -   20.877.144                    -  20.877.144 
Loans                       -   581.202.177                    -  581.202.177 

Financial Assets Measured at Amortised Cost     
   - Government Debt Securities 132.442.825                         -                     -  132.442.825 

   - Other Financial Assets 1.308.046                         -                     -  1.308.046 

TToottaall  AAsssseettss  229922..553322..228855  663388..118822..004422  --  993300..771144..332277  

Derivative Financial Liabilities     
 - Derivative Financial Liabilities at Fair Value Through  
Profit or Loss -  13.957.533                    -  13.957.533 
 - Derivative Financial Liabilities at Fair Value Through  
Other Comprehensive Income                       -   494.477                    -  494.477 
Deposits                       -   680.747.311                    -  680.747.311 

Funds Borrowed                       -   66.275.073                    -  66.275.073 

Money Markets                       -   54.107.636                    -  54.107.636 

Securities Issued (Net)                       -   37.144.579                    -  37.144.579 

TToottaall  LLiiaabbiilliittiieess                                            --    885522..772266..660099                                        --    885522..772266..660099  

 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

 
  

 
57 

 

VIII. EXPLANATIONS ON PRESENTATION OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES AT THEIR FAIR VALUES 

aa.. CCaallccuullaattiioonnss  ooff  ffiinnaanncciiaall  aasssseettss  aanndd  lliiaabbiilliitteess  aatt  tthheeiirr  ffaaiirr  vvaalluueess::  

The fair values of financial assets measured at amortised cost are determined based on market prices or when this price is not 
available, based on market prices quoted for other securities subject to the same redemption qualifications in terms of interest, 
maturity and other similar conditions. 

The expected fair value of the demand deposit represents the amount to be paid upon request. The fair value of the overnight 
deposit represents the carrying value. The expected fair value of the fixed rate deposit is calculated by discounted cash flow with 
the use of the market interest rates of similar liabilities and loans. 

The fair value of marketable securities issued is calculated according to broker price quotations and if these are not available, 
amounts derived from discounted cash flow models. 

The expected fair value of loans and receivables are determined by calculating the discounted cash flows using the current market 
interest rates for the fixed loans with fixed interest rates.  For the loans with floating interest rates, it is assumed that the carrying 
value reflects the fair value.  

The following table summarizes the carrying values and fair values of financial assets and liabilities. The carrying value represents 
the acquisition costs and accumulated interest accruals of corresponding financial assets or liabilities. 

                   CCaarrrryyiinngg  VVaalluuee                                                                                    FFaaiirr  VVaalluuee 

    
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  
FFiinnaanncciiaall  AAsssseettss  885566..444411..001177  554488..111144..332200  991122..888866..224477  556622..557722..119922  
    Money Markets 1.459.782 2.823.223 1.465.871 2.823.356 
    Banks 31.605.716 48.652.436 31.596.673 48.653.498 

Financial Assets at Fair Value Through 
Other Comprehensive Income 164.870.655 90.681.271 164.870.655 90.681.271 
Other Financial Assets Measured at 
Amortised Cost 98.154.676 52.585.560 133.750.871 58.406.922 
Loans 560.350.188 353.371.830 581.202.177 362.007.145 

FFiinnaanncciiaall  LLiiaabbiilliittiieess  882277..007799..221133  553366..660022..005500  882288..228855..000033                        553388..005511..006688  
Bank Deposits 16.205.488 14.126.741 16.229.876 14.146.704 
Other Deposits 663.119.274 399.133.993 664.517.435 399.368.060 
Borrowings 64.396.760 53.496.813 66.275.073 55.543.045 
Securities Issued (Net) 39.239.651 48.267.981 37.144.579 47.416.737 
Miscellaneous Payables 44.118.040 21.576.522                 44.118.040                 21.576.522 

  
bb.. FFaaiirr  vvaalluuee  hhiieerraarrcchhyy::  

TFRS 13 sets a hierarchy of valuation techniques according to the observability of data used in valuation techniques which 
establish basis for fair value calculations.  

Aforesaid fair value hierarchy is determined as follows. 

a) Quoted market prices (non-adjusted) (1st level). 

b) Directly (by way of prices) or indirectly (derived from prices) data for the assets or liabilities, other than quoted prices in  
the 1st level (2nd level). 

c) Data not based on observable data regarding assets or liabilities (3rd level). 

 

 

 

304 - 305Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
60 

 

IX. EXPLANATION ON THE ACTIVITIES CARRIED OUT ON BEHALF AND ACCOUNT OF OTHER PERSONS: 

The Bank carries out trading, custody, management and consulting services on behalf of customers and on their account. Details 
of these transactions are provided in the off-balance sheet table. The Bank has no trust transactions. 

X. EXPLANATIONS ON RISK MANAGEMENT TARGET AND POLICIES: 

aa..  EExxppllaannaattiioonnss  oonn  RRiisskk  MMaannaaggeemmeenntt  aanndd  RRiisskk  WWeeiigghhtteedd  AAmmoouunntt  ((RRWWAA))  

1. The Bank’s risk management approach: 

Effective risk management constitutes one of the most important competitive strength of the Bank. Risk management system is 
assessed as a critical process which includes all units starting from the Board of Directors level. General strategies regarding 
Bank’s risk management are given below: 

- Effective risk management within the Bank’s risk profile based on materiality; implementing a centralized risk framework 
that includes all major risk areas.  

- Managing existing and potential risks from the beginning through forward looking risk strategies, policies and 
procedures, models and parameters, 

- Applying a risk-focused management approach in the strategic decision process,  

- Complying with all national risk management requirements, where the Bank operates.  

The Bank’s Board of Directors has the ultimate responsibility for setting-up and monitoring the efficiency of such a risk 
management system. The Board of Directors fulfills its monitoring responsibility through the Auditing Committee, the Executive 
Risk Committee, the Credit Committee and other related intermediary committees and by means of regular risk, control and audit 
reporting system. 

The Board of Directors regularly reviews and approves Bank’s main risk approach, risk principles and policies which are initially 
discussed and decided by the Executive Risk Committee. The Board of Directors also determines Bank’s risk appetite by risk limits 
taking market conditions and Bank’s risk taking capacity into consideration. Risk limits are made up of regulatory and internal 
limits on the basis of risk types. 

Bank’s Senior Management is responsible to the Bank’s Board of Directors that daily activities are executed within the risk 
management procedures and risk limits determined by the Board of Directors and that risk management system operates in 
effective and efficient manner. The Internal Audit, the Internal Control, Compliance Presidency and The Risk Management 
Presidency which directly report to the Board of Directors operate in coordination with the business units of the Bank. In this 
scope, it is also Senior Management’s responsibility to take necessary measures in order to resolve identified weaknesses, 
deficiencies and errors stated in the reports of internal and external audits, internal control and risk management. 

Locally and internationally accepted risk models and parameters are used in the identification, measurement and monitoring of 
risks within the scope of risk management. The Bank strives continuously for development and improvement of internal methods 
and models. Forward looking risk reports prepared through regular and close monitoring of the market developments are made 
available for the Senior Management and the Board of Directors. In order to analyze the potential risks that the Bank may be 
exposed in extreme cases, various scenario analyses are performed and contingency plans are prepared. The Bank's internal 
capital adequacy assessment process ("ICAAP") has been established and the ICAAP has been performed parallel to the annual 
budget process on an annual basis. Moreover, various risk mitigation techniques are utilized to limit and provide protection against 
risks the Bank is exposed to. The effectiveness and efficiency of the risk mitigation techniques are regularly monitored. 

Notes and explanations in this section have been prepared in accordance with the Communiqué on Disclosures about Risk 
Management to be announced to Public by Banks that have been published in Official Gazette no. 29511 on 23 October 2015 and 
became effective as of 31 March 2016. Due to usage of standard approach for the calculation of capital adequacy ratio by the Bank, 
tables, which have to be prepared within the scope of Internal Rating-Based (IRB) approach, are not presented. 

In the event of unexpected negative economic conditions, stress tests are carried out regularly considering the exchange rate and 
interest rate shocks and the deterioration of the loan portfolio at different stress rates.  

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

 
  

 
59 

 

 (*) Fair value of the financial assets at fair value through profit or loss classified under third level, has been determined based on 
results of valuation work that include various valuation technics. The potential changes in the fundamental estimations and 
assumptions included in the valuation work can affect the carrying fair value of the loan. 

As explained in the note of VII-b of the Third Section, share certificates classified as financial assets at fair value through other 
comprehensive income are carried at cost less impairment since they are not traded in active markets and their fair values cannot 
be measured reliably. 

There are no transfers between the 1st and the 2nd levels in the current year. 

The movement of financial assets in Level 3 is presented below: 

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211
BBaallaanncceess  aatt  BBeeggiinnnniinngg  ooff  PPeerriioodd  77..334422..991100 77..334422..991100
Purchases During the Period - -
Disposals Through Sale/Redemptions (*) (7.342.910) -
Valuation Effect  - -
Transfers - -
BBaallaanncceess  aatt  tthhee  EEnndd  ooff  PPeerriioodd  -- 77..334422..991100
 

(*)As explained in the footnote of Section I-b, share transfer agreement was signed with the Turkey Wealth Fund regarding the sale of all of Türk 
Telekomünikasyon A.Ş.’s shares in LYY Telekomünikasyon A.Ş.'s assets. The sale and transfer transaction was realized on 31 March 2022. 

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  --  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  11sstt  LLeevveell  22nndd  LLeevveell  33rrdd  LLeevveell  TToottaall  
Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss     
 - Government Debt Securities 470.711                         -                     -    470.711  

 - Share Certificates            282.498                         -                     -    282.498  

 - Other Financial Assets              397.493 1.313.971 7.342.910  9.054.374  

Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income     
 - Government Debt Securities  75.813.203                          -                     -          75.813.203 

 - Share Certificates  -                          -                     -                           -  

 - Other Financial Assets  11.881.147  2.971.202                    -             14.852.349 

Derivative Financial Assets     
 - Derivative Financial Assets at Fair Value Through  
Profit or Loss -  36.244.966                    -   36.244.966 
 - Derivative Financial Assets at Fair Value Through  
Other Comprehensive Income                       -  13.432.561                    -   13.432.561 
Loans (*)                       -       362.007.145                    -        362.007.145 

Financial Assets Measured at Amortised Cost     
   - Government Debt Securities      57.421.367                         -                     -   57.421.367 

   - Other Financial Assets 985.556                         -                     -                985.556 

TToottaall  AAsssseettss  114477..225511..997755  441155..996699..884455          77..334422..991100          557700..556644..773300  

Derivative Financial Liabilities     
 - Derivative Financial Liabilities at Fair Value Through  
Profit or Loss -         24.797.964                    -   24.797.964 
 - Derivative Financial Liabilities at Fair Value Through  
Other Comprehensive Income                       -  489.271                    -   489.271  
Deposits                       -   413.514.764                     -    413.514.764  

Funds Borrowed                       -   55.543.045                     -    55.543.045  

Money Markets                       -   61.009.971                     -    61.009.971  

Securities Issued (Net)                       -   47.416.737                     -    47.416.737  

TToottaall  LLiiaabbiilliittiieess                                            --            660022..777711..775522                                        --            660022..777711..775522  

306 - 307Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
62 

 

bb.. LLiinnkkaaggeess  bbeettwweeeenn  ffiinnaanncciiaall  ssttaatteemmeennttss  aanndd  rreegguullaattoorryy  eexxppoossuurreess::  

1. Differences between accounting and regulatory scopes of consolidation and mapping of financial statement categories with 
regulatory risk categories: 

 
         CCaarrrryyiinngg  vvaalluueess  ooff  iitteemmss    

 CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  --  3311..1122..22002222 

CCaarrrryyiinngg  vvaalluueess  
aass  rreeppoorrtteedd  iinn  

ppuubblliisshheedd  
ffiinnaanncciiaall  

ssttaatteemmeennttss  ((**))  

SSuubbjjeecctt  ttoo  
ccrreeddiitt  rriisskk  
ffrraammeewwoorrkk  

SSuubbjjeecctt  ttoo  
ccoouunntteerrppaarrttyy  

ccrreeddiitt  rriisskk  
ffrraammeewwoorrkk  

SSuubbjjeecctt  ttoo  tthhee  
sseeccuurriittiissaattiioonn  

ffrraammeewwoorrkk  

SSuubbjjeecctt  ttoo  tthhee  
mmaarrkkeett  rriisskk  

ffrraammeewwoorrkk  ((****))  

NNoott  ssuubbjjeecctt  ttoo  ccaappiittaall  
rreeqquuiirreemmeennttss  oorr  

ssuubbjjeecctt  ttoo  ddeedduuccttiioonn  
ffrroomm  ccaappiittaall  

AAsssseettss              
Cash and balances at central bank 127.532.743 127.532.743 - - - - 
Banks 31.599.761 31.599.761 - - - - 
Receivables from money markets 1.459.782 1.459.782 - - - - 
Financial assets at fair value through P&L  3.135.928 2.798.522 - - 337.406 -  
Financial assets at fair value through other 
comprehensive income 164.870.655 164.870.369 41.237.315 - - 286 
Derivative financial assets 47.754.696   47.754.696 -  5.386.865   
Loans (net) 538.887.546 538.830.808 - - - 56.738 
Lease Receivables (net) - - -  -  -   - 
Factoring Receivables (net) - - -  -  -   - 
Financial assets measured at amortised cost (net) 98.103.999 98.103.999 22.917.094 - - - 
Non-current assets and disposal groups classified 
as held for sale (net) 565.378 565.378 -  -  -   - 
Investments in associates (net) 18.957 18.957 -  -  -   - 
Investments in subsidiaries (net) 23.528.038 23.528.038 -  -  -   - 
Investments in joint ventures (net) - - -  -  -   - 
Tangible assets (net) 15.127.282 15.037.321 -  -    89.961 
Intangible assets (net) 2.652.021 - -  -  -  2.652.021 
Investment properties (net) - - -  -  -   - 
Tax assets - - -  -  -   - 
Deferred tax assets 192.285 192.285 -  -  -   - 
Other assets 19.757.384 19.757.384 -  -  -   - 

TToottaall  aasssseettss  11..007755..118866..445555  11..002244..229955..334477  
111111..990099..1100

55  --  55..772244..227711  22..779999..000066  
LLiiaabbiilliittiieess              
Deposits 679.324.762 - - - - 679.324.762 
Loans 64.396.760 - - - - 64.396.760 
Debt to money markets 54.029.855 - 53.979.833 - - - 
Debt securities in issue 22.439.569 - - - - 22.439.569 
Funds - - - - - - 
Financial liabilities at fair value through P&L - - - - - - 
Derivative financial liabilities 14.452.010 - - - 3.430.152 - 
Factoring debts - - - - - - 
Debts from leasing transactions 799.166 - - - - 799.166 
Provisions 5.665.488 - - - - 5.665.488 
Tax liability 10.669.260 - - - - 10.669.260 
Deferred tax liability 3.027.248 - - - - 3.027.248 
Liabilities included in disposal groups classified as 
held for sale (net)                                                                                  -   - -   - -                     -  
Subordinated debts 16.800.082 - - - - 16.800.082 
Other liabilities 49.982.371 - - - - 49.982.371 
Equity 153.599.884 - - - - 153.599.884 
TToottaall  lliiaabbiilliittiieess  11..007755..118866..445555  --  5533..997799..883333  --  33..443300..115522  11..000066..770044..559900  

 
(*) Since the accounting and legal consolidation scope of the Bank are identical, the financial statement information is shown in 
one column. 
(**) The Amounts of financial instruments, which are measured in accordance with TAS and included in trading accounts within the 
scope of the “Regulation on Measurement and Assessment of Capital Adequacy Ratios of Banks” are represented in “Subject to 
market risk framework” column. 
 
 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

 
  

 
61 

 

2. Overview of RWA: 

    RRiisskk  WWeeiigghhtteedd  AAmmoouunntt  
MMiinniimmuumm  ccaappiittaall  

rreeqquuiirreemmeenntt  
    CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  
  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  

1 Credit risk (excluding counterparty credit risk) (CCR) 594.806.949 358.124.256 47.584.556 
2 Standardized approach (SA) 594.806.949 358.124.256 47.584.556 
3 Internal rating-based (IRB) approach - - - 
4 Counterparty credit risk 45.241.607 29.880.388 3.619.329 

5 
Standardized approach for counterparty credit risk (SA-
CCR) 45.241.607 29.880.388 3.619.329 

6 Internal model method (IMM) - - - 

7 
Basic risk weight approach to internal models equity 
position in the banking account - - - 

8 
Investments made in collective investment companies –  
look-through approach - - - 

9 
Investments made in collective investment companies – 
mandate-based approach  1.404.572 680.479 112.366 

10 
Investments made in collective investment companies - 
1250% weighted risk approach - - - 

11 Settlement risk - 800 - 
12 Securitization positions in banking accounts - - - 
13 IRB ratings-based approach (RBA) - - - 
14 IRB Supervisory Formula Approach (SFA) - - - 
15 SA/simplified supervisory formula approach (SSFA) - - - 
16 Market risk 17.887.418 24.343.231 1.430.993 
17 Standardized approach (SA) 17.887.418 24.343.231 1.430.993 
18 Internal model approaches (IMM) - - - 
19 Operational Risk 48.026.486 38.369.628 3.842.119 
20 Basic Indicator Approach 48.026.486 38.369.628 3.842.119 
21 Standard Approach - - - 
22 Advanced measurement approach - - - 

23 
The amount of the discount threshold under the equity 
(subject to a 250% risk weight) - - - 

24 Floor adjustment - - - 
2255  TToottaall  ((11++44++77++88++99++1100++1111++1122++1166++1199++2233++2244))  770077..336677..003322 445511..339988..778822 5566..558899..336633  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

308 - 309Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
64 

 

2. Main sources of differences between regulatory exposure amounts and carrying values in financial statements: 
 

    

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  --  3311..1122..22002222  TToottaall  

IItteemmss  ssuubbjjeecctt  
ttoo  ccrreeddiitt  rriisskk  

ffrraammeewwoorrkk  

IItteemmss  ssuubbjjeecctt  ttoo  
sseeccuurriittiissaattiioonn  

ffrraammeewwoorrkk  

IItteemmss  
ssuubbjjeecctt  ttoo  

ccoouunntteerrppaarrttyy  
ccrreeddiitt  rriisskk  

ffrraammeewwoorrkk  

IItteemmss  ssuubbjjeecctt  
ttoo  

mmaarrkkeett  rriisskk  
ffrraammeewwoorrkk((**))  

11  AAsssseett  ccaarrrryyiinngg  vvaalluuee  aammoouunntt  uunnddeerr  ssccooppee  ooff  
rreegguullaattoorryy  ccoonnssoolliiddaattiioonn    11..007722..338877..444499  11..002244..229955..334477  --  111111..990099..110055  55..772244..227711  

2 Liabilities carrying value amount under regulatory 
scope of consolidation  68.481.865 - - 53.979.833 3.430.152 

3 Total net amount under regulatory scope of 
consolidation 

11..000033..990055..5588
44  11..002244..229955..334477  --  5577..992299..227722  22..229944..111199  

4 Off-balance sheet amounts 416.572.509 86.984.286 - 38.874.416 -  
5 Differences in valuations   - -   - 
6 Differences due to different netting rules, other than 

those already included in row 2   - -   - 
7 Differences due to consideration of provisions   - -   - 
8 Differences due to prudential filters   (90.045.230) - (32.799.289) 15.593.299 
9 Differences due to risk reduction   (6.655.929)  -  - -  
1100  EExxppoossuurree    aammoouunnttss  ccoonnssiiddeerreedd  ffoorr  rreegguullaattoorryy  

ppuurrppoosseess      11..001144..557788..447744  --  6644..000044..339999  1177..888877..441188  
(*)The Amounts of financial instruments, which are measured according to TAS and included in trading accounts within the scope of the 
“Regulation on Measurement and Assessment of Capital Adequacy Ratios of Banks”, are represented in “Subject to market risk framework” 
column are presented. 

 

    

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  --  3311..1122..22002211  TToottaall  

IItteemmss  ssuubbjjeecctt  
ttoo  ccrreeddiitt  rriisskk  

ffrraammeewwoorrkk  

IItteemmss  ssuubbjjeecctt  ttoo  
sseeccuurriittiissaattiioonn  

ffrraammeewwoorrkk  

IItteemmss  
ssuubbjjeecctt  ttoo  

ccoouunntteerrppaarrttyy  
ccrreeddiitt  rriisskk  

ffrraammeewwoorrkk  

IItteemmss  
ssuubbjjeecctt  ttoo  

mmaarrkkeett  
rriisskk  

ffrraammeewwoorr
kk((**))  

11  AAsssseett  ccaarrrryyiinngg  vvaalluuee  aammoouunntt  uunnddeerr  ssccooppee  ooff  
rreegguullaattoorryy  ccoonnssoolliiddaattiioonn    770077..336677..660000  665577..110033..226611  --  111144..336600..770099  44..881199..006688  

2 Liabilities carrying value amount under regulatory 
scope of consolidation  86.293.870 - - 60.866.590  2.572.491 

3 Total net amount under regulatory scope of 
consolidation 662211..007733..773300  665577..110033..226611  --  5533..449944..111199  22..224466..557777  

4 Off-balance sheet amounts 697.048.620 48.005.517 - 4.828.489 - 
5 Differences in valuations   - -   - 
6 Differences due to different netting rules, other than 

those already included in row 2   - -   - 
7 Differences due to consideration of provisions   - -   - 
8 Differences due to prudential filters   (94.447.414) - (17.771.786) 22.096.654 
9 Differences due to risk reduction   (2.436.726)  - -  - 
1100  EExxppoossuurree    aammoouunnttss  ccoonnssiiddeerreedd  ffoorr  rreegguullaattoorryy  

ppuurrppoosseess      660088..222244..663388  --  4400..555500..882222 2244..334433..223311  
(*) The Amounts of financial instruments, which are measured according to TAS and included in trading accounts within the scope of the 
“Regulation on Measurement and Assessment of Capital Adequacy Ratios of Banks”, are represented in “Subject to market risk framework” 
column are presented. 

 
3. Explanations of differences between accounting and regulatory exposure amounts: 

a) Differences between accounting and regulatory exposure amounts 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

 
  

 
63 

 

 
 

      CCaarrrryyiinngg  vvaalluueess  ooff  iitteemmss    

 PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  --  3311..1122..22002211 

CCaarrrryyiinngg  
vvaalluueess  aass  

rreeppoorrtteedd  iinn  
ppuubblliisshheedd  
ffiinnaanncciiaall  

ssttaatteemmeennttss  ((**))  

SSuubbjjeecctt  ttoo  
ccrreeddiitt  rriisskk  
ffrraammeewwoorrkk  

SSuubbjjeecctt  ttoo  
ccoouunntteerrppaarrttyy  

ccrreeddiitt  rriisskk  
ffrraammeewwoorrkk  

SSuubbjjeecctt  ttoo  tthhee  
sseeccuurriittiissaattiioonn  

ffrraammeewwoorrkk  

SSuubbjjeecctt  ttoo  tthhee  
mmaarrkkeett  rriisskk  

ffrraammeewwoorrkk  ((****))  

NNoott  ssuubbjjeecctt  ttoo  ccaappiittaall  
rreeqquuiirreemmeennttss  oorr  

ssuubbjjeecctt  ttoo  ddeedduuccttiioonn  
ffrroomm  ccaappiittaall  

AAsssseettss              
Cash and balances at central bank 91.886.725 91.886.725 -  -  -   - 
Banks 48.651.885 48.651.885 -  -  -   - 
Receivables from money markets 2.823.223 2.823.223 -  -  -   - 
Financial assets at fair value through P&L  9.807.583 9.220.771 -  -  586.812  - 
Financial assets at fair value through other 
comprehensive income 90.681.271 90.678.652 39.118.367 -  -  2.619 
Derivative financial assets 49.677.527 -  49.677.527 -  4.232.256  - 
Loans (net) 334.751.359 334.728.035 -  -  -  23.324 
Lease Receivables (net) - - -  -  -   - 
Factoring Receivables (net) - - -  -  -   - 
Financial assets measured at amortised cost (net) 52.567.137 52.567.137 25.564.815  -  -   - 
Non-current assets and disposal groups classified 
as held for sale (net) 170.756 170.756 -  -  -   - 
Investments in associates (net) 18.129 18.129 -  -  -   - 
Investments in subsidiaries (net) 16.060.130 16.060.130 -  -  -   - 
Investments in joint ventures (net) - - -  -  -   - 
Tangible assets (net) 5.829.227 5.777.114 -  -    52.113 
Intangible assets (net) 1.465.639 - -  -  -  1.465.639 
Investment properties (net) - - -  -  -   - 
Tax assets - - -  -  -   - 
Deferred tax assets 73.610 73.610 -  -  -   - 
Other assets 4.447.094 4.447.094 -  -  -   - 
TToottaall  aasssseettss  770088..991111..229955  665577..110033..226611  111144..336600..770099  --  44..881199..006688  11..554433..669955  
LLiiaabbiilliittiieess              
Deposits    413.260.734  -  -   - -     413.260.734  
Loans      53.496.813  -  -   - -       53.496.813  
Debt to money markets      61.006.635  -  60.866.590  - -       -  
Debt securities in issue      29.542.447        - -   - -       29.542.447  
Funds                    -  -  -   - -                     -  
Financial liabilities at fair value through P&L                    -  -  -   - -                     -  
Derivative financial liabilities      25.287.235  -                     -  - 2.572.491      -  
Factoring debts                    -  -  -   - -                     -  
Debts from leasing transactions           535.440                    - -   - -            535.440  
Provisions        3.225.201  -  -   - -         3.225.201  
Tax liability        2.233.095  -  -   - -         2.233.095  
Deferred tax liability           171.341  -  -   - -            171.341  
Liabilities included in disposal groups classified as 
held for sale (net)                                                                               -   - -   - -                     -  
Subordinated debts      18.725.534  -  -   - -       18.725.534  
Other liabilities      25.471.869  -  -   - -       25.471.869  
Equity      75.954.951  -  -   - -       75.954.951  
TToottaall  lliiaabbiilliittiieess  770088..991111..229955                                      --  6600..886666..559900  --  22..557722..449911  662222..661177..442255  

 
(*) Since the accounting and legal consolidation scope of the Bank are identical, the financial statement information is shown in 
one column. 
(**) The Amounts of financial instruments, which are measured in accordance with TAS and included in trading accounts within the 
scope of the “Regulation on Measurement and Assessment of Capital Adequacy Ratios of Banks”are represented in “Subject to 
market risk framework” column  
 
 
 

  

310 - 311Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
66 

 

Committee, the Executive Risk Committee, Internal Audit, Internal Control, Risk Management activities and Internal Systems 
Responsible. 

The Board of Directors is responsible for determining the risk baseline of the Bank, the risk approach and the level of risk taking. 
The Board of Directors manages the risks through the Executive Risk Committee. The committee is responsible for establishing 
risk policies, determining methods for measuring and managing risks, and establishing and monitoring appropriate risk limits. All 
risk policies established by the Executive Risk Committee are written and integrated into the Bank's long-term general strategy. 

2. Credit quality of assets: 

GGrroossss  ccaarrrryyiinngg  vvaalluueess  ooff  ((aaccccoorrddiinngg  ttoo  TTAASS))  
AAlllloowwaanncceess//  
iimmppaaiirrmmeennttss  NNeett  vvaalluueess    CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  --  3311..1122..22002222 

DDeeffaauulltteedd  
eexxppoossuurreess  

NNoonn--ddeeffaauulltteedd  
eexxppoossuurreess  

1 Loans 16.906.984                   543.443.204   21.462.642   538.887.546 
2 Debt Securities -                   262.062.469   461.949 261.600.520 
3 Off-balance sheet explosures 1.557.705                   306.291.790   487.004 307.362.491 
44  TToottaall  1188..446644..668899                                11..111111..779977..446633      2222..441111..559955  11..110077..885500..555577  

 
   GGrroossss  ccaarrrryyiinngg  vvaalluueess  ooff  ((aaccccoorrddiinngg  ttoo  TTAASS))  

AAlllloowwaanncceess//  
iimmppaaiirrmmeennttss  NNeett  vvaalluueess    PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  --  3311..1122..22002211 

DDeeffaauulltteedd  
eexxppoossuurreess  

NNoonn--ddeeffaauulltteedd  
eexxppoossuurreess  

1 Loans 17.768.546 335.603.284 18.620.471 334.751.359 
2 Debt Securities - 150.781.725 78.177 150.703.548 
3 Off-balance sheet explosures 1.544.171 193.026.097 653.180 193.917.088 
44  TToottaall  1199..331122..771177  667799..441111..110066  1199..335511..882288  667799..337711..999955  

 

3. Changes in stock of defaulted loans and debt securities: 

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  

    3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  

    3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  
DDeeffaauulltteedd  llooaannss  aanndd  ddeebbtt  sseeccuurriittiieess  aatt  eenndd  ooff  tthhee  
pprreevviioouuss  rreeppoorrttiinngg  ppeerriioodd  1199..331122..771177  1188..225511..668811  
Loans and debt securities that have defaulted since the 
last reporting period    17.202.977     5.438.664  
Returned to non-defaulted status         105.622          78.299  
Amounts written off    14.147.126     1.522.522  
Other changes    3.798.257     2.776.807  
DDeeffaauulltteedd  llooaannss  aanndd  ddeebbtt  sseeccuurriittiieess  aatt  eenndd  ooff  tthhee  
rreeppoorrttiinngg  ppeerriioodd  ((11++22--33--44±±55))  DDeeffiinniittiioonnss  1188..446644..668899 1199..331122..771177 

 

4. Additional disclosure related to the credit quality of assets: 

a) Definitions of overdue and provision allocated receivables are presented below: 

The Bank considers loans that have overdue principal and interest payments and are classified as 2nd Group in accordance with 
Communiqué on “Determining the Quality of Loans and Other Receivables by Banks and Procedures and Principles of Provisions 
to be made” as “past due loans.”  Loans that have overdue principal and interest payments for more than 90 days after the 
maturity date or the debtor of which are deemed unworthy by the Bank are considered impaired loans. Impaired consumer loans 
are evaluated on account basis and commercial loans on customer basis. 
 

The Bank calculates expected credit loss for overdue loans in accordance with Communiqué on “Determining the Quality of Loans 
and Other Receivables by Banks and Procedures and Principles of Provisions to be made”. 

 

 

 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

 
  

 
65 

 

On counterparty credit risk related transactions, the differences between the valued amounts in accordance with TAS in the scope 
statutory consolidation and the amounts after risk reduction arise from the addition of potential risk amounts per maturity and 
transaction type to renewal cost of derivative transactions related to counterparty credit risk. 

The valued amounts of the items which are subject to market risk per TAS represent the fair value of trading financial instruments. 
Despite that, the amount at the risk amount line represents the amount which is subject market risk that derives from the 
calculation of capital requirements due to the loss on interest rate risk of market risk, share price risk, currency risk in the scope 
of “Regulation on Measurement and Evaluation of Banks Capital Adequacy Ratio”. 

b) Explanations related to the systems and controls which are defined to ensure prudence and reliability of valuation estimates in 
accordance with prudent valuation procedures and principles within the scope of appendix 3 of “Regulation on Measurement 
and Evaluation of Capital Adequacy of Banks”:  

In case financial instruments that are accounted at their fair values are traded in an active market, the valuation is made based on 
market price. The accuracy of market price that is used at valuation is being confirmed periodically. The fair value of financial 
instruments that are not traded in an active market are being calculated in accordance TFRS 13. Derivative financial instruments 
are valued by discounted cash flow model with the use of market data. For the valuation of certain financial instruments, third 
party valuations and generally accepted valuation models can be used. The accuracy and independence of inputs that are used at 
the valuation of market value and/or used at valuation methods by modelling are being controlled periodically. In addition, there 
are control processes for the comparison of the current market value of financial instruments with the recalculated values.  

cc.. CCrreeddiitt  rriisskk  eexxppllaannaattiioonnss::  

1. General qualitative information about credit risk: 

Risk limits are defined by Board of Directors in a such manner that covers all possible important risk components, in accordance 
with the Bank’s operations and the size and complexity of products and services. Care is taken to ensure that the risk limits are in 
line with market expectations and reflect the Bank's risk appetite and Bank's strategies. The credit policies are established in 
consistence with risk limits. 

Credit rating models are used in loan allocation processes in accordance with the risk appetite, credit policies and targets of the 
Bank. Rating all credit customers is essential for the Bank. Credit ratings are used as the main factor in determining target 
segments, authority levels, prices, limits and collateralization levels in loan portfolios. Application models are used during initial 
loan underwriting and behavioral models are used for customers whose previous credit performance could be monitored. 
Behavioral models are mainly used in the credit monitoring process and in the evaluation process of portfolio risk. 

In order to ensure timely and complete fulfillment of all obligations arising from the loan, it is essential to obtain adequate 
collateral from the customers. The main purpose of collateralization of any loan is to minimize the credit, foreign exchange and 
maturity risk. In this context, the minimum margin is determined by considering the quality of the collateral and collection 
expectancy in case of default and it is ensured that appropriate collateral is obtained for the loan type. 

Credit risk is encountered when the counterparty is unable to fulfill its obligations defined with the agreement. All credit risk 
bearing banking products are managed with prudent credit policies and procedures in the Bank. The credit quality of the 
counterparty is evaluated with an internal rating score in all credit transactions. In order to monitor the credit risk, internal limits 
are determined on the basis of sector, customer, credit type and customer segment. 

Credit risk management is a process in which credit risks are assessed and monitored in a consistent manner, besides all credit 
portfolios are included on a consolidated basis. During the process of credit risk management, the Risk Management Presidency 
conducts measurement, monitoring and reporting activities of the credit risk using statistical models. In addition to the credit risk-
related risk limits, various concentrations in the loan portfolio are also analyzed. İt is assured to act within the policy of allocation, 
monitoring, Limit Follow-up and management, by establishing policy regarding to Country risk and concentration risk 
management. Cost of loan and collections of non-performing loans are monitored periodically. In addition, stress testing and 
scenario analysis studies are carried out on the loan portfolio. 

Assessment of the internal systems established to encompass all branches and departments and related entities are among the 
highest priorities of the Board of Directors to ensure the continuity of its operations, competencies and activities. Within the scope 
of internal systems, the duties and responsibilities of the Board of Directors are carried out by the Board of Directors, the Audit 

312 - 313Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
68 

 

Breakdown by outstanding maturity: 

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  --    
3311..1122..22002222  

11  ––    33  
MMoonntthhss  

33  ––  1122  
MMoonntthhss  

      11  ––  55      
YYeeaarrss  TToottaall  

UUpp  ttoo  11  
MMoonntthh    

55  YYeeaarrss  
aanndd  OOvveerr    

Loans 121.353.670 95.937.644 161.401.803 109.244.617 55.505.470 554433..444433..220044  

 

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  --    
3311..1122..22002211  

11  ––    33  
MMoonntthhss  

33  ––  1122  
MMoonntthhss  

      11  ––  55      
YYeeaarrss  TToottaall  

UUpp  ttoo  11  
MMoonntthh    

55  YYeeaarrss  
aanndd  OOvveerr    

Loans 73.382.779 47.130.736 78.329.215 95.427.937 41.332.617 333355..660033..228844 

f) Amounts of provision allocated receivables based on geographical area and sector and amounts deducted from the assets 
with the related provisions: 

Breakdown by geographical area: 

  CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  --  3311..1122..22002222  PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  --  3311..1122..22002211   
  LLooaannss  UUnnddeerr    

FFoollllooww--uupp  
SSttaaggee  33  

PPrroovviissiioonnss  
  LLooaannss  UUnnddeerr    

FFoollllooww--uupp  
SSttaaggee  33  

PPrroovviissiioonnss  
Domestic 15.889.044 10.905.892 16.846.231 11.080.189 
European Union Countries 1.017.835 482.344 922.208 524.755 
OECD Countries (*) - - 6 3 
Off-Shore Banking Regions 30 30 30 30 
USA, Canada 1 1 24 20 
Other 74 57 47 41 
TToottaall  1166..990066..998844  1111..338888..332244  1177..776688..554466  1111..660055..003388  

(*)  OECD Countries other than EU countries, USA and Canada. 

Breakdown by sector: 

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd--  3311..1122..22002222                                                PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  --  3311..1122..22002211 

LLooaannss  UUnnddeerr    
FFoollllooww--uupp  

SSttaaggee  33  
PPrroovviissiioonnss  

LLooaannss  UUnnddeerr    
FFoollllooww--uupp  

SSttaaggee  33  
PPrroovviissiioonnss  

Agricultural 22.701 18.418 20.282 18.281 
  Farming and raising livestock 13.290 11.911 16.185 14.726 
  Forestry 3.092 2.635 3.772 3.297 
  Fishing 6319 3872 325 258 
Manufacturing 3.607.597 2.481.680 3.795.929 2.354.113 
  Mining 132.644 105.813 585.302 276.460 
  Production 1.599.945 1.151.798 1.461.059 1.040.223 
  Electricity, Gas, Water 1.875.008 1.224.069 1.749.568 1.037.430 
Construction  5.859.554 3.914.519 6.596.198 4.134.578 
Services 4.203.488 2.459.685 4.362.612 2.747.244 
    Wholesale and Retail Trade 1.797.333 1.361.099 2.321.629 1.688.480 
    Hotel,Food,Beverage Services 569.832 120.089 540.347 163.110 

Transportation and 
Telecommunication 

116.799 93.588 131.226 98.006 

    Financial Institutions 1.275.682 605.763 1.173.050 656.165 
    Real Estate and Lending Services 72.539 47.681 6.988 5.953 
    Self employment Service 288.889 165.194 4.231 3.435 
    Education Service 14.889 13.842 114.525 75.722 
    Health and social Services 67.525 52.429 70.616 56.373 
Other 3.213.644 2.514.022 2.993.525 2.350.822 
TToottaall  1166..990066..998844  1111..338888..332244  1177..776688..554466  1111..660055..003388  

 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

 
  

 
67 

 

b) The part of the overdue receivables (past 90 days) for which provision is not allocated and reasons for this application: 

All loans that have completed the 90 day overdue period are automatically taken into follow-up accounts and they are subjected to 
specific provision within the related month at the Bank. In exceptional cases, the delinquency process is suspended due to a court 
decision and the Bank's credit amount in this scope is insignificant as of 31 December 2022 . 

c) Definitions of the methods used when determining the provision amount, are presented in Note VIII-c of SectionThree. 

d) Definitions of restructured receivables:  

Banks can restructure both the first, second group loans and other receivables as well as non-performing loans and receivables. 
The first, second group loans and other receivables are restructured to enchance customer's ability to repay the loan. Besides, it 
involves changes in the contractual conditions with the demand of customer. While Non-performing loans and receivables are 
restructured to ensure the collection of the receivables by changing the cash flow of the loan. 

e) Breakdown of receivables by geographical area, sector and outstanding maturity: 

Breakdown by geographical area: 

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd    
3311..1122..22002222  

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd    
3311..1122..22002211  

Domestic 542.282.821 334.000.195 
European Union Countries 65.562 894.991 
OECD Countries (*) 3.892 3.638 
Off-Shore Banking Regions 270 286 
USA, Canada 7.247 6.851 
Other 1.083.412 697.323 
TToottaall  554433..444433..220044  333355..660033..228844  

(*) OECD Countries other than EU countries, USA and Canada. 

Breakdown by sector: 

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd    
3311..1122..22002222  

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd    
3311..1122..22002211  

Agricultural      1.038.819   319.364 
  Farming and raising livestock         401.360   230.206 
  Forestry         630.713   86.538 
  Fishing             6.746   2.620 
Manufacturing  145.332.865   86.051.926 
  Mining      6.270.669   3.586.701 
  Production  104.740.285   51.540.114 
  Electricity, Gas, Water    34.321.911   30.925.111 
Construction     56.859.560   40.223.951 
Services  138.912.075   85.922.600 
    Wholesale and Retail Trade    69.949.935   40.768.844 
    Hotel,Food,Beverage Services    17.373.370   9.822.326 
    Transportation and Telecommunication    13.218.426   12.896.099 
    Financial Institutions    29.655.341   17.843.349 
    Real Estate and Lending Services      1.517.909   595.265 
    Self employment Service      3.284.762   530.793 
    Education Service         532.289   550.390 
    Health and social Services      3.380.043   2.915.534 
Other  201.299.885   123.085.443 
TToottaall    554433..444433..220044      333355..660033..228844  

 

314 - 315Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
70 

 

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  --  3311..1122..22002211  

EExxppoossuurreess  
uunnsseeccuurreedd  ooff  

((aaccccoorrddiinngg  
  ttoo  TTAASS))  

EExxppoossuurreess  
sseeccuurreedd  bbyy  

ccoollllaatteerraall  

EExxppoossuurreess  
sseeccuurreedd  bbyy  
ccoollllaatteerraall,,  

ooff  wwhhiicchh  
sseeccuurreedd  
aammoouunntt  

EExxppoossuurreess  
sseeccuurreedd  bbyy  

ffiinnaanncciiaall  
gguuaarraanntteeeess  

FFiinnaanncciiaall  
gguuaarraanntteeeess,,  

ooff  wwhhiicchh  
sseeccuurreedd  
aammoouunntt  

EExxppoossuurreess  
sseeccuurreedd  bbyy  

ccrreeddiitt  
ddeerriivvaattiivveess  

EExxppoossuurreess  
sseeccuurreedd  bbyy  

ccrreeddiitt  
ddeerriivvaattiivveess,,  

ooff  wwhhiicchh  
sseeccuurreedd  
aammoouunntt  

1 Loans  331.649.281   3.102.078   1.855.859   1.113.349   936.284  - - 
2 Debt Securities  150.703.548   -    -    -    -   - - 
33  TToottaall    448822..335522..882299      33..110022..007788      11..885555..885599      11..111133..334499      993366..228844    --  --  
4 Of which defaulted   19.312.717  -    -    -    -   - - 
 

6. Qualitative disclosures on banks’ use of external credit ratings under the standardised approach for credit risk: 

The ratings given by Fitch Ratings and JCR-ER are used to determine the risk weights to be applied in the capital adequacy 
calculation. The degrees of Fitch Ratings are limited to the receivables whose counterparty is a resident abroad; receivables from 
central governments or central banks, banks and corporate receivables are used for asset classes. JCR-ER's ratings are used for 
TL-denominated receivables whose counterparty is corporate asset class. 

7. Standardised approach – Credit risk exposure and credit risk mitigation (CRM) effects: 

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  --  3311..1122..22002222  

EExxppoossuurreess  bbeeffoorree  ccrreeddiitt  
ccoonnvveerrssiioonn  ffaaccttoorr  aanndd  CCRRMM  

EExxppoossuurreess  ppoosstt--ccrreeddiitt  
ccoonnvveerrssiioonn  ffaaccttoorr  aanndd  

CCRRMM  RRWWAA  aanndd  RRWWAA  ddeennssiittyy  

  

AAsssseett  ccllaasssseess  

OOnn--bbaallaannccee  
sshheeeett  

aammoouunntt  

OOffff--bbaallaannccee  
sshheeeett  

aammoouunntt  

OOnn--bbaallaannccee  
sshheeeett  

aammoouunntt  

OOffff--
bbaallaannccee  

sshheeeett  
aammoouunntt  RRWWAA  RRWWAA  ddeennssiittyy  

1 Exposures to central governments or central banks  318.546.663         143.566   324.115.027         39.024         303.362  0,09% 
2 Exposures to regional governments or local 

authorities          70.956                  -            70.956                -             35.478  50,00% 
3 Exposures to public sector entities        566.967         293.367         558.647        158.520         717.168  100,00% 
4 Exposures to multilateral development banks                 -                    -                   -                  -                    -    0,00% 
5 Exposures to international organisations                 -                    -                   -                  -                    -    0,00% 
6 Exposures to institutions    39.894.345     17.742.062     39.880.587     8.572.230     16.657.209  34,38% 
7 Exposures to corporates  260.185.978   115.423.836   253.072.744   66.184.583   262.190.531  82,13% 
8 Retail exposures  128.886.141   143.804.290   124.749.748     8.334.410   107.426.996  80,72% 
9 Exposures secured by residential property    13.935.128         526.436     13.908.038        233.699       4.949.608  35,00% 
10 Exposures secured by commercial real estate    22.591.282       5.072.794     22.591.282     2.968.128     15.175.172  59,37% 
11 Past-due loans      5.579.141                  -        5.579.141                -         4.411.888  79,08% 
12 Higher-risk categories by the Agency Board    73.627.063       1.086.099     73.498.987        493.693   125.668.813  169,84% 
13 Collateralized securities                  -                    -                   -                  -                    -    0,00% 
14 Exposures to institutions and corporates with a short-

term credit assessment                 -                    -                   -                  -                    -    0,00% 
15 Exposures in the form of units or shares in collective 

investment undertakings (CIUs)      1.176.544                  -        1.176.544                -         1.176.544  100,00% 
16 Other assets    44.286.820                  -      44.286.820                -       33.393.087  75,40% 
17 Investments in equities    24.105.665                  -      24.105.665                -       24.105.665  100,00% 
1188  TToottaall   993333..445522..669933    228844..009922..445500      992277..559944..118866      8866..998844..228877      559966..221111..552211    5588,,7766%% 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

 
  

 
69 

 

g) Aging analysis for overdue receivables: 

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd    

3311..1122..22002222  
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd    

3311..1122..22002211  
30-60 days overdue  965.191 1.347.820 
60-90 days overdue  489.887 762.964 
More than 90 days overdue  79.407 7.791 
TToottaall    11..553344..448855  22..111188..557755  

h) Breakdown of restructured receivables based on whether or not provisions are allocated:  

RReessttrruuccttuurreedd  RReecceeiivvaabblleess  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd    

3311..1122..22002222  
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd    

3311..1122..22002211  
Loans restructured from Loans underFollow-up and Other Receivables 34.528.715 26.125.932 
Loans restructured from Non-Performing Loans 1.250.431 1.950.158 

General provision is allocated for the loans restructured from standard loans and loans under follow-up and other receivables, 
specific provision is allocated for the loans restructured from non-perfor ming loans.  

i) Credit risk mitigation techniques: 

In order to ensure timely and complete fulfillment of all obligations arising from the loan, it is essential to obtain appropriate 
collaterals. 

The main purpose of collateralization of any loan is to minimize the credit, foreign exchange and maturity risk. Within this scope, 
the minimum margin of guarantee is determined and the guarantees suitable for the loan types are obtained. There is collateral 
matching in the system for each loan. In addition, the appropriateness of the margin for each guarantee is also checked. 

The risk amount and the amount of collateral are also compared against the value losses that may occur in the collateral, and in 
case of gap between risk and collateral, the Bank Monitoring System automatically generates "Risky Transaction Registration". 

In the calculation of capital adequacy ratio, real estate mortgages are subject to valuation process in accordance with the related 
legislation. There is no physical collateral used for risk reduction other than real estate.  

Financial guarantees used in capital adequacy calculations are blocked deposits held at the bank and there is no netting other than 
these. 
Collateral management processes are written in credit policies and checks are made to ensure that there is no concentration of 
third party guarantor type and collateral.- 

5. Credit risk mitigation techniques – overview: 

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  --  3311..1122..22002222  

EExxppoossuurreess  
uunnsseeccuurreedd  ooff  

((aaccccoorrddiinngg  
  ttoo  TTAASS))  

EExxppoossuurreess  
sseeccuurreedd  bbyy  

ccoollllaatteerraall  

EExxppoossuurreess  
sseeccuurreedd  bbyy  
ccoollllaatteerraall,,  

ooff  wwhhiicchh  
sseeccuurreedd  
aammoouunntt  

EExxppoossuurreess  
sseeccuurreedd  bbyy  

ffiinnaanncciiaall  
gguuaarraanntteeeess  

FFiinnaanncciiaall  
gguuaarraanntteeeess,,  

ooff  wwhhiicchh  
sseeccuurreedd  
aammoouunntt  

EExxppoossuurreess  
sseeccuurreedd  bbyy  

ccrreeddiitt  
ddeerriivvaattiivveess  

EExxppoossuurreess  
sseeccuurreedd  bbyy  

ccrreeddiitt  
ddeerriivvaattiivveess,,  

ooff  wwhhiicchh  
sseeccuurreedd  
aammoouunntt  

1 Loans  528.300.705   10.586.841   6.655.930   6.522.812   5.568.364  - - 
2 Debt Securities  261.600.520   -    -    -    -   - - 
33  TToottaall    778899..990011..222255      1100..558866..884411      66..665555..993300      66..552222..881122      55..556688..336644    --  --  
4 Of which defaulted  18.464.689   -    -    -    -   - - 

 
 
 
 
 
 

316 - 317Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
72 

 

8. Standardised Approach – Exposures by asset classes and risk weights: 

 

  

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  --  3311..1122..22002222  
AAsssseett  CCllaasssseess  //  RRiisskk  WWeeiigghhtt  %%00  %%1100  %%2200  %%2255  %%3355  %%5500  %%7755  %%110000  %%115500  %%225500  OOtthheerr  

TToottaall  rriisskk  
aammoouunntt((**))  

1 Exposures to central governments 
or central banks   322.640.199    -     1.511.882 -                -           1.970 -                  -                - - - 

 
324.154.051 

2 Exposures to regionalgovernments 
or local authorities                  -    -                - -                -          70.956 -                  -                - - - 

 
70.956 

3 
Exposures to public sector entities                  -    -                - -                -                - -          717.167                - - - 

 
717.167 

4 Exposures to multilateral 
development banks                  -    -                - -                -                - -                  -                - - -                  - 

5 Exposures to international 
organisations                  -    -                - -                -                - -                  -                - - -                  - 

6 Exposures to institutions          898.565    -   23.819.891 -                -   23.682.260 -           52.101                - - -     48.452.817 
7 Exposures to corporates       2.306.654    -   38.534.981 -                -   47.864.318 -   230.551.374                - - -   319.257.327 
8 Retail exposures           59.574    -                - -                -                - 102.390.350     30.634.234                - - -     133.084.158 
9 Exposures secured by residential 

property                  -    -                - -   14.141.737                - -                  -                - - -     14.141.737 
10 Exposures secured by commercial 

real estate                  -    -                - -                -   20.768.475 -       4.790.935                - - -     25.559.410 
11 Past-due loans                  -    -                - -                -     2.982.585 -       1.948.478        648.078 - -       5.579.141 
12 Higher-risk categories by the 

Agency Board                  -    -                - -           8.862          25.507 -          321.840   44.000.612 - 29.635.859     73.992.680 
13 Collateralized securities                  -    -                - -                -                - -                  -                - - -                  - 
14 Exposures to institutions and 

corporates with a short-term credit 
assessment                  -    -                - -                -                - -                  -                - - -                  - 

15 Exposures in the form of units or 
shares in collective investment 
undertakings (CIUs)                  -    -                - -                -                - -       1.176.544                - - -          1.176.544 

16 Investments in equities                  -    -                - -                -                - -     24.105.665                - - -     24.105.665 
17 Other assets     10.893.729    -                  4 -                -                - -     33.393.087                - - -     44.286.820 

1188  TToottaall      333366..779988..772211        --  
  

6633..886666..775588  --  1144..115500..559999  
  

9955..339966..007711  110022..339900..335500      332277..669911..442255  
  

4444..664488..669900  --  2299..663355..885599  11..001144..557788..447733  

 

(*) Total credit risk exposure amount after Credit Conversion Factor (CCF) and Credit Risk Mitigation (CRM). 

  
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  --  3311..1122..22002211  
AAsssseett  CCllaasssseess  //  RRiisskk  WWeeiigghhtt  %%00  %%1100  %%2200  %%2255  %%3355  %%5500  %%7755  %%110000  %%115500  %%225500  OOtthheerr  

TToottaall  rriisskk  
aammoouunntt((**))  

1 Exposures to central governments 
or central banks 170.721.442 - 361.843 - - - -                  -                - - 23.022   171.106.307 

2 Exposures to regionalgovernments 
or local authorities - - - - - 134.452 -                  -                - - -          134.452 

3 Exposures to public sector entities - - - - - - -          375.647                - - -          375.647 
4 Exposures to multilateral 

development banks - - - - - - -                  -                - - -                  - 
5 Exposures to international 

organisations - - - - - - -                  -                - - -                  - 
6 Exposures to institutions 355.588 - 35.993.790 - - 14.314.146 -           91.957                61 - -     50.755.542 
7 Exposures to corporates 1.519.495 - 2.021.784 - - 8.783.233 -   201.604.005                - - -   213.928.517 
8 Retail exposures - - - - - - 80.390.170       6.696.010                - - -     87.086.180 
9 Exposures secured by residential 

property - - - - 11.826.580 - -                  -                - - -     11.826.580 
10 Exposures secured by commercial 

real estate - - - - - 10.964.630 -       3.019.200                - - -     13.983.830 
11 Past-due loans - - - - - 3.528.806 -       1.755.160        904.674 - -       6.188.640 
12 Higher-risk categories by the 

Agency Board - - - - 16.052 - -          356.048   17.792.079 - -     18.164.179 
13 Collateralized securities - - - - - - -                  -                - - -                  - 
14 Exposures to institutions and 

corporates with a short-term credit 
assessment - - - - - - -                  -                - - -                  - 

15 Exposures in the form of units or 
shares in collective investment 
undertakings (CIUs) - - - - - - -          546.622                - - -          546.622 

16 Investments in equities - - - - - - -     16.474.353                - - -     16.474.353 
17 Other assets 8.789.861 - 156 - - - -       8.863.772                - - -     17.653.789 
1188  TToottaall  118811..338866..338866  --  3388..337777..557733  --  1111..884422..663322  3377..772255..226677  8800..339900..117700  223399..778822..777744  1188..669966..881144  --  2233..002222  660088..222244..663388  

(*) Total credit risk exposure amount after Credit Conversion Factor (CCF) and Credit Risk Mitigation (CRM). 

  

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

 
  

 
71 

 

 

 

  
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  --  3311..1122..22002211  

EExxppoossuurreess  bbeeffoorree  ccrreeddiitt  
ccoonnvveerrssiioonn  ffaaccttoorr  aanndd  CCRRMM  

EExxppoossuurreess  ppoosstt--ccrreeddiitt  
ccoonnvveerrssiioonn  ffaaccttoorr  aanndd  

CCRRMM  RRWWAA  aanndd  RRWWAA  ddeennssiittyy  

  

AAsssseett  ccllaasssseess  

OOnn--bbaallaannccee  
sshheeeett  

aammoouunntt  

OOffff--bbaallaannccee  
sshheeeett  

aammoouunntt  

OOnn--bbaallaannccee  
sshheeeett  

aammoouunntt  

OOffff--
bbaallaannccee  

sshheeeett  
aammoouunntt  RRWWAA  RRWWAA  ddeennssiittyy  

1 Exposures to central governments or central banks  170.037.523       8.280.789   170.973.807        132.500           72.829  0,04% 
2 Exposures to regional governments or local 

authorities        134.452                  -          134.452                -             67.226  50,00% 
3 Exposures to public sector entities        316.824         160.645         311.122         64.525         375.648  100,00% 
4 Exposures to multilateral development banks                 -                    -                   -                  -                    -    - 
5 Exposures to international organisations                 -                    -                   -                  -                    -    - 
6 Exposures to institutions    47.259.400     27.456.787     47.248.656     3.506.886     14.447.880  28,47% 
7 Exposures to corporates  179.317.150     64.719.455   177.835.998   36.092.519   206.399.978  96,48% 
8 Retail exposures    81.897.066     59.727.507     80.725.522     6.360.658     66.988.638  76,92% 
9 Exposures secured by residential property    11.717.212         292.510     11.701.470        125.110       4.139.303  35,00% 
10 Exposures secured by commercial real estate    12.682.057       2.194.420     12.682.057     1.301.773       8.501.516  60,80% 
11 Past-due loans      6.188.640                  -        6.188.640                -         4.876.574  78,80% 
12 Higher-risk categories by the Agency Board    17.849.894         939.438     17.742.633        421.546     27.049.784  148,92% 
13 Collateralized securities                 -                    -                   -                  -                    -    - 
14 Exposures to institutions and corporates with a short-

term credit assessment                 -                    -                   -                  -                    -    - 
15 Exposures in the form of units or shares in collective 

investment undertakings (CIUs)        546.622                  -          546.622                -           546.622  100,00% 
16 Other assets    17.653.789                  -      17.653.789                -         8.863.802  50,21% 
17 Investments in equities    16.474.353                  -      16.474.353                -       16.474.353  100,00% 
1188  TToottaall  556622..007744..998822    116633..777711..555511      556600..221199..112211      4488..000055..551177      335588..880044..115533    %%5588,,9999  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

318 - 319Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
74 

 

- In the credit derivative transactions on the counterparty's own credit risk, there are no transactions that the counterparty 
is the protection seller 

For the actions taken under the CCR, the obligation to provide additional collateral due to the possible decline in the credibility of 
the Bank is followed. 

2. Analysis of counterparty credit risk exposure by approach: 

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  --  3311..1122..22002222  
RReeppllaacceemmeenntt  

ccoosstt  

PPootteennttiiaall  
ffuuttuurree  

eexxppoossuurree  EEEEPPEE  ((**))  

AAllpphhaa  uusseedd  ffoorr  
ccoommppuuttiinngg  
rreegguullaattoorryy  

eexxppoossuurree  aatt  
ddeeffaauulltt  

EExxppoossuurree  
aatt  ddeeffaauulltt  
ppoosstt  CCRRMM  RRWWAA  

1 Standardised Approach  (for derivatives) 32.756.537 10.305.180 - 1,4 43.061.717 21.823.898 

2 

Internal Model Method (for derivatives, Repo Transactions, Marketable 
Securities or EMTIA lending or borrowing transactions, transactions with 
a long settlement time, Marketable Security transactions with credit) - - - - - - 

3 

Simple Approach for credit risk mitigation (for derivatives, Repo 
Transactions, Marketable Securities or EMTIA lending or borrowing 
transactions, transactions with a long settlement time, Marketable 
Security transactions with credit) - - - - - - 

4 

Comprehensive Approach for credit risk mitigation (for derivatives, Repo 
Transactions, Marketable Securities or EMTIA lending or borrowing 
transactions, transactions with a long settlement time, Marketable 
Security transactions with credit) - - - - 14.789.811 4.138.373 

5 

VaR for for derivatives, Repo Transactions, Marketable Securities or 
EMTIA lending or borrowing transactions, transactions with a long 
settlement time, Marketable Security transactions with credit - - -  - 14.789.811 4.138.373 

66  TToottaall          2255..996622..227711  
(*) Effective Expected Positive Exposure 
 

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  --  3311..1122..22002211  
RReeppllaacceemmeenntt  

ccoosstt  

PPootteennttiiaall  
ffuuttuurree  

eexxppoossuurree  EEEEPPEE  ((**))  

AAllpphhaa  uusseedd  ffoorr  
ccoommppuuttiinngg  
rreegguullaattoorryy  

eexxppoossuurree  aatt  
ddeeffaauulltt  

EExxppoossuurree  
aatt  ddeeffaauulltt  
ppoosstt  CCRRMM  RRWWAA  

1 Standardised Approach  (for derivatives) 26.259.557 4.828.489 - 1,4 31.088.046 16.010.437 

2 

Internal Model Method (for derivatives, Repo Transactions, Marketable 
Securities or EMTIA lending or borrowing transactions, transactions with 
a long settlement time, Marketable Security transactions with credit) - - - - - - 

3 

Simple Approach for credit risk mitigation (for derivatives, Repo 
Transactions, Marketable Securities or EMTIA lending or borrowing 
transactions, transactions with a long settlement time, Marketable 
Security transactions with credit) - - - - - - 

4 

Comprehensive Approach for credit risk mitigation (for derivatives, Repo 
Transactions, Marketable Securities or EMTIA lending or borrowing 
transactions, transactions with a long settlement time, Marketable 
Security transactions with credit) - - - - 8.443.973 2.625.470 

5 

VaR for for derivatives, Repo Transactions, Marketable Securities or 
EMTIA lending or borrowing transactions, transactions with a long 
settlement time, Marketable Security transactions with credit - - -  - 8.443.973 2.625.470 

66  TToottaall          1188..663355..990077  
(*) Effective Expected Positive Exposure 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

 
  

 
73 

 

dd.. CCoouunntteerrppaarrttyy  CCrreeddiitt  RRiisskk  ((CCCCRR))  EExxppllaannaattiioonnss::  

1. Qualitative disclosure related to counterparty credit risk: 

The CCR strategy is determined by counterparty type and product categories. Counterparties are categorized as central 
counterparties, banks, corporate and commercial companies, corporate segment, micro segment customers, private banking 
customers and individual customers. The products are grouped as interest swap transactions, foreign currency option 
transactions (plain vanilla), foreign exchange option transactions (exotic), interest option transactions, commodity Transactions, 
credit derivatives and repo transactions. 

"Conformity Test" is applied to the customers to determine whether the products to be presented to the customers are in 
compliance with the customers' financial status and their knowledge and experience. The tests to be applied are prepared in a way 
that bank can evaluate the information received from the customers with the method including “risk and return preference” and 
knowledge and experience” classifications determined by the Bank. 

The creditworthiness of the counterparty is analyzed prior to the transactions leading to the CCR and subsequently the 
creditworthiness of the counter parties is reviewed at regular intervals. The frequency of inspections is increased when necessary. 

The scope and level of information providing the opportunity to assess the creditworthiness of the counterparty shall be 
differentiated depending on the volume of the transaction to be realized, the level of the CCR  and / or the counterparty. 

For the transactions within the scope of the CCR, appropriate limits to the risk appetite, policies and strategies of the Bank are 
determined. The determined limits are approved by the Board of Directors for the banks. For the firms and individuals apart fron 
banks regular loan approval processes and limits are conducted. 

The counterparty credit risk limits for financial institutions are also determined seperately and presented to the Board of Directors 
for approval. The determined limits are reviewed at least once a year. In case of deterioration of market conditions or in case of 
dweterioration of credit quality of some counterparties, limits are reviewd and necessary changes are made. If deemed necessary, 
the approved limits are blocked by the Credit Committee / Credit Allocation Business Unit and by the approval of the Board of 
Directors. 

In counterparty credit risk management of financial institutions, risk mitigation methods such as netting agreements, collateral 
and "margin" agreements are used. Collateralization principles and procedures are applied for companies and individuals other 
than financial institutions within the framework of credit policies and application principles currently applied in the Bank. 

The potential, current and maximum risk amounts of the transactions are calculated / determined in order to determine the CCR. 
The risks of transactions that are subject to the legally binding bilateral netting agreement and to which the netting transaction 
can be applied are followed together. 

The risk of reverse tendency within the scope of the CCR appears in two ways as the risk of general reversal and the risk of specific 
reversal.  

To avoid the general counter trend risk; 

- Depending on the direction of the financing expenses of the corporate and commercial companies, it is taken care that 
the interest swap transactions made are aimed at "hedging". If the short-term liability of the firm is more than short-term 
liabilities susceptible to interest, interest rate swaps will be applied to the firm with the fixed interest rate. In the other 
case, interest rate swap transactions that the company pays variable interest are made. 

- It is also important to note that the transactions are "hedged" for foreign currency transactions. If the firm is in a long 
position in the foreign exchange market, the transactions that the foreign exchange seller is the company and if the 
company is in the short position in the foreign exchange market, the transactions that the foreign exchange buyer is the 
company are taken into consideration. 

To avoid the risk of specific counter trend risk; 

- In the option transactions made on the other party's own shares, transactions are not made where the same counterparty 
is the option seller. 

320 - 321Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
76 

 

6. Credit derivatives exposures: 

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd--  3311..1122..22002222   PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  --  3311..1122..22002211  
   PPrrootteeccttiioonn  bboouugghhtt  PPrrootteeccttiioonn  ssoolldd      PPrrootteeccttiioonn  bboouugghhtt  PPrrootteeccttiioonn  ssoolldd  
NNoommiinnaall                      
   Single-name credit default swaps 2.281.193                         -   2.292.588                         - 
   Index credit default swaps -  -    -  -  
   Total return swaps -  13.088.810   -  11.329.650 
   Credit options -  -    -  -  
   Other credit derivatives -  -    -  -  
TToottaall  nnoottiioonnaallss  22..228811..119933  1133..008888..881100      22..229922..558888  1111..332299..665500  
FFaaiirr  vvaalluueess                      
Positive fair value (asset) 176.001 5.567.837   243.166 4.456.373 
Negative fair value (liability) -  -   -  - 

7. Exposures to central counterparties (CCP): 

                                         CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  --  3311..1122..22002222  PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  --  3311..1122..22002211  

  
EExxppoossuurree  aatt  ddeeffaauulltt  

((ppoosstt--CCRRMM))  RRWWAA  
EExxppoossuurree  aatt  ddeeffaauulltt  

((ppoosstt--CCRRMM))  RRWWAA  

11  EExxppoossuurree  ttoo  QQuuaalliiffiieedd  CCeennttrraall  
CCoouunntteerrppaarrttiieess  ((QQCCCCPPss))  ((ttoottaall))   223388..550099   3366..990000  

2 
Exposures for trades at QCCPs 
(excluding initial margin and default 
fund contributions); of which 6.152.871 238.296 1.018.803 36.317 

3 (i)       OTC Derivatives 6.152.871 238.296 1.018.803 36.317 
4 (ii)      Exchange-traded Derivatives - - - - 
5 (iii)     Securities financing transactions - - - - 

6 
(iv)      Netting sets where cross-product 

ting has been approved - - - - 
7 Segregated initial margin - - - - 
8 Non-segregated initial margin     
9 Pre-funded default fund contributions 94.804 213 25.902 583 

10 Unfunded default fund contributions - - - - 
1111  EExxppoossuurreess  ttoo  nnoonn--QQCCCCPPss  ((ttoottaall))  - - - - 

12 
Exposures for trades at non-QCCPs 
(excluding initial margin and default fund 
contributions); of which) - - - - 

13 (i)       OTC Derivatives - - - - 
14 (ii)      Exchange-traded Derivatives - - - - 
15 (iii)     Securities financing transactions - - - - 

16 (iv)      Netting sets where cross-product 
ting has been approved - - - - 

17 Segregated initial margin - - - - 
18 Non-segregated initial margin - - - - 
19 Pre-funded default fund contributions - - - - 
20 Unfunded default fund contributions - - - - 

  

ee.. SSeeccuurriittiizzaattiioonn  eexxppllaannaattiioonnss::  The Bank has no securitization transactions.    

  

  

  

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

 
  

 
75 

 

3. Credit valuation adjustment (CVA) capital charge: 

                                                                                                                                                                                        CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  --  3311..1122..22002222                                            PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  --  3311..1122..22002211  

      EExxppoossuurree  aatt  ddeeffaauulltt  
ppoosstt--CCRRMM  RRWWAA  EExxppoossuurree  aatt  ddeeffaauulltt  

ppoosstt--CCRRMM  RRWWAA  

  Total portfolios subject to the Advanced CVA capital charge         
1 (i) Value at Risk (VaR) component (including the 3×multiplier) -  -  -  -  
2 (ii) Stressed VaR component (including the 3×multiplier) -  -  -  -  
3 All portfolios subject to the Standardised CVA capital charge 43.061.717 19.040.827 31.088.046 11.208.163 
44  TToottaall  ssuubbjjeecctt  ttoo  tthhee  CCVVAA  ccaappiittaall  cchhaarrggee  4433..006611..771177  1199..004400..882277  3311..008888..004466  1111..220088..116633  

 

4. Standardised approach – CCR exposures by regulatory portfolio and risk weights: 

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  --  3311..1122..22002222  
RRiisskk  WWeeiigghhtt  00%%  1100%%  2200%%  5500%%  7755%%  110000%%  115500%%  OOtthheerr  TToottaall  ccrreeddiitt  
RReegguullaattoorryy  ppoorrttffoolliioo                    
Claims from central governments and central 
banks  2.710.254  -         -                 -             -               -         -  - - 
Claims from regional and local governments              -  -                -                  -             -               -         -  - - 
Claims from administration and non commercial en              -  -                -                  -             -          7.742         -  - 7.742 
Claims from multilateral development banks              -  -                -                  -             -               -         -  - - 
Claims from international organizations              -  -                -                  -             -               -         -  - - 
Claims from institutions         3.126  - 17.564.997   26.020.006             -               -         -  - 16.523.002 
Corporates       31.866  -   2.229.182        258.986             -    8.339.356         -  - 8.914.685 
Retail portfolios              -  -                -                  -    682.907               -         -  - 512.180 
Other claims**              -  -                -                  -             -               -  3.108  - 4.662 
TToottaall  22..774455..224466  --  1199..779944..117799    2266..227788..999922      668822..990077        88..334477..009988    33..110088    --  2255..996622..227711  

 (*) Total credit exposure: the amount relevant for the capital requirements calculation, having applied CRM techniques. 
(**)Other receivables: Includes the amounts excluded in counterparty credit risk reported in CCR8. 
 
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  --  3311..1122..22002211  
RRiisskk  WWeeiigghhtt  00%%  1100%%  2200%%  5500%%  7755%%  110000%%  115500%%  OOtthheerr  TToottaall  ccrreeddiitt  
RReegguullaattoorryy  ppoorrttffoolliioo                    
Claims from central governments and central banks 7.108.305 - - - - - - - - 
Claims from regional and local governments - - - - - - - - - 
Claims from administration and non commercial 
entity - - - - - 158 - - 158 
Claims from multilateral development banks - - - - - - - - - 
Claims from international organizations - - - - - - - - - 
Claims from institutions - - 7.810.565 14.688.222 - - - - 8.906.224 
Corporates - - 196.992 20 - 9.563.340 - - 9.602.748 
Retail portfolios - - - - 159.799 - - - 119.849 
Other claims** - - - - - - 4.618 - 6.927 
TToottaall  77..110088..330055  --  88..000077..555577  1144..668888..224422  115599..779999  99..556633..449988  44..661188  --  1188..663355..990077  

  
 (*) Total credit exposure: the amount relevant for the capital requirements calculation, having applied CRM techniques. 
(**) Other receivables: Includes the amounts excluded in counterparty credit risk reported in CCR8. 
 

5. Composition of collateral for CCR exposure:  

Related table is not presented due to not having derivative collaterals which is considered in the calculation of capital adequacy 
ratio.  

 

 

 

 

 

322 - 323Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
78 

 

  3311..1122..22001199  3311..1122..22002200  3311..1122..22002211  
TToottaall//PPoossiittiivvee  GGII  

yyeeaarr    nnuummbbeerr  RRaattiioo  ((%%))  TToottaall  
Gross income 19.579.051 22.667.570 34.595.757 3 15 3.842.119 
Amount subject to Operational 
Risk  (Amount*12,5) 48.026.486 
  

hh.. IInntteerreesstt  rraattee  rriisskk  rreellaatteedd  ttoo  bbaannkkiinngg  bbooookk::  

Interest rate risk for all banking transactions outside the trading portfolio are followed under interest rate risk related to the 
banking book. Interest rate risk related to the trading portfolio is followed under market risk. 

ALCO performs daily management of interest rate risk in accordance with the risk limits set by the Executive Risk Committee in 
relation to interest rate sensitivities of the banking book. ALCO meetings are held on a weekly basis. 

In addition to interest rate sensitivities measured and reported weekly, daily and transaction-based analyses are also performed 
when significant fluctuations occur in markets. 

Repricing term mismatch and duration mismatch analyses, net economic value change analyses under different interest rate 
stress scenarios and income simulations are used for interest rate risk management. Repricing risk, yield curve risk, basis risk 
and optionality are considered under interest rate risk scope. 

The interest rate risk arising from banking book is calculated and reported on a monthly basis according to "Regulation on 
Measurement and Evaluation of Interest Rate Risk in Banking Accounts with Standard Shock Method" published in the Official 
Gazette no. 28034 on 23 August 2011. 

Calculation of the interest rate risk derived from banking books is presented below: 
 

Applied Shock Gains / Gains / Shareholders’ Equity -  
Currency (+/- x basis points) Losses Losses/ Shareholders’ Equity 
TL (400) 4.440.082 2,57% 
TL 500 (4.981.959) -2,88% 
USD (200) (277.565) -0,16% 
USD 200 397.472 0,23% 
EURO (200) (549.837) -0,32% 
EURO 200 649.162 0,38% 
TToottaall  ((ffoorr  nneeggaattiivvee  sshhoocckkss))  33..661122..668800  22,,0099%%  
TToottaall  ((ffoorr  ppoossiittiivvee  sshhoocckkss))      ((33..993355..332255))  --22,,2277%%  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

 
  

 
77 

 

ff.. EExxppllaannaattiioonnss  oonn  mmaarrkkeett  rriisskk::  

1. Qualitative disclosure requirements related to market risk: 

The risk principles, policies and risk limits related to the management of market risk are approved by the Board of Directors and 
reviewed on a regular basis.  The Bank's Senior Management performs day to day management of the market risk in accordance 
with the limits assigned by the Board of Directors. The Bank is exposed to market risk as a result of fluctuations in foreign 
exchange rates, interest rates, and market prices of stocks. Exchange rate risk and interest rate risk are evaluated as the two 
most important components of market risk. The Bank engages in derivative transactions for hedge purposes when found 
necessary. 

Market risk is calculated by two different methods, namely the "inherent model" and the "standard method". According to inherent 
model market risk is measured by Value at Risk (“VaR”) approach which takes into account different risk factors. VaR calculations 
use historical simulation and Monte Carlo simulation methods. The software used can perform calculations with an advanced yield 
curve and volatility models. The VaR model is based on the assumptions of 99% confidence interval and a 10-day holding period. 
VaR analyses are performed on a daily basis and reported to the Senior Management. VaR analyses are also used as risk and limit 
management instrument for trading transactions. The limits are reviewed periodically according to market conditions and the 
application of specified limits is subject to authority restrictions and therefore the control effectiveness is increased. VaR analyses 
are supported with scenario analyses and stress tests, and take into consideration the effects of low-probability events which have 
significant impact and the effects of market fluctuations. Retrospective tests of the model outputs are performed regularly. The 
standard method is used for the legal reporting. 

The following table indicates the details of the market risk calculation as of 31 December 2022, in accordance with the Market Risk 
Calculation principles pursuant to the Third Section of the “Regulation on Measurement and Assessment of Capital Adequacy of 
Banks" published in the Official Gazette no. 29511 on 23 October 2015. 

2. Standardised approach: 

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  
    3311..1122..22002222  3311..1122..22002211  
      RRWWAA  RRWWAA  

OOuuttrriigghhtt  pprroodduuccttss  ((**))      
1 Interest rate risk (general and specific) 3.399.450 2.911.663 
2 Equity risk (general and specific) - - 
3 Foreign exchange risk 13.678.130 21.098.693 
4 Commodity risk -  - 

OOppttiioonnss   
5 Simplified approach -   - 
6 Delta-plus method 809.838 332.875 
7 Scenario approach  - -  
8 Securitisation  - -  
99  TToottaall  1177..888877..441188  2244..334433..223311  

(*) Outright products refer to positions in products that are not optional. 

gg.. EExxppllaannaattiioonnss  oonn  ooppeerraattiioonnaall  rriisskk::  
 

The “Basic Indicator Method” that is mentioned in "Regulation on Measurement and Assessment of Capital Adequacy of Banks" 
Communiqué published in the Official Gazette no. 29511 on 23 October 2015 and entered into force as of 31 March 2016 is used in 
the operational risk calculation of the Bank. The amount subject to the operational risk as of 31 December 2022 is calculated once 
a year by using the gross income of the Bank in 2019, 2020 and 2021. 

Annual gross revenue is calculated by deduction of profit/loss derived from the sale of financial assets at fair value through other 
comprehensive income and financial assets measured at amortised cost, extraordinary income and indemnity insurance gains 
from the total of net interest income and non interest income. 

 

324 - 325Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
80 

 

As of 31 December 2022, contractual amounts of derivative financial instruments designated as hedging instruments and the net 
fair values carried in the balance sheet are summarized in the following table: 

11.. EExxppllaannaattiioonnss  oonn  AAccccoouunnttiinngg  NNeett  IInnvveessttmmeenntt  HHeeddggee::  

The Bank has been using hedge against fair value strategy to hedge against foreign currency risk born of EUR 787 million (31 
December 2021: EUR 787 million) which represents share premiums and paid-in-capital of Akbank AG, one of its subsidiaries. EUR 
787 million of syndication loans used by the Group have been classified as “hedge instruments.” 

22.. EExxppllaannaattiioonnss  oonn  FFaaiirr  VVaalluuee  HHeeddggee::  
    
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd::  3311..1122..22002222  

HHeeddggiinngg  IInnssttrruummeenntt  HHeeddggeedd  IItteemm  RRiisskk  EExxppoossuurree  

FFaaiirr  VVaalluuee  
DDiiffffeerreennccee  ooff  

HHeeddggiinngg  IInnssttrruummeenntt  
FFaaiirr  VVaalluuee  DDiiffffeerreennccee  

ooff  HHeeddggeedd  IItteemmss  ((**))  
IInneeffffeeccttiivvee  PPoorrttiioonn  

((****))  

Interest Rate Swap 

Fixed interest rate FC  
financial assets at fair 
value through other 
comprehensive 
income 

Interest rate risk 

1.511.190 (1.573.124) (61.934) 

Cross-currency swap 

Fixed interest rate FC  
financial assets at fair 
value through other 
comprehensive 
income, FC 
borrowings 

Interest rate and 
currency risk 

48.507 (48.327) 180 

Cross-currency swap 
Fixed interest rate TL 
Commercial Loans. FC 
borrowings 

Interest rate and 
currency risk 

8.096 (8.574) (478) 
(*) Includes fair value differences arising from changes in foreign exchange rates for the hedge transactions having risk exposure of both interest rate and foreign currency. 
(**) Represents the cumulative amounts booked under “Gains / (Losses) on Derivative Financial Transactions” and “Gains / (Losses) on Foreign Exchange Transactions” since the 
beginning of hedge accounting. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd    PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd    
                3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222    3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  

NNoottiioonnaall  
AAmmoouunntt  

                    
AAsssseettss  

    
LLiiaabbiilliittiieess  

NNoottiioonnaall  
AAmmoouunntt  AAsssseettss        LLiiaabbiilliittiieess  

Interest Rate and Cross Currency Swaps       
-TL 31.550.734 18.868.111  494.476  38.163.770 15.412.862  331.573  
-FC 137.049.473 4.923.523  1  122.991.616 776.704  694.631  
TToottaall  116688..660000..220077  2233..779911..663344    449944..447777    116611..115555..338866  1166..118899..556666    11..002266..220044    

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

 
  

 
79 

 

XI. EXPLANATIONS ON HEDGE TRANSACTIONS: 

The Bank hedges its TL and foreign denominated fixed rate financial assets with cross currency swaps and interest rate swaps. 
Within the scope of fair value hedge, fair value changes of hedging instrument and hedged item are accounted in the income 
statement. As long as the hedge relationship is effective, fair value change of the hedged item is disclosed together with its related 
asset in the balance sheet for TL denominated fixed rate mortgage loans. Fair value changes which have already been booked in 
equity, have been reclassified from equity to income statement for TL and FC denominated fixed rate financial assets measured at 
fair value through other comprehensive income. 

The Bank hedges against its cash flow risk stemming from foreign currency denominated floating rate financial liabilities with 
interest rate and cross currency swaps. Within the scope of cash flow hedge accounting, effective part of the fair value changes of 
the hedging instrument are accounted in equity under “Cash Flow Hedge Gain/Loss, Shares of Investments Valued by Equity Method 
in Other Comprehensive Income Classified Through Profit or Loss and Other Accumulated Amounts of Other Comprehensive Income 
Items Reclassified Through Other Profit or Loss” whereas ineffective part is accounted in the income statement. At instances when 
cash flows relating to hedged item (interest expense) affect the income statement, profit/loss of the related hedging item is taken 
out of the equity and reflected on the income statement. 

Prospective tests are performed at the inception of the hedge relationships and both prospective and retrospective tests are 
performed at each reporting period-end regularly by using “Dollar off-set method”. In this method, changes in the fair value of the 
hedged item and changes in the fair value of the hedging instruments between the designation date and each reporting period-end 
are compared and effectiveness ratio is calculated. In the determination of the fair values of hedging instruments and hedged item, 
market yield curves are used. Hedge accounting principles are applied by assessing the calculated effectiveness ratio within the 
scope of TAS 39. 

When the hedging instrument expires, is executed or sold and when the hedge relationship becomes ineffective or is discontinued 
as a result of the hedge relationship being revoked due to ineffectiveness of efficiency tests;  

 The hedging gains and losses that were previously recognized under equity are transferred to profit or loss when the cash 
flows of the hedged item are realized, 

 Adjustments made to the carrying amount of the hedged item are transferred to profit and loss with straight line method for 
portfolio hedges or with effective interest rate method for micro hedges. 

In case the hedged item is derecognized, hedge accounting is discontinued and within context of fair value hedge accounting, 
adjustments made to the value of the hedged item are accounted in income statement.  

The replacement or rollover of a hedging instrument into another hedging instrument is not an expiration or termination if such 
replacement or rollover is part of the entity's documented hedging strategy. 

The Bank also applies net investment risk hedging in order to hedge its foreign currency risk from its investments abroad. The 
effective part of the fair value change of the hedging instrument in the hedging transaction in question was accounted in the 
"Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income or Expenses to be Reclassified in Profit or Loss" account under equity.  

Within the scope of the Major Indicative Interest Rates Reform in 2022, new alternative interest rates will be used instead of the 
current benchmark interest rates, especially Libor. In addition to floating rate assets such as securities indexed to benchmark 
interest rates and loans, Banks' financial statements include liabilities such as securities issued, borrowed loans and derivative 
transactions, and off-balance sheet instruments. With the regulations published in September 2019 and December 2020 regarding 
the implementation of the aforementioned reform, early implementation of the amendments was permitted, while temporary 
exemption was given to the applications related to the determination of cash flows of hedge accounting and the termination of 
transactions. A working group was established to evaluate the impact of the interest rate reform on the financial statements and to 
adapt to reform. Reform changes have not been implemented early and developments are followed by the working group.  
  
The average remaining maturity of the floating-rate USD Libor-Indexed borrowings directly affected by the interest rate reform is 
2,3 years and the remaining amount is USD 681.550. Foreign currency interest swap transactions were made to hedge the cash 
flow risk of the aforementioned borrowing and subject to hedge accounting. There is no hedge accounting transaction terminated 
under the published exceptions.  

326 - 327Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
82 

 

33..   EExxppllaannaattiioonnss  oonn  CCaasshh  FFllooww  HHeeddggee::  

HHeeddggiinngg  
iinnssttrruummeenntt  HHeeddggeedd  iitteemm  

NNaattuurree  ooff  rriisskk  
hheeddggeedd  HHeeddggiinngg  iinnssttrruummeenntt  FFVV  

NNeett  ggaaiinn//((lloossss))  
rreeccooggnniizzeedd  iinn  

OOCCII  dduurriinngg  tthhee  
ppeerriioodd  

NNeett  ggaaiinn//((lloossss))  
rreeccllaassssiiffiieedd  ttoo  

iinnccoommee  ssttaatteemmeenntt  
dduurriinngg  tthhee  yyeeaarr  

IInneeffffeeccttiivvee  ppoorrttiioonn
rreeccooggnniizzeedd  iinn

iinnccoommee  ssttaatteemmeenntt
((NNeett))

      AAsssseettss  LLiiaabbiilliittiieess       

Interest Rate Swap 

Floating-rate long 
Term FC funds 
borrowed 

Cash Flow risk due to 
changes in interest 
rate of funds 465.457 - 629.053 (140) 10.919 

Cross Currency 
Swap 

Short term FC 
commercial deposits 

Cash Flow risk due to 
changes in interest 
rate of funds 17.374.460 - (49.398) (389.885) 52.163 

Interest Rate Swap 
Short term TL 
deposits 

Cash Flow risk due to 
changes in interest 
rate of funds 1.417.214 460.359 59.712 76.819 12.054 

Interest Rate Swap 
Short term FC 
deposits 

Cash Flow risk due to 
changes in interest 
rate of funds 1.597.022 - 1.496.053 160.720 (2.583) 

Interest Rate Swap 

Floating-rate TL 
Financial Assets at 
Fair Value Through 
Other Comprehensive 
Income 

Cash Flow risk due to 
changes in interest 
rate of funds 22.991 34.118 617.610 351.107 (1.851) 

In addition, when the hedging instrument expires, is executed or sold and when the hedge relationship becomes ineffective or is 
discontinued as a result of the hedge relationship being revoked with the information related discontinuous transactions are given below:  

- As of 31 December 2022, related to cash flow hedge transactions, there is no remaining before tax amount in equity after amortization 
of the fair value change of the hedging instruments, from the beginning of hedge accounting (31 December 2021: TL 34.396). 

XII. EXPLANATIONS ON QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ON REMUNERATION POLICIES 

EExxppllaannaattiioonnss  oonn  RReemmuunneerraattiioonn  CCoommmmiitttteeee  

The Remuneration Committee consisting of two members from the board of directors who have no executive duties convened and 
evaluated the remuneration policies twice in 2022. As a result of the meeting and related evaluations, the committee decided on 
updating of the policies in accordance with the existing practices. The main duties and responsibilities of the Remuneration 
Committee have been determined briefly as follows: 

 Overseeing the remuneration processes and practices with the aim of providing an independent and effective remuneration 
system. 

 Reviewing the remuneration policy practices within the framework of the Corporate Governance principles and ensuring that 
the remuneration management system is up to date. 

 Submitting the evaluation and recommendations on remuneration policies and practices within the framework of Corporate 
Governance principles to the Board of Directors as an annual report 

 Reviewing as to whether remuneration policies, processes and practices comply with risk appetite, strategies and long term 
targets of the Bank 

 Ensuring the implementation of premium payments within the framework of Corporate Governance principles. 

 Determining payments to the members of the Board of Directors if they assume a different function in the bank 

 Ensuring the preparation of the decisions regarding the remuneration, particularly the decisions about the remuneration of 
qualified employees, submitted to the approval of the Board of Directors; the regular observation of compliance and 
effectiveness of the remuneration policies with the risk appetite and targets of the bank; providing support and opinion to the 
Board of Directors with regard to the establishment and supervising of the operations of the remuneration system; 
overseeing the remuneration of the senior management of the units within the scope of Internal Systems 

The general principles of the Bank's remuneration policy apply to all bank employees. 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

 
  

 
81 

 

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd::  3311..1122..22002211  

HHeeddggiinngg  IInnssttrruummeenntt  HHeeddggeedd  IItteemm  RRiisskk  EExxppoossuurree  

FFaaiirr  VVaalluuee  
DDiiffffeerreennccee  ooff  

HHeeddggiinngg  IInnssttrruummeenntt  
FFaaiirr  VVaalluuee  DDiiffffeerreennccee  

ooff  HHeeddggeedd  IItteemmss  ((**))  
IInneeffffeeccttiivvee  PPoorrttiioonn  

((****))  

Interest Rate Swap 

Fixed interest rate FC  
financial assets at fair 
value through other 
comprehensive 
income 

Interest rate risk 

(293.557) 255.051 (38.506) 

Cross-currency swap 

Fixed interest rate FC  
financial assets at fair 
value through other 
comprehensive 
income, FC 
borrowings 

Interest rate and 
currency risk 

39.753 (39.469) 284 

Cross-currency swap 

Fixed interest rate TL  
financial assets at fair 
value through other 
comprehensive 
income, FC 
borrowings 

Interest rate and 
currency risk 

(91.345) 84.039 (7.306) 

Cross-currency swap 
Fixed interest rate TL 
Commercial Loans. FC 
borrowings 

Interest rate and 
currency risk 

44 (187) (143) 

Interest Rate Swap 
Fixed interest rate TL 
Commercial Loans Interest rate risk 

8.600 (8.558) 42 

Cross-currency swap 
Fixed interest rate TL 
Commercial Loans. FC 
borrowings 

Interest rate and 
currency risk 

(46.140) 49.696 3.556 
 (*) Includes fair value differences arising from changes in foreign exchange rates for the hedge transactions having risk exposure of both interest rate and foreign currency. 
(**) Represents the cumulative amounts booked under “Gains / (Losses) on Derivative Financial Transactions” and “Gains / (Losses) on Foreign Exchange Transactions” since the 
beginning of hedge accounting. 

In addition, when the hedging instrument expires, is executed or sold and when the hedge relationship becomes ineffective or is 
discontinued as a result of the hedge relationship being revoked due to ineffectiveness of efficiency tests with the information related 
discontinuous transactions are given below: 

- As of 31 December 2022, related to fair value hedge transactions, the remaining net amount after amortization of the fair value change 
of the hedged items since the beginning of hedge accounting is TL (38) (31 December 2021: TL 2.779). 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

328 - 329Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
84 

 

Corporate banking, commercial banking and SME banking, provide financial solutions and banking services to large, medium and 
small size corporate and commercial customers. The products and services offered to corporate and commercial customers 
include TL and foreign currency denominated working capital loans financing for investments, foreign trade financing, derivative 
instruments for hedging purposes of foreign currency and interest risk, letters of credit, foreign currency trading, corporate 
finance services and deposit and cash management services. In addition, the Bank provides timely and permanent solutions for 
corporate customers’ working capital management, delivers cash management services tailored based on customers’ requests 
that include collection and payment services and liquidity and information management. Project finance loans are provided within 
the context of investment banking activities. In the scope of private banking, The Bank serves the members of the high-income 
customers who have expectations for upper-class service quality both in banking and investment transactions.  
Within the scope of international banking activities, activities are also being carried out in order to provide long-term funding, to 
provide funding under a price reflecting the country's risk, to diversify funding resources and to form an international investor base 
on this area. 

The Treasury Unit conducts TL and FC spot and forward transactions, treasury bonds, government bonds, Eurobond and private 
sector bond transactions and also derivative trading activities within determined limits. These transactions are performed 
according to the Bank’s requirements. In addition to marketing and pricing activities for the branch network of Treasury products 
and customers, foreign trade financing, foreign exchange and TL "clearing" services are also carried out for customers. 

Information on business segments as of 31 December 2022 and 31 December 2021 presented in the following tables. Explanations 
on business segments are prepared on the basis of data obtained from Bank Management Reporting System. 

 

  
CCoonnssuummeerr

BBaannkkiinngg

CCoommmmeerrcciiaall  BBaannkkiinngg,,  
SSMMEE  BBaannkkiinngg,,  

CCoorrppoorraattee  BBaannkkiinngg
aanndd  PPrriivvaattee  BBaannkkiinngg TTrreeaassuurryy

OOtthheerr  aanndd
UUnnaallllooccaatteedd

BBaannkk’’ss  TToottaall
AAccttiivviittiieess

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  --  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  
     Operating Income  19.817.572  31.295.152  54.362.543  608.843  106.084.110 
     Profit from Operating Activities  5.016.790  26.160.260  53.095.670  (8.118.391)  76.154.329 
     Income from Subsidiaries  -  -  -  32.338  32.338 
Income/(loss) from investments in 

subsidiaries consolidated based on equity 
method 

 -  -  -  3.073.735  3.073.735 

      Profit before Tax  5.016.790  26.160.260  53.095.670  (5.012.318)  79.260.402 
      Corporate Tax  -  -  -  (19.236.318)  (19.236.318)
Net Profit for the Period  5.016.790  26.160.260  53.095.670  (24.248.636)  60.024.084 

    Segment Assets 190.937.387 433.472.211 374.455.783  - 998.865.381
Investments in Associates  - - - 23.546.995 23.546.995
Undistributed Assets - - - 52.774.079 52.774.079

    Total Assets 1.075.186.455
Segment Liabilities 375.880.715 293.443.729 182.118.596  - 851.443.040
Undistributed Liabilities - - - 70.143.531 70.143.531
Shareholders’ Equity - - - 153.599.884 153.599.884

    Total Liabilities 1.075.186.455
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

 
  

 
83 

 

Members of the Board of Directors and senior executives that have a significant impact on the Bank's risk profile are classified 
under the qualified employees. By the end of 2022, there are 27 employees that are considered as qualified employees in the Bank. 

IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  tthhee  DDeessiiggnn  aanndd  SSttrruuccttuurree  ooff  tthhee  RReemmuunneerraattiioonn  PPrroocceessss::  

While determining the Bank's wage structure; 

 Internal balance of wages and budgetary opportunities, 

 Job description and level of responsibility of employees, 

 Individual performance of each employee, 

 The overall performance of the team and general performance of the bank, 

 Employee competencies, 

 Compliance with the Bank's internal and external legislation 

are taken into consideration. 

Structured the Remuneration Policy for gaining, keeping, rewarding and motivating human resources are necessary for 
sustainable success to the bank is created as follows. 

 Complying with the scope and structure of the Bank's operations, strategies, long-term targets and risk management 
structures, 

 Preventing the excessive risk taking and contributing the effective risk management  

EEvvaalluuaattiioonn  ooff  RReemmuunneerraattiioonn  PPrroocceessss  RReeggaarrddiinngg  tthhee  MMeetthhooddss  ooff  AAddddrreessssiinngg  CCuurrrreenntt  aanndd  FFuuttuurree  RRiisskkss::  

In the remuneration processes, credit risk, operational risk, legal risk and reputation risk are taken into consideration with the 
applied risk management. The risks arising from employees during the determination of premiums are also taken into 
consideration. Some portion of the premium payments of the qualified employees are paid with non-cash assets indexed to the 
Bank's share value and some portion of them is postponed. In certain cases, written agreements have been made with these 
employees for the cancellation of deferred payments. In the recent year, there has been no change in the methods of handling 
risks in remuneration practices. 

EEvvaalluuaattiioonn  ooff  tthhee  MMeetthhooddss  ooff  AAssssoocciiaattiinngg  PPrreemmiiuummss  wwiitthh  PPeerrffoorrmmaannccee  

Performance and risks generally determined for the Bank are considered on a preferential basis for calculating the total amount 
of premiums. The premium budget is distributed to the employees in line with the unit performance affiliated with individual 
performance and fixed income.  

The units within the scope of Internal Systems have independent premium systems from Bank’s performance system hence their 
budgets are separately managed. All decisions regarding the wage and premium processes of these units are agreed at the Board 
of Directors level. 

XIII. EXPLANATIONS ON BUSINESS SEGMENTS: 

The Bank operates in three main business segments including consumer banking, SME banking, commercial banking, and 
corporate-investment and private banking and wealth management with treasury activities.These segments have been determined 
considering customer segments and branch network providing services to customers in accordance with the Bank's organizational 
structure. 

The profitability system generating segment information provides profitability information on the basis of account customer, 
customer relationship manager, branch segment and product. This information is made available to the branch and Head Office 
personnel through a web-based management reporting system. 

Consumer banking offers a variety of retail services such as deposit accounts, retail loans, commercial installment loans, credit 
cards, insurance products and asset management services. The consumer banking products and services also include bank cards, 
investment funds trading, automatic payment services, foreign currency trading, safe deposit box rentals, cheques, money 
transfers, investment banking, telephone and internet banking.  

330 - 331Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
86 

 

 
SECTION FIVE 

INFORMATION AND DISCLOSURES RELATED TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 

I. EXPLANATIONS AND NOTES RELATED TO ASSETS 

aa.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  rreellaatteedd  ttoo  ccaasshh  eeqquuiivvaalleennttss  aanndd  tthhee  aaccccoouunntt  ooff  tthhee  CCeennttrraall  BBaannkk  ooff  tthhee  RReeppuubblliicc  ooff  TTuurrkkeeyy  ((tthhee  
““CCBBRRTT””))::  

1. Information on cash equivalents and the account of the CBRT: 

  CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211

  TTLL FFCC TTLL FFCC
Cash/Foreign Currency                  3.041.404                  7.978.757 1.953.656 7.989.419
The CBRT (*)                20.645.317                95.135.790 9.941.916 71.850.576
Other (**)                                 -                      731.475 - 151.158
TToottaall                                2233..668866..772211                           110033..884466..002222  1111..889955..557722  7799..999911..115533

 

(*) Precious metal account amounting to TL 3.443.117 are included in FC (31 December 2021: TL 2.001.693). 
(**) Precious metal account amounting to TL 731.471 are included in FC (31 December 2021: TL 150.924). 

2. Information related to the account of the CBRT: 
 

  CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211

  TTLL FFCC TTLL FFCC
Unrestricted Demand Deposits 1.214 - 8.574 -
Unrestricted Time Deposits - 2.330.773 - -
Restricted Time Deposits - - - -
Reserve Requirement 20.644.103 92.805.017 9.933.342 71.850.576 
TToottaall  2200..664455..331177  9955..113355..779900  99..994411..991166  7711..885500..557766  

3. Explanation on reserve requirements: 

In accordance with the “Communiqué Regarding the Reserve Requirements no. 2013/15, the Bank is required to maintain 
reserves in CBRT for TL and foreign currency liabilities. The reserve requirements can be maintained as TL, USD, EUR and 
standard gold. According to the Communiqué on Required Reserves published in the Official Gazette dated 01.07.2021 and 
numbered 31528, the facility for maintain Turkish lira reserve requirements in foreign currency was terminated as of October 
1, 2021.  

The required rates for the required reserves established in the CBRT are between 3% and 8% according to the maturity 
structure in Turkish currency (31 December 2021: between 3% and 8%); in foreign currency, it is between 5% and 31% 
depending on the maturity structure (31 December 2021: between 5% and 26%) as of 31 December 2022. 

bb.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  ffiinnaanncciiaall  aasssseettss  aatt  ffaaiirr  vvaalluuee  tthhrroouugghh  pprrooffiitt  oorr  lloossss::   

As of 31 December 2022, there are no financial assets at fair value through profit or loss subject to repo transactions (31 
December 2021: None) and given as collateral/blocked (31 December 2021: None).  

Other Financial Assets: 

In the previous period, syndication loans extended to Ojer Telekomünikasyon A.Ş. were restructured. Within this scope, a 
pledge was established in favor of lenders in order to establish collateral for these loans. LYY Telekomünikasyon A.Ş., which 
was established as a special-purpose company in which 192.500.000.000 Group A shares, which constitute 55% of Türk 
Telekom's issued capital, are all direct or indirect partners. The acquisition of the company (formerly Levent Yapılandırma 
Yönetimi A.Ş.) was completed on 21 December 2018.The Bank has participated in LYY Telekomünikasyon A.Ş. with a 35,56% 
share in the receivables from OTAŞ.  

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

 
  

 
85 

 

  
  
  
  
  CCoonnssuummeerr

BBaannkkiinngg

CCoommmmeerrcciiaall  BBaannkkiinngg,,
SSMMEE  BBaannkkiinngg,,  

CCoorrppoorraattee  BBaannkkiinngg
aanndd  PPrriivvaattee  BBaannkkiinngg TTrreeaassuurryy

OOtthheerr  aanndd
UUnnaallllooccaatteedd

BBaannkk’’ss  TToottaall
AAccttiivviittiieess

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  --  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211    
     Operating Income  9.758.016  11.224.247  2.960.129  12.818.315  36.760.708 
     Profit from Operating Activities  2.612.297  7.920.485  2.423.532  1.547.063  14.503.377 
     Income from Subsidiaries  -  -  -  5.246  5.246 
Income/(loss) from investments in 

subsidiaries consolidated based on equity 
method  -  -  -  1.557.517  1.557.517 

      Profit before Tax  2.612.297  7.920.485  2.423.532  3.109.826  16.066.140 
      Corporate Tax  -  -  -  (3.940.232)  (3.940.232)
Net Profit for the Period  2.612.297  7.920.485  2.423.532  (830.406)  12.125.908 

    Segment Assets 121.818.120 278.807.495 269.604.308  - 670.229.923
Investments in Associates  - - - 16.078.259 16.078.259
Undistributed Assets - - - 22.603.113 22.603.113

    Total Assets 708.911.295
Segment Liabilities 232.639.935 171.464.590 197.214.873  - 601.319.398
Undistributed Liabilities - - - 31.636.946 31.636.946
Shareholders’ Equity - - - 75.954.951 75.954.951

    Total Liabilities 708.911.295
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

332 - 333Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
88 

 

2. Information on foreign banks account: 
 

UUnnrreessttrriicctteedd  AAmmoouunntt  RReessttrriicctteedd  AAmmoouunntt  ((****))  

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  
European Union Countries 4.325.067 3.979.261 4.286.385 14.604.778 
USA, Canada 8.405.815 9.877.794 1.150.802 1.147.984 
OECD Countries (*) 6.523.640 16.903.000 5.357.959 1.888.214 
Off-Shore Banking Regions - - - - 
Other 145.565 89.305 4.005 344 
TToottaall  1199..440000..008877  3300..884499..336600  1100..779999..115511  1177..664411..332200  
(*)   OECD Countries other than EU countries, USA and Canada. 
(**) Restricted amounts which mainly consist of collaterals related to borrowings are kept in several banks. 

ee.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  ffiinnaanncciiaall  aasssseettss  aatt  ffaaiirr  vvaalluuee  tthhrroouugghh  ootthheerr  ccoommpprreehheennssiivvee  iinnccoommee::  

1. As of 31 December 2022, financial assets fair value through other comprehensive income subject to repurchase 
agreements amounting to TL 41.237.315 (31 December 2021: TL 39.118.367); and those given as collateral/blocked 
amounting to TL 58.996.672 (31 December 2021: 27.921.542). 
 

2. Information on financial assets fair value through other comprehensive income: 
 

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211
Debt Securities 169.972.217 95.313.952
     Quoted at Stock Exchange (*) 162.536.493 92.328.602
     Unquoted at Stock Exchange  7.435.724 2.985.350
Share Certificates 97.071 15.719
     Quoted at Stock Exchange - -
     Unquoted at Stock Exchange 97.071 15.719
Impairment Provision (-) 5.198.633 4.648.400
TToottaall  116644..887700..665555 9900..668811..227711
(*) Investment funds are included. 

ff.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  rreellaatteedd  ttoo  llooaannss::    

1.  Information on all types of loans and advances given to shareholders and employees of the Bank: 

    CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd    
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  

  CCaasshh  NNoonn--ccaasshh  CCaasshh  NNoonn--ccaasshh  
Direct Loans Granted to Shareholders  450.000 159 - 159
            Corporate Shareholders 450.000 159 - 159
            Real Person Shareholders - - - -
Indirect Loans Granted to Shareholders 10.508.788 4.863.784 8.759.296 2.829.869
Loans Granted to Employees 322.086 - 177.638 -
TToottaall  1111..228800..887744 44..886633..994433  88..993366..993344 22..883300..002288

 

 

 

 

 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

 
  

 
87 

 

Later on, at the Ordinary General Assembly Meeting of LYY Telekomünikasyon A.Ş. which was held on 23 September 2019, it 
was decided to convert some of the loan into capital and add it to the capital of LYY Telekomünikasyon A.Ş. The nominal value 
of their shares increased from TL 18  to TL 1.416.090.  

As of 10 March 2022, LYY Telekomünikasyon A.Ş signed a share transfer agreement with the Turkey Wealth Fund regarding 
the sale of all of its shares within Türk Telekomünikasyon A.Ş. In this context, Türk Telekomünikasyon A.Ş. the sale and 
transfer of 192.500.000.000 Group A registered shares, corresponding to 55% of its capital, to the Turkish Wealth Fund for a 
price of 1.650.000.000 (full USD amount), was realized on 31 March 2022. In addition, pursuant to the Agreement, the amount 
corresponding to the 55% share to which LYY transferred from the dividend amount decided to be distributed by the General 
Assembly based on the independently audited 2021 consolidated financial statements of Türk Telekomünikasyon A.Ş. and has 
been paid to  LYY Telekomünikasyon A.Ş.  
LYY used the remaining amount from the sales amount, excluding the part required for its liabilities, to pay off its debts to the 
banks. Receivables amounting to TL 12.626.511, which was accounted for under “Other Financial Assets” under “Financial 
Assets at Fair Value Through Profit and Loss” after collection and fully provisioned, was classified as non-performing loans 
as of 30 June 2022, since there is no reasonable expectation for its recovery, it has been deducted from the records together 
with the amount of special provisions set aside within the scope of TFRS 9. The Bank’s participation rate increased to 40,46% 
with the restructuring on 17 August 2022 and no price has been paid by the bank. 
At the General Assembly Meeting of LYY Telekomünikasyon A.Ş. dated 27.12.2022, the liquidation decision was taken and the 
liquidation of the company was registered by the Istanbul Trade Registry Directorate on 28.12.2022. In this context, the 
amount of the partnership share, which was provided for in previous years and followed under the item " Non-current assets 
and disposal groups classified as held for sale", is deducted from the records together with its provision. 

TL 2.041.238 (31 December 2021: TL 1.313.971) of other financial assets consist Fourth Real Estate Investment Fund of Ak 
Portföy Yönetimi A.Ş. established by Ak Portföy Yönetimi A.Ş. and the fund is followed at its fair value and the related 
valuation differences are recognized in profit or loss. 

cc.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  ddeerriivvaattiivvee  ffiinnaanncciiaall  aasssseettss  hheelldd--ffoorr--ttrraaddiinngg: 

Table of positive differences related to derivative financial assets (*) 
 

  CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  

  TTLL FFCC TTLL FFCC  
Forward Transactions  2.276.623  -  754.771  - 
Swap Transactions 10.064.350  10.903.175 24.336.485  8.110.649 
Futures Transactions  -  -  -  - 
Options  9.839  709.075  14.406  271.650 
Other  -  -  -  - 
TToottaall  1122..335500..881122    1111..661122..225500  2255..110055..666622    88..338822..229999  
(*) Excluding hedging derivatives financial assets.     

dd.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  bbaannkkss  aaccccoouunntt  aanndd  ffoorreeiiggnn  bbaannkkss::  

  1.  Information on banks account:  
  

  CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  

  TTLL FFCC TTLL FFCC  
Banks  
     Domestic 2.142 1.404.336 23.156 138.600 
     Foreign (*) 1.420.963 28.778.275 109.136 48.381.544 
     Head Quarters and Branches Abroad -              - -              - 
TToottaall  11..442233..110055  3300..118822..661111  113322..229922  4488..552200..114444  
(*) Includes collateral of TL 7.486.972 for derivative transactions made with foreign banks (31 December 2021: TL 11.435.331). 

 

334 - 335Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
90 

 

4. Information on consumer loans, personal credit cards, personnel loans and personnel credit cards: 

 

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  --  3311..1122..22002222  SShhoorrtt--tteerrmm
MMeeddiiuumm  aanndd

LLoonngg--tteerrmm TToottaall
CCoonnssuummeerr  LLooaannss--TTLL  1166..226622..885533 7744..775522..444422 9911..001155..229955
     Mortgage Loans 22.517 16.421.141 16.443.658
     Automotive Loans 91.910 2.299.009 2.390.919
     Consumer Loans 16.148.426 56.032.292 72.180.718
     Other - - -
CCoonnssuummeerr  LLooaannss--  IInnddeexxeedd  ttoo  FFCC  -- 221166 221166
     Mortgage Loans - 216 216
     Automotive Loans - - -
     Consumer Loans - - -
     Other - - -
CCoonnssuummeerr  LLooaannss--FFCC  - - -
     Mortgage Loans - - -
     Automotive Loans - - -
     Consumer Loans - - -
     Other - - -
CCoonnssuummeerr  CCrreeddiitt  CCaarrddss--TTLL  4466..666600..662200 11..229988..000011 4477..995588..662211
     With Installment 20.100.091 1.297.905 21.397.996
     Without Installment 26.560.529 96 26.560.625
CCoonnssuummeerr  CCrreeddiitt  CCaarrddss--FFCC  6688..441100 -- 6688..441100
     With Installment - - -
     Without Installment 68.410 - 68.410
PPeerrssoonnnneell  LLooaannss--TTLL  3322..339933 112266..992277 115599..332200
     Mortgage Loans - 5.783 5.783
     Automotive Loans 79 2.289 2.368
     Consumer Loans 32.314 118.855 151.169
     Other - - -
PPeerrssoonnnneell  LLooaannss--  IInnddeexxeedd  ttoo  FFCC  -- -- --
     Mortgage Loans - - -
     Automotive Loans - - -
     Consumer Loans - - -
     Other - - -
PPeerrssoonnnneell  LLooaannss--FFCC  -- -- --
     Mortgage Loans - - -
     Automotive Loans - - -
     Consumer Loans - - -
     Other - - -
PPeerrssoonnnneell  CCrreeddiitt  CCaarrddss--TTLL  116611..773399 225577 116611..999966
     With Installment 75.006 257 75.263
     Without Installment 86.733 - 86.733
PPeerrssoonnnneell  CCrreeddiitt  CCaarrddss--FFCC  777700 -- 777700
     With Installment - - -
     Without Installment 770 - 770
CCrreeddiitt  DDeeppoossiitt  AAccccoouunntt  --  TTLL  ((RReeaall  PPeerrssoonn))  44..996622..997788 -- 44..996622..997788
CCrreeddiitt  DDeeppoossiitt  AAccccoouunntt  --  FFCC  ((RReeaall  PPeerrssoonn))  -- -- --
TToottaall  CCoonnssuummeerr  LLooaannss  6688..114499..776633 7766..117777..884433 114444..332277..660066

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

 
  

 
89 

 

2. Information on standard loans and loans under follow-up including loans that have been restructured or rescheduled: 
 
 
                                                LLooaannss  uunnddeerr  ffoollllooww--uupp  

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  --  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222      
    

RReessttrruuccttuurreedd  LLooaannss  

CCaasshh  LLooaannss  SSttaannddaarrdd  LLooaannss    
LLooaannss  nnoott  ssuubbeejjcctt  

ttoo  rreessttrruuccttuurriinngg  
      LLooaannss  wwiitthh    rreevviisseedd    

ccoonnttrraacctt  tteerrmmss    RReeffiinnaannccee  
Non-specialized Loans       
          Loans given to enterprises 44.457.895 1.109.617 87.665 6.602.379 
          Export Loans 77.416.881 51.389 11.799 57.049 
          Import Loans - - - - 

Loans Given to 
Financial Sector 38.460.255 207 - 162 

   Consumer Loans 92.226.596 2.600.386 1.164.048 146.779 
   Credit Cards 58.220.799 1.023.001 1.333.172 - 
   Other 192.668.216 415.685 2.069.264 23.319.960 

Specialized Loans - - - - 
Other Receivables - - - - 
TToottaall  550033..445500..664422  55..220000..228855  44..666655..994488  3300..112266..332299  

 
 
 
 

      
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd    

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222    
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd    

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  

EExxppeecctteedd  CCrreeddiitt  LLoossss  SSttaaggee  II  aanndd  
SSttaaggee  IIII    

  
SSttaannddaarrdd  

LLooaannss    
LLooaannss  uunnddeerr    

FFoollllooww--uupp    
  SSttaannddaarrdd  

LLooaannss    
LLooaannss  uunnddeerr    

FFoollllooww--uupp    
12 Month Expected Credit Losses   3.466.203 - 1.513.243 - 
Significant Increase in Credit Risk   - 6.608.115 - 5.502.190 
TToottaall    33..446666..220033  66..660088..111155  11..551133..224433  55..550022..119900  

 

3. Breakdown of loans according to their maturities: 
  
    

  
LLooaannss  UUnnddeerr  FFoollllooww--UUpp  

SSttaannddaarrdd  LLooaannss NNoonn--rreessttrruuccttuurreedd RReessttrruuccttuurreedd  oorr  rreesscchheedduulleedd
Short-term Loans  250.456.077 1.782.558 1.547.260
Medium and Long-Term Loans  252.994.565 3.417.727 33.245.017
TToottaall  550033..445500..664422 55..220000..228855 3344..779922..227777

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

336 - 337Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
  

 
92 

 

5. Information on commercial installment loans and corporate credit cards: 

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  --  3311..1122..22002222  SShhoorrtt--tteerrmm
MMeeddiiuumm  aanndd

LLoonngg--tteerrmm TToottaall
CCoommmmeerrcciiaall  IInnssttaallllmmeenntt  LLooaannss--TTLL  1122..004488..330044  2244..662233..555566 3366..667711..886600
     Mortgage Loans 67.077 1.353.369 1.420.446
     Automotive Loans 3.243.506 9.517.469 12.760.975
     Consumer Loans 8.737.721 13.752.718 22.490.439
     Other - - -
FFCC  IInnddeexxeedd  CCoommmmeerrcciiaall  IInnssttaallllmmeenntt  LLooaannss  --  22..770099 22..770099
     Mortgage Loans - 1.450 1.450
     Automotive Loans - 364 364
     Consumer Loans - 895 895
     Other - - -
CCoommmmeerrcciiaall  IInnssttaallllmmeenntt  LLooaannss--FFCC  77..111111  881188..008844 882255..119955
     Mortgage Loans - - -
     Automotive Loans - 100.600 100.600
     Consumer Loans 7.111 717.484 724.595
     Other - - -
CCoorrppoorraattee  CCrreeddiitt  CCaarrddss--TTLL  1122..009999..444444  227799..118877 1122..337788..663311
    With Installment 6.344.982 279.136 6.624.118
    Without Installment 5.754.462 51 5.754.513
CCoorrppoorraattee  CCrreeddiitt  CCaarrddss--FFCC  88..554444  -- 88..554444
    With Installment 32 - 32
    Without Installment 8.512 - 8.512
CCrreeddiitt  DDeeppoossiitt  AAccccoouunntt  --  TTLL  ((LLeeggaall  PPeerrssoonn))  998833..442299  -- 998833..442299
CCrreeddiitt  DDeeppoossiitt  AAccccoouunntt  --  FFCC  ((LLeeggaall  ppeerrssoonn))  --  -- --
TToottaall  2255..114466..883322  2255..772233..553366 5500..887700..336688

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  ––  3311..1122..22002211  SShhoorrtt--tteerrmm
MMeeddiiuumm  aanndd

LLoonngg--tteerrmm TToottaall
CCoommmmeerrcciiaall  IInnssttaallllmmeenntt  LLooaannss--TTLL  33..008833..008800  1133..441111..338899 1166..449944..446699
     Mortgage Loans 9.287 6.175 15.462
     Automotive Loans 227.399 301 227.700
     Consumer Loans 2.846.394 13.404.913 16.251.307
     Other - - -
FFCC  IInnddeexxeedd  CCoommmmeerrcciiaall  IInnssttaallllmmeenntt  LLooaannss  --  1155..007766 1155..007766
     Mortgage Loans - - -
     Automotive Loans - - -
     Consumer Loans - 15.076 15.076
     Other - - -
CCoommmmeerrcciiaall  IInnssttaallllmmeenntt  LLooaannss--FFCC  3355..558877  994488..332277 998833..991144
     Mortgage Loans - - -
     Automotive Loans 839 - 839
     Consumer Loans 34.748 948.327 983.075
     Other - - -
CCoorrppoorraattee  CCrreeddiitt  CCaarrddss--TTLL  55..116677..667733  6666..001111 55..223333..668844
    With Installment 2.290.396 65.972 2.356.368
    Without Installment 2.877.277 39 2.877.316
CCoorrppoorraattee  CCrreeddiitt  CCaarrddss--FFCC  44..663355  -- 44..663355
    With Installment - - -
    Without Installment 4.635 - 4.635
CCrreeddiitt  DDeeppoossiitt  AAccccoouunntt  --  TTLL  ((LLeeggaall  PPeerrssoonn))  887755..117733  -- 887755..117733
CCrreeddiitt  DDeeppoossiitt  AAccccoouunntt  --  FFCC  ((LLeeggaall  ppeerrssoonn))  --  -- --
TToottaall  99..116666..114488  1144..444400..880033 2233..660066..995511

 

 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

 
  

 
91 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  --  3311..1122..22002211  SShhoorrtt--tteerrmm
MMeeddiiuumm  aanndd

LLoonngg--tteerrmm TToottaall
CCoonnssuummeerr  LLooaannss--TTLL  22..665599..220066 5555..331122..555555 5577..997711..776611
     Mortgage Loans 13.863 13.558.860 13.572.723
     Automotive Loans 12.340 311.999 324.339
     Consumer Loans 2.633.003 41.441.696 44.074.699
     Other - - -
CCoonnssuummeerr  LLooaannss--  IInnddeexxeedd  ttoo  FFCC  -- 332211 332211
     Mortgage Loans - 321 321
     Automotive Loans - - -
     Consumer Loans - - -
     Other - - -
CCoonnssuummeerr  LLooaannss--FFCC  - - -
     Mortgage Loans - - -
     Automotive Loans - - -
     Consumer Loans - - -
     Other - - -
CCoonnssuummeerr  CCrreeddiitt  CCaarrddss--TTLL  2233..772233..662299 11..110011..772255 2244..882255..335544
     With Installment 7.522.539 1.101.003 8.623.542
     Without Installment 16.201.090 722 16.201.812
CCoonnssuummeerr  CCrreeddiitt  CCaarrddss--FFCC  1177..228833 -- 1177..228833
     With Installment - - -
     Without Installment 17.283 - 17.283
PPeerrssoonnnneell  LLooaannss--TTLL  77..227777 9900..442255 9977..770022
     Mortgage Loans - 3.814 3.814
     Automotive Loans - 125 125
     Consumer Loans 7.277 86.486 93.763
     Other - - -
PPeerrssoonnnneell  LLooaannss--  IInnddeexxeedd  ttoo  FFCC  -- -- --
     Mortgage Loans - - -
     Automotive Loans - - -
     Consumer Loans - - -
     Other - - -
PPeerrssoonnnneell  LLooaannss--FFCC  -- -- --
     Mortgage Loans - - -
     Automotive Loans - - -
     Consumer Loans - - -
     Other - - -
PPeerrssoonnnneell  CCrreeddiitt  CCaarrddss--TTLL  7799..665500 4411 7799..669911
     With Installment 27.030 41 27.071
     Without Installment 52.620 - 52.620
PPeerrssoonnnneell  CCrreeddiitt  CCaarrddss--FFCC  224455 -- 224455
     With Installment - - -
     Without Installment 245 - 245
CCrreeddiitt  DDeeppoossiitt  AAccccoouunntt--TTLL  ((RReeaall  PPeerrssoonn))  22..663399..447766 -- 22..663399..447766
CCrreeddiitt  DDeeppoossiitt  AAccccoouunntt--FFCC  ((RReeaall  PPeerrssoonn))  -- -- --
TToottaall  CCoonnssuummeerr  LLooaannss  2299..112266..776666 5566..550055..006677 8855..663311..883333

338 - 339Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
  

 
94 

 

 (ii) Information on the movement of total non-performing loans: 

  IIIIII..  GGrroouupp  IIVV..  GGrroouupp VV..  GGrroouupp

  LLooaannss  wwiitthh  
  LLiimmiitteedd  CCoolllleeccttiibbiilliittyy  

LLooaannss  wwiitthh
DDoouubbttffuull  CCoolllleeccttiibbiilliittyy

UUnnccoolllleeccttiibbllee  LLooaannss

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  EEnndd  BBaallaannccee::  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  11..777799..880099              11..006633..887777 1144..992244..886600
Additions (+) 3.936.509 103.918 13.149.017
Transfers from Other Categories of Non-  
Performing Loans (+) - 3.906.228 3.358.989

Transfers to Other Categories of Non-Performing  
Loans (-) 3.906.228 3.358.989 -

   Collections (-)  645.700 541.373 2.716.807
Write-offs (-) (*) 6.904 11.366 14.128.054
Sold Portfolio (-) - - 802

Corporate and Commercial Loans - - 579
Consumer Loans - - 6
Credit Cards - - 217
Other - - -

BBaallaannccee  aatt  tthhee  EEnndd  ooff  tthhee  PPeerriioodd  11..115577..448866  11..116622..229955 1144..558877..220033
Specific Provisions (-) 632.447 825.923 9.929.954

NNeett  BBaallaannccee  aatt  BBaallaannccee  SShheeeett    552255..003399  333366..337722 44..665577..224499
 
(*)In the current period, the fifth section of the report “b. Information on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss”, LYY 
Telecommunication receivables amounting to TL 12.626.511, which is reported as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, is 
classified as non-performing receivables, together with its 100% specific provision. Since there is no reasonable expectation regarding its 
recovery, it has been deducted from the records in the scope of the " Regulation on the Procedures and Principles for Classification of Loans 
and Provisions to be Provided ". The effect of the accounting write-off under TFRS 9 on the NPL ratio is 239 basis points. (31 December 2021: 
TL 1.450.497 and its effect on the NPL ratio is 39 basis points. 
 
 
 (iii) Information on non-performing loans granted as foreign currency loans: 

  IIIIII..  GGrroouupp IIVV..  GGrroouupp VV..  GGrroouupp

    
LLooaannss  wwiitthh

  LLiimmiitteedd  CCoolllleeccttiibbiilliittyy
LLooaannss  wwiitthh  

DDoouubbttffuull  CCoolllleeccttiibbiilliittyy
UUnnccoolllleeccttiibbllee  LLooaannss

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd::  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222        
Balance at the End of the Period 209.018 184.569 5.971.061

Specific Provision (-) 63.434 136.763 3.424.575
Net Balance on Balance Sheet 145.584 47.806 2.546.486
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd::  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  
Balance at the End of the Period 1.086.945 207.566 5.490.778

Specific Provision (-) 675.570 125.208 3.009.581
NNeett  BBaallaannccee  aatt  BBaallaannccee  SShheeeett  411.375 82.358 2.481.197

Non-performing loans granted as foreign currency are followed under TL accounts of balance sheet. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
  

 
93 

 

6. Loans according to types of borrowers: 

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211
Public 24.509.769 9.636.027
Private 535.840.419 343.735.803
TToottaall 556600..335500..118888  335533..337711..883300

 

7. Distribution of domestic and foreign loans: Loans are classified according to the locations of the customers: 
 

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211
Domestic Loans 558.861.138 351.498.142 
Foreign Loans 1.489.050 1.873.688 
TToottaall 556600..335500..118888 335533..337711..883300  

 

8. Loans granted to investments in associates and subsidiaries: 

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211

Direct Loans Granted to Investments in Associates and
Subsidiaries 2.541.725 1.352.221 
Indirect Loans Granted to Investments in Associates and 
Subsidiaries - - 
TToottaall  22..554411..772255  11..335522..222211  

 

9. Credit-Impaired Losses Stage III Provisions: 

  

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211

Loans with Limited Collectibility 632.447 1.156.845
Loans with Doubtful Collectibility 825.923 720.526
Uncollectible Loans 9.929.954 9.727.667
TToottaall  1111..338888..332244 1111..660055..003388

10. Information on non-performing loans (Net): 

 
 (i) Information on non-performing loans restructured or rescheduled and other receivables: 

 

 

IIIIII..  GGrroouupp IIVV..  GGrroouupp VV..  GGrroouupp
LLooaannss  wwiitthh

LLiimmiitteedd
CCoolllleeccttiibbiilliittyy

LLooaannss  wwiitthh
DDoouubbttffuull  CCoolllleeccttiibbiilliittyy

UUnnccoolllleeccttiibbllee
LLooaannss

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd::  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  
(Gross Amounts Before Specific Provisions) 34.957 96.976 854.936
       Rescheduled Loans and Other Receivables 34.957 96.976 854.936
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd::  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211   
(Gross Amounts Before Specific Provisions) 50.000 66.001 1.720.918
       Rescheduled Loans and Other Receivables 50.000 66.001 1.720.918

340 - 341Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
  

 
96 

 

gg.. OOtthheerr  ffiinnaanncciiaall  aasssseettss  mmeeaassuurreedd  aatt  aammoorrttiisseedd  ccoosstt::                              

1. Information on financial asset subject to repurchase agreements and those given as collateral/blocked: 

  

  CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  

  TTLL FFCC TTLL FFCC  
Given as collateral/blocked 59.862.341 - 7.895.351 90.724 
Subject to repurchase agreements 12.345.942 10.571.152 16.631.679 8.933.136 
TToottaall  7722..220088..228833 1100..557711..115522 2244..552277..003300 99..002233..886600  

2. Information about government debt securities: 
  

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  
Government Bonds 95.023.206 50.326.448
Treasury Bills - -
Other Government Debt Securities 1.811.726 1.289.549
TToottaall  9966..883344..993322 5511..661155..999977

3. Information on other financial assets measured at amortised cost: 

 

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  
Debt Securities            98.157.324 52.663.336
     Quoted at Stock Exchange            98.157.324 52.663.336
     Unquoted at Stock Exchange                         - -
Impairment Provision (-)                    2.648 77.776
TToottaall                      9988..115544..667766  5522..558855..556600

4. The movement of financial assets measured at amortised cost: 

 

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  
Balance at the Beginning of the Period 52.585.560 41.885.059
Foreign Currency Differences on Monetary Assets 3.327.702 4.555.125
Purchases During Year  12.928.334 17.887.458
Disposals Through Sales and Redemptions (6.056.237) (15.853.468) 
Impairment Provision  75.128 (39.254)
Change in Amortized Cost 35.294.189 4.150.640
BBaallaannccee  aatt  tthhee  EEnndd  ooff  tthhee  PPeerriioodd  9988..115544..667766  5522..558855..556600

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
  

 
95 

 

 (iv) Breakdown of non-performing loans according to their gross and net values: 

 
  IIIIII..  GGrroouupp IIVV..  GGrroouupp  VV..  GGrroouupp

    
LLooaannss  wwiitthh

LLiimmiitteedd  CCoolllleeccttiibbiilliittyy
LLooaannss  wwiitthh  

  DDoouubbttffuull  CCoolllleeccttiibbiilliittyy  
UUnnccoolllleeccttiibbllee  LLooaannss

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  ((NNeett))::  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222     
Loans granted to corporate entities and 
real persons (Gross) 1.157.486 1.162.295 14.587.203

Specific Provision Amount (-) 632.447 825.923 9.929.954
Loans granted to corporate entities and 
real persons (Net) 525.039 336.372 4.657.249

Banks (Gross) - - - 
Specific Provision Amount (-) - - - 

Banks (Net) - - - 
Other Loans and Advances Receivables (Gross) - - - 

Specific Provision Amount (-) - - - 
Other Loans and Advances Receivables (Net) - - - 
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  ((NNeett))::  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211     

Loans granted to corporate entities and 
real persons (Gross) 

1.779.809 1.063.877 14.924.860

Specific Provision Amount (-) 1.156.845 720.526 9.727.667
Loans granted to corporate entities and 
real persons (Net) 622.964 343.351 5.197.193

Banks (Gross) - - -
Specific Provision Amount (-) - - -

Banks (Net) - - -
Other Loans and Advances Receivables (Gross) - - -

Specific Provision Amount (-) - - -
Other Loans and Advances Receivables (Net) - - -

 (v) Information on the collection policy of non-performing loans and other receivables: 

 
  IIIIII..  GGrroouupp IIVV..  GGrroouupp VV..  GGrroouupp  

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd::  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222              
Interest accruals and valuation differences 93.443 108.193 3.473.851 
     Provision (-) 49.389 75.608 2.208.740 
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd::  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211    
Interest accruals and valuation differences 78.530 119.421 3.490.421 
     Provision (-) 55.145 82.141 2.089.348 

11. Information on the collection policy of non-performing loans and other receivables: 

Non-performing loans and other receivables are collected through legal follow-up and liquidation of collaterals. 

12. Information on the write-off policy: Disclosed in Note VII of Section Three. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

342 - 343Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
  

 
98 

 

ii.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  rreellaatteedd  ttoo  ssuubbssiiddiiaarriieess  ((NNeett))::  

1. Information on shareholders’ equity of subsidiaries: 

The following amounts have been obtained from the financial statements as of 31 December 2022 prepared in 
accordance with legislation in which companies are subject to. 

 
AAkk  FFiinnaannssaall  

KKiirraallaammaa  AA..ŞŞ..  
AAkk  YYaattıırrıımm  MMeennkkuull  

DDeeğğeerrlleerr  AA..ŞŞ..  
AAkk  PPoorrttffööyy  

YYöönneettiimmii  AA..ŞŞ..  AAkkbbaannkk  AAGG  
  

AAkkÖÖddee  AA..ŞŞ..  
Paid in Capital 360.007 96.802 10.534 740.648 142.000 
Share Premium - - - - - 
Reserves 968.184 76.251 50.028 14.283.228 (14) 
Gains recognized in equity as per TAS (4.419) (16.194) (2.682) - (612) 
Profit/Loss 670.272 2.126.536 416.906 3.712.886 (102.323) 
  -  Net Current Period Profit 670.272 1.067.686 373.476 1.061.076 (99.662) 
  -  Prior Year Profit/Loss - 1.058.850 43.430 2.651.810 (2.661) 
Development Cost of Operating Lease (-) 28 1.567 - 2.093 - 
Remaining other intangible assets after 
offset with the related deferred tax liability 
excluding mortgage servicing rights 7.647 20.652 1.427 18.391 - 
TToottaall  CCoommmmoonn  EEqquuiittyy 11..998866..336699  22..226611..117766  447733..335599  1188..771166..227788  3399..005511  
TToottaall  AAddddiittiioonnaall  TTiieerr  II  CCaappiittaall --  --  --  --  --  
Portion of Goodwill and Other Intangible 
Assets and Related Deferred Tax Liabilities 
not deducted from the Common Equity as 
per the 1st Clause of Provisional Article 2 of 
the “Regulation on the Equity of Banks” (-) - - - - - 
TToottaall  TTiieerr  II  CCaappiittaall  11..998866..336699  22..226611..117766  447733..335599  1188..771166..227788  3399..005511  
TTiieerr  IIII  CCaappiittaall 9988..882222  778866  --  223388..119900  --  
CCAAPPIITTAALL  22..008855..119911  22..226611..996622  447733..335599  1188..995544..446688  3399..005511  
DDeedduuccttiioonnss  ffrroomm  CCaappiittaall  --  --  --  --  --  
TTOOTTAALL  CCAAPPIITTAALL  22..008855..119911  22..226611..996622  447733..335599  1188..995544..446688  3399..005511  

The Bank’s subsidiaries, included in the consolidated calculation of capital requirement, do not have additional capital       
requirements. 

2. Accounting method used for the valuation of subsidiaries: Disclosed in Note III of Section Three. 

3. Information on subsidiaries: 

  TTiittllee  
AAddddrreessss  
((CCiittyy  //  CCoouunnttrryy))  

BBaannkk’’ss  SShhaarree
PPeerrcceennttaaggee--IIff

DDiiffffeerreenntt  VVoottiinngg
PPeerrcceennttaaggee  ((%%))

BBaannkk’’ss  RRiisskk
GGrroouupp  SShhaarree

PPeerrcceennttaaggee  ((%%))
1 Ak Finansal Kiralama A.Ş. Istanbul/Turkey 100,00 100,00
2 Ak Yatırım Menkul Değerler A.Ş. Istanbul/Turkey 100,00 100,00
3 Ak Portföy Yönetimi A.Ş. Istanbul/Turkey 100,00 100,00
4 Akbank AG Frankfurt/Germany 100,00 100,00
5 AkÖde Elektronik Para ve Ödeme 

Hizmetleri A.Ş. Istanbul/Turkey 100,00 100,00

 

 

 

 

 

 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
  

 
97 

 

hh.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  iinnvveessttmmeennttss  iinn  aassssoocciiaatteess  ((NNeett))::  

1. Information about investments in associates: 

  TTiittllee  
AAddddrreessss  
((CCiittyy  //  CCoouunnttrryy))  

BBaannkk’’ss  sshhaarree
ppeerrcceennttaaggee--

IIff  ddiiffffeerreenntt
vvoottiinngg  ppeerrcceennttaaggee  ((%%))

BBaannkk’’ss  rriisskk  ggrroouupp
sshhaarree  ppeerrcceennttaaggee  ((%%))

1 Bankalararası Kart Merkezi A.Ş. Istanbul/Turkey 4,89 4,89 
2 Kredi Kayıt Bürosu A.Ş. Istanbul/Turkey 9,09 9,09 
3 JCR Avrasya Derecelendirme A.Ş.Istanbul/Turkey 2,86 2,86 
4 Birleşik İpotek Finansmanı A.Ş.  Istanbul/Turkey 8,33 8,33 

2. Main financial figures of associates, in the order of the above table: 

The financial figures stated below have been obtained from the financial statements date 30 September 2022 (*). 

 

 

TToottaall  
AAsssseettss  

SShhaarreehhoollddeerrss’’  
EEqquuiittyy  

TToottaall  
FFiixxeedd  

AAsssseettss  
IInntteerreesstt  
IInnccoommee  

IInnccoommee  ffrroomm  
MMaarrkkeettaabbllee  

SSeeccuurriittiieess  
PPoorrttffoolliioo  

CCuurrrreenntt  
PPeerriioodd  

PPrrooffiitt//  LLoossss  
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  

PPrrooffiitt//LLoossss  
FFaaiirr  

VVaalluuee  
1 679.563 579.361 119.394 53.202 - 207.418 93.651 - 
2 766.973 155.774 323.981 25.990 - 29.975 47.719 - 
3 104.324 86.888 31.175 4.486 - 58.825 2.467 - 
4 76.125 68.736 2.658 8.665 - 16.684 2.508 - 

(*)In the table above, 31 December 2021 financial data of JCR Avrasya Rating A.Ş. is used. 

 

            3. Movement schedule of investments in associates:  

  CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  

Balance at the Beginning of the Period 18.129 14.795 
Movements During the Period   
       Purchases (*) - 3.334 
       Bonus Shares and Contributions to Capital  828 - 
       Dividends from Current Year Income - - 
       Sales/Liquidation - - 
       Revaluation Increase - - 
       Impairment Provision (-) - - 
Balance at the End of the Period 18.957 18.129 
Capital Commitments - - 
Share Percentage at the End of the Period (%) - - 

(*) The mentioned amounts are due to the increase of the capital of Birleşik İpotek Finansmanı A.Ş., an 8,33%subsidiary of the 
Bank, by TL 40.000 for the the previous period.   

  

  

  

  

  

344 - 345Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
  

 
100 

 

  
ll.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  tthhee  HHeeddggiinngg  DDeerriivvaattiivvee  FFiinnaanncciiaall  AAsssseettss::    

    
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  
    TTLL FFCC TTLL FFCC
Fair Value Hedge  53.447   2.861.043   2.169.626   587.379  
Cash Flow Hedge  18.814.664  2.062.480   13.243.236  189.325  
Net Investment Hedge in a foreign operation   -   -   -   -  
TToottaall    1188..886688..111111      44..992233..552233      1155..441122..886622      777766..770044    

  
mm.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  pprrooppeerrttyy  aanndd  eeqquuiippmmeenntt::  

  
                

IImmmmoovvaabblleess((**))  
OOtthheerr  TTaannggiibbllee  

FFiixxeedd  AAsssseettss
CCoonnssttrruuccttiioonn  iinn

PPrrooggrreessss TToottaall  
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  EEnndd::  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211      
    Cost 5.018.803 2.980.515 18.691 8.018.009 
    Accumulated Depreciation (-) 533.246 1.655.536                  - 2.188.782 
    NNeett  BBooookk  VVaalluuee  44..448855..555577               11..332244..997799  1188..669911 55..882299..222277  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  EEnndd::  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  
        Net Book Value at the Beginning  
    of the Period  4.485.557 1.324.979 18.691           5.829.227 

    Additions 458.659 2.274.756 74.210 2.807.625 
   Investment Properties Revaulation differences   7.322.171                        -                  - 7.322.171 
   Transferred 42.185                        - (42.185)                        - 
    Disposals (-), net 79.057 3.298                  - 82.355 
    Depreciation (-)   184.744 569.612                  - 754.356 
    Impairment    4.970                        -                  - 4.970 
    Cost at Period End 12.601.144 5.188.891 50.716 17.840.751 
    Accumulated Depreciation at  
    Period End (-)              551.403 2.162.066                  -           2.713.469 

CClloossiinngg  NNeett  BBooookk  VVaalluuee  1122..004499..774411 33..002266..882255 5500..771166               1155..112277..228822  

(*) Immovables includes the asset usage rights of the real estates rented under the “TFRS 16 Leases” Standard. As of  
31 December 2022, asset usage rights are TL 1.061.102, and accumulated depreciation amount is TL 381.778. 

  
                

IImmmmoovvaabblleess((**))  
OOtthheerr  TTaannggiibbllee  

FFiixxeedd  AAsssseettss
CCoonnssttrruuccttiioonn  iinn

PPrrooggrreessss TToottaall
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  EEnndd::  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002200      
    Cost           5.107.146           2.689.411          10.224           7.806.781 
    Accumulated Depreciation (-)              441.204           1.409.077                  -           1.850.281 
    NNeett  BBooookk  VVaalluuee                44..666655..994422               11..228800..333344                1100..222244               55..995566..550000  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  EEnndd::  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211 
        Net Book Value at the Beginning  
    of the Period  

          4.665.942           1.280.334            10.224           5.956.500 

    Additions              139.727              429.807          35.239              604.773 
   Investment Properties Revaulation differences   -                        -                  - -
   Transferred                26.772                        -                 26.772                        -
    Disposals (-), net                204.521                  19.351                  -                223.872 
    Depreciation (-)                142.363              365.811                  -              508.174 
    Impairment    -                        -                  - -
    Cost at Period End           5.018.803           2.980.515          18.691          8.018.009
    Accumulated Depreciation at  
    Period End (-)              533.246           1.655.536                  -          2.188.782 

CClloossiinngg  NNeett  BBooookk  VVaalluuee                44..448855..555577                11..332244..997799               1188..669911               55..882299..222277  

(*) Immovables includes the asset usage rights of the real estates rented under the “TFRS 16 Leases” Standard. As of  
31 December 2021, asset usage rights are TL 766.666, and accumulated depreciation amount is TL 348.114. 

 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
  

 
99 

 

4. Main financial figures of consolidated subsidiaries, in the order of the above table: 

The financial figures have been obtained from the financial statements as at 31 December 2022 prepared in 
accordance with local regulations. 

 
  

TToottaall  
AAsssseettss  

SShhaarreehhoollddeerrss’’  
EEqquuiittyy  

  
  

TToottaall  FFiixxeedd  
AAsssseettss  

IInntteerreesstt  
IInnccoommee  

IInnccoommee  ffrroomm  
MMaarrkkeettaabbllee  

SSeeccuurriittiieess  
PPoorrttffoolliioo  

CCuurrrreenntt  
PPeerriioodd  

PPrrooffiitt//  LLoossss  
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  

PPrrooffiitt//LLoossss  
FFaaiirr  

VVaalluuee    
1 16.673.748 1.994.044 43.919 1.328.167 86.469 670.272 224.008 - 
2 14.666.014 2.283.395 30.981 650.197 2.049.957 1.067.686 446.764 - 
3 574.813 474.786 32.979 22.589 37.260 373.476 174.811 - 
4 71.803.631 18.736.762 87.401 2.165.187 364.266 1.061.076 755.407 - 
5 100.099 39.051 1.298 9.824 - (99.662) (43.138) - 

 

5. Movement schedule of subsidiaries: 

  CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  

Balance at the Beginning of the Period 16.060.130 9.605.628 
Movements During the Period   

Additions (*) 70.000 10.180 
Bonus Shares and Contributions to Capital  - - 
Dividends from Current Year Income 3.073.735 1.557.517 
Sales/Liquidation  - - 
Revaluation Increase (**) 4.324.173 4.886.805 
Revaluation/Impairment  - - 

Balance at the End of the Period 23.528.038 16.060.130 
Capital Commitments - - 
Share Percentage at the End of the Period (%) - - 
(*)The mentioned amounts arise from the net increase of TL 70.000  in the capital of AkÖde Elektronik Para ve Dağıtım Hizmetleri 
A.Ş. which is the Bank’s 100% subsidiary, for the prior period considering the capital decrease of AkÖde Elektronik Para ve Dağıtım 
Hizmetleri A.Ş. taken into account net increase of TL 10.000, and due to the acquisition of 0.01% share of Ak Finansal Kiralama A.Ş. 
(**) Amounts refer to revaluation differences arising from accounting of financial associates and subsidiaries under the equity method 
as explained in the Note III of the Section Three. 

6. Sectoral information on financial subsidiaries and the related carrying amounts: 

SSuubbssiiddiiaarriieess  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211
Banks 18.736.762 13.215.503 
Insurance Companies - - 
Factoring Companies - - 
Leasing Companies 1.994.044 1.327.425 
Finance Companies - - 
Other Financial Subsidiaries 2.797.232 1.517.202 

 
7. Subsidiaries quoted to a stock exchange: None. (31 December 2021: None). 

jj.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  jjooiinntt  vveennttuurreess::  None (31 December 2021: None).  

kk.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  ffiinnaannccee  lleeaassee  rreecceeiivvaabblleess  ((NNeett)):: None (31 December 2021: None). 

  
  
  

346 - 347Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
  

 
102 

 

qq.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  pprrooppeerrttyy  aanndd  eeqquuiippmmeenntt  hheelldd  ffoorr  ssaallee  aanndd  rreellaatteedd  ttoo  ddiissccoonnttiinnuueedd  ooppeerraattiioonnss:: 
  CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  
Cost 565.378 170.756 
Accumulated Depreciation (-) - - 
NNeett  BBooookk  VVaalluuee  556655..337788  117700..775566  
    

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  
OOppeenniinngg  BBaallaannccee  NNeett  BBooookk  VVaalluuee  170.756 117733..441166 
Additions  591.783                  178.818  
Disposals (-), net 197.036                     179.961  
Impairment (-) 125                       1.517  
Depreciation (-) - - 
CClloossiinngg  NNeett  BBooookk  VVaalluuee  556655..337788  117700..775566  

 
 

rr..   IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  ootthheerr  aasssseettss::    

Other assets amounting to TL 19.757.284 (31 December 2021: TL 4.447.094) on the balance sheet and do not exceed 10% of 
the total assets, excluding the off-balance sheet commitments. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
  

 
101 

 

nn.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  iinnttaannggiibbllee  aasssseettss::  
  

1. Cost and accumulated amortization at the beginning and end of the period: 

  CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  

Cost 4.119.112 2.425.542 
Accumulated Amortization (-) 1.467.091 959.903 

NNeett  BBooookk  VVaalluuee  22..665522..002211  11..446655..663399  

2. Reconciliation of movements for the current period and prior period: 

    CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd      
  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd      
  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  

OOppeenniinngg  BBaallaannccee  NNeett  BBooookk  VVaalluuee  11..446655..664400  11..116688..337722  
Additions 1.693.570 586.581 
Disposals (-), net - 11.290 
Depreciation (-) 507.189 278.024 
CClloossiinngg  NNeett  BBooookk  VVaalluuee  22..665522..002211  11..446655..663399  

 

oo.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  tthhee  iinnvveessttmmeenntt  pprrooppeerrttiieess::  None (31 December 2021: None).  

pp.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  ddeeffeerrrreedd  ttaaxx  aasssseett::  

As of 31 December 2022, the Bank has deferred tax asset TL 192.285 (31 December 2021: TL 73.610). Temporary differences 
subject to deferred tax calculation result from mainly the differences between the book values and tax values of fixed assets, 
financial assets and liabilities and provision for employee rights. 

Deferred tax assets and liabilities which are accounted for the temporary differences arising between applicable accounting 
policies and valuation principles and tax legislation are netted-off and accounted. There are no carry forward tax losses that 
can be used as deductions for the tax calculation. An explanation about the net deferred tax liability is given in Note II-i-2 of 
Section Five. 

                   AAccccuummuullaatteedd  tteemmppoorraarryy  ddiiffffeerreenncceess            DDeeffeerrrreedd  ttaaxx  aasssseettss//((lliiaabbiilliittiieess))  
    3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  
Employee benefits 2.183.677 745.039 545.919 149.008 
Stage 1 and 2 loans provisions 10.756.607 7.358.048 2.689.152 1.522.230 
Differences between book value and tax 
base of property, plant and equipment 

 
(2.776.126) (2.018.402) 

 
(694.032) (403.680) 

Differences between book value and tax 
base of financial assets 

 
(18.054.479) (14.823.845) 

 
(4.513.620) (3.237.791) 

Investment Properties Revaulation  
differences 

 
(10.383.529) (3.119.611) 

 
(1.526.464) (362.222) 

Other 2.656.323 11.173.619 664.082 2.234.724 
DDeeffeerrrreedd  TTaaxx  AAsssseett//((LLiiaabbiilliittiieess))  NNeett    ((22..883344..996633))  ((9977..773311))  

 

 

 

 

 

 

348 - 349Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
  

 
104 

 

2. Information on saving deposits insurance(*): 

Information on saving deposits under the guarantee of the saving deposits insurance fund and amounts exceeding the 
limit of the deposit insurance fund: 

UUnnddeerr  tthhee  GGuuaarraanntteeee  ooff  DDeeppoossiitt  
IInnssuurraannccee  

EExxcceeeeddiinngg  tthhee  LLiimmiitt  ooff  DDeeppoossiitt    
IInnssuurraannccee  

 CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211

Saving Deposits 82.641.629 36.088.544 156.853.618 52.711.668
Foreign Currency Saving Deposits 30.778.917 26.052.560 133.373.036 121.287.412
Other Deposits in the Form of  
Saving Deposits                                                      12.176.457 8.767.847 19.450.803 14.796.515

Foreign Branches’ Deposits  
under Foreign Authorities' Insurance - - - -
Off-shore Banking Regions’ 
Deposits under Foreign Authorities' Insurance - - - -

(*)In accordance with the “Regulation on Amending the Regulation on the Insurable Deposit and Participation Funds and 
Premiums to be Collected by the Savings Deposit Insurance Fund” published in the Official Gazette dated 27 August 
2022 and numbered 31936, official institutions in the presence of credit institutions, credit institutions and financial 
institutions other than those belonging to the credit institutions all deposit and participation funds have been insured. In 
this context, commercial deposits covered by the insurance amount to TL 11.734.677 and the said amount is not 
included in the footnote. 

3. Saving deposits of real persons which are not under the guarantee of saving deposit insurance fund: 

  CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  

Foreign Branches’ Deposits and other accounts 33 40 
Saving Deposits and Other Accounts of Controlling Shareholders and Deposits of 
their Mother, Father, Spouse, Children in care  -

 
- 

Saving Deposits and Other Accounts of President and Members of Board of 
Directors, CEO and Vice Presidents and Deposits of their Mother, Father, Spouse 
and Children in care 2.265.541

 
 

2.457.795 

Saving Deposits and Other Accounts in Scope of the Property Holdings Derived from 
Crime Defined in Article 282 of Turkish Criminal Law no:5237 dated 26.09.2004 

-

 
 

- 
Saving Deposits in Deposit Banks Established in Turkey solely to Engage in Off-
shore Banking Activities  -

 
- 

bb.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  ttrraaddiinngg  ddeerriivvaattiivvee  ffiinnaanncciiaall  lliiaabbiilliittiieess::  

Table of derivative financial liabilities (*): 

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  
  TTLL FFCC TTLL FFCC
Forward Transactions  468.099   -   3.902.610   -  
Swap Transactions  10.276.548   2.940.015   17.748.113   2.046.184  
Futures Transactions  -   -   -   -  
Options  564   272.307   -   564.124  
Other  -   -   -   -  
TToottaall    1100..774455..221111      33..221122..332222      2211..665500..772233      22..661100..330088    
 

(*) Excluding hedge transactions. 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
  

 
103 

 

 

II. EXPLANATIONS AND NOTES RELATED TO LIABILITIES 
aa.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  ddeeppoossiittss::    

1. Information on maturity structure of the deposits: There are no seven-day notification deposits. 

1 (i). Current Period – 31 December 2022: 

  DDeemmaanndd
UUpp  ttoo  11
MMoonntthh

11  ––  33
MMoonntthhss

33  ––  66
MMoonntthhss

66  MMoonntthhss
––  11  YYeeaarr

11  YYeeaarr
aanndd  OOvveerr

DDeeppoossiittss
CCuummuullaattiivvee TToottaall

Saving Deposits 32.784.230 15.364.567 126.007.327 51.514.569 4.730.496 9.088.080 5.978 223399..449955..224477
Foreign Currency Deposits 127.534.670 13.317.447 105.978.750 6.657.366 2.344.883 4.807.341 942 226600..664411..339999
    Residents in Turkey 123.054.550 12.881.851 101.026.860 6.448.554 1.484.930 2.636.813 942 224477..553344..550000
    Residents Abroad 4.480.120 435.596 4.951.890 208.812 859.953 2.170.528 - 1133..110066..889999
Public Sector Deposits 2.229.173 6.791 84.763 1.297 800 46 - 22..332222..887700
Commercial Deposits 33.576.066 27.359.244 32.701.826 8.878.054 9.344.361 7.367.667 - 111199..222277..221188
Other Institutions Deposits 777.277 480.397 4.047.773 251.217 73.528 19.213 - 55..664499..440055
Precious metals Deposits 33.170.247 108.459 635.352 301.858 1.402.738 164.481 - 3355..778833..113355
Interbank Deposits 1.448.252 2.064.939 4.782.005 2.303.118 5.579.339 27.835 - 1166..220055..448888

The CBRT 26.673 - - - - - - 2266..667733
Domestic Banks 944.105 1.643.635 995.325 - 2.000.620 - - 55..558833..668855
Foreign Banks 421.172 421.304 3.786.680 2.303.118 3.578.719 27.835 - 1100..553388..882288
Participation Banks 56.302 - - - - - - 5566..330022
Other - - - - - - - --

TToottaall  223311..551199..991155 5588..770011..884444  227744..223377..779966 6699..990077..447799 2233..447766..114455 2211..447744..666633 66..992200  667799..332244..776622

Foreign exchange-protected deposit instrument, the operating rules of which are determined by the Ministry of Treasury and 
Finance and the CBRT, and which ensures that TL deposits are valued with interest rates and are protected against foreign 
exchange rates, is offered to bank customers. As of 31 December 2022, TL deposit amount includes TL 98.451.375 (31 
December 2021: 4.875.953 TL) thousand TL deposits within this scope. 

1 (ii). Prior period - 31 December 2021: 

    
DDeemmaanndd

UUpp  ttoo  11
MMoonntthh

11  ––  33
MMoonntthhss

33  ––  66
MMoonntthhss

66  MMoonntthhss
––  11  YYeeaarr

11  YYeeaarr
aanndd  OOvveerr

DDeeppoossiittss
CCuummuullaattiivvee TToottaall

Saving Deposits 16.220.310 17.312.809 52.488.052 290.188 819.167 1.662.919 6.767 8888..880000..221122 
Foreign Currency Deposits 95.299.954 31.442.097 88.041.307 2.440.898 2.488.855 4.311.149 1.310 222244..002255..557700 
    Residents in Turkey 91.847.858 30.767.706 83.333.103 2.274.520 1.606.903 2.241.447 1.310 221122..007722..884477 
    Residents Abroad 3.452.096 674.391 4.708.204 166.378 881.952 2.069.702 - 1111..995522..772233 
Public Sector Deposits 1.428.883 8.524 36.624 322 2.600 96 - 11..447777..004499 
Commercial Deposits 13.773.179 22.543.811 15.879.382 194.556 462.797 123.863 - 5522..997777..558888 
Other Institutions Deposits 409.829 528.782 3.029.456 616.258 909.300 490.833 - 55..998844..445588 
Precious metals Deposits 24.196.677 52.845 363.534 - 1.116.370 139.690 - 2255..886699..111166 
Interbank Deposits 1.754.508 1.297.391 7.735.717 1.980.405 1.358.720 - - 1144..112266..774411 

The CBRT - - - - - - - -- 
Domestic Banks 13.092 326.476 628.901 - 1.358.720 - - 22..332277..118899 
Foreign Banks 351.379 970.915 7.106.816 1.980.405 - - - 1100..440099..551155 
Participation Banks 1.390.037 - - - - - - 11..339900..003377 
Other - - - - - - - -- 

TToottaall  115533..008833..334400 7733..118866..225599 116677..557744..007722 55..552222..662277 77..115577..880099 66..772288..555500 88..007777 441133..226600..773344  

 

 

350 - 351Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
  

 
106 

 

ff.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  ffiinnaanncciiaall  lleeaassiinngg  aaggrreeeemmeennttss::  

With the “TFRS 16 Leases” standard valid from 1 January 2019, the difference between operating leases and finance 
leases has been eliminated and the lease transactions have been expressed under the “Lease Payables” as liability by 
lessees. 

Liabilities incurred due to financial leasing agreements: 

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  
  GGrroossss NNeett GGrroossss NNeett
Less Than 1 Year 222.354 101.967 149.709 67.943
Between 1-4 Years 572.553 316.650 384.315 208.890
More Than 4 Years 537.420 380.549 375.080 258.607
TToottaall  11..333322..332277 779999..116666 990099..110044 553355..444400

  

gg.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  tthhee  hheeddggiinngg  ddeerriivvaattiivvee  ffiinnaanncciiaall  lliiaabbiilliittiieess::  

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211
  TTLL FFCC TTLL FFCC
Fair Value Hedge  -  -  55.317  481.616 
Cash Flow Hedge 494.476  1  276.256  213.015 
Net Investment Hedge in a foreign operation  -  -  -  -
TToottaall  449944..447766   11    333311..557733   669944..663311  

hh.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  pprroovviissiioonnss::  

1. Information on reserves for employee rights: 
 

BBaallaannccee  SShheeeett  OObblliiggaattiioonnss  ffoorr::  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  
 - Reserve for employment termination benefits 1.768.175 603.639 
 - Reserve for unused vacation 415.502 141.400 
 TToottaall 22..118833..667777 774455..003399  

 

According to Turkish Labor Law, the Bank is required to pay termination benefits to each employee who has completed 
at least one year of service and whose employment is terminated without due cause, is called up for military service, 
dies or who retires.  

The compensation amount equals to one month’s salary of an employee for each year of service, but this amount is 
limited up to severance limit decided by law. This liability is not subject to any funding legally and there is no funding 
requirement. 

The reserve has been calculated by estimating the present value of the future probable obligation of the Bank arising 
from the retirement of its employees. TAS 19 requires actuarial valuation methods to be developed to estimate the 
enterprise’s obligation for such benefits. Accordingly, the following actuarial assumptions were used in the calculation 
of the total liability. 

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  
Discount Rate (%) 0,50 3,54 
Rate for the Probability of Retirement (%) 94,96 95,35 
 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
  

 
105 

 

cc.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  bboorrrroowwiinnggss::  

1. Information on banks and other financial institutions: 

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  
  TTLL FFCC TTLL FFCC
Borrowings from the CBRT - - - -
From Domestic Banks and Institutions 217.419 2.612.509 235.575 3.020.670
From Foreign Banks, Institutions and Funds  - 61.566.831 - 50.240.568
TToottaall  221177..441199 6644..117799..334400  223355..557755 5533..226611..223388
   

2. Information on maturity structure of borrowings: 

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  
  TTLL FFCC TTLL FFCC
Short-term 206.371 3.010.180 188.072 2.094.685
Medium and Long-term 11.048 61.169.160 47.503 51.166.553
TToottaall  221177..441199 6644..117799..334400 223355..557755  5533..226611..223388
   
Securitized borrowings procured via A.R.T.S. Ltd. (“Structured Entity”) are included in external funding sources of the 
Bank. Under the securitization program agreements, the Bank has sold foreign trade and customer receivables to 
A.R.T.S. Ltd. 

3. The liabilities providing the funding sources of the Bank are deposits, borrowings, marketable securities issued and 
money market borrowings. Deposits are the most important funding source of the Bank and the diversification of these 
deposits by number and type of depositors with a stable structure does not create any risk concentration. The 
borrowings are composed of funds such as syndicated and securitized borrowings and post-financing obtained from 
different financial institutions with different maturity-interest structures and characteristics. There is no risk 
concentration in any of the funding sources of the Bank. 

dd.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  sseeccuurriittiieess  iissssuueedd  ((NNeett))::  

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  
  TTLL FFCC TTLL FFCC
Bank bills - - 6.317.699 -
Bonds 2.716.114 19.723.455 2.394.145 20.830.603
TToottaall  22..771166..111144 1199..772233..445555 88..771111..884444 2200..883300..660033

ee.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  ootthheerr  ffoorreeiiggnn  lliiaabbiilliittiieess::  

Other foreign liabilities listed in “Other Liabilities” amounting to TL 5.864.329 (31 December 2021: TL 3.895.346) and do 
not exceed 10% of the total balance sheet. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

352 - 353Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
  

 
108 

 

The principal actuarial assumptions used were as follows: 
 

DDiissccoouunntt  rraattee  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211
 - Pension benefits transferrable to SSI 9,80% 9,80% 
 - Post-employment medical benefits transferrable to SSI 9,80% 9,80% 
 - Other non-transferrable benefits 0,50% 3,54% 

  

MMoorrttaalliittyy  rraattee  

The CSO 1980 mortality table has been used in order to calculate the liabilities to be transferred to SSI, life expectancy 
at a 60 year-old men is 18 years and a 58-year-old women is 24 years in accordance with this table. 

The movement in the fair value of plan assets of the year is as follows: 

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211
PPrriioorr  ppeerriioodd  eenndd  22..888844..339933 22..332299..222299
Actual return on plan assets 1.014.061 477.814
Employer contributions 898.934 501.937
Employee contributions 48.683 24.964
Benefits paid (751.272) (449.551)
PPeerriioodd  eenndd  44..009944..779999 22..888844..339933

Plan assets are comprised as follows: 
                                                          CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  

                                            3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  
                                                      PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  

                                            3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  
Bank placements 487.995 12% 546.798 19% 
Property and equipment 44.012 1% 15.955 1% 
Marketable securities and share certificates 3.487.089 85% 2.238.676 78% 
Other 75.703 2% 82.964 2% 
PPeerriioodd  eenndd  44..009944..779999  110000%%  22..888844..339933  110000%%  

 

2. Information on provisions related with foreign currency difference of foreign indexed loans:  

As of 31 December 2022, the Bank has no provision related to foreign currency differences of foreign indexed loans (31 
December 2021: None). 

3. Information on provisions for non-cash loans that are non-funded and non-transformed into cash: Expected loss 
provisions for non-cash loans that are non-funded and non-transformed into cash amounting to TL 457.083 as of 31 
December 2022 (31 December 2021: TL 641.035). 

4. Information on other provisions: 

  (i). Information on free provision for possible risks: TL 1.400.000 (31 December 2021: TL 1.400.000). 

  (ii). Information on provisions for banking services promotion: The Bank has provisions for credit cards and banking 
services promotion activities amounting to TL 202.113 (31 December 2021: TL 85.010  ). 

ii.. EExxppllaannaattiioonnss  oonn  ttaaxx  lliiaabbiilliittyy::  

1. Explanations on tax liability: 

Tax calculations of the Bank are explained in Note XVIII of Section Three. As of 31 December 2022, the remaining tax 
liability after deducting the taxes paid during the period from corporate tax is TL 9.585.893 (31 December 2021: TL 
1.361.556). 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
  

 
107 

 

The principal actuarial assumption is that the current maximum liability will increase in line with inflation. Thus, the 
discount rate applied represents the expected real rate after adjusting for the effects of future inflation.  

Movements in the reserve for employment termination benefits during the period are as follows: 

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  CClloossiinngg  BBaallaannccee  660033..663399 441166..558888
Recognized as an Expense During the Period 201.266 94.607
Actuarial Loss / (Gain) 1.033.904 155.155
Paid During the Period (70.634) (62.711)
BBaallaannccee  aatt  tthhee  EEnndd  ooff  tthhee  PPeerriioodd  11..776688..117755 660033..663399
 

As of 31 December 2022, the Bank has allocated vacation liability amounting to TL 415.502 (31 December 2021: TL 
141.400). 

1.  (ii). Post-employment benefits: 

The Bank’s obligation in respect of the post-employment benefits transferrable to SSI, as explained in Note XVII of 
Section Three, has been calculated by a registered actuary. In this context, the value of the obligation regarding these 
benefits to be transferred to SSI as of the balance sheet date would equal the approximate payment amount that would 
need to be made to SSI as part of the transfer. The actuarial parameters and results used for the calculation of this 
amount reflect the provisions of the New Law for the post-employment pension and medical benefits transferrable to 
SSI (e.g. a technical interest rate of 9.80%). The deficit amounting to TL 935.201 (31 December 2021: TL 294.503) 
calculated according to the relevant Actuarial Report is in accordance with TAS 19 – Employee Benefits standard, 
service and interest costs are accounted for in profit and loss accounts, actuarial losses and gains are accounted under 
equity. 

 

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  
Total Obligations (16.151.721) (9.063.017)
Cash value of future contributions 12.388.781 6.336.667
TToottaall  TTrraannssffeerr  OObblliiggaattiioonnss  ttoo  SSSSII  ((33..776622..994400))  ((22..772266..335500))
Past service obligation (1.267.060) (452.546)
TToottaall  TTrraannssffeerr  ttoo  SSSSII  aanndd  OOtthheerr  OObblliiggaattiioonnss  ((55..003300..000000))  ((33..117788..889966))
Fair value of assets 4.094.799 2.884.393
DDeeffiicciitt  ((993355..220011))  ((229944..550033))

The amount of the post-employment medical benefits transferrable to SSI is calculated over discounted net present 
value of medical liabilities and health premiums. Movements of the Plan Asset deficit during the period is as follows: 

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd    

3311  AArraallııkk  22002222
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  

3311  AArraallııkk  22002211
OOppeenniinngg  ((3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211))  229944..550033 112266..226633
Employer contributions (898.934) (498.701)
Amount recorded in the income statement (*) 797.187 666.941
Amount recorded in other comprehensive income 742.445 -
CClloossiinngg  ((3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222))  993355..220011 229944..550033

(*)The amount recorded in the income statement have been expressed in the "XI. Personnel Expenses (-) in the income statement with 
the employer contributions. 

 

354 - 355Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
  

 
110 

 

kk.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  sshhaarreehhoollddeerrss’’  eeqquuiittyy::  

1. Presentation of paid-in capital: 

 
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211
Common Stock 5.200.000 5.200.000
Preferred Stock - -

2. Amount of paid-in-capital, explanations as to whether the registered share capital system is applied, if so the 
amount of registered share capital ceiling: 

 

CCaappiittaall  SSyysstteemm  PPaaiidd--iinn  ccaappiittaall CCeeiilliinngg
Registered Share Capital 5.200.000 10.000.000

3. Capital increases and sources in the current period and other information based on increased capital shares: None. 
4. Information on share capital increases from capital reserves during the current period: None. 
5. Information on capital commitments, the purpose and the sources until the end of the fiscal year and the 

subsequent interim period: None. 
6. The effects of anticipations based on the financial figures for prior periods regarding the Bank’s income, profitability 

and liquidity, and possible effects of these future assumptions on the Bank’s equity due to uncertainties at these 
indicators; 
The Bank has been continuing its operations with high profitability and has been retaining most of its net profit in the    
equity, either by increasing its capital or transferring it into reserves. On the other hand, only a small part of the 
equity is allocated to investment such as associates and fixed assets, thus giving a chance for considerably high free 
capital which provides funds for liquid and interest bearing assets. Considering all these factors, the Bank continues 
to its operations with strong shareholders’ equity.  

7. Information on privileges given to shares representing the capital: None. 
 

8. Information on marketable securities value increase fund: 

  CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  

  TTLL  FFCC  TTLL  FFCC  
From Investments in Associates, 
Subsidiaries, and Joint Ventures (*) 672.071   640.548 689.213   632.663   
Valuation Difference 10.460.819 (2.306.156) 1.021.928 (2.807.123) 
Foreign Currency Differences - - - - 
TToottaall  1111..113322..889900  ((11..666655..660088))  11..771111..114411      ((22..117744..446600))  

(*) Refers to revaluation differences arising from accounting of financial associates and subsidiaries under the equity method as 
explained in the Note of III of the Section Three. 
 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
  

 
109 

 

 
1 (i). Information on taxes payable: 

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211
Corporate Taxes Payable 9.585.893 1.361.556
Taxation on Marketable Securities 250.818 206.958
Property Tax 3.937 2.502
Banking Insurance Transaction Tax (BITT) 477.215 287.100
Foreign Exchange Transaction Tax 27.075 69.469
Value Added Tax Payable 127.231 54.465
Other 183.425 244.305
TToottaall  1100..665555..559944 22..222266..335555

 
 

1 (ii). Information on premium payables: 

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211
Social Security Premiums – Employee - - 
Social Security Premiums – Employer 1 1 
Bank Social Aid Pension Fund Premium- Employee 3 3 
Bank Social Aid Pension Fund Premium – Employer 3 3 
Pension Fund Membership Fees and Provisions – Employee - - 
Pension Fund Membership Fees and Provisions – Employer - - 
Unemployment Insurance – Employee 4.466 2.203 
Unemployment Insurance – Employer 8.932 4.407 
Other 261 123 
TToottaall  1133..666666  66..774400  

2. Information on deferred tax liability: 

The Bank has deferred tax liabilities amounting to TL 3.027.248 as of 31 December 2022 (31 December 2021: TL 
171.341). Information on the deferred tax asset is given in Note I-n of Section Five. 

jj.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  ssuubboorrddiinnaatteedd  llooaann  ((**))::  

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  
  TTLL FFCC TTLL FFCC  
To be included in the calculation of additional 
capital 
borrowing instruments 

- - -
 

- 

      Subordinated loans - - - - 
      Subordinated debt instruments - - - - 
Debt instruments to be included in 
contribution capital calculation - 16.800.082 -

 
18.725.534 

      Subordinated loans - - 
      Subordinated debt instruments - 16.800.082 - 18.725.534 
TToottaall  -- 1166..880000..008822 -- 1188..772255..553344  

 (*) Explanation about the subordinated loans is given in Note I-b of Section Four. 
 
 

356 - 357Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
  

 
112 

 

(ii).  Information on sectoral risk concentrations of non-cash loans: 

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  

  TTLL ((%%)) FFCC ((%%)) TTLL ((%%)) FFCC ((%%))  
         
Agricultural 417.532 0,62 255.926 0,35 43.137 0,13 875 - 
    Farming and Raising  
    Livestock 5.183 0,01 - - 1.096 - - - 
    Forestry 412.221 0,61 255.926 0,35 41.683 0,13 875 - 
    Fishing 128 - - - 358 - - - 
Manufacturing 17.697.720 26,00 30.292.283 41,76 6.763.308 20,65 26.787.018 48,65 
    Mining 314.479 0,46 484.374 0,67 163.896 0,50 325.398 0,59 
    Production 15.559.850 22,86 25.571.376 35,25 5.466.832 16,69 23.492.000 42,67 
    Electric, Gas and Water 1.823.391 2,68 4.236.533 5,84 1.132.580 3,46 2.969.620 5,39 
Construction 9.349.768 13,74 16.465.767 22,70 5.243.489 16,00 10.130.239 18,40 
Services 37.136.325 54,56 20.699.091 28,53 19.688.067 60,08 14.406.753 26,17 
    Wholesale and Retail Trade 25.096.688 36,87 8.345.324 11,50 14.135.956 43,14 6.480.534 11,77 
    Hotel, Food and  
    Beverage Services 

861.555 1,27 534.700 0,74 225.950 0,69 627.491 1,14 

Transportation and  
    Telecommunication 1.606.499 2,36 3.632.680 5,01 967.103 2,95 2.405.909 4,37 

    Financial Institutions 7.549.762 11,09 7.606.906 10,49 3.853.162 11,76 4.641.504 8,43 
    Real Estate and Leasing  
    Services  83.659 0,12 61.254 0,08 35.253 0,11 50.278 0,09 

    Self-Employment Services  928.828 1,36 459.622 0,63 94.105 0,29 4.287 0,01 
    Education Services 65.247 0,10 8.844 0,01 37.582 0,11 11.903 0,02 
    Health and Social Services 944.087 1,39 49.761 0,07 338.956 1,03 184.847 0,34 
Other 3.458.213 5,08 4.829.081 6,66 1.026.410 3,14 3.733.054 6,78 
TToottaall 6688..005599..555588 110000,,0000 7722..554422..114488 110000,,0000 3322..776644..441111 110000,,0000 5555..005577..993399 110000,,0000  

(iii).  Information on the non-cash loans classified in Group I and Group II: 

 
  GGrroouupp  II  GGrroouupp  IIII  

  TTLL  FFCC  TTLL  FFCC  
NNoonn--CCaasshh  LLooaannss  6677..221144..771100  7700..779900..334488  664499..889922  338899..005522  

Letters of Guarantee 50.938.806 43.045.700 605.744 320.938 
Bank Acceptances 4.785 190.323 - - 
Letters of Credit 2.058.977 19.172.494 - 68.114 
Endorsements - - - - 
Underwriting Commitments - - - - 
Factoring Guarantees - 12.651 - - 
Other Commitments and Contingencies 14.212.142 8.369.180 44.148 - 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
  

 
111 

 

III. EXPLANATIONS AND NOTES RELATED TO OFF-BALANCE SHEET ACCOUNTS 

a. EExxppllaannaattiioonnss  oonn  ooffff--bbaallaannccee  sshheeeett  ccoommmmiittmmeennttss::  

1. Type and amount of irrevocable commitments: TL 7.852.054 asset purchase commitments (31 December 2021:  
TL 21.548.480), TL 106.067.149 commitments for credit card limits (31 December 2021: TL 34.314.098), TL 4.523.116 
commitments for cheque books (31 December 2021: TL 3.394.242). 

2. Type and amount of probable losses and obligations arising from off-balance sheet items: 

The Bank has no probable losses arising from off-balance sheet items. Obligations arising from the off-balance sheet are 
disclosed in “Off-balance sheet commitments”. 

2 (i). Non-cash loans including guarantees, bank acceptances, collaterals and others that are accepted as financial 
commitments and other letter of credits: 

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211
Bank Acceptance Loans 195.108 159.525
Letters of Credit 21.299.586 15.122.635
Other Guarantees and Warranties 22.638.120 14.669.298
TToottaall  4444..113322..881144 2299..995511..445588

         
2 (ii). Revocable, irrevocable guarantees and other similar commitments and contingencies: 

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211
Revocable Letters of Guarantee 3.848.901 3.007.119
Irrevocable Letters of Guarantee 47.315.452 28.770.082
Letters of Guarantee Given in Advance 14.444.317 5.813.769
Guarantees Given to Customs 3.393.112 3.041.100
Other Letters of Guarantee 27.467.110 17.238.822
TToottaall  9966..446688..889922 5577..887700..889922

 
3. Information on non-cash loans: 

 i. Total amount of non-cash loans:  CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  

Non-cash Loans Given against Cash Loans 41.287.868  26.184.515 
        With Original Maturity of 1 Year or Less Than 1 Year 16.472.708  9.852.927 
        With Original Maturity of More Than 1 Year 24.815.160  16.331.588 
Other Non-cash Loans 99.313.838  61.637.835 
TToottaall  140.601.706 87.822.350 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

358 - 359Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
  

 
114 

 

IV. EXPLANATIONS AND NOTES RELATED TO INCOME STATEMENT 

aa.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  iinntteerreesstt  iinnccoommee::  

1. Information on interest income on loans (*): 

  CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  

  TTLL  FFCC  TTLL  FFCC  
Short-term Loans 31.790.051 2.207.706 13.415.346 1.064.402 
Medium and Long-term Loans 25.622.436 6.351.508 15.118.739 3.366.784 
Interest on Loans Under Follow-Up 535.834 - 570.096 - 
Premiums Received from the Resource 
Utilization Support Fund  -  - - - 

TToottaall  5577..994488..332211  88..555599..221144  2299..110044..118811  44..443311..118866  
(*) Fee and commission income from cash loans are included. 
 

2. Information on interest income on banks: 

  CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  
          3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  

  TTLL FFCC  TTLL FFCC
From the CBRT - 19.967 - -
From Domestic Banks 13.629 6.373 46.698 202
From Foreign Banks 68.658 427.388 1.364 28.476
From Headquarters and Branches Abroad - - - -
TToottaall  8822..228877 445533..772288  4488..006622 2288..667788

 

3. Information on interest income on marketable securities: 

  CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  

  TTLL FFCC  TTLL FFCC
From Financial Assets at Fair Value through 
Profit or Loss 12.959 14.528 9.009 12.356
Financial Assets at Fair Value through Other 
Comprehensive Income 17.623.440 3.819.792 5.146.257 1.814.235
Financial Assets Measured at Amortised 
Cost 38.011.270 683.285 6.678.362 406.528
TToottaall  5555..664477..666699 44..551177..660055  1111..883333..662288  22..223333..111199

As stated in the Note VII of Section Three, there are bonds indexed to consumer prices ("CPI") in the securities portfolios of the 
Bank whose fair value difference is reflected to other comprehensive income and measured with their amortized cost. The 
reference indices used in the calculation of the actual coupon payment amounts of these securities are created according to 
the CPI of two months ago. The Bank determines the estimated inflation rate accordingly. The estimated inflation rate used is 
updated during the year when deemed necessary. At the end of the year, the real inflation rate is used. Within this scope, as of 
31 December 2022, the valuation of the mentioned securities was made according to an annual inflation rate of 85.5%. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
  

 
113 

 

bb.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  ddeerriivvaattiivvee  ttrraannssaaccttiioonnss::  

    CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd
    3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222 3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211

TTyyppeess  ooff  TTrraaddiinngg  TTrraannssaaccttiioonnss   
Foreign Currency Related Derivative Transactions (I) 696.329.229  516.460.013 

FC Trading Forward Transactions 105.655.101  54.192.584 
Trading Swap Transactions 508.223.481  419.641.529 
Futures Transactions 35.010.593  16.321.564 
Trading Option Transactions 47.440.054  26.304.336 

Interest Related Derivative Transactions  (II) 276.746.134  274.213.574 
Forward Interest Rate Agreements -  -
Interest Rate Swaps 254.209.346  246.857.930 
Interest Rate Options 22.536.788  27.355.644 
Interest Rate Futures -  -

Other Trading Derivative Transactions (III) 79.509.266  55.400.512 
A. Total Trading Derivative Transactions (I+II+III) 1.052.584.629  846.074.099 
TTyyppeess  ooff  HHeeddggiinngg  TTrraannssaaccttiioonnss 

Fair Value Hedges 57.442.770  59.210.909 
Cash Flow Hedges 111.157.437  101.944.477 

    Foreign Currency Investment Hedges -  -
B. Total Hedging Related Derivatives 168.600.207  161.155.386 
TToottaall  DDeerriivvaattiivvee  TTrraannssaaccttiioonnss  ((AA++BB))   11..222211..118844..883366    11..000077..222299..448855  

 
cc.. EExxppllaannaattiioonnss  oonn  ccrreeddiitt  ddeerriivvaattiivveess  aanndd  rriisskkss  bbeeaarreedd  dduuee  ttoo  tthheessee::    

As of 31 December 2022, the Bank has credit default swap of TL 2.281.193 (31 December 2021: TL 2.292.588). 

dd.. EExxppllaannaattiioonnss  oonn  ccoonnttiinnggeenntt  aasssseettss  aanndd  lliiaabbiilliittiieess::  

11.. CCoonnttiinnggeenntt  LLiiaabbiilliittiieess::  

The Bank has accounted a provision amounting to TL 168.779 (31 December 2021: TL 80.597) for the contingent liabilities with a 
high probability of realization regarding continuing opposing trials. There are also some other opposing trials. In Addition the 
probability of realization of these trials is low so no cash outflow expected regarding these trials.  

22.. CCoonnttiinnggeenntt  AAsssseettss::  

None (31 December 2021: None). 

ee.. EExxppllaannaattiioonnss  oonn  tthhee  aaccttiivviittiieess  ccaarrrriieedd  oouutt  oonn  bbeehhaallff  aanndd  aaccccoouunntt  ooff  ootthheerr  ppeerrssoonnss::  

The policy is explained on note IX in Section Four. 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

360 - 361Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
  

 
116 

 

4. Maturity structure of the interest expense on deposits: 

There are no seven-day notification deposits. 

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  --  3311..1122..22002222  

  TTiimmee  DDeeppoossiittss    
DDeemmaanndd  
DDeeppoossiittss  

UUpp  ttoo  11  
MMoonntthh  

UUpp  ttoo  33  
MMoonntthhss  

UUpp  ttoo  66  
MMoonntthhss  

UUpp  ttoo  11  
YYeeaarr  

11  YYeeaarr  
aanndd  OOvveerr  TToottaall  

TTLL                
Bank Deposits - 964.331 440.386 - - - 11..440044..771177  
Saving Deposits - 1.977.106 11.898.922 5.619.665 481.517 561.197 2200..553388..440077  
Public Sector Deposits - 847 6.966 97 650 3 88..556633  
Commercial Deposits - 4.987.853 3.446.006 849.648 2.079.830 449.704 1111..881133..004411  
Other Deposits - 128.989 831.470 28.937 56.508 24.549 11..007700..445533  
TToottaall --  88..005599..112266  1166..662233..775500  66..449988..334477  22..661188..550055  11..003355..445533  3344..883355..118811  
FFCC          
Foreign Currency Deposits - 530.794 1.977.460 202.449 17.577 26.706 22..775544..998866  
Bank Deposits 3.822 18.583 296.214 215.311 271.689 1.271 880066..889900  
Precious Metals Deposits - 181 3.583 1.811 4.350 1.695 1111..662200  
TToottaall  33..882222  554499..555588  22..227777..225577  441199..557711  229933..661166  2299..667722  33..557733..449966  
GGrraanndd  TToottaall  33..882222  88..660088..668844  1188..990011..000077  66..991177..991188  22..991122..112211  11..006655..112255  3388..440088..667777  

 
 

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  --  3311..1122..22002211  

  TTiimmee  DDeeppoossiittss    
DDeemmaanndd  
DDeeppoossiittss  

UUpp  ttoo  11  
MMoonntthh  

UUpp  ttoo  33  
MMoonntthhss  

UUpp  ttoo  66  
MMoonntthhss  

UUpp  ttoo  11  
YYeeaarr  

11  YYeeaarr  
aanndd  OOvveerr  TToottaall  

TTLL                
Bank Deposits - 155.061 319.285 - - - 474.346 
Saving Deposits - 1.826.724 8.668.597 313.423 172.842 197.596 11.179.182 
Public Sector Deposits - 1.010 4.920 203 56 15 6.204 
Commercial Deposits - 2.649.109 1.697.006 36.257 52.546 55.339 4.490.257 
Other Deposits - 67.800 324.597 25.723 107.398 60.299 585.817 
TToottaall --  44..669999..770044  1111..001144..440055  337755..660066  333322..884422  331133..224499  1166..773355..880066  
FFCC          
Foreign Currency Deposits - 118.870 525.920 15.274 9.790 15.311 685.165 
Bank Deposits 78 3.778 83.794 6.165 10.459 - 104.274 
Precious Metals Deposits - 142 1.134 73 2.419 647 4.415 
TToottaall  7788  112222..779900  661100..884488  2211..551122  2222..666688  1155..995588  779933..885544  
GGrraanndd  TToottaall  7788  44..882222..449944  1111..662255..225533  339977..111188  335555..551100  332299..220077  1177..552299..666600  

cc.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  ddiivviiddeenndd  iinnccoommee::  

  

  CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  

From Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss  3.737  1.751 
From Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Other 
Comprehensive Income  5.973  3.495 
Other  22.628  - 
TToottaall   3322..333388  55..224466 
  

  

  

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
  

 
115 

 

4. Information on interest income received from associates and subsidiaries: 

 CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  

Interests Received From Investments in 
Associates and Subsidiaries 319.535 118.313 

  

bb.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  iinntteerreesstt  eexxppeennssee::  

1. Information of interest expense on borrowings (*): 

  CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211

  TTLL FFCC  TTLL FFCC
Banks 43.818 2.176.375 35.290 790.195
     The CBRT - - - -
     Domestic Banks 43.818 17.215 35.290 9.928
     Foreign Banks - 2.159.160 - 780.267
     Headquarters and Branches Abroad - - - -
Other Institutions - 377.948 - 168.796
TToottaall  4433..881188 22..555544..332233  3355..229900 995588..999911
(*) Fee and commission expense from cash loans are included. 

2. Information on interest expense given to associates and subsidiaries: 

  CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211

To Associates and Subsidiaries 112.598 60.670

3. Information on interest expense given to securities issued: 

 
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  
 TTLL FFCC  TTLL FFCC
Interest expense on securities issued  1.051.157  2.554.096  1.188.041  1.532.711 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

362 - 363Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
  

 
118 

 

gg.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  rreellaatteedd  ttoo  ootthheerr  ooppeerraattiinngg  eexxppeennsseess::  

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211
Reserve for Employee Termination Benefits                 130.632 31.896 
Bank Social Aid Fund Deficit Provision (*)                          - 168.240 
Impairment Expenses of Fixed Assets                     6.010 - 
Depreciation Expenses of Fixed Assets                 754.356 508.174 
Impairment Expenses of Intangible Assets  - - 
Goodwill Impairment Expenses  - - 
Amortization Expenses of Intangible Assets                 507.189 278.024 
Impairment Expenses of Equity Participations for which 
Equity Method is Applied  - - 
Impairment Expenses of Assets Held for Resale                        125 1.517 
Depreciation Expenses of Assets Held for Resale  - - 
Impairment Expenses of Fixed Assets Held for Sale  - - 
Other Operating Expenses              9.325.726 3.929.752 
        Leasing Expenses on TFRS 16 Exceptions                  212.846 134.294 
        Maintenance Expenses                 127.295 68.922 
        Advertisement Expenses                 520.323 208.801 
        Other Expenses               8.465.262 3.517.735 
Loss on Sales of Assets                     4.196 7.341 
Other              2.071.770 1.126.953 
TToottaall                1122..880000..000044 66..005511..889977  

 

(*) As explained in the note of II. Explanations and footnotes on liabilities” titled “ “Explanations on provisions”, “XI. Personnel 
Expenses (-)” have been expressed in  the "Income Statement XI. Personnel Expenses (-)” in the current period. 

 
 
hh.. FFeeeess  ffoorr  SSeerrvviicceess  RReecceeiivveedd  ffrroomm  IInnddeeppeennddeenntt  AAuuddiittoorr  //  IInnddeeppeennddeenntt  AAuuddiitt  FFiirrmm::  

  

In accordance with the decision of the KGK dated 26 March 2021, the fee information for the reporting period regarding the 
services received from the independent auditor or independent audit firm is given in the table below over VAT excluded 
amounts. These fees include the fees for services rendered to the Bank's foreign and domestic subsidiaries. 

 

((EExxcclluuddiinngg  VVAATT..))  

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  

22002222  

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  

22002211  
Independent Audit Fee 10.121 4.753 
Other Assurance Services Fee 2.990 1.519 
Other Non-Audit Services Fee 472 988 
TToottaall  1133..558833  77..226600  

  

ii.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  pprrooffiitt//((lloossss))  ffrroomm  ccoonnttiinnuueedd  aanndd  ddiissccoonnttiinnuueedd  ooppeerraattiioonnss  bbeeffoorree  ttaaxx::  

The Bank’s income before tax consists of net interest income amounting to TL 76.871.705, net fees and commission income 
amounting to TL  10.315.549 and the amount of other operating and personal expenses are TL 19.239.812. 

  

  

  

  

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
  

 
117 

 

dd.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  ttrraaddiinngg  pprrooffiitt//lloossss  ((NNeett))::  

  CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211

PPrrooffiitt  22..228822..220011..882277  33..885500..992233..999955
Income From Capital Market Transactions 1.879.978 791.957
Income From Derivative Financial Transactions (*) 71.705.304 56.277.730
Foreign Exchange Gains 2.208.616.545 3.793.854.308
LLoossss  ((--))  22..226677..114422..331188  33..884444..447744..778877
Loss from Capital Market Transactions 1.028.407 131.174
Loss from Derivative Financial Transactions (*) 84.565.921 57.119.282
Foreign Exchange Loss 2.181.547.990 3.787.224.331
TToottaall  ((NNeett))  1155..005599..550099  66..444499..220088
(*) The net profit resulting from the foreign exchange differences related to derivative financial transactions is 
TL (4.173.038) (31 December 2021: TL 14.464.369). 

ee.. EExxppllaannaattiioonnss  oonn  ootthheerr  ooppeerraattiinngg  iinnccoommee::  

“Other Operating Income” in the Income Statement mainly includes collections from receivables for which provision has been 
allocated in prior periods and provisions that have been set aside in prior periods and reversed in the current year with the sale 
from non-performing loans portfolio. 

 

ff.. PPrroovviissiioonn  eexxppeennsseess  rreellaatteedd  ttoo  llooaannss  aanndd  ootthheerr  rreecceeiivvaabblleess  ooff  tthhee  BBaannkk::  

    

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211
Expected Credit Loss 6.859.313 5.139.830

12 month expected credit loss (Stage 1) 1.952.791 99.081
Significant increase in credit risk (Stage 2) 1.445.768 1.107.493
Non-performing loans (Stage 3) 3.460.754 3.933.256

Marketable Securities Impairment Expense                           - - 
Financial Assets at Fair Value through Profit or Loss                           - - 

        Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Other 
        Comprehensive Income - - 
Investments in Associates, Subsidiaries Securities  
Value Decrease                           - - 

Investments in Associates                           - - 
Subsidiaries                           - - 
Joint Ventures                           - - 

Other (*) 3.830.656                       7.791.329 
TToottaall  1100..668899..996699 1122..993311..115599 

 
  (*) Includes provisions for impairment losses on assets held for sale and related to discontinued operations, impairment 

losses on financial assets at fair value difference through profit or loss, lawsuit provision expenses and free provision 
expense. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

364 - 365Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
  

 
120 

 

V. EXPLANATIONS AND NOTES RELATED TO UNCONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN THE SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 

aa.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  ddiissttrriibbuuttiioonn  ooff  pprrooffiitt::  

The Ordinary General Assembly Meeting of the Bank was held on 28 March 2022. In the Ordinary General Assembly, it was 
decided to distribute TL 1.211.600 cash dividend over the TL 12.125.908 net income from 2021 operations to the Bank’s 
shareholders. It was also resolved in the General Assembly to transfer TL 654 to special funds account under other capital 
reserves, to allocate TL 95.160 as legal and TL 10.818.494 as extraordinary reserves. 

General Assembly of the Bank is authorized body for the profit appropriation decisions. The Ordinary General Assembly 
Meeting has not been held as of the date of these financial statements. 

bb.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  hheeddggee  ffuunnddss::  

Information on cash flow hedge: 

Due to facts described in “Explanations of Hedging Transactions” section in Note XI of Section Four, there are discontinued 
hedge accounting transactions. As of 31 December 2022, the fair value change of the hedging instrument since the beginning of 
hedge accounting left after amortization has been reflected to profit/loss accounts that is shown under “hedging funds” in 
equity is TL (38) (31 December 2021: TL  2.779). 

cc.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  ffiinnaanncciiaall  aasssseettss  aatt  ffaaiirr  vvaalluuee  tthhrroouugghh  ootthheerr  ccoommpprreehheennssiivvee  iinnccoommee::  

“Unrealized gains and losses” arising from changes in the fair value of securities classified as financial assets at fair value 
through other comprehensive income are not recognized in current year income statements; they are recognized in the 
“Marketable securities valuation differences” account under equity, until the financial assets  are sold, disposed of or impaired. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
  

 
119 

 

jj.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  ttaaxx  pprroovviissiioonn  ooff  ccoonnttiinnuueedd  aanndd  ddiissccoonnttiinnuueedd  ooppeerraattiioonnss::  

As of 31 December 2022, the Bank has current tax expense of TL 19.823.331 (31 December 2021: 2.969.973), deferred tax 
expense of TL 5.767.410 (31 December 2021: TL 5.272.335) and a deferred tax income of TL 6.354.423 (31 December 2021: TL 
4.302.076). 

The Bank has no discontinued operations. 

kk.. EExxppllaannaattiioonnss  oonn  ccuurrrreenntt  ppeerriioodd  nneett  pprrooffiitt  aanndd  lloossss  ooff  ccoonnttiinnuueedd  aanndd  ddiissccoonnttiinnuueedd  ooppeerraattiioonnss::  

 Net profit of the Bank is TL 60.024.084 (31 December 2021: TL 12.125.908). 

The Bank has no discontinued operations.  

 
ll.. EExxppllaannaattiioonnss  oonn  ccuurrrreenntt  ppeerriioodd  nneett  pprrooffiitt  aanndd  lloossss::  

1. Explanation on the quality, amount and frequency of the figures of the income and expense stemming from ordinary 
banking operations, if necessary to understand the performance of the Bank for the current period: None (31 December 
2021: None). 

2. Explanation on the changes in the estimations regarding the figures on the financial statements, if there is a possibility that 
the profit and loss for the current or the following periods will be impacted: None (31 December 2021: None). 
  

mm.. OOtthheerr  ffiigguurreess  oonn  pprrooffiitt  aanndd  lloossss  ssttaatteemmeenntt::  

“Other Fee and Commission Income” in the Income Statement mainly consists of commissions received from credit card, 
money transfer and insurance transactions. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

366 - 367Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

 
  
  

 
122 

 

VII. EXPLANATIONS AND NOTES RELATED TO RISK GROUP THAT THE BANK BELONGS TO 

IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  tthhee  vvoolluummee  ooff  ttrraannssaaccttiioonnss  rreellaattiinngg  ttoo  tthhee  BBaannkk’’ss  rriisskk  ggrroouupp,,  oouuttssttaannddiinngg  llooaann  aanndd  ddeeppoossiitt        
ttrraannssaaccttiioonnss  aanndd  pprrooffiitt  aanndd  lloossss  ooff  tthhee  ppeerriioodd::  

1. Current Period – 31 December 2022: 

BBaannkk’’ss  RRiisskk  GGrroouupp  

IInnvveessttmmeennttss  iinn
AAssssoocciiaatteess,,  SSuubbssiiddiiaarriieess

aanndd  JJooiinntt  VVeennttuurreess
((BBuussiinneessss  PPaarrttnneerrsshhiippss))

DDiirreecctt  aanndd  IInnddiirreecctt  
SShhaarreehhoollddeerrss  

ooff  tthhee  BBaannkk  

OOtthheerr  RReeaall  aanndd
LLeeggaall  PPeerrssoonnss  tthhaatt
hhaavvee  bbeeeenn  iinncclluuddeedd

iinn  tthhee  RRiisskk  GGrroouupp
  CCaasshh NNoonn--CCaasshh         CCaasshh  NNoonn--CCaasshh  CCaasshh NNoonn--CCaasshh
Loans       

Balance at the Beginning of the Period 1.352.221 416.959 8.759.296 2.830.028 7.260 2.617
Balance at the End of the Period 2.541.725 594.490 10.958.788 4.863.943 78.905 18.261

Interest and Commission Income Received 319.535 29 1.387.170 23.277 5.709 125
 

Additionally, although not in the current period, in the prior period, the bank provided the German Banks Association 
with a "letter of undertaking" which is a commitment amounting to TL 19.415.978 relating Akbank AG to compliance 
with German deposit insurance law. 

2. Prior Period - 31 December 2021: 

BBaannkk’’ss  RRiisskk  GGrroouupp  

IInnvveessttmmeennttss  iinn
AAssssoocciiaatteess,,  SSuubbssiiddiiaarriieess

aanndd  JJooiinntt  VVeennttuurreess
((BBuussiinneessss  PPaarrttnneerrsshhiippss))

DDiirreecctt  aanndd  IInnddiirreecctt  
SShhaarreehhoollddeerrss  

ooff  tthhee  BBaannkk  

OOtthheerr  RReeaall  aanndd
LLeeggaall  PPeerrssoonnss  tthhaatt
hhaavvee  bbeeeenn  iinncclluuddeedd

iinn  tthhee  RRiisskk  GGrroouupp
  CCaasshh NNoonn--CCaasshh         CCaasshh  NNoonn--CCaasshh  CCaasshhNNoonn--CCaasshh
Loans             

Balance at the Beginning of the Period 903.971 288.551 7.514.006 2.175.351 2.134 1.576
Balance at the End of the Period 1.352.221 416.959 8.759.296 2.830.028 7.260 2.617

Interest and Commission Income Received  118.313 39 622.960 10.305 833 24

3. Information on deposits of the Bank’s risk group: 

BBaannkk’’ss  RRiisskk  GGrroouupp  

IInnvveessttmmeennttss  iinn  AAssssoocciiaatteess,,
SSuubbssiiddiiaarriieess

aanndd  JJooiinntt  VVeennttuurreess
((BBuussiinneessss  PPaarrttnneerrsshhiippss))

DDiirreecctt  aanndd  IInnddiirreecctt  
SShhaarreehhoollddeerrss  

ooff  tthhee  BBaannkk  

OOtthheerr  RReeaall  aanndd
LLeeggaall  PPeerrssoonnss  tthhaatt
hhaavvee  bbeeeenn  iinncclluuddeedd

iinn  tthhee  RRiisskk  GGrroouupp

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  

3311..1122..22002222  
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd

3311..1122..22002211
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd

3311..1122..22002222
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  

3311..1122..22002211  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd

3311..1122..22002222
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  

3311..1122..22002211  
Balance at the Beginning of the Period 1.600.276 806.713 9.970.388 5.935.681 916.184 618.986 
Balance at the End of the Period 1.399.573 1.600.276 11.004.604 9.970.388 1.206.207 916.184 
Interest expense on Deposits  112.598 60.670 859.882 393.987 59.422 38.926 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
  

 
121 

 

VI. EXPLANATIONS AND NOTES RELATED TO STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 

aa.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  ccaasshh  aanndd  ccaasshh  eeqquuiivvaalleennttss::  

Components of cash and cash equivalents and the accounting policy applied in their determination: 

Cash and foreign currency, money in transit, bought bank cheques together with demand deposits at banks including the CBRT 
are defined as “Cash”; Interbank money market and time deposits in banks with original maturities less than three months and 
investment in marketable securities excluding equity securities are defined as “Cash equivalents”. 

 1. Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period: 

  CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211

CCaasshh  3377..992222..880011 1100..001122..996655
   Cash, Foreign Currency and Other 9.943.310 4.936.234
   Demand Deposits in Banks (*) 27.979.491 5.076.731
CCaasshh  EEqquuiivvaalleennttss  55..883333..887700 551188..116666
   Interbank Money Market Placements 2.811.411 487.425
   Time Deposits in Banks 3.016.047 28.194
   Marketable Securities 6.412 2.547
TToottaall  CCaasshh  aanndd  CCaasshh  EEqquuiivvaalleennttss  4433..775566..667711 1100..553311..113311
(*) The restricted demand accounts are not included. 

 2. Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period:  

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211
CCaasshh  2277..223366..884422 3377..992222..880011
   Cash, Foreign Currency and Other 11.020.166 9.943.310
   Demand Deposits in Banks (*) 16.216.676 27.979.491
CCaasshh  EEqquuiivvaalleennttss  77..994433..226600 55..883333..887700
   Interbank Money Market Placements 1.451.037 2.811.411
   Time Deposits in Banks 6.492.220 3.016.047
   Marketable Securities 3 6.412
TToottaall  CCaasshh  aanndd  CCaasshh  EEqquuiivvaalleennttss  3355..118800..110022 4433..775566..667711
(*) The restricted demand accounts are not included. 

 
bb.. EExxppllaannaattiioonn  aabboouutt  ootthheerr  ccaasshh  fflloowwss  iitteemmss  aanndd  tthhee  eeffffeecctt  ooff  cchhaannggeess  iinn  ffoorreeiiggnn  eexxcchhaannggee  rraatteess  oonn  ccaasshh  aanndd  ccaasshh  

eeqquuiivvaalleennttss  

The “Other” item under “Operating profit before changes in operating assets and liabilities” amounting to TL (6.566.992) (31 
December 2021: TL (2.642.331) TL) consists mainly of items such as fees and commissions paid, other operating income 
excluding income from doubtful receivables, other operating expense excluding personnel expenses. 

The “Net increase/decrease in other liabilities” item under “Changes in operating assets and liabilities” amounting to TL 
30.911.832 (31 December 2021: TL 40.184.402 TL) consists mainly of changes in funds from repurchase agreements, 
miscellaneous payables and other liabilities. 

The effect of changes in foreign exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents includes the foreign exchange differences 
resulted from the translations of cash and cash equivalents in foreign currencies into TL at the exchange rates prevailing at 
the three months periods, and amounts to TL 11.958.820 (31 December 2021: TL 10.377.982). 
 

368 - 369Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
  

 
124 

 

IX. EXPLANATIONS AND NOTES RELATED TO SUBSEQUENT EVENTS 

The Assistant General Manager in charge of the Technology and Operations Business Unit, Nesip İlker Altıntaş, has 
resigned on January 20, 2023. The technology functions of the Technology and Operations Business Unit will be carried out 
under the newly established Technology Business Unit, and Gökhan Gökçay, who served as the Head of the Architecture 
and Data Technologies Department, was the Deputy General Manager of this business unit. Operations functions were 
transferred under the Human and Culture Business Unit and managed by Pınar Anapa, Deputy General Manager of the 
Business Unit. In addition, effective from February 1, 2023 it has been decided to appoint Çetin Düz to replace Mehmet 
Hakan Tugal, who has been serving as the Assistant General Manager of Commercial Banking Business Unit.  

With the Board Decision of the BRSA dated 31 January 2023, in accordance with the Regulation on the Measurement and 
Assessment of the Capital Adequacy of Banks, in the calculation of the amount based on credit risk for TRY amount, the 
foreign currency items are calculated using the CBRT foreign exchange buying rate of 30 December 2022, instead of the 
CBRT foreign exchange buying rate of 31 December 2021 and decided to update SME and retail limits. 

 

 

 

SECTION SIX 
OTHER EXPLANATIONS 

I. OTHER EXPLANATIONS 

None. 
 

SECTION SEVEN 
EXPLANATIONS ON INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT 

I.  EXPLANATIONS ON INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT 

The unconsolidated financial statements for the period ended 31 December 2022 have been audited by PwC Bağımsız 
Denetim ve Serbest Muhasebeci Mali Müşavirlik A.Ş. The audit report dated 31 January 2023 is presented preceding the 
unconsolidated financial statements. 

II. EXPLANATIONS AND NOTES PREPARED BY INDEPENDENT AUDITORS 
None.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
  

 
123 

 

4. Information on forward and option agreements and other similar agreements made with the Bank’s risk group: 

BBaannkk’’ss  RRiisskk  GGrroouupp  

IInnvveessttmmeennttss  iinn  AAssssoocciiaatteess,,
SSuubbssiiddiiaarriieess

aanndd  JJooiinntt  VVeennttuurreess
((BBuussiinneessss  PPaarrttnneerrsshhiippss))

DDiirreecctt  aanndd  IInnddiirreecctt  
SShhaarreehhoollddeerrss  

ooff  tthhee  BBaannkk  

OOtthheerr  RReeaall  aanndd
LLeeggaall  PPeerrssoonnss  tthhaatt
hhaavvee  bbeeeenn  iinncclluuddeedd

iinn  tthhee  RRiisskk  GGrroouupp

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd

3311..1122..22002222
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  

3311..1122..22002211  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd

3311..1122..22002222
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd

3311..1122..22002211
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd

3311..1122..22002222
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd

3311..1122..22002211
Transactions at Fair Value 
Through Profit or Loss    
     Beginning of the Period 2.416.897 3.815.631 23.469.742 10.166.262 - -
     Balance at the End of the Period 3.804.006 2.416.897 18.150.160 23.469.742 - -
     Total Income/Loss  (58.985) (16.426) (281.436) (159.510) - -
Transactions for Hedging Purposes  
     Beginning of the Period - - - - - -
     Balance at the End of the Period - - - - - -
     Total Income/Loss  - - - - - -
Figures presented in the table above show the total of “sale” and “purchase” amounts of related transactions. Due to the 
nature of these transactions, the difference between the “sale” and “purchase” transactions affects the net exposure of the 
Bank. As of 31 December 2022, the net exposure for investments in associates and subsidiaries is TL 155.654 (31 December 
2021: TL 26.815). For direct and indirect shareholders of the Bank TL (348.103) (31 December 2021: TL (2.354.032). 

5. Information regarding benefits provided to the Bank’s key management: 

          As of 31 December 2022 benefits provided to the Bank’s key management amounting to TL 118.787 (31 December 2021: TL 69.252). 
 
 

 

VIII. EXPLANATIONS AND NOTES RELATED TO DOMESTIC, FOREIGN, OFF-SHORE BRANCHES AND FOREIGN 
REPRESENTATIVES OF THE BANK 

1. Information on the domestic and foreign branches and representatives of the bank: 

  
NNuummbbeerr  NNuummbbeerr  ooff  

EEmmppllooyyeeeess  
Domestic Branches 710 12.704 
 

    
CCoouunnttrryy  ooff  

IInnccoorrppoorraattiioonn  
Foreign Representation 
Office - - - 

        TToottaall  AAsssseettss  
SSttaattuuttoorryy  SShhaarree  

CCaappiittaall  

Foreign Branch - - - - - 
Off-shore Banking Region 
Branches 1 13 Malta 88.512.028 - 

3. Information on the Bank’s branch or representative office openings, closings, significant changes in the organizational 
structure:  

                  In 2022, the Bank has closed up 2 domestic branches. 

 

 

 

370 - 371Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022
 

  
 

                                                                                       

 
CCOONNVVEENNIIEENNCCEE  TTRRAANNSSLLAATTIIOONN  IINNTTOO  EENNGGLLIISSHH  OOFF  IINNDDEEPPEENNDDEENNTT  AAUUDDIITTOORR’’SS  RREEPPOORRTT  

OORRIIGGIINNAALLLLYY  IISSSSUUEEDD  IINN  TTUURRKKIISSHH  
((SSeeee  NNoottee  II  ooff  SSeeccttiioonn  TThhrreeee))  

  
IINNDDEEPPEENNDDEENNTT  AAUUDDIITTOORR’’SS  RREEPPOORRTT  

 
TToo  tthhee  GGeenneerraall  AAsssseemmbbllyy  ooff  AAkkbbaannkk  TT..AA..ŞŞ..  
 
AA.. AAuuddiitt  ooff  tthhee  CCoonnssoolliiddaatteedd  FFiinnaanncciiaall  SSttaatteemmeennttss    
 
11.. OOppiinniioonn    
 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Akbank T.A.Ş. (the “Bank”), and its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the 
“Group”), which comprise the statement of consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2022, consolidated statement of profit or loss, consolidated 
statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, consolidated statement of changes in shareholders’ equity, consolidated statement of cash 
flows for the year then ended and the notes to the consolidated financial statements and a summary of significant accounting policies and consolidated 
financial statement notes. 
 
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of the Group as at  
31 December 2022, and its consolidated financial performance and its consolidated cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with the Banking 
Regulation and Supervision Agency (“BRSA”) Accounting and Financial Reporting Legislation which includes “Regulation on Accounting Applications for 
Banks and Safeguarding of Documents” published in the Official Gazette no.26333 dated 1 November 2006, and other regulations on accounting records 
of Banks published by Banking Regulation and Supervision Board and circulars and interpretations published by BRSA and Turkish Financial Reporting 
Standards (“TFRS”) for those matters not regulated by the aforementioned regulations. 
 
22.. BBaassiiss  ffoorr  OOppiinniioonn    
 
Our audit was conducted in accordance with the “Regulation on Independent Audit of Banks” published by the BRSA on the Official Gazette No.29314 
dated 2 April 2015 and the Standards on Independent Auditing (the “SIA”) that are part of Turkish Standards on Auditing issued by the Public Oversight 
Accounting and Auditing Standards Authority (the “POA”). Our responsibilities under these standards are further described in the “Auditor’s 
Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements” section of our report. We hereby declare that we are independent of the Group in 
accordance with the Ethical Rules for Independent Auditors (including Independence Standards) (the “Ethical Rules”) and the ethical requirements 
regarding independent audit in regulations issued by POA that are relevant to our audit of the consolidated financial statements. We have also fulfilled 
our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the Ethical Rules and regulations. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained during the 
independent audit provides a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion. 
 
33.. KKeeyy  AAuuddiitt  MMaatttteerrss  
 
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial statements of 
the current period. Key audit matters were addressed in the context of our independent audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in 
forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş.

PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS AND RELATED DISCLOSURES  
AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 TOGETHER WITH 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT

(Convenience translation of publicity announced consolidated 
financial statements, related disclosures and auditor’s review 
report originally issued in Turkish, See Note 1.b of Section three)

372 - 373



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022 

  
 

                                                                                       

 
 

Key Audit Matters	 How Our Audit Addressed the Key Audit Matter 

  
VVaalluuaattiioonn  ooff  PPeennssiioonn  FFuunndd  OObblliiggaattiioonnss  
	
The Bank has booked provision amounting to TL 935.201 thousand for 
Pension Fund Liabilities in the accompanying consolidated financial 
statements as at 31 December 2022. Explanations on Valuation of Pension 
Obligations are presented in the section III part XVII-b and section V part II-h 
in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. 
 
The Bank’s Personnel Pension Fund Foundation (“Pension Fund”) is 
established in accordance with the Social Security Law numbered 506 
article No 20 and is within the scope of Funds to be transferred to the Social 
Security Institution (“SSI”). The President of the Republic of Turkey is 
authorized to determine the transfer date. The total obligation of the fund is 
estimated using separate methods and assumption for benefits to be 
transferred and for non-transferrable benefits. The valuations of the 
pension obligations require significant judgement and technical expertise in 
choosing appropriate assumptions. The Bank’s management uses external 
actuarial consulting firm for the purpose of valuations of pension 
obligations.  
 
The reason we focused on this area during our audit is; uncertainty of the 
transfer date, the importance of the actuarial and economic assumptions 
such as technical interest rate determined by the law, salary increases, 
demographic assumptions used in the valuation of pension obligations with 
respect to social benefits and the significant impact that may arise from the 
possible change in the assumptions used in the evaluation of pension fund 
liabilities. 
 

 
 
Within our audit, we tested on a sample basis the accuracy of the 
employee data supplied by the Bank management to the external 
consulting firm for the purpose of evaluation pension obligation. 
In addition, we have verified the existence and values of the 
Pension Fund assets. 
 
We checked whether significant changes in actuarial 
assumptions used in calculation, employee benefits in the year, 
plan assets and liabilities, and laws and regulations related to 
valuations exist, and tested significant changes.  
 
Through use of actuarial specialists, we assessed the 
reasonableness of assumptions and evaluation made by the 
external actuaries in the calculation of the liability. 
 
In addition to the above procedures, we evaluated the adequacy 
of the disclosures made with respect to Pension Fund in the 
accompanying consolidated financial statements.  
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

  
 

 
                                                                                       

Key Audit Matters	 How Our Audit Addressed the Key Audit Matter 

  
IImmppaaiirrmmeenntt  ooff  llooaannss  aanndd  lleeaassee  rreecceeiivvaabblleess  iinn  aaccccoorrddaannccee  wwiitthh  TTFFRRSS  99  
	
The Group has total provision for impairment of TL 22.190.368 thousands in 
respect to loans and lease receivables of TL 628.034.706  thousands which 
represent a significant portion of the Group’s total assets in its consolidated 
financial statements as at 31 December 2022. Explanations and notes 
related to provision for impairment of loans and lease receivables are 
presented section III part VII-e, section III part VIII, section IV part II-h, 
section IV part II-I, section IV part II-j, section IV part X-c, section V part I-f 
and section V part II-h in the accompanying consolidated financial 
statements as at 31 December 2022. 
 
The Group recognizes provisions for impairment in accordance with “TFRS 9 
Financial Instruments” requirements in line with the “Regulation on the 
Procedures and Principles for Classification of Loans and Provisions to be 
Provided” as published in the Official Gazette dated 22 June 2016 with 
number 29750. TFRS 9 is a complex accounting standard which requires 
considerable judgement and interpretation. These judgements are key in 
the development of the financial models built to measure the expected 
credit losses on loans recorded at amortized cost. In addition, the operation 
of the models requires large data inputs that are generated through more 
than one system and the accuracy and completeness of the data are key in 
the determination of expected credit losses on loans. Impairment 
allowances are calculated on a collective basis for portfolios of loans of a 
similar nature and on individual basis for significant loans taking into 
account Management’s best estimate at the balance sheet date and 
historical losses incurred.  
 
Our audit was focused on this area due to existence of complex estimates 
and information used in the impairment assessment such as developing 
macro-economic scenarios and their weightings, historical loss 
experiences; the significance of the loan balances; the appropriateness of 
classification of loans and lease receivables as per their credit risk (staging) 
in accordance with applicable regulation and the importance of 
determination of the associated impairment allowances. Timely and 
correctly identification of loss event and the level of judgements and 
estimations made by the management have significant impacts on the 
amount of impairment provisions for loans. Therefore, this area is 
considered as key audit matter.  
 
 

 
 
 
Within our audit procedures, we assessed policies and 
procedures together with the overall governance established by 
the Group with respect to classification of loans and lease 
receivables and estimation of impairment in line with the TFRS 9. 
We have tested the design and operating effectiveness of controls 
implemented by the Group in line with its governance, policies 
and procedures.  
 
Together with our modelling specialists, we have evaluated and 
tested the methodologies used in building impairment models in 
line with the requirement of TFRS 9 and the Group’s policies for 
the significant portfolio of loans. We have tested model 
calculations through re-performance together with our 
modelling specialists on a sample basis. We have independently 
assessed together with our related specialists methodologies 
used in the models in respect to segmentation, use of macro-
economic expectations, life time expected credit losses, losses 
given default.  
 
We have carried loan review on a selected sample of loans and 
lease receivables with the objective to identify whether the 
classification of loans is performed appropriately in accordance 
with the applicable regulation, whether the loss event had 
occurred and whether the provision for impairment has been 
recognized in a timely manner within the TFRS 9 framework.  
 
In addition, for non-performing loans and other significant loans 
that are subject to individual assessment based on the Group 
policies, we have evaluated the appropriateness of specific 
impairment provision with supportable input. Based on our 
discussions with the Group management, we have evaluated and 
challenged whether the key assumptions and other judgements, 
underlying the estimation of impairment were reasonable.  
 
We have reviewed the appropriateness and sufficiency of 
disclosures made in the financial statements of the Group with 
respect to loan and lease receivables and related impairment 
provision. 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

374 - 375Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

 

  
 

                                                                                       

 
 
 
 
 
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the 
consolidated financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless 
law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be 
communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of 
such communication. 
 
 
BB.. OOtthheerr  RReessppoonnssiibbiilliittiieess  AArriissiinngg  FFrroomm  RReegguullaattoorryy  RReeqquuiirreemmeennttss  
 
1. No matter has come to our attention that is significant according to subparagraph 4 of Article 402 of Turkish Commercial Code (“TCC”) No. 6102 

and that causes us to believe that the Bank’s bookkeeping activities concerning the period from 1 January to 31 December 2022 period are not in 
compliance with the TCC and provisions of the Bank’s articles of association related to financial reporting. 

 
2. In accordance with subparagraph 4 of Article 402 of the TCC, the Board of Directors submitted the necessary explanations to us and provided the 

documents required within the context of our audit. 
 
AAddddiittiioonnaall  PPaarraaggrraapphh  ffoorr  CCoonnvveenniieennccee  TTrraannssllaattiioonn  
 
BRSA Accounting and Financial Reporting Legislation explained in detail in Section Three differ from International Financial Reporting Standards 
("IFRS") issued by the International Accounting Standards Board including the application of IAS 29 - Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies 
as of 31 December 2022. Accordingly, the accompanying consolidated financial statements are not intended to present fairly the consolidated financial 
position, results of operations, changes in equity and cash flows of the Group in accordance with IFRS. 
 
 
 
PwC Bağımsız Denetim ve 
Serbest Muhasebeci Mali Müşavirlik A.Ş. 
 
 
 
 
Zeynep Uras, SMMM 
Partner 
 
Istanbul, 31 January 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

  
 

 
                                                                                       

44.. RReessppoonnssiibbiilliittiieess  ooff  MMaannaaggeemmeenntt  aanndd  TThhoossee  CChhaarrggeedd  wwiitthh  GGoovveerrnnaannccee  ffoorr  tthhee  CCoonnssoolliiddaatteedd  FFiinnaanncciiaall  SSttaatteemmeennttss    
 
The Bank management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with the BRSA 
Accounting and Financial Reporting Legislation, and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of 
consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. 
 
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, 
disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless management either intends to 
liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.  
 
Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the Group’s financial reporting process. 
 
55.. AAuuddiittoorr’’ss  RReessppoonnssiibbiilliittiieess  ffoorr  tthhee  AAuuddiitt  ooff  tthhee  CCoonnssoolliiddaatteedd  FFiinnaanncciiaall  SSttaatteemmeennttss  
 
Responsibilities of independent auditors in an independent audit are as follows: 
 
Our aim is to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud 
or error, and to issue an independent auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance expressed as a result of an independent audit 
conducted in accordance with “Regulation on Independent Audit of Banks” published by the BRSA on the Official Gazette No.29314 dated 2 April 2015 and 
SIA is a high level of assurance but does not guarantee that a material misstatement will always be detected. Misstatements can arise from fraud or 
error. Misstatements are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions 
of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements.  
 
As part of an independent audit conducted in accordance with “Regulation on Independent Audit of Banks” published by the BRSA on the Official Gazette 
No.29314 dated 2 April 2015 and SIA, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also: 
 
 Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement in the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and 

perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. 
The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, 
forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.  

 
 Assess the internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the 

purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control.  
 
 Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by 

management. 
 
 Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, 

whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group ability to continue as a going 
concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in 
the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit 
evidence obtained up to the date of our independent auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to 
continue as a going concern.  

 
 Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the 

consolidated financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. 
 

 Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to express 
an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the Group audit. We 
remain solely responsible for our audit opinion. 

 
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit 
findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. 
 
We provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence.  We also 
communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related 
safeguards. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

376 - 377Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

 

  
 

                                                                                       

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SSEECCTTIIOONN  OONNEE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PPaaggee  
General Information about the Bank 

I. Parent Bank’s foundation date, start-up status, history regarding the changes in this status  1 
II. Explanation about the Parent Bank’s capital structure, shareholders of the Parent Bank who are in charge of the management and/or 

auditing of the Bank directly or indirectly, changes in these matters (if any) and the Group that the Parent Bank belongs to  1 
III. Explanation on the board of directors, members of the audit committee, president and executive vice presidents, if available,  
 shares of the Parent Bank they possess and their areas of responsibility  1 
IV. Information on the individual and corporate shareholders having control shares of the Parent Bank  2 
V. Information on the Parent Bank’s service types and fields of operation  2 
VI. A short explanation on the differences between the Communique on Consolidated Financial Statement Reporting and the consolidation    

  procedures required by Turkish Accounting Standards and about institutions that are subject to full consolidation, proportional  
  consolidation, by way of deduction from capital or those that are subject to none  2 

VII. Existing or potential, actual or legal obstacles to immediate transfer of capital between Parent Bank and its subsidiaries and repayment of debts 2 
SSEECCTTIIOONN  TTWWOO  

Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bank 
I. Consolidated Balance sheet   3 
II. Consolidated Off Balance Sheet Commitments  5 
III. Consolidated Income statement  6 
IV. Consolidated Statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income                                                                                                    7 
V. Consolidated Statement of changes in shareholders’ equity  8 
VI. Consolidated Statement of cash flows   10 
VII. Statement of profit appropriation  11 

 
SSEECCTTIIOONN  TTHHRREEEE  

Explanations on Accounting Policies 
I. Explanations on basis of presentation  12 

II. Explanations on strategy of using financial instruments and explanations on foreign currency transactions  13 
III. Explanations on equity investments 13 
IV. Explanations on forward transactions, options and derivative instruments 14 
V. Explanations on interest income and expense 15 

VI. Explanations on fee and commission income and expenses 15 
VII. Explanations on financial assets   15 

VIII. Explanations on expected credit loss  19 
IX. Explanations on offsetting financial instruments  20 
X. Explanations on sales and repurchase agreements and securities lending transactions  20 

XI. Explanations on assets held for sale and related to discontinued operations (Net) 21 
XII. Explanations on goodwill and other intangible assets 21 

XIII. Explanations on property and equipment  21 
XIV. Explanations on leasing transactions  22 
XV. Explanations on provisions and contingent liabilities  22 

XVI. Explanations on contingent assets  22 
XVII. Explanations on obligations related to employee rights  22 

XVIII. Explanations on taxation  24 
XIX. Explanations on borrowings  25 
XX. Explanations on issuance of share certificates  25 

XXI. Explanations on avalized drafts and acceptances  25 
XXII. Explanations on government grants  25 

XXIII. Explanations on segment reporting  26 
XXIV. Profit reserves and profit distribution  26 
XXV. Earnings per share  26 

XXVI. Related parties  26 
XXVII. Cash and cash equivalent assets  26 

XXVIII. Reclassifications  27 
XXIX. Disclosures of TFRS 16 Leases  27 

SSEECCTTIIOONN  FFOOUURR  
Information Related to Financial Position and Risk Management of the Group 

I. Explanations on equity  29 
II. Explanations on credit risk 37 

III. Explanations on currency risk 48 
IV. Explanations on interest rate risk  50 
V. Explanations on position risk of equity securities  52 

VI. Explanations on liquidity risk management and liquidity coverage ratio  52 
VII. Explanations on leverage ratio  59 

VIII. Explanations on the presentation of financial assets and liabilities at their fair values 60 
IX. Explanations on the activities carried out on behalf and account of other persons 63 
X. Explanations on risk management target and policies  63 

XI. Explanations on risk hedge transactions  83 
XII. Explanations on qualitative disclosures on remuneration policies  86 

XIII. Explanations on business segments 87 
SSEECCTTIIOONN  FFIIVVEE  

Information and Disclosures Related to Consolidated Financial Statements 
I. Explanations and notes related to consolidated assets    89 

II. Explanations and notes related to consolidated liabilities  107 
III. Explanations and notes related to consolidated off-balance sheet accounts 116 
IV. Explanations and notes related to consolidated income statement 119 
V. Explanations and notes related to consolidated statement of changes in the shareholders’ equity                                                                                                                           125 

VI. Explanations and notes related to consolidated statement of cash flows                                            126 
VII. Explanations and notes related to risk group that the group belongs to 127 

VIII. Explanations and notes related to the domestic, foreign, off-shore branches and foreign representatives of the bank   128 
IX. Explanations and notes related to subsequent events 129 

SSEECCTTIIOONN  SSIIXX  
                                                                                                                      Other Explanations  

                           
I. Other explanations     128 

 
SSEECCTTIIOONN  SSEEVVEENN  

Explanations on Independent Auditor’s Report 
I. Explanations on auditor’s report 129 

II. Explanations and notes prepared by independent auditors 129 

 

  
 

 
                                                                                       

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION 
OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, RELATED DISCLOSURES 

ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, 
SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 

 
THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL REPORT OF 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2022 
  

Address : Sabancı Center 34330, 4. Levent / İstanbul 
Telephone : (0 212) 385 55 55 
Fax : (0 212) 319 52 52 
Website : www.akbank.com 

E-mail : http://www.akbank.com/tr-tr/genel/Sayfalar/Iletisim-Formu.aspx 
  
The consolidated financial report, prepared in accordance with “Communiqué on the Financial Statements and the Related Policies 
and Disclosures to be Publicly Announced” as regulated by the Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency, is consist of the 
sections listed below. 
 

 SSeeccttiioonn  OOnnee - GENERAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE PARENT BANK 
 SSeeccttiioonn  TTwwoo - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE PARENT BANK 
 SSeeccttiioonn  TThhrreeee - EXPLANATIONS ON ACCOUNTING POLICIES  
 SSeeccttiioonn  FFoouurr  - INFORMATION RELATED TO FINANCIAL  POSITION AND RISK  MANAGEMENT OF THE GROUP  
 SSeeccttiioonn  FFiivvee   - INFORMATION AND DISCLOSURES RELATED TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
 SSeeccttiioonn  SSiixx - OTHER EXPLANATIONS 
 SSeeccttiioonn  SSeevveenn - INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT  

  

Investments in associates, joint ventures and subsidiaries whose financial statements have been consolidated in this reporting package 
are as follows: 

 Subsidiaries Investments in Associates Joint Ventures 
1. Ak Finansal Kiralama A.Ş. - - 
2. Ak Yatırım Menkul Değerler A.Ş. - - 
3. Ak Portföy Yönetimi A.Ş. - - 
4. Akbank AG - - 

5. 
AkÖde Elektronik Para ve Ödeme 
Hizmetleri A.Ş. 

 
- 

 
- 

 A.R.T.S. Ltd., which is not subsidiary of the Bank has been included in the consolidation due to the reason that this company is  
“Structured Entity” 

The accompanying consolidated financial statements and notes to these financial statements which are expressed, unless otherwise 
stated, in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL), have been prepared based on the accounting books of the Bank in accordance with the 
Regulation on Accounting Applications for Banks and Safeguarding of Documents, Turkish Accounting Standards, Turkish Financial 
Reporting Standards, and the related appendices and interpretations on these, and have been independently reviewed. 

31 January 2023 
 
 
Suzan SABANCI DİNÇER  Eyüp ENGİN  Levent DEMİRAĞ  S. Hakan BİNBAŞGİL  Türker TUNALI  Gökhan KAZCILAR 
Chairman of the  Head of the  Member of the  CEO  Executive Vice  Senior Vice 
Board of Directors  Audit Committee  Audit     President  President 
    Committee       

Contact information of the personnel in charge of addressing questions regarding this financial report: 

Name-Surname / Title : Gökhan KAZCILAR / Senior Vice President 
Phone No  : (0 212) 385 55 55 
Fax No  : (0 212) 325 12 31 
  
  
  
  
  

378 - 379Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
 2 

IV. INFORMATION ON THE INDIVIDUAL AND CORPORATE SHAREHOLDERS HAVING CONTROL SHARES OF THE PARENT 
BANK: 

NNaammee//CCoommmmeerrcciiaall  TTiittllee  
SShhaarree  AAmmoouunnttss  

((NNoommiinnaall))  
SShhaarree

PPeerrcceennttaaggeess
PPaaiidd--iinn  CCaappiittaall  

((NNoommiinnaall))  
UUnnppaaiidd  
PPoorrttiioonn

Hacı Ömer Sabancı Holding A.Ş. 2.119.027  40,75% 2.119.027 -
 

V. INFORMATION ON THE PARENT BANK’S SERVICE TYPES AND FIELDS OF OPERATION: 

The Bank’s core business activities consist of consumer banking, SME banking, commercial banking, corporate-investment 
banking and private banking and wealth management, foreign exchange, money markets, securities transactions (treasury 
transactions) and international banking services. In addition to regular banking operations, the Bank also provides insurance 
intermediary services as an agency of Aksigorta A.Ş. and AgeSA Hayat ve Emeklilik A.Ş. via its branch network. As of 31 December 
2022, the Bank has 710 branches dispersed throughout the country and 1 branch operating abroad (31 December 2021: 710 
branches and 1 branch operating abroad). As of 31 December 2022, the Bank has 12.717 employees (31 December 2021: 12.184).  

The Parent Bank and its subsidiaries, Ak Finansal Kiralama A.Ş., Ak Yatırım Menkul Değerler A.Ş., AK Portföy Yönetimi A.Ş., 
Akbank AG, AkÖde Elektronik Para ve Ödeme Hizmetleri A.Ş. and together with A.R.T.S. Ltd., which is not subsidiary of the Bank, 
this company is a “Structured Entity”, has been included in the scope of consolidation. The Parent Bank together with its 
consolidated subsidiaries are referred to as the “Group”.  
As at 31 December 2022, the Group employed 13.247 people (31 December 2021: 12.606). 

VI. A SHORT EXPLANATION ON THE DIFFERENCES BETWEEN THE COMMUNIQUE ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENT REPORTING AND THE CONSOLIDATION PROCEDURES REQUIRED BY TURKISH ACCOUNTING STANDARDS 
AND ABOUT INSTITUTIONS THAT ARE SUBJECT TO FULL CONSOLIDATION, PROPORTIONAL CONSOLIDATION, BY WAY OF 
DEDUCTION FROM CAPITAL OR THOSE THAT ARE SUBJECT TO NONE:  

The Bank sees no difference between the Communiqué on Consolidated Financial Reporting and the consolidation procedures 
required by Turkish Accounting Standards. Information in regards to consolidated subsidiaries and consolidation methods are 
given in Section III. Note III.  

VII. EXISTING OR POTENTIAL, ACTUAL OR LEGAL OBSTACLES TO IMMEDIATE TRANSFER OF CAPITAL BETWEEN PARENT 
BANK AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES AND REPAYMENT OF DEBTS: 

None.

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
 1 

SECTION ONE 
GENERAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE BANK 

I. PARENT BANK’S FOUNDATION DATE, START-UP STATUS, HISTORY REGARDING THE CHANGES IN THIS STATUS: 

Akbank T.A.Ş. (“the Bank”, “the Parent Bank” or “Akbank”) was established on 30 January 1948 as a private commercial bank, in 
accordance with the decision of the Council of Ministers, No.3/6710 and is authorized to perform all economic, financial and 
commercial activities, which are allowed by the laws of the Turkish Republic (“T.C.”). The status of the Bank has not changed since 
its foundation. 

II. EXPLANATION ABOUT THE PARENT BANK’S CAPITAL STRUCTURE, SHAREHOLDERS OF THE BANK WHO ARE IN CHARGE 
OF THE MANAGEMENT AND/OR AUDITING OF THE BANK DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY, CHANGES IN THESE MATTERS (IF 
ANY) AND THE GROUP THAT THE PARENT BANK BELONGS TO: 

The Bank’s shares have been quoted on the Borsa Istanbul (‘’BIST’’) since 1990. In 1998, 4,03% of the outstanding share capital of 
the Bank was offered and sold in an international offering outside of Turkey in the form of Ordinary Shares and American 
Depository Receipts (“ADRs”). As of 31 December 2022, approximately 51% of the shares are publicly traded, including the ADRs 
(31 December 2021: 51%).  

The major shareholder of the Parent Bank, directly or indirectly, is Sabancı Group. 

III. EXPLANATION ON THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS, MEMBERS OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE, PRESIDENT AND EXECUTIVE VICE 
PRESIDENTS, IF AVAILABLE, SHARES OF THE PARENT BANK THEY POSSESS AND THEIR AREAS OF RESPONSIBILITY: 

TTiittllee  NNaammee  RReessppoonnssiibbiilliittyy  EEdduuccaattiioonn  
CChhaaiirrmmaann::  Suzan SABANCI DİNÇER Chairman of the Board of Directors Graduate 
     
BBooaarrdd  ooff  DDiirreeccttoorrss::  Eyüp ENGİN Vice Chairman and Executive Board Member Undergraduate 
  A. Fuat AYLA Executive Board Member Undergraduate 
  Ş. Yaman TÖRÜNER Board Member Undergraduate 
 Emre DERMAN  Board Member Graduate 
 N. Orhun KÖSTEM Board Member Graduate 
 K. Özgür DEMİRTAŞ Board Member PhD 
 Mehmet Tuğrul BELLİ Board Member Graduate 
 Levent DEMİRAĞ Board Member Undergraduate 
 S. Hakan BİNBAŞGİL Board Member and CEO Graduate 
CCEEOO:: S. Hakan BİNBAŞGİL CEO Graduate 
HHeeaadd  ooff  IInntteerrnnaall  AAuuddiitt:: Savaş KÜLCÜ Head of Internal Audit Graduate 
EExxeeccuuttiivvee  VViiccee  PPrreessiiddeennttss:: Bülent OĞUZ SME Banking Graduate 
 H. Burcu CİVELEK YÜCE Consumer Banking and Digital Solutions Graduate 
 Ege GÜLTEKİN Credit Monitoring and Follow-up  Graduate 
  Levent ÇELEBİOĞLU Corporate and Investment Banking Undergraduate 
 N. İlker ALTINTAŞ Technology and Operation PhD  
 Mehmet Hakan TUGAL Commercial Banking Graduate 
 Türker TUNALI Financial Management Undergraduate 
 Şahin Alp KELER Private Banking and Wealth Management PhD 
 Yunus Emre ÖZBEN Credit Allocation Graduate 
 Zeynep ÖZTÜRK ŞARSEL Special Credits Graduate 
 Gamze Şebnem MURATOĞLU Treasury Graduate 
 Pınar ANAPA People and Culture Graduate 
    
IInntteerrnnaall  AAuuddiitt  CCoommmmiitttteeee:: Eyüp ENGİN Head of the Audit Committee Undergraduate 
 Levent DEMİRAĞ Member of the Audit Committee Undergraduate 
    
    
    
The shares of individuals above are insignificant in the Parent Bank. 

   
 

 

380 - 381Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

SSEECCTTIIOONN  TTWWOO  
CCOONNSSOOLLIIDDAATTEEDD  FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

II..  CCOONNSSOOLLIIDDAATTEEDD  BBAALLAANNCCEE  SSHHEEEETT  AASS  OOFF  3311  DDEECCEEMMBBEERR  22002222  ((SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTT  OOFF  FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  PPOOSSIITTIIOONN))
(Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL).)

CCUURRRREENNTT  PPEERRIIOODD PPRRIIOORR  PPEERRIIOODD
LLIIAABBIILLIITTIIEESS Note ((3311//1122//22002222)) ((3311//1122//22002211))

(Section Five) TL FC Total TL FC Total
II.. DDEEPPOOSSIITTSS ((IIII--aa)) 337700..227744..224455            335511..228877..668833            772211..556611..992288            115511..444499..339966            330022..110011..118833            445533..555500..557799            
IIII.. FFUUNNDDSS  BBOORRRROOWWEEDD ((IIII--cc)) 11..554499..447744                    7733..551133..448800                7755..006622..995544                667766..330044                          5599..229966..773366                5599..997733..004400                
IIIIII.. MMOONNEEYY  MMAARRKKEETTSS 3311..440044..550000                3311..111199..995533                6622..552244..445533                3355..775566..771177                2288..888800..774444                6644..663377..446611                
IIVV.. SSEECCUURRIITTIIEESS  IISSSSUUEEDD  ((NNeett)) ((IIII--dd)) 66..009944..999900                    1199..772233..445555                2255..881188..444455                99..445522..445588                    2200..883300..660033                3300..228833..006611                
4.1 Bills 2.663.511             -                            2.663.511             7.058.313             -                            7.058.313             
4.2 Asset Backed Securities -                            -                            -                            -                            -                            -                            
4.3 Bonds 3.431.479             19.723.455           23.154.934           2.394.145             20.830.603           23.224.748           
VV.. FFUUNNDDSS --                                                  --                                                  --                                                  --                                                  --                                                  --                                                  
5.1 Borrower Funds -                            -                            -                            -                            -                            -                            
5.2 Other -                            -                            -                            -                            -                            -                            
VVII.. FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  LLIIAABBIILLIITTIIEESS  AATT  FFAAIIRR  VVAALLUUEE  TTHHRROOUUGGHH  PPRROOFFIITT  OORR  LLOOSSSS --                                                  --                                                  --                                                  --                                                  --                                                  --                                                  
VVIIII.. DDEERRIIVVAATTIIVVEE  FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  LLIIAABBIILLIITTIIEESS ((IIII--bb,,  IIII--gg)) 1111..224400..003355                33..881155..556677                    1155..005555..660022                2222..000055..996622                33..667766..772200                    2255..668822..668822                
7.1 Derivative Financial Liabilities at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss 10.745.559           3.815.566             14.561.125           21.729.706           3.463.705             25.193.411           
7.2 Derivative Financial Liabilities at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income 494.476                1                           494.477                276.256                213.015                489.271                
VVIIIIII.. FFAACCTTOORRIINNGG  LLIIAABBIILLIITTIIEESS --                                                  --                                                  --                                                  --                                                  --                                                  --                                                  
IIXX.. LLEEAASSEE  LLIIAABBIILLIITTIIEESS  ((NNeett)) ((IIII--ff)) 880022..441166                          6633..996666                              886666..338822                          553377..550000                          5522..886600                              559900..336600                          
XX..  PPRROOVVIISSIIOONNSS ((IIII--hh)) 55..440066..771199                    445555..779955                          55..886622..551144                    33..118833..887788                    117733..441155                          33..335577..229933                    
10.1 Restructuring Provisions -                            -                            -                            -                            -                            -                            
10.2 Reserve for Employee Benefits 2.249.152             5.960                    2.255.112             773.481                3.268                    776.749                
10.3 Insurance Technical Provisions (Net) -                            -                            -                            -                            -                            -                            
10.4 Other Provisions 3.157.567             449.835                3.607.402             2.410.397             170.147                2.580.544             
XXII.. CCUURRRREENNTT  TTAAXX  LLIIAABBIILLIITTYY ((IIII--ii)) 1100..447766..009977                448855..446644                          1100..996611..556611                22..114433..441166                    226611..007755                          22..440044..449911                    
XXIIII.. DDEEFFEERRRREEDD  TTAAXX  LLIIAABBIILLIITTYY ((IIII--ii)) 33..006666..660044                    441188..117700                          33..448844..777744                    117711..447744                          228822..883311                          445544..330055                          
XXIIIIII..

--                                                  --                                                  --                                                  --                                                  --                                                  --                                                  
13.1 Held for Sale Purpose -                            -                            -                            -                            -                            -                            
13.2 Related to Discontinued Operations -                            -                            -                            -                            -                            -                            
XXIIVV.. SSUUBBOORRDDIINNAATTEEDD  DDEEBBTT  IINNSSTTRRUUMMEENNTTSS ((IIII--jj)) --                                                  1166..880000..008822                1166..880000..008822                --                                                  1188..772255..553344                1188..772255..553344                
14.1 Loans -                            -                            -                            -                            -                            -                            
14.2 Other Debt Instruments -                            16.800.082           16.800.082           -                            18.725.534           18.725.534           
XXVV.. OOTTHHEERR  LLIIAABBIILLIITTIIEESS ((IIII--ee)) 2277..443388..003399                2288..225511..557766                5555..668899..661155                1122..669922..331188                1144..448877..889933                2277..118800..221111                
XXVVII.. SSHHAARREEHHOOLLDDEERRSS''  EEQQUUIITTYY ((IIII--kk)) 116622..770066..557744            ((99..110000..770044))                115533..660055..887700            8844..884466..551144                ((88..888877..220011))                7755..995599..331133                
16.1 Paid-in capital 5.200.000             -                            5.200.000             5.200.000             -                            5.200.000             
16.2 Capital Reserves 5.320.613             -                            5.320.613             5.320.613             -                            5.320.613             
16.2.1 Share Premium 3.505.742             -                            3.505.742             3.505.742             -                            3.505.742             
16.2.2 Share Cancellation Profits -                            -                            -                            -                            -                            -                            
16.2.3 Other Capital Reserves 1.814.871             -                            1.814.871             1.814.871             -                            1.814.871             
16.3 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income or Loss Not Reclassified Through Profit or Loss 7.302.760             37.347                  7.340.107             2.627.256             16.699                  2.643.955             
16.4 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income or Loss Reclassified Through Profit or Loss 27.438.475           (9.138.051)            18.300.424           13.199.125           (8.903.900)            4.295.225             
16.5 Profit Reserves 57.238.547           -                            57.238.547           45.953.298           -                            45.953.298           
16.5.1 Legal Reserves 2.058.326             -                            2.058.326             1.933.583             -                            1.933.583             
16.5.2 Status Reserves -                            -                            -                            -                            -                            -                            
16.5.3 Extraordinary Reserves 55.003.132           -                            55.003.132           43.869.490           -                            43.869.490           
16.5.4 Other Profit Reserves 177.089                -                            177.089                150.225                -                            150.225                
16.6 Income or (Loss) 60.206.179           -                            60.206.179           12.546.222           -                            12.546.222           
16.6.1 Prior Periods' Income or (Loss) 180.472                -                            180.472                419.031                -                            419.031                
16.6.2 Current Period Income or (Loss) 60.025.707           -                            60.025.707           12.127.191           -                            12.127.191           
16.7 Minority Interest ((IIII--ll)) -                            -                            -                            -                            -                            -                            

TTOOTTAALL  LLIIAABBIILLIITTIIEESS  AANNDD  SSHHAARREEHHOOLLDDEERRSS''  EEQQUUIITTYY 663300..445599..669933            551166..883344..448877            11..114477..229944..118800    332222..991155..993377            443399..888822..339933            776622..779988..333300            

                                                                                                                       The accompanying explanations and notes form an integral part of these financial statements. 

LLIIAABBIILLIITTIIEESS  FFOORR  AASSSSEETTSS  HHEELLDD  FFOORR  SSAALLEE  AANNDD  RREELLAATTEEDD  TTOO  TTHHEE  
DDIISSCCOONNTTIIUUEEDD  OOPPEERRAATTIIOONNSS  ((NNeett))

  4

SSEECCTTIIOONN  TTWWOO  
CCOONNSSOOLLIIDDAATTEEDD  FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

II..  CCOONNSSOOLLIIDDAATTEEDD  BBAALLAANNCCEE  SSHHEEEETT  AASS  OOFF  3311  DDEECCEEMMBBEERR  22002222  ((SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTT  OOFF  FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  PPOOSSIITTIIOONN))
(Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL).)

CCUURRRREENNTT  PPEERRIIOODD PPRRIIOORR  PPEERRIIOODD
AASSSSEETTSS Note ((3311//1122//22002222)) ((3311//1122//22002211))

(Section Five) TL FC Total TL FC Total
II.. FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  AASSSSEETTSS  ((NNeett)) 115544..119900..991166            224444..441111..995588            339988..660022..887744            9933..669933..330099                221155..441199..444455            330099..111122..775544            
11..11 CCaasshh  aanndd  CCaasshh  EEqquuiivvaalleennttss 2255..447766..111144                114411..889933..005599            116677..336699..117733            1144..883322..992288                113333..337722..115577            114488..220055..008855            
1.1.1 Cash and Balances with Central Bank (I-a) 23.686.721           103.846.070         127.532.791         11.895.572           79.991.200           91.886.772           
1.1.2 Banks (I-d) 332.181                38.048.441           38.380.622           88.953                  53.381.733           53.470.686           
1.1.3 Money Markets 1.462.376             -                            1.462.376             2.848.612             -                            2.848.612             
1.1.4 Expected Loss Provision (-) 5.164                     1.452                     6.616                     209                        776                        985                        
11..22 FFiinnaanncciiaall  AAsssseettss  aatt  FFaaiirr  VVaalluuee  TThhrroouugghh  PPrrooffiitt  oorr  LLoossss ((II--bb)) 99..661111..227755                    994477..885500                          1100..555599..112255                22..444499..332299                    88..336600..004466                    1100..880099..337755                
1.2.1 Government Debt Securities 437.765                164.826                602.591                241.562                337.168                578.730                
1.2.2 Equity Instruments 6.035.618             555.909                6.591.527             791.398                282.498                1.073.896             
1.2.3 Other Financial Assets 3.137.892             227.115                3.365.007             1.416.369             7.740.380             9.156.749             
11..33 FFiinnaanncciiaall  AAsssseettss  aatt  FFaaiirr  VVaalluuee  TThhrroouugghh  OOtthheerr  CCoommpprreehheennssiivvee  IInnccoommee ((II--ee)) 8877..887722..770088                8833..995555..006655                117711..882277..777733            3355..888822..002211                6644..442299..440011                110000..331111..442222            
1.3.1 Government Debt Securities 82.359.177           60.593.581           142.952.758         34.746.069           43.909.234           78.655.303           
1.3.2 Equity Instruments 97.121                  109                        97.230                  15.770                  109                        15.879                  
1.3.3 Other Financial Assets 5.416.410             23.361.375           28.777.785           1.120.182             20.520.058           21.640.240           
11..44 DDeerriivvaattiivvee  FFiinnaanncciiaall  AAsssseettss ((II--cc,,  ll--ll)) 3311..223300..881199                1177..661155..998844                4488..884466..880033                4400..552299..003311                99..225577..884411                    4499..778866..887722                
1.4.1 Derivative Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss 12.416.155           15.553.504           27.969.659           27.285.795           9.068.516             36.354.311           
1.4.2 Derivative Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income 18.814.664           2.062.480             20.877.144           13.243.236           189.325                13.432.561           
IIII.. FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  AASSSSEETTSS  MMEEAASSUURREEDD  AATT  AAMMOORRTTIISSEEDD  CCOOSSTT  ((NNeett)) 448833..999900..006699            221199..995577..223300            770033..994477..229999            226655..885544..886611            117722..448855..449999            443388..334400..336600            
22..11 LLooaannss  ((II--ff)) 441111..447799..554488            220044..662299..556677            661166..110099..111155            223366..662288..115555            116600..112222..004400            339966..775500..119955            
22..22 LLeeaassee  RReecceeiivvaabblleess ((II--kk)) 33..882299..009911                    88..009966..550000                    1111..992255..559911                11..992211..224499                    66..111166..885522                    88..003388..110011                    
22..33 FFaaccttoorriinngg  RReecceeiivvaabblleess --                                                  --                                                  --                                                  --                                                  --                                                  --                                                  
22..44  OOtthheerr  FFiinnaanncciiaall  AAsssseettss  MMeeaassuurreedd  aatt  AAmmoorrttiisseedd  CCoosstt ((II--gg)) 8866..117744..553300                1111..998800..114466                9988..115544..667766                4422..116699..886622                1100..441155..669988                5522..558855..556600                
2.4.1 Government Debt Securities 86.174.530           10.660.402           96.834.932           42.169.862           9.446.135             51.615.997           
2.4.2 Other Financial Assets -                            1.319.744             1.319.744             -                            969.563                969.563                
22..55  EExxppeecctteedd  CCrreeddiitt  LLoossss  ((--)) 1177..449933..110000                44..774488..998833                    2222..224422..008833                1144..886644..440055                44..116699..009911                    1199..003333..449966                

IIIIII.. AASSSSEETTSS  HHEELLDD  FFOORR  SSAALLEE  AANNDD    RREELLAATTEEDD  TTOO  DDIISSCCOONNTTIINNUUEEDD  
OOPPEERRAATTIIOONNSS  ((NNeett)) ((II--rr)) 559911..221133                          --                                                  559911..221133                          223322..229966                          --                                                  223322..229966                          

3.1 Held for Sale Purpose 591.213                -                            591.213                232.296                -                            232.296                
3.2 Related to Discontinued Operations -                            -                            -                            -                            -                            -                            
IIVV.. EEQQUUIITTYY  IINNVVEESSTTMMEENNTTSS 1188..995577                              --                                                  1188..995577                              1188..112299                              --                                                  1188..112299                              
44..11 IInnvveessttmmeennttss  iinn  AAssssoocciiaatteess  ((NNeett)) ((II--hh)) 1188..995577                              --                                                  1188..995577                              1188..112299                              --                                                  1188..112299                              
4.1.1 Associates Valued Based on Equity Method -                            -                            -                            -                            -                            -                            
4.1.2 Unconsolidated Associates 18.957                  -                            18.957                  18.129                  -                            18.129                  
44..22 SSuubbssiiddiiaarriieess  ((NNeett)) ((II--ii)) --                                                  --                                                  --                                                  --                                                  --                                                  --                                                  
4.2.1 Unconsolidated Financial Subsidiaries -                            -                            -                            -                            -                            -                            
4.2.2 Unconsolidated Non-Financial Subsidiaries -                            -                            -                            -                            -                            -                            
44..33 JJooiinntt  VVeennttuurreess  ((NNeett)) ((II--jj)) --                                                  --                                                  --                                                  --                                                  --                                                  --                                                  
4.3.1 Joint Ventures Valued Based on Equity Method -                            -                            -                            -                            -                            -                            
4.3.2 Unconsolidated Joint Ventures -                            -                            -                            -                            -                            -                            
VV.. PPRROOPPEERRTTYY  AANNDD  EEQQUUIIPPMMEENNTT  ((NNeett)) ((II--mm)) 1155..112266..002299                110055..997744                          1155..223322..000033                55..882211..003355                    7733..880011                              55..889944..883366                    
VVII.. IINNTTAANNGGIIBBLLEE  AASSSSEETTSS  ((NNeett)) ((II--nn)) 22..668866..442266                    1199..669977                              22..770066..112233                    11..448855..778844                    1133..881188                              11..449999..660022                    
6.1 Goodwill -                            -                            -                            -                            -                            -                            
6.2 Other 2.686.426             19.697                  2.706.123             1.485.784             13.818                  1.499.602             
VVIIII.. IINNVVEESSTTMMEENNTT  PPRROOPPEERRTTYY  ((NNeett)) ((II--oo)) --                                                  --                                                  --                                                  --                                                  --                                                  --                                                  
VVIIIIII.. CCUURRRREENNTT  TTAAXX  AASSSSEETT --                                                  335555..556633                          335555..556633                          --                                                  112244..000011                          112244..000011                          
IIXX.. DDEEFFEERRRREEDD  TTAAXX  AASSSSEETT ((II--pp)) 2211..336600                              119922..228855                          221133..664455                          7788..556600                              7733..661100                              115522..117700                          
XX.. OOTTHHEERR  AASSSSEETTSS  ((NNeett)) ((II--ss)) 2233..339999..003388                22..222277..446655                    2255..662266..550033                66..222255..778877                    11..119988..339955                    77..442244..118822                    

TTOOTTAALL  AASSSSEETTSS 668800..002244..000088            446677..227700..117722            11..114477..229944..118800      337733..440099..776611            338899..338888..556699            776622..779988..333300            

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  The accompanying explanations and notes form an integral part of these financial statements.

     3

382 - 383Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

SSEECCTTIIOONN  TTWWOO  
CCOONNSSOOLLIIDDAATTEEDD  FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

IIIIII..  CCOONNSSOOLLIIDDAATTEEDD  IINNCCOOMMEE  SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTT  FFOORR  TTHHEE  PPEERRIIOODD  EENNDDEEDD  3311  DDEECCEEMMBBEERR  22002222
(Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL).)

IINNCCOOMMEE  AANNDD  EEXXPPEENNSSEE  IITTEEMMSS Note CCUURRRREENNTT  PPEERRIIOODD PPRRIIOORR  PPEERRIIOODD
(Section Five) ((0011//0011--3311//1122//22002222)) ((0011//0011--3311//1122//22002211))

II.. IINNTTEERREESSTT  IINNCCOOMMEE ((IIVV--aa)) 113311..776699..884400                                    5500..997700..660077                                        
1.1 Interest on Loans (IV-a-1) 68.741.376                         34.734.489                         
1.2 Interest on Reserve Requirements 282.414                              881.784                              
1.3 Interest on Banks (IV-a-2) 489.425                              122.685                              
1.4 Interest on Money Market Transactions 207.845                              157.291                              
1.5 Interest on Marketable Securities Portfolio (IV-a-3) 60.571.492                         14.332.031                         
1.5.1 Fair Value Through Profit or Loss 70.206                                39.968                                
1.5.2 Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income 21.806.731                         7.207.173                           
1.5.3 Measured at Amortised Cost 38.694.555                         7.084.890                           
1.6 Financial Lease Interest Income 1.162.761                           574.898                              
1.7 Other Interest Income 314.527                              167.429                              
IIII.. IINNTTEERREESSTT  EEXXPPEENNSSEE  ((--)) ((IIVV--bb)) 5522..668855..999922                                        2266..662222..449999                                        
2.1 Interest on Deposits (IV-b-4) 38.943.395                         17.815.859                         
2.2 Interest on Funds Borrowed (IV-b-1) 3.123.264                           1.187.559                           
2.3 Interest Expense on Money Market Transactions 4.456.856                           4.695.512                           
2.4 Interest on Securities Issued (IV-b-3) 3.932.991                           2.799.641                           
2.5 Interest on Leases 111.722                              87.155                                
2.6 Other Interest Expenses 2.117.764                           36.773                                
IIIIII.. NNEETT  IINNTTEERREESSTT  IINNCCOOMMEE  ((II  --  IIII)) 7799..008833..884488                                        2244..334488..110088                                        
IIVV.. NNEETT  FFEEEESS  AANNDD  CCOOMMMMIISSSSIIOONNSS  IINNCCOOMMEE 1111..888888..447744                                        66..007799..223377                                            
4.1 Fees and Commissions Received 15.372.150                         7.794.942                           
4.1.1 Non-cash Loans 1.004.684                           579.431                              
4.1.2 Other 14.367.466                         7.215.511                           
4.2 Fees and Commissions Paid (-) 3.483.676                           1.715.705                           
4.2.1 Non-cash Loans 4.722                                  5.062                                  
4.2.2 Other 3.478.954                           1.710.643                           
VV.. DDIIVVIIDDEENNDD  IINNCCOOMMEE ((IIVV--cc)) 9911..661188                                                        1133..115566                                                        
VVII.. TTRRAADDIINNGG  IINNCCOOMMEE  //  ((LLOOSSSS))  ((NNeett)) ((IIVV--dd)) 1166..880044..228899                                        66..779922..001188                                            
6.1 Trading Gains / (Losses) on Securities 2.983.305                           901.101                              
6.2 Gains / (Losses) on Derivative Financial Transactions (13.519.444)                        (996.318)                             
6.3 Foreign Exchange Gains / (Losses) 27.340.428                         6.887.235                           
VVIIII.. OOTTHHEERR  OOPPEERRAATTIINNGG  IINNCCOOMMEE ((IIVV--ee)) 33..990088..332233                                            22..228877..992200                                            
VVIIIIII.. GGRROOSSSS  OOPPEERRAATTIINNGG  IINNCCOOMMEE  ((IIIIII++IIVV++VV++VVII++VVIIII))  111111..777766..555522                                    3399..552200..443399                                        
IIXX.. EEXXPPEECCTTEEDD  CCRREEDDIITT  LLOOSSSS  ((--)) ((IIVV--ff)) 77..224499..000000                                            55..117755..778800                                            
XX.. OOTTHHEERR  PPRROOVVIISSIIOONN  EEXXPPEENNSSEESS  ((--)) 33..883300..665566                                            77..779988..229999                                            
XXII.. PPEERRSSOONNNNEELL  EEXXPPEENNSSEE  ((--)) 66..889933..887755                                            33..553366..552277                                            
XXIIII.. OOTTHHEERR  OOPPEERRAATTIINNGG  EEXXPPEENNSSEESS  ((--)) ((IIVV--gg)) 1133..553322..221133                                        66..336699..337711                                            
XXIIIIII.. NNEETT  OOPPEERRAATTIINNGG  IINNCCOOMMEE//((LLOOSSSS))  ((VVIIIIII--IIXX--XX--XXII--XXIIII)) 8800..227700..880088                                        1166..664400..446622                                        
XXIIVV.. EEXXCCEESSSS  AAMMOOUUNNTT  RREECCOORRDDEEDD  AASS  IINNCCOOMMEE  AAFFTTEERR  MMEERRGGEERR
XXVV.. IINNCCOOMMEE//((LLOOSSSS))  FFRROOMM  IINNVVEESSTTMMEENNTTSS  IINN  SSUUBBSSIIDDIIAARRIIEESS  CCOONNSSOOLLIIDDAATTEEDD  --                                                                            --                                                                            

BBAASSEEDD  OONN  EEQQUUIITTYY  MMEETTHHOODD --                                                                            --                                                                            
XXVVII.. IINNCCOOMMEE//((LLOOSSSS))  OONN  NNEETT  MMOONNEETTAARRYY  PPOOSSIITTIIOONN --                                                                            --                                                                            
XXVVIIII.. PPRROOFFIITT//LLOOSSSS  BBEEFFOORREE  TTAAXX  FFRROOMM  CCOONNTTIINNUUEEDD  OOPPEERRAATTIIOONNSS  ((XXIIIIII++......++XXVVII)) ((IIVV--jj)) 8800..227700..880088                                        1166..664400..446622                                        
XXVVIIIIII.. TTAAXX  PPRROOVVIISSIIOONN  FFOORR  CCOONNTTIINNUUEEDD  OOPPEERRAATTIIOONNSS  ((±±)) ((IIVV--kk)) 2200..224455..110011                                        44..551133..227711                                            
18.1 Current Tax Provision 20.613.875                         3.399.761                           
18.2 Deferred Tax Expense Effect (+) 6.013.962                           5.419.011                           
18.3 Deferred Tax Income Effect (-) 6.382.736                           4.305.501                           
XXIIXX.. CCUURRRREENNTT  PPEERRIIOODD  PPRROOFFIITT//LLOOSSSS  FFRROOMM  CCOONNTTIINNUUEEDD  OOPPEERRAATTIIOONNSS  ((XXVVIIII±±XXVVIIIIII)) ((IIVV--ll)) 6600..002255..770077                                        1122..112277..119911                                        
XXXX.. IINNCCOOMMEE  FFRROOMM  DDIISSCCOONNTTIINNUUEEDD  OOPPEERRAATTIIOONNSS -                                            -                                            
20.1 Income from Non-current Assets Held for Sale -                                         -                                         
20.2 Profit from Sales of Associates, Subsidiaries and Joint Ventures -                                         -                                         
20.3 Income from Other Discontinued Operations -                                         -                                         
XXXXII.. EEXXPPEENNSSEESS  FFOORR  DDIISSCCOONNTTIINNUUEEDD  OOPPEERRAATTIIOONNSS  ((--)) --                                                                            --                                                                            
21.1 Expenses for Non-current Assets Held for Sale -                                         -                                         
21.2 Loss from Sales of Associates, Subsidiaries and Joint Ventures -                                         -                                         
21.3 Expenses for Other Discontinued Operations -                                         -                                         
XXXXIIII.. PPRROOFFIITT//LLOOSSSS  BBEEFFOORREE  TTAAXX  FFRROOMM  DDIISSCCOONNTTIINNUUEEDD  OOPPEERRAATTIIOONNSS  ((XXXX--XXXXII)) ((IIVV--jj)) --                                                                            --                                                                            
XXXXIIIIII.. TTAAXX  PPRROOVVIISSIIOONN  FFOORR  DDIISSCCOONNTTIINNUUEEDD  OOPPEERRAATTIIOONNSS  ((±±)) ((IIVV--kk)) --                                                                            --                                                                            
23.1 Current Tax Provision -                                         -                                         
23.2 Deferred Tax Expense Effect (+) -                                         -                                         
23.3 Deferred Tax Income Effect (-) -                                         -                                         
XXXXIIVV.. CCUURRRREENNTT  PPEERRIIOODD  PPRROOFFIITT//LLOOSSSS  FFRROOMM  DDIISSCCOONNTTIINNUUEEDD  OOPPEERRAATTIIOONNSS  ((XXXXIIII±±XXXXIIIIII)) ((IIVV--ll)) -                                            -                                            
XXXXVV.. NNEETT  IINNCCOOMMEE//((LLOOSSSS))  ((XXIIXX++XXXXIIVV)) ((IIVV--mm)) 6600..002255..770077                                        1122..112277..119911                                        
25.1 Income/(Loss) from the Group 60.025.707                         12.127.191                         
25.2 Income/(Loss) from Minority Interest ((IIVV--hh)) -                                         -                                         

Earning/(Loss) per share (in TL full) 0,11543                              0,02332                              

                                                      The accompanying explanations and notes form an integral part of these financial statements.

  6

SSEECCTTIIOONN  TTWWOO  
CCOONNSSOOLLIIDDAATTEEDD  FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

IIIIII..  CCOONNSSOOLLIIDDAATTEEDD  IINNCCOOMMEE  SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTT  FFOORR  TTHHEE  PPEERRIIOODD  EENNDDEEDD  3311  DDEECCEEMMBBEERR  22002222
(Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL).)

IINNCCOOMMEE  AANNDD  EEXXPPEENNSSEE  IITTEEMMSS Note CCUURRRREENNTT  PPEERRIIOODD PPRRIIOORR  PPEERRIIOODD
(Section Five) ((0011//0011--3311//1122//22002222)) ((0011//0011--3311//1122//22002211))

II.. IINNTTEERREESSTT  IINNCCOOMMEE ((IIVV--aa)) 113311..776699..884400                                    5500..997700..660077                                        
1.1 Interest on Loans (IV-a-1) 68.741.376                         34.734.489                         
1.2 Interest on Reserve Requirements 282.414                              881.784                              
1.3 Interest on Banks (IV-a-2) 489.425                              122.685                              
1.4 Interest on Money Market Transactions 207.845                              157.291                              
1.5 Interest on Marketable Securities Portfolio (IV-a-3) 60.571.492                         14.332.031                         
1.5.1 Fair Value Through Profit or Loss 70.206                                39.968                                
1.5.2 Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income 21.806.731                         7.207.173                           
1.5.3 Measured at Amortised Cost 38.694.555                         7.084.890                           
1.6 Financial Lease Interest Income 1.162.761                           574.898                              
1.7 Other Interest Income 314.527                              167.429                              
IIII.. IINNTTEERREESSTT  EEXXPPEENNSSEE  ((--)) ((IIVV--bb)) 5522..668855..999922                                        2266..662222..449999                                        
2.1 Interest on Deposits (IV-b-4) 38.943.395                         17.815.859                         
2.2 Interest on Funds Borrowed (IV-b-1) 3.123.264                           1.187.559                           
2.3 Interest Expense on Money Market Transactions 4.456.856                           4.695.512                           
2.4 Interest on Securities Issued (IV-b-3) 3.932.991                           2.799.641                           
2.5 Interest on Leases 111.722                              87.155                                
2.6 Other Interest Expenses 2.117.764                           36.773                                
IIIIII.. NNEETT  IINNTTEERREESSTT  IINNCCOOMMEE  ((II  --  IIII)) 7799..008833..884488                                        2244..334488..110088                                        
IIVV.. NNEETT  FFEEEESS  AANNDD  CCOOMMMMIISSSSIIOONNSS  IINNCCOOMMEE 1111..888888..447744                                        66..007799..223377                                            
4.1 Fees and Commissions Received 15.372.150                         7.794.942                           
4.1.1 Non-cash Loans 1.004.684                           579.431                              
4.1.2 Other 14.367.466                         7.215.511                           
4.2 Fees and Commissions Paid (-) 3.483.676                           1.715.705                           
4.2.1 Non-cash Loans 4.722                                  5.062                                  
4.2.2 Other 3.478.954                           1.710.643                           
VV.. DDIIVVIIDDEENNDD  IINNCCOOMMEE ((IIVV--cc)) 9911..661188                                                        1133..115566                                                        
VVII.. TTRRAADDIINNGG  IINNCCOOMMEE  //  ((LLOOSSSS))  ((NNeett)) ((IIVV--dd)) 1166..880044..228899                                        66..779922..001188                                            
6.1 Trading Gains / (Losses) on Securities 2.983.305                           901.101                              
6.2 Gains / (Losses) on Derivative Financial Transactions (13.519.444)                        (996.318)                             
6.3 Foreign Exchange Gains / (Losses) 27.340.428                         6.887.235                           
VVIIII.. OOTTHHEERR  OOPPEERRAATTIINNGG  IINNCCOOMMEE ((IIVV--ee)) 33..990088..332233                                            22..228877..992200                                            
VVIIIIII.. GGRROOSSSS  OOPPEERRAATTIINNGG  IINNCCOOMMEE  ((IIIIII++IIVV++VV++VVII++VVIIII))  111111..777766..555522                                    3399..552200..443399                                        
IIXX.. EEXXPPEECCTTEEDD  CCRREEDDIITT  LLOOSSSS  ((--)) ((IIVV--ff)) 77..224499..000000                                            55..117755..778800                                            
XX.. OOTTHHEERR  PPRROOVVIISSIIOONN  EEXXPPEENNSSEESS  ((--)) 33..883300..665566                                            77..779988..229999                                            
XXII.. PPEERRSSOONNNNEELL  EEXXPPEENNSSEE  ((--)) 66..889933..887755                                            33..553366..552277                                            
XXIIII.. OOTTHHEERR  OOPPEERRAATTIINNGG  EEXXPPEENNSSEESS  ((--)) ((IIVV--gg)) 1133..553322..221133                                        66..336699..337711                                            
XXIIIIII.. NNEETT  OOPPEERRAATTIINNGG  IINNCCOOMMEE//((LLOOSSSS))  ((VVIIIIII--IIXX--XX--XXII--XXIIII)) 8800..227700..880088                                        1166..664400..446622                                        
XXIIVV.. EEXXCCEESSSS  AAMMOOUUNNTT  RREECCOORRDDEEDD  AASS  IINNCCOOMMEE  AAFFTTEERR  MMEERRGGEERR
XXVV.. IINNCCOOMMEE//((LLOOSSSS))  FFRROOMM  IINNVVEESSTTMMEENNTTSS  IINN  SSUUBBSSIIDDIIAARRIIEESS  CCOONNSSOOLLIIDDAATTEEDD  --                                                                            --                                                                            

BBAASSEEDD  OONN  EEQQUUIITTYY  MMEETTHHOODD --                                                                            --                                                                            
XXVVII.. IINNCCOOMMEE//((LLOOSSSS))  OONN  NNEETT  MMOONNEETTAARRYY  PPOOSSIITTIIOONN --                                                                            --                                                                            
XXVVIIII.. PPRROOFFIITT//LLOOSSSS  BBEEFFOORREE  TTAAXX  FFRROOMM  CCOONNTTIINNUUEEDD  OOPPEERRAATTIIOONNSS  ((XXIIIIII++......++XXVVII)) ((IIVV--jj)) 8800..227700..880088                                        1166..664400..446622                                        
XXVVIIIIII.. TTAAXX  PPRROOVVIISSIIOONN  FFOORR  CCOONNTTIINNUUEEDD  OOPPEERRAATTIIOONNSS  ((±±)) ((IIVV--kk)) 2200..224455..110011                                        44..551133..227711                                            
18.1 Current Tax Provision 20.613.875                         3.399.761                           
18.2 Deferred Tax Expense Effect (+) 6.013.962                           5.419.011                           
18.3 Deferred Tax Income Effect (-) 6.382.736                           4.305.501                           
XXIIXX.. CCUURRRREENNTT  PPEERRIIOODD  PPRROOFFIITT//LLOOSSSS  FFRROOMM  CCOONNTTIINNUUEEDD  OOPPEERRAATTIIOONNSS  ((XXVVIIII±±XXVVIIIIII)) ((IIVV--ll)) 6600..002255..770077                                        1122..112277..119911                                        
XXXX.. IINNCCOOMMEE  FFRROOMM  DDIISSCCOONNTTIINNUUEEDD  OOPPEERRAATTIIOONNSS -                                            -                                            
20.1 Income from Non-current Assets Held for Sale -                                         -                                         
20.2 Profit from Sales of Associates, Subsidiaries and Joint Ventures -                                         -                                         
20.3 Income from Other Discontinued Operations -                                         -                                         
XXXXII.. EEXXPPEENNSSEESS  FFOORR  DDIISSCCOONNTTIINNUUEEDD  OOPPEERRAATTIIOONNSS  ((--)) --                                                                            --                                                                            
21.1 Expenses for Non-current Assets Held for Sale -                                         -                                         
21.2 Loss from Sales of Associates, Subsidiaries and Joint Ventures -                                         -                                         
21.3 Expenses for Other Discontinued Operations -                                         -                                         
XXXXIIII.. PPRROOFFIITT//LLOOSSSS  BBEEFFOORREE  TTAAXX  FFRROOMM  DDIISSCCOONNTTIINNUUEEDD  OOPPEERRAATTIIOONNSS  ((XXXX--XXXXII)) ((IIVV--jj)) --                                                                            --                                                                            
XXXXIIIIII.. TTAAXX  PPRROOVVIISSIIOONN  FFOORR  DDIISSCCOONNTTIINNUUEEDD  OOPPEERRAATTIIOONNSS  ((±±)) ((IIVV--kk)) --                                                                            --                                                                            
23.1 Current Tax Provision -                                         -                                         
23.2 Deferred Tax Expense Effect (+) -                                         -                                         
23.3 Deferred Tax Income Effect (-) -                                         -                                         
XXXXIIVV.. CCUURRRREENNTT  PPEERRIIOODD  PPRROOFFIITT//LLOOSSSS  FFRROOMM  DDIISSCCOONNTTIINNUUEEDD  OOPPEERRAATTIIOONNSS  ((XXXXIIII±±XXXXIIIIII)) ((IIVV--ll)) -                                            -                                            
XXXXVV.. NNEETT  IINNCCOOMMEE//((LLOOSSSS))  ((XXIIXX++XXXXIIVV)) ((IIVV--mm)) 6600..002255..770077                                        1122..112277..119911                                        
25.1 Income/(Loss) from the Group 60.025.707                         12.127.191                         
25.2 Income/(Loss) from Minority Interest ((IIVV--hh)) -                                         -                                         

Earning/(Loss) per share (in TL full) 0,11543                              0,02332                              

                                                      The accompanying explanations and notes form an integral part of these financial statements.

  6

IIII..  CCOONNSSOOLLIIDDAATTEEDD  OOFFFF--BBAALLAANNCCEE  SSHHEEEETT  CCOOMMMMIITTMMEENNTTSS  AASS  OOFF  3311  DDEECCEEMMBBEERR  22002222
(Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL).)

CCUURRRREENNTT  PPEERRIIOODD PPRRIIOORR  PPEERRIIOODD
Note ((3311//1122//22002222)) ((3311//1122//22002211))

(Section Five) TL FC Total TL FC Total
AA..  OOFFFF--BBAALLAANNCCEE  SSHHEEEETT  CCOOMMMMIITTMMEENNTTSS  ((II++IIII++IIIIII)) 552255..665500..007733                      11..007766..007788..117744              11..660011..772288..224477              333355..884488..117766                      889900..332277..006611                11..222266..117755..223377              
II.. GGUUAARRAANNTTEEEESS  AANNDD  WWAARRRRAANNTTIIEESS ((IIIIII--aa--22,,  33)) 6688..005588..111166                          7733..224433..991188                          114411..330022..003344                      3322..776633..008855                          5555..557733..003311                    8888..333366..111166                          
1,1 Letters of Guarantee 51.738.063               45.730.576               97.468.639               26.591.294               31.957.346            58.548.640               
1.1.1 Guarantees Subject to State Tender Law 1.375.563                 6.044.920                 7.420.483                 1.155.719                 3.175.131              4.330.850                 
1.1.2 Guarantees Given for Foreign Trade Operations -                               2.595.601                 2.595.601                 -                               2.607.611              2.607.611                 
1.1.3 Other Letters of Guarantee 50.362.500               37.090.055               87.452.555               25.435.575               26.174.604            51.610.179               
1.2 Bank Acceptances 4.785                        190.323                    195.108                    -                               159.525                 159.525                    
1.2.1 Import Letter of Acceptance 4.785                        190.323                    195.108                    -                               159.525                 159.525                    
1.2.2 Other Bank Acceptances -                               -                               -                               -                               -                            -                               
1.3 Letters of Credit 2.058.977                 19.176.718               21.235.695               49.289                      15.121.137            15.170.426               
1.3.1 Documentary Letters of Credit 2.058.977                 16.898.022               18.956.999               49.289                      13.538.638            13.587.927               
1.3.2 Other Letters of Credit -                               2.278.696                 2.278.696                 -                               1.582.499              1.582.499                 
1.4 Prefinancing Given as Guarantee -                               -                               -                               -                               -                            -                               
1.5 Endorsements -                               -                               -                               -                               -                            -                               
1.5.1 Endorsements to the Central Bank of Turkey -                               -                               -                               -                               -                            -                               
1.5.2 Other Endorsements -                               -                               -                               -                               -                            -                               
1.6 Purchase Guarantees for Securities Issued -                               -                               -                               -                               -                            -                               
1.7 Factoring Guarantees -                               12.651                      12.651                      -                               23.003                   23.003                      
1.8 Other Guarantees 5.349.753                 8.127.523                 13.477.276               100.457                    8.295.370              8.395.827                 
1.9 Other Collaterals 8.906.538                 6.127                        8.912.665                 6.022.045                 16.650                   6.038.695                 
IIII.. CCOOMMMMIITTMMEENNTTSS ((IIIIII--aa--11)) 115544..999922..553377                      1166..666688..229988                          117711..666600..883355                      6688..558844..886611                          2211..777711..997733                    9900..335566..883344                          
2.1 Irrevocable Commitments 152.086.287             15.161.502               167.247.789             66.901.506               20.434.428            87.335.934               
2.1.1 Asset Purchase Commitments 1.025.346                 6.826.708                 7.852.054                 7.164.528                 14.387.946            21.552.474               
2.1.2 Deposit Purchase and Sales Commitments -                               -                               -                               -                               -                            -                               
2.1.3 Share Capital Commitments to Associates and Subsidiaries -                               -                               -                               -                               -                            -                               
2.1.4 Loan Granting Commitments 23.069.404               8.330.744                 31.400.148               13.266.649               6.041.228              19.307.877               
2.1.5 Securities Issue Brokerage Commitments -                               -                               -                               -                               -                            -                               
2.1.6 Commitments for Reserve Requirements -                               -                               -                               -                               -                            -                               
2.1.7 Commitments for Cheque Payments 4.523.116                 -                               4.523.116                 3.394.242                 -                            3.394.242                 
2.1.8 Tax and Fund Liabilities from Export Commitments 5.260                        -                               5.260                        5.934                        -                            5.934                        
2.1.9 Commitments for Credit Card Limits 106.067.149             -                               106.067.149             34.314.098               -                            34.314.098               
2.1.10 Commitments for Credit Cards and Banking Services Promotions 125.777                    -                               125.777                    130.112                    -                            130.112                    
2.1.11 Receivables from Short Sale Commitments of Marketable Securities -                               -                               -                               -                               -                            -                               
2.1.12 Payables for Short Sale Commitments of Marketable Securities -                               -                               -                               -                               -                            -                               
2.1.13 Other Irrevocable Commitments 17.270.235               4.050                        17.274.285               8.625.943                 5.254                     8.631.197                 
2.2 Revocable Commitments 2.906.250                 1.506.796                 4.413.046                 1.683.355                 1.337.545              3.020.900                 
2.2.1 Revocable Loan Granting Commitments 2.193.045                 -                               2.193.045                 1.364.856                 -                            1.364.856                 
2.2.2 Other Revocable Commitments 713.205                    1.506.796                 2.220.001                 318.499                    1.337.545              1.656.044                 
IIIIII.. DDEERRIIVVAATTIIVVEE  FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  IINNSSTTRRUUMMEENNTTSS ((IIIIII--bb)) 330022..559999..442200                      998866..116655..995588                      11..228888..776655..337788              223344..550000..223300                      881122..998822..005577                11..004477..448822..228877              
3.1 Hedging Derivative Financial Instruments 31.550.734               155.500.288             187.051.022             38.163.770               122.991.616          161.155.386             
3.1.1 Fair Value Hedges 20.741                      75.872.844               75.893.585               2.471.040                 56.739.869            59.210.909               
3.1.2 Cash Flow Hedges 31.529.993               79.627.444               111.157.437             35.692.730               66.251.747            101.944.477             
3.1.3 Foreign Net Investment Hedges -                               -                               -                               -                               -                            -                               
3.2 Trading Derivative Financial Instruments 271.048.686             830.665.670             1.101.714.356          196.336.460             689.990.441          886.326.901             
3.2.1 Forward Foreign Currency Buy/Sell Transactions 41.690.954               63.683.648               105.374.602             15.801.559               38.750.364            54.551.923               
3.2.1.1 Forward Foreign Currency Transactions-Buy 40.929.678               12.991.907               53.921.585               15.557.894               10.535.813            26.093.707               
3.2.1.2 Forward Foreign Currency Transactions-Sell 761.276                    50.691.741               51.453.017               243.665                    28.214.551            28.458.216               
3.2.2 Swap Transactions Related to Foreign Currency and Interest Rates 194.674.148             616.588.649             811.262.797             161.801.483             543.959.385          705.760.868             
3.2.2.1 Foreign Currency Swap-Buy 20.880.418               237.803.498             258.683.916             15.706.203               196.139.083          211.845.286             
3.2.2.2 Foreign Currency Swap-Sell 129.095.692             159.453.265             288.548.957             87.850.694               138.975.680          226.826.374             
3.2.2.3 Interest Rate Swap-Buy 22.349.019               109.665.943             132.014.962             29.122.293               104.422.311          133.544.604             
3.2.2.4 Interest Rate Swap-Sell 22.349.019               109.665.943             132.014.962             29.122.293               104.422.311          133.544.604             
3.2.3 Foreign Currency, Interest Rate and Securities Options 16.287.381               54.269.717               70.557.098               10.342.841               43.949.193            54.292.034               
3.2.3.1 Foreign Currency Options-Buy 14.853.112               9.143.046                 23.996.158               6.157.981                 6.456.188              12.614.169               
3.2.3.2 Foreign Currency Options-Sell 854.013                    22.589.883               23.443.896               3.577.964                 10.137.361            13.715.325               
3.2.3.3 Interest Rate Options-Buy -                               11.268.394               11.268.394               -                               13.677.822            13.677.822               
3.2.3.4 Interest Rate Options-Sell -                               11.268.394               11.268.394               -                               13.677.822            13.677.822               
3.2.3.5 Securities Options-Buy 35.733                      -                               35.733                      19.962                      -                            19.962                      
3.2.3.6 Securities Options-Sell 544.523                    -                               544.523                    586.934                    -                            586.934                    
3.2.4 Foreign Currency Futures 17.799.388               17.211.205               35.010.593               8.206.775                 8.114.789              16.321.564               
3.2.4.1 Foreign Currency Futures-Buy 16.167.045               1.519.274                 17.686.319               8.206.775                 -                            8.206.775                 
3.2.4.2 Foreign Currency Futures-Sell 1.632.343                 15.691.931               17.324.274               -                               8.114.789              8.114.789                 
3.2.5 Interest Rate Futures -                               -                               -                               -                               -                            -                               
3.2.5.1 Interest Rate Futures-Buy -                               -                               -                               -                               -                            -                               
3.2.5.2 Interest Rate Futures-Sell -                               -                               -                               -                               -                            -                               
3.2.6 Other 596.815                    78.912.451               79.509.266               183.802                    55.216.710            55.400.512               
BB..  CCUUSSTTOODDYY  AANNDD  PPLLEEDDGGEESS  RREECCEEIIVVEEDD  ((IIVV++VV++VVII)) 11..667744..331188..665599              11..112288..555588..559977              22..880022..887777..225566              11..009977..996600..008800              880077..557744..229922                11..990055..553344..337722              
IIVV.. IITTEEMMSS  HHEELLDD  IINN  CCUUSSTTOODDYY 114422..884488..001155                      114455..003322..332211                      228877..888800..333366                      9911..880011..440033                          8877..005544..881199                    117788..885566..222222                      
4.1 Customer Fund and Portfolio Balances 46.396.383               12.805.794               59.202.177               17.288.136               6.693.055              23.981.191               
4.2 Investment Securities Held in Custody 25.968.734               28.918.489               54.887.223               24.979.275               19.165.189            44.144.464               
4.3 Cheques Received for Collection 59.865.366               9.750.401                 69.615.767               41.556.021               8.993.088              50.549.109               
4.4 Commercial Notes Received for Collection 9.930.098                 14.741.077               24.671.175               7.595.783                 10.212.171            17.807.954               
4.5 Other Assets Received for Collection -                               -                               -                               -                               -                            -                               
4.6 Assets Received for Public Offering -                               -                               -                               -                               -                            -                               
4.7 Other Items Under Custody 687.434                    78.816.560               79.503.994               382.188                    41.991.316            42.373.504               
4.8 Custodians -                               -                               -                               -                               -                            -                               
VV.. PPLLEEDDGGEESS  RREECCEEIIVVEEDD 443344..668888..993300                      330033..111111..773366                      773377..880000..666666                      226622..997755..006666                      222277..775599..770033                449900..773344..776699                      
5.1 Marketable Securities 481.495                    5.799.505                 6.281.000                 449.676                    4.510.927              4.960.603                 
5.2 Guarantee Notes 1.004.209                 2.039.754                 3.043.963                 797.853                    1.391.005              2.188.858                 
5.3 Commodity 842.908                    653.844                    1.496.752                 347.908                    305.712                 653.620                    
5.4 Warranty -                               -                               -                               -                               -                            -                               
5.5 Immovables 268.059.922             232.870.595             500.930.517             182.144.809             170.646.985          352.791.794             
5.6 Other Pledged Items 164.300.396             61.748.038               226.048.434             79.234.820               50.905.074            130.139.894             
5.7 Pledged Items-Depository -                               -                               -                               -                               -                            -                               
VVII.. AACCCCEEPPTTEEDD  BBIILLLL,,  GGUUAARRAANNTTEEEESS  AANNDD  WWAARRRRAANNTTEEEESS  11..009966..778811..771144              668800..441144..554400                      11..777777..119966..225544              774433..118833..661111                      449922..775599..777700                11..223355..994433..338811              

TTOOTTAALL  OOFFFF--BBAALLAANNCCEE  SSHHEEEETT  CCOOMMMMIITTMMEENNTTSS  ((AA++BB)) 22..119999..996688..773322              22..220044..663366..777711              44..440044..660055..550033              11..443333..880088..225566              11..669977..990011..335533        33..113311..770099..660099              

                                                                                                            The accompanying explanations and notes form an integral part of these financial statements. 

    5

384 - 385Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

SSEE
CC

TTII
OO

NN
  TT

WW
OO

  
CC

OO
NN

SSOO
LLII

DD
AA

TTEE
DD

  FF
IINN

AA
NN

CC
IIAA

LL  
SSTT

AA
TTEE

MM
EENN

TTSS

VV..
  CC

OONN
SSOO

LLII
DD

AA
TTEE

DD
  SS

TTAA
TTEE

MM
EENN

TT  
OOFF

  CC
HH

AA
NN

GG
EESS

  IINN
  TT

HH
EE  

SSHH
AA

RR
EEHH

OOLL
DD

EERR
SS''

  EE
QQUU

IITT
YY  

FFOO
RR

  TT
HH

EE  
PPEE

RR
IIOO

DD
  EE

NN
DD

EEDD
  33

11  
DD

EECC
EEMM

BB
EERR

  22
0022

22
(A

m
ou

nt
s 

ar
e 

ex
pr

es
se

d 
in

 th
ou

sa
nd

s 
of

 T
ur

ki
sh

 L
ir

a 
(T

L)
).

N
ot

e
(S

ec
ti

on
 

Fi
ve

)
Pa

id
-i

n 
Ca

pi
ta

l
Sh

ar
e 

Pr
em

iu
m

s

Sh
ar

e 
Ca

nc
el

la
ti

on
 

Pr
of

it
s

Ot
he

r 
Ca

pi
ta

l 
R

es
er

ve
s

A
cc

um
ul

at
ed

 
R

ev
al

ua
ti

on
 

In
cr

ea
se

/D
ec

re
as

e 
of

 
Pr

op
er

ty
 a

nd
 

Eq
ui

pm
en

t

A
cc

um
ul

at
ed

 
R

em
ea

su
re

m
en

t 
G

ai
n/

Lo
ss

 o
f 

D
ef

in
ed

 B
en

ef
it

 P
la

n 

Ot
he

r 
(I

nv
es

tm
en

ts
 V

al
ue

d 
by

 
Eq

ui
ty

 M
et

ho
d 

in
 O

th
er

 
Co

m
pr

eh
en

si
ve

 In
co

m
e 

N
ot

 
Cl

as
si

fie
d 

Th
ro

ug
h 

Pr
of

it
 o

r 
Lo

ss
 

an
d 

Ot
he

r 
A

cc
um

ul
at

ed
 A

m
ou

nt
s 

of
 

Ot
he

r 
Co

m
pr

eh
en

si
ve

 In
co

m
e 

It
em

s 
N

ot
 R

ec
la

ss
ifi

ed
 T

hr
ou

gh
 O

th
er

 
Pr

of
it

 o
r 

Lo
ss

) 

Fo
re

ig
n 

Cu
rr

en
cy

 
Tr

an
sl

at
io

n 
D

iff
er

en
ce

s

A
cc

um
ul

at
ed

 
R

ev
al

ua
ti

on
 a

nd
/o

r 
R

em
ea

su
re

m
en

t 
G

ai
n/

Lo
ss

 o
f t

he
 

Fi
na

nc
ia

l A
ss

et
s 

at
 F

ai
r 

Va
lu

e 
Th

ro
ug

h 
Ot

he
r 

Co
m

pr
eh

en
si

ve
 In

co
m

e

Ot
he

r 
(C

as
h 

Fl
ow

 H
ed

ge
 G

ai
n/

Lo
ss

, 
In

ve
st

m
en

ts
 V

al
ue

d 
by

 E
qu

it
y 

M
et

ho
d 

in
 O

th
er

 C
om

pr
eh

en
si

ve
 

In
co

m
e 

Cl
as

si
fie

d 
Th

ro
ug

h 
Pr

of
it

 o
r 

Lo
ss

 a
nd

 O
th

er
 A

cc
um

ul
at

ed
 

A
m

ou
nt

s 
of

 O
th

er
 C

om
pr

eh
en

si
ve

 
In

co
m

e 
It

em
s 

R
ec

la
ss

ifi
ed

 T
hr

ou
gh

 
Ot

he
r 

Pr
of

it
 o

r 
Lo

ss
)

Pr
of

it
 R

es
er

ve
s

Pr
io

r 
Pe

ri
od

 
Pr

of
it

 o
r 

(L
os

s)
Cu

rr
en

t P
er

io
d 

Pr
of

it
 o

r 
(L

os
s)

To
ta

l E
qu

it
y 

Ex
ce

pt
 fr

om
 

M
in

or
it

y 
In

te
re

st
M

in
or

it
y 

In
te

re
st

To
ta

l 
Sh

ar
eh

ol
de

rs
' 

Eq
ui

ty

CCUU
RR

RR
EENN

TT  
PPEE

RR
IIOO

DD
((33

11//
1122

//22
0022

22))

II..
PP

rrii
oorr

  PP
eerr

iioo
dd  

EEnn
dd  

BB
aall

aann
ccee

5.
20

0.
00

0 
3.

50
5.

74
2 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

1.
81

4.
87

1 
2.

99
7.

82
9 

(3
63

.4
56

)
9.

58
2 

9.
87

8.
48

6 
(1

.8
03

.3
69

)
(3

.7
79

.8
92

)
45

.9
53

.2
98

 
41

9.
03

1 
12

.1
27

.1
91

 
75

.9
59

.3
13

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
75

.9
59

.3
13

 
IIII..

CC
oorr

rree
cctt

iioo
nnss

  aa
nndd

  AA
cccc

oouu
nntt

iinn
gg  

PP
ooll

iicc
yy  

CC
hhaa

nngg
eess

  MM
aadd

ee  
AA

cccc
oorr

ddii
nngg

  tt
oo  

TTAA
SS  

88
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

2.
1

Ef
fe

ct
s 

of
 C

or
re

ct
io

ns
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

2.
2

Ef
fe

ct
s 

of
 th

e 
C

ha
ng

es
 in

 A
cc

ou
nt

in
g 

Po
lic

ie
s

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
IIIIII

..
AA

ddjj
uuss

ttee
dd  

BB
eegg

iinn
nnii

nngg
  BB

aall
aann

ccee
  ((II

++II
II))

5.
20

0.
00

0 
3.

50
5.

74
2 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

1.
81

4.
87

1 
2.

99
7.

82
9 

(3
63

.4
56

)
9.

58
2 

9.
87

8.
48

6 
(1

.8
03

.3
69

)
(3

.7
79

.8
92

)
45

.9
53

.2
98

 
41

9.
03

1 
12

.1
27

.1
91

 
75

.9
59

.3
13

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
75

.9
59

.3
13

 
IV

.
To

ta
l C

om
pr

eh
en

si
ve

 In
co

m
e

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

6.
15

2.
99

8 
(1

.3
27

.1
11

)
1.

36
4 

4.
45

2.
29

8 
10

.2
99

.2
62

 
(7

46
.3

61
)

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

60
.0

25
.7

07
 

78
.8

58
.1

57
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

78
.8

58
.1

57
 

V.
C

ap
ita

l I
nc

re
as

e 
by

 C
as

h
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

VI
.

C
ap

ita
l I

nc
re

as
e 

by
 In

te
rn

al
 S

ou
rc

es
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

VI
I.

Pa
id

-i
n 

ca
pi

ta
l i

nf
la

tio
n 

ad
ju

st
m

en
t d

iff
er

en
ce

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
VI

II.
C

on
ve

rt
ib

le
 B

on
ds

 to
 S

ha
re

s
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

IX
.

Su
bo

rd
in

at
ed

 D
eb

t I
ns

tr
um

en
ts

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
X.

In
cr

ea
se

/D
ec

re
as

e 
by

 O
th

er
 C

ha
ng

es
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
(1

31
.0

99
)

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

35
5.

02
9 

(2
23

.9
30

)
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
XI

.
Pr

of
it 

D
is

tr
ib

ut
io

n
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

10
.9

30
.2

20
 

(1
4.

62
9)

(1
2.

12
7.

19
1)

(1
.2

11
.6

00
)

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

(1
.2

11
.6

00
)

11
.1

D
iv

id
en

ds
 p

ai
d

(V
-a

)
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

(1
.2

11
.6

00
)

(1
.2

11
.6

00
)

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

(1
.2

11
.6

00
)

11
.2

Tr
an

sf
er

s 
to

 R
es

er
ve

s
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

10
.9

30
.2

20
 

(1
4.

62
9)

(1
0.

91
5.

59
1)

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

11
.3

O
th

er
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

55..
2200

00..
0000

00  
33..

5500
55..

7744
22  

--
      

      
      

      
      

      
      

  
11..

8811
44..

8877
11  

99..
0011

99..
7722

88  
((11

..66
9900

..55
6677

))
1100

..99
4466

  
1144

..33
3300

..77
8844

  
88..

4499
55..

8899
33  

((44
..55

2266
..22

5533
))

5577
..22

3388
..55

4477
  

1188
00..

4477
22  

6600
..00

2255
..77

0077
  

1155
33..

6600
55..

8877
00  

--
      

      
      

      
      

      
      

  
1155

33..
6600

55..
8877

00  

   
   

   
   

   
   

Th
e 

ac
co

m
pa

ny
in

g 
ex

pl
an

at
io

ns
 a

nd
 n

ot
es

 fo
rm

 a
n 

in
te

gr
al

 p
ar

t o
f t

he
se

 fi
na

nc
ia

l s
ta

te
m

en
ts

.

A
cc

um
ul

at
ed

 O
th

er
 C

om
pr

eh
en

si
ve

 In
co

m
e 

or
 E

xp
en

se
 N

ot
 R

ec
la

ss
ifi

ed
 th

ro
ug

h 
Pr

of
it

 o
r 

Lo
ss

A
cc

um
ul

at
ed

 O
th

er
 C

om
pr

eh
en

si
ve

 In
co

m
e 

or
 E

xp
en

se
 R

ec
la

ss
ifi

ed
 th

ro
ug

h 
Pr

of
it

 o
r 

Lo
ss

 
8

IIVV..  CCOONNSSOOLLIIDDAATTEEDD  SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTT  OOFF  PPRROOFFIITT  OORR  LLOOSSSS  AANNDD  OOTTHHEERR  CCOOMMPPRREEHHEENNSSIIVVEE  IINNCCOOMMEE
FFOORR  TTHHEE  PPEERRIIOODD  EENNDDEEDD  3311  DDEECCEEMMBBEERR  22002222
(Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL).)

CCUURRRREENNTT  PPEERRIIOODD PPRRIIOORR  PPEERRIIOODD
((3311//1122//22002222)) ((3311//1122//22002211))

II.. CCUURRRREENNTT  PPEERRIIOODD  IINNCCOOMMEE//LLOOSSSS 6600..002255..770077                              1122..112277..119911                              
IIII.. OOTTHHEERR  CCOOMMPPRREEHHEENNSSIIVVEE  IINNCCOOMMEE 1188..883322..445500                              11..553344..332277                                  
22..11 NNoott  RReeccllaassssiiffiieedd  TThhrroouugghh  PPrrooffiitt  oorr  LLoossss 44..882277..225511                                  ((111166..443399))                                      
2.1.1 Property and Equipment Revaluation Increase/Decrease 7.317.241                    13.183                         
2.1.2 Intangible Assets Revaluation Increase/Decrease -                                   -                                   
2.1.3 Defined Benefit Plan Remeasurement Gain/Loss (1.799.206)                   (158.728)                      
2.1.4 Other Comprehensive Income Items Not Reclassified Through Profit or Loss 1.364                           -                                   
2.1.5 Tax Related Other Comprehensive Income Items Not Reclassified Through Profit or Loss (692.148)                      29.106                         
22..22 RReeccllaassssiiffiieedd  TThhrroouugghh  PPrrooffiitt  oorr  LLoossss 1144..000055..119999                              11..665500..776666                                  
2.2.1 Foreign Currency Translation Differences 4.452.298                    5.137.658                    
2.2.2 Valuation and/or Reclassification Income/Expense of the Financial Assets at Fair Value through Other 

Comprehensive Income 13.442.627                  (2.867.688)                   
2.2.3 Cash Flow Hedge Income/Loss 2.555.107                    3.174.983                    
2.2.4 Foreign Net Investment Hedge Income/Loss (3.815.477)                   (4.698.557)                   
2.2.5 Other Comprehensive Income Items Reclassified Through Profit or Loss -                                   -                                   
2.2.6 Tax Related Other Comprehensive Income Items Reclassified Through Profit or Loss (2.629.356)                   904.370                       

IIIIII.. TTOOTTAALL  CCOOMMPPRREEHHEENNSSIIVVEE  IINNCCOOMMEE  ((II++IIII)) 7788..885588..115577                              1133..666611..551188                              

The accompanying explanations and notes form an integral part of these financial statements.

   7

386 - 387Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

SSEECCTTIIOONN  TTWWOO  
CCOONNSSOOLLIIDDAATTEEDD  FFIINNAANNCCIIAALL  SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTTSS

VVII..  CCOONNSSOOLLIIDDAATTEEDD  SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTT  OOFF  CCAASSHH  FFLLOOWWSS  FFOORR  TTHHEE  PPEERRIIOODD  EENNDDEEDD  3311  DDEECCEEMMBBEERR  22002222
(Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL)).

Note CCUURRRREENNTT  PPEERRIIOODD PRIOR PERIOD
(Section Five) ((3311//1122//22002222)) ((3311//1122//22002211))

AA.. CCAASSHH  FFLLOOWWSS  FFRROOMM  BBAANNKKIINNGG  OOPPEERRAATTIIOONNSS

1.1 Operating Profit before changes in operating assets and liabilities 13.013.166                9.321.555                  

1.1.1 Interest received 82.440.128                42.582.009                
1.1.2 Interest paid (47.682.151)               (25.870.208)               
1.1.3 Dividend received 91.618                       13.156                       
1.1.4 Fees and commissions received 15.790.965                7.823.411                  
1.1.5 Other income (11.029.180)               (6.749.486)                 
1.1.6 Collections from previously written-off loans and other receivables 4.055.243                  2.986.230                  
1.1.7 Cash Payments to personnel and service suppliers (7.536.919)                 (3.798.483)                 
1.1.8 Taxes paid (13.120.180)               (3.214.806)                 
1.1.9 Other (VI-b) (9.996.358)                 (4.450.268)                 

1.2 Changes in operating assets and liabilities 17.844.296                36.272.714                

1.2.1 Net Increase/Decrease in Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss 9.439.318                  (9.152.953)                 
1.2.2 Net (increase) / decrease in due from banks and other financial institutions 9.066.867                  (13.139.564)               
1.2.3 Net (increase) / decrease in loans (232.976.934)             (114.058.841)             
1.2.4 Net (increase) / decrease in other assets (83.315.188)               (47.238.788)               
1.2.5 Net increase / (decrease) in bank deposits 2.312.895                  1.259.374                  
1.2.6 Net increase / (decrease) in other deposits 261.480.393              159.281.871              
1.2.7 Net Increase/Decrease in Financial Liabilities at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss -                                -                                
1.2.8 Net increase / (decrease) in funds borrowed 18.407.713                20.539.159                
1.2.9 Net increase / (decrease) in payables -                                -                                
1.2.10 Net increase / (decrease) in other liabilities (VI-b) 33.429.232                38.782.456                

I. Net cash provided from banking operations 30.857.462                45.594.269                

BB.. CCAASSHH  FFLLOOWWSS  FFRROOMM  IINNVVEESSTTIINNGG  AACCTTIIVVIITTIIEESS

II. Net cash provided from investing activities (42.479.754)               (45.566.521)               

2.1 Cash paid for acquisition of investments, associates and subsidiaries -                                (180)                           
2.2 Cash obtained from disposal of investments, associates and subsidiaries -                                -                                
2.3 Purchases of property and equipment (4.180.268)                 (1.100.355)                 
2.4 Disposals of property and equipment 65.153                       229.095                     
2.5 Purchase of Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income (82.296.141)               (61.664.281)               
2.6 Sale of Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income 33.182.254                18.005.091                
2.7 Purchase of Financial Assets Measured at Amortised Cost (12.928.334)               (17.887.458)               
2.8 Sale of Financial Assets Measured at Amortised Cost 6.056.237                  15.853.467                
2.9 Other 17.621.345                998.100                     

CC.. CCAASSHH  FFLLOOWWSS  FFRROOMM  FFIINNAANNCCIINNGG  AACCTTIIVVIITTIIEESS

III. Net cash provided from financing activities (8.154.097)                 21.883.924                

3.1 Cash obtained from funds borrowed and securities issued 32.471.475                44.931.900                
3.2 Cash used for repayment of funds borrowed and securities issued (38.979.583)               (22.115.394)               
3.3 Issued equity instruments -                                -                                
3.4 Dividends paid (1.211.600)                 (626.080)                    
3.5 Payments for finance leases (434.389)                    (306.502)                    
3.6 Other -                                -                                

IV. Effect of change in foreign exchange rate on cash and cash equivalents (VI-b) 13.280.276                13.209.138                

V. Net increase in cash and cash equivalents (I+II+III+IV) (6.496.113)                 35.120.810                

VI. Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the period (VI-a) 48.616.116                13.495.306                

VII. Cash and cash equivalents at end of the period (VI-a) 42.120.003                48.616.116                

                                                                         The accompanying explanations and notes form an integral part of these financial statements.

   10

VV..
  CC

OONN
SSOO

LLII
DD

AA
TTEE

DD
  SS

TTAA
TTEE

MM
EENN

TT  
OOFF

  CC
HH

AA
NN

GG
EESS

  IINN
  TT

HH
EE  

SSHH
AA

RR
EEHH

OOLL
DD

EERR
SS''

  EE
QQUU

IITT
YY  

FFOO
RR

  TT
HH

EE  
PPEE

RR
IIOO

DD
  EE

NN
DD

EEDD
  33

11  
DD

EECC
EEMM

BB
EERR

  22
0022

11
(A

m
ou

nt
s 

ar
e 

ex
pr

es
se

d 
in

 th
ou

sa
nd

s 
of

 T
ur

ki
sh

 L
ir

a 
(T

L)
).

N
ot

e
(S

ec
ti

on
 

Fi
ve

)
Pa

id
-i

n 
Ca

pi
ta

l
Sh

ar
e 

Pr
em

iu
m

s

Sh
ar

e 
Ca

nc
el

la
ti

on
 

Pr
of

it
s

Ot
he

r 
Ca

pi
ta

l 
R

es
er

ve
s

A
cc

um
ul

at
ed

 
R

ev
al

ua
ti

on
 

In
cr

ea
se

/D
ec

re
as

e 
of

 
Pr

op
er

ty
 a

nd
 

Eq
ui

pm
en

t

A
cc

um
ul

at
ed

 
R

em
ea

su
re

m
en

t 
G

ai
n/

Lo
ss

 o
f 

D
ef

in
ed

 B
en

ef
it

 P
la

n 

Ot
he

r 
(I

nv
es

tm
en

ts
 V

al
ue

d 
by

 
Eq

ui
ty

 M
et

ho
d 

in
 O

th
er

 
Co

m
pr

eh
en

si
ve

 In
co

m
e 

N
ot

 
Cl

as
si

fie
d 

Th
ro

ug
h 

Pr
of

it
 o

r 
Lo

ss
 

an
d 

Ot
he

r 
A

cc
um

ul
at

ed
 A

m
ou

nt
s 

of
 

Ot
he

r 
Co

m
pr

eh
en

si
ve

 In
co

m
e 

It
em

s 
N

ot
 R

ec
la

ss
ifi

ed
 T

hr
ou

gh
 O

th
er

 
Pr

of
it

 o
r 

Lo
ss

) 

Fo
re

ig
n 

Cu
rr

en
cy

 
Tr

an
sl

at
io

n 
D

iff
er

en
ce

s

A
cc

um
ul

at
ed

 
R

ev
al

ua
ti

on
 a

nd
/o

r 
R

em
ea

su
re

m
en

t 
G

ai
n/

Lo
ss

 o
f t

he
 

Fi
na

nc
ia

l A
ss

et
s 

at
 F

ai
r 

Va
lu

e 
Th

ro
ug

h 
Ot

he
r 

Co
m

pr
eh

en
si

ve
 In

co
m

e

Ot
he

r 
(C

as
h 

Fl
ow

 H
ed

ge
 G

ai
n/

Lo
ss

, 
In

ve
st

m
en

ts
 V

al
ue

d 
by

 E
qu

it
y 

M
et

ho
d 

in
 O

th
er

 C
om

pr
eh

en
si

ve
 

In
co

m
e 

Cl
as

si
fie

d 
Th

ro
ug

h 
Pr

of
it

 o
r 

Lo
ss

 a
nd

 O
th

er
 A

cc
um

ul
at

ed
 

A
m

ou
nt

s 
of

 O
th

er
 C

om
pr

eh
en

si
ve

 
In

co
m

e 
It

em
s 

R
ec

la
ss

ifi
ed

 T
hr

ou
gh

 
Ot

he
r 

Pr
of

it
 o

r 
Lo

ss
)

Pr
of

it
 R

es
er

ve
s

Pr
io

r 
Pe

ri
od

 
Pr

of
it

 o
r 

(L
os

s)
Cu

rr
en

t P
er

io
d 

Pr
of

it
 o

r 
(L

os
s)

To
ta

l E
qu

it
y 

Ex
ce

pt
 fr

om
 

M
in

or
it

y 
In

te
re

st
M

in
or

it
y 

In
te

re
st

To
ta

l 
Sh

ar
eh

ol
de

rs
' 

Eq
ui

ty

PPRR
IIOO

RR
  PP

EERR
IIOO

DD
((33

11//
1122

//22
0022

11))

II..
PP

rrii
oorr

  PP
eerr

iioo
dd  

EEnn
dd  

BB
aall

aann
ccee

5.
20

0.
00

0
   

   
   

   
3.

50
5.

74
2

   
   

   
   

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

1.
81

4.
87

1
   

   
   

   
3.

01
6.

53
4

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

(2
36

.4
74

)
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
9.

58
2

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
4.

74
0.

82
8

   
   

   
   

46
7.

15
9

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

(2
.5

63
.5

28
)

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

40
.1

17
.9

63
   

   
   

 
59

1.
57

3
   

   
   

   
   

6.
25

9.
62

5
   

   
   

   
62

.9
23

.8
75

   
   

   
 

18
2

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

62
.9

24
.0

57
   

   
   

 
IIII..

CC
oorr

rree
cctt

iioo
nnss

  aa
nndd

  AA
cccc

oouu
nntt

iinn
gg  

PP
ooll

iicc
yy  

CC
hhaa

nngg
eess

  MM
aadd

ee  
AA

cccc
oorr

ddii
nngg

  tt
oo  

TTAA
SS  

88
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
2.

1
Ef

fe
ct

s 
of

 C
or

re
ct

io
ns

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

2.
2

Ef
fe

ct
s 

of
 th

e 
C

ha
ng

es
 in

 A
cc

ou
nt

in
g 

Po
lic

ie
s

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

IIIIII
..

AA
ddjj

uuss
ttee

dd  
BB

eegg
iinn

nnii
nngg

  BB
aall

aann
ccee

  ((II
++II

II))
5.

20
0.

00
0

   
   

   
   

3.
50

5.
74

2
   

   
   

   
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
1.

81
4.

87
1

   
   

   
   

3.
01

6.
53

4
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
(2

36
.4

74
)

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

9.
58

2
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

4.
74

0.
82

8
   

   
   

   
46

7.
15

9
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
(2

.5
63

.5
28

)
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
40

.1
17

.9
63

   
   

   
 

59
1.

57
3

   
   

   
   

   
6.

25
9.

62
5

   
   

   
   

62
.9

23
.8

75
   

   
   

 
18

2
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
62

.9
24

.0
57

   
   

   
 

IV
.

To
ta

l C
om

pr
eh

en
si

ve
 In

co
m

e
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
10

.5
43

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

(1
26

.9
82

)
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
5.

13
7.

65
8

   
   

   
   

(2
.2

70
.5

28
)

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
(1

.2
16

.3
64

)
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
12

.1
27

.1
91

   
   

   
 

13
.6

61
.5

18
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
13

.6
61

.5
18

   
   

   
 

V.
C

ap
ita

l I
nc

re
as

e 
by

 C
as

h
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
VI

.
C

ap
ita

l I
nc

re
as

e 
by

 In
te

rn
al

 S
ou

rc
es

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

VI
I.

Pa
id

-i
n 

ca
pi

ta
l i

nf
la

tio
n 

ad
ju

st
m

en
t d

iff
er

en
ce

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

VI
II.

C
on

ve
rt

ib
le

 B
on

ds
 to

 S
ha

re
s

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

IX
.

Su
bo

rd
in

at
ed

 D
eb

t I
ns

tr
um

en
ts

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

X.
In

cr
ea

se
/D

ec
re

as
e 

by
 O

th
er

 C
ha

ng
es

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

(2
9.

24
8)

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
29

.2
48

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

(1
82

)
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

(1
82

)
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

XI
.

Pr
of

it 
D

is
tr

ib
ut

io
n

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

5.
80

6.
08

7
   

   
   

   
(1

72
.5

42
)

   
   

   
   

  
(6

.2
59

.6
25

)
   

   
   

  
(6

26
.0

80
)

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
(6

26
.0

80
)

   
   

   
   

  
11

.1
D

iv
id

en
ds

 p
ai

d
(V

-a
)

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
 

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

(6
26

.0
80

)
   

   
   

   
  

(6
26

.0
80

)
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

(6
26

.0
80

)
   

   
   

   
  

11
.2

Tr
an

sf
er

s 
to

 R
es

er
ve

s
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
5.

80
6.

08
7

   
   

   
   

(1
72

.5
42

)
   

   
   

   
  

(5
.6

33
.5

45
)

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

11
.3

O
th

er
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

-
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  
-

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

  

55..
2200

00..
0000

00
      

      
    

33..
5500

55..
7744

22
      

      
    

--
      

      
      

      
      

      
      

  
11..

8811
44..

8877
11

      
      

    
22..

9999
77..

8822
99

      
      

      
      

      
    

((33
6633

..44
5566

))
      

      
      

      
      

    
99..

5588
22

      
      

      
      

      
      

      
      

      
      

      
      

      
      

      
      

99..
8877

88..
4488

66
      

      
    

((11
..88

0033
..33

6699
))

      
      

      
      

      
      

  
((33

..77
7799

..88
9922

))
      

      
      

      
      

      
      

      
      

      
      

      
      

  
4455

..99
5533

..22
9988

      
      

4411
99..

0033
11

      
      

      
    

1122
..11

2277
..11

9911
      

      
7755

..99
5599

..33
1133

      
      

--
      

      
      

      
      

      
      

    
7755

..99
5599

..33
1133

      
      

A
cc

um
ul

at
ed

 O
th

er
 C

om
pr

eh
en

si
ve

 In
co

m
e 

or
 E

xp
en

se
 N

ot
 R

ec
la

ss
ifi

ed
 th

ro
ug

h 
Pr

of
it

 o
r 

Lo
ss

A
cc

um
ul

at
ed

 O
th

er
 C

om
pr

eh
en

si
ve

 In
co

m
e 

or
 E

xp
en

se
 R

ec
la

ss
ifi

ed
 th

ro
ug

h 
Pr

of
it

 o
r 

Lo
ss

   
   

   
   

   
   

Th
e 

ac
co

m
pa

ny
in

g 
ex

pl
an

at
io

ns
 a

nd
 n

ot
es

 fo
rm

 a
n 

in
te

gr
al

 p
ar

t o
f t

he
se

 fi
na

nc
ia

l s
ta

te
m

en
ts

.

 
 9

388 - 389Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

12 
 

SECTION THREE 
EXPLANATIONS ON ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

I. EXPLANATIONS ON BASIS OF PRESENTATION: 
 
aa.. TThhee  pprreeppaarraattiioonn  ooff  tthhee  ccoonnssoolliiddaatteedd  ffiinnaanncciiaall  ssttaatteemmeennttss  aanndd  rreellaatteedd  nnootteess  aanndd  eexxppllaannaattiioonnss  iinn  aaccccoorrddaannccee  wwiitthh  tthhee  
TTuurrkkiisshh  AAccccoouunnttiinngg  SSttaannddaarrddss  aanndd  RReegguullaattiioonn  oonn  AAccccoouunnttiinngg  AApppplliiccaattiioonnss  ffoorr  BBaannkkss  aanndd  SSaaffeegguuaarrddiinngg  ooff  DDooccuummeennttss::  
  
The consolidated financial statements are prepared within the scope of the “Regulation on Accounting Applications for Banks and 
Safeguarding of Documents” related with Banking Law numbered 5411 published in the Official Gazette no.26333 dated 1 
November 2006 and in accordance with the regulations, communiqués, interpretations and legislations related to accounting and 
financial reporting principles published by the Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency (“BRSA”), and in case where a specific 
regulation is not made by BRSA, Turkish Accounting Standard 34 (“TAS 34”) Interim Financial Reporting Standard and “Turkish 
Financial Reporting Standards” (“TFRS”) and related appendices and interpretations put into effect by Public Oversight Accounting 
and Auditing Standards Authority (“POA”). The format and content of the publicly announced consolidated financial statements and 
notes to these statements have been prepared in accordance with the “Communiqué on Publicly Announced Financial Statements, 
Explanations and Notes to These Financial Statements” and “Communiqué On Disclosures About Risk Management To Be 
Announced To Public By Banks” and amendments to this Communiqué. The Bank maintains its books in Turkish Lira in 
accordance with the Banking Law, Turkish Commercial Code and Turkish Tax Legislation. 
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in TL, under the historical cost convention except for the financial 
assets and liabilities carried at fair value. Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated. 

The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with TFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting 
estimates by the Bank management to exercise its judgment on the assets and liabilities of the balance sheet and contingent 
issues as of the balance sheet date. These estimates, which include the fair value calculations of financial instruments and 
impairments of financial assets are being reviewed regularly and, when necessary, suitable corrections are made and the effects 
of these corrections are reflected to the income statement. Assumptions and estimates that are used in the preparation of the 
accompanying financial statements are explained in the following related disclosures. 
 

EExxppllaannaattiioonn  ffoorr  ccoonnvveenniieennccee  ttrraannssllaattiioonn  ttoo  EEnngglliisshh::  

The differences between accounting principles, as described in these preceding paragraphs and accounting principles generally 
accepted in countries in which consolidated financial statements are to be distributed and International Financial Reporting 
Standards (“IFRS”) have not been quantified in these consolidated financial statements. Accordingly, these consolidated financial 
statements are not intended to present the financial position, results of operations and changes in financial position and cash 
flows in accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted in such countries and IFRS. 

bb.. AAccccoouunnttiinngg  ppoolliicciieess  aanndd  vvaalluuaattiioonn  pprriinncciipplleess  uusseedd  iinn  tthhee  pprreeppaarraattiioonn  ooff  tthhee  ffiinnaanncciiaall  ssttaatteemmeennttss::  

Accounting policies and valuation principles adopted when preparing financial statements are in line with the legislation, 
communiqué, explanation and circular released by BRSA concerning accounting and financial reporting, and, for matters which 
are not regulated by the foregoing, with the provisions of TAS/TFRS (together “BRSA Accounting and Financial Reporting 
Legislation) put into force by Public Oversight, Accounting and Auditing Standards Authority (POA).  

On 20 January 2022, the Public Oversight Authority made a statement on whether the Financial Reporting Standard (“TAS 29”) in 
Hyperinflationary Economies shall be applied within the scope of Turkish Financial Reporting Standards, Financial Reporting 
Standard for Large and Medium Sized Enterprises. Accordingly, it has been stated that companies applying TFRS do not need to 
make any adjustments in their financial statements for 2021 within the scope of TAS 29 Financial Reporting in High Inflation 
Economies. As of the preparation date of these financial statements, no new announcement has been made by the Public 
Oversight Authority in this context, and no inflation adjustment has been made in the financial statements dated 31 December 2022 
within the scope of TAS 29 Financial Reporting Standard in Hyperinflationary Economies. 

 

VVIIII..  PPRROOFFIITT  AAPPPPRROOPPRRIIAATTIIOONN  SSTTAATTEEMMEENNTT
(Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL)).

CCUURRRREENNTT  PPEERRIIOODD PPRRIIOORR  PPEERRIIOODD
((3311//1122//22002222)) ((3311//1122//22002211))

II..  DDIISSTTRRIIBBUUTTIIOONN  OOFF  CCUURRRREENNTT  YYEEAARR  IINNCCOOMMEE

1.1 CURRENT YEAR INCOME 79.260.402               16.066.140               
1.2 TAXES AND DUTIES PAYABLE 19.236.318               3.940.232                 
1.2.1 Corporate Tax (Income Tax) 19.823.331               2.969.973                 
1.2.2 Income Withholding Tax -                               -                               
1.2.3 Other taxes and duties (587.013)                   970.259                    

AA.. NNEETT  IINNCCOOMMEE  FFOORR  TTHHEE  YYEEAARR  ((11..11--11..22)) 6600..002244..008844                        1122..112255..990088                        

1.3 PRIOR YEAR LOSSES (-) -                               -                               
1.4 FIRST LEGAL RESERVES (-) -                               -                               
1.5 OTHER STATUTORY RESERVES (-) -                               -                               

BB.. NNEETT  IINNCCOOMMEE  AAVVAAIILLAABBLLEE  FFOORR  DDIISSTTRRIIBBUUTTIIOONN  [[((AA--((11..33++11..44++11..55))]] 6600..002244..008844                        1122..112255..990088                        

1.6 FIRST DIVIDEND TO SHAREHOLDERS (-) -                               260.000                    
1.6.1 To Owners of Ordinary Shares -                               260.000                    
1.6.2 To Owners of Privileged Shares -                               -                               
1.6.3 To Owners of Preferred Shares -                               -                               
1.6.4 To Profit Sharing Bonds -                               -                               
1.6.5 To Holders of Profit and (Loss) Sharing Certificates -                               -                               
1.7 DIVIDENDS TO PERSONNEL (-) -                               -                               
1.8 DIVIDENDS TO BOARD OF DIRECTORS (-) -                               -                               
1.9 SECOND DIVIDEND TO SHAREHOLDERS (-) -                               951.600                    
1.9.1 To Owners of Ordinary Shares -                               951.600                    
1.9.2 To Owners of Privileged Shares -                               -                               
1.9.3 To Owners of Preferred Shares -                               -                               
1.9.4 To Profit Sharing Bonds -                               -                               
1.9.5 To Holders of Profit and (Loss) Sharing Certificates -                               -                               
1.10 SECOND LEGAL RESERVES (-) -                               -                               
1.11 STATUTORY RESERVES (-) -                               -                               
1.12 EXTRAORDINARY RESERVES -                               10.818.494               
1.13 OTHER RESERVES -                               95.160                      
1.14 SPECIAL FUNDS -                               654                           

IIII.. DDIISSTTRRIIBBUUTTIIOONN  OOFF  RREESSEERRVVEESS

2.1 APPROPRIATED RESERVES -                               -                               
2.2 SECOND LEGAL RESERVES (-) -                               -                               
2.3 DIVIDENDS TO SHAREHOLDERS (-) -                               -                               
2.3.1 To Owners of Ordinary Shares -                               -                               
2.3.2 To Owners of Privileged Shares -                               -                               
2.3.3 To Owners of Preferred Shares -                               -                               
2.3.4 To Profit Sharing Bonds -                               -                               
2.3.5 To Holders of Profit and (Loss) Sharing Certificates -                               -                               
2.4 DIVIDENDS TO PERSONNEL (-) -                               -                               
2.5 DIVIDENDS TO BOARD OF DIRECTORS (-) -                               -                               

IIIIII..  EEAARRNNIINNGGSS  PPEERR  SSHHAARREE  ((**))

3.1 TO OWNERS OF ORDINARY SHARES 0,115                        0,023                        
3.2 TO OWNERS OF ORDINARY SHARES ( % ) 11,5                          2,3                            
3.3 TO OWNERS OF PRIVILEGED SHARES -                               -                               
3.4 TO OWNERS OF PRIVILEGED SHARES ( % ) -                               -                               

IIVV..  DDIIVVIIDDEENNDD  PPEERR  SSHHAARREE

4.1 TO OWNERS OF ORDINARY SHARES -                               0,002                        
4.2 TO OWNERS OF ORDINARY SHARES ( % ) -                               0,2                            
4.3 TO OWNERS OF PRIVILEGED SHARES -                               -                               
4.4 TO OWNERS OF PRIVILEGED SHARES ( % ) -                               -                               

((22)) Profit appropriation is being done according to unconsolidated financial statements.

(*) Amounts are expressed in TL.

NNOOTTEESS::  

((11))  Authorized body for profit appropriation of the current period is the General Assembly. On the preparation date of these financial statements, 
yearly ordinary meeting of the General Assembly has not been held yet.

The accompanying explanations and notes form an integral part of these financial statements.

 11 

390 - 391Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
14 

 

Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the 
Group. 

The Parent Bank and its subsidiaries, Ak Finansal Kiralama A.Ş., Ak Yatırım Menkul Değerler A.Ş., AK Portföy Yönetimi A.Ş., 
Akbank AG, AkÖde Elektronik Para ve Ödeme Hizmetleri A.Ş. and together with A.R.T.S. Ltd., which is not subsidiary of the 
Bank,this company is a “Structured Entity”, has been included in the scope of consolidation. The Parent Bank together with its 
consolidated subsidiaries are referred to as the “Group”. 

Ak Yatırım Menkul Değerler A.Ş. was established on 11 December 1996 to trade in capital markets in accordance with Capital 
Market Law. This company is delivering intermediary services in capital markets, discretionary portfolio management, derivative 
transactions, repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements with authorizations given by the Capital Markets Board for each 
transaction. 

Ak Finansal Kiralama A.Ş. was established in 1988 for leasing operations and all kinds of agreements and transactions related to 
these operations. 

Ak Portföy Yönetimi A.Ş. was established on 28 June 2000 and manages its own investment (mutual) funds and AgeSA Hayat ve 
Emeklilik A.Ş. and some of the pension funds established by Axa Hayat Emeklilik A.Ş., Allianz Hayat Emeklilik A.Ş. and Allianz 
Yaşam Emeklilik A.Ş., The company also is managing both individual and institutional customers' portfolios, it continues investing 
in the Fund SICAV 2 Turkey on the international market and founder of 1 Sompo Japan in money market funds management 
activities.  

Akbank AG operates in Germany, providing corporate, consumer and private banking services. 

Aköde Elektronik Para ve Ödeme Hizmetleri A.Ş., 100% owned by the Bank, has been established on 19 February 2018 to provide 
payment services and electronic money issuance under the Law No. 6493 on Payment and Securities Settlement Systems, 
Payment Services and Electronic Money Institutions registered in the trade registry. 

A.R.T.S. Ltd. is a “Structured Entity” which was established in November 1999 for the purpose of supplying long-term financing. 

IV. EXPLANATIONS ON FORWARD TRANSACTIONS, OPTIONS AND DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS: 

The Group's major derivative instruments consists of foreign currency and interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps, currency 
options and currency forwards.  

The Bank classifies its derivative instruments as “Derivative Financial Assets Measured at Fair Value Through Profit and Loss” in 
accordance with “TFRS 9 Financial Instruments" (TFRS 9).  

Liabilities and receivables arising from the derivative instruments are followed in the off-balance sheet accounts at their 
contractual values. 

Derivative instruments are remeasured at fair value after initial recognition. In accordance with the classification of the derivative 
instrument, if the fair value of a derivative financial instrument is positive, it is recorded to the account “Derivative Financial Assets 
Measured at Fair Value Through Profit and Loss” or “Derivative Financial Assets Measured at Fair Value Through Other 
Comprehensive Income”; if the fair value difference is negative, it is disclosed in “Derivative Financial Liabilities Measured at Fair 
Value Through Profit and Loss” or “Derivative Financial Liabilities Measured at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income”. 
Differences in the fair value of trading derivative instruments are accounted as income/loss from derivative financial transactions 
under “trading income/loss” item in the income statement. The basis on accounting of derivative instruments for hedging purposes 
are explained in Note XI of Section Four. The fair values of the derivative financial instruments are calculated using quoted market 
prices or by using discounted cash flow models. 

As of 31 December 2022, the Group has no embedded derivative instruments (31 December 2021: None). 

 

 

 

 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

13 
 

The stress tension Russia and Ukraine since the beginning of 2022 has turned into a crisis and a hot conflict and continues as of 
the date of preparation of these financial statements. The Group does not have operations in either country, and the said crisis is 
not expected to have a direct impact on the Group's operations. Developments are followed and their estimated effects are 
evaluated within the scope of the relevant accounting standards and reflected in the financial statements. 

cc.. IItteemmss  SSuubbjjeecctt  ttoo  ddiiffffeerreenntt  aaccccoouunnttiinngg  ppoolliicciieess  iinn  tthhee  pprreeppaarraattiioonn  ooff  ccoonnssoolliiddaatteedd  ffiinnaanncciiaall  ssttaatteemmeennttss::  

There are no items subject to different accounting policies in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements. 

II. EXPLANATIONS ON STRATEGY OF USING FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND EXPLANATIONS ON FOREIGN CURRENCY 
TRANSACTIONS: 

The Group’s core business activities include consumer banking, SME banking, commercial banking, and corporate-investment 
banking and private banking and wealth management, foreign exchange, money markets, securities transactions (Treasury 
transactions) and international banking services. The Group performs financial leasing transactions through Ak Finansal Kiralama 
A.Ş. By nature, the Group’s activities are principally related to the use of financial instruments. As the main funding source, the 
Group accepts deposits from customers for various periods and invests these funds in high quality assets with high interest 
margins. Other than deposits, the Group’s most important funding sources are equity, marketable securities issued, money 
market borrowings and mostly borrowings from foreign financial institutions. The Group follows an asset-liability management 
strategy that mitigates risk and increases earnings by balancing the funds borrowed and the investments in various financial 
assets. The main objective of asset-liability management is to limit the Group’s exposure to liquidity risk, interest rate risk, 
currency risk and credit risk while increasing profitability and strengthening the Group’s equity. The Asset-Liability Committee 
(“ALCO”) manages the assets and liabilities within the trading limits on the level of exposure placed by the Executive Risk 
Committee (“ERC”). 

Foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities have been evaluated by buying exchange rates of last period for the 
Parent Bank and by the exchange rates of the Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey for domestic subsidiaries. Gains and losses 
arising from such transactions are recognized in the income statement under the account of “Net foreign exchange 
income/expense”. Assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are translated into Turkish lira using the foreign exchange rates 
prevailing at the balance sheet date, income and expenses of foreign subsidiaries are translated into Turkish Lira at the average 
exchange rates and all resulting exchange differences are accounted in the shareholders’ equity under “Other profit reserves”.  

As of 31 December 2022, for the Parent Bank foreign currency denominated balances are translated into TL using the exchange 
rates of TL 18,6983 and TL 19,9349 for USD and EURO respectively. 

III. EXPLANATIONS ON EQUITY INVESTMENTS: 

Consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with the “Turkish Financial Reporting Standard for Consolidated 
Financial Statements” (“TFRS 10”) and “Communiqué on Preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements of Banks” published in 
the Official Gazette no.26340 dated 8 November 2006. 

Consolidation principles for subsidiaries: 

Subsidiaries are the entities controlled directly or indirectly by the Bank.  

Subsidiaries are consolidated using the full consolidation method. Financial statements of related subsidiaries are consolidated 
from the date when the control is transferred to the Bank. 

Control is defined as the power over the investee, exposure or rights to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and 
the ability to use its power over the investee to affect the amount of the Bank’s returns. 

In the full consolidation method, 100% of subsidiaries’ assets, liabilities, income, expense and off-balance sheet items are 
combined with the Parent Bank’s assets, liabilities, income, expense and off-balance sheet items. 

The carrying amount of the Group’s investment in each subsidiary and the Group’s portion of the cost value of the capital of each 
subsidiary are eliminated. Intragroup balances and intragroup transactions and resulting unrealized profits and losses are 
eliminated. Minority interests in the net income of consolidated subsidiaries are identified and adjusted against the income of the 
Group in order to arrive at the net income attributable to the Group and presented separately in the Group’s income. Minority 
interests are presented in the consolidated balance sheet, in the shareholders’ equity.  

392 - 393Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
16 

 

The Group recognize a financial asset into financial statements when it becomes a party to the contractual terms of a financial 
instrument. During the first recognition of a financial asset into the financial statements, business model determined by Bank 
management and the nature of contractual cash flows of the financial asset are taken into consideration. 

When the business model determined by the Group management is changed, all financial assets affected by this change are 
reclassified and the reclassification is applied in the future. In this case, no adjustment is made for the gain, loss or interest rates 
previously recognized in the financial statements. 

aa.. FFiinnaanncciiaall  aasssseettss  aatt  tthhee  ffaaiirr  vvaalluuee  tthhrroouugghh  pprrooffiitt  oorr  lloossss::  
Financial assets at fair value through profit/loss” are financial assets other than the ones that are managed with business model 
that aims to hold to collect contractual cash flows or business model that aims to collect both the contractual cash flows and cash 
flows arising from the sale of the assets; and if the contractual terms of the financial asset do not lead to cash flows representing 
solely payments of principal and interest at certain date; that are either acquired for generating a profit from short-term 
fluctuations in prices or are financial assets included in a portfolio aiming to short-term profit making. Financial assets at the fair 
value through profit or loss are initially recognized at fair value and remeasured at their fair value after recognition. All gains and 
losses arising from these valuations are reflected in the income statement.  

bb.. FFiinnaanncciiaall  aasssseettss  aatt  ffaaiirr  vvaalluuee  tthhrroouugghh  ootthheerr  ccoommpprreehheennssiivvee  iinnccoommee  

In addition to financial assets within a business model that aims to hold to collect contractual cash flows and aims to hold to sell, 
financial asset with contractual terms that lead to cash flows are solely payments of principal and interest at certain dates, they 
are classified as fair value through other comprehensive income. 

Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income are recognized by adding transaction cost to acquisition cost 
reflecting the fair value of the financial asset. After the recognition, financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive 
income are remeasured at fair value. Interest income calculated with effective interest rate method arising from financial assets at 
fair value through other comprehensive income and dividend income from equity securities are recorded to income statement.  
“Unrealized gains and losses” arising from the difference between the amortized cost and the fair value of financial assets at fair 
value through other comprehensive income are not reflected in the income statement of the period until the acquisition of the 
asset, sale of the asset, the disposal of the asset, and impairment of the asset and they are accounted under the “Accumulated 
other comprehensive income or expense to be reclassified through profit or loss” under shareholders’ equity. When these 
securities are collected or disposed of, the related fair value differences accumulated in the shareholders’ equity are transferred 
to the income statement. 

Equity instruments classified as financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income are accounted at their fair 
values. Exceptionally, cost can be an appropriate estimation method in determining fair value. This is only possible if there is 
insufficient recent information on the measurement of fair value or if fair value can be measured by more than one method and the 
cost reflects the fair value estimate in the best way. In the case of using this method, the accumulated fair value differences will 
not be reflected in the income statement.  

During initial recognition the Bank can choose in an irrevocable was to record the changes of the fair value of the investment in an 
equity instrument that is not held for trading purposes in the other comprehensive income. In the case of this preference, the 
dividend from the investment is taken into the financial statements as profit or loss.  
 

cc.. FFiinnaanncciiaall  aasssseettss  mmeeaassuurreedd  aatt  aammoorrttiizzeedd  ccoosstt::  

Financial assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows where those cash flows represent solely payments of 
principal and interest are classified as financial assets measured at amortized cost. 

Financial assets measured at amortized cost are initially recognized at acquisition cost including the transaction costs, which 
reflect the fair value of those instruments and subsequently recognized at amortized cost by using effective interest rate method. 
Interest income obtained from financial assets measured at amortized cost is accounted in income statement. 

“Fair value through other comprehensive income” and “measured at amortized cost” securities portfolio of the Group include 
Consumer Price Indexed (CPI) Bonds. These securities are valued and accounted using the effective interest rate method based on 
the real coupon rates and the reference inflation index at the issue date and the estimated inflation rate. The reference indices 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

15 
 

V. EXPLANATIONS ON INTEREST INCOME AND EXPENSE: 

Interest income and expenses are recognized in the income statement by using the “Effective interest rate method”. Starting from 
1 January 2018, Group has started to calculate interest accrual on non-performing loans. Net book value of the non-performing 
loans (Gross Book Value – Expected Credit Loss) are rediscounted with effective interest rate and recognized with the gross book 
value of the non-performing loan. Non-performing loans rediscounts are evaluated on customer basis and are discontinued if 
there is in case of low collectibility. 

VI. EXPLANATIONS ON FEE AND COMMISSION INCOME AND EXPENSES: 

Fees and commission income/expenses are primarily recognized on an accrual basis or “Effective interest rate method” and TFRS 
15 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” according to the nature of the fee and commission, except for certain commission 
income and fees for various banking services which are recorded as income at the time of collection. Contract based fees or fees 
received for services such as the purchase and sale of assets on behalf of a third party or legal person are recognized as income at 
the time of collection. 

VII. EXPLANATIONS ON FINANCIAL ASSETS: 

The Group categorizes its financial assets as “Fair Value Through Profit/Loss”, “Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income” 
or “Measured at Amortized Cost”. Such financial assets are recognized or derecognized according to TFRS 9 Financial Instruments 
Part 3 Issued for classification and measurement of the financial instruments published in the Official Gazette No. 29953 dated 19 
January 2017 by the Public Oversight Accounting and Auditing Standards Authority (“POA”). Financial assets are measured at fair 
value at initial recognition in the financial statements. During the initial recognition of financial assets other than "Financial Assets 
at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss", transaction costs are added to fair value or deducted from fair value. 

CCllaassssiiffiiccaattiioonn  aanndd  mmeeaassuurreemmeenntt  ooff  ffiinnaanncciiaall  aasssseettss  

According to TFRS 9 requirements, classification and measurement of financial assets will depend on the business model within 
which financial assets are managed and their contractual cash flow characteristics whether the cash flows represent solely 
payments of principal and interest. 

AAsssseessssmmeenntt  wwhheetthheerr  ccoonnttrraaccttuuaall  ccaasshh  fflloowwss  aarree  ssoolleellyy  ppaayymmeennttss  ooff  pprriinncciippaall  aanndd  iinntteerreesstt::  

For the purposes of this assessment, “principal” is defined as the fair value of the financial asset on initial recognition. “Interest” is 
defined as consideration for the time value of money, for the credit risk associated with the principal amount outstanding during a 
particular period of time and for other basic lending risks and costs (e.g. liquidity risk and administrative costs), as well as a profit 
margin. 

In assessing whether the contractual cash flows are solely payments of principal and interest, the Group will consider the 
contractual terms of the instrument. This will include assessing whether the financial asset contains a contractual term that could 
change the timing or amount of contractual cash flows such that it would not meet this condition. In making the assessment, the 
Group consider: 

- Contingent events that would change the amount and timing of cash flows; 

- Leverage features; 

- Prepayment and extension terms; 

- Terms that limit the Bank’s claim to cash flows from specified assets 

- Features that modify consideration for the time value of money – e.g. periodic reset of interest rates. 

The Group fulfills the on-balance sheet classification and measurement criteria by applying the procedures described above for all 
financial assets. 

Upon initial recognition, each financial asset will be classified as either fair value through profit or loss, amortised cost or fair 
value through other comprehensive income. 

394 - 395Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
18 

 

In certain circumstances, restructuring or altering the contractual cash flows of a financial instrument may result in the disposal 
of the existing financial asset in accordance with TFRS 9. A revised financial asset is considered as a new financial asset when the 
change in the financial asset is once excluded from the financial statement and the revised financial asset is recognized in 
accordance with TFRS 9. 

The Bank assesses whether the new financial asset contains solely payments of principal and interest when the new conditions for 
the instrument have determined that there are significant changes compared to the initial conditions in the relevant contracts. 

In the event that the contractual conditions for the financial asset do not result in cash flows that include solely payments of 
principal and interest on certain dates, the related financial asset is recognized with its fair value and is subject to valuation. 

SSiiggnniiffiiccaanntt  iinnccrreeaassee  iinn  ccrreeddiitt  rriisskk:: 

If the credit risk of financial assets determined to be significantly increasing, afore-mentioned assets are transferred to the stage 
II. For stage I loans, expected loss (provision) amounts are calculated for 1-year and for stage II loans expected loss (provision) is 
calculated for the remaining life of the loan. 
In addition, the key considerations in determining whether a significant increase in the credit risk of financial asset and 
transferring it to stage 2, but are not limited with these, the following; 

- Past due date is 30 or more 

- Restructuring of loans 

- If the loan classified as under follow-up 

- Assessment of significant increase in the probability of impairment based on rating notes. 

Definition of increase in the probability of default is the comparison between the probability of default on loan’s opening date, 
obtained from bank’s internal rating-based credit rating models and probability of default on reporting date. If the loan’s estimated 
probability of default on reporting date exceeds the threshold values determined, it is considered to be worsening of the probability 
of default. 

DDeeffiinniittiioonn  ooff  DDeeffaauulltt::  

The Bank considers that there is a default on the relevant debt in the following two cases: 

1. Objective Default Definition: It means that the debt is overdue by more than 90 days. The definition of default, which is applicable 
to the Bank and its consolidated financial institutions, is based on the criteria that the debt is overdue by more than 90 days. 

2. Subjective Default Definition: It means the determination that the debt will not be paid. If it is determined that the borrower 
cannot fulfill its debts related to the loan, regardless of whether there is a balance in delay or the number of days of delay, the 
debtor is considered in default. 
 
WWrriittee--ooffff  PPoolliiccyy::  

Within the framework of the provisions of the “Regulation Amending the Regulation on the Procedures and Principles Regarding 
the Classification of Loans and Provisions for These” published in the Official Gazette dated 6 July 2021 and numbered 31533 the 
portion of the loans that are classified under “Fifth Group-Loans with a Loss Qualification” and for which a lifetime expected loan 
loss provision or special provision is made due to the default of the borrower, for which there are no reasonable expectations for 
the recovery of the loans, within the scope of TFRS 9, as of the first reporting period (interim or year-end reporting period) 
following their classification in this Group, deducted from the records within the period deemed appropriate by the bank, taking 
into account the situation of the debtor. In determining the cluster within this scope, the following indicators are used; 
 
- In the corporate, commercial, SME and consumer segment follow-up portfolio, with very low or no collection expectation 
- Monitored in the 5th group as of the last reporting period, 
- Having a provision rate of 90% or more, 
- No active payment plans 
- No Credit Guarantee Fund (CGF) secured loan 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

17 
 

used in calculating the actual coupon payment amounts of these assets are based on the Consumer Price Index (CPI) of prior two 
months. The Bank also sets the estimated inflation rate accordingly. The estimated inflation rate used is updated as needed within 
the year. 

At the end of the year, the real inflation rate is used. 

dd.. DDeerriivvaattiivvee  FFiinnaanncciiaall  AAsssseettss::  

The major derivative instruments utilized by the Group are foreign currency and interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps, 
currency options and currency forwards.  

Derivative financial instruments of the Group are classified under "TFRS 9 Financial Instruments" ("TFRS 9"), "Derivative Financial 
Assets Designated at Fair Value through Profit or Loss". 

Payables and receivables arising from the derivative instruments are recorded in the off-balance sheet accounts at their 
contractual values. 

Derivative transactions are valued at their fair values subsequent to their acquisition. In accordance with the classification of 
derivative financial instruments, if the fair value is positive, the amount is classified as "Derivative Financial Assets Designated at 
Fair Value Through Profit or Loss" or "Derivative Financial Assets Designated at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive 
Income", if the fair value is negative, the amount is classified as "Derivative Financial Liabilities Designated at Fair Value Through 
Profit or Loss" or "Derivative Financial Liabilities Designated at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income". The fair value 
differences of derivative financial instruments are recognized in the income statement under trading profit/loss line in profit/loss 
from derivative financial transactions. The principles for the recognition of derivative transactions intended for hedging purposes 
are disclosed in the note numbered XI of Section Four. The fair value of derivative instruments is calculated by taking into account 
the market value of the derivatives or by using the discounted cash flow model. When inactive market conditions exist, observable 
inputs used in the determination of fair values are adjusted using appropriate assumptions and considering the volume and level of 
activity in the markets. 

ee.. LLooaannss  

Loans are financial assets that have fixed or determinable payments terms and are not quoted in an active market. Loans are 
initially recognized at acquisition cost plus transaction costs presenting their fair value and thereafter measured at amortized cost 
using the "Effective Interest Rate (internal rate of return) Method". 

1. Loans measured at amortized cost: 

These financial assets are divided into three categories depending on the gradual increase in credit risk observed since their initial 
recognition: 

Stage 1: 

For the financial assets at initial recognition or that, do not have a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition. 
Impairment for credit risk is recorded in the amount of 12-month expected credit losses. 

Stage 2: 

In the event of a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition, the financial asset is transferred to Stage 2. Impairment 
for credit risk is determined based on the instrument’s lifetime expected credit losses. 

Stage 3:  

Stage 3 includes financial assets that have objective evidence of impairment at the reporting date. For these assets, lifetime 
expected credit losses are recognized. 

2. Loans measured at fair value through profit or loss: 

Loans at fair value through profit and loss, terms of the contract for loans, if at certain dates it does not result in cash flows 
involving interest payments arising from the principal and principal balances, it is recorded at fair value and is subject to fair value 
assessment following the recognition. Gains and losses resulting from the valuation are included in profit/loss accounts. 

396 - 397Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
20 

 

In addition, in the calculation of Expected Credit Loss in accordance with TFRS 9, certain part of commercial and corporate loans 
are subject to individual assessment on a customer basis due to internal policies. This calculation is made by discounting the 
expected cash flows from the customer or the collateral sales to their present value with the effective interest rate. Within the 
scope of individual evaluations, regional developments are also taken into account as well as sectoral risks. 
 
Macro-economic indicators are taken into account in determining the PD component in the expected credit loss calculation. Future 
macroeconomic forecasts are reflected in the ECLs using more than one scenario. 

The risk parameters used in the TFRS 9 calculations include prospective macroeconomic information. While macroeconomic 
information is included, models and estimates reflecting the relationships between model risk parameters and macroeconomic 
variables are taken into consideration. The main macroeconomic indicator of these estimation models are the Gross Domestic 
Product (GDP) growth rate. Macroeconomic estimation models include more than one scenario and the related scenarios are 
taken into account in the expected credit loss calculations. 

Expected credit loss calculations are reviewed at least once a year, and the macroeconomic model used in the process has been 
revised during the reporting period.  
No revisions were made to the scenario weights after the review.  

-The expected credit loss calculation is made by considering 3 different scenarios the best, the worst, and the base. 

Within the scope TFRS 9, macroeconomic expectations directly affect provisions (Expected Credit Loss-ECL). Related impact is 
realized when the default ratio of the Bank moves the default rate calculated for each maturity up or down. The main parameters 
of default ratio model are macroeconomic variables and the provision figures change when prospective estimations are revised. 

The PD values subject to the ECL calculation have been obtained for the following portfolios. 
 
CCoonnssuummeerr//CCoommmmeerrcciiaall  PPoorrttffoolliioo  

Retail Consumer 

Retail Automotive 

Retail Mortgage 

Retail Credit Card 

Retail Overdraft Account 

Commercial Micro 

Commercial Company 

Commercial Commercial 

Commercial Corporate 
 
In prospective expectations, 3 scenarios are being used as the base, the worst and the best. Final provisions are calculated by 
weighting on the possibilities given to the scenarios.  
 
 

IX. EXPLANATIONS ON OFFSETTING FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS: 

Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the balance sheet when the Group has a legally 
enforceable right to offset the recognized amounts and there is an intention to collect/pay the related financial assets and 
liabilities on a net basis, or to realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. 

X. EXPLANATIONS ON SALES AND REPURCHASE AGREEMENTS AND SECURITIES LENDING TRANSACTIONS: 

Securities subject to repurchase agreements (“Repos”) are classified as “Financial assets at fair value difference through profit or 
loss”, “Financial assets at fair value difference through other comprehensive income” and “Measured at amortised cost” in the 
balance sheet according to the investment purposes and measured according to the portfolio of the Bank to which they belong. 
Funds obtained under repurchase agreements are accounted under “Funds provided under repurchase agreements” in liability 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

19 
 

Loans and provision ratio of 100% all abusive and fraudulent tracking accounts are included in the deletion of the active account. 
 
The process of write-off the loans is an accounting practice and does not result in waiving the right to receivable regarding the 
related loans. Existing administrative and legal follow-up processes regarding the loans deducted from the record are continued. 
Partial write-off transactions mean that the financial asset will be repaid at a certain rate by the debtor, and the remaining amount 
after the payment or the part within the Bank that is classified under group 5 and has no reasonable expectations for its recovery 
will be removed from the financial statements.  Regarding the write-off (asset disposal) process; the effect of the amount written 
off during the period and the amount written off on the NPL ratio is disclosed in the footnotes of the financial statements. 
 
VIII. EXPLANATIONS ON EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES: 

The Group allocates impairment for expected loss on financial assets measured at amortised cost and measured at fair value 
through other comprehensive income. 

As of 1 January 2018, the Group recognize provisions for impairment in accordance with TFRS 9 requirements according to the 
“Regulation on the Procedures and Principles for Classification of Loans by Banks and Provisions to be set aside” published in the 
Official Gazette dated 22 June 2016 numbered 29750. The expected credit loss estimates are required to be unbiased, probability-
weighted and include supportable information about past events, current conditions, and forecasts of future economic conditions. 

EExxppeecctteedd  CCrreeddiitt  LLoossss  ((EECCLL))  CCaallccuullaattiioonn  ––  IInnppuutt  aanndd  FFoorreeccaassttiinngg  MMeetthhooddoollooggiieess  

Expected Credit Loss (ECL) is calculated as 12 months or lifetime, depending on whether there is a significant increase in credit 
risk after initial recognition or whether an asset is considered as a credit loss. Expected Credit Loss is calculated by using the 
Probability of Default (PD), Loss Given Default (LGD) and Exposure at Default (EAD) components. 

- Exposure at Default: Specifies the amount of risk that the borrower should pay in case of default. It is kept in the system by 
constantly calculated until the maturity of the borrower. The amount of extra risk that can be incurred in the event of default is 
included in the calculations by using the credit conversion rate (CCR) calculated for the irrevocable commitment products. 

- Probability of Default (PD): PD indicates the probability of default due to inability of the borrower to meet its debt obligations. It 
has been calculated for 12 months or lifetime depends on increase on borrower’s credit risk. Calculation of the lifetime default 
rate is carried out by drawing the actual default rate figures to the long term using various functions, based on historical data. 

- Loss Given Default (LGD): In case of default of the borrower, Loss Given Default has been calculated as dividing Expected Credit 
Loss to Exposure at Default (EAD). LGD models includes data such as product type, customer segment, collateral structure, 
customer repayment performance.  

Expected Credit Loss is calculated over the remaining maturity using the PD, LGD and EAD components. Calculated values are 
discounted on a monthly basis using the original effective interest rate or an approximate value of the discount rate. The expected 
credit loss value is calculated for all customers over the maturity period. However, for those who do not have a significant increase 
in credit risk, the 12-month ECL is taken into account, and for those with a significant increase in credit risk, the ECL value 
calculated over the remaining period is taken into account. 

Within the scope of TFRS 9, models of Probability of default (PD), Lost given default (LGD) and Exposure at default (EAD) have been 
developed. The models used by the IRB “(Internal Rating Based Approach)” are taken into account when creating these models. 
The models developed under TFRS 9 have a detailed segment structure. Loans that have similar characteristics are segmented in 
order to reflect the expected credit losses collectively in financial reports. When creating the segmentation structure, the following 
information of the loans is taken into consideration. 

1. Customer type (retail or corporate / commercial) 

2. Product type 

3. IRB rating notes /scores 

4. Customer credit performance 

5. Collateral type  

6. Collection Period 

7. Exposure at default 

398 - 399Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
22 

 

XIV. EXPLANATIONS ON LEASING TRANSACTIONS: 

With the “TFRS 16 Leases” standard, which became effective as of 1 January 2019, the difference between the operating lease and 
financial lease was removed and the lease transactions were started to be recognised under “Tangible Fixed Assets” as an asset 
(tenure) and under “Liabilities from Leasing” as a liability. 

The Group performs financial leasing operations as a “Lessor” through Ak Finansal Kiralama A.Ş. which is a consolidated 
subsidiary. The asset subject to the financial leasing is presented in the balance sheet as receivable equal to the net leasing 
amount. Interest income is recognized over the term of the lease using the net investment method that reflects a constant periodic 
rate of return and the unearned portion is followed under unearned interest income account.  

XV. EXPLANATIONS ON PROVISIONS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES: 

Provisions and contingent liabilities are accounted in accordance with the “Turkish Accounting Standard for Provisions, Contingent 
Liabilities and Contingent Assets” (“TAS 37”). 

Provisions are recognized when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable 
that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of the 
amount of the obligation can be made. A provision for contingent liabilities arising from past events should be recognized in the 
same period of occurrence in accordance with the periodicity principle.  
A liability is recognized as a contingent liability where a possible obligation that arises from past events and whose existence will 
be confirmed only by the occurrence or non-occurrence of more than one events not wholly within the control of the Group; or a 
present obligation that arises from past events but it is not probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will 
be required to settle the obligation; or the amount of the obligation cannot be measured with sufficient reliability and disclosed in 
the footnotes. 

XVI. EXPLANATIONS ON CONTINGENT ASSETS: 

Contingent assets usually arise from unplanned or other unexpected events that give rise to the possibility of an inflow of economic 
benefits to the entity. Contingent assets are not recognized in financial statements since this may result in the recognition of 
income that may never be realized. Contingent assets are disclosed where an inflow of economic benefits is probable. Contingent 
assets are assessed continually to ensure that developments are appropriately reflected in the financial statements. If it has 
become virtually certain that an inflow of economic benefits will arise in the Group, the asset and the related income are 
recognized in the financial statements in which the change occurs. 

XVII. EXPLANATIONS ON OBLIGATIONS RELATED TO EMPLOYEE RIGHTS: 

aa.. EEmmppllooyymmeenntt  tteerrmmiinnaattiioonn  bbeenneeffiittss  aanndd  vvaaccaattiioonn  rriigghhttss::  

Obligations related to employment termination and vacation rights are accounted in accordance with “Turkish Accounting 
Standard for Employee Rights” (“TAS 19”). 

Under the Turkish Labor Law, the Bank and its subsidiaries operating in Turkey are required to pay a specific amount to the 
employees who have retired or whose employment is terminated other than the reasons specified in the Turkish Labor Law. 
According to the related regulation, the Bank is obliged to pay termination benefits for employees who retire, quit for their military 
service obligations, who have been dismissed as defined in the related regulation or who have completed at least one year of 
service. The reserve for employment termination benefits represents the present value of the estimated total reserve for the future 
probable obligation of the Group arising from this liability. In accordance with TAS 19, actuarial gains and losses are recognized in 
equity. 

 

 

 

 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

21 
 

accounts and differences between the sale and repurchase prices determined by these repurchase agreements are accrued evenly 
over the life of the repurchase agreement using the “Effective interest (internal return) method”. 

Funds given against securities purchased under agreements to resell (“Reverse repos”) are accounted under “Receivables from 
money market” in the balance sheet. The difference between the purchase and resell price determined by these repurchase 
agreements is accrued evenly over the life of repurchase agreements using the “Effective interest rate method”.  

The Group has securities lending transactions amounting TL 1.733.498 as of 31 December 2022 (31 December 2021: TL 1.024.696). 

XI. EXPLANATIONS ON ASSETS HELD FOR SALE AND RELATED TO DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS (NET): 

Assets held-for-sale consist of tangible assets that were acquired due to non-performing receivables, and are accounted in the 
financial statements in accordance with the regulations of “Turkish Financial Reporting Standard for Assets Held for Sale and 
Discontinued Operations (TFRS 5)”. 

The Group has no discontinued operations. 

XII. EXPLANATIONS ON GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS: 

The Group does not have any goodwill items that should be reflected in the consolidated financial statements. 

Intangible assets are measured at cost on initial recognition and any directly attributable costs of setting the asset to work for its 
intended use are included in the initial measurement. Subsequently, intangible assets are carried at historical costs after the 
deduction of accumulated depreciation and the provision for value decreases.  

Intangibles are amortised over three to fifteen years (their estimated useful lives) using the straight-line method. The useful life of 
the asset is determined by assessing the expected useful time of the asset, technical, technological and other kinds of wear and 
tear and all required maintenance expenses necessary to utilize the economic benefit from the asset. 

XIII. EXPLANATIONS ON PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT: 
 

Property and equipment is measured at its cost when initially recognized and any directly attributable costs of setting the asset in 
working order for its intended use are included in the initial measurement. Subsequently, property and equipment is carried at 
cost less accumulated depreciation and provision for value decrease. 

The Group has started to account properties under the tangible assets with their revalued amount instead of cost values in 
accordance with “TAS 16 Plant and Equipment”. The revaluation difference arising from the valuations made by the appraisal firms 
authorized by Capital Markets Board (“CMB”) and BRSA is accounted in Investment Properties Revaluation Differences line under 
the Shareholders’ Equity. 

As of each reporting date, the Bank evaluates whether there is any indication that its assets may be impaired; If such indication 
exists, it estimates the recoverable amount of the related asset in accordance with TAS 36 - Impairment in Assets and if the 
recoverable amount is below the book value of the related asset, it reserves provision for impairment. 

Depreciation is calculated over the cost of property and equipment using the straight-line method over estimated useful lives. The 
estimated useful lives are stated below: 

Buildings   50 years 
Vault      5-50 years 
Transportation Vehicles  5 years 
Other property and equipments 3-15 years 

Gains and losses on the disposal of property and equipment are determined by deducting the net book value of the property and 
equipment from its sales revenue. 

Expenditures for the repair and renewal of property and equipment are recognized as expense. The capital expenditures incurred 
in order to increase the capacity of the tangible asset or to increase the future benefit of the asset are capitalized on the cost of the 
tangible asset. Capital expenditures include the cost components that increase the useful life, or the capacity of the asset, increase 
the quality of the product or decrease its costs. 

 

400 - 401Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
24 

 

XVIII. EXPLANATIONS ON TAXATION: 

aa.. CCuurrrreenntt  TTaaxx::  

As of 31 December 2022, the current corporate tax rate is 25%. In accordance with the Law No. 7316 published in the Official 
Gazette dated April 22, 2021, starting from the declarations that must be submitted as of 1/7/2021 and to be valid for the taxation 
period starting from 1/1/2021, the corporate tax rate is 25% for the taxation period of 2021, this rate was determined as 23% for the 
taxation period of 2022. However, with the publication of the Law No. 7394 in the Official Gazette dated 15 April 2022, banks, 
consumer finance companies, factoring and financial leasing companies, electronic payment and money institutions, authorized 
foreign exchange institutions, asset management companies, capital market institutions, insurance and reinsurance companies 
the corporate tax rate for pension companies has been permanently increased to 25%. The tax rate applied to the cumulative 
earnings of 2022 is taken into account as 25%. 

The corporate tax rate is applied to tax base which is calculated by adding certain non deductible expenses for tax purposes and 
deducting certain exemptions (like dividend income) and exclusion of deductions on accounting income. If there is no dividend 
distribution, no further tax charges are made. 
 

Dividends paid to non-resident corporations, which have a place of business in Turkey or are resident corporations, are not subject 
to withholding tax. Otherwise, dividends paid are subject to withholding tax at the rate of 10%. An increase in capital via issuing 
bonus shares is not considered as profit distribution and thus does not incur withholding tax. 

Corporations calculate advance tax with their current rate on quarterly profits and pay until the evening of the same day by 
declaring until the 17th day of the second month following that period. Advance tax paid by corporations which is for the current 
period is credited against the annual corporation tax calculated on their annual corporate income in the following year. Despite the 
offset, if there is temporary prepaid tax remaining, this balance can be refunded or used to offset any other financial liabilities to 
the government. 

A 75% portion of the capital gains derived from the sale of equity investments and a 50% portion of the capital gains derived from 
the sale of immovable properties held for at least two years is tax exempt, if such gains are added to paid-in capital or held in a 
special fund account under liability for five years. 

Under the Turkish Corporate Tax Law, losses can be carried forward to offset against future taxable income for up to five years. 
Tax losses cannot be carried back to offset profits from previous periods. 

In Turkey, there is no procedure for a final and definitive agreement on tax assessments. Companies file their tax returns until the 
last day of the following fourth month after the closing of the accounting year to which they relate. Tax returns are open for five 
years from the beginning of the year following the date of filing during this period the tax authorities have the right to audit tax 
returns, and the related accounting records on which they are based, and may issue re-assessments based on their findings. 

Current tax, related to items recognized directly in equity is also credited or charged directly to equity. 

As of the end of the 2021 calendar year, the conditions sought for inflation adjustment in the calculation of corporate tax have been 
fulfilled, within the framework of the repeated provision of Article 298/A of the Tax Procedure Law. However, with the regulation 
made with the Law No. 7352 dated 20 January 2022, the application of inflation adjustment in the calculation of corporate tax was 
postponed to 2023. According to this; TPL financial statements for the 2021 and 2022 accounting periods, including the provisional 
tax periods, will not be subject to inflation adjustment, and for the 2023 accounting period; will not be subject to inflation 
adjustment as of the provisional tax periods, and the TPL financial statements dated 31 December 2023 will be subject to inflation 
adjustment regardless of whether the inflation adjustment conditions are met or not. Profit/loss difference arising from inflation 
adjustment in VUK financial statements will be shown in previous years' profit/loss accounts and will not affect the corporate tax 
base. 

Information on taxation in foreign subsidiaries are given below: 

 

 

 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

23 
 

bb.. RReettiirreemmeenntt  RRiigghhttss::  
 

The Bank’s personnel are members of the “Akbank T.A.Ş. Personnel Pension Fund Foundation” (“Pension Fund”) established in 
accordance with the Social Security Law numbered 506, temporary article No.20. The financial statements of the Pension Fund 
have been audited as of year-ends by an independent actuary in accordance with the 38th article of the Insurance Supervisory Law 
and the “Actuarial Regulation” based on the same article. 

Temporary 23rd article paragraph (“the paragraph”) 1 of the Banking Law No 5411 published in the Official Gazette no 25983 dated 
1 November 2005 envisaged that Banks would transfer their pension funds to the Social Security Institution (“SSI”) within three 
years following the publication date of the Banking Law, and regulated the principles of this transfer. The first paragraph of the 
related article was rescinded as from the 30 June 2007, the publication date of the decision of the Constitutional Court dated 22 
March 2007. The reasoned decree regarding the rescission of the mentioned paragraph was published in the Official Gazette 
numbered 26731, dated 15 December 2007. 

Following the publication of the reasoned decree of the Constitutional Court, Turkish Grand National Assembly commenced to 
work on a new law regarding the transfer of the members of funds to the Social Security Institution; the related articles of the 
Social Security Law (“New Law”) numbered 5754 regarding the transfer of the funds, were ratified by the TGNA General Meeting on 
17 April 2008 and came into effect following the publication on the Official Gazette numbered 26870, dated 8 May 2008. 

The main opposition party had appealed to the Constitutional Court for the cancellation of some of the articles of the New Law 
including transfer of the Funds to the SSI on 19 June 2008. The Constitution Court has dismissed the appeal with the decision 
taken in the meeting dated 30 March 2011. The reasoned decision has been published on the Official Gazette numbered 28156 
dated 28 December 2011.  

The New Law was requiring that present value of post-employment benefits at the transfer date shall be calculated by a 
commission consisting of the representatives of SSI, Ministry of Finance, Undersecretariat of Treasury, Undersecretariat of State 
Planning Organization, BRSA, SDIF and banks and funds, by using a technical discount rate of 9,8 percent taking into consideration 
the transferrable contributions and payments of the funds including any monthly payment differences paid by the funds above the 
limits within the framework of SSI regulations. Accordingly, the transfer required by the New Law was to be completed until 8 May 
2011. According to the decision of the Council of Ministers published on the Official Gazette dated 9 April 2011 no. 27900, the time 
frame for related transfer has been extended for two years. Within the postponement right granted to the Council of Ministers 
through the change in the first clause of the 20th provisional article of the ‘’Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Law no. 
5510’’ published on the Official Gazette no. 28227 dated 8 March 2012, the transfer process has been postponed for one more year 
with the decision of the Council of Ministers published on the Official Gazette no. 28987 dated 30 April 2014. The Council of 
Ministers has been lastly authorized to determine the transfer date in accordance with the last amendment in the first paragraph 
of the 20th provisional article of Law No.5510 implemented by the Law No. 6645 on Amendment of the Occupational Health and 
Safety Law and Other Laws and Decree Laws published in the Official Gazette dated 23 April 2015 and numbered 29335. According 
to paragraph (I) of Article 203 of Law no. 703 which published on the Official Gazette no. 30473 dated 9 July 2018, the phrase, placed 
in 20th provisional article of Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Law no.5510, “Council of Ministers” is authorized to 
determine the date of transfer to the Social Security Institution has been replaced with “President”. 

According to the New Law, following the transfer of the members of the fund to the SSI, the funds and institutions will continue to 
provide the non-transferrable social benefits and payments which are included in the articles of association of the fund. 
 

As of 31 December 2022, the Bank has booked provision in its financial statements within the scope of TAS 19 - Employee Benefits 
for the entire technical gap determined by the report prepared by an actuary registered in the actuaries register. This amount has 
been classified as other provision item. 

The consolidated affiliates do not have the above mentioned retirement benefit plans for their employees. The retirement related 
benefits of the employees of the consolidated affiliates are subject to the Social Security Institution and other defined contribution 
plans. 

 

 

402 - 403Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
26 

 

XXIII. EXPLANATIONS ON SEGMENT REPORTING: 

An operating segment is a component of an entity; 

a.   that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses (including revenues and expenses 
relating to transactions with other components of the same entity), 

b. whose operating results are regularly reviewed by the entity's chief operating decision maker to make decisions about 
resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance, and 

c.    for which discrete financial information is available. 

Reporting according to the operational segments is presented in Note XIII of Section Four. 

XXIV. PROFIT RESERVES AND PROFIT DISTRIBUTION:  

Retained earnings as per the statutory financial statements other than legal reserves are available for distribution, subject to the 
legal reserve requirement referred to below.  

Under the Turkish Commercial Code, legal reserves consist of first legal reserve and second legal reserve. First legal reserve, 
appropriated at the rate of 5%, until the total reserve is equal to 20% of issued and fully paid-in share capital. Second legal reserve, 
appropriated at the rate of 10% of distributions in excess of 5% of issued and fully paid-in share capital, but Holding companies are 
not subject to such transaction. According to the Turkish Commercial Code, legal reserves can only be used to compensate 
accumulated losses and cannot be used for other purposes unless they exceed 50% of paid-in capital 

The Ordinary General Assembly Meeting of the Bank was held on 28 March 2022. In the Ordinary General Assembly, it was decided 
to distribute TL 1.211.600 cash dividend over the TL 12.125.908 net income from 2021 operations to the Bank’s shareholders. It was 
also resolved in the General Assembly to transfer TL 654 to special funds account under other capital reserves, to allocate TL 
95.160 as legal and TL 10.818.494 as extraordinary reserves. 

XXV. EARNINGS PER SHARE: 

Earnings per share disclosed in the income statement are calculated by dividing net profit for the period by the weighted average 
number of shares outstanding during the related period concerned. 

  CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  

Net Profit for the Period of the Group 60.025.707 12.127.191 
Average Number of Issued Common Shares (Thousand) 520.000.000 520.000.000 
EEaarrnniinnggss  PPeerr  SShhaarree  ((AAmmoouunnttss  pprreesseenntteedd  aass  ffuullll  TTLL))  00,,1111554433  00,,0022333322  

 

In Turkey, companies can increase their share capital by making a pro-rata distribution of shares (“Bonus shares”) to existing 
shareholders from retained earnings. For the purpose of earnings per share computations, the weighted average number of 
shares outstanding during the year has been adjusted in respect of bonus shares issued without a corresponding change in 
resources by giving them a retroactive effect for the year in which they were issued and for each earlier period. In case bonus 
shares are distributed after the balance sheet date but before the preparation of the financial statements, earnings per share is 
calculated considering the new number of shares. 

The number of rights issued in 2022: None (2021: None). 

XXVI. RELATED PARTIES: 

Parties defined in Article 49 of the Banking Law No.5411 are deemed as related parties. Transactions with related parties are 
presented in Note VII of Section Five. 

XXVII. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENT ASSETS: 

For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash includes cash effectives, cash in transit, purchased cheques and demand 
deposits including balances with the Central Bank; and cash equivalents include interbank money market placements, time 
deposits at banks with original maturity periods of less than three months and investments on marketable securities other than 
common stocks. 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

25 
 

AAkkbbaannkk  AAGG  ((GGeerrmmaannyy))    

German-resident corporations (i.e. corporations with legal or business centers located in Germany) are subject to corporate 
taxation in Germany over their total income. Regardless of any profit distribution corporate tax is levied at 15% over total income. 
Effective corporate tax rate is 15,825% since an additional solidarity tax of 5,5% is applied over the calculated corporate tax. In 
addition to that, trade income tax is applied on the basis of local governments. This tax is around 11,6% and when all tax types 
(corporate tax, solidarity tax and tax on business profits) are taken into account, there is a tax burden of approximately 27,4%. 

bb..         DDeeffeerrrreedd  TTaaxx::  

The Group calculates and accounts for deferred income taxes for all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets 
and liabilities and their carrying amounts in these financial statements in accordance with “Turkish Accounting Standard for 
Income Taxes” (“TAS 12”) and the related decrees of the BRSA concerning income taxes. In accordance with the Law No. 7316 
published in the Official Gazette dated 22 April 2021, starting from the declarations that must be submitted as of 7 January 2021 
and to be valid for the taxation period starting from 1 January 2021, the corporate tax rate is 25% for the taxation period of 2021, 
and this rate will be applied as 23% for the taxation period of 2022, this rate was applied as 20% for the taxation periods of 2023. 
However, with the publication of the Law No. 7394 in the Official Gazette dated 15.04.2022, for banks, consumer finance companies, 
factoring and financial leasing companies, electronic payment and money institutions, authorized foreign exchange institutions, 
asset management companies, capital market institutions, insurance and reinsurance companies and pension companies, the 
corporate tax rate has been permanently increased to 25%, and the tax rate applied to the cumulative earnings of 2022 is 
considered as 25%. As of 31 December 2022, deferred tax is calculated over 25%, and as of 31 December 2021, the enacted tax 
rates valid in accordance with the tax legislation in force as of the reporting dates are used, in accordance with their lives, for the 
items subject to deferred tax calculation. 

Deferred tax liabilities are recognized for all resulting temporary differences whereas deferred tax assets resulting from 
temporary differences are recognized to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the 
deferred tax assets can be utilized.  

Deferred tax asset had not been provided over provisions for possible risks and general loan loss provisions according to the 
circular of BRSA numbered BRSA.DZM.2/13/1-a-3 and dated 8 December 2004. Deferred tax rate calculation has started to be 
measured over temporary expected provision losses differences according to TFRS 9 articles from 1 January 2018. Deferred tax 
calculation is not made for free provisions. 

Calculated deferred tax receivables and deferred tax liabilities have shown in net balances in the financial statements separately 
for domestic and international branches and for different subsidiaries subject to consolidation. Net balances of deferred tax assets 
and liabilities from companies are shown are shown separately in assets and liabilities. Deferred tax, related to items recognized 
directly in equity is also credited or charged directly to equity. 

XIX.  EXPLANATIONS ON BORROWINGS: 

Debt instruments with different characteristics such as syndicated and securitized borrowings and post-financing obtained from 
foreign financial institutions, marketable securities issued in domestic and foreign markets and money market borrowings are 
major funding source of the Group. Mentioned borrowings are carried initially at acquisition cost and subsequently recognized at 
the discounted value calculated using by “Effective interest rate method“. 

XX.     EXPLANATIONS ON ISSUANCE OF SHARE CERTIFICATES: 

There is no share certificate issuance in 2022. 

XXI. EXPLANATIONS ON AVALIZED DRAFTS AND ACCEPTANCES: 

Avalized drafts and acceptances shown as liabilities against assets are included in the off-balance sheet commitments. 

XXII. EXPLANATIONS ON GOVERNMENT GRANTS: 

As of 31 December 2022 and 31 December 2021, there is no government grant for the Bank. 

 

404 - 405Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
28 

 

 

Details based on the asset with regard to the recognised right of use is as follows: 

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  

Real estate 1.165.007 840.297 
TToottaall  rriigghhtt  ooff  uussee  aasssseett  11..116655..000077  884400..229977  

 

Details of depreciation expense based on the asset with regard to the recognised right of use is as follows: 

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  

Real estate 422.001 369.603 
TToottaall  rriigghhtt  ooff  uussee  aasssseett  ddeepprreecciiaattiioonn  eexxppeennssee 442222..000011  336699..660033  

 

Lease agreements for vehicles and ATMs, which are determined as low value by the Bank with short-term lease agreements with 
a duration of 12 months or less, have been evaluated within the scope of the exemption granted by the standard. Within this scope, 
TL 222.114 has been paid in the relevant period. 

The right and obligation of the lessee to use assets classified as finance leases has been measured at the carrying amount of such 
assets before the transition period. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

27 
 

XXVIII.    RECLASSIFICATIONS: 

None. 
 
XXIX. DISCLOSURES OF TFRS 16 LEASES: 

TTFFRRSS  1166  ""LLeeaasseess""  SSttaannddaarrdd  

GGrroouupp  ––  lleesssseeee  ::  

The Group assesses whether the contract has the quality of a lease or whether the lease includes the transaction at the beginning 
of a contract. In case the contract is transferred for a certain period of time to control the use of the asset defined for a price, it is 
either leased or includes a lease. The Group reflects the existence of a right of use and a lease liability to the financial statements 
at the effective date of the lease. 

Right of use assets: 

The right to use asset is first recognized by cost method and includes: 

a) The initial measurement amount of the lease obligation, 

b) the amount obtained by deducting all the rental incentives received from all lease payments made at or before the beginning 
of the lease; 

c) all initial direct costs incurred by the Group 

When Group applying the cost method, the existence of the right to use: 

a) accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses are deducted and 

b) Measures the restatement of the lease obligation at the restated cost. 

The Group applies the provisions of depreciation regulated under the TAS 16 Tangible Assets Standards, while depreciating the 
rights of use assets. 

The Lease Obligations: 

At the effective date of the lease, the Group measures its leasing liability at the present value of the lease payments not paid at that 
time. Lease payments are discounted using the Group's average borrowing interest rates. 

The lease payments included in the measurement of the lease liability consist of the payments to be made for the right of use 
during the lease term of the underlying asset and the unpaid payments at the effective date of the lease. 

After the effective date of the lease, the Group measures the leasing liability as follows: 

a) Increase the book value to reflect the interest on the lease obligation 

b) Reduces the book value to reflect the lease payments made and 

c) The book value is measured to reflect reassessments and restructuring, or reflect to fixed lease payments as of revised 
nature. 

The interest on the lease liability for each period in the lease period is the amount calculated by applying a fixed periodic interest 
rate to the remaining balance of the lease liability. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

406 - 407Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

30 
 

DDeedduuccttiioonnss  ffrroomm  TToottaall  CCaappiittaall        
Deductions from Capital Loans granted contrary to the 50th and 51th Article of the Law -   
Net Book Values of Movables and Immovables Exceeding the Limit Defined in the Article 57, Clause 1 of the Banking Law and the 

Assets Acquired against Overdue Receivables and Held for Sale but Retained more than Five Years -  
Other items to be defined by the BRSA 56.738  
IInn  ttrraannssiittiioonn  ffrroomm  TToottaall  CCoorree  CCaappiittaall  aanndd  SSuupppplleemmeennttaarryy  CCaappiittaall  ((tthhee  ccaappiittaall))  ttoo  CCoonnttiinnuuee  ttoo  DDeedduucctt  CCoommppoonneennttss    
The Sum of net long positions of investments (the portion which exceeds the 10% of Banks Common Equity) in the capital of banking, 

financial and insurance entities that are outside the scope of regulatory consolidation, where the bank does not own more than 10% 
of the issued common share capital of the entity which will not be deducted from Common Equity Tier 1 capital, Additional Tier 1 
capital, Tier 2 capital for the purposes of the first sub-paragraph of the Provisional Article 2 of the Regulation on Banks’ Own Funds  

 
 
 

-   
The Sum of net long positions of investments in the Additional Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital of banking, financial and insurance 

entities that are outside the scope of regulatory consolidation, where the bank does not own more than 10% of the issued common 
share capital of the entity which will not be deducted from Common Equity Tier 1 capital, Additional Tier 1 capital, Tier 2 capital for 
the purposes of the first sub-paragraph of the Provisional Article 2 of the Regulation on Banks’ Own Funds  

 
 
 

-   

The Sum of net long positions of investments in the common stock of banking, financial and insurance entities that are outside the 
scope of regulatory consolidation, where the bank does not own more than 10% of the issued common share capital of the entity, 
mortgage servicing rights, deferred tax assets arising from temporary differences which will not be deducted from Common Equity 
Tier 1 capital for the purposes of the first sub-paragraph of the Provisional Article 2 of the Regulation on Banks’ Own Funds  

 
 
 
 

-   

  
  

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  

AAmmoouunnttss  rreellaatteedd  ttoo  
ttrreeaattmmeenntt  bbeeffoorree  

11//11//22001144((**))  
AADDDDIITTIIOONNAALL  TTIIEERR  II  CCAAPPIITTAALL     
Preferred Stock not Included in Common Equity and the Related Share Premiums -   
Debt instruments and premiums approved by BRSA -   
Debt instruments and premiums approved by BRSA (Temporary Article 4) -   
Third parties’ share in the Additional Tier I capital -   
Third parties’ share in the Additional Tier I capital (Temporary Article 3) -   

AAddddiittiioonnaall  TTiieerr  II  CCaappiittaall  bbeeffoorree  DDeedduuccttiioonnss  -   
DDeedduuccttiioonnss  ffrroomm  AAddddiittiioonnaall  TTiieerr  II  CCaappiittaall    
Direct and indirect investments of the Bank in its own Additional Tier I Capital -   
Investments of Bank to Banks that invest in Bank's additional equity and components of equity issued by financial institutions with 

compatible with Article 7. 
 

-   
Total of Net Long Positions of the Investments in Equity Items of Consolidated Banks and Financial Institutions where the Bank Owns 

10% or less of the Issued Share Capital Exceeding the 10% Threshold of above Tier I Capital 
 

-   
The Total of Net Long Position of the Direct or Indirect Investments in Additional Tier I Capital of Consolidated Banks and Financial 

Institutions where the Bank Owns more than 10% of the Issued Share Capital 
 

-   
Other items to be defined by the BRSA -   
TTrraannssiittiioonn  ffrroomm  tthhee  CCoorree  CCaappiittaall  ttoo  CCoonnttiinnuuee  ttoo  ddeedduuccee  CCoommppoonneennttss    
Goodwill and other intangible assets and related deferred tax liabilities which will not be deducted from Common Equity Tier 1 capital 

for the purposes of the first sub-paragraph of the Provisional Article 2 of the Regulation on Banks’ Own Funds (-) 
 
 

-   
Net deferred tax asset/liability which is not deducted from Common Equity Tier 1 capital for the purposes of the sub-paragraph of the 

Provisional Article 2 of the Regulation on Banks’ Own Funds (-) 
 

-   
Deductions to be made from common equity in the case that adequate Additional Tier I Capital or Tier II Capital is not available (-) -   
TToottaall  DDeedduuccttiioonnss  FFrroomm  AAddddiittiioonnaall  TTiieerr  II  CCaappiittaall  -    
TToottaall  AAddddiittiioonnaall  TTiieerr  II  CCaappiittaall  -    
TToottaall  TTiieerr  II  CCaappiittaall  ((TTiieerr  II  CCaappiittaall==CCoommmmoonn  EEqquuiittyy++AAddddiittiioonnaall  TTiieerr  II  CCaappiittaall))  114499..557744..221166    
TTIIEERR  IIII  CCAAPPIITTAALL    
Debt instruments and share issue premiums deemed suitable by the BRSA    16.695.703  
Debt instruments and share issue premiums deemed suitable by BRSA (Temporary Article 4)  -   
Third parties’ share in the Tier II Capital  -   
Third parties’ share in the Tier II Capital (Temporary Article 3)  -   

Provisions (Article 8 of the Regulation on the Equity of Banks) 8.331.121     
TTiieerr  IIII  CCaappiittaall  BBeeffoorree  DDeedduuccttiioonnss  2255..002266..882244          
DDeedduuccttiioonnss  FFrroomm  TTiieerr  IIII  CCaappiittaall    
Direct and indirect investments of the Bank on its own Tier II Capital (-) -   
Investments of Bank to Banks that invest on Bank's Tier 2 and components of equity issued by financial institutions with the conditions 

declared in Article 8. -   
Portion of the total of net long positions of investments made in equity items of banks and financial institutions outside the scope of 

consolidation where the Bank owns 10% or less of the issued common share capital exceeding 10% of Common Equity of the Bank (-) -   
Portion of the total of net long positions of investments made in Additional Tier I Capital item of banks and financial institutions outside 

the scope of consolidation where the Bank owns 10% or more of the issued common share capital exceeding 10% of Common Equity 
of the Bank  -   

Other items to be defined by the BRSA (-) -   
TToottaall  DDeedduuccttiioonnss  ffrroomm  TTiieerr  IIII  CCaappiittaall  -   
TToottaall  TTiieerr  IIII  CCaappiittaall  2255..002266..882244          
TToottaall  CCaappiittaall  ((TThhee  ssuumm  ooff  TTiieerr  II  CCaappiittaall  aanndd  TTiieerr  IIII  CCaappiittaall))  117744..660011..004400          

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

29 
 

SECTION FOUR 
INFORMATION RELATED TO FINANCIAL POSITION AND RISK MANAGEMENT OF THE GROUP 

I. EXPLANATIONS ON EQUITY: 
Total capital amount and Capital adequacy ratio have been calculated in accordance with the “Regulation on Equity of Banks” and 
“Regulation on Measurement and Assessment of Capital Adequacy of Banks”. Additionally, calculated according to BRSA regulations 
dated 21 December 2021, numbered 9996 and 28 April 2022, numbered 10188. As of 31 December 2022 based on recent regulation 
changes; 
1) In the calculation of the amount based on credit risk, the CBRT exchange rate for 31 December 2021 can be used when calculating 
the valuation amounts in foreign currency, 
2) In case the net valuation differences of the securities owned by banks and acquired before 21 December 2021 in the “Securities at Fair 
Value through Other Comprehensive Income” portfolio are negative, these differences may not be taken into account in the equity amount.  

As of 31 December 2022, taking into consideration the above-mentioned regulations, the current period equity of the Group has been 
calculated as TL 174.544.302 (31 December 2021: TL 100.459.590), and the capital adequacy ratio is 23,24% (31 December 2021: 21,14%). 
This ratio is above the minimum ratio required by the legislation. 

aa.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  aabboouutt  ttoottaall  ccoonnssoolliiddaatteedd  ccaappiittaall  iitteemmss::  

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  

AAmmoouunnttss  rreellaatteedd  ttoo  
ttrreeaattmmeenntt  bbeeffoorree  

11//11//22001144((**))  
CCOOMMMMOONN  EEQQUUIITTYY  TTIIEERR  11  CCAAPPIITTAALL    
Paid-in capital following all debts in terms of claim in liquidation of the Bank 7.014.871   
Share issue premiums 3.505.742   
Reserves 57.238.547   
Gains recognized in equity as per TAS 35.882.851     
Profit 60.206.179     
     Current Period Profit 60.025.707     
     Prior Period Profit 180.472    
Shares acquired free of charge from subsidiaries, affiliates and jointly controlled partnerships and cannot be recognized within profit 
for the period 10.945    
Minorities’ Share -   
CCoommmmoonn  EEqquuiittyy  TTiieerr  11  CCaappiittaall  BBeeffoorree  DDeedduuccttiioonnss  116633..885599..113355          
DDeedduuccttiioonnss  ffrroomm  CCoommmmoonn  EEqquuiittyy  TTiieerr  11  CCaappiittaall    
Common Equity as per the 1st clause of Provisional Article 9 of the Regulation on the Equity of Banks 286    
Portion of the current and prior periods’ losses which cannot be covered through reserves and losses reflected in equity in accordance 

with TAS 7.825.624     
Improvement costs for operating leasing 93.650     
Goodwill (net of related tax liability) -   
Other intangibles other than mortgage-servicing rights (net of related tax liability) 2.328.914 2.328.914    
Deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability excluding those arising from temporary differences (net of related tax liability) -   
Differences are not recognized at the fair value of assets and liabilities subject to hedge of cash flow risk 4.036.445   
Communiqué Related to Principles of the amount credit risk calculated with the Internal Ratings Based Approach, total expected loss 

amount exceeds the total provision -   
Gains arising from securitization transactions -   
Unrealized gains and losses due to changes in own credit risk on fair valued liabilities -   
Defined-benefit pension fund net assets -   
Direct and indirect investments of the Bank in its own Common Equity  -   
Shares obtained contrary to the 4th clause of the 56th Article of the Law -   
Portion of the total of net long positions of investments made in equity items of banks and financial institutions outside the scope of 

consolidation where the Bank owns 10% or less of the issued common share capital exceeding 10% of Common Equity of the Bank -   
Portion of the total of net long positions of investments made in equity items of banks and financial institutions outside the scope of 

consolidation where the Bank owns 10% or more of the issued common share capital exceeding 10% of Common Equity of the Bank -   
Portion of mortgage servicing rights exceeding 10% of the Common Equity -   
Portion of deferred tax assets based on temporary differences exceeding 10% of the Common Equity -   
Amount exceeding 15% of the common equity as per the 2nd clause of the Provisional Article 2 of the Regulation on the Equity of 

Banks -   
Excess amount arising from the net long positions of investments in common equity items of banks and financial institutions outside 

the scope of consolidation where the Bank owns 10% or more of the issued common share capital -   
Excess amount arising from mortgage servicing rights -   
Excess amount arising from deferred tax assets based on temporary differences -   
Other items to be defined by the BRSA -   
Deductions to be made from common equity due to insufficient Additional Tier I Capital or Tier II Capital -   
TToottaall  DDeedduuccttiioonnss  FFrroomm  CCoommmmoonn  EEqquuiittyy  TTiieerr  11  CCaappiittaall  1144..228844..991199          
TToottaall  CCoommmmoonn  EEqquuiittyy  TTiieerr  11  CCaappiittaall  114499..557744..221166    

408 - 409Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

32 
 

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  

AAmmoouunnttss  rreellaatteedd  ttoo  
ttrreeaattmmeenntt  bbeeffoorree  

11//11//22001144  ((**))  
CCOOMMMMOONN  EEQQUUIITTYY  TTIIEERR  11  CCAAPPIITTAALL    
Paid-in capital following all debts in terms of claim in liquidation of the Bank 7.014.871   
Share issue premiums 3.505.742   
Reserves 45.953.298   
Gains recognized in equity as per TAS 15.140.267     
Profit 12.546.222     
     Current Period Profit 12.127.191     
     Prior Period Profit 419.031    
Shares acquired free of charge from subsidiaries, affiliates and jointly controlled partnerships and cannot be recognized within profit 
for the period 9.581    
Minorities’ Share -   
CCoommmmoonn  EEqquuiittyy  TTiieerr  11  CCaappiittaall  BBeeffoorree  DDeedduuccttiioonnss  8844..116699..998811          
DDeedduuccttiioonnss  ffrroomm  CCoommmmoonn  EEqquuiittyy  TTiieerr  11  CCaappiittaall    
Common Equity as per the 1st clause of Provisional Article 9 of the Regulation on the Equity of Banks 1.657    
Portion of the current and prior periods’ losses which cannot be covered through reserves and losses reflected in equity in accordance 

with TAS 3.788.030     
Improvement costs for operating leasing 54.376     
Goodwill (net of related tax liability) -   
Other intangibles other than mortgage-servicing rights (net of related tax liability) 1.190.380 1.190.380    
Deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability excluding those arising from temporary differences (net of related tax liability) -   
Differences are not recognized at the fair value of assets and liabilities subject to hedge of cash flow risk 2.263.951   
Communiqué Related to Principles of the amount credit risk calculated with the Internal Ratings Based Approach, total expected loss 

amount exceeds the total provision -   
Gains arising from securitization transactions -   
Unrealized gains and losses due to changes in own credit risk on fair valued liabilities -   
Defined-benefit pension fund net assets -   
Direct and indirect investments of the Bank in its own Common Equity  -   
Shares obtained contrary to the 4th clause of the 56th Article of the Law -   
Portion of the total of net long positions of investments made in equity items of banks and financial institutions outside the scope of 

consolidation where the Bank owns 10% or less of the issued common share capital exceeding 10% of Common Equity of the Bank -   
Portion of the total of net long positions of investments made in equity items of banks and financial institutions outside the scope of 

consolidation where the Bank owns 10% or more of the issued common share capital exceeding 10% of Common Equity of the Bank -   
Portion of mortgage servicing rights exceeding 10% of the Common Equity -   
Portion of deferred tax assets based on temporary differences exceeding 10% of the Common Equity -   
Amount exceeding 15% of the common equity as per the 2nd clause of the Provisional Article 2 of the Regulation on the Equity of 

Banks -   
Excess amount arising from the net long positions of investments in common equity items of banks and financial institutions outside 

the scope of consolidation where the Bank owns 10% or more of the issued common share capital -   
Excess amount arising from mortgage servicing rights -   
Excess amount arising from deferred tax assets based on temporary differences -   
Other items to be defined by the BRSA -   
Deductions to be made from common equity due to insufficient Additional Tier I Capital or Tier II Capital -   
TToottaall  DDeedduuccttiioonnss  FFrroomm  CCoommmmoonn  EEqquuiittyy  TTiieerr  11  CCaappiittaall  77..229988..339944          
TToottaall  CCoommmmoonn  EEqquuiittyy  TTiieerr  11  CCaappiittaall  7766..887711..558877          

  

  

  

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

31 
 

  

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  

AAmmoouunnttss  rreellaatteedd  ttoo  
ttrreeaattmmeenntt  bbeeffoorree  

11//11//22001144  ((**))  
TTOOTTAALL  CCAAPPIITTAALL        
Total Capital (Total of Tier I and Tier II Capital) 174.544.302     
Total Risk Weighted Amounts 750.903.199     
CCaappiittaall  AAddeeqquuaaccyy  RRaattiiooss    
Core Capital Adequacy Ratio (%) 19,92%  
Tier 1 Capital Adequacy Ratio (%) 19,92%  
Capital Adequacy Ratio (%) 23,24%  
BBUUFFFFEERRSS    
Total additional Common Equity Tier 1 Capital requirement ratio (a+b+c) 4,01%  
a)  Capital conservation buffer requirement (%) 2,50%  
b)  Bank specific total common equity tier 1 capital ratio (%) 0,01%  
c)  Systemic significant bank buffer ratio (%) 1,50%  
The ratio of Additional Common Equity Tier 1 capital which will be calculated by the first paragraph of the Article 4 of Regulation on 

Capital Conservation and Countercyclical Capital buffers to Risk Weighted Assets (%) 11,92%  
AAmmoouunnttss  bbeellooww  tthhee  EExxcceessss  LLiimmiittss  aass  ppeerr  tthhee  DDeedduuccttiioonn  PPrriinncciipplleess     
Portion of the total of net long positions of investments in equity items of Consolidated banks and financial institutions where the 

bank owns 10% or less of the issued share capital exceeding the 10% threshold of above Tier I capital -  
Portion of the total of investments in equity items of Consolidated banks and financial institutions where the bank owns 10% or less 

of the issued share capital exceeding the 10% threshold of above Tier I capital -  
Amount arising from mortgage-servicing rights -  
Amount arising from deferred tax assets based on temporary differences   (3.271.129)  
LLiimmiittss  rreellaatteedd  ttoo  pprroovviissiioonnss  ccoonnssiiddeerreedd  iinn  TTiieerr  IIII  ccaallccuullaattiioonn     
General provisions for standard based receivables (before tenthousandtwentyfive limitation) 11.215.871     
Up to 1.25% of total risk-weighted amount of general reserves for receivables where the standard approach used 8.331.121     
Excess amount of total provision amount to credit risk Amount of the Internal Ratings Based Approach in accordance with the 

Communiqué on the Calculation -  
Excess amount of total provision amount to &0,6 of risk weighted receivables of credit risk Amount of the Internal Ratings Based 

Approach in accordance with the Communiqué on the Calculation -  
DDeebbtt  iinnssttrruummeennttss  ssuubbjjeecctteedd  ttoo  AArrttiiccllee  44  ((ttoo  bbee  iimmpplleemmeenntteedd  bbeettwweeeenn  JJaannuuaarryy  11,,  22001188  aanndd  JJaannuuaarryy  11,,  22002222))      
Upper limit for Additional Tier I Capital subjected to temporary Article 4 -  
Amounts Excess the Limits of Additional Tier I Capital subjected to temporary Article 4 -  
Upper limit for Additional Tier II Capital subjected to temporary Article 4 -  
Amounts Excess the Limits of Additional Tier II Capital subjected to temporary Article 4 -  

(*) Amounts in this column represents the amounts of items that are subject to transition provisions in accordance with the temporary Articles of 
“Regulations regarding to changes on Regulation on Equity of Banks” and taken into consideration at the end of transition process. 
 

410 - 411Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
34 

 

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  

AAmmoouunnttss  rreellaatteedd  ttoo  
ttrreeaattmmeenntt  bbeeffoorree  

11//11//22001144  ((**))  
TTOOTTAALL  CCAAPPIITTAALL        
Total Capital (Total of Tier I and Tier II Capital) 100.459.590     
Total Risk Weighted Amounts 475.307.435     
CCaappiittaall  AAddeeqquuaaccyy  RRaattiiooss    
Core Capital Adequacy Ratio (%) 16,17%  
Tier 1 Capital Adequacy Ratio (%) 16,17%  
Capital Adequacy Ratio (%) 21,14%  
BBUUFFFFEERRSS    
Total additional Common Equity Tier 1 Capital requirement ratio (a+b+c) 4,02%  
a)  Capital conservation buffer requirement (%) 2,50%  
b)  Bank specific total common equity tier 1 capital ratio (%) 0,02%  
c)  Systemic significant bank buffer ratio (%) 1,50%  
The ratio of Additional Common Equity Tier 1 capital which will be calculated by the first paragraph of the Article 4 of Regulation on 

Capital Conservation and Countercyclical Capital buffers to Risk Weighted Assets 8,17%  
AAmmoouunnttss  bbeellooww  tthhee  EExxcceessss  LLiimmiittss  aass  ppeerr  tthhee  DDeedduuccttiioonn  PPrriinncciipplleess     
Portion of the total of net long positions of investments in equity items of Consolidated banks and financial institutions where the 

bank owns 10% or less of the issued share capital exceeding the 10% threshold of above Tier I capital -  
Portion of the total of investments in equity items of Consolidated banks and financial institutions where the bank owns 10% or less 

of the issued share capital exceeding the 10% threshold of above Tier I capital -  
Amount arising from mortgage-servicing rights -  
Amount arising from deferred tax assets based on temporary differences   (302.135)  
LLiimmiittss  rreellaatteedd  ttoo  pprroovviissiioonnss  ccoonnssiiddeerreedd  iinn  TTiieerr  IIII  ccaallccuullaattiioonn     
General provisions for standard based receivables (before tenthousandtwentyfive limitation) 7.642.859     
Up to 1.25% of total risk-weighted amount of general reserves for receivables where the standard approach used 5.101.472     
Excess amount of total provision amount to credit risk Amount of the Internal Ratings Based Approach in accordance with the 

Communiqué on the Calculation -  
Excess amount of total provision amount to &0,6 of risk weighted receivables of credit risk Amount of the Internal Ratings Based 

Approach in accordance with the Communiqué on the Calculation -  
DDeebbtt  iinnssttrruummeennttss  ssuubbjjeecctteedd  ttoo  AArrttiiccllee  44  ((ttoo  bbee  iimmpplleemmeenntteedd  bbeettwweeeenn  JJaannuuaarryy  11,,  22001188  aanndd  JJaannuuaarryy  11,,  22002222))      
Upper limit for Additional Tier I Capital subjected to temporary Article 4 -  
Amounts Excess the Limits of Additional Tier I Capital subjected to temporary Article 4 -  
Upper limit for Additional Tier II Capital subjected to temporary Article 4 -  
Amounts Excess the Limits of Additional Tier II Capital subjected to temporary Article 4 -  

(*) Amounts in this column represents the amounts of items that are subject to transition provisions in accordance with the temporary Articles of 
“Regulations regarding to changes on Regulation on Equity of Banks” and taken into consideration at the end of transition process. 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

33 
 

DDeedduuccttiioonnss  ffrroomm  TToottaall  CCaappiittaall        
Deductions from Capital Loans granted contrary to the 50th and 51th Article of the Law -   
Net Book Values of Movables and Immovables Exceeding the Limit Defined in the Article 57, Clause 1 of the Banking Law and the 

Assets Acquired against Overdue Receivables and Held for Sale but Retained more than Five Years -  
Other items to be defined by the BRSA (-) 23.324  
IInn  ttrraannssiittiioonn  ffrroomm  TToottaall  CCoorree  CCaappiittaall  aanndd  SSuupppplleemmeennttaarryy  CCaappiittaall  ((tthhee  ccaappiittaall))  ttoo  CCoonnttiinnuuee  ttoo  DDeedduucctt  CCoommppoonneennttss    
The Sum of net long positions of investments (the portion which exceeds the 10% of Banks Common Equity) in the capital of banking, 

financial and insurance entities that are outside the scope of regulatory consolidation, where the bank does not own more than 10% 
of the issued common share capital of the entity which will not be deducted from Common Equity Tier 1 capital, Additional Tier 1 
capital, Tier 2 capital for the purposes of the first sub-paragraph of the Provisional Article 2 of the Regulation on Banks’ Own Funds  

 
 
 

-   
The Sum of net long positions of investments in the Additional Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital of banking, financial and insurance 

entities that are outside the scope of regulatory consolidation, where the bank does not own more than 10% of the issued common 
share capital of the entity which will not be deducted from Common Equity Tier 1 capital, Additional Tier 1 capital, Tier 2 capital for 
the purposes of the first sub-paragraph of the Provisional Article 2 of the Regulation on Banks’ Own Funds  

 
 
 

-   

The Sum of net long positions of investments in the common stock of banking, financial and insurance entities that are outside the 
scope of regulatory consolidation, where the bank does not own more than 10% of the issued common share capital of the entity, 
mortgage servicing rights, deferred tax assets arising from temporary differences which will not be deducted from Common Equity 
Tier 1 capital for the purposes of the first sub-paragraph of the Provisional Article 2 of the Regulation on Banks’ Own Funds  

 
 
 
 

-   

  

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  

AAmmoouunnttss  rreellaatteedd  ttoo  
ttrreeaattmmeenntt  bbeeffoorree  

11//11//22001144  ((**))  
AADDDDIITTIIOONNAALL  TTIIEERR  II  CCAAPPIITTAALL     
Preferred Stock not Included in Common Equity and the Related Share Premiums -   
Debt instruments and premiums approved by BRSA -   
Debt instruments and premiums approved by BRSA (Temporary Article 4) -   
Third parties’ share in the Additional Tier I capital -   
Third parties’ share in the Additional Tier I capital (Temporary Article 3) -   

AAddddiittiioonnaall  TTiieerr  II  CCaappiittaall  bbeeffoorree  DDeedduuccttiioonnss  -   
DDeedduuccttiioonnss  ffrroomm  AAddddiittiioonnaall  TTiieerr  II  CCaappiittaall    
Direct and indirect investments of the Bank in its own Additional Tier I Capital -   
Investments of Bank to Banks that invest in Bank's additional equity and components of equity issued by financial institutions with 

compatible with Article 7. 
 

-   
Total of Net Long Positions of the Investments in Equity Items of Consolidated Banks and Financial Institutions where the Bank Owns 

10% or less of the Issued Share Capital Exceeding the 10% Threshold of above Tier I Capital 
 

-   
The Total of Net Long Position of the Direct or Indirect Investments in Additional Tier I Capital of Consolidated Banks and Financial 

Institutions where the Bank Owns more than 10% of the Issued Share Capital 
 

-   
Other items to be defined by the BRSA -   
TTrraannssiittiioonn  ffrroomm  tthhee  CCoorree  CCaappiittaall  ttoo  CCoonnttiinnuuee  ttoo  ddeedduuccee  CCoommppoonneennttss    
Goodwill and other intangible assets and related deferred tax liabilities which will not be deducted from Common Equity Tier 1 capital 

for the purposes of the first sub-paragraph of the Provisional Article 2 of the Regulation on Banks’ Own Funds (-) 
 
 

-   
Net deferred tax asset/liability which is not deducted from Common Equity Tier 1 capital for the purposes of the sub-paragraph of the 

Provisional Article 2 of the Regulation on Banks’ Own Funds (-) 
 

-   
Deductions to be made from common equity in the case that adequate Additional Tier I Capital or Tier II Capital is not available (-) -   
TToottaall  DDeedduuccttiioonnss  FFrroomm  AAddddiittiioonnaall  TTiieerr  II  CCaappiittaall  -    
TToottaall  AAddddiittiioonnaall  TTiieerr  II  CCaappiittaall  -    
TToottaall  TTiieerr  II  CCaappiittaall  ((TTiieerr  II  CCaappiittaall==CCoommmmoonn  EEqquuiittyy++AAddddiittiioonnaall  TTiieerr  II  CCaappiittaall))  7766..887711..558877    
TTIIEERR  IIII  CCAAPPIITTAALL    
Debt instruments and share issue premiums deemed suitable by the BRSA    18.509.855  
Debt instruments and share issue premiums deemed suitable by BRSA (Temporary Article 4)  -   
Third parties’ share in the Tier II Capital  -   
Third parties’ share in the Tier II Capital (Temporary Article 3)  -   

Provisions (Article 8 of the Regulation on the Equity of Banks) 5.101.472     
TTiieerr  IIII  CCaappiittaall  BBeeffoorree  DDeedduuccttiioonnss  2233..661111..332277          
DDeedduuccttiioonnss  FFrroomm  TTiieerr  IIII  CCaappiittaall    
Direct and indirect investments of the Bank on its own Tier II Capital (-) -   
Investments of Bank to Banks that invest on Bank's Tier 2 and components of equity issued by financial institutions with the conditions 

declared in Article 8. -   
Portion of the total of net long positions of investments made in equity items of banks and financial institutions outside the scope of 

consolidation where the Bank owns 10% or less of the issued common share capital exceeding 10% of Common Equity of the Bank (-) -   
Portion of the total of net long positions of investments made in Additional Tier I Capital item of banks and financial institutions outside 

the scope of consolidation where the Bank owns 10% or more of the issued common share capital exceeding 10% of Common Equity 
of the Bank  -   

Other items to be defined by the BRSA (-) -   
TToottaall  DDeedduuccttiioonnss  ffrroomm  TTiieerr  IIII  CCaappiittaall  -   
TToottaall  TTiieerr  IIII  CCaappiittaall  2233..661111..332277          
TToottaall  CCaappiittaall  ((TThhee  ssuumm  ooff  TTiieerr  II  CCaappiittaall  aanndd  TTiieerr  IIII  CCaappiittaall))  110000..448822..991144          

412 - 413Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022
CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
  

 
36 

 

  CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222 

DDeettaaiillss  oonn  SSuubboorrddiinnaatteedd  LLiiaabbiilliittiieess::    
Issuer AKBANK T.A.Ş 
Identifier(s) (CUSIP, ISIN vb.) XS2355183091 / US00971YAJ91 

Governing law (s) of the instrument 
Subject to British Common Law and in terms of certain articles to Turkish 

Regulations. It is issued within the scope of the Debt Instruments Disclosure of 
the Capital Markets Board and the Regulation on Equities of Banks of the BRSA.  

RReegguullaattoorryy  ttrreeaattmmeenntt      
Subject to 10% deduction as of 1/1/2015 No 
Eligible on unconsolidated and /or consolidated basis Unconsolidated and Consolidated 
Instrument type Subordinated Liabilities (Securities)  
Amount recognized in regulatory capital (Currency in mil, as of most recent reporting 
date) 9.349 million TL (in full TL amount) 

Nominal value of instrument  9.349 million TL (in full TL amount) 
Accounting classification of the instrument Subordinated Loans (347011 Accounting Number) 
Issuance date of instrument 22 June 2021 
Maturity structure of the instrument (demand/maturity) Maturity 
Original maturity of the instrument Maturity date: 22 June 2031 
Issuer call subject to prior supervisory (BRSA) approval Yes 

Optional call date, contingent call dates and redemption amount 
There is an early repayment option on 22.06.2026. The reimbursement amount is 

9.349 million TL (in full TL amount) 
Subsequent call dates, if applicable  - 
CCoouuppoonn//ddiivviiddeenndd  ppaayymmeenntt      
Fixed or floating coupon/dividend payments  Fixed 
Coupon rate and any related index 6,8% 
Existence of any dividend payment restriction None 
Fully discretionary, partially discretionary or mandatory None 
Existence of step up or other incentive to redeem None 
Noncumulative or cumulative  Noncumulative 
CCoonnvveerrttiibbllee  oorr  nnoonn--ccoonnvveerrttiibbllee  iinnttoo  eeqquuiittyy  sshhaarreess      
If convertible, conversion trigger (s) None 
If convertible, fully or partially None 
If convertible, conversion rate  None 
If convertible, mandatory or optional conversion None 
If convertible, type of instrument convertible into None 
If convertible, issuer of instrument to be converted into None 
WWrriittee--ddoowwnn  ffeeaattuurree      
If bonds can be written-down, write-down trigger(s) Due to the losses incurred, where the Bank is at the point at which the BRSA 

may determine pursuant to Article 71 of the Banking Law that: (i) its operating 
license is to be revoked and the Bank is liquidated or (ii) the rights of all of its 

shareholders (except to dividends), and the management and supervision of the 
Bank, are to be transferred to the SDIF on the condition that losses are deducted 

from the capital of existing shareholders (occurrence of either condition means 
the issuer has become non-viable), or (iii) it is probable that the Issuer will 

become non-viable; then the bonds can be written-down. 
If bond can be written-down, full or partial  Partially or fully 
If bond can be written-down, permanent or temporary Continuously 
If temporary write-down, description of write-up mechanism There are no any temporary write-up mechanisms. 
Position in subordination hierarchy in case of liquidation ( instrument type 
immediately senior to the instrument ) 

In priority of receivables, it comes after the debt instruments which are non-
subordinated loans. 

In compliance with article number 7 and 8 of '' Own fund regulation '' The instrument is in compliance with article number 8.  
Details of incompliances with article number 7 and 8 of '' Own fund regulation'' The instrument is not in compliant with article numbered 7. 

 
 
 
 
 
 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.)  

  
  

 
35 

 

bb.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  aabboouutt  iinnssttrruummeennttss  tthhaatt  wwiillll  bbee  iinncclluuddeedd  iinn  ttoottaall  ccaappiittaall  ccaallccuullaattiioonn::    

 
 

  CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222 

DDeettaaiillss  oonn  SSuubboorrddiinnaatteedd  LLiiaabbiilliittiieess::    
Issuer AKBANK T.A.Ş 
Identifier(s) (CUSIP, ISIN vb.)  XS1772360803 / US00972BAC37 

Governing law (s) of the instrument 
Subject to British Common Law and in terms of certain articles to Turkish 

Regulations. It is issued within the scope of the Debt Instruments Disclosure of 
the Capital Markets Board and the Regulation on Equities of Banks of the BRSA.  

RReegguullaattoorryy  ttrreeaattmmeenntt      
Subject to 10% deduction as of 1/1/2015 No 
Eligible on unconsolidated and /or consolidated basis Unconsolidated and Consolidated 
Instrument type Subordinated Liabilities (Securities)  
Amount recognized in regulatory capital (Currency in mil, as of most recent reporting 
date) 7.473 million TL (in full TL amount) 

Nominal value of instrument  7.473 million TL (in full TL amount) 
Accounting classification of the instrument Subordinated Loans (347011 Accounting Number) 
Issuance date of instrument 27 February 2018 
Maturity structure of the instrument (demand/maturity) Maturity 
Original maturity of the instrument Maturity date: 27 April 2028 
Issuer call subject to prior supervisory (BRSA) approval Yes 

Optional call date, contingent call dates and redemption amount 
There is an early repayment option on 27.04.2023. The reimbursement amount is 

7.473 million TL (in full TL amount) 
Subsequent call dates, if applicable  - 
CCoouuppoonn//ddiivviiddeenndd  ppaayymmeenntt      
Fixed or floating coupon/dividend payments  Fixed 
Coupon rate and any related index 6,8% 
Existence of any dividend payment restriction None 
Fully discretionary, partially discretionary or mandatory None 
Existence of step up or other incentive to redeem None 
Noncumulative or cumulative  Noncumulative 
CCoonnvveerrttiibbllee  oorr  nnoonn--ccoonnvveerrttiibbllee  iinnttoo  eeqquuiittyy  sshhaarreess      
If convertible, conversion trigger (s) None 
If convertible, fully or partially None 
If convertible, conversion rate  None 
If convertible, mandatory or optional conversion None 
If convertible, type of instrument convertible into None 
If convertible, issuer of instrument to be converted into None 
WWrriittee--ddoowwnn  ffeeaattuurree      
If bonds can be written-down, write-down trigger(s) Due to the losses incurred, where the Bank is at the point at which the BRSA 

may determine pursuant to Article 71 of the Banking Law that: (i) its operating 
license is to be revoked and the Bank is liquidated or (ii) the rights of all of its 

shareholders (except to dividends), and the management and supervision of the 
Bank, are to be transferred to the SDIF on the condition that losses are deducted 

from the capital of existing shareholders (occurrence of either condition means 
the issuer has become non-viable), or (iii) it is probable that the Issuer will 

become non-viable; then the bonds can be written-down. 
If bond can be written-down, full or partial  Partially or fully 
If bond can be written-down, permanent or temporary Continuously 
If temporary write-down, description of write-up mechanism There are no any temporary write-up mechanisms. 
Position in subordination hierarchy in case of liquidation ( instrument type 
immediately senior to the instrument ) 

In priority of receivables, it comes after the debt instruments which are non-
subordinated loans. 

In compliance with article number 7 and 8 of '' Own fund regulation '' The instrument is in compliance with article number 8.  
Details of incompliances with article number 7 and 8 of '' Own fund regulation'' The instrument is not in compliant with article numbered 7. 

  

414 - 415Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
  

 
38 

 

bb.. Risk control limits exist that are placed against credit and market risk from of forward transaction and option agreements 
and other similar agreements. Control limits exist on forward and option agreements and other similar agreements. The 
undertaken credit risk of these types of instruments is managed together with market risk. 

cc.. The risks of the forward, option and other similar type agreements are followed regulary and as deemed necessary based 
on the credit risk, the risks are tried to be minimized.  

dd.. Non-cash loans turned into cash loans are included in the same risk group as overdue cash loans which are not collected 
upon maturity. Credit risk management is applied for all positions involving counterparty risk. 

Rescheduled or restructured loans are followed according to Group’s credit risk management and follow-up principles. 
Relevant customer’s financial status and commercial operations are constantly analyzed and payment schedule is closely 
monitored by related business segment. Monitoring continues until the receivables from the loans are completely 
collected. 

The Group considers that long-term commitments are more exposed to credit risk than short-term commitments, and 
points such as defining risk limits for long-term risks and obtaining collateral are treated in a wider extent than short-
term risks. 

ee.. The Group’s banking activities in foreign countries and credit transactions do not constitute an important risk in terms of 
the related countries’ economic conditions and activities of customers and companies.  

When considered within the financial activities of other financial institutions, the Group as an active participant in the 
national and international banking market is not exposed to a significant credit risk concentration. 

As seen in the Group’s balance sheet, the ratio of loans under follow-up to total loans is as low as 2,8% (31 December 
2021: 4,5% ). 

ff.. 1. The proportion of the Group’s top 100 and 200 cash loan balances in total cash loans is 35% and 43% respectively (31 
December 2021: 38% and 47%).  

2. The proportion of the Group’s top 100 and 200 customers’ non-cash loan balances in total non-cash loans is 52% and 
64% (31 December 2021: 62% and 75%). 

3. The proportion of the Group’s top 100 and 200 customers’ cash and non-cash loan balances in total balance sheet 
assets and non-cash loans is 19% and 24% respectively. (31 December 2021: 21% and 27%). 

gg.. The Bank provided excpected credit loss provision (Stage 1 and Stage 2) amounting to TL 10.405.059 (31 December 2021: 
TL 7.215.355). 
 

hh.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  llooaann  ttyyppeess  aanndd  eexxppeecctteedd  ccrreeddiitt  lloossss  pprroovviissiioonnss:: 
 

CCoommmmeerrcciiaall  LLooaannss  CCoonnssuummeerr  LLooaannss  CCrreeddiitt  CCaarrddss    FFiinnaanncciiaall  LLeeaassee  TToottaall  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd--  
3311..1122..22002222  BBaallaannccee  

EExxccppeecctteedd  
CCrreeddiitt  LLoossss  BBaallaannccee  

EExxccppeecctteedd  
CCrreeddiitt  LLoossss  BBaallaannccee  

EExxccppeecctteedd  
CCrreeddiitt  LLoossss  BBaallaannccee  

EExxccppeecctteedd  
CCrreeddiitt  LLoossss  BBaallaannccee  

EExxccppeecctteedd  
CCrreeddiitt  LLoossss  

LLooaannss  445566..111155..994400  1155..999999..884400  9988..113399..113366  22..994400..559966  6611..885544..003399  22..996655..332200  1111..992255..559911  228844..661122  662288..003344..770066  2222..119900..336688  
Stage 1 407.955.134 1.290.692 92.226.596 911.107 58.220.799 1.448.193 11.179.943 60.317 569.582.472 3.710.309 
Stage 2 34.229.913 5.611.706 3.911.213 473.599 2.356.173 538.650 371.485 70.795 40.868.784 6.694.750 
Stage 3 13.930.893 9.097.442 2.001.327 1.555.890 1.277.067 978.477 374.163 153.500 17.583.450 11.785.309 
FFiinnaanncciiaall  AAsssseettss  330099..882299..446611  660088..228800  --  --  --  --  --  --  330099..882299..446611  660088..228800  
OOtthheerr  3344..007788..990022  5566..660088  --  --  --  --  --  --  3344..007788..990022  5566..660088  
NNoonn--CCaasshh  LLooaannss  114411..330022..003344  445577..008833  --  --  --  --  --  --  114411..330022..003344  445577..008833  
Stage 1 and 2 139.744.331 145.924 - - - - - - 139.744.331 145.924 
Stage 3 1.557.703 311.159 - - - - - - 1.557.703 311.159 
TToottaall  994411..332266..333377  1177..112211..881111  9988..113399..113366  22..994400..559966  6611..885544..003399  22..996655..332200  1111..992255..559911  228844..661122  11..111133..224455..110033  2233..331122..333399  

 
 
 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
  

 
37 

 

cc.. The difference between Total Capital and Equity in the unconsolidated balance sheet mainly arises from expected credit 
loss provisions arising from loans classified under stage I and stage II and subordinated loans. In the calculation of Total 
Capital, up to 1,25% of expected credit loss from stage 1 and stage 2 over the credit risk amount and subordinated loans 
with nominal amounts, by reducing 20% each year if the remaining maturity is 100% less than 5 year, are taken into 
consideration as Tier II Capital. Additionally, the losses reflected to equity under TAS which is subject to deduction from 
TIER I capital are determined by excluding the losses from cash flow hedging. On the other hand, in the calculation of the 
Total Capital, improvement costs for operating leases followed under tangible assets in the balance sheet, intangible 
assets and related deferred tax liabilities, other items defined by the regulator are taken into consideration as amounts 
deducted from Total Capital. 

II. EXPLANATIONS ON CREDIT RISK: 
 

aa.. Credit risk is the risk that the counterparties may be unable to meet the terms of their agreements. This risk is monitored 
by reference to credit risk ratings and managed by limiting the aggregate risk to any individual counterparty, group of 
companies and industry. Credit risks are determined for each individual customer, enterprise, business group and risk 
groups separately. While determining credit risk, criteria such as the customers’ financial strength, commercial 
capacities, sectors, geographic areas and capital structure are evaluated. Analyses of the financial position of the 
customers are based on the statements of account and other information in accordance with the related legislation. 
Previously determined credit limits are constantly revised according to changing conditions. The type and amount of 
collateral and guarantees to be obtained are specified on a customer basis during the determination of credit limits. 

During loan extensions, limits determined on a customer and product basis are essentially followed up; information on 
risk and limits is closely monitored.  

For daily treasury operations limit allocation and follow-up is performed by the Treasury Business Unit.  

Credit worthiness of loan and other receivable debtors are watched regularly and in line with related regulations. In case 
of an increase in credit debtor’s risk level credit limits are re-determined or additional guarantee is taken. For new credit 
accounts, account follow-up documents are taken in accordance with the related regulation.  

The explanations on definition of overdue and impaired loans and information related to impairment and loan loss 
provisions are provided in Note X-c-4-a of Section Four. 

RRiisskk  CCllaassssiiffiiccaattiioonnss  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  

RRiisskk  AAmmoouunntt  ((**))  
AAvveerraaggee  RRiisskk  

AAmmoouunntt  
Conditional and unconditional receivables from central governments and Central Banks             364.855.466           306.801.806   
Conditional and unconditional receivables from regional or local governments                    70.956                   99.669   
Conditional and unconditional receivables from administrative bodies and non-commercial 
enterprises                  879.956                  552.701   
Conditional and unconditional receivables from multilateral development banks                           -                          -   
Conditional and unconditional receivables from international organizations                            -                          -   
Conditional and unconditional receivables from banks and brokerage houses            125.008.862           124.303.121   
Conditional and unconditional receivables from corporate            437.337.515           391.587.440   
Conditional and unconditional receivables from retail portfolios            274.715.740           185.357.633   
Conditional and unconditional receivables secured by mortgages              42.125.640             35.943.141   
Past due receivables               5.847.444               6.254.682   
Receivables defined under high risk category by BRSA              75.179.719             45.576.421   
Collateralized securities                           -                          -   
Securitization positions                           -                          -   
Short-term receivables from banks, brokerage houses and corporate                           -                          -   
Investments similar to collective investment funds               1.176.544                  880.211   
Equity security investments                  574.497                  513.388   
Other receivables              47.641.649             32.049.105   
TToottaall                  11..337755..441133..998888      11..112299..991199..331188  

 
(*) The figures represent total risk amounts before Credit Risk Mitigation and before credit conversion factor.  

416 - 417Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
  

 
40 

 

kk.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  ddeebbtt  sseeccuurriittiieess,,  ttrreeaassuurryy  bbiillllss  aanndd  ootthheerr  eelliiggiibbllee  bbiillllss::  
  

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  --  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  

FFiinnaanncciiaall  
AAsssseettss  aatt  FFaaiirr  

VVaalluuee  TThhrroouugghh  
PP&&LL  

FFiinnaanncciiaall  AAsssseettss  aatt  FFaaiirr  
VVaalluuee  TThhrroouugghh  OOtthheerr  

CCoommpprreehheennssiivvee  IInnccoommee  

FFiinnaanncciiaall  AAsssseettss  
MMeeaassuurreedd  aatt  

AAmmoorrttiisseedd  CCoosstt  TToottaall  
MMooooddyy’’ss  RRaattiinngg      
Aaa 8.216 10.866.459 - 1100..887744..667755  
Aa1, Aa2, Aa3 - 443.456 - 444433..445566  
A1, A2, A3 - 690.854 - 669900..885544  
Baa1, Baa2, Baa3 - 1.551.160 - 11..555511..116600  
Ba1 - - - --  
Ba2   - -                   --  
Ba3 - - - --  
B1, B2, B3 1.714.561 156.644.199 98.154.676 225566..551133..443366  
C and lower than C 2.217 - - 22..221177  
NR - 129.843 - 112299..884433  
TToottaall  11..772244..999944  117700..332255..997711  9988..115544..667766  227700..220055..664411  

  

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  --  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  

FFiinnaanncciiaall  
AAsssseettss  aatt  FFaaiirr  

VVaalluuee  TThhrroouugghh  
PP&&LL  

FFiinnaanncciiaall  AAsssseettss  aatt  FFaaiirr  
VVaalluuee  TThhrroouugghh  OOtthheerr  

CCoommpprreehheennssiivvee  IInnccoommee  

FFiinnaanncciiaall  AAsssseettss  
MMeeaassuurreedd  aatt  

AAmmoorrttiisseedd  CCoosstt  TToottaall  
MMooooddyy’’ss  RRaattiinngg      
Aaa - 1.326.892 - 11..332266..889922  
Aa1, Aa2, Aa3 - 995.229 - 999955..222299  
A1, A2, A3 - 587.516 - 558877..551166  
Baa1, Baa2, Baa3 - 1.191.288 - 11..119911..228888  
Ba1 - - - --  
Ba2  - - - --  
Ba3 - - - --  
B1, B2, B3 705.886 95.266.547 52.585.560 114488..555577..999933  
C and lower than C 91.320 - - 9911..332200  
NR - 105.496 - 110055..449966  
TToottaall  779977..220066  9999..447722..996688  5522..558855..556600  115522..885555..773344  

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
  

 
39 

 

ii.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  tthhee  eexxppeecctteedd  ccrreeddiitt  lloossss  ooff  llooaannss  ((******))::  
 

SSttaaggee  11  SSttaaggee  22  SSttaaggee  33  
OOppeenniinngg  ((3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211))  11..663355..440088  55..557799..994477  1111..779999..114499  
Additions (*) 1.857.581 2.190.759 13.451.129 
Disposals (**) (324.513) (917.194) (1.068.292) 
Effect of change in foreign exchange 86.136 1.618.436 - 
SSttaaggee  11  aanndd  22  mmoovveemmeenntt  
Loans classified under Stage 1 in two periods (Model effect) 11.152 - - 
Loans classified under Stage 1 in two periods  (Change in balance effect) 451.514 - - 
Transfers from Stage 1 to Stage 2 (Stating and balance change effect) (52.141) 423.765 - 
Loans classified under Stage 2 in two periods (Model effect) - 2.651.891 - 
Loans classified under Stage 2 in two periods  (Change in balance effect) - (4.309.145) - 
Transfers from Stage 2 to Stage 1 (Stating and balance change effect) 59.159 (366.906) - 
SSttaaggee  33  mmoovveemmeenntt  
Transfers from Stage 1 to Stage 3 (13.987) - 602.044 
Transfers from Stage 2 to Stage 3 - (177.117) 955.269 
Transfers from Stage 3 to Stage 2 - 9.894 (193.007) 
Transfers from Stage 3 to Stage 1 - - - 
Loans classified under Stage 2 in two periods (Change in balance and model 
effect) - - 406.130 
Write-offs - (9.580) (14.166.311) 
Sold Portfolio effect - - (802) 
CClloossiinngg  ((3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222))  33..771100..330099  66..669944..775500  1111..778855..330099  
(*) Loans which are not included in the loan portfolio as of 31 December 2021 and included in the loan portfolio and calculated provisions a
of 31 December 2022. 
(**) Loans which are included in the loan portfolio and calculated provisions as of 31 December 2021 but which are not included in the 
loan portfolio as of 31 December 2022. 
(***)  In the calculations the transitions between the records in both periods have been considered by making additions and disposals. 

jj.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  mmoovveemmeenntt  ooff  llooaannss::  
SSttaaggee  11  SSttaaggee  22  SSttaaggee  33  TToottaall  

OOppeenniinngg  ((3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211))  334466..777711..773300  3399..778888..774499  1188..222277..881177  440044..778888..229966  
Additions  311.470.128 6.298.021 13.589.515 331.357.664 
Disposals (127.336.515) (8.563.956) (1.857.236) (137.757.707) 
Sold portfolio - - (802) (802) 
Write-offs - - (14.166.311) (14.166.311) 
Transfers to Stage 1 3.841.897 (3.841.897) - - 
Transfers to Stage 2 (2.211.790) 2.439.510 (227.720) - 
Transfers to Stage 3 (542.155) (1.476.032) 2.018.187 - 
Foreign exchange effect 37.589.177 6.224.389 - 43.813.566 
CClloossiinngg  ((3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222))  556699..558822..447722  4400..886688..778844  1177..558833..445500  662288..003344..770066  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

418 - 419Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CO
N

VE
N

IE
N

CE
 T

R
AN

SL
AT

IO
N

 O
F 

PU
B

LI
CL

Y 
AN

N
O

U
N

CE
D

 C
O

N
SO

LI
D

AT
ED

 F
IN

AN
CI

A
L 

ST
AT

EM
EN

TS
  

O
R

IG
IN

A
LL

Y 
IS

SU
ED

 IN
 T

U
R

K
IS

H
, S

EE
 N

OT
E 

I.b
 O

F 
SE

CT
IO

N
 T

H
R

EE
 

 A
K

B
AN

K
 T

.A
.Ş

. 
N

O
TE

S 
TO

 C
O

N
SO

LI
D

AT
ED

 F
IN

AN
CI

AL
 S

TA
TE

M
EN

TS
 A

T 
31

 D
EC

EM
B

ER
 2

02
2 

(A
m

ou
nt

s 
ex

pr
es

se
d 

in
 th

ou
sa

nd
s 

of
 T

ur
ki

sh
 L

ir
a 

(“
TL

”)
 u

nl
es

s 
ot

he
rw

is
e 

st
at

ed
.) 

     
 42
 

 mm
.. RR

iiss
kk  

PP
rroo

ffii
llee

  aa
cccc

oorr
ddii

nngg
  tt

oo  
ssee

cctt
oorr

ss  
aann

dd  
ccoo

uunn
ttee

rrpp
aarr

ttii
eess

::  
  

CC
uurr

rree
nntt

  PP
eerr

iioo
dd  

((**
**))

 
RR

iiss
kk  

CC
llaa

ssss
iiff

iicc
aatt

iioo
nnss

  ((**
))  

  
TTLL

  
FFCC

  
TToo

ttaa
ll  

3311
  DD

eecc
eemm

bbee
rr  

2200
2222

  
11  

22  
33  

44  
55  

66  
77  

88  
99  

1100
  

1111
  

1122
  

1133
  

1144
  

1155
  

1166
  

1177
  

Ag
ri

cu
ltu

ra
l 

- 
- 

6 
- 

- 
- 

63
1.

40
7 

54
9.

29
4 

43
7.

23
7 

4.
74

0 
73

.0
00

 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
1.

50
1.

02
6 

19
4.

65
8 

11..
6699

55..
6688

44  
  F

ar
m

in
g 

an
d 

ra
is

in
g 

liv
es

to
ck

 
- 

- 
6 

- 
- 

- 
10

.9
51

 
32

3.
51

2 
25

6.
93

4 
1.

82
8 

21
.5

44
 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

60
9.

51
5 

5.
26

0 
6 611

44..
7777

55  

  F
or

es
tr

y 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
62

0.
45

6 
22

0.
49

1 
17

5.
92

1 
46

5 
50

.9
89

 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
87

8.
92

4 
18

9.
39

8 
11..

0066
88..

3322
22  

  F
is

hi
ng

 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

5.
29

1 
4.

38
2 

2.
44

7 
46

7 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
12

.5
87

 
- 

1122
..55

8877
  

M
an

uf
ac

tu
ri

ng
 

- 
- 

92
.5

50
 

- 
- 

- 
16

3.
08

5.
62

5 
11

.8
21

.6
43

 
8.

78
8.

58
6 

1.
14

5.
05

0 
8.

45
2.

43
8 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

11
7.

17
8.

95
7 

76
.2

06
.9

35
 

1199
33..

3388
55..

8899
22  

  M
in

in
g 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

22
.4

40
.1

92
 

1.
89

2.
65

3 
1.

23
4.

30
4 

16
5.

14
9 

67
6.

48
0 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

13
.6

38
.0

33
 

12
.7

70
.7

45
 

2266
..44

0088
..77

7788
  

  P
ro

du
ct

io
n 

- 
- 

92
.5

50
 

- 
- 

- 
10

3.
47

5.
48

5 
9.

70
5.

82
2 

7.
17

9.
28

9 
32

8.
27

6 
7.

38
5.

65
9 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

92
.4

06
.7

50
 

35
.7

60
.3

31
 

1122
88..

1166
77..

0088
11  

  E
le

ct
ri

ci
ty

, G
as

, W
at

er
 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

37
.1

69
.9

48
 

22
3.

16
8 

37
4.

99
3 

65
1.

62
5 

39
0.

29
9 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

11
.1

34
.1

74
 

27
.6

75
.8

59
 

3388
..88

1100
..00

3333
  

Co
ns

tr
uc

tio
n 

 
- 

- 
56

4 
- 

- 
- 

62
.6

54
.2

14
 

3.
91

1.
80

3 
3.

22
2.

31
4 

2.
09

0.
45

2 
2.

80
5.

02
0 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

24
.0

12
.7

91
 

50
.6

71
.5

76
 

7744
..66

8844
..33

6677
  

Se
rv

ic
es

 
13

9.
91

5.
20

7 
70

.9
56

 
59

7.
08

2 
- 

- 
11

4.
40

1.
58

3 
14

4.
10

7.
00

2 
40

.1
47

.5
17

 
18

.0
19

.3
55

 
1.

88
5.

57
0 

20
.8

05
.5

94
 

- 
- 

- 
- 

26
.6

17
 

- 
25

0.
48

5.
99

7 
22

9.
49

0.
48

6 
4477

99..
9977

66..
4488

33  
  W

ho
le

sa
le

 a
nd

 R
et

ai
l 

Tr
ad

e 
 - 

 - 
 

22
1.

18
5 

 - 
 - 

 - 
 

57
.9

45
.1

70
 

 
26

.3
10

.2
59

 
 

10
.4

88
.9

14
 

 
46

5.
52

0 
 

12
.7

84
.2

03
 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

 
96

.4
39

.9
53

 
 

11
.7

75
.2

98
 

  
1100

88..
2211

55..
2255

11  
  H

ot
el

,F
oo

d,
B

ev
er

ag
e 

Se
rv

ic
es

 
 - 

 - 
 

25
6 

 - 
 - 

 - 
 

13
.4

45
.2

74
 

 
2.

35
0.

22
4 

 
3.

05
3.

41
1 

 
54

3.
00

1 
 

19
5.

10
7 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

 
8.

33
4.

89
1 

 
11

.2
52

.3
82

 
  

1199
..55

8877
..22

7733
  

  T
ra

ns
po

rt
at

io
n 

an
d 

  T
el

ec
om

m
un

ic
at

io
n 

- 
- 

30
.7

80
 

- 
- 

- 
12

.5
71

.1
56

 
3.

90
8.

41
4 

87
3.

20
9 

25
.5

93
 

1.
79

5.
30

9 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
10

.4
46

.1
40

 
8.

75
8.

32
1 

1199
..22

0044
..44

6611
  

  F
in

an
ci

al
 In

st
itu

tio
ns

 
13

9.
91

3.
48

5 
- 

13
0 

- 
- 

11
4.

40
1.

58
3 

48
.3

95
.3

12
 

19
2.

39
0 

66
9.

94
4 

66
9.

91
8 

3.
75

3.
98

7 
- 

- 
- 

- 
17

.0
43

 
- 

11
2.

39
9.

24
3 

19
5.

61
4.

54
9 

3300
88..

0011
33..

7799
22  

  R
ea

l E
st

at
e 

an
d 

Le
nd

in
g 

Se
rv

ic
es

 
- 

- 
6.

35
1 

- 
- 

- 
1.

63
6.

72
7 

51
4.

83
4 

33
8.

14
5 

25
.2

03
 

14
3.

68
2 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

2.
53

1.
40

6 
13

3.
53

6 
2 2..

6666
44..

9944
22  

  S
el

f e
m

pl
oy

m
en

t 
Se

rv
ic

e 
69

1 
70

.9
56

 
13

8.
38

1 
- 

- 
- 

7.
57

3.
28

8 
4.

82
4.

23
9 

1.
71

6.
39

4 
13

8.
93

2 
1.

72
2.

63
7 

- 
- 

- 
- 

9.
57

4 
- 

15
.4

57
.7

32
 

73
7.

36
0 

1166
..11

9955
..00

9922
  

  E
du

ca
tio

n 
Se

rv
ic

e 
1.

03
1 

- 
40

.9
23

 
- 

- 
- 

28
8.

20
3 

44
7.

32
8 

18
0.

19
0 

1.
62

7 
12

8.
43

4 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
89

8.
22

5 
18

9.
51

1 
11..

0088
77..

7733
66  

  H
ea

lth
 a

nd
 s

oc
ia

l 
Se

rv
ic

es
 

- 
- 

15
9.

07
6 

- 
- 

- 
2.

25
1.

87
2 

1.
59

9.
82

9 
69

9.
14

8 
15

.7
76

 
28

2.
23

5 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
3.

97
8.

40
7 

1.
02

9.
52

9 
5 5..

0000
77..

9933
66  

O
th

er
 

22
4.

83
5.

71
7 

- 
59

.6
60

 
- 

- 
1.

95
6.

68
0 

15
.7

84
.6

63
 

83
.0

12
.3

90
 

9.
26

2.
69

7 
72

1.
63

3 
42

.4
53

.4
06

 
- 

- 
- 

1.
17

6.
54

4 
54

7.
88

0 
47

.6
41

.6
49

 
35

3.
98

0.
57

4 
73

.4
72

.3
45

 
4422

77..
4455

22..
9911

99  
TToo

ttaa
ll  

3366
44..

7755
00..

9922
44  

7700
..99

5566
  

7744
99..

8866
22  

--  
--  

1111
66..

3355
88..

2266
33  

3388
66..

2266
22..

9911
11  

1133
99..

4444
22..

6644
77  

3399
..77

3300
..11

8899
  

55..
8844

77..
4444

55  
7744

..55
8899

..44
5588

  
--  

--  
--  

11..
1177

66..
5544

44  
5577

44..
4499

77  
4477

..66
4411

..66
4499

  
7744

77..
1155

99..
3344

55  
4433

00..
0033

66..
0000

00  
11..

1177
77..

1199
55..

3344
55  

 
(*

) S
ta

nd
s 

fo
r 

th
e 

ri
sk

 c
at

eg
or

ie
s 

lis
te

d 
in

 “
R

eg
ul

at
io

ns
 o

n 
M

ea
su

re
m

en
t a

nd
 A

ss
es

sm
en

t o
f C

ap
ita

l A
de

qu
ac

y 
R

at
io

s 
of

 B
an

ks
.”

  
(*

*)
 It

 r
ep

re
se

nt
s 

th
e 

ri
sk

 a
m

ou
nt

s 
be

fo
re

 c
re

di
t r

is
k 

m
iti

ga
tio

n 
an

d 
af

te
r 

co
nv

er
si

on
 to

 c
re

di
t. 

 

1.
   

   
   

   
 C

on
di

tio
na

l a
nd

 u
nc

on
di

tio
na

l r
ec

ei
va

bl
es

 fr
om

 c
en

tr
al

 g
ov

er
nm

en
ts

 a
nd

 C
en

tr
al

 B
an

ks
  

 
9.

 
C

on
di

tio
na

l a
nd

 u
nc

on
di

tio
na

l r
ec

ei
va

bl
es

 s
ec

ur
ed

 b
y 

m
or

tg
ag

es
 

2.
 

C
on

di
tio

na
l a

nd
 u

nc
on

di
tio

na
l r

ec
ei

va
bl

es
 fr

om
 r

eg
io

na
l o

r 
lo

ca
l g

ov
er

nm
en

ts
  

 
10

. 
Pa

st
 d

ue
 r

ec
ei

va
bl

es
 

 
3.

 
C

on
di

tio
na

l a
nd

 u
nc

on
di

tio
na

l r
ec

ei
va

bl
es

 fr
om

 a
dm

in
is

tr
at

iv
e 

bo
di

es
 a

nd
 n

on
-c

om
m

er
ci

al
 e

nt
er

pr
is

es
 

11
. 

R
ec

ei
va

bl
es

 d
ef

in
ed

 u
nd

er
 h

ig
h 

ri
sk

 c
at

eg
or

y 
by

 B
R

SA
 

4.
 

C
on

di
tio

na
l a

nd
 u

nc
on

di
tio

na
l r

ec
ei

va
bl

es
 fr

om
 m

ul
til

at
er

al
 d

ev
el

op
m

en
t b

an
ks

 
 

12
. 

C
ol

la
te

ra
liz

ed
 s

ec
ur

iti
es

 
5.

 
C

on
di

tio
na

l a
nd

 u
nc

on
di

tio
na

l r
ec

ei
va

bl
es

 fr
om

 in
te

rn
at

io
na

l o
rg

an
iz

at
io

ns
  

 
 

13
. 

Se
cu

ri
tiz

at
io

n 
po

si
tio

ns
 

6.
   

   
   

   
 C

on
di

tio
na

l a
nd

 u
nc

on
di

tio
na

l r
ec

ei
va

bl
es

 fr
om

 b
an

ks
 a

nd
 b

ro
ke

ra
ge

 h
ou

se
s 

 
 

14
. 

Sh
or

t-
te

rm
 r

ec
ei

va
bl

es
 fr

om
 b

an
ks

, b
ro

ke
ra

ge
 h

ou
se

s 
an

d 
co

rp
or

at
es

 
7.

 
C

on
di

tio
na

l a
nd

 u
nc

on
di

tio
na

l r
ec

ei
va

bl
es

 fr
om

 c
or

po
ra

te
s 

 
 

 
 

15
. 

In
ve

st
m

en
ts

 s
im

ila
r 

to
 c

ol
le

ct
iv

e 
in

ve
st

m
en

t f
un

ds
 

8.
 

C
on

di
tio

na
l a

nd
 u

nc
on

di
tio

na
l r

ec
ei

va
bl

es
 fr

om
 r

et
ai

l p
or

tfo
lio

s 
 

 
16

. 
Eq

ui
ty

 s
ec

ur
ity

 tr
an

sa
ct

io
ns

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
17

. 
O

th
er

 r
ec

ei
va

bl
es

 
 

CO
N

VE
N

IE
N

CE
 T

R
AN

SL
AT

IO
N

 O
F 

PU
B

LI
CL

Y 
AN

N
O

U
N

CE
D

 C
O

N
SO

LI
D

AT
ED

 F
IN

AN
CI

A
L 

ST
AT

EM
EN

TS
  

O
R

IG
IN

A
LL

Y 
IS

SU
ED

 IN
 T

U
R

K
IS

H
, S

EE
 N

OT
E 

I.b
 O

F 
SE

CT
IO

N
 T

H
R

EE
 

 A
K

B
AN

K
 T

.A
.Ş

. 
N

O
TE

S 
TO

 C
O

N
SO

LI
D

AT
ED

 F
IN

AN
CI

AL
 S

TA
TE

M
EN

TS
 A

T 
31

 D
EC

EM
B

ER
 2

02
2 

(A
m

ou
nt

s 
ex

pr
es

se
d 

in
 th

ou
sa

nd
s 

of
 T

ur
ki

sh
 L

ir
a 

(“
TL

”)
 u

nl
es

s 
ot

he
rw

is
e 

st
at

ed
.) 

 

     
 41
 

 ll.. 
PP

rroo
ffii

llee
  oo

nn  
ssii

ggnn
iiff

iicc
aann

tt  
rrii

sskk
ss  

iinn
  ss

iigg
nnii

ffii
ccaa

nntt
  rr

eegg
iioo

nnss
::  

CC
uurr

rree
nntt

  PP
eerr

iioo
dd  

((**
**))

  
RR

iiss
kk  

CC
aatt

eegg
oorr

iiee
ss  

((**
))  

  
3311

  DD
eecc

eemm
bbee

rr  
2200

2222
  

11  
22  

33  
44  

55  
66  

77  
88  

99  
1100

  
1111

  
1122

  
1133

  
1144

  
1155

  
1166

  
1177

  
TToo

ttaa
ll 

D
om

es
tic

 
34

5.
01

9.
73

1 
70

.9
56

 
74

9.
86

2 
- 

- 
30

.1
79

.3
27

 
37

8.
20

0.
03

2 
13

9.
35

8.
81

6 
39

.7
02

.5
21

 
5.

80
2.

82
7 

74
.5

85
.0

58
 

- 
- 

- 
1.

17
6.

54
4 

- 
47

.6
41

.6
49

 
11..

0066
22..

4488
77..

3322
33  

Eu
ro

pe
an

 U
ni

on
 

C
ou

nt
ri

es
 

11
.9

85
.0

86
 

- 
- 

- 
- 

65
.2

33
.3

45
 

6.
33

1.
92

9 
55

.8
49

 
12

.0
92

 
44

.5
99

 
3.

28
7 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

8833
..66

6666
..11

8877
  

O
EC

D
 C

ou
nt

ri
es

(*
**

) 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

7.
34

5.
16

6 
52

.0
53

 
3.

35
6 

2.
32

3 
- 

19
5 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

77..
4400

33..
0099

33  
O

ff-
 S

ho
re

 R
eg

io
ns

 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

24
8 

11
8.

40
0 

14
 

- 
2 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
1111

88..
6666

44  
U

SA
, C

an
ad

a 
7.

74
6.

10
7 

- 
- 

- 
- 

12
.3

35
.8

03
 

10
2.

73
9 

4.
33

5 
6.

46
6 

- 
17

7 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
2200

..11
9955

..66
2277

  
O

th
er

 C
ou

nt
ri

es
 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
1.

26
4.

37
4 

1.
45

7.
75

8 
20

.2
77

 
6.

78
7 

17
 

74
1 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

22..
7744

99..
9955

44  
In

ve
st

m
en

t a
nd

 
as

so
ci

at
es

, 
su

bs
id

ia
ri

es
 a

nd
 

jo
in

t v
en

tu
re

s 
 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
57

4.
49

7 
- 

5 577
44..

4499
77  

U
nd

is
tr

ib
ut

ed
 A

ss
et

s 
/ 

Li
ab

ili
tie

s(
**

**
)  

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
--  

TToo
ttaa

ll  
3366

44..
7755

00..
9922

44  
7700

..99
5566

  
7744

99..
8866

22  
--  

--  
1111

66..
3355

88..
2266

33  
3388

66..
2266

22..
9911

11  
1133

99..
4444

22..
6644

77  
3399

..77
3300

..11
8899

  
55..

8844
77..

4444
55  

7744
..55

8899
..44

5588
  

--  
--  

--  
11..

1177
66..

5544
44  

5577
44..

4499
77  

4477
..66

4411
..66

4499
  

11..
1177

77..
1199

55..
3344

55  
  

PP
rrii

oorr
  PP

eerr
iioo

dd  
((**

**))
  

RR
iiss

kk  
CC

aatt
eegg

oorr
iiee

ss  
((**

))  
  

3311
  

DD
eecc

eemm
bbee

rr  
11  

22  
33  

44  
55  

66  
77  

88  
99  

1100
  

1111
  

1122
  

1133
  

1144
  

1155
  

1166
  

1177
  

TToo
ttaa

ll 
D

om
es

tic
 

21
0.

41
6.

91
0 

13
4.

45
2 

39
6.

01
3 

- 
- 

21
.9

45
.5

28
 

25
3.

91
1.

83
4 

89
.4

22
.9

55
 

25
.8

07
.7

45
 

6.
45

0.
86

7 
18

.3
78

.2
58

 
- 

- 
- 

54
6.

62
2 

- 
19

.4
12

.1
71

 
6644

66..
8822

33..
3355

55  
Eu

ro
pe

an
 U

ni
on

 
C

ou
nt

ri
es

 
5.

63
4.

53
0 

- 
- 

- 
- 

43
.5

49
.2

81
 

5.
08

4.
49

2 
29

.1
60

 
13

.6
02

 
59

 
2.

00
1 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

5544
..33

1133
..11

2255
  

O
EC

D
 C

ou
nt

ri
es

(*
**

) 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

7.
14

7.
51

7 
11

.7
46

 
3.

78
5 

97
6 

2 
21

7 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
77..

1166
44..

2244
33  

O
ff-

 S
ho

re
 R

eg
io

ns
 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
16

5 
37

5.
94

8 
9 

- 
2 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
3377

66..
1122

44  
U

SA
, C

an
ad

a 
88

0.
63

7 
- 

- 
- 

- 
21

.8
18

.9
25

 
59

5.
09

0 
13

.0
34

 
2.

59
2 

4 
22

8 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
2233

..33
1100

..55
1100

  
O

th
er

 C
ou

nt
ri

es
 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
2.

43
7.

32
8 

68
8.

65
7 

9.
52

6 
2.

49
5 

6 
1.

36
2 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

33..
1133

99..
3377

44  
In

ve
st

m
en

t a
nd

 
as

so
ci

at
es

, 
su

bs
id

ia
ri

es
 a

nd
 

jo
in

t v
en

tu
re

s 
 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
40

8.
07

7 
- 

4 400
88..

0077
77  

U
nd

is
tr

ib
ut

ed
 A

ss
et

s 
/ L

ia
bi

lit
ie

s(
**

**
)  

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
--  

TToo
ttaa

ll  
2211

66..
9933

22..
0077

77  
1133

44..
4455

22  
3399

66..
0011

33  
--  

--  
9966

..88
9988

..77
4444

  
2266

00..
6666

77..
7766

77  
8899

..44
7788

..44
6699

  
2255

..88
2277

..44
1100

  
66..

4455
00..

9944
00  

1188
..33

8822
..00

6666
  

--  
--  

--  
5544

66..
6622

22  
4400

88..
0077

77  
1199

..44
1122

..11
7711

  
7733

55..
5533

44..
8800

88  
(*

) S
ta

nd
s 

fo
r 

th
e 

ri
sk

 c
at

eg
or

ie
s 

lis
te

d 
in

 “
R

eg
ul

at
io

ns
 o

n 
M

ea
su

re
m

en
t a

nd
 A

ss
es

sm
en

t o
f C

ap
ita

l A
de

qu
ac

y 
R

at
io

s 
of

 B
an

ks
.”

  
(*

*)
 It

 r
ep

re
se

nt
s 

th
e 

ri
sk

 a
m

ou
nt

s 
be

fo
re

 c
re

di
t r

is
k 

m
iti

ga
tio

n 
an

d 
af

te
r 

co
nv

er
si

on
 to

 c
re

di
t. 

 

1.
   

   
   

   
 C

on
di

tio
na

l a
nd

 u
nc

on
di

tio
na

l r
ec

ei
va

bl
es

 fr
om

 c
en

tr
al

 g
ov

er
nm

en
ts

 a
nd

 C
en

tr
al

 B
an

ks
  

 
 9

. 
C

on
di

tio
na

l a
nd

 u
nc

on
di

tio
na

l r
ec

ei
va

bl
es

 s
ec

ur
ed

 b
y 

m
or

tg
ag

es
 

2.
 

C
on

di
tio

na
l a

nd
 u

nc
on

di
tio

na
l r

ec
ei

va
bl

es
 fr

om
 r

eg
io

na
l o

r 
lo

ca
l g

ov
er

nm
en

ts
 

 
 

10
. 

Pa
st

 d
ue

 r
ec

ei
va

bl
es

 
 

3.
 

C
on

di
tio

na
l a

nd
 u

nc
on

di
tio

na
l r

ec
ei

va
bl

es
 fr

om
 a

dm
in

is
tr

at
iv

e 
bo

di
es

 a
nd

 n
on

-c
om

m
er

ci
al

 e
nt

er
pr

is
es

 
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
  

  1
1.

 
R

ec
ei

va
bl

es
 d

ef
in

ed
 u

nd
er

 h
ig

h 
ri

sk
 c

at
eg

or
y 

by
 B

R
SA

 
4.

 
C

on
di

tio
na

l a
nd

 u
nc

on
di

tio
na

l r
ec

ei
va

bl
es

 fr
om

 m
ul

til
at

er
al

 d
ev

el
op

m
en

t b
an

ks
 

 
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

 
12

. 
C

ol
la

te
ra

liz
ed

 s
ec

ur
iti

es
 

5.
 

C
on

di
tio

na
l a

nd
 u

nc
on

di
tio

na
l r

ec
ei

va
bl

es
 fr

om
 in

te
rn

at
io

na
l o

rg
an

iz
at

io
ns

  
 

 
13

. 
Se

cu
ri

tiz
at

io
n 

po
si

tio
ns

 
6.

   
   

   
   

  
C

on
di

tio
na

l a
nd

 u
nc

on
di

tio
na

l r
ec

ei
va

bl
es

 fr
om

 b
an

ks
 a

nd
 b

ro
ke

ra
ge

 h
ou

se
s 

 
 

14
. 

Sh
or

t-
te

rm
 r

ec
ei

va
bl

es
 fr

om
 b

an
ks

, b
ro

ke
ra

ge
 h

ou
se

s 
an

d 
co

rp
or

at
es

 
7.

 
C

on
di

tio
na

l a
nd

 u
nc

on
di

tio
na

l r
ec

ei
va

bl
es

 fr
om

 c
or

po
ra

te
s 

 
 

 
 

15
. 

In
ve

st
m

en
ts

 s
im

ila
r 

to
 c

ol
le

ct
iv

e 
in

ve
st

m
en

t f
un

ds
 

8.
 

C
on

di
tio

na
l a

nd
 u

nc
on

di
tio

na
l r

ec
ei

va
bl

es
 fr

om
 r

et
ai

l p
or

tfo
lio

s 
 

 
16

. 
Eq

ui
ty

 s
ec

ur
ity

 tr
an

sa
ct

io
ns

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
17

. 
O

th
er

 r
ec

ei
va

bl
es

 
 (*

**
)  

   
EU

 c
ou

nt
ri

es
, O

EC
D

 c
ou

nt
ri

es
 o

th
er

 th
an

 U
SA

 a
nd

 C
an

ad
a 

 (*
**

*)
  A

ss
et

s 
an

d 
lia

bi
lit

ie
s 

th
at

 a
re

 n
ot

 d
is

tr
ib

ut
ed

 a
cc

or
di

ng
 to

 a
 c

on
si

st
en

t p
ri

nc
ip

le
   

   
   

   
  

420 - 421Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
44 

 

nn.. TTeerrmm  ddiissttrriibbuuttiioonn  ooff  rriisskkss  wwiitthh  tteerrmm  ssttrruuccttuurree  ((**))::  
TTiimmee  ttoo  MMaattuurriittyy    

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  
RRiisskk  CCaatteeggoorriieess  11  mmoonntthh  11--33  mmoonntthhss  33--66  mmoonntthhss  66--1122  mmoonntthhss  OOvveerr  11  yyeeaarr  UUnnaallllooccaatteedd  
Conditional and unconditional receivables from 
central governments and Central Banks  36.797.288 97.047.880 14.496.894 15.409.977 200.998.885 - 
Conditional and unconditional receivables from 
regional or local governments - - 431 31.576 38.949 - 
Conditional and unconditional receivables from 
administrative bodies and  non-commercial 
enterprises 98.787 40.097 105.750 379.340 125.888 - 
Conditional and unconditional receivables from 
multilateral development banks - - - - - - 
Conditional and unconditional receivables from 
international organizations  - - - - - - 
Conditional and unconditional receivables from 
banks and brokerage houses 41.448.455 14.716.562 11.128.983 11.193.728 37.870.535 - 
Conditional and unconditional receivables from 
corporates 21.893.033 57.800.746 60.632.745 70.660.405 175.275.982 - 
Conditional and unconditional receivables from 
retail portfolios 3.324.633 6.322.906 15.613.723 44.291.701 69.889.684 - 
Conditional and unconditional receivables 
secured by mortgages 685.108 2.478.435 2.824.509 8.882.820 24.859.317 - 
Past due receivables - - - - - 5.847.445 
Receivables defined under high risk category 
by BRSA 1.219.312 4.278.050 7.385.391 14.020.052 47.686.653 - 
Collateralized securities - - - - - - 
Securitization positions - - - - - - 
Short-term receivables from banks, brokerage 
houses and corporates - - - - - - 
Investments similar to collective investment 
funds 1.176.544 - - - - - 
Equity security investments - 574.497 - - - - 
Other Receivables - - - - - 47.641.649 
TToottaall  110066..664433..116600  118833..225599..117733  111122..118888..442266  116644..886699..559999  555566..774455..889933  5533..448899..009944  
(*)It represents the risk amounts before credit risk mitigation and after conversion to credit. 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

CO
N

VE
N

IE
N

CE
 T

R
AN

SL
AT

IO
N

 O
F 

PU
B

LI
CL

Y 
AN

N
O

U
N

CE
D

 C
O

N
SO

LI
D

AT
ED

 F
IN

AN
CI

A
L 

ST
AT

EM
EN

TS
  

O
R

IG
IN

A
LL

Y 
IS

SU
ED

 IN
 T

U
R

K
IS

H
, S

EE
 N

OT
E 

I.b
 O

F 
SE

CT
IO

N
 T

H
R

EE
 

 A
K

B
AN

K
 T

.A
.Ş

. 
N

O
TE

S 
TO

 C
O

N
SO

LI
D

AT
ED

 F
IN

AN
CI

AL
 S

TA
TE

M
EN

TS
 A

T 
31

 D
EC

EM
B

ER
 2

02
2 

(A
m

ou
nt

s 
ex

pr
es

se
d 

in
 th

ou
sa

nd
s 

of
 T

ur
ki

sh
 L

ir
a 

(“
TL

”)
 u

nl
es

s 
ot

he
rw

is
e 

st
at

ed
.) 

     
 43
 

 

PP
rrii

oorr
  PP

eerr
iioo

dd  
((**

**))
 

RR
iiss

kk  
CC

llaa
ssss

iiff
iicc

aatt
iioo

nnss
  ((**

))  
  

TTLL
  

FFCC
  

TToo
ttaa

ll  
3311

  
DD

eecc
eemm

bbee
rr  

11  
22  

33  
44  

55  
66  

77  
88  

99  
1100

  
1111

  
1122

  
1133

  
1144

  
1155

  
1166

  
1177

  
Ag

ri
cu

ltu
ra

l 
- 

- 
6 

- 
- 

- 
2.

90
7.

32
8 

48
0.

54
8 

21
8.

20
3 

4.
40

2 
11

.0
54

 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
2.

38
4.

91
3 

1.
23

6.
62

8 
33..

6622
11..

5544
11  

  F
ar

m
in

g 
an

d 
ra

is
in

g 
liv

es
to

ck
 

- 
- 

6 
- 

- 
- 

2.
87

3.
38

3 
38

5.
49

7 
18

8.
39

2 
3.

86
1 

9.
62

9 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
2.

24
4.

99
5 

1.
21

5.
77

3 
33..

4466
00..

7766
88  

  F
or

es
tr

y 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
33

.9
45

 
90

.2
99

 
28

.8
75

 
47

4 
1.

05
3 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

13
3.

79
1 

20
.8

55
 

1155
44..

6644
66  

  F
is

hi
ng

 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

4.
75

2 
93

6 
67

 
37

2 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
6.

12
7 

- 
66..

1122
77  

M
an

uf
ac

tu
ri

ng
 

- 
- 

78
 

- 
- 

- 
88

.3
53

.1
56

 
6.

62
9.

87
3 

4.
42

6.
88

1 
1.

37
8.

84
2 

20
2.

12
6 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

43
.4

89
.3

55
 

57
.5

01
.6

01
 

1100
00..

9999
00..

9955
66  

  M
in

in
g 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

12
.4

57
.6

43
 

1.
11

2.
29

9 
71

0.
28

9 
41

9.
04

6 
26

.2
65

 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
5.

40
7.

29
5 

9.
31

8.
24

7 
1144

..77
2255

..55
4422

  
  P

ro
du

ct
io

n 
- 

- 
78

 
- 

- 
- 

45
.0

44
.6

09
 

5.
34

8.
42

4 
3.

59
1.

09
3 

24
6.

97
2 

15
3.

53
4 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

29
.3

64
.8

42
 

25
.0

19
.8

68
 

5544
..33

8844
..77

1100
  

  E
le

ct
ri

ci
ty

, G
as

, W
at

er
 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

30
.8

50
.9

04
 

16
9.

15
0 

12
5.

49
9 

71
2.

82
4 

22
.3

27
 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

8.
71

7.
21

8 
23

.1
63

.4
86

 
3311

..88
8800

..77
0044

  
Co

ns
tr

uc
tio

n 
 

- 
- 

75
1 

- 
- 

- 
36

.4
65

.2
72

 
2.

33
9.

53
1 

1.
75

7.
74

2 
1.

71
7.

85
2 

40
6.

59
3 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

14
.2

87
.4

67
 

28
.4

00
.2

74
 

4422
..66

8877
..77

4411
  

Se
rv

ic
es

 
2.

06
9.

60
6 

13
1.

09
5 

32
8.

86
4 

- 
- 

96
.8

93
.1

34
 

10
8.

91
1.

61
0 

23
.8

34
.2

77
 

9.
63

0.
90

0 
1.

90
3.

83
2 

45
4.

35
1 

- 
- 

- 
- 

17
.0

42
 

- 
10

1.
62

3.
58

4 
14

2.
55

1.
12

7 
2244

44..
1177

44..
7711

11  
  W

ho
le

sa
le

 a
nd

 R
et

ai
l 

Tr
ad

e 
- 

- 
16

1.
27

7 
- 

- 
- 

46
.0

28
.6

65
 

18
.7

59
.8

71
 

6.
39

9.
36

9 
75

5.
23

3 
24

5.
05

7 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
61

.5
45

.3
35

 
10

.8
04

.1
37

 
7722

..33
4499

..44
7722

  

  H
ot

el
,F

oo
d,

B
ev

er
ag

e 
Se

rv
ic

es
 

- 
- 

63
 

- 
- 

- 
9.

59
9.

67
4 

1.
27

2.
72

7 
1.

55
5.

99
9 

54
2.

45
5 

38
.9

19
 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

4.
16

8.
66

8 
8.

84
1.

16
9 

1133
..00

0099
..88

3377
  

  T
ra

ns
po

rt
at

io
n 

an
d 

  T
el

ec
om

m
un

ic
at

io
n 

1.
03

1 
- 

11
.7

69
 

- 
- 

- 
16

.5
28

.2
31

 
1.

97
2.

45
0 

53
6.

47
3 

33
.8

86
 

45
.5

43
 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

5.
27

6.
06

9 
13

.8
53

.3
14

 
1 199

..11
2299

..33
8833

  

  F
in

an
ci

al
 In

st
itu

tio
ns

 
2.

06
7.

72
0 

- 
16

5 
- 

- 
96

.8
93

.1
34

 
32

.7
66

.1
63

 
66

.4
64

 
18

3.
04

0 
51

6.
88

9 
9.

33
7 

- 
- 

- 
- 

17
.0

42
 

- 
25

.3
17

.3
89

 
10

7.
20

2.
56

5 
1133

22..
5511

99..
9955

44  
  R

ea
l E

st
at

e 
an

d 
Le

nd
in

g 
Se

rv
ic

es
 

- 
- 

5 
- 

- 
- 

54
9.

00
5 

20
7.

86
3 

20
7.

80
6 

1.
12

9 
13

.1
45

 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
86

0.
35

7 
11

8.
59

6 
9977

88..
9955

33  

  S
el

f e
m

pl
oy

m
en

t 
Se

rv
ic

e 
- 

- 
10

2 
- 

- 
- 

57
4.

70
9 

31
9.

20
7 

14
9.

58
6 

80
3 

48
.5

42
 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

90
3.

38
9 

18
9.

56
0 

11..
0099

22..
9944

99  

  E
du

ca
tio

n 
Se

rv
ic

e 
3 

- 
62

.2
23

 
- 

- 
- 

13
1.

05
7 

26
5.

05
4 

19
2.

07
1 

38
.8

16
 

7.
70

9 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
65

8.
29

2 
38

.6
41

 
6699

66..
9933

33  
  H

ea
lth

 a
nd

 s
oc

ia
l 

Se
rv

ic
es

 
85

2 
13

1.
09

5 
93

.2
60

 
- 

- 
- 

2.
73

4.
10

6 
97

0.
64

1 
40

6.
55

6 
14

.6
21

 
46

.0
99

 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
2.

89
4.

08
5 

1.
50

3.
14

5 
44..

3399
77..

2233
00  

O
th

er
 

21
4.

86
2.

47
1 

3.
35

7 
66

.3
14

 
- 

- 
5.

61
0 

24
.0

30
.4

01
 

56
.1

94
.2

40
 

9.
79

3.
68

4 
1.

44
6.

01
2 

17
.3

07
.9

42
 

- 
- 

- 
54

6.
62

2 
39

1.
03

5 
19

.4
12

.1
71

 
23

3.
30

4.
09

1 
11

0.
75

5.
76

8 
3344

44..
0055

99..
8855

99  
TToo

ttaa
ll  

2211
66..

9933
22..

0077
77  

1133
44..

4455
22  

3399
66..

0011
33  

--  
--  

9966
..88

9988
..77

4444
  

2266
00..

6666
77..

7766
77  

8899
..44

7788
..44

6699
  

2255
..88

2277
..44

1100
  

66..
4455

00..
9944

00  
1188

..33
8822

..00
6666

  
--  

--  
--  

5544
66..

6622
22  

4400
88..

0077
77  

1199
..44

1122
..11

7711
  

3399
55..

0088
99..

4411
00  

3344
00..

4444
55..

3399
88  

7733
55..

5533
44..

8800
88  

 
(*

) S
ta

nd
s 

fo
r 

th
e 

ri
sk

 c
at

eg
or

ie
s 

lis
te

d 
in

 “
R

eg
ul

at
io

ns
 o

n 
M

ea
su

re
m

en
t a

nd
 A

ss
es

sm
en

t o
f C

ap
ita

l A
de

qu
ac

y 
R

at
io

s 
of

 B
an

ks
.”

  
(*

*)
 It

 r
ep

re
se

nt
s 

th
e 

ri
sk

 a
m

ou
nt

s 
be

fo
re

 c
re

di
t r

is
k 

m
iti

ga
tio

n 
an

d 
af

te
r 

co
nv

er
si

on
 to

 c
re

di
t. 

 
1.

   
   

   
   

 C
on

di
tio

na
l a

nd
 u

nc
on

di
tio

na
l r

ec
ei

va
bl

es
 fr

om
 c

en
tr

al
 g

ov
er

nm
en

ts
 a

nd
 C

en
tr

al
 B

an
ks

  
 

9.
 

C
on

di
tio

na
l a

nd
 u

nc
on

di
tio

na
l r

ec
ei

va
bl

es
 s

ec
ur

ed
 b

y 
m

or
tg

ag
es

 
2.

 
C

on
di

tio
na

l a
nd

 u
nc

on
di

tio
na

l r
ec

ei
va

bl
es

 fr
om

 r
eg

io
na

l o
r 

lo
ca

l g
ov

er
nm

en
ts

  
 

10
. 

Pa
st

 d
ue

 r
ec

ei
va

bl
es

 
 

3.
 

C
on

di
tio

na
l a

nd
 u

nc
on

di
tio

na
l r

ec
ei

va
bl

es
 fr

om
 a

dm
in

is
tr

at
iv

e 
bo

di
es

 a
nd

 n
on

-c
om

m
er

ci
al

 e
nt

er
pr

is
es

 
11

. 
R

ec
ei

va
bl

es
 d

ef
in

ed
 u

nd
er

 h
ig

h 
ri

sk
 c

at
eg

or
y 

by
 B

R
SA

 
4.

 
C

on
di

tio
na

l a
nd

 u
nc

on
di

tio
na

l r
ec

ei
va

bl
es

 fr
om

 m
ul

til
at

er
al

 d
ev

el
op

m
en

t b
an

ks
 

 
12

. 
C

ol
la

te
ra

liz
ed

 s
ec

ur
iti

es
 

5.
 

C
on

di
tio

na
l a

nd
 u

nc
on

di
tio

na
l r

ec
ei

va
bl

es
 fr

om
 in

te
rn

at
io

na
l o

rg
an

iz
at

io
ns

  
 

 
13

. 
Se

cu
ri

tiz
at

io
n 

po
si

tio
ns

 
6.

   
   

   
   

 C
on

di
tio

na
l a

nd
 u

nc
on

di
tio

na
l r

ec
ei

va
bl

es
 fr

om
 b

an
ks

 a
nd

 b
ro

ke
ra

ge
 h

ou
se

s 
 

 
14

. 
Sh

or
t-

te
rm

 r
ec

ei
va

bl
es

 fr
om

 b
an

ks
, b

ro
ke

ra
ge

 h
ou

se
s 

an
d 

co
rp

or
at

es
 

7.
 

C
on

di
tio

na
l a

nd
 u

nc
on

di
tio

na
l r

ec
ei

va
bl

es
 fr

om
 c

or
po

ra
te

s 
 

 
 

 
15

. 
In

ve
st

m
en

ts
 s

im
ila

r 
to

 c
ol

le
ct

iv
e 

in
ve

st
m

en
t f

un
ds

 
8.

 
C

on
di

tio
na

l a
nd

 u
nc

on
di

tio
na

l r
ec

ei
va

bl
es

 fr
om

 r
et

ai
l p

or
tfo

lio
s 

 
 

16
. 

Eq
ui

ty
 s

ec
ur

ity
 tr

an
sa

ct
io

ns
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

17
. 

O
th

er
 r

ec
ei

va
bl

es
 

422 - 423Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 
 

 
 

46 
 

pp.. RRiisskk  aammoouunnttss  aaccccoorrddiinngg  ttoo  rriisskk  wweeiigghhttss  ((**))::  
  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  
22002222  00%%  1100%%  2200%%  2255%%  3355%%  5500%%  7755%%  110000%%  115500%%  225500%%  

OOtthheerr  RRiisskk  
WWeeiigghhttss  

DDeedduucctteedd  
ffrroomm  EEqquuiittyy  

RRiisskk  WWeeiigghhttss               
Amount Before 
Credit Risk 
Mitigation 334.268.467 - 64.591.465 - - 81.829.196 126.638.651 378.005.697 44.963.292 - 29.980.505 - 
Amount After 
Credit Risk 
Mitigation 339.836.832 - 64.167.972 - 14.150.599 101.654.086 103.511.537 345.999.392 44.798.739 - 29.980.505 - 

(*) Excludes counterparty credit risk and securitization positions 

qq.. MMiisscceellllaanneeoouuss  iinnffoorrmmaattiioonn  rreeggaarrddiinngg  iimmppoorrttaanntt  sseeccttoorrss  oorr  ccoouunntteerrppaarrttyy  ttyyppee::  

  
              LLooaannss  ((**))                                                                                                PPrroovviissiioonnss  ((**))  

                                              IImmppaaiirreedd  RReecceeiivvaabblleess  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  
SSeeccttoorrss  //  CCoouunntteerrppaarrttiieess  

SSiiggnniiffiiccaanntt  
IInnccrreeaassee  iinn  CCrreeddiitt  

RRiisskk  ((SSttaaggee  IIII))  

CCrreeddiitt--IImmppaaiirreedd  LLoosssseess  
((SSttaaggee  IIIIII  //  SSppeecciiffiicc  

PPrroovviissiioonn))  
EExxppeecctteedd  CCrreeddiitt  
LLoossss  PPrroovviissiioonnss  

Agricultural 1177..777744 2222..995511                                       2200..774444      
Farming and raising livestock 13.364 13.537 13.891 
Forestry 4.298 3.095 2.968 
Fishing 112 6.319 3.885 

Manufacturing 66..442288..774499 33..663377..990055                             44..111100..444499      
Mining 5.412 134.007 107.246 
Production 1.944.418 1.619.715 1.603.705 
Electricity, Gas, Water 4.478.919 1.884.183 2.399.498 

Construction 1155..555522..009933 55..889944..882222 55..990055..112233 
Services 44..005544..550000 44..881133..008855                             33..773311..886655      

Wholesale and Retail Trade 1.118.219 1.828.644 1.651.036 
Hotel, Food, Beverage Services 2.255.828 845.766 776.763 
Transportation and 
Telecommunication 

93.203 116.846 112.527 

Financial Institutions 3.378 1.275.682 606.533 
Real Estate and Lending Service 93.582 72.539 58.754 
Self Employment Service 48.200 288.889 172.726 
Education Service 18.821 14.889 15.723 
Health and social services 423.269 369.830 337.803 

Other 1144..881155..666688 33..221144..668877 44..771111..887788 
TToottaall  4400..886688..778844  1177..558833..445500  1188..448800..005599  
(*) Breakdown of cash loans 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
45 

 

oo.. EExxppllaannaattiioonnss  rreeggaarrddiinngg  rriisskk  ccaatteeggoorriieess  mmeennttiioonneedd  iinn  66tthh  ccllaauussee  ooff  CCaappiittaall  AAddeeqquuaaccyy  MMeeaassuurreemmeenntt  aanndd  
EEvvaalluuaattiioonn  CCoommmmuunniiqquuéé::  

Ratings given by Fitch Ratings are used in determining risk weight class of the counterparties. Countries’ credit note is 
considered all risk class of receivables  from central governments and Central Banks. The ratings of Fitch Ratings are used 
for Banks and Corporate Receivables asset class and are limited to receivables that have counterparties abroad. If the risk 
weight class solely consists of receivables from central governments and central banks, the credit ratings of the countries 
are taken into account. The ratings given by JCR-ER are used for TL receivables whose counterparty is corporate asset class. 
“Credit Quality Degrees” corresponding to the grades of Fitch Ratings and JCR-ER are given in the table below. 

 

 

CCrreeddiitt    
QQuuaalliittyy  DDeeggrreeeess  

FFiittcchh  JJCCRR--EERR  

11  AAAAAA  aanndd  AAAA--  AAAAAA  aanndd  AAAA--  

22  AA++  aanndd  AA--  AA++  aanndd  AA--  

33  BBBBBB++  aanndd  BBBBBB--  

BBBBBB++  aanndd  BBBB--  

44  BBBB++  aanndd  BBBB--  

55  BB++  aanndd  BB--  

BBBB--  bbeellooww  

66  CCCCCC++  aanndd  bbeellooww  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

424 - 425Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 
 

 
 

48 
 

III. EXPLANATIONS ON CURRENCY RISK: 

The difference between the Group’s foreign currency denominated and foreign currency indexed assets and liabilities is 
defined as the “Net Foreign Currency Position” and is the basis of currency risk. Foreign currency denominated assets 
and liabilities, together with purchase and sale commitments, give rise to foreign exchange exposure. The Bank keeps the 
foreign exchange exposure amount within the limits set by the ERC. The ERC, taking into account the economic conditions 
and market developments, sets a limit for the size of a foreign exchange exposure. Those limits are individually 
determined and followed for both the net overall foreign currency position and for the foreign exchange exposure. 
Derivative financial instruments like forward foreign exchange contracts and currency swaps are used as tools for foreign 
exchange exposure management. 

The Parent Bank’s foreign exchange bid rates as of the date of the financial statements and for the last five days prior to 
that date are presented below: 

  UUSSDD  EEUURROO  
Balance Sheet Evaluation Rate TL 18,6983 TL 19,9349 
   

1.Day bid rate TL 18,6983 TL 19,9349 
2.Day bid rate TL 18,6966 TL 19,8816 
3.Day bid rate TL 18,6964 TL 19,8946 
4.Day bid rate TL 18,6813 TL 19,9087 
5.Day bid rate TL 18,6649 TL 19,8324 

The simple arithmetic average of the Parent Bank’s foreign exchange bid rates for the last thirty days preceding the 
balance sheet date for major foreign currencies are presented in the table below: 
 

      USD : TL 18,6404 
      EURO : TL 19,7480 

As of 31 December 2021; 

  UUSSDD  EEUURROO  
Balance Sheet Evaluation Rate TL 13,3290 TL 15,0867 

  
IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  rreellaatteedd  ttoo  GGrroouupp’’ss  CCuurrrreennccyy  RRiisskk::    

The table below summarizes the Group’s net foreign currency position, categorized by currency. Foreign currency indexed 
assets are classified as Turkish Lira assets according to the Uniform Chart of Accounts. In currency risk calculation, foreign 
currency indexed assets are considered as foreign currency items. In accordance with the “Communiqué on Calculation of 
Foreign Currency Net Position/Capital Standard Ratio by banks in stand-alone and consolidated basis”; prepaid expenses in 
assets and and shareholders’ equity in liabilities are excluded in the currency risk calculation. Therefore, there are 
differences between the amounts of foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities demonstrated on the table below and 
the amounts on the balance sheet. 

 

 

 

 

 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
47 

 

 

rr.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  rreellaatteedd  ttoo  iimmppaaiirrmmeenntt  aanndd  llooaann  lloossss  pprroovviissiioonnss::  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  
OOppeennnniinngg    

bbaallaannccee  
PPrroovviissiioonnss  rreesseerrvveedd  

dduurriinngg  tthhee  ppeerriioodd  
PPrroovviissiioonn  
rreevveerrssaallss  

OOtthheerr
aaddjjuussttmmeennttss  ((**))

CClloossiinngg  
bbaallaannccee  

Stage 3 Provisions 11.799.149 15.914.572 (1.761.299) (14.167.113) 11.785.309 
Stage 1 and 2 Provisions 7.215.355 3.199.284 - (9.580) 10.405.059 
(*) Presents the Write-Offs and Sales from Loans under Follow-up portfolio. 
 
 

ss.. RRiisskk  iinnvvoollvveedd  iinn  ccoouunntteerr--ccyycclliiccaall  ccaappiittaall  bbuuffffeerr  ccaallccuullaattiioonn::  
  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  

CCoouunnttrryy  ooff  uullttiimmaattee  rriisskk  
PPrriivvaattee  sseeccttoorr  ccrreeddiitt  

eexxppoossuurreess  iinn  bbaannkkiinngg  bbooookk  
RRiisskk  WWeeiigghhtteedd  EEqquuiivvaalleenntt  

ttrraaddiinngg  bbooookk  TToottaall  
Turkey 549.754.873 9.375.517 559.130.390 
Germany 1.867.860 2.647 1.870.507 
Ireland 1.340.127 8.607 1.348.734 
Spain 1.215.398 - 1.215.398 
Great Britain 634.370 - 634.370 
Russian Federation 509.271 5.679 514.950 
France 482.610 - 482.610 
United Arab Emirates 268.032 267 268.299 
Other 1.696.223 768 1.696.991 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

426 - 427Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 
 

 
 

50 
 

IV. EXPLANATIONS ON INTEREST RATE RISK: 

“Interest Rate Risk” can be defined as the impact of interest rate changes on interest-sensitive asset and liability items of 
both on and off-balance sheets of the Group. The ERC sets limits for the interest rate sensitivity of on and off-balance sheet 
items and the sensitivity is closely monitored and reported weekly. In the case of high market fluctuations, daily transaction 
based reporting and analyses are made. 

The Group manages the interest rate risk on a portfolio basis and tries to minimize the risk effect on the profitability, financial 
exposure and cash flows by applying different strategies. Basic methods such as using fixed or floating interest rates for 
different portfolios and maturities, setting the fixed margin in floating rates, or varying the rates for the short or long-term 
positions are applied actively. 

aa..  IInntteerreesstt  rraattee  sseennssiittiivviittyy  ooff  aasssseettss,,  lliiaabbiilliittiieess  aanndd  ooffff--bbaallaannccee  sshheeeett  iitteemmss  (based on repricing dates)  

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  --  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  UUpp  ttoo  11  MMoonntthh  
11  ––  33  

MMoonntthhss  
33  ––  1122  

MMoonntthhss  
11  ––  55  

YYeeaarrss  
55  YYeeaarrss  

aanndd  OOvveerr  

NNoonn--
IInntteerreesstt  
BBeeaarriinngg  TToottaall  

AAsssseettss          
Cash Equivalents and Central Bank 22.974.986 - - - - 104.557.805 112277..553322..779911  
Banks (*****) 9.556.309 3.591.941 - - - 25.232.372 3388..338800..662222  
Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Profit or 
Loss 

28.641 173.196 336.083 119.991 164.095 9.737.119 1100..555599..112255  

Interbank Money Market Placements 985.674 476.702 - - - - 11..446622..337766  
Financial Assets at measured Fair Value Other 
Comprehensive Income 

16.585.316 17.889.311 38.938.246 71.594.574 25.318.524 1.501.802 117711..882277..777733  

Loans (*) 185.479.287 117.925.592 187.608.877 101.862.336 17.551.548 17.607.066 662288..003344..770066  
Financial Assets measured at amortised cost 40.382.262 1.103.650 38.665.799 14.935.049 3.067.916 - 9988..115544..667766  
Other Assets (**) 9.073.917 31.721.896 10.896.498 2.602.473 38.651 17.008.676 7711..334422..111111  

TToottaall  AAsssseettss  228855..006666..339922  117722..888822..228888  227766..444455..550033  119911..111144..442233  4466..114400..773344  117755..664444..884400  11..114477..229944..118800  
LLiiaabbiilliittiieess          

Bank Deposits 5.321.984 7.095.018 2.369.133 - - 1.476.192 1166..226622..332277  
Other Deposits 271.150.262 140.759.595 34.674.898 15.920.599 1.160.630 241.633.617 770055..229999..660011  
Funds from Interbank Money Market 46.381.820 11.776.257 3.874.851 491.525 - - 6622..552244..445533  
Miscellaneous Payables 4.978.572 11.550.362 7.748.181 342.177 - 24.458.319 4499..007777..661111  
Marketable Securities Issued (Net) (***) 256.139 2.173.604 2.880.644 20.413.088 16.895.052 - 4422..661188..552277  
Borrowings 9.748.864 38.247.433 22.941.161 4.125.496 - - 7755..006622..995544  
Other Liabilities (****) 4.166.531 6.797.111 5.924.605 889.583 1.055.481 177.615.396 119966..444488..770077  

TToottaall  LLiiaabbiilliittiieess  334422..000044..117722  221188..339999..338800  8800..441133..447733  4422..118822..446688  1199..111111..116633  444455..118833..552244  11..114477..229944..118800  
      Balance Sheet Long Position - - 196.032.030 148.931.955 27.029.571 - 337711..999933..555566  
      Off-balance Sheet Short Position (56.937.780) (45.517.092) - - - (269.538.684) ((337711..999933..555566))
      Off-balance Sheet Long Position 8.629.361 40.798.857 - - - - 4499..442288..221188  
      Off-balance Sheet Short Position - - (23.592.577) (1.081.620) - - ((2244..667744..119977))  
TToottaall  PPoossiittiioonn  ((4488..330088..441199))  ((44..771188..223355))  117722..443399..445533  114477..885500..333355  2277..002299..557711  ((226699..553388..668844))  2244..775544..002211  

 

(*) Included lease receivables. Non-performing loans are shown in the” non-interest bearing " column. Interest rediscount started to be 
calculated for non-performing  loans as of 1 January 2018, said amount was indicated on “without interest” column since there is no other 
suitable column in the above table. 
(**) Derivative financial assets and expected credit losses are classified under other assets. 
(***) Securities issued as subordinated loan classified under subordinated loans in the balance sheet are included. 
(****) Shareholders’ equity is presented under “Other liabilities” item at “Non-interest bearing” column. 
(*****) Derivative collaterals given to foreign banks are included. 
 
 
 
 
 
 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
49 

 

 
 

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  ––  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  EEUURROO  UUSSDD  OOtthheerr  FFCC  TToottaall  
AAsssseettss       

Cash Equivalents and Central Bank (*) 39.089.777 59.873.435 4.882.858 110033..884466..007700  
Banks (*******) 15.185.927 19.434.850 3.427.664 3388..004488..444411  
Financial Assets at Fair Value through Profit or Loss 19.962 927.888 - 994477..885500  
Interbank Money Market Placements - - - --  
Financial Assets measured at other comprehensive income 7.356.581 74.372.424 2.226.060 8833..995555..006655  
Loans (**) 125.185.125 87.770.630 77.829 221133..003333..558844  
Investments in Associates, Subsidiaries and Joint Ventures - - - --  
Financial assets measured at amortised cost - 11.980.146 - 1111..998800..114466  
Hedging Derivative Financial Assets 350.155 4.183.265 1.118.351 55..665511..777711  
Tangible Assets (Net) 67.704 38.270 - 110055..997744  
Intangible Assets (Net) 19.697 - - 1199..669977  
Other Assets (***) 1.573.660 8.259.786 22.789 99..885566..223355  

TToottaall  AAsssseettss  118888..884488..558888  226666..884400..669944  1111..775555..555511  446677..444444..883333  
LLiiaabbiilliittiieess       

Bank Deposits (****) 2.344.958 8.037.577 2.221.508 1122..660044..004433  
Foreign Currency Deposits (****) 105.645.670 187.435.945 45.602.025 333388..668833..664400  
Funds from Interbank Money Market 3.298.038 27.821.915 - 3311..111199..995533  
Borrowings 16.876.430 56.637.050 - 7733..551133..448800  
Marketable Securities Issued (Net) (*****) 201.621 36.321.916 - 3366..552233..553377  
Miscellaneous Payables 3.026.049 23.942.196 62.839 2277..003311..008844  
Hedging Derivative Financial Liabilities - 1 - 11  
Other Liabilities 3.222.179 3.167.025 70.249 66..445599..445533  

  TToottaall  LLiiaabbiilliittiieess  113344..661144..994455  334433..336633..662255  4477..995566..662211  552255..993355..119911  
           
NNeett  oonn  BBaallaannccee  SShheeeett  PPoossiittiioonn  5544..223333..664433  ((7766..552222..993311))  ((3366..220011..007700))  ((5588..449900..335588))  
              
NNeett  ooffff--BBaallaannccee  SShheeeett  PPoossiittiioonn  ((************))  ((5511..668899..773366))  7788..669988..770088  3366..445566..221122  6633..446655..118844  

Financial Derivative Assets 42.268.133 234.467.034 49.002.130 332255..773377..229977  
Financial Derivative Liabilities 93.957.869 155.768.326 12.545.918 226622..227722..111133  
NNoonn--ccaasshh  LLooaannss    3333..777777..115555  3366..000066..111122  33..446600..665511  7733..224433..991188  

       
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  --  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211       

Total Assets 154.567.876 224.746.295 10.428.984 338899..774433..115555  
Total Liabilities 116.637.805 295.612.013 36.519.776 444488..776699..559944  

NNeett  oonn--BBaallaannccee  SShheeeett  PPoossiittiioonn  3377..993300..007711  ((7700..886655..771188))  ((2266..009900..779922))  ((5599..002266..443399))  
NNeett  ooffff--BBaallaannccee  SShheeeett  PPoossiittiioonn  ((************))  ((3377..443377..881199))  7744..006666..888866  2266..776699..554433  6633..339988..661100  

Financial Derivative Assets 48.984.350 180.257.991 33.595.547 226622..883377..888888  
Financial Derivative Liabilities 86.422.169 106.191.105 6.826.004 119999..443399..227788  

NNoonn--ccaasshh  LLooaannss  2233..441111..998899  3300..226699..444433  11..889911..559999  5555..557733..003311  
(*) Of the Cash Equivalents and Central Bank and Other FC, TL içinde 4.174.588 (31 December 2021: TL 2.152.617) are precious metal deposit account 
in demand.  
(**) The foreign currency indexed loans balance in the Turkish Lira accounts is TL 307.517 (31 December 2021: TL 470.265). 
(***) Derivative financial assets and expected credit losses are classified under other assets. The expected loss amount of foreign currency indexed 
loans balance is TL 2.716 (31 December 2021: TL 10.333). Prepaid assets amounted TL 130.140 (31 December 2021: TL 105.347) is excluded in the 
financial statements. 
(****) Of Bank Deposits Other FC of the TL 58.579 (31 December 2021: TL 36.900) and the foreign currency deposits TL 35.783.135 (31 December 2021: 
TL 25.869.116) are precious metal deposit account in demand. 
(*****) Securities issued as subordinated loan classified under subordinated loans in the balance sheet are included. 
(******) Presents the net balance of receivables and payables from derivative transactions. Foreign Exchange spot dealings shown under “Asset 
purchase commitments” in the financial statements are included in the net off-balance sheet position. 
(*******) Derivative collaterals given to foreign banks are included. 

428 - 429Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 
 

 
 

52 
 

 
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  ––  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  EEUURROO UUSSDD YYeenn TTLL

AAsssseettss  
Cash Equivalents and Central Bank                -                -                -  8,50
Banks 0,07             0,24                -   19,78
Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss 2,48 6,66                -   18,76
Interbank Money Market Placements                -                -                - 17,07
Financial Assets at Fair Value Other Comprehensive Income  2,88  5,32  3,09    18,35
Loans  3,86  4,97  -   17,62
Financial Assets measured at amortised cost  - 5,89  - 20,90

LLiiaabbiilliittiieess  
Bank Deposits (**)  0,20              1,16                -  17,71
Other Deposits (**)  0,12  0,44                -  14,67
Funds from Interbank Money Market                 0,12  0,82                -  14,06
Miscellaneous Payables                -  0,08                -                -
Marketable Securities Issued (Net) (*)             4,00  6,31                -  17,54
Borrowings             2,20  2,50                -  20,14

(*) Securities issued as subordinated loan classified under subordinated loans in the balance sheet are included. 
(**) Demand deposit balances are included in average interest rate calculation. 

V.  EXPLANATIONS ON POSITION RISK OF EQUITY SECURITIES: 

The Bank doesn’t have any subsidiaries and affiliates that are traded on the “BIST”. 

VI.  EXPLANATIONS ON LIQUIDITY RISK MANAGEMENT AND LIQUIDITY COVERAGE RATIO: 

The liquidity risk of the Bank is the risk of being unable to fulfill its payment obligations on time due to not having enough cash 
sources or cash inflows to finance its cash outflows fully and on time due to cash flow instabilities. Liquidity risk arises from 
situations in which the Bank is unable to meet the cash outflows with its cash sources and borrowing opportunities over 
collateralizing marketable securities, in case of sudden fund withdrawals by the individual/institutional funders of the Bank.  

aa))  IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  rriisskk  ccaappaacciittyy  ooff  tthhee  BBaannkk,,  rreessppoonnssiibbiilliittiieess  aanndd  ssttrruuccttuurree  ooff  lliiqquuiiddiittyy  rriisskk  mmaannaaggeemmeenntt,,  tthhee  BBaannkk’’ss  
iinntteerrnnaall  lliiqquuiiddiittyy  rriisskk  rreeppoorrttiinngg,,  ccoommmmuunniiccaattiioonn  bbeettwweeeenn  tthhee  BBooaarrdd  ooff  DDiirreeccttoorrss  aanndd  bbuussiinneessss  lliinneess  oonn  lliiqquuiiddiittyy  rriisskk  
ssttrraatteeggyy,,  ppoolliiccyy  aanndd  aapppplliiccaattiioonn::  

The Bank’s liquidity and funding policy is to own sufficient liquidity reserve and funding opportunities to meet Bank’s liabilities 
even in cases of stress, resulting from the market conditions or other conditions specific to the Bank. 

The Bank has capacity to meet a high risk with broad and stable deposit, strong base capital structure and diversified foreign 
borrowing sources and is capable of providing additional liquidity with high quality liquid securities in its portfolio and 
available limits at both the Central Bank of Turkey and other Money markets. 

Management of liquidity risk is shared by the ERC, ALCO, Treasury Department and Risk Management Department. The ERC 
determines the liquidity management policies and the appropriate liquidity risk level in line with the Bank’s risk appetite and 
monitors whether the liquidity risk is managed under the framework of determined policies and within the defined limits. 

The different categories of defined limits are; 

- Limits related to wholesale funding sources, 
- Limits related to liquid asset buffer, 
- Limits related to the cash inflows coverage capacity to cash outflows, 
- Limits related to cash outflow coverage capacity in the stress environment. 

ALCO takes decision to use alternative funding sources, pricing of obtained funds and granted loans, and other decisions of 
Daily liquidity management. Treasury Department ensures that the Bank meets its short, middle and long term liabilities, with 
the transactions made in accordance with ALCO decisions order to utilize excess funding or close the funding gap, occurring on 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
51 

 

 
 

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  ––  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  UUpp  ttoo  11  MMoonntthh  
11  ––  33  

MMoonntthhss  
33  ––  1122  

MMoonntthhss  
11  ––  55  

YYeeaarrss  
55  YYeeaarrss  

aanndd  OOvveerr  

NNoonn--
IInntteerreesstt  
BBeeaarriinngg  TToottaall  

AAsssseettss          
Cash Equivalents and Central Bank 9.933.401 - - - - 81.953.371 9911..888866..777722  
Banks (*****) 2.992.146 2.076.501 - - - 48.402.039 5533..447700..668866  
Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Profit or 
Loss 30.652 98.071 7.556.598 327.949 126.846 2.669.259 1100..880099..337755  

Interbank Money Market Placements 2.824.281 - 24.331 - - - 22..884488..661122  
Financial Assets at measured Fair Value Other 
Comprehensive Income 9.667.116 11.104.373 17.998.624 40.291.809 20.411.046 838.454 110000..331111..442222  

Loans (*) 122.541.079 47.125.051 105.914.109 91.546.596 19.264.874 18.396.587 440044..778888..229966  
Financial Assets measured at amortised cost 16.202.199 2.776.285 24.752.525 8.685.943 168.608 - 5522..558855..556600  
Other Assets (**) 11.868.541 25.847.384 13.042.659 1.338.342 214.229 (6.213.548) 4466..009977..660077  

TToottaall  AAsssseettss  117766..005599..441155  8899..002277..666655  116699..228888..884466  114422..119900..663399  4400..118855..660033  114466..004466..116622  776622..779988..333300  
LLiiaabbiilliittiieess          

Bank Deposits 5.629.678 5.071.644 1.358.720 - - 1.776.500 1133..883366..554422  
Other Deposits 176.541.029 71.291.625 21.226.188 8.241.038 1.339.945 161.074.212 443399..771144..003377  
Funds from Interbank Money Market 45.919.880 8.558.647 8.365.439 1.793.495 - - 6644..663377..446611  
Miscellaneous Payables 3.016.018 5.749.678 4.243.520 178.528 - 9.865.885 2233..005533..662299  
Marketable Securities Issued (Net) (***) 2.628.561 2.796.048 9.775.391 15.119.756 18.660.721 28.118 4499..000088..559955  
Borrowings 11.111.804 28.533.912 17.453.011 2.874.313 - - 5599..997733..004400  
Other Liabilities (****) 6.015.255 11.211.814 8.821.026 844.408 685.224 84.997.299 111122..557755..002266  

TToottaall  LLiiaabbiilliittiieess  225500..886622..222255  113333..221133..336688  7711..224433..229955  2299..005511..553388  2200..668855..889900  225577..774422..001144  776622..779988..333300  
      Balance Sheet Long Position - - 98.045.551 113.139.101 19.499.713 - 223300..668844..336655  
      Balance Sheet Short Position (74.802.810) (44.185.703) - - - (111.695.852) ((223300..668844..336655))  
      Off-balance Sheet Long Position 8.894.376 31.553.850 8.400 - 144.887 - 4400..660011..551133  
      Off-balance Sheet Short Position (686.639) (138.595) (19.448.449) (11.308) - - ((2200..228844..999911))  
TToottaall  PPoossiittiioonn  ((6666..559955..007733))  ((1122..777700..444488))  7788..660055..550022  111133..112277..779933  1199..664444..660000  ((111111..669955..885522)) 2200..331166..552222  
 (*) Securities issued as subordinated loan classified under subordinated loans in the balance sheet are included. 
(**) Shareholders’ equity is presented under “Other liabilities” item at “Non-interest bearing” column. 
(***) Included lease receivables.Non-performing loans are shown in the” non-interest bearing " column. Interest rediscount started to be calculated for non-
performing loans as of 1 January 2018, said amount was indicated on “without interest” column since there is no other suitable column in the above table. 
(****) Derivative financial assets and expected credit losses are classified under other assets. 

(*****) Derivative collaterals given to foreign banks are included. 

bb..  AAvveerraaggee  iinntteerreesstt  rraatteess  ffoorr  mmoonneettaarryy  ffiinnaanncciiaall  iinnssttrruummeennttss  ((%%))::  
Average interest rates in the above tables are the weighted average rates of the related balance sheet items. 
 
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  --  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  EEUURROO UUSSDD YYeenn TTLL

AAsssseettss  
Cash Equivalents and Central Bank  -  -  - -
Banks 1,87 1,86  - 22,75
Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss 4,89 7,36  - 14,07
Interbank Money Market Placements  -  -  - 14,87
Financial Assets at Fair Value Other Comprehensive Income 2,86 5,75 3,09 29,35
Loans 5,85 8,82  - 18,41
Financial Assets measured at amortised cost -  6,22 - 76,44

LLiiaabbiilliittiieess  
Bank Deposits (**) 2,77 4,81  - 15,93
Other Deposits (**) 0,39 1,93 0,01 15,79
Funds from Interbank Money Market 1,51 5,06  - 10,80
Miscellaneous Payables  - 3,65  -  -
Marketable Securities Issued (Net) (*) 4,00 6,43  - 15,53
Borrowings 4,18 6,66  - 24,27

(*) Securities issued as subordinated loan classified under subordinated loans in the balance sheet are included. 
(**) Demand deposit balances are included in average interest rate calculation. 

430 - 431Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 
 

 
 

54 
 

depositors, creditors of the Bank and shareholders. In case one or several emergency situations occur, Bank’s Liquidity 
Contingency Plan is put into use. After Liquidity Contingency Plan is put into use, Liquidity Contingency Management Committee 
is responsible from the determination of actions to be taken. 

LLiiqquuiiddiittyy  CCoovveerraaggee  RRaattiioo::  

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  --  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  

RRaattee  ooff  ““PPeerrcceennttaaggee  ttoo  bbee  
ttaakkeenn  iinnttoo  aaccccoouunntt””  nnoott  

IImmpplleemmeenntteedd  TToottaall  vvaalluuee  
((**))  

RRaattee  ooff  ““PPeerrcceennttaaggee  ttoo  bbee  
ttaakkeenn  iinnttoo  aaccccoouunntt””  

IImmpplleemmeenntteedd  TToottaall  vvaalluuee  ((**))  

TTLL++FFCC  FFCC  TTLL++FFCC  FFCC  
HHIIGGHH  QQUUAALLIITTYY  LLIIQQUUIIDD  AASSSSEETTSS  ((HHQQLLAA))  
1 High quality liquid assets       247.642.182 152.700.995 
CCAASSHH  OOUUTTFFLLOOWWSS  

2 Retail and Customers Deposits 458.729.930 229.006.553 42.641.875 22.900.655 

3 Stable deposits 64.622.373 - 3.231.119 - 
4 Less stable deposits 394.107.557 229.006.553 39.410.756 22.900.655 

5 
Unsecured Funding other than Retail and Small Business 
Customers Deposits 

   
254.665.372 140.594.818 137.778.867 83.176.619 

6 Operational deposits - - - - 
7 Non-Operational Deposits 216.307.366 111.747.649 102.839.876 54.331.391 
8 Other Unsecured Funding 38.358.006 28.847.169 34.938.991 28.845.228 
9 Secured funding   475.548 475.548 
10 Other Cash Outflows 22.882.218 34.947.786 8.969.813 25.728.951 
11         Liquidity needs related to derivatives and market 

        valuation changes on derivatives transactions 7.435.203 24.712.183 7.435.203 24.712.183 

12 Debts related to the structured financial products 9.515 - 9.515 - 
13         Commitment related to debts to financial markets    

        and other off balance sheet liabilities 15.437.500 10.235.603 1.525.095 1.016.768 
14 Commitments that are unconditionally revocable at any time by 

the Bank and other contractual commitments 1.988.067 
   

-   99.403                      -   

15 Other irrevocable or conditionally revocable commitments 191.189.887 58.541.867 9.559.494 2.927.093 
1166  TTOOTTAALL  CCAASSHH  OOUUTTFFLLOOWWSS    119999..552255..000000  113355..220088..886666  
CCAASSHH  IINNFFLLOOWWSS  

17 Secured Lending Transactions 36.820 
   

-   
   

-                        -   
18 Unsecured Lending Transactions 70.244.003 32.841.103 49.258.293          28.509.167 
19 Other contractual cash inflows 3.327.971 88.988.927 3.319.522          88.986.250 
2200  TTOOTTAALL  CCAASSHH  IINNFFLLOOWWSS  7733..660088..779944  112211..883300..003300  5522..557777..881155  111177..449955..441177  
      UUppppeerr  lliimmiitt  aapppplliieedd  aammoouunnttss  
2211  TTOOTTAALL  HHQQLLAA  SSTTOOCCKK    224477..664422..118822  115522..770000..999955  
2222  TTOOTTAALL  NNEETT  CCAASSHH  OOUUTTFFLLOOWWSS  114466..994477..118855  3333..880022..221177  
2233  LLiiqquuiiddiittyy  CCoovveerraaggee  RRaattiioo  ((%%))      116688,,5522  445511,,7755  
(*) Simple arithmetic average calculated for the last three months of values calculated by taking the simple arithmetic average was used for 
calculating the average in last days of the related last three months. 

  

  

  

  

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
53 

 

foreign currencies or maturity terms. Risk Management Department measures and monitors the liquidity risk, with the reports 
prepared and analyses made, and informs the top management. Liquidity risk reporting consists of periodic and special 
purpose reports prepared to be discussed in the ERC and ALCO meetings, stress tests, scenario analyses, risk limit compliance 
reports and legal liquidity reports. 

bb))  IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  tthhee  cceennttrraalliizzaattiioonn  ddeeggrreeee  ooff  lliiqquuiiddiittyy  mmaannaaggeemmeenntt  aanndd  ffuunnddiinngg  ssttrraatteeggyy  aanndd  tthhee  ffuunnccttiioonniinngg  bbeettwweeeenn  
tthhee  BBaannkk  aanndd  tthhee  BBaannkk’’ss  ssuubbssiiddiiaarriieess:: 

Each of the Bank’s subsidiaries within the consolidation scope manages its own liquidity. Nevertheless, there are defined limits 
related to the funding amount that the Bank will provide to a subsidiary, in case of liquidity issues. Cumulative liquidity gap 
resulted in stress scenarios of subsidiaries, should not exceed the fund limits provided by the Bank. 

cc))  IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  tthhee  BBaannkk’’ss  ffuunnddiinngg  ssttrraatteeggyy  iinncclluuddiinngg  tthhee  ppoolliicciieess  oonn  ffuunnddiinngg  ttyyppeess  aanndd  vvaarriieettyy  ooff  mmaattuurriittiieess::  

The Bank targets to obtain additional funding sources besides the strong capital structure, from the most possible diversified, 
long term stable sources, considering cost factors. In this direction, concentration ratios such as share of retail funding 
sources in total funding sources, share of deposits of high amount in total deposit, share of borrowings made from the market 
in total market volume are monitored and limited with the applied risk limits. Treasury Unit performs necessary work to obtain 
long term foreign funding.  

dd))  IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  lliiqquuiiddiittyy  mmaannaaggeemmeenntt  oonn  tthhee  bbaassiiss  ooff  ccuurrrreenncciieess  ccoonnssttiittuuttiinngg  aa  mmiinniimmuumm  ooff  ffiivvee  ppeerrcceenntt  ooff  tthhee  
BBaannkk’’ss  ttoottaall  lliiaabbiilliittiieess::    

Almost all of the Bank’s liabilities are in TL, USD or EUR currencies and TL funds comprise of mainly equity and deposits. The 
Bank’s liquidity in TL is managed with repurchase agreements made at CBRT/BIST using high quality securities owned by the 
Bank. Together with keeping the main purpose as using liabilities in TL in funding assets in TL, foreign currency liabilities are 
used in creating assets in TL using foreign exchange swaps, when necessary. Liquidity management is performed in the scope 
of internal risk limits, such as short term borrowing limits from markets determined by the Bank, market concentration limits, 
liquidity stress scenario, and cumulative liquidity gap.  

Foreign currency funds are obtained through foreign exchange deposit accounts, foreign based, foreign currency loans, 
securities issued and repurchase agreements. Foreign currency liquidity management is performed using internal risk limits 
defined for liquidity buffer kept at correspondent banks and monitored daily in the scope of the Bank’s risk limits, and 
cumulative gap in the scope of liquidity stress scenario, and other risk limits defined for wholesale funding and concentration. 
The Bank has available foreign currency borrowing limits at CBRT/BIST and other banks. 

ee))  IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  lliiqquuiiddiittyy  rriisskk  mmiittiiggaattiioonn  tteecchhnniiqquueess::  

Liquidity risk is mitigated by using techniques such as maintaining high quality liquid asset buffer to cover possible fund 
outflows, diversification of funding sources so far as possible and inclusion to the base, homogenizing the maturity distribution 
of repayments as far as possible, obtaining limits from funding institutions to use when necessary and ensuring that a 
determined portion of funding sources are comprised of deposit. 

ff))  IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  tthhee  uussee  ooff  ssttrreessss  tteessttss::  

In cases of negative conditions such as an impairment in the securities in the Bank’s portfolio, inability to replace short and 
long term borrowings, fast cash outflow, increase in non-performing loan ratio, high margin calls, the extent and duration of 
sufficient liquidity is analyzed by the stress tests made by the Risk Management Department. Risk limits determined according 
to analysis results exist within the Bank. It is ensured that the necessary actions are taken by sharing the analysis results and 
risk limit compliance status with the ALCO, ERC and related business units. The effects of cash inflows and outflows under 
different stress scenarios have been studied and evaluated. 

gg))  GGeenneerraall  iinnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  uurrggeenntt  aanndd  uunneexxppeecctteedd  lliiqquuiiddiittyy  ssiittuuaattiioonn  ppllaannss::  

Necessary strategy and procedures for the management of possible liquidity crisis are determined with the Liquidity 
Contingency Plan, which is approved and reviewed every year by the ERC. The actions to be taken favor the benefits of 

432 - 433Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 
 

 
 

56 
 

Although the derivative transactions create net cash flow of small amount in terms of total liquidity coverage ratio, fluctuations 
in foreign currency derivative transactions, especially in foreign exchange swaps cause the foreign currency liquidity coverage 
ratio to be affected. 

The Bank’s high quality liquid assets mainly comprise of CBRT accounts by 48% and securities issued by Treasury of Republic 
of Turkey by 38%. Funding sources are mainly distributed between individual and retail deposits by 62%, corporate deposits by 
26%, borrowings from banks by 3% and collateralized borrowings such as repurchase agreements by 4%. 

Cash outflow amounting to TL 668 million (in full TL amount) is calculated based on the change of margin call amounts of 
derivative transactions during the last two years. 

Akbank AG, part of the consolidation group and has an effect on liquidity coverage ratio in respect of its size, is subject to legal 
liquidity ratio projected by regulatory authority situated in its business location. In respect of its long term deposit insurance 
and borrowing structure which is hard to withdraw before maturity because of legal regulations, consolidated liquidity coverage 
ratio is higher than unconsolidated ratio. 

In accordance with the “Regulation On Calculation of Bank’s Liquidity Coverage Ratio”, published in Official Gazette no. 28948, 
dated 21 March 2014, liquidity coverage ratio is calculated for the last three months are presented below. 

 

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  --  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  
TTLL++FFCC  FFCC  

October 166,56 440,00 
November 180,40 484,33 
December 158,73 436,21 
   

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  --  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  
TTLL++FFCC  FFCC  

October 172,77 237,55 
November 203,94 342,34 
December 240,93 414,82 

 
  

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
55 

 

  

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  --  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  

RRaattee  ooff  ““PPeerrcceennttaaggee  ttoo  bbee  
ttaakkeenn  iinnttoo  aaccccoouunntt””  nnoott  

IImmpplleemmeenntteedd  TToottaall  vvaalluuee  
((**))  

RRaattee  ooff  ““PPeerrcceennttaaggee  ttoo  bbee  
ttaakkeenn  iinnttoo  aaccccoouunntt””  

IImmpplleemmeenntteedd  TToottaall  vvaalluuee  ((**))  

TTLL++FFCC  FFCC  TTLL++FFCC  FFCC  
HHIIGGHH  QQUUAALLIITTYY  LLIIQQUUIIDD  AASSSSEETTSS  ((HHQQLLAA))  
1 High quality liquid assets       135.002.709 91.871.013 
CCAASSHH  OOUUTTFFLLOOWWSS  

2 Retail and Customers Deposits 266.126.330 158.886.240 24.738.322 15.888.624 

3 Stable deposits 37.523.600 - 1.878.049 - 
4 Less stable deposits 228.602.730 158.886.240 22.860.273 15.888.624 

5 
Unsecured Funding other than Retail and Small Business 
Customers Deposits 

   
132.159.544 

   
81.974.779 

 
72.793.987 

 
46.158.058 

6 Operational deposits 2.804 - 701 - 
7 Non-Operational Deposits 113.456.186 70.496.035 55.929.439       34.679.820 
8 Other Unsecured Funding 18.700.554 11.478.744 16.863.847 11.478.238 
9 Secured funding   555.152            555.152 
10 Other Cash Outflows 16.760.672 24.777.364 8.013.944 16.305.718 
11         Liquidity needs related to derivatives and market 

        valuation changes on derivatives transactions 
   

7.081.793 15.407.987 7.081.793 15.407.987 

12 Debts related to the structured financial products 10.356 - 10.356 - 
13         Commitment related to debts to financial markets    

        and other off balance sheet liabilities 
   

9.668.523 
   

9.369.377 921.795            897.731 
14 Commitments that are unconditionally revocable at any time by 

the Bank and other contractual commitments 1.215.000 - 
   

60.750 - 

15 Other irrevocable or conditionally revocable commitments 102.099.327 35.668.573 5.104.966 1.783.429 
1166  TTOOTTAALL  CCAASSHH  OOUUTTFFLLOOWWSS    111111..226677..112211  8800..669900..998811  
CCAASSHH  IINNFFLLOOWWSS  
17 Secured Lending Transactions 626.658 - - - 
18 Unsecured Lending Transactions 52.663.347 33.214.083 39.048.058 27.819.755 
19 Other contractual cash inflows 5.894.295 27.638.100 5.876.880 27.637.791 
2200  TTOOTTAALL  CCAASSHH  IINNFFLLOOWWSS  5599..118844..330000  6600..885522..118833  4444..992244..993388  5555..445577..554466  
      UUppppeerr  lliimmiitt  aapppplliieedd  aammoouunnttss  
2211  TTOOTTAALL  HHQQLLAA  SSTTOOCCKK    113355..000022..770099  9911..887711..001133  
2222  TTOOTTAALL  NNEETT  CCAASSHH  OOUUTTFFLLOOWWSS  6666..334422..118833  2255..223333..443355  
2233  LLiiqquuiiddiittyy  CCoovveerraaggee  RRaattiioo  ((%%))      220033,,4499  336644,,0088  
(*) Simple arithmetic average calculated for the last three months of values calculated by taking the simple arithmetic average was used for 
calculating the average in last days of the related last three months. 
  
Liquidity coverage ratio is calculated by comparing the high quality liquid assets owned by the Bank to net cash outflow in one 
month maturity. Balance sheet accounts that are significant on the ratio can be listed as reserve requirements maintained at 
CBRT, marketable securities that are not subject to repurchase agreements or not given as collateral, corporate deposits, 
bank deposits, foreign funds and borrowings from banks. The effect of these accounts on the liquidity coverage ratio is higher 
than other accounts, since these accounts have a higher share in liquid assets and net cash outflows.   

Periodic increases are observed in the liquidity coverage ratio during the weeks where the foreign currency reserve option is 
used in reserve requirements in CBRT, high amounts are maintained in bank placements or repurchase agreement volume 
decreases, on the other hand, fluctuations may occur in the liquidity coverage ratio during the weeks where the share of 
corporate or bank funds increase, or long term foreign funds which are replaced when due, such as syndicated loans are due in 
one month. Despite these fluctuations, it is observed that the ratio does not decrease below 159% during the period and remain 
at a quite higher level that the legal lower limit. 

434 - 435Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 
 

 
 

58 
 

BBrreeaakkddoowwnn  ooff  lliiaabbiilliittiieess  dduuee  ttoo  tthheeiirr  rreemmaaiinniinngg  ccoonnttrraaccttuuaall  mmaattuurriittiieess::  
  

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  --  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  
UUpp  ttoo  11  
MMoonntthh  

  
11--33  MMoonntthhss  33--1122  MMoonntthhss  

  
11--55  YYeeaarrss  

55  YYeeaarrss    
aanndd  OOvveerr  TToottaall  

LLiiaabbiilliittiieess       
Deposits 560.068.459 112.029.161 39.828.594 16.390.577 1.247.903 772299..556644..669944  
Funds borrowed from other financial institutions  590.682 7.018.939 39.944.109 32.411.498 1.692.500 8811..665577..772288  
Funds from interbank money market 42.381.286 8.600.532 4.688.828 6.290.087 2.459.951 6644..442200..668844  
Marketable Securities Issued  276.346 2.392.070 4.795.312 28.031.189 19.516.453 5555..001111..337700  
 

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  --  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  
UUpp  ttoo  11  
MMoonntthh  

  
11--33  MMoonntthhss  33--1122  MMoonntthhss  

  
11--55  YYeeaarrss  

55  YYeeaarrss    
aanndd  OOvveerr  TToottaall  

LLiiaabbiilliittiieess       
Deposits 376.109.594 44.597.638 24.721.067 9.384.338 1.426.371 445566..223399..000088  
Funds borrowed from other financial institutions  256.097 3.570.506 29.919.746 27.562.090 2.008.640 6633..331177..007799  
Funds from interbank money market 44.409.128 2.549.876 10.894.771 3.285.674 4.077.582 6655..221177..003311  
Marketable Securities Issued  2.751.428 3.213.204 11.562.886 23.126.380 21.634.758 6622..228888..665566  

BBrreeaakkddoowwnn  ooff  ddeerriivvaattiivvee  iinnssttrruummeennttss  dduuee  ttoo  tthheeiirr  rreemmaaiinniinngg  ccoonnttrraaccttuuaall  mmaattuurriittiieess::    

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  --  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  UUpp  ttoo  11  mmoonntthh  11--33  mmoonntthhss  33--1122  mmoonntthhss  11--55  yyeeaarrss  
55  YYeeaarrss    
aanndd  OOvveerr

DDeerriivvaattiivveess  hheelldd  ffoorr  ttrraaddiinngg       
Foreign exchange derivatives:      
– Inflow 189.016.139 113.902.220 59.692.494 23.149.081 6.313.217 
– Outflow (199.367.202) (129.764.945) (61.039.300) (22.313.757) (5.827.772) 
Interest rate derivatives:      
– Inflow 712.536 968.267 5.635.399 8.887.319 1.433.194 
– Outflow (567.448) (961.813) (4.373.962) (7.946.885) (1.259.393) 
DDeerriivvaattiivveess  hheelldd  ffoorr  hheeddggiinngg       
Foreign exchange derivatives:      
– Inflow 945.384 303.012 2.379.012 5.980.162 20.591.405 
– Outflow (316.205) (246.364) (896.534) (3.163.337) (7.337.791) 
Interest rate derivatives:      
– Inflow 423.413 1.040.097 4.117.787 8.784.124 1.638.450 
– Outflow (412.244) (790.608) (2.217.546) (5.170.987) (1.486.620) 
TToottaall  IInnffllooww  119911..009977..447722  111166..221133..559966  7711..882244..669922  4466..880000..668866  2299..997766..226666  
TToottaall  OOuuttffllooww  ((220000..666633..009999))  ((113311..776633..773300))  ((6688..552277..334422))  ((3388..559944..996666))  ((1155..991111..557766))  
 

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  --  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  UUpp  ttoo  11  mmoonntthh  11--33  mmoonntthhss  33--1122  mmoonntthhss  11--55  yyeeaarrss  
55  YYeeaarrss    
aanndd  OOvveerr

DDeerriivvaattiivveess  hheelldd  ffoorr  ttrraaddiinngg       
Foreign exchange derivatives:      
– Inflow 107.022.530 99.545.807 61.606.380 30.012.745 6.393.372 
– Outflow (111.683.915) (111.758.980) (61.321.153) (30.032.637) (5.920.722) 
Interest rate derivatives:      
– Inflow 382.027 936.181 2.355.465 4.248.089 1.235.062 
– Outflow (391.660) (848.877) (2.102.182) (3.718.938) (1.093.669) 
DDeerriivvaattiivveess  hheelldd  ffoorr  hheeddggiinngg       
Foreign exchange derivatives:      
– Inflow 3.004.059 99.193 1.838.063 4.694.245 14.653.748 
– Outflow (659.456) (253.115) (1.353.414) (4.010.544) (7.341.117) 
Interest rate derivatives:      
– Inflow 217.937 786.064 2.819.865 5.904.526 1.780.110 
– Outflow (295.460) (954.479) (2.803.513) (4.721.133) (1.909.851) 
TToottaall  IInnffllooww  111100..662266..555533  110011..336677..224455  6688..661199..777733  4444..885599..660055  2244..006622..229922  
TToottaall  OOuuttffllooww  ((111133..003300..449911))  ((111133..881155..445511))  ((6677..558800..226622))  ((4422..448833..225522))  ((1166..226655..335599))  
 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
57 

 

BBrreeaakkddoowwnn  ooff  aasssseettss  aanndd  lliiaabbiilliittiieess  aaccccoorrddiinngg  ttoo  tthheeiirr  oouuttssttaannddiinngg  mmaattuurriittiieess::    

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  ––  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  DDeemmaanndd
UUpp  ttoo  11
MMoonntthh 11  ––  33  MMoonntthhss  

33  ––  1122
MMoonntthhss 11  ––  55    YYeeaarrss

55  YYeeaarrss  
aanndd  OOvveerr  

UUnnaallllooccaatteedd
((**)) TToottaall

AAsssseettss    
Cash Equivalents and Central Bank 68.481.665 59.051.126 - - - - - 112277..553322..779911
Banks (******) 25.232.372 9.556.309 3.591.941 - - - - 3388..338800..662222
Financial Assets at Fair Value Through
Profit or Loss 

9.737.120 247.036 1.079 127.569 182.412 263.909 - 1100..555599..112255

Interbank Money Market Placements - 985.674 476.702 - - - - 11..446622..337766
Financial Assets measured at other 
comprehensive income 

1.501.802 90.645 1.401.791 23.223.344 102.802.682 42.807.509 - 117711..882277..777733

Loans (*) 23.615 130.622.177 104.572.294 175.822.115 143.785.442 55.625.613 17.583.450 662288..003344..770066
Financial Assets measured at amortised
cost - 431.008 544.883 12.231.910 47.499.344 37.447.531 - 9988..115544..667766

Other Assets (**) 2.660.882 4.514.706 1.897.828 6.351.756 21.384.722 20.139.045 14.393.172 7711..334422..111111
TToottaall  AAsssseettss  110077..663377..445566 220055..449988..668811 111122..448866..551188  221177..775566..669944 331155..665544..660022 115566..228833..660077  3311..997766..662222 11..114477..229944..118800
LLiiaabbiilliittiieess    

Bank Deposits 1.476.192 5.321.984 7.095.018 2.369.133 - - - 1166..226622..332277
Other Deposits 241.633.617 271.150.262 140.759.595 34.674.898 15.920.599 1.160.630 - 770055..229999..660011
Borrowings - 451.770 6.496.361 37.122.790 29.450.563 1.541.470 - 7755..006622..995544
Funds from Interbank Money Market - 42.222.443 8.463.424 4.279.977 5.305.362 2.253.247 - 6622..552244..445533
Marketable Securities Issued (Net) (***) - 256.600 2.173.143 2.880.644 20.413.088 16.895.052 - 4422..661188..552277
Miscellaneous Payables 3.749.503 1.559.616 1.498.168 6.902.415 11.708.476 2.923.563 20.735.870 4499..007777..661111
Other Liabilities (****) 24.346.881 6.042.871 645.662 5.410.553 7.797.545 2.832.823 149.372.372 119966..444488..770077

TToottaall  LLiiaabbiilliittiieess  227711..220066..119933 332277..000055..554466 116677..113311..337711  9933..664400..441100 9900..559955..663333 2277..660066..778855  117700..110088..224422 11..114477..229944..118800
                      
NNeett  LLiiqquuiiddiittyy  EExxcceessss  //  ((GGaapp))  ((116633..556688..773377)) ((112211..550066..886655)) ((5544..664444..885533))  112244..111166..228844 222255..005588..996699 112288..667766..882222  ((113388..113311..662200)) --
                     
NNeett  OOffff--bbaallaannccee  sshheeeett  PPoossiittiioonn - 1.362.220 728.124 1.864.595 7.722.298 13.076.784 - 2244..775544..002211

Financial Derivative Assets - 195.544.081 124.508.062 86.666.208 158.945.935 94.915.857 - 666600..558800..114433
Financial Derivative Liabilities - 194.181.861 123.779.938 84.801.613 151.223.637 81.839.073 - 663355..882266..112222

NNoonn--ccaasshh  LLooaannss  ((**********))  -- 55..662299..339944 998899..883355 4400..668844..111111 4455..443333..009944 4488..556655..660000  -- 114411..330022..003344

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  --  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211    
 Total Assets 102.086.794 135.723.436 67.345.764 127.137.314 217.427.803 102.541.315 10.535.904 776622..779988..333300
 Total Liabilities 180.019.917 237.448.571 90.501.970 83.705.905 66.057.817 30.465.077 74.599.073 776622..779988..333300

NNeett  LLiiqquuiiddiittyy  EExxcceessss//  ((GGaapp))  ((7777..993333..112233)) ((110011..772255..113355)) ((2233..115566..220066))  4433..443311..440099 115511..336699..998866 7722..007766..223388 ((6644..006633..116699)) --
NNeett  OOffff--bbaallaannccee  sshheeeett  PPoossiittiioonn - 3.671.295 (1.045.631) 2.999.363 6.624.981 8.066.514 - 2200..331166..552222

Financial Derivative Assets - 111.889.315 104.345.394 100.094.580 145.801.006 82.455.429 - 554444..558855..772244
Financial Derivative Liabilities - 108.218.020 105.391.025 97.095.217 139.176.025 74.388.915 - 552244..226699..220022

NNoonn--ccaasshh  LLooaannss  ((**********))  -- 44..119922..115566 994422..884400 2255..118866..887700 2233..220099..440066 3344..880044..884444 -- 8888..333366..111166
 
(*) Included lease receivables. The non-performing loans is presented "Unallocatable" column. 
(**) Assets that are necessary for banking activities and that cannot be liquidated in the short-term, such as fixed and intangible assets, derivative 
financial assets, investments, subsidiaries, stationery, pre-paid expenses and loans under follow-up, are shown in this column. Expected credit losses 
are included. 
(***) Securities issued as subordinated loan classified under subordinated loans in the balance sheet are included. 
(****) Shareholders’ Equity is presented under “Other Liabilities” item in the “Unallocated” column. 
(*****) Amounts related to Letters of Guarantee represent contractual maturity and related amounts. Amounts are demand and can be withdrawn 
optional. 
(******) Derivative collaterals given to foreign banks are included. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

436 - 437Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 
 

 
 

60 
 

VIII. EXPLANATIONS ON PRESENTATION OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES AT THEIR FAIR VALUES: 

aa.. CCaallccuullaattiioonnss  ooff  ffiinnaanncciiaall  aasssseettss  aanndd  lliiaabbiilliitteess  aatt  tthheeiirr  ffaaiirr  vvaalluueess::  

The fair values of financial assets measured at amortised cost are determined based on market prices or when this price is 
not available, based on market prices quoted for other securities subject to the same redemption qualifications in terms of 
interest, maturity and other similar conditions. 

The expected fair value of the demand deposit represents the amount to be paid upon request. The fair value of the overnight 
deposit represents the carrying value. The expected fair value of the fixed rate deposit is calculated by discounted cash flow 
with the use of the market interest rates of similar liabilities and loans. 

The fair value of marketable securities issued is calculated according to broker price quotations and if these are not 
available, amounts derived from discounted cash flow models. 

The expected fair value of loans and receivables are determined by calculating the discounted cash flows using the current 
market interest rates for the fixed loans with fixed interest rates. For the loans with floating interest rates, it is assumed that 
the carrying value reflects the fair value.  

The following table summarizes the carrying values and fair values of financial assets and liabilities. The carrying value 
represents the acquisition costs and accumulated interest accruals of corresponding financial assets or liabilities. 

 

    CCaarrrryyiinngg  VVaalluuee  FFaaiirr  VVaalluuee  

    
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd

        3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  
FFiinnaanncciiaall  AAsssseettss  993377..886600..115533 661144..000044..557766 999955..556688..443377 663300..887788..338877
    Interbank Money Market Placements 1.462.376 2.848.612 1.468.465 2.848.745
    Banks 38.380.622 53.470.686 38.361.932 53.471.289

Financial Assets at Fair Value Through
Other Comprehensive Income (Net) 171.827.773 100.311.422 171.827.773 100.311.422
Financial Assets Measured at Amortised
Cost  98.154.676 52.585.560 133.750.871 58.406.922
Loans  628.034.706 404.788.296 650.159.396 415.840.009

FFiinnaanncciiaall  LLiiaabbiilliittiieess  888888..448899..449911 558855..662266..550022 889900..001177..771100 558888..114499..556677
Bank Deposits 16.262.327 13.836.542 16.287.563 13.856.645
Other Deposits 705.299.601 439.714.037 706.667.561 440.771.356
Borrowings 75.062.954 59.973.040 77.274.134 62.269.927
Marketable Securities Issued (Net) 42.618.527 49.008.595 40.542.370 48.157.351
Miscellaneous Payables 49.246.082 23.094.288 49.246.082 23.094.288

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
59 

 

 

VII. EXPLANATIONS ON LEVERAGE RATIO: 

aa.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  ssuubbjjeeccttss  tthhaatt  ccaauusseess  ddiiffffeerreennccee  iinn  lleevveerraaggee  rraattiioo  bbeettwweeeenn  ccuurrrreenntt  aanndd  pprriioorr  ppeerriiooddss::   

As of 31 December 2022, the leverage ratio of the Group calculated from 3 months average amounts is 9,94% (31 December 
2021: 8,39%). This ratio is above the minimum ratio which is 3%. 

bb.. CCoommppaarriissoonn  ttaabbllee  ooff  ttoottaall  aasssseettss  aanndd  ttoottaall  rriisskk  aammoouunnttss  iinn  tthhee  ffiinnaanncciiaall  ssttaatteemmeennttss  pprreeppaarreedd  iinn  aaccccoorrddaannccee  wwiitthh  TTAASS::    

 
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd    

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  ((****))  
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  ((****))  
1 Total assets in the consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with TAS (*) 1.124.777.297 714.955.819 
2 Differences between the total assets in the consolidated financial statements prepared in 

accordance with TAS and the total assets in the consolidated financial statements 
prepared in accordance with Communique on Preparation of Consolidated Financial 
Statements of the Banks - - 

3 Differences between the balances of derivative financial instruments and the credit 
derivatives in the consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with the 
Communique on Preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements of the Banks and their 
risk exposures 11.132.581 6.262.339 

4 Differences between the balances of securities financing transactions in the consolidated 
financial statements prepared in accordance with the Communique on Preparation of 
Consolidated Financial Statements of the Banks and their risk exposures (56.066.639) (66.599.227) 

5 Differences between off- balance sheet items in the consolidated financial statements 
prepared in accordance with the Communique on Preparation of Consolidated Financial 
Statements of the Banks and their risk exposures (3.911.000) (2.595.815) 

6 Other differences in the consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with the 
Communique on Preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements of the Banks and their 
risk exposures 349.709.214 213.162.595 

7 Total Risk 1.425.641.453 865.185.711 
(*) The consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with the sixth paragraph of the Article 5 in the Communique on Preparation of Consolidated 
Financial Statements of the Banks.  
(**) Three months average values in the related periods. 

cc.. DDiisscclloossuurree  ooff  LLeevveerraaggee  rraattiioo  tteemmppllaattee::  

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  ((**))  
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  ((**))  
 
1 

BBaallaannccee  sshheeeett  AAsssseettss  
Balance sheet assets (excluding derivative financial assets and credit derivatives, including 
collaterals) 1.074.091.424 671.754.783 

2 (Assets deducted from Core capital) - - 
3 Total risk amount of balance sheet assets (sum of lines 1 and 2) 1.074.091.424 671.754.783 
  DDeerriivvaattiivvee  ffiinnaanncciiaall  aasssseettss  aanndd  ccrreeddiitt  ddeerriivvaattiivveess    
4 Cost of replenishment for derivative financial assets and credit derivatives   44.034.535 23.941.998 
5 Potential credit risk amount of derivative financial assets and credit derivatives 11.132.581 6.262.339 
6 Total risk amount of derivative financial assets and credit derivatives (sum of lines 4 and 5)  55.167.116 30.204.337 
  FFiinnaanncciinngg  ttrraannssaaccttiioonnss  sseeccuurreedd  bbyy  mmaarrkkeettaabbllee  sseeccuurriittyy  oorr  ccoommmmooddiittyy    
7 Risk amount of financing transactions secured by marketable security or commodity 9.232.239 5.125.027 
8 Risk amount arising from intermediary transactions - - 
9 Total risk amount of financing transactions secured by marketable security or commodity 

(sum of lines 7 and 8) 9.232.239 5.125.027 
  OOffff--bbaallaannccee  sshheeeett  ttrraannssaaccttiioonnss    
10 Gross notional amount of off-balance sheet transactions  291.061.674 160.697.379 
11 (Correction amount due to multiplication with credit conversion rates) (3.911.000) (2.595.815) 
12 Total risk of off-balance sheet transactions (sum of lines 10 and 11) 287.150.674 158.101.564 
  CCaappiittaall  aanndd  ttoottaall  rriisskk    
13 Core Capital 141.766.345 72.556.470 
14 Total risk amount (sum of lines 3, 6, 9 and 12) 1.425.641.453 865.185.711 
  LLeevveerraaggee  rraattiioo    
15 Leverage ratio 9,94 8,39 

(*) Three months average values. 
 

438 - 439Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 
 

 
 

62 
 

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  --  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  11sstt  LLeevveell  22nndd  LLeevveell  33rrdd  LLeevveell  TToottaall  
Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss         
 - Government Debt Securities   510.166 68.564  -  578.730 
 - Share Certificates  1.073.896  -  -  1.073.896 
 - Other Financial Assets (*) 427.561 1.386.278  7.342.910  9.156.749 
Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income 
 - Government Debt Securities  78.655.303  -  -  78.655.303 
 - Share Certificates  -  -  -  - 
 - Other Financial Assets  18.526.943  3.113.297  -  21.640.240 
Derivative Financial Assets 
 - Derivative Financial Assets at Fair Value Through  - 36.354.311 - 36.354.311 
Profit or Loss 
 - Derivative Financial Assets at Fair Value Through  
Other Comprehensive Income  -   13.432.561  -   13.432.561 
Loans  - 415.840.009  - 415.840.009 
Financial Assets Measured at Amortised Cost 
   - Government Debt Securities  57.421.367  -  -  57.421.367 
   - Other Financial Assets  985.555  -  -  985.555 
TToottaall  AAsssseettss  115577..660000..779911  447700..119955..002200  77..334422..991100  663355..113388..772211  
Derivative Financial Liabilities       
 - Derivative Financial Liabilities at Fair Value Through  - 25.193.411  - 25.193.411 
Profit or Loss 
 - Derivative Financial Liabilities at Fair Value Through  - 489.271 -               489.271 
Other Comprehensive Income 
Deposits  -        454.628.001  -        454.628.001 
Funds Borrowed  -          62.269.927  -          62.269.927 
Funds from Interbank Money Market  -          64.794.941  -          64.794.941 
Securities Issued (Net)  -          48.157.351  -          48.157.351 
TToottaall  LLiiaabbiilliittiieess  --      665555..553322..990022    --      665555..553322..990022  
 (*) Fair value of the financial assets at fair value through profit or loss classified under third level, has been determined based on results of 
valuation work that include various valuation technics. The potential changes in the fundamental estimations and assumptions included in 
the valuation work can affect the carrying fair value of the loan.  

As explained in the note of VII-b of the Third Section, share certificates, that are classified as financial assets at fair value 
through other comprehensive income are carried at cost less impairment since they are not traded in active markets and 
their fair values cannot be measured reliably, are not shown in the table above. 

There are no transfers between the 1st and the 2nd levels in the current year. 

The movement of financial assets in Level 3 is presented below: 

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211
BBaallaanncceess  aatt  BBeeggiinnnniinngg  ooff  PPeerriioodd  77..334422..991100 77..334422..991100
Purchases During the Period - -
Disposals Through Sale/Redemptions (*) (7.342.910) -
Valuation Effect  - -
Transfers - -
BBaallaanncceess  aatt  tthhee  EEnndd  ooff  PPeerriioodd  -- 77..334422..991100
 

 (*)As explained in the footnote of Section I-b, share transfer agreement was signed with the Turkey Wealth Fund regarding the sale of all of 
Türk Telekomünikasyon A.Ş.’s shares in LYY Telekomünikasyon A.Ş.'s assets. The sale and transfer transaction was realized on 31 March 
2022. 
 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
61 

 

bb.. FFaaiirr  vvaalluuee  hhiieerraarrcchhyy::  

TFRS 13 sets a hierarchy of valuation techniques according to the observability of data used in valuation techniques which 
establish basis for fair value calculations.  

Aforesaid fair value hierarchy is determined as follows: 

a) Quoted market prices (non-adjusted) (1st level) 

b) Directly (by way of prices) or indirectly (derived from prices) data for the assets or liabilities, other than quoted 
prices in the 1st level (2nd level) 

c) Data not based on observable data regarding assets or liabilities (3rd level). 

Fair value hierarchy of the financial assets and liabilities of the Group according to the foregoing principles is given in the 
table below: 

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  --  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  11sstt  LLeevveell  22nndd  LLeevveell  33rrdd  LLeevveell  TToottaall  
Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss         
 - Government Debt Securities 540.826 61.765  - 602.591 
 - Share Certificates 6.591.527  -  - 6.591.527 
 - Other Financial Assets  674.946 2.690.061 - 3.365.007 
Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income 
 - Government Debt Securities 142.952.758  -  - 142.952.758 
 - Share Certificates 97.230  -  - 97.230 
 - Other Financial Assets 21.593.854 7.183.931  - 28.777.785 
Derivative Financial Assets 
 - Derivative Financial Assets at Fair Value Through  - 27.969.659 - 27.969.659 
Profit or Loss 
 - Derivative Financial Assets at Fair Value Through      
Other Comprehensive Income  - 20.877.144  - 20.877.144 
Loans  - 650.159.396  - 650.159.396 
Financial Assets Measured at Amortised Cost 
   - Government Debt Securities 132.442.825  -  - 132.442.825 
   - Other Financial Assets 1.308.046  -  - 1.308.046 
TToottaall  AAsssseettss  330066..220022..001122  770088..994411..995566  --  11..001155..114433..996688  
Derivative Financial Liabilities       
 - Derivative Financial Liabilities at Fair Value Through  - 14.561.125  - 14.561.125 
Profit or Loss 
 - Derivative Financial Liabilities at Fair Value Through  - 494.477 - 494.477 
Other Comprehensive Income 
Deposits  -        722.955.124  -        722.955.124 
Funds Borrowed  -          77.274.134  -          77.274.134 
Funds from Interbank Money Market  -          62.662.778  -          62.662.778 
Securities Issued (Net)  -          40.542.370  -          40.542.370 
TToottaall  LLiiaabbiilliittiieess  --  991188..449900..000088    --  991188..449900..000088  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

440 - 441Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 
 

 
 

64 
 

2. Overview of RWA: 

  RRiisskk  WWeeiigghhtteedd  AAmmoouunntt  
MMiinniimmuumm  ccaappiittaall  

rreeqquuiirreemmeenntt  
    CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  
  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  

1 Credit risk (excluding counterparty credit risk) (CCR) 619.023.179 377.040.902 49.521.854 
2 Standardized approach (SA) 619.023.179 377.040.902 49.521.854 
3 Internal rating-based (IRB) approach - - - 
4 Counterparty credit risk 46.061.946 30.395.595 3.684.956 
5 Standardized approach for counterparty credit risk (SA-

CCR) 46.061.946 30.395.595 3.684.956 
6 Internal model method (IMM) - - - 
7 Basic risk weight approach to internal models equity 

position in the banking account - - - 
8 Investments made in collective investment companies – 

look-through approach - - - 
9 Investments made in collective investment companies – 

mandate-based approach  1.404.572 680.479 112.366 
10 Investments made in collective investment companies – 

1250% weighted risk approach - - - 
11 Settlement risk - 800 - 
12 Securitization positions in banking accounts - - - 
13 IRB ratings-based approach (RBA) - - - 
14 IRB Supervisory Formula Approach (SFA) - - - 
15 SA/simplified supervisory formula approach (SSFA) - - - 
16 Market risk 32.871.404 26.350.720 2.629.712 
17 Standardized approach (SA) 32.871.404 26.350.720 2.629.712 
18 Internal model approaches (IMM) - - - 
19 Operational Risk 51.542.098 40.838.939 4.123.368 
20 Basic Indicator Approach 51.542.098 40.838.939 4.123.368 
21 Standard Approach - - - 
22 Advanced measurement approach - - - 
23 The amount of the discount threshold under the equity 

(subject to a 250% risk weight) - - - 
24 Floor adjustment - - - 
2255  TToottaall  ((11++44++77++88++99++1100++1111++1122++1166++1199++2233++2244))  775500..990033..119999 447755..330077..443355  6600..007722..225566  

 

bb.. LLiinnkkaaggeess  bbeettwweeeenn  ffiinnaanncciiaall  ssttaatteemmeennttss  aanndd  rreegguullaattoorryy  eexxppoossuurreess::  

1. Differences between accounting and regulatory scopes of consolidation and mapping of financial statement categories 
with regulatory risk categories: 

 

Legal consolidation refers to the consolidation that includes the consolidation of subsidiaries which are credit institutions or 
financial institutions in accordance with Article 5 paragraph 1 of the Communiqué on the Preparation of Consolidated Financial 
Statements of Banks published in the Official Gazette dated November 8, 2006 and numbered 26340. Accounting consolidation 
refers to the consolidation in which all of the subsidiaries are included in the scope of consolidation in accordance with the 
Article 5 paragraph 6 of the same communiqué, irrespective of whether these subsidiaries are credit institutions or financial 
institutions, or not. 

  

  

  

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
63 

 

IX. EXPLANATION ON THE ACTIVITIES CARRIED OUT ON BEHALF AND ACCOUNT OF OTHER PERSONS: 

The Bank carries out trading, custody, management and consulting services on behalf of customers and on their account. 
Details of these transactions are provided in the off-balance sheet table. The Bank has no trust transactions. 

X. EXPLANATIONS ON RISK MANAGEMENT TARGET AND POLICIES: 

    aa..  EExxppllaannaattiioonnss  oonn  RRiisskk  MMaannaaggeemmeenntt  aanndd  RRiisskk  WWeeiigghhtteedd  AAmmoouunntt  ((RRWWAA  

1. The Bank’s risk management approach: 

Effective risk management constitutes one of the most important competitive strength of the Bank. Risk management system 
is assessed as a critical process which includes all units starting from the Board of Directors level. General strategies 
regarding Bank’s risk management are given below:  

- Effective management of risks within the Group’s risk profile based on materiality; implementing a centralized risk 
framework that includes all major risk areas. 

- Managing existing and potential risks from the beginning through forward looking risk strategies, policies and 
procedures, models and parameters. 

- Applying a risk-focused management approach in the strategic decision process. 
- Complying with all national risk management requirements, where the Bank operates.  

The Bank’s Board of Directors has the ultimate responsibility for setting up and monitoring the efficiency of such a risk 
management system. The Board of Directors fulfills its monitoring responsibility through the Auditing Committee, the 
Executive Risk Committee, the Credit Committee and other related intermediary committees and by means of regular risk, 
control and audit reporting system.   

The Board of Directors approves and regularly reviews Bank’s main risk approach, risk principles and policies which are 
initially discussed and decided by the Executive Risk Committee.  

The Board of Directors also determines Bank’s risk appetite by risk limits taking market conditions and Bank’s risk taking 
capacity into consideration. Risk limits are made up of regulatory and internal limits on the basis of risk types. 

Bank’s Senior Management is responsible to the Bank’s Board of Directors that daily activities are executed within the risk 
management procedures and risk limits determined by the Board of Directors and that risk management system operates in 
effective and efficient manner. The Internal Audit, the Internal Control, Compliance Presidency and The Risk Management 
Departments which directly report to the Board of Directors operate in coordination with the business units of the Bank. In this 
scope, it is also Senior Management’s responsibility to take necessary measures in order to resolve identified weaknesses, 
deficiencies and errors stated in the reports of internal and external audits, internal control and risk management. 

Locally and internationally accepted risk models and parameters are used in the identification, measurement and monitoring 
of risks within the scope of risk management. The Bank strives continuously for development and improvement of internal 
methods and models. Forward looking risk reports prepared through regular and close monitoring of the market 
developments are made available for the Senior Management and the Board of Directors. In order to analyze the potential risks 
that the Bank may be exposed in extreme cases, various scenario analyses are performed and contingency plans are prepared. 
The Bank's internal capital adequacy assessment process ("ICAAP") has been established and the ICAAP has been performed 
parallel to the annual budget process on an annual basis. Moreover, various risk mitigation techniques are utilized to limit and 
provide protection against risks the Bank is exposed. The effectiveness and efficiency of the risk mitigation techniques are 
regularly monitored. 

Notes and explanations in this section have been prepared in accordance with the Communiqué on Disclosures about Risk 
Management to be announced to Public by Banks that have been published in Official Gazette no. 29511 on 23 October 2015 
and became effective as of 31 March 2016. Due to usage of standard approach for the calculation of capital adequacy ratio by 
the Bank, tables, which have to be prepared within the scope of Internal Rating-Based (IRB) approach, are not presented. 

In the event of unexpected negative economic conditions, stress tests are carried out regularly considering the exchange rate 
and interest rate shocks and the deterioration of the loan portfolio at different stress rates.  

442 - 443Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 
 

 
 

66 
 

        CCaarrrryyiinngg  vvaalluueess  ooff  iitteemmss      

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  --  3311..1122..22002211 

CCaarrrryyiinngg  vvaalluueess  
aass  rreeppoorrtteedd  iinn  

ppuubblliisshheedd  
ffiinnaanncciiaall  

ssttaatteemmeennttss  ((**))  

SSuubbjjeecctt  ttoo  
ccrreeddiitt  rriisskk  
ffrraammeewwoorrkk  

SSuubbjjeecctt  ttoo  
ccoouunntteerrppaarrttyy  

ccrreeddiitt  rriisskk  
ffrraammeewwoorrkk  

SSuubbjjeecctt  ttoo  tthhee  
sseeccuurriittiissaattiioonn  

ffrraammeewwoorrkk  

SSuubbjjeecctt  ttoo  tthhee  
mmaarrkkeett  rriisskk  

ffrraammeewwoorrkk  ((****))  

NNoott  ssuubbjjeecctt  ttoo  ccaappiittaall  
rreeqquuiirreemmeennttss  oorr  

ssuubbjjeecctt  ttoo  ddeedduuccttiioonn  
ffrroomm  ccaappiittaall  

AAsssseettss              
Cash and balances at central bank 91.886.772 91.886.772 - - - - 
Banks 53.469.701 53.469.701 - - - - 
Receivables from money markets 2.848.612 2.848.612 - - - - 
Financial assets at fair value through P&L  10.809.375 10.119.088 - - 690.287 - 
Financial assets at fair value through other 
comprehensive income 100.311.422 100.308.803 40.231.789 - - 2.619 
Derivative financial assets 49.786.872 - 49.786.872 - 5.038.400 - 
Loans (Net) 378.052.962 378.029.638 - - - 23.324 
Lease Receivables (Net) 7.720.830 7.720.830 - - - - 
Factoring Receivables - - - - - - 
Financial assets measured at amortised cost (Net) 52.566.568 52.566.568 25.564.815 - - - 
Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as 
held for sale (Net) 232.296 232.296 - - - - 
Investments in associates (Net) 18.129 18.129 - - - - 
Investments in subsidiaries (Net) - - - - - - 
Investments in joint ventures (Net) - - - - - - 
Tangible assets (Net) 5.894.836 5.840.460 - - - 54.376 
Intangible assets (Net) 1.499.602 - - - - 1.499.602 
Investment properties (Net) - - - - - - 
Tax assets 124.001 124.001 - - - - 
Deferred tax assets 152.170 152.170 - - - - 
Other assets 7.424.182 7.424.182 - - - - 
TToottaall  aasssseettss  776622..779988..333300  771100..774411..225500  111155..558833..447766  --  55..772288..668877  11..557799..992211  
LLiiaabbiilliittiieess              
Deposits 453.550.579 - - - - 453.550.579 
Funds Borrowed 59.973.040 - - - - 59.973.040 
Money Markets 64.637.461 - 63.256.050 - - - 
Securities Issued 30.283.061 - - - - 30.283.061 
Funds - - - - - - 
Financial Liabilities At Fair Value Through Profit Or Loss - - - - - - 
Derivative Financial Liabilities 25.682.682 - - - 3.205.256 - 
Factoring Liabilites - - - - - - 
Lease Liabilities 590.360 - - - - 590.360 
Provisions 3.357.293 - - - - 3.357.293 
Current Tax Liability 2.404.491 - - - - 2.404.491 
Deferred Tax Liability 454.305 - - - - 454.305 
Liabilities For Property and Equipment Held For Sale and 
Related To Discontinued Operations (Net) - - - - - - 
Subordinated Debt Instruments 18.725.534 - - - - 18.725.534 
Other Liabilities 27.180.211 - - - - 27.180.211 
Shareholders' Equity 75.959.313 - - - - 75.959.313 
TToottaall  lliiaabbiilliittiieess  776622..779988..333300  --  6633..225566..005500  --  33..220055..225566  667722..447788..118877  
(*) Since the accounting and legal consolidation scope of the Bank are identical, the financial statement information is shown in one column. 
(**) The Amounts of financial instruments, which are measured in accordance with TAS and included in trading accounts within the scope of the 
“Regulation on Measurement and Assessment of Capital Adequacy Ratios of Banks”are represented in “Subject to market risk framework” 
column. 
 

  

  

  

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
65 

 

        CCaarrrryyiinngg  vvaalluueess  ooff  iitteemmss      

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  --  3311..1122..22002222 

CCaarrrryyiinngg  vvaalluueess  
aass  rreeppoorrtteedd  iinn  

ppuubblliisshheedd  
ffiinnaanncciiaall  

ssttaatteemmeennttss  ((**))  

SSuubbjjeecctt  ttoo  
ccrreeddiitt  rriisskk  
ffrraammeewwoorrkk  

SSuubbjjeecctt  ttoo  
ccoouunntteerrppaarrttyy  

ccrreeddiitt  rriisskk  
ffrraammeewwoorrkk  

SSuubbjjeecctt  ttoo  tthhee  
sseeccuurriittiissaattiioonn  

ffrraammeewwoorrkk  

SSuubbjjeecctt  ttoo  tthhee  
mmaarrkkeett  rriisskk  

ffrraammeewwoorrkk  ((****))  

NNoott  ssuubbjjeecctt  ttoo  ccaappiittaall  
rreeqquuiirreemmeennttss  oorr  

ssuubbjjeecctt  ttoo  ddeedduuccttiioonn  
ffrroomm  ccaappiittaall  

AAsssseettss              
Cash and balances at central bank 127.532.791 127.532.791 -  -   -  - 
Banks 38.374.006 38.374.006 -  -   -  - 
Receivables from money markets 1.462.376 1.462.376 -  -   -  - 
Financial assets at fair value through P&L  10.559.125 9.990.948 -  -  568.177  - 
Financial assets at fair value through other 
comprehensive income 171.827.773 171.827.487 42.299.686 -   - 286 
Derivative financial assets 48.846.803 -  48.846.803 -  11.682.581  - 
Loans (Net) 594.203.359 594.146.621 -  -   - 56.738 
Lease Receivables (Net) 11.640.978 11.640.978 -  -   -  - 
Factoring Receivables - - -  -   -  - 
Financial assets measured at amortised cost (Net) 98.102.962 98.102.962 22.917.094 -   -  - 
Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as 
held for sale (Net) 591.213 591.213 -  -  -   - 
Investments in associates (Net) 18.957 18.957 -  -  -   - 
Investments in subsidiaries (Net) - - -  -  -   - 
Investments in joint ventures (Net) - - -  -  -   - 
Tangible assets (Net) 15.232.003 15.138.353 -  -  -  93.650 
Intangible assets (Net) 2.706.123 - -  -  -  2.706.123 
Investment properties (Net) - - -  -  -   - 
Tax assets 355.563 355.563 -  -  -   - 
Deferred tax assets 213.645 213.645 -  -  -   - 
Other assets 25.626.503 25.626.503 -  -  -   - 
TToottaall  aasssseettss  11..114477..229944..118800  11..009955..002222..440033  111144..006633..558833  --  1122..225500..775588  22..885566..779977  
LLiiaabbiilliittiieess              
Deposits 721.561.928 - - - - 721.561.928 
Funds Borrowed 75.062.954 - - - - 75.062.954 
Money Markets 62.524.453 - 57.277.871 - - - 
Securities Issued 25.818.445 - - - - 25.818.445 
Funds - - - - - - 
Financial Liabilities At Fair Value Through Profit Or Loss - - - - - - 
Derivative Financial Liabilities 15.055.602 - - - 7.678.543 - 
Factoring Liabilites - - - - - - 
Lease Liabilities 866.382 - - - - 866.382 
Provisions 5.862.514 - - - - 5.862.514 
Current Tax Liability 10.961.561 - - - - 10.961.561 
Deferred Tax Liability 3.484.774 - - - - 3.484.774 
Liabilities For Property and Equipment Held For Sale and 
Related To Discontinued Operations (Net) - - - - - - 
Subordinated Debt Instruments 16.800.082 - - - - 16.800.082 
Other Liabilities 55.689.615 - - - - 55.689.615 
Shareholders' Equity 153.605.870 - - - - 153.605.870 
TToottaall  lliiaabbiilliittiieess  11..114477..229944..118800  --  5577..227777..887711  --  77..667788..554433  11..006699..771144..112255  
(*) Since the accounting and legal consolidation scope of the Bank are identical, the financial statement information is shown in one column. 
(**) The Amounts of financial instruments, which are measured in accordance with TAS and included in trading accounts within the scope of the “Regulation on 
Measurement and Assessment of Capital Adequacy Ratios of Banks”are represented in “Subject to market risk framework” column. 

  

  

  

  

  

  

444 - 445Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 
 

 
 

68 
 

On counterparty credit risk related transactions, the differences between the valued amounts in accordance with TAS in the 
scope statutory consolidation and the amounts after risk reduction arise from the addition of potential risk amounts per 
maturity and transaction type to renewal cost of derivative transactions related to counterparty credit risk. 
The valued amounts of the items which are subject to market risk per TAS represent the fair value of trading financial 
instruments. Despite that, the amount at the risk amount line represents the amount which is subject market risk that derives 
from the calculation of capital requirements due to the loss on interest rate risk of market risk, share price risk, currency risk 
in the scope of “Regulation on Measurement and Evaluation of Banks Capital Adequacy Ratio”. 

c) Explanations related to the systems and controls which are defined to ensure prudence and reliability of valuation 
estimates in accordance with prudent valuation procedures and principles within the scope of appendix 3 of “Regulation 
on Measurement and Evaluation of Capital Adequacy of Banks”:  

In case financial instruments that are accounted at their fair values are traded in an active market, the valuation is made based 
on market price. The accuracy of market price that is used at valuation is being confirmed periodically.  

The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market are being calculated in accordance TFRS 13. 
Derivative financial instruments are valued by discounted cash flow model with the use of market data. For the valuation of 
certain financial instruments, third party valuations and generally accepted valuation models can be used. The accuracy and 
independence of inputs that are used at the valuation of market value and/or used at valuation methods by modelling are being 
controlled periodically. In addition, there are control processes for the comparison of the current market value of financial 
instruments with the recalculated values.  

cc.. CCrreeddiitt  rriisskk  eexxppllaannaattiioonnss::  

1. General qualitative information about credit risk: 

Risk limits are defined by Board of Directors in a such manner that covers all possible important risk components, in 
accordance with the Bank’s operations and the size and complexity of products and services. Care is taken to ensure that the 
risk limits are in line with market expectations and reflect the Bank's risk appetite and Bank's strategies. The credit policies 
are established in consistence with risk limits. 

Credit rating models are used in loan allocation processes in accordance with the risk appetite, credit policies and targets of 
the Bank. Rating all credit customers is essential for the Bank. Credit ratings are used as the main factor in determining target 
segments, authority levels, prices, limits and collateralization levels in loan portfolios. Application models are used during 
initial loan underwriting and behavioral models are used for customers whose previous credit performance could be 
monitored. Behavioral models are mainly used in the credit monitoring process and in the evaluation process of portfolio risk. 

In order to ensure timely and complete fulfillment of all obligations arising from the loan, it is essential to obtain adequate 
collateral from the customers. The main purpose of collateralization of any loan is to minimize the credit, foreign exchange and 
maturity risk. In this context, the minimum margin is determined by considering the quality of the collateral and collection 
expectancy in case of default and it is ensured that appropriate collateral is obtained for the loan type. 

Credit risk is encountered when the counterparty is unable to fulfill its obligations defined with the agreement. All credit risk 
bearing banking products are managed with prudent credit policies and procedures in the Bank. The credit quality of the 
counterparty is evaluated with an internal rating score in all credit transactions. In order to monitor the credit risk, internal 
limits are determined on the basis of sector, customer, credit type and customer segment. 

Credit risk management is a process in which credit risks are assessed and monitored in a consistent manner, besides all 
credit portfolios are included on a consolidated basis. During the process of credit risk management, the Risk Management 
Department conducts measurement, monitoring and reporting activities of the credit risk using statistical models. In addition 
to the credit risk-related risk limits, various concentrations in the loan portfolio are also analyzed. İt is assured to act within the 
policy of allocation, monitoring, Limit Follow-up and management, by establishing policy regarding to Country risk and 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
67 

 

  

2. Main sources of differences between regulatory exposure amounts and carrying values in financial statements: 

  

  

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  --  3311..1122..22002222  TToottaall  

IItteemmss  
ssuubbjjeecctt  ttoo  
ccrreeddiitt  rriisskk  
ffrraammeewwoorrkk  

IItteemmss  ssuubbjjeecctt  
ttoo  

sseeccuurriittiissaattiioonn  
ffrraammeewwoorrkk  

IItteemmss  ssuubbjjeecctt  
ttoo  

ccoouunntteerrppaarrttyy  
ccrreeddiitt  rriisskk  
ffrraammeewwoorrkk  

IItteemmss  ssuubbjjeecctt  
ttoo  

mmaarrkkeett  rriisskk  
ffrraammeewwoorrkk((**))  

11  AAsssseett  ccaarrrryyiinngg  vvaalluuee  aammoouunntt  uunnddeerr  ssccooppee  ooff  rreegguullaattoorryy  
ccoonnssoolliiddaattiioonn    11..007722..338877..444499  11..009955..002222..440033  --  111144..006633..558833  1122..225500..775588  

2 Liabilities carrying value amount under regulatory scope of 
consolidation  77.580.055 - - 57.277.871 

 
7.678.543 

33  TToottaall  nneett  aammoouunntt  uunnddeerr  rreegguullaattoorryy  ssccooppee  ooff  
ccoonnssoolliiddaattiioonn  999944..880077..339944  11..009955..002222..440033  --  5566..778855..771122  44..557722..221155  

4 Off-balance sheet amounts 408.598.062 87.496.267 - 43.885.310 - 
5 Differences in valuations   - - - - 
6 Differences due to different netting rules, other than those 

already included in row 2   - - - - 
7 Differences due to consideration of provisions   - - - - 
8 Differences due to prudential filters   (121.844.367) - (30.260.816) 28.299.189 
9 Differences due to risk reduction   (16.574.640) - - - 
1100  EExxppoossuurree  aammoouunnttss  ccoonnssiiddeerreedd  ffoorr  rreegguullaattoorryy  ppuurrppoosseess      11..004444..009999..666633  --  7700..441100..220066  3322..887711..440044  

(*)The Amounts of financial instruments, which are measured according to TAS and included in trading accounts within the 
scope of the “Regulation on Measurement and Assessment of Capital Adequacy Ratios of Banks”, are represented in “Subject 
to market risk framework” column are presented. 

  

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  --  3311..1122..22002211  TToottaall  

IItteemmss  
ssuubbjjeecctt  ttoo  
ccrreeddiitt  rriisskk  
ffrraammeewwoorrkk  

IItteemmss  ssuubbjjeecctt  
ttoo  

sseeccuurriittiissaattiioonn  
ffrraammeewwoorrkk  

IItteemmss  ssuubbjjeecctt  
ttoo  

ccoouunntteerrppaarrttyy  
ccrreeddiitt  rriisskk  
ffrraammeewwoorrkk  

IItteemmss  ssuubbjjeecctt  
ttoo  

mmaarrkkeett  rriisskk  
ffrraammeewwoorrkk((**))  

11  AAsssseett  ccaarrrryyiinngg  vvaalluuee  aammoouunntt  uunnddeerr  ssccooppee  ooff  rreegguullaattoorryy  
ccoonnssoolliiddaattiioonn    770077..336677..660000  771100..774411..225500  --  111155..558833..447766  55..772288..668877  

2 Liabilities carrying value amount under regulatory scope of 
consolidation  90.320.143 - - 63.256.050 

 
3.205.256 

33  TToottaall  nneett  aammoouunntt  uunnddeerr  rreegguullaattoorryy  ssccooppee  ooff  
ccoonnssoolliiddaattiioonn  661177..004477..445577  771100..774411..225500  --  5522..332277..442266  22..552233..443311  

4 Off-balance sheet amounts 699.467.521 48.337.406 - 5.292.620 - 
5 Differences in valuations   - - - - 
6 Differences due to different netting rules, other than those 

already included in row 2   - - - - 
7 Differences due to consideration of provisions   - - - - 
8 Differences due to prudential filters   (115.667.492) - (16.253.834) 23.827.289 
9 Differences due to risk reduction   (9.051.185) - - - 
1100  EExxppoossuurree  aammoouunnttss  ccoonnssiiddeerreedd  ffoorr  rreegguullaattoorryy  ppuurrppoosseess      663344..335599..997799  --  4411..336666..221122  2266..335500..772200  

(*)The Amounts of financial instruments, which are measured according to TAS and included in trading accounts within the 
scope of the “Regulation on Measurement and Assessment of Capital Adequacy Ratios of Banks”, are represented in “Subject 
to market risk framework” column are presented. 

3. Explanations of differences between accounting and regulatory exposure amounts:  

a) Financial and regulatory scope of consolidation: 

There is no difference between the financial and regulatory scope of consolidation. 

b) Differences between accounting and regulatory exposure amounts: 
 

446 - 447Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 
 

 
 

70 
 

after the maturity date or the debtor of which are deemed unworthy by the Group are considered impaired loans. Impaired 
consumer loans are evaluated on account basis and commercial loans on customer basis. 
 

The Group calculates expected credit loss for overdue loans in accordance with Communiqué on “Determining the Quality of 
Loans and Other Receivables by Banks and Procedures and Principles of Provisions to be made”. 
 

b) The part of the overdue receivables (past 90 days) for which provision is not allocated and reasons for this application: 

All loans that have completed the 90 day overdue period are automatically taken into follow-up accounts and they are subjected 
to specific provision within the related month at the Bank. In exceptional cases, the delinquency process is suspended due to a 
court decision and the Bank's credit amount in this scope is insignificant as of 31 December 2022. 

c) Definitions of the methods used when determining the provision amount, are presented in Note VIII of Section Three. 

d) Definitions of restructured receivables:  

Banks can restructure both the first, second group loans and other receivables as well as non-performing loans and 
receivables. The first, second group loans and other receivables are restructured to enchance customer's ability to repay the 
loan. Besides, it involves changes in the contractual conditions with the demand of customer. While Non-performing loans and 
receivables are restructured to ensure the collection of the receivables by changing the cash flow of the loan. 

e) Breakdown of receivables by geographical area, sector and outstanding maturity: 

Breakdown by geographical area: 

 
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd    

3311..1122..22002222  
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd    

3311..1122..22002211  
Domestic 601.306.997  378.272.780   
European Union Countries 7.027.797  6.663.415   
OECD Countries (*) 832.981  8.415   
Off-Shore Banking Regions 378  313   
USA, Canada 151.316  906.340   
Other 1.131.787  709.216   

TToottaall  661100..445511..225566  338866..556600..447799  
 (*) OECD Countries other than EU countries, USA and Canada. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
69 

 

concentration risk management. Cost of loan and collections of non-performing loans are monitored periodically. In addition, 
stress testing and scenario analysis studies are carried out on the loan portfolio. 

Assessment of the internal systems established to encompass all branches and departments and related entities are among 
the highest priorities of the Board of Directors to ensure the continuity of its operations, competencies and activities. Within the 
scope of internal systems, the duties and responsibilities of the Board of Directors are carried out by the Board of Directors, 
the Audit Committee, the Executive Risk Committee, Internal Audit, Internal Control, Risk Management activities and Internal 
Systems Responsible. 
 

The Board of Directors is responsible for determining the risk baseline of the Bank, the risk approach and the level of risk 
taking. The Board of Directors manages the risks through the Executive Risk Committee. The committee is responsible for 
establishing risk policies, determining methods for measuring and managing risks, and establishing and monitoring 
appropriate risk limits. All risk policies established by the Executive Risk Committee are written and integrated into the Bank's 
long-term general strategy. 

2. Credit quality of assets: 

  
GGrroossss  ccaarrrryyiinngg  vvaalluueess  ooff  ((aaccccoorrddiinngg  

ttoo  TTAASS))  
AAlllloowwaanncceess//  
iimmppaaiirrmmeennttss  NNeett  vvaalluueess    CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  --  3311..1122..22002222 

DDeeffaauulltteedd  
eexxppoossuurreess  

NNoonn--ddeeffaauulltteedd  
eexxppoossuurreess  

1 Loans 17.583.450 610.451.256 22.190.368 605.844.338 
2 Debt Securities - 270.407.007 589.811 269.817.196 
3 Off-balance sheet explosures 1.557.704 306.992.119 487.004 308.062.819 
44  TToottaall  1199..114411..115544  11..118877..885500..338822  2233..226677..118833  11..118833..772244..335533  

 

  
GGrroossss  ccaarrrryyiinngg  vvaalluueess  ooff  ((aaccccoorrddiinngg  

ttoo  TTAASS))  
AAlllloowwaanncceess//  
iimmppaaiirrmmeennttss  NNeett  vvaalluueess    PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  --  3311..1122..22002211 

DDeeffaauulltteedd  
eexxppoossuurreess  

NNoonn--ddeeffaauulltteedd  
eexxppoossuurreess  

1 Loans 18.227.817 386.560.479 19.014.504 385.773.792 
2 Debt Securities - 160.622.109 162.632 160.459.477 
3 Off-balance sheet explosures 1.544.171 174.127.879 653.180 175.018.870 
44  TToottaall  1199..777711..998888  772211..331100..446677  1199..883300..331166  772211..225522..113399  

3. Changes in stock of defaulted loans and debt securities: 

    
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd    

3311..1122..22002222  
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  

3311..1122..22002211  
11  DDeeffaauulltteedd  llooaannss  aanndd  ddeebbtt  sseeccuurriittiieess  aatt  eenndd  ooff  tthhee  

pprreevviioouuss  rreeppoorrttiinngg  ppeerriioodd  1199..777711..998888  1188..881199..339922  
2 Loans and debt securities that have defaulted since the last 

reporting period 17.591.522 5.496.558 
3 Returned to non-defaulted status 105.622 78.299 
4 Amounts written off 14.167.113 1.557.732 
5 Other changes 3.949.621 2.907.931 
66  DDeeffaauulltteedd  llooaannss  aanndd  ddeebbtt  sseeccuurriittiieess  aatt  eenndd  ooff  tthhee  

rreeppoorrttiinngg  ppeerriioodd  ((11++22--33--44±±55))  DDeeffiinniittiioonnss  1199..114411..115544  1199..777711..998888  

4. Additional disclosure related to the credit quality of assets: 

a) Definitions of overdue and provision allocated receivables are presented below: 

The Group considers loans that have overdue principal and interest payments and are classified as 2nd Group in accordance 
with Communiqué on “Determining the Quality of Loans and Other Receivables by Banks and Procedures and Principles of 
Provisions to be made” as “past due loans.”  Loans that have overdue principal and interest payments for more than 90 days 

448 - 449Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 
 

 
 

72 
 

Breakdown by geographical area: 
 

            CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  --  3311..1122..22002222            PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  --  3311..1122..22002211  

LLooaannss  UUnnddeerr  
  FFoollllooww--uupp  

SSttaaggee  33  
PPrroovviissiioonnss  

LLooaannss  UUnnddeerr    
FFoollllooww--uupp  

SSttaaggee  33    
PPrroovviissiioonnss  

Domestic 16.263.207 11.059.392 17.305.502 11.274.300 
European Union Countries 1.320.138 725.829 922.208 524.755 
OECD Countries (*) - - 6 3 
Off-Shore Banking 
Regions 30 30 30 30 

USA, Canada 1 1 24 20 
Other 74 57 47 41 
TToottaall  1177..558833..445500  1111..778855..330099  1188..222277..881177  1111..779999..114499  

(*)  OECD Countries other than EU countries, USA and Canada. 

Breakdown by sector: 
                  CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  --  3311..1122..22002222                  PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  --  3311..1122..22002211  

LLooaannss  UUnnddeerr    
FFoollllooww--uupp  

SSttaaggee  33  
PPrroovviissiioonnss  

LLooaannss  UUnnddeerr    
FFoollllooww--uupp  

SSttaaggee  33  
PPrroovviissiioonnss  

Agricultural 22.951 18.469                          20.490    18.332   
  Farming and raising livestock 13.537 11.959                          16.390    14.774   
  Forestry 3.095 2.638                            3.775    3.300   
  Fishing 6319 3872                               325    258   
Manufacturing 3.637.905 2.500.373                     3.823.074   2.371.246   
  Mining 134.007 106.724                        585.302    276.460   
  Production 1.619.715 1.160.405                     1.479.099    1.048.251   
  Electricity, Gas, Water 1.884.183 1.233.244                     1.758.673    1.046.535   
Construction  5.894.822 3.927.684                     6.727.500    4.201.194   
Services 4.813.085 2.824.026                     4.663.008    2.857.534   
    Wholesale and Retail Trade 1.828.644 1.373.732                     2.368.058    1.703.661   
    Hotel,Food,Beverage Services 845.766 228.276                        794.268    258.200   
    Transportation and 
Telecommunication 

 
116.846 

 
93.622 131.370 98.023 

    Financial Institutions 1.275.682 605.763                     1.173.050   656.165 
    Real Estate and Lending 
Services 

 
72.539 

 
47.681 6.988 5.953 

    Self employment Service 288.889 165.194                            4.231    3.435   
    Education Service 14.889 13.842                        114.525    75.722   
    Health and social Services 369.830 295.916                          70.618    56.375   
Other 3.214.687 2.514.757                     2.993.745    2.350.843   
TToottaall  1177..558833..445500  1111..778855..330099  1188..222277..881177      1111..779999..114499      

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
71 

 

 

Breakdown by sector: 

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd    
3311..1122..22002222  

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd    
3311..1122..22002211  

Agricultural 1.641.685 1.490.319 
  Farming and raising livestock 946.408 1.318.625 
  Forestry 687.300 168.312 
  Fishing 7.977 3.382 
Manufacturing 179.188.292 114.090.168 
  Mining 7.583.797 5.289.428 
  Production 130.917.432 71.348.097 
  Electricity, Gas, Water 40.687.063 37.452.643 
Construction  57.655.871 48.953.288 
Services 166.423.326 97.085.423 
    Wholesale and Retail Trade 71.987.903 42.220.456 
    Hotel,Food,Beverage Services 17.733.277 10.235.803 
    Transportation and Telecommunication 16.073.908 15.763.541 
    Financial Institutions 51.024.101 23.516.315 
    Real Estate and Lending Services 1.595.809 677.672 
    Self employment Service 3.402.547 630.202 
    Education Service 535.399 553.294 
    Health and social Services 4.070.382 3.488.140 
Other 205.542.082 124.941.281 
TToottaall  661100..445511..225566  338866..556600..447799  

 
Breakdown by outstanding maturity: 
 

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd    
3311..1122..22002222  

  
11  ––  33  
MMoonntthhss  

33  ––  1122  
MMoonntthhss  

      11  ––  55      
YYeeaarrss  TToottaall  

DDeemmaanndd  
DDeeppoossiitt  

UUpp  ttoo  11  
MMoonntthh    

55  YYeeaarrss  
aanndd  OOvveerr    

LLooaannss  23.615 130.622.177 104.572.294 175.822.115 143.785.442 55.625.613 661100..445511..225566  
 

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd    
3311..1122..22002211  

  
11  ––  33  
MMoonntthhss  

33  ––  1122  
MMoonntthhss  

      11  ––  55      
YYeeaarrss  TToottaall  

DDeemmaanndd  
DDeeppoossiitt  

UUpp  ttoo  11  
MMoonntthh    

55  YYeeaarrss  
aanndd  OOvveerr    

LLooaannss  168.770 75.960.820 52.629.414 96.150.208 120.027.033 41.624.234 338866..556600..447799      

f) Amounts of provision allocated receivables based on geographical area and sector and amounts deducted from the 
assets with the related provisions: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

450 - 451Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 
 

 
 

74 
 

5. Credit risk mitigation techniques – overview: 

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  --  3311..1122..22002222  

EExxppoossuurreess  
uunnsseeccuurreedd  ooff  

((aaccccoorrddiinngg  
  ttoo  TTAASS))  

EExxppoossuurreess  
sseeccuurreedd  bbyy  

ccoollllaatteerraall  

EExxppoossuurreess  
sseeccuurreedd  bbyy  
ccoollllaatteerraall,,  

ooff  wwhhiicchh  
sseeccuurreedd  
aammoouunntt  

EExxppoossuurreess  
sseeccuurreedd  bbyy  

ffiinnaanncciiaall  
gguuaarraanntteeeess  

FFiinnaanncciiaall  
gguuaarraanntteeeess,,  

ooff  wwhhiicchh  
sseeccuurreedd  
aammoouunntt  

EExxppoossuurreess  
sseeccuurreedd  bbyy  

ccrreeddiitt  
ddeerriivvaattiivveess  

EExxppoossuurreess  
sseeccuurreedd  bbyy  

ccrreeddiitt  
ddeerriivvaattiivveess,,  

ooff  wwhhiicchh  
sseeccuurreedd  
aammoouunntt  

1 Loans  585.263.329   20.581.009   16.574.641   6.522.812   5.568.364  - - 
2 Debt Securities  269.817.196   -    -    -    -   - - 
33  TToottaall    

885555..008800..552255      2200..558811..000099      1166..557744..664411      66..552222..881122      55..556688..336644    --  --  
4 Of which defaulted  19.141.154  -    -    -    -   - - 
 

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  --  3311..1122..22002211  

EExxppoossuurreess  
uunnsseeccuurreedd  ooff  

((aaccccoorrddiinngg  
  ttoo  TTAASS))  

EExxppoossuurreess  
sseeccuurreedd  bbyy  

ccoollllaatteerraall  

EExxppoossuurreess  
sseeccuurreedd  bbyy  
ccoollllaatteerraall,,  

ooff  wwhhiicchh  
sseeccuurreedd  
aammoouunntt  

EExxppoossuurreess  
sseeccuurreedd  bbyy  

ffiinnaanncciiaall  
gguuaarraanntteeeess  

FFiinnaanncciiaall  
gguuaarraanntteeeess,,  

ooff  wwhhiicchh  
sseeccuurreedd  
aammoouunntt  

EExxppoossuurreess  
sseeccuurreedd  bbyy  

ccrreeddiitt  
ddeerriivvaattiivveess  

EExxppoossuurreess  
sseeccuurreedd  bbyy  

ccrreeddiitt  
ddeerriivvaattiivveess,,  

ooff  wwhhiicchh  
sseeccuurreedd  
aammoouunntt  

1 Loans  376.016.191   9.757.601   8.471.027   1.113.349   936.284  - - 
2 Debt Securities  160.459.477   -    -    -    -   - - 
33  TToottaall    553366..447755..666688      99..775577..660011      88..447711..002277      11..111133..334499      993366..228844    --  --  
4 Of which defaulted  19.771.988  -    -    -    -   - - 

6. Qualitative disclosures on banks’ use of external credit ratings under the standardised approach for credit risk: 

The ratings given by Fitch Ratings and JCR-ER are used to determine the risk weights to be applied in the capital adequacy 
calculation. The degrees of Fitch Ratings are limited to the receivables whose counterparty is a resident abroad; receivables 
from central governments or central banks, banks and corporate receivables are used for asset classes. JCR-ER's ratings 
are used for TL-denominated receivables whose counterparty is corporate asset class. 

7. Standardised approach – Credit risk exposure and credit risk mitigation (CRM) effects: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
73 

 

g) Aging analysis for overdue receivables: 
 

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd    

3311..1122..22002222  
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd    

3311..1122..22002211    
30-60 days overdue  994.201  1.348.709   
60-90 days overdue  568.197  891.877   
More than 90 days overdue  79.407  7.791   
TToottaall    11..664411..880055  22..224488..337777  

h.  Breakdown of restructured receivables based on whether or not provisions are allocated: 

 

RReessttrruuccttuurreedd  RReecceeiivvaabblleess  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd    

3311..1122..22002222  
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd    

3311..1122..22002211  
Loans restructured from Loans underFollow-up and Other Receivables 35.380.807 26.852.680 
Loans restructured from Non-Performing Loans 1.250.431 1.950.158 

General provision is allocated for the loans restructured from standard loans and loans under Follow-up and other receivables, 
specific provision is allocated for the loans restructured from non-performing loans. 

i) Credit risk mitigation techniques: 

In order to ensure timely and complete fulfillment of all obligations arising from the loan, it is essential to obtain appropriate 
collaterals. 

The main purpose of collateralization of any loan is to minimize the credit, foreign exchange and maturity risk. Within this 
scope, the minimum margin of guarantee is determined and the guarantees suitable for the loan types are obtained. There is 
collateral matching in the system for each loan. In addition, the appropriateness of the margin for each guarantee is also 
checked. 

The risk amount and the amount of collateral are also compared against the value losses that may occur in the collateral, and 
in case of gap between risk and collateral, the Bank Monitoring System automatically generates "Risky Transaction 
Registration". 

In the calculation of capital adequacy ratio, real estate mortgages are subject to valuation process in accordance with the 
related legislation. There is no physical collateral used for risk reduction other than real estate. 

Financial guarantees used in capital adequacy calculations are blocked deposits held at the bank and there is no netting other 
than these. 

Collateral management processes are written in credit policies and checks are made to ensure that there is no concentration 
of third party guarantor type and collateral. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

452 - 453Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 
 

 
 

76 
 

8. Standardised Approach – Exposures by asset classes and risk weights: 
 

  

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  --  3311..1122..22002222  
AAsssseett  CCllaasssseess  //  RRiisskk  WWeeiigghhtt  %%00  %%1100  %%2200  %%2255  %%3355  %%5500  %%7755  %%110000  %%115500  %%225500  OOtthheerr  

TToottaall  rriisskk  
aammoouunntt((**))  

1 Exposures to central governments 
or central banks   328.545.737    -     1.985.145    -                -           1.970                  -                  -                -              -                -    330.532.852 

2 Exposures to regionalgovernments 
or local authorities                  -    -                -    -                -          70.956                  -                  -                -               -                -             70.956 

3 Exposures to public sector entities                  -    -                -    -                -                -                  -        721.500                -               -                -            721.500 
4 Exposures to multilateral 

development banks                  -    -                -    -                -                -                  -                  -                -              -                -                       - 
5 Exposures to international 

organisations                  -    -                -    -                -                -                  -                  -                -               -                -                       - 
6 Exposures to institutions          327.228    -   23.013.799    -                -   27.940.205                  -          52.101                -               -                -     51.333.333 
7 Exposures to corporates           10.529    -   39.169.024    -                -   49.775.756                  - 268.882.957                -               -                -      357.838.266 
8 Retail exposures           59.574    -                -    -                -                - 103.511.537   30.634.233                -               -                -      134.205.344 
9 Exposures secured by residential 

property                  -    -                -    -   14.141.737                -                  -                  -                -               -                -       14.141.737 
10 Exposures secured by commercial 

real estate                  -    -                -    -                -   20.768.475                  -     4.790.935                -               -                -        25.559.410 
11 Past-due loans                  -    -                -    -                -     3.071.217                  -     2.096.904        676.215               -                -          5.844.336 
12 Higher-risk categories by the 

Agency Board                  -    -                -    -           8.862          25.507                  -       321.840   44.122.524 -   29.980.505     74.459.238 
13 Collateralized securities                  -    -                -    -                -                -                  -                  -                -               -                -                       - 
14 Exposures to institutions and 

corporates with a short-term credit 
assessment                  -    -                -    -                -                -                  -                  -                -               -                -                       - 

15 Exposures in the form of units or 
shares in collective investment 
undertakings (CIUs)                  -    -                -    -                -                -                  -     1.176.544                -               -                -          1.176.544 

16 Investments in equities                  -    -                -    -                -                -                  -        574.497                -               -                -             574.497 
17 Other assets     10.893.764    -                  4    -                -                -                  -   36.747.881                -               -                -        47.641.649 

1188  TToottaall      333399..883366..883322        --  
  

6644..116677..997722        --  1144..115500..559999  110011..665544..008866  110033..551111..553377  334455..999999..339922  
  

4444..779988..773399  --  2299..998800..550055  11..004444..009999..666622  

(*) Total credit risk exposure amount after Credit Conversion Factor (CCF) and Credit Risk Mitigation (CRM) 

 

  

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  --  3311..1122..22002211  
AAsssseett  CCllaasssseess  //  RRiisskk  WWeeiigghhtt  %%00  %%1100  %%2200  %%2255  %%3355  %%5500  %%7755  %%110000  %%115500  %%225500  OOtthheerr  

TToottaall  rriisskk  
aammoouunntt((**))  

1 Exposures to central governments 
or central banks 175.324.520 - 625.319 - - 254.119 -                  -                - - 23.022   176.226.980 

2 Exposures to regionalgovernments 
or local authorities - - - - - 134.452 -                  -                - - -          134.452 

3 Exposures to public sector entities - - - - - - - 381.280                - - - 381.280 
4 Exposures to multilateral 

development banks - - - - - - -                  -                - - -                  - 
5 Exposures to international 

organisations - - - - - - -                  -                - - -                  - 
6 Exposures to institutions 311.230 - 36.288.172 - - 20.254.289 -           91.957                61 - -  56.945.709 
7 Exposures to corporates - - 2.021.784 - - 9.838.599 -  230.058.155                - - -  241.918.538 
8 Retail exposures - - - - - - 81.160.597       6.696.010                - - -  87.856.607 
9 Exposures secured by residential 

property - - - - 11.826.580 - -                  -                - - -     11.826.580 
10 Exposures secured by commercial 

real estate - - - - - 10.964.630 -       3.019.200                - - -     13.983.830 
11 Past-due loans - - - - - 3.614.626 -  1.781.279  1.055.035 - -  6.450.940 
12 Higher-risk categories by the 

Agency Board - - - - 16.052 1 -          356.048  17.896.092 - -  18.268.193 
13 Collateralized securities - - - - - - -                  -                - - -                  - 
14 Exposures to institutions and 

corporates with a short-term credit 
assessment - - - - - - -                  -                - - -                  - 

15 Exposures in the form of units or 
shares in collective investment 
undertakings (CIUs) - - - - - - -          546.622                - - -          546.622 

16 Investments in equities - - - - - - -  408.077                - - -  408.077 
17 Other assets 8.789.900 - 156 - - - -  10.622.115                - - -  19.412.171 
1188  TToottaall  118844..442255..665500  --  3388..993355..443311  --  1111..884422..663322  4455..006600..771166  8811..116600..559977  225533..996600..774433  1188..995511..118888  --  2233..002222  663344..335599..997799  

(*) Total credit risk exposure amount after Credit Conversion Factor (CCF) and Credit Risk Mitigation (CRM). 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
75 

 

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  --  3311..1122..22002222  

EExxppoossuurreess  bbeeffoorree  ccrreeddiitt  
ccoonnvveerrssiioonn  ffaaccttoorr  aanndd  CCRRMM  

EExxppoossuurreess  ppoosstt--ccrreeddiitt  
ccoonnvveerrssiioonn  ffaaccttoorr  aanndd  CCRRMM  RRWWAA  aanndd  RRWWAA  ddeennssiittyy  

  
AAsssseett  ccllaasssseess  

OOnn--bbaallaannccee  
sshheeeett  

aammoouunntt  

OOffff--bbaallaannccee  
sshheeeett  

aammoouunntt  

OOnn--bbaallaannccee  
sshheeeett  

aammoouunntt  

OOffff--bbaallaannccee  
sshheeeett  

aammoouunntt  RRWWAA  RRWWAA  ddeennssiittyy  
1 Exposures to central governments or central banks  324.925.464         143.566   330.493.828         39.024         398.014  0,12% 
2 Exposures to regional governments or local authorities          70.956                  -             70.956                -             35.478  50,00% 
3 Exposures to public sector entities        571.299         293.367         562.980        158.520         721.500  100,00% 
4 Exposures to multilateral development banks                 -                    -                    -                 -                    -    0,00% 
5 Exposures to international organisations                 -                    -                    -                 -                    -    0,00% 
6 Exposures to institutions    42.810.576     17.198.643     42.796.818     8.536.515     18.624.963  36,28% 
7 Exposures to corporates  308.141.223   117.965.797   291.110.708   66.727.558   301.604.642  84,29% 
8 Retail exposures  130.004.758   143.827.884   125.866.216     8.339.128   108.267.887  80,67% 
9 Exposures secured by residential property    13.935.128         526.436     13.908.038        233.699       4.949.608  35,00% 
10 Exposures secured by commercial real estate    22.591.282       5.072.794     22.591.282     2.968.128     15.175.172  59,37% 
11 Past-due loans      5.844.336                  -         5.844.336                -         4.646.835  79,51% 
12 Higher-risk categories by the Agency Board    74.093.620       1.086.099     73.965.545        493.693   127.504.731  171,24% 
13 Collateralized securities                 -                    -                    -                 -                    -    0,00% 
14 Exposures to institutions and corporates with a short-term 

credit assessment                 -                    -                    -                 -                    -    0,00% 
15 Exposures in the form of units or shares in collective 

investment undertakings (CIUs)      1.176.544                  -         1.176.544                -         1.176.544  100,00% 
16 Other assets    47.641.649                  -       47.641.649                -       36.747.880  77,13% 
17 Investments in equities        574.497                  -           574.497                -           574.497  100,00% 

1188  TToottaall    
997722..338811..333322    

  
228866..111144..558866    

  
995566..660033..339977      8877..449966..226655      662200..442277..775511    5599,,4422%%  

 
 
  

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  --  3311..1122..22002211  
EExxppoossuurreess  bbeeffoorree  ccrreeddiitt  

ccoonnvveerrssiioonn  ffaaccttoorr  aanndd  CCRRMM  
EExxppoossuurreess  ppoosstt--ccrreeddiitt  

ccoonnvveerrssiioonn  ffaaccttoorr  aanndd  CCRRMM  RRWWAA  aanndd  RRWWAA  ddeennssiittyy  

  
AAsssseett  ccllaasssseess  

OOnn--bbaallaannccee  
sshheeeett  

aammoouunntt  

OOffff--bbaallaannccee  
sshheeeett  

aammoouunntt  

OOnn--bbaallaannccee  
sshheeeett  

aammoouunntt  

OOffff--bbaallaannccee  
sshheeeett  

aammoouunntt  RRWWAA  RRWWAA  ddeennssiittyy  
1 Exposures to central governments or central banks  175.158.196       8.280.789   176.094.480        132.500         252.584  %0,14 
2 Exposures to regional governments or local authorities        134.452                  -           134.452                -             67.226  %50,00 
3 Exposures to public sector entities        322.159         162.129         316.458         64.822         381.280  %100,00 
4 Exposures to multilateral development banks                 -                    -                    -                 -                    -    - 
5 Exposures to international organisations                 -                    -                    -                 -                    -    - 
6 Exposures to institutions    53.493.840     12.743.045     53.483.096     3.462.613     17.476.827  %30,69 
7 Exposures to corporates  213.556.846     66.439.719   205.465.888   36.452.650   235.381.812  %97,30 
8 Retail exposures    82.657.121     59.806.176     81.480.215     6.376.392     67.566.458  %76,91 
9 Exposures secured by residential property    11.717.212         292.510     11.701.470        125.110       4.139.303  %35,00 
10 Exposures secured by commercial real estate    12.682.057       2.194.420     12.682.057     1.301.773       8.501.516  %60,80 
11 Past-due loans      6.450.940                  -         6.450.940                -         5.171.145  %80,16 
12 Higher-risk categories by the Agency Board    17.953.908         939.438     17.846.647        421.546     27.205.804  %148,92 
13 Collateralized securities                 -                    -                    -                 -                    -    - 
14 Exposures to institutions and corporates with a short-term 

credit assessment                 -                    -                    -                 -                    -    - 
15 Exposures in the form of units or shares in collective 

investment undertakings (CIUs)        546.622                  -           546.622                -           546.622  %100,00 
16 Other assets    19.412.171                  -       19.412.171                -       10.622.144  %54,72 
17 Investments in equities        408.077                  -           408.077                -           408.077  %100,00 

1188  TToottaall  
  

559944..449933..660011    
  

115500..885588..222266    
  

558866..002222..557733      4488..333377..440066     337777..772200..779988    %%6600,,0022  

 

 

 

 

 

454 - 455Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 
 

 
 

78 
 

- In the option transactions made on the other party's own shares, transactions are not made where the same counterparty 
is the option seller. 

- In the credit derivative transactions on the counterparty's own credit risk, there are no transactions that the counterparty 
is the protection seller 

For the actions taken under the CCR, the obligation to provide additional collateral due to the possible decline in the 
credibility of the Bank is followed. 

2. Analysis of counterparty credit risk exposure by approach: 
 

 

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  --  3311..1122..22002222  
RReeppllaacceemmeenntt  

ccoosstt  

PPootteennttiiaall  
ffuuttuurree  

eexxppoossuurree  EEEEPPEE  ((**))  

AAllpphhaa  uusseedd  ffoorr  
ccoommppuuttiinngg  
rreegguullaattoorryy  

eexxppoossuurree  aatt  
ddeeffaauulltt  

EExxppoossuurree  
aatt  ddeeffaauulltt  
ppoosstt  CCRRMM  RRWWAA  

1 Standardised Approach  (for derivatives) 32.137.555 11.548.888  1,4 43.686.443 22.256.093 
2 Internal Model Method (for derivatives, Repo Transactions, 

Marketable Securities or EMTIA lending or borrowing transactions, 
transactions with a long settlement time, Marketable Security 
transactions with credit) - - - - - - 

3 Simple Approach for credit risk mitigation (for derivatives, Repo 
Transactions, Marketable Securities or EMTIA lending or borrowing 
transactions, transactions with a long settlement time, Marketable 
Security transactions with credit) - - - - - - 

4 Comprehensive Approach for credit risk mitigation (for derivatives, 
Repo Transactions, Marketable Securities or EMTIA lending or 
borrowing transactions, transactions with a long settlement time, 
Marketable Security transactions with credit) - - - - 14.976.008 4.231.471 

5 VaR for for derivatives, Repo Transactions, Marketable Securities or 
EMTIA lending or borrowing transactions, transactions with a long 
settlement time, Marketable Security transactions with credit - - -  - 14.976.008 4.231.471 

66  TToottaall            2266..448877..556644  
(*) Effective Expected Positive Exposure 
 

 

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  --  3311..1122..22002211  
RReeppllaacceemmeenntt  

ccoosstt  

PPootteennttiiaall  
ffuuttuurree  

eexxppoossuurree  EEEEPPEE  ((**))  

AAllpphhaa  uusseedd  ffoorr  
ccoommppuuttiinngg  
rreegguullaattoorryy  

eexxppoossuurree  aatt  
ddeeffaauulltt  

EExxppoossuurree  
aatt  ddeeffaauulltt  
ppoosstt  CCRRMM  RRWWAA  

1 Standardised Approach  (for derivatives) 26.427.321 5.292.620  1,4 31.719.941 16.279.148 
2 Internal Model Method (for derivatives, Repo Transactions, 

Marketable Securities or EMTIA lending or borrowing transactions, 
transactions with a long settlement time, Marketable Security 
transactions with credit) - - - - - - 

3 Simple Approach for credit risk mitigation (for derivatives, Repo 
Transactions, Marketable Securities or EMTIA lending or borrowing 
transactions, transactions with a long settlement time, Marketable 
Security transactions with credit) - - - - - - 

4 Comprehensive Approach for credit risk mitigation (for derivatives, 
Repo Transactions, Marketable Securities or EMTIA lending or 
borrowing transactions, transactions with a long settlement time, 
Marketable Security transactions with credit) - - - - 8.589.834 2.706.966 

5 VaR for for derivatives, Repo Transactions, Marketable Securities or 
EMTIA lending or borrowing transactions, transactions with a long 
settlement time, Marketable Security transactions with credit - - -  - 8.589.834 2.706.966 

66  TToottaall            1188..998866..111144  
(*) Effective Expected Positive Exposure 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
77 

 

dd.. CCoouunntteerrppaarrttyy  CCrreeddiitt  rriisskk  ((CCCCRR))  eexxppllaannaattiioonnss::  

1. Qualitative disclosure related to counterparty credit risk: 
 

The CCR strategy is determined by counterparty type and product categories. Counterparties are categorized as central 
counterparties, banks, corporate and commercial companies, corporate segment, micro segment customers, private banking 
customers and individual customers. The products are grouped as interest swap transactions, foreign currency option 
transactions (plain vanilla), foreign exchange option transactions (exotic), interest option transactions, commodity 
Transactions, credit derivatives and repo transactions. 

"Conformity Test" is applied to the customers to determine whether the products to be presented to the customers are in 
compliance with the customers' financial status and their knowledge and experience. The tests to be applied are prepared in 
a way that bank can evaluate the information received from the customers with the method including “risk and return 
preference” and knowledge and experience” classifications determined by the Bank. 

The creditworthiness of the counterparty is analyzed prior to the transactions leading to the CCR and subsequently the 
creditworthiness of the counter parties is reviewed at regular intervals. The frequency of inspections is increased when 
necessary. 

The scope and level of information providing the opportunity to assess the creditworthiness of the counterparty shall be 
differentiated depending on the volume of the transaction to be realized, the level of the CCR and / or the counterparty. 

For the transactions within the scope of the CCR, appropriate limits to the risk appetite, policies and strategies of the Bank 
are determined. The determined limits are approved by the Board of Directors for the banks. For the firms and individuals 
apart fron banks regular loan approval processes and limits are conducted. 

The counterparty credit risk limits for financial institutions are also determined seperately and presented to the Board of 
Directors for approval. The determined limits are reviewed at least once a year. In case of deterioration of market conditions 
or in case of deterioration of credit quality of some counterparties, limits are reviewd and necessary changes are made. If 
deemed necessary, the approved limits are blocked by the Credit Committee / Credit Allocation Business Unit and by the 
approval of the Board of Directors. 

In counterparty credit risk management of financial institutions, risk mitigation methods such as netting agreements, 
collateral and "margin" agreements are used. Collateralization principles and procedures are applied for companies and 
individuals other than financial institutions within the framework of credit policies and application principles currently applied 
in the Bank. 

The potential, current and maximum risk amounts of the transactions are calculated / determined in order to determine the 
CCR. The risks of transactions that are subject to the legally binding bilateral netting agreement and to which the netting 
transaction can be applied are followed together. 

The risk of reverse tendency within the scope of the CCR appears in two ways as the risk of general reversal and the risk of 
specific reversal.  

To avoid the general counter trend risk; 

- Depending on the direction of the financing expenses of the corporate and commercial companies, it is taken care that 
the interest swap transactions made are aimed at "hedging". If the short-term liability of the firm is more than short-term 
liabilities susceptible to interest, interest rate swaps will be applied to the firm with the fixed interest rate. In the other 
case, interest rate swap transactions that the company pays variable interest are made. 

- It is also important to note that the transactions are "hedged" for foreign currency transactions. If the firm is in a long 
position in the foreign exchange market, the transactions that the foreign exchange seller is the company and if the 
company is in the short position in the foreign exchange market, the transactions that the foreign exchange buyer is the 
company are taken into consideration. 

To avoid the risk of specific counter trend risk; 

456 - 457Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 
 

 
 

80 
 

5. Composition of collateral for CCR exposure: Related table is not presented due to not having derivative collaterals 
which is considered in the calculation of capital adequacy ratio. 

6. Credit derivatives exposures: 

 
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  --  3311..1122..22002222   PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  --  3311..1122..22002211  

   PPrrootteeccttiioonn  bboouugghhtt  PPrrootteeccttiioonn  SSoolldd      PPrrootteeccttiioonn  bboouugghhtt  PPrrootteeccttiioonn  SSoolldd  
NNoommiinnaall                      
   Single-name credit default 2.281.193                         -   2.292.588                         - 
   Index credit default swaps -  -    -  -  
   Total return swaps -  13.088.810   -  11.329.650 
   Credit options -  -    -  -  
   Other credit derivatives -  -    -  -  
TToottaall  nnoottiioonnaallss  22..228811..119933  1133..008888..881100      22..229922..558888  1111..332299..665500  
FFaaiirr  vvaalluueess                    
Positive fair value (asset) 176.001 5.567.837   243.166 4.456.373 
Negative fair value (liability) -  -   -  -  

 

7. Exposures to central counterparties (CCP): 

 
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  --  3311..1122..22002222    PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  --  3311..1122..22002211    

    
EExxppoossuurree  aatt  ddeeffaauulltt  

((ppoosstt--CCRRMM))  RRWWAA      
EExxppoossuurree  aatt  ddeeffaauulltt  

((ppoosstt--CCRRMM))  RRWWAA  

11  EExxppoossuurree  ttoo  QQuuaalliiffiieedd  CCeennttrraall  CCoouunntteerrppaarrttiieess  
((QQCCCCPPss))  ((ttoottaall))  335500..440077  3377..665544  

2 Exposures for trades at QCCPs (excluding initial 
margin and default fund contributions); of which 11.747.755 350.194 1.056.438 37.071 

3 (i)       OTC Derivatives 11.747.755 350.194 1.056.438 37.071 
4 (ii)      Exchange-traded Derivatives - - - - 
5 
6 
 

(iii)     Securities financing transactions 
- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 
- 

(iv)      Netting sets where cross-product 
netting has been approved 

7 Segregated initial margin - - - - 
8 Non-segregated initial margin 
9 Pre-funded default fund contributions 94.804 213 25.902 583 
10 Unfunded default fund contributions - -  - - 
1111 EExxppoossuurreess  ttoo  nnoonn--QQCCCCPPss  ((ttoottaall))  - - 
12 Exposures for trades at non-QCCPs (excluding 

initial margin and default fund contributions); of 
which) - -  - - 

13 (i)       OTC Derivatives - -  - - 
14 (ii)      Exchange-traded Derivatives - -  - - 
15 (iii)     Securities financing transactions - -  - - 
16 (iii)     Netting sets where cross-product 

netting has been approved      
17 Segregated initial margin - -  - - 
18 Non-segregated initial margin - -  - - 
19 Pre-funded default fund contributions - -  - - 
20 Unfunded default fund contributions - -  - - 

 

ee.. SSeeccuurriittiizzaattiioonn  eexxppllaannaattiioonnss::  The Bank has no securitization transactions.   

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
79 

 

3. Credit valuation adjustment (CVA) capital charge: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  --  3311..1122..22002222                PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  --  3311..1122..22002211 

      EExxppoossuurree  aatt  ddeeffaauulltt    
ppoosstt--CCRRMM  

RRWWAA  
EExxppoossuurree  aatt  

ddeeffaauulltt    
ppoosstt--CCRRMM  

RRWWAA  

  
Total portfolios subject to the Advanced CVA capital 
charge         

1 (i) Value at Risk (VaR) component (including the 
3×multiplier) -  -  -  -  

2 (ii) Stressed VaR component (including the 3×multiplier) -  -  -  -  
3 All portfolios subject to the Standardised CVA capital 

charge 43.686.443 19.223.975 31.719.941 11.372.409 
44  TToottaall  ssuubbjjeecctt  ttoo  tthhee  CCVVAA  ccaappiittaall  cchhaarrggee  4433..668866..444433  1199..222233..997755  3311..771199..994411  1111..337722..440099  
                         

4. Standardised approach of CCR exposures by regulatory portfolio and risk weights: 
 
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  --  3311..1122..22002222  

RRiisskk  WWeeiigghhtt  00%%  1100%%  2200%%  5500%%  7755%%  110000%%  115500%%  OOtthheerr  

TToottaall  ccrreeddiitt  
eexxppoossuurree  

((**))  
RReegguullaattoorryy  ppoorrttffoolliiaa                    
Claims from central governments and central 
banks 2.710.254     -                   -                   -               -                 -           -    -                     -    
Claims from regional and local governments              -       -                   -                   -               -                 -           -    -                     -    
Claims from administration and non 
commercial entity              -       -                   -                   -               -            7.741         -    -            7.741  
Claims from multilateral development banks              -       -                   -                   -               -                 -           -    -                     -    
Claims from international organizations              -       -                   -                   -               -                 -           -    -                     -    
Claims from institutions              -       -    17.612.781   26.584.793             -                 -           -    -   16.814.953  
Corporates              -       -      2.229.182        258.986             -    8.572.699         -    -      9.148.028  
Retail portfolios              -       -                   -                   -      682.907               -           -    -         512.180  
Other claims(**)             -       -                  -                   -               -                 -    3.108  -             4.662  
TToottaall  22..771100..225544      --      1199..884411..996633    2266..884433..777799    668822..990077    88..558800..444400    33..110088    --   2266..448877..556644   
(*)   Total credit exposure: the amount relevant for the capital requirements calculation, having applied CRM techniques. 
(**) Other receivables: Includes the amounts excluded in counterparty credit risk reported in CCR8. 
 
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  --  3311..1122..22002211  
  

RRiisskk  WWeeiigghhtt  00%%  1100%%  2200%%  5500%%  7755%%  110000%%  115500%%  OOtthheerr  

TToottaall  ccrreeddiitt  
eexxppoossuurree  

((**))  
RReegguullaattoorryy  ppoorrttffoolliiaa                    
Claims from central governments and central 
banks   7.108.305  - - - - - - - - 
Claims from regional and local governments              -   - - - - - - - - 
Claims from administration and non 
commercial entity              -   - - - - 159 - - 159 
Claims from multilateral development banks              -   - - - - - - - - 
Claims from international organizations              -   - - - - - - - - 
Claims from institutions              -   - 7.970.732 15.286.995 - - - - 9.237.644 
Corporates              -   - 196.992 20 - 9.582.041 - - 9.621.449 
Retail portfolios              -   - - - 159.913 - - - 119.935 
Other claims(**)              -   - - - - - 4.618 - 6.927 
TToottaall  77..110088..330055  --  88..116677..772244  1155..228877..001155  115599..991133  99..558822..220000  44..661188  --  1188..998866..111144  
(*)   Total credit exposure: the amount relevant for the capital requirements calculation, having applied CRM techniques. 
(**) Other receivables: Includes the amounts excluded in counterparty credit risk reported in CCR8. 

458 - 459Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 
 

 
 

82 
 

Annual gross revenue is calculated by deduction of profit/loss derived from the sale of financial assets at fair value through 
other comprehensive income and financial assets measured at amortised cost, extraordinary income and indemnity 
insurance gains from the total of net interest income and non interest income. 

 

    3311..1122..22001199  3311..1122..22002200  3311..1122..22002211  
TToottaall//PPoossiittiivvee  GGII  

yyeeaarr  nnuummbbeerr  RRaattiioo  ((%%))  TToottaall  
Gross income 20.708.463 24.461.462 37.297.431 3 15 4.123.368 
Amount subject to Operational 
Risk (Amount*12,5) 51.542.098 

hh.. IInntteerreesstt  rraattee  rriisskk  rreellaatteedd  ttoo  bbaannkkiinngg  bbooookk::  

Interest rate risk for all banking transactions outside the trading portfolio are followed under interest rate risk related to the 
banking book. Interest rate risk related to the trading portfolio is followed under market risk. 

ALCO performs daily management of interest rate risk in accordance with the risk limits set by the Executive Risk Committee 
in relation to interest rate sensitivities of the banking book. ALCO meetings are held on a weekly basis. 

In addition to interest rate sensitivities measured and reported weekly, daily and transaction-based analyses are also 
performed when significant fluctuations occur in markets.  

Repricing term mismatch and duration mismatch analyses, net economic value change analyses under different interest rate 
stress scenarios and income simulations are used for interest rate risk management. Repricing risk, yield curve risk, basis 
risk and optionality risk are considered under interest rate risk scope. 

The interest rate risk arising from banking book is calculated and reported on a monthly basis according to "Regulation on 
Measurement and Evaluation of Interest Rate Risk in Banking Accounts with Standard Shock Method" published in the 
Official Gazette no 28034 on 23 August 2011.  

The Group’s calculation of the interest rate risk derived from banking books is presented below: 

 

Applied Shock Gains / Gains / Shareholders’ Equity -  
Currency (+/- x basis points) Losses Losses/ Shareholders’ Equity 
TL (400) 4.500.137 2,60% 
TL 500 (5.047.887) -2,92% 
USD (200) (402.724) -0,23% 
USD 200 558.736 0,32% 
EURO (200) (561.654) -0,32% 
EURO 200 596.384 0,34% 
TToottaall  ((ffoorr  nneeggaattiivvee  sshhoocckkss))  33..553355..775599  22,,0055%%  
TToottaall  ((ffoorr  ppoossiittiivvee  sshhoocckkss))      ((33..889922..776677))  --22,,2266%%  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
81 

 

ff.. EExxppllaannaattiioonnss  oonn  mmaarrkkeett  rriisskk::  

1. Qualitative disclosure requirements related to market risk: 

The risk principles, policies and risk limits related to the management of market risk are approved by the Board of Directors 
and reviewed on a regular basis. The Bank's Senior Management performs day to day management of the market risk in 
accordance with the limits assigned by the Board of Directors. The Bank is exposed to market risk as a result of fluctuations 
in foreign exchange rates, interest rates, and market prices of stocks. Exchange rate risk and interest rate risk are evaluated 
as the two most important components of market risk. The Bank engages in derivative transactions for hedge purposes when 
found necessary.  

Market risk is calculated by two different methods, namely the "inherent model" and the "standard method". According to 
inherent model market risk is measured by Value at Risk (“VaR”) approach which takes into account different risk factors. 
VaR calculations use historical simulation and Monte Carlo simulation methods. The software used can perform calculations 
with an advanced yield curve and volatility models. The VaR model is based on the assumptions of 99% confidence interval 
and a 10-day holding period. VaR analyses are performed on a daily basis and reported to the Senior Management. VaR 
analyses are also used as risk and limit management instrument for trading transactions. The limits are reviewed 
periodically according to market conditions and the application of specified limits is subject to authority restrictions and 
therefore the control effectiveness is increased. VaR analyses are supported with scenario analyses and stress tests, and 
take into consideration the effects of low-probability events which have significant impact and the effects of market 
fluctuations. Retrospective tests of the model outputs are performed regularly. The standard method is used for the legal 
reporting. 

The following table indicates the details of the market risk calculation as of 31 December 2022, in accordance with the 
Market Risk Calculation principles pursuant to the Third Section of the “Regulation on Measurement and Assessment of 
Capital Adequacy of Banks" published in the Official Gazette no. 29511 on 23 October 2015. 

2. Standardised approach: 

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  
    3311..1122..22002222  3311..1122..22002211  
      RRWWAA  RRWWAA  

OOuuttrriigghhtt  pprroodduuccttss  ((**))      
1 Interest rate risk (general and specific)                       3.598.138  3.293.288 
2 Equity risk (general and specific)                     14.605.574  1.896.013 
3 Foreign exchange risk                     13.837.669  20.824.872 
4 Commodity risk                            20.185  2.659 

OOppttiioonnss   
5 Simplified approach -   - 
6 Delta-plus method                          809.838  333.888 
7 Scenario approach -  -  
8 Securitisation -  -  
99  TToottaall                                          3322..887711..440044    2266..335500..772200  

(*) Outright products refer to positions in products that are not optional. 
 

gg.. EExxppllaannaattiioonnss  oonn  ooppeerraattiioonnaall  rriisskk::  

The “Basic Indicator Method” that is mentioned in "Regulation on Measurement and Assessment of Capital Adequacy of 
Banks" Communiqué published in the Official Gazette no. 29511 on 23 October 2015 and entered into force as of 31 March 
2016, is used in the annual operational risk calculation of the Bank. The amount subject to the operational risk  as of 31 
December 2022 is calculated by using the gross income of the Bank in 2019, 2020 and 2021.  

460 - 461Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 
 

 
 

84 
 

hedge the cash flow risk of the aforementioned borrowing and subject to hedge accounting. There is no hedge accounting 
transaction terminated under the published exceptions.  
 

As of 31 December 2022, contractual amounts of derivative financial instruments designated as hedging instruments and the 
net fair values carried in the balance sheet of the Bank are summarized in the following table: 
 

      CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd    PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd      
      3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222    3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211      

NNoottiioonnaall  
AAmmoouunntt  AAsssseettss  LLiiaabbiilliittiieess  

NNoottiioonnaall  
AAmmoouunntt  AAsssseettss  LLiiaabbiilliittiieess      

Interest Rate and Cross Currency Swaps        
-TL 31.550.734 18.868.111  494.476  38.163.770 15.412.862  331.573  
-FC 155.500.288 5.651.771  1  122.991.616 776.704  694.631  
TToottaall  118877..005511..002222  2244..551199..888822    449944..447777    116611..115555..338866  1166..118899..556666    11..002266..220044        

11.. EExxppllaannaattiioonnss  oonn  AAccccoouunnttiinngg  NNeett  IInnvveessttmmeenntt  HHeeddggee::    

The Group has been using hedge against fair value strategy to hedge against foreign currency risk born of EUR 787 million 
(31 December 2021: EUR 787 million) which represents share premiums and paid-in-capital of Akbank AG, one of its 
subsidiaries. EUR 787 million of syndication loans used by the Group have been classified as “hedge instruments.” 

22.. EExxppllaannaattiioonnss  oonn  FFaaiirr  VVaalluuee  HHeeddggee::  
  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd::  3311..1122..22002222  
HHeeddggiinngg  
IInnssttrruummeenntt  HHeeddggeedd  IItteemm  RRiisskk  EExxppoossuurree  

FFaaiirr  VVaalluuee  DDiiffffeerreennccee  ooff  
HHeeddggiinngg  IInnssttrruummeenntt  

FFaaiirr  VVaalluuee  DDiiffffeerreennccee  ooff  
HHeeddggeedd  IItteemmss  ((**))  

IInneeffffeeccttiivvee  
PPoorrttiioonn  ((****))  

Interest Rate 
Swap 

Fixed interest rate  
FC Loans 

Interest rate and 
currency risk      238.099      (241.371)         (3.272) 

Interest Rate 
Swap 

Fixed interest rate FC financial 
assets at other comprehensive 
income 

Interest rate risk 
  1.812.353   (1.878.106)       (65.753) 

Cross-currency 
swap 

Fixed interest rate FC  
financial assets at fair value 
through other comprehensive 
income, FC borrowings 

Interest rate and 
currency risk 

       48.507        (48.327)             180  

Cross-currency 
swap 

Fixed interest rate TL 
Commercial Loans. FC 
borrowings 

Interest rate and 
currency risk          8.096          (8.574)            (478) 

(*) Includes fair value differences arising from changes in foreign exchange rates for hedges against interest rate and foreign currency from 
the interest rate and foreign exchange risks. 
(**) Represents the cumulative amounts booked under “Gains/Losses on Derivative Financial Transactions” and “Gains/Losses on Foreign 
Exchange Transactions” since the beginning of hedge accounting. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
83 

 

XI. EXPLANATIONS ON HEDGE TRANSACTIONS: 

The Group hedges its TL and foreign denominated fixed rate financial assets with cross currency swaps and interest rate 
swaps. Within the scope of fair value hedge, fair value changes of hedging instrument and hedged item are accounted in the 
income statement. As long as the hedge relationship is effective, fair value change of the hedged item is disclosed together 
with its related asset or liability in the balance sheet for TL denominated fixed rate mortgage loans. Fair value changes which 
have already been booked in equity, have been reclassified from equity to income statement for TL and FC denominated fixed 
rate financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income. 

The Group hedges against its cash flow risk stemming from foreign currency denominated floating rate financial liabilities 
with interest rate and cross currency swaps. Within the scope of cash flow hedge accounting, effective part of the fair value 
changes of the hedging instrument are accounted in equity under “Cash Flow Hedge Gain/Loss, Shares of Investments 
Valued by Equity Method in Other Comprehensive Income Classified Through Profit or Loss and Other Accumulated Amounts 
of Other Comprehensive Income Items Reclassified Through Other Profit or Loss” whereas ineffective part is accounted in the 
income statement. At instances when cash flows relating to hedged item (interest expense) affect the income statement, 
profit/loss of the related hedging item is taken out of the equity and reflected on the income statement. 

Prospective tests are performed at the inception of the hedge relationships and both prospective and retrospective tests are 
performed at each reporting period-end regularly by using “Dollar off-set method”. In this method, changes in the fair value 
of the hedged item and changes in the fair value of the hedging instruments between the designation date and each reporting 
period-end are compared and effectiveness ratio is calculated. In the determination of the fair values of hedging instruments 
and hedged item, market yield curves are used. Hedge accounting principles are applied by assessing the calculated 
effectiveness ratio within the scope of TAS 39. 

When the hedging instrument expires, is executed or sold and when the hedge relationship becomes ineffective or is 
discontinued as a result of the hedge relationship being revoked due to ineffectiveness of efficiency tests;  

 The hedging gains and losses that were previously recognized under equity are transferred to profit or loss when the 
cash flows of the hedged item are realized, 

 Adjustments made to the carrying amount of the hedged item are transferred to profit and loss with straight line 
method for portfolio hedges or with effective interest rate method for micro hedges. 

In case the hedged item is derecognized, hedge accounting is discontinued and within context of fair value hedge accounting, 
adjustments made to the value of the hedged item are accounted in income statement. 

The replacement or rollover of a hedging instrument into another hedging instrument is not an expiration or termination if 
such replacement or rollover is part of the entity's documented hedging strategy. 

The Group also applies net investment risk hedging in order to hedge its foreign currency risk from its investments abroad. 
The effective part of the fair value change of the hedging instrument in the hedging transaction in question was accounted in 
the "Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income or Expenses to be Reclassified in Profit or Loss" account under equity. 

Within the scope of the Major Indicative Interest Rates Reform in 2022, new alternative interest rates will be used instead of 
the current benchmark interest rates, especially Libor. In addition to floating rate assets such as securities indexed to 
benchmark interest rates and loans, Banks' financial statements include liabilities such as securities issued, borrowed loans 
and derivative transactions, and off-balance sheet instruments. With the regulations published in September 2019 and 
December 2020 regarding the implementation of the aforementioned reform, early implementation of the amendments was 
permitted, while temporary exemption was given to the applications related to the determination of cash flows of hedge 
accounting and the termination of transactions. A working group was established to evaluate the impact of the interest rate 
reform on the financial statements and to adapt to reform. Reform changes have not been implemented early and 
developments are followed by the working group.  
  
The average remaining maturity of the floating-rate USD Libor-Indexed borrowings directly affected by the interest rate 
reform is 2,3 years and the remaining amount is USD 681.550. Foreign currency interest swap transactions were made to 

462 - 463Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 
 

 
 

86 
 

- As of 31 December 2022, related to cash flow hedge transactions, there is no remaining before tax amount in equity after 
amortization of the fair value change of the hedging instruments, from the beginning of hedge accounting (31 December 
2021: TL 34.396). 
 

XII. QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ON REMUNERATION POLICIES 

EExxppllaannaattiioonnss  oonn  RReemmuunneerraattiioonn  CCoommmmiitttteeee::  

The Remuneration Committee consisting of two members from the board of directors who have no executive duties convened 
and evaluated the remuneration policies twice in 2022. As a result of the meeting and related evaluations, the committee 
decided on updating of the policies in accordance with the existing practices. The main duties and responsibilities of the 
Remuneration Committee have been determined briefly as follows: 

 Overseeing the remuneration processes and practices with the aim of providing an independent and effective 
remuneration system. 

 Reviewing the remuneration policy practices within the framework of the Corporate Governance principles and ensuring 
that the remuneration management system is up to date. 

 Submitting the evaluation and recommendations on remuneration policies and practices within the framework of 
Corporate Governance principles to the Board of Directors as an annual report 

 Reviewing as to whether remuneration policies, processes and practices comply with risk appetite, strategies and long 
term targets of the Bank 

 Ensuring the implementation of premium payments within the framework of Corporate Governance principles. 

 Determining payments to the members of the Board of Directors if they assume a different function in the bank 

 Ensuring the preparation of the decisions regarding the remuneration, particularly the decisions about the 
remuneration of qualified employees, submitted to the approval of the Board of Directors; the regular observation of 
compliance and effectiveness of the remuneration policies with the risk appetite and targets of the bank; providing 
support and opinion to the Board of Directors with regard to the establishment and supervising of the operations of the 
remuneration system; overseeing the remuneration of the senior management of the units within the scope of Internal 
Systems 

The general principles of the Bank's remuneration policy apply to all bank employees. 

Members of the Board of Directors and senior executives that have a significant impact on the Bank's risk profile are 
classified under the qualified employees. By the end of 2022, there are 27 employees that are considered as qualified 
employees in the Bank. 

IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  tthhee  DDeessiiggnn  aanndd  SSttrruuccttuurree  ooff  tthhee  RReemmuunneerraattiioonn  PPrroocceessss::  

While determining the Bank's wage structure; 

 Internal balance of wages and budgetary opportunities, 

 Job description and level of responsibility of employees, 

 Individual performance of each employee, 

 The overall performance of the team and general performance of the bank, 

 Employee competencies, 

 Compliance with the Bank's internal and external legislation 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
85 

 

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  --  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  
HHeeddggiinngg  
IInnssttrruummeenntt  HHeeddggeedd  IItteemm  RRiisskk  EExxppoossuurree  

FFaaiirr  VVaalluuee  DDiiffffeerreennccee  ooff  
HHeeddggiinngg  IInnssttrruummeenntt  

FFaaiirr  VVaalluuee  DDiiffffeerreennccee  ooff  
HHeeddggeedd  IItteemmss  ((**))  

IInneeffffeeccttiivvee  
PPoorrttiioonn  ((****))  

Interest Rate 
Swap 

Fixed interest rate FC financial 
assets at other comprehensive 
income 

Interest rate risk 
(293.557) 255.051 (38.506) 

Cross-currency 
swap 

Fixed interest rate FC  
financial assets at fair value 
through other comprehensive 
income, FC borrowings 

Interest rate and 
currency risk 

39.753 (39.469) 284 

Cross-currency 
swap 

Fixed interest rate TL  
financial assets at fair value throug
other comprehensive income, FC 
borrowings 

Interest rate and 
currency risk 

(91.345) 84.039 (7.306) 
Interest Rate 
Swap 

Fixed interest rate TL 
Commercial Loans 

Interest rate risk 44 (187) (143) 

Cross-currency 
swap 

Fixed interest rate TL 
Commercial Loans. FC 
borrowings 

Interest rate and 
currency risk 8.600 (8.558) 42 

Interest Rate 
Swap 

Fixed interest rate TL Securities 
Issued Interest rate risk (46.140) 49.696 3.556 

(*) Includes fair value differences arising from changes in foreign exchange rates for hedges against interest rate and foreign currency from the interest rate and 
foreign exchange risks. 
(**) Represents the cumulative amounts booked under “Gains / (Losses) on Derivative Financial Transactions” and “Gains/ (Losses) on Foreign Exchange 
Transactions” since the beginning of hedge accounting. 

In addition, when the hedging instrument expires, is executed or sold and when the hedge relationship becomes ineffective or is 
discontinued as a result of the hedge relationship being revoked due to ineffectiveness of efficiency tests with the information related 
discontinuous transactions are given below: 

- As of 31 December 2022, related to fair value hedge transactions, the remaining net amount after amortization of the fair value change 
of the hedged items since the beginning of hedge accounting is TL (38) (31 December 2021: TL 2.779). 

33.. EExxppllaannaattiioonnss  oonn  CCaasshh  FFllooww  HHeeddggee::  

HHeeddggiinngg  
iinnssttrruummeenntt HHeeddggeedd  iitteemm 

NNaattuurree  ooff  rriisskk  
hheeddggeedd HHeeddggiinngg  iinnssttrruummeenntt  FFVV  

NNeett  ggaaiinn//((lloossss))  
rreeccooggnniizzeedd  iinn  

OOCCII  dduurriinngg  tthhee  
ppeerriioodd 

NNeett  ggaaiinn//((lloossss))  
rreeccllaassssiiffiieedd  ttoo  

iinnccoommee  
ssttaatteemmeenntt  

dduurriinngg  tthhee  yyeeaarr 

IInneeffffeeccttiivvee
ppoorrttiioonn

rreeccooggnniizzeedd  iinn
iinnccoommee

ssttaatteemmeenntt
((NNeett))

      AAsssseettss  LLiiaabbiilliittiieess       

Interest Rate 
Swap 

Floating-rate long 
Term FC funds 
borrowed 

Cash Flow risk due 
to changes in 
interest rate of funds 465.457 - 629.053 (140) 10.919 

Cross Currency 
Swap 

Short term FC 
commercial deposits 

Cash Flow risk due 
to changes in 
interest rate of funds 17.374.460 - (49.398) (389.885) 52.163 

Interest Rate 
Swap Short term TL deposits 

Cash Flow risk due 
to changes in 
interest rate of funds 1.417.214 460.359 59.712 76.819 12.054 

Interest Rate 
Swap 

Short term FC deposits 
Cash Flow risk due 
to changes in 
interest rate of funds 1.597.022 - 1.496.053 160.720 (2.583) 

Interest Rate 
Swap 

Floating-rate TL 
financial assets at fair 
value through other 
comprehensive income  

Cash Flow risk due 
to changes in 
interest rate of funds 

22.991 34.118 617.610 351.107 (1.851) 

In addition, when the hedging instrument expires, is executed or sold and when the hedge relationship becomes ineffective or 
is discontinued as a result of the hedge relationship being revoked with the information related discontinuous transactions 
are given below: 

464 - 465Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 
 

 
 

88 
 

performed according to the Bank’s requirements. In addition to marketing and pricing activities for the branch network of 
Treasury products and customers, foreign trade financing, foreign exchange and TL "clearing" services are also carried out 
for customers. 

Other operations includes activities of Ak Finansal Kiralama A.Ş., Ak Yatırım Menkul Değerler A.Ş., Ak Portföy Yönetim A.Ş., 
Akbank AG and AkÖde Elektronik Para ve Ödeme Hizmetleri A.Ş as subsidiaries of the Bank in consolidation.  

Information on business segments as of 31 December 2022 and 31 December 2021 presented in the following tables. 
Explanations on business segments are prepared on the basis of data obtained from Bank Management Reporting System. 

 

  
CCoonnssuummeerr

BBaannkkiinngg

CCoommmmeerrcciiaall  BBaannkkiinngg,,  SSMMEE
BBaannkkiinngg,,  CCoorrppoorraattee  BBaannkkiinngg

aanndd  PPrriivvaattee  BBaannkkiinngg TTrreeaassuurryy
OOtthheerr  aanndd

UUnnaallllooccaatteedd

GGrroouupp’’ss
TToottaall

AAccttiivviittiieess
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  --  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  

Operating Income  19.651.201  32.950.744  55.059.908  4.124.828  111.786.681 
Profit from Operating Activities  4.769.253  27.227.574  53.730.475  (5.548.112)  80.179.190 
Income from Subsidiaries  -   -   -   91.618  91.618 
Profit before Tax  4.769.253  27.227.574  53.730.475  (5.456.494)  80.270.808 
Tax Expense  -   -   -   (20.245.101)  (20.245.101) 

Net Profit for the Period  4.769.253  27.227.574  53.730.475  (25.701.595)  60.025.707 

Segment Assets 190.937.387 485.369.966 386.484.173 30.250.569 1.093.042.095 
Investments in Associates.  - - - 18.957 18.957
Undistributed Assets - - - 54.233.128 54.233.128

Total Assets  1.147.294.180
Segment Liabilities 398.888.102 312.445.214 185.986.004 29.259.559 926.578.879 
Undistributed Liabilities - - - 67.109.431 67.109.431
Shareholders’ Equity - - - 153.605.870 153.605.870

Total Liabilities   1.147.294.180

  
CCoonnssuummeerr  

BBaannkkiinngg  

CCoommmmeerrcciiaall  BBaannkkiinngg,,  SSMMEE
BBaannkkiinngg,,  CCoorrppoorraattee  BBaannkkiinngg

aanndd  PPrriivvaattee  BBaannkkiinngg TTrreeaassuurryy
OOtthheerr  aanndd

UUnnaallllooccaatteedd

GGrroouupp’’ss
TToottaall

AAccttiivviittiieess
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  --  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211     

Operating Income  9.694.211   12.162.643  3.299.822  14.350.607  39.507.283 
Profit from Operating Activities  2.516.915   8.728.287  2.755.594  2.626.510  16.627.306 
Income from Subsidiaries  -   -   -   13.156  13.156 
Profit before Tax  2.516.915   8.728.287  2.755.594  2.639.666  16.640.462 
Tax Expense  -   -   -   (4.513.271)  (4.513.271) 

Net Profit for the Period  2.516.915   8.728.287  2.755.594  (1.873.605)  12.127.191 

Segment Assets 121.818.120 320.357.215 284.100.942 13.581.760 739.858.037
Investments in Associates.  - - - 18.129 18.129 
Undistributed Assets - - - 22.922.164 22.922.164 

Total Assets   762.798.330 
Segment Liabilities 249.278.815 195.264.490 199.440.835 13.509.258 657.493.398 
Undistributed Liabilities - - - 29.345.619 29.345.619 
Shareholders’ Equity - - - 75.959.313 75.959.313 

Total Liabilities   762.798.330 
 
 
 
 
 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
87 

 

are taken into consideration. 

Structured the Remuneration Policy for gaining, keeping, rewarding and motivating human resources are necessary for 
sustainable success to the bank is created as follows. 

 Complying with the scope and structure of the Bank's operations, strategies, long-term targets and risk management 
structures, 

 Preventing the excessive risk taking and contributing the effective risk management, 
 

EEvvaalluuaattiioonn  ooff  RReemmuunneerraattiioonn  PPrroocceessss  RReeggaarrddiinngg  tthhee  MMeetthhooddss  ooff  AAddddrreessssiinngg  CCuurrrreenntt  aanndd  FFuuttuurree  RRiisskkss  

In the remuneration processes, credit risk, operational risk, legal risk and reputation risk are taken into consideration with 
the applied risk management. The risks arising from employees during the determination of premiums are also taken into 
consideration. Some portion of the premium payments of the qualified employees are paid with non-cash assets indexed to 
the Bank's share value and some portion of them is postponed. In certain cases, written agreements have been made with 
these employees for the cancellation of deferred payments. In the recent year, there has been no change in the methods of 
handling risks in remuneration practices. 

EEvvaalluuaattiioonn  ooff  tthhee  MMeetthhooddss  ooff  AAssssoocciiaattiinngg  PPrreemmiiuummss  wwiitthh  PPeerrffoorrmmaannccee  

Performance and risks generally determined for the Bank are considered on a preferential basis for calculating the total 
amount of premiums. The premium budget is distributed to the employees in line with the unit performance affiliated with 
individual performance and fixed income.  
The units within the scope of Internal Systems have independent premium systems from Bank’s performance system hence 
their budgets are separately managed. All decisions regarding the wage and premium processes of these units are agreed at 
the Board of Directors level. 

XIII. EXPLANATIONS ON BUSINESS SEGMENTS: 

The Group operates consumer banking, SME banking, commercial banking, and corporate-investment and private banking 
and wealth network providing services to customers in accordance with the Bank's organizational structure. 

The profitability system generating segment information provides profitability information on the basis of account customer, 
customer relationship manager, branch segment and product. This information is made available to the branch and Head 
Office personnel through a web-based management reporting system. 

Consumer banking offers a variety of retail services such as deposit accounts, retail loans, commercial installment loans, 
credit cards, insurance products and asset management services. The consumer banking products and services also include 
bank cards, investment funds trading, automatic payment services, foreign currency trading, safe deposit box rentals, 
cheques, money transfers, investment banking, telephone and internet banking.  

Corporate banking, commercial banking and SME banking, provide financial solutions and banking services to large, medium 
and small size corporate and commercial customers. The products and services offered to corporate and commercial 
customers include TL and foreign currency denominated working capital loans financing for investments, foreign trade 
financing, derivative instruments for hedging purposes of foreign currency and interest risk, letters of credit, foreign currency 
trading, corporate finance services and deposit and cash management services. In addition, the Bank provides timely and 
permanent solutions for corporate customers’ working capital management, delivers cash management services tailored 
based on customers’ requests that include collection and payment services and liquidity and information management. 
Project finance loans are provided within the context of investment banking activities. In the scope of private banking, The 
Bank serves the members of the high-income customers who have expectations for upper-class service quality both in 
banking and investment transactions. Within the scope of international banking activities, activities are also being carried out 
in order to provide long-term funding, to provide funding under a price reflecting the country's risk, to diversify funding 
resources and to form an international investor base on this area. 

The Treasury Unit conducts TL and FC spot and forward transactions, treasury bonds, government bonds, Eurobond and 
private sector bond transactions and also derivative trading activities within determined limits. These transactions are 

466 - 467Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 
 

 
 

90 
 

Yapılandırma Yönetimi A.Ş.) was completed on 21 December 2018. The Bank has participated in LYY Telekomünikasyon 
A.Ş. with a 35.56% share in the receivables from OTAŞ.  

Later on, at the Ordinary General Assembly Meeting of LYY Telekomünikasyon A.Ş. which was held on 23 September 2019, 
it was decided to convert some of the loan into capital and add it to the capital of LYY Telekomünikasyon A.Ş. The nominal 
value of their shares increased from TL 18 to TL 1.416.090.  

As of 10 March 2022, LYY Telekomünikasyon A.Ş signed a share transfer agreement with the Turkey Wealth Fund 
regarding the sale of all of its shares within Türk Telekomünikasyon A.Ş. In this context, Türk Telekomünikasyon A.Ş. the 
sale and transfer of 192.500.000.000 Group A registered shares, corresponding to 55% of its capital, to the Turkish Wealth 
Fund for a price of 1.650.000.000 (full USD amount), was realized on 31 March 2022. In addition, pursuant to the 
Agreement, the amount corresponding to the 55% share to which LYY transferred from the dividend amount decided to be 
distributed by the General Assembly based on the independently audited 2021 consolidated financial statements of Türk 
Telekomünikasyon A.Ş. and has paid to LYY Telekomünikasyon A.Ş. 
LYY used the remaining amount from the sales amount, excluding the part required for its liabilities, to pay off its debts to 
the banks. Receivables amounting to TL 12.626.511, which was accounted for under “Other Financial Assets” under 
“Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Profit and Loss” after collection and fully provisioned, was classified as non-
performing loans as of 30 June 2022, since there is no reasonable expectation for its recovery, it has been deducted from 
the records together with the amount of special provisions set aside within the scope of TFRS 9. The Bank’s participation 
rate increased to 40,46% with the restructuring on 17 August 2022 and no price has been paid by the bank. 
At the General Assembly Meeting of LYY Telekomünikasyon A.Ş. dated 27 December 2022, the liquidation decision was 
taken and the liquidation of the company was registered by the Istanbul Trade Registry Directorate on 28.12.2022. In this 
context, the amount of the partnership share, which was provided for in previous years and followed under the item " 
Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale", is deducted from the records together with its 
provision. 

      TL 2.041.238 (31 December 2021: TL 1.313.971) of other financial assets consist Fourth Real Estate Investment Fund of Ak 
Portföy Yönetimi A.Ş. established by Ak Portföy Yönetimi A.Ş. and the fund is followed at its fair value and the related 
valuation differences are recognized in profit or loss. 

cc.. TTrraaddiinngg  ddeerriivvaattiivvee  ffiinnaanncciiaall  aasssseettss::  
 

Table of positive differences related to derivative financial assets (*) 
  

  
  

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222

                                                    PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211

  TTLL FFCC TTLL FFCC  
Forward Transactions     2.275.577                   - 754.772 6.673 
Swap Transactions   10.064.350      11.255.138 24.336.484 8.202.873 
Futures Transactions                -                   - - - 
Options         22.781           709.075 24.913 271.591 
Other                -                   - - - 
TToottaall      1122..336622..770088           1111..996644..221133  2255..111166..116699 88..448811..113377  
(*) Excluding hedging derivatives financial assets. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
89 

 

SECTION FIVE 
INFORMATION AND DISCLOSURES RELATED TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

I.  EXPLANATIONS AND NOTES RELATED TO CONSOLIDATED ASSETS 

aa.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  rreellaatteedd  ttoo  ccaasshh  eeqquuiivvaalleennttss  aanndd  tthhee  aaccccoouunntt  ooff  tthhee  CCeennttrraall  BBaannkk  ooff  tthhee  RReeppuubblliicc  ooff  TTuurrkkeeyy  ((tthhee  
““CCBBRRTT””))::  

1. Information on cash equivalents and the account of the CBRT: 

  CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222

                                                    PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd
                                                  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211

TTLL FFCC TTLL  FFCC
Cash/Foreign Currency           3.041.404              7.978.805 1.953.656 7.989.466
The CBRT (*)         20.645.317            95.135.790 9.941.916 71.850.576
Other (**) - 731.475 - 151.158
TToottaall  2233..668866..772211 110033..884466..007700 1111..889955..557722  7799..999911..220000
(*) Precious metal account amounting to TL 3.443.117 are included in FC (31 December 2021: TL 2.001.693). 
(**) Precious metal account amounting to TL 731.471 are included in FC (31 December 2021: TL 150.924). 

2. Information related to the account of the CBRT: 

  CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd
                                                  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211

TTLL FFCC TTLL FFCC
Unrestricted Demand Deposits 1.214 - 8.574 -
Unrestricted Time Deposits - 2.330.773 - -
Restricted Time Deposits - - - -
Reserve Requirement 20.644.103 92.805.017 9.933.342 71.850.576
TToottaall  2200..664455..331177 9955..113355..779900 99..994411..991166 7711..885500..557766

 
 

3. Explanation on reserve requirements:  

In accordance with the “Communiqué Regarding the Reserve Requirements no. 2013/15, the Bank is required to maintain 
reserves in CBRT for TL and foreign currency liabilities. The reserve requirements can be maintained as TL, USD, EUR 
and standard gold. According to the Communiqué on Required Reserves published in the Official Gazette dated 01.07.2021 
and numbered 31528, the facility for maintain Turkish lira reserve requirements in foreign currency was terminated as of 
October 1, 2021. 

The required rates for the required reserves established in the CBRT are between 3% and 8% according to the maturity 
structure in Turkish currency (31 December 2021: between 3% and 8%); in foreign currency, it is between 5% and 31% 
depending on the maturity structure (31 December 2021: between 5% and 26%) as of 31 December 2022. 

bb.. FFiinnaanncciiaall  AAsssseettss  aatt  FFaaiirr  VVaalluuee  TThhrroouugghh  PPrrooffiitt  oorr  LLoossss  

      As of 31 December 2022, financial assets at fair value through profit or loss given as collateral/blocked (31 December 
2021: None); and there are no financial assets subject to repo transactions (31 December 2021: None).  

Other Financial Assets: 

In the previous period, syndication loans extended to Ojer Telekomünikasyon A.Ş. were restructured. Within this scope, a 
pledge was established in favor of lenders in order to establish collateral for these loans. LYY Telekomünikasyon A.Ş., 
which was established as a special-purpose company in which 192.500.000.000 Group A shares, which constitute 55% of 
Türk Telekom's issued capital, are all direct or indirect partners. The acquisition of the company (formerly Levent 

468 - 469Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 
 

 
 

92 
 

2. Information on financial assets fair value through other comprehensive income: 

 

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211

Debt Securities 176.929.176        104.943.943 
      Quoted at Stock Exchange (*) 169.493.452        101.816.497 
      Unquoted at Stock Exchange 7.435.724             3.127.446 
Share Certificates 97.230                  15.879 
     Quoted at Stock Exchange -                           -
     Unquoted at Stock Exchange 97.230                  15.879 
Impairment Provision (-) 5.198.633             4.648.400 
TToottaall  117711..882277..777733 110000..331111..442222
(*) Investment funds are included. 

ff.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  rreellaatteedd  ttoo  llooaannss::    

1. Information on all types of loans and advances given to shareholders and employees of the Bank: 

  
    

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  

  
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  
  CCaasshh  NNoonn--ccaasshh  CCaasshh NNoonn--ccaasshh  

Direct Loans Granted to Shareholders  450.000 159 - 159
   Corporate Shareholders 450.000 159 - 159
   Real Person Shareholders  - - - -
Indirect Loans Granted to Shareholders 11.053.560 4.863.784 9.846.250 2.829.869
Loans Granted to Employees 322.086 - 177.638 -
TToottaall  1111..882255..664466 44..886633..994433 1100..002233..888888 22..883300..002288

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
91 

 

  

dd.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  bbaannkkss  aaccccoouunntt  aanndd  ffoorreeiiggnn  bbaannkkss::  

1.   Information on banks account:  

   
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211
  TTLL FFCC TTLL FFCC  
Banks  
     Domestic 330.627 2.933.531 87.915 166.356 
     Foreign (*) 1.554 35.114.910 1.038 53.215.377 
     Head Quarters and Branches Abroad - - - - 
TToottaall  333322..118811 3388..004488..444411 8888..995533 5533..338811..773333  

 (*) Includes collateral of TL 7.486.972 for derivative transactions made with foreign banks (31 December 2021: TL 
11.435.331). 

 

2. Information on foreign banks account: 

 

 

    
UUnnrreessttrriicctteedd  AAmmoouunntt  

  
RReessttrriicctteedd  AAmmoouunntt  ((****))  

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd
3311  AArraallııkk  22002222

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd
3311  AArraallııkk  22002211

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd
3311  AArraallııkk  22002222

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd
3311  AArraallııkk  22002211

European Union Countries 8.618.119 8.209.742 4.825.191 14.918.826
USA, Canada 8.436.694 10.039.703 1.150.802 1.147.984
OECD Countries (*) 6.539.656 16.915.206 5.396.433 1.895.305
Off-Shore Banking Regions - - - -
Other 145.564 89.305 4.005 344
TToottaall  2233..774400..003333 3355..225533..995566 1111..337766..443311 1177..996622..445599

             (*)  OECD Countries other than EU countries, USA and Canada. 
            (**) Restricted amounts which mainly consist of collaterals related to borrowings are kept in several banks. 
 

ee.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  ffiinnaanncciiaall  aasssseettss  aatt  ffaaiirr  vvaalluuee  tthhrroouugghh  ootthheerr  ccoommpprreehheennssiivvee  iinnccoommee::  
 

1.  As of 31 December 2022, financial assets fair value through other comprehensive income subject to repurchase 
agreements amounting to TL 42.299.686 (31 December 2021: TL 40.231.789); and those given as collateral/blocked 
amounting to TL 60.619.771 (31 December 2021: TL 29.582.153). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

470 - 471Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 
 

 
 

94 
 

4. Information on consumer loans, personal credit cards, personnel loans and personnel credit cards:  

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  ––  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  SShhoorrtt--tteerrmm
MMeeddiiuumm  aanndd  

LLoonngg--tteerrmm TToottaall
CCoonnssuummeerr  LLooaannss--TTLL  1166..226622..885533 7744..775522..444422 9911..001155..229955

Mortgage Loans 22.517 16.421.141 16.443.658
Automotive Loans 91.910 2.299.009 2.390.919
Consumer Loans 16.148.426 56.032.292 72.180.718
Other - - -

CCoonnssuummeerr  LLooaannss--  IInnddeexxeedd  ttoo  FFCC  -- 221166 221166
Mortgage Loans - 216 216
Automotive Loans - - -
Consumer Loans - - -
Other - - -

CCoonnssuummeerr  LLooaannss--FFCC  - - -
Mortgage Loans - - -
Automotive Loans - - -
Consumer Loans - - -
Other - - -

CCoonnssuummeerr  CCrreeddiitt  CCaarrddss--TTLL  4466..666600..662200 11..229988..000011 4477..995588..662211
With Installment 20.100.091 1.297.905 21.397.996
Without Installment 26.560.529 96 26.560.625

CCoonnssuummeerr  CCrreeddiitt  CCaarrddss--FFCC  6688..441100 -- 6688..441100
With Installment - - -
Without Installment 68.410 - 68.410

PPeerrssoonnnneell  LLooaannss--TTLL  3322..339933 112266..992277 115599..332200
Mortgage Loans - 5.783 5.783
Automotive Loans 79 2.289 2.368
Consumer Loans 32.314 118.855 151.169
Other - - -

PPeerrssoonnnneell  LLooaannss--  IInnddeexxeedd  ttoo  FFCC  -- -- --
Mortgage Loans - - -
Automotive Loans - - -
Consumer Loans - - -
Other - - -

PPeerrssoonnnneell  LLooaannss--FFCC  -- -- --
Mortgage Loans - - -
Automotive Loans - - -
Consumer Loans - - -
Other - - -

PPeerrssoonnnneell  CCrreeddiitt  CCaarrddss--TTLL  116611..773399 225577 116611..999966
With Installment 75.006 257 75.263
Without Installment 86.733 - 86.733

PPeerrssoonnnneell  CCrreeddiitt  CCaarrddss--FFCC  777700 -- 777700
With Installment - - -
Without Installment 770 - 770

CCrreeddiitt  DDeeppoossiitt  AAccccoouunntt--TTLL  ((RReeaall  PPeerrssoonn))  44..996622..997788 -- 44..996622..997788
CCrreeddiitt  DDeeppoossiitt  AAccccoouunntt--FFCC  ((RReeaall  PPeerrssoonn))  -- -- --
TToottaall  CCoonnssuummeerr  LLooaannss  6688..114499..776633 7766..117777..884433 114444..332277..660066

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
93 

 

2. Information on the first and second group loans and other receivables including loans that have been restructured or 
rescheduled (*): 
 
(i). Loans at amortised cost (*) 

   
LLooaannss  aanndd  ootthheerr  rreecceeiivvaabblleess  uunnddeerr    

ffoollllooww  uupp  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  ––  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222     RReessttrruuccttuurreedd  LLooaannss  aanndd  RReecceeiivvaabblleess  

CCaasshh  LLooaannss  

SSttaannddaarrdd  LLooaannss  
aanndd  OOtthheerr  

RReecceeiivvaabblleess  

LLooaannss  aanndd  
RReecceeiivvaabblleess  NNoott  

SSuubbjjeecctt  ttoo  
rreessttrruuccttuurriinngg  

LLooaannss  aanndd  
RReecceeiivvaabblleess  

wwiitthh  RReevviisseedd  
CCoonnttrraacctt  TTeerrmmss  RReeffiinnaannccee  

Non-specialized Loans     
          Loans given to enterprises 78.233.939 1.109.617 592.403 6.602.379 
          Export Loans 81.280.107 51.389 11.799 57.049 
          Import Loans 2.491.861 - - - 

Loans Given to 
Financial Sector 

44.339.603 207 - 162 

          Consumer Loans 92.226.596 2.600.386 1.164.048 146.779 
          Credit Cards 58.220.799 1.023.001 1.333.172 - 
          Other 212.789.567 439.815 2.416.618 23.319.960 
Specialized Loans - - - - 
Other Receivables - - - - 
TToottaall  556699..558822..447722  55..222244..441155  55..551188..004400  3300..112266..332299  

(*) The balances of loans at fair value profit or loss has not been included. Included lease receivables.  
 

  
  

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  
    

  
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  
EExxppeecctteedd  CCrreeddiitt  LLoossss  SSttaaggee  II  aanndd  
SSttaaggee  IIII  ((**))  

    SSttaannddaarrdd  
LLooaannss    

LLooaannss  uunnddeerr  
FFoollllooww--uupp    

      SSttaannddaarrdd  
LLooaannss    

LLooaannss  uunnddeerr  
FFoollllooww--uupp    

12 Month Expected Credit Losses   3.710.309 -   1.635.408 - 
Significant Increase in Credit Risk   - 6.694.750   - 5.579.947 
TToottaall    33..771100..330099  66..669944..775500      11..663355..440088  55..557799..994477  

(*) Included expected credit losses of lease receivables. 
 

3.      Breakdown of loans according to their maturities: 
    LLooaannss  UUnnddeerr  FFoollllooww--uupp  

SSttaannddaarrdd  LLooaannss NNoonn--rreessttrruuccttuurreedd RReessttrruuccttuurreedd  oorr  rreesscchheedduulleedd

Short-term Loans  268.237.730 1.782.558 2.051.998
Medium and Long-term Loans  301.344.742 3.441.857 33.592.371
TToottaall  556699..558822..447722 55..222244..441155 3355..664444..336699
 
 
 
 
 
 

472 - 473Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 
 

 
 

96 
 

5. Information on commercial installment loans and corporate credit cards: 

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  ––  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  SShhoorrtt--tteerrmm
MMeeddiiuumm  aanndd  

LLoonngg--tteerrmm TToottaall
CCoommmmeerrcciiaall  IInnssttaallllmmeenntt  LLooaannss--TTLL  1122..004488..330044 2244..662233..555566 3366..667711..886600

Mortgage Loans 67.077 1.353.369 1.420.446
Automotive Loans 3.243.506 9.517.469 12.760.975
Consumer Loans 8.737.721 13.752.718 22.490.439
Other - - -

FFCC  IInnddeexxeedd  CCoommmmeerrcciiaall  IInnssttaallllmmeenntt  LLooaannss  -- 22..770099 22..770099
Mortgage Loans - 1.450 1.450
Automotive Loans - 364 364
Consumer Loans - 895 895
Other - - -

CCoommmmeerrcciiaall  IInnssttaallllmmeenntt  LLooaannss--FFCC  77..111111 881188..008844 882255..119955
Mortgage Loans - - -
Automotive Loans - 100.600 100.600
Consumer Loans 7.111 717.484 724.595
Other - - -

CCoorrppoorraattee  CCrreeddiitt  CCaarrddss--TTLL  1122..009999..444444 227799..118877 1122..337788..663311
With Installment 6.344.982 279.136 6.624.118
Without Installment 5.754.462 51 5.754.513

CCoorrppoorraattee  CCrreeddiitt  CCaarrddss--FFCC  88..554444 -- 88..554444
With Installment 32 - 32
Without Installment 8.512 - 8.512

CCrreeddiitt  DDeeppoossiitt  AAccccoouunntt--TTLL  ((LLeeggaall  PPeerrssoonn))  998833..442299 -- 998833..442299
CCrreeddiitt  DDeeppoossiitt  AAccccoouunntt--FFCC  ((LLeeggaall  ppeerrssoonn))  -- -- --
TToottaall  2255..114466..883322 2255..772233..553366 5500..887700..336688

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  --  3311..1122..22002211  SShhoorrtt--tteerrmm
MMeeddiiuumm  aanndd  

LLoonngg--tteerrmm TToottaall
CCoommmmeerrcciiaall  IInnssttaallllmmeenntt  LLooaannss--TTLL  33..008833..008800 1133..441111..338899 1166..449944..446699

Mortgage Loans 9.287 6.175 15.462
Automotive Loans 227.399 301 227.700
Consumer Loans 2.846.394 13.404.913 16.251.307
Other - - -

FFCC  IInnddeexxeedd  CCoommmmeerrcciiaall  IInnssttaallllmmeenntt  LLooaannss  -- 1155..007766 1155..007766
Mortgage Loans - - -
Automotive Loans - - -
Consumer Loans - 15.076 15.076
Other - - -

CCoommmmeerrcciiaall  IInnssttaallllmmeenntt  LLooaannss--FFCC  3355..558877 994488..332277 998833..991144
Mortgage Loans - - -
Automotive Loans 839 - 839
Consumer Loans 34.748 948.327 983.075
Other - - -

CCoorrppoorraattee  CCrreeddiitt  CCaarrddss--TTLL  55..116677..667733 6666..001111 55..223333..668844
With Installment 2.290.396 65.972 2.356.368
Without Installment 2.877.277 39 2.877.316

CCoorrppoorraattee  CCrreeddiitt  CCaarrddss--FFCC  44..663355 -- 44..663355
With Installment - - -
Without Installment 4.635 - 4.635

CCrreeddiitt  DDeeppoossiitt  AAccccoouunntt--TTLL  ((LLeeggaall  PPeerrssoonn))  887755..117733 -- 887755..117733
CCrreeddiitt  DDeeppoossiitt  AAccccoouunntt--FFCC  ((LLeeggaall  ppeerrssoonn))  -- -- --
TToottaall  99..116666..114488 1144..444400..880033 2233..660066..995511

 
 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
95 

 

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  ––  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  SShhoorrtt--tteerrmm
MMeeddiiuumm  aanndd  

LLoonngg--tteerrmm TToottaall
CCoonnssuummeerr  LLooaannss--TTLL  22..665599..220066 5555..331122..555555 5577..997711..776611

Mortgage Loans 13.863 13.558.860 13.572.723
Automotive Loans 12.340 311.999 324.339
Consumer Loans 2.633.003 41.441.696 44.074.699
Other - - -

CCoonnssuummeerr  LLooaannss--  IInnddeexxeedd  ttoo  FFCC  -- 332211 332211
Mortgage Loans - 321 321
Automotive Loans - - -
Consumer Loans - - -
Other - - -

CCoonnssuummeerr  LLooaannss--FFCC  - - -
Mortgage Loans - - -
Automotive Loans - - -
Consumer Loans - - -
Other - - -

CCoonnssuummeerr  CCrreeddiitt  CCaarrddss--TTLL  2233..772233..662299 11..110011..772255 2244..882255..335544
With Installment 7.522.539 1.101.003 8.623.542
Without Installment 16.201.090 722 16.201.812

CCoonnssuummeerr  CCrreeddiitt  CCaarrddss--FFCC  1177..228833 -- 1177..228833
With Installment - - -
Without Installment 17.283 - 17.283

PPeerrssoonnnneell  LLooaannss--TTLL  77..227777 9900..442255 9977..770022
Mortgage Loans - 3.814 3.814
Automotive Loans - 125 125
Consumer Loans 7.277 86.486 93.763
Other - - -

PPeerrssoonnnneell  LLooaannss--  IInnddeexxeedd  ttoo  FFCC  -- -- --
Mortgage Loans - - -
Automotive Loans - - -
Consumer Loans - - -
Other - - -

PPeerrssoonnnneell  LLooaannss--FFCC  -- -- --
Mortgage Loans - - -
Automotive Loans - - -
Consumer Loans - - -
Other - - -

PPeerrssoonnnneell  CCrreeddiitt  CCaarrddss--TTLL  7799..665500 4411 7799..669911
With Installment 27.030 41 27.071
Without Installment 52.620 - 52.620

PPeerrssoonnnneell  CCrreeddiitt  CCaarrddss--FFCC  224455 -- 224455
With Installment - - -
Without Installment 245 - 245

CCrreeddiitt  DDeeppoossiitt  AAccccoouunntt--TTLL  ((RReeaall  PPeerrssoonn))  22..663399..447766 -- 22..663399..447766
CCrreeddiitt  DDeeppoossiitt  AAccccoouunntt--FFCC  ((RReeaall  PPeerrssoonn))  -- -- --
TToottaall  CCoonnssuummeerr  LLooaannss  2299..112266..776666 5566..550055..006677 8855..663311..883333

 
 
 
 

474 - 475Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 
 

 
 

98 
 

(ii) Information on the movement of total non-performing loans (*): 

 
  IIIIII..  GGrroouupp IIVV..  GGrroouupp VV..  GGrroouupp

  
LLooaannss  aanndd  OOtthheerr
RReecceeiivvaabblleess  wwiitthh

LLiimmiitteedd  CCoolllleeccttiibbiilliittyy

LLooaannss  aanndd  OOtthheerr  
RReecceeiivvaabblleess  wwiitthh  

DDoouubbttffuull  CCoolllleeccttiibbiilliittyy

UUnnccoolllleeccttiibbllee  LLooaannss
  aanndd  OOtthheerr  

RReecceeiivvaabblleess
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  EEnndd  BBaallaannccee::  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  
22002211  11..778800..006688 11..006688..668877 1155..337799..006622

Additions (+) 4.294.613 104.324 13.179.052
Transfers from Other Categories of Non-  
Performing Loans (+) - 3.952.656 3.366.701
Transfers to Other Categories of Non-

Performing  
Loans (-) 

3.952.656 3.366.701 -

   Collections (-) 649.680 584.756 2.820.807
Write-offs (-) (**) 12.557 11.366 14.142.388
Sold Portfolio - - 802

Corporate and Commercial Loans - - 579
Consumer Loans - - 6
Credit Cards - - 217
Other - - -

BBaallaannccee  aatt  tthhee  EEnndd  ooff  tthhee  PPeerriioodd  11..445599..778888 11..116622..884444 1144..996600..881188
Specific Provisions (-) 875.932 826.471 10.082.906

NNeett  BBaallaannccee  aatt  BBaallaannccee  SShheeeett    558833..885566 333366..337733 44..887777..991122
(*) Included leasing receivables. 
(**)In the current period, the fifth section of the report “b. Information on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss”, LYY 
Telecommunication receivables amounting to TL 12.626.511, which is reported as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, is 
classified as non-performing receivables, together with its 100% specific provision. Since there is no reasonable expectation regarding its 
recovery, it has been deducted from the records in the scope of the " Regulation on the Procedures and Principles for Classification of Loans 
and Provisions to be Provided ". The effect of the accounting write-off under TFRS 9 on the NPL ratio is 192 basis points. (31 December 2021: 
TL 1.450.497 and its effect on the NPL ratio is 34 basis points. 
 
(iii) Information on non-performing loans granted as foreign currency loans: 

 
  IIIIII..  GGrroouupp IIVV..  GGrroouupp VV..  GGrroouupp

    

LLooaannss  aanndd  OOtthheerr
RReecceeiivvaabblleess  wwiitthh

  LLiimmiitteedd
CCoolllleeccttiibbiilliittyy

LLooaannss  aanndd  OOtthheerr  
RReecceeiivvaabblleess  wwiitthh  

DDoouubbttffuull  
CCoolllleeccttiibbiilliittyy

UUnnccoolllleeccttiibbllee  LLooaannss
  aanndd  OOtthheerr  

RReecceeiivvaabblleess

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd::  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222        
Balance at the End of the Period 511.321 184.569 6.134.551

Specific Provision (-) 306.919 136.763 3.519.753
Net Balance on Balance Sheet 204.402 47.806 2.614.798
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd::  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  
Balance at the End of the Period 1.086.945 212.374 5.756.000

Specific Provision (-) 675.570 127.818 3.155.195
Net Balance at Balance Sheet 411.375 84.556 2.600.805

        In Parent Bank, non-performing loans granted as foreign currency are followed under TL accounts of balance sheet. 
 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
97 

 

 
6. Loans according to types of borrowers: 

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211

Public 26.160.837 10.333.637
Private 601.873.869 394.454.659
TToottaall  662288..003344..770066 440044..778888..229966

 
7. Distribution of domestic and foreign loans (*): Loans are classified according to the locations of the customers. 

 
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211
Domestic Loans 618.611.041 397.413.785
Foreign Loans 9.423.665 7.374.511
TToottaall  662288..003344..770066 440044..778888..229966

(*) Included leasing receivables. 
8. Loans granted to investments in associates and subsidiaries: None. 
9. Credit-Impaired Losses (Stage III / Special Provision) (*): 

 

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211
Loans and Other Receivables with Limited Collectibility 875.932 1.157.104
Loans and Other Receivables with Doubtful Collectibility 826.471 723.136
Uncollectible Loans and Receivables 10.082.906 9.918.909
TToottaall  1111..778855..330099 1111..779999..114499

         (*) Included leasing receivables. 
10. Information on non-performing loans (Net): 

 (i) Information on non-performing loans restructured or rescheduled and other receivables:  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  IIIIII..  GGrroouupp IIVV..  GGrroouupp VV..  GGrroouupp

  

LLooaannss  aanndd  OOtthheerr
RReecceeiivvaabblleess  wwiitthh

  LLiimmiitteedd  CCoolllleeccttiibbiilliittyy

LLooaannss  aanndd  OOtthheerr  
RReecceeiivvaabblleess  wwiitthh

  DDoouubbttffuull  CCoolllleeccttiibbiilliittyy

  
UUnnccoolllleeccttiibbllee  LLooaannss

aanndd  OOtthheerr  RReecceeiivvaabblleess
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd::  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222        
(Gross Amounts Before Specific Provisions) 34.957 96.976 854.936
       Rescheduled Loans and Other Receivables 34.957 96.976 854.936
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd::  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  
(Gross Amounts Before Specific Provisions) 50.000 66.001 1.720.918
       Rescheduled Loans and Other Receivables 50.000 66.001 1.720.918

476 - 477Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 
 

 
 

100 
 

gg.. OOtthheerr  ffiinnaanncciiaall  aasssseettss  mmeeaassuurreedd  aatt  aammoorrttiisseedd  ccoosstt::    

1. Information on financial subject to repurchase agreements and those given as collateral/blocked: 

 

    CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211

  TTLL  FFCC TTLL FFCC  
Given as collateral/blocked 59.862.341 - 7.895.351 90.724 
Subject to repurchase agreements 12.345.942 10.571.152 16.631.679 8.933.136 
TToottaall  7722..220088..228833  1100..557711..115522 2244..552277..003300 99..002233..886600  

2. Information about Government debt securities: 

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211
Government debt 95.023.206 50.326.448
Treasury bonds -
Other government debts 1.811.726 1.289.549
TToottaall  9966..883344..993322 5511..661155..999977

3. Information on other financial assets measured at amortised cost: 

 

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211
Debt Securities            98.157.324 52.663.336

Quoted at stock exchange            98.157.324 52.663.336
Not quoted at stock exchange                         - -

Impairment (-)                    2.648 77.776
TToottaall                      9988..115544..667766  5522..558855..556600

4. The movement of financial assets at amortised costs: 

    
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211
Balance at the Beginning of the Period 52.585.560 41.885.059
Foreign Currency Differences on Monetary Assets 3.327.702 4.555.125
Purchases During Year  12.928.334 17.887.458
Disposals Through Sales and Redemptions (6.056.237) (15.853.468)
Impairment Provision 75.128 (39.254)
Change in Amortised Cost 35.294.189 4.150.640
BBaallaannccee  aatt  tthhee  EEnndd  ooff  tthhee  PPeerriioodd  9988..115544..667766 5522..558855..556600

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
99 

 

(iv) Breakdown of non-performing loans according to their gross and net values (*): 

 

  IIIIII..  GGrroouupp IIVV..  GGrroouupp  VV..  GGrroouupp

    

LLooaannss  aanndd  OOtthheerr
RReecceeiivvaabblleess  wwiitthh

LLiimmiitteedd  CCoolllleeccttiibbiilliittyy

LLooaannss  aanndd  OOtthheerr  
RReecceeiivvaabblleess  wwiitthh  

  DDoouubbttffuull  CCoolllleeccttiibbiilliittyy  
UUnnccoolllleeccttiibbllee  LLooaannss

  aanndd  OOtthheerr  RReecceeiivvaabblleess
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  ((NNeett))::  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222     
Loans granted to corporate entities and 
real persons (Gross) 1.459.788 1.162.844 14.960.818

Specific Provision Amount (-) 875.932 826.471 10.082.906
Loans granted to corporate entities and 
real persons (Net) 583.856 336.373 4.877.912

Banks (Gross) - - -
Specific Provision Amount (-) - - -

Banks (Net) - - -
Other Loans and Advances Receivables (Gross) - - -

Specific Provision Amount (-) - - -
Other Loans and Advances Receivables (Net) - - -
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  ((NNeett))::  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211   
Loans granted to corporate entities and 
real persons (Gross) 1.780.068 1.068.687 15.379.062

Specific Provision Amount (-) 1.157.104 723.136 9.918.909
Loans granted to corporate entities and 
real persons (Net) 622.964 345.551 5.460.153

Banks (Gross) - - -
Specific Provision Amount (-) - - -

Banks (Net) - - -
Other Loans and Advances Receivables (Gross) - - -

Specific Provision Amount (-) - - -
Other Loans and Advances Receivables (Net) - - -
(*) Included leasing receivables. 
  

(v) Information on the collection policy of non-performing loans and other receivables (*): 

 

  IIIIII..  GGrroouupp IIVV..  GGrroouupp VV..  GGrroouupp

  

LLooaannss  aanndd  OOtthheerr
RReecceeiivvaabblleess  wwiitthh

LLiimmiitteedd  CCoolllleeccttiibbiilliittyy

LLooaannss  aanndd  OOtthheerr  
RReecceeiivvaabblleess  wwiitthh

  DDoouubbttffuull  CCoolllleeccttiibbiilliittyy

UUnnccoolllleeccttiibbllee  LLooaannss
  aanndd  OOtthheerr

RReecceeiivvaabblleess
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd::  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222              
Interest accruals and valuation differences 93.608 108.193 3.583.451
     Provision (-) 49.521 75.608 2.253.943
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd::  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  
Interest accruals and valuation differences 78.530 119.421 3.490.421
     Provision (-) 55.145 82.141 2.089.348

   (*) Included leasing receivables. 

11. Information on the collection policy of non-performing loans and other receivables: 

Non-performing loans and other receivables are collected through legal follow-up and liquidation of collaterals. 

 
12. Information on the write-off policy: Disclosed in Note VII of Section Three. 

 

478 - 479Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 
 

 
 

102 
 

ii.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  ssuubbssiiddiiaarriieess  ((NNeett))::    
  

1. Information related to shareholders’ equity of major subsidiaries: 
 
The following amounts have been obtained from the financial statements as of 31 December 2022 prepared in 
accordance with legislation in which companies are subject to. 
 

AAkk  FFiinnaannssaall  
KKiirraallaammaa  AA..ŞŞ..  

AAkk  YYaattıırrıımm  MMeennkkuull  
DDeeğğeerrlleerr  AA..ŞŞ..  

AAkk  PPoorrttffööyy  
YYöönneettiimmii  AA..ŞŞ..  AAkkbbaannkk  AAGG  

  
  

AAkkÖÖddee  AA..ŞŞ  
Paid in Capital 360.007 96.802 10.534 740.648 142.000 
Share Premium - - - - - 
Reserves 968.184 76.251 50.028 14.283.228 (14) 
Gains recognized in equity as per TAS (4.419) (16.194) (2.682) - (612) 
Profit/Loss 670.272 2.126.536 416.906 3.712.886 (102.323) 
  - Net Current Period Profit 670.272 1.067.686 373.476 1.061.076 (99.662) 
  - Prior Year Profit/Loss - 1.058.850 43.430 2.651.810 (2.661) 
Development Cost of Operating Lease (-) 28 1.567 - 2.093 - 
Remaining other intangible assets after offset with 
the related deferred tax liability excluding 
mortgage servicing rights (-) 7.647 20.652 1.427 18.391 - 
TToottaall  CCoommmmoonn  EEqquuiittyy 11..998866..336699  22..226611..117766  447733..335599  1188..771166..227788  3399..005511  
TToottaall  AAddddiittiioonnaall  TTiieerr  II  CCaappiittaall --  --  --  --  --  
Portion of Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets 
and Related Deferred Tax Liabilities not deducted 
from the Common Equity as per the 1st Clause of 
Provisional Article 2 of the “Regulation on the 
Equity of Banks” (-) 

- - - - - 

TToottaall  TTiieerr  II  CCaappiittaall  11..998866..336699  22..226611..117766  447733..335599  1188..771166..227788  3399..005511  
TTiieerr  IIII  CCaappiittaall 9988..882222  778866  --  223388..119900  --  
CCAAPPIITTAALL  22..008855..119911  22..226611..996622  447733..335599  1188..995544..446688  3399..005511  
DDeedduuccttiioonnss  ffrroomm  CCaappiittaall  --  --  --  --  --  
TTOOTTAALL  CCAAPPIITTAALL  22..008855..119911  22..226611..996622  447733..335599  1188..995544..446688  3399..005511  

 

The Bank's subsidiaries, included in the consolidated calculation of capital requirement, do not have additional capital 
requirements.  

2. Non-consolidated subsidiaries: None. 

3. Consolidated subsidiaries: 

  TTiittllee  
AAddddrreessss  
((CCiittyy  //  CCoouunnttrryy))  

BBaannkk’’ss  SShhaarree
PPeerrcceennttaaggee--IIff

DDiiffffeerreenntt  VVoottiinngg
PPeerrcceennttaaggee  ((%%))

BBaannkk’’ss  RRiisskk
GGrroouupp  SShhaarree  

PPeerrcceennttaaggee  
((%%))

1 Ak Finansal Kiralama A.Ş. Istanbul/Turkey 100,00 100,00
2 Ak Yatırım Menkul Değerler A.Ş. Istanbul/Turkey 100,00 100,00
3 Ak Portföy Yönetimi A.Ş. Istanbul/Turkey 100,00 100,00
4 Akbank AG Frankfurt/Germany 100,00 100,00
5 AkÖde Elektronik Para ve Ödeme 

Hizmetleri A.Ş. Istanbul/Turkey 100,00 100,00

 

 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
101 

 

hh.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  iinnvveessttmmeennttss  iinn  aassssoocciiaatteess  ((NNeett))::  

1. Non-consolidated associates: 

1 (i).Reasons for being out of consolidation for non-consolidated associates: In accordance with the Communiqué on 
Preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements of Banks they have been left out of the scope of consolidation. 

   1 (ii).    Information about non-consolidated associates: 

  TTiittllee  
AAddddrreessss  
((CCiittyy  //  CCoouunnttrryy))  

BBaannkk’’ss  sshhaarree  ppeerrcceennttaaggee--
IIff  ddiiffffeerreenntt

vvoottiinngg  ppeerrcceennttaaggee  ((%%))
BBaannkk’’ss  rriisskk  ggrroouupp  sshhaarree  

ppeerrcceennttaaggee  ((%%))
1 Bankalararası Kart Merkezi A.Ş. Istanbul/Turkey 4,89 4,89 
2 Kredi Kayıt Bürosu A.Ş. Istanbul/Turkey 9,09 9,09 
3 JCR Avrasya Derecelendirme A.Ş.  Istanbul/Turkey 2,86 2,86 
4 Birleşik İpotek Finansmanı A.Ş.  Istanbul/Turkey 8,33 8,33 

1 (iii).  Main financial figures of associates, in the order of the above table: 

The financial figures stated below have been obtained from the financial statements date 30 September 2022 (*). 

  

TToottaall  
AAsssseettss  

SShhaarreehhoollddeerrss’’  
EEqquuiittyy  

TToottaall  
FFiixxeedd  

AAsssseettss  
IInntteerreesstt  
IInnccoommee  

IInnccoommee  ffrroomm  
MMaarrkkeettaabbllee  

SSeeccuurriittiieess  
PPoorrttffoolliioo  

CCuurrrreenntt  
PPeerriioodd  

PPrrooffiitt//  LLoossss  
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  

PPrrooffiitt//LLoossss  
FFaaiirr  

VVaalluuee  
1 679.563 579.361 119.394 53.202 - 207.418 93.651 - 
2 766.973 155.774 323.981 25.990 - 29.975 47.719 - 
3 104.324 86.888 31.175 4.486 - 58.825 2.467 - 
4 76.125 68.736 2.658 8.665 - 16.684 2.508 - 

    (*) In the table above, 31 December 2021 financial data of JCR Avrasya Rating A.Ş. is used. 
 

1 (iv). Movement schedule for non-consolidated subsidiaries: 
 

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211
Balance at the Beginning of the Period 18.129 14.795
Movements During the Period  
       Purchases (*) - 3.334
       Bonus Shares and Contributions to Capital  828 -
       Dividends from Current Year Income - -
       Sales/Liquidation - -
       Revaluation Increase - -
       Impairment Provision (-) - -
Balance at the End of the Period 18.957 18.129
Capital Commitments - -
Share Percentage at the End of the Period (%) - -

(*) The mentioned amounts are due to the increase of the capital of Birleşik İpotek Finansmanı A.Ş., an 8,33% subsidiary of the Bank, by TL 
40.000 for the previous period. 

2. Consolidated subsidiaries within the current period: None. 

 

 

 

480 - 481Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 
 

 
 

104 
 

    

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211
    GGrroossss  NNeett GGrroossss NNeett
 2022 - - 3.146.461 2.754.364
 2023 5.536.783 4.504.252 2.092.000 1.808.345
 2024 and following years 8.161.749 7.047.176 3.301.114 3.016.120
  TToottaall  1133..669988..553322  1111..555511..442288 88..553399..557755 77..557788..882299

ll.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  tthhee  hheeddggiinngg  ddeerriivvaattiivvee  ffiinnaanncciiaall  aasssseettss::  
  

    
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211
    TTLL FFCC TTLL FFCC
Fair Value Hedge 53.447 3.589.291 2.169.626  587.379
Cash Flow Hedge 18.814.664 2.062.480 13.243.236 189.325
Net Investment Hedge in a foreign operation - - - -
TToottaall  1188..886688..111111                              55..665511..777711      1155..441122..886622                              777766..770044    

mm.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  ttaannggiibbllee  aasssseettss::  
 

  IImmmmoovvaabblleess  ((**))
OOtthheerr  TTaannggiibbllee  

FFiixxeedd  AAsssseettss
CCoonnssttrruuccttiioonn  iinn  

PPrrooggrreessss  TToottaall
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  EEnndd::  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211          
    Cost           5.095.796           3.019.002            18.927           8.133.725
    Accumulated Depreciation(-)              558.096           1.680.793                  -           2.238.889
    NNeett  BBooookk  VVaalluuee                44..553377..770000               11..333388..220099                      1188..992277                55..889944..883366
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  EEnndd::  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  
Net Book Value at the Beginning  
    of the Period  

          4.537.700           1.338.209            18.927           5.894.836

    Additions              486.671              2.310.209          74.210             2.871.090
    Investment Properties Revaulation  
    differences                7.322.171                        -                  -            7 .322.171

    Transferred                42.185                        - (42.185)                        -
    Disposals (-), net              93.105                  5.368                  -              98.473
    Depreciation (-)                194.460              577.250                  -              771.710
    Impairment    4.970                        -                  - 4.970

Currency Translation Differences on Foreign
Operations, Net                7.292                     1.827 -                     9.119

    Cost at Period End           12.708.410           5.254.816          50.952           18.014.178
    Accumulated Depreciation at  
    Period End (-) 

             594.986           2.187.189                  -           2.782.175

CClloossiinngg  NNeett  BBooookk  VVaalluuee                1122..111133..442244               33..006677..662277               5500..995522                1155..223322..000033

(*) Immovables includes the asset usage rights of the real estates rented under the “TFRS 16 Leases” Standard. As of  
31 December 2022, asset usage rights are TL 1.165.007, and accumulated depreciation amount is TL 422.001. 

 

 

 

 

 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
103 

 

4. Main financial figures of consolidated subsidiaries, in the order of the above table: 
 

The following amounts have been obtained from the financial statements as of 31 December 2022 prepared in 
accordance with legislation in which companies are subject to. 

  

TToottaall  
AAsssseettss  

SShhaarreehhoollddeerrss’’  
EEqquuiittyy  

TToottaall  
FFiixxeedd  

AAsssseettss  
IInntteerreesstt  
IInnccoommee  

IInnccoommee  
ffrroomm  

MMaarrkkeettaabbllee  
SSeeccuurriittiieess  

PPoorrttffoolliioo  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  

PPrrooffiitt//  LLoossss  
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  

PPrrooffiitt//LLoossss  
FFaaiirr  

VVaalluuee  
1 16.673.748 1.994.044 43.919 1.328.167 86.469 670.272 224.008 - 
2 14.666.014 2.283.395 30.981 650.197 2.049.957 1.067.686 446.764 - 
3 574.813 474.786 32.979 22.589 37.260 373.476 174.811 - 
4 71.803.631 18.736.762 87.401 2.165.187 364.266 1.061.076 755.407 - 
5 100.099 39.051 1.298 9.824 - (99.662) (43.138) - 

Though not being the subsidiary of the Bank, A.R.T.S Ltd. which was established in November 1999 respectively in 
connection with rising long-term financing, is included in the full scope of consolidation as “Structured Entity” 

5. Movement schedule for consolidated subsidiaries: 

  CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211

Balance at the Beginning of the Period 16.060.130 9.605.628
Movements During the Period 

Additions (*) 70.000 10.180
Bonus Shares and Contributions to Capital  - -
Dividends from Current Year Income 3.073.735 1.557.517
Sales/Liquidation  - -
Revaluation Increase (**) 4.324.173 4.886.805
Revaluation/Impairment  - -

Balance at the End of the Period 23.528.038 16.060.130
Capital Commitments - -
Share Percentage at the End of the Period (%) - -
(*) The mentioned amounts arise from the net increase of TL 70.000 in the capital of AkÖde Elektronik Para ve Dağıtım Hizmetleri 
A.Ş., which is the Bank’s 100% subsidiary, for the prior period considering the capital decrease of AkÖde Elektronik Para ve Dağıtım 
Hizmetleri A.Ş. taken into account net increase of TL 10.000, and due to the acquisition of 0,01% share of Ak Finansal Kiralama A.Ş. 
 (**) Amounts refer to revaluation differences arising from accounting of financial associates and subsidiaries under the equity 
method as explained in the Note III of the Section Three 

6. Sectoral information on consolidated financial subsidiaries and the related carrying amounts: 

SSuubbssiiddiiaarriieess  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211
Banks 18.736.762 13.215.503
Insurance Companies - -
Factoring Companies - -
Leasing Companies 1.994.044 1.327.425
Finance Companies - -
Other Financial Subsidiaries 2.797.232 1.517.202
 

7. Subsidiaries quoted to a stock exchange: None (31 December 2021: None). 

jj.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  jjooiinntt  vveennttuurreess::  None (31 December 2021: None).  

kk.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  ffiinnaannccee  lleeaassee  rreecceeiivvaabblleess  ((NNeett))::  

482 - 483Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 
 

 
 

106 
 

Deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are accounted for the temporary differences arising between applicable accounting 
policies and valuation principles and tax legislation in the Bank and in consolidated subsidiaries, are presented as net on an 
individual entity level. As noted in Note XVIII of Section Three, for the purposes of consolidated financial statements deferred 
taxes arising from different consolidated subsidiaries are presented separately in assets and liabilities. There are no carry 
forward tax losses that can be used as deductions for the tax calculation. An explanation about the net deferred tax liability is 
given in Note II-i-2 of Section Five. 

 

 
                   AAccccuummuullaatteedd  tteemmppoorraarryy  ddiiffffeerreenncceess            DDeeffeerrrreedd  ttaaxx  aasssseettss  //  ((lliiaabbiilliittiieess))  
    3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  
Employee benefits 2.255.112 776.749 563.237 155.439 
Stage 1 and 2 loans provisions 11.215.871 7.642.859 2.811.760 1.594.838 
Differences between book value and 
tax base of property, plant and 
equipment 

 
(2.776.126) (2.018.402) 

 
(694.032) (403.680) 

Differences between book value and 
tax base of financial assets 

 
(17.971.112) (14.721.970) 

 
(4.490.798) (3.209.893) 

Investment Properties Revaulation  
differences 

 
(10.383.529) (3.119.611) 

 
(1.526.464) (362.222) 

Country risk provision (1.942.437) (1.348.059) (531.742) (369.031) 
Other 2.387.874 11.415.255 596.910 2.292.414 
DDeeffeerrrreedd  TTaaxx  AAsssseett//((LLiiaabbiilliittiieess))  NNeett    ((33..227711..112299)) ((330022..113355))  

 

qq.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  pprrooppeerrttyy  aanndd  eeqquuiippmmeenntt  hheelldd  ffoorr  ssaallee  aanndd  rreellaatteedd  ttoo  ddiissccoonnttiinnuueedd  ooppeerraattiioonnss::  
  

  CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  

Cost 591.213 232.296 
Accumulated Depreciation (-) - - 
NNeett  BBooookk  VVaalluuee  559911..221133  223322..229966  
    

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  
OOppeenniinngg  BBaallaannccee  NNeett  BBooookk  VVaalluuee  223322..229966  225500..777788  
Additions   601.564   200.398   
Disposals (-), net  242.522   217.363   
Impairment (-)  125   1.517   
Depreciation (-) - -  
CClloossiinngg  NNeett  BBooookk  VVaalluuee  559911..221133  223322..229966  

rr.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  ootthheerr  aasssseettss::  Other assets amounting to TL 25.626.503 (31 December 2021: TL 7.424.182) on the balance 
sheet and do not exceed 10% of the total assets, excluding the off-balance sheet commitments.  

  

  

  

  
  

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
105 

 

 

  IImmmmoovvaabblleess  ((**))
OOtthheerr  TTaannggiibbllee  

FFiixxeedd  AAsssseettss
CCoonnssttrruuccttiioonn  iinn  

PPrrooggrreessss  TToottaall
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  EEnndd::  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002200          
    Cost           5.160.043           2.719.643          10.224           7.889.910
    Accumulated Depreciation(-)              458.611           1.427.893                  -           1.886.504
    NNeett  BBooookk  VVaalluuee                44..770011..443322               11..229911..775500                1100..222244                66..000033..440066
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  EEnndd::  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  
Net Book Value at the Beginning  
    of the Period  

          4.701.432           1.291.750            10.224           6.003.406

    Additions              148.334              434.142          35.475              617.951
    Investment Properties Revaulation  
    differences   

             -                        -                  -              -

    Transferred                26.772                        - (26.772)                        -
    Disposals (-), net              203.376                  19.356                  -              222.732
    Depreciation (-)                153.695              370.216                  -              523.911
    Impairment    -                        -                  - -

Currency Translation Differences on Foreign
Operations, Net 

               18.233                     1.889 -                   20.122

    Cost at Period End           5.095.796           3.019.002          18.927           8.133.725
    Accumulated Depreciation at  
    Period End (-) 

             558.096           1.680.793                  -           2.238.889

CClloossiinngg  NNeett  BBooookk  VVaalluuee                44..553377..770000               11..333388..220099               1188..992277                55..889944..883366

(*) Immovables includes the asset usage rights of the real estates rented under the “TFRS 16 Leases” Standard. As of  
31 December 2021, asset usage rights are TL 706.655, and accumulated depreciation amount is TL 314.165. 

nn.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  iinnttaannggiibbllee  aasssseettss::  

1. Cost and accumulated amortization at the beginning and end of the period: 

  CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  

Cost 4.239.899 2.503.491 
Accumulated Amortization (-) 1.533.776 1.003.889 
NNeett  BBooookk  VVaalluuee 22..770066..112233  11..449999..660022  

2. Reconciliation of movements for the current period and prior period: 

    CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  

OOppeenniinngg  BBaallaannccee  NNeett  BBooookk  VVaalluuee  11..449999..660022  11..119900..990099  
Additions 1.724.726 603.608 
Disposals (-), net - 9.696 
Depreciation (-)  522.271 287.090 
Currency Translation Differences on 
Foreign Operations, Net 4.066 1.871 
CClloossiinngg  NNeett  BBooookk  VVaalluuee  22..770066..112233  11..449999..660022  

  

oo.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  tthhee  iinnvveessttmmeenntt  pprrooppeerrttiieess::  None (31 December 2021: None).  

pp.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  ddeeffeerrrreedd  ttaaxx  aasssseett::  

As of 31 December 2022, the Group has TL 213.645 deferred tax asset (31 December 2021: TL 152.170). Temporary 
differences subject to deferred tax calculation result from mainly the differences between the book values, tax values and 
debts of fixed assets and financial assets, and provision for employee rights. 

484 - 485Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 
 

 
 

108 
 

Information on saving deposits under the guarantee of the saving deposits insurance fund and amounts exceeding the 
limit of the deposit insurance fund: The deposit amounts of the consolidated subsidiaries located abroad are subject to 
local insurance regulations and are not included in the table below. 

 
UUnnddeerr  tthhee  GGuuaarraanntteeee  ooff  DDeeppoossiitt  

IInnssuurraannccee  
EExxcceeeeddiinngg  tthhee  LLiimmiitt  ooff  DDeeppoossiitt    

IInnssuurraannccee  

 CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211

Saving Deposits 82.641.629 36.088.544 156.853.618 52.711.668
Foreign Currency Saving Deposits 30.778.917 26.052.560 133.373.036 121.287.412
Other Deposits in the Form of  
Saving Deposits 12.176.457 8.767.847 19.450.803 14.796.515

Foreign Branches’ Deposits  
under Foreign Authorities' Insurance - - - -

Off-shore Banking Regions’ Deposits  
under Foreign Authorities' Insurance - - - -

 

(*) In accordance with the “Regulation on Amending the Regulation on the Insurable Deposit and Participation Funds and 
Premiums to be Collected by the Savings Deposit Insurance Fund” published in the Official Gazette dated 27 August 2022 
and numbered 31936, official institutions in the presence of credit institutions, credit institutions and financial institutions 
other than those belonging to the credit institutions all deposit and participation funds have been insured. In this context, 
commercial deposits covered by the insurance amount to TL 11.734.677 and the said amount is not included in the 
footnote. 

3. Saving deposits of real persons which are not under the guarantee of saving deposit insurance fund: 
 
 

  CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211

Foreign Branches’ Deposits and other accounts 33 40
Saving Deposits and Other Accounts of Controlling  
Shareholders and Deposits of their Mother, Father, Spouse, Children in care  - -
Saving Deposits and Other Accounts of President and Members of  
Board of Directors, CEO and Vice Presidents and Deposits of their Mother, 
Father, Spouse and Children in care 2.265.541 2.457.795
Saving Deposits and Other Accounts in Scope of the Property  
Holdings Derived from Crime Defined in Article 282 of Turkish Criminal Law 
no:5237 dated 26.09.2004 - -
Saving Deposits in Deposit Banks Established in Turkey solely  
to Engage in Off-shore Banking Activities  - -

  

  

  

  

  

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
107 

 

II.   EXPLANATIONS AND NOTES RELATED TO CONSOLIDATED LIABILITIES 

aa.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  ddeeppoossiittss::  

1. Information on maturity structure of the deposits: There are no seven-day notification deposits. 

1 (i). Current Period – 31 December 2022: 

    DDeemmaanndd
UUpp  ttoo  11
MMoonntthh

11  ––  33
MMoonntthhss

33  ––  66
MMoonntthhss

66  MMoonntthhss  
––  11  YYeeaarr  

11  YYeeaarr
aanndd  OOvveerr

DDeeppoossiittss  
CCuummuullaattiivvee TToottaall

    

Saving Deposits 32.784.230 15.364.567 126.007.327 51.514.569 4.730.496 9.088.080 5.978 223399..449955..224477   
Foreign Currency Deposits 139.175.596 13.291.362 109.753.661 8.552.502 4.028.195 28.098.247 942 330022..990000..550055  
    Residents in Turkey 123.209.403 12.649.665 104.048.228 8.175.477 2.107.028 6.060.991 942 225566..225511..773344  
    Residents Abroad 15.966.193 641.697 5.705.433 377.025 1.921.167 22.037.256 - 4466..664488..777711  
Public Sector Deposits 2.229.173 6.791 84.763 1.297 800 46 - 22..332222..887700  
Commercial Deposits 33.497.094 27.287.709 32.691.846 8.877.864 9.343.978 7.449.948 - 111199..114488..443399   
Other Institutions Deposits 777.277 480.397 4.047.773 251.217 73.528 19.213 - 55..664499..440055  
Precious metals Deposits 33.170.247 108.459 635.352 301.858 1.402.738 164.481 - 3355..778833..113355  
Interbank Deposits 1.476.193 2.065.090 4.716.401 2.397.469 5.579.339 27.835 - 1166..226622..332277  
    The CBRT 26.673 - - - - - - 2266..667733  
    Domestic Banks 970.915 1.643.746 995.325 - 2.000.620 - - 55..661100..660066  
    Foreign Banks 422.303 421.344 3.721.076 2.397.469 3.578.719 27.835 - 1100..556688..774466  
    Participation Banks 56.302 - - - - - - 5566..330022  
    Other - - - - - - - --  
TToottaall  224433..110099..881100 5588..660044..337755 227777..993377..112233 7711..889966..777766 2255..115599..007744  4444..884477..885500 66..992200 772211..556611..992288   

Foreign exchange-protected deposit instrument, the operating rules of which are determined by the Ministry of Treasury and 
Finance and the CBRT, and which ensures that TL deposits are valued with interest rates and are protected against foreign 
exchange rates, is offered to bank customers. As of 31 December 2022, TL deposit amount includes TL 98.451.375 (31 
December 2021: 4.875.953 TL) thousand TL deposits within this scope. 

1 (ii). Prior period - 31 December 2021: 
 

  DDeemmaanndd
UUpp  ttoo  11
MMoonntthh

11  ––  33
MMoonntthhss

33  ––  66
MMoonntthhss

66  MMoonntthhss  
––  11  YYeeaarr  

11  YYeeaarr
aanndd  OOvveerr

DDeeppoossiittss  
CCuummuullaattiivvee TToottaall

Saving Deposits 16.220.310 17.312.806 52.488.212 290.188 819.167 1.662.919 6.767 8888..880000..336699  
Foreign Currency Deposits 105.075.415 32.031.939 90.898.217 2.873.107 6.479.328 27.459.363 1.310 226644..881188..667799  
    Residents in Turkey 92.359.711 31.343.567 84.498.360 2.586.257 2.723.389 4.760.770 1.310 221188..227733..336644  
    Residents Abroad 12.715.704 688.372 6.399.857 286.850 3.755.939 22.698.593 - 4466..554455..331155  
Public Sector Deposits 1.428.883 8.524 36.624 322 2.600 96 - 11..447777..004499  
Commercial Deposits 13.742.954 22.459.071 15.814.287 194.541 349.210 204.301 - 5522..776644..336644  
Other Institutions Deposits 409.829 528.784 3.029.456 616.258 909.300 490.833 - 55..998844..446600  
Precious metals Deposits 24.196.677 52.845 363.534 - 1.116.370 139.690 - 2255..886699..111166  
Interbank Deposits 1.776.500 984.914 7.736.003 1.980.405 1.358.720 - - 1133..883366..554422  
    The CBRT - - - - - - - --  
    Domestic Banks 13.266 326.586 628.901 - 1.358.720 - - 22..332277..447733  
    Foreign Banks 373.197 658.328 7.107.102 1.980.405 - - - 1100..111199..003322  
    Participation Banks 1.390.037 - - - - - - 11..339900..003377  
    Other - - - - - - - --  
TToottaall  116622..885500..556688 7733..337788..888833 117700..336666..333333 55..995544..882211 1111..003344..669955  2299..995577..220022 88..007777 445533..555500..557799    
2.  Information on saving deposits insurance (*): 

486 - 487Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 
 

 
 

110 
 

dd.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  sseeccuurriittiieess  iissssuueedd  ((NNeett))::  

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222
                                        PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd

                                        3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211
    TTLL FFCC TTLL FFCC
Bank bills  2.663.511 - 7.058.313 -
Bonds 3.431.479 19.723.455 2.394.145 20.830.603
TToottaall  66..009944..999900 1199..772233..445555 99..445522..445588 2200..883300..660033

ee.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  ootthheerr  ffoorreeiiggnn  lliiaabbiilliittiieess::    

 Other foreign liabilities amounting to TL 6.612.002 under “Other Liabilities” (31 December 2021: TL 4.126.582) and do not 
exceed 10% of the total balance sheet. 

 
ff.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  ffiinnaanncciiaall  lleeaassiinngg  aaggrreeeemmeennttss::  

With the “TFRS 16 Leases” standard valid from 1 January 2019, the difference between operating leases and finance 
leases has been eliminated and the lease transactions have been expressed under the “Lease Payables” as liability by 
lessees.  
 

      Liabilities incurred due to financial leasing agreements: 

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211
  GGrroossss NNeett GGrroossss NNeett
Less Than 1 Year 222.354 101.967 149.709 67.943
Between 1-4 Years 572.553 316.650 384.315 208.890
More Than 4 Years 612.421 447.765 435.079 313.527
TToottaall  11..440077..332288 886666..338822 996699..110033 559900..336600

  
gg.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  tthhee  hheeddggiinngg  ddeerriivvaattiivvee  ffiinnaanncciiaall  lliiaabbiilliittiieess::    
  

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222
                                                PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  

                                        3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  
    TTLL FFCC TTLL  FFCC
Fair Value Hedge                -                   -  55.317  481.616 
Cash Flow Hedge        494.476                     1  276.256  213.015 
Net Investment Hedge in a foreign operation                -                   -  -  -
TToottaall               449944..447766                                         11    333311..557733    669944..663311  

              

hh.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  pprroovviissiioonnss::  

1. Information on reserves for employee rights: 
 

BBaallaannccee  SShheeeett  OObblliiggaattiioonnss  ffoorr::  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211
 - Reserve for employment termination benefits  1.810.432 620.807
 - Reserve for unused vacation  444.680 155.942
 TToottaall   22..225555..111122  777766..774499

  

  

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
109 

 

bb.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  ttrraaddiinngg  ddeerriivvaattiivvee  ffiinnaanncciiaall  lliiaabbiilliittiieess::  

Table of derivative financial liabilities (*): 

  CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211

  TTLL FFCC TTLL FFCC  
Forward Transactions        468.099                   - 3.902.610 - 
Swap Transactions   10.276.896        3.543.259 17.767.991 2.418.025 
Futures Transactions                -                   - - - 
Options              564           272.307 3.788 564.064 
Other                -                   - - - 
TToottaall      1100..774455..555599               33..881155..556666  2211..667744..338899 22..998822..008899  
(*) Excluding hedge transactions. 

cc.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  bboorrrroowwiinnggss::  

1.  Information on banks and other financial institutions: 

  
  CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222
                                            PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd

                                          3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211
    TTLL FFCC TTLL FFCC
Borrowings from the CBRT - - - -
From Domestic Banks and Institutions 1.549.474 2.924.437 676.304 4.015.282
From Foreign Banks, Institutions and Funds  - 70.589.043 - 55.281.454
TToottaall  11..554499..447744 7733..551133..448800 667766..330044 5599..229966..773366

 
2.  Information on maturity structure of borrowings: 
 

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  
                                        PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd

                                3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211
    TTLL FFCC  TTLL FFCC
Short-term 206.371 3.010.180 188.156 2.094.685
Medium and Long-term 1.343.103 70.503.300 488.148 57.202.051
TToottaall  11..554499..447744 7733..551133..448800  667766..330044 5599..229966..773366

 
Securitized borrowings procured via A.R.T.S. Ltd. (“Structured Entity”) are included in external funding sources of the 
Bank. Under the securitization program agreements, the Bank has sold foreign trade and customer receivables to 
A.R.T.S. Ltd. 

3.  The liabilities providing the funding sources of the Group are deposits, borrowings, marketable securities issued and 
money market borrowings. Deposits are the most important funding source of the Group and the diversification of these 
deposits by number and type of depositors with a stable structure does not create any risk concentration. The borrowings 
are composed of funds such as syndicated and securitized borrowings and post-financing obtained from different 
financial institutions with different maturity-interest structures and characteristics. There is no risk concentration in any 
of the funding sources of the Group. 

 

 

 

 

 

488 - 489Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 
 

 
 

112 
 

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  
Total Obligations (16.151.721) (9.063.017) 
Cash value of future contributions 12.388.781 6.336.667 
TToottaall  TTrraannssffeerr  OObblliiggaattiioonnss  ttoo  SSSSII  ((33..776622..994400)) ((22..772266..335500))  
Past service obligation (1.267.060) (452.546) 
TToottaall  TTrraannssffeerr  ttoo  SSSSII  aanndd  OOtthheerr  OObblliiggaattiioonnss  ((55..003300..000000)) ((33..117788..889966))  
Fair value of assets 4.094.799 2.884.393 
DDeeffiicciitt  ((993355..220011)) ((229944..550033))  

 

The amount of the post-employment medical benefits transferrable to SSI is calculated over discounted net present value 
of medical liabilities and health premiums. Movements of the Plan Asset deficit during the period is as follows: 

 

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd    

3311  AArraallııkk  22002222
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  

3311  AArraallııkk  22002211
OOppeenniinngg  ((3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211))  229944..550033 112266..226633
Employer contributions (898.934) (498.701)
Amount recorded in the income statement (*) 797.187 666.941
Amount recorded in other comprehensive income 742.445 -
CClloossiinngg  ((3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222))  993355..220011 229944..550033

(*)The amount recorded in the income statement have been expressed in the "XI. Personnel Expenses (-) in the income statement with 
the employer contributions. 

DDiissccoouunntt  rraattee:: 

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211
 - Pension benefits transferrable to SSI 9,80% 9,80% 
 - Post-employment medical benefits transferrable to SSI 9,80% 9,80% 
 - Other non-transferrable benefits 0,50% 3,54% 

MMoorrttaalliittyy  rraattee    

The CSO 1980 mortality table has been used in order to calculate the liabilities to be transferred to SSI, life expectancy at 
a 60 year-old men is 18 years and a 58-year-old women is 24 years in accordance with this table. 

The movement in the fair value of plan assets of the year is as follows: 

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222
PPiioorr  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211
PPrriioorr  ppeerriioodd  eenndd  22..888844..339933 22..332299..222299
Actual return on plan assets 1.014.061 492.765
Employer contributions 898.934 498.701
Employee contributions 48.683 330.903
Benefits paid (751.272) (767.205)
PPeerriioodd  eenndd  44..009944..779999 22..888844..339933

 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
111 

 

  

1. (i) Employment termination benefits and unused vacation rights: 
 

According to Turkish Labor Law, the Bank is required to pay termination benefits to each employee who has completed at 
least one year of service and whose employment is terminated without due cause, is called up for military service, dies or 
who retires.  

The compensation amount equals to one month’s salary of an employee for each year of service, but this amount is 
limited up to severance limit decided by law. This liability is not subject to any funding legally and there is no funding 
requirement. 

The reserve has been calculated by estimating the present value of the future probable obligation of the Group arising 
from the retirement of its employees. TAS 19 requires actuarial valuation methods to be developed to estimate the 
enterprise’s obligation for such benefits. Accordingly, the following actuarial assumptions were used in the calculation of 
the total liability: 

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211
Discount Rate (%) 0,50 3,54 
Rate for the Probability of Retirement (%) 94,96 95,35 

The principal actuarial assumption is that the current maximum liability will increase in line with inflation. Thus, the 
discount rate applied represents the expected real rate after adjusting for the effects of future inflation.  

Movements in the reserve for employment termination benefits during the period are as follows: 
 

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  CClloossiinngg  BBaallaannccee  662200..880077 442288..223344
Recognized as an Expense During the Period 206.750 97.827
Actuarial Loss / (Gain) 1.055.375 158.728
Paid During the Period (72.500) (63.982)
BBaallaannccee  aatt  tthhee  EEnndd  ooff  tthhee  PPeerriioodd  11..881100..443322 662200..880077

 As of 31 December 2022, the Group has allocated vacation liability amounting to TL 444.680 (31 December 2021: TL 
155.942). 

2. (ii) Post-employment benefits: 

The Group’s obligation in respect of the post-employment benefits transferrable to SSI, as explained in Note XVII of 
Section Three, has been calculated by a registered actuary. In this context, the value of the obligation regarding these 
benefits to be transferred to SSI as of the balance sheet date would equal the approximate payment amount that would 
need to be made to SSI as part of the transfer. The actuarial parameters and results used for the calculation of this 
amount reflect the provisions of the New Law for the post-employment pension and medical benefits transferrable to SSI 
(e.g. a technical interest rate of 9.80%). The deficit amounting to TL 935.201 (31 December 2021: TL 294.503) calculated 
according to the relevant Actuarial Report is in accordance with TAS 19 – Employee Benefits standard, service and 
interest costs are accounted for in profit and loss accounts, actuarial losses and gains are accounted under equity. 

 

 

 

 

 

490 - 491Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 
 

 
 

114 
 

1 (ii). Information on premium payables: 

    
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211
Social Security Premiums – Employee 7.039 1.908
Social Security Premiums – Employer 1.442 357
Bank Social Aid Pension Fund Premium- Employee 3 3
Bank Social Aid Pension Fund Premium – Employer 3 3
Pension Fund Membership Fees and Provisions - Employee - -
Pension Fund Membership Fees and Provisions - Employer - -
Unemployment Insurance – Employee 5.166 2.389
Unemployment Insurance – Employer 9.088 4.448
Other 261 123
TToottaall  2233..000022 99..223311

2. Information on deferred tax liability: 

As of 31 December 2022, Turkish Lira deferred tax liability of the Group amounts to TL 3.484.774 (31 December 2021: TL 
3.549.591). An explanation about the net deferred tax asset is given in Note I-n of Section Five. 

jj..     IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  ssuubboorrddiinnaatteedd  llooaann  ((**))::  

  CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222

                                                      PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211

  TTLL FFCC TTLL FFCC  

Debt Instruments subject to common equity - - -
 

- 
      Subordinated Loans  - - - - 
      Subordinated Debt Instruments - - - - 

Debt Instruments subject to tier 2 equity - 16.800.082 -
 

18.725.534 
     Subordinated Loans  - - 
      Subordinated Debt Instruments - 16.800.082 - 18.725.534 
TToottaall  -- 1166..880000..008822 -- 1188..772255..553344  

 (*) Explanation about the subordinated loans is given in Note I-b of Section Four. 

kk.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  sshhaarreehhoollddeerrss’’  eeqquuiittyy::  

1. Presentation of paid-in capital: 

 
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211
Common Stock 5.200.000 5.200.000
Preferred Stock - -

2. Amount of paid-in-capital, explanations as to whether the registered share capital system is applied, if so the 
amount of registered share capital ceiling: 

 
CCaappiittaall  SSyysstteemm  PPaaiidd--iinn  ccaappiittaall CCeeiilliinngg
Registered Share Capital 5.200.000 10.000.000

      

3. Capital increases and sources in the current period and other information based on increased capital shares: None. 

4. Information on share capital increases from capital reserves during the current period: None.  

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
113 

 

Plan assets are comprised as follows: 

                                                        CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  
                                            3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  

                                                      PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  
                                            3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  

Bank placements 487.995 12% 546.798 19% 
Property and equipment 44.012 1% 15.955 1% 
Marketable securities and share certificates 3.487.089 85% 2.238.676 78% 
Other 75.703 2% 82.964 2% 
PPeerriioodd  eenndd  44..009944..779999  110000%%  22..888844..339933  110000%%  

2. Information on provisions related with foreign currency difference of foreign indexed loans:  

As of 31 December 2022, the Bank has no provision related to foreign currency differences of foreign indexed loans 
(31 December 2021: None) and the related prior period amount is offset with the balance of foreign currency indexed 
loans. 

3. Information on provisions for non-cash loans that are non-funded and non-transformed into cash: Expected loss 
provisions for non-cash loans that are non-funded and non-transformed into cash amounting to TL 457.083 as of 31 
December 2022 (31 December 2021: TL 641.035). 

4. Information on other provisions: 

     (i).Information on free provision for possible risks: TL 1.400.000 (31 December 2021: TL 1.400.000). 

    (ii). Information on provisons for banking services promotion:The Group has provision for credit cards and banking 
services promotion activities amounting to TL 202.113 (31 December 2021: TL 85.010). 

ii..         EExxppllaannaattiioonnss  oonn  ttaaxx  lliiaabbiilliittyy::    

1. Explanations on tax liability: 

Tax calculations of the Group are explained in Note XVIII of Section Three. As of 31 December 2022, the remaining tax 
liability after the deduction of  taxes paid is TL 9.762.078 (31 December 2021: TL 1.486.717).  

1 (i). Information on taxes payable: 

    
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  
Corporate Taxes Payable 9.762.078 1.486.717 
Taxation on Marketable Securities 250.818 206.958 
Property Tax 3.937 2.502 
Banking Insurance Transaction Tax (BITT) 541.074 301.097 
Foreign Exchange Transaction Tax 27.075 69.469 
Value Added Tax Payable 129.887 61.155 
Other 223.690 267.362 
TToottaall  1100..993388..555599 22..339955..226600 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

492 - 493Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 
 

 
 

116 
 

III.    EXPLANATIONS AND NOTES RELATED TO CONSOLIDATED OFF-BALANCE SHEET ACCOUNTS  

EExxppllaannaattiioonnss  oonn  ooffff--bbaallaannccee  sshheeeett  ccoommmmiittmmeennttss::  

1. Type and amount of irrevocable commitments: 7.852.054 asset purchase commitments (31 December 2021: TL 
21.552.473), TL 106.067.149 commitments for credit card limits (31 December 2021: TL 34.314.098) and TL 4.523.116 
commitments for cheque books (31 December 2021: TL 3.394.242). 
 

2. Type and amount of probable losses and obligations arising from off-balance sheet items: 

The Group has no probable losses arising from off-balance sheet items. Obligations arising from the off-balance 
sheet are disclosed in “Off-balance sheet commitments”. 

2 (i).Non-cash loans including guarantees, bank acceptances, collaterals and others that are accepted as financial 
commitments and other letter of credits: 

 

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211
Bank Acceptance Loans 195.108 159.525
Letters of Credit 21.235.695 15.170.426
Other Guarantees and Warranties 22.402.592 14.457.525
TToottaall  4433..883333..339955  2299..778877..447766

2 (ii). Revocable, irrevocable guarantees and other similar commitments and contingencies: 
 

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211
Revocable Letters of Guarantee 3.848.901 3.007.119
Irrevocable Letters of Guarantee 47.315.452 28.770.082
Letters of Guarantee Given in Advance 14.444.317 5.813.769
Guarantees Given to Customs 3.129.038 3.047.435
Other Letters of Guarantee 28.730.931 17.910.235
TToottaall  9977..446688..663399 5588..554488..664400

3. Information on non-cash loans: 
 

4. 3.(i) Total amount of non-cash loans: 

  CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  

Non-cash Loans Given against Cash Loans                  41.287.868                  26.184.515 
     With Original Maturity of 1 Year or Less Than 1 Year                  16.472.708                    9.852.927 
     With Original Maturity of More Than 1 Year                  24.815.160                  16.331.588 
Other Non-cash Loans                 100.014.166                  62.151.601 
TToottaall  141.302.034 8888..333366..111166  

  

 

 

 

 

 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
115 

 

5. Information on capital commitments, the purpose and the sources until the end of the fiscal year and the 
"subsequent interim period: None. 

6. The effects of anticipations based on the financial figures for prior periods regarding the Group’s income, 
profitability and liquidity, and possible effects of these future assumptions on the Group’s equity due to uncertainties 
at these indicators: 

The Group has been continuing its operations with high profitability and has been retaining most of its net profit in 
the equity, either by increasing its capital or transferring it into reserves. On the other hand, only a small part of the 
equity is allocated to investment such as associates and fixed assets, thus giving a chance for considerably high free 
capital which provides funds for liquid and interest bearing assets. Considering all these factors, the Group 
continues to its operations with strong shareholders’ equity. 

7. Information on privileges given to shares representing the capital: None. 

8. Information on marketable securities value increase fund:  

 
    CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  
  TTLL  FFCC  TTLL  FFCC  
From Investments in Associates, Subsidiaries, 
and Joint Ventures - - - - 
Valuation Difference 10.460.819 (2.503.023) 1.021.928 (2.968.937) 
Foreign Currency Differences - - - - 
TToottaall  1100..446600..881199  ((22..550033..002233))  11..002211..992288  ((22..996688..993377))  

 
 

aa..  IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  mmiinnoorriittyy  sshhaarreess::  

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd
                  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  

22002211  
Beginning Balance - 182
Net Profit Share of other shareholders - -
Previous Term Dividend - -
Net Currency difference due to foreign subsidiaries - -
Effect of Changes within scope of consolidation - (182)
BBaallaannccee  eenndd  ooff  PPeerriioodd  -- --

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

494 - 495Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 
 

 
 

118 
 

 
bb.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  ddeerriivvaattiivvee  ttrraannssaaccttiioonnss::  

 
  CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd
  3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222 3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211

TTyyppeess  ooff  TTrraaddiinngg  TTrraannssaaccttiioonnss   
Foreign Currency Related Derivative Transactions (I) 735.058.122 535.874.641

FC Trading Forward Transactions 105.374.602  54.551.923 
Trading Swap Transactions 547.232.873  438.671.660 
Futures Transactions 35.010.593  16.321.564 
Trading Option Transactions 47.440.054  26.329.494 

Interest Related Derivative Transactions (II) 286.566.712  294.444.852 
Forward Interest Rate Agreements -  -
Interst Rate Swaps 264.029.924  267.089.208 
Interest Rate Options 22.536.788  27.355.644 
Interest Rate Futures -  -

Other Trading Derivative Transactions (III) 80.089.522  56.007.408 
A. Total Trading Derivative Transactions (I+II+III) 1.101.714.356  886.326.901 
TTyyppeess  ooff  HHeeddggiinngg  TTrraannssaaccttiioonnss 

Fair Value Hedges 75.893.585  59.210.909 
Cash Flow Hedges 111.157.437  101.944.477 

    Foreign Currency Investment Hedges -  -
B. Total Hedging Related Derivatives 187.051.022  161.155.386 
TToottaall  DDeerriivvaattiivvee  TTrraannssaaccttiioonnss  ((AA++BB))   11..228888..776655..337788   11..004477..448822..228877  

 
cc.. EExxppllaannaattiioonnss  oonn  ccrreeddiitt  ddeerriivvaattiivveess  aanndd  rriisskkss  bbeeaarreedd  dduuee  ttoo  tthheessee::    

As of 31 December 2022: 2.281.193 (31 December 2021: TL 2.292.588). 

dd.. EExxppllaannaattiioonnss  oonn  ccoonnttiinnggeenntt  aasssseettss  aanndd  lliiaabbiilliittiieess::  

11.. CCoonnttiinnggeenntt  LLiiaabbiilliittiieess::  

The Bank has accounted a provision amounting to TL 175.210  (31 December 2021: TL 82.062) for the contingent liabilities 
with a high probability of realization regarding continuing opposing trials. There are also some other opposing trials. In 
Addition the probability of realization of these trials is low so no cash outflow expected regarding these trials. 

22.. CCoonnttiinnggeenntt  AAsssseettss::  

None (31 December 2021: None). 

ee.. EExxppllaannaattiioonnss  oonn  tthhee  aaccttiivviittiieess  ccaarrrriieedd  oouutt  oonn  bbeehhaallff  aanndd  aaccccoouunntt  ooff  ootthheerr  ppeerrssoonnss::  

The policy is explained on note IX in Section Four. 

 

 

 

 

 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
117 

 

 

(ii) Information on sectoral risk concentrations of non-cash loans: 

 
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  
TTLL ((%%)) FFCC ((%%))  TTLL  ((%%)) FFCC ((%%))

         
Agricultural 417.532 0,62 255.926 0,35 43.137 0,13 875 -
    Farming and Raising  
    Livestock 5.183 0,01 -

 
- 1.096 - - -

    Forestry 412.221 0,61 255.926 0,35 41.683 0,13 875 -
    Fishing 128 0,00 - - 358 - - -
Manufacturing 17.697.720 26,00 30.473.688 41,61 6.763.308 20,64 26.967.004 48,53
    Mining 314.479 0,46 484.374 0,66 163.896 0,50 325.398 0,59
    Production 15.559.850 22,86 25.752.781 35,16 5.466.832 16,69 23.671.986 42,60
    Electric, Gas and Water 1.823.391 2,68 4.236.533 5,79 1.132.580 3,46 2.969.620 5,34
Construction 9.349.768 13,74 17.420.512 23,78 5.243.489 16,00 10.748.857 19,34
Services 37.134.883 54,56 20.251.615 27,65 19.686.741 60,09 14.116.906 25,40
    Wholesale and Retail Trade 25.096.688 36,88 8.345.324 11,39 14.135.956 43,15 6.480.534 11,66
    Hotel, Food and  
    Beverage Services 861.555 1,27 534.700

 
0,73 225.950 0,69 627.491 1,13

    Transportation and  
    Telecommunication 1.606.499 2,36 3.632.680 4,96 967.103 2,95 2.465.015 4,44
    Financial Institutions 7.548.320 11,09 7.157.797 9,77 3.851.836 11,76 4.291.922 7,72
    Real Estate and Leasing  
    Services  83.659 0,12 62.887 0,09 35.253 0,11 50.907 0,09
    Self-Employment Services  928.828 1,36 459.622 0,63 94.105 0,29 4.287 0,01
    Education Services 65.247 0,10 8.844 0,01 37.582 0,11 11.903 0,02
    Health and Social Services 944.087 1,38 49.761 0,07 338.956 1,03 184.847 0,33
Other 3.458.213 5,08 4.842.177 6,61 1.026.410 3,14 3.739.389 6,73
TToottaall 6688..005588..111166 110000,,0000 7733..224433..991188 110000,,0000  3322..776633..008855  110000,,0000 5555..557733..003311 110000,,0000

 

(iii) Information on the non-cash loans classified in Group I and Group II: 
 

  GGrroouupp  II  GGrroouupp  IIII  
  TTLL  FFCC  TTLL  FFCC  

NNoonn--CCaasshh  LLooaannss  6677..221133..226699  7711..449922..111177  664499..889922  338899..005522  
Letters of Guarantee 50.937.364 44.046.889 605.744 320.938 
Bank Acceptances 4.785 190.323 - - 
Letters of Credit 2.058.977 19.108.604 - 68.114 
Endorsements - - - - 
Underwriting Commitments - - - - 
Factoring Guarantees - 12.650 - - 
Other Commitments and Contingencies 14.212.143 8.133.651 44.148 - 

 

 

 

 

496 - 497Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 
 

 
 

120 
 

4. Information on interest income received from associates and subsidiaries: None. 

 

bb.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  iinntteerreesstt  eexxppeennssee:: 

1. Information of interest expense on borrowings (*): 

  CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211

  TTLL FFCC TTLL FFCC  
Banks 307.849 2.437.467 77.138 941.625 
     The CBRT - - - - 
     Domestic Banks 307.849 35.351 76.403 41.120 
     Foreign Banks - 2.402.116 735 900.505 
     Headquarters and Branches Abroad - - - - 
Other Institutions - 377.948 - 168.796 
TToottaall  330077..884499 22..881155..441155 7777..113388 11..111100..442211  

   (*) Fee and commission expense from cash loans are included. 

2. Information on interest expense given to associates and subsidiaries: None. 

3. Information on interest expense given to securities issued: 
 

  CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211

 TTLL FFCC TTLL FFCC  
Interest expense on securities issued 1.378.894 2.554.097 1.266.930 1.532.711 

4. Maturity structure of the interest expense on deposits : 

There are no seven-day notification deposits. 

  

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  --  3311..1122..22002222  

  TTiimmee  DDeeppoossiittss    
DDeemmaanndd  
DDeeppoossiittss  

UUpp  ttoo  11  
MMoonntthh  

UUpp  ttoo  33  
MMoonntthhss  

UUpp  ttoo  66  
MMoonntthhss  

UUpp  ttoo  11  
YYeeaarr  

11  YYeeaarr  aanndd  
OOvveerr  TToottaall  

TTLL                
Bank Deposits - 895.377 505.650 - - - 11..440011..002277  
Saving Deposits - 1.977.106 11.898.923 5.619.693 481.517 561.197 2200..553388..443366  
Public Sector Deposits - 847 6.966 97 650 3 88..556633  
Commercial Deposits - 4.987.853 3.332.709 882.962 2.079.830 449.704 1111..773333..005588  
Other Deposits - 128.989 831.470 28.937 56.508 24.549 11..007700..445533  
TToottaall  --  77..999900..117722  1166..557755..771188  66..553311..668899  22..661188..550055  11..003355..445533  3344..775511..553377  
FFCC           
Foreign Currency Deposits 19.396 538.581 2.058.487 239.942 50.880 487.494 33..339944..778800  
Bank Deposits 3.821 (21.227) 256.610 273.294 271.689 1.271 778855..445588  
Precious Metals Deposits - 181 3.583 1.811 4.350 1.695 1111..662200  
TToottaall  2233..221177  551177..553355  22..331188..668800  551155..004477  332266..991199  449900..446600  44..119911..885588  
GGrraanndd  TToottaall  2233..221177  88..550077..770077  1188..889944..339988  77..004466..773366  22..994455..442244  11..552255..991133  3388..994433..339955  

  
  
  
  
  

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
119 

 

 
IV. EXPLANATIONS AND NOTES RELATED TO CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 

aa.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  iinntteerreesstt  iinnccoommee::  

1. Information on interest income on loans (*) : 
    CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222  
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  
  TTLL  FFCC  TTLL  FFCC  
Short-term Loans 32.145.200 2.594.134 13.694.258 1.223.592 
Medium and Long-term Loans 25.657.135 7.809.073 15.001.482 4.245.061 
Interest on Loans Under Follow-Up 535.834 - 570.096 - 
Premiums Received from the Resource 
Utilization Support Fund  -  - - - 
TToottaall  5588..333388..116699  1100..440033..220077  2299..226655..883366  55..446688..665533  
(*) Fee and commission income from cash loans are included. 

2. Information on interest income on banks: 

  CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211

  TTLL FFCC TTLL FFCC  
From the CBRT - 19.967 - - 
From Domestic Banks 33.547 27.694 55.081 37.514 
From Foreign Banks - 408.217 273 29.817 
From Headquarters and Branches Abroad - - - - 
TToottaall  3333..554477 445555..887788 5555..335544 6677..333311  

3. Information on interest income on marketable securities: 
 

  CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211

  TTLL FFCC TTLL FFCC  
From Financial Assets at Fair Value through 
Profit or Loss 55.678 14.528 27.612 12.356 
Financial Assets at Fair Value through Other 
Comprehensive Income 17.623.440 4.183.291             5.146.257             2.060.916 
Financial Assets Measured at Amortised 
Cost 38.011.270 683.285 6.678.362                406.528 
TToottaall  5555..669900..338888 44..888811..110044 1111..885522..223311 22..447799..880000  
As stated in the Note VII of Section Three, there are bonds indexed to consumer prices ("CPI") in the securities portfolios 
of the Bank whose fair value difference is reflected to other comprehensive income and measured with their amortized 
cost. The reference indices used in the calculation of the actual coupon payment amounts of these securities are 
created according to the CPI of two months ago. The Bank determines the estimated inflation rate accordingly.  
The estimated inflation rate used is updated during the year when deemed necessary. At the end of the year, the real 
inflation rate is used. Within this scope, as of 31 December 2022, the valuation of the mentioned securities was made 
according to an annual inflation rate of 85.5%. 
 
 
 
 
 
 

498 - 499Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
121 

 

  

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  --  3311..1122..22002211  

  TTiimmee  DDeeppoossiittss    
DDeemmaanndd  
DDeeppoossiittss  

UUpp  ttoo  11  
MMoonntthh  

UUpp  ttoo  33  
MMoonntthhss  

UUpp  ttoo  66  
MMoonntthhss  

UUpp  ttoo  11  
YYeeaarr  

11  YYeeaarr  aanndd  
OOvveerr  TToottaall  

TTLL                
   Bank Deposits - 155.061 311.141 - - - 466.202  
   Saving Deposits - 1.826.724 8.668.597 315.957 172.842 197.596 11.181.716  
   Public Sector Deposits - 1.010 4.920 203 56 15 6.204  
   Commercial Deposits - 2.649.109 1.636.625 58.828 52.546 55.339 4.452.447  
   Other Deposits - 67.800 324.597 25.723 107.398 60.299 585.817  
TToottaall  --  44..669999..770044  1100..994455..888800  440000..771111  333322..884422  331133..224499  1166..669922..338866  
FFCC          

Foreign Currency Deposits 5.417 126.869 554.850 19.575 49.499 245.658 1.001.868  
Bank Deposits 78 3.778 83.377 19.498 10.459 - 117.190  
Precious Metals Deposits - 142 1.134 73 2.419 647 4.415  

TToottaall  55..449955  113300..778899  663399..336611  3399..114466  6622..337777  224466..330055  11..112233..447733  
GGrraanndd  TToottaall  55..449955  44..883300..449933  1111..558855..224411  443399..885577  339955..221199  555599..555544  1177..881155..885599  

cc.. EExxppllaannaattiioonnss  oonn  ddiivviiddeenndd  iinnccoommee::  

  CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  

From Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss  63.017  9.661 
From Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Other 
Comprehensive Income  5.973  3.495 
Other  22.628  - 
TToottaall    9911..661188  1133..115566 

 

dd.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  ttrraaddiinngg  pprrooffiitt//lloossss  ((NNeett)):: 

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  
PPrrooffiitt  22..228888..113322..666677 33..885522..007766..889900  
Income From Capital Market Transactions 6.009.411 1.374.289 
Income From Derivative Financial Transactions (*) 73.038.556 56.558.722 
Foreign Exchange Gains 2.209.084.700 3.794.143.879 
LLoossss  ((--))  22..227711..332288..337788 33..884455..228844..887722  
Loss from Capital Market Transactions 3.026.106 473.188 
Loss from Derivative Financial Transactions (*)  86.558.000 57.555.040 
Foreign Exchange Loss 2.181.744.272 3.787.256.644 
TToottaall  ((NNeett))  1166..880044..228899 66..779922..001188  
(*) The net profit resulting from the foreign exchange differences related to derivative financial transactions is TL 
(4.125.879) (31 December 2021: TL 14.406.534). 

ee.. EExxppllaannaattiioonnss  oonn  ootthheerr  ooppeerraattiinngg  iinnccoommee::  

Other Operating Income” in the Income Statement mainly includes collections from receivables for which provision has 
been allocated in prior periods and provisions that have been set aside in prior periods and reversed in the current year 
with the sale from non-performing loans portfolio. 

 

 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 
 

 
 

122 
 

ff.. PPrroovviissiioonn  eexxppeennsseess  rreellaatteedd  ttoo  llooaannss  aanndd  ootthheerr  rreecceeiivvaabblleess  ooff  tthhee  GGrroouupp::  

 Expected provision expense: 

    
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211
Expected Credit Loss     7.249.000     5.175.780

12 month expected credit loss (Stage 1)     2.064.940     98.815
Significant increase in credit risk (Stage 2)     1.460.373     1.122.285
Non-performing loans (Stage 3)     3.723.687     3.954.680

Marketable Securities Impairment Expense - -
Financial Assets at Fair Value through Profit or Loss - -
Financial Assets at Fair Value through Other  
Comprehensive Income - -

Investments in Associates and Subsidiaries Securities  
Value Decrease - -

Investments in Associates - -
Subsidiaries - -
Joint Ventures - -

Other (*) 3.830.656 7.798.299
TToottaall  1111..007799..665566 1122..997744..007799
(*) Includes provisions for impairment losses on assets held for sale and related to discontinued operations, 
impairment losses on financial assets at fair value difference through profit or loss, lawsuit provision expenses and 
free provision expense. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

500 - 501Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
123 

 

 
gg.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  rreellaatteedd  ttoo  ootthheerr  ooppeerraattiinngg  eexxppeennsseess::  

    
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211
Reserve for Employee Termination Benefits 134.250 33.845
Bank Social Aid Fund Deficit Provision - 168.240
Impairment Expenses of Fixed Assets 6.010 -
Depreciation Expenses of Fixed Assets 771.710 523.911
Impairment Expenses of Intangible Assets - -
Goodwill Impairment Expenses - -
Amortization Expenses of Intangible Assets 522.273 287.090
Impairment Expenses of Equity Participations for which 
Equity Method is Applied - -
Impairment Expenses of Assets Held for Resale 125 1.517
Depreciation Expenses of Assets Held for Resale - -
Impairment Expenses of Fixed Assets Held for Sale - -
Other Operating Expenses 9.742.927 4.010.130
        Leasing Expenses on TFRS 16 Exceptions 222.114 135.321
        Maintenance Expenses 126.035 70.294
        Advertisement Expenses 541.532 218.227
        Other Expenses 8.853.246 3.586.288
Loss on Sales of Assets 4.196 7.341
Other 2.350.722 1.337.297
TToottaall  1133..553322..221133 66..336699..337711
(*) As explained in the note of II. Explanations and footnotes on liabilities” titled “ “Explanations on provisions”, “XI. 
Personnel Expenses (-)” have been expressed in  the "Income Statement XI. Personnel Expenses (-)” in the current 
period. 

  

hh.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  iinnccoommee//lloossss  ffrroomm  mmiinnoorriittyy  iinntteerreesstt::  

  CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002200

Income/(loss) from minority interest - -

  

ii.. FFeeeess  ffoorr  SSeerrvviicceess  RReecceeiivveedd  ffrroomm  IInnddeeppeennddeenntt  AAuuddiittoorr  //  IInnddeeppeennddeenntt  AAuuddiitt  FFiirrmm::    

The fee information for the reporting period regarding the services received from the independent auditor or independent 
audit firm in accordance with the decision of the KGK dated 26 March 2021 is given in the table below. These fees include 
the fees for services rendered to the Bank's foreign and domestic subsidiaries. 

((EExxcclluuddiinngg  VVAATT..))  

CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  

22002222  

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  

22002211  
Independent Audit Fee 10.121 4.753 
Other Assurance Services Fee 2.990 1.519 
Other Non-Audit Services Fee 472 988 
TTooppllaamm  1133..558833  77..226600  

  

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 
 

 
 

124 
 

jj.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  pprrooffiitt//((lloossss))  ffrroomm  ccoonnttiinnuueedd  aanndd  ddiissccoonnttiinnuueedd  ooppeerraattiioonnss  bbeeffoorree  ttaaxx::  

The Group’s income before tax consists of net interest income amounting to TL 79.083.848 (31 December 2021: TL 
24.348.108), net fees and commission income amounting to TL 11.888.474 (31 December 2021: TL 6.079.237) and the 
amount of other operating and personal expense is TL 20.527.835 (31 Aralık 2021: TL 9.905.898). 
The Bank has no discontinued operations. 

kk.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  ttaaxx  pprroovviissiioonn  ooff  ccoonnttiinnuueedd  aanndd  ddiissccoonnttiinnuueedd  ooppeerraattiioonnss::  

As of 31 December 2022, the Group has a current tax expense of TL 20.613.875  (31 December 2021: TL 3.399.761), 
deferred tax expense of TL 6.013.962  (31 December 2021: TL 5.419.011) and deferred tax income of TL 6.382.736 (31 
December 2021: TL 4.305.501). The Group’s current tax expense of TL 276.107 (31 December 2021: TL 127.461) and 
deferred tax income of TL 117.400 (31 December 2021: TL 74.589  income) belong to Akbank AG, its subsidiary operating 
in Germany. 

The Group has no discontinued operations. 

ll.. EExxppllaannaattiioonn  oonn  ccuurrrreenntt  ppeerriioodd  nneett  pprrooffiitt  aanndd  lloossss  ooff  ccoonnttiinnuueedd  aanndd  ddiissccoonnttiinnuueedd  ooppeerraattiioonnss::  

          Net profit of the Group is TL 60.025.707 (31 December 2021: TL 12.127.191). The Group has no discontinued operations. 

mm.. EExxppllaannaattiioonnss  oonn  ccuurrrreenntt  ppeerriioodd  nneett  pprrooffiitt  aanndd  lloossss::  

1. Explanation on the quality, amount and frequency of the figures of the income and expense stemming from ordinary 
banking operations, if necessary to understand the performance of the Group for the current period: None (31 
December 2021: None). 

2. Explanation on the changes in the estimations regarding the figures on the financial statements, if there exists a 
possibility that the profit and loss for the current or the following periods will be impacted: None (31 December 
2021: None). 

nn.. OOtthheerr  ffiigguurreess  oonn  pprrooffiitt  aanndd  lloossss  ssttaatteemmeenntt::  

“Other Fee and Commission Income” in the Income Statement mainly consists of commissions received from credit 
card, money transfer and insurance transactions. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

502 - 503Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
125 

 

V. EXPLANATIONS AND NOTES RELATED TO CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN THE SHAREHOLDERS’ 
EQUITY 

aa.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  ddiissttrriibbuuttiioonn  ooff  pprrooffiitt::     

The Ordinary General Assembly Meeting of the Bank was held on 28 March 2022. In the Ordinary General Assembly, it 
was decided to distribute TL 1.211.600 cash dividend over the TL 12.125.908 net income from 2021 operations to the 
Bank’s shareholders. It was also resolved in the General Assembly to transfer TL 654 to special funds account under 
other capital reserves, to allocate TL 95.160 as legal and TL 10.818.494 as extraordinary reserves. 

General Assembly of the Bank is authorized body for the profit appropriation decisions. The Ordinary General Assembly 
Meeting has not been held as of the date of these financial statements. 

bb.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  hheeddggee  ffuunnddss::  
 

1.  Information on cash flow hedge: 

Due to facts described in “Explanations of Hedging Transactions” section in Note XI of Section Four, there are 
discontinued hedge accounting transactions. As of 31 December 2022, the fair value change of the hedging instrument 
since the beginning of hedge accounting left after amortization has been reflected to profit/loss accounts that is shown 
under “hedging funds” in equity is TL (38)  (31 December 2021: TL 2.779). 

2.  Information on net invesment hedge: 

The Bank is hedged against net investment risk arising from fluctuations in foreign exchange rates through the use of 
foreign currency denominated financial borrowings. In this context, effective portion of the change in foreign currency 
denominated financial liabilities resulting from changes in the foreign exchange rates is recognized under “Hedging 
reserves” within equity. As of 31 December 2022, the amount directly recognized in equity is TL (8.562.698) (31 
December 2021: TL (6.043.843)). 

cc.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  ttoo  ffoorreeiiggnn  eexxcchhaannggee  ddiiffffeerreennccee::  

Within the financial statements of the Group’s subsidiaries founded abroad, balance sheet items are translated into 
Turkish Lira with the foreign exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date, and income statements items are 
translated into Turkish Lira with the average foreign exchange rates. Related foreign exchange differences are 
accounted in the shareholders’ equity under “Other profit reserves.” 

dd.. IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  ffiinnaanncciiaall  aasssseettss  aatt  ffaaiirr  vvaalluuee  tthhrroouugghh  ootthheerr  ccoommpprreehheennssiivvee  iinnccoommee::  

“Unrealized gains and losses” arising from changes in the fair value of securities classified as financial assets at fair 
value through profit or loss are not recognized in current year income statements; they are recognized in the 
“Marketable securities valuation differences” account under equity, until the financial assets are sold, disposed or 
impaired. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 
 

 
 

126 
 

VI. EXPLANATIONS AND NOTES RELATED TO CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 
a. Information on cash and cash equivalents: 

     Components of cash and cash equivalents and the accounting policy applied in their determination: 

Cash and foreign currency, money in transit, bought bank cheques together with demand deposits at banks including the 
CBRT are defined as “Cash”; Interbank money market and time deposits in banks with original maturities less than 
three months and investment in marketable securities excluding equity securities are defined as “Cash equivalents”. 

1. Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period:  
 

  
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd

3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211
CCaasshh  4422..550077..776655 1122..997766..221100

Cash, Foreign Currency and Other 9.943.357 4.936.243
Demand Deposits in Banks  (*) 32.564.408 8.039.967

CCaasshh  EEqquuiivvaalleennttss  66..110088..335511 551199..009966
Interbank Money Market Placements 2.812.468 487.793
Time Deposits in Banks 3.289.471 28.756
Marketable Securities 6.412 2.547

TToottaall  CCaasshh  aanndd  CCaasshh  EEqquuiivvaalleennttss  4488..661166..111166 1133..449955..330066
(*) The restricted demand accounts are not included. 

2. Cash and cash equivalents at the end of period: 
 

  CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002222

PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd  
3311  DDeecceemmbbeerr  22002211  

CCaasshh  2288..116622..888899 4422..550077..776655  
Cash, Foreign Currency and Other 11.020.213 9.943.357 
Demand Deposits in Banks (*) 17.142.676 32.564.408 

CCaasshh  EEqquuiivvaalleennttss  1133..995577..111144 66..110088..335511  
Interbank Money Market Placements 1.453.629 2.812.468 
Time Deposits in Banks 12.503.482 3.289.471 
Marketable Securities 3 6.412 

TToottaall  CCaasshh  aanndd  CCaasshh  EEqquuiivvaalleennttss  4422..112200..000033 4488..661166..111166  
(*) The restricted demand accounts are not included. 

bb.. EExxppllaannaattiioonn  aabboouutt  ootthheerr  ccaasshh  fflloowwss  iitteemmss  aanndd  tthhee  eeffffeecctt  ooff  cchhaannggeess  iinn  ffoorreeiiggnn  eexxcchhaannggee  rraatteess  oonn  ccaasshh  aanndd  
ccaasshh  eeqquuiivvaalleennttss::  

The “Other” item under “Operating profit before changes in operating assets and liabilities” amounting to TL (9.996.358) 
(31 December 2021: TL (4.450.268)) consists mainly of items such as fees and commissions paid, other operating 
income excluding income from doubtful receivables, other operating expense excluding personnel expenses. 

The “Net increase/decrease in other liabilities” item under “Changes in operating assets and liabilities” amounting to TL 
33.429.232 (31 December 2021: TL 38.782.456) consists mainly of changes in funds from repurchase agreements, 
miscellaneous payables and other liabilities. 

The effect of changes in foreign exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents includes the foreign exchange differences 
resulted from the translations of cash and cash equivalents in foreign currencies into TL at the exchange rates 
prevailing at the three months periods, and amounts to TL 13.280.276 (31 December 2021: TL 13.209.138). 

504 - 505Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
127 

 

 
VII. EXPLANATIONS AND NOTES RELATED TO RISK GROUP THAT THE GROUP BELONGS TO: 

  IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  tthhee  vvoolluummee  ooff  ttrraannssaaccttiioonnss  rreellaattiinngg  ttoo  tthhee  GGrroouupp’’ss  rriisskk  ggrroouupp,,  oouuttssttaannddiinngg  llooaann  aanndd  ddeeppoossiitt  
ttrraannssaaccttiioonnss  aanndd  pprrooffiitt  aanndd  lloossss  ooff  tthhee  ppeerriioodd::  

1.Current Period – 31 December 2022: 

GGrroouupp’’ss  RRiisskk  GGrroouupp  

IInnvveessttmmeennttss  iinn  
AAssssoocciiaatteess,,  SSuubbssiiddiiaarriieess  

aanndd  JJooiinntt  VVeennttuurreess  
((BBuussiinneessss  PPaarrttnneerrsshhiippss))  

DDiirreecctt  aanndd  IInnddiirreecctt  
SShhaarreehhoollddeerrss  ooff  tthhee  

GGrroouupp  

OOtthheerr  RReeaall  aanndd  LLeeggaall  
PPeerrssoonnss  tthhaatt  hhaavvee  bbeeeenn  

iinncclluuddeedd  iinn  tthhee  RRiisskk  GGrroouupp  
    CCaasshh NNoonn--CCaasshh CCaasshh NNoonn--CCaasshh CCaasshh NNoonn--CCaasshh
Loans 
Balance at the Beginning of the Period - - 9.846.250 2.830.028 77.741 94.948 
Balance at the End of the Period - - 11.503.560 4.863.943 132.122 140.263 
Interest and Commission Income Received - - 1.404.589 23.277 7.819 2.947 

 

2. Prior Period – 31 December 2021: 

GGrroouupp’’ss  RRiisskk  GGrroouupp  

IInnvveessttmmeennttss  iinn  
AAssssoocciiaatteess,,  SSuubbssiiddiiaarriieess  

aanndd  JJooiinntt  VVeennttuurreess  
((BBuussiinneessss  PPaarrttnneerrsshhiippss))  

DDiirreecctt  aanndd  IInnddiirreecctt  
SShhaarreehhoollddeerrss  ooff  tthhee  

GGrroouupp  

OOtthheerr  RReeaall  aanndd  LLeeggaall  
PPeerrssoonnss  tthhaatt  hhaavvee  bbeeeenn  

iinncclluuddeedd  iinn  tthhee  RRiisskk  GGrroouupp  
    CCaasshh NNoonn--CCaasshh CCaasshh NNoonn--CCaasshh CCaasshh NNoonn--CCaasshh
Loans and Other Receivables 
Balance at the Beginning of the Period - - 7.661.495 2.175.351 2.134 1.576 
Balance at the End of the Period - - 9.846.250 2.830.028 77.741 94.948 
Interest and Commission Income Received  - - 655.645 10.305 2.164 1.258 

 

3. Information on deposits of the Group’s risk group: 

     

BBaannkk’’ss  RRiisskk  GGrroouupp  

IInnvveessttmmeennttss  iinn  AAssssoocciiaatteess,,
SSuubbssiiddiiaarriieess

aanndd  JJooiinntt  VVeennttuurreess
((BBuussiinneessss  PPaarrttnneerrsshhiippss))

DDiirreecctt  aanndd  IInnddiirreecctt  
SShhaarreehhoollddeerrss  

ooff  tthhee  BBaannkk  

OOtthheerr  RReeaall  aanndd
LLeeggaall  PPeerrssoonnss  tthhaatt
hhaavvee  bbeeeenn  iinncclluuddeedd

iinn  tthhee  RRiisskk  GGrroouupp

  

CCuurrrreenntt
PPeerriioodd

3311..1122..22002222
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd

3311..1122..22002211
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd  

3311..1122..22002222  
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd

3311..1122..22002211
CCuurrrreenntt  PPeerriioodd

3311..1122..22002222
PPrriioorr  PPeerriioodd

3311..1122..22002211
Balance at the Beginning of the 
Period - - 9.970.604 5.935.731 960.273 633.839
Balance at the End of the Period - - 11.017.534 9.970.604 1.284.380 960.273
Interest expense on Deposits  - - 895.454 393.987 60.500 39.658

 

 

 

 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 
 

 
 

128 
 

4. Information on forward and option agreements and other similar agreements made with the Group’s risk group: 

BBaannkk’’ss  RRiisskk  GGrroouupp  

IInnvveessttmmeennttss  iinn  AAssssoocciiaatteess,,
SSuubbssiiddiiaarriieess

aanndd  JJooiinntt  VVeennttuurreess
((BBuussiinneessss  PPaarrttnneerrsshhiippss))

DDiirreecctt  aanndd  IInnddiirreecctt  
SShhaarreehhoollddeerrss  

ooff  tthhee  BBaannkk  

OOtthheerr  RReeaall  aanndd
LLeeggaall  PPeerrssoonnss  tthhaatt
hhaavvee  bbeeeenn  iinncclluuddeedd

iinn  tthhee  RRiisskk  GGrroouupp

  

CCuurrrreenntt
PPeerriioodd

3311..1122..22002222

PPrriioorr  
PPeerriioodd  

3311..1122..22002211  

CCuurrrreenntt
PPeerriioodd

3311..1122..22002222

PPrriioorr  
PPeerriioodd

3311..1122..22002211

CCuurrrreenntt  
PPeerriioodd

3311..1122..22002222

PPrriioorr  
PPeerriioodd

3311..1122..22002211
Transactions at Fair Value 
Through Profit or Loss    
     Beginning of the Period - - 23.469.742 10.166.262 - -
     Balance at the End of the Period - - 18.150.160 23.469.742 - -
     Total Income/Loss  - - (281.436) (159.510) - -
Transactions for Hedging 
Purposes  
     Beginning of the Period - - - - - -
     Balance at the End of the Period - - - - - -
     Total Income/Loss  - - - - - -
Figures presented in the table above show the total of “sale” and “purchase” amounts of the related transactions.    
Accordingly, as a result of the nature of these transactions, the difference between the “sale” and “purchase” 
transactions affects the net exposure of the Group. As of 31 December 2022, the net exposure for direct and indirect 
shareholders of the Group is TL (348.103) (31 December 2021: TL (2.354.032).  

 

5. Information regarding benefits provided to the Group’s key management: 
 

As of 31 December 2022, benefits provided to the Group’s key management amounting to TL 193.694 (31 December 
2021: 104.711). 

VIII. EXPLANATIONS AND NOTES RELATED TO THE DOMESTIC, FOREIGN, OFF-SHORE BRANCHES AND FOREIGN 
REPRESENTATIVES OF THE BANK 
 

1. Information on the domestic and foreign branches and representatives of the bank: 
 

  
NNuummbbeerr  

  
NNuummbbeerr  ooff  
EEmmppllooyyeeeess  

Domestic Branches 710 12.704 
     CCoouunnttrryy  ooff  

IInnccoorrppoorraattiioonn  
Foreign 
Representation Office 

- - - 

        TToottaall  AAsssseettss  
SSttaattuuttoorryy  

SShhaarree  CCaappiittaall  

Foreign Branch - - - - - 
Off-shore Banking 
Region Branches 1 13 Malta 88.512.028 - 

2. Information on the Bank’s branch or representative office openings, closings, significant changes in the organizational 
structure:  
 
In 2022, the Bank has closed up 2 domestic branches. 
 

506 - 507Financial information and risk management



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Profit distribution 

From the net profit of 60,024,084,405 TL obtained from the activities of our bank in 2022;

We recommend;

 – As of 31 December 2022, 173% of the total paid-in capital, of which 8,996,000,000 TL cash gross dividend distribution; 
260.000.000 TL corresponds to 5% of our Bank’s paid-in capital of 5.200.000.000 TL, is 260.000.000 TL first cash 
gross dividend and 8.736.000.000 TL second cash gross dividend. 

 – Cash dividend payments will be started as of March 30, 2023,

 – In accordance with subparagraph (e) of paragraph 1 of Article 5 of the Corporate Tax Law, the transfer of 7,343,971.49 TL, 
which is exempt from corporate tax, to the “Special Fund Account” and to be allocated to “Extraordinary Reserves” the 
remaining profit after a total of 873,600,000 TL has been set aside as “Legal Reserves”. 

CONVENIENCE TRANSLATION OF PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN TURKISH, SEE NOTE I.b OF SECTION THREE 
 

AKBANK T.A.Ş. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022 
(Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise stated.) 

  
 

 
129 

 

IX. EXPLANATIONS AND NOTES RELATED TO SUBSEQUENT EVENTS 
 

The Assistant General Manager in charge of the Technology and Operations Business Unit, Nesip İlker Altıntaş, has 
resigned on January 20, 2023. The technology functions of the Technology and Operations Business Unit will be carried 
out under the newly established Technology Business Unit, and Gökhan Gökçay, who served as the Head of the 
Architecture and Data Technologies Department, was the Deputy General Manager of this business unit. Operations 
functions were transferred under the Human and Culture Business Unit and managed by Pınar Anapa, Deputy General 
Manager of the Business Unit. In addition, effective from February 1, 2023 it has been decided to appoint Çetin Düz to 
replace Mehmet Hakan Tugal, who has been serving as the Assistant General Manager of Commercial Banking Business 
Unit.  
With the Board Decision of the BRSA dated 31 January 2023, in accordance with the Regulation on the Measurement and 
Assessment of the Capital Adequacy of Banks, in the calculation of the amount based on credit risk for TRY amount, the 
foreign currency items are calculated using the CBRT foreign exchange buying rate of 30 December 2022, instead of the 
CBRT foreign exchange buying rate of 31 December 2021 and decided to update SME and retail limits. 

 
SECTION SIX 

OTHER EXPLANATIONS 

I. OTHER EXPLANATIONS 

         None. 
 

SECTION SEVEN 
EXPLANATIONS ON INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT 

II. EXPLANATIONS ON AUDITOR’S REPORT 

The consolidated financial statements for the period ended 31 December 2022 have been audited by PwC Bağımsız 
Denetim ve Serbest Muhasebeci Mali Müşavirlik A.Ş. The audit report dated 31 January 2023 is presented preceding 
the consolidated financial statements. 

III. EXPLANATIONS AND NOTES PREPARED BY INDEPENDENT AUDITORS 

None. 

 

 

 

508 - 509Financial information and risk management



Assurance Report --------------------512

Reporting Guidance------------------ 518

Our Performance Tables -------------- 528

Principles of Responsible  
Banking Impact Report --------------- 534

Task Force on Climate-Related Financial 
Disclosures – (TCFD) Table ------------ 540

Decisions of The Shareholders  
Ordinary General Assembly Meeting  
Dated 28 March 2023 ---------------- 542

Annexes



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Assurance report

Limited Assurance Report

to the Board of Directors of Akbank T.A.Ş.

We have been engaged by the Board of Directors of Akbank T.A.Ş. (the “Bank” or “Akbank”) to perform a limited assurance 
engagement in respect of the Selected Sustainability Information (the “Selected Information”) stated in the Akbank 2022 
Integrated Annual Report (the “2022 Integrated Annual Report”) for the year ended 31 December 2022 and listed below. 

Selected Information

The scope of the Selected Information for the year ended 31 December 2022, which is subject to our limited assurance 
work, set out in the pages pages 138, 140, 141, 143, 145, 153, 154, 527, 528, 529, 530, 531 and 532 of the 2022 Integrated 
Annual Report with the sign  is summarised below:  

Environmental Indicators

 – Fuel Type (GJ)

- Natural Gas (GJ)

- Electricity (GJ)

- Liquid Fuel (GJ)

- Renewable Energy Use (kWh)

- Renewable Energy Production (kWh)

- Energy Consumption (GJ)

- Renewable Electricity (Produced)

- Renewable Electricity (Purchased)

- Energy Intensity (GJ/ million TL)

 – Carbon Emissions (tons CO2e)

- Scope 1 Emissions (tons CO2e)

- Scope 2 Emissions (tons CO2e)

- Scope 3 Emissions (tons CO2e)

- Emission Intensity (tons CO2/ million TL)

 – Paper Consumption (kg)

 – Waste Amount (tons)

- Non-Hazardous Waste 

- Hazardous Waste

- Total Plastic Consumption

- Amount of Recycled Waste

- Total Scrap Devices

 – Water Consumption (m3/year)

Social Indicators

 – Number of Employees (#)

 – Female Employee Ratio (%)

 – Ratio of Female Employees in Senior Management (%)

 – Ratio of Female Employees in STEM Roles (%)

 – Number of Newly Hired Employees (#)

 – Workforce Turnover Rate and Distribution

- Workforce Turnover Rate (%)

- Workforce Turnover Rate by Gender (%)

- Workforce Turnover by Gender (#)

- Voluntary Workforce Turnover Rate (%)

 – Rates of Returning to Work and Staying at Work after Maternity Leave by Gender

Number of Employees Taking Maternity Leave (#)

- Number of Employees Returning to Work after Maternity Leave (#)

- Total Number of Employees Returning to Work After the End of Maternity Leave and Still at Work  
Twelve Months After Returning to Work (#)

- Rates of Returning to Work and Staying at Work After Maternity Leave (%)

 – Internal Company Training 

- Average Training Hours per Person 

- Total Training Hours (hours)

- Hours of Training Received by Employees by Gender (hours)

- Average Amount Spent per FTE on Training (TL)

- Total Amount Spent on Training (TL)

 – Number of Vulnerable Populations Reached through Inclusion Programs

 – Occupational Health and Safety

- Number of Accidents

- Number of Fatal Cases

- Number of Occupational Diseases

- Lost Working Days Caused by Work Accidents

512 - 513Annexes



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Economic Indicators

 – Renewable Energy Portfolio Total Installed Capacity (MW)

 – Number of Sustainable Products and Services

Our assurance was with respect to the year ended 31 December 2022 information only and we have not performed any 
procedures with respect to earlier periods or any information other than Selected Information marked with    in the 2022 
Integrated Annual Report and, any other elements included in the 2022 Integrated Annual Report and, therefore, do not 
express any conclusion thereon.

Criteria

The criteria used by the Bank to prepare the Selected Information is set out in section Appendix-1: Appendix-1: Akbank 
2022 Integrated Annual Report –Reporting Principles (the “Reporting Principles”) on pages 518-526 of the 2022 Integrated 
Annual Report.

The Bank’s Responsibility

The Bank is responsible for the content of the 2022 Integrated Annual Report and the preparation of the Selected 
Information in accordance with the Reporting Principles. This responsibility includes the design, implementation and 
maintenance of internal control relevant to the preparation of Selected Information that is free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error.

Inherent Limitations

Non-financial performance information is subject to more inherent limitations than financial information, given the 
characteristics of the subject matter and the methods used for determining such information.

The absence of a significant body of established practice on which to draw to evaluate and measure non-financial 
information allows for different, but acceptable, measures and measurement techniques and can affect comparability 
between entities. The precision of different measurement techniques may also vary. Furthermore, the nature and methods 
used to determine such information, as well as the measurement criteria and the precision thereof, may change over time. It 
is important to read the Selected Information in the context of the Reporting Principles. 

In particular, the conversion of different energy measures to Gigajoule (GJ) and energy used to carbon emissions is based 
upon, inter alia, information and factors generated internally and/or derived by independent third parties as explained in the 
Reporting Principles. Our assurance work has not included examination of the derivation of those factors and other third-
party information.

Our Independence and Quality Management

We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional 
Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, which is founded on fundamental 
principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behavior.

Our firm applies International Standard on Quality Management 1, which requires the firm to design, implement and 
operate a system of quality management including policies or procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, 
professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements.

Our Responsibility

Our responsibility is to form a conclusion, based on limited assurance procedures, on whether anything has come to 
our attention that causes us to believe that the Selected Information has not been properly prepared in all material 
respects in accordance with the Reporting Principles. We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance 
with International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000- “Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews 
of Historical Financial Information” (“ISAE 3000” Revised) and International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3410- 
“Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements” (“ISAE 3410”). 

The procedures we performed were based on our professional judgment and included inquiries, observation of processes 
performed, inspection of documents, analytical procedures, evaluating the appropriateness of quantification methods and 
reporting policies, and agreeing or reconciling with underlying records.

514 - 515Annexes



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Given the circumstances of the engagement, in performing the procedures listed above we: 

 – made inquiries of the persons responsible for the Selected Information;

 – understood the process for collecting and reporting the Selected Information. This included analysing the key processes 
and controls for managing and reporting the Selected Information;

 – evaluated the source data used to prepare the Selected Information and re-performed selected examples of calculation;

 – performed limited substantive testing on a selective basis of the preparation and collation of the Selected Information 
prepared by the Bank and

 – undertook analytical procedures over the reported data.

Limited Assurance Conclusion

Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained, nothing has come to our attention that 
causes us to believe that Bank’s Selected Information for the year ended 31 December 2022, is not properly prepared, in all 
material respects, in accordance with the Reporting Principles.

Restriction of use

This report, including the conclusion, has been prepared for the Board of Directors of the Bank as a body, to assist the 
Board of Directors in reporting Akbank T.A.Ş.’s performance and activities related to the Selected Information. We permit 
the disclosure of this report within the 2022 Integrated Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2022, to enable 
the Board of Directors to demonstrate they have discharged their governance responsibilities by commissioning a limited 
assurance report in connection with the Selected Information. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or 
assume responsibility to anyone other than the Board of Directors of Akbank T.A.Ş. as a body and Akbank T.A.Ş. for our work 
or this report save where terms are expressly agreed and with our prior consent in writing.

PwC Bağımsız Denetim ve 
Serbest Muhasebeci Mali Müşavirlik A.Ş.

Zeynep Uras, SMMM 
Partner

Istanbul, 6 March 2023

516 - 517Annexes



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Reporting 
guidance

Appendix-1: Akbank 2022 Integrated Annual Report – Reporting 
Principles

Key Definitions and Reporting Scope
For the purpose of this report, the Bank defines:

TYPE INDICATOR SCOPE

ENVIRONMENTAL

Fuel Type (GJ)

Natural Gas (GJ)

In the reporting period, it refers to the amount of natural gas 
consumption monitored from the invoices of the Bank's service 
provider companies (12 months). Head Office, ABM, Silivri Archive 
and Branches are included in the consumption amount.

Electricity  (GJ) 

In the reporting period, it refers to the electricity consumption of the 
Bank, which is monitored from the invoices of the service provider 
companies (12 months). Head Office, Silivri Archive, Akbank Banking 
Center, Branches, Aksanat and ATMs are included. External ATM 
electricity consumption is calculated by taking the average annual 
consumption of the External ATMs that can be monitored and 
multiplying it by the total number of External ATMs.

Liquid Fuel (GJ)

In the reporting period, it refers to fuel oil, diesel oil, gasoline and 
diesel oil used for heating purposes, gasoline and diesel oil for 
vehicle fuels, and diesel oil used for emergency generators, which 
are monitored from the invoices of the Bank's service providers. Fuel 
oil consumption is included in Branches, diesel oil consumption for 
emergency generators is included in Branches, ABM, Head Office, 
Silivri locations, diesel oil and gasoline consumption for company 
vehicles is included in Head Office, ABM and Branches locations and 
diesel oil used for heating purposes is included only in Branches.

Renewable Energy Use (kWh)
In the reporting period, it refers to the amount of renewable energy 
purchased by the Bank with the International Renewable Energy 
Certificate (IREC) Certificate. 

Renewable Energy Production (kWh)

In the reporting period, it refers to the amount of renewable energy 
production obtained from the Solar Power Plant commissioned at 
the Bank's ABM location as of March 2022 and whose production is 
monitored through meters.

Energy Consumption (GJ)
In the reporting period, it refers to the sum of the Bank's Natural Gas, 
Electricity and Liquid Fuel consumption.

Energy Intensity (GJ/ million TL)

In the reporting period, it refers to the ratio of the Bank's Energy 
Consumption by Fuel Type to the amount of Balance Sheet - Total 
Assets (TL million) taken from the Bank's 2022 Consolidated financial 
indicators.

These reporting principles (“Principles”) provides information on the methodologies for the preparation, calculation and 
reporting of data for the indicators of Akbank T.A.Ş. (“Bank” or “Akbank”) included in the Akbank 2022 Integrated Annual 
Report (“2022 Integrated Report”) within the scope of limited assurance.

These indicators include social, environmental and economic indicators. It is the responsibility of the Company’s 
management to ensure that appropriate procedures are in place to prepare these indicators, in all material respects, in 
accordance with the Principles.

The information in these Principles covers the fiscal year ending December 31, 2022 and includes the Head Office, Branches, 
Silivri Archive, Akbank Banking Center and External ATMs, which are the responsibility of Akbank T.A.Ş. as detailed in 
the “Key Definitions and Scope of Reporting” section. Locations not included are specified in the “Basic Definitions and 
Reporting Scope”.

General Reporting Principles
In preparing this guidance document, consideration has been given to following principles:

 – Information Preparation – to highlight to users of the information the primary principles of relevance and reliability of 
information; and

 – Information Reporting – to highlight the primary principles of comparability / consistency with other data including prior 
year and understandability / transparency providing clarity to users.

518 - 519Annexes



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

TYPE INDICATOR SCOPE

ENVIRONMENTAL

Carbon Emissions  (tonsCO2e)

Scope 1 Emissions (tonCO2e)

In the reporting period, it refers to the direct greenhouse gas 
emission amount arising from the Bank's natural gas consumption 
tracked from invoices, diesel and gasoline consumption of company 
vehicles whose consumption amount is tracked from a third party 
company, generator diesel consumption tracked from invoices, diesel 
used for heating purposes tracked from invoices, fuel oil consumption 
tracked from invoices and CO2 fire extinguishing gases tracked from 
the service forms of the maintenance company.

Scope 2 Emissions (tonCO2e)

In the reporting period, it refers to the amount of indirect 
greenhouse gas emissions arising from electricity consumption, 
which is monitored from the invoices of the Bank's service provider 
companies. Head Office, Silivri Archive, Akbank Banking Center, 
Branches, Aksanat and ATMs are included.

Scope 3 Emissions (tonCO2e)

In the reporting period, it refers to the amount of indirect greenhouse 
gas emissions arising from the Bank's personnel shuttle kilometers 
tracked by the third party company and recorded by contract, and 
personnel flight kilometers tracked by agencies.  

Emission intensity (tonCO2/ million TL)

In the reporting period, it refers to the ratio of the sum of the Bank's 
Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions to the amount of Balance Sheet-
Total Assets (TL million) taken from the Bank's 2022 Consolidated 
financial indicators.

Paper Consumption

Paper Consumption (kg)

In the reporting period, it refers to the amount of paper waste 
received from the Bank's authorized waste processing licensed 
companies, for which reconciliation, delivery notes and weighbridge 
receipts are tracked.

TYPE INDICATOR SCOPE

ENVIRONMENTAL

Waste Amount (tons)

Non-Hazardous Waste

In the reporting period, it refers to the amount of non-hazardous 
waste, which is monitored by reconciliation and delivery note & 
weighbridge receipts received from the Bank's authorized waste 
processing licensed companies.

Hazardous Waste

In the reporting period, it refers to the amount of hazardous waste 
monitored by the Mobile Waste Tracking System (MOTAT), the data 
monitoring platform of the Ministry of Environment, Urbanization 
and Climate Change, and declared to the Integrated Environmental 
Information System. 

Total Plastic Consumption

In the reporting period, it refers to the total amount of food 
containers consumed in the cafeterias and water bottles used in 
the offices, which are monitored by the Bank through purchases and 
tracked through the accounting data platform. Head Office and ABM 
are included in the consumption amount.

Amount of Recycled Waste

In the reporting period, it refers to the sum of the amount of non-
hazardous recycled waste and hazardous recycled waste, which are 
monitored with the delivery records received from the Bank's licensed 
waste processing company.

Total Scrap Devices

In the reporting period, it refers to the scrap devices such as PCs, 
monitors, ATMs, etc. delivered to the licensed recycling company 
authorized by the Ministry of Environment, Urbanization and Climate 
Change, which are tracked by the delivery reports received from the 
licensed waste processing company of the Bank.

Water Consumption (m3/year)

Water Consumption  (m3/years)

In the reporting period, it refers to the amount of water consumption 
from the network, which is monitored by the invoices of the Bank’s 
service providers. Silivri, Branches, ABM and Head Office are included 
in the consumption amount.

520 - 521Annexes



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

TYPE INDICATOR SCOPE

SOCIAL

Number of Employees (#)

In the reporting period, it refers to the total number of employees who 
are monitored through the Bank's Human Resources data platform 
and whose employment notifications are made to the Social Security 
Institution. Intern employees are not included in the total number of 
employees.

Female Employee Ratio (%)

In the reporting period, it refers to the ratio of the number of female 
employees who are monitored through the Bank's Human Resources 
data platform and whose Social Security Institution has been notified 
of their employment to the total number of employees.

Ratio of Female Employees in Senior 
Management (%)

In the reporting period, it refers to the ratio of the number of female 
employees in the positions of General Manager, Deputy General 
Manager, Head of Inspection Board, Head of Department, Head of 
Risk Management, Chief Legal Counsel, Consultant, Chief Economist, 
D7, which are defined as senior management of the Bank, to the 
total number of employees, which are monitored through the Bank's 
Human Resources data platform and for which the Social Security 
Institution has been notified of employment.

Ratio of Female Employees in STEM Roles 
(%)

In the reporting period, it refers to the ratio of female employees 
working in the R&D, Innovation, Digitalization Departments, which are 
monitored through the Bank's Human Resources data platform, to the 
total number of employees working in these departments.

Number of Newly Hired Employees (#)
In the reporting period, it refers to the number of people recruited 
by the Bank and declared to the Social Security Institution with the 
Employment Entry Declaration during the reporting year.

TYPE INDICATOR SCOPE

SOCIAL

Workforce Turnover Rate and Distribution

Workforce Turnover Rate (%)

In the reporting period, it refers to the ratio of the number of 
people who left the job declared by the Bank to the Social Security 
Institution with the Declaration of Leaving the Job within the 
reporting year to the average number of active employees for the 
last 12 months. The ratio does not include Associates and Group 
Companies. 

Workforce Turnover Rate by Gender (%)

In the reporting period, it refers to the ratio of the number of 
people who left the job declared by the Bank to the Social Security 
Institution with the Notification of Leaving the Job within the 
reporting year to the average number of active employees for the 
last 12 months, broken down by gender.

Workforce Turnover by Gender (#)

In the reporting period, it refers to the gender breakdown of the 
number of people who left the job declared by the Bank to the Social 
Security Institution with the Notification of Leaving the Job within 
the reporting year.

Workforce Turnover Rate by Age Group (%)

In the reporting period, the ratio of the number of people who left the 
job declared by the Bank to the Social Security Institution with the 
Leaving Notification within the reporting year to the average number 
of active employees in the last 12 months, age breakdown as below 
30 years, between 30-50 years, above 50 years.

Voluntary Workforce Turnover Rate (%)

In the reporting period, it refers to the ratio of the number of people 
who left the Bank only through resignation and followed up with 
resignation petitions to the average number of active employees for 
the last 12 months, broken down by gender, age (under 30, between 
30-50, over 50) and entry level (Manager 2, Custody Service Unit 
Manager, Senior Architect, Senior Engineer, Inspector 1, Inspector 2, 
IT Inspector-1, D4, 1. Consultant Lawyer, Consultant Lawyer, Chief 
Dealer), mid-level (Manager, D6, Legal Counselor, Deputy Chairman 
of the Board of Inspectors, Vice Chairman, Chief Inspector, Manager, 
Manager Architect, Manager Engineer, D5, Chief Internal Control 
Expert, Compliance Senior Expert), senior level (General Manager, 
Deputy General Manager, Head of the Board of Inspectors, Head 
of Department, Head of Risk Management, Chief Legal Counsel, 
Consultant, Chief Economist, D7).

522 - 523Annexes



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

TYPE INDICATOR SCOPE

SOCIAL

Rates of Returning to Work and Staying at Work after Maternity Leave by Gender

Number of Employees Taking Maternity 
Leave (#)

In the reporting period, it refers to the number of employees who 
left the Bank's maternity leave within the periods specified in the 
regulation within the scope of the Regulation on Part-Time Work to 
be Performed After Maternity Leave or Unpaid Leave.

Number of Employees Returning to Work 
after Maternity Leave (#)

In the reporting period, it refers to the number of female employees 
who returned to work after the end of the Bank's maternity leave 
within the periods specified in the regulation within the scope of the 
Regulation on Part-Time Work to be Performed After Maternity Leave 
or Unpaid Leave.

Total Number of Employees Returning to 
Work After the End of Maternity Leave and 
Still at Work Twelve Months After Returning 
to Work (#)

In the reporting period, it refers to the number of employees who 
returned to work after the end of the Bank's maternity leave within 
the periods specified in the regulation within the scope of the 
Regulation on Part-Time Work to be Performed After Maternity 
Leave or Unpaid Leave, and whose presence in the company after 12 
months is monitored through the Human Resources platform.

Rates of Returning to Work and Staying at 
Work After Maternity Leave (%)

In the reporting period, it refers to the ratio of the number of 
employees who did not return to work after going on maternity leave 
to the number of employees who went on maternity leave.

Internal Company Training

Average Training Hours per Person (hours)
In the reporting period, it refers to the ratio of total classroom and 
online training hours followed through the Bank's training platform to 
the total number of employees.

Total Training Hours (hours)

In the reporting period, it refers to the total number of classroom and 
online training hours followed through the Bank's training platform. 
Occupational Health and Safety trainings are included in total 
training hours.

Hours of Training Received by Employees by 
Gender (hours)

In the reporting period, it refers to the breakdown of total classroom 
and online training hours tracked through the Bank's training 
platform by gender.

Number of Vulnerable Populations Reached 
through Inclusion Programs

In the reporting period, it refers to the number of people who 
participated in the Youth Academy supported by the Bank, which 
is tracked through participant records, and the Good State of 
the City projects, which are tracked through senior management 
presentations.

TYPE INDICATOR SCOPE

SOCIAL

Occupational Health and Safety

Number of Accidents 

In the reporting period, it refers to the number of injuries sustained 
by the Bank's employees in a work-related activity that caused the 
employee to be directed to do his/her own job for a lesser period of 
time or to a simpler job, which were followed up through notifications 
made to the Social Security Institution.

Number of Fatal Cases

In the reporting period, it refers to the number of the Bank's 
employees who fall under the definition of "fatal occupational 
accident" within the scope of the Occupational Health and Safety 
Law No. 6331, which is monitored through notifications made to the 
Social Security Institution.

Number of Occupational Diseases

In the reporting period, it refers to the number of occupational 
diseases of the Company's employees that fall under the definition of 
"occupational disease" within the scope of the Occupational Health 
and Safety Law No. 6331 and are followed up through notifications 
made to the Social Security Institution. 

Lost Working Days Caused by Work 
Accidents

Raporlama döneminde, Banka’nın çalışanın iş ile ilgili bir aktivitede 
sırasında başına gelen ve ertesi vardiya veya ertesi iş günü iş yerine 
gelmesini engelleyen, Sosyal Güvenlik Kurumu’na yapılan bildirimler 
ile takip edilen, çalışanların ölüm, kayıp zamanlı yaralanma, kısıtlı iş 
göremezlik ve medikal tedavi uygulamalarını kapsayan toplam olay 
sayısı kaynaklı kayıp iş gününü ifade eder.

ECONOMIC

Renewable Energy Portfolio Total Installed 
Capacity (MW)

In the reporting period, it refers to the total installed capacity of the 
Bank's renewable energy projects including Biomass Power Plants, 
Geothermal Power Plants, Solar Power Plants, Hydroelectric Power 
Plants, Wind Power Plants, Biomass Power Plants, Geothermal Power 
Plants, Geothermal Power Plants, Solar Power Plants, Hydroelectric 
Power Plants and Wind Power Plants, which are monitored by the 
Baka Credit Portfolio system as of the end of the year, to which 
credit is allocated through contracts and Board of Directors 
decisions and which have open risk.

Number of Sustainable Products and 
Services

In the reporting period, it refers to the number of products and 
services that the Bank has categorized with the definition of 
sustainable products by using the sustainable financing framework 
as a guide.

524 - 525Annexes



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Data Preparation

1. Environmental Indicators

Energy Consumption by Fuel Type (GJ):

Natural Gas - Constant Combustion Formula:

[Consumption Data (sm³) * 10.64 kwh/sm^3 * 0,0036 GJ/
kwh = Activity Data (GJ)]

Diesel (Generator) - Stationary Combustion Formula:

[Consumption Data (lt) * 0.83 (kg/lt) * 10200 (kcal/kg) * 
4186 joules/kcal * 1/1000000 (GJ/J) = Activity Data (GJ)]

Gasoline - Active Combustion Formula:

[Consumption Data (lt) * 0.735 (kg/lt) * 10400 (kcal/kg) * 
4186 joules/kcal * 1/1000000 (GJ/J) = Activity Data (GJ)]

Diesel - Active Combustion Formula:

[Consumption Data (lt) * 0.83 (kg/lt) * 10200 (kcal/kg) * 
4186 joules/kcal * 1/1000000 (GJ/J) = Activity Data (GJ)]

Purchased Electricity Formula: 

[Consumption Data (kwh) * 0.0036 GJ/kwh = Activity Data 
(GJ)]

Energy Intensity (GJ/total number of employees)

Formula:

Energy intensity (GJ/ million TL) = Energy Intensity (GJ)/ 
(million TL)

Greenhouse Gas Emissions

The coefficients used in Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 
GHG calculations are taken from the following national and 
international guidelines.

[Fuel Sourced Emission (FSE)=Activity Data (FV) * Emission 
Factor (EF) * Oxidation Factor (RF)]

Emission Factor: 

Emission Factors from Combustion (diesel, fuel-oil, natural 
gas,) : “IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas 
Inventories Chapter 2: Stationary Combustion- Volume 2: 
Energy”

Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 2006 

Table 2.4 Default Emission Factors For Stationary 
Combustion in the Commercial/Institutional Category

Electricity Emission Factor: Electricity emission factors are 
based on the 2020 electricity emission factor published by 
“TEİAŞ” on 09.08.2022 (0.484 kg/kwh)

Vehicle Emission Factors (gasoline, diesel) : “IPCC Guidelines 
for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories Chapter 3: Mobile 
Combustion - Volume 2: Energy Intergovernmental Panel on 
Climate Change 2006”

Equation 3.2.1. CO2 from Road Transport

Table 3.2.1. Road Transport Default CO2 Emissions Factors 
and Uncertainty Ranges

Table 3.2.2 Road Transport N2O and CH4 Default Emissions 
Factors and Uncertainty Ranges 

Factors from the IPCC 5th Assessment Report were used for 
fire extinguishing gas consumption

Water Consumption-Total  (m3)

Formula:

Water Consumption-Total (m3) = Mains water (m3) 

Amount of waste water  (m3)

Formula:

Amount of wastewater (m3) = Mains water (m3)

Waste Management (tons)-Total

Formula:

Waste Management (tons)-Total= Hazardous Waste (tons) 
+ Non-hazardous Waste (tons)

2. Social Indicators

Voluntary Employee Turnover Rate (%)

Formula:

Number of Employees Resigning / (2022 Average Number of 
Employees)

Rate of Return to Work after Maternity Leave (%)

Formula:

(Total number of employees on maternity leave / Number 
of employees who did not return to work after maternity 
leave)*100 -100

Retention Rate after Maternity Leave (at least 12 months) 
(%)

Formula:

(Total number of employees who returned to work after 
maternity leave and stayed for 12 months / Number of 
employees who did not return to work after maternity 
leave)*100 -100

Occupational Disease Rate (ODR)

Formula:

(Total Occupational Disease Incidents * 200,000) / Total 
working hours

3. Economic Data

Installed capacity of financed renewable energy projects 
(MW)

While calculating this indicator, the renewable energy 
portfolio to which the Bank provides loans was utilized. In 
this context, the Bank’s financing ratio is not taken into 
account in the partial financing provided to Hydroelectric 
Power Plant (HEPP), Wind Power Plant (WPP), Biomass 
Power Plant (BES), Geothermal Power Plant (GPP) and Solar 
Power Plant (SPP) projects within the scope of renewable 
energy, and the calculation is based on the total installed 
capacity of the project.

Restatements 
The measuring and reporting of sustainability-related data 
inevitably involves a degree of estimation. Restatements 
are considered where there is a change in the data of 
greater than 5 percent at the Company level..

526 - 527Annexes



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Our performance 
tables

Environmental performance tables

Our operational greenhouse gas emissions
Fuel Type (GJ) 2019 2020 2021 2022

Natural Gas 88,650.59 80,513.85  91,724.65 94,366.44 

Electricity 374,942.85 360,563.26  342,382.56 338,239.77 

Liquid Fuel 97,997 72,279  77,461 95,589.31 

Total 561,590.44 513,356.11  511,568.13 528,195.51

Carbon Emissions (tonnes CO2e) 2019 2020 2021 2022

Scope 1 Emissions 13,450 10,298 18,187 15,249 

Scope 2 Emissions 53,505 47,770 24,300 15,415,88 

Scope 3 Emissions 0 0 10,169 11,195 

Total 66,955 58,068 52,656 41,860,12 

Our paper consumption 
2019 2020 2021 2022

Paper Consumption (kg) 425.5 1,109  18,3905 21,410 

Our recycling focused environmental approach
Type  Unit weight (kg) Scrap Sale Total weight (kg) Donated Total weight (kg)

PC 12 3,127 37,524.00 346 4,152

Monitor 5 1,490 7,450.00 346 1,730

Wallet Printer 9 224 2,016.00

Report Printer 14 164 2,296.00

Laser Printer 15 86 1,290.00 10 150

Pos Equipment  0.5  61,919 30,959.50

ATM  850 363 308,550.00

Other  24,130.81

Total  905.5  67,010 414,216.31  702 6,032

Our Waste Figures (ton) 2020 2021 2022

Non-Hazardous Waste 56.10 35.56 424 

Hazardous Waste 3.61 7.88 427 

Total Plastic Consumption 11.75 1.00 5.60 

Amount of Recycled Waste - 6.62 828 

Our water consumption tables
2020 2021 2022

Water Consumption (m3/year) 180,592 144,449 184,583 

Our energy consumption tables
2020 2021 2022

Renewable energy consumption (kWh) - 41,401.074 62,104,000 

Renewable energy production (kWh) - - 428,640 

Emission intensity (Gj/million TL) 1,073 671 460 

Emission intensity (ton CO2e/million TL) 121 56 27 

Our human resources tables

Number of employees
Number of Employees 2020 2021 2022

Headquarters* 2,741 2,891 3,151

Akbank Banking Center 2,258 2,451 2,825

Regional Offices** 611 566 625

Branches*** 6,849 6,276 6,116

Bank Total 12,459 12,184 12,717

* Our Board Members are not included.
**Employees in Regional Credit Directorates, although they are affiliated to the Credit Allocation Business Unit, were shown in the staff of our Regional 
Directorates, not the General Directorate, as they were working in the field, as in previous years.
***Including our branch employees in Malta.

528 - 529Annexes



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Number of employees (subcontractors, workers in the supply chain, etc.) who are not full-time employees but whose work is controlled 
by Akbank

 2020 2021 2022

 Female Male Female Male Female Male

Number of 
Subcontractors

1,633 2,819 1,861 3,283 1,518 4,727

Newly hired employees

2022

Under 30 30-50 Years 50 Years and Over

Number of Newly Hired 
Employees in 2022

Full Time Part Time Full Time Part Time Full Time Part Time

Bank Total
1,226 45 563 0 4 0

1,271 563 4 

Workforce Turnover Rate by position

Workforce Turnover Rate by position* 2022

Staff Rate (%) Number

Headquarters 14.33 442

Akbank Banking Center 10.48 303

Regional Offices** 6.08 38

Branches 7.10 434

Bank Total 9.69 1,217

* Our Board Members are not included.
**Employees in Regional Credit Directorates, although they are affiliated to the Credit Allocation Business Unit, were shown in the staff of our Regional 
Directorates, not the General Directorate, as they were working in the field, as in previous years.

Number of Employees 2021 2022

Female 6,417 6,624

Male 5,777 6,093

Bank Total 12,814 12,717 

Number of Employees by Age and Gender 

 2020 2021 2022

 Female Male Female Male Female Male

30- 1,066 578 1,012 541 1,166 795

30-50 5,439 5,212 5,345 5,061 5,373 5,034

50+ 45 119 59 166 85 264

Number of Full time and Part Time Employees by Age and Gender

 2020 2021 2022

 Female Male Female Male Female Male

Full Time 6,513 5,903 6,401 5,761 6,604 6,081

Part Time 37 6 15 7 20 12

Number of Employees in Managerial Positions by Age and Gender*

 2020 2021 2022

 Female Male Female Male Female Male

30- 38 45 40 36 76 82

30-50 2,917 3,273 3,156 3,426 3,420 3,621

50+ 41 105 56 151 81 239

*Including only the managers above the Entry-level (Manager 2 and equal).

530 - 531Annexes



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Workforce turnover rate by gender

Workforce turnover rate and numbers by gender (%) 2022

Staff
Male Female

Rate (%) Number Rate (%) Number

Headquarters 15.18 184 13.78 258

Akbank Banking Center 11.28 197 9.26 106

Regional Offices* 5.54 19 6.74 19

Branches 6.27 175 7.79 259

Bank Total 9.64 575 9.74 642 

*Employees in Regional Credit Directorates, although they are affiliated to the Credit Allocation Business Unit, were shown in the staff of our Regional 
Directorates, not the General Directorate, as they were working in the field, as in previous years.

Workforce turnover rate by age

Workforce turnover rate and numbers by age (%) 2022

Staff
Under 30 30-50 Years 50 Years and Over

Rate (%) Number Rate (%) Number Rate (%) Number

Headquarters 27.05 218 10.10 219 4.55 5

Akbank Banking Center 21.26 98 8.45 188 8.21 17

Regional Offices* 15.91 14 4.07 20 8.89 4

Branches 23.06 95 6.03 328 4.14 11

Bank Total 32 425 7.02 755 8.06 37

* Employees in Regional Credit Directorates, although they are affiliated to the Credit Allocation Business Unit, were shown in the staff of our Regional 
Directorates, not the General Directorate, as they were working in the field, as in previous years.

Workforce turnover rate (voluntarily leave) 7.21% 

by Age 

-30 29.78%

30-50 4.66%

50+ 1.09%

by Gender

Female 6.81%

Male 7.66% 

Management Level

Other 10.39%

Entry Level 7.94%

Middle Level 3.93%

Senior Level 2.83%

Rates of returning to work and staying at work after maternity leave by gender 

Rates of returning to work and staying at work after maternity leave by gender

2022

Female Male

Number of Employees Taking Maternity Leave 349  219  

Number of Employees Returning to Work After Maternity Leave 349  219  

Total Number of Employees Returning to Work After the End of Maternity 
Leave and Still at Work Twelve Months After Returning to Work

330  214  

Rates of Returning to Work and Staying at Work After Maternity Leave
Return to Work Rate: 100%  

Retention Rate: 94.6% 
Return to Work Rate: 100%  

Retention Rate: 97.8%

Internal company training

Average Training Hours per Person

2020 2021 2022

30 36 33 

Training Hours/Percentage of Employees by Gender

2020 2021 2022

Female 54% 55% 55%

Male 46% 45% 45%

Our number of suppliers by years

2020 2021 2022

Total suppliers 1,779 2,052 2,216

Total number of new suppliers 208 169 133

Occupational health and safety

2020 2021 2022

Number of accidents 10 5 11 

Number of lost workdays 53,838 89,189 45,091

Average Number of Health 
Leave Days

4.1 7.3 3.5

Number of fatal cases 0 

Number of occupational 
diseases 0 

Lost working day caused by 
work accident 36 

Total Working Hours in 2022 26,689,872

532 - 533Annexes



Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

PRINCIPLES OF RESPONSIBLE BANKING IMPACT REPORT

PRINCIPLE 1: ALIGNMENT: We will align our business strategy to be consistent with and contribute to individuals’ needs and society’s goals, as expressed in the Sustainable 
Development Goals,  the Paris Climate Agreement and relevant national and regional frameworks.

Summary of Bank’s Response Relevant Title of the Report

Business model 
Describe (high-level) your bank’s business 
model, including the main customer segments 
served, types of products and services 
provided, the main sectors and types of 
activities across the main geographies 
in which your bank operates or provides 
products and services. Please also quantify 
the information by disclosing e.g. the 
distribution of your bank’s portfolio (%) 
in terms of geographies, segments (i.e. by 
balance sheet and/or off-balance sheet) or 
by disclosing the number of customers and 
clients served.

We continue to serve our customers in corporate and investment banking, commercial banking, 
SME banking, consumer banking, payment systems, private banking, investment services, and 
treasury transactions.  In addition to our standard banking services, we also provide services in 
the insurance sector through our branches.  We provide insurance agency services for Aksigorta 
A.Ş. and AgeSA Hayat ve Emeklilik A.Ş.  We can develop innovative product solutions for our 
customers’ different financial needs via our affiliates of Akbank AG, Ak Lease, Ak Investment, 
Ak Asset Management, and Ak Öde.  We possess products and services that make a difference 
in the national and international banking sector, such as Axess, Wings, and Private Banking, 
which are associated with the Akbank identity.  We have more than 22 million customers.  We 
provide services through our extensive service network and technological infrastructure with our 
Head Office, Data and Life Center in Istanbul, 19 Regional Directorates in Türkiye, 711 branches, 
and over 12 thousand employees.  Apart from the one-to-one service, we continue to create 
value for our customers through Akbank Internet, Akbank Mobile, Call Center, approximately 
5900 ATMs, and 734 thousand POS terminals (including virtual POS) with investments we 
make in digital transformation.  In addition, we have brought an international dimension to our 
operations through our subsidiary Akbank AG in Germany and our branch in Malta by drawing 
strength from our highly reputable identity in Türkiye.  In 2022, we increased our loan support to 
our economy to 757 billion TL, 616 billion TL of which is in cash.  Our total deposits reached 722 
billion TL, and our assets reached 1 trillion 147 billion TL.  With our strong consolidated capital 
adequacy ratio reaching 23.2%, we have one of the strongest capital structures in our industry.  
As of 2022, our stocks continue to be traded on the Borsa Istanbul (BIST) and Level 1 Depositary 
Receipts on the US OTC Market with a free float of 51%.

AKBANK FOR YOU

https://www.
akbankinvestorrelations.
com/en/images/pdf/earning-
presentation/akbank_earnings_
presentation_4q2022.pdf

https://www.
akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/
financials/detail/Consolidated-
financial-highlights/89/74/74

 

Strategy alignment

Does your corporate strategy identify and 
reflect sustainability as strategic priority/ies 
for your bank? Please describe how your bank 
has aligned and/or is planning to align its 
strategy to be consistent with the Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs), the Paris Climate 
Agreement, and relevant national and 
regional frameworks. Does your bank also 
reference any of the following frameworks 
or sustainability regulatory reporting 
requirements in its strategic priorities or 
policies to implement these?

As Akbank, we consider sustainability as the center of our business strategy.  Within the scope 
of our sustainability strategy, we continue to work towards Türkiye’s transition to a low-carbon 
economy to leave a more inhabitable world to future generations through the participation in 
national/international initiatives guided by the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the 
Paris Climate Agreement.  In line with our four main strategic focus areas, Sustainable Finance, 
People & Community, Ecosystems Management, and Climate Change, which we determined within 
the scope of our sustainability strategy in 2020, we became the first deposit bank in Türkiye to 
set long-term goals in the field of sustainability.  We contribute to the United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals (UN SDG) with the projects we have implemented in line with our main 
strategic focus areas and the priority issues we have identified.  With our vision of “Being the 
Leading Bank Carrying Türkiye to the Future,” we continue our sustainable future-oriented works by 
involving all our stakeholders.
We contacted our wide stakeholder network to actively involve our stakeholders at the core of 
our sustainability efforts.  We have prepared a list of our stakeholders, those with direct economic 
impact, those with indirect economic impact, and those who bring new opportunities, knowledge, 
and understanding.
In determining our material issues, we benefited from various factors such as current developments, 
global trends, our Bank’s long-term vision, and the opinions of our stakeholders.  We contacted our 
wide network.  We have considered the survey results as we include stakeholder views.  We have 
examined examples of best practices and held Top Management meetings: our business strategy 
and SASB 4-Stage Impact Analysis.  In addition, we finalized the position of our material issues 
by including the impact of material issues on Akbank practices.  In our materiality matrix, we have 
positioned our material issues by considering “Importance for Stakeholders” and “Importance for 
Akbank.”  Intending to leave a more inhabitable world to future generations, we periodically monitor 
our long-term, measurable performance targets in four main strategic focus areas: Sustainable 
Financing, People and  Community, Ecosystem Management, and Climate Change, and we focus on 
continuous improvement.
Our long-term goals:
Providing sustainable loan financing of 200 billion TL 
To reach the balance of sustainable mutual funds to 15 million AuM by 2030
Increasing sustainable finance in proportion to the volume of loans related to sustainability by 2030
To popularize digital and innovative products and services.
To become net-zero in operational emissions and become a carbon-neutral bank by 2025.
To become a Net Zero Bank in 2050 
To increase the efficiency of investments made in our employees
To increase the impact of Akbank volunteerism on social investments 
We report our contribution in our main strategic focus areas annually in the Integrated Annual 
Report, CDP Climate Change and Water Security Report, and our quarterly performance in the 
Consolidated Financial Statements.

OUR SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY

PEOPLE AND COMMUNITY

ECOSYSTEM MANAGEMENT

CLIMATE CHANGE

SUSTAINABLE FINANCE

https://www.
akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/
financials/detail/Consolidated-
financial-highlights/89/74/74

https://www.
akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/
corporate-governance/detail/
Policies/34/10/0

PRINCIPLES OF RESPONSIBLE BANKING IMPACT REPORT

PRINCIPLE 2: IMPACT AND TARGET SETTING: We will continuously increase our positive impacts while reducing the negative impacts on, and managing the risks to, people and 
environment resulting from our activities, products and services. To this end, we will set and publish targets where we can have the most significant impacts.

Summary of Bank’s Response Relevant Title of the Report

2.1 Impact Analysis (Key Step 1)
Show that your bank has performed an impact 
analysis of its portfolio/s to identify its most 
significant impact areas and determine priority 
areas for target-setting. The impact analysis 
shall be updated regularly  and fulfil the 
following requirements/elements (a-d) :  
a) Scope: What is the scope of your bank’s 
impact analysis? Please describe which parts 
of the bank’s core business areas, products/
services across the main geographies that the 
bank operates in (as described under 1.1) have 
been considered in the impact analysis. Please 
also describe which areas have not yet been 
included, and why.
b) Portfolio composition: Has your bank 
considered the composition of its portfolio (in 
%) in the analysis? Please provide proportional 
composition of your portfolio globally and per 
geographical scope
i) by sectors & industries  for business, corporate 
and investment banking portfolios (i.e. sector 
exposure or industry breakdown in %), and/or 
ii) by products & services and by types of 
customers for consumer and retail banking 
portfolios. 
If your bank has taken another approach to 
determine the bank’s scale of exposure, please 
elaborate, to show how you have considered 
where the bank’s core business/major activities 
lie in terms of industries or sectors.
c) Context: What are the main challenges and 
priorities related to sustainable development in 
the main countries/regions in which your bank 
and/or your clients operate?  Please describe 
how these have been considered, including what 
stakeholders you have engaged to help inform 
this element of the impact analysis. 
This step aims to put your bank’s portfolio 
impacts into the context of society’s needs.
Based on these first 3 elements of an impact 
analysis, what positive and negative impact 
areas has your bank identified? Which (at least 
two) significant impact areas did you prioritize 
to pursue your target setting strategy (see 2.2) ? 
Please disclose.
d) For these (min. two prioritized impact areas): 
Performance measurement: Has your bank 
identified which sectors & industries, and types 
of customers financed or invested in are causing 
the strongemost substantial positive or negative 
impacts? Please describe how you assessed 
this performance, using appropriate indicators 
related to significant impact areas that apply to 
your bank’s context. 
In determining priority areas for target-setting 
among its areas of most significant impact, you 
should consider the bank’s current performance 
levels, i.e. qualitative and/or quantitative 
indicators and/or proxies of the social, economic 
and environmental impacts resulting from the 
bank’s activities and provision of products and 
services. If you have identified climate and/
or financial health&inclusion as your most 
significant impact areas, please also refer to the 
applicable indicators in the Annex. 
If your bank has taken another approach to 
assess the intensity of impact resulting from the 
bank’s activities and provision of products and 
services, please describe this. 
The outcome of this step will then also provide 
the baseline (incl. indicators) you can use for 
setting targets in two areas of most significant 
impact.

In the 2022 Global Risks Report published by the World Economic Forum (WEF), “Climate 
Action Failure” stands out as the most important risk heading in the short and medium-long 
term.  The whole ecosystem is seriously and permanently affected by effects such as the 
increase in the frequency and effects of extreme weather events such as drought and floods 
due to global climate change, the melting of glaciers, the rise in ocean and sea water levels, 
and the increase in acidity in water resources  We consider this issue one of our four main 
strategic focus areas in our sustainability strategy, considering the meetings we had with 
our key stakeholders and the developments in the world and Türkiye. In 2022, we announced 
our commitment to being a net zero carbon bank by 2050.  As we move forward on our 
journey to become a net zero bank, we believe that the greatest value we will create is the 
transformation of our customers. 

Our portfolio composition for 2022 consists of 3% Tourism, 3.1% Petrochemicals, 3.4% 
Construction, 3.5% Food, 3.6% Transportation Vehicles and Sub-Industry, 4.3% Textile, 4.4% 
Transportation and Logistics, 26.1% Retail Credits, 6.5% Energy, 6.3% Holding is 5.8% Real 
Estate, 5.6% Finance, 5.3% Metal and Mining, and the sectoral breakdown of gross loans can 
be obtained from the consolidated financial results.  We set out to transform all sectors and 
carbon-intensive sectors such as energy (fossil fuel based), cement, iron and steel, aluminum, 
and fertilizer.  In this journey, we will continue providing the financial support the sectors need 
with sustainable finance loan products and services.  In addition to financial services, we are 
working to provide our customers with innovative non-financial services that may be needed 
for our stakeholders and collaborations.  We closely follow our customers’ net zero goals and 
strategies.  In 2022, we conducted a pre-assessment on net zero carbon strategies for our 
customers in the automotive, cement, textile, tourism, and oil-natural gas sectors. 

With our net zero carbon roadmap and efforts, we reduce the impact of our Bank on climate 
change and create a positive impact on managing risks in climate change.  While we enable 
our customers to detect sectoral opportunities early in our net zero pre-assessment studies 
for our customers in specific sectors, we also minimize being affected by potential transition 
risks such as regulatory changes.  We prioritize identifying, evaluating, and managing the 
risks and opportunities of our loan portfolio related to climate change.  In 2022, we completed 
a qualitative sectoral climate change analysis study to identify risks and opportunities for 
Akbank’s loan portfolio.  Based on the outputs of our sectoral climate change analysis work, 
we evaluated location and sector-specific climate risks for the geographical-based climate 
change analysis of the Project Finance portfolio.  We aim to ensure that these efforts on 
climate change will provide input for all business units, primarily the Investment Banking 
Project Finance portfolio, to develop strategies for managing climate risks and seizing 
opportunities.  Our “Climate Change Heat Map” study can be accessed in the Climate Change 
section of the report.  In addition, with our Net-Zero project, which will be implemented in 2023, 
we will determine sector-based road maps and share our plan with our stakeholders.

According to the statistics of the World Bank, approximately 70% of the population in Türkiye 
consists of the population with a bank account with at least one deposit account.  However, 
about half of this segment consists of people who are “underbanked customers.”  That is, 
they use 1 or 2 products in a banking relationship, make two or fewer transactions per month 
on average, and cannot benefit from the services of the financial system.  These rates also 
vary according to gender, region, and age.  For example, we observe that although the use 
of financial products in households has increased, this rate remains lower among women in 
the household.  Although many of our customers are going digital, some customers over a 
certain age may still use physical channels, especially for their financial transactions.  Access 
to financial services is critical for development and economic growth, especially in emerging 
markets with low savings rates.  For our companies and individuals to become economically 
stronger, financial institutions should diversify their products and services and develop 
solutions that support financial health.  We are aware that we need to do important work to 
increase our customers’ and SMEs’ access to innovative financing products.  We know that 
young people have fast access to financial instruments thanks to digitalized products and 
services, and our development area there is financial literacy.  As Akbank, we make life easier 
with our Ecosystem Management practices, one of our main strategic focus areas, and our 
specially designed products for our customers from all walks of life.

Our financial health and inclusion efforts align with the Principles of Responsible Banking.  As 
Akbank, we became the founding signatory of the UNEP FI Financial Health and Inclusion 
Commitment, developed in partnership with 28 banks worldwide and the United Nations 
Environment Program Finance Initiative (UNEP FI), which aims to promote financial health 
and inclusion.  We continue to work with UNEP FI and other banks to set a measurement 
standard for financial health and inclusion.  In this context, we have committed to setting 
targets supported by measures taken around products and services, processes, data analytics, 
and partnerships to promote financial inclusion and support a banking sector that supports 
financial health.  Starting mid-2023, we will inform our stakeholders about our yearly targets 
and progress.

SUSTAINABLE FINANCE

ECOSYSTEM MANAGEMENT

CLIMATE CHANGE

https://www.
akbankinvestorrelations.
com/en/images/pdf/earning-
presentation/akbank_earnings_
presentation_4q2022.pdf

https://www.
akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/
financials/detail/Consolidated-
financial-highlights/89/74/74

Principles of 
responsible banking 
impact report

534 - 535Annexes

https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/pdf/earning-presentation/akbank_earnings_presentation_4q2022.pdf
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/pdf/earning-presentation/akbank_earnings_presentation_4q2022.pdf
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/pdf/earning-presentation/akbank_earnings_presentation_4q2022.pdf
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/pdf/earning-presentation/akbank_earnings_presentation_4q2022.pdf
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/pdf/earning-presentation/akbank_earnings_presentation_4q2022.pdf
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/financials/detail/Consolidated-financial-highlights/89/74/74
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/financials/detail/Consolidated-financial-highlights/89/74/74
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/financials/detail/Consolidated-financial-highlights/89/74/74
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/financials/detail/Consolidated-financial-highlights/89/74/74
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/financials/detail/Consolidated-financial-highlights/89/74/74
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/financials/detail/Consolidated-financial-highlights/89/74/74
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/financials/detail/Consolidated-financial-highlights/89/74/74
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/financials/detail/Consolidated-financial-highlights/89/74/74
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Policies/34/10/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Policies/34/10/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Policies/34/10/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/corporate-governance/detail/Policies/34/10/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/pdf/earning-presentation/akbank_earnings_presentation_4q2022.pdf
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/pdf/earning-presentation/akbank_earnings_presentation_4q2022.pdf
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/pdf/earning-presentation/akbank_earnings_presentation_4q2022.pdf
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/pdf/earning-presentation/akbank_earnings_presentation_4q2022.pdf
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/pdf/earning-presentation/akbank_earnings_presentation_4q2022.pdf
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/financials/detail/Consolidated-financial-highlights/89/74/74
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/financials/detail/Consolidated-financial-highlights/89/74/74
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/financials/detail/Consolidated-financial-highlights/89/74/74
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/financials/detail/Consolidated-financial-highlights/89/74/74


Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

PRINCIPLES OF RESPONSIBLE BANKING IMPACT REPORT

PRINCIPLE 2: IMPACT AND TARGET SETTING: We will continuously increase our positive impacts while reducing the negative impacts on, and managing the risks to, people and 
environment resulting from our activities, products and services. To this end, we will set and publish targets where we can have the most significant impacts.

Summary of Bank’s Response Relevant Title of the Report

2.2 Target Setting (Key Step 2)
Show that your bank has set and published 
a minimum of two targets which address at 
least two different areas of most significant 
impact that you identified in your impact 
analysis. 
The targets  have to be Specific, Measurable 
(qualitative or quantitative), Achievable, 
Relevant and Time-bound (SMART). Please 
disclose the following elements of target setting 
(a-d), for each target separately:
a) Alignment: which international, regional or 
national policy frameworks to align your bank’s 
portfolio with  have you identified as relevant? 
Show that the selected indicators and targets 
are linked to and drive alignment with and 
greater contribution to appropriate Sustainable 
Development Goals, the goals of the Paris 
Agreement, and other relevant international, 
national or regional frameworks. 
You can build upon the context items under 2.1.
b) Baseline: Have you determined a baseline 
for selected indicators and assessed the 
current level of alignment? Please disclose 
the indicators used as well as the year of the 
baseline.
c) SMART targets (incl. key performance 
indicators (KPIs) ): Please disclose the targets 
for your first and your second area of most 
significant impact, if already in place (as well as 
further impact areas, if in place). Which KPIs are 
you using to monitor progress towards reaching 
the target? Please disclose.
d) Action plan: which actions including 
milestones have you defined to meet the set 
targets? Please describe. 
Please also show that your bank has analysed 
and acknowledged significant (potential) 
indirect impacts of the set targets within the 
impact area or on other impact areas and that 
it has set out relevant actions to avoid, mitigate, 
or compensate potential negative impacts

To leave a more inhabitable world to future generations, our goals regarding the two main strategic 
focus areas in our impact analysis are:

Sustainable Finance & Climate Change

Providing sustainable loan financing of 200 billion TL by 2030

To reach the balance of sustainable mutual funds to 15 million AuM by 2030

To be Net Zero bank in 2050

To be a Carbon Neutral Bank by 2025 (Scope 1 & Scope 2)

Ecosystem Management

Increasing the number of financially empowered people

To popularize digital and innovative products and services

The compatibility of these goals with international and national policies and the actions taken can 
be accessed in the “Our Sustainability Journey,” “Sustainable Finance,” “Ecosystem Management,” 
and “Climate Change” sections of the report.

OUR SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY

SUSTAINABLE FINANCE

ECOSYSTEM MANAGEMENT

CLIMATE CHANGE

CDP Climate Change Program 2022 
Report

CDP Water Security Program 2022 
Report

2.3 Target implementation and monitoring (Key 
Step 2)
For each target separately:
Show that your bank has implemented the 
actions it had previously defined to meet the 
set target. 
Report on your bank’s progress since the last 
report towards achieving each of the set targets 
and the impact your progress resulted in, using 
the indicators and KPIs to monitor progress you 
have defined under 2.2.
Or, in case of changes to implementation plans 
(relevant for 2nd and subsequent reports only): 
describe the potential changes (changes to 
priority impact areas, changes to indicators, 
acceleration/review of targets, introduction of 
new milestones or revisions of action plans) 
and explain why those changes have become 
necessary.

With our Sustainability Committee, we ensure that sustainability activities and performance are 
monitored and reported on behalf of the Board of Directors.  Under our Sustainability Committee, 
we formed four pre-committees based on value areas.  These committees come together at least 
three times a year, and the relevant targets and action situations are discussed in these meetings.  
In addition, we regularly follow up on the actions quarterly with the representatives of the relevant 
functions.  We follow over 100 actions in 4 value areas to achieve our sustainability goals.  To leave 
a more inhabitable world to future generations, we periodically follow our long-term, measurable, 
and trackable performance targets in four main strategic focus areas: Sustainable Finance, 
People and Society, Ecosystem Management, and Climate Change, and we focus on continuous 
improvement.  With our Sustainability Committee, we ensure that our sustainability activities 
and performance are monitored and reported on behalf of the Board of Directors.  To measure our 
sustainability performance, we set performance criteria in 2021 for all our employees, especially 
our General Manager.  In 2022, we doubled the weight of sustainability performance in bank 
performance criteria.  The actions we have taken in the fields of Net-Zero, Financial Health and 
Inclusion are summarized below, and more information can be found in the relevant parts of the 
report:
The total amount of sustainable financing we realized in 2022 reached 60 billion TL, reaching a 
total of 87 billion TL.
Sustainability training was given to all corporate and commercial branch employees.
The volume of ESG-related funds totalled TL 2.7 billion with 62B investors.  All 4 ESG-related funds 
of Ak Asset Management received ratings from MSCI and Refinitiv.
Share of ESG-related transactions in total borrowing in 2022: 75% Share of ESG-related 
transactions in total borrowing: 45%
SME Eco Transformation Package: We implemented Türkiye’s first sustainability package for SMEs.
With the support of the EBRD, we provided USD 100 million to female SMEs.
New collaborations with leading e-commerce and retail technology companies.
We continue with the “Green Transformation” themed seminars with UNDP and industry 
organizations Türkonfed and KAS.
Collaboration with Frankfurt School & EBRD for women SMEs.
We reached 14 thousand of SMEs through Akbank Transformation Academy.
We reinforced the sustainable entrepreneurship ecosystem with ReFi Hackhaton and Akbank+.
Using technology, we supported disabled people’s access to financial services with BlindLook.
We contributed to the financial health of young people with digitalization (a 1.5 times increase in 
the number of active young customers).
We have committed to 2050 Net Zero.  We have developed our Environmental and Social Risk 
Framework to reduce portfolio exposure.
We started the pilot project to evaluate the numerical impact of climate risks on the portfolio.
We have completed the sectoral heat map study, where we examine the physical and transition 
risks.
We are moving towards becoming a carbon-neutral bank by zeroing operational greenhouse 
emissions by 2025.
We provided 80% of the electricity from renewable sources.
Solar panels met 5% of the electricity in Akbank Data Centre.
We reinforced our capacity for energy efficiency and waste management.
We completed ISO 50001 (Energy Efficiency Management) & ISO 14000 (Environmental 
Management) training in 270 branches (300+ branches in total).
We published our Environmental Policy, increased the CDP Climate Change score to B, and 
prepared the first CDP Water Security report with a B score.

OUR SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY

PRINCIPLES OF RESPONSIBLE BANKING IMPACT REPORT

PRINCIPLE 3: CLIENTS AND CUSTOMERS: We will work responsibly with our clients and our customers to encourage sustainable practices and enable economic activities that create 
shared prosperity for current and future generations.

Summary of Bank’s Response Relevant Title of the Report

3.1 Client engagement

Does your bank have a policy or engagement 
process with clients and customers  in place 
to encourage sustainable practices?

Does your bank have a policy for sectors 
in which you have identified the highest 
(potential) negative impacts? 

Describe how your bank has worked with and/
or is planning to work with its clients and 
customers to encourage sustainable practices 
and enable sustainable economic activities). 
It should include information on relevant 
policies, actions planned/implemented to 
support clients’ transition, selected indicators 
on client engagement and, where possible, the 
impacts achieved.

With our Sustainable Finance Framework, published in 2021, we use green and social criteria 
to categorize the projects for which we provide sustainable financing.  We also provide green 
and social loans in line with the principles of Green Credit and Social Credit administered by 
the LMA (Loan Market Association).  In addition we issue bonds under the principles of ICMA 
(International Capital Market Association) (green, social, and sustainable bond principles).  
Türkiye has ratified the Paris Climate Agreement; considering it has set a net zero emission 
target until 2053, we aim to offer new and innovative sustainable finance products and 
solutions that all sectors may need to accelerate the transition to a low-carbon economy.

In previous years, cement, aluminum, machinery, automotive, textile, iron and steel, and 
chemistry have been identified as the sectors with the highest carbon emission intensity in 
our portfolio, and we have started our studies for the transition to a low-carbon economy in 
all sectors, especially in these sectors.  In this context, we will continue to focus on the green 
transformation of carbon-intensive sectors, green technology investments, sustainable 
infrastructure investments, and clean transportation.  We started the carbon reconciliation 
studies of our portfolio within the scope of our goal of “Being a Net Zero Bank by 2050”.  We 
also focus on regulation, technology, and market expectations, which are transition risks that 
will affect our portfolio.  After the analysis, we offer suggestions to our customers who need 
green investments using comprehensive methods.  We have categorized our sustainable 
finance products and services under the headings of “reducing the effects of climate change” 
and “climate adaptation,” taking into account the segment and sector distinction. 

In 2022, we expanded the scope and content of our environmental and social credit policies 
concerning good practices and global standards.  We have developed the Environmental 
and Social Management System (ESMS) and Environmental and Social Impact Assessment 
(ESIA) System to identify and effectively manage the environmental and social risks and 
opportunities that may arise from the financing we provide.  We apply the ESMS to all 
customers with commercial activities with which our Bank enters a credit relationship.  With 
this system, we systematically monitored the scoring, due diligence, and assigned actions with 
the IT improvements made on the credit offer screens. 

Since implementing our framework in October 2022, we have extensively reviewed all project 
finance loans in the ESIA system.  We have worked with independent consultants based on 
the project’s risk assessment.  We base our decisions on impacts such as employment and 
working conditions, resource management and pollution control, appropriation, public health 
and safety, biodiversity, and cultural heritage.  We check compliance with the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights , the International Labor Organization’s (ILO), that set standards 
in child labor, collective bargaining agreements, unionization, forced labor, equal opportunities, 
and worker rights.  If prohibited activities are observed under these frameworks, we do not 
finance the proposed activity without further environmental and social assessment.  

By offering cutting-edge digital solutions, we streamline our customers’ daily banking 
transactions and increase financial access by facilitating transactions.  We adhere to the 
principles of responsible lending in our allocation processes.  In addition to sustainable 
production and consumption, we also support innovative and social initiatives.  We add the 
requirements of our environmental and social credit policies to the General Credit Agreement 
and revise the relevant areas in the agreement with our updated policy articles.  We also 
include our sectoral approaches in our Environmental and Social Risk Framework.

AKBANK FOR YOU

ECOSYSTEM MANAGEMENT

SUSTAINABLE FINANCE

Akbank E&S Risk 
Framework (https://www.
akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/
images/pdf/Akbank-ES-Risk-
Framework.pdf)

Akbank Sustainable Finance 
Framework Sustainable finance 
framework(https://www.
akbankinvestorrelations.com/
en/whosale-funding/detail/
Sustainable-finance/600/1468/0)

3.2 Business opportunities

Describe what strategic business 
opportunities in relation to the increase 
of positive and the reduction of negative 
impacts your bank has identified and/or how 
you have worked on these in the reporting 
period. Provide information on existing 
products and services , information on 
sustainable products developed in terms of 
value (USD or local currency) and/or as a % 
of your portfolio, and which SDGs or impact 
areas you are striving to make a positive 
impact on (e.g. green mortgages – climate, 
social bonds – financial inclusion, etc.).

Our sustainable finance products and services are included in our report’s Sustainable Finance 
and Ecosystem Management sections.  In addition, our compliance with the Sustainable 
Development Goals and our overall performance can be found in our Sustainability Journey 
section.

OUR SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY

SUSTAINABLE FINANCE

ECOSYSTEM MANAGEMENT

536 - 537Annexes

https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/pdf/akbank-cdp-climate-change-2022.pdf
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/pdf/akbank-cdp-climate-change-2022.pdf
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/pdf/akbank-cdp-water-security-2022.pdf
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/pdf/akbank-cdp-water-security-2022.pdf
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/pdf/Akbank-ES-Risk-Framework.pdf
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/pdf/Akbank-ES-Risk-Framework.pdf
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/pdf/Akbank-ES-Risk-Framework.pdf
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/pdf/Akbank-ES-Risk-Framework.pdf
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/pdf/Akbank-ES-Risk-Framework.pdf
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/whosale-funding/detail/Sustainable-finance/600/1468/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/whosale-funding/detail/Sustainable-finance/600/1468/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/whosale-funding/detail/Sustainable-finance/600/1468/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/whosale-funding/detail/Sustainable-finance/600/1468/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/whosale-funding/detail/Sustainable-finance/600/1468/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/whosale-funding/detail/Sustainable-finance/600/1468/0


Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

PRINCIPLES OF RESPONSIBLE BANKING IMPACT REPORT

PRINCIPLE 4: STAKEHOLDERS: We will proactively and responsibly consult, engage and partner with relevant stakeholders to achieve society’s goals.

Summary of Bank’s Response Relevant Title of the Report

4.1 Stakeholder identification and 
consultation

Does your bank have a process to identify 
and regularly consult, engage, collaborate 
and partner with stakeholders (or stakeholder 
groups ) you have identified as relevant in 
relation to the impact analysis and target 
setting process?

Please describe which stakeholders (or 
groups/types of stakeholders) you have 
identified, consulted, engaged, collaborated 
or partnered with for the purpose of 
implementing the Principles and improving 
your bank’s impacts. This should include a 
high-level overview of how your bank has 
identified relevant stakeholders, what issues 
were addressed/results achieved and how 
they fed into the action planning process.

In the process, we contacted our wide stakeholder network to actively involve our stakeholders 
at the core of our sustainability efforts.  We have listed our stakeholders, which we have 
classified as those who have a direct economic impact on our processes, those who have 
an indirect economic impact, and those who bring new opportunities, knowledge, and 
understanding.  In 2020, while determining our material issues, we considered the survey 
results, current developments, global trends, our Bank’s long-term vision, good practice 
examples, Top Management meetings, our business strategy, and SASB 4-Stage Impact 
Analysis studies.  In our materiality matrix, we have positioned our material issues by 
considering “Importance for Stakeholders” and “Importance for Akbank.” Our detailed 
relationship management with the identified stakeholders can be accessed under the heading 
“Relations with Our Stakeholders - Our Strong Stakeholder Interaction.”

OUR SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY

Relations with our 
stakeholders  (https://www.
akbankinvestorrelations.com/
en/sustainability/year-list/
sustainability-reports/60/0/0)

PRINCIPLE 5: GOVERNANCE AND CULTURE: We will implement our commitment to these Principles through effective governance and a culture of responsible banking.

Summary of Bank’s Response Relevant Title of the Report

5.1 Governance Structure for Implementation 
of the Principles
Does your bank have a governance system in 
place that incorporates the PRB? 
Please describe the relevant governance 
structures, policies and procedures your bank 
has in place/is planning to put in place to 
manage significant positive and negative 
(potential) impacts and support the effective 
implementation of the Principles. This includes 
information about:
• which committee has responsibility over 
the sustainability strategy as well as 
targets approval and monitoring (including 
information about the highest level of 
governance the PRB is subjected to),
• details about the chair of the committee 
and the process and frequency for the board 
having oversight of PRB implementation 
(including remedial action in the event of 
targets or milestones not being achieved 
or unexpected negative impacts being 
detected), as well as 
• remuneration practices linked to 
sustainability targets.

With our Sustainability Committee, we monitor and report our sustainability activities and 
performance on behalf of the Board of Directors.  Among the permanent members of our 
Sustainability Committee are our Executive Board Member, Independent Member of the Board 
of Directors, CEO, Executive Vice President of Financial Management, Investor Relations, and 
Sustainability Department Head.  Our committee meets at least two times a year.  Under our 
Sustainability Committee, there are four pre-committees, which we have formed based on 
our main strategic focus areas.  These committees meet regularly under the coordination of 
our Investor Relations and Sustainability Department, under the leadership of our relevant 
Executive Vice President, and with representatives from different functions.  With the 
participation of 40 Akbank employees from related departments, we evaluate developments 
specific to our main strategic focus areas and follow more than 100 actions yearly.

To measure our sustainability performance, we set performance criteria for all our employees, 
especially our CEO, in 2021.  By adding sustainability performance to the Bank’s performance 
criteria, we have taken a step that will lead our industry.  At the same time, due to the 
importance, we place on sustainability, we doubled the weight of sustainability performance 
in bank performance criteria in 2022.  More detailed information can be accessed in the “Our 
Sustainability Journey” section of the report.

OUR SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY

5.2  Promoting a culture of responsible 
banking:
Describe the initiatives and measures of 
your bank to foster a culture of responsible 
banking among its employees (e.g., capacity 
building, e-learning, sustainability trainings for 
client-facing roles, inclusion in remuneration 
structures and performance management and 
leadership communication, amongst others).

We provide awareness training to our employees to make sustainability a part of our corporate 
culture; We organize various in-house sustainability events. 
In 2022:
We reached 11,750 people with our Ethical Principles training.
We reached 5,748 people with our bribery and corruption training.
We reached 10,655 people with Basic Sustainability training. 
With Unconscious Bias training, we provided training to 7,328 people.
We reached 5,357 people with the Barrier-Free and Inclusive Communication training and 
7,080 with the Zero Waste training.
We reached 3,696 people with Zero Tolerance to Violence training.  2,830 employees completed 
our e-learning training on Environmental and Social Credit Policies.
We provided basic sustainability, sustainable finance, and climate change training to 100% 
of our corporate and commercial branches and approximately 25% of our Mixed Commercial 
branch employees.
We have reached 89% of our employees with the different trainings we offer in sustainability.

OUR SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY

PEOPLE AND COMMUNITY

SUSTAINABLE FINANCE

5.3 Policies and due diligence processes
Does your bank have policies in place that 
address environmental and social risks within 
your portfolio?  Please describe.
Please describe what due diligence processes 
your bank has installed to identify and 
manage environmental and social risks 
associated with your portfolio. This can 
include aspects such as identification of 
significant/salient risks, environmental and 
social risks mitigation and definition of action 
plans, monitoring and reporting on risks and 
any existing grievance mechanism, as well as 
the governance structures you have in place 
to oversee these risks.

All details can be accessed in the Akbank Environmental and Social Risk Framework of the 
report.

SUSTAINABLE FINANCE

PRINCIPLES OF RESPONSIBLE BANKING IMPACT REPORT

PRINCIPLE 6:TRANSPARENCY & ACCOUNTABILITY: We will periodically review our individual and collective implementation of these Principles and be transparent about and 
accountable for our positive and negative impacts and our contribution to society’

Summary of Bank’s Response Relevant Title of the Report

6.1 Assurance
Has this publicly disclosed information 
on your PRB commitments been assured 
by an independent assurer? If applicable, 
please include the link or description of the 
assurance statement.

All details can be accessed in the “Limited Assurance Report” provided by an independent 
audit firm and included in the Annex of the report.

INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT

6.2 Reporting on other frameworks
Does your bank disclose sustainability 
information in any of the listed below 
standards and frameworks?

We declare our sustainability information within the scope of:
United Nations Environment Program Finance Initiative Principles of Responsible Banking 
(UNEP FI PRB)
United Nations Global Compact (UNGC)
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
Capital Markets Board (SPK) Corporate Governance Compliance Report
Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP)
International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC)
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)
Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs)

CDP Climate Change Program 
2022 Report

CDP Water Security Program 2022 
Report

Annexes and Annexes on Website

6.3 Outlook
What are the next steps your bank will 
undertake in next 12 month-reporting 
period (particularly on impact analysis , 
target setting  and governance structure 
for implementing the PRB)? Please describe 
briefly.

As Akbank, we include all our progress in the UNEP FI Responsible Banking Principles in the 
2022 Integrated Annual Report.  The next steps we shall take for future practices are given 
below:
From mid-2023, we will share our goals related to commitment to financial health and 
inclusion. We have decided to reflect the climate change risk to capital requirements starting 
from 2023, to reflect the increasing importance of risks related to climate change in our 
capital calculations and to support our target of being a net zero bank by 2050.
Starting in 2023, we will also consider the capital required to be allocated for climate change 
risk in the internal capital adequacy assessment process (ICAAP)  studies.
With the 2022 Integrated Annual Report, we are starting to share our Task Force on Climate-
related Financial Disclosures - TCFD statement in our reports with the public.
Within the Crisis Response Plans framework, we will continue with 15 risks in 2023 and script 
the top 10 risks that may impact our Bank.  Within the scope of these studies, we will prepare 
our action plan for flood risk, fire, and explosion-related incidents and crises with our relevant 
units, in the upcoming periods.
We aim to share the Climate action plan with our stakeholders within the scope of our Net 
Zero project.

INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT

538 - 539Annexes

https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/year-list/sustainability-reports/60/0/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/year-list/sustainability-reports/60/0/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/year-list/sustainability-reports/60/0/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/sustainability/year-list/sustainability-reports/60/0/0
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/pdf/akbank-cdp-climate-change-2022.pdf
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/pdf/akbank-cdp-climate-change-2022.pdf
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/pdf/akbank-cdp-water-security-2022.pdf
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/pdf/akbank-cdp-water-security-2022.pdf


Akbank Integrated Annual Report 2022

Task force on climate-
related financial 
disclosures – TCFD* table

Focus Area TCFD Recommendation PAGE NUMBER, REFERENCE AND/OR DIRECT ANSWERS

Governance

a. Describe the board’s oversight 
of climate related risks and 
opportunities.

Our Sustainability Management

CDP Climate Change Program 2022 Report

CDP Water Security Program 2022 Report

b. Describe management’s role in 
assessing and managing climate-
related risks and opportunities.

Our Sustainability Management

CDP Climate Change Program 2022 Report

CDP Water Security Program 2022 Report

Strategy

a. Describe the climate-related 
risks and opportunities the 
company has identified over the 
short, medium, and long-term.

Portfolio Effect & Exposure

Climate Risk and our Portfolio

CDP Climate Change Program 2022 Report

CDP Water Security Program 2022 Report

b. Describe the impact of climate-
related risks and opportunities 
on the company’s businesses, 
strategy, and financial planning.

Portfolio Effect & Exposure

Climate Risk and our Portfolio

CDP Climate Change Program 2022 Report

CDP Water Security Program 2022 Report

c. Describe the resilience of the 
company’s strategy, taking into 
consideration different climate-
related scenarios, including a 2°C 
or lower scenario.

Portfolio Effect & Exposure

Climate Risk and our Portfolio

CDP Climate Change Program 2022 Report

CDP Water Security Program 2022 Report

Risk 

Management

a. Describe the company’s 
processes for identifying and 
assessing climate-related risks.

Portfolio Effect & Exposure

Climate Risk and our Portfolio

CDP Climate Change Program 2022 Report

CDP Water Security Program 2022 Report

b. Describe the company’s 
processes for managing climate-
related risks.

Portfolio Effect & Exposure

Climate Risk and our Portfolio

CDP Climate Change Program 2022 Report

CDP Water Security Program 2022 Report

c. Describe how processes for 
identifying, assessing, and 
managing climate-related risks 
are integrated into the company’s 
overall risk management.

Portfolio Effect & Exposure

Climate Risk and our Portfolio

CDP Climate Change Program 2022 Report

CDP Water Security Program 2022 Report

* Task force on climate-related financial disclosures

Focus Area TCFD Recommendation PAGE NUMBER, REFERENCE AND/OR DIRECT ANSWERS

Metrics and 
Targets

a. Disclose the metrics used by 
the company to assess climate-
related risks and opportunities 
in line with its strategy and risk 
management process.

Annexes, Environmental Performance Tables

CDP Climate Change Program 2022 Report

CDP Water Security Program 2022 Report

b. Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, 
if appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions, and the 
related risks.

Annexes, Environmental Performance Tables

CDP Climate Change Program 2022 Report

c. Describe the targets used by 
the company to manage climate-
related risks and opportunities and 
performance against targets.

Portfolio Effect & Exposure

Climate Risk and our Portfolio

CDP Climate Change Program 2022 Report

CDP Water Security Program 2022 Report

540 - 541Annexes

https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/pdf/akbank-cdp-climate-change-2022.pdf
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/pdf/akbank-cdp-water-security-2022.pdf
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/pdf/akbank-cdp-climate-change-2022.pdf
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/pdf/akbank-cdp-water-security-2022.pdf
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/pdf/akbank-cdp-climate-change-2022.pdf
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/pdf/akbank-cdp-water-security-2022.pdf
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/pdf/akbank-cdp-climate-change-2022.pdf
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/pdf/akbank-cdp-water-security-2022.pdf
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/pdf/akbank-cdp-climate-change-2022.pdf
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/pdf/akbank-cdp-water-security-2022.pdf
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/pdf/akbank-cdp-climate-change-2022.pdf
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/pdf/akbank-cdp-water-security-2022.pdf
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/pdf/akbank-cdp-climate-change-2022.pdf
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/pdf/akbank-cdp-water-security-2022.pdf
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/pdf/akbank-cdp-climate-change-2022.pdf
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/pdf/akbank-cdp-water-security-2022.pdf
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/pdf/akbank-cdp-climate-change-2022.pdf
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/pdf/akbank-cdp-water-security-2022.pdf
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/pdf/akbank-cdp-climate-change-2022.pdf
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/pdf/akbank-cdp-climate-change-2022.pdf
https://www.akbankinvestorrelations.com/en/images/pdf/akbank-cdp-water-security-2022.pdf


Decisions of the shareholders 
ordinary general assembly meeting 
dated 28 March 2023 

At the Shareholders Ordinary General Assembly Meeting of 
our Bank held on March 28, 2023;

 – Approval of the 2022 Financial Statements, 

 – Acquittal of the Members of the Board of Directors, 

 – To distribute the profit of 2022 in accordance with the 
proposal of the Board of Directors as follows; 

From the net profit of 60,024,084,405 TL obtained from 
the Bank’s 2022 activities; 

- 260,000,000 TL, corresponding to 5% of the Bank’s 
paid-in capital of  5,200,000,000 TL as of 31 
December 2022. first cash gross dividend and TL 
8,736,000,000 TL 8,996,000,000, which is 173% of 
the paid-in capital in total, including the second cash 
gross dividend. cash gross dividend distribution, 

-  Cash dividend payments will be started as of 30 
March 2023, 

-  Transfer of 7,343,971.49 TL, which is exempt from 
corporate tax in accordance with subparagraph (e) of 
paragraph 1 of Article 5 of the Corporate Tax Law, to 
the “Special Fund Account” and 873,600,000 TL as 
“Legal Reserves”. to allocate the remaining profit after 
separation to “Extraordinary Reserves”,

 – A total of 11,391,780,549.94 TL of value increase fund, 
which is formed as a result of the revaluation process 
made in accordance with the temporary article 32 of the 
Tax Procedure Law No. 213 and the paragraph (Ç) of the 
repeated article 298, is transferred to the special fund 
account by meeting the extraordinary reserves. , 

 – Approval of the share repurchase process initiated with 
the decision of the Board of Directors dated 16.02.2023, 

 – For the Members of the Board of Directors whose terms 
of office expire, Suzan SABANCI DİNÇER, Eyüp ENGİN 
Ahmet Fuat AYLA, Şakir Yaman TÖRÜNER, Nusret Orhun 
KÖSTEM, Emre DERMAN, Levent DEMİRAĞ and Kemal 
Özgür DEMİRTAŞ as Members of the Board of Directors 
and Mehmet Tuğrul BELLİ as Independent To be elected 
as a Member of the Board of Directors for a period of 1 
year until the Shareholders Ordinary General Assembly 
Meeting to be held in 2024, 

 – To be paid a monthly gross salary of 80,000 TL to 
the Members of the Board of Directors; In addition, in 
the event that the Members of the Board of Directors 
assume a certain other duty at the Bank, the payments 
to be made to the members who undertake such duties 
will be determined by the Remuneration Committee to be 
authorized by the Board of Directors, and the members 
who take on duty will be made until the Shareholders’ 
Ordinary General Assembly Meeting to be held in 2024. 
To determine an upper limit of 90.000.000 TL in total for 
the payments, 

 – PwC Independent Auditing and Independent Accountant 
Mali Müşavirlik A.Ş. for the Bank’s audit for 2023. 
approval of the company’s selection, 

 – The Bank’s ability to donate up to four thousandths 
of its own funds pursuant to Article 59 of the Banking 
Law, and the authorization of the Board of Directors in 
case of donations and aids in an amount exceeding four 
thousandths of the bank’s equity, within the framework 
of the regulations that exempt the limitations set by the 
Banking Law on donations and aids, 

 – It has been decided to authorize the Board of Directors 
to graduate the Members of the Board of Directors in 
matters falling within the scope of Articles 395 and 396 
of the Turkish Commercial Code.

Moreover, shareholders were informed about 

 – The Annual Report of the Board of Directors for 2022 and 
the Auditors’ Reports for the year 2022 have been read, 

 – As of 28.03.2023, there are no shares bought back within 
the scope of the “Share Buyback Program”, 

 – In 2022, 23,650 TL was donated to associations, 
foundations and similar institutions.

Annexes



GENEL MÜDÜRLÜK

Sabancı Center, 4. Levent 34330 İstanbul

Telefon: (0212) 385 55 55

Faks 1: (0212) 319 52 52

Faks 2: (0212) 269 77 87

https://www.akbank.com/tr-tr/genel/Sayfalar/Akbank-Iletisim-Bilgileri.aspx


	Rapor
hakkında
	Üst yönetim
mesajları
	Yönetim Kurulu
Başkanı’nın mesajı
	mesajı

	Sizin için
Akbank
	Kısaca Akbank ve
tarihsel öykümüz
	Değerlerimiz,
vizyonumuz,
misyonumuz
	Ortaklık
yapımız
	Faaliyetlerimiz
	Yarattığımız
ekonomik değer
	2022 yılında
öne çıkanlar
	Olağan genel kurul toplantısı gündemi
	Yıllık faaliyet raporu uygunluk görüşü

	Kurumsal
yönetimimiz
	Akbank
kurumsal
yönetimi
	Yönetim
kurulumuz
	Yönetim kurulu
danışmanı ve teftiş
kurulu başkanlığı
	Uluslararası
danışma kurulu
	Üst düzey
yönetimimiz
	İştiraklerimiz
	Organizasyon yapısında
yıl içerisinde meydana
gelen değişiklikler
	Yönetim kurulu
komiteleri
	Özet yönetim
kurulu raporu
	Destek hizmeti
alınan kişi
ve kuruluşlara
ilişkin bilgiler
	Bankamızın dâhil
olduğu risk grubu ile
yaptığı işlemler
	Bağlılık
raporumuz
	Kurumsal
yönetim ilkelerine
uyum raporu
	Kurumsal
yönetim uyum
bilgi formu
	Sürdürülebilirlik
ilkelerine uyum
raporu
	Sorumluluk
beyanı
	Politikalarımız
	Risk yönetimi ve
yasal uyum
	Bilgi güvenliği
yönetimi
	İç denetim
altyapımız
	Denetim
komitesi raporu
	Kredi takip
uygulamalarımız
	Müşteri şikayetlerine
dair yönetişim
yaklaşımımız
	Banka aleyhine
açılan davalarla
ilgili bilgi
	Kurumsal
yönetime
ilişkin diğer
açıklamalar

	Sürdürülebilirlik
yolculuğumuz
	Stratejik odak
alanlarımız ve
öncelikli
konularımız
	Sürdürülebilirlik
yönetimimiz
	Sürdürülebilirlik
çalışmalarımızın
gelişimi
	Sürdürülebilirlik
performansımız
	Değer yaratma modelimiz

	Sürdürülebilir
finansman
	Sürdürülebilir
finansman
	Sorumlu ürün ve
hizmetler
	Çevre ve
sosyal kredi
politikalarımız
	Sürdürülebilir
borçlanma
	Etki yatırımcılığı

	İnsan ve
toplum
	Nitelikli insan
kaynağımız
	Çalışanlarımızın
memnuniyet ve
gelişimi 
	İşin geleceği
	Uzmanlık bazlı
kişiselleştirilmiş
gelişim yolculukları
	Çeşitlilik ve
kapsayıcılık
	İş sağlığı ve
güvenliği
uygulamalarımız
	Toplumsal
yatırımlarımız

	Ekosistem
yönetimi
	Ekosistem
yönetimi
	Dijitalleşme ve
inovasyon
	Finansal
kapsayıcılık
	Müşteri deneyimi ve memnuniyeti
çalışmalarımız
	Satın alma
yaklaşımımız

	İklim
değişikliği
	İklim değişikliği
	Portföy etkisi ve
maruziyeti
	İklim riski ve
portföyümüz
	Operasyonel
sera gazı
emisyonlarımız
	Geri dönüşüm
odaklı çevre
yaklaşımımız
	Su tüketimimiz

	Finansal bilgiler
ve risk yönetimi
	Finansal bilgiler
ve risk yönetimi
	Denetçi
raporu
	2022 yılında yayınlanan
veya uygulanan önemli
mevzuat düzenlemeleri
	Karın
tevzii
	Ekler
	PWC
	Raporlama
kılavuzu
	Performans
tablolarımız
	PRB sorumlu
bankacılık prensipleri
etki raporu
	İklimle bağlantılı finansal
beyan görev gücü (tcfd*)
beyan tablosu

	_GoBack