CAPGEMINI
    ENVIRONMENTAL 
   SUSTAINABILITY                                       
   PERFORMANCE REPORT 2021 / 2022



WE ARE DRIVEN BY OUR PURPOSE
Unleashing human energy through technology for an inclusive  
and sustainable future

The photographs, including the front cover, which have been used in our 2021/22 Environmental Sustainability report 
(unless otherwise stated) have been taken by Kuber Nagarkar, a Senior Consultant from Capgemini, India. A Passionate 
Wildlife & Nature Photographer, in his free time he focuses on his hobbies and captures the beauty of our planet 
through images of wildlife, birds and our natural world.

02 | Capgemini Environmental Sustainability Performance Report 2021 / 2022 July 2022

CONTENTS
COLLECTIVE ACTION
ENGAGING OUR PEOPLE
PARTNERING WITH CLIENTS 
ADVOCACY AND COLLABORATION

APPENDIX
ABOUT THE REPORT 
UN SDGS 
PARTNERSHIPS 
RECOGNITIONS 
MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE 
PERFORMANCE DATA 
ASSURANCE

20

26

INTRODUCTION 
ABOUT CAPGEMINI 
WELCOME 

OUR APPROACH 
OUR FRAMEWORK AND  APPROACH 
OUR AMBITION

MANAGING OUR IMPACTS
SUSTAINABLE IT  
ENERGY 
TRAVEL  AND COMMUTING 
SUPPLY CHAIN

BEYOND OUR  
DECARBONISATION STRATEGY
BEYOND VALUE CHAIN MITIGATION 
BIODIVERSITY PROJECTS

03

07

10

16



COMPANY PROFILE

For more than 55 years, we have been a dedicated partner to organizations around the world, 
helping them transform  and manage their businesses.

As a diverse collective of more than 340,000 strategic and technological experts across more 
than 50 countries, we are guided by our core values in all that we do: 

We are driven by one shared passion: to unleash human energy through technology for a more 
inclusive, sustainable future.

ABOUT CAPGEMINI

03 | Capgemini Environmental Sustainability Performance Report 2021 / 2022

We are fortunate to work at the heart of today’s 
major transformations, to contribute to development 
in every industry, and to help simply make our planet a 
better place. And we do this as we have always done at 
Capgemini: with passion, and energy, and all together.“

Aiman Ezzat 
Chief Executive Officer

KEY FACTS

consecutive years 
named as one of 
the World’s Most 
Ethical Companies 
by Ethisphere

10
of the 200 
largest public 
companies on 
the Forbes 
Global 2000 list

85%
Work with

countries with 
more than 120 
nationalities50

More than
six years in a row for 
the quality of its 
research by Source 
Global Research#1

Capgemini Research Institute ranked in revenues 
with an 
operating 
margin of 
12.9%

€18
Billion

July 2022

Introduction Our approach Managing our impacts Collective actionBeyond decarbonization Appendix



Introduction Our approach Managing our impacts Collective actionBeyond decarbonization Appendix



05 | Capgemini Environmental Sustainability Performance Report 2021 / 2022

It has been an introspective time for many businesses, who are questioning if they 
are doing enough to meet rising expectation.  Whilst we have seen an increasing 
number of public corporate sustainability commitments, many have been vague, 
leading to scepticism, particularly over claims about ‘net zero’ and ‘carbon 
neutrality.’

As a key global business player, we have a duty to act in responsible way,  
and ensure we are credible. 

We have been committed to the climate safe Paris Pathway for many years, with 
a program in place to ensure that our emissions reduce in line with levels needed 
to limit warming to 1.5°C. Furthermore, our commitments and actions as a climate 
leader have been recognised this year, with a place on the CDP’s A list.  

During 2021 we also published our new ESG policy, setting out clearly our 
commitments and targets to hold ourselves publicly accountable.  We also 
committed to aligning ourselves to the Science Based Target initiative’s new  
Net-Zero Standard, supporting the aim of a single universal definition of ‘net zero’.

During 2021 and into the first quarter of 2022, we achieved record financial 
performance across our business. As we look forward to the continued expansion

of our Group, we recognise the critical importance of decarbonization and 
evolving towards being a sustainability services business.

Our actions to meet our ambitions.

Strategically, we have implemented our ten-point net zero program which 
provides an overall framework for our sustainability efforts.  This includes both 
reducing our own operational impacts and also embedding sustainability at the 
heart of the transformation services that we provide to our clients.

Operationally, we are focusing on reducing emission from our facilities, business 
travel and commuting, and our supply chain. Our Green Lease Framework won 
gold recognition in the Green Lease Leaders Awards, and in 2021, nine new 
Green Leases were signed across Europe, APAC, and India. We also continued the 
transition of our electricity portfolio with 58% coming from renewable sources 
(up from 51% in 2021). We also recently launched our Energy Command Centre 
(ECC) in Bangalore, India - a unique initiative using smart technology to help us 
dynamically optimise the use of energy in our largest offices in India and beyond.   
The ECC showcases the benefit of bringing together technology and sustainability.

We continue to accelerate action to drive down emissions from both business 
travel and commuting. Building on our learnings from Covid-19 around remote 
working we have established a new framework for our ‘new normal’ and have 
started measuring the impacts from working at home. When travel is required 
we are strengthening our ability to offer low carbon alternatives such as electric 
vehicles with the wider installation of charging infrastructure.

We’ve also been continuing to work with our supply chain to understand and 
reduce our emissions from procured goods and services, proactively engaging our 
top 100 suppliers who account for around 50% of all supply chain emissions.

WELCOME TO OUR 2021/2022 ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY 
PERFORMANCE REPORT

July 2022

Reflections on 2021

2021 saw a profoundly changed world. The Covid-19 pandemic and the 
ever increasingly tangible and more frequent impacts of the climate crisis, 
have all been major global disruptors.  In addition, the recent escalation of 
the Russia-Ukraine crisis has shaken much of the world and highlighted the 
global dependency on the limited supply of fossil fuels - and the need for 
significant investment in renewable alternatives.

Introduction Our approach Managing our impacts Collective actionBeyond decarbonization Appendix



06 | Capgemini Environmental Sustainability Performance Report 2021 / 2022

Our people are critical to our vision 

To meet both our operational targets and to deliver the client sustainability services of the future, 
the mobilisation of our people has been key.  Our 2021 ‘Climate Circle’ campaign was our largest 
employee engagement program ever as a business with our leadership community tasked with 
hosting a one-hour climate conversation with their teams with the aim of generating both ideas 
and actions. 

We have also launched our global ‘Skill Up for a Sustainable Future’ campaign with a new virtual 
Sustainability Campus providing a single point for employees to reinforce their knowledge on 
global sustainability issues.

The goals of the Paris Agreement cannot be delivered by a single party

Recognising that globally, we will only achieve the outcomes of the Paris Agreement through 
collaboration, we are working with an increasing proportion of our clients on support their own 
sustainability transformation journeys.  To accelerate this, we have released a number of  new 
global sustainability service offerings and have engaged with more than 170 clients during 2021.  

We have also increased our support of public initiatives to scale up collective impact with our CEO 
joining the World Economic Forum’s Alliance of CEO Climate Leaders.  In addition, we continued as 
a key partner for our third year to the World Climate Summit at COP26.

However, despite global efforts to date to reduce emissions, the climate crisis is already affecting 
the lives of millions of people around the world. In the words of Secretary-General Antonio 
Guterres, “the Climate Crisis is a race we are losing, but it is a race we can win”. Of course, we must 
all play our part, and by collaborating with our partners and suppliers, start-ups, policy-makers, 
governments and academics, Capgemini remains committed to build the sustainable future we all 
need. 

 
Cyril Garcia 
Director of Capgemini Invent, Sectors and  
Corporate Social Responsibility

July 2022

Introduction Our approach Managing our impacts Collective actionBeyond decarbonization Appendix



OUR
APPROACH

Introduction Our approach Managing our impacts Collective actionBeyond decarbonization Appendix



08 | Capgemini Environmental Sustainability Performance Report 2021 / 2022

Capgemini has a long-term commitment to environmental sustainability, with a strategy that focuses on managing and reducing our own environmental impacts whilst also using our business 
expertise to help clients address their own sustainability challenges. The sustainable transformation of our organisation at the scale and pace we have targeted is ambitious and will materially 
impact every aspect of the way we operate. It requires radical change in everything from procurement and IT operations, to how we work and our business model.

10 POINT TRANSITION ROADMAP

* While we recognise there is currently debate on the validity of terms like carbon neutrality, we will continue to support 
the minimisation and reduction of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere aligned to our own operational footprint.

OUR ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH

Transition to 100% renew-
able electricity

Lead globally 
on sustainability

Collaborate with clients 
and partners

Empower our people to 
help create the sustain-

able future we want

Address the concentration of 
carbon in the atmosphere with 
carbon avoidance and removal 

solutions 

Reduce the carbon impact of 
our supply chain

Increase the sustainability 
performance of our offices and 
data centers

Reduce travel emissions  
through our low carbon  
digital delivery model

Reduce the impacts of 
employee commuting

Transition to an electric vehi-
cle fleet

OUR ROAD TO 
NET ZERO

Reduce  
our carbon 

emissions by 90%
to become net zero by 2040 and carbon 

neutral*  by 2025 for our own operations, 
and across our supply chain by 2030

100%
renewable electricity by 2025 and 

transition to electric vehicle fleet by 2030

2030
Help clients save 10 million tons  

of CO2e by

58%
of our electricity comes  
from renewable sources

93%
of our headcount covered by Global 

Environmental Management ISO14001

A list 
recognition from CDP for leadership 

in tackling climate change

KEY 2021 
ACHIEVEMENTS

OUR 
COMMITMENTS

July 2022

Introduction Our approach Managing our impacts Collective actionBeyond decarbonization Appendix



09 | Capgemini Environmental Sustainability Performance Report 2021 / 2022

Our new net zero headline target is to achieve a 90% reduction in carbon emissions across 
Scopes 1, 2 and 3 by 2040 compared to a baseline of 2019. This sees us significantly raising our 
ambition beyond our previous 2030 targets and reflects our continuing commitment to address 
climate issues in line with the latest climate science.

In addition, we are strengthening our near-term (2030) Scope 3 targets for commuting and 
business travel to a 55% reduction per employee against a 2019 baseline (compared to 50% 
reduction per employee vs 2015).

Our other previous Scope 1, 2 and 3 targets were already aligned to or in some cases were 
more ambitious than the new SBTi Corporate Net-Zero Standard.  Consequently, they remain 
in place but with the baselines revised from 2015 to 2019, increasing our ambition further and 
ensuring greater transparency and consistency in our greenhouse gas emissions data after the 
integration of Altran into the Group. 

Our commitment to the new Standard reflects our continued increasing ambitions aligned 
to the needs of climate science and recognises that the world needs to rapidly decarbonise 
through both short- and long-term systems change and new operating models. The Standard 
requirements are highly ambitious  and will require significant collaboration across our entire 
value chain to achieve the radical change needed.

 
Dr. James Robey 
Global Head of Environmental Sustainability 

* While we recognise currently there is debate on the validity of terms like carbon neutrality, we will continue to support 
the minimisation and reduction of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere aligned to our own operational footprint.

OUR REFINED NET ZERO TARGETS 

A STRENGTHENED AMBITION - OUR NEW AND VALIDATED NET ZERO TARGETS

Category 2025 target 2030 target
(SBTi near term target)

2040 target
(SBTi long term target)

Headline targets -90% absolute

Scope 1 & 2 emissions -80% absolute  -90% absolute 

Business travel -55% per employee  -90% absolute 

Commuting -55% per employee  -90% absolute 

Procured goods & services -50% absolute  -90% absolute 

Supporting targets 100% renewable 
electricity

100% EV fleet

Overall emissions Operational  
carbon neutral*

 Supply Chain 
carbon neutral*

Net zero

1. Decarbonization of 90-95% for the majority of organizations across their  entire value chain emissions, including 
those produced by their own processes (scope 1), purchased electricity and heat (scope 2), and generated by 
suppliers and end-users (scope 3).

2. Long-term targets as well as near-term targets (to become net zero by 2050 latest).

3. Carbon removals only to be used when a company has met its long-term reduction target to mitigate for the 
final 5-10% of emissions- and no claims of net zero can be made until this point.

In addition, the SBTi  recommends that companies make investments outside their science-based targets to help 
mitigate climate change elsewhere and help increase the likelihood that the global community stays within a 1.5˚C 
carbon budget. but are not a substitute for the rapid and deep reduction of a company’s own value chain emissions. 
(See more in our ‘Beyond decarbonization’ section’)

THE  KEY FEATURES OF SBTi’s NET-ZERO STANDARD

This year we have refined our net zero targets in line with the Science Based Target 
initiative’s (SBTi ) new Corporate Net-Zero Standard.  The Standard is the world’s first 
framework for setting corporate net zero targets and was launched at the end of 2021 
after a thorough consultation process in which Capgemini was a part. It addressed 
the lack of a previous robust benchmark which had triggered scepticism over some 
corporate claims, and net zero as a concept. Our refined net zero targets have been 
assessed by the SBTi and got approved in July 2022.

July 2022

Introduction Our approach Managing our impacts Collective actionBeyond decarbonization Appendix



MANAGING
OUR IMPACTS

Introduction Our approach Managing our impacts Collective actionBeyond decarbonization Appendix



11 | Capgemini Environmental Sustainability Performance Report 2021 / 2022

As a technology company, we want to ensure that we lead on issues relevant to our sector. Our commitment to sustainable IT is reflected in our Capgemini Research Institute’s report on 
‘Sustainable IT’, by our commitment to helping clients with this issue through our new Sustainable IT services, and through our employee ‘Tech for Good’ activities. 
In our own operations, we recognize that there are many unintended consequences of the digital world. During 2021, we strengthened our commitment to sustainable IT for our own operations 
and we established a steering group led by Group IT who have developed a plan to reduce the environmental impact associated with our IT use as a business. The first step was to measure our own 
technology footprint and then benchmark our current performance and maturity with other companies to clearly define the levers whereby we could make the most material impact.

ACTIONS TO REDUCE OUR OWN IT FOOTPRINT 

We are taking measures to control and reduce the impact 
from our own use of IT. Throughout 2021, we have carried 
out a number of actions: 

In terms of our user hardware and devices, we have 
extended end-of-usable-life for computing devices 
(desktops and mobile workstations) and improved how 
we dispose of computing devices (desktops and mobile 
workstations)

In 2021, Group IT has applied carbon reduction levers 
across its practices and reduced its net electricity usage 

by 1.2 GWh (Gigawatt hours). This included rationalizing, 
decommissioning and adjusting offsets from newly 
procured IT equipment.

We have also worked to enable the procurement of 
IT accessories made from recycled materials. We have 
improved our network and communication systems to 
support our ‘new normal’ and hybrid way of working, 
including the necessary tools for our people to collaborate 
virtually. We have migrated our applications and data to 
a greener public cloud SaaS from 45 data centers into 18 
Software-Defined Private Cloud data centers. 

OUR FOCUS AREAS

Our new steering group, established in 2021, focuses on: 

1. Improving the efficiency of the devices we use to 
reduce energy consumption

2. Reducing the embedded carbon of our devices working 
in partnership with our procurement team

3. Enabling IT solutions to support lower carbon delivery 
models

4. Minimizing our E-waste 

5. Educating our Group IT Team on all aspects of 
sustainable design and operation of our IT

OUR COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABLE IT ACROSS OUR OPERATIONS 
SCOPE 1, 2 AND 3 EMISSIONS

… BUT IT ALSO HAS THE ABILITY 
TO SOLVE MANY ISSUES

By 2030, IT has the potential to 
cut 9.7 times as many carbon 

emissions as emitted

co2

Digital solutions can contribute 
to achieving all 17 UN SDGs and 

>50% of the 169 SDG sub-targets 

TECHNOLOGY HAS UNINTENDED 
CONSEQUENCES…

As a country, the IT industry 
would be the 3rd largest electricity 

consumer in the world 

IT accounts for around 3% of global 
CO2 emissions, more than Spain, Italy, 

France and Portugal combined

co2

July 2022

Introduction Our approach Managing our impacts Collective actionBeyond decarbonization Appendix



12 | Capgemini Environmental Sustainability Performance Report 2021 / 2022

Capgemini continues to make progress on reducing its emissions from energy.  This has been achieved through two key levers: firstly, by improving energy efficiency, and secondly, by transitioning 
electricity supply to renewable sources.

ENERGY EFFICIENCY IN OUR OPERATIONS OUR ENERGY COMMAND CENTER

We recently launched our Energy Command Center (ECC) at our EPIP campus, Bangalore.  
It is a unique initiative to reduce our own emissions, using smart technology to optimise 
the use of resources and to monitor asset health. 

The ECC will measure and predict various metrics like indoor air quality, energy intensity,  
water intensity, health of critical assets, renewable energy generation, and the overall 
performance across all energy assets.  The ECC showcases the benefit of bringing 
together technology and sustainability and will enable Capgemini to manage its energy 
use across its offices in India and beyond.

Our commitment to sustainable and energy-efficient workplaces starts with environmental conscious 
design.  Many of our flagship buildings across India, France, Germany, Poland, Spain, and Sweden are 
certified under LEED, IGBC, BREEAM or equivalent green building accreditations.   

Our global real estate team also led the development one of the first Green Lease frameworks in our sector. 
Under the framework, which achieved ‘Gold’ recognition in 2022 through the Green Lease Leader program, 
the criteria for choosing buildings includes factors such as energy efficiency, EV charging points, and 
proximity to public transport. In 2021, nine new Green Leases were signed across Europe, APAC,  
and India.

INCREASING THE SUSTAINABILITY OF OUR FACILITIES - A FOCUS ON ENERGY 
SCOPE 1+2 EMISSIONS 

• Installation of energy efficient variable speed water-cooled chillers in Bangalore

• Replacement of air handling units with energy efficient electronically commutated (EC) fan systems  
in Bangalore and Pune

• Implementation of solar streetlights for campus in for Bangalore, Chennai, and Noida

• Chiller plant Manager for Mumbai and Pune.

• Implementation of energy efficient variable flow refrigerant system for network rooms across Bangalore 

• Switching to LED lighting at numerous sites in France, Italy and the UK

• Implementation of a cooling optimization solution, employing an AI engine for our data centers in India 

ENERGY EFFICIENCY INITIATIVES TAKEN IN 2021

July 2022

Capgemini employees in our Energy Command Centre.

Introduction Our approach Managing our impacts Collective actionBeyond decarbonization Appendix



13 | Capgemini Environmental Sustainability Performance Report 2021 / 2022

RENEWABLE ELECTRICITY 

As a member of the RE100 initiative, we are committed 
to switching to 100% renewable electricity by 2025.  
In 2021, we continued the transition of our electricity 
portfolio with 58% coming from renewable sources (up 
from 51% in 2021).

At the end of 2021,  all facilities (including legacy 
Altran facilities) in Belgium,  Denmark, Finland, Ireland 
and Luxembourg were running on 100% renewable 
electricity, with Netherlands, Sweden and UK at above 
95%; and France, Germany, Japan, Spain above 80%.

In India, where the renewables market is still 
developing, our campuses in Bangalore, Mumbai 
(Airoli) and Pune (Hinjewadi, Talwade) have recently 
been converted to 100 % renewable energy through 
a combination of onsite generation and ‘Green Power’ 
utility programme. Our Chennai campuses in India 
started using solar power generated by an offsite solar 
farm located in Kovilpatti, Tuticorin district in Tamil 
Nadu through CPPA. The solar farm will deliver over 
1.6 million kWh of clean renewable electricity to our 
owned facilities (SIPCOT & MIPL) in Chennai.

This bring the total of electricity supplied from 
renewable sources in India to 36.5%, with around 
7,5000MWh generated on site in 2021.  Most of 

this electricity was directly consumed in our offices, 
however with reduced demand during the COVID-19 
lockdowns, around 760MWh of clean electricity was 
also exported to the local grid in 2021.

INCREASING THE SUSTAINABILITY OF OUR 
FACILITIES - A FOCUS ON ENERGY 
SCOPE 1+2 EMISSIONS

July 2022

INVESTING IN SOLAR PARKS

The largest Solar Park in the Capgemini Group, and 
amongst all corporates in Mumbai, was recently 
commissioned at our Airoli campus. The energy 
generated through the addition of new 3.6 MWp Solar 
Park, comprising of over 10,000 panels, is expected to 
provide around 40% of electricity consumed within the 
campus.

Capgemini Solar Park, Mumbai

Introduction Our approach Managing our impacts Collective actionBeyond decarbonization Appendix



14 | Capgemini Environmental Sustainability Performance Report 2021 / 2022

BUSINESS TRAVEL EV TRANSITION

COMMUTING

We have continued to expand our virtual collaboration 
capabilities and digital workplace initiatives to connect 
people wherever they are as part of our ‘new normal’.

For the travel that remains necessary, we continue to 
enable people to make lower carbon choices and local 
travel plans have been developed that promote car-
sharing, walking, cycling and use of public transport.

In July 2021 we announced our intention to stop 
with immediate effect the order of new pure diesel 
or petrol vehicles and eliminate non-hybrid/EV from 
our 12,000-vehicle company fleet, as part of our 
transitioning to 100% EVs by 2030 (Capgemini is a 
member of EV100)

We have been working on adapting local company car 
policies and our vehicle catalogs this year. The share of 
plug-in hybrid and full electric vehicles  at the end of 
2021 was 17.5%. 

To facilitate the transition, we have invested in 
extending the number of charging points at our 
facilities. In 2021 we doubled the number of charging 
points from 146 to 305.

As a global company, travel has consistently comprised the largest share of Capgemini’s carbon footprint.  In 
2019, pre-COVID,  57.5% of our overall carbon footprint was from travel (29.3% from business travel and 28.2% 
from commuting).   At the heart of our approach to reduce travel impacts is ensuring that the first question we 
ask is “do we need to travel?” And then if so, how can we make smarter travel choices?  This was a key part of our 
approach to our new normal and  a key element of our Travel Policy launched last year.

We continue to focus on the measurement and 
understanding of commuting emissions (including 
working from home emissions) to enable future 
reductions. We are preparing for a new survey later 
this year to gain further insight into the post Covid-19 
commuting and working from home patterns.

MINIMISING OUR TRAVEL AND COMMUTING  
IMPACTS 
SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS 

July 2022

Introduction Our approach Managing our impacts Collective actionBeyond decarbonization Appendix



15 | Capgemini Environmental Sustainability Performance Report 2021 / 2022

PROCURED GOODS AND SERVICES

In 2021, we refined our calculation methodology for 
assessing the carbon emissions from procured goods and 
services. Next to accuracy improvement, our focus is on 
carbon reduction initiatives and supplier collaboration.

Some examples of initiatives that we have taken:

• Engaging with our 100 top suppliers on decarbonization 
(estimated to account for 50% of our supply chain carbon).  
This includes dialogue on collaboration through a series of 
CPO roundtables

• Developing approaches to systematically embed 
sustainability into vendor selection and procurement choices

• Using purchasing instruments (contract conditions, action 
plans, supplier roadmaps) to maintain vendor accountability 
for carbon reductions

• Direct engagement with IT hardware and software vendors 
to identify opportunities for collaboration on pathways for 
decarbonization 

• Developing plans to train buyers on our sustainable 
procurement methodology and defining specific actions 
plans for individual procurement categories.

STOP BUYING WASTE!

While waste is not a major contributor to 
our overall carbon footprint, it is intrinsically 
linked to procurement – ultimately, every 
item purchased has the potential to 
become waste unless circular economy 
principles are applied at the outset.

Consequently, in December 2021, the Net 
Zero Board agreed two new waste targets:

1. Reduce total waste per employee by 
80% by 2030 (baseline year 2019)

2. Reduce to zero the amount of waste 
that goes to landfill and below 5% 
incineration building on the principles 
of circularity (SDG 12)

A joint Real Estate and Procurement team 
are currently finalizing our roadmap and 
action plan to achieve this target.  A key 
focus will be how we avoid ‘buying waste,’ 
items which cannot be fully reused or 
recycled at the end of their life.

Sustainable businesses need sustainable supply chains and we are working with our suppliers to make their 
activities more sustainable.  Establishing a solid measurement mechanism is the first key action.

REDUCING THE IMPACTS FROM PROCURED 
GOODS & SERVICES 
SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS

July 2022

Introduction Our approach Managing our impacts Collective actionBeyond decarbonization Appendix



BEYOND 
DECARBONIZATION

Introduction Our approach Managing our impacts Collective actionBeyond decarbonization Appendix



1. To reach our target to be carbon neutral by 2025, in parallel with focusing on reducing our operational emissions, we will expand our carbon credit 
program by scaling up each year to reach our neutrality target. This will be achieved through the retirement of high-quality carbon credits such that our net 
operational emissions compared to 2019 will be 45%, 30%, 15%, 0% in 2022, 2023, 2024 and 2025 respectively.

2. High quality credits come from independent standards, such as Verified Carbon Standard or Gold Standard, that have approved methodologies in place, 
third-party auditing, and registry systems that avoid double-counting.

3. For example, in support of the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), helping to improve biodiversity, ensuring integration and benefit 
sharing with Indigenous Peoples and Local Communities (IPLCs) and the development of circular economies.

17 | Capgemini Environmental Sustainability Performance Report 2021 / 2022

OUR PRINCIPLES FOR BEYOND VALUE CHAIN MITIGATION

1. DECARBONISE FIRST: Rapid and ambitious decarbonization aligned to the SBTi’s Corporate Net-Zero Standard must be at 
the heart of our climate commitment.

2. RESPONSIBILITY TO ACT BEYOND OUR VALUE CHAIN: We have a responsibility to act beyond the decarbonization 
of our own operations to keep global average temperature increases to below 1.5 °C. We will invest1 in climate change 
mitigation measures beyond our own value chain through solutions that have a positive impact for the planet, such as 
high-quality carbon credit projects (as defined by independent standards2). We will also target solutions with wider  
co-benefits3.

3. TRANSPARENCY: Our strategy will be transparent and aligned to best practice and our levels of investment will be 
relevant to our carbon emissions.

This is a highly complex topic: from ensuring projects meet stated aims, to the increasing scarcity of high-quality carbon 
credits and projects. Guidance and legislation around both the use of investment mechanisms and the need for transparency 
around corporate claims are evolving. We are listening and collaborating with a wide range of market actors and we will 
continue to evolve our strategy.

Our focus is on decarbonisation and in line with the SBTi’s new Net Zero Standard we will achieve a 90% carbon reduction 
across our value chain by 2040.   With terminology such as ‘net zero,’ ‘carbon neutrality,’ and ‘carbon positive’ coming under 
increasing scrutiny, the work of the SBTi’s Net Zero Standard, is being reinforced across the rapidly transforming carbon 
market landscape.  During 2021 we established our approach to beyond value chain mitigation.

BEYOND OUR DECARBONISATION STRATEGY

Recognising the urgency to achieve global net zero 
emissions, we have a responsibility to act beyond the 
decarbonisation of our own operations to keep global 
average temperature increases to below 1.5 °C. 
Therefore we are investing in carbon avoidance and 
removal solutions (including high quality carbon 
credits).  

While we recognise currently there is debate on 
the validity of terms like carbon neutrality, we will 
continue to support the minimisation and reduction 
of greenhouse gases  in the atmosphere aligned to 
our own operational footprint.

Dr. James Robey
Global Head of Environmental  
Sustainability

Our net zero programme is about reducing 
our absolute carbon impacts and we have set 
near and long term science based goals.

July 2022

Introduction Our approach Managing our impacts Collective actionBeyond decarbonization Appendix



18 | Capgemini Environmental Sustainability Performance Report 2021 / 2022

OUR PROJECT FOCUS FOR BEYOND VALUE CHAIN MITIGATION

1TRILLION TREES CAMPAIGN

During 2021 we have been finalizing initial investments, choosing to support projects that have, or will earn, high-quality 
carbon credits. We have evaluated all projects to understand relevant key criteria, for example, their additionality, 
permanence, potential leakage, conservativeness, integration with local communities and co-benefits.

Our program will support a mix of projects that both avoid new greenhouse gases entering the atmosphere (e.g. avoided 
deforestation and improved cookstoves) and some projects that remove them (e.g. afforestation). Avoiding new emissions 
into the atmosphere will be particularly important over the next decade and these projects represent the majority of the 
credits currently available. 

Over time our program will increasingly support removal projects as more opportunities become available and opportunities 
for avoiding emissions reduce. Our initial focus will be on nature-based solutions because of the availability and co-benefits 
but we are aware of the limitation of sequestering carbon in the biosphere and the availability of land. We therefore intend 
to explore opportunities in new technologies for more permanent removal-based solutions such as Direct Air Capture and 
Storage that are globally necessary.

Last year, Capgemini joined the World Economic Forum’s (WEF) 1trillion trees campaign to 
conserve, restore and grow one trillion trees around the world. We committed to plant 20 million 
trees by 2030.

And, in India, we achieved the target to plant one million trees through our  #MissionMillionTrees 
campaign.

We have also established our ’Capgemini Forest’ through our supplier Ecologi as a way for any 
stakeholder within the business to invest in tree planting in forests. To date we have supported 
the planting of 783,890 trees.

While our impact on biodiversity issues is relatively low as a business, we are driving programs that 
address the ecological crisis in other ways, in addition to our investments in carbon credits - for example, 
by supporting nature projects including tree-planting initiatives and beach cleans ups, or by encouraging 
wildlife to flourish at our sites across our Group. We encourage our employees to use technology and 
innovation to address key sustainability challenges. Here are some examples of our activities last year:

BEYOND OUR DECARBONIZATION STRATEGY

July 2022

Introduction Our approach Managing our impacts Collective actionBeyond decarbonization Appendix



19 | Capgemini Environmental Sustainability Performance Report 2021 / 2022

BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION AND RESTORATION:  
LES FONTAINES IN FOCUS

USING OUR SKILLS AND EXPERTISE TO ADDRESS GLOBAL 
SUSTAINABILILTY CHALLENGES 

The Serge Kampf Capgemini University at Les Fontaines sits in 52 hectares of parkland. 
Sustainability and protection of biodiversity is very much at the heart of how the campus is 
managed. In 2021, working with Mytree, the University has been focused on the renovation of 
the English Gardens of the Château de Chantilly as well as preserving biodiversity and the local 
historical heritage.

In addition, the University has a policy that governs the management of the parkland: 

Disturbance of nature and wildlife is kept to a minimum, with no activity permitted on the lake. 
We avoid noise pollution and have no park lighting. All park maintenance equipment is electric.  
We support biodiversity by planting and conserving a wide variety of plants and animals, and 
have grown over 50 fruit trees and installed 50 beehives within a meadow of honey producing 
flowers. We are cultivating a meadow with plant species for roe deer. 

The campus has three rainwater-harvesting wells, one of which is used for watering the 
Château gardens. We use an advanced watering system with a hygrometric probe, which 
ensures we water only when it’s necessary.  Finally, to reduce food waste we use a dehydrator 
so that we can apply fertiliser directly in our park.

MOJAVE DESERT
A team in North America developed an AI & Machine 
Learning based tool to help protect the ecosystem of 
the Western Mojave Desert.

GLOBAL DATA CHALLENGE
We teamed up with the Lofoten-Vesterålen (LoVe) 
Ocean Observatory, Norway to look at how AI 
can help provide new insights through data about 
the ocean environment to contribute to our 
understanding of climate issues. 1,187 colleagues 
across 667 teams within 33 countries participated in 
this challenge.

CAPGEMINI BLUE CHALLENGE
In Europe we launched a challenge in collaboration 
with BluMarine to support start-ups creating 
innovative seaweed solutions for a sustainable and 
inclusive world.

BEYOND OUR DECARBONIZATION STRATEGY  

July 2022

Introduction Our approach Managing our impacts Collective actionBeyond decarbonization Appendix



COLLECTIVE 
ACTION

Introduction Our approach Managing our impacts Collective actionBeyond decarbonization Appendix



21 | Capgemini Environmental Sustainability Performance Report 2021 / 2022

were asked to engage small groups of team members in ideation sessions to share knowledge, 
provoke discussion and ultimately drive positive change. 

The two key topics for the Climate Circles were ‘The Race to Net Zero’ and ‘Technological 
Innovations and Breakthroughs for the Planet.’ Training and conversation guides, including 
specially created videos to kick-start the sessions, were made available to all hosts, boosting their 
knowledge on sustainability as part of the process. 

Across the business, hundreds of Climate Circle conversations took place during the second half of 
2021, sparking new thinking and actions. Ultimately, over 14,000 employees were engaged with 
over 13,000 pledges to take further action registered. The campaign was also adapted for use by 
our University Learning team to reach larger audiences, creating a ‘Climate Circle Live’ event for 
training weeks.

significantly expanded in 2022 with the launch of our ‘Skill Up for a Sustainable Future’ campaign 
launched on Earth Day, April 2022.

Subsequently, on World Environment Day, June 2022, we launched our Virtual Sustainability 
Campus. The Campus provides a single point where employees can reinforce their knowledge on 
global sustainability issues, our own corporate commitments and actions, the impact of our sector, 
and the potential impacts of our products and services.  

The awareness module (a one-hour program) provides a comprehensive entry point into the rest 
of the Campus which provides employees with the knowledge they need to deliver our products 
and services more sustainably, and to encourage them to become ‘environmental thinkers and 
innovators’.

Our approach to mobilizing our people includes a focus on three areas: education, engagement and empowerment. At a global level, we aim to accelerate the knowledge and engagement of our 
sizeable workforce on sustainability and ultimately drive positive change. Since our first targets in 2008, we’ve been striving to create a culture where sustainable actions are normalised. We run 
regular webinars and opportunities for employees to share and develop their skills in addressing real-life global challenges. 

SUSTAINABILITY 
CAMPUS

CLIMATE 
CIRCLES 

EMPOWERING OUR PEOPLE TO HELP CREATE A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE

To support our commitment to 
building employee knowledge 
on sustainability, we significantly 
enhanced our global 
sustainability training program 
for all employees in June 2021. 
This learning approach has been

Climate Circles was our lead 
engagement campaign during 
2021, aiming to mobilize our 
people on sustainability. Our 
Vice-Presidents (VP) community, 
including members of our Group 
Executive Committee (GEC) 

July 2022

Introduction Our approach Managing our impacts Collective actionBeyond decarbonization Appendix



22 | Capgemini Environmental Sustainability Performance Report 2021 / 2022

We have developed an internal tool to measure the 
reduction of CO2e emissions delivered through our client 
projects, and to ensure we meet our 2030 target.

The carbon impact calculator enables client engagement 
teams to accurately calculate and report the 
environmental impact of their projects, with functionality 
for calculating the impact of fuel, electricity, delivery , 
data center, and water. Once the user has logged the 
estimated usage and information about the delivery 
team, the tool creates a report detailing the estimated 
impact, which can be then shared with clients 

The calculations performed by the tool are based on the 
emissions factors and data developed by the Department 
for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA) in the 
UK and the International Energy Agency (IEA) – which are 
both recognized by the Agence de l’Environnement et de 
la Maîtrise de l’Energie (ADEME), the French ecological  
transition agency.

CLIENT IMPACT CALCULATOR SUSTAINABILITY OFFERING FRAMEWORK

Last year we established our sustainability framework to help clients define and achieve 
sustainability commitments across their entire value chains while driving growth and 
competitiveness. We support them in three main ways:

1 COMMIT: Help organizations define their net-zero strategy, establish the underlying 
organization, embark all relevant stakeholders internally and externally while adjusting 
their business models.

2 ACT: Help clients operationalize their strategy by designing more sustainable products 
and services, refining their operations and supply chains to reduce their environmental 
footprints, and by switching their legacy IT capabilities to sustainable IT.

3 MONITOR & REPORT: Model, track and anticipate the evolution of any organization’s 
greenhouse gas emissions through sustainability data hubs and by leveraging 
innovative technologies. 

 
We have released four new global service offerings across these areas, engaging with 
more than 170 clients on during 2021. (See https://www.capgemini.com/services/
sustainability/ for more detail.)

July 2022

We recognize that the biggest impact we can have is through working to help our clients manage their sustainability challenges. Hence, in 2019 we announced our commitment to help clients save 
10 million tons of CO2e by 2030. In 2021, we launched our Sustainability Accelerator Services and a series of new global offers designed to help clients at key stages of their sustainability journey. 
Our Client Carbon Impact Calculator was further developed to measure and model the carbon impacts of our services across a broad range of sectors and projects as well as the impacts of our 
project delivery teams. This has been rolled out to key teams to ensure that we are helping drive sustainability thinking across our projects.

PARTNERING WITH CLIENTS ON THEIR SUSTAINABILITY CHALLENGES 

Introduction Our approach Managing our impacts Collective actionBeyond decarbonization Appendix

https://www.capgemini.com/services/sustainability/
https://www.capgemini.com/services/sustainability/


23 | Capgemini Environmental Sustainability Performance Report 2021 / 2022

We helped Mercedes-Benz in its efforts to reach climate 
neutrality by 2040 through the unification of a CO2 data and 
analytics platform, covering end-to-end supply chain and 
logistics from inbound to outbound logistics and spare parts 
management processes. This has secured future CO2 reporting 
with a robust solution enabling frequent CO2 reporting, and 
thus enabling the company to take timely actions to reach its 
CO2 targets. It also enables the company to better use analytics 
capabilities automation and artificial intelligence/machine 
learning to proactively mitigate its CO2 footprint.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

https://www.capgemini.com/news/client-stories/it-contributes-to-
automotive-sustainability-targets/

We  have supported a Swiss well-known luxury brand on its 
journey towards net zero. The sustainability team of this brand 
has chosen to implement Salesforce Net Zero Cloud with our 
Swiss Salesforce Experts for their carbon accounting data.

 As well as implementation, Capgemini worked with the 
customer to design an action plan to complete the Net Zero 
Data journey preparing for the future - a robust and trusted 
Carbon Data ecosystem with Salesforce Net Zero Cloud as the 
central reporting and monitoring platform.

We helped Gasag take the first steps toward its goal of 
achieving carbon neutrality by 2045. We validated its cross-units 
strategy for emissions assessment and reduction, identified 
measures for a total reduction potential of 2.5M tCO2 annually, 
and developed a tool for reporting carbon emissions and 
savings. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

https://www.capgemini.com/news/client-stories/defining-gasags-
transformation-journey-to-carbon-neutrality/

ACT MONITOR & REPORT  COMMIT

July 2022

BRINGING INNOVATION AND EXPERTISE TO HELP CLIENTS ACCELERATE 
THEIR SUSTAINABILITY TRANSFORMATION

Introduction Our approach Managing our impacts Collective actionBeyond decarbonization Appendix

https://www.capgemini.com/news/client-stories/it-contributes-to-automotive-sustainability-targets/
https://www.capgemini.com/news/client-stories/it-contributes-to-automotive-sustainability-targets/
https://www.capgemini.com/news/client-stories/defining-gasags-transformation-journey-to-carbon-neutr
https://www.capgemini.com/news/client-stories/defining-gasags-transformation-journey-to-carbon-neutr


We are committed to working with our clients, partners, start-ups and NGOs to find solutions to major 
systemic challenges, participating in conversations to drive innovations and new ways of working.

Since joining the Race to Zero campaign as a founder member in 2020, we have extended our 
memberships and collaborations. In 2021, our CEO joined the World Economic Forum’s Alliance of CEO 
Climate Leaders, a global community of Chief Executive Officers formed to catalyze action across all 
sectors. We also joined the World Economic Forum (WEF) 1trillion trees movement, committing to plant 
20 million trees by 2030.  

Through our memberships of the RE100 and EV100, we are collaborating with other members to send 
a powerful signal to markets and governments about the need for a rapid transition to both renewable 
electricity and electric vehicles. We also joined the European Green Digital Coalition, a group of 
technology leaders aiming to ensure technology is a key driver in addressing sustainability issues.

Our worldwide network of experts works closely with clients, technology and academic partners to 
explore and share the latest developments in business, sustainability and technology as well as share 
actionable insights and analysis on climate challenges and opportunities.

Our Capgemini Research Institute is proud to have been ranked #1 in the world for the quality of our 
research by independent professional services research firm Source Global Research.

Twenty-two sustainability research reports and points of view were published in 2021 by Capgemini – 
placing sustainability at the heart of our thought leadership efforts.

We are committed to working with others, including clients, partners and NGOs, to find solutions to major systemic challenges – building stronger eco-systems and participating in conversations 
that lead to innovations and new ways of working. 

SHARING KEY SUSTAINABILITY INSIGHTS FROM A BUSINESS  
AND SOCIETAL PERSPECTIVE TO DRIVE CONVERSATION AND ACTION 

LEVERAGING THE POWER OF PARTNERSHIPS TO AMPLIFY AND 
ACCELERATE IMPACT

ADVOCATING AND COLLABORATING  FOR GREATER IMPACT 

As the CEO of a global 
technology services company, 

I will do everything I can to 
make sure digital technology 

is positively part of the 
solution for a more sustainable 
economy. I commit to working 

with our partners and the 
European Green Digital 

Coalition, across the technology 
value chain and beyond, to make 

a collective meaningful impact 
on sustainability. 

 

Aiman Ezzat,  
CEO

24 | Capgemini Environmental Sustainability Performance Report 2021 / 2022 July 2022

Introduction Our approach Managing our impacts Collective actionBeyond decarbonization Appendix



In November 2021, Glasgow hosted the 26th United Nations Climate Change Conference of the Parties, COP26. This global 
event marked the deadline for governments to set out their more ambitious climate change goals following the Paris 
Agreement, signed at COP21 six years before. 

As the key partner for the World Climate Summit, the leading forum for business and investment-driven solutions to climate 
change at COP26, our Group CEO, Aiman Ezzat in his opening speech shared his views on how corporate sustainability leaders 
are tackling the climate crisis. 

Our experts James Forrest, Global Industry Leader for Energy and Utility, and Courtney Holmes, UK Vice President of 
Sustainability Solutions spoke on the challenges of the global energy transition and the importance of coalitions and public-
private partnerships in tackling the climate crisis. 

Climate Week NYC, hosted by the Climate Group in partnership with the United Nations, COP26 and the City of New York, was 
held in October 2021. It focused on fulfilling and increasing collaboration between businesses, governments, and organizations, 
and aimed to provide a platform for showcasing leading climate action and discussing how to do more, faster.Capgemini 
hosted a panel discussion on how ‘Tech Projects Shape A Sustainable Future.’ Moderated by our American sustainability team, it 
included speakers from Google, Engie, Panasonic, and Climate Engine. Once again, the need for deep collaboration was at the 
heart of the discussion.

PARTNERSHIP WITH WORLD CLIMATE SUMMIT FOR COP26

CLIMATE WEEK NYC

ENGAGING STRATEGICALLY AT KEY MOMENTS IN 2021

25 | Capgemini Environmental Sustainability Performance Report 2021 / 2022 July 2022

Introduction Our approach Managing our impacts Collective actionBeyond decarbonization Appendix



APPENDIX

Introduction Our approach Managing our impacts Collective action AppendixBeyond decarbonization



SCOPE DATA AND REPORTING QUALITY

FOR MORE INFORMATION 

Unless stated otherwise, the data in this report covers the 
environmental sustainability activities of all Capgemini 
subsidiaries for the year 2021.  This is based upon data 
collected across 35 countries (representing 99.5% of the 
Group headcount) with an estimation included for the 
remainder of the Group. 

Data published in this report is the audited and 
complete final set of environmental data 2021.It 
complements the information published earlier 
this year, in the CSR section of our Universal 
Registration Document 2021 and Integrated 
Annual Report 2021.  Any variances in data are 
explained in the Performance Scorecard section.

The full report has been audited by Mazars and 
the assurance statement can be found at the 
end of the report.To find out more about our wider approach to responsible 

business please visit: 
https://www.capgemini.com/about-us/csr/

Our ESG Policy (published in 2021) provides the detail of the 
integration of our priorities into  the company’s strategy and 
decision-making processes.  See more here: 
https://www.capgemini.com/about-us/approach-to-esg/

FEEDBACK

We welcome feedback on our approach to environmental 
sustainability and the  content of this report.  
Please email sustainability.reporting@capgemini.com

ABOUT THIS REPORT

27 | Capgemini Environmental Sustainability Performance Report 2021 / 2022 July 2022

Introduction Our approach Managing our impacts Collective action AppendixBeyond decarbonization

https://www.capgemini.com/about-us/csr/
https://www.capgemini.com/about-us/approach-to-esg/
mailto:sustainability.reporting%40capgemini.com?subject=


Capgemini’s global approach to responsible business is guided by the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Here, we list how Capgemini contributes to the SDGs through our 
Environmental Sustainability strategy.  Examples of actions to meet the targets are listed in our Universal Registration Document available on our website. 

OUR CONTRIBUTION TO THE UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS

Goal Target Influence

Target 7.2: “By 2030, increase substantially the share of renewable 
energy in the global energy mix”

We are committed to transitioning our own energy supply to 100% renewable electricity by 2025 and through 
our membership of the RE100, we are a vocal supporter of the acceleration of renewable electricity markets 
and support our clients in their renewable energy transitions.

Target 9.4: “By 2030, upgrade infrastructure and retrofit industries 
to make them sustainable, with increased resource-use efficiency and 
greater adoption of clean and environmentally sound technologies 
and industrial processes, all countries taking action in accordance 
with their respective capabilities”  

We are committed to working with clients in the public and private sectors to increase their sustainability and 
resource efficiency, with a target to help our clients save 10 million tons CO2e. Upgrading IT infrastructure, ad-
vancing cutting edge technology and fostering sustainable innovation are a few examples of our client services 
that help advance this target.

Target 11.6: “By 2030, reduce the adverse per capita environmental 
impact of cities, including by paying special attention to air quality 
and municipal and other waste management”

As a company that employs more than 300,000 people, many of whom live and work in cities, the decisions we 
make on mobility and waste management can have a global reach. We are committed to reducing the emissions 
and air pollutants associated with business travel and employee commuting. We are also ensuring the sustain-
able management of waste. 

Target 12.2: “By 2030, achieve the sustainable management and 
efficient use of natural resources”  

We have an impact on advancing resource efficiency and supporting the circular economy, primarily through the 
decisions on what we buy, how we use, re-use and dispose of resources. At the end of 2021, a waste target has 
been adopted and we are currently defining the action plan to achieve this goal. 
At the same time, we support clients in building circularity and sustainable resource management into their 
business models.

Target 13.3: “Improve education, awareness-raising and human and 
institutional capacity on climate change mitigation, adaptation, im-
pact reduction and early warning”

Our sustainability program is oriented around a goal to drive strong action on climate change. We are commit-
ted to improving education, building capacity, and raising awareness of climate change both throughout our 
workforce and with our clients. 

28 | Capgemini Environmental Sustainability Performance Report 2021 / 2022 July 2022

Introduction Our approach Managing our impacts Collective action AppendixBeyond decarbonization



1. We have been signatories of the UN Global Compact’s “Caring for Climate” initiative since its 
inception in 2007. 

2. We joined the World Economic Forum’s Alliance of CEO Climate Leaders, a global community 
of Chief Executive Officers who catalyse action across all sectors and engage policymakers 
to help deliver the transition to a net zero economy. 

3. We became a signatory to the RE100, committing to transition 100% of our electricity to 
renewable sources by 2025. 

4. We committed to EV100,  transitioning to an electric fleet by 2030 as well as supporting 
customers and staff to use electric vehicles by installing charging infrastructure. 

5. Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) validated our carbon reduction targets as being in line 
with the level of reduction needed to limit global warming to 1.5°C. 

6. We became a founding member of the UN’s Race to Zero campaign - a coalition of leading 
net zero initiatives.

7. We signed the Business Ambition for 1.5-degree targets. 

8. We joined the WEF 1trillion trees campaign to conserve, restore and grow trees around the 
world with a commitment to plant 20 million trees by 2030 . 

9. We became a signatory to the Taskforce for Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), 
supporting action to build resilient solutions to climate change through climate-related 
financial disclosures. 

10. We Joined the European Green Digital Coalition to ensure technology is a key driver to 
address sustainability issues.

1. We achieved a position on the A list in the CDP climate change assessment, recognising our 
leadership position in taking action on climate change.

2. We were recognised by CDP as a Supplier Engagement Leader, in the top 7% of companies 
assessed. The CDP Supplier Engagement Rating provides a rating for how effectively 
companies are engaging their suppliers on climate change.

3. We achieved a platinum rating in our Ecovadis CSR assessment, the highest possible rating 
for the third year in a row, which puts us in the top 1% of companies assessed.

4. We retained our “Prime” status in the ISS ESG Corporate Performance index, increasing our 
score to achieve a place amongst the top 2% of highest scoring companies in our sector.

5. We retained our “AA” rating on the MSCI Index as a leader in its industry in managing the 
most significant ESG risks and opportunities.

6. We continued our inclusion in the FTSE4Good Index, which is designed to measure and 
recognize the performance of companies demonstrating strong environmental, social and 
governance practices. 

7. We were confirmed as a constituent of the EURONEXT Vigeo Eiris Eurozone 120 indice 
(our performance on environmental, social and governance issues places us in the Top 120 
companies in the Eurozone).

8. Included in the S&P Global Sustainability Yearbook 2021, which is an important recognition 
of our leadership on sustainability, with companies featured being the top 15% of their 
industry.

9. We continued our inclusion in the STOXX ESG Leaders index, which offers a representation 
of the leading global companies in terms of environmental, social and governance criteria, 
based on indicators provided by Sustainalytics. 

10. We were confirmed as a component of the Standard Ethics SE French Index and the SE 
European Best in Class Index - we are one of the few global companies with a score of EEE-, 
equating to “Excellent”.

11. We were re-confirmed as a constituent of the Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) Excellence 
Europe and the Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) Excellence Global.

12. We were awarded  Gold level recognition through the Green Lease Leaders program in 
recognition of our global commitment to increasing environmental performance and 
sustainability in buildings.

OUR PARTNERSHIPS OUR RECOGNITIONS AND AWARDS

29 | Capgemini Environmental Sustainability Performance Report 2021 / 2022 July 2022

Introduction Our approach Managing our impacts Collective action AppendixBeyond decarbonization



   

30 | Capgemini Environmental Sustainability Performance Report 2021 / 2022 July 2022

We established the governance for our net zero transformation programme in 2020, creating a Net Zero Board that includes our CEO, Chief Financial Officer, the Chief CSR Officer, the CEO of 
Capgemini India (accounting for almost half of the group’s headcount and 42% of our total carbon emissions) and the Group Head of Environmental Sustainability. It is chaired by our sponsor, Group 
Executive Board member and Global Head of Capgemini Invent.

The Net Zero Board is supported by a Cross Function Sustainability Committee which brings together executives at the operational level, enabling us to rapidly accelerate and embed our 
sustainability actions. 

In addition, our CEO, the Group Executive Committee, the Group Executive Board, and the Board of Directors (formally through the CSR and Strategy Committee) are all consulted and involved in 
key decisions relating to our sustainability program to ensure the program remains fully aligned and embedded into our corporate strategy.  Key executives, including the CEO, have sustainability 
criteria as an important component of their performance and remuneration metrics.

Ultimate Executive responsibility for material decisions relating to the program sits with the CEO, Aiman Ezzat.

MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE

• Brings together the leaders of  key organizational 
functions such as Corporate Real Estate, Group IT 
and Procurement, with key members of the Group’s 
sustainability team to ensure delivery of the strategy.

• Provides the governance for the environmental 
management system, our targets and data, and delivery  
of the program. 

• Provides executive level governance with responsibility 
for monitoring climate risks and reviewing, debating 
and approving climate and sustainability policies and 
practices for the Group. 

THE CROSS-FUNCTION SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE THE NET ZERO MANAGEMENT COMMITTEETHE NET ZERO BOARD

• Drives change at all levels of the business, working in partnership with key organizational functions and teams.

THE  ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY TEAM

• Ensure that the global strategy is both translated into action plans and closely monitored.

DEDICATED LOCAL TEAMS

Introduction Our approach Managing our impacts Collective action AppendixBeyond decarbonization



As a business made up of diverse global business lines and multiple service offers, 
operating in 50 countries we have some in-built resilience against climate change.  
However, the increasingly visible impacts of global heating, flooding and fires,  and a 
deep understanding of the science behind climate change, mean that we recognize 
that the level of climate-related risks is likely to escalate in the coming years.  In 2020 
we committed to report in alignment with the Taskforce for Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD). We revised our Climate Change Risk Assessment (CCRA) process with a 
stronger focus on transition risks and climate-related scenario analysis, and with increased 
integration into our corporate risk management processes. 

 
Through research, workshops and analysis we explore different climate scenarios as set 
out by the IPCC – one where temperature increase is limited to 1.5°C.  and one which sees 
severe and irreversible climate change. (Further details can be found in our Universal 
Registration Document.)

 
The CCRA has been integrated into the internal control and risk management system. 
Physical and Transition risks are included in the Group’s Risk Register and periodically 
assessed via Group risk mapping in terms of impact and likelihood, which is validated by 
the Group Risk Committee.

At a more granular level, risks identified through the CCRA are entered into our EMS 
at both Group, country and site level. The risks become part of the Aspect and Impact 
Register, and action plans are defined to manage the risks, to monitor performance, and 
drive improvement.

Our carbon reduction programme is underpinned by two key management systems that are essential 
for managing and monitoring our activities and for taking informed decisions: 

MAKING LONG TERM DECISIONS – 
UNDERSTANDING OUR CLIMATE RELATED RISKS

UNDERSTANDING AND MANAGING  
OUR IMPACTS

31 | Capgemini Environmental Sustainability Performance Report 2021 / 2022 July 2022

MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE

Our Global Environmental Management System

Our global ISO140001 EMS  is our framework for managing the environmental performance of 
our business. 

At the end of 2021 our ISO14001 certification covers 93% of our global headcount incorporating 
the majority of legacy Altran and three new Capgemini entities (Portugal, Ukraine, and Colombia). 
In 2022, we will bring the remaining Altran countries and sites fully into the scope of our global 
certificate. 

Our global ISO 50001 EnMS covers France, Netherlands, and the UK.

Our global ISO 45001 Health and Safety management system certificate covers Germany and the 
Netherlands (Italy and India hold local ISO 45001 certificates).

Further expansion of ISO 50001 and ISO 45001 is planned in 2022. 

Our Carbon Accounting System

Our centralized Carbon Accounting System monitors around 10  million data points a year, 
covering 99% of our operations and ensures we have a high level of consistency and data quality. 

We use this extensive data set to enable a very granular analysis of greenhouse gas emissions, 
and to help us pinpoint opportunities to reduce emissions. 

In 2021, we integrated environmental data from Altran into Capgemini’s carbon accounting 
processes.

Introduction Our approach Managing our impacts Collective action AppendixBeyond decarbonization



On the following pages we provide insight into our carbon footprint. Our 2021 data is presented against our new baseline year 2019 as well as our previous baseline 2015.  The information is 
based on the environmental data we gather from Capgemini entities in 35 countries, covering 99.5% of our global operations in 2021.  The final 0.5% is extrapolated to report a complete estimate.

OUR PERFORMANCE DATA 2021

Office Energy               3,421 

Data Centre Energy          64

F-Gas                          7,137

Office Energy                                                                                                    51,425

Data Centre Energy               2,392

Air Travel                                                 23,885

Car Travel                                                    24,122

Hotel Nights                    6,385

Taxi, Rail & Other                3,291

Office T&D Losses                          9,995

Data Centre T&D Losses            859

Water          262

Waste           762

Scope 1

Breakdown of 2021 emissions (tCO2e) by scope

Scope 2

Scope 3

32 | Capgemini Environmental Sustainability Performance Report 2021 / 2022 July 2022

Introduction Our approach Managing our impacts Collective action AppendixBeyond decarbonization



We gather environmental data from Capgemini entities in 35 countries covering over 99.5% of our global operations in 2021. The data below shows a regional breakdown of our key metrics.

Change compared to 2020 Office energy efficiency 

% of total electricity 
from renewables

Scope 1 & 2 emissions 
 

Business travel emissions

2021 REGIONAL VIEW OF KEY METRICS

KEY METRICS

33 | Capgemini Environmental Sustainability Performance Report 2021 / 2022

India (44% of Group emissions)

37%6,856 tCO2e 53.96 kWh/m243,733   

North America (11% of Group emissions)

9%9,061 tCO2e 133.53 kWh/m25,377 tCO2e

France (10% of Group emissions)

80%10,340 tCO2e 115.96 kWh/m21,788 tCO2e

Netherlands (4% of Group emissions)

Other Regions (8% of Group emissions)

5%5,448 tCO2e 92.41 kWh/m24,928 tCO2e

Other Europe (19% of Group emissions)

76%18,465 tCO2e 95.02 kWh/m26,192 tCO2e

United Kingdom (3% of Group emissions)

97%4,154 tCO2e 78.52 kWh/m2392 tCO2e

Latin America (1% of Group emissions)

0%772 tCO2e 47.83 kWh/m2291 tCO2e

July 2022

95%2,273 tCO2e 239.88 kWh/m21,328 tCO2e

Introduction Our approach Managing our impacts Collective action AppendixBeyond decarbonization



The carbon emissions during 2021 remain notably lower than those in 2019 as a result of the COVID-19 related lockdowns.

As in 2020, working from home remained the default for most employees in 2021 and  consequently, business travel was heavily restricted.

As  the world started to open up after the COVID-19 lockdowns, we have been taking measures to ensure travel emissions remain well below pre-COVID levels; remote delivery, greater virtual collaboration and a hybrid way of working have 
become the norm.  

Being conscious that working from home is not without emissions, we have developed  a methodology to assess these emissions. We will periodically survey our employees to calculate the working from home emissions and monitor the 
trend in conjunction to emissions from employee commuting.

TABLE 1: CARBON EMISSIONS BY SCOPE
Notes:

• Data identified with a      has been reviewed by Mazars with a reasonable level of 
assurance. 

• Going forward we will include employee commuting, working from home      and 
purchased goods and services. They have been presented above in a separate table for 
reference only as these numbers have not yet been validated by the external auditors.

• Data differs from that reported in the Universal Registration Document (URD) 2021 
for the following key reasons: a) Part of 2020 Q4 estimated data replaced by actuals. 
b) there has been a methodology change in the scope 2 emissions; for countries like 
US, Canada and China we have moved from IEA emission factors to more accurate and 
country specific local-grid emission factors. This significantly impacted the emissions as 
per market-based approach.  c) For US, CA, India, and China the location-based scope 2 
emissions have changed due to changes to local-grid emission factors. These changes 
have been applied to all previous years up to baseline year 2015.

• A s recommended by the GHG Protocol, emissions of Fluorinated Gas (F-gas) not covered 
by the Kyoto Protocol such as chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) are not reported as Scope 1 
emissions and are therefore not included above. These F-gas emissions are, however, 
captured with a value of 1,128 tons of CO

2e for 2021.

• The majority of the increase in reported F-gas in 2021 relate to deferred servicing of air-
conditioning systems in India due to the lockdown of premises during 2020 due to COVID 
lockdown. Our total carbon footprint takes into account the market based methods to 
reflect the effect of the green power purchase agreements that we are putting in place.

• In line with the GHG Protocol, our scope 2 emissions have been calculated using both the 
“market based” method, applying the supplier specific emissions factors as well as the 
‘location based” method, using the regional electricity emission factors. 

• Our business travel emissions have been calculated including the impact of radiative 
forcing for air travel, as well as the impact of hotel night stays. Whilst this is 
recommended best practice, many companies in our sector do not yet include these two 
emission sources and therefore caution should be applied when comparing Capgemini’s 
business travel emissions to those of other companies in our sector.

• The decrease in reported water emissions in 2021 is mainly due to reduce water 
consumption due to COVID lockdowns

• The increase in waste emissions in 2020 was due to an update to the BEIS emissions 

factors. The total volume of waste decreased.

Metric Unit 2015 2019 2020 2021 % change 
vs 2015

% change 
vs 2019

Scope 1 Data Centre Energy (natural gas, diesel) tCO2e 213 90 67 64 -70% -29%

Office Energy (natural gas, diesel) tCO2e 6,624 6,859 4,009 3,421 -48% -50%

F-Gas tCO2e 2,784 5,476 4,403 7,137 156% 30%

Total Scope 1 tCO2e 9,621 12,425 8,479 10,622 10% -15%

"Scope 2 
(Market based)"

Data Centre Energy (electricity, heating, cooling) tCO2e 15,693 3,399 3,419 2,392 -85% -30%

Office Energy (electricity, heating, cooling) tCO2e 171,374 139,842 68,701 51,425 -70% -63%

Total Scope 2 tCO2e 187,067 143,242 72,120 53,818 -71% -62%

"Scope 2 
(Location based)"

Data Centre Energy (electricity, heating, cooling) tCO2e 47,487 19,941 17,278 14,074 -70% -29%

Office Energy (electricity, heating, cooling) tCO2e 183,041 168,259 98,951 75,861 -59% -55%

Total Scope 2 tCO2e 230,527 188,200 116,229 89,935 -61% -52%

Scope 3 Business Travel tCO2e 347,149 338,731 99,543 57,682 -83% -83%

Office Energy (T&D losses) tCO2e 34,444 23,322 13,845 9,995 -71% -57%

Data Centre Energy (T&D losses) tCO2e 3,521 1,312 1,022 859 -76% -35%

Waste tCO2e 451 492 880 762 69% 55%

Water tCO2e 1,999 1,970 929 262 -87% -87%

Total Scope 3 tCO2e 387,564 365,828 116,219 69,560 -82% -81%

Total emissions tCO2e 584,252 521,494 196,819 134,000 -77% -74%

Emissions per employee tCO2e/head 2.68 1.96 0.74 0.45 -83% -77%

Scope 3 extension Employee Commute tCO2e n/a 301,594 70,613 18,801 n/a -94%

Working from home tCO2e n/a 22,022 96,110 122,408 n/a 456%

Purchased Goods & Services tCO2e n/a 319,604 308,263 346,073 n/a 8%

Total emissions tCO2e 11,64,714 671,804 621,281 n/a

√

√

√

√

√

34 | Capgemini Environmental Sustainability Performance Report 2021 / 2022 July 2022

Introduction Our approach Managing our impacts Collective action AppendixBeyond decarbonization



Metric Unit 2015 2019 2020 2021 % change vs 2015 % change vs 2019

Office Diesel/Gas Oil MWh 11,301 9,275 3,821 2,982 -74% -68%

District Cooling MWh 1,732 2,163 889 1,005 -42% -54%

District Heating MWh 6,108 6,672 5,665 6,796 11% 2%

LPG MWh 0 3,347 797 86

Natural Gas MWh 19,142 20,323 15,452 14,314 -25% -30%

Non-Renewable Electricity MWh 259,273 205,669 108,049 77,886 -70% -62%

Renewable electricity Mwh 43,695 80,223 84,927 79,832 83% 0%

% Renewable electricity % 14% 28% 44% 51%

Total Office Energy Use MWh 341,251 327,673 219,601 182,901 -46% -44%

% of renewable energy % 13% 24% 39% 44%

Office energy usage per area MWh/m2 0.16 0.14 0.09 0.08 -52% -45%

Data Centre Diesel/Gas Oil MWh 544 329 239 238 -56% -28%

Natural Gas MWh 355 30 30 14 -96% -54%

Non-Renewable Electricity MWh 76,938 28,227 25,598 19,580 -75% -31%

Renewable Electricity MWh 70,724 58,670 55,716 53,002 -25% -10%

% Renewable electricity % 48% 68% 69% 73%

Total Data Centre Energy Use MWh 148,561 87,257 81,582 72,834 -51% -17%

% of renewable energy % 48% 67% 68% 73%

Total Total Energy Use MWh 489,811 414,929 301,183 255,734 -48% -38%

% of renewable electricity % 25% 37% 51% 58%

% of renewable energy % 23% 33% 47% 52%

TABLE 2: ENERGY CONSUMPTION

Notes:
• Data identified with a      has been reviewed by Mazars with a reasonable level of assurance

• “Renewable Electricity” includes all renewable electricity purchased on renewable energy tariffs or through renewable energy certificates, as well as electricity generated on-site in India using solar photovoltaic panels. “Non-renewable electricity” includes purchased electricity generated from mixed tariffs which are largely 
made up of fossil fuel and nuclear sources. 

• Given the nature of our business, many of Capgemini’s offices contain large server rooms. Whilst these are not considered to be data centers, their presence should be taken into consideration when comparing the energy usage and energy efficiency of our offices against those in other sectors. 

√

√

√

√

35 | Capgemini Environmental Sustainability Performance Report 2021 / 2022 July 2022

Introduction Our approach Managing our impacts Collective action AppendixBeyond decarbonization



Notes:
• Data identified with a      has been reviewed by Mazars with a reasonable level of assurance

• Hotel emissions are calculated based on emission factors specific to the country in which the traveler is staying. For some countries, emission factors were not available from DEFRA and therefore have been sourced directly from https://www.hotelfootprints.org (DEFRA 
emission factors are derived from the same data set).

• Where mileage data (e.g., for taxis) is not available, this has been estimated by taking the cost data within that country and applying the average cost per mile ratio from other data within that country or region.

• “Other travel” refers to travel by other modes of transportation (bus, tram, motorcycle)

Metric Unit 2015 2019 2020 2021 % change vs 2015 % change vs 2019

Travel by Source Air tCO2e 217,780 218,052 52,507 23,885 -89% -89%

Car tCO2e 68,326 60,788 28,038 24,122 -65% -60%

Hotel tCO2e 45,860 40,291 13,294 6,385 -86% -84%

Other Travel tCO2e 1,683 2,322 1,013 309 -82% -87%

Rail tCO2e 6,425 8,819 1,997 1,359 -79% -85%

Taxi tCO2e 7,075 8,459 2,693 1,623 -77% -81%

Total Travel Emissions tCO2e 347,149 338,731 99,543 57,682 -83% -83%

Total Travel Emissions per head tCO2e/head 1.59 1.27 0.37 0.20 -88% -85%

TABLE 3: BREAKDOWN OF BUSINESS TRAVEL EMISSIONS

√

√

36 | Capgemini Environmental Sustainability Performance Report 2021 / 2022 July 2022

Introduction Our approach Managing our impacts Collective action AppendixBeyond decarbonization

https://www.hotelfootprints.org 


Metric Unit 2015 2019 2020 2021 % change vs 2015 % change vs 2019

Waste by disposal method Waste to Landfill tons 4,233 3,575 1,840 1,581 -63% -56%

Waste Recycled tons 1,865 1,796 1,029 906 -51% -50%

Waste to Energy tons 115 149 86 72 -37% -51%

Waste Others tons 12 545 180 55 371% -90%

Total waste Total waste tons 6,225 6,065 3,135 2,614 -58% -57%

Total waste emissions tCO2e 451 492 880 762 69% 55%

% of waste diverted from landfill % 32% 41% 41% 40% 24% -4%

Water Total water use m^3 18,99,605 18,73,046 882,619 622,176 -67% -67%

Total water emissions tCO2e 1,999 1,970 929 262 -87% -87%

TABLE 4: WASTE AND WATER

Notes:
• Data identified with a      has been reviewed by Mazars with a reasonable level of assurance

• The availability of accurate waste and water data varies considerably across the Group, depending on the type of site, the type of lease and local waste arrangements. Where actual data is not available, it has been estimated using relevant estimation methods. We take a 
conservative principle of assuming waste has been landfilled where landlords cannot confirm otherwise, and hence it is likely that a higher proportion of waste is diverted from landfill than what is stated here.

• As recommended by DEFRA we calculate both the emissions associated with water supply and the emissions associated with water treatment. As the volume of water being sent for treatment is not currently metered, we have made an assumption that it is the same as 
the volume of water supplied.

√

√

√
√

37 | Capgemini Environmental Sustainability Performance Report 2021 / 2022 July 2022

Introduction Our approach Managing our impacts Collective action AppendixBeyond decarbonization



Report by one of the Statutory Auditors on a selection of environmental indicators of the Environmental Sustainability Performance Report 
For the year ended 31 December, 2021

ASSURANCE STATEMENT

To the Shareholders, 

As requested and in our capacity as the Statutory Auditor of your company (hereinafter the 
“Entity”), we hereby report to you on a selection of consolidated environmental information 
for the year ended December 31, 2021, identified by the symbol √, (hereinafter named 
“Environmental Information”), and disclosed in the Environmental Sustainability Performance 
Report 2021/2022. At the company’s request and on a voluntary basis, we carried out works 
aimed at formulating a reasoned opinion that expresses a reasonable level of assurance on a 
selection of information, prepared in accordance with the entity’s procedures (hereinafter the 
“Statement”).

Conclusion 

Based on the procedures we performed, as described in the “Nature and scope of our work” and 
the evidence we collected, we believe that this work enables us to express reasonable assurance 
on the information selected by the company and identified by the sign √.

In our opinion, the Environmental information selected by the Entity and identified by the symbol 
√ in the Environmental Sustainability Performance Report 2021-2022 is fairly presented, in all 
material respects, in compliance with the Guidelines.

Preparation of the Environmental Sustainability Performance Report

The absence of a generally accepted and commonly used framework or established practices on 
which to base the evaluation and measurement of the Environmental Information permits the use 
of different, but acceptable, measurement techniques which may affect comparability between 
entities and within the time.

Consequently, the Information must be read and understood with reference to the Entity’s 

procedures (hereinafter the “Guidelines”), the significant elements of which are presented in the 
Statement.

 Limits inherent in the preparation of the Information

The Environmental Information may be subject to uncertainty inherent in the state of scientific 
or economic knowledge and the quality of the external data used. Some information is sensitive 
to the methodological choices, assumptions and/or estimates used for their preparation and 
presented in the Statement.

The entity’s responsibility

The Corporate Social Responsibility & Sustainability division is responsible for preparing the 
Environmental Information in accordance with the guidelines used by the Entity (hereinafter the 
“Guidelines”), summarized in the methodological notes presented in the Environmental report 
and available on request at the Entity’s headquarters.

Responsibility of the Statutory Auditor

On the basis of our work, our responsibility is to express, at the request of the Entity, a report 
expressing a reasonable assurance conclusion on the Environmental information selected1 by the 
Entity and identified by the symbol √, in the Environmental report. The conclusions given below 
relate solely to the Environmental information, and not to the Entity’s Environmental report 
as a whole. We performed our work in accordance with ISAE 30002 and in compliance with the 
professional guidelines applicable in France.

38 | Capgemini Environmental Sustainability Performance Report 2021 / 2022 July 2022

Introduction Our approach Managing our impacts Collective action AppendixBeyond decarbonization



Independence and quality control 

Our independence is defined by the requirements of article L.822-11-3 of the French Commercial 
Code and the French Code of Ethics (Code de déontologie) of our profession. In addition, we have 
implemented a system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding 
compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements, the ethical requirements and 
French professional guidance.

Nature and scope of our work

We conducted interviews with the persons responsible for preparing the Environmental 
Information in the departments in charge of collecting the information and, where appropriate, 
responsible for internal control and risk management procedures, in order to:

assess the suitability of the Guidelines in terms of their relevance, completeness, reliability, 
neutrality and understandability, and taking into account industry best practices where 
appropriate;

verify the implementation of data-collection, compilation, processing and control process to reach 
completeness and consistency of the Environmental Information; and obtain an understanding 
of the internal control and risk management procedures used to prepare the Environmental 
Information.

We determined the nature and scope of our tests and procedures based on the nature and 
importance of the Environmental Information with respect to the characteristics of the Entity and 
environmental challenges of its activities, its sustainability strategy and industry best practices.

At the Entity level, we performed analytical procedures on the Environmental information and 
verified, using sampling techniques, the calculation and the consolidation of the data.

At the level of a representative sample of entities selected by us3 on the basis of their activity, 
their contribution to the consolidated indicators, their location and a risk analysis, we conducted 

interviews to verify that procedures are properly applied and to identify potential undisclosed 
data, and we performed tests of details, using sampling techniques, in order to verify the 
calculations and reconcile the data with the supporting documents.

The selected sample represents between 48 % and 81 % of the Environmental information.

We consider that this work enables us to express a conclusion of reasonable assurance for the 
information selected by the Entity and identified by the symbol √.

Due to the use of sampling techniques and other limitations inherent to information and 
internal control systems, the risk of not detecting a material misstatement in the Environmental 
information cannot be totally eliminated.

1. Total energy consumption and office energy consumption per square meter; GHG emissions linked to energy 
consumption and business travel; GHG emissions per employee and associated reduction; Share of electricity from 
renewable sources; Share of operations per employee covered by ISO 14001 certification

2. ISAE 3000 - Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical financial information

3. Capgemini India, Capgemini Italy, Capgemini France 

Mazars SA
Paris La Défense, 27th July, 2022

Anne-Laure ROUSSELOU
Partner

Edwige REY
CSR & Sustainability Partner

39 | Capgemini Environmental Sustainability Performance Report 2021 / 2022 July 2022

Introduction Our approach Managing our impacts Collective action AppendixBeyond decarbonization



About Capgemini

Capgemini is a global leader in partnering with companies to transform and manage their 
business by harnessing the power of technology. The Group is guided everyday by its 
purpose of unleashing human energy through technology for an inclusive and sustainable 
future. It is a responsible and diverse organization of over 340,000 team members in 
more than 50 countries. With its strong 55-year heritage and deep industry expertise, 
Capgemini is trusted by its clients to address the entire breadth of their business needs, 
from strategy and design to operations, fueled by the fast evolving and innovative world 
of cloud, data, AI, connectivity, software, digital engineering and platforms. The Group 
reported in 2021 global revenues of €18 billion.

Get the Future You Want | www.capgemini.com

This presentation contains information that may be privileged or confidential and 
is the property of the Capgemini Group.

Copyright © 2022 Capgemini. All rights reserved.