Coal India Limited


SUSTAINABILITY  REPORT
2020-21 

A 
Maharatna
Company



Our Vision, Mission  & Values

Mission

To emerge as a global player in the primary
energy sector committed to provide energy
security to the country by attaining
environmentally & socially sustainable
growth through best practices from mine to
market.

Values

Vision

To produce and market the planned quantity
of coal and coal products efficiently and
economically in an eco-friendly manner with
due regard to safety, conservation and
quality

Our core values include equality, justice,
transparency and accountability. These are
practiced in all spheres of our business
activities

Sustainability Report, 2020-21



3

01 About the Report 8

02 Message of Chairman 9

03 Coal India at a Glance 12

04 Performance Snapshots 14

05 Governance 26

06 Sustainable Management in CIL 32

07 Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement 33

08 Risk management 37

09 Ethical Business Practice 39

10 Data and Information Security 40

11
Financial Performance & Diversification of 
Business

41

12 Environmental Sustainability 44

13 Bio-diversity Management 47

14 Water Management 59

15 Energy and Emission 63

16 Waste and Effluent Management 66

17
Social Performance: Workforce, Human

Resource Development, Employee Welfare
69

18 Occupational Health and Safety 76

19 Resettlement & Rehabilitation 79

20 Community Management 80

21 Mapping of GRI Framework with BRR 92

Table of Content 

Sustainability Report, 2020-21

Coal India Limited
A Maharatna Company   



List of Abbreviations

ACM Asset Closure Management

AFDSS Automatic Fire Detection and Suppression System

AMRUT Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation

APS Accountability Principles Standard

ARD Acid Rock Drainage

ASSOCHAM The Associated Chambers of Commerce & Industry of India

AVA Audio-Visual Alarm

BCCL Bharat Coking Coal Limited

BETI Basic Excavation Training Institute

BSC Balanced Score Card

BT Billion tonne

CA Compensatory Afforestation

CAAQMS Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Station

CAGR Compound Annual Growth Rate

CAMPA Compensatory Afforestation Fund Management & Planning Authority

CCI Competition Commission of India

CCL Central Coalfields Limited

CCO Coal Controller’s Organization

CDM Clean Development Mechanism

CETI Central Excavation Training Institute

CHPs Coal Handling Plants

CIAL Coal India Africana Limitada

CIL Coal India Limited

CIPP Code of Integrity for Public Procurement

CISF Central Industrial Security Force

CISPA Coal India Sports Promotion Association

CM Chief Minister

CMPDIL Central Mine Planning and Design Institute Limited

CMR Coal Mines Regulation

COVID 19 Coronavirus Disease 2019

CPSE Central Public Sector Enterprise

CR Crore

CRO Chief Risk Officer

CSR Corporate Social Responsibility

CSR&SD Corporate Social Responsibility & Sustainability Development

4

Sustainability Report, 2020-21



CTL Coal to Liquid

CVC Central Vigilance Commission

CVO Chief Vigilance Officer

CWS Central Workshop

DCC Dankuni Coal Complex

DC/DRC Data Centre and Disaster Recovery Centre

DDUGJY Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Gram Jyoti Yojana

DETP Domestic Effluent Treatment Plant

DGMS Directorate General of Mines Safety

DG Sets Diesel Generator Sets

DIN Director Identification Number

EBITDA Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortization

EC Environmental Clearance

ECL Eastern Coalfields Limited

EESL Energy Efficiency Services Limited

EIA Environmental Impact Assessment

EMP Environmental Management Plan

EMS Environment Management System

ERM Enterprise Risk Management

ESG Environmental, Social and Governance

ETF Exchange Traded Fund

ETMS Environmental Tele Monitoring System

ETP Effluent Treatment Plant

FICCI Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry

FRI Forest Research Institute

FSA Fuel Supply Agreement

GHG Green House Gas

GoI Government of India

GPS Global Positioning System

GST Goods and Services Tax

Ha Hectare

HEMMs Heavy Earth Moving Machines

HQ Headquarter

HURL Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited

ICC Internal Complaints Committee

ICERT Indian Computer Emergency Centre Response Team

IICM Indian Institute of Coal Management

INR Indian Rupee

5

Sustainability Report, 2020-21

Coal India Limited
A Maharatna Company   



ISO International Organization for Standardization

JBCCI Joint Bipartite Committee for The Coal Industry

JV Joint Venture

KVAR Kilovolt Ampere Reactive

kWh Kilowatt hour

kWh/te Kilowatt Hour per Tonne

kWp Kilowatt Peak

LCOE Levelized Cost of Electricity

LED Light Emitting Diode

LTA/LTC Leave Travel Allowance/Leave Travel Concession

LTC Low Temperature Carbonization

MCL Mahanadi Coalfields Limited

MCP Mine Closure Plan

MDTP Mine Discharge Treatment Plant

mm Millimeter

MoC Ministry of Coal

MoEF&CC Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change

MoL&E Ministry of Labour and Employment

MoU Memorandum of Understanding

MRS Mine Rescue Station

MT Million tonne

MU Million Units

MVTR Mine Vocational Training Rules

MWp Megawatt Peak

NCCC National Coal Consumer Council

NCL Northern Coalfields Limited

NCWA National Coal Wage Agreement

NEC North Eastern Coalfields

NEERI National Environmental Engineering Research Institute

NGO Non-Governmental Organization

NIT Notice Inviting Tender

NPV Net Present Value

NSDC National Skill Development Corporation

NT-ST North Tisra-South Tisra

OB Overburden

OCP Open Cast Project

OHSAS Occupational Health and Safety Management System

6

Sustainability Report, 2020-21



OHS Occupational Health and Safety

OSS Open-Source Software

PAPs/PAFs Project Affected Persons/ Project Affected Families

PHMPs Principal Hazards Management Plans

PM CARES Prime Minister's Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund

PMS Performance Management System

PRIDE Performance Report for Individual Development of Executives

PRP Performance Related Pay

RCCC Regional Coal Consumer Council

R&D Research and Development

RFCTLARR 

Act, 2013

The Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, 

Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013

R&R Rehabilitation and Resettlement

RMC Risk Management Committee

RMR Rock Mass Rating

SC Scheduled Caste

SCG Surface Coal Gasification

SDG Sustainable Development Goal

SDP Sustainable Development Policy

SEBI Securities and Exchange Board of India

SECI Solar Energy Corporation of India

SECL South Eastern Coalfields Limited

SHGs Self Help Groups

SMPs Safety Management Plans

SMS Safety Management System

SOPs Standard Operating Procedures

SPCB State Pollution Control Board

ST Scheduled Tribe

STP Sewage Treatment Plant

tCO2 Tonne Carbon Dioxide

TFL Talcher Fertilizers Limited

TSP Tribal Sub Plan

UN SDGs United Nations Sustainable Development Goals

WASH Water Access Sanitation & Hygiene

WCL Western Coalfields Limited

WIPS Women in Public Sector

ZHM Zero Harm Potential

7

Sustainability Report, 2020-21

Coal India Limited
A Maharatna Company   



8

Report Context: Transparency for Sustainability

10th Annual Sustainability Report, 2020 - 21 of Coal India Limited (CIL) has ushered in a whole

new context as far as our evolution in terms of sustainability goes. CIL has based its future role in

this regard on coexisting in a more focused and active way with the environment around us.

Accordingly, the corporate vision has been aligned with transparency. CIL has embarked on a

path where disclosure of sustainability performance to all stakeholders will help in attaining a

bond with the stakeholders.

Scope and Boundary: Covering all Exits

The scope of this year’s sustainability report covers CIL and its fully owned subsidiaries in India.

which includes 85 mining areas spread over eight (8) provincial states of India having 345 mines

(151 are underground, 172 opencast and 22 mixed mines), 13 operational coal washeries and other

establishments managed by CIL including workshops, hospitals, training institutes etc.

Content of the Report

The content of this report under is for the period of 1st April 2020 - 31st March 2021. As mandated

by SEBI, Reg.-34(2)(f) of Listing Obligation and Disclosure Requirements(LODR), 2015, top 1,000

listed companies, in terms of market capitalization has to prepare Business Responsibility Report

(BRR) describing the initiatives taken by the company in terms of Environmental, Social and

Governance perspective. Those companies who are preparing Sustainability Report based on

internationally accepted reporting frameworks need not prepare separate report but furnish their

stakeholders mapping of the principles contained in BRR to the disclosures made in their

Sustainability Report. The GRI index at the end of the report includes all the disclosures. The

general and specific indicators of GRI standards and their location mapped with BRR has also

been included in this report from Page-92.

The report entails three distinct sections to depict CIL’s role in enhancing sustainability and

impacting the triple bottom line of People, Planet and Profit. You will find insights on the

material aspects identified at a company level and our varied attempts to manage these aspects in

an effective manner. Also, this report contains factual data based on the progress of the long term

goals and targets that were set in the last reporting period. For these material aspects, we have

attempted to project our targets for the coming year as well. The reported data has been reviewed

for completeness and accuracy at the operations level. There are no specific restatements of the

previous reported information. The information in the report will be assured by 3rd Party

external Agency after its approval of CIL Board.

CIL believes in the continual improvement of the Sustainability Reporting process and would

value your suggestions and feedback on the report. You may send/email your feedback,

comments or suggestions or for any further details to:

Shankar C S

General Manager (Environment) 

Environment Division, 

Coal Bhawan, Premises No. 4, MAR,
Plot No: AF III, Action Area 1A,
New Town, Rajarhat, Kolkata,
West Bengal, PIN- 700156
E-mail: cgmenv.cil@coalindia.in , Website: www.coalindia.in
CIN L23109WB1973GOI028844

About the Report: Mine to Market Sustainability

Sustainability Report, 2020-21

https://maps.google.com/?q=Action+Area+1A,+

+New+Town&amp;entry=gmail&amp;source=g
https://maps.google.com/?q=Action+Area+1A,+

+New+Town&amp;entry=gmail&amp;source=g
mailto:cgmenv.cil@coalindia.in
http://www.coalindia.in/


Dear Stakeholders,

It gives me immense pleasure to present the 10th Annual Sustainability Report of CIL for the

FY 2020-21.

In the backdrop of India’s energy dependency on fossil fuel, our focus is to operate by laying

emphasis on environment, economy and socio-cultural sustainability. We, being the single

largest coal producer in the world, feel privileged to acknowledge our stakeholders about the

goals we have achieved in sustainability agenda.

The pandemic is not over.. We also lost the precious lives of our friend in this pandemic. My

heartfelt condolence to the family members of the departed souls.

The outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic and imposition of subsequent lockdown resulted in
subdued demand of coal by power and non-power sector during FY2020-21. It adversely
affected our coal production & offtake. CIL has produced 596.22 Mt of coal, achieved PBT of
Rs. 18,009.24 Crore and PAT of Rs. 12,702.17 Crore during FY 2020-21.

Keeping an eye to be a net zero energy company, CIL has incorporated a new vertical named

CIL Navi Karniya Urja Limited for development of non-conventional/clean & renewable

energy. One step forward, a vertical, CIL Solar PV Limited, has also been added in CIL for

development of solar photovoltaic module.

Sustainability Report, 2020-21

Coal India Limited
A Maharatna Company   



10

CIL also focuses on the areas that represent key challenges and opportunities, i.e.

Community Development, Employee Welfare, Mine Water Utilization, Biodiversity

Conservation, Energy Efficiency, and Land Reclamation. The subsidiaries of CIL have

planted more than 19.89 lakh saplings during 2020-21 in an area covering over 862

hectares. CIL always strives to conserve the natural resources for future generations by

restoring the mined-out areas through effective water and overburden management,

biodiversity, eco parks, eco-restoration, afforestation and eco-friendly mine closure.

We believe in ‘Mining with a humane touch’. Our social initiatives are focused on

environmental sustainability, and activities designed to improve community health,

women empowerment, drinking water facilities, sustainable livelihood, education,

sanitation, skill development as well as promotion of sports and games. Our new CSR

Policy has also been implemented from 8th April, 2021.

Our effortless initiative to combat the pandemic COVID-19 is still continuing. The

subsidiaries of CIL have donated additional Rs. 91.25 Crore to the State Disaster

Management Authorities and Chief Minister’s Relief Funds. For treatment of the COVID

affected people, infrastructures have been developed for 905 beds in the state of Odisha,

Chhatishgarh, Karnataka and Jharkhand.

We ensure the safety and health of our employees in priority basis. We are effectively

extending our focus to identify and address the root cause of serious mine accidents and

are working towards improving the safety performance of our employees. CIL aspires to

integrate sustainability further into the business processes of the organization to create

greater value for all the stakeholders.

I appreciate the efforts of our coalminers and stakeholders for their consistent support

towards achieving holistic and sustainable development that we envision for our

esteemed company.

Sd/-

(Pramod Agrawal)

Sustainability Report, 2020-21



11

Coal Mining – Industry Outlook

Coal is the most important and abundant fossil fuel in India which accounts for 55% of

country’s energy needs. However, the significance of coal varies across the world with Asia

leading the consumption, both in absolute terms and as a proportion of total primary energy

consumption. In Asia, China and India are the two key coal producers and consumers.

Going forward, while various estimates predict fall in share of coal in the energy basket, none

has predicted a complete substitution. In Indian context, this seems more unlikely unless there

is paradigm shift in nuclear and/ or renewable energy generation sources and storage

technologies (both in terms of capacity and prices).

Indian coal mining sector is dominated by Coal India Limited and the scenario is unlikely to

change in the immediate future. Even after opening up of the coal sector to private commercial

mining by GoI, the proportion of coal supply from CIL is likely to dominate the Indian market.

Some of the defining features of Indian coal mining sector are dominance of opencast method

for production, relatively small sized mines, medium to low mechanization and high labour

intensity underground mines. Government and CIL are focused on making coal mining in

India safer and technically advanced. There is also a clear trend towards increased

mechanization including introduction of larger equipment in CIL mines. These inputs are

important to ensure long term sustainability of Indian coal mining and minimizing the

environmental impact.

There are a number of other initiatives that the government has taken over last few years to

minimize the environmental impact of coal mining like afforestation, mechanised dispatch of

coal etc. and ensuring greater sharing of benefits across the society including creation of

District Mineral Foundation (DMF) for generating financial resources to be invested in the

mineral rich areas.

Sustainable Development Cells (SDC) have been created in MoC, CIL and its subsidiary

companies for focusing on environment mitigation measures in a systematic manner and for

providing better environment to people working and residing in the vicinity of the mine. This

will also help in improving the overall image of coal sector in the country. The main role of this

dedicated cell is for generating new ideas, preparing guidelines, monitoring and evaluating

different environmental mitigation measures.

Coal India Limited - An overview

Coal India Limited (CIL), a Maharatna Central Public Sector Enterprise and Government of

India Undertaking, is the largest coal producer in the world with production of 596.22 MT in

2020-21. Maharatna status is conferred by the Government of India to selected state owned

enterprises for more autonomy and to empower them to expand their operations and emerge as

global giants. Since 1975, the Company has made significant contribution to energize entire

India and in carrying out socio-economic development across the country. With headquarters at

Kolkata, West Bengal, CIL has significant footprints all over India. CIL is producing about 83%

of the entire coal output of the country and caters to bulk of the coal requirement of the Power,

Cement and Steel sectors of the country and also fertilizer, brick kilns and other similar

industries.

Sustainability Report, 2020-21

Coal India Limited
A Maharatna Company   



12

TFL (JV)

NEC 

66.13% 
President of India 

(through MoC, GOI)
as on 31-03-2021

33.87%
Other investors 

(Institutional and 
retail) 

100% 
Mahanadi Basin 
Power Limited 

64% 
Mahanadi Coal 
Railway Limited 

72.56% 
Chhattisgarh 
East Railway 

Limited

73.67% 
Jharkhand Central 
Railway Limited 

NCL CIALCMPDILECL BCCL MCLWCLCCL SECL

Fig.1 - Structure of Coal India 

CIAL- Coal India Africana Limitada |  NEC- North Eastern Coalfields |  SECL- South Eastern Coalfields Limited |  BCCL- Bharat 
Coking Coal Limited | CCL- Central Coalfields Limited | ECL- Eastern Coalfields Limited |  WCL- Western Coalfields Limited | 
NCL- Northern Coalfields Limited  |  MCL- Mahanadi Coalfields Limited  |  CMPDI-Central Mine Planning and Design Institute 
Limited |  HURL- Hindustan Urvarak & Rasayan Limited  |  TFL - Talcher Fertilizers Limited

Coal India at a glance

CIL Navikarniya
Urja Limited CIL Solar PV Limited

70% 
MNH Shakti Limited 

60% 
MJSJ Coal Limited

HURL(JV)

CIL NTPC Urja
Private 

Limited (JV) 

Coal Lignite 
Urja Vikas Pvt. 

Ltd. (JV)

64.06% 
Chhattisgarh East 

West Railway 
Limited



13

Product Profile

Coal India Limited
A Maharatna Company   

Fig. 2 - Coal extraction in Basundhara OCP of MCL



Performance Snapshot - Production & Profit: 2020-21 

596.22 MT
Coal Produced 

INR 12,702.17 
Crore

Profit After Tax

80.57% 
Capacity 

utilization of 
HEMM

77.46%
of the Company’s 
entire coal supply 

was catered to power 
sector

INR 41,981.65
Crore Paid

toward royalty, 
cess, etc.

2,59,016
Total Employees 

50
NABL accredited 

laboratories for quality 
assessment

Producing

83.27%
of India’s entire 

coal output

INR 1,26,786.13 
Crore

Gross Sales

1,344.68Mm³of 
Overburden 

Removed

INR 18,009.24 
Crore

Profit Before Tax

574.48 MT 
Coal dispatched

Sustainability Report, 2020-21



15

Production and Profits

Performance Indicators 2020-21 2019-20

Physical Performance

Coal Production (Mt) 596.22 602.14

Overburden Removal(Mm3) 1344.68 1154.33

Coal Off-take ( Mt) 574.48 581.93

Dispatch of Coal & Coal Products (Mt) 573.60 582.48

Financial Performance

Item 2020-21 2019-20

Sales (Gross) (Rs. Cr) 1,26,786.13 1,34,979.13

Profit Before Tax (Rs. Cr) 18,009.24 24,071.32

Profit After Tax (Rs. Cr) 12,702.17 16,700.34

Performance Snapshot - Production & Profit

The outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic and imposition of subsequent lockdown resulted in

subdued demand of coal by power and non-power sector during FY21 which adversely

affected coal production & offtake of CIL. Coal production was regulated due to high pit

head coal stock, sufficient coal stock at power houses end and less offtake.

Sustainability Report, 2020-21

Coal India Limited
A Maharatna Company   



16

Planted 19.89 Lakh 

saplings in 862 Ha 

(including outside 

mine leasehold)

Developed 24 no. 

Of  Eco-Parks, 

Eco-restoration 

sites & Eco-

Tourism Projects

5.31 MWp

Solar Power Projects, 

successfully 

generating solar 

energy

77.7% discharged 

mined water utilized 

and balance 22.3% 

used for ground water 

recharge

Irrigated 703 

villages with 

10.91 Lakh 

beneficiaries

368 Rain-water 

harvesting projects

35 FMC Projects 

of 414.5 MTY 

capacity to be 

built in 1st Phase

Rs. 581.54 Crore 

reimbursed for 

mine closure 

activities

Performance Snapshot- Environment: 2020-21 

Sustainability Report, 2020-21



17
Fig. 4 - Plants coming out of Seed ball in OB dump in Lakhanpur OCP of MCL

Fig. 3 - Plantation drive in Dudhichua Project of NCL

Sustainability Report, 2020-21

Coal India Limited
A Maharatna Company   



18

Performance Snapshot - Environment

Sustainability Report, 2020-21

Performance 
indicators

Parameters 2020-21 2019-20

Increasing 

the 

number of 

ISO 

certified 

units

ISO: 14001 3 Subsidiaries & 
CIL HQ

3 Subsidiaries 
& CIL HQ

ISO: 9001 3 Subsidiaries, 
CIL HQ, CMPDI 
HQ & its 7 RIs 

3 
Subsidiaries, 
CIL HQ, 
CMPDI HQ 
& its 7 RIs 

OHSAS: 18001 3 Subsidiaries 3 
Subsidiaries 

ISO: 50001 CIL(HQ) CIL(HQ)
ISO 37001:2016 CMPDI HQ --

Energy

Consumpti

on and 

Renewables

Specific power 
consumption in terms of 
total 
excavation(kwh/CuM)

2.78 2.91

Specific power 
consumption in terms of 
coal production(kWh/te)

7.86 7.40

Diesel consumption in 
OCPS in KL 4,31,853.7 4,06,591.36

LED Lights fitted (new+ 
replacement) 98,522 1,43,000 

Capacity of Solar Power 
Plants (MW)

5.31 4.85 

Mine 
Closure 
Plan

Amount disbursed from 

Escrow fund for mine 

closure activities 

Expenses (Rs. Cr)

581.54 606.59

Mine Water 

Utilisation

No. of villages irrigated 703 590 

No. of beneficiaries (in 

Lakh)

10.91 7.48 

Continuous 
R&D

Investment in R&D 
Expenses (Rs. Cr)

27.52 39.27

Tree 
plantation 
& 
ecological 
restoration

Trees Planted(in Lakh) 19.89 19.76

Area Covered (in Ha) 862 812

No. of Eco Parks( Total) 24 23

Environment & Tree

Plantation Expenses (Rs.
Cr)

159.62 156.98



19

Vriksharopan Abhiyan-2020 

CIL (HQ) along with its Subsidiaries celebrated Vriksharopan Abhiyan(VA)-2020 on 23.07.2020. Hon’ble

Home Minister GoI, Shri Amit Shah and Hon’ble Minister of Coal, Mines and Parliamentary affairs Shri.

Pralhad Joshi arranged the function. About 10,000 persons witnessed the programme physically

observing social distancing norms and about 40,000 persons participated through webinar, Youtube

etc, which includes about 450 prominent persons along with 10 nos. of MP and 9 Nos. of MLAs in

different subsidiaries of CIL.

During celebration of this occasion, more than 1.86 lakh saplings were planted over 75 Ha land area

and around 2.38 lakh saplings were distributed at 93 locations across 31 Districts of 8 states.

In the virtual event through webinar, Hon’ble Minister of Home GoI, Shri Amit Shah inaugurated

Parasnath Udhyan, an eco-tourism project of BCCL along with foundation stone laying ceremony of 3

eco- tourism project namely Kayakalp Vatika in Piparwar Area CCL, Lilari Eco-park in Lakhanpur Area

MCL and Chander Shekhar Azad Eco-Park, in Bina project NCL.

Sustainability Report, 2020-21

Coal India Limited
A Maharatna Company   

Fig. 5 -Plantation in Gevra OCP of SECL during Vriksharopan Abhiyan-2020



20

Sustainability Report, 2020-21

Fig. 6 -Plantation site of Krishnashila Project of NCL for Vriksharopan Abhiyan

Fig. 7 - Vrikksharopan Abhiyan in  Block – B Project, NCL



21

Total Workforce of

2,59,016

Female employees strength 

19,535@7.54%

Employee Turnover

0.11%

88,568 no. of Persons 

Trained

Rs. 553. 85 Crore  
spent in CSR Activities

Rs 2,169.94 Crore 
spent of Employee Welfare

Rs. 69.66 Crore 
spent for Safety & Rescue 
Activities

Performance Snapshot- Social: 2020-21 

Sustainability Report, 2020-21

Coal India Limited
A Maharatna Company   



22

Performance Snapshot - Social

Performance Indicators 2020-21 2019-20

Trainings provided to executives 
and non- executive employees

55,203 80,379

Training man-days 4,43,084 6,55,136

Focus on Gender Diversity Female employees 
constitutes 7.54% of 
the total strength

Female employees
constitutes 7.15% of 
the total strength

Hiring of fresh talent 256 Fresh 
recruitment done in 
different disciplines

214 Fresh 
recruitment done in 
different disciplines

CSR Expenditure in Rs Crore  (in 
the field of water conservation,
women empowerment & child
education, rural development,
health, sports, environment,
sanitation and skill development)

553. 85 587. 84

No. of Fatalities 34 29

No. of Serious bodily injury 75 90

Support during Covid-19

Contribution to COVID-19 related funds

• Rs. 20 cr. to Disaster Management Authority, West Bengal by CIL
• Rs. 20 cr. to Disaster Management Authority, Maharashtra by CIL
• Rs. 10 cr. to Disaster Management Authority, Chhattisgarh by SECL
• Rs. 20 cr. to Disaster Management Authority, Jharkhand by CCL
• Rs. 20 cr. to Madhya Pradesh CM Relief Fund by NCL
• Rs. 1.25 cr. in total to 3 districts in Maharashtra and 2 in Madhya Pradesh by WCL

Distribution of COVID-19 related consumables

• More than 71,000 food packets on Shramik Special Trains
• Around 2 lakh cooked food/dry ration packets in peripheral areas
• More than 25,000 lt. of sanitizer in peripheral areas
• More than 8.2 lakh masks in peripheral areas
• More than 1.35 lakh hand gloves and 3000 PPEs in peripheral areas

Vaccination to Health workers and those above 45 years of age with co-morbidities :
 No of employees vaccinated (above 45 years of age)– 9069
 No of dependents of employees vaccinated (above 45 years of age)– 1539
 No of contractual employees vaccinated (above 45 years of age)– 222

Vaccination drives are being continued in all the Subsidiaries of CIL.

Sustainability Report, 2020-21



23

Fig. 8 - Food distribution during Covid by BCCL in Dhanbad area

Fig. 9 - SUM Covid Hospital set up at Bhubaneswar by MCL

Coal India Limited
A Maharatna Company   



24

Fig. 10- COVID hospital at Talcher, MCL

Fig. 11 - Donation of Cold Chain Equipment by CIL for COVID Vaccine Transport
to Govt. of West Bengal



25

S. No. Company Details of infrastructure created Location

1 MCL 525 bedded COVID hospital (500 general & 25 ICU 
beds). Bed addition is planned.

Bhubaneswar, 
Odisha

2 MCL 150 bedded COVID hospital (144 general & 6 ICU 
beds) and 50 bedded COVID care centre

Lakhanpur, 
Odisha

3 MCL 6 quarantine centers at HQ and different areas of MCL Odisha

3 BCCL Hospitals earmarked as dedicated COVID hospitals: 
• Central Hospital, Dhanbad (L – 3 with 30 new 

ICU beds)
• Regional Hospital, Bhuli (L – 2)
• Regional Hospitals at Baghmara and Jealgora (L –

1)

Dhanbad, 
Jharkhand

4 SECL Govt. hospitals converted into 100 bedded COVID 
treatments centre with RT-PCR lab

Ambikapur and 
Bilaspur, 
Chattisgarh

5 CIL 100 beds of Karnataka Inst. Of Medical Sciences (KIMS) 
converted into ICU beds

Dharwad, 
Karnataka

Infrastructure Creation to combat COVID-19

S. No. Company Details of equipment support provided Location

1 CIL COVID Cold Chain Equipment for Vaccine 
transport
• West Bengal: 73 Ice Lined Refrigerators 

(Small), 70 Deep Freezers (Small) & 24 
Deep Freezers (Large)

• Meghalaya: 7 Ice Lined Refrigerators 
(Small), 3 Deep Freezers (Small) & 10 
Deep Freezers (Large)

• 2 refrigerated trucks (1 each for West 
Bengal and GMSD, Kolkata) –
Procurement is in progress

West Bengal, 
Meghalaya and 
GMSD, Kolkata

2 SECL COVID Cold Chain Equipment for Vaccine 
transport
• 25 Ice Lined Refrigerators (Small)
• 6 Ice Lined Refrigerators (Large)
• 13 Deep Freezers (Small)
• 1 Deep Freezer (Large)
• 1 Walk In Freezer

Chattisgarh

3 SECL 60 TRUE-NAT RT-PCR Testing machines Chattisgarh

4 NCL 50 Ambulances Uttar Pradesh

Equipment support for COVID-19 treatment

Sustainability Report, 2020-21

Coal India Limited
A Maharatna Company   



26

SEBI (LODR) Regulations 2015 stipulates that a list of core skills of expertise of the Board of

Directors is required for effective functioning of the business. CIL is governed by a Board of

Directors who assume responsibility for effective, ethical and prudent management that can

deliver the long term success for the company. The responsibilities of the Board include zeroing in

on the company’s strategic aims, providing the relevant leadership to put them into effect,

supervising the management of business and reporting to the shareholders on their stewardship.

CIL Board reviews the company’s social, environmental and economic performances the

composition, annual calendar for meetings and performance of all the sub-committees of the

Board. During 2020-21, nineteen (19) Board Meetings were held to deliberate various issues.

Appointment of the Board of Directors
CIL is a government company (as described in section 2, sub-section 45 of the Companies Act,
2013) and the President of India, appoints Functional Directors and nominates a Chairman cum
Managing Director (CMD). The DPE guidelines are followed for the recruitment of all Functional
Directors.

Composition of the Board
As of 31st March 2021, CIL Board of Directors comprised of CMD, three Functional Directors, One
Functional Director holding as additional charge and two Non-Executive Directors (all nominated
by the GoI)

Sub-committees of the Board of Directors
The CIL Board operates through various committees that are assigned with specific roles and

responsibilities. The various committees include Audit Committee, Nomination and Remuneration

Committee, Share Transfer Committee, Risk Management Committee, Corporate Social

Responsibility Committee and Stakeholder Relationship Committee, etc.

Age limit & Tenure of Directors
The age limit of CMD and other full-time Functional Directors is 60 years. The CMD and other full-
time Functional Directors are appointed for five years from the date of assumption of charge or till
date of superannuation of incumbent or till further orders from GoI whichever is earlier. As on 31st

March 2021, all the Directors of CIL are below the age of 60 years. None of the Directors on the
Board hold Directorship in more than 10 public companies. In addition, none of them is a member
of more than seven committees or Chairman of more than five committees of all public
corporations where he or she is a Director.

As of 31st March 2021, the Directors have made necessary disclosures regarding their committee
positions in other public companies.

Government nominee Directors representing Ministry of Coal retire from the Board on ceasing to
be officials of the Ministry. GoI appoints Independent Directors. Non-executive Independent
Directors fulfil the conditions of independence specified in Section 149 of the Companies Act, 2013
and Regulation 16 (b) of Listing Regulations, 2015.

Performance & Evaluation of Board of Directors
The Board has adopted the Board Evaluation Framework (‘the Framework’) as per various
provisions of the SEBI Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements Regulations, 2015 (‘the
Listing Regulations’) and Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’). The administration of CIL is under the
Ministry of Coal, as it is a government company. The Ministry reviews the performance of the
Directors on completion of the first year of their appointment in order to decide on their
continuance or otherwise for the balance period of the tenure. The performance evaluation is done
in accordance with the Framework and is communicated by Board to the Ministry as well. The
Framework is available on CIL’s Corporate website.

Sustainability Report, 2020-21

Corporate Governance



27

Board of Directors (As on 31st March, 2021)

SHRI PRAMOD AGRAWAL
Chairman
DIN:00279727

SHRI BINAY DAYAL

Director(Technical)
DIN:07367625

Expertise: Executive Leadership, 
Governance, Financial Acumen, 

Sectoral/Domain knowledge, Project 
Formulation & Management, Strategy & 
Risk Management, Occupational Health, 

Safety & Environment

SHRI SANJIV SONI
Director(Finance)

DIN:08173548
Expertise: Executive Leadership, 

Governance, Financial Acumen, Strategy 
& Risk Management

SHRI S N TIWARY
Director(Marketing) & 

Director(P&IR), (Addl Charge)
DIN:O7911O4O

Expertise: Executive Leadership, 
Governance, Financial Acumen, Marketing, 

Strategy & Risk Management

SHRI V K TIWARI
Govt. Nominee Director

DIN:03575641
Additional Secretary, MoC
Expertise: Executive Leadership, 
Governance, Financial Acumen, 

Marketing, HRM, Strategy & Risk 
Management, Occupational Health, 

Safety & Environment

Smt YATINDER PRASAD
Govt. Nominee Director

DIN: 08564506
Joint Secretary & Financial Advisor, MoC
Expertise: Executive Leadership, Governance, 

Financial Acumen, Strategy & Risk 
Management

Expertise:
• Executive Leadership
• Governance
• Financial Acumen
• Marketing
• Human Resource Management
• Project Formulation & Management
• Strategy & Risk Management

Sustainability Report, 2020-21

Fig. 12- Board of Directors of CIL

Coal India Limited
A Maharatna Company   



28

Capacity Building of the Board of Directors
The Board is fully briefed on all business-related matters, associated risks, new initiatives of the
Company. The Board is also briefed on the provisions of Companies Act 2013, SEBI (LODR)
Regulations, 2015 and Prevention of Insider Trading Code of CIL etc. As and when training
programmes are conducted by recognized institutes on corporate governance, the Company
sponsors the Board members to attend the training programmes to make them familiarize with
recent developments. Details of training programmes attended by Independent Directors are
disclosed on our company’s website.

Sustainable Development Committee including CSR Committee was constituted by CIL
Board of Directors in its 282nd meeting held on 16-04-2012. This Committee was renamed as
CSR Committee in pursuant to Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Companies
(Corporate Social Responsibility) Rules, 2014. In addition to CSR activities, this committee
will also look after Sustainable Development. This committee was reconstituted in 410th

Board meeting held on 2nd Sep’20 comprising of 2 Independent, 1 Govt. Nominee and 2
Functional Directors. From 6th Sep’20, the committee could not be re-constituted as there
was no Independent Directors in CIL Board

During the year 2020-21, five (5) CSR committee meetings were held. The Corporate Social
Responsibility Committee consisted of following members and their attendance is as
follows:

CSR Committee

Sl. 

No.

Name of Director Designation / Nature of 

Directorship

Number of meetings of 

CSR committee 

attended during the year

1 Sh. B L Gajipara Independent Director and 
Chairman of the committee
(from 25.11.19 till 05.09.20)

5

2 Sh. V K Thakral Independent Director
(from 25.11.19 till 05.09.20)

5

3 Smt. Reena Sinha 
Puri

Govt. nominee Director 
(from 19.12.19 till 28.05.20)

1

4 Ms. Yatinder Prasad Govt. nominee Director
(from 02.09.2020)

1

5 Sh. Binay Dayal Director (Technical) (from 
28.10.17)               

1

6 Sh. R P Srivastava Director (P& IR)
(from 31.01.18 till 31.01.21)

5

Sustainability Report, 2020-21



29

CIL has adopted a Code of Conduct to maintain high standards of business practice CIL’s
philosophy is to always strive for sustainable business achieving economic growth, social equity
and environmental balance through collaborative action, transparency and public reporting.
The code of conduct is applicable to Board Members as well as to Senior Members. It mandates
CIL to be fair and not to discriminate on the basis of race, gender, religion and upholds values
of equality, tolerance and respect for others. The code touches all aspects of ethical risk even as
it sets standards of ethical and legal behavior by providing guidance on ethical issues. It also
provides reporting mechanisms for known or suspected unethical conduct and helps foster a
culture of honesty and accountability.

All the Members of the Board and Senior Management have affirmed compliance of Code of
Conduct for the FY ended on 31/03/2021.

As a responsible Corporate Entity, CIL recognizes the importance of children's rights and have a
clear stance on the issue of child labour. As per The Mines Act, 1952, employment of persons
below 18 years of age in a mine is prohibited. CIL follows proper checks and audits as per the Act.
And ensures that no children get employed in our coal mines. CIL is fully committed to abide by
the rules on Human Rights across our operations and this reflects in our dealing with all our
stakeholders. All suppliers / contractors / vendors who undertake to provide services enter into
a comprehensive formal agreement with CIL, which contains stipulations and conditions
requiring them to ensure the compliance of various applicable labour statutes in respect of their
employees / workers. These include the Payment of Wages Act - 1936, the Minimum Wages Act
-1948, Equal Remuneration Act - 1976, the Industrial Disputes Act - 1947, the Employees State
Insurance Act - 1948, the Coal Mines Provident Fund and Misc. Provisions Act - 1948, the Child
Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Act - 1986 and the Contract Labour (Regulation &
Abolition) Act-1970. CIL ensures that the contractor's workers are treated fairly as per the law.
The contractors are advised to pay the wages to its workers through bank and settle the issues in
accordance with the law

CIL is member of The Bengal Chamber
of Commerce, Indian Chamber of
Commerce, SCOPE, FICCI and
ASSOCHAM. CIL has engagement with
people and industrial associations on
myriad forums that have also given us
the platform for effective image
building. In the sphere of mining
activities, CIL has forged linkage with
industry associations through these
forums and engaged in discussions and
to gain insights regarding corporate
projection. This has greatly enhanced
our business approach and added value
to the shaping of our core vision. CIL
has spent Rs. 22.63 Crores in
advertisement and publicity during the
reporting period.

Industry Association

Human Rights

Code of Conduct

Sustainability Report, 2020-21

Coal India Limited
A Maharatna Company   



30

The Vigilance Division within Coal India limited is an integral part of the management. The

Vigilance Division of CIL is the nodal section for handling all vigilance matters of CIL and it

believes that through best practices, adequate controls and transparency in place, decisions

taken will be professional, effective and consistent, leading to corporate excellence. The

Vigilance Division at Coal India is headed by a CVO, CIL. The role of CVO is effective vigilance

administration and CVO functions as an extension of the CVC in the company. All the Vigilance

Departments of subsidiary companies are headed by full time CVOs who report to the

concerned CMDs of the subsidiary companies.

The Corruption Risk Mitigation Policy of CIL is available in CIL’s corporate website at

http://archive.coalindia.in/DesktopModules/DocumentList/documents/Corruption_Risk_Mit

igation_Policy_23072016.pdf .

Punitive actions were initiated on 409 officials during the year 2020-21. The range of actions

taken varies from simple warning to as severe as dismissal depending on the severity of the

charges.

Coal India Limited uses the integrated Centralized Public Grievance Redressal and Monitoring

System (CPGRAMS), a web based solution run by the Department of Administrative Reforms &

Public Grievances, Government of India, to resolve Public Grievances. All the grievances from

employees, customers & other stakeholders are resolved by using CPGRAMS, Grievances

received online on CPGRAMS from the President's Secretariat, Prime Minister’s Office,

Ministries Office, Directorate of Public Grievances, Ministry of Coal and Department of

Administrative Reforms etc. Public Grievances are evaluated by the Nodal Officer of CIL and

sent to various Departments in CIL and subsidiary coal companies for redressal.

In CPGRAMS portal, a total of 168 pending grievances were carried forward from 2019-20 for

redressal and 3,524 no. of fresh online grievances were received in 2020-21. In total, 3580 no. of

cases were resolved in CIL during 2020-21 and remaining 112 have been carried forward to 2021-

22 for redressal. The average time of disposal of the grievances was 15 days during the reporting

period.

During 2020-’21, CIL Vigilance Division received 722 complaints including those forwarded by

MoC, CBI and CVC out of which 718 have been disposed.

Coal India Limited was awarded Second Prize in the Corporate Office category for the best

execution of Official Language Implementation in 2020-21

Vigilance (Anti-Corruption)

Awards & Recognition

Public Grievance Disposal at CIL

Incidents of Corruption and Actions taken

Sustainability Report, 2020-21



31

To safeguard for protection of employees from reprisal or victimization, CIL has established the
"Whistle Blower Policy" as per Regulation 22 of LODR, 2015. CIL revised the policy and the
same was approved in 390th Board meeting held on 13th August, 2019 with the objective to build
and strengthen a culture of transparency and trust in the organization and to provide employees
with a framework/procedure for responsible and secure reporting of improper activities. CIL
had provided ample opportunities to encourage Directors and employees to become whistle
blowers (Directors and employees who voluntarily and confidentially want to bring the
unethical practices, actual or suspected fraudulent transactions in the organization to the notice
of competent authority for the greater interest of the organization and the nation). It has also
ensured a very robust mechanism within the same framework to protect them (whistle blowers)
from any kind of harm. It is hereby affirmed that no personnel has been denied access to the
Audit committee.

CIL has developed a robust electronic surveillance system to keep watch on

coal stock and track the coal loaded vehicles. The initiatives taken in this

regard include the followings:

Electronic Surveillance

Whistle Blower Policy

Sustainability Report, 2020-21

Coal India Limited
A Maharatna Company   



32

CIL believes in working in line with the principles of sustainability while striving to achieve

long-term business success on a viable basis. A key aspect of our sustainable management

approach involves deploying sustainable mining practices, ensuring safety and health of the

employees and creating value for community. CIL places a special focus on the lasting and

effective establishment of a culture of integrity, discipline and respect.

CIL leverages business opportunities to minimize risk and address social and business

challenges. Increasingly, CIL is making efforts to improve the sustainability performance and

further develop the strategy for its implementation.

Efforts are also undertaken to reduce the environmental impact of mining and minimize the

footprint of the activities throughout the mining cycle, including working to reclaim post –

mining eco-systems.

CIL’s Sustainability Policy lays emphasis and responsibility on Environmental, Economic and

Socio-Cultural Sustainability. Respective functions and responsibility at Corporate and

Subsidiaries have been earmarked to improve the performance in their sustainability

dimensions. These form the core areas for implementing CIL’s practices towards SDGs to

stimulate wide dialogue and cooperation among stakeholders to make mining a driver of

sustainable development. Sustainability targets are set and reviewed annually in CIL. By

doing so, CIL also resolves the changing requirements of its stakeholders

Sustainability Management in CIL

Adopt world class eco-friendly technologies for mining.

Conserving natural resources by Reducing, Reusing, Recycling, Redefining and 
Replacing.

Neutralize the impact on environment due to mining through 
afforestation, rain water harvesting & regeneration of cultivable land and 
other suitable mitigative measures.

Create income Generation avenues / skill development programmes for 
the project affected people.

Ensure society a better quality life by providing basic infrastructure and 
management of the services like water, waste management, health care, 
education etc.

Organize programmes especially for the project affected Tribal people to 
maintain their culture, heritage and identity.

Strive to conduct the business in an ethical and transparent manner.

Environmental 
Sustainability

• It is our commitment to 
protect and safeguard the 
environment and conserve 
biodiversity to maintain the 
ecological balance.

Socio-cultural 
Sustainability

• We affirm to effect the 
socio-cultural betterment 
of the surroundings of our 
operations. 

Economic 
Sustainability

• We affirm to effect the 
economic betterment of 
the surroundings of our 
operations. 

Sustainable Development Policy of CIL

Sustainability Report, 2020-21



33

Additionally, CIL also has an exclusive policy for Corporate Social Responsibility that is
aligned with the Companies Act, 2013 in order to measure our triple bottom line i.e. People,
Planet & Profit. CSR policy acts as a strategic tool and guidance for integrating business
processes with the social processes for the overall development of the society.

CIL’s ESG strategy is shaped by material priorities that can impact long-term success as well
as on its ability to create and preserve economic, environmental and social values.

We conduct a comprehensive materiality assessment exercise to evaluate and prioritize our
material topics. The assessment is undertaken in accordance with GRI Standards. The
process is centered at intersection of organizational relevance and stakeholder priority.
Insights from ongoing stakeholder engagement at CIL are leveraged to gauge the views and
perceptions of various stakeholders. A stakeholder survey is also undertaken to effectively
capture our key internal and external stakeholders’ expectations and identify issues that
impact them. In addition, guidance from top management at CIL helps determine material
aspects aligned with Company’s overall business goals and objectives. This exercise is
complemented by an annual review of key risks and opportunities for CIL, emerging global
trends in the sector and leading industry practices.

The identified material issues are subsequently mapped on a matrix to prioritize the
economic, environmental and social topics, based on their significance to both stakeholders
and organization. The materiality map helps facilitate informed decision-making in our
efforts to integrate sustainability within business strategy.

CIL understands that stakeholder engagement helps in continuous business improvement
and strengthens relationship with them. CIL’s mission is to create value for all its
stakeholders by understanding and addressing their concerns, as well as fulfilling their needs
to the extent possible. CIL has a structured stakeholder engagement framework for engaging
with different stakeholders, which includes identifying key focus areas and developing
strategies to address them.

Identification 
of risk and 

concerns during 
stakeholder 
engagement

Development 
and enablement 
of strategies by 
CIL to address 

key issues

Analyse the 
outcome of 
stakeholder 
engagement 
process to 

identify and 
prioritise 

material aspects

Sustainability Report, 2020-21

Coal India Limited
A Maharatna Company   

Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement



34

CIL maintains a transparent and constructive interaction with all stakeholders who play a

vital role in the sustainable growth of the company. CIL considers that it is necessary to

identify and believe in extensive engagements with all of its stakeholders throughout the

year to understand their prioritized concerns & needs and address their issues in a consistent

& transparent manner. The expectations and the concerns of stakeholders & the extent to

which the relevant issues are addressed, play a vital role in influencing the sustainable

growth of an organization.

CIL has stakeholder engagement policies in line. These policies are intended to strengthen

the mechanisms of engagement with stakeholders. CIL has a structured framework which is

based on the welfare and long-term relationships with key stakeholders. CIL believes that

stakeholder engagement is an integral part of enriching and enduring partnerships. CIL has

institutionalized these processes based on transparency and accountability.

Sustainability Report, 2020-21

Stakeholder Engagement

Stakeholders of CIL



35

Mode of engagement and key interests of our stakeholders

Stakeholder Mode of Engagement Frequency Key areas of interest

Sustainability Report, 2020-21

Coal India Limited
A Maharatna Company   

Rehabilitation and Resettlement 

(R&R)/Environmental clearance,

Forest land clearance



36

The material issues are further assessed to identify high-priority aspects that have
significant potential to impact our business and require greater intervention. We assess
the impact of these material issues on our business performance in terms of revenue
generation, cost efficiency and risk management. These issues form our strategic ESG
objectives, which are monitored through long-term targets

During our interaction with stakeholders some of the key areas of interest identified were
customers’ satisfaction, quality of product, brand of the company, business performance,
wages and welfare etc. Table n Page-33 provides a holistic view of our different categories of
stakeholders along with the mode of interaction for each stakeholder group and the level of
interaction to address their main areas of interest.



37

Board 

of

Directors

Risk Management 
Committee(RMC)

Chief Risk Officer 
(CRO)

Functional 
HODs/Executive In 

Charge 

CIL has a robust risk management system in place consisting of (i) a mechanism for defining,
prioritizing and formulating contingency strategies for risks and (ii) a framework for functions,
duties of various authorities, committees and the Board for executing risk management
procedures, monitoring periodicity (Risk Management Calendar) and associated models &
lackeys.

As part of CIL’s risk management system, risk owners & their mitigation plan owners have been
established for each risk and associated mitigation strategy to ensure consistent risk monitoring
and mitigation. The Risk Management Committee (RMC) a Sub-Committee of the Board of
Directors was formed in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI)
(LODR) Regulations, 2015. The Risk Management Committee was reconstituted in its 416th
Board Meeting held on 18th Jan’ 21 comprising of one (1) Government Nominee Director, two
(2) Functional Directors and two Senior Officers of the CIL.

This committee evaluates the risk management process and assess progress of perceived
threats, including new market issues at periodic intervals. The Chief Risk Officer (CRO) and his
team periodically meets with both business and functional departments to oversee the
implementation plan and conduct brainstorming sessions to identify new business
opportunities.

Inputs from Steering Committee under the leadership of ERM Core Group are considered for
the purpose. The execution of governance mechanism envisaged in risk management system,
including facilitating development of risk reduction strategies for defined priority threats, is
supervised by Chief Risk Officer (CRO) and his team under the leadership of CIL RMC. New
risks are being identified and incorporated for evaluation as per direction of the CIL’s RMC. The
following figure shows pictorial representation of various roles and responsibilities involved in
Risk Management Framework.

Risk  Management

Risk Management Framework in CIL

Sustainability Report, 2020-21

Coal India Limited
A Maharatna Company   



38

CIL’s Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) serves the twin purpose of minimizing adverse
impacts and leveraging market opportunities effectively and efficiently to sustain and
enhance our competitive advantage.

As a first step, CIL has identified significant risks facing its business and categorized them
as emerging risks and strategic risks. Potential impacts of each of these risks on the
company’s operations are assessed and accordingly a mitigation plan is devised.

CIL has identified three major emerging risks that include (i) technological transformation
(ii) changes in the traditional business models and current portfolio (iii) restrictions on
access to capital for industries with intensive green house emissions. The impacts of these
risks have been assessed and mitigation plan has been developed.

Two major strategic risks have been identified which are
(i) effect on share price due to media impact
(ii) (ii) lack of necessary key skills due to lack or inadequate management of good

practices towards attracting, retaining and developing talent.

These may have significant impact on CIL’s business.

Some of the key identified risks are summarized below:

Mines of CIL operate in remote regions that are vulnerable to climate change and fragile
environment. The extensive product transportation network and complex supply chain are
located in these regions. This particularly exposes us to climate change risks and we have
assessed its impact on our operations.

CIL carries specific measures for dealing with climate related risks and their potential
impact. As part of climate risk management strategy ,the risks have been evaluated and
mitigation strategy has been laid out for dealing with each of these risks.

1. Evacuation challenges for coal off-take

2. Operational safety risks arising out of
mining operations

3. Technology upgradation and equipment
utilization

4. Risk of unviable underground mining
operations

5. Competition risk from commercial mining
renewables

Sustainability Report, 2020-21

Emerging Risks

Strategic Risk

Climate Risk Assessment



39

Some other risks include

1. Resettlement & Rehabilitation:

Coal mining is based on geographical factors and are site specific. By virtue of this aspect, it
involves acquisition of large tracts of lands. This eventually leads to involuntary displacement of
inhabitants (Project Affected People – PAPs) who are native/residents of area. Rehabilitation and
resettlement plays a major role in CIL’s long term business goals and thus needs focus for creating
a bond / cordial relation with the local society. After enactment of The RFCTLARR Act 2013,
providing of R & R benefit as a statutory obligation. The compensation plan as per R&R Policy is
accorded as per CIL’s R&R Policy-2012 and 2nd Schedule of RFCTLAAR Act, 2013 in consonance
with Removal of Difficulty Order vide S.O. no 2368(E) Dt. 28.08.2015.

2. Regulatory compliance

Compliances are a must for any mining organization. CIL understands the criticality of deviating
from desired regulations in terms of long term continuity of operations. Hence, for good business
conduct, CIL adheres to all regulatory norms and fulfills the necessary compliances. Prior to
operationalizing of any new/expansion project, CIL ensures that necessary clearances (including
environmental and forest clearances) have been obtained.

3.Supply ofqualityCoaland customersatisfaction

Retaining consumer’s loyalty is an important aspect for successfully staying in business.
Presently, CIL is presently operating 13 Coal Washeries with a total washing capacity of 35.38
MTY. The total washed coal production including middlings from these existing washeries
during 2020- 21 was about 12.29MT.

CIL is setting up 4 new Washeries in BCCL having total throughput capacity of 12 MTY. Out of
these, three (3) are under construction (9.5 MTY) and one (1) (2.5 MTY) under tendering. 2 coking
coal washeries are also being set up in CCL with a total capacity of 7 MTY. These washeries are
expected to be operational between 2021 and 2023. CIL also has plans for setting up non-coking
coal washeries in MCL. One is under construction and if more demand is there for beneficiated
coal at value added prices, 2 more washeries may be set up.

In order to ensure consumer satisfaction and resolve consumer complaints, special emphasis has
been given to quality management and redressal of consumer complaint. On-line filing and
redressal of complaints have been implemented in CIL. 2(two) pending grievances were carried
forward from FY 2020-21 for redressal. During the reporting period, 53 fresh grievances were
received. In total 55 grievances (103%) have been disposed. The average disposal time of
grievance is 07 days.

CIL engages with world class suppliers and is trying to come up with strategies which will
help in making the system hassle free and strengthen the supply chain. Accordingly, CIL has
initiated e–tender procurement proceeding after confirmation of eligibility criteria from the
Technical Department. This mechanism allows supply to be made directly to the subsidiary
companies as per their requirement from time to time. Vendor selection is done when the party
meets the eligibility criteria and accepts the commercial terms & conditions of the NIT. CIL is
also undertaking various vendor engagement initiatives where vendors are invited for their
active participation which includes the buyer seller meet from time to time for awareness of the
Procurement System adopted towards procurement of goods. At CIL, Pre-bid meetings are also
organized with vendors from time to time for awareness of the system for vendors of equipment
in demand such as HEMM, Explosives and OTR Tyres.

Ethical Business Practices

Initiation of E- tendering Procurement Mechanism

Sustainability Report, 2020-21

Coal India Limited
A Maharatna Company   



40

CIL has established ‘Code of Business Conduct’ applicable to all employees of the company
starting from Board level and downwards. Our code of business conduct sets the principles that
enhance the ethical and transparent process in managing the company’s affairs. We have
institutionalized strong internal procedures to contain and curb corrupt practices in company’s
operations. Our code of business conduct can be accessed at:
https://www.coalindia.in/media/documents/CODE-PIT-COAL-FINAL.pdf

According to CIL's Procurement Policy, open tendering process is implemented for all
procurements. CIL integrates the ESG aspects such as labour conditions, health and safety in
the procurement decisions. ESG practices are integrated and included in the supply chain,
making the procurement process ethical, efficient, transparent and free of corrupt practices
during supplier selection and retention processes. The purchase Manual of CIL is available in
http://archive.coalindia.in/DesktopModules/DocumentList/documents/Purchase(1).pdf

Purchasing agencies, bidders, vendors, contractors and consultants are obligated under the Code
of Integrity for Public Procurement (CIPP) to proactively report any preexisting or future
conflicts of interest in any procurement or contract execution process. According to the code, a
bidder must have to declare any prior infringement of the CIPP with any entity in any country
during the last three years or if being debarred by any other procuring entity. Failure to do so
by any party is considered a violation of this code. CIL promotes local suppliers which play an
important role in developing local economy. CIL ensures that suppliers and contractors are
screened as per statutory labour practices.

Information technology (IT) is one of the most critical enablers of our business and provides new
advantages to business operations.

CIL provides IT resources to its employees to enhance their efficiency and productivity. These
resources are meant to be tools to access and process information related to their areas of work.
These resources help officials to remain well informed and carry out their functions efficiently
and effectively.

CIL has a robust comprehensive policy to ensure cyber security which aims to protect
information and information infrastructure from cyber incidents through a combination of
processes, guidelines, technology and cooperation. All components of the policy meet the
guidelines of Government of India. Additionally, we have business contingency plans and
incident response procedures in place which are tested half yearly. The IT policy for CIL is
available at
https://www.coalindia.in/media/documents/1595245392_Approved_IT_Policy_CIL_and_Subs
idiaries.pdf

CIL has established DC/ DRC (Data Center and Disaster Recovery Centre) for ERP
implementation at MeitY empaneled Data Center which adheres to the Guidelines of
Government of India for Data Centers. Security system of data center is audited by STQC and it
is equipped with state-of-the-art security devices including DDoS, WAF and Next Generation
Firewall. ERP production landscapes are considered with dedicated for high availability. IT
Security Standards Policy and Framework have been designed for addressing the unique
requirements of Coal India.

Data and Information Security

Sustainability Report, 2020-21

Code of Business Conduct

Suppliers Code of Conduct

Code of Integrity for public procurement

We have established a %E2%80%98Code of Business Conduct%E2%80%99 applicable to all employees of the company beginning from Board level and downwards. Our code of business conduct sets the principles that enhance the ethical and transparent process in managing the company%E2%80%99s affairs. We have institutionalized strong internal procedures to contain and curb corrupt practices in company%E2%80%99s operations. Our code of business conduct can be accessed at:  https:/www.coalindia.in/media/documents/CODE-PIT-COAL-FINAL.pdf
http://archive.coalindia.in/DesktopModules/DocumentList/documents/Purchase(1).pdf
https://www.coalindia.in/media/documents/1595245392_Approved_IT_Policy_CIL_and_Subsidiaries.pdf


41

Financial Performance

The share of CIL is around 83% out of India’s total coal production in the Financial Year 2020-

21. So, the impact of CIL on Indian economy can be easily equated with the impact of coal

sector in Indian economy. India is the world’s third largest electricity producer and second

highest coal producer. Its energy use is projected to grow at a rapid pace supported by

economic development, urbanization, improved electricity access and an expanding

manufacturing base.

CIL has achieved an aggregate Pre-Tax Profit of Rs 18,009.24 Crore and post-tax profit of Rs.

12,702.17 Crore in the year 2020-21 as against pre-tax profit of Rs. 24,071.32 Crore and post-tax

profit of Rs. 16,700.34 Crore in the year 2019-20. CIL received Rs 8.31 Crore financial assistance

as subsidy for stand stowing and other protective work in the reporting financial year.

In the light of Paris Protocol and consequent changes in world energy sector scenario, CIL is

looking forward to diversify its operations towards Renewable energy like Solar Power and

Clean Energy sources like Coal Mine Methane(CMM), Coal Bed Methane(CBM), Coal to

Liquid(CTL), etc. following the directives of GoI.

CIL discloses its reports on key business, financial and tax-related information for regions and

subsidiaries on an annual basis. The information is provided in the annual report which is

available in https://www.coalindia.in/media/documents/Coal_India_English__final.pdf

Sustainability Report, 2020-21

Fig. 13 – Mine Operation in Lakhanpur OCP of MCL 

Coal India Limited
A Maharatna Company   

https://www.coalindia.in/media/documents/Coal_India_English__final.pdf


42

Hindustan Urvarak & Rasayan Limited (HURL), a JV comprising of CIL, NTPC, IOCL, FCIL
and HFCL has been constituted to set up natural-gas based 1.27 MTPA urea plant at the
premises of closed fertilizer plants of FCIL at Gorakhpur (U.P.) & Sindri (Jharkhand) and
that of HFCL at Barauni (Bihar) with 33.33% shareholding of CIL. The urea production is
expected to commence in FY 2021-22.

Talcher Fertilizers Limited (TFL), a JV comprising of RCF, CIL, GAIL and FCIL has been
constituted to set up a Surface Coal Gasification based integrated fertilizer complex at
Talcher using coal from nearby Talcher coalfields. Coal blended with pet-coke upto 25%
shall be gasified to produce syngas which shall be converted into neem coated urea
equivalent to annual capacity 1.27 Million Metric Tonne of the end product. The project is
being implemented on partial Lump Sum Turn Key (LSTK) basis. The plant is expected to
come into operation in FY 2023-24.

CIL is exploring the possibilities to venture into Coal-to-Chemicals sector on stand-alone
basis by setting up a Coal-to-Methanol plant at Dankuni Coal Complex (DCC). Coal sourced
from Raniganj coalfields shall be gasified to produce Syngas which shall be subsequently
converted into methanol.

An SPV namely ‘CIL Navikarniya Urja Limited’ has been approved by CIL Board to venture
into new business area of New and Renewable Energy (Non-Conventional) segment
including Solar, Wind, Small Hydro, Biomass, Geo-Thermal, Hydrogen, Tidal, etc., along
with other prevalent technologies/emerging technologies.

.

CIL Board has approved the formation of an SPV namely ‘CIL Solar PV Limited’ which shall
undertake this new business of entire Solar PV manufacturing value chain (i.e. Ingot-Wafer-
Cell-Module).

CIL Board has approved venturing into Aluminum business vertical through a Brownfield
Project (as a JV between MCL and NALCO) and a Greenfield Project.

Diversification of Business & Creation of New Verticals

Setting up of natural gas based ammonia-urea complex

Setting up of coal based ammonia-urea complex

Surface Coal Gasification: Setting up of Coal to Methanol plant

Solar Power Generation

Solar PV Manufacturing

Aluminum Smelting:

Sustainability Report, 2020-21



43

Coal Production, OB Removal & Coal Offtake

To optimize our resources and minimize our environmental footprint, we continuously strive to implement
new technologies / machineries such as Surface Miners, Continuous Miners and Longwall Mining. This
helps us in the following ways:

• Ensuring minimal environmental footprint due to our operations:
• Ensuring optimum production of coal;
• Minimizing the risks of contamination of soil and groundwater;
• Minimizing energy demand in mining operations;
• Minimizing emission of particulate matter (dust) and exhaust gases;
• Increasing environmental and health aspects.

2020-21 2019-20 2018-19

596.22 602.138 606.888

COAL PRODUCTION (IN MT)

2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 

1345 1154 1162

OVERBURDEN REMOVAL IN MM 3

2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 

574.481 581.926 608.137

COAL OFFTAKE IN MT

Sustainability Report, 2020-21

Coal India Limited
A Maharatna Company   

7.8 Mt coal has been produced from different subsidiaries of CIL through continuous miners. Action is

being taken for deployment of more Continuous Miners and Surface Miners in other CIL mines where

geo-mining condition permits their usage. CIL has also produced 1.23 Mt coal through mechanised

Long wall mining and 0.66 Mt by High wall mining methods.

In the year 2020-21, total coal production from open cast mines was 570 MT of which 47% was

through Surface Miners at 280MT.



44

2020-21 2019-20 2018-19

280 269
281

570 572 576

Coal Production by Surface Miner vis à vis Opencast Mining (in MT)

Coal Production by Surface Miners Coal Production by OC Mining

Sustainability Report, 2020-21

Fig. 15 – Silo under construction in Sonpur Bazari OC of ECL

Fig. 14 – Continuous Miner in Operation at Gevra OCP, SECL

Commitment for Environmental Sustainability: Eco-friendly Technology



In order to achieve the planned growth in coal evacuation with minimum impact on
environment, CIL has deployed a multi-pronged strategy, which is enumerated below:

CIL has taken steps to upgrade the mechanized coal transportation and loading system under
'First Mile Connectivity' projects having capacity of 4 Mty and above. In Phase-I, out of 35
projects tendered out, three (3) projects to transport 30 MTPA have been commissioned. A total
capacity 414.5 MTPA at an investment of INR 10,500 crore is envisaged for the projects of Phase-
1. In Phase-II, 14 more projects with total capacity 100 MTPA with an investment of INR 3,500
crore has been proposed. This will to help to increase mechanized evacuation from 150 MTPA
currently to 665 MTPA by FY24.

Target for completion of all the projects is by FY24 for Phase-I and FY-25 for phase II.

Fig. 17 - Silo in Lingaraj OCP of MCL

Sustainability Report, 2020-21

45

B. Increase of coal transport by rail

A. First Mile Connectivity Projects

Coal Evacuation

Coal India Limited
A Maharatna Company   

131.9
182.2

324
282.8

Transport of Coal by Road 
Vis a Vis Rail (in MT)

Transport of Coal byRoad

Transport of Coal by Railways

131.9
182.2

442.5
399.8

Transport of Coal by Road 
Vis a Vis Non-road mode in MT

Transport of Coal by Road Mode

Transport of Coal by Non-Road  Mode



46

Fig.16 - Transportation of coal via railways

Over the last three years, CIL has substantially increased rail portfolio as a preferred mode of
transport. Around 77.17% of our coal gets transported through non-road mode. During 2020-
21, a total quantity of 325 MTs of coal was transported through rail modes while 131 MTs was
despatched through exclusive road mode.

The multiple advantages have reduced traffic congestion, lesser road accidents and reduce
impact on air quality.

Sustainability Report, 2020-21

Fig. 17 – Silo in Operation at Lingaraj OCP of MCL



47

Every mine, either for commissioning or expansion, requires a detailed environment impact

assessment (EIA) to be carried out considering pre and post mining operations based on which

Environment Management Plans (EMPs) which are prepared through NABL accredited

agencies and thereafter discussed in detail by the Expert Appraisal Committee (EAC) under

MoEF&CC. On the basis of the discussions, EAC recommends the case and accordingly

Environmental Clearance (EC) is granted by the MoEF&CC to projects.

While granting EC, MoEF & CC lays down terms and conditions for implementing the project

which are followed by mines of subsidiaries of CIL. Project proponents monitor the status of

compliance of the stipulated conditions as indicated in EC letter and submit the same regularly

to MOEF&CC and SPCB once in six months.

CIL’s objective is to achieve its coal production target in a sustainable manner, undertaking

mine closure activities and making the land suitable for utilization by the future generation.

CIL’s mining activities and operational decisions constantly take account of environmental

concerns. At present 261 no. of dedicated environmental engineers are looking after the

environmental aspects of CIL’s operations. CIL has spent Rs. 159.62 Crore towards “Environmental

and Tree Plantation Expenses” in 2020-21 in comparison to Rs 163.51 Crore. CIL has a dedicated

Environment Policy which can be accessed at https://www.coalindia.in/media/documents/CIL

Corporate Environmental Policy 2018.pdf

The status/figures of environmental safeguard measures of CIL is as follows;

CIL’s comprehensive environmental policy includes biodiversity management and ecological

restoration as focus areas. As an extension of our commitment to maintain, enhance and

conserve biodiversity and ecosystem, extensive tree plantation is undertaken on reclaimed

back filled areas, settled overburden (OB) dumps, areas in and around mines, roadsides,

townships, residential areas and available vacant spaces. Furthermore, a conservation plans

are implemented to protect flora and fauna as per the environmental clearance (EC) / forest

clearance (FC) stipulations.

The subsidiary companies of CIL have planted 19.61 Lakh saplings in 844.31 Ha within mine

leasehold area which reflects CIL’s commitment towards protection and restoration of

ecosystems. Keeping native biodiversity in mind, indigenous species are planted to preserve

the native ecosystem through expert agencies like State Forest Development Corporation.

Bio-diversity Assessment 

CIL’s approach

Biodiversity Management

STP ETP 
Rainwater 
Harvesting 

Project
CAAQMS

Mobile water 
sprinkler 

tanker

Mist 
sprinkler

Fog 
Cannon 

Road 
Sweeping 
Machine

Vertical 
greenery/ 

Wind Barrier

Wheel 
washing 
system

40 119 368 36 928 3886 74 23 27 7

Sustainability Report, 2020-21

Coal India Limited
A Maharatna Company   

https://www.coalindia.in/media/documents/CIL Corporate Environmental Policy 2018.pdf


48

FY 2016-17 FY 2017-18 FY 2018-19 FY 2019-20 FY 2020-21

661.20

821.52
733.43

812.98 844.31

P
la

n
ta

ti
o

n
 in

 H
a

Plantation (within mine leasehold) in Ha

During the last five years (2016-17 to 2020-21), CIL has planted 94.19 Lakh no. of saplings
over an area more than 3,873 Ha. In addition to the above, during the same period, CIL
planted 7.18 Lakh no. of saplings over an area more than 520 Ha.

Fig. 18 – Plantation drive during Vriksharopan Abhiyan-2020 in NCL

Sustainability Report, 2020-21



49

Fig. 20 - Avenue Plantation in NCL

Fig. 21 - Massive Plantation in Nigahi OCP, NCL

Sustainability Report, 2020-21

Coal India Limited
A Maharatna Company   



50

CIL appreciates that its major coal reserves are associated with forest land and is totally
committed to ensure that minimal adverse effects are felt on the forest ecosystem dues to its
activities. The company does not undertake mining in ecologically sensitive areas like National
Parks, Wildlife Sanctuaries, ESZ, animal corridor etc. In every project involving forest land, for
conservation of wildlife, an amount as notified by MoEF&CC/ State governments is deposited as
Regional Wildlife Conservation Plan Fund in CAMPA for proper implementation of Wildlife
Conservation Plan in State. Further, wherever statutorily mandated a Site Specific Wildlife
Conservation Plan is got prepared through Expert Agency & approved by Chief Wildlife Warden
of the concerned state. These plans are implemented through state agencies.

Subsidiaries of CIL have deposited the following amount during last three years towards CA &
NPV payment in Ad-hoc CAMPA account:

The objective of both regional and site specific Wildlife Conservation Plans is to have an
assessment of present status of flora/fauna and habitat of major wildlife species in project and its
surrounding buffer area i.e. 10 KM buffer zone. Experts and consultants assess the area for
probable degradation of forests and habitats due to project implementation and chalk out
mitigative strategies through discussion with stakeholders of locality and forest staff.
Conservation plans include habitat improvements, measures to ameliorate human-animal
interface conflicts and implement measures to facilitate movement of fauna across planned
infrastructures causing hindrance in their movement. A list of management interventions
proposed and budget estimation are listed for both project site and impact zone which is then
implemented by either project proponent and / or Divisional Forest Officer respectively.

Our land reclamation performance is routinely monitored by satellite surveillance. In total, 52
major open cast projects (OCPs), producing more than 5 Mm³ Coal + OB annually, are monitored
every year, while the remaining OCPs, which produce less than 5 Mm³ Coal + OB annually, are
monitored once every three years. The study during 2020-21 shows that 51 major OCPs have
reclaimed area of 63.73% and active mining area is only 36.27 % of the total excavated area. In
addition, CIL is conducting vegetation cover mapping through satellite surveillance in every 3
years. Details of satellite imagery studies have also been uploaded on CIL's website.

Monitoring of Biological Reclamation

Fig. 22 – Technical reclamation in Bhubaneswari OCP of MCL

Year 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19

Amount in INR Crore 102.56 171.69 539.61

Sustainability Report, 2020-21



51Fig. 23 , 24, 25 – Jhanjra Eco Park in ECL

Sustainability Report, 2020-21

Coal India Limited
A Maharatna Company   



52

Reclamation of the mined out areas and the external OB dumps is a major environmental mitigatory
activity taken up by Coal India. In all new mines reclamation of mined out areas are being done as
per the Environmental Management Plan and Mine Closure Plan which are approved by
MoEF&CC. Concurrent reclamation and rehabilitation of mined out areas (subject to technical
feasibility as per geo-mining conditions) are undertaken for gainful land use.

For effective Bio- reclamation of disturbed land, scientific studies are carried out to select suitable
species of plants for each coalfield and sustainable sequence of restoration through three tier
plantation. Many Eco-restoration sites including 24 no. of Eco Parks and Eco-Tourism Projects have
been developed in subsidiary companies of CIL.

Eco restoration and Development of Eco Parks

Fig. 26 – Jhanjra Eco Park in ECL

Fig. 27 – Chandrasekhar Azad Park in ECL

Sustainability Report, 2020-21



53
Fig. 29 & 30 -Chandrasekhar Azad Vatika in Piparwar CCL

Sustainability Report, 2020-21

Coal India Limited
A Maharatna Company   



54

Sustainability Report, 2020-21

Fig. 27 – Inauguration of Parasnath Udyan in BCCL

Fig. 28 – Parasnath Udyan in BCCL



55

Fig. 33 - Distribution of plants on Vriksharopan Abhiyan-2020

Fig. 34 - Inauguration of Eco Park on Vriksharopan Abhiyan-2020

Sustainability Report, 2020-21

Coal India Limited
A Maharatna Company   



56

Fig. 31 - Distribution of saplings to Miners in BCCL

Fig. 32 - Plantation drive in BCCL

Sustainability Report, 2020-21



57

Fig. 35 - Plantation drive in BCCL 

Sustainability Report, 2020-21

Coal India Limited
A Maharatna Company   



58

Vriksharopan Abhiyan, 2020-21

Sustainability Report, 2020-21

Fig. 36 – Plantation during Vriksharopan Abhiyan, 2020



59

Ensuring water availability is one of the pressing challenges faced by mining sector across the

globe. The communities near mining areas are concerned with water related impacts arising due

to mining projects. Simultaneously, to address the concerns of stakeholders, earn community

acceptance and ensure operational sustainability, it has become crucial for CIL to formulate and

implement a water stewardship strategy.

The objective of CIL is to attempt for maximum utilization of trated Mine Water discharge for

community use. In 2020-21, out of 6099.95 Lcum average mine water discharge, 2324 Lcum of

mine water was utilised for own use (industrial & domestic) and 2377 Lcum which is 38.98% of

total discharge was utilized for community supply (Domestic & Irrigation). The total utilized

mine water was 4,703.17 Lcum which accounts for 77.7% of total annual discharge and the

remaining 22.3% of the water is used for ground water recharge and balance left for future use.

Being a responsible corporate citizen, CIL has also adopted strategies in order to monitor the

quality and quantity of our water consumption and discharge. In 2020-21, the discharged mined

water has been utilised in 703 villages with 10.91 Lakh beneficiaries..

Pisciculture plays a vital role as income generation and livelihood for the local communities.

Through advanced pisciculture techniques CIL converts local ponds into pisciculture centers

which act as income generators to local populace.

Water Management

Promoting Pisciculture and  Agriculture

Fig : Pisciculture at Bishrampur Opencast Mine, SECL 

Sustainability Report, 2020-21

Fig. 37 - Pisciculture in Bishrampur OCP of SECL Fig. 38 - Pisciculture in CCL

Fig. 39 - Discharged Mine water utilized 
for cultivation in CCL

Fig. 40 - Farming in OB Dump of BCCL Mine

Coal India Limited
A Maharatna Company   



60

Fig. 42 - Mango orchard in subsided area of Jhanjra UG Mine, ECL

Fig. 41 - Banana Plantation in OB dump of Kulda OCP of MCL

Sustainability Report, 2020-21

Fig. 43 - Jagannath Nursery in Jagannath OCP, MCL



61

Water related risks

Through a preliminary assessment, water related risks that can potentially impact well-being of

our stakeholders including employees, contractors, local communities and our operations are

identified. The risks could emerge from fluctuations in the water levels, water flows and water

quality. The risks could also occur within the immediate area of the operation or in the

surrounding catchment area. The EIA / EMPs prepared for CIL’s projects include identification

of water related risks. No water related incidents were reported during 2020–21.

Fig. 45 - Abandoned quarry in Rajnagar OCP, SECL

Fig:. 44 - Water from Tapin North Mine of CCL supplied for drinking water

Sustainability Report, 2020-21

Coal India Limited
A Maharatna Company   



62

CIL WATER QUALITY MONITORING DATA 
Annual average of 24 Hourly sampling value in work zone

Sl No. Subs Name of (Large Capacity) 
Mines

Water Quality Monitoring in mines

TSS in 
mg/l

pH
Oil & 

Grease in  
mg/l

COD

Environmental standard vide MOEF, Govt. of 
India, Gazette Notification No. GSR 742 (E) dated 
25.09.2000 for Annual Average of 24 hourly 
sampling in working zone: Permissible Limit

100 5.5-9.0 10 250

1
ECL

Rajmahal OC 21.63 7.7 BDL 25.27

Sonepur Bazari OC 21.12 7.58 BDL 23.45

2 BCCL AKWMC OC 41 8.03 <2.0 33

NTST Jeena Gora Colliery 44 7.70 <2.0 36

3 CCL Ashok OC 30.4 7.7 < 2 26.7

Amrapali OC 31 7.76 < 2 26

4 WCL Penganga OC 33 7.3 1.3 44.8

Umrer OC 23.13 7.42 BDL 33.04

5 SECL Kusmunda OC 41.18 7.46 1.25 5.25

Gevra OC 23.83 7.54 0.38 9.45

6 NCL Dudhichua  OC 99 7.56 6 51

Jayant OC 86 7.36 6.8 63

7 MCL Bhubaneswari OC 8 7 <6 39.5

Lakhanpur OC 32.17 6.61 4.00 41.57

All mines have dedicated sumps which have water harvesting structures and also the initial
settling tanks for suspended solids. All opencast mines as per their EC conditions have
commissioned effluent treatment plants for treating waste water, garland drains to collect
runoff water and siltation ponds for settlement of sediments in mine water. Only in a few
mines the problem of acid mine drainage has been reported. Where such report comes, CIL
takes measures for neutralizing the acidic component (as per CPCB Guidelines) before utilizing
/discharging the effluent. All mines have dedicated sumps which have water harvesting
structures and also the initial settling tanks for suspended solids.

Water pollution Control measures

Sustainability Report, 2020-21

Mine Water Drainage
Treatment in Settling 

Ponds

Partly used for internal 
activities &balance 

supplied to local 
community after 

treatment



63

Energy and Emissions

Coal is a dominant commercial fuel to meet the power demand of the country. A small amount

of energy comes from Green Energy or Nuclear Energy, leading to high level of dependency on

Coal as a fuel to produce energy for industrial and social requirements. CIL is striving to meet

the energy requirement of the country with minimum adverse impact. The focus has been

given to improvement of the energy efficiency. Coal Mining operations are very energy-

intensive processes and involve the use of high amount of fuel and electricity. While the fuel

consumption is due to the usage of HEMMs, an insignificant quantity of the same is also used

for the DG sets. CIL has a great responsibility to provide affordable energy with minimum

carbon footprint by implementing modern technology. Reducing energy consumption in CIL

mines helps in reducing greenhouse gas emissions.

Coal Production has decreased by 0.98% in 2020-21 compared to 2019-20 however there is overall

increase in excavation of combined coal & OB. Electricity consumption in CIL as a whole in 2020-21

was 4,689.67 million units. Total amount paid for energy Bill in 2020-21 was Rs. 3,518.77 crores

against Rs. 3,409.63 Crores in 2019-20, an increase of 3.2%.

Sustainability Report, 2020-21

Coal India Limited
A Maharatna Company   



64

CIL AIR QUALITY MONITORING DATA 
Annual average of 24 Hourly sampling value in work zone

Sl No. Subs Name of (Large Capacity) 
Mines 

Air Quality Monitoring in mines

Environmental standard vide MOEF, Govt. of 
India, Gazette Notification No. GSR 742 (E) 
dated 25.09.2000 for Annual Average of 24 
hourly sampling in working zone: Permissible
Limit

SO2 in 
μg/m3

NOx in 
μg/m3

SPM μg/m3 PM10 in 
μg/m3

80 80 600/ 500* 300

1
ECL

Rajmahal OC BDL 17.9 #PM2.5 =46.41193.3

Sonepur Bazari OC BDL 17.6 #PM2.5 =47.46229.4

2
BCCL

AKWMC OC 11 24 #PM2.5 =  52 96

NTST Jeena Gora Colliery 12 24 #PM2.5 = 52 100

3
CCL

Ashok OC <25 <6 150 119.15
Amrapali OC <25 <6 270 140

4
WCL

Penganga OC 12 20 203 130

Umrer OC BDL 25 188.9 120.7
5

SECL
Kusmunda OC 35.8 37.7 529.3 271.6

Gevra OC 33.9 35.8 547.9 267.7

6
NCL

Dudhichua OC 35 26 358 188
Jayant OC 35 26 359 207

7
MCL

Bhubaneswari OC 5.8 5.5 147.1 81

Lakhanpur OC 14.1 25.7 206.3 129.8

* SPM= 500 μg/m3, for Mines commissioned after 25.09.2000.
# As per EC condition of the mines of ECL & BCCL , PM 2.5 is monitored and permissible limit 

is 60 μg/m3

CIL is taking effective dust suppression measures in all of its mines through mobile & fixed
sprinklers on haul roads and other dust generation areas. The other emphasis areas are black
topping of roads, compulsory covering of coal transport trucks, avenue plantations, and
afforestation on all vacant areas. Conveyors are being developed in subsidiaries of CIL for
transporting coal from mine to dispatch points to prevent dust generation.

During the year, the emissions from different monitoring stations have been recorded and are
elucidated in the table.

Air Pollution control measures

Sustainability Report, 2020-21

Scope 1: Direct GHG emissions

Our GHG emissions arise mainly from the fuel combustion in our processes and owned

vehicles. During 2020-21, our total Scope 1 emission was 11,62,727 tCO2.

Scope 2: Indirect GHG emissions Our Scope 2 emissions primarily come from energy

purchased for our operations. For the year 2020-21, our Scope 2 emissions were 38,45,529

tCO2.

Emissions

It has been observed based on decadal routine monitoring data. Local mining has its impacts
on particulate emissions and gaseous emissions which seldom reach 25%of the set
environmental standards.



65

Fig. 46 - Fixed Sprinkler in Belpahad OC, MCL

Fig. 47 - Fog Canon in operation for suppression of dust at the source

Fig. 48 - Mobile Sprinklers in operation for suppression of dust

Coal India Limited
A Maharatna Company   



66

Step towards Green Energy- Solar

As an alternative environment friendly green energy source, solar power generation lists high on
CIL’s diversification where CIL is venturing to set up solar power generation projects of 3,000
MW capacity by FY’24. As of 2020-21, total installed capacity of Solar Power Projects in CIL is
5.31 MW. 37.37 Lakh units of solar had been generated from all the Solar Projects.

In 2020-21, tender has been floated for installation of 200.1 MW Solar Projects. In addition, CIL
won installation of 100 MW Solar power plant at Gujarat in March, 2021 through tariff based
reverse bidding by participating in the tender floated by Gujarat Urja Vikash Nigam
Limited(GUVNL)

As a responsible organization, we manage our waste with a philosophy of ‘Reduce, Reuse,
Recycle’. Advanced methods to treat different type of waste appropriately are practiced in CIL.
Some of the major type of waste generated include overburden, mine water, process waste, used
oil and sludge. This waste is generated during our mining operations. Hazardous waste are
periodically disposed in line with the stipulated law of the land and desired documents tare
submitted o the regulator State Pollution Control Board(SPCB).

The hazardous waste produced in CIL in the process of coal extraction and ancillary operations
are disposed through third party agencies that are authorized by the Central Pollution Control
Board(CPCB) or State Pollution Control Boards. We had no incidence of coal or oil spillage
during the year 2020-21. Strict safeguards are pursued to ensure that all operations have minimal
waste generated Cil has a dedicated e-Waste Policy framed in 2019, in order to dispose e-Waste
in an efficient and eco-friendly manner. The policy can be accessed at:
https://www.coalindia.in/media/documents/CI L Corporate E- Waste Policy tFQLJHH.pdf

CIL has developed a policy for managing fly ash that gets generated in captive thermal power
plants. The policy acts as our commitment to dispose fly ash in an environment-friendly manner
and can be accessed at : https://www.coalindia.in/media/documents/CIL Fly ash guidelines
2019.pdf.

Waste and Effluents Management

Sustainability Report, 2020-21

Fig. 49 – Ground monted solar power plant in MCL

https://www.coalindia.in/media/documents/CIL Fly ash guidelines 2019.pdf


67

Most of Indian coal deposits occur in major river basins of Central India, like Damodar,
Wardha, Hasdeo etc. Sand is essential ingredient for construction of housing colonies and
commands huge demand. Currently it is met through sand mining and dredging from
water courses of rivers. This affects the eco-system of rivers and is preventable. We have
taken proactive steps in this direction and started segregating sand from our overburden
formations.

WCL has commissioned three OB to sand processing plants. The sand segregated from OB
formations is being provided to agencies which are implementing housing under
government schemes like Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) and the likes. About
72,811 m3 of sand was generated from 1,93,164 Cu m OB in FY 2020-21. CIL is committed
to implement the same in its other subsidiaries in a phased manner.

The commissioning of sand segregation plants will improve the riverine ecosystem,
improve the flow, accelerate ground water recharge potential and quality of water
flowing in their courses. Sand segregation plants will go a long way in preventing mining
/ dredging of river courses which will be CIL’s contribution to Mother Nature.

OB to Sand: A step forward

Sustainability Report, 2020-21

Fig. 50 - OB to sand plant in WCL

Coal India Limited
A Maharatna Company   



68

CIL NOISE MONITORING DATA
Annual average of 24 Hourly sampling value in work zone

Sl No. Subs Name of Mines Time duration

6:00 AM to 10:00 PM 10:00 PM to 6:00 AM

Occupational exposure limit of noise specified by 
DGMS

Leq 75 dB(A) Leq 70 dB(A)

1
ECL

Rajmahal OC 69.9 65

Sonepur Bazari OC 69.19 62.1

2 BCCL AKWMC OC 59 51.1

NTST Jeena Gora Colliery 58.9 48.3

3 CCL Ashok OC 53.8 53.2

Amrapali OC 49 54

4 WCL Penganga OC 56.20 53.10

Umrer OC 66.09 54.53

5 SECL Kusmunda OC 49.51 42.83

Gevra OC 59.15 53.68

6 NCL Dudhichua OC 63.6 56.62

Jayant OC 58.6 47.9

7 MCL Bhubaneswari OC 61.53 57.18

Lakhanpur OC 64.80 60.94

Noise control measures

Blast free technology for extraction of coal is 
adopted in big opencast mines

Blasting with delay detonators undertaken

Regular maintenance of HEMMs and other 
machineries

Massive plantation in and around the mines

Personal protective equipment provided to all 
workforce

Noise pollution is created due to operation of HEMM deployed in mines, activities of

Workshops, CHPs and due to blasting operations. Noise created due to the said activities are

reduced at CIL mining sites by the following:

Sustainability Report, 2020-21



69

Sustainability Report, 2020-21

Coal India Limited
A Maharatna Company   



70

CIL believes that the performance of an organization must be measured in terms of the value it

creates for the society. Organizations that embed sustainability into their strategies can create

substantial stakeholder value through innovative development models that simultaneously generate

sustainable livelihood opportunities as well as create a positive environmental footprint. CIL is

totally committed to foster health, safety and well-being of employees by building a unique culture

of their empowerment and enrichment and also to collaborate with communities towards social

interventions in the identified thrust areas.

CIL’s Human Resource agenda is primarily focused on strengthening four key areas:

 Building a robust and diverse talent pipeline

 Enhancing individual and organizational capabilities for future readiness

 Driving greater employee engagement

 Strengthening employee relations further through progressive people practices

The Human Resource Department supports the business operations and helps in enhancing

performance parameters for each employee. Efforts for skill mapping, skill assessment,

performance assessment, gap analysis that enables training plan identification, customized for

each workman and priority areas, are undertaken on a regular basis. CIL is also committed to

support the Skill India Mission and Atma Nirbhar Bharat Mission of Govt. of India.

CIL measures growth not just in terms of the value it delivers to its customers, but also in terms

of the growth of its employees. The company believes that the welfare of its employees is integral

to its vision to become a vibrant organisation. CIL recognizes that its employees are the key to its

continued expansion and growth. Therefore, the Company puts a great deal of emphasis on

talent acquisition, development, retention and motivation.

The total manpower of the Company including its subsidiaries as on 01.04.2021 is 2,59,016 against

2,72,445 as on 31.03.2020. Additionally, 85,604 no. of contractual employees are deployed in

various activities in CIL.

Workforce

Social Performance

243782 252985
265700

15234 19460 19779

259016
272445

285479

2020-21 2019-20 2018-19

Status of Manpower

Non-executive Executive Total

Sustainability Report, 2020-21



71

2020-21 2019-20 2018-19

19535 19460 19779

259016 272445 285479

Total Strength vis a vis Strength of Female Employees

Strength of Female Employees Total Strength

Sustainability Report, 2020-21

Category ECL BCCL CCL WCL SECL         MCL NCL NEC CMPDI DCC CIL(HQ) Total 

Non-Exe. 3591 3303 3317 2438 2806 2205 486 81 156 29 66 18478

Executive 108 126 178 165 132 94 73 10 96 3 85 1070

TOTAL 3699 3429 3495 2603 2938 2299 559 91 252 32 151 19548

CATEGORYWISE / COMPANYWISE STRENGTH OF FEMALE EMPLOYEES

Fig.51 & 52 - Female Employees in different surface activities

Coal India Limited
A Maharatna Company   



72

Non-discrimination & gender equality

CIL ensures that there is no discrimination between male and female employees. The
recruitment and employee selection processes enable representation from multiple regions,
religions and social backgrounds.

We believe that inequalities can be eliminated through proper wage distribution. To remove
any scope of bias and promote equality, the ratio of the basic salary and remuneration of
women to men is same in CIL.

For payment of salary and wages, CIL follows the NCWA for non-executives and specified pay
scales for executive cadre employees. Furthermore, we ensure that there is no discrimination in
compensation, training and employee benefits, based on caste, religion, disability, gender,
sexual orientation, race, colour, ancestry, marital status or affiliation with a political, religious
or union organization or majority / minority group.

Additionally, 94.11% of our employments are covered under National Coal Wage Agreement
which is finalized once every five years.

The executives of CIL are covered under CDA Rules for Anti Sexual Harassment and the staff
adherers to the standing order of Government of India for Anti Sexual Harassment. Any
instances of such actions are reported to the Internal Complaints Committee (ICC), set up at
every subsidiary and office of CIL to redress complaints regarding sexual harassment. All
women employees (permanent, contractual, temporary, trainees) are covered under this policy.
During the reporting year FY2020-21, no sexual harassment complaint was reported.

Additionally, 0.27% of our total workforce of 703 people were those with disabilities. Three new
employees with disability joined in CIL in FY2020-21 We endeavor to make continuous efforts
to provide a conducive environment to our employees for their growth and development.

Fig. 53 - Mrs Sonmati, Drill Operator in NCL

Sustainability Report, 2020-21



73

CIL provides the right to freedom and collective bargaining to all employees and no child labour
or forced / compulsory labour is tolerated. All the employees are free to be part of any registered
trade union or employees’ association. The representation of staff is allowed in the bipartite bodies
through trade unions / associations of representative nature. Furthermore, CIL has a Welfare
Board comprising Central Trade Union representatives and management representatives who
frequently meet, discuss and review various welfare schemes and their implementation.. The four
major trade unions to which CIL non-executive employees are associated with are BMS, HMS,
AITUC and CITU..

No strikes/lock outs were reported during 2020-21.

CIL has a robust human resource plan, which entails developing diverse workforce capabilities by
investing in their skill development. CIL fosters employee development by supporting a broad
range of both in-house and external training and development opportunities. Our approach to
human capital development is in tandem with the Government of India initiatives such as Skill
India Mission and Atmanirbhar Bharat Mission. CIL always aims at creating a work environment
that respects individuality and diversity and promotes individual growth.

CIL is committed to transform the mining sector through developing new skills among the
existing employees and attracting fresh and diversified talent. CIL believes in investing in new
skills so that our people are ready for future jobs. Training of employees is a critical element in
CIL’s long-term strategy for two reasons. Firstly, it enables the team to offer quality service.
Secondly, learning is an integral part of employee retention policy. Relevant training programmes
are provided to all the employees that to enhance their skills and lead to professional
development.

CIL has a systematic mechanism of needs assessment in terms of employee skill mapping to
determine the training requirements. Such skill gap assessment ensures that investment in
employee development is well targeted in priority areas and allows for customization. Necessary
training is imparted to the employees before change of job.

Freedom of Association

Human Resource Development

Fig. .54 - Universal Equipment Simulator Training in NCL

Sustainability Report, 2020-21

Coal India Limited
A Maharatna Company   



74

In 2020-21, 55,203 no. of employees were trained in side and outside the company. More than
4,43,084 training man-days were achieved for executives and non-executives (excluding contract
workers). Employees were trained in the areas of mine safety, knowledge acquisition, ERP
management development, environment and skill development. No foreign trainings were
conducted in FY 20-21 due to Government restrictions. Additionally, 33,365 no. of contract
workers were trained in the financial year on different need based training programmes. During

the year 2020-21, 10,249 Apprentices were also engaged in CIL through NATS and NAPS

Successful talent attraction and retention ensure that we sustain our competitive advantage in
executing business strategies. We have an ongoing process of evaluating our human capital,
business requirements in terms of skill set and the working environment to ensure we
adequately value talents, skills, backgrounds and experiences of our diverse and inclusive
workforce. All policies and procedures, especially those related to talent management processes
are regularly examined and strengthened.

CIL has implemented an appropriate and well balanced compensation structure for all employee
categories, including both fixed and variable components. The variable part is balanced
concerning time horizon with the organization for all employee levels. The incentive structure of
CIL is particularly one which keeps employees motivated and ensures better retention. We
strongly believe that talent management and succession planning are critical activities for a
sustainable business. Performance of all the executives below Board level up to E7 grade is
assessed through a balanced Score Card based Performance Management System (PMS) called
'Performance Report for Individual Development of Executives’ (PRIDE). Performance of E8 and
above grade executives is assessed through PAR-based system governed by DPE guidelines.
Further details are available in the PMS Manual. Performance of all executives is assessed based
on PMS in which all the short-term and long-term targets are assigned through mutual
discussions. Based on the account, a variable component pay called performance related pay
(PRP) is being given every year to all the executives at the Board level and below.

Attraction & Retention of Talent

New Employee Hires

2020-21 2019-20 2018-19

Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total

256 0 256 149 65 214 479 89 568

New Employee Hires (By Age Group)

2020-21 2019-20 2018-19

< 30 
yrs

30-50 
yrs

above 
50 yrs

Total
< 30 
yrs

30-50 
yrs

above 
50 yrs

Total < 30 yrs
30-50 
yrs

above 
50 yrs

Total

0 213 43 256 77 137 0 214 239 291 38 568

Increase/Decrease statement  as on 01.04.2021

Factors of increase TOTAL Factors of decrease TOTAL

Compassionate employment 1818 Retirement 14163

Fresh Rectt. 426 Resignation 305

Appoint of land losers 1992 Death 2615

Re-instatement 25 Dissmisal/Termination/Removal 449

Sustainability Report, 2020-21



75

An organization’s output is only the sum total of its employees’ endeavour. Employee well-
being is a continuous process at CIL, enabling employees to feel good, live healthy and work
safely. The Company has continued to invest in progressive employee relations characterized
by the core principles of trusteeship, fairness and equity, industrial democracy and
partnership with trade unions. In CIL, it is important to keep the employees constantly
motivated and provide them with an opportune working environment. CIL has dedicated
residential and commercial areas, sports facilities, clubs, schools and medical facilities for its
employees in remote areas. CIL also organize events during festivals and special occasions for
employees and their families. Innovations being a significant aspect of CIL’s culture, employees
are continuously encouraged to be a part of it. The facilities that are extended to all sections of
the Society like- Scheduled caste, Scheduled Tribe, backward classes, minorities as well as
other marginalised segments of the society, without any discrimination.

All employees of CIL are covered under the Coal Mines Provident Fund scheme which is a
contributory fund with equal shares both by employee and company which is operated and
maintained by the Coal Mines Provident Fund (CMPF) Authorities.

Other employee benefit includes

•Benefits on account of LTA/LTC
•Life Cover Scheme
•Group, personal Accident Insurance Scheme
•Settlement Allowance
•Retired Executive Medical Benefit Scheme
•Compensation to Dependants of the deceased in mine accidents.
•Paternity leave
•Maternity Leave
•Child care leave

CIL, it is important to keep the employees constantly motivated and provide them with an
opportune working environment. CIL has dedicated residential and commercial areas, sports
facilities, clubs, schools and medical facilities for its employees in remote areas. CIL also
organize events during festivals and special occasions for employees and their families.
Innovations being a significant aspect of CIL’s culture, employees are continuously
encouraged to be a part of it. The facilities that are extended to all sections of the Society like-
Scheduled caste, Scheduled Tribe, backward classes, minorities as well as other marginalised
segments of the society, without any discrimination. For recreation of our employees and
stakeholders, 218 children parks have been established in all subsidiaries of CIL.

Imparting primary education, we support a total of 459 Schools. Of these, 113 are fully
financed project schools and 281 are privately managed schools where recurring grant-in aid
is provided. While 45 educational institutions within the proximity of coalfields receive
occasional grant, the rest 20 company schools (run on their own non-financial support) are
extended infrastructure facility.

Employee benefits

Employee Welfare

Sustainability Report, 2020-21

Coal India Limited
A Maharatna Company   



Occupational Health and Safety

76

Since coal mining is beset with numerous inherent, operational and occupational hazards &

associated risks, the probability of accident in mines cannot be totally ruled out. However,

Safety is always the highest priority in CIL. Safety is indoctrinated in the mission statement of

CIL and is one of the most important constituents in overall business strategy. CIL has framed

a well-defined safety policy to ensure safety in all mines and establishments. CIL has already

set up a multi-disciplinary internal safety organization (ISO) in all subsidiaries for

implementation of Safety Policy which can be accessed at

https://www.coalindia.in/departments/safety-rescue/safety-policy-cil.

All operations, systems and processes of CIL are meticulously planned and designed with due

regard to safety, conservation, sustainable development and clean environment. CIL always

encourages employees’ participations at all levels so as to promote a proactive safety culture

and improve safety awareness upto grass root level employees. Various initiatives are taken on

continual basis at all levels to translate the vision of “Zero Harm Potential (ZHP)” into a

reality. In the reporting period, 3 cases of pneumoconiosis have been identified in CIL.

Measures for improvement of Mine Safety

Apart from compliance of statutory requirements, CIL has vigorously pursued the following
measures for enhancing safety standard in mines

• Safety Audit of mines conducted through multi-disciplinary Safety Audit teams.

• Display of Video Clips or Animation films on various Mine Safety Procedures,

• Scientific studies on OB dumps & benches as well as for SCAMP in underground mines.

• Control measures of Safety Management Plans (SMPs) are being complied.

• Control measures of Principal Hazards Management Plans (PHMPs) are being complied.

• All mining operations are being performed as per Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs).

• Special Safety drives conducted to improve safety and enhance safety awareness.

• Regular co-ordination meeting with ISOs for assessing the safety status of mines.

69.66

50.04

2020-21 2019-20

Safety & Rescue Expenses in INR Crore

Sustainability Report, 2020-21

https://www.coalindia.in/departments/safety-rescue/safety-policy-cil


77

The main causes of these fatalities were due to the followings:

1) Tipper & Dumpers related accidents,

2) Roof / Side fall,

3) Non-Transport machines

4) Fall of person / object

Steps for prevention of accidents in OCPs:

a.Formulation and Implementation of Mine-specific Traffic Rules.

b.Code of Practice for HEMM Operators, Maintenance staff & others.

c.Sensitization training of Contractor’s Workmen involved in contractual jobs.

d.Installed a 'Universal Equipment Simulator' at Central Excavation Training Institute

(CETI) in NCL, Singrauli to impart simulation training to Dragline, Shovel and Dozer

Operators. Simulator allows operator to hone their skills.

e.Lighting arrangement by using high mast towers are provided for enhancement of

standard of illumination.

f.Eco-friendly Surface Miners for blast free mining and avoidance of associated risks.

g.Dumpers fitted with Proximity Warning Devices, Rear view mirrors and camera, Audio-

Visual Alarm (AVA), Automatic Fire Detection & Suppression System (AFDSS) etc.

h.Ergonomically designed seats & AC Cabins for operators’ comfort.

i.Installation of indigenous built solar power based real time dump monitoring device for

giving early warning in case of movement in OB dump.

j.Automatic pressure water spraying system for cleaning vehicle

k.Apart from system of wet drilling and water Sprinklers for dust suppression, mist type

fixed as well as trucks mounted water cannons have been introduced in OC mines.

l.GPS based Operator Independent Truck Dispatch System (OITDS) in large OCPs for

tracking movement of HEMMs inside OC mine. E-surveillance unit has been installed in

mines for monitoring operations 24X7 in real time by using GPS/GPRS-based vehicle

tracking, and geo-fencing system.

Sustainability Report, 2020-21

Coal India Limited
A Maharatna Company   

Rate of fatality Serious Injury rate

0.057

0.126

0.048

0.149

Accident Statistics(Per MT of Coal Production)

2020-21 2019-20



78

Safety Monitoring System in CIL

Level Monitored By

Mine Workman inspectors: as per the Mines Rule 1955

Safety Committee: constituted as per the Mines Rule – 1955 

Competent Officials as per statute

Area Tri-partite Safety Committee 

Area Safety Officer 

Subsidiary HQ Tri-partite Safety Committee 

Internal Safety Organization (ISO)

CIL HQ: Corporate 

Level

CIL Board of Directors

CIL Safety Board 

CMDs Meet.

Corporate level ISO.

At National Level Standing Committee on Safety in Coal Mines 

National Conference on Safety in Mines.

Various Parliamentary Standing Committees

Fig. 55 - Safety awareness programme in BCCL

Sustainability Report, 2020-21



79

CIL’s Land and Resources Policy ensures fair determination of compensation and
compares with the best practices in vogue. The disclosure of the displacement eligibility
and entitlements are done as early as possible in project planning through regular camps
by the officials from Land and Resources Department. Fair determination of compensation
for land acquisition and other assets is also ensured by company's Resettlement and
Rehabilitation Policy, which is framed as per the Government Approved Guidelines. This
is achieved through employment against land, cash compensation against land value,
shifting allowances for rehab sites or lumpsum compensation. The physical and economic
displacement grievance mechanisms through Public Porta are also l established by
subsidiaries where the PAPs can redress their grievances.

The Relocation Plan also covers several community engagement aspects, such as:

• Identifying affected communities and the range of stakeholders
• Implementing a Stakeholder Engagement Plan
• Providing Affected Communities with access to relevant information
• Enabling Affected Communities to express their views on operational and project risks,

impacts and mitigation measures
• Incorporating the views of Affected Communities into operational and project decision-

making
• Grievance mechanisms for Affected Communities
• Reporting to Affected Communities and other stakeholders.

The operational units of CIL are mostly in remote locations where communities are mostly
tribal having their own respective sets of culture and tradition. Hence, the rapport with
communities is pre-established considering them as part of the composite operational
ecosystem of the company

Resettlement and Rehabilitation

Fig. 56 - Bhoga Mandap and Pidha of Baulpur R & R Site of Bharatpur OCP

Sustainability Report, 2020-21

Coal India Limited
A Maharatna Company   



80

Community Engagement

Corporate Social Responsibility as an instrument of societal service assumes greater importance
in Coal India more than it does for any other Corporate. This is due to its distinctive operational
features. Unlike other industries mining establishments are constantly on the move. Land
acquisition, displacement, rehabilitation and resettlement are an integral and unending process
in coal mines. For this, CIL humanely keeps on interacting with the surrounding community
who offer their land for the cause of the nation’s energy needs. The company understands and
internalizes the sensitivity of Community vs Company interface in coal mining. The
communities living around mines have heightened expectations from coal companies. To fulfill
their needs, company looks at CSR as a national duty. Company’s CSR programmes are
outcome oriented and aligned with inclusive growth agenda.

The Company has a people friendly CSR Policy containing inter alia the guiding principles for
selection, implementation and monitoring of activities. The revised CSR Policy of CIL which is
effective from 8th April 2021 is available in :

https://www.coalindia.in/media/documents/CSR_Policy_w.e.f._08.04.2021.pdf

The focus of CSR activities in CIL is on the areas which fall in a radius of 25 km. in and around
the mines/project sites. Here, the CSR interventions are decided based on detailed discussions
with the local community and their their local leaders/representatives/district authorities and
the need assessment of the requirements of the community. For CIL (standalone), since the CSR
activities are conducted in whole of India, the implementing agencies for the projects are
involved in community engagement. Moreover, requests from public representatives like MPs
and MLAs are also considered for areas which need some sort of development intervention.

Sustainability Report, 2020-21

Fig. 57 – The smile tells the story..in MCL



81

Fig. 58 - Kantha Project for Women Empowerment in ECL

Fig. 59 - A beneficiary of Aharmandal Project of MCL

Coal India Limited
A Maharatna Company   



82

CSR activities of CIL and its subsidiaries are focused at providing the basic infrastructure

services such as Healthcare, Education, Sanitation, Water Supply etc. in peripheral areas. This

helps in improving the development indicators of these areas/districts and provides conducive

environment to the local people to become productive members of the economy. Some of the

major CSR initiatives undertaken by CIL as per the scope of CIL's CSR Policy under various

heads during the financial year 2020-21 are as follows:

Expenditure on Community Infrastructure/Services

CSR Projects Type Amount in Rs. Crore

Nutrition, Health & Sanitation 314.89

Education & Livelihood 83.30

Empowerment, Welfare & Social Inclusion 1.05

Environmental Sustainability 16.94

Promotion of Art & Culture and Conservation of National 
Heritage

1.62

Welfare of Armed Forces 1.23

Promotion of Sports 11.24

Contribution to National Relief Funds 21.25

Contribution to Technology Incubators, Research Institutions 1.71

Rural Development 77.20

Slum Area Development 0.20

Disaster Management & Relief 23.22

Total 553.85

Sustainability Report, 2020-21



83

Fig. 60 - Silver medal winner of Sports Academy run by CCL 
in National Cycling Track Championship ,Hyderabad

Fig. 61 - Development of NCL - IIT BHU Incubation Centre at Birkuniya Gram Panchayhat, 
Singrauli

Coal India Limited
A Maharatna Company   



84

Type of CSR Activity
Current/ Expected Impact on 
Community

Type of Investment 
(Commercial/ in-kind 
or pro bono 
engagements)

Drinking Water
Better availability of safe drinking water 
and less incidence of water borne diseases

Pro bono engagement

Education

Better education facilities and hence a better 
chance to grow as productive citizens of the 
country and have a good standard of living 
in future

Pro bono engagement

Environmental 
Sustainability and 
Conservation of Natural 
Resources

Mitigation of threat to existing ecosystem 
and sustainability of income generating 
activities

Pro bono engagement

Healthcare
Better healthcare facilities and less 
incidence of disease induced mortality

Pro bono engagement

Eradicating hunger and 
malnutrition

Ensuring that those who can' afford food 
get the basic minimum level of nutrition

Pro bono engagement

Rural Development 
Projects

Holistic development of rural areas 
encompassing various facets of people's 
lives

Pro bono engagement

Sanitation
Improved sanitation facilities and more 
coverage of toilets hence making the 
villages Open Defecation Free (ODF)

Pro bono engagement

Skill Development

Skill training in various disciplines related 
to plastic engineering will help the youth in 
getting jobs and hence a better standard of 
living in future

Pro bono engagement

Welfare of the differently 
abled

Better treatment and educational/training 
facilities to differently abled people will 
make them better equipped to be in the 
mainstream

Pro bono engagement

Women Empowerment
Various underprivileged women will be 
able to self sustain with the training and 
rehabilitation provided to them

Pro bono engagement

Welfare of senior citizens
Providing senior citizens facilities for living 
a dignified life

Pro bono engagement

Protection of national 
heritage, art and culture

Protection of heritage to safeguard the rich 
and vibrant cultural ethos of the country

Pro bono engagement

Welfare of armed forces 
veterans and war 
widows

Contribution to armed forces flag day fund 
and other similar corpuses to ensure better 
life for armed forces veterans and war 
widows

Pro bono engagement

Promotion of sports
To identify and promote sports talents in 
remotest areas of the nation

Pro bono engagement

Slum area development
To provide basic facilities in slum areas and 
improve the living standards of the 
residents

Pro bono engagement

Disaster Management
To support relief and rehabilitation 
activities during and post disasters

Pro bono engagement

Others
Other activities beneficial to the community 
at large

Pro bono engagement

Sustainability Report, 2020-21



85

Fig. 62 - Medical College Hospital in Talcher, MCL 

Fig. 63 - Supply of drinking water to the local community under CSR

Sustainability Report, 2020-21

Coal India Limited
A Maharatna Company   



86
Fig. 66 - Swachhta Kit Distribution to auto drivers during Swachhta Maah 2020 in CCL

Fig. 65 -Anganwadi Kendra at Khutar by NCL

Fig. 64 - Supply of Drinking Water to Villages by ECL



87

Sustainability Report, 2020-21

Fig. 67 - Beneficiaries of household toilets constructed by MCL

Fig. 66 - Electric Crematorium at Dishergarh Burning Ghat set up by ECL

Coal India Limited
A Maharatna Company   



88

Fig. 68 - Water Purification Plant by Umrer Area, WCL

Fig. 69 - Operation of Mobile Medical Vans in ECL

Fig. 70 - Upgradation of Govt. Schools by SECL



89

Fig. 71 - Distribution of appliances to differently-abled children by CMPDI

Fig. 72 - Health camp organized by CIL for the community

Coal India Limited
A Maharatna Company   



90

With amended Companies (CSR) Rules,
2014 coming into effect from 22.01.2021, all
CSR projects which have outlays more than
Rs. 1 cr. and have been completed at least
one year back will be assessed for their
impact through external agencies. This will
cover almost all high investment, high
impact projects.

Subsidiaries of CIL have engaged reputed
institutes for impact assessment of their
major CSR projects. Due to COVID-19
pandemic induced restrictions, impact
assessment studies could not be taken up in
FY 20-21. Subsidiaries will also be
conducting impact assessment studies
during FY 21-22 for their projects with
outlay more than Rs. 1 cr. and completed at
least 1 year back.

Impact Assessment

2 0 2 0 -2 1 2 0 1 9 -2 0 2 0 1 8 -1 9  

553.85 587.84 416.47

CSR EXPENDITURE IN 
RS CRORE

A total of six completed CSR projects having a project outlays more than Rs. 1 cr. have been
identified for Impact Assessment during FY 2021-22 for which reputed independent agencies
will be identified.

CIL and its subsidiaries undertake several skill development initiatives through which job
oriented skill development training is imparted to trainees (mostly from peripheral areas).
These trainings have good market potential and help the trainees get meaningful formal
sector employment or establish their own small businesses. For Ex. Skill Development
training in Plastic Engineering trades conducted for 2000 persons (1520 of them for
operational states of CIL) during FY 18-19 to FY 20-21 had more than 80% placement with a
starting salary of Rs. 8,000 – Rs. 12,000 per month.

On completion of the Project for imparting skill development training to 2000 youth in plastic
engineering trades through Central Institute of Petrochemicals Engineering & Technology
(CIPET), a fresh MoU was signed with CIPET for imparting training to around 3000 youth
from command areas of CIL’s subsidiaries.

Skill development

Sustainability Report, 2020-21

Fig. 73 - Training to the students of Plastic Engineering in ECL



91

Conclusion

As a responsible business organization over the years, CIL is improving its business performance
not only towards quality coal production in a sustainable manner, but also disclosing its business
activities through Sustainability Reports (SR) as a part of Annual Report of the company. CIL has
been disclosing its business activity parameters through Sustainability Report since 2011-12. Over
the years it has improved its disclosures of business activities including Economic,
Environmental and Social aspects to comply with the SEBI mandate and the prevailing Global
Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines.

The report covered the materiality issues, sustainability management, targets and achievements
of CIL and steps taken to address the concerns raised by the stakeholders.

For continual improvement in environmental performance by setting targets, measuring progress

and taking corrective actions, CIL has engaged ICFRE, Dehradun for Environmental Audit of OC

Mines of CIL. The job of Developing approach and methodology for index rating of environmental

conditions and performance evaluation as per the EC conditions in 35 CIL (> 5Mm3 Coal + OB) Mines,

was assigned to ICFRE and the Final Report has already been approved by CIL Board in December, 2020.

ICFRE has started initial work for audit of 35 mines of CIL.

NEERI, Kolkata has performed the job of “Assessment of Change in Carbon Footprint on
Construction and Operationalization of Tori-Shivpur Railway Line in CCL Command Area in
Jharkhand” .NEERI is also now carrying a carbon foot print study in two mega projects of CIL
after the installation of First Mile Projects.

On the economic front. there is a set back due to the reduction of coal demand nation-wide. But
our efforts towards the society was never a constraint due to this pandemic. CIL will continue to
improve its business performance for strengthening the backbone of India’s economy with
continued support from its stakeholders.

X-X-X-X-X-X-X-X-X-X-X-X-X-X-X

Sustainability Report, 2020-21

Coal India Limited
A Maharatna Company   



92

Mapping of GRI Framework with BRR Frame Work

Business Responsibility Report (BRR) has been mandated by SEBI vide Reg.-34(2)(f) regarding
Listing Obligation and Disclosure Requirements(LODR), 2015 as CIL being a top 1,000 Listed
Company. As the Sustainability Report has been prepared as per GRI standard, it has been
mapped for Environmental, Social and Governance perspective with the principles and
framework of Business Responsibility Report (BRR). The same would be considered sufficient
compliance with GRI Report. The BRR indicators mapped with GRI Framework is as follow

Description of 

Indicator

GRI 

Framework

Disclosure 

number

BRR Framework Page No.

Name of the organization GRI 102 102-1 Section A:#1;#2 Cover page, 

8,11,12

Activities, brands, 

products, and Services

GRI 102 102-2 Section A:#7;#8 8,11

Location of headquarters GRI 102 102-3 Section A:#3;#4 11

Location of operations GRI 102 102-4 Section A:#9 8,12

Ownership and legal form GRI 102 102-5 Section A:#9; 

Section C:#1

12

Markets served GRI 102 102-6 Section A:#7;#10 11,13

Scale of the organization GRI 102 102-7 NA 12

Information on employees 

and other workers

GRI 102 102-8 Section E: P-3 #1, 

#2,#3 NVG P-3

21

Supply chain GRI 102 102-9 NA 11,13

Significant changes to the 

organization and its supply 

chain

GRI 102 102-10 NA 12,42

Precautionary Principle or 

approach

GRI 102 102-11 NA 36,37

External initiatives GRI 102 102-12 NA 42

Membership of 

associations

GRI 102 102-13 Section E: P7- #1,#2 29

Statement from senior 

Decision-Maker

GRI 102 102-14 NA 9

Key impacts, risks, and 

opportunities

GRI 102 102-15 Section E: P-6, 

#3,Section E: P-2, #1

36, 37,42

Values, principles, 

standards, and norms of 

behavior

GRI-102 102-16 NA 2

Mechanisms for advice and 

concerns about ethics

GRI-102 102-17 NA 39,40

Governance structure GRI-102 102-18 Section D: #1, 

#3;NVG P1

26,27, Annual 

Report

Delegating authority GRI-102 102-19 NA 27, Annual 

Report

Executive-level 

responsibility for 

economic, environmental,

and social topics 

GRI-102 102-20 NA 27, Annual 

Report



93

Description of 

Indicator

GRI 

Framework

Disclosure 

number

BRR 

Framework

Page No.

Consulting stakeholders 

on economic, 

environmental, and social 

topics

GRI-102 102-21 NA 35

Composition of the 

highest governance body 

and its committees

GRI-102 102-22 Section D: #1, 26,27, Annual 

Report

Chair of the highest 

governance body

GRI-102 102-23 NA 27, Annual 

Report

Nominating and selecting 

the highest governance 

body

GRI-102 102-24 NA 26, Annual 

Report

Conflicts of interest GRI-102 102-25 NA Annual Report

Role of highest 

governance body in setting 

purpose, values, and 

strategy

GRI-102 102-26 NA Annual Report

Collective knowledge of 

highest governance body

GRI-102 102-27 NA 27

Evaluating the highest 

governance body’s 

performance 

GRI-102 102-28 NA 26

Identifying and managing 

economic, environmental, 

and social impacts

GRI-102 102-29 NA 26

Effectiveness of risk 

management Processes

GRI-102 102-30 NA 37

Review of economic, 

environmental, and social 

topics

GRI-102 102-31 NA 26,33

Highest governance body’s 

role in sustainability 

reporting

GRI-102 102-32 Section D: #2.4, 

#2.5, 

#3 NVG P1

8

Communicating critical 

concerns

GRI-102 102-33 NA 36-39

Nature and total number 

of critical concerns

GRI-102 102-34 NA 38,39

Remuneration policies GRI-102 102-35 NA Annual 

Report, CIL 

Website

Process for determining 

Remuneration

GRI-102 102-36 NA Annual 

Report, CIL 

Website,72

Coal India Limited
A Maharatna Company   



94

Description of 

Indicator

GRI 

Framework

Disclosure 

number

BRR 

Framework

Page No.

Stakeholders’ 

involvement in 

Remuneration

GRI-102 102-37 NA Annual Report, 

CIL Website,72

Annual total 

compensation ratio

GRI-102 102-38 NA Not Reported

Percentage increase in 

annual total compensation 

ratio

GRI-102 102-39 NA Not Reported

Collective bargaining 

agreements

GRI 102 102-41 Section E: P-3 

#5, #6

72

Identifying and selecting 

stakeholders

GRI 102 102-42 Section E: P-4 # 

1, #2

NVG-P4

34

Approach to stakeholder 

engagement

GRI 102 102-43 Section D: #2, 

#2.2 #2.7;

Section E: P4 #2 

NVG P4

35

Key topics and concerns 

raised

GRI 102 102-44 Section D: #2.9;

Section E: P 4 

#2, P-5#2

36

Entities included in the 

consolidated financial 

statements

GRI 102 102-45 NA 12,42

Defining report content 

and topic Boundaries

GRI 102 102-46 Section C: #2, 

#3

8

List of material topics GRI 102 102-47 NA 36

Restatements of 

information

GRI 102 102-48 NA 8

Changes in reporting GRI 102 102-49 NA 12,36

Reporting period GRI 102 102-50 Section A: #6 8

Date of most recent report GRI 102 102-51 Section D: #3 8

Reporting cycle GRI 102 102-52 Section D: #3 8

Contact point for 

questions regarding the 

report

GRI 102 102-53 Section A: #4, 

#5

8

Claims of reporting in 

accordance with the GRI 

Standards, GRI content 

index, External assurance

GRI 102 GRI 102-54, 

102-55, 102-56

NA 8

External Assurance GRI 102 Section D: 

#2.10

To be 

incorporated 

after 3rd Party 

validation



95

Description of 

Indicator

GRI 

Framework

Disclosure 

number

BRR 

Framework

Page no.

Explanation of the 

material topic and its 

boundary

GRI 103 103-1 Section E: P-5, 

#1 Section E: P-

3 #7, #8

NVG P-3

33,36

The management 

approach and its 

components

GRI 103 103-2 Section E: P-5, 

#1 Section E: P-

3 #7, #8

NVG P-3

35

Evaluation of the 

management approach

GRI 103 103-3 Section E: P-5, 

#1 Section E: P-

3 #7, #8

NVG P-3

33

Direct economic value 

generated and distributed

GRI-201 201-1 Section B: #1 

,#2, #3

15

Financial implications and 

other risks and 

opportunities due to 

climate change

GRI-201 201-2 NA 15

Defined benefit plan 

obligations and other 

retirement plans

GRI-201 201-3 NA 21,75

Financial assistance 

received from government

GRI-201 201-4 NA 41

Ratios of standard entry 

level wage by gender 

compared to local 

minimum wage

GRI 202 202-1CIL 

Website

NA CIL Website

Proportion of senior 

management hired from 

the local community

GRI 202 202-2 NA 71

Infrastructure investments 

and services supported

GRI 203 203-1 Section B: #4 22,80-90

Significant indirect 

economic impacts

GRI 203 203-2 Section B: #4, 

#5

80-90

Proportion of spending on 

local suppliers

GRI 204 204-1 Section E: P-2 

#3, #4

82

Communication and 

training about anti-

corruption policies and 

procedures

GRI 205 205-2 Section E: P-1 

#2

30

Confirmed incidents of 

corruption and actions 

taken

GRI 205 205-3 Section E: P-1 

#2

30

Legal actions for anti-

competitive behavior, 

anti-trust, and monopoly 

practices

GRI 206 206-1 NA 30

Coal India Limited
A Maharatna Company   



96

Description of 

Indicator

GRI 

Framework

Disclosure 

number

BRR 

Framework

Page No.

Reclaimed products and 

their packaging materials

GRI 301 301-3 Section E: P-2 

#5

48,52,67

Energy consumption 

within the organization

GRI 302 302-1 NVG P6 63

Energy intensity GRI 302 302-3 NA 63

Reduction of energy 

consumption

GRI 302 302-4 Section E P-6 

#2, #5; Section 

E-P- 2 #2; P-6 

#2;  P-6#5

63

Reductions in energy 

requirements of products 

and services

GRI 302 302-5 NVG P-2, P-6 63

Interactions with water as a 

shared resource

GRI 303 303-1 Section E-P-2 

#2 NVG P-6

16

Management of water 

discharge-related impacts 

GRI 303 303-2 Section E-P-2 

#2 NVG P-6

16,59,61,62

Water withdrawal GRI 303 303-3 59

Water discharge GRI 303 303-4 59

Water consumption GRI 303 303-5 59

Operational sites owned, 

leased, managed in, or 

adjacent to, protected areas 

and areas of high 

biodiversity value outside 

protected areas

GRI 304 304-1 NVG P-6 47

Significant impacts of 

activities, products, and 

services on biodiversity

GRI 304 304-2 NA 48,52,67

Habitats protected or 

restored

GRI 304 304-3 NA 79

Reduction of GHG 

emissions

GRI 305 305-5 Section E-P-6 

#2, #4

NVG P-6

64

Emissions of ozone-

depleting substances 

(ODS)

GRI 305 305-6 NA NA

Nitrogen oxides (NoX), 

sulfur oxides (SoX), and 

other significant air 

Emissions

GRI 305 305-7 NA 64

Water discharge by quality 

and Destination

GRI 306 306-1 NVG P-6 59

Transport of hazardous 

waste

GRI 306 306-4 Section E: P-2 

#5

66

Water bodies affected by 

water discharges and/or 

runoff

GRI 306 306-5 NA 60

New suppliers that were 

screened using 

environmental criteria

GRI 308 308-1 NA Not reported



97

Description of 

Indicator

GRI 

Framework

Disclosure 

number

BRR 

Framework

Page No.

New employee hires and 

employee turnover

GRI 401 401-1 NA 74

Benefits provided to full-

time employees that are not 

provided to temporary or 

part-time employees

GRI 401 401-2 NA 75

Minimum notice periods 

regarding operational 

changes

GRI 402 402-1 NA

Workers representation in 

formal joint management–

worker health and safety 

committees

GRI 403 403-1 Section E: P-3 

#5, #6

73

Types of injury and rates of 

injury, occupational 

diseases, lost days, and 

absenteeism, and number 

of work- related fatalities

GRI 403 403-2 NA 73

Workers with high 

incidence or high risk of 

diseases related to their 

occupation

GRI 403 403-3 NA 76

Worker participation, 

consultation, and 

communication on 

Occupational health and 

safety

GRI 403 403-4 NA 78

Workers covered by an 

occupational health and 

safety management system

GRI 403 403-8 NA 78

Work-related injuries GRI 403 403-9 NA 77

Work related ill health GRI 403 403-10 NA 77

Average hours of training 

per year per employee

GRI 404 404-1 Section E: P-3 

#8 NVG

74

Programs for upgrading 

employee skills and 

transition assistance 

programs

GRI 404 404-2 Section E: P-3 

#9 NVG P-3

74

Percentage of employees 

receiving regular 

performance and career 

development reviews

GRI 404 404-3 NA 74

Diversity of governance 

bodies and employees

GRI 405 405-1 Section E: P-3 

#3, #4

27

Ratio of basic salary and 

remuneration of women to 

men

GRI 405 405-2 NA 72

Incidents of discrimination 

and corrective actions 

taken

GRI 406 406-1 NVG P-5 72

Coal India Limited
A Maharatna Company   



98

Description of 

Indicator

GRI 

Framework

Disclosure 

number

BRR 

Framework

Page No.

Operations and suppliers 

at significant risk for 

incidents of child labor

GRI 408 408-1 NVG P-2 29,73

Operations and suppliers 

at significant risk for 

incidents of forced or 

compulsory labor

GRI 409 409-1 Section E: P-3 

#7 NVG P-2

Not Reported

Incidents of violations 

involving rights of 

indigenous peoples

GRI 411 411-1 NVG P-5 79

Significant investment 

agreements  and contracts 

that include human rights 

clauses or that underwent 

human rights screening

GRI 412 412-3 NVG P-2 29

Operations with local 

community engagement, 

impact assessments, and 

development programs

GRI 413 413-1 Section E: P-8 

#4 #5 NVG P-8

80

Operations with 

significant actual and 

potential negative impacts 

on local communities

GRI 413 413-2 Section E: P-8 

#4 #5 NVG P-8

80

Political contributions GRI 415 415-1 NA NA

Incidents of non-

compliance concerning 

the health and safety 

impacts of products and 

services

GRI 416 416-1 Section E: P-2 

#1 NVG P-9

Requirements for product 

and service information 

and labelling

GRI 417 417-1 Section E: P-9 

#2 NVG

13

Incidents of non-

compliance concerning 

product and service 

information and labeling

GRI 417 417-2 Section E: P-9 

#1, #3; P-2 #1 

NVG P-9

39



99

Notes



100

COAL BHAWAN, 

MAR, Plot no: AF-III, Action Area - IA

RAJHARHAT, NEW TOWN, 

KOLKATA - 700 156, 

A Maharatna Company