Solutions for a  
sustainable future 
CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report

https://www.crh.com/


•  

02  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report

Our report has been 
independently assured 
every year since 2005. 

Overview

2022 performance highlights  03

A message from our Chief Executive  04

CRH at a glance  05

Our unifying purpose  06

Our sustainability framework  07

Our world today  09

Our materiality assessment  12

Driving sustainable value  14

Accelerating sustainable solutions

Decarbonisation  16

Waste  25

Water  31

Driving sustainability leadership

Natural world  36

• Environmental action  37

• Biodiversity  40

People and communities  43

• Safety and wellbeing  44

• Inclusion and diversity  49

• Empowered employees  52

• Community and social impact  55

Responsible business  58

• Governance and ethics  59

• Responsible sourcing  62

Leading sustainability performance

Our sustainability policies  65

Reporting history, scope and basis  67

Data summary  69

SASB  76

Our GRI index  77

DNV assurance statement  84

External benchmarks  
and recognitions  87

Inside this 
year's report
At CRH, we recognise the need to change 
what is built and how we build it. In our 2022 
Annual Report, available on crh.com, we 
introduced our new sustainability framework 
which outlines how we will create value for 
all by developing solutions for a sustainable 
future. In this 2022 Sustainability Performance 
Report, we are providing further detail on 
how we are addressing the global challenges 
of decarbonisation, waste and water and 
driving our strong performance across material 
sustainability areas, thereby helping to improve 
the quality of the world we live in. 

Navigation

Look for this icon to find out additional 
information on a specific topic

Look for this icon to find more information on 
CRH, our businesses and our sustainability 
performance 

Look for this icon for more information 
on additional reports and assessments, 
available on crh.com 

Look for this icon to find out more 
information on our targets and ambitions

Contents

https://www.crh.com/
https://www.crh.com/


03  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report

1  This includes our Scope 1 and Scope 2 absolute carbon emissions 2  Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO2e emissions

2022 performance highlights
Sustainability is deeply embedded in all aspects of our business.
In 2022, we continued to make progress in decarbonising our business, innovating to improve circularity and preserve resources, advancing climate resilience in the built environment and strengthening 
our inclusive and diverse culture. 

PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES

In 2022, we continued to invest in health, safety and wellbeing 
and focused on strengthening our inclusive workforce. 

9 4    % accident-free locations

1 5 %
    Read more on pages  43 to 57

NATURAL WORLD

In 2022, we advanced our focus on environmental action 
across our locations and developed our biodiversity 
approach to preserve and enhance biodiversity and the 
natural world. 

c. 1 00%
of our locations have restoration 
plans in place

    Read more on pages  36 to 42

DECARBONISATION

In early 2023, the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) 
validated our revised targets in line with the updated 1.5°C 
science-based framework which now equate to a 30% 
reduction in absolute carbon emissions by 2030 (from a 2021 
base year).

7 %
1 .  0kg/$

revenue greenhouse gas emissions 
Scope 1 and Scope 22

 

    Read more on pages  16 to 24

RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS

In 2022, we continued our focus on strong governance, 
applying robust legal and ethical business practices across 
the Group and further reinforced our approach to human 
rights. 

c.31 ,500 employees trained in  
Code of Business Conduct

    Read more on pages  58 to 63

WASTE

Circularity is a growth opportunity for our business and we 
continue to work with our customers in the design, delivery 
and application of circular, sustainable products and 
solutions.

42.4 m tonnes of alternative fuels and 
materials recycled

    Read more on pages  25 to 30

WATER

In 2022, we increased recycling and conservation of water in 
our own operations, as well as strengthened our portfolio of 
products and services that help advance solutions to solve 
global water challenges. 

c. 1 40 bn
litres of water saved by recycling 
at our locations

47 %
    Read more on pages  31 to 34

revenue from products with enhanced 
sustainability attributes, which includes 
concrete products used in flood defences  
and stormwater systems

year-on-year reduction in absolute  
carbon emissions1

women in senior management

 »  CRH highlights



Delivering sustainable solutions 

As a leader in our industry, we are embracing our responsibility to society. Our new 
sustainability framework sets out the actions we need to take to help address the hard to 
solve problems for society that are of rising importance, namely decarbonisation, waste 
and water. Throughout 2022, we continued to evolve our business and solutions strategy 
to ensure we can meet the needs of our customers and help address the challenges 
facing our world. Our sustainable solutions are the driving force of future growth in CRH 
and will allow our business to reach its full potential, fuelling our innovation, creativity and 
entrepreneurship, while helping our customers to transition to low-carbon products. 

Protecting our people

The safety of those working for CRH continues to be our number one priority. Very 
regrettably, there were five reportable fatalities in 2022 involving one employee and four 
contractors. We thoroughly investigated each incident and the Board and SESR Committee 
received detailed reports on the background circumstances and root causes in each case. 
We also shared lessons learned across the Group and with contractors. We continue to 
invest in safety initiatives and technologies, with the overall aim of realising a culture of 
safety and wellbeing while working towards zero harm.

As the conflict in Ukraine escalated in February 2022, our immediate priority was ensuring 
the safety and security of our colleagues and their families. Our teams on the ground 
worked around the clock to assist CRH employees and their families reach safer locations. 
The courage being shown by the Ukrainian people and our own employees in the darkest 
of days has been extraordinary. I am endlessly proud of the efforts and generosity of our 
CRH family and the ongoing hard work to support our communities in need.

Decarbonisation

At CRH, we are taking climate action seriously and are committed to decarbonising our 
business at every level. By accelerating existing decarbonisation levers and investing in 
new technologies we are driving the transition towards net-zero. In early 2023, the SBTi 
validated our revised targets in line with the updated 1.5°C science-based framework 
which now equate to a 30% reduction in absolute carbon emissions by 2030 (from a 2021 
base year). As we progress towards achieving net-zero by 2050, we see an opportunity to 
drive an increase in the demand for innovative, low-impact products and solutions that help 
to mitigate and adapt to the impacts of climate change.

Driving inclusion and diversity

We stand together for inclusion and diversity, constantly striving to become better allies 
and empower each other to be the best version of ourselves. In 2022, we continued to 
deliver our Inclusion & Diversity (I&D) strategy. I&D is embedded at each level of our 
organisation, overseen by our Global I&D Council with additional Councils and committees 
at operating company level providing support. We are proud to cultivate a work 
environment that encourages everyone to be their authentic selves. It has never been more 
important to embrace differences, seek out alternative views and hear the diverse voices 
that make up our global business. 

Looking forward

Through the hard work and endurance of our people, we have learned that, as a company, 
we are resilient in the face of adversity and change, strengthening our position as a 
sustainability leader in our communities. As we move forward into 2023, we will continue to 
advance our value-driven solutions to help society and the built environment overcome the 
largest challenges of our time.

04  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report

Albert Manifold,  
Group Chief Executive

A message from our 
Chief Executive

At CRH, we recognise the need to change what is built and how we build it, 
as well as addressing the challenges facing our own business and industry. 
We are continuously focused on advancing the performance of our business, 
which positions sustainability matters front and centre, as we accelerate the 
delivery of sustainable solutions for our customers, that build, connect and 
improve our world, both now and in the future.

 »  A message from 
our Chief Executive



05  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report

At a glance
CRH is the leading provider of building materials solutions that build, connect and improve our world. 
By combining our materials, products and services, including recycled end-of-life materials, into solutions which can be delivered more efficiently and sustainably, CRH is uniquely positioned to meet the 
changing needs of its customers, and to address and contribute to a more sustainable built environment.

Countries 29 Locations c.3,160 People c.75,800 North America #1 Europe #1

CRH in numbers
Americas Materials 44%
Building Products 24%
Europe Materials 32%

32%

24%

44%

Sales by Division

Residential 35%
Non-residential 25%
Infrastructure 40%

40%

25%

35%

Sales by Sector

New Build 55%
Repairs, Maintenance 
& Improvement (RMI)

45%

45% 55%

Sales by End-Use

What we do

BUILD
Sustainable and resilient communities 
through structures that provide  
protection, shelter, warmth and safety as 
well as enabling transport and commerce.

CONNECT
People and locations through  
infrastructure that moves people, property 
information, energy and water.

IMPROVE
A built environment that is stronger, more durable, 
more efficient, more economical and more effective.

Innovation

We are constantly innovating to 
improve existing and develop new 
technologies that will empower 
more sustainable forms of 
construction in the future.

Collaboration and partnership

We understand the importance of 
collaboration and the need to work 
in partnership with others in order 
to realise our ambition in areas 
such as sustainability.

Integrated building solutions

We combine and connect 
materials, products and services to 
provide customers with complete 
end-to-end building solutions.

Sustainable products and solutions

The solutions we provide help to 
shape a more sustainable built 
environment.

 Aggregates Cement & Lime Concrete Asphalt Paving & Construction  Architectural Products Infrastructure Products Construction Accessories

Materials, products and services

We manufacture and supply a 
range of materials, products and 
services that are used extensively 
in a wide range of construction 
applications.

 »  CRH at a glance



06  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report

Our unifying 
purpose
At CRH what we make is essential to 
life and living because our materials, 
products and solutions define how our 
world is built. 
We have a relentless drive and a capability that can be applied 
to solving some of the major challenges of our time and we 
know that by standing together as a company we can make the 
biggest impact.

To ensure that our Vision, Values and Strategic Pillars are 
aligned with our Purpose, we took the opportunity to develop 
a powerful unifying framework - that sets out what CRH is and 
how we operate. Our Purpose is why we exist; our Vision is 
where we are going; our Pillars are the actions we will take to 
win; and our Values guide our behaviours every day.

Empowering sustainability leadership 

For over 50 years, CRH has continually transformed, 
adapted and reinvented, while always delivering value and 
creating sustainable solutions that contribute to a better built 
environment and more resilient society.

By positioning 'Sustainability Leadership' as one of the Pillars 
of our Purpose, it demonstrates the ongoing focus across the 
business to actively improve the built environment by integrating 
sustainability into everything we do. We continue to empower 
sustainability leadership throughout the Group, driven by our 
new sustainability framework which creates long-term value for 
both CRH and for our stakeholders throughout society. 

 »  CRH purpose



07  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report

Our framework for  
a sustainable future

Our new sustainability framework identifies 
three rapidly emerging and hard to solve 
global challenges for the built environment 
and society - decarbonisation, waste and 
water. CRH is well placed to provide the 
value driven solutions to help solve these 
challenges and improve the quality of the 
world we live in.

The world that we see emerging today is more complex than ever. With a 
rapidly growing population and cities already at capacity, climate change 
and demands on resources, there are significant challenges for the built 
environment and the infrastructure needed to support these expanding 
populations. To meet these demands, society must move quickly to plan 
for growth and provide the efficient and resilient buildings, infrastructure

and utilities, such as clean water, affordable energy, transport 
and telecommunications, that are essential for modern life.

At CRH, we are taking action across our own operations and 
designing our products, services and solutions to help create a more 
sustainable built environment. By continuing to meet the needs of our 
customers and society, we will continue to drive growth and value. In 
addition, we are investing our efforts to develop strong sustainability 
foundations around protecting the natural world, helping our people 
and communities to thrive and standing out as a responsible business. 

 

 

W
A

S
T

E

 

        NATURAL WORLD
RESPONSIBLE B

USIN
ESS

DECARBONISATION

W
A

T
E

R

Safety and
wellbeing

Community and
social impact

Inclusion
and diversity

Empowered
employees

Reimagining 
how 
materials 
are used 
to drive 
circularity

Advancing 
solutions to 
solve global 
water 
challenges

Innovating for a 
low-carbon future

Supported by our 
strong sustainability 

foundations

Environmental 
action

Biodiversity Responsible 
sourcing

Governance 
and ethics

 

 »  Our sustainability 
framework



08  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report

We are embracing our responsibility and evolving as a 
business to help solve three global challenges for society and 
the built environment.

DECARBONISATION  
Innovating for a low-carbon future 

To combat climate change and protect the lives 
of people and wildlife, the world needs to deliver 
absolute carbon emissions reductions and the 
construction sector has a central role to play.

    Read more about how we are addressing the 
challenge of Decarbonisation on page  16

WASTE 
Reimagining how materials are used to  
drive circularity

Rapid economic growth, urbanisation and a growing 
population are contributing to global resource 
consumption and waste challenges. To address 
these challenges, we must pursue innovative 
opportunities that embrace the circular economy.

     Read more about how we are addressing the 
challenge of Waste on page  25 

WATER 
Advancing solutions to solve global  
water challenges

Population growth, urbanisation and climate 
change are accelerating the pressure on water 
resources and increasing the need for resilient water 
supplies. We are constantly evolving solutions to 
support access to clean water and the resilience of 
communities to droughts and flooding.

    Read more about how we are addressing the 
challenge of Water on page  31

In addition to accelerating the delivery of solutions to these 
global challenges, we continue to drive action to improve 
our strong sustainability performance.

NATURAL WORLD
As a sustainability leader in our industry, we 
constantly strive to create a positive impact 
on the world around us and support the 
acceleration towards a nature-positive economy.

    Read more about how we are minimising our 
environmental footprint on page  36

PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES
We endeavour to create positive change for 
communities, people and wider society, as we 
continue to drive our ambitions for a safer, more 
inclusive, diverse and empowered workforce.

Read more about how we are supporting our 
people and communities on page  43  

RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS
We are committed to safeguarding human 
rights, collaborating for a more sustainable 
supply chain and embedding responsible 
business conduct at each level throughout our 
organisation.

    Read more about how we are building trust 
with our stakeholders on page  58

By positioning sustainability at the 
core of modern construction, we are 
supporting the delivery of the UN 
Sustainable Development Goals.

Priority Sustainable Development Goals 

Influencing

We have identified these goals as those 
that we believe CRH can affect the 
most change and directly and indirectly 
influence the outcome through our actions 
and solutions.

SDG 9      Industry, innovation and 
infrastructure    

SDG 12   Responsible consumption 
and production  

SDG 13  Climate action  

Partnering

We have identified these goals as those 
that we believe CRH can contribute to by 
collaborating across our industry to  
influence the outcome.

SDG 6   Clean water and sanitation   
SDG 11   Sustainable cities and 

communities  

Supporting

We have identified these goals as those  
that we believe CRH can support through 
our actions and solutions.

SDG 5   Gender equality   
SDG 15   Life on land  



09  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report

Trends

Our world today
At CRH, we are embracing our 
responsibility to society and evolving 
as a business to successfully address 
the challenges that the world is facing 
today. In this section, we describe 
how we are acting to enable a more 
sustainable built environment and 
helping to support customers and 
communities to solve these global 
challenges and improve the quality  
of the world we live in.

 » Our world today



10  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report

Growing urgency on  
climate action

Climate change is one of the defining challenges 
of our time, manifesting as rising temperatures and 
extreme weather events. This is placing enormous 
stresses on communities, livelihoods and biodiversity 
worldwide. Every country across the globe is in some 
regard feeling the effects of climate change and 
there is growing urgency on efforts to mitigate its 
effects. The scale and magnitude of these impacts 
can be reduced if the correct tools, including policies, 
technologies and collaborative efforts, are enacted as 
timely and efficiently as possible.

There has been a rapid increase in the development 
of sustainability and climate-related regulations 
globally. Increasing expectations for transparency are 
encouraging companies to disclose their sustainability 
performance and actions they are taking to combat 
climate change. 

For businesses, recognising the value of healthy 
ecosystems and addressing the interconnections 
between climate change, communities and 
biodiversity will be key to an effective climate action 
approach.

As a leader in our industry, we 
are working to ensure that our 
businesses and products are part of 
the solution to the climate crisis.

We are pushing climate-smart innovation across 
our industry to transform the way we build, 
prioritising sustainability and resiliency for our 
communities in the face of climate change.

      Read more about how we are innovating for a low-
carbon future on pages  16 to 24

Increasing need for  
circular solutions

The way our modern society lives is highly dependent 
on natural resources. Existing consumption patterns 
are negatively impacting the environment, biodiversity 
and communities across the globe. 

Adopting a circular approach through greater resource 
efficiency, better waste management and prevention 
and circularity in design supports sustainable growth 
and together have the potential to improve resource 
efficiency, reduce carbon emissions and reduce 
impacts on nature.

Circularity, material sourcing and renewable resources 
are critical components in future strategies for 
companies and have the potential to significantly 
reduce carbon emissions from materials and reduce 
impacts on nature.

The building materials industry is playing an important 
role in moving towards a more sustainable circular 
economy model.

At CRH, we are changing the face 
of construction by developing 
sustainable solutions that boast 
quality, circularity and durability. 

As a leader in the use of wastes and by-products 
from other industries as raw materials and fuels for 
our processes and products, we see the circular 
economy as a growth opportunity for our business 
and are committed to driving circularity to create long-
term, sustainable value for us and our stakeholders. 

      Read more about how we are driving circular 
solutions on pages  25 to 30



11  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report

Ensuring a just transition

In the shift to a low-carbon economy, the Paris 
Agreement calls for “a just transition of the workforce 
and the creation of decent work and quality jobs”. 
Companies are increasingly expected to proactively 
manage the social risks and opportunities of their 
decarbonisation strategies by developing robust Just 
Transition plans. This includes providing workers 
and communities with training and resources to 
help create a more sustainable built environment 
and using business models to strengthen climate 
adaptation and resilience.

At CRH, we have always 
recognised that decarbonisation 
of our business must be fair and 
equitable, and we take a proactive 
and collaborative approach to 
managing the social impacts of 
our decarbonisation strategy on 
our people and communities. 

Although Just Transition guidelines and frameworks 
continue to evolve, many of the existing principles, 
such as those in the Paris Agreement and 
International Labour Organisation's current 
guidelines, are already embedded in our business 
and remain under review.

We focus on reskilling and redeployment 
opportunities for our employees; community 
engagement to understand the priorities of our 
stakeholders; investing in social impact projects 
that enhance community wellbeing; deploying our 
building materials solutions to protect economic 
activity and the environment; maintaining an open 
dialogue with key stakeholders; and integrating 
internationally recognised industry best practices in 
our approach to a Just Transition.

      Read more about how we are supporting people 
and communities on pages  43 to 57

Providing essential water infrastructure

The built environment is under increased pressure from extreme weather patterns associated 
with climate change. Many communities are facing water-stresses such as droughts, floods 
and freezing temperatures which are impacting local water supplies. Water-linked disasters 
can also be attributed to poor and outdated water management infrastructure that no longer 
supports the increasing demand of growing communities. Access to safe and clean water is 
a basic human right and a necessity for every member of society. 

There is an urgent need to upgrade existing water infrastructure to increase stormwater 
protection and ensure access to safe drinking water for millions of homes and businesses. 
To do this, significant investment in construction, maintenance and upgrading is required.

We have a significant role to play in protecting and rebuilding 
communities through our products and solutions that enable 
effective management of water. 

This includes products used in flood defences, stormwater management systems 
and permeable paving to manage urban stormwater run-off more effectively.

      Read more about how we are providing solutions to global water challenges on  
pages  31 to 34

Prioritising supply 
chain management 
Due to the ongoing global economic recovery 
from the pandemic, the geopolitical conflict in 
Ukraine and the ongoing energy crisis, industries 
are experiencing supply chain disruptions. As a 
result, supply chain management is of growing 
importance, with consumers and investors 
increasingly concerned about issues such as 
human rights and environmental impacts in supply 
networks. 

Businesses are facing challenges to build more 
sustainable and resilient supply chains that will 
ensure their operations can continue and grow. 
Incorporating sustainability at each level of a 
supply chain is essential to driving positive change 
throughout industries.

As the demand for products rises, it is essential 
that transparency surrounding supply chain 
engagement is prioritised by businesses. 

We remain in close contact with 
our suppliers across our business 
to ensure that our values and 
practices are aligned. 

By innovating and collaborating, we can ensure 
that together we deliver buildings and infrastructure 
with best practice in mind, while also empowering 
employees at every level across our business.

      Read more about how we are delivering value 
across our supply chains on pages  62 to 63



12  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report

Our materiality assessment
Regular materiality assessments are part of the range of processes, including annual sustainability and risk management reviews, that 
we use to identify and define the material topics that should be elevated in our business strategy and reporting. These processes help us 
monitor risks and opportunities and articulate what matters most to society.

In 2022, we carried out a dynamic high-level materiality assessment, further examining and updating the findings of our formal assessment carried 
out in 2019. This is the second high-level assessment completed since 2019 which evaluated materiality through a combination of desktop research, 
internal and external stakeholder engagement and data analysis. It highlighted new and emerging sustainability topics for CRH and our stakeholders.  
In reviewing the outcomes of the materiality assessment, we identified opportunities to update our material issues to reflect changing societal concerns.

Our assessment approach

As part of our 2019 process, we identified 
relevant stakeholders including executive 
leadership, senior management, employees, 
customers, suppliers, sustainability 
specialists, academics, government, 
non-governmental organisations (NGOs), 
environment, social and governance (ESG) 
agencies and trade associations. 

These stakeholders were asked to rank the 
relative importance of a range of sustainability 
topics in relation to the impact on them, their 
community and their business. The insights 
we gained were extremely valuable in helping 
us to manage future risks and opportunities. 

At CRH we review our material impacts 
on an annual basis. Building on the formal 
materiality assessment process completed in 
2019 by third-party sustainability experts, in 
2022, we completed an independent dynamic 
assessment using specialists to measure 
the changes across the specific aspects of 
sustainability. This review consisted of a high-
level desktop review of peer reports, media 
coverage, rating agencies and legislative 
changes, as well as internal workshops with 
relevant functions in CRH. 

Identifying what matters

Through the 2022 assessment, it was 
determined that our key material topics 
remain the most significant sustainability 
topics for CRH. However, to bring more clarity 
about how they are connected, some matters 
have been repositioned and regrouped to 
form 14 focus material topics (shown in 
detail in our materiality matrix on page  13). 
For example, the topics of 'Climate action', 
'Health, safety and wellbeing' and 'Innovative 
and sustainable solutions' have increased 
slightly from last year in importance to 
stakeholders. In addition, the topic of 'Waste 
and air quality' has been divided into 'Waste' 
and 'Air quality' to reflect best practice and 
the growing focus on providing more circular 
solutions. We have also renamed 'People 
practices' as 'Empowered talent' to ensure 
alignment with the Pillars of our Purpose. 

Identification and engagement

An initial list of over 900 sub-topics was 
developed based on a desktop review of 
sources including:

 Legislation 

 Industry trends

 Peer review

 Megatrends

  CRH Risk Register

This list was consolidated into key topic 
areas and tested with a range of internal 
and external stakeholders across relevant 
geographies and business activities, to 
understand their perceived importance.

In 2019, we engaged with our stakeholders 
through:

Online surveys

 Telephone interviews

 
 Focus group sessions

Prioritisation of material issues

The results of the desktop research and 
stakeholder engagement were collated, and 
an issues register was developed.

Criteria were developed to measure the 
importance of each topic, including:

 Importance to stakeholders

Importance to CRH’s ability to 
deliver its strategy

 Potential reputational impacts

Based on the findings of the desktop 
research and analysis of stakeholder 
engagement exercises, sustainability issues 
were scored against criteria and plotted on 
a matrix.

Validation and outcomes

The CRH Risk Register was integrated into 
the materiality assessment to ensure our key 
sustainability issues were aligned with our 
business risks and strategy.

Key material topics were identified, validated 
and reviewed by senior management and are 
reflected in our sustainability ambitions and 
targets. The 2019 report outputs have also 
formed the foundation for two subsequent 
dynamic high-level material assessments, 
carried out by independent specialists to 
continuously check against the changing 
sustainability landscape.

The outcomes of this process will be 
used continuously to improve stakeholder 
engagement and inform integration with 
global initiatives, such as the UN SDGs.

  

 »  Our materiality 
assessment



13  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report

 Our materiality assessment
Continued

Regional and activity boundaries

Throughout the materiality assessment process, as outlined on the previous page, the diversification 
of CRH in terms of business activities and geographies was addressed, so that a global view could 
be reflected.

The relevance of certain sustainability topics were dependent on the activity and geography specific 
companies operated in. For example, the topic of alternative fuels, which is incorporated within the 
topic of 'Climate action', was found to be most relevant for our cement businesses. The relevance 
of some sustainability topics did not vary significantly by either geography or business activity, 
including the topics of 'Health, safety and wellbeing', 'Inclusion and diversity' and 'Innovative 
sustainable solutions'.

Next steps

Looking to the future, we will continue to monitor our material topics, including potential impacts on 
the performance, development and position of the company, as well as the potential environmental 
and social impacts of our activities on our stakeholders. This includes conducting a double materiality 
assessment as required by the EU Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD), and in 
line with revised GRI standards in the coming year. We will provide updates annually and use the 
outcomes to continuously improve our stakeholder engagement processes and inform further 
integration with global initiatives, as we seek to support a Just Transition for our stakeholders and 
deliver long-term value creation from sustainability.

Learn more about how we are contributing to the  
UN Sustainable Development Goals on page  8.

In
cr

ea
si

ng
 im

p
o

rt
an

ce
 t

o 
st

ak
eh

o
ld

er
s 

 Increasing importance to CRH 

 

 

DECARBONISATION 
view section  

WASTE
view section  

WATER
view section  

NATURAL WORLD
view section  

PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES
view section  

RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS
view section  

Health, safety  
and wellbeing

Innovation and 
sustainable solutions

Inclusion 
and 
diversity

Sustainable 
financial value 
creation

Air quality

Water

Waste

Responsible corporate 
governance

Business ethics

Human rights

Biodiversity and 
land use

Community and 
social impact

Climate action

Empowered 
talent

Sustainability priority areas

2022 materiality matrix



14  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report

Achieving sustainability leadership

Meeting our business needs in a manner that 
respects sustainability principles aligns with 
our character. We are ranked among sector 
leaders by leading Environmental, Social and 
Governance (ESG) rating agencies. We are 
a constituent member of indices including 
the FTSE4Good Index, the STOXX® Global 
ESG Leaders Index and the S&P Dow Jones 
Sustainability Index, as well as a long-term 
participant in CDP. 

      See page   87 for more information on our 
external ESG recognitions and benchmarks. 

Navigating the global transformation

We focus on acquiring strong businesses 
that complement our existing portfolio and 
ensure the long-term sustainable growth of 
our business. We undertake extensive due 
diligence for all acquisitions, recognising 
strong performance across ESG areas as a key 
indicator of a well-run business. In developing 
markets, we concentrate on ensuring strong 
governance is in place, including focused efforts 
to safeguarding human rights and other relevant 
social requirements. 

      Read more about our approach to responsible 
business practices on pages   58 to 63, as 
well as pages 46 to 49 in our 2022 Annual 
Report, available on crh.com. 

Long-term value creation

We are accelerating our integrated sustainable 
solutions journey to ensure we can continue 
to solve our customers’ complex building 
challenges. Recently, we welcomed Barrette 
Outdoor Living to our Building Products Division, 
augmenting our ability to provide a complete 
suite of outdoor living solutions to our customers 
in North America. In addition, Barrette have 
sustainability programmes in place, such as the 
GreenWays initiative, to increase the amount 
of recycled materials used in its products, 
supporting our goal of reducing waste and 
contributing to the circular economy.

To further advance our sustainability journey, 
our CRH Ventures function seeks investment 
opportunities that align with our sustainability 
framework and value driven business model 
that will help accelerate change in how the built 
environment is constructed.

      Read more about how we create long-term 
value in our 2022 Annual Report, available on 
crh.com.

Supporting inclusive growth

We strive to create sustainable financial and 
non-financial value for our stakeholders. 
We understand the concept of stakeholder 
capitalism and aim to ensure that our business 
serves the interests of all of our stakeholders, 
from investors to local communities. By placing 
the safety and wellbeing of people and the 
planet at the centre of our business, we consider 
the needs of society at large and deliver returns 
for all. 

We recognise the importance of integrating 
social inclusion into all our actions. As society 
transitions to a net-zero economy, we aim to 
ensure that our actions support a Just Transition 
in line with the Paris Agreement. This includes 
providing opportunities for those who may be 
negatively impacted due to the greening of 
economies. 

Managing risk and building resilience

At CRH, we recognise that Enterprise Risk 
Management (ERM) can provide competitive 
advantage and drive value creation in the face 
of uncertain political, economic, social and 
environmental developments. Our integrated 
and effective risk management facilitates 
more agile decision-making, driving increased 
performance. 

      Read more about our ERM processes on 
pages 50 to 54 in our 2022 Annual Report, 
available on crh.com. 

Driving sustainable value
CRH has continually transformed, adapted and reinvented, while always delivering sustainable value and creating end-to-end solutions 
that contribute to an improved built environment and more resilient society. We continually collaborate with various stakeholders to drive 
more sustainable outcomes and grow our business. 

Sustainable financial 
value creation

What are the challenges and how are 
we managing them?

We are continuously reshaping our business 
to deliver significantly higher margins and 
industry leading cash generation while 
contributing to a better built environment.  
By incorporating sustainability into all aspects 
of our business model we can maintain a 
long-term competitive advantage and bring 
value creating solutions to the market. Through 
innovation and development, we generate 
value creation opportunities for both our 
shareholders and our wider stakeholders along 
our supply chain. In doing so, CRH is well 
positioned for future growth and  
improved performance. 

Annual Report
Click here to read more in 
our 2022 Annual Report 
crh.com

 »  Driving 
sustainable value

https://www.crh.com/media/4738/2022-annual-report-and-form-20-f.pdf
https://www.crh.com/media/4738/2022-annual-report-and-form-20-f.pdf
https://www.crh.com/media/4738/2022-annual-report-and-form-20-f.pdf
https://www.crh.com/media/4738/2022-annual-report-and-form-20-f.pdf
https://www.crh.com/media/4738/2022-annual-report-and-form-20-f.pdf
https://www.crh.com/media/4738/2022-annual-report-and-form-20-f.pdf
https://www.crh.com/media/4738/2022-annual-report-and-form-20-f.pdf
https://www.crh.com/media/4738/2022-annual-report-and-form-20-f.pdf
https://www.crh.com/media/4738/2022-annual-report-and-form-20-f.pdf
https://www.crh.com/media/4738/2022-annual-report-and-form-20-f.pdf


Accelerating 
sustainable 
solutions

In this section

Decarbonisation  16

Waste  25

Water  31

In this image: Our businesses are recognised as leaders 
in implementing solutions for complex infrastructural 
challenges. For example, Dufferin Construction, part of our 
Americas Materials Division, is collaborating with the Ministry 
of Transportation (MTO) Ontario to deliver a multi-faceted 
upgrade to Highway 417 in midtown Ottawa, Canada. The 
project requires the implementation of innovative bridge 
replacement technology, and Dufferin Construction was 
chosen for its expertise in Rapid Bridge Replacements (RBR) 
solutions. Impressively, the project's bridge replacements are 
completed over a single weekend per location, allowing the 
highway to fully reopen prior to Monday morning rush-hour 
traffic. In total 11 bridges and overpasses will be replaced 
and over 5km of noise cancelling walls, concrete barriers and 
storm sewers installed. 

"Across our business we are designing and engineering our offering 
of sustainable building products and materials. Standing together with 
industry stakeholders and partners, we are developing solutions focused on 
decarbonisation, waste and water to improve the built environment. At CRH, 
we have stepped up our ambitions to accelerate how we innovate today, for 
tomorrow and generations to come."
Randy Lake, 
Chief Operating Officer

15  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report



Read more in this section about how we 
are supporting the following UN SDGs:

SDG 9    Industry, innovation and infrastructure 
SDG 13  Climate action

In this section

Leading the way in sustainable 
construction solutions

17

Targeting emissions reduction 20

Optimising energy efficiency 21

Delivering low-carbon solutions 22

Collaborating for climate action 23

Innovating for a  
low-carbon future 
Our ambition is to lead our industry towards 
a net-zero future by reinventing the way our 
world is built. The built environment, including 
the homes, buildings and infrastructure on 
which we rely, accounts for approximately 
40% of global carbon emissions. The major 
contributor is the energy that is used to 
heat, cool and operate buildings year-round, 
followed by emissions from the manufacturing 
of the materials used in construction. There is 
a significant opportunity to design, construct 
and renovate the urban landscape to provide 
the efficient, resilient, net-zero buildings, 
infrastructure and utilities our communities 
need to minimise the impacts of and adapt to 
the risks posed by climate change.

As a leader in our industry, we are embracing 
our responsibility to take action to enable 
a net-zero built environment and create a 
positive impact and sustainable value for 
society. 

DECARBONISATION

WATER

WASTE

At CRH, we are actively working to decarbonise our business, industry, and the wider urban landscape. For example, 
NAL, part of our Building Products Division, has developed modular foundations to support electric vehicle (EV) 
infrastructure installations across the UK, helping to address customer pain points and decarbonise the national 
fleet. In line with new incentives for EVs, NAL innovated and collaborated to develop a universal future-proof solution 
for all EV charging units. In doing so, NAL supported their clients' ability to roll out and scale up the installation of EV 
charging infrastructure, making electric vehicles a more convenient option for the public. We will continue to identify 
decarbonisation solutions to help meet global sustainability goals as we aim for a net-zero future. 

Elena Guede, 
SVP Sustainability Strategy

"To meet society's ambitions for 
a net-zero carbon future, global 
collaborative effort and radical change 
are needed. We are committed to 
decarbonising our own business 
and providing the sustainable 
materials and solutions needed to 
decarbonise the built environment, 
construct energy efficient buildings 
and for clean energy infrastructure."

16  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report



Leading the way in 
sustainable construction 
solutions 

Decarbonising the built environment

Achieving decarbonisation in the built 
environment requires transformation right 
across the construction value chain. This 
includes actions to reduce fossil fuel use within 
building material and construction supply chains 
and from the in-use and end-of-life phase of 
buildings and infrastructure. 

We recognise the opportunity that our products 
and services have to help solve the challenges 
of decarbonisation. Our wide product portfolio 
– including aggregates, cement, lime, concrete, 
asphalt and other building products – has a 
significant role to play in delivering a durable, 
net-zero built environment. We are building 
on the actions we have already taken and are 
driving further decarbonisation within our supply 
chain, manufacturing operations and transport, 
in line with our robust climate targets and our 
ambition to be a net-zero business by 2050. 
Read more about how we are accelerating the 
decarbonisation of our operations on page  20.

Beyond providing low-carbon building products 
and solutions, we are taking a whole life 
approach to develop climate-smart solutions 
that help to address our customer’s complex 
construction challenges and provide the 
solutions they need to deliver net-zero, high 
performance buildings and infrastructure. Our 
value-added solutions prioritise sustainability 
and durability to support the longevity of built 
assets, significantly reducing whole life carbon, 
by reducing the need for repair, maintenance 
and rebuild. We also provide solutions to reduce 
carbon from the construction process and at 
end-of-life.

We continue to collaborate across our industry 
and to expand our product portfolio to offer new 
innovative products, services and solutions for a 
net-zero future. 

Deployment of energy infrastructure 

Importantly, our solutions also play an important 
role in enabling the design and construction of 
more energy efficient buildings. For example, 
increasing durability can play a very important 
role in reducing lifecycle carbon and concrete's 
thermal mass properties can be harnessed in 
building design to greatly improve the energy 
efficiency and thermal performance of the 
building, significantly reducing the energy 
needed for heating and cooling. 

In addition, our solutions have an important 
role to play in the provision of clean energy 
infrastructure. We are supporting the need for 
clean energy by providing essential products 
required in the construction of renewable energy 
infrastructure. We are proud to be laying the 
foundations for the clean energy transition by 
providing essential infrastructure that is needed 
to support solar and wind energy installations, 
electric vehicle charging stations, as well as 
other low-carbon forms of energy generation, 
and in the future hydrogen distribution.

For example, Staker Parson Materials & 
Construction, part of our Americas Materials 
Division, collaborated with the city of Spanish 
Fork, Rocky Mountain Power and the Governor 
of Utah in the development of a wind farm at its 
Gomex Pit location in Utah. This wind farm, one 
of the first in the state of Utah, supplies power to 
the Spanish Fork power grid, reducing pressures 
on the national power infrastructure.

Designing low-carbon, whole-life products 
and solutions 

As we further progress decarbonisation, it is 
also important to consider how our products 
are used in the built environment. We apply 
innovative value-added, technology-led 
products and services, together with carbon 
management processes to reduce the embodied 
and operational carbon footprint of individual 
structural components and in support of building 
and infrastructure design, such as roads. In 
addition, we offer a wide range of low-carbon 
products and solutions and can help customers 
select the best option for their specific 
application and project considering the whole life 
performance. 

To support our customers to reduce embodied 
and operational carbon, our Innovation Centre 
for Sustainable Construction (ICSC) have 
developed a concrete mix design optimisation 
tool called iManCrete which calculates the 
optimum ingredients needed to make up a 
concrete mix design based on the raw materials 
available, by looking into their mixture cost 
and CO2 content. An advanced version of the 
iManCrete tool is being developed which uses 
artificial intelligence to take account of the 
operating plant and surrounding environment 
when calculating the optimal concrete mix and 
help predict performance and strength. 

The ICSC are also developing a decision 
support tool called dCarbonizer which gives 
valuable insights to designers regarding 
building by assessing whole-life carbon, cost 
and futureproofing of construction projects in 
their early design stages. The tool integrates 
Building Information Modelling (BIM) models and 
Environmental Product Declarations (EPDs) to 
present varied scenarios to the user. Advancing 
digital technologies like these offer smart 
solutions to the built environment, by supporting 
the construction of low-carbon buildings. Read 
more about what we are doing to reduce the 
embodied carbon of our products on page  18.

Climate action

What are the challenges and how are 
we managing them?

To meet the challenges of climate change, the 
world needs to invest in innovation to deliver 
absolute carbon emissions reductions. As 
a global leader in the supply of sustainable 
materials and solutions, we can contribute to 
innovative, energy efficient and resilient net-
zero buildings and infrastructure. We provide 
low-carbon products that can be used to 
support the development of renewable energy 
infrastructure and are also resilient in the face 
of extreme weather events caused by the 
changing climate. By decoupling emissions 
from growth and setting both specific and 
absolute carbon emissions reduction targets, 
we can support the necessary transition to a 
low-carbon built environment. 

Stakeholders tell us

"Delivering the carbon emission reductions 
the world needs will require collaboration 
across industries. We are proud to partner with 
CRH Ventures and CRH to deploy one of the 
world's largest integrated carbon capture and 
utilisation facilities at CRH's Ash Grove cement 
plant. This partnership marks a significant 
milestone for our company and technology, 
demonstrating Carbon Upcycling's ability 
to transform locally available solid wastes 
into cost-effective, CO2-enhanced cement 
formulations. We look forward to this initial 
deployment and the foundation it will set for 
future growth and collaboration across CRH's 
global portfolio."

Apoorv Sinha,  
CEO of Carbon Upcycling

Case studies
Click here to read more 
information about 
how we are leading 
the way in sustainable 
construction solutions

17  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report



Leading the way in sustainable 
construction solutions  
Continued

Accelerating innovative solutions 

Decarbonisation is an opportunity for innovation, 
growth and long-term value creation. To help 
solve this global challenge, we are driving 
research to bring innovative technologies into 
mainstream use. 

Together with academia and partners in the 
cement and concrete industries, our operating 
companies and our ICSC are working to increase 
our ability to adapt to an ever-changing world 
and decarbonise the built environment in the 
most efficient and timely manner possible. 
Projects include carbon capture and utilisation, 
nanomaterials, BIM, artificial intelligence (AI), 
automation, modular construction, offsite 
production and energy conservation. For 
example, Danucem, part of our Europe Materials 
Division, has been using AI prediction models 
to control product performance and optimise 
concrete mix design. 

Collaborating for progress 

To meet our 2050 net-zero ambition, we are 
focusing on advancing low-carbon technologies, 
based on well-established operational 
excellence programmes and activities, as well 
as accelerating the required breakthrough 
technologies and ensuring the right policies are 
in place to facilitate progress. Collaboration is 
essential if our industry is to achieve this.

Through the ICSC, we have a global network 
of laboratories and experts collaborating to 
advance research on sustainable building 
materials and processes. This research is 
helping to develop state of the art innovations, 
including systems designed to decarbonise the 
urban landscape and create building products 
with a reduced carbon footprint. 

One example of this is the ICSC’s participation 
in an Open Innovation Platform to support 
start-ups that can offer sustainable solutions 
to our industry. As part of this platform, Ash 
Grove, part of our Americas Materials Division, is 
collaborating with industry peers to support an 
innovative carbon capture solution pilot project 
that is using the latest micro algae technology to 
capture CO2 emissions from cement plants while 
producing biomass and releasing oxygen.

In addition, we have over 100 ongoing research 
and innovation projects globally, collaborating 
across the construction industry and wider 
scientific community to drive progress towards 
net-zero processes. One example of such 
collaboration is our involvement in the Global 
Cement and Concrete Association (GCCA) 
innovation programme, 'Innovandi', which runs 
key programmes to develop innovations to help 
the industry decarbonise and produce carbon 
neutral concrete by 2050. 

Carbon capture and utilisation 

To further advance innovative decarbonisation 
technologies, we are driving the development 
of carbon capture technologies, which allow 
the capture of CO2 before it can be released 
into the atmosphere. The captured CO2 can be 
used in processes to make useful new products 
or transported, and permanently stored 
underground. We are involved in a wide range of 
collaborative initiatives and research projects to 
progress carbon capture, utilisation and storage 
(CCUS) solutions. 

Concrete reabsorbs a significant amount 
of CO2 over its lifetime in a process known 
as carbonation, a carbon removal reaction. 
Carbonation is a well understood, natural 
process that can be enhanced and accelerated 
to avoid industrial CO2 emissions or remove CO2 
from the atmosphere. Through our operating 
companies and the ICSC, we are researching a 
range of technologies that harness this property 
to reduce CO2 and produce useful, low-carbon 
products. 

Amongst the many projects we are progressing, 
we are involved in research, development and 
trials of technologies that inject CO2 into the 
concrete mix during the production of concrete 
products, or cure specialised concrete mixes in a 
CO2 atmosphere, which permanently and safely 
stores CO2. In addition, we have partnered with 
a low-carbon cement technology manufacturer 
to pilot new technology that would allow a 30-
40% reduction in CO2 emissions during the 
manufacturing of our cement products. 

Investing in innovative technologies

Our ICSC is symbolic of our strategy to develop 
novel, ground-breaking decarbonisation 
technologies. In addition, we recently announced 
the launch of CRH Ventures, our new venture 
capital unit that will support the development 
of new technologies and solutions to meet the 
increasingly complex needs of our customers. 
Through CRH Ventures we are investing in, 
and partnering with, construction technology 
and climate technology companies to pilot and 
scale new technologies and innovations that 
will enable safer, smarter, and more sustainable 
construction.

To further drive innovation, we have established 
a venturing and innovation fund of $250 
million to help our operating companies and 
functions develop new ideas, technologies, 
and value-added solutions that will help us to 
solve challenges, such as decarbonisation. This 
demonstrates our continued commitment to 
investing in new technologies that will shape the 
built environment of tomorrow. Since it's launch 
in 2022, the venturing and innovation fund has 
helped finance 20 innovative projects across 
14 operating companies, as well as over 20 
partnerships with major universities, start-ups 
and engineering companies. 

We are also researching new technologies 
that will replace the use of clinker, the primary 
raw material used in our cement production. 
For example, one of our plants in the US is 
trialling calcined clay technology, which involves 
substituting a portion of clinker with activated 
clay during the manufacture of cement. This 
enables the plant to reduce the carbon footprint 
of its cement. You can find more information on 
how we are contributing to the circular economy 
on pages  25 to 30. 

Key achievement

 1 0 0+
ongoing research and innovation projects 
globally through our ICSC

Annual Report
Click here to read more 
about our decarbonisation 
roadmap to 2030 in our 
2022 Annual Report 
crh.com

2022 

1.0
2021

1.2
2020

1.3

CO2e intensity - Greenhouse gas 
emissions Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO2e 
emissions (kg/$ Revenue)

18  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report

https://www.crh.com/media/4738/2022-annual-report-and-form-20-f.pdf


Case Study: Reducing CO2 emissions in the production of cement

Through collaboration and innovation, we can help to advance the decarbonisation of the 
construction sector. JURA Materials, part of our Europe Materials Division in Switzerland, is 
piloting a new project called ‘Swisscarb’ at their Wildegg location in partnership with neustark 
and ETH Zurich. The Swisscarb project aims to incorporate CCUS and biofuels into the 
cement manufacturing process to reduce carbon emissions. The project may also lead to an 
increase in the recyclability of secondary raw materials through the neustark process, which 
transforms concrete rubble into very pure sand and limestone.

Case Study: Delivering solutions to support a  
net-zero future

We are the builders of the low carbon, low energy 
world of the future. Roadstone, part of our Europe 
Materials Division, engaged with contractors at both 
preconstruction and construction phases using 
innovative techniques to achieve high quality concrete 
finishes in the construction of Bottleworks, a cutting-
edge Enterprise and Innovation Centre located in Dublin, 
Ireland. The project, which is powered by renewable 
energy, achieved the NZEB (Nearly Zero Energy Building) 
performance specification for energy and carbon dioxide 
emissions and an A3 Building Energy Rating. We will 
continue to deliver the solutions needed to support 
innovative projects in the journey to net-zero.

Leading the way in sustainable 
construction solutions

We recognise that to combat climate change and protect the lives of people and 
wildlife, the world needs to deliver absolute emission reductions. At CRH we are 
playing our part by providing products that will shape the net-zero cities of the 
future. Examples of how we are unlocking the potential of decarbonisation by 
advancing innovative solutions are shown below:

Case Study: Increasing the use of 
alternative materials to drive CO2 
reductions

The construction sector has a significant role 
to play in decarbonising the built environment 
by providing low-carbon products. For 
example, EHL, part of our Building Products 
Division, and Fels, part of our Europe 
Materials Division, have partnered to increase 
the use of alternative materials in cement 
production. By incorporating pulverized 
limestone in their processes, EHL reduced 
their cement quantities by up to 22% which 
equates to a 22% reduction in CO2. Trials 
are underway to deliver further reductions 
through additional alternative materials 
and the addition of chemical additives, 
which contribute to better workability and 
compaction of concrete. EHL plans to scale 
up the new materials and processes in their 
plants across Germany. 

Case Study: Developing innovative low CO2 concrete products

We are driving progress and advancing essential technologies through our ICSC. For example, 
the ICSC team has developed a low-carbon concrete solution that has a 65% lower carbon 
footprint compared to traditional concrete solutions. Following laboratory trials, operating 
companies from our Europe Materials Division and Building Products Division in Europe 
performed successful pilot-scale productions of the product, which was brought to the Finnish 
market in October 2022 and is now being rolled out across more of Europe and Canada. 

19  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report



Goals and targets

In 2021, we accelerated our target to 
decrease the carbon intensity of our cement 
production, bringing forward our cement 
specific net1 CO2 emissions per tonne of 
cementitious product target of 520kg from 
2030 to 2025. Recognising the ongoing need 
for absolute carbon emissions reductions 
across our activities, in 2022 we announced 
an industry-leading ambition to reduce our 
absolute carbon emissions by 25% by 2030 
(from a 2020 base year). 

In early 2023, the SBTi validated our revised 
targets in line with the updated 1.5°C science 
based framework:

•  CRH commits to reduce gross Scope 
1 and Scope 2 Greenhouse Gas 
(GHG) emissions 33.5% per tonne of 
cementitious product by 2030 from a 2021 
base year 2.

•  CRH also commits to reduce absolute 
gross Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG 
emissions from other activities 42.0% by 
2030 from a 2021 base year 2.

•  CRH further commits to reduce gross 
Scope 3 GHG emissions 23.5% from 
purchased clinker and cement per tonne 
purchased over the same timeframe.

These targets now equate to a 30% reduction 
in absolute carbon emissions by 2030 (from 
a 2021 base year). This target applies to our 
group-wide gross emissions and covers our 
total footprint across Scope 1, 2 and 3. It is 
also inclusive of organic business growth.

Our carbon reduction roadmap

We have developed a decarbonisation roadmap 
which includes a staging post to 2030, an 
important milestone of our strategy towards 
achieving our ambition to be net-zero by 2050. 
We have also joined the Business Ambition for 
1.5°C initiative, which aims to achieve net-zero 
global emissions by no later than 2050 in order to 
limit global warming to 1.5°C. 

A significant portion of the actions required 
to deliver on the 2030 roadmap are based 
on known technologies, well-established 
operational excellence programmes and 
activities in which CRH has a proven track 
record of delivering. 

In 2022, our Scope 1 and 2 absolute carbon 
emissions decreased by 7%, from 36.0 million 
tonnes in 2021 to 33.6 million tonnes in 2022, 
as we executed against the levers in our 
decarbonisation roadmap, and lower clinker 
production. 

We also saw an improvement in our cement 
specific net CO2 emissions per tonne of 
cementitious product which reduced to 566kg 
(from 586kg in 2021), a 27% reduction on 1990 
levels. 

Our decarbonisation roadmap is business-
led and executed through locally managed 
plans. Our expert climate action team provides 
central oversight and roadmap coordination 
that builds on our significant experience in 
carbon reduction across different geographies, 
functions and business types, where for many 
years our dedicated team of experts have been 
active. Read more about our decarbonisation 
roadmap and the key actions to deliver carbon 
reductions across our operations and supply 
chain on pages 26 to 31 our Annual Report, 
available on crh.com. 

Targeting emissions reduction

2030 target

30 %
reduction in absolute group-wide 
carbon emissions by 2030  
(on a 2021 base year)

TARGETS

tonnes of indirect 
CO2e emissions

Indirect CO2e  

emissions from 
purchased 
electricity 

tonnes of direct CO2e emissions from use of 
fuels, chemical decarbonisation from cement and 
lime production and transport of raw materials 
and finished products in our own vehicles

Scope 1
2022  31.2m 
2021  33.4m
2020  32.4m

Scope 2
2022  2.4m 
2021  2.6m
2020  2.6m

Scope 3
2022  12.9m 
2021  12.0m
2020  10.9m

Please refer to the ‘Calculation Methodologies’ on pages  67 to 68 for more detailed information on the scope of our 
absolute carbon emissions. 

Our carbon footprint

Scope 3 
Downstream

Scope 3  
Upstream

0.5 m 12 .  4 m
tonnes of indirect 
CO2e emissions from 
customer transport

 tonnes of indirect CO2e emissions from 
sources including:

• purchased goods

•  fuel and energy related activities

• contracted transport

• waste generated

•  employee commuting

1  Total direct CO2 emissions – net: gross CO2 emissions 
minus CO2 emissions from alternative fossil fuels.

2  The target boundary includes land-related emissions and 
removals from bioenergy feedstocks.

20  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report

https://www.crh.com/media/4738/2022-annual-report-and-form-20-f.pdf


    

Our focus sub-goals

Target

9.1  

9.2

9.4

9.5  

Develop quality, reliable, sustainable and 
resilient infrastructure 

 Promote inclusive and sustainable 
industrialisation

Upgrade infrastructure and retrofit industries 
to make them sustainable

 Enhance scientific research, upgrade the 
technological capabilities of industrial 
sectors in all countries

How we are contributing

Activity

We embrace multiple breakthrough technologies, 
products and processes to enable more sustainable 
construction. We continue to focus on innovation, 
research and development as we progress towards 
our ambition for 50% of revenue to come from 
products with enhanced sustainability attributes 
by 2025.

Optimising energy efficiency

Improving energy efficiencies

We have a strong focus on improving and 
promoting energy efficiency. In 2022, we spent 
over $2 billion on energy. Our performance 
teams are continuously driving energy efficiency 
and have developed programmes to improve 
energy performance. This is especially relevant 
to our cement and lime activities, which account 
for 77% of our energy use. 

In Europe, 696 of our locations have certified 
ISO 50001 Energy Management Systems, with 
56% of our materials operations in Europe 
having certifications in place in 2022. This 
certification is not common in other regions of 
the world, where we apply relevant systems as 
appropriate. 

Our operating companies consistently strive 
to identify and implement energy-efficiency 
projects. For example, Tarmac, part of our 
Europe Materials Division, has installed a new 
cement mill at it's Dunbar site, which requires 
up to 50% less energy to operate than its 
predecessor, resulting in significant energy 
savings in the production of material.

In addition, we have been part of a world first 
net-zero trial in producing high-quality lime 
using hydrogen technology to replace fossil 
fuels. Investing in hydrogen technology offers 
sustainability benefits for our business and for 
society. Combustion with hydrogen is clean, 
producing energy and water vapour rather 
than energy and greenhouse gases. Hydrogen 
production using electrolysis powered by 
renewables provides a potential clean energy 
source.

Targeting energy reduction 

In 2022, energy use across our operating 
locations totalled 54.5 TWh (2021: 57.0 TWh). 
Almost three-quarters of our businesses 
(representing 99% of energy use) have set 
energy reduction targets and programmes. As a 
result of these efforts, we saved approximately 
0.47 TWh of energy in 2022. 

Adopting low-carbon fuels 

We are continuously innovating to introduce 
clean energy alternatives to our operations and 
the wider industry, such as replacing carbon 
intensive fuels with lower carbon options, 
including alternative fuels, especially those that 
contain carbon neutral waste biomass.

Many of our operating companies have already 
developed the capability to use a wide range of 
alternative fuels, including solid recovered fuels 
(SRF), used tyres, solvents and used oil. The use 
of such fuels in cement manufacture is known 
as 'co-processing', which involves the recovery 
of energy from waste, as well as using the non-
combustible content to form a valuable part of 
the raw materials used in cement production. 
In 2022, our subsidiary cement plants used 2.2 
million tonnes of alternative fuels, providing 36% 
of their fuel requirements, 53% in the European 
Union alone.

We are also evaluating new sources of energy, 
such as hydrogen, and fuel switching to lower 
carbon options such as oil to natural gas, 
which will enable a reduction in emissions. 
For example, in 2022 numerous trials were 
undertaken with external partners in North 
America and Europe to replace fossil fuels, such 
as diesel, with Hydrotreated Vegetable Oil (HVO) 
in our operations and onsite mobile equipment 
and to develop new innovative solutions to 
reduce CO2 emissions. 

Investing in clean electricity 

We are investing in and promoting innovation 
for the clean energy transition. We are actively 
targeting an increase of renewable electricity 
across our operations. In 2022, we purchased
approximately 1.7 TWh of renewable electricity 
from external suppliers. Our overall use of 
renewable electricity has increased by 50% in 
the past 5 years and approximately 25% of our 
electrical energy is met from renewable sources. 

We focus on procuring power from renewable 
sources through our renewable energy 
purchasing team and by partnering with 
organisations to install renewable energy 
sources, such as solar and wind. For example, 
Leviat, part of our Building Products Division, 
installed a Solar PV System at its production 
site in Spenge, Germany. This solar installation 
produces up to 438,000 kWh/year and thus 
covers approximately 30% of the annual 
consumption at site. 

An increasing number of our operating 
companies are joining our “CRH 100% Club”, 
where 100% of the electricity used in their 
processes comes from renewable sources. A 
leader in our CRH 100% Club, Tarmac, part 
of our Europe Materials Division, continues to 
procure 100% clean electricity across the whole 
business, which allows all of its sites across 
the country to use electricity supplied entirely 
through clean UK-based wind and solar sources.

Cement

70%
Materials

19%
Lime

7%
Concrete

4%
Building products

<1%

Energy use by activity 2022
(% of total energy: 54.5 TWh)

Alternative fossil and mixed fuels

66%
Biomass fuels incl. biomass cont.  
from alternative mixed fuels

34%

Alternative fuels used in CRH cement plants 
2022 (total: 2.2m tonnes)

21  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report



Targeting sustainable transport 

We are committed to investing in innovative 
and sustainable solutions for our logistics, and 
delivering a sustainable transport model across 
road, rail and water. We are working to upgrade 
our transportation and mobility practices to be 
as fuel-efficient as possible. For example, our 
Americas Materials Division has incorporated 
innovative GPS tracking technology into product 
delivery, which feeds information between the 
hot-mix asphalt plant and the paving train to 
streamline deliveries. This technology reduces 
the environmental impact of transport and 
delivers significant cost savings each year. 

Our operating companies have established 
fleet fuel reduction targets and endeavour to 
make use of fuel-efficient rail, boat and barge 
transportation where possible. In addition, many 
of our operating companies are leading the 
transition to using renewable energy to power 
their transport fleets. 

Of our transport of products by road, 24% is by 
our own trucks, with the remainder transported 
by contractors or customers. In 2022, the 
fuel usage in our own fleet was 155 million 
litres (2021: 157 million litres). We continue 
to focus on optimising routes, reducing fuel 
consumption and moving to more fuel-efficient 
transport. Overall, 70% of operating companies 
(representing 94% of total product delivered) 
have initiatives in place to optimise transport 
use, including GPS route planning, load 
optimisation, fleet management, engine idling 
alerts and maximising backloading. 

Carbon pricing 

Carbon pricing is a market-based mechanism 
that puts a price on carbon emissions as a 
means of promoting emissions reduction and 
encouraging low-carbon investments. Of our 
direct CO2 emissions, 47% are covered by an 
emissions trading scheme. In assessing capital 
investment projects, we use an internal carbon 
price mechanism which considers the context of 
the project, including geography and expected 
lifetime. 

Climate-related risks and opportunities 
disclosure 

Ensuring the transparency and understanding of 
climate-related risks and opportunities across 
our industry is key to meeting the goals of the 
Paris Agreement and UN SDG 13: Climate 
action. Transparency is integral to our character 
at CRH and we have a long history of reporting 
on our climate performance. We continue to 
actively engage with multiple organisations 
and platforms around carbon disclosure. For 
example, details of our Task Force on Climate-
related Disclosures (TCFD) can be found on 
pages 56 to 59 of our 2022 Annual Report. We 
are also long-standing supporters of CDP, and 
achieved a score of A- in 2022. In addition, we 
report in accordance with the relevant criteria 
under the EU Taxonomy regulation, part of the 
EU’s overall efforts to implement the European 
Green Deal. Details of our EU Taxonomy 
disclosures can be found on page 270 in our 
2022 Annual Report, available on crh.com. 

Delivering low-carbon 
solutions

Harnessing circularity for a net-zero future 

The use of low-carbon wastes and by-products 
from other industries and other low-carbon raw 
materials is a key lever we use to further reduce 
the carbon footprint of our products.

In 2022, we used a total of 8.4 million tonnes 
of alternative raw materials in our cement 
plants. These include industrial wastes and by-
products, such as fly ash and ground granulated 
blast furnace slag (GGBS). We also use lower 
carbon materials like limestone and calcined 
clay to manufacture lower carbon cements. In 
addition, we use similar wastes and by-products 
in combination with certain cement types in 
the manufacture of concrete. Our cement and 
concrete products are carefully designed, 
and we use robust quality control processes 
to ensure they meet all technical and product 
performance standards. As one of the levers in 
our decarbonisation roadmap, we will further 
reduce carbon through the use of wastes and 
by-products. 

In addition, in 2022 we used 11.8 million 
tonnes (2021: 10.6 million tonnes) of Recycled 
Asphalt Pavement (RAP) and Recycled Asphalt 
Shingles (RAS) to make new asphalt products 
for road and other surfaces. Using materials 
from old road surfaces to make new asphalt 
reduces virgin material demand and significantly 
contributes to lowering the carbon footprint of 
asphalt.

    

Our focus sub-goals

Target

13.1  

13.2  

Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity 
to climate-related hazards and natural 
disasters in all countries

Integrate climate change measures into 
policies, strategies and planning

How we are contributing

Activity

We continue to design for resilient construction, 
adapting products to help improve the resilience 
of the built environment to the physical impacts 
of climate change. As we work towards our 
ambition to be a net-zero business by 2050, we are 
executing on a plan to deliver a 30% reduction in 
our absolute carbon emissions by 2030.

Disclosures
Click here for more 
information on how we 
are increasing our use of 
alternative fuels 

2022 

77.3
2021

78.4

2022 

36.3%
2021

33.0%

Clinker/cement
(equivalent) factor

Alternative fuel rate of cement 
(kiln fuels) (%)

2022 

624
2021

643

Specific CO2 emissions - gross
(kg/tonne of cementitious product)

22  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report

https://www.crh.com/media/4738/2022-annual-report-and-form-20-f.pdf


The Global Cement and 
Concrete Association 
(GCCA)

CONCRE
TE

SU

STAINABILITY
CO

UNCIL

The Concrete Sustainability  
Council (CSC)

The World Business 
Council for Sustainable 
Development (WBCSD)

The National Stone, Sand 
and Gravel Association 
(NSSGA)

The European Ready Mixed 
Concrete Association 
(ERMCO)

The Portland Cement  
Association (PCA)

The Cement Association of 
Canada (CAC)

CO2 Value Europe

The National Asphalt 
Pavement Association 
(NAPA)

EuLA, the European Lime  
Association

CEMBUREAU, the  
European Cement  
Association

The National Ready Mixed  
Concrete Association  
(NRMCA)

Collaborating for  
climate action

Accelerating industry decarbonisation 
efforts

Accelerating decarbonisation efforts to meet 
our 2050 ambition for net-zero will require 
collaboration from governments, industries and 
society to develop the technologies, supporting 
infrastructure and the right policy environment 
needed to deliver a more climate-resilient 
world. 

For the buildings and construction industry 
to align with initiatives such as the European 
Green Deal and deliver absolute carbon 
emission reductions, it will require support 
and funding from governments across a range 
of policy areas. This includes investments 
in low-carbon technologies and supporting 
infrastructure, robust emissions trading 
systems, incentives and financial mechanisms 
to protect against carbon leakage, sufficient 
access to alternative fuels and materials, and 
the development of progressive policies to 
encourage the use of, for example, renewable 
energy. 

CRH has been actively involved in the 
development of the GCCA 'Roadmap for Net 
Zero Concrete', CEMBUREAU, the European 
Cement Association, '2050 Carbon Neutrality 
Roadmap', the National Asphalt Pavement 
Association (NAPA) roadmap 'Towards Net 
Zero Carbon Emissions', as well as the Portland 
Cement Association (PCA) 'Roadmap for 
Carbon Neutrality'. 

Climate policy positions

At CRH, we see the risks, the opportunities and 
the need for informed policy action. We have 
published our policy positions around climate 
lobbying, outlining our stance on climate-
related topics and the drivers we believe are 
necessary for society to achieve the Paris 
Agreement. 

Responsible corporate lobbying is a key 
principle underpinning our interactions with 
policymakers both directly, and indirectly 
through industry associations, in relation to all 
aspects of CRH’s business, including climate 
change. We recently reviewed our climate 
lobbying practices and related disclosures to 
ensure they align with the expectations of our 
stakeholders. Read more about our climate 
lobbying review and positions on crh.com. 

Climate governance

Matters relating to climate change are a top 
priority across our business. They are dealt with 
at the highest levels of CRH, and throughout 
our operating companies in a strategic and 
collaborative way. Responsibility for formulating 
and executing our climate strategy sits with 
the Chief Operating Officer (COO), while the 
Group Leadership Team receives support 
from various executive-level committees 
and other working groups and functions on 
sustainability and climate-related issues. 

In addition, climate change is a key objective in 
our Environmental Policy (see page  65). The 
Safety, Environment and Social Responsibility 
(SESR) Committee oversees, on behalf of the 
Board, policies, processes, strategies and 
frameworks designed to manage potential 
risks and opportunities associated with climate 
change. Climate change considerations are 
highlighted as standalone items in reports 
to the SESR Committee, spotlighting their 
importance within our business activities. 
Read more on our sustainability governance on 
page  59 as well as pages 104 to 106 in our 
2022 Annual Report, available on crh.com. 

Collaborating to achieve net-zero ambitions

We believe we can play a major role in building the sustainable world of tomorrow, however 
we cannot achieve this alone. We must collaborate with policymakers, governments, 
investors, researchers, innovators, customers and end-users to drive the appropriate 
response in tackling climate action. Here we profile some of the industry associations we 
work with as we collaborate for climate action:

Policies
Click here to find out more 
information about our 
commitment to responsible 
climate lobbying on crh.com

23  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report

https://www.crh.com/media/4136/crh-climate-advocacy-review-2022.pdf
https://www.crh.com/media/4738/2022-annual-report-and-form-20-f.pdf
https://www.crh.com/sustainability/codes-of-conduct


Collaborating for climate action

At CRH, we are committed to decarbonising our business at every level – 
through our operations, supply chains and product distribution and use. 
Examples of how we are collaborating to further reduce direct and indirect 
emissions are illustrated below:

Case Study: Collaborating to develop innovative low-carbon solutions

We recognise the value of collaboration as a means of problem-solving and driving progress. 
Tarmac, part of our Europe Materials Division, has partnered with Align, the joint venture 
delivering the Central 1 section of HS2 Phase One, the new high-speed rail line in the UK. 
As part of this collaboration, Tarmac provided an innovative low-carbon concrete solution 
for the project. The low-carbon concrete delivers a 62% reduction in CO2e per cubic metre 
of concrete, compared to a standard CEM I concrete and uses a high ground slag (GGBS) 
content of over 90%. The collaboration shows the potential of low-carbon products to 
contribute to a more sustainable built environment and can support the decarbonisation of 
transport infrastructure. 

Case Study: Partnering to develop low CO2 concrete for data centres

We pride ourselves on helping our customers to meet their sustainability goals and on 
collaborating to drive net-zero development. American Rock Products, part of our Americas 
Materials Division, partnered with Amazon Web Services to develop a new, more sustainable 
concrete mix for use in the development of new data centres. The concrete mix will help 
Amazon to meet their new design standards for US data centres to use low-carbon concrete 
which has at least 20% less embodied carbon and drive sustainable construction across the 
industry.

Case Study: Accelerating progress on decarbonisation

We understand that we cannot solve a global and complex challenge such as decarbonisation 
alone. By collaborating with businesses that share our ambition to reach net-zero emissions, 
we can accelerate progress on decarbonisation. We have partnered with Shell to pool our 
resources and elevate our shared positive impact in decarbonisation action. Together we will 
identify and develop decarbonisation opportunities across transport, operations and materials. 
We will strive to reduce global emissions through vehicle electrification and EV charging 
infrastructure, to deploy low-carbon fuels and renewable electricity and to develop low-carbon 
asphalt solutions. Through knowledge sharing and development from both sides of this 
partnership, CRH and Shell will maximise the benefits of collaboration to deliver innovative 
decarbonisation solutions across Europe, North America and Asia Pacific.

24  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report



Read more in this section about how we 
are supporting the following UN SDGs:

SDG 11  Sustainable cities and communities 
SDG 12  Responsible consumption and production

In this section

Addressing challenges for circularity 26

Enhancing value through the  
circular economy 

27

Driving the circular economy 30

DECARBONISATION

WATER

WASTE

Reimagining how  
materials are used to  
drive circularity 
Rapid economic growth, urbanisation and 
an increasing population have resulted 
in intensive resource consumption, and 
consequently the release of significant 
amounts of waste into the environment.  
The building materials industry is playing 
a crucial role in moving towards a more 
sustainable circular economy model. 

As a leader in the use of wastes and by-
products from other industries as raw 
materials and fuels in our processes and 
products, CRH sees the circular economy  
as a growth opportunity for our business  
and a cornerstone to delivering solutions  
for the future.

At CRH, we pride ourselves on producing sustainable infrastructure to connect our world. For example, Pike 
Industries, part of our Americas Materials Division, are contributing to the paving of the Vermont Route 9 state 
highway which, once completed, will form a corridor between the areas of Wilmington and Battlebro. Pike Industries 
is taking a circular approach to the paving project by utilising RAP and reclaimed aggregate from the old road base, 
thereby reducing the need to use virgin materials in the project. In addition, due to the presence of invasive species 
in the surrounding natural environment, careful waste management and disposal protocols are being applied as part 
of the project to avoid the spreading of the invasive species and protect the local biodiversity there.

Lavinia Beznea, 
Quality & Environment Manager, 
ROMCIM S.A.

"The transition to a circular economy 
is becoming increasingly important 
to combat global waste challenges. 
At CRH, we support this transition 
by managing our own waste streams 
and increasing our recycling of 
wastes and by-products from other 
industries in our processes and 
products. We help our customers to 
achieve their sustainability goals by 
offering circular, durable products 
which construct the essential 
infrastructure on which we depend."

25  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report



Addressing challenges for 
circularity

Recognising global challenges

Meeting the need for new homes, buildings 
and infrastructure in response to an increasing 
population, urbanisation and economic 
growth, means the built environment is one 
of the biggest consumers of resources. 
Achieving responsible consumption in the built 
environment involves uncoupling social and 
economic development from an ever-increasing 
rise in material consumption. 

To address these challenges, there is a need 
for the construction value chain to prioritise 
solutions that avoid waste and use resources 
more efficiently. This can be done by focusing 
on enhancing the longevity and resilience of 
our products, buildings and infrastructure, as 
well as designing for reuse, repurposing and 
recyclability. This, coupled with developing 
the technology needed to convert expended 
resources into value-added materials, allows us 
to deliver more resource-efficient solutions. 

Shifting from linear to circular resource use 
requires developments in infrastructural and 
regulatory spaces to support and allow for the 
use of, and access to, alternative fuels and 
materials. Developing the technologies and 
processes needed for the efficient reuse of 
certain by-products in the most cost-effective 
way is an ongoing challenge for our industry.  
As a society, we need to shift the current 
“take-make-waste” pattern of consumption 
to a circular model that places more value on 
resources, uses them efficiently and keeps them 
in use for as long as possible.

Promoting a circular economy

Worldwide, stakeholders in the built environment 
are seeing the potential in circular and net-zero 
construction. As a leader in the use of waste and 
by-products from other industries, we can use 
our reach and influence to collaborate and shape 
the uptake of circularity in the building materials 
industry and contribute to a more sustainable 
urban landscape.

At CRH, we fully understand the importance 
of transitioning to a more circular economy 
and preserving scarce natural resources. For 
decades we have been collaborating with 
industry partners to drive innovation across our 
processes and products to improve materials 
efficiency.

We collaborate across our value-chain and 
provide expert technical support to advance 
the development of sustainable products and 
solutions and improve the life-cycle performance 
of buildings and infrastructure and conserve 
resources. Our collaborative approach starts 
with how we design our products and processes 
to eliminate waste, maximise resource efficiency 
and enhance longevity. This includes developing 
products, services and solutions that reduce 
waste from the construction process and avoid 
unnecessary use of resources.

It encompasses taking an end-to-end approach 
to sustainable construction, considering how 
our products are used in the built environment. 
By rethinking and redesigning our products 
and components, we can improve the life-cycle 
performance of buildings and infrastructure, 
extending their life through enhanced durability, 
designing for reuse and repurposing and 
providing end-of-life solutions for our products. 

    

Our focus sub-goals

Target

11.1  

11.2

11.4  

Ensure access for all to adequate, safe and 
affordable housing and basic services

 Provide access to safe, affordable, 
accessible and sustainable transport 
systems

Strengthen efforts to protect and safeguard 
the world’s cultural and natural heritage 

How we are contributing

As the provider of the materials, products and 
services that are constructing the world of 
tomorrow, we see significant opportunities for our 
business to lead the way in sustainable solutions 
that can withstand and protect against climate 
change, advance the circular economy and position 
CRH for future growth and improved performance. 

We are supporting SDG 11 by creating a more 
sustainable urban landscape that can support 
the needs of growing populations. We do this by 
offering circular, durable, low-carbon products, 
manufactured using increased recycled materials. 
Read more about how our products can contribute 
to more sustainable cities on page  29. 

Waste

What are the challenges and how are 
we managing them?

Rapid economic growth, urbanisation 
and a growing population are leading to 
unsustainable resource consumption and 
contributing to global waste management 
challenges. To successfully address these 
challenges, we must take action to move 
towards a circular economy model. At CRH, 
we take a collaborative, innovative approach 
to our product and solution development, 
embedding principles of circularity from the 
design concept to end-of-life. For example, 
we are continuously innovating to increase the 
use of alternative fuels and RAP. By eliminating 
waste, maximising resource efficiency and 
enhancing the longevity of our products, we 
can provide the solutions needed to reinvent 
construction and enhance modern living.

Case studies
Click here for more 
information on how we 
are promoting a circular 
economy

Stakeholders tell us

"Reaching net-zero carbon emissions by 2050 
is a challenge that requires the implementation 
of new technical solutions. Politecnico of Torino 
supports CRH in the development of innovative 
CO2 capture processes that utilise wastes, 
creating products for the building sector. Our 
research is a contribution towards a smart and 
circular economy approach." 

Dr. Giuseppe Ferrara, 
Post-doctoral researcher,  
Politecnico di Torino, Italy

26  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report



Enhancing value through  
the circular economy

Empowering innovation

At CRH, we have the experience, creativity, and 
connections to lead the way in transforming 
the nature of sustainable construction. We are 
focused on developing innovative products 
and solutions that reduce construction times, 
improve the efficiency and safety of buildings 
and prolong the life-cycle of structures. We 
have over 100 ongoing research and innovation 
projects globally, many of which aim to promote 
better use of resources across the construction 
industry. 

At CRH, we have decades of experience 
of collaboration and industry engagement 
that helps us to drive innovation across our 
processes and products. We will continue to 
focus on research and development across our 
operating companies and developing state of 
the art technologies and processes through our 
ICSC and CRH Ventures functions.

Products with sustainability attributes

We offer a wide portfolio of products and 
building solutions with sustainability attributes. 
For example, Oldcastle APG, part of our 
Building Products Division in the US, produces 
Greenline and VersaStone masonry products 
which are manufactured using up to 40% 
recycled materials.

We recognise the contribution many of our 
products make in helping customers achieve 
higher scores in green building rating schemes 
such as BREEAM®, DGNB, and LEED®. This 
includes the thermal mass properties of concrete 
for improved building energy efficiency. 

Managing our process waste

We are dedicated to complying, as a minimum, 
with all regulations concerning the safe and 
responsible management of waste materials. Our 
waste minimisation practices help to address 
growing resource scarcity and reduce industrial 
waste and emissions. This includes reducing the 
amount of process waste materials generated, 
especially hazardous materials, and enhancing 
process efficiency. 

When waste from our production processes 
cannot be recycled internally, it is sent to 
licensed facilities for recycling or final treatment. 
During 2022, 2.5 million tonnes of process waste 
was generated by our operating companies, 
90% of which (2.3 million tonnes) was externally 
recycled. A small number of operating 
companies are permitted to landfill process 
waste onsite. These sites are operated strictly 
in line with permit requirements and reviewed 
on an annual basis. Furthermore, all operating 
companies take extensive precautions to prevent 
unauthorised waste disposal.

Innovative and 
sustainable solutions

What are the challenges and how are 
we managing them?

Constructing the circular, net-zero built 
environment of the future will require new, 
innovative technologies that will transform the 
way we build. At CRH, we are placing ourselves 
at the forefront of innovative solutions. We have 
decades of experience in collaboration and 
industry engagement that helps us to identify, 
advance and drive innovation opportunities. 
With over 100 research projects ongoing across 
the Group, we are committed to embracing 
and developing state-of-the-art technologies 
through our operating companies, through 
our ICSC and in partnership with the industry 
and academic institutions. We continue to 
invest in innovative processes to increase the 
recycling of waste materials into our activities 
and enhance value for our businesses and 
customers through the circular economy.

Stakeholders tell us

“Navigating the pathway to net-zero, 
particularly for hard-to-abate sectors such 
as construction, is one of society’s biggest 
challenges. But it’s a challenge we can work 
together to overcome. Shell and CRH believe 
that collaboration is key to moving at speed 
and scale to unlock new and innovative 
decarbonisation solutions. By working together, 
we hope to maximise learning and knowledge 
sharing to accelerate the deployment of low-
carbon solutions and technologies that will help 
both companies to reach net-zero.”

Raman Ojha, 
VP Construction & Road, Shell

Materials

53%
Concrete

39%
Cement

6%
Lime

1%
Building products

1%

Process waste by activity 2022
(% of total waste)

Inert

95%
Non-hazardous

76%
Hazardous

74%

Process waste recycled 2022 
(% recycled) (total: 2.3 million tonnes)

Disclosures
Click here to find out 
more information on our 
Environmental KPIs

Key achievement

90 %
of the process waste generated by our 
operating companies in 2022 was externally 
recycled.

27  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report



Case Study: Partnering to create 100% 
recycled insulation

At CRH, our ambition is to deliver innovative 
products and solutions to drive progress 
towards a circular, net-zero built environment. 
CRH's structural concrete businesses 
in Belgium, part of our Europe Materials 
Division, is collaborating with a Belgian 
start-up specialising in the production of 
recycled insulation materials. As part of this 
collaboration, CRH Structural Concrete Belgium 
supplies recycled materials which are then 
converted into innovative insulation products. 
Through continuously investing in sustainable 
solutions, we are contributing to a more circular 
economy.

Case Study: Increasing circularity in 
construction

We are committed to reducing waste and 
incorporating more recycled materials into our 
products and solutions. For example, Staker 
Parson Materials & Construction, part of our 
Americas Materials Division, has implemented 
an innovative recycling effort to increase 
circularity in the construction of the West Davis 
Corridor. This involves avoiding the disposal of 
large amounts of waste materials by using them 
as a recycled road-base. Once completed, the 
West Davis Corridor, consisting of a freeway 
that goes through western Davis County, Utah, 
will provide additional transportation options, 
reduce traffic impacts, and provide connectivity 
throughout the region. 

Case Study: Leading circular initiatives

Circularity is embedded across our business 
as we strive to create solutions for global waste 
challenges. For example, EQIOM, part of our 
Europe Materials Division, has established its 
EQIOM R programme which aims to provide 
global solutions for reducing building construction 
impacts. The programme targets construction 
players, such as clients and partners, and brings 
together EQIOM initiatives including waste 
recovery, low-carbon concrete and cement, 
responsible management of quarries and green 
logistics. As a result of this programme, EQIOM 
has recycled approximately 300,000 tonnes of 
waste as alternative fuels and is increasing clinker 
substitution by 30% in cement mixes.

Case Study: Reimagining waste streams

We believe that embedding circularity within 
everything we do will help to solve global 
challenges, such as waste and decarbonisation. 
For example, CRH Ventures has invested 
in Carbon Upcycling Technologies (CUT), a 
company whose pioneering technology is 
transforming industrial by-products into valuable 
additives in cement mixes. This technology 
helps to significantly lower CO2 emissions 
of production processes, allowing cement 
and concrete manufacturers to create more 
sustainable products. CUT’s first facility will 
be launched in partnership with Ash Grove, 
part of our Americas Materials Division, at its 
Mississauga location. We plan to utilise CUT 
technology across our locations and will continue 
to invest in innovative end-of-life solutions for 
waste.

Enhancing value through the circular economy

Circularity is embedded within our business, processes and products. We utilise 
the waste streams of our industry and others to create value-added, quality 
products that have a lower impact on our world. Examples of how we use the 
circular economy as a value-creation opportunity are shown below: 

28  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report



Targeting circularity

To embed circularity within our business, 
we set a target for 95% of our operating 
companies to have waste recycling 
programmes in place by 2030, which we are 
proud to say we have achieved.

In 2022, we recycled a total of 42.4 million
tonnes of wastes and by-products from other 
industries as raw materials and fuels in our 
products and processes. This includes 40.1 
million tonnes of alternative raw materials, 
substituting 9% of the virgin materials we 
would have otherwise used. Depending on 
the product, this substitution rate can be 
significantly higher. Over the next decade, 
we expect to use over 100 million tonnes of 
RAP from old road surfaces as part of new 
road surfacing products.

See pages  18 and  21 for more 
information on how we are promoting 
innovation in technologies that increase our 
use of alternative materials and contribute to 
the circular economy.

Driving the circular economy

Recycling and reusing our 
by-product materials

We are embedding circularity within our 
operations to preserve scarce natural 
resources. To reduce the waste generated 
from our processes and optimise use of 
resources, we reuse by-products, such as 
baghouse fines, cement kiln dust (CKD), 
off-spec production and other internally 
sourced secondary materials, within our own 
manufacturing processes. Where possible, we 
recycle these back into the same process. 

In 2022, we diverted from disposal 2.8 
million tonnes of by-products from our 
own operations by using them in our 
processes. By recycling and reusing these 
by-products, we are avoiding disposal and 
contributing to the circular economy. 

Providing circular product solutions 

We are reimagining and redesigning our 
products and components to improve material 
efficiency and the life-cycle performance of 
buildings and infrastructure, as well as provide 
end-of-life solutions for our products. 

We collaborate with our supply chain and 
operate our own businesses to collect and 
process waste and by-products from both 
our own and other construction and industrial 
processes. We use these as beneficial 
components of our products, such as cement, 
concrete and asphalt, or as products in their 
own right, such as recycled aggregates. We 
reuse and recycle a wide range of wastes 
and by-products including RAP and RAS, 
construction and demolition (C&D) waste, fly ash 
and GGBS, along with many other materials. 
We apply strict quality control processes 
and design all our products to optimise 
and ensure their long-term performance.

Alongside our use of wastes as raw materials, in 
2022, we used 2.3 million tonnes of alternative 
fuels, 2.2 million tonnes of which was used 
in our cement operations alone. Known as 
co-processing, we not only recover the energy 
from the fuel, but also the non-combustible 
components make up a useful part of the 
cement chemistry, so there is no waste. 

The amount of waste from other industries 
that we consume as alternative raw materials 
and fuels is 173 times greater than the amount 
of waste we dispose of, making CRH a net 
user of waste. We are the largest recycler of 
building materials in North America. In addition, 
through our Building Products Division we 
provide a wide range of structural precast 
elements and modular building systems 
that use offsite manufacturing methods to 
support the transition to a circular economy 
through their optimised design, material 
efficiency and waste minimisation.

2030 target

95  %
of companies to have waste recycling 
programmes in place by 2030

TARGETS     

Our focus sub-goals

Target

12.2  

12.4

12.5

12.6  

 Achieve the sustainable management and 
efficient use of natural resources 

Achieve environmentally sound management 
of wastes through their life-cycles 

Substantially reduce waste generation 
through prevention, reduction, recycling and 
reuse 

  Encourage companies to adopt sustainable 
practices and integrate sustainability 
information into reporting 

How we are contributing

At CRH, we take an end-to-end approach to 
sustainable construction, working with our 
stakeholders to continuously improve how our 
products are used in the built environment and to 
champion the transition to a circular economy in 
support of SDG 12. By rethinking and redesigning 
our products and components, we can improve 
the life-cycle performance of buildings and 
infrastructure, extending their life through enhanced 
durability and providing whole-life solutions for our 
products.

In 2022, we recycled 2.8 million tonnes of internal 
by-products by using them in our processes. In 
addition, we are increasing our offering of products 
and solutions that are made using recycled 
materials, supporting our ambition for 50% of 
product revenue to come from products with 
enhanced sustainability attributes by 2025. See 
page  30 for more information on our contribution 
to the circular economy. 

Alternative fuels 2.3m tonnes
RAP and shingles 11.8m tonnes
C&D 12.1m tonnes
Internal by-products 2.8m tonnes
Other reused material 13.4m tonnes

11.8m

12.1m

2.8m

13.4m

2.3m

Alternative fuels and materials by 
type 2022 (total: 42.4 million tonnes) 

2022 

42.4
2021

39.5
2020

36.5

Recycled materials 
(million tonnes)

29  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report



Driving the circular economy

We endeavour to create products that have improved life-cycle performances and 
increased levels of recycled materials, while always maintaining our high standards 
of quality. Examples of our circular products being used in the built environment 
are shown below: 

Case Study: Creating circular infrastructure

We understand the importance of improving 
vital infrastructure so that it remains strong, 
safe and resilient. For example, APAC-Central, 
part of our Americas Materials Division, is 
contributing to the State Highway 20 paving 
project near Collinsville, Oklahoma. The 
previous pavement had been in place for at 
least 35 years and required upgrading. APAC-
Central is utilising RAP in their asphalt mixes 
to reduce the carbon footprint of the project 
and to minimise the use of virgin materials. We 
will continue to improve our infrastructure and 
optimise recycled materials in our processes to 
create a more sustainable, connected world. 

Case Study: Driving sustainable construction

We are reinventing the way the world is built by embedding circularity within the urban 
landscape. For example, Prefaco and Ergon, both part of our Europe Materials Division, 
partnered on the development of the ZIN building project, reinventing part of the World 
Trade Centre complex in the North area of Brussels, Belgium. By delivering circular 
concrete elements for the project, Prefaco and Ergon transformed the rubble that resulted 
from the demolition of the former WTC towers into 3,500 tonnes of high-quality aggregates 
which were recycled into the concrete elements being used in the new ZIN building. In total, 
approximately 30% of the concrete used in the project came from recycled material, the 
first time circular products were used on such a large-scale in Belgium. Prefaco and Ergon 
were jointly awarded the 'Cradle to Cradle’ silver certificate in recognition of this project as 
an example of circular construction.

Case Study: Creating sustainable solutions for 
waste streams

We strive to provide sustainable solutions to the 
challenges facing waste streams globally. For example, 
JURA Materials, part of our Europe Materials Division, 
are contributing to the development of the new 
energy-efficient Kebag Enova waste incineration plant 
in Zuchwill, Switzerland. JURA Materials are providing 
52,000m3 sustainable cement and concrete for the 
construction of the new incineration plant. These 
products contain recycled aggregates and reduced 
clinker concentrations compared to traditional mixes, 
resulting in CO2  reductions of 10-20% per m3 of 
concrete. The building is due to be completed in 2025 
and will produce more electricity and district heating 
than its outdated predecessor.

Case Study: Delivering circular solutions 

Our products and services help to deliver a 
circular, net-zero future that meets the needs 
of modern living. For example, Michigan 
Paving & Materials (MPM), part of our Americas 
Materials Division, is leading the I-69 Design 
Build project in Southwest Michigan. This 
reconstruction project will improve connectivity 
across Southern Michigan and enhance nearby 
infrastructure such as bridges. MPM is recycling 
the entirety of the old pavement and utilising it 
as road base aggregate and recycled asphalt 
product that will be incorporated into new 
asphalt pavements for I-69. The result will be 
an improved and durable interstate that better 
serves motorists travelling through Michigan.

30  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report



Advancing solutions  
to solve global water 
challenges
Population growth, urbanisation and climate 
change are accelerating the pressure on water 
resources and increasing the need for resilient 
water supplies. We are constantly evolving 
and offering solutions to support the health 
and security of our communities through 
responsible water use and management. 

Water management is a key consideration 
when designing the urban landscape. 
Low-impact, durable building solutions are 
becoming increasingly important to enhance 
our built environment’s capacity to adapt to 
the physical impacts of the climate crisis – 
including heightened risks of flooding, drought 
and freezing events, all of which put pressure 
on our water systems. We also prioritise 
the importance of access to safe and clean 
drinking water, recognising this as a basic 
human right. 

At CRH, we have a significant role to play in 
helping to solve these global water challenges 
through our solutions to capture, treat, manage 
and distribute water resources efficiently.

Read more in this section about how we 
are supporting the following UN SDGs:

SDG 6   Clean water and sanitation

In this section

Advancing water solutions 32

Promoting responsible water use 34

DECARBONISATION

WATER

WASTE

Meagan Boson, 
VP Business Performance,  
Building Products

"Access to water resources, water 
scarcity, water management and 
flooding are all challenges facing 
global water supplies today. We are 
taking action to conserve water at 
our own operations and importantly, 
advancing solutions to solve water 
challenges by providing the products, 
solutions and expertise needed 
to improve water infrastructure 
and enhance resilience to flooding 
across the built environment."

We are proud to be playing our role in helping to solve the challenges facing water management. For example, 
Oldcastle Infrastructure, part of our Building Products Division in the US, supplied an integrated water management 
solution to enhance the outdated drainage systems installed in the Cypress Street area of Tampa, Florida, which is 
historically prone to flooding. Oldcastle Infrastructure added nearly 7,300 ft of box culverts and reinforced concrete 
pipe with precast catch basins to the existing system, which has resulted in an increased level of drainage, as well 
as improved traffic, residential and business safety. In addition, the multi-solutions system is significantly reducing 
polluted stormwater run-off to otherwise clean water sources, thereby largely improving Tampa’s overall water 
quality and green infrastructure.

31  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report



Advancing water solutions
Advancing solutions that enhance 
resilience to flooding

With the increased frequency of extreme weather 
events caused by climate change, society 
requires enhanced sustainable solutions to help 
protect cities and the wider built environment.

Our water management solutions are helping 
to redesign the urban landscape so that it 
can adapt to changing weather patterns. Our 
products and solutions are critical in the water 
management systems needed to perform 
in cases of extreme flooding. These include 
products for flood prevention, stormwater 
management systems and permeable paving 
products that mimic hydrological processes 
to manage urban stormwater run-off more 
effectively, as well as sustainable drainage 
systems (SuDS) that aim to align modern 
drainage systems with natural water processes 
as part of a larger green infrastructure strategy. 

In addition, our products help to improve the 
storage capacities of flood water temporarily 
during flood events and are effective in 
protecting against flooding. For example, our 
stormwater management products facilitate 
onsite stormwater storage, treatment and 
infiltration, providing much needed flood relief 
and allowing buildings and infrastructure to 
withstand extreme weather events. These 
stormwater solutions play a major role in helping 
to avoid costs of damage to society, human 
health, economic activities, infrastructure, 
cultural heritage and the environment. 

We also help to equip communities with the tools 
to defend against potentially harmful weather 
events. Concrete is inherently resilient, and our 
solutions are an essential part of the answer to 
sustainable flood risk management in the form 
of flood defences, helping to protect people, 
critical infrastructure and the environment from 
flood risks. In the wake of extreme weather 
events, we work to rebuild our communities by, 
for example, repairing essential infrastructure 
such as those needed to protect against 
coastal erosion and future storm surges.

Upgrading water infrastructure 
and ground water recharging

Outdated water infrastructure paired with 
growing population sizes has led to increasing 
demand for new, improved infrastructure 
to support communities. At CRH, we have 
a major role to play in helping to solve 
the challenges facing water resources by 
offering solutions to upgrade and build new 
infrastructure and support the distribution 
of and access to supplies and treatment of 
wastewater. Taking an integrated approach 
to construction allows us to create holistic 
development solutions that meet the needs of 
entire communities and the local environment.

Our products and solutions also address 
challenges in drought-sensitive areas, through 
water capture, treatment and distribution, as well 
as through engineering measures to increase 
groundwater recharge to maintain aquifers' 
operational reserve, alleviating problems 
related to the overexploitation of groundwater.

Investing in innovative water solutions

Our actions contribute to the achievement 
of SDG 6 Clean water and sanitation and 
supports SDG 12 Responsible consumption 
and production. As part of our journey in helping 
to solve the challenges facing global water 
resources, we will continue to invest in the 
development of innovative new products and 
solutions for water management and distribution. 

In addition, we are investing in innovation to 
improve our current solutions and to offer new 
solutions to our customers. For example, in 
collaboration with the University of Minnesota 
and the University of Duke, we are enhancing our 
stormwater solutions using innovative nitrogen 
removing biofiltration media. This development 
will optimise the performance of our BioPod 
products to improve water management. 

    

Our focus sub-goals

Target

6.1  

6.3

6.4  

By 2030, achieve universal and equitable 
access to safe and affordable drinking water 
for all.

By 2030, improve water quality by reducing 
pollution, eliminating dumping and 
minimising release of hazardous chemicals 
and materials, halving the proportion of 
untreated wastewater and substantially 
increasing recycling and safe reuse globally.

By 2030, substantially increase water-use 
efficiency across all sectors and ensure 
sustainable withdrawals and supply of 
freshwater to address water scarcity and 
substantially reduce the number of people 
suffering from water scarcity.

How we are contributing

At CRH, we are committed to helping to solve 
the global challenges facing water supplies. 
We continue to invest in the development of 
innovative new products and solutions to further 
enhance our end-to-end solutions offerings to our 
customers. For example, we provide solutions to 
protect against flooding and we contribute to the 
improvement of water infrastructure through our 
solutions to capture, treat, manage and distribute 
water resources efficiently. 

We also act as a responsible consumer and user 
of water by investing in new technologies and 
processes to reduce water intake from utility 
sources at our locations and by respecting water 
quality parameters. We are guided by our target for 
100% of our operating companies to have water 
management plans in place by 2030 (see page 
  34 for more information). 

Targeting sustainable solutions

It is our ambition to deliver innovative 
products and solutions that enhance the 
circular economy and drive progress towards 
a resilient, net-zero built environment. 
These include concrete products used in 
water treatment and management systems, 
flood defences, stormwater systems and 
sustainable drainage systems. 

To help achieve this ambition, we have a 
target for 50% of product revenue to come 
from products with enhanced sustainability 
attributes by 20251. We are on track 
to achieve this target as products with 
sustainability attributes accounted for 47% 
of our product revenue in 2022 (2021: 47%)2. 
We continue to work with our customers 
in the design, delivery and application of 
circular, integrated sustainable products 
and solutions. Read more about how we are 
reimagining our products and materials to 
drive circularity on pages  25 to 30.

2025 target

50 %
product revenue from products with 
enhanced sustainability attributes by 2025

TARGETS

1  Products with enhanced sustainability attributes are 
defined as those products that incorporate any, or a 
combination of; recycled materials; are produced using 
alternative energy and fuel sources; have a lower carbon 
footprint as compared to those produced using traditional 
manufacturing processes; and/or are designed to 
specifically benefit the environment (i.e. water treatment 
and management systems, products with strong thermal 
mass/U-values).

2  Reported number in 2021 as 46% and restated in 2022 to 
reflect impact of discontinued operations.

32  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report



Advancing water solutions

We are committed to providing innovative, reliable infrastructure to 
assist effective water management and the provision of clean water 
resources to communities. In doing so, we help protect vulnerable 
communities and allow them to adapt to extreme weather patterns. 
Examples of our solutions for resiliency in the face of global water 
challenges are outlined below:

Case Study: Providing solutions to wastewater management

We are committed to creating healthy, more circular and sustainable 
communities. For example, Finnsementti, part of our Europe Materials Division 
in Finland, played a significant role in the development of the new Sulkavuori 
wastewater treatment plant in Tampere, Finland. As part of this project, over 
24,000m3 of concrete was manufactured with Finnsementti’s new low-carbon 
Kolmossementti cement. Kolmossementti cement can reduce the carbon 
footprint of a concrete by 40% compared to traditional cement and also has 
superior technical properties such as high end-strength and chemical resistance. 
The treatment plant will remove pollutants from wastewater allowing it to be 
released back into the environment. The project is expected to be completed in 
2024 and will be shared by six municipalities, serving the region's industries and 
half a million people.

Case Study: Upgrading water infrastructure in our 
communities

Access to safe and clean drinking water is an absolute 
necessity and is key to ensuring good public health. At 
CRH, we support the development and improvement of 
water infrastructure to enhance the quality of life in our 
communities. NPP, Inc., part of our Building Products 
Division, are using their PVC pipes to solve water 
challenges for communities across North America. 
For example, NPP enhanced access to drinking water 
for the rural communities in the Town of Arcadia and 
Wayne County by supplying pipe infrastructure to the US 
Department of Agriculture (USDA) Rural Development 
Water and Waste Disposal Loan and Grants programme. 
As part of this project, NPP products were installed 
in over 24,000 feet of new water line, enabling critical 
infrastructural advancements to be made that support 
the local communities.

Case Study: Upgrading water infrastructure in our 
communities

Access to safe and clean drinking water is an absolute 
necessity and is key to ensuring good public health. At 
CRH, we support the development and improvement 
of water infrastructure to enhance the quality of life in 
our communities. National Pipe & Plastics, Inc. (NPP), 
part of our Building Products Division, are using their 
PVC pipes to solve water challenges for communities 
across North America. For example, NPP enhanced 
access to drinking water for the rural communities in 
the Town of Arcadia and Wayne County by supplying 
pipe infrastructure to the US Department of Agriculture 
(USDA) Rural Development Water and Waste Disposal 
Loan and Grants programme. As part of this project, 
NPP products were installed in over 24,000 feet 
of new water line, enabling critical infrastructural 
advancements to be made that support the local 
communities.

Case Study: Supporting sustainable development

We support sustainable progress and growth by 
managing the impacts of increasing rainfall in the 
built environment and working with nature. For 
example, Oldcastle Infrastructure, part of our Building 
Products Division in the US, designed a site specific 
StormCapture® detention solution for a Toyota car 
dealership in Lewisville, Texas. The dealership needed 
to expand its parking space in order to increase onsite 
capacity and required a detention system that would 
effectively capture and manage urban stormwater, 
thereby reducing flooding, erosion and sewer overflows. 
The tailored solution met the dealership's storage needs 
while also being delivered on a tight timeline with a 
minimal footprint. We will continue to develop solutions 
that support the industrial development on which 
society depends while adapting to changing weather 
patterns caused by climate change.

33  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report



Promoting responsible  
water use

Reducing our water use

At CRH, we are committed to playing our part to 
overcome the challenges facing water resources 
globally by efficient management, recycling and 
conservation of water in our own operations. 
An increase in innovative solutions, such as 
closed-loop systems installed in manufacturing 
processes and increasing usage of water from 
settlement ponds, has resulted in a reduction in 
the amount of water intake from utility sources 
across our operating locations.

Through our continuous efforts to reuse 
and recycle water, we are reducing water 
withdrawal, discharge and wastewater treatment 
costs. We continue to invest in enhanced 
water management throughout our operating 
locations. We will continue this trend to ensure 
that we are taking action to improve water 
management efficiency across our locations.

Water withdrawal and use

Water is an important resource for all our 
activities, most significantly in the production 
of aggregates and concrete and to suppress 
dust across our extractive activities. In 2022, 
our operating companies recorded an estimated 
water withdrawal of 114.7 million m3, a slight 
decrease on 2021 (116.3 million m3). Of our total 
water withdrawal, 74% was used in our materials 
activities.

Water for process activities is often abstracted 
from several sources, not all of which may be 
metered. We are targeting improvements in 
water accounting across all activities.

Ensuring compliance

We comply with stringent environmental 
regulations to ensure that our activities, in 
particular raw material extraction, do not 
endanger local surface water or groundwater. 
Any water related non-compliances are resolved 
in line with our overarching approach to 
environmental excellence. To learn more about 
our approach to incidents of non-compliance, 
see page  37.

Water quality

Water quality parameters can vary from site 
to site, depending on national or regional 
regulations, and taking into account the quality 
of the receiving water body. We ensure the 
high-quality of discharged process water by 
using settling ponds and pH neutralisation 
systems. Some of our facilities operate 
their own wastewater treatment plants. 

Water discharge can be difficult to quantify 
because of the contribution of stormwater and 
limitations in metering. Our total water discharge 
in 2022 was estimated to be 32.8 million m3, 
with 88% discharged to surface water and 
the remainder to public sewers and other. To 
avoid potential spills of polluting materials, we 
implement best practice in materials storage. 
Our policy is to decommission all unprotected 
underground storage tanks.

In addition, we optimise the use of nature-based 
solutions at our operating locations to enhance 
water management. For example, Roadstone, 
part of our Europe Materials Division, installed 
an integrated constructed wetland at its site 
in Belgard in order to meet local water quality 
requirements. The solution, which was low 
cost and low maintenance, has improved water 
management at the site. 

Understanding our water-related risks

Uncertainties over water availability can be a 
risk factor in some regions. In 2022, we carried 
out an assessment using the World Resource 
Institute (WRI) Aqueduct Risk Atlas Tool, to 
identify and map potential water related risks 
at our operating locations. The assessment 
indicated that less than 1% of our active 
locations are identified as being in areas under 
“High” risk of drought severity.

The outcomes of this assessment confirm that 
our activities do not highly impact on water 
and that our locations generally do not operate 
in water-stressed areas. The WRI Tool allows 
for future scenario impacts of our existing 
operations, which we continue to include in our 
water management systems.

Targeting water efficiency

To drive performance, we have set a target 
for 100% of our operating companies to have 
water management plans in place by 2030. 
We are on track to achieve this goal as 81% 
(2021: 80%) of our companies had water 
management plans in place in 2022. 

We are committed to the responsible 
consumption of natural resources. In line with 
responsible water use and abstraction, water 
was recycled at 880 of our locations in 2022. 
This achievement reduced our requirement 
from external sources of water intake by 55%. 

Initiatives such as water recycling and 
reducing water use through low intensity 
cement production processes support our 
2030 water target, and we will continue 
implementing innovative tactics to drive best 
practice of water use across our operations. 
In addition, we are transparent surrounding 
our use and management of water at our 
locations. We have been awarded an A- in 
CDP for our 2022 Water Security disclosures.

2030 target

 1 00 %
of our operating companies to have 
water management plans in place  
by 2030

TARGETS

Disclosures
Click here to find out 
more information on our 
Environmental KPIs

Water

What are the challenges and how are 
we managing them?

Population growth, urbanisation and climate 
change are accelerating the pressures on the 
built environment, including on global water 
supplies and infrastructure. To alleviate these 
pressures, demand is increasing for new 
water infrastructure to support communities 
and strengthen the resilience of cities and 
the wider built environment against coastal 
erosion, storm surges and flooding and 
by improving the storage capacities of 
stormwater. CRH has a significant role to play 
in meeting these requirements through our 
products and solutions that enable effective 
management of water. This includes flexible 
stormwater capture management systems 
and permeable paving blocks. In addition, 
we promote access to safe and clean 
drinking water, using our products to repair 
and replace outdated water infrastructure to 
support healthy communities.

Stakeholders tell us

“According to the World Economic Forum, 
water-related issues are amongst the highest 
global risks on a ten-year horizon. Managing 
water use and adapting to too much or too 
little water are critical to successfully meeting 
the challenges of climate change. CRH has 
an important role to play in ensuring their own 
resource efficiency but also in helping society 
to successfully adapt.“

Andrew Brown, 
Group Chief Sustainability Officer, 
Anglian Water Group

34  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report



Driving 
sustainable 
leadership

In this section

Natural World  36

People and Communities  43

Responsible Business  58

In this image: Sustainability is a top priority at CRH and 
is driven through our strong leadership. In 2022, close to 
100 future leaders from across our Americas Materials and 
Building Products Divisions in the US and Canada came 
together at the UP Forum in Dallas, Texas for interactive 
sessions, networking with executives, and learning about 
business best practices, including informative sessions about 
Sustainability across CRH. By investing in our employees, we 
can ensure that CRH continues to be a sustainability leader 
in our industry, driven by our talented workforce.

"We are continuously improving on our strong sustainability leadership  
foundations, demonstrated by our progress in enhancing the natural  
environment, empowering our people and local communities and maintaining 
the highest business standards. We continue to elevate our positive impact and 
anticipate evolving trends in construction to ensure that we can help solve global 
challenges and are well positioned for value growth opportunities."
Eunice Heath, 
Chief Sustainability Officer

35  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report



We recognise the value of nature and the role that our operational sites can play in offering a wide range of habitats 
where biodiversity can flourish. For example, Irish Cement, part of our Europe Materials Division, have multiple 
beehives at their Platin location, which house approximately 40,000 native Irish honeybees. The beehives are located 
on a purpose-built hexagonal concrete pad and are managed year-round by a local beekeeper. During Spring and 
Summer the bees can fly up to 2 kilometres from the hive to find nectar and pollen and in doing so they are important 
pollinators of native plants and crops in the surrounding farmland. Some visitors to the Platin cement factory are 
lucky enough to be presented with a jar of this local honey. 

Natural world
Our approach
We strive to act as custodians of the natural 
world, embracing the opportunity to reverse 
nature loss and to leave a healthy environment 
that can support the needs of future 
generations. As a sustainability leader in our 
industry, we are constantly driving progress to 
create a positive impact on the world around 
us and to minimise our environmental footprint. 

We believe that we can achieve this goal 
by collaborating across our supply chains, 
the industry and beyond to enhance the 
natural environment. This ensures that we are 
mitigating against potential adverse impacts 
to essential ecosystems and creating value 
for all. 

Our high environmental standards support our 
ambition of helping to tackle global challenges 
such as decarbonisation, waste and water. We 
create a strong foundation of environmental 
protection to build upon, allowing us to unlock 
the potential of our sustainable solutions. 
We seek opportunities to drive progress 
throughout our operations and beyond to 
develop best practices and address the issues 
that matter most in society.

Read more in this section about how we 
are supporting the following UN SDGs:

SDG 15  Life on land 

In this section 

Environmental action 37

Biodiversity 40

Kevin Mitchell, 
Director Property,  
CRH Planning & Approvals, Canada

The success of durable urban spaces 
is dependent on a resilient natural 
world. Advancing environmental 
action, tackling biodiversity loss 
and promoting reclamation and 
ecological enhancement is essential 
to secure a nature-positive future. 
We are committed to investing in 
environmental initiatives so that we 
can preserve and enhance essential 
ecosystems and leave a better 
world for future generations." 

36  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report



Targeting clean air

Businesses have a responsibility to reduce 
the impacts of their operations for the good 
of their employees, customers and wider 
communities. At CRH, we understand the 
adverse effects that air quality can have on 
human health and the environment. Clean 
air is one of our priorities, not only for the 
sustainability of our business, but for the 
continued protection of people and our 
natural world. This is why we are committed 
to reducing the impact of air emissions by 
ensuring that we meet strict air emissions 
limits.

Demonstrating this commitment, we have 
a continuing target in place to ensure our 
specific major air emissions including 
particulates, NOX and SOX remain at low 
levels1, and we met this in 2022. 

Overall air emissions in 2022 were similar 
to the previous reporting year. Total 
stack emissions to air over recent years 
are shown on pages  70 to 71. We also 
report on our minor air emissions from 
cement manufacturing, and the associated 
coverage rates of monitoring on page  
71. We ensure that we are compliant with 
all local and national regulations for air 
quality, as well as meeting our air emissions 
reduction targets.

Environmental action

Guiding our environmental performance

Our holistic approach to environmental 
management allows us to limit our 
environmental footprint at a local level and 
as a global company, supporting our goal of 
having a lasting, positive impact on the natural 
world. Our Environmental Policy (see page  
65) underpins all our activities across CRH, 
allowing us to create value-added products 
and solutions while maintaining high standards 
of environmental protection across our 
organisation. We apply this policy across all 
operating companies, and we are well practiced 
at integrating mergers and acquisitions into our 
environmental management processes. 

The Board has designated the SESR Committee 
with responsibility for monitoring developments 
in environmental impacts and opportunities 
and for ensuring our Environmental Policy is 
implemented in all business lines. Our location 
managers are accountable for the effective day-
to-day implementation of the Policy across all 
our operating locations. They are supported by 
a strong network of experienced environmental 
managers who engage with each other and 
regional and internal specialists to share best 
practices and experience. Read more on the 
responsibilities of the SESR Committee on 
pages 104 to 106 in our 2022 Annual Report, 
available on crh.com.

We internally monitor implementation of 
our Environmental Policy and requirements 
through our annual Environmental Review data 
collection process, aiming to link these KPIs to 
the value we create for our business and wider 
society. 

Minimising environmental risks

As a responsible landholder and considerate 
neighbour, we are continuously working to 
eliminate environmental risks across our 
operations. The building materials industry 
is, by nature, an environmentally intensive 
sector and we strive, at a minimum, to comply 
with all applicable environmental regulations 
and permits required to minimise or eliminate 
negative impacts on the environment. We 
require all our operating companies to establish 
appropriate environmental management 
systems (EMS), in line with local environmental 
permit requirements. In 2022, 1,032 operating 
locations were certified to ISO 14001 EMS 
standards, an increase from 2021, and 95% of 
our subsidiary clinker plants were ISO 14001 
certified. 

Beyond compliance

Compliance helps to establish trust and 
respect in our business with our stakeholders. 
In 2022, we continued to perform strongly 
in environmental compliance. During the 
reporting year, fines totalling $268k were paid 
to regulatory authorities. These related to a 
number of minor issues, none of which caused 
significant environmental damage. We learn 
from such incidents to deliver an improved 
environmental performance, with lessons being 
shared throughout the Group. We operate 
with the intent to work beyond compliance, 
continuously reviewing areas for improvement 
and implementing best practices.

Ongoing target 

Particulates, NOx 
and SOx  
air emissions reduction at cement plants

TARGETS

Disclosures
Click here to find out 
more information on our 
Environmental KPIs

Air quality

What are the challenges and how are 
we managing them?

A growing population, urbanisation and 
industrialisation are driving a need for 
improved urban environmental management, 
including managing air quality. Poor air quality 
has a significant effect on urban health and 
can directly impact local communities. At 
CRH, we are committed to ensuring that there 
are no adverse impacts to air quality from 
our operations. We monitor and control our 
emissions to air in order to further protect the 
health of our environment and of society. By 
installing emissions abatement equipment at 
our operations, we are limiting our emissions 
for the good of our people, neighbours 
and planet. Through our actions we aim to 
safeguard clean air as a human right and to 
have a positive effect on the health of our 
urban environment.

1  Defined as not exceeding the three-year average for 
particulates, NOx and SOx specific emissions (g/t clinker) 
for relevant plants.

37  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report

https://www.crh.com/media/4738/2022-annual-report-and-form-20-f.pdf


Air quality control

29%
Licencing and monitoring

19%
Waste management

15%
Biodiversity and land management

13%
Alternative materials and fuel management

10%
Water and effluent management

9%
Energy monitoring

3%
Other

2%

Environmental action  
Continued

Investing in the environment

We prioritise future-focused investments to 
ensure that we are proactively protecting 
the environment. We invest in technology 
and efficiency projects across our operating 
companies to enhance environmental 
performance, as well as investing in the 
environmental element of major capital 
investment projects to ensure we reach our 
CO2 reduction targets. To support delivery 
of our 2030 decarbonisation roadmap, we 
expect to invest approximately $150 million 
per annum in incremental capital expenditure. 
See pages  16 to 24 for more information 
on how we are investing in innovative 
technologies to drive decarbonisation.

We continue to seek investment opportunities 
that could evolve our processes and 
drive improvement. We recognise that 
technological advancements are required 
to achieve our environmental targets to 
support our Sustainability Framework. 

We identify investment opportunities in modern 
abatement technologies and capital expenditure 
projects, such as new abatement equipment, 
as well as ensuring regular maintenance of 
equipment at our manufacturing operations 
in order to minimise the impacts of our air 
emissions. Measures to control fugitive 
emissions include building enclosures for 
material storage and conveyor belts as well 
as paving plant areas and internal roads. 

How we will improve

We will continue to promote research and 
development through our venturing and 
innovation fund in order to strengthen 
environmental action. In addition, 
CRH Ventures are seeking investment 
opportunities in businesses that align with 
our environmental goals, further inspiring 
progress across our business and industry. 

Looking to the future, we aim to continue 
advancing progress for society and the 
environment through our sustainability 
approach and the delivery of value-added 
solutions and products. Upholding strong 
foundations of environmental action will 
support our journey to solving the three 
global challenges of decarbonisation, waste 
and water - helping us contribute to an 
improved world. See pages  7 to 8 for more 
information on our Sustainability Framework.

Investment in environmental 
protection 2022 (%) 

Policies
Click here for our 
Environmental 
Statement of Policy

Case Study: Collaborating to enhance biodiversity

We are constantly seeking ways to solve the problems of our customers and of wider 
society. For example, Demix Aggregates, part of our Americas Materials Division, 
recognised a market need to find a solution for the volume of excess soil generated during 
excavation projects. By partnering with Englobe, a firm specialising in environmental 
sciences and soil and biomass treatment, they identified an opportunity to build a soil 
treatment centre at a CRH location which allows excess and contaminated soils to be 
cleaned and reused as part of quarry rehabilitation work to restore land after excavation. 
This innovative solution further contributes to the profitability of the land rehabilitation 
segment for our operations in Canada, and has led to a reduction in illegal dumping, as well 
as a positive impact on the surrounding communities and environment.

38  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report



Environmental action

As a leader in our industry, we carefully manage our environmental risks and 
minimise our environmental impact. Examples of our strong environmental 
performance and how we reduce our environmental footprint are shown below:

Case Study: Striving for environmental excellence

We pride ourselves on our strong environmental performance across our businesses. For 
example, Farrans, part of our Europe Materials Division, achieved Platinum level in the 
Business in the Community (BITC) Environmental Benchmarking Survey, the highest level of 
achievement. This survey positions companies against sector peers and leading organisations 
based on environmental management and performance in key areas, as well as the extent to 
which environmental business practices have been embedded within corporate strategies. 

Case Study: Enhancing the environment to solve global challenges

We are committed to reversing nature loss, enhancing natural environments and 
contributing to global decarbonisation goals. For example, Tarmac, part of our Europe 
Materials Division in the UK, partnered with Natural England and the Stories in Stone Project 
to fund the restoration of a raised bog between Tarmac’s Arcow and Dry Rigg quarries in 
Yorkshire. The rewetting of the bog has led to record numbers of the great crested newt, 
a threatened species, as well as improving wildlife and carbon sequestration potential. We 
will continue to take action for the environment on a local and global scale as we strive to 
conserve the natural world. 

Case Study: Providing solutions for environmental challenges 

Part of our commitment to environmental action is ensuring that we use the most advanced 
technologies and invest in environmental systems, innovation and resources needed to 
reverse nature loss. For example, Callanan Industries, part of our Americas Materials 
Division, installed a new baghouse filter at their East Kingston location to enhance the 
environmental performance of their operations. The baghouse collects excess dust from the 
site and helps to maintain good relations with neighbouring communities. 

39  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report



Targeting nature-positivity

In 2022, 5781 of Group locations were 
noted and managed for biodiversity. In 
addition, 412 of these sites are within or 
adjacent to sensitive areas for biodiversity,
92% of which have BMPs in place. Of 
the sites that have BMPs in place, 121 
sites carried out BMP audits to ensure 
high standards of compliance. 

BMPs are supported by Biodiversity Impact 
Assessments which assess the impact 
and dependency-related biodiversity risks 
of a site. Critical biodiversity is carefully 
managed where it is in close proximity to 
operational activities. To further drive our 
actions in biodiversity, we have a target 
for 100% of relevant locations in sensitive 
areas for biodiversity to have a BMP in 
place by 2030.

Enhancing natural habitats

Thriving ecosystems are an essential part of a 
healthy natural world which is why we must take 
decisive action to enhance natural habitats. We 
do this by preserving biodiversity and natural 
capital across our locations, ensuring the long-
term productivity of our operations. 

Extractive activities can transform land into 
important habitats for rare species. We 
enhance these habitats through incorporating 
specific wildlife-led design features, such as 
providing structures suitable for the nesting 
of bats, birds, bees and other species of 
ecological importance. Other measures include 
suspending blasting during nesting periods 
and excluding specific areas from quarrying to 
preserve valuable habitats. 

2030 target

 1 00 %
of locations in sensitive areas to have a 
Biodiversity Management Plan by 2030

TARGETS

Biodiversity 

Protecting biodiversity

We aim to construct a nature-positive economy 
that is rich with resilient ecosystems that can 
adapt to and mitigate against the impacts of 
climate change. Biodiversity loss and climate 
change are increasingly being recognised as 
twin crises. Climate change is a primary driver of 
biodiversity loss, we can’t solve one challenge 
without addressing the other. As the impacts of 
nature loss become more apparent, preserving 
biodiversity is becoming part of the social 
license to operate. 

This is why biodiversity is such an important 
factor when we consider new and existing 
extractive activities or site restoration planning. 
At present, there are over 1,300 extractive 
operational sites across the Group. 

To demonstrate that biodiversity is a priority, 
we have stringent mitigation plans in place and 
operating companies apply the principles of 
the ‘Mitigation Hierarchy’ to avoid, minimise, 
restore and offset any negative effects on 
the environment. This helps us to avoid and 
minimise potential impacts on water quality, the 
disturbance of birds, animals and plants, and 
the fragmentation of biodiversity corridors. In 
addition, environmental impact assessments 
(EIAs) and rehabilitation plans associated 
with permit applications require biodiversity 
management plans (BMPs) to be incorporated 
into site management plans.

Collaborating for conservation

At CRH, we work with national and international 
organisations to pool our resources to drive best 
practices for biodiversity. For example, through 
our Americas Materials Division, we have 
worked with the Wildlife Habitat Council (WHC) 
since 2004. This non-profit group combines 
conservation and business to develop sites as 
wildlife habitats. The areas for wildlife habitats 
may be large depleted quarries, or small 
buffer zones between an operating plant and 
a highway. We currently have 17 WHC certified 
locations where wildlife is thriving.

Conserving and restoring trees

CRH is committed to conserving and restoring 
forests and woodlands, as we recognise 
nature-based solutions are integral to stemming 
climate change and tackling biodiversity loss. 
Underlying our commitment to protecting 
biodiversity and ensuring a net-positive impact 
on tree populations, all our extractive sites have 
comprehensive restoration plans and since 2018 
we have planted around 1.2 million trees. 

Greening the built environment

Sustainable growth for cities requires 
transforming the way we build and manage 
our urban spaces. We are greening our cities 
by reintroducing biodiversity into the urban 
landscape, taking a nature-based approach to 
development. 

Biodiversity offers benefits to the built 
environment by naturally mitigating against 
the impacts of climate change and instilling 
resilience against extreme weather events 
such as flooding and drought. In addition, 
nature can make urban spaces more liveable 
by contributing to improved water, air and soil 
quality and by reducing the impacts of the urban 
heat island effect. 

Our approach to nature-centric design includes 
rehabilitating and transforming industrial spaces 
and integrating nature directly into the urban 
environment using green infrastructure, such as 
green roofs and walls. We continuously promote 
development projects that embed nature 
within their design. For example, approximately 
70,000 trees, shrubs, perennials, grasses 
and vines were planted alongside Quebec's 
first carbon neutral infrastructure project, 
the Turcot Interchange in Montreal, Canada. 
Demix Agrégats, Demix Béton and Demix 
Construction, part of our Americas Materials 
Division, provided construction services and 
materials, including a significant amount of 
recycled materials, to this project, which was 
completed in 2021. 

Biodiversity  
and land use

What are the challenges and how  
are we managing them?

Climate change and pollution of the 
environment are threatening biodiversity 
and natural habitats on a global scale. At 
CRH, we recognise the role that we play in 
accelerating the nature-positive economy 
and in preserving biodiversity. By restoring 
and managing lands and wetlands at our 
quarries and beyond, we strive to enhance 
and rehabilitate natural habitats and help 
reverse nature loss. We invest in nature-
based solutions and regenerative practices 
to support species habitats and act as 
responsible custodians of the land on which 
we operate. We continue to collaborate with 
internal specialists and expert organisations 
to drive best practices and support the 
acceleration towards a nature-positive 
future. 

Stakeholders tell us

"As society increases its focus on investing 
in reversing the biodiversity crisis, the 
corporate world has a critical role to play in 
accelerating the nature-positive economy. 
As a WHC member for almost 20 years, 
CRH employees around the world manage 
conservation programmes with the goal 
to address biodiversity loss and restore 
ecosystems for people and planet. These 
proven successes for nature make CRH a 
leader in delivering positive contributions to 
global biodiversity targets." 

Margaret O'Gorman,
President, Wildlife Habitat Council

1  Stated in our 2022 Annual Report, available on crh.com, 
as over 550 locations.

40  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report

https://www.crh.com/media/4738/2022-annual-report-and-form-20-f.pdf


    

Our focus sub-goals

Target

15.3  

15.5

By 2030, combat desertification, restore 
degraded land and soil, including land 
affected by desertification, drought 
and floods, and strive to achieve a land 
degradation-neutral world.

Take urgent and significant action to reduce 
the degradation of natural habitats, halt the 
loss of biodiversity and protect and prevent 
the extinction of threatened species.

How we are contributing

We are committed to improving the environmental 
footprint of our business and playing our part to 
restore biodiversity in order to help meet the goals 
of SDG 15. By investing in nature-based solutions, 
we reduce our potential negative impacts on nature 
and help develop the technology, innovation and 
resources needed to reverse nature loss. 

By restoring and managing lands and wetlands at 
quarries and other locations, we strive to enhance 
and rehabilitate natural habitats and help reverse 
nature loss. We also collaborate to protect and 
restore biodiversity beyond our own operations, 
see page  42 for examples of our nature-positive 
partnerships.

Biodiversity 
Continued

Limiting our impacts

We are committed to ensuring that all associated 
areas are restored or appropriately managed 
at end-of-use. In 2022, c.100% of all relevant 
locations had restoration plans in place. This 
includes restoring biodiversity and ecosystems 
to at least pre-operational levels, where 
appropriate. Restoration planning processes are 
carefully coordinated with appropriate permitting 
authorities, taking full account of the needs and 
concerns of local communities and stakeholders. 

While reinstatement and landscaping of 
extraction sites is typically completed close 
to the end of extraction activities, restoration 
is a continuous process, with the rate of 
reinstatement depending on the closure date. In 
2022, 556 hectares of quarry and pit area were 
reinstated. 

Driving further improvement

We have signed up to support Business for 
Nature’s ‘Call to Action’, calling on governments 
to adopt policies to reverse nature loss in this 
decade. We recognise the important progress 
made on this 'Call to Action' at COP 15, with the 
agreement of a Global Biodiversity Framework. 

Looking ahead, we will continue to develop our 
biodiversity approach through collaborations 
with internal specialists and expert organisations, 
seeking to further enhance our positive impact 
across the globe. For example, we are working 
with the WHC to develop a Biodiversity 
Framework to ensure that we are setting and 
delivering on nature-positive goals that benefit 
people and wildlife. In addition, we aim to use 
our reach and influence to encourage nature-
positive development and transformation within 
our industry by offering green solutions to our 
customers and working to enhance ecosystems 
in the built environment.

Preserving cultural heritage

We make it a priority to conserve local heritage. 
Prior to opening new extractive areas, where 
relevant, our operating companies engage 
qualified archaeologists to survey the area. This is 
to ensure no identified or potential archaeological 
or geological features are at risk. We are currently 
preserving cultural heritage at 73 company 
locations as part of relevant management plans, 
from iron age structures to medieval buildings 
and archaeologically significant caves.

Case Study: Providing innovation solutions for land restoration

Oldcastle Infrastructure, part of our Building Products Division in the US, collaborated with 
The Washington State Department of Transportation (WSDOT) to provide a box culvert 
solution for the Pepin Creek area that imitates the natural creek bed and enables migrating 
fish to pass through. Previous box culverts used in the Pepin Creek were inefficient and 
impeded fish trying to complete their migratory routes, negatively impacting their breeding. 
To address these issues, Oldcastle Infrastructure provided a solution by supplying 
replacement box culverts specifically designed for the requirements of the Creek and 
preassembled at the plant to reduce installation time. Restoring fish and wildlife habitats 
fits in naturally with CRH's overall commitment to sustainability and to date Oldcastle 
Infrastructure have completed 100 fish passage culvert replacements.

41  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report



Case Study: Supporting biodiversity 
through restoration

Restoring land and protecting biodiversity are 
among our highest priorities. One way in which 
we can serve nature is by providing habitats to 
wildlife. For example, JURA Materials, part of our 
Europe Materials Division, has created a thriving 
natural habitat in the landfill at their Tannlinoos 
location in Switzerland. The landfill contributes to 
the preservation of rare plants and animals and 
has become a protected natural and agricultural 
area. This achievement demonstrates that 
development and nature can exist in harmony 
together.

Case Study: Promoting and enhancing 
biodiversity

We strive to provide habitats for biodiversity to 
flourish in. For example, United Companies, part 
of our Americas Materials Division in the US, are 
actively working to preserve biodiversity habitats 
along the Colorado River Bike Trail, located at 
its River Road Gravel Pit in Grand Junction, 
Colorado. In recognition of the company’s 
commitment to conservation, the Colorado River 
Bike Trail was awarded a silver certification from 
the Wildlife Habitat Council in 2019 and again in 
2022. Despite facing challenges, such as ongoing 
drought in the region, United Companies continue 
to support the development of habitats at its sites 
for native species including otters, herons, sandhill 
cranes, turtles, beavers and deer. 

Case Study: Committing to biodiversity 
conservation

We are committed to conserving biodiversity and 
reversing nature loss. For example, Rudus Oy, 
part of our Europe Materials Division, established 
the Rudus LUMO programme in 2012, marking ten 
years of action and cooperation for biodiversity 
protection across their extractive locations. Over 
the past decade, the LUMO programme has 
preserved and enhanced biodiversity through 
multiple projects, including the 'Ecosystem 
Hotel' at the Raasepori location, a new habitat 
for barn swallows at the Korvenkylä location and 
the protection of cloaked frogs, beach snakes 
and nugget snakes at the Kråkö location. Rudus 
continue to use their LUMO programme to 
pilot new methods of restoration, regeneration 
and conservation. For example, the team are 
trialling landscaping as an alternative restoration 
approach and are examining the potential of 
restored excavation sites to act as carbon sinks. 

Case Study: Partnering for biodiversity preservation 

We are committed to leading the way in environmental excellence and actively engaging 
in measures to promote biodiversity. For example, our Americas Materials Division has 
partnered with the Wildlife Habitat Council (WHC), a non-profit group that combines 
conservation and business, since 2004. Recently, Hallett Materials in West Des Moines, 
Iowa was awarded the landscaped project award from the WHC, for their Booneville 
Pollinator Garden that supports pollinators such as bees, butterflies and hummingbirds.

Biodiversity

At CRH, we are committed to protecting and enhancing biodiversity across our 
locations. By establishing wildlife sanctuaries, restoration programmes and 
innovative nature trials at our sites, we can have a positive impact on our natural 
world. Examples of how we successfully implement conservation solutions across 
our company locations are shown below:

42  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report



People and 
communities
Our approach
As our business advances towards becoming 
net-zero, it is imperative that we stand together 
with our employees, contractors, communities 
and stakeholders to provide solutions for a 
sustainable future. 

People are our priority, and our strong business 
performance depends on our employees, 
contractors, supply chain and the relationships 
we build with the communities where we 
operate. We strive to build lasting relationships 
with our neighbours and listen carefully 
to our stakeholders. We are collaborating 
with stakeholders to create positive change 
for communities, people, society and the 
environment. By doing so, we are helping to 
advance a global transformation towards a 
safer, more inclusive, diverse and empowered 
world of work.

As we progress towards 2030, we are 
continuing to drive our ambition of zero harm, 
increasing the representation of women in 
senior leadership positions and strengthening 
relationships with our stakeholders. 

Read more in this section about how we 
are supporting the following UN SDGs:

SDG 5   Gender equality

In this section

Safety and wellbeing 44

Inclusion and diversity 49

Empowered employees 52

Community and social impact 55

Through education and raising awareness we can continue to create safer working environments and practices 
for our employees. CRH Canada, part of our Americas Materials Division, runs a monthly safety campaign 
with dedicated SEE STOP DO days which are promoted across our North American businesses. Regular 
communications are shared in the form of employee videos and photos, as well as advice from senior leadership 
empowering employees to take care of their physical and mental wellbeing. This campaign reinforces CRH Canada’s 
ongoing pledge to workplace safety – “When I SEE Something, I will STOP and DO Something”.

Maryna Mukhodinova, 
HR Director Non-Cement,  
CRH in Poland

"People are at the heart of CRH, 
and their safety and wellbeing are 
paramount. We strive to build 
a better future and create shared 
value by empowering our employees, 
creating an inclusive work 
environment that reflects the 
diversity of our global business and 
by building enduring, supportive 
relationships with our communities."

43  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report



Safety and wellbeing

Strengthening our safety processes

At CRH, we lead with our culture of safety 
and deliver solutions with safety in mind every 
step of the way. We are firmly committed to 
prioritising the health, safety and wellbeing 
of all those who come into contact with 
our operations. CRH leaders support this 
ambition and help to foster safe and healthy 
work environments at each of our locations. 

Driving our ambition of zero harm

Our culture of safety and wellbeing is embedded 
throughout our organisation and drives our 
ambition of zero harm. We understand that 
maintaining a safe and healthy workplace 
is a fundamental priority for employees 
and contractors, as well as being good for 
our business. By strengthening our safety 
performance and empowering employees to act 
we help to ensure that those who interact with 
our operations return home safely. However, 
we deeply regret to report that there were 
five reportable fatalities in 2022 involving one 
employee and four contractors. We thoroughly 
investigate all fatalities and share the lessons 
learned as we focus on our zero fatality target.

Companies across the Group take a rigorous 
approach to reducing risk, bringing our safety 
culture to bear on all aspects of the business 
through the implementation of our Life Saving 
Rules and constantly keeping health and 
safety at the forefront of everything we do.

We work very hard in conjunction with several 
other key stakeholders across the industry to 
improve health and safety standards. These 
efforts underscore our commitment to UN SDG 
9 Industry, innovation and infrastructure and 
SDG 11 Sustainable cities and communities, as 
we help to create safe and sustainable cities. 

Protecting our people

Keeping people safe is a moral imperative and 
a salient human rights issue. We have strong 
policies in place to uphold our commitment to 
health and safety across our organisation. 

Our Health and Safety Policy (see page  
66), which is applied rigorously across all our 
operating companies, is the cornerstone of 
safety management at CRH. It sets out clear 
expectations, for our leaders and workforce, to 
undertake activities in a safe manner and to care 
for the wellbeing of all stakeholders with whom 
we interact. It is complemented by our industry 
leading CRH Life Saving Rules, designed to 
support our focus on eliminating fatalities. 

Our global network of safety officers collaborate 
with regional and internal specialists to support 
our businesses in implementing policy and 
practice, as well as company health and safety 
processes, including contractor management 
and Employee Assistance Programmes (EAP). 

Managing risks

We concentrate on eliminating hazards at 
origin, cautiously planning and designing our 
activities, conducting risk assessments to 
identify hazards, managing risks and investing 
in areas for improvement. A hierarchy of control 
approach is followed, with the preferred control 
being to eliminate the risk. Our data analytics 
monitor our progress against our ambition 
and metrics. We partner with key stakeholders 
to develop innovative technical solutions, 
developing and designing clear work methods 
to mitigate or remediate issues as they are 
identified. Emergency preparedness procedures 
are in place at our sites, to efficiently deal 
with safety situations should they arise.

Effective safety management

To continuously improve safety, our businesses 
have developed a single safety vocabulary 
through the CRH Life Saving Rules, which 
sets out clearly defined safety methodologies, 
procedures and controls, as relevant to 
their activities and regions. As a result, 
100% of our operations have robust safety 
management systems in place. In 2022, 59% 
of locations in Europe were certified to OHSAS 
18001/ ISO 45001, with the remainder using 
different broadly comparable systems. 

In the US, we comply with the safety 
systems set out by the relevant safety 
authorities and also have developed award-
winning programmes, setting new health 
and safety standards across our industry. 
Integrating Group construction safety 
protocols into day-to-day processes ensures 
consistency throughout relevant operating 
companies and addresses challenges that 
occur during construction projects. 

We gain a comprehensive overview of the 
health and safety performance at each of 
our operating companies from our monthly 
updates and annual review. Findings are 
reported to the SESR Committee and are fed 
back to our operating companies through 
our network of safety officers. Safety is 
on the agenda at every SESR Committee 
meeting and there are regular safety calls with 
management and monthly reporting of safety 
performance to the Board and management. 

To drive continuous improvement, we 
implement a global safety audit programme 
across our operations. In 2022, 95% of our 
c. 3,160 locations were audited for safety by 
either internal safety managers or external 
agencies. Breaches of safety procedures or 
safety incidents are subject to investigation 
and potential disciplinary action.

Health, safety  
and wellbeing

What are the challenges and how are 
we managing them? 

The building materials industry involves high 
risk activities that may impact health and safety. 
We are reducing risks at every opportunity 
through our safety management systems which 
sets out our objectives around the planning and 
design of the work, together with training and 
development of our employees. We treat our 
responsibility to uphold safety with the highest 
level of importance and aim to influence safety 
standards throughout the industry through 
collaboration across our value chain. We strive 
to address risks and eliminate accidents to 
ensure the wellbeing of those who interact with 
our operations is protected. To further support 
our employees, our health and wellbeing 
programmes provide tools, social support and 
strategies for physical and mental health.

Stakeholders tell us

"The UK suicide rate within construction is 
significantly higher than across the general 
population. With culture, stigma and pressures 
outside of work, people don’t always feel able 
to share and often work through their increasing 
levels of stress and anxiety. Mates in Mind 
charity addresses the stigma of talking about 
mental health in the construction industry, 
raising employee awareness whilst spotting 
the early signs in themselves and others. Since 
2017, we’ve worked with CRH to develop a 
training & awareness programme, highlighting 
the impact of mental health and growing a team 
of mental health first aiders ready to listen, 
support and signpost in confidence."

Sarah Meek,
Managing Director, Mates in Mind

Policies
Click here for our 
Safety Statement  
of Policy

44  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report



Safety and wellbeing  
Continued

Investing in safety

The health, safety and wellbeing of our 
employees, contractors and other stakeholders 
is paramount. We focus on developing this 
value through safety orientated initiatives, 
including senior leadership interactions, 
human performance programmes and cultural 
assessments.

As part of our focus on safety, we aim to make 
roads a safer place for all users. We have been 
investing in advanced technologies and robust 
controls, such as telematics and advanced 
warning systems, over the last number of years. 
We continue to enhance our equipment and 
vehicles to the highest standards and encourage 
others to adopt these new technologies where 
possible. Together with these upgrades, we 
continue to coach our drivers to develop safer 
behaviours and make the roads a safer place 
for everyone. We have worked with other 
stakeholders to progress road safety across the 
regions we operate and beyond.

In 2022, we have continued our relentless focus 
of protecting our employees, contractors and 
customers across the key fatality levers. Over 
the last five years we have invested c.$320 
million in all aspects of health, safety and 
wellbeing. Across these 5 years we have seen 
our investments increase with a clear emphasis 
on mobile plant safety, machine guarding, 
improvements in platforms and fall protection 
measures, electrical system upgrades and 
pedestrian/mobile plant segregation. We have 
also invested further in noise and dust reduction 
initiatives.

Driving excellence in safety

Our holistic approach to safety training uses 
customised training techniques, including on-
the-job training, technology platforms such as 
virtual reality and classroom training, delivered 
in all relevant languages. We use a combination 
of specialised and in-house trainers to deliver 
content that is relevant, practical and will be 
clearly understood by the participants. In 
addition, our frontline leadership and senior 
management development programmes 
include strategic safety modules to ensure our 
commitment to safety is integrated into all levels 
of the business. Again, in 2022, employees 
covered a wide range of health and safety 
training based on needs, specific risks and 
technological upgrades at their place of work. 
Companies also ensure employee training needs 
comply with specific legislative requirements. 
Across the Group, employees completed a total 
of 1.5 million hours of health and safety training, 
an average of 20.2 hours per employee across 
all categories.

To further drive excellence in safety, we have 
regular safety meetings, carried out through a 
combination of in-person and online interactions. 
In 2022, 79% of employees were involved in 
formal joint management/worker safety dialogue 
meetings, building on the previous year's 
performance.

Ensuring contractor safety

Our numerous contractors are employed to 
carry out a multitude of tasks that include 
conducting specialised work, supplementing 
labour requirements and delivering products. 
Maintaining direct control over contractor 
processes and safety training is an ongoing 
challenge. To address this, our businesses 
have robust safety management systems in 
place, carrying out pre-qualification checks and 
safety induction training before the contractors 
come onsite. In addition, compliance with 
safety guidelines is included in contractual 
agreements for contractors, which ensures clear 
communication of any potential risks onsite. 
These management systems require all contract 
employees to have the relevant training and 
qualifications to carry out the job safely.

Our ‘no-compromise’ approach to contractor 
safety includes disciplinary measures where 
performance falls below expected standards. 
In 2022, we completed over 153,100 contractor 
transport safety checks to ensure that our 
work with contractors, contractor equipment 
and training complies with our rigorous safety 
standards. In addition, in 2022, over 2,230
contractor disciplinary actions were recorded 
and addressed, demonstrating our robust 
approach. 

Managing supplier safety standards

Ensuring appropriate safety standards within 
our supply chain is an ongoing challenge and 
we identified this as one of our salient human 
rights issues. We therefore work hard through 
our procurement processes and procedures to 
ensure best practice and that these employees 
and contractors are protected. We believe that 
everyone has the right to a safe and healthy 
place of work and suppliers are expected 
to comply with our safety requirements 
when entering our sites. Together with these 
requirements we carry out risk analysis and 
third-party auditing, with supplier safety being 
a core part of our Supplier Code of Conduct 
(SCoC) and our supply chain management (see 
page  62 for more information).

Meeting customer expectations

Our customers trust us to deliver safe, high-
quality products. All our products are designed 
and manufactured to be safe for their intended 
use. We work closely with regulators, standard 
setting agencies and academic institutions to 
improve the safety standards of our products 
and services. To reinforce safety across our 
operations, we share safety information, such 
as safety data sheets and Health Product 
Declarations with our customers, and closely 
monitor customer feedback. Our dedication to 
product safety, in addition to our strong safety 
performance, has enabled us to win tenders 
with customers that integrate high standards of 
safety into their own assessments.

Safety training
(Number of hours per employee)

2022 

20.2
2021 

20.0
2020

19.2

2022 

100%
2021 

100%
2020

100%

Contractor site inductions
(% of operating companies)

Case studies
Click here to find out  
more information about 
how we are driving 
safety excellence

45  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report



Targeting zero fatalities

Our ambition is to have a culture of safety 
and wellness working towards zero harm, 
with eliminating fatalities being our highest 
priority. The mandatory CRH Life Saving 
Rules focus on the top causes of fatalities 
including contractor management, vehicle 
movements, falling objects and failure by 
individuals to abide by established plant 
isolation (Lock Out/Tag Out) procedures. 

Achieving our target of zero fatalities is 
an ongoing challenge, however, we are 
committed to maintaining our relentless 
focus to realise this goal. We deeply regret 
to report that one employee was fatally 
injured as a result of a road traffic accident 
in 2022. In addition, four contractors were 
fatally injured carrying out work for CRH in 
2022. We extend our sincere sympathies 
to their families. We thoroughly investigate 
all fatalities to understand the events 
involved and appropriate actions to prevent 
future incidents. The findings of these 
investigations are communicated across our 
operating companies and shared with the 
wider industry, with the goal of preventing 
future accidents through lessons learned. 

We use other internal KPIs, such as 
recordable incidents and near miss 
reporting prioritising high potential events 
to help drive performance (see our data 
summary tables on page  73 for more 
information).

Slips, trips, falls on the same level 26%

Falling objects or moving objects 21%

Other or multiple causes 13%

Falls from height 12%

Caught in or by fixed machinery 11%

Burns by heat or chemicals 6%

Lifting, overload or overexertion 4%

Caught in or by vehicles, mobile plant 4%

Power tools or electronic equipment 3%

26%

13%

21%
12%

11%

6%
4%

3%4%

Accidents by cause 2022

Arms, hands 34%

Legs, feet 34%

Upper body, shoulder 9%

Back 7%

Head, neck 6%

Eye 5%

Multiple body parts 5%

34%

34%

9%

7%

5%5%
6%

Accidents by injury type 2022

Frequency rate
(Number of lost time accidents per 
million work-hours)

2022 

1.2
2021

1.2
2020

1.4

Zero accident locations
(% of locations)

2022 

94%
2021

94%
2020

94%

Ongoing target

Zero
fatalities, in any yearTARGETS

Safety and wellbeing  
Continued

Collaborating for safety

We are a member of the Global Cement and 
Concrete Association (GCCA) and regional 
industry associations including CEMBUREAU, 
the European Cement Association, as well as 
National Stone Sand and Gravel Association 
(NSSGA), the National Ready Mixed Concrete 
Association (NRMCA) and the National Asphalt 
Pavement Association (NAPA) in the US. We 
take a leadership position in safety discussions 
with peers and the wider industry. We positively 
impact global standards of safety among 
suppliers, contractors and the industry in 
general through our numerous partnerships. For 
example, our work with the GCCA is helping 
to develop transport safety protocols aimed at 
improving road safety. In addition to enabling the 
building of safer road networks, we uphold the 
highest safety standards in our own transport 
operations. 

In 2022, following a detailed analysis of the 
fire risk across our business, the health and 
safety team in our Europe Materials Division 
collaborated with our insurance companies and 
other specialists to develop key risk reduction 
best practices. In addition to this internal work, 
we engaged with several external industry 
bodies to help mitigate the risks associated 
with the changing fuels base as the industry 
increases the use of alternative fuels and 
materials across the sector.

Such collaborations allow us to continue to drive 
our ambitions and targets for safety through 
working with our employees, contractors and 
suppliers to secure safety across our operations.

Disclosures
Click here for more 
information on our 
Safety KPIs*   Safety data provided is employee and contractor 

combined unless otherwise stated.

46  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report



Safety and wellbeing 
Continued

Promoting physical and mental wellbeing

We continue to expand employee health and 
wellbeing initiatives and programmes across 
our operating companies, providing incentives, 
tools, support and strategies on physical 
and mental health. This includes optimising 
ergonomics, providing regular health screening, 
reducing noise impact, reviewing occupational 
hygiene and developing programmes 
focused on employee mental health. 

Work continues across Group functions to 
progress employee wellbeing at work by 
developing key initiatives and materials to 
help employees to be safe and healthy while 
at work. In 2022, the focus was maintained 
on physical and mental wellbeing with 
the annual 'Fitness Challenge', as well as 
other health and wellbeing initiatives. 

In 2022, 99% of operating companies had 
health and wellbeing programmes in place. 
These focused on supporting physical and 
mental health, providing programmes around 
helping employees with addiction and smoking 
cessation, developing drug and alcohol 
awareness, workplace stress management, 
diet, nutrition, fitness, weight management 
and vaccinations. Employees can provide 
feedback through local HR and through the 
individual programme organisers. There is a 
collaborative approach across management, 
safety personnel, human resources and other 
specialists to carefully integrate this employee 
feedback into our processes and development 
of these wellbeing programmes. In addition,
92% of operating companies also offer 
assistance with employee health insurance.

Employees can access these programmes in 
different ways, including face-to-face 
consultation with a medical professional,  
through a confidential helpline, or through 
an online service. 

Mitigating health risks

Across our locations, we manage specific 
health risks associated with the building 
materials industry as part of our commitment 
to reducing occupational-related ill health.

These include occupational noise levels, 
airborne dust and the potential for respirable 
crystalline silica (RCS), which, if not controlled, 
can cause long-term health issues. We use 
the hierarchy of controls to reduce employees' 
exposure to dust and RCS. In addition, we 
work with our employees and contractors to 
ensure they are aware of the potential health 
risks associated with exposure to RCS in order 
to change attitudes and behaviours. We share 
best practice across the industry through our 
membership of various trade associations 
to reduce exposure across the industry. 

In 2022, we continued the workplace monitoring 
of noise, dust and RCS across CRH, in 
accordance with best practice and local or 
national requirements. These monitoring results 
allow employees to monitor their health and 
exposures on an ongoing basis. The results 
also allow the companies to assess the 
mitigation measures that are in place and to 
determine if they are providing the required 
levels of protection to prevent ill health. We 
track our employees health through measuring 
absenteeism rates and the occupational 
illness rate. Again, in 2022, a low incidence 
of occupational illness was recorded. 

In addition, in 2022, we saw COVID-19 
cases and the impacts reduce. As a result 
many of our control strategies moved to 
managing the disease on a risk based 
approach. The situation continues to be 
monitored with measures in place to protect 
our employees, contractors and their families 
together with our wider stakeholders.

Championing mental wellbeing

At CRH, we want to create a place for our 
people to thrive. At each of our locations we 
aim to foster an inclusive work environment 
that supports everyone at all times. We know 
that looking after our mental health is just 
as important as looking after our physical 
health. Encouraging employees to discuss 
mental health and disassemble the stigma 
surrounding the topic is a key focus and 
is supported by leaders across CRH.

To promote the importance of this topic 
across our businesses, many of our operating 
companies are providing mental health 
support services for employees, to help 
address any issues they or their colleagues, 
friends or family may be having. During World 
Mental Health Awareness Month, a range of 
activities were organised in our three corporate 
offices under the banner of “Reach Out” - 
designed specifically to encourage people 
to ask for support, should they need it, or 
be available to provide support to others.

Supporting our employees

Many of our operating companies also provide 
support through their Employee Assistance 
Programme (EAP), a free, confidential, 
independent helpline offering advice and 
support that is available to all employees and 
immediate family. For example, Tarmac, part 
of our Europe Materials Division in the UK, is a 
Business Champion of ‘Mates in Mind’, a charity 
set up to encourage discussion about mental 
health in the construction industry. Through this 
partnership, Tarmac has rolled out a training 
programme for employees and key managers 
to raise awareness of mental health issues.

To reinforce the importance of mental health, in 
2022, our Americas Materials Division invited 
an eminent speaker on psychological safety 
to give the key note address at our Annual 
Safety Conference in the US, adding further 
to the mental health education programme 
being rolled out across the business.

Case Study: Promoting the importance of mental wellbeing

Looking after our mental health is just as important as looking after our physical health. 
Staker Parson Materials & Construction, part of our Americas Materials Division, recently 
partnered with Live On Utah, an initiative focused on sharing resources about suicide 
prevention. CRH joined other business and community leaders in Utah to launch this 
initiative, which included the unveiling of 26 new Ready Mixed Concrete trucks wrapped with 
encouraging messages for National Suicide Prevention Awareness Month and the suicide 
prevention hotline number. 

47  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report



Case Study: Protecting against the risk of fires

We are committed to implementing the systems and processes necessary to drive our ambition 
of zero harm. For example, Romcim, part of our Europe Materials Division in Romania, has 
implemented an automatic fire protection system for mobile equipment at their Hoghiz location. 
The detection and suppression system prevents injuries and damage that could arise from 
potentially hard to detect and intense vehicle engine fires. Preventative action like this will 
reduce risks for employees at the Hoghiz plant and help to ensure they are able to complete 
their work safely. 

Case Study: Investing in safer transport 

We are committed to safety excellence across our operations, both on and offsite. For 
example, Roadstone, part of our Europe Materials Division, introduced the first Econic truck 
in Ireland to their fleet. The Econic Low Entry unit offers a new level of safety for operating 
a mixer truck in an urban environment. The enhanced safety features include reduced blind 
spots, reduced fall risks and additional technology such as 360-degree cameras, proximity 
sensors and audible alarms. By investing in these safety initiatives, we can meet our ambition 
of zero harm and help to ensure the safety of our employees, customers, other road users 
and all those in the communities in which we operate. 

Case Study: Assessing safety performance

At CRH, the safety of our people is our number one priority 
and we are constantly innovating to improve our safety 
procedures as we work towards our ambition of zero fatalities. 
To further drive our safety management, we are implementing 
a new innovative software solution which allows safety 
professionals across our operations to track and analyse safety 
information from risk assessments, audit outcomes, safety 
training participation, safety leadership interactions and safety 
indicators. This innovative system was rolled out across our 
Europe Materials Division in 2022 and will help to drive our 
culture of safety excellence by promoting best practices. 

Case Study: Driving excellence in safety

Our employees encounter many safety risks and 
unexpected challenges, especially when working in 
public spaces. To enhance the safety surrounding 
work-zones on roads and highways, CRH has further 
developed its AWARE system. This new Sentry unit 
provides advanced warning to motorists as they are 
approaching the work-zone, and also alerts our workers 
to oncoming traffic. This new design is simple to set up, 
providing forward approach detection, giving the driver 
and the worker enough time to react before an incident 
occurs. The Sentry system uses lights and sirens where 
needed to warn drivers up to 600 feet before they come 
into potential contact with our workers, such as flaggers. 
The system also sends an emergency alert to crew 
members if a vehicle is approaching too fast. The Sentry 
unit adds an extra line of defence for our workers. 
Currently we have 158 AWARE systems deployed 
across North America and continue to innovate and 
protect the wellbeing of everyone that comes into 
contact with our operations.

Safety and wellbeing

The safety and wellbeing of our people are top priorities. Examples of the 
precautions we take to safeguard the wellbeing of our workers are shown below:

48  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report



Sustaining an inclusive workforce

We want to create and sustain a culture where 
fairness, inclusion and belonging are achievable 
for everyone. We focus on equality beyond 
numbers and ensure equal opportunities for 
people of all ages and those with disabilities, 
as well as equal pay for men and women. 
Our robust policies in place at our operating 
companies aim to ensure that every employee 
feels respected, valued and is given every 
opportunity to succeed. A total of 1,344 
people with disabilities were employed across 
54% of operating companies during 2022.

We aim to embed inclusion at each step of our 
recruitment process, from job descriptions 
to diverse interview panels and candidate 
selection methodologies. For example, Tarmac, 
part of our Europe Materials Division, has 
recently reviewed all of its policies through 
an inclusive lens. The business has also 
launched an LGBTQ+ employee community, 
sponsored by senior management, that hosts 
both events and educational workshops and 
is working on the introduction of a gender 
identity policy. Additionally, CRH companies 
in our Americas Materials Division hire 
minority owned subcontractors to work on 
major infrastructure projects. CRH companies 
partner closely with the subcontractors to 
progress standards across the industry and 
protect their employees health and wellbeing.

Looking forward, we will continue to 
focus on increasing the representation 
of people of different genders, abilities, 
races and ethnicities, both within our wider 
workforce and senior management.

Inclusion and diversity

Strengthening our inclusive workforce

At CRH, we stand together for Inclusion and 
Diversity (I&D). Together we are stronger and 
better equipped to dismantle any pathways 
that may lead to structural inequalities. 
Promoting inclusion and diversity goes 
beyond awareness building, it involves 
breaking down barriers and bringing the 
unique competencies and perspectives of our 
employees together to improve our world. 

Developing inclusive leadership

Fostering an inclusive and diverse work 
environment is key to ensuring our 
employees feel they can bring their most 
authentic selves to work. We are committed 
to developing our inclusive culture and 
advancing this requires a continuous, multi-
scale effort. In 2022, we celebrated diversity 
by marking International Women's Day, 
Inclusion Week, Pride Month, Black History 
Month and Hispanic Heritage Month.

We listen carefully to what our employees are 
telling us through Employee Resource Groups 
(ERGs) that have been established across many 
of our operating companies and sponsored by 
senior leadership. ERGs lobby for issues that 
affect different groups of under-represented 
employees, both formally and through informal 
networks. For example, Mosaic is an ERG open 
to all employees with a mission to advance 
employees and communities of colour. In 
addition, ERGs for Women and Allies advocates 
for issues facing women in the workplace, such 
as potential barriers to advancement or a lack 
of inclusive PPE, for example. The vision and 
mission of our ERGs are to be a key enabler of 
CRH’s commitment to an inclusive workplace 
by enhancing the experience for all employees.

Driving inclusion and diversity

We have a Global I&D Council, which is chaired 
by our Chief Executive. The role of this Council 
is to set our strategic approach to I&D and 
ensure it is embedded in our business strategy. 
At a more local level, some of our operating 
companies have established their own I&D 
Councils, including Leviat, who have introduced 
a roadmap of I&D initiatives aimed at building 
a more inclusive workplace and culture.

Our I&D awareness training has been delivered 
to over 5,400 leaders and managers across 
CRH. A module on inclusive leadership was 
added to our Frontline Leadership Programme 
(FLP), which is being delivered to all CRH 
Frontline Leaders and their managers – around 
10,000 people across 25 countries worldwide. 

In addition, during 2022, approximately 250 
senior leaders from across CRH participated in 
a six-month Inclusive Leadership Programme 
to advance the move beyond awareness 
of unconscious biases, towards deeper 
behavioural and skills building. The formal part 
of the programme has now come to an end, 
and leaders are working to bring their learnings 
to life in day-to-day actions and behaviours 
across the Group. By investing in inclusion, we 
can create lasting and sustainable change. 

 

Inclusion and  
diversity

What are the challenges and how are we 
managing them? 

As the world around us changes, it has never 
been more important to elevate the diverse 
voices that make up our global society. We 
continuously strive to develop a more diverse 
and inclusive work environment and to build 
awareness at all levels of the organisation. 
CRH’s I&D strategy is built on a firm commitment 
to nurturing inclusion as a core capability, 
fostering a workplace and culture that is 
inclusive, and ensuring our workforce reflects the 
communities in which we operate. To support 
these commitments, we have established I&D 
Committees across our Divisions, corporate 
offices and at operating company level to lead 
and embed change throughout CRH. In addition, 
over half our employees are now covered by 
local I&D plans, to help them achieve the I&D 
goals relevant to their localities.

Stakeholders tell us

"More and more companies, including CRH, are 
intentionally partnering with Thurgood Marshall 
College Fund because they understand that, in 
addition to providing them with a competitive 
advantage, a diverse and inclusive workforce 
based on purposeful hiring makes the world a 
better place. One of the major outcomes when 
companies, such as CRH, are committed to 
diversity and inclusion is they advance a more 
equitable future for their communities and 
enhance pathways toward economic mobility 
for the students of Historically Black Colleges 
and Universities."

Harry Williams, 
Thurgood Marshall College  
Fund President and CEO

Case studies
Click here for more 
information about how 
we are driving inclusion 
and diversity

49  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report



50  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report

Targeting representation of women

We are on a mission to increase the 
representation of women across a 
traditionally male-dominated building 
materials industry. Slowly the gender 
balance is beginning to change, however, 
achieving progress in this area requires a 
multi-scale continuous effort to empower 
women and foster the leaders of the future. 
Equality is top of mind in everything we do, 
which is why we have set a progressive 
target for 33% senior leadership roles to be 
held by women by 2030.

We actively monitor participation of 
women in the workforce. Overall, 16% of 
our employees are women. At the end of 
2022, 33% of our Board of Directors, 15% 
of our senior managers and 19% of our 
senior leadership were women. Women 
make up 7% of our operations employees, 
similar to previous years, however, we have 
greater representation of women in areas 
such as clerical/administration, where 
47% of employees are women, and head 
offices, where 44% of the workforce are 
women. We continue to focus on increasing 
the share of women in leadership and 
executing our I&D strategy across the 
Group.

2030 target

33 %
women in senior leadership by 2030 TARGETS

Inclusion and diversity  
Continued

Disclosures
Click here to find out 
more information on 
our Social KPIs

Isabel Foley, 
GLT Sponsor  
of the Corporate  
Offices I&D Committee

"Our world is in flux. It 
has never been more 
important to embrace 
difference, to seek out 
the alternative view and 
to hear the diverse voices 
that make up our global 
community. If CRH is to 
play its part in shaping 
our world it must reflect 
its many voices."

    

Our focus sub-goals

Target

15.5  Ensure women’s full and effective 
participation and equal opportunities for 
leadership at all levels of decision-making in 
political, economic and public life.

How we are contributing

We continuously strive to develop a more diverse 
and inclusive work environment and to build 
awareness at all levels of the organisation. As a 
key player in the industry, we believe we have 
an important role to play in helping to advance 
gender equality. This is why we strive to create 
and sustain a culture where people of all genders 
feel respected, valued and treated fairly in the 
workplace. 

We actively monitor participation of women in the 
workforce and work to improve representation of 
women both within our wider workforce and senior 
management. To drive our commitment, we have 
set an ambitious target for 33% women in senior 
leadership roles by 2030. For examples of how we 
empower equality across CRH, see page  51.

We collaborate and partner with NGOs across 
all levels of education including schools and 
universities to build on our ambition of developing 
and empowering the next generation of women 
entering the workforce.

Partnering for positive change

We are a member of the 30% Club, which 
consists of Chairs and Chief Executives 
committed to increasing representation of 
women at all levels of their organisation. 
Additionally, CRH is a signatory to the CEO 
Action for Diversity & Inclusion, which is a 
pledge to act on supporting more inclusive 
workplaces. Work is ongoing at many of our 
operating companies to develop more inclusive 
and diverse work environments. 

Across our operations we aim to build an 
inclusive and diverse organisation that reflects 
the communities in which we operate. By 
collaborating with educational institutions 
we also aspire to equip younger generations 
with the core skills needed within our industry 
and increase access to university. For 
example, the CRH Canada Bridge Scholarship 
Programme provides financial aid to students 
from underrepresented and underserved 
communities. In 2022, there were 9 recipients 
across Canada who were awarded a CRH 
Canada Bridge Scholarship.

In addition, during 2022, our Building Products 
Division partnered with the Thurgood Marshall 
College Fund and participated in their 
Leadership Institute. Representatives from 
Building Products led two development sessions 
for the 400+ participants who are students from 
Historically Black Colleges and Universities 
(HBCUs). Building relationships through events 
like this and an internship and mentoring 
programme which we offered to students from 
HBCUs will help CRH to be more innovative 
and creative as we listen and gain insights from 
individuals with different perspectives and life 
experiences.

We are also focused on encouraging the next 
generation of talent and increasing the interest 
of young people in STEM (science, technology, 
engineering and mathematics) subjects. We 
help to equip younger generations with the 
core skills required within our industry through 
collaboration with our peers and educational 
institutions (see page 53  for more information).

50  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report



51  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report

Inclusion and diversity

We believe that inclusion and diversity is paramount to developing a successful 
workforce. We strive to cultivate a working environment in which our employees feel 
empowered, supported and free to be themselves. Examples of how we enhance our 
culture of inclusion and diversity across our businesses are shown below:

Case Study: Developing future CRH leaders

We aim to help our leaders to continuously develop their skills by providing training across a 
multitude of areas relevant to their role. For example, the CRH Global Frontline Leadership 
Programme (FLP) is a key enabler of our commitment to develop future leaders, providing 
training to over 10,000 frontline leaders and their managers across 25 countries worldwide 
across modules including I&D, safety and resilience. The programme has been custom 
designed to develop and reinforce the leadership behaviours that enable us to put safety 
first, every day. Recently the Global FLP welcomed the first graduates from the Netherlands, 
Finland and Serbia, alongside new participants from Australia.

Case Study: Fostering a culture of equality

We are committed to creating an inclusive environment, recognising that a diverse workforce 
contributes to a culture that values equity, empowerment and creativity. For example, EQIOM, 
part of our Europe Materials Division, signed a commitment to the integration of people with 
disabilities. With support from Agefiph, a French organisation that supports people with 
disabilities at companies to improve professional mobility opportunities, EQIOM is investing in 
the recruitment of people with disabilities. To achieve this goal and to strengthen its diversity 
policy, EQIOM has set out a plan to provide employee training, raise awareness among 
managers, set up new communication and integration tools and provide employee supports, 
such as flexible and ergonomic working conditions.

Case Study: Driving a more inclusive workforce

Creating an inclusive culture and diverse company is extremely important to everyone at 
CRH and is shared throughout our operating companies. For example, Tarmac, part of our 
Europe Materials Division in the UK, was awarded the Clear Assured Silver Standard in 2022 
from The Clear Company in recognition of its ongoing dedication to I&D. The Clear Company 
is an independent inclusion and diversity assessment organisation providing accreditation 
and support to businesses. Tarmac's dedication to I&D is reflected through its policies 
and culture. Among the key initiatives highlighted as part of the award were the launch of 
Tarmac’s REACH (religion, ethnic and cultural heritage) employee community, completion of 
neurodiversity awareness training and its work to create internships with the Social Mobility 
Foundation. 

51  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report



52  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report

Empowered employees

Implementing our social policy

We strive to create a work environment where 
curiosity provokes discussion and shared ideas. 
Through our continuous efforts to attract, retain 
and develop the top talent within our industry, 
we are focused on creating a CRH community 
that will drive performance now and for years to 
come.

The CRH Social Policy (see page  66) aims 
to cultivate a safe, inclusive work environment 
where our employees feel respected and are 
equipped with the necessary tools and skills 
to realise their full potential. Our Social Policy 
supports the delivery of our Group strategy and 
highlights our commitment and approach to fair 
employment, respecting the human rights of all 
our stakeholders and meeting high standards of 
employee engagement.

Our leaders throughout the world are committed 
to the principles outlined in our Social Policy 
and are driven by a sense of long-term 
responsibility. Employment policies, guidelines 
and objectives are implemented by the Managing 
Directors of each operating company with 
support from Human Resources teams and 
Group management. Implementation is verified 
through the Code of Business Conduct (CoBC) 
certification, the annual Social Review and 
ongoing engagement at every level of the Group. 
Employee matters are discussed regularly at the 
highest level within CRH. 

In 2022, the SESR Committee was responsible 
for stakeholder engagement, including ensuring 
that employee views are taken into consideration 
in decision-making processes. With effect 
from January 2023, responsibility for employee 
engagement has transferred from the SESR 
Committee to the Nomination and Corporate 
Governance Committee. For more information 
on how the Board is driving stakeholder 
engagement see page 89 in our 2022 Annual 
Report, available on crh.com.

Connecting with our employees

With an average of 24 employees at each 
location, we benefit from close working 
relationships between management and their 
teams. This aids the effective communication of 
strategic business updates, activities and news 
about CRH across the world. 

At CRH we understand the importance of 
maintaining open communication with our 
employees and in recent years have used global 
challenges as opportunities to improve internal 
communication links. Across our businesses, 
CRH leaders communicate through channels 
that include video messages, town hall meetings 
and other online tools, each of which help 
employees navigate our dynamic world. In 
2022, 90% of employees participated in regular 
employee briefings, with employees also 
involved in other informal meetings where open 
dialogue is encouraged.

As the geopolitical situation in Ukraine evolved 
this year our most important job has been to 
keep our 820 colleagues in Ukraine safe. Our 
teams on the ground have worked to ensure this 
and supported our colleagues and their families 
to transfer to safer locations. CRH leaders have 
maintained regular communication with those 
in Ukraine and coordinated efforts have been 
established to help CRH employees with what 
they may need in the longer-term. Throughout 
the crisis we have retained clear communication 
with our employees regarding the events taking 
place on the ground and have developed ways 
to show our support over these difficult times. 

Measuring employee engagement

Employee engagement is monitored regularly. 
This helps to accelerate our progress and 
understand what matters most to our 
employees. In 2022, 55% of employees were 
surveyed formally for employee engagement and 
satisfaction, covering both management and 
staff. Results indicated a high level of employee 
engagement, with 100% of those employees 
surveyed scoring in the “engaged” or higher 
categories. We adapt engagement strategies, 
ways of working and leadership development 
approaches based on employee feedback.

During 2022, the Board continued its process 
of direct employee engagement through in-
person discussions with a cross-section of local 
employees in Houston, Texas during a Board 
visit, as well as virtual sessions with employees 
from across our European and Americas 
businesses. 

Understanding our workplaces 

To grow and improve we must continually 
review our organisational health – how aligned 
we are, how we work together, and our ability 
to continuously learn and adapt to drive 
performance. 

As part of our ongoing employee engagement 
processes, in 2022, we conducted a 'Your 
Voice' pulse survey. The employee feedback 
survey engages employees across our 
global businesses. The results of the survey 
highlighted areas of strong performance for 
CRH and identified the priority areas to focus 
on and collectively strengthen across the 
business. Working with the Global Leadership 
Team, CRH has developed clear action plans 
in line with these priority areas, which are 
being implemented across the Group. This 
information builds upon last year’s full survey, 
which included an Organisational Health Survey 
and Inclusion Assessment which provided 
employees with the opportunity to share 
their views on how we can continue to make 
CRH a healthy, inclusive and high-performing 
organisation. 

Engaging with 
our employees

Global level

• Online newsletters

• Video messaging

• Internal news portal

• Conferences

Regional level

•  Webcasts with Divisional 
Presidents

• Forums 

• Seminars

•  Town hall meetings

Company level

• Employee briefings

• Open dialogue

• Suggestion schemes

• Employee surveys

• Newsletters

• Online communications

Policies
Click here for our 
Social Statement  
of Policy

52  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report

https://www.crh.com/media/4738/2022-annual-report-and-form-20-f.pdf


53  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report

Investing in our workforce

We invest in talent development throughout our 
businesses, empowering our employees across 
all levels of education and employment to grow 
their careers through personal and professional 
development opportunities. This helps to 
improve talent retention and attraction for new 
employees looking to grow their careers at CRH. 

In 2022, 87% of our operating companies 
offered career development opportunities or 
advice to employees. We renew our approach to 
training and development to match the evolving 
skills needed in our dynamic industry. 

We empower our employees by providing 
training and network building opportunities 
to drive knowledge sharing across the Group. 
Acknowledging the importance of learning and 
development, we offer educational supports 
for job-related qualifications across all levels 
of education, including relevant degree-
programmes. This is particularly relevant for 
smaller communities, where our operating 
companies may be a large employer locally. 

Collaborating with communities to offer 
apprenticeships, graduate schemes and 
educational partnerships is a mutually 
beneficial venture with successful graduates 
and apprentices given the opportunity to gain 
hands-on experience across the business. 
For example, our CRH Technical Cement 
Graduate programme is progressing well 
across our Europe Materials Division, providing 
opportunities for graduates to grow their 
technical capabilities while learning about our 
business.

In addition, Tarmac, part of our Europe Materials 
Division in the UK, was recently awarded 
Gold membership by the 5% Club, a dynamic 
movement of employers who are taking positive 
action for inclusive and accessible workplace 
training. This award recognises Tarmac's 
significant contribution to the continued 
development of its employees through 
apprenticeship and graduate schemes and 
sponsored student course placements. 

Developing our leadership

CRH is focused on providing development and 
learning opportunities in competence areas 
common across our business functions. The 
‘CRH Leadership Profile’ outlines the core 
leadership competencies needed to support 
employee performance, growth and success 
across our businesses. Leadership development 
and performance management encompass 
these core skills, abilities and behaviours. A 
particular focus is placed on developing women 
and under-represented groups in leadership 
roles across CRH (see page  49 for more 
information). Task forces and exploration 
teams are evolved from these development 
programmes with many employees 
participating. This allows employees to hone 
their leadership skills in preparation for the next 
step in their career. 

To continuously identify high-performing and 
motivated leaders, we systematically review 
our approach to accurately combine our 
employees' skills and our business needs. We 
also emphasise employee opportunities for 
international mobility across our businesses, 
particularly for management roles, to help 
people grow their skills and develop their 
careers.

Safety

20.2
Management and other education

7.0
Quality / Technical / IT

1.9
Environmental

1.2
Human rights

0.8

Training by type 2022
(Hours per employee)

Key achievement

2.3 m
hours of employee training across our 
businesses in 2022

Empowered  
talent

What are the challenges and how are 
we managing them?

The competition for talent is a universal 
challenge, with shifts in demographics, 
remuneration expectations and flexible 
working arrangements putting pressure on the 
recruitment practices across our businesses. 
To attract, retain and support talent, we 
invest in talent development throughout our 
businesses, supporting our employees across 
all levels of education and employment to 
grow their careers through personal and 
professional development opportunities. Our 
ongoing focus on training enables employees 
and potential employees to acquire the 
attributes and skills needed in our dynamic 
industry. In addition, we strive to foster a 
culture of communication to better manage 
stakeholder engagement, including employee 
issues around satisfaction, engagement and 
wellbeing.

Empowered employees 
Continued

Training our employees

We are helping our employees succeed and 
ensuring they access opportunities to fulfil their 
goals. Advancing the skillset of our employees in 
areas such as safety and management, as well as 
other areas relevant to their role, such as frontline 
leadership, is a crucial part of ensuring our 
workforce is continuously developing. In parallel, 
employees also receive compliance related 
training on topics such as our Code of Business 
Conduct (CoBC). 

Our comprehensive e-learning modules in 
various areas including I&D and resilience extend 
the scope of engagement and the efficiency 
of module delivery. Learning programmes 
have been further developed to allow for a 
combination of online modules with face-to-face 
engagement where possible. 

In 2022, employees across our business 
completed a total of 2.3 million hours of virtual 
and in-person training, equating to 31.1 hours of 
training per employee. Critical training on safety, 
business conduct, regulatory requirements and 
key employee development needs continue to be 
prioritised. In 2022, 97% of employees received 
training which satisfied our internal requirement 
for 95% of employees to receive training 
annually.

Disclosures
Click here to find out 
more information on 
our Social KPIs

53  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report



54  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report

Case Study: Transforming customer engagement

Rapid technology advancement is a significant disrupting force 
today across all industries. At CRH, we recognise the potential of 
the digital transformation for driving innovation, modernisation and 
improving processes. Our digital teams across Leviat, part of our 
Building Products Division, champion and progress our digital agenda 
through engineering software, BIM-enabled workflows and our holistic 
digital customer experience. For example, the Leviat digital teams 
participated in a company-wide Hackathon in Amsterdam, which 
encouraged collaboration and innovation. One successful outcome of 
the event was an app designed to transform and streamline customer 
interactions, demonstrating another way that digitalisation can 
improve efficiency and productivity.

Empowered employees 
Continued

Managing for employee retention

Within CRH, 53% of employees have been 
working in our businesses for over 5 years, 
bringing a depth of knowledge and experience. 
However, the seasonal, cyclical and project-
based nature of our industry means our 
workforce and management are required to deal 
with peaks and troughs in demand. 

Our employee turnover rate is 26%; this includes 
seasonal employees, many of whom return year 
after year. We work to reduce the impacts of 
seasonality and assist employees and managers 
with retirement planning and downsizing when 
it is necessary. Fair and flexible hiring and 
lay-off practices apply, particularly in seasonal 
businesses. For major operational changes, 
appropriate notice periods are implemented. 

Labour practices

We review workplace practices annually across 
all operating companies. In 2022, we found no 
cases of forced or compulsory labour and no 
employees or contractors under the relevant 
legal age working at any location among our 
businesses. Apprenticeship and internship 
programmes are delivered in accordance with 
local legislation and are typically regulated by 
governmental educational agencies.

Freedom of association

Freedom of association is a fundamental human 
right. We respect the rights of our employees 
to form and join trade unions and take part 
in collective bargaining. We also take care 
that employee representatives do not suffer 
discrimination. Approximately 20% of our 
employees were members of trade unions in 
2022. A number of our operating companies 
are unable to disclose this information due to 
regional legal restrictions and we respect this 
position. Membership varies by country, with 
union membership exceeding 60% in certain 
countries. 

Wage negotiation is carried out in keeping with 
local industry practice. In 2022, 72% of the 
wage reviews were carried out on an individual 
basis or through unions/groups. In 2022, there 
were 10 industrial disputes across operating 
companies, 5 of which were national strikes in 
Belgium with the remaining strikes in Canada, 
Germany and the United States.

Attractive working conditions

We aim to create a work environment where 
our employees feel supported and enriched. 
Our global benefits are competitive, inclusive, 
equitable and aligned with our values. Pay 
packages are designed to motivate, retain 
and attract talent, while benefits are offered 
in line with industry and national standards. 
We embrace and comply with local wage and 
working time laws. 

Our operating companies offer entry-level 
wages at or above the minimum wage, with 
many having policies in place to ensure a living 
wage. Policies or procedures are in place at 
our operating companies to prevent excessive 
working hours. We promote flexible work 
practices where appropriate to accommodate 
a healthy work-life balance for our employees. 
We offer similar benefits to full and part-time 
employees working within the same business 
including parental leave, retirement provisions 
and access to disability or invalidity schemes.

Rewarding our employees

Our employees are central to the success of 
CRH. We believe that cultivating a collaborative 
space in which innovation and contribution are 
rewarded provides each of our employees with 
the opportunity to reach their full potential. We 
offer performance-based compensation and 
rewards for our employees, dependent upon 
their contribution to the success of the business 
and demonstration of company values. 

Our reward systems are transparent and 
designed to reward the entire workforce, 
from Chief Executive to our frontline workers. 
Where relevant, key sustainability metrics are 
included. While safety may be incentivised at all 
levels, environmental, community and product 
related measures are typically incentivised at 
management level. In some cases, share-based 
incentives are provided in accordance with 
regulatory and industry practices in particular 
jurisdictions. 

Given the importance of ESG topics to CRH, 
our stakeholders and wider society, non-
financial targets have been incorporated into the 
Performance Share Plan for relevant executives 
across the organisation. These metrics are 
focused on decarbonisation, sustainability 
and inclusion and diversity. Read more on our 
remuneration policies on pages 108 to 133 in 
our 2022 Annual Report, available on crh.com.

54  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report

https://www.crh.com/media/4738/2022-annual-report-and-form-20-f.pdf


Community and social impact

Maintaining positive 
stakeholder relationships

Over 50 years, we have continuously developed 
and strengthened relationships with our 
stakeholders. Maintaining positive stakeholder 
relationships increases confidence in our 
activities and ensures we can work together 
more effectively. By focusing on our engagement 
with stakeholders, it builds trust and our 
understanding of their concerns and needs, and 
with this, our stakeholders become champions 
of our business, products and solutions. 

Engaging with our stakeholders

We take a collaborative approach to 
developing stakeholder relationships, while 
empowering our businesses to deliver local 
engagement in an inclusive and transparent 
way. Our stakeholders include our employees, 
investors, customers, suppliers, governments, 
regulators, trade associations, academia, local 
communities, NGOs and other businesses.

With over 95% of our employees living locally to 
our businesses, we are very much embedded 
in the local communities where we operate. 
Many of our employees give their time to 
our communities in various ways, including 
participating on the boards of charities and 
industry associations, as well as volunteering 
with charities, NGOs and educational 
institutions. Locally, our businesses thrive on 
regular engagement with customers, suppliers, 
neighbours and communities. In 2022, our 
operating companies hosted approximately 
1,500 stakeholder engagement events. 

Annual Report
Click here to read more 
information on our 
stakeholder engagement 
in our 2022 Annual Report 
crh.com

Creating lasting relationships

Strengthening existing partnerships and 
developing new relationships with stakeholders 
leads to improved engagement and 
communication, increased transparency, trust 
and a mutual understanding, enabling us to 
work together collaboratively to address any 
challenges and to take positive action to support 
communities. With our employees, stakeholder 
input is particularly important in developing, 
implementing and continuously improving our 
sustainability policies and commitments.

Depending on our line of business, location 
and area of interest, we use appropriate 
activities to interact with each of our relevant 
stakeholder groups. We identify potential gaps 
and opportunities for our businesses through 
the outcomes of these interactions, and this 
in turn helps us to develop future plans. For 
more information on how we interact with 
our stakeholder groups, see page 44 in our 
2022 Annual Report, available on crh.com. 

In addition, internal and external stakeholder 
feedback is crucial to our materiality process, 
helping us to evaluate and prioritise the 
most important material sustainability issues 
(see pages  12 to 13 for detail on our 
most recent materiality assessment). This 
feedback simplifies processes to define 
risks, opportunities, and KPIs, as well as 
to set and report strategic targets.

Supporting our stakeholders

Driving positive changes across our value 
chain requires ongoing engagement and 
collaboration with our employees, customers, 
suppliers and local communities, which 
leads to stronger partnerships and enhances 
our sustainability agenda. We passionately 
believe in the power of working in close 
partnership with all stakeholders across 
our value chain to proactively contribute 
to sustainable economic growth. 

The past year has seen turbulent geopolitical 
situations arise in various parts of the world. 
In each instance our number one priority has 
been ensuring that our employees are safe. 
Where possible our operating companies 
have adapted their processes and activities 
to ensure that we can continue to meet our 
customers’ needs, keep vital infrastructure 
running and help our local communities. 

At CRH we have responded to the situation 
in Ukraine in multiple ways to support our 
employees and their families located in 
the conflict zone. In addition to the direct 
support we are providing to our colleagues, 
CRH donated over $1 million to UNICEF and 
matched employee giving of $280k with another 
donation of $280k by the company to support 
humanitarian relief efforts on the ground in 
Ukraine. The money is being used to set up and 
run four ‘Blue Dot’ centres along the border 
areas. You can read more about the ways in 
which we are engaging with and supporting 
our local communities on pages  56 to 57.

Community and  
social impact

What are the challenges and how are 
we managing them?

As the social landscape evolves, there is an 
increasing need for businesses to contribute 
positively to their surrounding communities. 
Across our locations we aim to have a positive 
impact on the communities in which we 
operate by building strong relationships and 
engaging in meaningful communications. 
Working locally, but acting as one company, 
our ambition is to utilise our resources, 
networks and partnerships to overcome the 
many challenges facing society. We continue 
to contribute to the development of our local 
communities across areas such as education, 
environment and conservation, health and 
wellness and provision of shelter. Community 
Engagement Plans are implemented by 
our businesses locally, to enable better 
understanding of the needs and aspirations of 
their local communities.

Stakeholders tell us

"As we grapple with the highest levels of 
homelessness Ireland has ever seen, dedicated 
partners like CRH have never been more 
fundamental. By continuing to come together 
as one community, we can continue to 
provide essential services to some of the most 
vulnerable people in our society, empowering 
them to close the door on homelessness for 
good."

Catherine Kenny, 
CEO, Dublin Simon Community

55  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report

https://www.crh.com/media/4738/2022-annual-report-and-form-20-f.pdf
https://www.crh.com/media/4738/2022-annual-report-and-form-20-f.pdf


Targeting positive relationships

We strive to promote positive community 
relations, to understand the needs and 
priorities of local stakeholders. We have 
set a target for 100% of our operating 
companies to have community engagement 
plans in place by 2030. 

Through community engagement plans we 
can best help the communities we work 
in, understand concerns and address any 
potential impacts. 

We are proud of our progress in 2022, 
as 89% of our companies had plans in 
place. We will continue working towards 
our target of 100%, understanding that, 
by doing so, we will help meet the needs 
and priorities of local communities.

Community and social impact 
Continued

Creating value for our communities

We live in an incredibly dynamic world 
and as a diverse and global company, it is 
imperative that our stakeholder relationships 
remain strong. We aim to help support and 
strengthen the communities in which we 
operate, understanding that collaboration 
is needed to elevate our positive impact. 

Driving positive change across our value chain 
requires continuous engagement with our 
employees, customers, suppliers and local 
communities, to inspire each other to find the 
best solutions and deliver long-term shared 
value for our company and communities. 
Our operating companies support local 
livelihoods and businesses and build strong, 
transparent relationships with our stakeholders 
to positively influence local change. 

Supporting educational development

Education is a focus area and, in addition 
to donations, we had approximately 1,880
educational interactions with 73,900 people 
participating over the last two years. These 
interactions included career development 
guidance for students, bringing science alive, 
provision of work experience and site tours.

Building resilient communities

We engage in successful partnerships with 
stakeholders to tackle the housing crisis in their 
local communities. For example, our Americas 
Materials Division sponsors a company-wide 
Habitat for Humanity project, uniting employees 
to build a home for a family. In 2022, volunteers 
from Harrison Construction Company, part 
of our Americas Materials Division, helped 
to clear, grade, build and provide stone and 
asphalt for eight houses that will become 
homes for families in need in a Waynesville 
community in North Carolina. In addition to 
employees’ hands-on participation, we donate 
products including concrete blocks, pavers and 
mulch. More impressive than the material and 
financial support is our employee volunteering 
and commitment to these projects and the 
impact these types of partnerships have on 
neighbourhoods, communities and individuals.

Assessing our social influence

Like many global companies, assessing the 
impacts of our social investments is an ongoing 
challenge. We focus on measuring the global 
impacts of our investments – including financial, 
non-financial and social benefits – so that 
we can make informed choices and scale up 
our positive contribution. Our Communities 
Reporting Tool measures the inputs and 
outputs of our investments and projects.

Supporting a Just Transition

At CRH, we recognise that the decarbonisation 
of our business must be fair and equitable, and 
we take a holistic and collaborative approach to 
managing the social impacts of climate change 
and our decarbonisation strategy on our people 
and communities. This includes engaging in an 
open and transparent way around our targets and 
progress, as well as with our local communities 
to understand their needs and priorities. You 
can read more about the ways in which we are 
supporting a Just Transition on page  11.

2030 target

1 00 %
of companies to have Community 
Engagement Plans by 2030

TARGETS

Community relations and development 42%

Humanitarian relief 20%

Education and employment 16%

Environment and conservation 12%

Provision of shelter 5%

Health and wellness 3%

Arts and culture 2%

42%

12%

5% 3%2 %

20%

16%

Donations by type 2022  
(total: $7.2 million)

Investing in our communities

Community investment is one of the ways we 
contribute to thriving and inclusive communities. 
In 2022 we donated $7.2 million to local 
organisations and initiatives across areas 
including community relations and development, 
environment and conservation, education and 
employment, health and wellness, arts and 
culture and provision of shelter.

Since 2008, Moravacem, part of our Europe 
Materials Division, has been implementing 
the community-based project “Partnership for 
the Future”. The main goal of this project is to 
empower non-profit organisations and local 
institutions with the financial means to implement 
projects that have the capacity to significantly 
enhance the life quality and living conditions in 
the municipality of Paracin, Serbia. 

Case studies
Click here for more 
information on how we 
are creating value for 
our communities

56  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report



Community and social impact

We aim to build more inclusive and resilient communities through a shared global 
approach that considers the needs of each community. Examples of how our 
businesses support their local communities are shown below:

Case Study: Positively impacting our communities

As local employers, our companies are truly integrated within their communities and seek 
opportunities to create a positive impact on their localities. For example, Callanan Industries, 
part of our Americas Materials Division, won both the National Asphalt Pavement Association 
(NAPA) Community Involvement Award and the National Ready Mixed Concrete Association 
(NRMCA) ‘Concrete Cares Award’ for its community involvement programme. Both awards 
aim to recognise and shine a national spotlight on the positive impact construction materials 
companies have in communities across the US. The Changemaker Fund is Callanan Industries’ 
chosen charity to receive the financial donation from NRMCA as part of the award. The 
Changemaker Fund, of which Callanan is a founding sponsor, was established out of a 
recognition of racial, cultural, and gender disparities within the leadership of the non-profit 
sector and unequal access to organisational resources.

Case Study: Welcoming our communities to our sites

We are embedded within our communities and welcome the opportunity to educate local 
students and visitors about our unique industry. For example, EQIOM, part of our Europe 
Materials Division, celebrated the 50th anniversary of their Rochefort-Sur-Nenon plant in 
2022. Over the years, EQIOM welcomed over 650 visitors to this site to learn about the 
cement plant, history, processes and teams. By conducting site tours, we hope to educate 
and inspire the next generation interested in STEM subjects, highlighting the possibilities for 
fulfilling work through the construction industry.

Case Study: Partnering to build more resilient communities

Across our Americas Materials Division we have a long-standing, company-wide partnership 
with Habitat for Humanity. In addition to employees’ hands-on participation, we donate products 
including concrete blocks, pavers and mulch. In addition, we use innovative techniques to deliver 
efficient, high-quality homes for families who need them. For example, CRH companies Staker 
Parson Materials & Construction, JBP and Tilcon Connecticut have partnered with Habitat for 
Humanity in their communities and supplied Insulated Concrete Forms (ICF) to build homes - a first 
for Habitat for Humanity. ICF is an extremely energy-efficient, fire-safe, durable building material 
that will ensure resilience against severe weather events that may occur in Utah and Connecticut.

Case Study: Creating inclusive communities

At CRH, we want to support our communities 
in being welcoming and inclusive. For example, 
Employees at Fels’ Münchehof Plant, part of 
our Europe Materials Division in Germany, 
volunteered to renovate two houses for Ukrainian 
refugees. The houses had previously been used 
to accommodate factory employees but were 
unoccupied for some time and required repair. 
The Münchehof Plant employees and local 
people gave generously of their time to make the 
two houses habitable again. The homes are now 
fully renovated and occupied by 16 Ukrainian 
refugees, who arrived at the local Braunschweig 
railway station after a four-day journey.

57  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report



Responsible 
business
Our approach
As concerns for political, economic, social and 
moral challenges rise, greater expectations 
for responsible leadership are being placed 
on businesses to respond to the changing 
landscape of our industry, and society. 

At CRH, we do what we say, we live by our 
word and we collaborate to deliver as one 
organisation. We are committed to protecting 
the health and safety of those working across 
our operations and our communities living close 
by, safeguarding human rights and embedding 
responsible business conduct at each level 
throughout our organisation. 

We uphold our strong values across our 
business with our Code of Business Conduct 
and throughout our supply chain with our 
Supplier Code of Conduct. Our culture of 
ethical behaviour allows us to build trust with 
all our stakeholders. By operating with integrity, 
we believe we can authentically lead the way in 
providing sustainable construction solutions. 

In this section 

Governance and ethics 59

Responsible sourcing 62

We are proud to contribute to sustainable projects that enhance the cultural impact of our communities. For 
example, Danucem, part of our Europe Materials Division, contributed to the construction of The House of Music 
building in Budapest, Hungary. This unique musical institution celebrates Hungary's musical heritage and hosts 
educational exhibitions for visitors including schools and the general public. Danucem provided low-carbon white 
cement for the entire exterior and interior terrazzo flooring of the iconic building. The receiving surface of the 
terrazzo is a concrete slab of 5,000 m2, which was poured from the centre of the building with a circular expansion 
distribution to symbolise sound waves. The building was designed in harmony with the surrounding natural 
environment, reflecting CRH's values.

Chintan Amin, 
Deputy General Counsel,  
Environmental & Sustainability Law,  
CRH Americas

"As we navigate rising political, 
economic and social challenges, 
our business is guided and united 
by responsible leadership. Our 
strong governance structures 
ensure ethical behaviour at all levels 
of CRH and across our supply 
chains. We will continue to operate 
responsibly, build trust with our 
stakeholders and protect human 
rights across our entire supply 
network." 

58  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report



Governance and ethics

Driving our corporate governance strategy

We are proud of our wide recognition as 
a leader in corporate governance. We 
continuously review our corporate governance 
structures and arrangements to ensure they 
remain of the highest standards and continue 
to embed all aspects of sustainability into our 
business strategy. This ensures our business 
is well-governed with good systems and 
behaviours aligned with our long-term interests.

Our strong governance structures support our 
sustainability performance which is overseen 
by the CRH Board and its designated Safety, 
Environment and Social Responsibility (SESR) 
Committee. To read more about the SESR 
Committee and the responsibilities of the CRH 
Board, see pages  104 to 106 in our 2022 
Annual Report, available on crh.com.

Leading with integrity

Character is a core value. It means we are 
reliable and can always be counted on to do 
the right things in the right way. Responsible 
business practices remain central to our 
operations and are embedded throughout each 
level of our organisation. Our values unite us in 
the way we work, providing the foundation of 
our culture and strengthening our operational 
integrity. As we continue to navigate a changing 
world, our purpose-driven culture strengthens 
our ability to overcome potential challenges. 

Fostering an ethical culture

At CRH, we go further than simply complying 
with the law, we work responsibly wherever 
we operate. As we adapt to new ways of 
working and the dynamic world around us, we 
continually reshape and improve our business. 

Overseen by our Group General Counsel, we 
launched our refreshed Code of Business 
Conduct (CoBC), which outlines clear 
expectations for employees related to ethical 
business conduct. In this CoBC there is a 
recurring phrase: "It Begins with Me". This 
emphasises the key message that living up to 
our values as a company is only possible when 
everyone plays their part. It is the duty of every 
CRH employee to read, confirm understanding 
of, and abide by our CoBC, which can be found 
on crh.com. Related training materials are 
available to employees via the CRH training 
portal. 

We support and encourage ethical leadership, 
as outlined by our Group Chief Executive in the 
introduction to the CoBC. Our Group General 
Counsel, with oversight for business ethics, sits 
on the executive leadership team. In addition, 
the Audit Committee of the CRH Board 
provides executive-level oversight of CRH’s 
Legal and Compliance programme, to ensure 
our continued commitment to legal and ethical 
business practices. 

Training our employees

All new employees are required to complete 
our CoBC training and relevant employees 
undertake CoBC training and Advanced 
Compliance Training (ACT) on a regular basis. 

Of the c.10,700 (2021: c.8,500) CRH employees 
that received ACT in 2022, 40% were 
Managerial, 46% were Clerical / Administrative 
and 14% were Operational. In addition, c.31,500 
(2021: c.32,600) CRH employees were trained 
in our CoBC in 2022, 23% of which were 
Managerial, 35% were Clerical / Administrative 
and 42% were Operational.

Our Legal and Compliance team ensures 
training and communications materials and 
methods for delivery remain relevant to 
the risks our employees face in their roles. 
Additional training modules are developed for 
more focused topics and audiences where 
necessary. The CoBC and training programmes 
are available in 21 languages.

Americas c.15,500

Europe/AsiaPacific c.16,000

AmericasEurope/
AsiaPacific

Employees trained in CoBC 2022  
(Total: c.31,500)

Responsible 
corporate governance

What are the challenges and how are 
we managing them?

Organisations are increasingly expected to play 
a role driving global social and environmental 
progress to meet the evolving demands 
of investors and wider society. In addition, 
businesses are faced with more stringent 
requirements and regulations to ensure that 
they are having a positive impact. We advance 
with the intent to accelerate global action, 
which is why CRH has implemented a new 
Sustainability Framework to help us navigate 
the changing landscape, supported by our 
executive leadership and the CRH Board. 
We are also undergoing an organisational 
restructuring to ensure that we are best 
positioned to help solve global challenges.  
We continuously embed all aspects of 
sustainability into our business strategy, 
ensuring our business is well-governed with 
good systems and behaviours aligned with  
our long-term interests.

Annual Report
Click here to read more 
information on our 
sustainability governance 
processes in our 2022 
Annual Report crh.com

59  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report

https://www.crh.com/media/4738/2022-annual-report-and-form-20-f.pdf 
https://www.crh.com/media/4381/crh_cobc_2023_english.pdf
https://www.crh.com/media/4738/2022-annual-report-and-form-20-f.pdf


Labour and employment

60%
Health, safety, and environment

20%
Fraud and theft

9%
Conflicts of interest

6%
Bribery, antitrust/competition

3%
Other violations of CRH policy or local laws

1%
IT security/data privacy

1%

Governance and ethics 
Continued

Managing compliance risk

We drive our commitment to ethical behaviour, 
accountability and transparency through our 
business principles and practices.

Risk workshops are attended by a selection 
of senior business and cross functional 
management throughout the year. They are 
led by Group Risk and facilitate meaningful 
discussions around management’s view of risks 
and enable a coordinated approach with our 
Group Risk and Legal and Compliance teams. 
Mitigation against compliance risk is achieved 
through regular training, awareness, policies 
and guidance, supported by the Legal and 
Compliance function. 

Reporting concerns

Our employees are encouraged to report 
concerns about possible breaches of the 
CoBC to immediate and HR managers, senior 
management and the Legal and Compliance 
function. In addition, we provide formal, 
confidential and anonymous ways to report 
concerns through our CRH “Hotline” facility, 
a 24/7, independent, multi-lingual reporting 
service. 

The confidential CRH "Hotline" allows 
employees, customers, suppliers and other 
external stakeholders to raise good faith 
concerns they may have relevant to our CoBC, 
inappropriate or illegal behaviour or violations 
of any CRH policies or local laws. All concerns 
are handled discreetly and are professionally 
investigated with appropriate actions taken 
based on investigation findings. 

In 2022, a total of 369 concerns were raised 
globally. We regard any suspected violation of 
law, policy or our CoBC as a serious matter. 
Retaliation or reprisals are not tolerated at 
CRH. In 2022, 22 proven incidents resulted in 
disciplinary action. Employees are made aware 
that disciplinary procedures can be invoked in 
the event of a proven breach of CRH policies or 
any rule of law. 

Investigations and proceedings

We have robust internal controls to help in 
the fight against all forms of corruption and 
illegal practice. Risks of corruption and fraud 
are monitored by management and Legal and 
Compliance teams. In addition, our CRH Internal 
Audit function works side-by-side with Legal and 
Compliance in monitoring compliance with the 
CoBC and supporting policies, and in providing 
an integrated approach to assurance. In 2022, 
there were no investigations from external 
parties into allegations of corruption against the 
CRH Group. 

Some of our operating companies are party 
to legal proceedings, including some in which 
claims for damages have been asserted against 
them. Having taken appropriate advice, we 
believe that the aggregate outcome of such 
proceedings will not have a material effect on 
CRH Group’s financial condition, operational 
performance or liquidity.

Concerns reported
(Number of concerns)

2022

369
2021

290
2020

309

Concerns reported by type 2022
(% of total concerns)

Business ethics

What are the challenges and how are we 
managing them?

As the world around us changes, our 
employees, potential employees the public are 
more invested in the conduct of the businesses 
they engage with. Businesses like CRH are 
being held to higher standards than ever before. 
At CRH, we are committed to the highest level 
of legal, ethical and moral standards, complying 
with the law and working responsibly. In line with 
this commitment, in 2022 we articulated our 
Purpose – ‘We Stand Together to Reinvent the 
Way our World is Built’. Supporting our Purpose, 
we continue to drive our updated CoBC which 
helps us live by our values that unite us across 
CRH. We want to help employees recognise 
potential areas for concern, avoid prohibited 
contact and seek guidance when necessary.  
By doing so, we can all work together to create 
a better future.

Policies
Click here to find out 
more information on  
our CoBC, available  
on crh.com

60  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report

https://www.crh.com/media/4381/crh_cobc_2023_english.pdf


Our ongoing due diligence 
work has highlighted four 
salient human rights impact 
areas

Safety of those working for CRH 

 There are multiple safety hazards 
associated with our industry. 
Our Safety and wellbeing section 
(pages  44 to 48) provides details 
on how we manage safety across 
our operations and work with 
our employees, contractors and 
industry to achieve our ambition of 
zero harm. 

Health and safety of communities 
living close to our materials 
activities sites 

 We require all our companies to 
have a Community Engagement 
Plan in place at their sites, to 
help meet the needs of the local 
communities. For more information 
on our stakeholder engagement 
processes see pages  55 to 57. 

Employment conditions of those 
working at CRH 

 The working conditions of our 
employees and contractors are 
monitored through our responsible 
sourcing and Annual Review 
processes. For more information on 
our labour practices see page  54.

Labour rights of those working in 
our extended supply chain 

 We source our materials and 
products from over 114,000 
suppliers worldwide. Through 
our sustainable procurement 
programme, we work with our 
suppliers and stakeholders to 
promote human rights. For more 
information on our supply chain 
processes see pages  62 to 63.

Governance and ethics 
Continued

Managing our human rights impacts

At CRH, we respect internationally recognised 
human rights - as set out in the International Bill 
of Human Rights and the International Labour 
Organisation’s Core Labour Principles – across 
our operations and extended supply chain. In 
addition, we apply the UN Guiding Principles 
on Business and Human Rights. Our annual 
'Commitment to Human Rights' Modern Slavery 
Statement provides details on our overarching 
commitments, core policies and the governance 
processes we have in place to manage human 
rights. To read our Modern Slavery Statement, 
visit crh.com.

Our priority is to continue to strengthen our 
human rights approach across our operations 
in line with relevant and credible international 
frameworks on business and human rights. 
We believe that slavery in all its forms – forced 
labour, bonded labour, compulsory labour, child 
labour and human trafficking – is unacceptable 
and we must do everything we can to prevent it.

Our approach to human rights

Our approach to human rights has been 
developed over many years of protecting our 
stakeholders and always to doing the right 
things in the right way. We have developed 
our salient human rights impacts through our 
annual impact assessments, examining the 
risks to our operations, as well as acquisitions 
and supply chain. We have collaborated across 
Group functions as well as with human rights 
specialists to benchmark our assessment 
methodology and to help identify specific 
areas of risk to people coming into contact 
with our operations. These impacts are clearly 
communicated to our stakeholders in a 
transparent and open way. 

We continue to work with internal and external 
stakeholders to assess our approach to human 
rights and risk management. We are also 
continuing to develop and refine our approach to 
human rights due diligence to better understand 
our potential impacts.

Our processes and policies

Our Annual Sustainability Review provides 
information on the people working across our 
operations, in particular the employees and 
contractors working on our sites. Through our 
responsible sourcing programme, we carry out 
key supplier risk assessments to identify any 
potential high-impact supply chains. Where we 
identify impacts, we work with our suppliers to 
develop remediation plans for those affected and 
build the capacity of suppliers to then ensure 
these impacts are properly managed on an 
ongoing basis. 

Our Social Policy, Code of Business Conduct 
(CoBC), Supplier Code of Conduct (SCoC) and 
other Group-level policies ensure that we uphold 
our commitments to human rights. In addition, 
our CRH "Hotline" allows our employees, 
customers, suppliers and stakeholders to raise 
any issues of concern (see page  60). 

Continuing our human rights journey

In 2022, CRH became a signatory to the United 
Nations Global Compact. This is the world’s 
largest corporate sustainability initiative and calls 
on companies to align strategies and operations 
with ten universal principles focusing on human 
rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. 
We look forward to collaborating with other 
UN Global Compact participants and to further 
develop our culture of doing the right thing and 
being a key driver for a better world.

As we continue to further develop and 
implement our processes, we recognise the 
need to engage with all our stakeholders, 
including employees, contractors, supply chain 
partners, communities, NGOs and our peers 
to uphold and promote human rights. We will 
continue to strengthen our comprehensive 
human rights approach across our operations, 
with a focus on our supply chain.

Human rights

What are the challenges and how are 
we managing them?

We are a global business employing c.75,800 
people across 29 countries, the nature of 
our business means that we operate within 
complex supply chains. Despite these 
challenges, CRH is committed to building 
knowledge and awareness on human rights 
issues across our entire value chain. As a 
signatory of the UN Global Compact and 
by applying the UN Guiding Principles 
on Business and Human Rights, we are 
respecting internationally recognised human 
rights. Implementation of our SCoC ensures 
that our commitment to human rights is 
upheld across our supply chains. In addition, 
by supporting the UN SDGs, which are 
grounded in international human rights, we 
can help contribute to the protection of human 
rights within our operating companies, supply 
chains and beyond.

Disclosures
Click here to find out 
more information on 
our Modern Slavery 
Statement, available  
on crh.com

61  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report

https://www.crh.com/sustainability/codes-of-conduct
https://www.crh.com/sustainability/codes-of-conduct


Responsible sourcing

Delivering value across our supply chains

We collaborate with our suppliers and other 
stakeholders to drive improvements in the 
supply chain and support them in providing 
better jobs and managing their environmental 
impacts. We strive to be a fair, respectful 
and honest partner, firmly believing that 
relationships built on trust and integrity will be 
sustainable and beneficial for all. 

Supply chain footprint

Together, our operating companies purchase 
around $20 billion worth of goods and services 
every year from over 114,000 suppliers spread 
across America (58%), Europe (40%), Asia 
and the rest of the world (2%). We also extract 
raw materials – such as aggregates, sand and 
gravel, to use in our own processes, as well as 
to supply external customers. 

The CRH Group Procurement Council oversees 
all aspects of our purchasing strategy, 
policy, targets and objectives. Each of our 
core business lines have their own supply 
chain footprint with various challenges and 
opportunities: 

•  Our Materials businesses are vertically 
integrated, often extracting much of their own 
raw materials, or using materials produced by 
other operating companies 

•  Our Building Products businesses source a 
wide range of products from manufacturers 
across the world, accounting for a significant 
number of suppliers in our total footprint 

Collaborating for improvement

Our commitment to our values goes beyond 
our own activities. We support the transition 
towards more sustainable supply chains across 
the entire industry through our engagement 
with suppliers, governments, industry 
bodies, businesses and other partners. By 
collaborating, we can find new ways to innovate 
for positive change, support local communities 
and create social value. 

For example, we are a Founding Member of the 
Concrete Sustainability Council (CSC), which 
has developed a Responsible Sourcing Scheme 
industry standard for concrete to enable 
informed decisions in the construction industry. 
We have also partnered with CEMBUREAU on 
various projects to improve the sustainability of 
buildings. 

Promoting best practices

Sustainability is integrated into our sourcing 
process. We source goods and services 
through multiple routes, from centralised 
procurement to local buying and to e-sourcing. 
Our supplier selection and ongoing assessment 
processes include sustainability criteria. 
We increasingly build on our key supplier 
relationships to ensure we respond to 
sustainability issues and provide added value in 
key areas. 

We assess risk at a commodity level, in line 
with ISO 20400 best practice. We use 12 
assessment criteria covering areas such as 
health and safety, human and labour rights, 
environment, climate change and governance, 
to understand potential risks and identify 
critical suppliers. Based on the risks identified, 
we enhance our Category Strategy Plans to 
drive improvement actions at the point where 
we have most influence with our suppliers. 
We provide responsible procurement training 
to those staff working directly with our 
suppliers. The training helps equip staff with 
the understanding and tools to be able to spot 
issues and effectively engage suppliers through 
their Category Strategy Plans.

Managing risks and impacts

Our procurement teams work in partnership 
with our suppliers to find solutions to potential 
issues. Our ‘Know Your Supplier’ programme 
is designed to highlight suppliers that are 
undergoing a change in their financial health, 
are experiencing reputation issues or are 
flagged in international trade sanctions. This 
increased due diligence ensures we can 
respond effectively to emerging risks and we 
can be more targeted in the way we manage 
and collaborate with suppliers. 

We continue to review our supply chain risks, 
including cyber security, data protection, and 
digital connectivity, through our Enterprise 
Risk Management (ERM) Framework. Our 
commodity heatmap assessment is reviewed 
prior to any significant procurement project. We 
also work with our auditing partners to ensure 
our onsite assessments are fit for purpose. 
Read more information on our cyber security 
management processes and training on page 
143 of our 2022 Annual Report, available on  
crh.com.

We are acutely aware of the impacts of global 
events on those working across our supplier 
partners. Climate change, political conflict, 
global health challenges, and the cost of living 
crisis are impacting all of us but they have 
the potential to be devastating for the most 
vulnerable in society. Through our human rights 
work, we are trying to identify those potentially 
vulnerable groups. 

Product stewardship

Product stewardship is about understanding 
the potential impacts our products have on 
the wider environment, stakeholders and 
customers. Where necessary, our products are 
accompanied by Materials Safety Data Sheets 
(MSDS) containing information on use, storage 
and application. In addition, we share Health 
Product Declarations with our customers. In 
line with the European Regulation on Chemicals 
(REACH), all our companies operating within 
the EU provide health, safety and environmental 
information.

All our products are manufactured to the 
highest national and regional technical 
standards and specifications and are 
independently certified. In addition, many of 
our businesses operate to ISO 9001 Quality 
Management Systems, further guaranteeing 
product quality.

Targeting sustainable supply chains

We expect our suppliers to match our 
unwavering commitment to good ethical 
practices. To ensure our suppliers are 
sharing our values, we have a target for 
100% of our suppliers to comply with our 
Supplier Code of Conduct in any given year. 

In 2022, 100% of new suppliers were 
screened in line with our SCoC, helping 
to drive our commitment of delivering 
sustainable value across our supply chains. 

Ongoing target

 1 00 %
of suppliers compliant with Supplier  
Code of Conduct

TARGETS

Policies
Click here to find out 
more information on 
our SCoC, available on 
crh.com

62  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report

https://www.crh.com/media/4738/2022-annual-report-and-form-20-f.pdf
https://www.crh.com/media/2984/crh-supplier-code-of-conduct-2019.pdf


Sustainable procurement strategy

Our stakeholders want assurance that the products we supply are produced in a responsible way. In order to make an impact on issues in our 
supply chain and ensure we practice responsible sourcing, we have committed to a sustainable procurement strategy.

Low Medium High

CRH Group policy 

01    Clear and robust policies and 
standards that reflect best 
standards. Our Supplier Code of 
Conduct (SCoC) is available on 
crh.com.

Monitoring the drivers

02    Creating a compelling case of how 
and why improving sustainability 
is good for business and how it 
delivers value for stakeholders 
beyond financial benefits.

Enablers

03    Developing processes that 
enable our procurement 
teams, sourcing specialists 
and suppliers to meet our 
evolving requirements. 

Risk and priority analysis

04    Identifying the risks and 
prioritising areas for 
improvement for specific 
commodities.

Sourcing process

05    Integrating safer, fairer, cleaner 
and better performance in all 
of our procurement and buying 
activities.

CATEGORY Spend % Safety Health Labour 
practices

Fairness, inclusion  
and respect

Social  
value

Energy and CO22 
emissions

Environmental 
stewardship

Resource 
efficiency

Circular  
economy

Water Legal and 
compliance

Economic  
growth

Packaging 2% M L L L L L H M H L L L

Chemicals 5% M M M L L H M H L L L L

IT & telecom 1% L L L L L M L H H L H L

Building components & 
manufacturing materials

6% H M H L M H M L L L L L

Energy 12% M H L L L H H H L L L L

General services 9% L M M M H M L L L L L M

Mobile equipment 6% M M L L L H L L L L L L

Production equipment 5% H M M L L H L L L L L L

Raw materials 17% M M M L M M H M H M M M

Logistics services 20% H H L L L H M L L L H M

Maintenance, production 
& contractor services

13% H H L M M L L L L L H L

Facilities management 
& estates

4% M M H H M M M M M M M L

Reduced risk 

By integrating sustainability requirements at the 
start of the tender stage, we are able to mitigate 
risks more effectively than after the event.

Innovation

Sustainability and innovation are increasingly 
linked and often lead to lower total cost of 
operational solutions. 

Collaboration

 

Procurement creates a critical narrative that can 
demonstrate trust and deeper relationships with 
both customers and suppliers.

Pathway to impact

Supply chain risk

Benefits

63  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report

https://www.crh.com/media/2984/crh-supplier-code-of-conduct-2019.pdf


Leading 
sustainability 
performance

In this image: Our businesses are recognised as market-
leaders in sustainable products and solutions. For example, 
EQIOM, part of our Europe Materials Division, became the first 
French cement manufacturer to certify a more environmentally 
friendly cement as part of the update of the NF standard. 
The NF label guarantees that the cement meets relevant 
composition and performance standards. The certification 
confirms EQIOM’s position as market leader in sustainable 
solutions and their ability to support their customers and the 
wider construction industry in the decarbonisation journey. 

In this section

Our sustainabilty policies 65

Reporting history, scope and basis 67

Data summary 69

SASB 76

GRI index 77

DNV assurance statement 84

 External benchmarks  
and recognitions

87 "Sustainable business performance is increasingly being recognised  
as an essential driver of business value creation. We will continue our  
long history of strong, strategic performance and transparent communication  
of our progress across key sustainability areas."
Dr Martyn Kenny, 
VP Sustainable Business & Public Policy

64  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report



Our sustainability policies
Commitment to sustainability in our business strategy
With our global presence and industry leadership positions, we are committed to ensuring that sustainability principles are embedded in all areas of our business strategy.

We are committed to maintaining the highest quality in all the things we do, from the products we produce, to progressing our culture of safety and to engaging with stakeholders. Our high standards are 
underpinned by our unwavering values, including People, Character, Performance and Innovation.

We set policies in key sustainability areas at Group level, covering Environment, Health & Safety and Social. Our management team works closely with our businesses in implementing these policies, reinforcing 
our guiding principles and ensuring that our purpose, vision and values are shared across the globe. Suspected or actual breaches of this Policy may be reported confidentially via the CRH Hotline.

An overview for each of these key sustainability policies can be seen here.

Environmental Policy

The CRH Environmental Policy,  
applied across operating companies, is to

Environmental Policy

Roles and Responsibilities

•  Address proactively the challenges of climate change, reduce emissions and waste as well 
as optimise our use of energy, water, land and other resources

Our Environmental Policy demonstrates our commitment to laws, regulations and policies 
concerning environmental issues and forms the foundation of continual environmental 
improvements to be made across our Group. Our Policy must be applied rigorously across all 
of our companies. There are clear lines of responsibility through operational management, the 
Group Chief Executive, the SESR Committee and ultimately the CRH Board.

All CRH employees must read and understand their obligations under this Policy and notify 
their manager or local environmental manager of potential or actual violations of environmental 
permits, regulations or policies. Managers at CRH are responsible for implementing the 
Environmental Policy, supported by a network of environmental liaison officers and managers. 

Environmental performance is measured throughout our businesses and reviewed by senior 
management to ensure compliance with regulatory requirements. Environmental incidents 
deemed to be significant are reported to senior management, Group Health, Safety and 
Environment (HSE) Directors, and in certain instances, to Group Corporate Affairs, to ensure 
that risks are being appropriately managed. CRH carries out an annual compliance certification 
process, which requires the management of each operating company globally to confirm 
implementation and compliance with the CoBC and its underlying policies. 

•  Promote sustainable product and process innovation and new business opportunities

•  Support and enhance biodiversity, ensuring responsible land use and biodiversity 
management

•  Comply with or exceed all applicable environmental legislation and continually implement 
and improve our environmental management systems, always striving to meet or exceed 
industry best practice standards, monitoring and reporting performance 

•  Maintain open communications and ensure that our employees and contractors are aware 
of and adhere to their environmental responsibilities

•  Maintain positive relationships with stakeholders though engagement and consultation, 
always striving to be good neighbours in every community in which we operate

65  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report



Health & Safety Policy

All working in CRH must

Health & Safety Policy

Roles and Responsibilities

•  Comply, at a minimum, with all applicable health and safety legislation by developing a 
culture of health and safety excellence, continuously striving to meet or exceed industry 
best practice standards 

Health and safety has long been a strategic priority for CRH. Our Health and Safety Policy is 
complemented by our CRH Life Saving Rules and must be applied rigorously across all of our 
companies. There are clear lines of responsibility through operational management and the 
Global Safety Council, the Group Chief Executive, the SESR Committee and ultimately the CRH 
Board. The Global Safety Council provides support and oversight for the development and 
implementation of Group safety initiatives and best practice.

All CRH employees must read and understand their obligations under this Policy and complete 
health checks where applicable for their job function. In addition, employees must stop unsafe 
work on a no-reprisals basis. Managers at CRH are responsible for implementing the Health & 
Safety Policy, supported by a network of safety officers and managers. 

Managers at CRH are required to report safety KPIs on a monthly basis. These are reviewed 
by the Global Leadership Team and ultimately the Board. In addition, operating companies are 
required to have an externally assured and/or robust internal health and safety management 
system in place to ensure a consistent approach to health and safety. CRH carries out an annual 
compliance certification process, which requires the management of each operating company 
globally to confirm implementation and compliance with the CoBC and its underlying policies. 

•  Ensure that our companies provide a healthy and safe workplace for all employees 
and contractors and take due care of stakeholders such as customers, visitors and 
communities at all our locations, monitoring and reporting performance to ensure Policy 
compliance

•  Maintain open communications and require all employees and contractors to work in a 
safe manner as mandated

• Ensure that appropriate resources, training and supervision are provided

•  Ensure that everyone working at CRH has the authority and responsibility to stop unsafe 
work on a no-reprisals basis

Social Policy

All working in CRH must

Social Policy

Roles and Responsibilities

•  Comply at a minimum, with all applicable legislation and continuously improve our social 
stewardship, aiming at all times to meet or exceed industry best practice standards

Our Social Policy sets out our commitment and approach to doing business with integrity 
and respect for the social aspects of our operations. This includes meeting high standards 
of employee and contractor engagement, human and labour rights, customer and supplier 
relationships. Our Policy must be applied rigorously across all of our companies. There are clear 
lines of responsibility through operational management, the Group Chief Executive, the SESR 
Committee and ultimately the CRH Board.

All CRH employees must read and understand their obligations under this Policy and report 
relevant issues, such as instances of human rights violations or infringement of labour standards 
that may be taking place in any part of the business. Managers at CRH are responsible for 
implementing the Social Policy, supported by a network of HR managers and regional and 
Group specialists. 

The Social Policy is verified through the annual CoBC certification, the annual social review 
and ongoing engagement at every level of the Group. CRH carries out an annual compliance 
certification process, which requires the management of each operating company globally to 
confirm implementation and compliance with the CoBC and its underlying policies. 

• Support freedom of association and recognise the right to collective bargaining

•  Apply the principle of equal opportunity, valuing diversity regardless of age, gender, 
disability, creed, ethnic origin or sexual orientation, while insisting that merit is the ultimate 
basis for recruitment and selection decisions

•  Manage our businesses in a fair and equitable manner, meeting all our social 
responsibilities including working conditions, as both a direct and indirect employer

•  Ensure that we deal responsibly with our suppliers and customers in accordance with our 
Code of Business Conduct, Supplier Code of Conduct and proper business practice

• Prohibit forced, compulsory and child labour in all forms including modern slavery

66  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report



Reporting 
history, scope 
and basis
History

We published our first report on our 
sustainability performance in October 2004. 
This Sustainability Report, published in 
March 2023, covers our activities during 2022 
and KPIs cover the period January 2022 to 
December 2022. It is CRH’s 20th annual report 
on sustainability and our 18th Sustainability 
Performance Report. 

Independent assurance

Our report has been independently assured 
every year since 2005 and is signed off by 
the SESR Committee, to which the Board has 
delegated primary responsibility for monitoring 
developments related to sustainability. You can 
find this year's detailed assurance statement 
on pages  84 to 85. 

Reporting standards

This report has been prepared in accordance 
with the GRI Reporting Standards. The GRI 
content index is provided from pages  77  
to 83. 

In addition, selected indicators have been 
prepared and reported in accordance with 
the Industry standard Construction Materials 
Sustainability Accounting Standard 2018, 
prepared by the Sustainability Accounting 
Standards Board (SASB), detailed on page 
  76. 

The report is prepared in adherence with the 
AA1000 AccountAbility Principles and selected 
indicators are audited to a limited level of 
assurance in accordance with the International 
Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 
3000 revised – ‘Assurance Engagements other 
than Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial 
Information’. We report in line with the Financial 

Stability Board’s ‘Task Force on Climate-
related Financial Disclosures’ (TCFD). Further 
information mapping our disclosures to the 
TCFD standards is included on pages 56 to 59
of the CRH 2022 Annual Report and Form 20-F.

Reporting scope and basis for reporting

This report is based on data from 100% of our 
subsidiaries, covering the calendar year 2022. 
Our principal subsidiaries are listed on pages 
290 to 293 of the CRH 2022 Annual Report and 
Form 20-F available on crh.com. 

In common with other large companies,  
we also hold shares in joint ventures and 
associates; a list of principal joint ventures and  
associates is provided on page 293 of the CRH 
2022 Annual Report and Form 20-F available 
on crh.com. CRH defines its organisational 
boundary on a financial control approach 
(entity driver based), and our Scope 1 and 2 
CO2e emissions are reported on this basis. This 
report does not include data from associates 
and joint ventures.

Data has been collated from c.3,160 locations, 
spread across 29 countries. We have a robust 
data collection and management process in 
place, as assured by DNV for specific KPIs. 

Our basis for reporting follows the GCCA 
definitions, GRI definitions and SASB  
definitions; these are publicly available at 
www.gccassociation.org,  
www.globalreporting.org and www.sasb.org 
respectively. Metric units are used throughout, 
unless stated otherwise.

This Sustainability Report was reviewed and 
approved by the Safety, Environment and 
Social Responsibility (SESR) Committee of the 
CRH Board prior to publication.

We believe that the scope of this report  
addresses the full range of environmental, 
social and governance (ESG) aspects of our 
organisation. We have considered the GRI’s 
Reporting Principles for Defining Report 
Content. A formal materiality assessment 
carried out with the assistance of an 
independent third party ensured we identified 

and reported on the most material topics 
related to our business (see pages  12 to 13).

The boundary for all material aspects was 
considered to be within the organisation. 
We have considered the principles of 
stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainability 
context, materiality, completeness, balance, 
comparability, accuracy, timeliness, clarity and 
reliability and believe that this report meets 
these principles. 

In general, administration buildings are not 
included in environmental data, as these are  
not material contributors - they would 
contribute to less than 0.01% of emissions, 
waste and resource use.

Calculation methodologies

For reporting Scope 1 CO2 cement emissions 
we use the GCCA 'Sustainability Guidelines 
for the monitoring and reporting of CO2 from 
cement manufacturing' and the accompanying 
Excel spreadsheet, ‘Cement CO2 and Energy 
Protocol, Version 3.1, CO2 Emissions and 
Energy Inventory’. 

For reporting Scope 1 CO2 Lime emissions we 
use the Directive 2003/87/EC of the European 
Parliament and of the Council and amending 
Commission Regulation (EU) No 601/2012 and 
2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse 
Gas Inventories. 

We calculate Scope 1 CO2e emissions from 
other activities using appropriate emission 
factors and in line with the World Resources 
Institute Greenhouse Gas Protocol (Revised 
Edition). 

We calculate Scope 1 CO2e emissions reduced 
by biomass based on an equivalent energy 
replacement by other fuels used.

These methodologies consider CO2e emissions 
from biomass fuels as climate neutral.

We calculate Scope 2 CO2e emissions from 
electricity in line with the method of the World 
Resources Institute Greenhouse Gas Protocol 
Scope 2 Guidance (2015), using 'International 
Energy Agency (2022) Emissions Factors' 

(published in 2022) and eGRID2020 'Summary 
Table' for emissions factors (published in 2022).

We calculate CO2e intensity as the sum of 
Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions divided 
by revenue, expressed as kg CO2 per USD 
revenue.

Following a materiality analysis on sources of 
Scope 3 CO2e emissions, CRH has reaffirmed 
that the following six categories are the 
most relevant for our business; Category 1: 
Purchased goods and services (including 
capital goods); Category 3: Fuel and energy 
related activities; Category 4: Upstream 
transportation and distribution; Category 5: 
Waste generated in operations; Category 
7: Employee commuting; and Category 9: 
Downstream transportation and distribution. 
We calculate Scope 3 CO2e emissions 
estimations in line with the GHG Protocol's 
Scope 3 Standard and the GHG Protocol's 
Scope 3 Standard for cement companies, 
using the UK Government 'GHG conversion 
factors for company reporting 2022'. Where 
applicable, we apply Scope 3 emissions factors 
for alternative fuels based on actual Scope 1 
and 2 data from CRH operations that process 
waste into fuels. Reported Scope 3 CO2e 
emissions include the most relevant emissions 
categories for CRH operating company 
activities.

All 2020 and 2021 numbers on page  20 are 
presented on an 'As Reported' basis consistent 
with CRH Sustainability Reports. In 2022, in 
order to better reflect our decisions on where 
we source power, we adopted marked based 
Scope 2 carbon emissions approach (location-
based equivalent is 2.3 million tonnes). Note 
the 2021 and 2020 Scope 2 emissions have not 
been restated from location based.

For the purposes of this report, all references 
to carbon emissions (CO2) relate to CO2 
equivalent (CO2e), which include the six 
Greenhouse gases listed in the Kyoto 
Protocol: carbon dioxide (CO2); methane 
(CH4); nitrous oxide (N2O); hydrofluorocarbons 
(HFCs); perfluorocarbons (PFCs); and sulphur 
hexafluoride (SF6). The only exception relates 

67  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report

https://www.crh.com/media/4738/2022-annual-report-and-form-20-f.pdf
https://www.crh.com/media/4738/2022-annual-report-and-form-20-f.pdf
https://gccassociation.org/
https://www.globalreporting.org/
https://www.sasb.org/


to our cement specific net CO2 emissions per 
tonnes of cementitious product metric, which 
is specifically CO2 only in line with the GCCA 
guidelines referenced above. 

For reporting of water, we used the GCCA 
Sustainability Guidelines for the monitoring and 
reporting of water in cement manufacturing.

For reporting energy, we convert quantities 
of energy used to multiples of kWh using 
appropriate calorific values where necessary. 
Data on reduction of energy consumption 
is consolidated from data reported by our 
businesses. 

For reporting co-processing fuels and raw 
materials, we use the GCCA ‘Sustainability 
Guidelines for co-processing fuels and raw 
materials in cement manufacturing’.

Raw material substitution rate is expressed as 
the quantity of alternative raw materials and 
fuels used, expressed as a percentage of the 
total virgin and alternative materials and fuels 
used.

For reporting air emissions, we use the GCCA 
'Sustainability Guidelines for the monitoring 
and reporting of emissions from cement 
manufacturing'. The greater portion of air 
emissions are based on measurements – refer 
to pages  70 to 71 for details of the portion 
of emissions from cement plants covered by 
continuous monitoring systems. Air emissions 
from certain facilities in the US are calculated 
using US EPA AP-42 factors. 

For reporting the number of Locations in 
Physical Climate Risk (drought severity) we 
identify the number of locations (prior year 
location geocoordinate data) which are at 
"High" risk of drought severity expressed as 
a percentage of the total number of locations 
using the World Resource Institute’s (WRI) 
Aqueduct Risk Atlas.

For reporting Recycled Asphalt Pavement 
(RAP) in US asphalt we express the quantity of 
RAP and Recycled Asphalt Shingles (RAS) as 
a percentage of asphalt production across the 
materials operations in the United States.

The reported number of stakeholder 
engagement events are inclusive of a CRH 
defined list of external engagements with open 
days, school/university visits/tours, plant/site 
tours, local community/stakeholder meetings, 
meetings with local political officials, lecturing/
educational workshops, employee family days, 
job fair events/career days.

For reporting local impacts, we use the 
GCCA ‘Sustainability Guidelines for Quarry 
Rehabilitation and Biodiversity Management’.

For reporting the number of extractive 
locations with restoration plans expressed as 
a percentage of the total number of extractive 
locations. An extractive location is a location 
owned or leased by the company at which 
extraction of natural resources takes place by 
the company. A restoration plan (also known 
as an after-use plan) is defined as a plan that 
addresses the lifecycle of rehabilitation and 
mitigation of an extractive location, typically 
beginning with defining the context, setting 
objectives, planning finances, developing and 
implementing the actual plan, all the way to 
monitoring and post-closure management.

For reporting the number of extractive locations 
noted for Biodiversity the term “noted for 
biodiversity” is intended to be a broad term to 
include all locations where biodiversity is being 
protected or enhanced. This is an internal CRH 
definition. Locations may be considered to 
be noted for biodiversity where: The location 
is within a designated area, protected for 
biodiversity; Protected species or habitats are 
present; The location contains habitats where 
local or native species, even if not protected, 
have been observed.

For reporting of safety indicators, we use 
the GCCA' Sustainability Guidelines for the 
monitoring and reporting of safety in cement 
and concrete manufacturing.

For reporting of social indicators, we use full-
time equivalent (FTE) for employee numbers.

Intended audiences

The key audiences for this report are our 
stakeholders including employees, neighbours 
and local communities, current and potential 
investors, sustainability rating agencies, 
customers and suppliers, government and 
regulatory bodies, academia and the scientific 
community, media, Non-Governmental 
Organisations (NGOs) and activist groups. 

We believe that this report provides a 
reasonable and balanced representation of 
the Group’s material sustainability areas of 
impact and opportunity. It is designed to enable 
stakeholders to assess the Group’s performance 
across these areas. 

Reporting challenges

Our reports are written for our stakeholders, 
but with global and local stakeholders in 
29 countries, expectations and needs vary 
significantly. In addition, our diversified 
business means that the internal and external 
context for sustainability is complex. To meet 
these challenges, we focus on stakeholder 
inclusiveness, which, together with our 
materiality and risk management processes, 
helps to ensure we cover key areas in a 
complete and balanced way in our sustainability 
reporting. 

Sustainability reporting is evolving with 
revisions to reporting standards and changing 
best practices. During 2022, we participated 
in consultation processes in relation to 
transparency and reporting on sustainability. 
Looking to the future, we aim to continuously 
improve our reporting and communications on 
sustainability so that all stakeholders are aware 
of our value adding approach. 

68  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report



Data summary We are committed to reporting on the breadth of our sustainability performance. The following non-financial data tables cover subsidiaries on a 
100% basis, unless otherwise stated. GCCA KPIs are included where relevant. For details on external assurance conducted by DNV please see 
pages 84 to 86.

Data summary
 

Environment
Energy 2022 2021 2020

Total energy consumption (TWh) 54.5 57.0 54.8

Total energy consumption (Pj) 196.3 205.0 197.2

Energy use from businesses with energy reduction targets (%) 99% 99% 99%

Energy saved (TWh) 0.47 0.17 0.22

Renewable electricity purchased by CRH (TWh) 1.65 1.67 1.83

Electrical energy from renewable resources (%) 25% 25% 25%

Increase in renewable electricity over the last 5 years (%) 50% 102% 138%

Europe locations certified to ISO 50001 696 775 800

Europe materials activity locations certified to ISO 50001 (%) 56% 69% 67%

Energy conversion costs ($) 2,106m 1,513m 1,241m

Energy conversion costs (% of total cost of sales) 9.6% 7.8% 7.2%

Energy use by source (%)

Alternative fossil and mixed fuels 24% 22% 23%

Natural gas and LPG 23% 23% 24%

Coal 21% 24% 21%

Electricity 12% 13% 13%

Petcoke 13% 12% 13%

Diesel and oils 7% 6% 6%

Other <1% <1% <1%

Energy use by activity (%)

Cement 70% 71% 72%

Materials 19% 18% 17%

Lime 7% 7% 7%

Concrete 4% 3% 3%

Building products <1% 1% 1%

 

CO2 emissions 2022 2021 2020

Total CO2e emissions direct, Scope 1 (tonnes) 31.2m 33.4m 32.4m

Total CO2e emissions indirect, Scope 2 (Location) (tonnes) 2.3m 2.6m 2.6m

Total CO2e emissions indirect, Scope 2 (Market) (tonnes) 2.4m 2.9m 3.0m

Total CO2e emissions indirect, Scope 3 (tonnes) 12.9m 12.0m 10.9m

Total CO2e emissions indirect, Scope 3 Upstream (tonnes)1 12.4m 11.7m 10.6m

Upstream purchased goods (incl. transport) (tonnes) 8.5m 7.5m 6.9m

Upstream fuel and energy related activities (incl. transport) (tonnes) 1.9m 1.8m 1.5m

Upstream transportation and distribution (tonnes) 1.7m 2.1m 1.9m

Upstream waste generated in operations (tonnes) 0.1m 0.1m 0.1m

Upstream employee commuting (tonnes) 0.2m 0.2m 0.2m

Total CO2e emissions indirect, Scope 3 Downstream (tonnes) 0.5m 0.3m 0.3m

Downstream transportation and distribution (tonnes) 0.5m 0.3m 0.3m

Total CO2e emissions, Scope 1 + 2 (Location) (tonnes) 33.5m 36.0m 35.0m

Total CO2e emissions, Scope 1 + 2 (Market) (tonnes) 33.6m 36.3m 35.4m

Total CO2e emissions, Scope 1 + 2 (Location) + 3 (tonnes) 46.4m 48.0m 45.9m

Total CO2e emissions, Scope 1 + 2 (Market) + 3 (tonnes) 46.5m 48.3m 46.3m

Scope 1 emissions by source (%)

Decarbonation 60% 60% 60%

Coal 13% 14% 12%

Alternative fossil and mixed fuels 8% 8% 8%

Natural gas and LPG 8% 7% 8%

Petcoke 7% 7% 8%

Diesel and oils 3% 3% 3%

Transport 1% 1% 1%

Scope 1 emissions by activity (%)

Cement 81% 82% 82%

Lime 11% 10% 10%

Materials 6% 6% 6%

Concrete 1% 1% 1%

Building Products <1% <1% <1%

Transport 1% 1% 1%

CO2e intensity (kg/$ revenue) 1.0 1.2 1.3

 

Energy (GCCA KPIs - cement plants only) 2022 2021 2020

Specific heat consumption for clinker production (kcal per kg of clinker) 897 904 901

Alternative fuel rate (kiln fuels) (%) 36.3% 33.0% 34.3%

Biomass fuel rate (kiln fuels) (%) 11.8% 8.9% 11.3%

1  Estimates for other Scope 3 emissions in 2022 are: upstream capital goods 0.6m tonnes, downstream processing of sold 
goods 0.4m tonnes and downstream end of life treatment of sold products 0.4m tonnes. The information is not collected 
locally for each operation, however it is monitored at a central level. We are assessing the systems needed to collect this 
information centrally. If viable, we would be in a position to report this information in the near term.

69  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report



 

Alternative fuels and materials 2022 2021 2020

Total alternative materials and fuels (tonnes) 42.4m 39.5m 36.5m

Total alternative materials (tonnes) 40.1m 37.4m 34.4m 

Total alternative materials 

Internal by-products (tonnes) 2.8m 3.1m 2.6m

RAP and shingles (tonnes) 11.8m 10.6m 10.5m

C&D waste (tonnes) 12.1m 10.0m 10.5m

Other reused materials (tonnes) 13.4m 13.7m 10.8m

Alternative materials used in cement plants (tonnes) 8.4m 8.0m 8.5m

Alternative materials in cement plants (%)

GGBS 41% 44% 49%

Industrial by-products 27% 23% 23%

Fly-ash 18% 17% 16%

Soils 10% 12% 8%

Internal by-products 4% 4% 4%

Total alternative fuels (tonnes) 2.3m 2.1m 2.1m

Alternative fuels used in cement plants (tonnes) 2.2m 2.1m 2.1m

Alternative fuels used in cement plants - European Union (%) 53% 50% 51%

Alternative fuels used in cement plants (%)

Alternative fossil and mixed fuels 66% 71% 65%

Biomass fuels (incl. biomass cont. from alternative mixed fuels) 34% 29% 35%

 

Transport 2022 2021 2020

Companies with initiatives to optimise transport use (%) 70% 71% 67%

Produced goods delivered with initiatives to optimise transport use (%) 94% 94% 94%

Transport of products by own trucks (%) 24% 25% 24%

Fuel used by our company trucks (litres) 155m 157m 157m

 

Air emissions 2022 2021 2020

Total particulates emissions (dust) (tonnes) 3.7k 3.9k 4.7k

Total NOx emissions (tonnes) 38.3k 42.9k 42.6k

Total SOx emissions (tonnes) 9.5k 16.3k 15.9k

Total Particulates emissions (dust) by activity (%)

Cement 47% 53% 48%

Materials 40% 41% 37%

Lime 7% 5% 5%

Concrete 6% 1% 10%

Building products <1% <1% <1%

Total NOx emissions by activity (%)

Cement 92% 93% 94%

Materials 5% 4% 4%

Lime 3% 3% 2%

Concrete <1% <1% <1%

Building products <1% <1% <1%

Total SOx emissions by activity (%)

Cement 85% 93% 93%

Materials 9% 4% 4%

Lime 4% 3% 3%

Concrete 2% <1% <1%

Building products <1% <1% <1%

 

Emissions (GCCA KPIs - cement plants only) 2022 2021 2020

Overall coverage rate (%) 94.5% 85.0% 83.9%

Coverage rate continuous measurement (%) 99.1% 98.7% 98.8%

Particulates (Total particulate matters emissions)

Specific (g per tonne of clinker) 30 34 31

Absolute (tonnes) 915 1,093 981

Coverage rate (%) 99.1% 98.7% 98.8%

NOx (Sum of nitrogen monoxide and nitrogen dioxide,  
expressed as nitrogen dioxide)

Specific (g per tonne of clinker) 1,116 1,140 1,221

Absolute (tonnes) 34,186 37,041 39,027

Coverage rate (%) 99.1% 98.7% 98.8%

 

CO2 emissions (GCCA KPIs - cement plants only) 2022 2021 2020

Total direct CO2 emissions - gross (tonnes) 25.2m 27.3m 26.5m

Total direct CO2 emissions - net (tonnes) 22.9m 24.9m 24.2m

Specific CO2 emissions - gross (kg/tonne of cementitious product) 624 643 643

Specific CO2 emissions - net (kg/tonne of cementitious product) 566 586 586

70  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report



1  All water consumption is from freshwater sources.

 

Emissions (GCCA KPIs - cement plants only) continued 2022 2021 2020

SOx

Specific (g per tonne of clinker) 227 394 429

Absolute (tonnes) 6,967 12,806 13,722

Coverage rate (%) 99.1% 98.7% 98.8%

VOC/THC(Volatile Organic Compounds or Total Hydrocarbons including 
methane and ethane expressed as carbon (C))

Specific (g per tonne of clinker) 49 39 46

Absolute (tonnes) 1,440 1,214 1,367

Coverage rate (%) 96.2% 95.3% 93.9%

PCDD/F (sum of 17 congeners of NATO scheme expressed as I-TEQ)

Specific (ng per tonne of clinker) 22 21 25

Absolute (mg) 688 693 763

Coverage rate (%) 100.0% 100.0% 94.9%

Hg (Mercury and its compounds expressed as mercury (Hg))

Specific (mg per tonne of clinker) 15 18 21

Absolute (kg) 471 579 657

Coverage rate (%) 100.0% 100.0% 100.0%

HM1 (Sum of cadmium and thallium and their compounds expressed as 
cadmium (Cd) and thallium (Tl)) 

Specific (mg per tonne of clinker) 11 14 12

Absolute (kg) 335 450 342

Coverage rate (%) 100.0% 100.0% 92.1%

HM2 (sum of antimony, arsenic, lead, chromium, cobalt, copper, manga-
nese, nickel and vanadium and their compounds expressed as antimony 
(Sb), arsenic (As), lead (Pb), chromium (Cr), cobalt (Co), copper (Cu), 
manganese (Mn), nickel (Ni) and vanadium (Va))

Specific (mg per tonne of clinker) 356 261 223

Absolute (kg) 10,116 7,882 5,654

Coverage rate (%) 92.7% 93.1% 79.4%

 

Water continued 2022 2021 2020

Total water withdrawal by source (%)

Groundwater 32% 31% 33%

Surface water 25% 22% 24%

Quarry water 24% 21% 21%

Rainwater 12% 15% 13%

Utility water 7% 11% 9%

Total water withdrawal by activity (%)

Materials 74% 75% 72%

Cement 23% 22% 22%

Concrete 2% 2% 5%

Lime 1% 1% 1%

Building products <1% <1% <1%

Total water consumption1(m3) 81.9m 86.8m 79.4m

Locations in Physical Climate Risk - drought severity (%) 0.3% 0.4% 0.2%

Companies which have water management plans (%) 81% 80% 75%

 

Water 2022 2021 2020

Total process water (m3) 254.5m 266.2m 266.2m

Total recycled water (m3) 139.8m 149.9m 156.2m

Total water withdrawal (m3) 114.7m 116.3m 109.9m

Water intake reduction (%) 55% 56% 59%

Locations that recycled water 880 910 903

 

Water (GCCA KPIs - cement plants only) 2022 2021 2020

Total water withdrawal by source (m3) 24.5m 24.4m 23.4m

Groundwater 8.5m 8.1m 8.4m

Surface water 7.0m 6.9m 6.7m

Quarry water 2.6m 2.0m 1.9m

Rainwater 5.6m 5.8m 5.7m

Utility water 0.8m 1.6m 0.7m

Total water consumption 11.6m 10.5m 9.8m

Amount of Water Consumption per unit of cementitious product (litres/t) 289 247 232

Quarry water (not used) discharge (m3) 4.4m n/a n/a 

Total water discharge by destination (m3) 12.8m 13.9m 13.6m

Surface water 12.7m 13.5m 13.3m

Other 0.1m 0.3m 0.2m

Public sewer 60k 120k 98k

71  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report



 

Materials and products 2022 2021 2020

Materials used by weight or volume (total) (tonnes) 442m 454m 424m

Virgin raw materials 391m 402m 371m

Associated process materials 308k 2m 7m

Semi-manufactured components 50m 49m 46m

Packaging materials 217k 179k 374k

Substituted virgin materials (%) 9% 9% 8%

Revenue from products and building solutions with enhanced sustainability 
attributes (%)

47% 47%1 46%

Revenue from products that can be used in certified sustainable building 
schemes (%)

31% 28% 25%

Companies who carried out formal customer surveys (%) 54% 55% 52%

Completed customer surveys indicating above average levels of  
satisfaction (%)

89% 91% 93%

 

Materials and products (GCCA KPIs - cement plants only) 2022 2021 2020

Alternative Raw Materials rate (% ARM) 13.1% 11.9% 13.0%

Clinker/cement (equivalent) factor 77.3 78.4 77.5

 

Effluents and waste 2022 2021 2020

Total water discharge (m3) 32.8m 29.5m 30.6m

Total water discharge by quality and destination (%)

Surface water 88% 83% 79%

Public sewer 1% 3% 9%

Other 11% 14% 12%

Total waste generated (tonnes) 2.5m 2.1m 2.0m

Waste by type and disposal method (tonnes)

Inert waste 1,865k 1,668k 1,381k

Non-hazardous waste 614k 395k 603k

Hazardous waste 36k 40k 49k

Waste externally recycled (%) 90% 86% 78%

Waste recycled (%)

Inert 95% 94% 85%

Non-hazardous 76% 56% 64%

Hazardous 74% 74% 38%

Waste by activity (%)

Materials 53% 58% 56%

Concrete 39% 29% 31%

Building products 1% 5% 6%

Cement 6% 7% 7%

Lime 1% <1% <1%

By-products diverted from waste streams (tonnes) 2.8m 3.1m 2.6m

 

Local impacts 2022 2021 2020

Locations noted for biodiversity 578 507 527

Locations within, containing or adjacent to sensitive areas for biodiversity 412 367 367

Relevant locations in sensitive areas with BMPs in place (%) 92% 90% 91%

Quarry and pit area reinstated (hectares) 556 728 527

Locations preserving cultural heritage 73 74 73

Quarries where rehabilitation plan is implemented (%) 99.5% 99.6% 99.4%

Number of active quarries within, containing or adjacent to areas designated 
for their high biodiversity value (cement)

33 32 32

Sites with community engagement plans in place (cement only) (%) 92% 96% 88%

 

Local impacts (GCCA KPIs - (cement plants only) 2022 2021 2020

Percentage (%) of quarries where rehabilitation plan is implemented 99% 100% 93%

Percentage (%) of quarries with high biodiversity value where biodiversity 
management plan is implemented

76% 78% 84%

 

Environmental management 2022 2021 2020

Locations certified to ISO 14001 EMS 1,032 878 870

Clinker plants ISO 14001 certified (%) 95% 95% 91%

Total external audits 1,489 1,299 1,077

Total internal audits 2,401 2,474 2,041

Fines paid to regulatory authorities ($) $268k $32k $390k

Operational expenditure in environmental protection ($) $149m $137m $115m

Capital expenditure in environmental protection ($) $97m $70m $58m

Investment in environmental protection (%)

Air quality control 29% 33% 26%

Licencing and monitoring 19% 21% 28%

Waste management 15% 17% 17%

Biodiversity and land management 13% 12% 12%

Alternative materials and fuel management 10% 3% 2%

Water and effluent management 9% 9% 10%

Energy monitoring 3% 2% 2%

Other 2% 3% 3%

1  Reported number in 2021 as 46% and restated to reflect impact of discontinued operations.

72  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report



1  Rounded number provided within the report text; the exact number is provided in the table above. 

 

Safety
Safety management 2022 2021 2020

Investment in health and safety over last 5 years ($) $320m $300m $260m 

Operations covered by safety management systems (%) 100% 100% 100%

Locations audited for safety (%) 95% 92% 86%

Locations in Europe certified to OHSAS 18001/ISO 45001 (%) 59% 54% 54%

Accidents investigated (%) 100% 100% 100%

Companies that held safety meetings (%) 100% 100% 100%

Companies that recorded near misses (%) 100% 100% 100%

Managing employee safety

Companies that have employee safety induction (%) 100% 100% 100%

Companies with employee disciplinary measures in place (%) 100% 100% 100%

Companies with risk assessments in place (%) 100% 100% 100%

Managing contractor safety

Number of contractor transport safety checks 153,100 194,300 158,600

Number of contractor disciplinary actions recorded and addressed 2,2351 1,757 1,416

Companies that have contractor site induction (%) 100% 100% 100%

 

Managing accidents 2022 2021 2020

Group fatalities, directly employed 1 1 1

Fatality rate directly employed 0.13 0.13 0.13

Group fatalities, indirectly employed 4 1 2

Group fatalities, involving onsite 3rd parties 0 0 0

Group lost time injuries (LTI) rate per 1 million man hours (Frequency Rate) 
(number)

1.2 1.2 1.4

Group lost time injuries (LTI) rate per 1 million man hours (Severity Rate) 
(number)

35 29 39

Zero accident locations (%) 94% 94% 94%

Average annual accident decrease over last 10 years (Frequency Rate) (%) 7% 8% 8%

Average annual accident decrease over last 10 years (Severity Rate) (%) 5% 7% 6%

Accidents by cause (%)

Slips, trips, falls on the same level 26% 31% 23%

Falling objects or moving objects 21% 17% 22%

Other or multiple causes 13% 15% 13%

Falls from height 12% 9% 9%

Caught in or by fixed machinery 11% 6% 10%

 

Managing accidents continued 2022 2021 2020

Burns by heat or chemicals 6% 3% 4%

Lifting, overloading or overexertion 4% 8% 10%

Caught in or by vehicles, mobile plant 4% 8% 5%

Power tools or electrical equipment 3% 3% 4%

Accidents by injury type (%)

Arms, hands 34% 36% 32%

Legs, feet 34% 30% 34%

Upper body, shoulder 9% 6% 8%

Back 7% 9% 9%

Head, neck 6% 5% 6%

Eye 5% 4% 3%

Multiple body parts 5% 3% 4%

Unspecified or unknown 0% 7% 4%

 

Safety (GCCA KPIs - cement plants only) 2022 2021 2020

Number of fatalities, directly employed 0 0 0

Fatality rate, directly employed 0 0 0

Number of fatalities, indirectly employed 1 0 2

Number of fatalities, involving onsite 3rd parties 0 0 0

Number of lost time injuries, directly employed 26 21 36

LTI frequency rate, directly employed 1.6 1.3 2.1

LTI severity rate, directly employed 69 42 59

Number of lost time injuries, indirectly employed 12 9 25

LTI frequency rate, indirectly employed 0.5 0.4 1.2

 

Safety culture 2022 2021 2020

Employees involved in formal joint management/worker safety dialogue (%) 79% 73% 73%

Health and safety training completed by employees (hours) 1.5m 1.5m 1.4m

Health and safety training completed per employee (hours) 20.2 20.0 19.2

 

Employee health 2022 2021 2020

Companies that had health and wellbeing programmes (%) 99% 99% 98%

Companies offering assistance with employee health insurance (%) 92% 92% 91%

73  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report



 

Social
Our people 2022 2021 2020

Total employees c. 75,800 c. 77,400 c. 77,100

Employees employed locally (%) >95% 95% 95%

Average number of employees at each location 24 24 25

Employees by category (%)

Clerical/admin 19% 17% 17%

Managerial 13% 13% 13%

Operations 68% 70% 70%

Employees by category (% women)

Clerical/admin 47% 46% 45%

Managerial 16% 16% 16%

Operations 7% 7% 7%

Employees by country (%)

United States 51% 53% 50%

Other 20% 18% 18%

United Kingdom 12% 11% 12%

Canada 5% 6% 7%

France 3% 3% 4%

Germany 3% 3% 3%

Ireland 3% 3% 3%

Poland 3% 3% 3%

Employees geographical breakdown (%)

National (country of incorporation - Ireland) 3% 3% 3%

Europe (excl. National part) 38% 36% 37%

North America 57% 59% 57%

South America 0% 0% <1%

Asia/Pacific 2% 2% 2%

Middle East/Africa 0% 0% 0%

Employees length of service (%)

<1 year 19% 17% 11%

1-4 years 28% 27% 31%

5-9 years 18% 18% 18%

10-14 years 9% 10% 11%

15-19 years 9% 10% 10%

20-24 years 7% 8% 8%

>25 years 10% 10% 11%

 

Our people continued 2022 2021 2020

Employees by age (%)

19 or younger 1% 1% <1%

20-24 5% 5% 5%

25-29 9% 9% 9%

30-39 22% 22% 22%

40-49 24% 24% 25%

50-59 26% 26% 27%

60 or older 13% 13% 12%

New employees (%)

Men 84% 85% 87%

Women 16% 15% 13%

New employees by region (%)

Americas 73% 75% 78%

Europe 26% 24% 21%

Asia 1% 1% 1%

Employees turnover

Employee turnover rate % 26% 24% 23%

Men 87% 88% 87%

Women 13% 12% 13%

 

Inclusion and diversity 2022 2021 2020

Board Directors (% women) 33% 33% 42%

Senior managers (% women) 15% 14% 13%

Senior leadership (% women) 19% 22% 16%

Managerial employees in revenue generating positions (% women) 13% 12% 11%

Men employed (%) 84% 85% 86%

Women employed (%) 16% 15% 14%

Graduates recruited into STEM-related positions (% women) 35% 32% 30%

Number of employees with disabilities 1,344 1,168 1,132

Operating companies employing people with disabilities (%) 54% 51% 50%

74  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report



 

Trade union membership and collective bargaining 2022 2021 2020

Overall membership (%) 20% 20% 22%

Lost days due to industrial action (%) 0.10% 0.09% 0.00%

Lost days due to industrial action 18,076 17,042 109

Number of industrial disputes across operating companies 10 7 7

Employees with wages negotiated individually (%) 40% 39% 36%

Employees with wages negotiated with unions (%) 28% 29% 31%

Employees with wages negotiated through national deals (%) 4% 3% 3%

Wage reviews carried out on individual basis or through trade unions or 
national deals (%)

72% 71% 70%

 

Employee engagement (%) 2022 2021 2020

Employees participating in regular employee briefings 90% 89% 87%

Employees surveyed formally for employee engagement and satisfaction 55% 54% 48%

Employee engagement scoring in the "engaged" or higher categories 100% 100% 100%

 

Local communities 2022 2021 2020

Donations ($) $7.2m $7.1m $8.3m

Number of stakeholder engagement events (approx.) 1,500 1,100 810

Number of educational interactions over a two year period 1,880 930 n/a

Number of people participating over a two year period 73,900 28,400 n/a

 

Training and professional development 2022 2021 2020

Total training hours 2.3m 2.4m 2.1m

Employees who received some training in the reporting year (%) 97% 97% 96%

Employee training by category (% of total training hours)

Clerical/admin 13% 12% 13%

Managerial 14% 13% 12%

Operations 73% 75% 75%

Type of training received (hours per employee)

Environmental 1.2 0.8 0.6

Human rights 0.8 0.9 0.9

Management and other education 7.0 5.3 3.8

Quality, technical and IT 1.9 4.0 4.0

Safety 20.2 20.0 19.2

Employees Receiving COBC and ACT training

Relevant employees trained in Code of Business Conduct (COBC) c. 31,500 c. 32,600 c. 32,100

Employees receiving Advanced Compliance Training (ACT) c. 10,700 c. 8,500 c. 9,000

Employee professional development

Operating companies that offered career development opportunities or advice 
to employees (%)

87% 86% 86%

Employees receiving career development (%)

Clerical/admin 51% 47% 40%

Managerial 65% 67% 59%

Operations 48% 47% 42%

75  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report



SASB is an independent, private sector standards-setting organisation, dedicated to enhancing the efficiency of the capital markets, by fostering high-quality disclosure of 
material sustainability information that meets investor needs. The table below cross-references the SASB accounting metrics with where that information can be found in the 
CRH Sustainability Report 2022 (labelled pg.  ). 

 

Topic Accounting metric Units SASB Code Reference
Greenhouse gas emissions

Gross global Scope 1 emissions Metric tonnes (t) CO2-e EM-CM-110a.1 pg.   20, pg.   67 and pg.   69. CO2 is the only material GHG.

Percentage covered under emissions-limiting regulations Percentage (%) EM-CM-110a.1 pg.   22 and pg.   67.

Discussion of long-term and short-term strategy or plan to manage Scope 1 emissions, 
emissions reduction targets, and an analysis of performance against those targets

n/a EM-CM-110a.2 pg.   17-18 and pg.   20-23. 

Air quality

1. NOx (excluding N2O) Metric tonnes (t) EM-CM-120a.1 pg.   70-71.

2. SOx Metric tonnes (t) EM-CM-120a.1 pg.   70-71.

3. Particulate matter (PM10) Metric tonnes (t) EM-CM-120a.1 pg.   70-71. Total Particulates as reported accounts for all particulate matter as measured; a portion of this would 
include PM10 (i.e. particulate matter with particles having diameters less than 10 micrometers in size).

4. Dioxins/furans Metric tonnes (t) EM-CM-120a.1 pg.   71. Cement is the only material activity reporting dioxins/furans.

5. Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) Metric tonnes (t) EM-CM-120a.1 pg.   71. We disclose VOCs in line with GCCA requirements.

6. Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) Metric tonnes (t) EM-CM-120a.1 pg.   71.

7. Heavy metals Metric tonnes (t) EM-CM-120a.1 pg.   71. Cement is the only material activity reporting Hg and HM1.

Energy management

1. Total energy consumed Gigajoules (GJ) EM-CM-130a.1 pg.   21 and pg.   79.

2. Percentage grid electricity Percentage (%) EM-CM-130a.1 pg.   69.

3. Percentage alternative Percentage (%) EM-CM-130a.1 pg.   69.

4. Percentage renewable Percentage (%) EM-CM-130a.1 pg.   21 and pg.   69.

Water management

1. Total fresh water withdrawn Thousand cubic metres 
(m³)

EM-CM-140a.1 pg.   34 and pg.   71. All water withdrawal is from freshwater sources and reported in 
million cubic metres.

2. Percentage recycled Percentage (%) EM-CM-140a.1 Information on the number of sites that recycle water and percentage of water intake 
reduced can be found on pg.   34 and pg.   76.

3. Percentage in regions with "High" or "Extremely High" baseline water stress Percentage (%) EM-CM-140a.1 We have conducted water stress assessments in accordance with WRI's Aqueduct Risk Atlas Tool and determined that 
<1% of active locations are in high or extremely high-risk areas of water stress, and that Group activities do not highly 
impact on water, and locations generally do not operate in water-stressed areas. See pg.   34 for more information.

Waste management

Amount of waste generated Metric tonnes (t) EM-CM-150a.1 pg.   27, pg   29 and pg.   72.

Percentage hazardous Percentage (%) EM-CM-150a.1 pg.   27 and pg.   72.

Percentage recycled Percentage (%) EM-CM-150a.1 pg.   27.

Biodiversity impacts

Description of environmental management policies and practices for active sites n/a EM-CM-160a.1 pg.   37 and pg.   65.

Terrestrial acreage disturbed Acres (ac) EM-CM-160a.2 Information on restoration planning processes and relevant targets can be found on pg.   37, and pg.   40.

Percentage of impacted area restored Percentage (%) EM-CM-160a.2 Information on restoration planning processes and relevant targets can be found on pg.   37, and pg.   40.

Workforce health and safety

1. Total recordable incident rate (TRIR) Rate EM-CM-320a.1 pg.   73. We disclose our safety KPIs in line with GCCA requirements.

2. Near miss frequency rate (NMFR) for (a) full-time employees Rate EM-CM-320a.1 pg.   73. We disclose our safety KPIs in line with GCCA requirements.

2. Near miss frequency rate (NMFR) for (b) contract employees Rate EM-CM-320a.1 pg.   73. We disclose our safety KPIs in line with GCCA requirements.

Number of reported cases of silicosis Rate EM-CM-320a.2 Information on the management of occupational health can be found on pg.   47.

Product innovation

 Percentage of products that qualify for credits in sustainable building design and 
construction certifications

Percentage (%) by 
annual sales revenue

EM-CM-410a.1 pg.   27.

Total addressable market for products that reduce energy, water, and/or material impacts 
during usage and/or production

Reporting currency EM-CM-410a.2 pg.   18, pg.   21-23, pg.   26-27 and pg.   29.

Share of market for products that reduce energy, water, and/or material impacts during 
usage and/or production

Percentage (%) EM-CM-410a.2 pg.   18, pg.   21-23, pg.    26-27 and pg.   29.

Pricing integrity and transparency

Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with  
cartel activities, price fixing, and anti-trust activities

Reporting currency EM-CM-520a.1 In 2022, CRH had zero monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with these activities, per 
SASB’s guidance.

SASB

76  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report

 » SASB



Statement of use CRH plc has reported in accordance with the GRI Standards for the period 1 January to 31 December 2022.

GRI 1 used GRI 1: Foundation 2021

GRI 2 General Disclosures
GRI Code Description 2022 Reference Comment

The organisation and its reporting practices

2-1 Organisational Details pg.   77; AR pg. 181, 275. See comment. CRH is a plc, incorporated in Ireland. The Group’s worldwide headquarters is located in Dublin, Ireland.

2-2 Entities included in the organisation’s sustainability reporting pg.  67; AR pg. 290-293

2-3 Reporting period, frequency and contact point pg.   67, 88. See comment. Reporting period: 1 January to 31 December. Point of contact: Telephone: +353 1 404 1000. E-mail: mail@crh.com

2-4 Restatements of information pg.   77. See comment. No restatements.

2-5 External assurance pg.   67, 84-85

Activities and workers

2-6 Activities, value chain and other business relationships
pg.   05, 14, 18, 30, 62-63;  
AR pg. 2-3, 68-79, 290-295

2-7 Employees pg.   05, 49, 52, 74-75. See comment.

Note that 53% of employees are employed on permanent contracts, 2% on fixed term contracts, 1% on temporary 
contracts and 44% on another basis. As only 1% of staff are on temporary contracts, it is estimated that the standard 
gender breakdown - 16% women - applies to both permanent and temporary staff. Overall, approximately 2% of 
employees are part-time. It is estimated that 47% of part-time staff are women, while 16% of full-time staff are women 
Note that the data in the tables on pages  74 and  75 includes both permanent and temporary employees. CRH does 
not collect contract data by gender. Employee numbers are reported as FTE as outlined in the Annual Report however the 
analysis data is provided by head count as on the 31 December 2022. Changes in employee number have occurred due to 
divestments and acquisitions.

2-8 Workers who are not employees pg.   45, 74-75
Information incomplete. This information is monitored at a local level for each operation. We are assessing the systems 
needed to collect this information centrally. If viable, we would be in a position to report this information in
the near term.

Governance

2-9 Governance structure and composition pg.   59; AR pg. 82-85,89-90,100

2-10 Nomination and selection of the highest governance body pg.   59; AR pg. 88-90, 98-102

2-11 Chair of the highest governance body pg.   59; AR pg. 82, 88-90

2-12
Role of the highest governance body in overseeing the management 
of impacts

pg.   23, 37, 44, 49, 52, 59, 65-66; 
AR pg. 87, 88-90, 92, 94-95

2-13 Delegation of responsibility for managing impacts pg.   59; AR pg. 94-95

2-14 Role of the highest governance body in sustainability reporting pg.   59, 67

2-15 Conflicts of interest pg.   60; AR pg. 88-90, 98-99; GA pg. 2

2-16 Communication of critical concerns pg.   60; AR pg. 88-89, 101. See comment.
Confidentiality concerns: CRH does not disclose the minutes of Board meetings as this may include commercially-
sensitive information.

2-17 Collective knowledge of the highest governance body pg.   59; AR pg. 82-84, 90, 94-96

2-18 Evaluation of the performance of the highest governance body pg.   59, 77; AR pg. 88, 90. GA pg. 1-2. See comment. For further details of the Board Effectiveness Review, refer to the Governance Appendix, available on crh.com.

2-19 Remuneration policies pg. AR pg. 108-132

2-20 Process to determine remuneration pg. AR pg. 108-132

2-21 Annual total compensation ratio pg.   77; AR pg. 127-129. See comment.

Information incomplete, CRH does not centrally collect data on the level of pay to each of its employees in all countries 
(required for median pay figure). This data has been published at operating company level for 19% of the Group 
employees overall. CRH reviews annually the scope of data collection and where appropriate and practicable in future 
will gather and report on this topic.

Strategy, policies and practices

2-22 Statement on sustainable development strategy pg.   4, 7-8

2-23 Policy commitments pg.   59-63, 65-66, 77; AR pg. 134-156. See comment.
Link to the Code of Business Conduct: https://www.crh.com/sustainability/codes-of-conduct
Link to the Global Compact: https://unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc/participants/153008-CRH-plc

Where relevant, GRI Standards reference indicator codes are shown with either the relevant figure or the page number where the information may be found. Pages 
within the Sustainability Report are labelled [“pg.  ”] while “AR.” refers to the page number within the CRH 2022 Annual Report and Form 20-F, “GA.” refers to the 
CRH 2022 Governance Appendix and "TS" refers to the CRH Tax Strategy. GRI covers all Group subsidiary companies, on a 100% basis. For details on external 
assurance conducted by DNV please see pages 84-86. 

GRI index

77  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report

https://www.crh.com/media/4729/governance-appendix-2022.pdf
https://www.crh.com/sustainability/codes-of-conduct
https://unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc/participants/153008-CRH-plc


GRI Code Description 2022 Reference Comment
Strategy, policies and practices continued

2-24 Embedding policy commitments pg.   59-62

2-25 Processes to remediate negative impacts pg.   60-61, 77. See comment.
Grievance mechanism user inputs and effectiveness are currently managed through an informal process however, 
we are working to move through our Speak Up Programme and new reporting platform to formalise these inputs and 
measurements.

2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising concerns pg.   60-61

2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations pg.   34, 37, 60-61

2-28 Membership associations pg.   23, 41-42, 46, 55, 62

Stakeholder engagement

2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement pg.   12-13, 52, 55-56; AR pg. 42, 44-45

2-30 Collective bargaining agreements pg.   54, 75

Disclosures on material topics

3-1 Process to determine material topics pg.   12-13, 67

3-2 List of material topics pg.   13

GRI 3 Material Topics
GRI 201 Economic Performance

3-3 Management of material topics
pg.   3, 5, 12-14, 61-63, 67-68; 
AR pg. 44-45, 82-84, 88-89

201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed
$32.7 billion sales. pg.   78; 
AR pg. 1, 3, 63. See comment.

CRH discloses financial information in the Annual Report and Form 20-F in line with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS). CRH also publishes a Payments to Governments for Extractive Activities Report, available on crh.com.

201-2
Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to 
climate change

pg.   17-18, 20-22, 27; AR pg. 56-59, 150-156

201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans pg.   78; AR pg. 234-238. See comment.
Information unavailable on the level of participation in retirement plans as CRH does not centrally. CRH reviews annually 
the scope of data collection and where appropriate and practicable in future will gather and report on this topic.

201-4 Financial assistance received from government pg.   78. See comment. No significant assistance.

GRI 202 Market Presence

3-3 Management of material topics
pg.   5, 12, 13, 52, 56, 61, 78. 
AR pg. 2-5, 44-45. See comment

Note that the topics covered by the indicators within this GRI standard are managed through our Social Policy, they are 
evaluated and monitored through our Social Review; the results of the Social Review are reviewed by the CRH Board.

202-1
Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local 
minimum wage

pg.   78. See comment.
Confidentiality constraints. CRH does not publicly disclose this information for confidentiality reasons due to 
commercial sensitivities around operational activities in individual countries.

202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community pg.   78. See comment.
Confidentiality constraints. CRH does not publicly disclose this information for confidentiality reasons due to 
commercial sensitivities around operational activities in individual countries.

GRI 204 Procurement Practices

3-3 Management of material topics pg.   61-63

204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers pg.   61-62, 78. See comment.
Information unavailable however, it is monitored at a local level for each operation. CRH reviews annually the scope of 
data collection and where appropriate and practicable in future will gather and report on this topic.

GRI 205 Anti-corruption

3-3 Management of material topics pg.   12-13, 59-60; AR pg. 44-45, 101, 134, 145

205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption pg.   59-60, 78; AR pg. 101, 134. See comment.
100% of operations are assessed for risks related to corruption. Further details on risks are disclosed in the 2022 
Annual Report and Form 20-F, available on crh.com.

205-2
Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and 
procedures

pg.   59-60, 78; AR pg. 101, 134, 145. See comment.
Information unavailable, contractual agreements with business partners may prevent reporting. CRH reviews annually 
the scope of data collection and where appropriate and practicable in future will gather and report on this topic.

205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken pg.   59-60, 78; See comment.
Note that there were no investigations or legal cases from external parties into allegations of corruption against CRH 
or any of its group businesses in 2022. No contracts with business partners were terminated or not renewed due to 
violations related to corruption.

GRI 206 Anti-competitive Behaviour

3-3 Management of material topics pg.   12-13, 59-60

206-1
Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and  
monopoly practices

pg.   59-60, 78. See comment.
Confidentiality constraints. CRH does not publicly disclose this information for confidentiality reasons due to 
commercial sensitivities around operational activities in individual countries.

78  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report

https://www.crh.com/media/4206/payments-to-governments-report-2021.pdf
https://www.crh.com/media/4738/2022-annual-report-and-form-20-f.pdf


GRI 3 Material Topics Continued

GRI Code Description 2022 Reference Comment
GRI 207 Tax

3-3 Management of material topics pg.   14, 60; TS pg. 2

207-1 Approach to tax pg.   60, 79; TS pg. 2-3. See comment. For further details of CRH's approach to taxation, refer to the CRH Tax Strategy, available on crh.com.

207-2 Tax governance, control, and risk management pg.   59-60, 79; TS pg. 3. See comment.
For further details of CRH's tax governance and risk management frameworks, refer to the CRH Tax Strategy, available 
on crh.com.

207-3
Stakeholder engagement and management of concerns  
related to tax

pg.   55, 79; TS pg. 2. See comment.
For further details of CRH's engagement and management of concerns related to tax, refer to the CRH Tax Strategy, 
available on crh.com.

207-4 Country-by-country reporting pg.   79. See comment.
Confidentiality constraints. CRH does not publicly disclose this information for confidentiality reasons due to commercial 
sensitivities around operational activities in individual countries. 

GRI 301 Materials

3-3 Management of material topics pg.   12-13, 22, 27, 29, 61, 65

301-1 Materials used by weight or volume pg.   27, 29, 70, 72, 79. See comment.
The materials used in CRH products are not based on renewable materials, but all of CRH's materials produced are 
recyclable. 

301-2 Recycled input materials used pg.   27-29, 72. See comment.

Alternative raw materials are those that replace traditional raw materials. For CRH, the more significant alternative raw 
materials used are non-renewable materials such as recycled asphalt pavement (RAP) and recycled asphalt shingles 
(RAS), construction and demolition (C&D) waste and materials with cementitious properties, such as fly ash and ground 
granulated blast-furnace slag (GGBS), which are by-product materials sourced mainly from external power generation 
and steel production to replace virgin materials in cement, concrete and concrete products.

301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials pg.   79. See comment. Not applicable for CRH as most product (by weight) is delivered in bulk, without packaging.

GRI 302 Energy

3-3 Management of material topics pg.   12-13, 20-22, 26-27, 61, 65, 84-85 

302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation
pg.   67, 69, 70, 79.
(196.3 PJ) (54.5 TWh) See comment.

In 2022, total energy consumption was reported as 196.3 Pj; electricity 24.1 Pj, heating 172.2 Pj, cooling n/a, steam n/a. 
The total fuel consumption from non-renewable sources was reported as 49.1 Pj and renewable sources was reported 
as 147.2 Pj. Note that CRH is not an energy producer and sale of energy is not a focus of the Group.

302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organisation pg.   79. See comment.
Information unavailable / incomplete. This information is not centrally collected, however it is monitored at a local level 
for each operation. We are assessing the systems needed to collect this information centrally. If viable, we would be in a 
position to report this information in the near term.

302-3 Energy intensity pg.   69, 79. See comment. Energy intensity for cement is 897 kcal/kg clinker. Refers to kiln fuels (internal energy).

302-4 Reduction of energy consumption pg.   20-21, 67, 69, 79. See comment.
Reduction of energy are across all energy sources (solid, liquid, gaseous and electrical). Energy savings are 
consolidated based on year-on-year reductions.

302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services pg.   27, 76, 79. See comment.
Information unavailable / incomplete. This information is not centrally collected, however it is monitored at a local level 
for each operation. We are assessing the systems needed to collect this information centrally. If viable, we would be in a 
position to report this information in the near term.

GRI 303 Water and Effluents

3-3 Management of material topics pg.   12, 13, 15, 22, 23, 31-34, 61, 65

303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource pg.   34

303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts pg.   32, 36, 79. See comment.
The specific choice of water quality standards and parameters can vary depending on an organisation’s products, 
services, and facility locations, and can depend on national and/or regional regulations, as well as the profile of the 
receiving waterbody.

303-3 Water withdrawal pg.   34, 67, 71, 79. See comment.

None identified as significantly affected. In 2022, total water withdrawal was reported as 114,7m3, freshwater 114.7m3 
and other n/a. In 2022, total water withdrawal in areas of water stress was reported as 1.9m m3; surface water 0.3m m3, 
groundwater 1.2m m3, quarry water 0.3m m3, rainwater <0.1m m3, utility water 0.1m m3. In 2022, total water withdrawal 
in areas of water stress was reported as 1.9m m3; fresh water 1.9m m3 and other n/a.

303-4 Water discharge pg.   34, 67, 71, 79. See comment.
In 2022, total water discharge was reported as 32.8m m3; freshwater 32.8m m3 and other 0.0m m3. In 2022, total 
water discharge in areas of water stress was reported as 1.3m m3; fresh water 1.3m3 and other n/a. Any substances of 
concern are regulated through discharge licences.

303-5 Water consumption pg.   34, 67, 71, 79. See comment. In 2022, total water consumption in areas of water stress was reported as 0.6m m3. Water storage is not material.

79  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report

https://www.crh.com/media/4372/crh-tax-strategy.pdf
https://www.crh.com/media/4372/crh-tax-strategy.pdf
https://www.crh.com/media/4372/crh-tax-strategy.pdf


GRI 3 Material Topics Continued

GRI Code Description 2022 Reference Comment
GRI 304 Biodiversity

3-3 Management of material topics pg.   12-13, 40-42, 65

304-1
Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, 
protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected 
areas

pg.   40-41, 72, 79. See comment.
Information unavailable / incomplete. This information is not centrally collected, however it is monitored at a local level 
for each operation. We are assessing the systems needed to collect this information centrally. If viable, we would be in a 
position to report this information in the near term.

304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products and services on biodiversity pg.   36-42

304-3 Habitats protected or restored pg.   36-42, 72, 80. See comment.
Information unavailable / incomplete. This information is not centrally collected, however it is monitored at a local level 
for each operation. We are assessing the systems needed to collect this information centrally. If viable, we would be in a 
position to report this information in the near term.

304-4
IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with 
habitats in areas affected by operations

pg.   80. See comment.
Information unavailable / incomplete. This information is not centrally collected, however it is monitored at a local level 
for each operation. We are assessing the systems needed to collect this information centrally. If viable, we would be in a 
position to report this information in the near term.

GRI 305 Emissions

3-3 Management of material topics pg.   12-13, 17-24, 61, 65

305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions pg.   20, 67, 69-70, 80. See comment. Biogenic emissions are not included in the scope of the factors used.

305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions pg.   20, 67, 69-70, 80.

305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions pg.   20, 67, 69-70, 80.

305-4 GHG emissions intensity pg.   20, 80. See comment. In 2022, Greenhouse Gas Emissions Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO2e emissions were 1.0 kg/$ revenue.

305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions pg.   20, 67

305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) pg.   80. See comment. No significant emissions.

305-7
Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other significant 
air emissions

pg.   36-39, 67, 69-71

GRI 306 Waste

3-3 Management of material topics pg.   12-13, 26-27, 29, 61, 65

306-1 Waste generation and significant waste-related impacts pg.   25-27, 29, 72 

306-2 Management of significant waste-related impacts pg.   10, 22, 26, 27, 29, 72 

306-3 Waste generated pg.   27, 29, 72 
Breakdown of waste by: inert (1.86m tonnes), hazardous (0.04m tonnes) and non-hazardous (0.61m tonnes) and there 
were two methods of waste treatment: recycling (2.27m tonnes) and disposal (0.24m tonnes).

306-4 Waste diverted from disposal pg.   29, 72 

Although all waste is managed in line with local waste regulations [entailing a third-party issuing regular reports and 
chains of custody of waste removed from site], this information is not centrally collected. Instead it is monitored at a 
local level for each operation. We are assessing the systems needed to collect this information centrally. If viable, we 
would be in a position to report this information in the near term.

306-5 Waste directed to disposal pg.   29, 72 

Although all waste is managed in line with local waste regulations [entailing a third-party issuing regular reports and 
chains of custody of waste removed from site], this information is not centrally collected. Instead it is monitored at a 
local level for each operation. We are assessing the systems needed to collect this information centrally. If viable, we 
would be in a position to report this information in the near term.

GRI 308 Supplier Environmental Assessment

3-3 Management of material topics pg.   61-63

308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria pg.   61-63, 80. See comment.

Information unavailable / incomplete. Note that CRH’s Supplier Code of Conduct, available on crh.com, includes safety, 
environmental, labour practice, human rights, society and other people and community criteria; screening and audits 
reflect all these criteria. The percentage of new suppliers screened using environmental criteria is not available. CRH 
does not gather data in the categories required by GRI, refer to the pages referenced for details on our approach to 
supplier assessment. CRH reviews annually the scope of data collection and where appropriate and practicable in 
future will gather and report on this topic.

80  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report

https://www.crh.com/media/2984/crh-supplier-code-of-conduct-2019.pdf


GRI 3 Material Topics Continued

GRI Code Description 2022 Reference Comment
GRI 308 Supplier Environmental Assessment Continued

308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken pg.   61-63, 80. See comment.
Information unavailable / incomplete. CRH does not gather data in the categories required by GRI, refer to the pages 
referenced for details on our approach to supplier assessment. CRH reviews annually the scope of data collection and 
where appropriate and practicable in future will gather and report on this topic.

GRI 401 Employment

3-3 Management of material topics pg.   12-13, 52-54, 61, 65-66 

401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover pg.   54, 74, 81. See comment.

Turnover in the region "Americas" is 73% and in the region "Europe and Asia" is 27%. Turnover in the category "under 
30 years" is 30%, in the category "30-49 years" is 44% and in the category "over 50 years" is 26%. In 2022, the 
Voluntary Turnover at CRH was 17% (2021: 15%). In 2022, 26% of our employees were newly recruited (2021: 25%). 
New hire age profile; "under 30 years" is 35%, "30-49 years" is 45%, and "over 50 years" is 20%. Overall, 60% of 
managerial positions were filled internally (2021: 33%). Group wide, 10% (2021: 9.4%) of employee positions were filled 
by internal candidates in 2022.

401-2
Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to 
temporary or part-time employees

pg.   54, 81. See comment. Not applicable due to regional differences in employee benefits and national social systems.

401-3 Parental leave pg.   54, 81. See comment.
Information unavailable. CRH does not collect this information centrally, however it is monitored at a local level for each 
operation. CRH reviews annually the scope of data collection and where appropriate and practicable in future will gather 
and report on this topic.

GRI 403 Occupational Health and Safety

3-3 Management of material topics pg.   12-23, 44-48, 65-66

403-1 Occupational health and safety management system pg.   44, 65-66

403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation pg.   44-46, 60, 65-66, 81. See comment.
Accidents to women account for 4% of total accidents and 3% of total work days lost in 2022. Accident data cannot be 
disclosed by region due to confidentiality concerns.

403-3 Occupational health services pg.   47

403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational 
health and safety pg.   45, 47, 55

403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety pg.   45, 47, 73

403-6 Promotion of worker health pg.   47

403-7
Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts 
directly linked by business relationships

pg.   47

403-8
Workers covered by an occupational health and safety management 
system

pg.   45, 47, 65-66, 73 

403-9 Work-related injuries pg.   46, 73, 81. See comment.
Information unavailable. This data is collected internally. CRH reviews annually the scope of data collection and where 
appropriate and practicable in the future will gather and report on this topic.

403-10 Work-related ill health pg.   46-47, 73, 81. See comment.
In 2022, employee absenteeism was 2.4% in total, with 81% in the category "medically certified", 14% in the 
category "medically uncertified", 3% in the category "other" and 2% in the category "accidental injury". The employee 
occupational illness rate was 0.25 cases per million work-hours. Information unavailable for contractors. 

GRI 404 Training and Education

3-3 Management of material topics pg.   12-13, 53, 59-61

404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee pg.   45, 53, 75, 81. See comment.
Note that relevant training is provided regardless of gender. In 2022, on average c. $1,150 per employee was spent on 
training.

404-2
Programmes for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance 
programmes

pg.   53-54

404-3
Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 
development reviews

pg.   53, 75, 81. See comment. Note that performance reviews are provided regardless of gender.

81  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report



GRI 3 Material Topics Continued

GRI Code Description 2022 Reference Comment
GRI 405 Diversity and Equal Opportunity

3-3 Management of material topics pg.   12-13, 49-50, 65-66; AR pg. 85, 98-99

405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees
pg.   12-13, 49-50, 74, 82; AR pg. 82-85, 98-99.
See comment.

In the United States, 86% of the employees are White, 9% Black and 5% Other. In 2022, there were 17% Latino/
Hispanics in the workforce. Where diversity differences exist compared to the communities we operate in, there are 
mitigation plans in place. In Europe, 86% of employees were reported as being “National”.

405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men pg.   82. See comment.

Information incomplete, CRH does not centrally collect data on the level of pay to each of its employees in all countries. 
This data has been published at operating company level for 19% of the Group employees overall. CRH reviews 
annually the scope of data collection and where appropriate and practicable in future will gather and report on this 
topic. In 2022, 13% of our managerial employees in revenue generating roles were women. This feeds into our overall 
I&D target of 33% of women in senior management roles. In 2022, 35% of graduates recruited into STEM-related 
positions were women.

GRI 406 Non-discrimination

3-3 Management of material topics pg.   49-50, 59-61

406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken pg.   61-63, 82. See comment.
There were a total of 8 proven instances of discrimination in 2022, reported through our Social Review. All were 
investigated fully with policies and training reinforced wherever necessary and disciplinary action taken as appropriate.

GRI 407 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining

3-3 Management of material topics pg.   54, 61-63, 65-66

407-1
Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association 
and collective bargaining may be at risk

pg.   54, 61-63, 66, 82. See comment.

Information incomplete however, it is monitored at a local level for each operation. CRH reviews annually the scope 
of data collection and where appropriate and practicable in the future will gather and report on this topic. For further 
details of CRH's position on freedom of association and collective bargaining, refer to the CRH Modern Slavery 
Statement, available on crh.com.

GRI 408 Child Labour

3-3 Management of material topics pg.   54, 61-63, 65-66

408-1
Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents
of child labour

pg.   61, 82. See comment.

Information incomplete however, it is monitored at a local level for each operation. CRH reviews annually the scope 
of data collection and where appropriate and practicable in the future will gather and report on this topic. For further 
details of CRH's position on forced or compulsory labour, refer to the CRH Modern Slavery Statement, available on  
crh.com.

GRI 409 Forced or Compulsory Labour

3-3 Management of material topics pg.   54, 61-63, 65-66 

409-1
Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced
or compulsory labour

pg.   82. See comment.

Information incomplete however, it is monitored at a local level for each operation. CRH reviews annually the scope 
of data collection and where appropriate and practicable in the future will gather and report on this topic. For further 
details of CRH's position on forced or compulsory labour, refer to the CRH Modern Slavery Statement, available on  
crh.com.

GRI 410 Security Practices

3-3 Management of material topics pg.   61, 59, 65-66, 82. See comment. Operating companies operate in accordance with the Social Policy and CoBC.

410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures pg.   82. See comment.
Note that in 2022, 34% of operating companies had security personnel onsite and 100% of companies provided human 
rights training to security personnel. Training is generally equally provided to security personnel that are the employees 
of third parties.

GRI 413 Local Communities

3-3 Management of material topics pg.   12-13, 55-57, 61

413-1
Operations with local community engagement, impact  
assessments, and development programmes

pg.   56-57, 60-61, 72, 82. See comment.
Note that 77% of companies carried out human rights assessments, similar to the past 3 years (Europe: 69%, 
Americas: 87%, Asia: 75%). The challenge of gender diversity was the only topic reported to have been identified.

413-2
Operations with significant actual and potential negative  
impacts on local communities

pg.   55-57, 72, 82; AR pg. 266-267. 
See comment.

Not applicable. Note that potential negative impacts from dust, noise, blasting and traffic are mitigated against and 
associated mainly with extractive locations, the physical location and numbers of these are listed in the Annual Report. 
No significant impacts on local communities in 2022.

82  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report

https://www.crh.com/sustainability/codes-of-conduct
https://www.crh.com/sustainability/codes-of-conduct
https://www.crh.com/sustainability/codes-of-conduct


GRI 3 Material Topics Continued

GRI Code Description 2022 Reference Comment
GRI 414 Supplier Social Assessment

3-3 Management of material topics pg.   61-63

414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria pg.   61-63, 83. See comment.
100% of new suppliers were screened in line with the CRH Supplier Code of Conduct. For further details supplier 
screening, refer to the CRH Modern Slavery Statement, available on crh.com.

414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken pg.   61-63, 83. See comment.

At commodity level our supplier assessment approach is phased over time and geographically. Data from operations 
is not available in the breakdown required in this GRI Standard, and the definition of what is 'significant' will vary 
depending on location and commodity category. Where increased digitisation of supply chain management permits the 
production of data for this Standard, we will publish it. For further details on potential impacts in our supply chain, refer 
to the CRH Modern Slavery Statement, available on crh.com.

GRI 415 Public Policy

3-3 Management of material topics pg.    83; AR pg. 90, 104-105, 152. See comment. 
Not applicable. No significant contributions. For further details on our policy positions, refer to the CRH Climate 
Advocacy Review, available on crh.com.

415-1 Political contributions pg.   83; AR pg. 48. See comment. Not applicable. No significant contributions. 

GRI 416 Customer Health and Safety

3-3 Management of material topics pg.   45, 62, 65-66

416-1
Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product
and service categories

pg.   45, 62. See comment.
No products are known to require improvements relating to health & safety impacts, all our products are manufactured 
to the highest national and regional technical standards and specifications and are independently certified. In addition, 
many of our businesses operate to ISO 9001 Quality Management Systems, further guaranteeing product quality.

416-2
Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health
and safety impacts of products and services

pg.   83. See comment. No non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes was reported in 2022.

GRI 417 Marketing and Labeling

3-3 Management of material topics pg.   26-30, 46, 65, 66, 72

417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling pg.   26-30, 46, 65, 66, 72

417-2
Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service
information and labeling

pg.   83. See comment. None known.

417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications pg.   62, 83. See comment. The organisation has not identified any non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes.

GRI 418 Customer Privacy

3-3 Management of material topics pg.   83. See comment. The organisation has not identified any non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes.

418-1
Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer
privacy and losses of customer data

pg.   83. See comment. In 2022, there were no substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data.

83  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report

https://www.crh.com/sustainability/codes-of-conduct
https://www.crh.com/sustainability/codes-of-conduct
https://www.crh.com/sustainability/codes-of-conduct


Independent Limited Assurance Report to CRH plc
Scope of engagement 

DNV Business Assurance Services UK Limited (“DNV ”, “us” or “we”) were commissioned by CRH Group Services Limited 
to provide limited assurance to CRH plc (“CRH”) over the Subject Matter presented in CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance 
Report - Solutions for a sustainable future (the “Report”) for the reporting year ended 31st December 2022. 

Subject matter

The scope and boundary of our work is restricted to the following areas (collectively the “Subject Matter”):

1. ISAE 3000 Selected Information 
The performance indicators included within the Report (the “Selected Information”), are listed in Annex I in the tables: Group 
Level Indicators and GCCA Indicators and reported on pages  69 to 75 of CRH's Report.

To assess the Selected Information, which includes an assessment of the risk of material misstatement in the Report, we have 
used CRH's Reporting History, scope and basis section (the "Data Criteria"), which can be found on pages  67 to 68 of the 
Report. 

2. AA1000 Principles

The nature and extent of adherence of the Report to the AA1000 AccountAbility principles of inclusivity, materiality, 
responsiveness and impact (the “AA1000 Principles”). To assess the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles (AA1000AP) 2018 (the 
“Principles Criteria”) we used the AA1000AS v.3 assurance standard.

3. GRI Standards
Preparation of the Report in accordance with the GRI Standards. To assess the preparation of the Report in accordance 
with the GRI Standards we have used the publicly available GRI Standards 2021 (the “Consolidated set of GRI Sustainability 
Reporting Standards 2021").

4. SASB Standard: selected indicators
The SASB selected indicators included within the Report are listed in Annex I in the table: SASB Group Level Indicators and 
reported on page 76 of CRH's Report. 

We have not performed any work, and do not express any conclusions, on any other information outside of the Subject Matter 
that may be published in the Report or on CRH’s website for the current reporting period or for previous periods. 

Our conclusions

1. Selected Information
Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained, nothing has come to our attention that 
causes us to believe that the Selected Information is not fairly stated and has not been prepared in all material respects, in 
accordance with the Data Criteria.

This conclusion relates only to the Selected Information and is to be read in the context of this Independent Limited Assurance 
Report, in particular, the inherent limitations explained below.

2. AA1000 Principles
Based on the work we have undertaken, nothing has come to our attention that leads us to conclude that the Report is not in 
adherence with the AA1000 Principles as described in the Principles Criteria. We comment on the nature and extent of each 
individually below. 

3. GRI Standards
Based on the work we have undertaken, we believe that the report is in line with the requirements of the GRI Standards 2021 
(the “Consolidated set of GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards 2021").

4. SASB Standard: selected indicators
Based on the work undertaken, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Selected Indicators are not 
fairly stated and has not been prepared in all material respects in accordance with the Industry standard Construction Materials 
Sustainability Accounting Standard 2018, prepared by the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB). 

Standards and level of assurance 

For the Selected Information, we performed a Limited Assurance engagement in accordance with the International Standard on 
Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 revised – ‘Assurance Engagements other than Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial 
Information’ (revised), issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. This standard requires that we 
comply with ethical requirements, and plan and perform the assurance engagement to obtain Limited Assurance. 

For the AA1000 Principles, our assurance engagement was also planned and performed to meet the requirements of a Type 1 
“moderate level” of assurance, as defined by AA1000 Assurance Standard (A1000AS v3). For consistency, in this Independent 
Limited Assurance Report we also refer to this scope as “Limited Assurance”.

DNV applies its own management standards and compliance policies for quality control, in accordance with ISO/IEC 
17021:2015 - Conformity Assessment Requirements for bodies providing audit and certification of management systems, and 
accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding 
compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. 

The procedures performed in a Limited Assurance engagement vary in nature and timing from, and are less in extent than for, 
a reasonable assurance engagement; and the level of assurance obtained is substantially lower than the assurance that would 
have been obtained, had a reasonable assurance engagement been performed. We planned and performed our work to obtain 
the evidence we considered sufficient to provide a basis for our opinion, so that the risk of this conclusion being in error is 
reduced but not reduced completely.

Basis of our conclusion

1. Selected Information
We are required to plan and perform our work in order to consider the risk of material misstatement of the Selected Information. 
Our work included, but was not restricted to:

• Reviewing external media reports to identify relevant sustainability issues for CRH plc in the reporting period;

•  Assessing the appropriateness of the Data Criteria for the Selected Information;

•  Reviewing Group procedures, policies and guidance for data collection, aggregation, measurement, analysis and reporting of 
specified performance information at site and Group level, and assessing their alignment with the Data Criteria;

•  Conducting interviews with CRH’s management to obtain an understanding of the key processes, systems and controls in 
place to generate, aggregate and report the Selected Information;

•  Physical visits to sites selected in conjunction with CRH, including: APG (US); Roadstone (Ireland); Eqiom Rochefort sur 
Nenon (France); Ancon (UK); Ozarow Cement (Poland); Ash Grove Chanute (US); Ash Grove Louisville (US); Rohoznik 
Cement (Slovakia), to review the processes and systems for preparing the Selected Information at site level for consolidation 
at Group level. Also, performing limited substantive testing on a selective basis of the Selected Information to check that 
data had been appropriately measured, recorded, collated and reported at site level. These sites were chosen to provide a 
representative sample, based on the type and tonnage of material produced, geographical location and whether the site was 
a legacy plant or a recent acquisition. The percentage contribution of cement plants visited to overall cement-related CO2 
gross emissions was 19.1%;

•  Two visits to CRH’s headquarters in Dublin, Ireland: one in person visit to review the processes for gathering and 
consolidating the Selected Information and a virtual visit to check its consolidation;

•  Reviewing whether the evidence, measurements, and their scope provided to us by CRH for the Selected Information, was 
prepared in line with the Data Criteria; and

•  Reading the Report and narrative accompanying the Selected Information in the Report with regards to the Data Criteria.

2. AA1000 Principles
We are required to plan and perform our work in order to form an opinion over the adherence of the AA1000 Principles of the 
Report. Our work included, but was not restricted to: 

•  Reviewing the current sustainability issues that could affect CRH and would be of interest to stakeholders;

•  Reviewing CRH’s approach to stakeholder engagement and interviews with four external stakeholders;

•  Reviewing information provided to us by CRH on its reporting and management processes relating to the AA1000 Principles; 
and

•  Interviewing senior management, selected in conjunction with CRH, with responsibility for the management of sustainability 
issues, and reviewing selected evidence to support the issues discussed.

3. GRI Standards
We reviewed the Report to form an opinion over its preparation against the GRI Standards. 

4. SASB Standard
We are required to plan and perform our work in order to form an opinion over the reporting of selected indicators in accordance 
with the Construction Materials Sustainability Accounting Standard 2018, prepared by the Sustainability Accounting Standards 
Board (SASB). 

Inherent limitations

All assurance engagements are subject to inherent limitations as selective testing (sampling) may not detect errors, fraud or 
other irregularities. Non-financial data may be subject to greater inherent uncertainty than financial data, given the nature and 
methods used for calculating, estimating and determining such data.  The selection of different, but acceptable, measurement 
techniques may result in different quantifications between different entities.

Our assurance relies on the premise that the data and information provided to us by CRH have been provided in good faith.  
DNV expressly disclaims any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a person or an entity may make based on this 
Independent Limited Assurance Report.

84  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report



Our competence, independence and quality control

DNV established policies and procedures are designed to ensure that DNV, its personnel and, where applicable, others are 
subject to independence requirements (including personnel of other entities of DNV) and maintain independence where 
required by relevant ethical requirements. This engagement work was carried out by an independent team of sustainability 
assurance professionals. Our multi-disciplinary team consisted of professionals with a combination of environmental and 
sustainability assurance experience.

Responsibilities of the management of CRH and DNV

The management of CRH has sole responsibility for:

• Preparing and presenting the Selected Information in accordance with the Data Criteria;

• Preparing the Report in adherence to the AA1000 Principles;

•  Designing, implementing and maintaining effective internal controls over the information and data, resulting in the 
preparation of the Selected Information that is free from material misstatements;

• Measuring and reporting the Selected Information based on their established Data Criteria; and

• The contents and statements contained within the Report and the Data Criteria.

Observations

Our observations and areas for improvement were raised in a separate report to CRH’s management. Selected observations 
are provided below. These observations do not affect our conclusions set out above:

1. Selected Information
•  We noted a high level of awareness of GHG emissions during our site visits, both in terms of the importance of reporting 

accurate data, and how overall site level performance contributes towards CRH Group level targets;

•  We noted that Scope 3 GHG emissions data has improved this year, as more granular data and relevant guidance has 
become available. We recommend that CRH continues to further refine and improve this data set, to ensure upstream and 
downstream emissions continue to be reported accurately; 

•  Accurate reporting of contractor working hours continues to be challenging in line with the building materials sector 
generally. We recommend CRH continues to focus on this issue to further improve data quality and accuracy; 

•  We observed that a thorough and robust quality control process is in place for Environmental, Health and Safety, and Social 
data where variances and outlier values are investigated, with a focus on continuous improvement of data quality; and

•  We noted a small number of immaterial corrections to Selected Information data were made during the assurance process. 
Updated data was provided in all cases and incorporated correctly in consolidated data presented in the Report.

2. AA1000 Principles 
•  Inclusivity: CRH engages with a wide range of stakeholders, at site as well as Group level. Feedback from the stakeholders 

interviewed was largely positive. 

•  Materiality: CRH updated their materiality process in 2019, and reviewed this again in 2021 and 2022. This resulted in 
the importance of some material issues being adjusted based on the latest stakeholder feedback, however, external 
stakeholders were not formally engaged in the Materiality Reviews conducted since 2019. We understand that CRH plans 
to conduct a Double Materiality Assessment in 2023 and recommend that a wide range of diverse external stakeholders are 
formally engaged in this process. 

•  Responsiveness: Information received from the stakeholder interviews we conducted demonstrated a high level of 
responsiveness to stakeholder feedback.

•  Impact: CRH identified the major impacts its operations have through a human rights impact assessment which identified 
areas and regions at risk. The Report sets out targets on material areas to measure impact. To further align with the updated 
GRI guidelines, we recommend that for future disclosures CRH systematically reports the potential human rights impacts of 
each of its material issues on its stakeholders. 

DNV Business Assurance Services UK Limited

London, UK, 24th of March 2023

“DNV” is a trading name of DNV Business Assurance Services UK Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of DNV Business 
Assurance Group, and a global provider of certification, verification, assessment and training services, helping customers to 
build sustainable business performance. Registered Office: 4th Floor, Vivo Building, 30 Stamford St, London SE1 9LQ  
www.dnv.com/assurance/

 

Annex I: list of KPIs in scope for CRH
Indicators for Assurance Unit
Group Level indicators

Health and Safety

Group fatalities, directly employed number

Group fatalities, indirectly employed number

Group fatalities, involving onsite 3rd
 parties number

Group lost time injuries (LTI) rate per 1 million man hours (Frequency Rate) number

Group lost time injuries (LTI) rate per 1 million man hours (Severity Rate) number

Zero accident locations percentage

Average annual accident decrease over last 10 years (Frequency Rate) percentage

Climate

Total CO2e emissions direct, Scope 1 million tonnes

Total CO2e emissions indirect, Scope 2 (location based) million tonnes

Total CO2e emissions indirect, Scope 2 (market based) million tonnes

Total CO2e emissions indirect, Scope 3 million tonnes

Total CO2e emissions indirect, Scope 3 Upstream million tonnes

Total CO2e emissions indirect, Scope 3 Downstream million tonnes

Total CO2e emissions, Scope 1 + 2 (location based) million tonnes

Total CO2e emissions, Scope 1 + 2 (market based) million tonnes

Total CO2e emissions, Scope 1 + 2 (location based) + 3 million tonnes

Total CO2e emissions, Scope 1 + 2 (market based) + 3 million tonnes

CO2e intensity kg/$ revenue

CO2 2025 cement commitment kg net CO2/t cementitious product

Locations in Physical Climate Risk - drought severity percentage

Energy

Total energy consumption TWh

Total energy consumption Pj

Emissions

Total NOX emissions thousand tonnes

Total SOX emissions thousand tonnes

Total particulates emissions (dust) thousand tonnes

Co-processing fuels and raw materials

Total alternative materials and fuels million tonnes

Total alternative materials million tonnes

Alternative materials used in cement plants million tonnes

Alternative raw materials rate percentage

Total alternative fuels million tonnes

Alternative fuels used in cement plants million tonnes

Alternative fuels used in cement plants - European Union percentage

Local Impacts

Quarries where rehabilitation plan is implemented percentage

Locations noted for biodiversity number

Water

Total water withdrawal million cubic metres

85  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report

https://www.dnv.com/assurance/


 

Group Level Indicators Continued

Water Continued

Total water discharge million cubic metres

Total water consumption million cubic metres

Social

Total employed (women) percentage

Operational employees (women) percentage

Clerical/admin employees (women) percentage

Board Directors (women) percentage

Senior management (women) percentage

Senior leadership (women) percentage

Independent Assurance scope: GCCA indicators

Health and Safety

Fatality rate, directly employed rate

Number of fatalities, directly employed number

Number of fatalities, indirectly employed number

Number of fatalities, involving onsite 3rd
 parties number

Number of lost time injuries (LTI), directly employed number

LTI frequency rate, directly employed rate

LTI frequency rate, indirectly employed rate

LTI severity rate, directly employed number

Climate Change

Total direct CO2 emissions - gross million tonnes

Total direct CO2 emissions - net million tonnes

Specific CO2 emissions - gross kg/tonnes of cementitious product

Specific CO2 emissions - net kg/tonnes of cementitious product

Emissions Monitoring

Overall coverage rate percentage

Coverage rate continuous measurement percentage

Emissions

Particulates, specific g/tonnes of clinker

Particulates, absolute tonnes per year

Particulates, coverage rate percentage

NOX, specific g/tonnes of clinker

NOX, absolute tonnes per year

NOX, coverage rate percentage

SOX, specific g/tonnes of clinker

SOX, absolute tonnes per year

SOX, coverage rate percentage

Minor Emissions

VOC/THC, specific g/tonnes of clinker

VOC/THC, absolute tonnes per year

VOC/THC, coverage rate percentage

PCDD/F, specific ng/tonne of clinker

PCDD/F, absolute mg per year

PCDD/F, coverage rate percentage

Hg, specific mg/tonne of clinker

 

Independent Assurance scope: GCCA indicators Continued

Minor Emissions Continued

Hg, absolute kg per year

Hg, coverage rate percentage

HM1, specific mg/tonne of clinker

HM1, absolute kg per year

HM1, coverage rate percentage

HM2, specific mg/tonne of clinker

HM2, absolute kg per year

HM2, coverage rate percentage

Independent Assurance scope: GCCA indicators Continued

Co-processing Fuels and Raw Materials

Alternative fuel rate (kiln fuels) percentage

Biomass fuel rate (kiln fuels) percentage

Specific heat consumption for clinker production kcal/kg of clinker

Alternative Raw Materials rate (% ARM) percentage

Clinker/cement (equivalent) factor number

Local impacts

Percentage (%) of quarries with high biodiversity value where biodiversity 
management plan is implemented

percentage

Percentage (%) of quarries where rehabilitation plan is implemented percentage

Water

Total water withdrawal million cubic metres

    Surface water million cubic metres

    Groundwater million cubic metres

    Quarry water million cubic metres

    Utility water million cubic metres

    Rain water million cubic metres

Total water discharge million cubic metres

    Surface water million cubic metres

    Public Sewer million cubic metres

    Other million cubic metres

Total water consumption million cubic metres

Amount of Water Consumption per unit of cementitious product litres/metric tonne

SASB Group Level Indicators

Climate Change

EM-CM-110a.1: Gross global Scope 1 emissions Metric tonnes (t) CO2e

Air Emissions

EM-CM-120a.1: NOX (excluding N2O) Metric tonnes (t)

EM-CM-120a.1: SOX Metric tonnes (t)

EM-CM-120a.1: Particulate matter (PM10) Metric tonnes (t)

EM-CM-120a.1: Dioxins/furans Metric tonnes (t)

EM-CM-120a.1: Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) Metric tonnes (t)

EM-CM-120a.1: Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) Metric tonnes (t)

EM-CM-120a.1: Heavy metals (Pb, Hg, Cd) Metric tonnes (t)

Water

EM-CM-140a.1: Total fresh water withdrawn Thousand cubic meters (m³)

86  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report



Awarded an A- for both CDP Climate and Water in 
2022, recognising our work to reduce emissions 

and protect local resources.

S&P Global ESG Score 2022
Top 10%

/100
As of                   , 2023.
Position and Score are industry specific and reflect exclusion 
screening criteria. Learn more at spglobal.com/esg/yearbook

83

Construction Materials
CRH plc

February 7

Listed in the Top 10% of companies in the S&P 
Sustainability Yearbook, demonstrating strength in 

corporate sustainability.

Maintained our place in the 
S&P DJSI Europe.

Recognised by CDP as a Supplier Engagement 
Leader in 2022, raising the level of climate action 

across our value chain.

Awarded a Prime rating, the highest relative 
performance rank by ISS ESG.

Awarded an industry-leading rating of AAA in the 
MSCI ESG Ratings assessment.

Recognised by Morningstar Sustainalytics for our 
strong management of ESG Material Risks.

Ranked 2nd in our sector by VigeoEiris,  
Moody’s ESG rating unit.

Included in the FTSE4Good Index Series of 
companies demonstrating strong ESG practices.

Listed on the STOXX® Global ESG Leaders Index 
of the leading global companies based on ESG 

indicators.

External benchmarks 
and recognitions

(The use by CRH public limited company of any MSCI ESG Research LLC or its affiliates ("MSCI") Data, and the use of MSCI logos, trademarks, service marks or index 
names herein, do not constitute a sponsorship, endorsement, recommendation or promotion of CRH public limited company by MSCI. MSCI services and data are the 
property of MSCI or its information providers, and are provided 'as-is' and without warranty. MSCI names and logos are trademarks or service marks of MSCI.) 

Copyright ©2023 Morningstar Sustainalytics. All rights reserved. This Report contains information developed by Sustainalytics (www.sustainalytics.com). Such information 
and data are proprietary of Sustainalytics and/or its third party suppliers (Third Party Data) and are provided for informational purposes only. They do not constitute an 
endorsement of any product or project, nor an investment advice and are not warranted to be complete, timely, accurate or suitable for a particular purpose. Their use is 
subject to conditions available at https://www.sustainalytics.com/legal-disclaimers Designed by Numo Brand Partners. 

A- 
Climate

A- 
Water

Note on forward-
looking statements
In order to utilise the “Safe Harbor” provisions of the US 
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, CRH 
plc (the ‘Company’), and its subsidiaries (collectively, 
‘CRH’ or the ‘Group’ is providing the following cautionary 
statement.

These forward-looking statements may generally, but 
not always, be identified by the use of words such as 
“will”, “anticipates”, “should”, “could”, “would”, “targets”, 
“aims”, “may”, “continues”, “expects”, “is expected to”, 
“estimates”, “believes”, “intends” or similar expressions. 
These forward-looking statements include all matters that 
are not historical facts or matters of fact at the time of this 
document.

By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk 
and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend 
on circumstances that may or may not occur in the future 
and reflect the Company’s current expectations and 
assumptions as to such future events and circumstances 
that may not prove accurate. A number of material factors 
could cause actual results and developments to differ 
materially from those expressed or implied by these 
forward-looking statements, certain of which are beyond 
our control and which include, among other things: the 
ongoing COVID-19 pandemic; economic and financial 
conditions generally in various countries and regions 
where we operate; the pace of growth in the overall 
construction and building materials sector; demand for 
infrastructure, residential and non-residential construction 
in our geographic markets; increased competition and 
its impact on prices; increases in energy and/or raw 
materials costs; adverse changes to laws and regulations; 
approval or allocation of funding for infrastructure 
programmes; adverse political developments in various 
countries and regions; failure to complete or successfully 
integrate acquisitions; the effects of climate change and 
related regulations on our business; political stability 
and economic growth in relevant areas of the world; 
wars and acts of terrorism; cyber-attacks or sabotage.

87  CRH 2022 Sustainability Performance Report

 »  External benchmarks  
and recognitions

https://www.sustainalytics.com/legal-disclaimers
https://numo.ie/


CRH plc 

Stonemason's Way
Rathfarnham
Dublin 16
D16 KH51
Ireland
 
Telephone: +353 1 404 1000
E-mail: mail@crh.com

Website: www.crh.com

Registered Office
42 Fitzwilliam Square
Dublin 2
D02 R279
Ireland

Telephone: +353 1 634 4340
Fax: +353 1 676 5013
E-mail: crh42@crh.com

CRH® is a registered trade mark  
of CRH plc.

We welcome feedback and comments from 
stakeholders on our sustainability reporting.

Cover image: We pride ourselves on 
delivering high-quality building materials 
and solutions that build, connect and 
improve our world. For example, Danucem 
Slovensko a.s. part of our Europe Materials 
Division in Slovakia, provided approximately 
15,000 tonnes of cement and 75,000 tonnes 
of aggregates for the construction of the 
Prešov Tunnel in eastern Slovakia. Opened 
in November 2021, the highway tunnel 
measuring 2,244m in length, is the most 
crucial infrastructural project in eastern 
Slovakia and constitutes an essential part 
of Prešov's southwestern highway bypass.
The long-awaited project was technically 
one of the most demanding in Slovakia 
and will provide additional transportation 
options, reduce traffic impacts, and provide 
connectivity for communities throughout the 
region.

mailto:mail%40crh.com?subject=Sustainability%20Report%202022-23
http://www.crh.com
https://www.crh.com/

	Home Index
	Sustainable solutions
	Sustainability leadership
	Sustainabilty performance
	Overview
	Decarbonisation
	Waste
	Water
	Natural World
	Natural world Environmental Action
	Natural world Biodiversity

	People and Communities
	Safety and wellbeing
	Inclusion and diversity
	Community and social impact
	Empowered employees

	Responsible Business
	Governance and ethics
	Responsible sourcing

	Our Sustainability policies
	Reporting history, scope and basis
	Data summary
	GRI Index
	DNV assurance statement
	Our sustainabilty framework
	Our world today
	Our materiality assessment

	 702: 
	 706: 
	 707: 
	 708: 
	 709: 
	 70310: 
	 7030169: 
	 705: 
	 7014: 
	 7010: 
	 7011: 
	 7012: 
	 70142: 
	 70300: 
	 7013: 
	 7015: 
	 7016: 
	 7017: 
	 7018: 
	 70301: 
	 70302: 
	 7019: 
	 7020: 
	 7021: 
	 7022: 
	 7023: 
	 70303: 
	 70304: 
	 7024: 
	 7025: 
	 7026: 
	 7027: 
	 7028: 
	 70305: 
	 70306: 
	 7029: 
	 7030: 
	 7031: 
	 7032: 
	 7033: 
	 70307: 
	 70308: 
	 7034: 
	 7035: 
	 7036: 
	 7037: 
	 7038: 
	 1008: 
	 70309: 
	 703010: 
	 7039: 
	 7040: 
	 7041: 
	 7042: 
	 7043: 
	 70311: 
	 703011: 
	 7044: 
	 7045: 
	 7046: 
	 7047: 
	 7048: 
	 1009: 
	 70312: 
	 703012: 
	 7049: 
	 7050: 
	 7051: 
	 7052: 
	 7053: 
	 10010: 
	 70313: 
	 703013: 
	 7054: 
	 7055: 
	 7056: 
	 7057: 
	 7058: 
	 70314: 
	 703014: 
	 7059: 
	 7060: 
	 7061: 
	 7062: 
	 7063: 
	 1010: 
	 70315: 
	 703015: 
	 7064: 
	 7065: 
	 7066: 
	 7067: 
	 7068: 
	 70316: 
	 703016: 
	 7069: 
	 7070: 
	 7072: 
	 7073: 
	 710: 
	 70317: 
	 703017: 
	 7071: 
	 7074: 
	 7075: 
	 7076: 
	 713: 
	 968: 
	 969: 
	 70318: 
	 703018: 
	 7077: 
	 7078: 
	 7079: 
	 7080: 
	 714: 
	 970: 
	 971: 
	 70319: 
	 703019: 
	 7081: 
	 7082: 
	 7083: 
	 7084: 
	 715: 
	 972: 
	 973: 
	 70320: 
	 703020: 
	 7085: 
	 7086: 
	 7087: 
	 7088: 
	 716: 
	 974: 
	 975: 
	 70321: 
	 703021: 
	 7089: 
	 7090: 
	 7091: 
	 7092: 
	 717: 
	 976: 
	 977: 
	 70322: 
	 703022: 
	 7093: 
	 7094: 
	 7095: 
	 7096: 
	 718: 
	 978: 
	 979: 
	 70323: 
	 703023: 
	 7097: 
	 7098: 
	 7099: 
	 70100: 
	 719: 
	 980: 
	 981: 
	 70324: 
	 703024: 
	 70101: 
	 70102: 
	 70103: 
	 70104: 
	 720: 
	 982: 
	 983: 
	 70325: 
	 703025: 
	 70105: 
	 70106: 
	 70107: 
	 70108: 
	 721: 
	 984: 
	 985: 
	 70326: 
	 703026: 
	 70109: 
	 70110: 
	 70111: 
	 70112: 
	 723: 
	 986: 
	 987: 
	 70327: 
	 703027: 
	 701010: 
	 70113: 
	 70114: 
	 70115: 
	 724: 
	 988: 
	 989: 
	 70328: 
	 703028: 
	 701011: 
	 70116: 
	 70117: 
	 70118: 
	 725: 
	 990: 
	 991: 
	 70329: 
	 703029: 
	 701012: 
	 70119: 
	 70120: 
	 70121: 
	 726: 
	 992: 
	 993: 
	 70330: 
	 703030: 
	 701013: 
	 70122: 
	 70123: 
	 70124: 
	 727: 
	 994: 
	 995: 
	 70331: 
	 703031: 
	 701014: 
	 70125: 
	 70126: 
	 70127: 
	 728: 
	 996: 
	 997: 
	 70332: 
	 703032: 
	 701015: 
	 70128: 
	 70129: 
	 70130: 
	 730: 
	 998: 
	 999: 
	 70333: 
	 703033: 
	 701016: 
	 70131: 
	 70132: 
	 70133: 
	 731: 
	 1000: 
	 1001: 
	 70334: 
	 703034: 
	 701017: 
	 70134: 
	 70135: 
	 70136: 
	 732: 
	 1002: 
	 1003: 
	 70335: 
	 703035: 
	 701018: 
	 70137: 
	 70138: 
	 70139: 
	 733: 
	 1004: 
	 1005: 
	 70336: 
	 703036: 
	 70140: 
	 70141: 
	 70143: 
	 734: 
	 748: 
	 70337: 
	 703037: 
	 70144: 
	 70145: 
	 70147: 
	 735: 
	 876: 
	 875: 
	 70338: 
	 703038: 
	 70146: 
	 70148: 
	 70149: 
	 736: 
	 905: 
	 877: 
	 70339: 
	 703039: 
	 70168: 
	 70169: 
	 70170: 
	 743: 
	 879: 
	 70340: 
	 703040: 
	 70171: 
	 70172: 
	 70173: 
	 744: 
	 880: 
	 70341: 
	 703041: 
	 70174: 
	 70175: 
	 70176: 
	 745: 
	 906: 
	 881: 
	 70342: 
	 703042: 
	 70177: 
	 70178: 
	 70179: 
	 746: 
	 882: 
	 70343: 
	 703043: 
	 70180: 
	 70181: 
	 70182: 
	 747: 
	 883: 
	 70344: 
	 703044: 
	 70186: 
	 70187: 
	 70188: 
	 771: 
	 907: 
	 884: 
	 70345: 
	 703045: 
	 70189: 
	 70190: 
	 70191: 
	 780: 
	 908: 
	 885: 
	 70346: 
	 703046: 
	 70192: 
	 70193: 
	 70194: 
	 782: 
	 886: 
	 9010: 
	 70347: 
	 703047: 
	 70195: 
	 70196: 
	 70197: 
	 784: 
	 887: 
	 9011: 
	 70348: 
	 703048: 
	 70198: 
	 70199: 
	 70200: 
	 786: 
	 888: 
	 9012: 
	 70349: 
	 703049: 
	 70201: 
	 70202: 
	 70203: 
	 788: 
	 889: 
	 9013: 
	 70350: 
	 703050: 
	 70204: 
	 70205: 
	 70206: 
	 790: 
	 909: 
	 890: 
	 70351: 
	 703051: 
	 70207: 
	 70208: 
	 70209: 
	 792: 
	 891: 
	 9014: 
	 70352: 
	 703052: 
	 702010: 
	 702011: 
	 702012: 
	 794: 
	 892: 
	 9015: 
	 70353: 
	 703053: 
	 702013: 
	 702014: 
	 702015: 
	 796: 
	 910: 
	 893: 
	 70354: 
	 703054: 
	 702016: 
	 702017: 
	 702018: 
	 798: 
	 894: 
	 911: 
	 70355: 
	 703055: 
	 702019: 
	 702020: 
	 702021: 
	 800: 
	 895: 
	 912: 
	 70356: 
	 703056: 
	 702022: 
	 702023: 
	 702024: 
	 802: 
	 913: 
	 896: 
	 70357: 
	 703057: 
	 702025: 
	 702026: 
	 702027: 
	 804: 
	 897: 
	 914: 
	 70358: 
	 703058: 
	 702034: 
	 702035: 
	 702036: 
	 809: 
	 898: 
	 915: 
	 70359: 
	 703059: 
	 70210: 
	 70211: 
	 70212: 
	 810: 
	 916: 
	 899: 
	 70360: 
	 703060: 
	 70213: 
	 70214: 
	 70215: 
	 812: 
	 917: 
	 900: 
	 70361: 
	 703061: 
	 70216: 
	 70217: 
	 70218: 
	 815: 
	 901: 
	 918: 
	 70362: 
	 703062: 
	 70219: 
	 70220: 
	 70221: 
	 817: 
	 902: 
	 919: 
	 70363: 
	 703063: 
	 920: 
	 70294: 
	 70295: 
	 70296: 
	 871: 
	 903: 
	 70364: 
	 703064: 
	 70297: 
	 70298: 
	 70299: 
	 873: 
	 904: 
	 921: 
	 70365: 
	 703065: 
	 70222: 
	 70223: 
	 823: 
	 70225: 
	 967: 
	 70366: 
	 703066: 
	 946: 
	 70224: 
	 825: 
	 70226: 
	 70227: 
	 923: 
	 70367: 
	 703067: 
	 70228: 
	 827: 
	 70229: 
	 70230: 
	 924: 
	 947: 
	 70368: 
	 703068: 
	 70231: 
	 829: 
	 70232: 
	 70233: 
	 948: 
	 925: 
	 70369: 
	 703069: 
	 70234: 
	 831: 
	 70235: 
	 70236: 
	 926: 
	 949: 
	 70370: 
	 703070: 
	 70237: 
	 833: 
	 70238: 
	 70239: 
	 950: 
	 927: 
	 70371: 
	 703071: 
	 70240: 
	 835: 
	 70241: 
	 70242: 
	 928: 
	 951: 
	 70372: 
	 703072: 
	 70243: 
	 837: 
	 70244: 
	 70245: 
	 929: 
	 952: 
	 70373: 
	 703073: 
	 70246: 
	 839: 
	 70247: 
	 70248: 
	 930: 
	 953: 
	 70374: 
	 703074: 
	 70249: 
	 841: 
	 70250: 
	 70251: 
	 931: 
	 954: 
	 70375: 
	 703075: 
	 70252: 
	 843: 
	 70253: 
	 70254: 
	 932: 
	 955: 
	 70376: 
	 703076: 
	 70255: 
	 845: 
	 70256: 
	 70257: 
	 933: 
	 956: 
	 70377: 
	 703077: 
	 70258: 
	 847: 
	 70259: 
	 70260: 
	 934: 
	 70378: 
	 703078: 
	 70261: 
	 849: 
	 70262: 
	 70263: 
	 957: 
	 935: 
	 70379: 
	 703079: 
	 70264: 
	 851: 
	 70265: 
	 70266: 
	 936: 
	 958: 
	 70380: 
	 703080: 
	 70267: 
	 853: 
	 70268: 
	 70269: 
	 937: 
	 959: 
	 70381: 
	 703081: 
	 70270: 
	 855: 
	 70271: 
	 70272: 
	 938: 
	 960: 
	 70382: 
	 703082: 
	 70273: 
	 857: 
	 70274: 
	 70275: 
	 939: 
	 961: 
	 70383: 
	 703083: 
	 70276: 
	 859: 
	 70277: 
	 70278: 
	 940: 
	 962: 
	 70384: 
	 703084: 
	 70279: 
	 861: 
	 70280: 
	 70281: 
	 941: 
	 963: 
	 70385: 
	 703085: 
	 70282: 
	 863: 
	 70283: 
	 70284: 
	 964: 
	 942: 
	 70386: 
	 703086: 
	 70285: 
	 865: 
	 70286: 
	 70287: 
	 943: 
	 965: 
	 70387: 
	 703087: 
	 70288: 
	 867: 
	 70289: 
	 70290: 
	 944: 
	 966: 
	 70388: 
	 703088: 
	 70291: 
	 869: 
	 70292: 
	 70293: 
	 945: 
	 70389: 
	 703089: