Report to Society 

2022



1. Introduction 4
1.1 Message from the CEO 5
1.2 Group highlights 2022 6

2. About Aldermore Group 7
2.1 About Aldermore Group 8
2.2 Aldermore blueprint and purpose 8
2.3 Our stakeholders 9
2.4 FirstRand Limited 9

3. Sustainability at Aldermore 10
3.1 Our approach 11
3.2 The UN’s Principles for Responsible Banking 12
3.3 Levelling Up 13
3.4 Innovation on Measuring Impact Through the Equality of Opportunity Coalition 16
3.5 Structure and corporate governance 17

4. Report to Society: Our progress 2022  20
4.1 Our people 22
4.2 Our planet 27
4.3 Our products 30
4.4 Our partners 38

5. Closing 41
5.1 Analysis from the Purpose Coalition 42
5.2 Conclusion and recommendations from the Purpose Coalition  45

Table of contents



Purpose of this report

Aldermore Group’s inaugural Report 
to Society provides deeper insight 
and transparency around our societal 
impact as a result of our financial 
and operational performance. Our 
Environmental, Social and Governance 
(ESG), and Sustainability strategies 
are designed to protect and enhance 
human and natural resources by 
creating societal and financial 
value through core activities of our 
businesses.

These strategies underpin Aldermore’s 
commitments to build a more 
prosperous and united community 
now and for future generations.

If you wish to see our annual 
integrated report, please visit our 
website for more information. All 
reported data is for the year ended  
30 June 2022 unless indicated 
otherwise.



1. Introduction



5Aldermore Report to Society 2022 |  IntroductionH

1.1 Message from the CEO

As the UK faces a series of difficult environmental and economic challenges, there has 
never been a more important time for our business to embrace the responsibility of 
providing genuine value to all stakeholders – our colleagues, our customers, our partners, 
our shareholders, and society as a whole.

Aldermore is uniquely placed to deliver on this, as it was founded in 2009 during another 
period when the UK faced huge economic challenges and endeavoured to support 
those who were often overlooked by high street banks. Thirteen years later that ambition 
remains at the centre of everything we do, as does our purpose to back more people to 
go for it, in life and business.

This new annual report, our inaugural Report to Society, shares examples of the intentional 
ways in which we are providing positive impact for our stakeholders while striving to do it 
in the areas that matter most. It’s an exciting first step.

We recognise that this is a journey and we still have much to do, but we are in a strong 
position. We have passionate colleagues who believe in our purpose, an ability to deploy 
the balance sheet in innovative ways to help solve society’s challenges and we are 
supported by our parent, FirstRand, and their purpose of shared prosperity. Together, we 
are confident of building a sustainable future.

Steven Cooper CBE, CEO



6 Aldermore Report to Society 2022 | Introduction H

1.2 Group highlights 2022

Products People Planet Partnerships

Backed first-time 
buyers by lending 
£274m in the 
housing market, 
which made up 
44% of our owner- 
occupied lending.

Backed our people 
by supporting 317 
internal promotions 
and increasing 
the annual leave 
allowance for all 
colleagues to 30 
days.

Refining our own 
plan to support 
the transition to a 
low-carbon future, 
having joined 
Bankers for Net Zero 
in June 2022.

Signed the United 
Nations Principles 
for Responsible 
Banking.

Backed 317 
motor dealer 
intermediaries with 
stock funding worth 
nearly £400m to 
provide 32,415 used 
cars for the industry.

Increased our 
colleague self-
service diversity 
data from 30% 
to 70% with our 
#CountMeIn 
campaign.

Began a 
programme to 
transition Group 
fleet to low-carbon 
options, reducing 
our fleet of internal 
combustion engines 
(ICE) vehicles to 29%.

Delivered 19 
volunteering 
events and raised 
£60,858 across our 
Community Giving 
activities.

Backed 11,154 
customers with 
funding worth 
over £1.73bn in the 
Structured and 
Specialist Solutions 
market.

Supported 1,465 
colleagues with 
a £1,000 payment 
in response to the 
rising cost of living.

Enhanced our 
climate risk 
disclosures in our 
annual report.

Provided 
£60,000 via our 
apprenticeships 
levy to Sandcastle 
Care Limited and 
gave 382 school 
students access 
to financial 
literacy platform 
EVERFI as part of 
our community 
engagement 
activities.

Backed 323,256 
savers worth £12.2bn 
across the personal 
and business 
savings market.

Launched GROW, 
an internal and 
external diversity 
and inclusion 
network to support 
opportunities for 
women in the motor 
industry.

Developed 
capabilities to 
track our financed 
emissions across 
our Residential 
Mortgages and 
Motor Finance 
portfolio.

Continued our 
strategically 
aligned partnership 
with the Purpose 
Coalition on the UK 
Levelling Up Goals 
and the Equality 
of Opportunity 
Coalition.



2. About Aldermore Group



8 Aldermore Report to Society 2022 | About Aldermore Group H

Back 
more people 

to go for it, 
in life and 
business.

   
  T

hi
nk

 n
ext 

need         Crack it together 
 

 
 

 
  

 

   
  T

hi
nk

 n
ext 

need         Crack it together 
 

 
 

 
  

 

  Start with why         
 Try it

 o
ut

 
 

 
 

 
  

 

  Start with why         
 Try it

 o
ut

 
 

 
 

 
  

 

 
      

 

 
    

   
 R

el
a

ti
on

sh
ip

s t
ha

t la
st       Progressive pla�

orm

 
      

 

 
    

   
 R

el
a

ti
on

sh
ip

s t
ha

t la
st       Progressive pla�

orm

Stay ahead propositionsStay ahead propositions

2.1 About Aldermore Group

As a multi-product specialist lender, we provide straightforward lending and savings 
products to small and medium enterprises (SME’s), homeowners, landlords and individuals.

Now more than ever, banks must do more to understand the real-life needs of people and 
businesses to support and prepare them for uncertain times and turbulent markets.

Our 2,000+ employees across eight UK locations continue to serve the evolving needs of 
700,000+ customers, offering tailored solutions in:

Property Finance Structured and 
Specialist Solutions Motor Finance Savings

2.2 Aldermore blueprint and purpose

As a group, Aldermore’s enduring purpose 
is to back more people to go for it, in life 
and business. Our purpose guides 
everything we do and extends beyond 
the products and services we 
offer. Our aim is to seek out more 
undervalued and underserved 
people and do good by helping 
them take the action needed to 
move forward in life, ensuring 
we meet the needs that other 
institutions do not.

To ensure our purpose remains 
central to our activity, it sits 
at the heart of our blueprint, 
surrounded by our strategic 
drivers and our behaviours 
that reflect our ambitions to 
differentiate the business and 
bring together the ‘what’ and the 
‘how’ which make it happen.

For more information on our blueprint 
and purpose, please take a look at  
our annual report.

https://www.investors.aldermore.co.uk/system/files/uploads/financialdocs/aldermore-group-annual-report-and-accounts-fy2022.pdf


9Aldermore Report to Society 2022 |  About Aldermore GroupH

2.3 Our stakeholders

To ensure we have the right impact 
across our stakeholder groups, here is 
how we aim to bring greater value to 
each of them:

 → Customers: We put them at the 
centre of decision-making to help 
them find the right solutions to get 
more out of life and business, with 
the confidence of being backed by a 
company that champions them.

 → People: We regard them as the 
foundation to our success and have 
a transparent value exchange, 
offering great benefits, working 
environments and development 
opportunities, while bringing clarity 
about what we expect in return.

 → Distribution partners: We provide 
products and services to a number of 
brokers and intermediaries, actively 
working with them to understand 
their needs and the needs of their 
clients.

 → Investors: We generate sustainable 
returns by focusing on long-term 
growth in the four most attractive 
markets in UK banking.

 → Regulators: We maintain regular, 
open, and transparent dialogue, 
ensuring alignment on evolving 
regulatory priorities.

 → Communities and environment: 
We utilise our key strengths and 
capabilities to drive impactful 
change and make a sustainable 
difference to our communities, now 
and for the future.

2.4 FirstRand Limited

FirstRand Limited (FirstRand) comprises a 
portfolio of financial services businesses 
operating in South Africa, certain markets 
in sub-Saharan Africa and the UK. 

Many of these businesses are leaders in 
their respective segments and markets, 
and offer a broad range of transactional, 
lending, investment and insurance 
products and services.

Consistent execution on strategy and a 
disciplined approach to allocating scarce 
financial resources have delivered a long 
track record of superior economic profits, 
returns and dividends to shareholders.

FirstRand’s stated purpose is to deliver 
shared prosperity, encompassing a blend 
of financial and societal value, for a 
broad set of stakeholders.

Read more about FirstRand here.

https://www.firstrand.co.za/the-group/about-firstrand/


   

3. Sustainability 
at Aldermore



   

11Aldermore Report to Society 2022 |  Sustainability at AldermoreH

3.1 Our approach

At Aldermore, we address societal issues directly linked to our business activities and 
corporate strategy in order to build a more sustainable future. Our four key pillars of 
commitment focus on the areas where we can have the most significant impact.

Back more people 
to go for it, in life and business.

Stay ahead propositions Relationships that last Progressive platform

Financial 
inclusion

Increasing access 
and usage of financial 

services across all 
sectors of society 
in responsible and 
sustainable ways.

Financial 
wellbeing

Empower people and 
business by improving 

their financial 
literacy, resilience 

and independence 
resulting in improved 
financial security and 
increased control over 

their money.

Climate change

Support customers, 
employees, partners, 

and communities 
transition to a low-

carbon economy and 
help to improve their 

resilience against 
extreme weather 

events and changing 
weather patterns.

Economic 
transformation

Create opportunity 
for all sectors of 

society with rapid and 
fundamental change 

within the systems and 
controls that govern 

the economy.

What is our 
purpose

How will we 
achieve it?

Our 
commitments

Where do we 
focus  

our impacts?

UN 
Sustainable 

Development 
Goals 

supported

UK Levelling    
Up Goals 

supported

Products

To supply products 
and services that 
enable people to 

operate effectively 
within their market.

People

Create an inclusive 
culture where 

everybody can thrive.

Planet

Reduce our 
environmental impact 

for a more  
sustainable future.

Partners

Collaborate with 
partners to deliver a 

wider-reaching  
positive impact.



12 Aldermore Report to Society 2022 | Sustainability at Aldermore H

3.2 The UN’s Principles for Responsible Banking

In November 2022, Aldermore Group became a signatory to the United 
Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) Principles for 
Responsible Banking (the Principles).

The Principles, launched in September 2019 and now signed by over 300 banks, are 
designed to provide a universal framework for sustainable banking practices and 
encourage the banking industry to demonstrate how it makes a positive contribution to 
society. 

The Group believes the intended application of the Principles provides an important way 
for financial services to deliver better and more sustainable outcomes for broader society.

PRINCIPLE 1:

Alignment

We will align our business strategy to 
be consistent with and contribute to 
individuals’ needs and society’s goals, as 
expressed in the Sustainable Development 
Goals, the Paris Climate Agreement and 
relevant national and regional frameworks.

PRINCIPLE 4:

Stakeholders

We will proactively and responsibly 
consult, engage and partner with relevant 
stakeholders to achieve society’s goals.

PRINCIPLE 2:

Impact and target setting

We will continuously increase our positive 
impacts while reducing the negative 
impacts on, and managing the risks to, 
people and environment resulting from our 
activities, products and services. To this 
end, we will set and publish targets where 
we can have the most significant impacts.

PRINCIPLE 5:

Governance and culture

We will implement our commitment 
to these Principles through effective 
governance and a culture of responsible 
banking.

PRINCIPLE 3:

Clients and customers

We will work responsibly with our clients 
and our customers to encourage 
sustainable practices and enable 
economic activities that create shared 
prosperity for current and future 
generations.

PRINCIPLE 6:

Transparency and 
accountability

We will periodically review our individual 
and collective implementation of these 
Principles and be transparent about and 
accountable for our positive and negative 
impacts and our contribution to society’s 
goals.



13Aldermore Report to Society 2022 |  Sustainability at AldermoreH

3.3 Levelling Up

Foreword - Rt Hon Justine Greening, 
Chair - Purpose Coalition and Former 
Education Secretary

The country is facing immense challenges 
on a number of fronts – recovering from 
the pandemic, tackling the cost-of-living 
crisis and addressing the problem of poor 
social mobility. We continue to see how 
those issues have the greatest impact on 
the most disadvantaged in our society. 
Policy makers, businesses, universities 
and public sector bodies need to work 
together to provide support for the most 
vulnerable, and to ensure that opportunity 
is as accessible as possible. As the causes 
of social inequality are interlinked so the 
most effective response should also be a 
collaborative one.



14 Aldermore Report to Society 2022 | Sustainability at Aldermore H

The Purpose Coalition is working 
with purpose-led organisations to 
deliver equality of opportunity for 
their colleagues, their customers and 
their communities. It has developed 
14 Purpose Goals which cover key life 
stages as well as the main barriers that 
can prevent people from accessing 
opportunity. They are based on the 
UN’s Sustainable Goals which, as 
International Development Secretary, 
I helped to establish in 2015 and 
which were effective because they 
identified a common set of accessible 
but ambitious objectives which were 
able to galvanise action and effect 
change. The Purpose Goals will create 
a more transparent and measurable 
framework for tracking and addressing 
problems of social mobility and 
inequality. They also provide a unifying 
and motivating foundation for progress. 
Many organisations are already 
doing outstanding work and making 
important contributions to society but 
are still measuring this via inputs.

Business is stepping up to the mark to 
shape this levelling up agenda and its 
stakeholders now expect that they will 

make a wider positive impact on the social 
good. 

Aldermore, with its ethos 
of shared prosperity 
and tradition of 
stepping in where 
other institutions do 

not, is in a prime position to drive 
a better, more purposeful future 
focused on an understanding of 
what its colleagues, customers and 
communities need.

The financial services sector is integral 
to how well the country responds to the 
current challenges. It provides the products 
and services that help us manage our 
money. It also provides skilled jobs which 
can offer rewarding, well-paid careers in a 
digital economy. Both have the potential to 
contribute to a fairer, more equal society 

where everyone has access to opportunity, 
regardless of background. For many 
people financial exclusion – being trapped 



15Aldermore Report to Society 2022 |  Sustainability at AldermoreH

in debt or unable to access savings - is 
a huge barrier as they seek to progress 
through life. Knowing how to access 
savings and credit, and which tools to use 
to accumulate advantage, is critical to 
getting on.

Led by its CEO, Steven Cooper, Aldermore is 
resolutely focused on opening up finance 
to people and businesses who find it 
difficult to get from the traditional financial 
sector. Providing financial inclusivity 
to these individuals and communities 
brings equality of opportunity to those 
who would otherwise have missed out. 
It not only generates business and jobs 
for communities but also engenders 
aspiration for individuals. We are proud to 
have Steven as a Commissioner for Goal 7: 
Access to Savings and Credit and the bank 
has supported the development of key 
metrics for that Goal. He is also Co-Chair 
of the Equality of Opportunity Coalition 
which encourages people from a wide 
range of socio-economic backgrounds 
to get involved in the highest levels of 
business and politics. As part of this, we’re 
asking organisations across the UK to start 
tracking the socio-economic background of 
their employees to assess their progress 
more effectively.

With a renewed commitment from 
Government to its levelling up strategy, 
Aldermore is also poised to renew its 
contribution to that agenda, with a higher 
profile role in influencing policy and 
thought advocacy through enhanced 

partnerships with Government, MPs 
and other organisations.

This report shows how Aldermore’s 
financial and operational 
performance impacts its 
performance in society, from 
its extensive apprenticeship 
programme for all ages and 
recruitment practices which make 
a career more accessible to people 
from a wide range of backgrounds 
to the teaching of financial literacy in 
schools and colleges. Its commitment 
to continue to measure its impact 
means that it can produce valid and 
transparent insights into its progress. 

It demonstrates how 
Aldermore it is helping to 
drive levelling up in a sector 
which has historically been 
poor at embracing social 

mobility. 

I hope this inspires change within 
other organisations, that are keen to 
increase their positive impact on the 
wider world and reap the rewards of 
a purposeful business.



16 Aldermore Report to Society 2022 | Sustainability at Aldermore H

3.4 Innovation on measuring Impact Through the Equality of 
Opportunity Coalition

During his time as Co-Chair of the Social 
Mobility Commission, Steven Cooper 
was instrumental in pushing forward 
work with other social mobility groups, 
including the Purpose Coalition, to gain 
agreement on the common questions 
employers should use to track the 
socio-economic background of their 
staff. It now means that for the first time, 
employers can measure and benchmark 
to what extent their organisations act 
as an engine of social mobility through 
the opportunities they offer. The four key 
questions are:

 → What was the occupation of your 
main household earner when you 
were aged 14?

 → Which type of school did you attend 
for the most time between the ages 
of 11 and 16?

 → If you finished school after 1980, were 
you eligible for free school meals at 
any point during your school years?

 → For graduate employees: Did either 
of your parents attend university 
and gain a degree (e.g. BA/BSc or 
equivalent) by the time you were 18?

The Equality of Opportunity Coalition is a 
group of organisations, including those 
in the Purpose Coalition and beyond, 
that are committed to measuring socio-
economic diversity for the first time over 
the course of the next 12 months. What 
gets measured gets done. The crucial 
insights provided by this data will not 
only help employers to drive social 
mobility, but also inform the work of 
policymakers more generally.

The coalition is co-chaired by CEO of 
Aldermore Group and former Social 
Mobility Commissioner Steven Cooper 
CBE, Vice-Chancellor of UWE Bristol and 
President of Universities UK Professor 
Steve West CBE, and former Secretary 

of State Rt Hon Justine Greening, who 
as Minister for Women and Equalities 
implemented Gender Pay Gap Reporting 
in 2017.

The Equality of Opportunity Coalition is 
working with Steven, Justine and Steve to 
develop socio-economic measures and 
reporting.

If employers genuinely want to 
give all their staff, regardless of 
their backgrounds, a chance of 
rising through the ranks whilst 
also accessing the widest and 

most diverse talent pools, then 
the first step is to understand 
the socio-economic make-up 
of their workforce. That’s why I’m 
delighted to support this new 
campaign and I’d encourage 
organisations right across the 
UK to pledge their support and 
sign-up. This isn’t just the right 
thing to do, it also makes business 
sense – diverse companies are 
consistently more successful than 
those that are not.

Steven Cooper, Equality of Opportunity 
Coalition, co-chair and CEO of 
Aldermore Group

Aldermore have included the first of the 
four key questions within their colleague 
engagement survey in September 
2022 and will publish the results and 
supporting actions in next year’s Report 
to Society.



17Aldermore Report to Society 2022 |  Sustainability at AldermoreH

3.5 Structure and corporate governance

Board

Executive Committee 

Sustainability SteerCo

Board Risk Committee

Executive Risk Commitee

Specialist Finance

Rainbow Network

Motor Finance

@One Female 
Network

Savings

GreatMinds 
Network

Property Finance

EmbRace Network

DE&I SteerCo
Community Givng 

Committee
Climate Risk Steering 

Group

Our sustainability structure

During the 2022 fiscal year, we implemented several 
measures to address and accelerate progress for 
all sustainability matters within Aldermore Group. 
Recognising the importance of ownership for these 
broad and complex matters, Aldermore created 
two new roles: Head of Climate Risk and Head 
of ESG & Sustainability and made the necessary 
appointments.

While these two roles crossover, they also have 
distinct differences in their areas of responsibility. 
The Head of Climate Risk focuses on managing 
the financial risks to the bank caused by climate 
change. The Head of ESG & Sustainability is 
responsible for the alignment, measurement and 
reporting of other sustainability matters pertaining 
to environmental impact, diversity, equity and 
inclusion (DE&I) and commercial propositions.

We have also created an operational structure 
model to ensure good governance and escalation 
of important matters to the Executive Committee 
(ExCo), the Board of Directors.



18 Aldermore Report to Society 2022 | Sustainability at Aldermore H

£2.0m
2%

£34.7m
26%

£1.8m
1%

£14.1m
11%

£14.8m
11%

£64.1m
49%

Total tax
contribution

FY 2022

£131.5m

Corporate tax borne

Employment taxes borne

Irrecoverable VAT borne

Other taxes borne

Employment taxes collected

Other taxes collected

30 June 2022

Corporate responsibility through our 
tax strategy

The Aldermore Group’s business model is 
focused on the UK, where our customers and 
operations are largely established. We realise 
that as a corporate business, we have a social 
duty to act with honesty and integrity in our 
approach to taxation and recognise that 
business tax contributions play a crucial role 
in helping to sustain UK economic growth. 
Business tax helps source funding for social 
programmes and public investments towards 
better health, education, and infrastructure 
services. These are important to achieve the 
common goal of a prosperous, functional and 
orderly society.

Appropriate, prudent, and transparent tax behaviours are vital to corporate responsibility. 
Aldermore Group aims to maintain transparent and constructive relationships with the tax 
authorities and actively support and work with them to combat tax evasion. The Group 
complies with the HMRC Code of Practice on Taxation for Banks through good governance, 
controls and procedures.

Click here for more information.

https://www.investors.aldermore.co.uk/about-us/corporate-governance/introduction/tax-strategy


Backing our colleagues for the  
long-term with a pension that makes a 
difference

Number of pension 
scheme members*

2,132

Assets under 
management*

£46,793,636

For many workplace pension members, the 
value of their investments is not solely about 
investment returns but also about the positive 
impact their money can have on the natural 
world and protecting its resources. This is 
where ESG investing comes into play. As part 
of our sustainable pension strategy, we have 
directed 40% of our default pension pot into 
the BlackRock World ESG Insights Equity Fund. 
In doing so, we aim to build a sustainable 
portfolio and capture ESG opportunities while 
driving positive change.

We support our employees in building a 
successful long-term retirement plan through 
our close working partnership with Aviva, 
who manage our staff pension funding. Aviva 
pensions are designed to be easy to set 
up and administer, giving employees more 
financial control.

*As of 30 September 2022



4. Report to Society: 
Our progress 2022 
The following section lists the ways in which we 
are delivering our key impact areas through the 
commitments made for our people, our planet, our 
products and our partnerships as described in 
section 2.



Our people



22 Aldermore Report to Society 2022 | Report to Society: Our progress 2022 H

4.1 Our people

Our employee statistics for June 2022 and June 2021:

June 2022 June 2021

Number of Group colleagues 2,198 2,029

Number of Group female colleagues 989 944

% of Group female colleagues 45% 46% 

Developing a more diverse and inclusive place to work

We strive for parity in gender and 
ethnicity, and aim to recruit a diverse 
pool of talent to create a more dynamic 
workforce offering a broader range of 
ideas and perspectives. A diverse and 
equal workforce increases employees' 
wellbeing, improves employee 
productivity, increases innovation, 
and creates a more harmonious 
environment. Here are some of the 
commitments we have made to develop 
a diverse colleague base and to create 
a more inclusive culture within the 
workforce:

As part of our commitment to Women 
in Finance we set a target of increasing 
the number of women represented in 
senior management roles to 30% in FY23 
and 50% representation by 2025. As per 
our submission to Women in Finance 
in December 2021, women held 21% of 
senior management roles, compared to 
a target of 30%. Since then, the criteria 
and definition of senior management 
were reviewed and we increased our 
scope and broadened our female talent 
pipeline. Other activities in support of our 
aim for a diverse workplace include:

 → Introducing specific diversity targets 
for all leaders within the organisation.

 → Committing to gender-balanced 
shortlists for management roles within 
the organisation.

 → Regularly challenging succession 
plans and talent maps with an 
inclusion lens.

 → Building a strong talent pipeline of 
women from grassroots to senior 
leaders through initiatives such 
as apprenticeships, mentoring, 
sponsorships and development 
programmes.

 → Taking part in the 30% Club, a cross-
company mentoring scheme focusing 
on equality and gender equity. This 
year, we supported 60 mentoring 
partnerships, an increase of 20 
partnerships since last year.

Through our internal ‘Value our 
Differences’ agenda we aim to ensure 
our approach related to diversity and 
inclusiveness is clearly defined and 
developed. We monitor specific issues, 
including age, gender, ethnicity, religion 
and belief, sexual orientation, disability, 
mental health awareness, social 
mobility and more. Key work streams are 
accountable to an Executive Committee 
sponsor and are committed to the 
delivery of practical solutions. 



23Aldermore Report to Society 2022 |  Report to Society: Our progress 2022 H

Some of the campaigns and initiatives born out of this agenda include:

EmbRace

Deploying our embracing race equality network has provided a voice for our 
ethnic minority employees, in a drive to empower them to embrace their full talent 
potential across the Aldermore Group. We have made progress in capturing 
ethnicity data and publicising progress through several employee-focused 
campaigns to encourage completion. Our latest #CountMeIn campaign revealed 
that our diversity data disclosure rate increased from 30% to 70% at the beginning of 
2022.

@One Female Network

The network supports in developing and nurturing a gender-balanced team and 
build a culture that promotes equality. We do this by inspiring colleagues, providing 
networking and development opportunities and recognising female talent and 
success at all levels of the organisation.

We recognise that menopause can be an issue in the workplace and that women 
may need emotional support. To help support our business network in 2022, we 
launched a Menopause in the Workplace programme. Highlights thus far include 
signing the Wellbeing of Women’s ‘Menopause Workplace Pledge’ and joining the 
Henpicked Menopause in the Workplace scheme. We are committed to being a 
menopause friendly employer with a view to achieving full accreditation in the near 
future. 

Rainbow 

We raise awareness and the profile of LGBTQ+ issues across the Aldermore Group 
by holding pro-LGBTQ+ events throughout the year to support LGBTQ+ employees. 
Inclusiveness is embedded in our policy-making, and we promote LGBTQ+ visible 
role models at different seniority levels of the organisation. The Stonewall Workplace 
Index recently assessed our achievements and progress on LGBTQ+ equality and 
granted a Bronze employer award for our work.

GreatMinds 

As signatories of the Mindful Business Charter, we believe passionately in supporting 
good mental health and wellbeing at work. To help reduce the stigma around 
mental health, GreatMinds raises awareness across the Group by organising events 
and delivering wellness communications. 



24 Aldermore Report to Society 2022 | Report to Society: Our progress 2022 H

Supporting diversity and inclusion within the motor industry

 → MotoNovo Finance, the Group’s Motor Finance external brand, launched the GROW 
network (Generating Real Opportunities for Women) in April 2022. It aims to create a 
support network across our intermediary and broker partners and increase female 
representation in the automotive industry. The network has 83 external members 
working towards increasing membership and engagement.

 → The Women in Credit Awards from Credit Strategy celebrate and champion the work 
of incredible female leaders across the financial services industry. Empowering, 
connecting, supporting and uncovering achievements among inspirational women 
in the profession, the awards are unlike any other. Debbie McKay, our Commercial 
Director - Motor Sales, won the Colleague of the Year and Claire Fussey, our Motor 
Sales Retention Manager won the Team Leader of the Year.

Creating the right culture with The Deal

As a responsible employer, we foster an environment that backs our people to go for it in 
life and business. People are our key strength, and over the past year, Aldermore Group 
has listened closely to feedback from colleagues, customers and brokers. In early 2022, 
we launched a refreshed purpose and set of behaviours, designed to drive clarity and 
set cultural expectations. Our feedback shaped our new people strategy, The Deal, which 
was launched in July 2022 to help drive better engagement across the group, which aligns 
with the Groups ambitions for benefits and culture proposing a mutual agreement and 
benefits for both the company and its employees. Our focus is to improve our employee 
development and help them feel valued and purpose-led. In the past year, initiatives the 
company has implemented include:

 → Increasing the annual leave allowance to 30 days

 → Awarding a £1,000 one-off living payment to 1,465 employees on lower salaries

 → Trialling a blended working approach, offering a flexible schedule to help employees 
find the right work-life balance

 → Introducing an apprenticeship programme 

We currently have two key areas of focus:

 → The 5-4-3 Performance framework with a focus on having productive conversations 
and being clear on what good performance looks like to encourage employees to 
assume personal accountability.

 → A Group-wide #BackingYou recognition programme which encourages both manager 
and peer-to-peer appreciation of how results are delivered across the business.



25Aldermore Report to Society 2022 |  Report to Society: Our progress 2022 H

94% 
Aldermore colleagues have set goals across their job roles and development 

Recognition 
nominations

155 
July 2022

125 
August 2022

Over 

200 
managers attended a 

Recognition masterclass

83% 
response rate was achieved on our annual internal engagement survey* 

with the below example answers providing some positive highlights: 

63%
I have good opportunities 

to learn and develop at this 
company

77%
I  have regular conversations 
with my manager about my 

perf ormance

63%
I receive timely and meaningful 

recognition when I do a good job

*As of 30 September 2022

The numbers



Our planet



27Aldermore Report to Society 2022 |  Report to Society: Our progress 2022 H

4.2 Our planet

Addressing our climate impact 

Climate change presents a serious 
threat to the wellbeing of people and 
societies. 

Aldermore has a long-term ambition to 
support the UK’s transition to a net zero 
economy. We are currently refining our 
plan to support the transition, having 
joined Bankers for Net Zero in June 2022. 

We are also committed to evolving our 
climate risk management capabilities. 
We have developed and are tracking 
several metrics through dashboards 
that are presented to our Executive Risk 
Committee, which include: 

 → Climate Risk Management: Measures 
that relate to balance sheet impacts. 
This covers transitional risks such 
as property energy performance 
certificates and physical risk such as 
flood risk.

 → Portfolio alignment: The impact that 
Aldermore has on the climate. This 
currently monitors financed emissions 
across Residential Mortgages and 
Motor Finance.

 → Regulatory: Progress against meeting 
regulatory expectations on climate 
risk.

 → Disclosures: FirstRand’s Taskforce on 
Climate-related Financial Disclosures 
report for 2022, which includes climate 
disclosures from Aldermore, can be 
found here. 

 → Audit findings: Group Internal Audit 
findings related to climate risk.

 → Operations: Greenhouse gas 
emissions of business operations, and 
operational resilience. 

Environmental Impact

The management of resources is an important issue for the Group. Several actions to 
improve our energy efficiency and reduce our environmental impact were taken during 
the 2022 fiscal year, including:

 → Reviewing Aldermore-held energy contracts to maximise renewable energy use

 → Working with our landlords to align their energy initiatives with ours

 → Supplier reviews to move to more ecofriendly office supplies

 → Introducing the waste hierarchy, taking steps to reduce, reuse and recycle waste 
produced in our offices

https://www.firstrand.co.za/media/investors/annual-reporting/firstrand-tcfd-report-2022.pdf


28 Aldermore Report to Society 2022 | Report to Society: Our progress 2022 H

 → Partnering with local businesses to provide services, championing them to improve 
awareness within our local communities

 → Power-saving features activated on appliances and electrical equipment

As Aldermore prepares for ESOS (Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme) reporting in 2023, 
the Group is looking beyond the requirements for this reporting to incorporate a wider 
environmental audit and understanding of its current carbon footprint with the support of 
a specialist supplier. 

The Group’s property strategy will be reviewed, in line with its people strategy, taking into 
consideration how we use our buildings, including:

 → Review our property footprint, ensuring efficient use of the spaces we occupy

 → Partner with energy providers who can offer zero carbon renewable solutions

 → Improve management of our energy consumption, implementing more 
recommendations and initiatives from our specialist advisors

 → Make environmentally conscious decisions on projects to future-proof our impact on 
the environment

 → Implement further improvements with regard to recycling across the portfolio

 → Draw up a plan to improve the energy efficiency of the assets required to safely 
operate our buildings

Moving Group company car fleet to greener options 

FY Number of 
company cars

Number 
of electric 
vehicles

Number of 
plug-in hybrid 
electric 
vehicles

Number of internal 
combustion engine 
vehicles

21/22 120 47 40 33

20/21 131 30 41 60

Aldermore Group is committed to providing a modern and sustainable company fleet, as 
evidenced by the proportion of internal combustion engine (ICE) vehicles in our company 
fleet, which decreased from 45% to 29% in the fiscal year. As part of the new benefits and 
sustainability strategy, our updated new vehicle lists consist of electric or hybrid vehicles.

In 2021, Aldermore launched a programme to enable drivers using ICE vehicles to 
terminate their leases early and switch to an electric car. Moving forward, Aldermore will 
not permit any new orders for ICE vehicles.   These initiatives will help us achieve our goal 
of a 100% low-carbon fleet by the end of 2024. This transition is helping to decarbonise 
the planet by reducing greenhouse gas emissions and also improves employees' well-
being as they can benefit from reduced company car tax rates benefit-in-kind (BIK) based 
available for new low or zero-carbon vehicles.



Our products



30 Aldermore Report to Society 2022 | Report to Society: Our progress 2022 H

4.3 Our products

*Overview of our impact on the motor finance market

Measure Impact

Number of motor dealerships (intermediaries) we partner with 2,500

Customers we are backing with mobility solutions 500,000+

Recognised market share by the Finance & Leasing Association 11%

Trustpilot score - how we deliver exceptional service
4.6/5* based on 
25,000+ reviews

*Overview of our impact on the property finance market

Measure Impact

Number of registered property brokers we work with 17,000+

Customers we are backing with property finance solutions 43,000+

*Overview of our impact on the structured and specialist solutions market

Measure Impact

Number of intermediaries we work with 700+

Number of live customers 30,000+

*Overview of our impact on the savings market

Measure Impact

Number of personal savers 212,000+

Number of business savers 22,000+

Trustpilot score-how we deliver exceptional service
4.6/5* based on 
2,700+ reviews

*As of 30 September 2022



31Aldermore Report to Society 2022 |  Report to Society: Our progress 2022 H

Backing our savers

We are a multi-award-winning savings provider offering a mixture of instant access and 
fixed-term deposit accounts and individual savings accounts (ISAs). Our customers trust 
us, as demonstrated by our Net Promoter Score sitting consistently between 50-60 and our 
average Trustpilot review score ranking as excellent at 4.6/5. Our customers stay with us, 
and retention rates are the strongest in fixed-rate products, with around 80% of customers 
returning, and our most popular personal account is our one-year fixed rate.

For personal savings, we primarily focus on helping customers aged 65-74 meet their 
retirement goals in the ‘saver place to be’. Our customers value the Financial Service 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS) protection and UK-based services and support we offer. 
We aim to assist customers to de-risk as they exit or prepare to exit the workplace, helping 
them reach a happy and fulfilling retirement.

In the business savings space, we typically support small limited companies who value 
online speed and convenience whilst seeking a better return on their surplus business 
cash. Our partnership with the Federation of Small Businesses (FSB) has grown from the 
sponsorship of the Family Business of the Year category at their 2022 awards to supporting 
them to help the 5.9 million small businesses and self-employed people in the UK who 
make up 99% of all private-sector businesses.

Measurement FY 2019 FY 2020 FY 2021 FY 2022

Business accounts 27,335 28,068 27,438 27,117

Total business balance £2.1bn £2.2bn £2.3bn £2.5bn

Personal accounts 198,240 246,201 273,364 289,729

Total personal balance £5.9bn £7.6bn £9.0bn £9.6bn

Supporting businesses to reach their goals 

Our structured and specialist solutions activities focus on specialist lending to back 
other companies achieve their business goals and ambitions. In FY 2022 structured and 
specialist solutions supported 11,154 customers (businesses and individuals) with new 
funding more than £1.73bn, broken down as follows:

  Value % Volume (unique) %

Asset finance £1bn+ 60% 10,733 96%

Invoice finance £186m+ 11% 123 1%

Commercial real estate £507m+ 29% 298 3%

Total £1.73m+   11,154  



32 Aldermore Report to Society 2022 | Report to Society: Our progress 2022 H

Case study Green development financing support

Profile 

A Yorkshire-based sustainable developer, Citu, which develops eco-friendly timber-
framed homes, approached Aldermore to fund part of its new Kelham Central 
scheme in Sheffield, involving 46 residential units. 

Solution 

This significant development needed a ground-up development finance facility. 
Aldermore were particularly keen to support the project due to its eco-friendly 
output. Their mortgage specialists’ expert knowledge and service speed helped the 
company secure a two-phased property finance loan worth £16.5m in a relatively 
short time frame in a straightforward manner.

The net result is that Citu is now developing 46 carbon-negative homes. Building 
them takes more carbon out of the atmosphere than is emitted to construct them. 
Each Citu home removes 23 tonnes of greenhouse gasses atmosphere. 

Supporting first-timer buyers in the property market

Aldermore has a leading proposition for creditworthy first-time buyers who don’t fulfil the 
standard requirements of high-street banks, which have a more automated approach to 
lending. Our combination of experienced underwriting and sophisticated credit models 
supports financial inclusion and meets the real-life needs of more first-time buyers. 



33Aldermore Report to Society 2022 |  Report to Society: Our progress 2022 H

Aldermore’s lending to first-time buyers continues to gradually increase as a proportion of 
its owner-occupier originations.

FY2019 FY2020 FY2021 FY2022

New lending to first-time buyers (owner-occupier) £222m £278m £198m £274m

As % of new owner-occupier lending 35% 42% 42% 44%

Case study First-time owner mortgage secured despite low basic income

Profile 

Our client was a young first-time buyer who was gifted a deposit by a family 
member. However, our client faced two challenges. The first was that they had a 
zero-credit history. The second, most notable, issue was their low basic income. A 
substantial proportion of their total salary is made up from commission sales. The 
result was that they struggled to get a mortgage approved with a traditional high 
street bank and with smaller lenders. 

Solution

By providing Aldermore with five months of bank statements, it could be proven 
that, while the client had no credit history, they could demonstrate responsible 
spending and regular savings supported by commissions. Due to Aldermore’s 
personal approach to underwriting, our client worked closely with an experienced 
underwriter who took a holistic view of their finances and understood that their low 
basic income but high commission on sales meant they could afford and sustain 
mortgage repayments. Aldermore approved their mortgage with a 5% deposit. 

No matter how complicated people’s financial situations are, Aldermore’s 
experienced specialist mortgage advisors are uniquely placed to tailor products to 
their personal circumstances. 

Backing self-employed buyers in the property market

Aldermore supports the self-employed with its human-led, common-sense approach 
to lending. This is a key demographic, with the number of self-employed workers in the 
UK rising from around 3.5 million to 5 million in about twenty years, albeit falling back 
somewhat due to Covid-19. Aldermore’s experienced manual underwriting, with specific 
expertise in small businesses and sole traders, is the key to safely backing more self-
employed customers to buy their own homes.

FY2019 FY2020 FY2021 FY2022

New lending to self-employed (owner-occupier) £199m £198m £154m £165m

As % of new owner-occupier lending 31% 30% 32% 26%



34 Aldermore Report to Society 2022 | Report to Society: Our progress 2022 H

Case study Self-employed, cash-rich, income-poor first-time mortgage

Profile 

A South African self-employed dental technician renting in Hampshire wanted to 
purchase a family home in the UK. The client acted responsibly and took only a small 
salary from his business to build up significant cash reserves in his business bank 
account. 

However, he faced difficulties when trying to secure a mortgage due to a 
combination of factors, including not being a UK national and a first-time buyer 
with a low salary. Despite being cash-rich, the client was perceived as income-poor, 
which is the type of profile that mainstream lenders typically eschew. After being 
presented with hoop-jumping hurdles, a high-street bank declined his application.

Solution

Aldermore applied bespoke stress criteria and recognised that, despite a low-
salary income, the client had sufficient means to meet his mortgage repayments. 
The bank secured a mortgage for the required loan amount. Since then, the client 
has remortgaged with Aldermore and has no intention of changing his home, or his 
lender.

Backing the used car market with wholesale funding 

We can provide our motor dealer intermediaries with wholesale funding solutions, 
helping to grow their businesses with additional used car stock which are provided to 
retail customers. These additional vehicles fuel the used motor dealer eco system and 
can generate additional investment for the business such as more jobs and additional 
premises. 

During the fiscal year, we provided funding worth £396,303,526 via wholesale funding to 
support the purchase of 32,415 vehicles. This funding included offering an additional 63 
funding facilities totalling £17.9m.

FY Volume lent
Number of 
intermediaries backed 
with wholesale funding

Number of vehicles 
funded through 
wholesale funding

19/20 £320m+ 366 39,907

20/21 £327m+ 298 32,632

21/22 £396m+ 317 32,415



35Aldermore Report to Society 2022 |  Report to Society: Our progress 2022 H

Case study
Funding sales and infrastructure to facilitate transition to  
electric vehicles (EVs)

Profile 

Drive Green was set up in 2016 to focus on selling EVs on its digital proposition and 
sought funding to support the business with stock growth and enable sales of 
vehicles through hire purchase and personal contract purchase.

Solution

We partnered with Drive Green to fund their EV sales and further supported the 
business by providing a £400k wholesale facility to help increase their EV stock levels 
and grow the number of retail outlets across the UK.

Drive Green is now the largest independent used electric vehicle specialist in the UK, 
having invested in infrastructure to cater for the increasing demand for good-quality 
used electric vehicles.

Aldermore is focused on tackling financial barriers to decarbonise the automotive 
industry in the UK by facilitating consumer uptake of EVs and providing the investment 
in infrastructure required to accelerate change.

Backing young drivers in the motor finance market 

We have a passion for supporting young drivers (18 to 21 years old) in funding their vehicle 
purchases. In FY 2022 we funded 7,359 cases which equated to 3.9% of the overall book. We 
believe this specific market amplifies our purpose of backing people to go for it, and we 
are considering how we best support it in future. 

Age Number of cases % of overall book

18 334 0.20%

19 1,339 0.70%

20 2,435 1.30%

21 3,251 1.70%

Total 7,359 3.90%



36 Aldermore Report to Society 2022 | Report to Society: Our progress 2022 H

How MotoRate has helped consumers secure lower APRs

MotoRate was launched in the summer of 2020, moving over 95% of field accounts (circa 
2,000) onto a new risk-based pricing model where the customers' annual percentage rate 
(APRs) is determined by their credit history. MotoRate mirrors the personal loan space, 
where lower-risk customers receive lower APRs.

As a result of introducing our MotoRate (Rate 4 Risk) model, most of our customers saw a 
small reduction in their average APR, as evidenced below:

Financial year 19/20 20/21 21/22

Average customer APR 
(non MotoRate)

10.85% 10.7% 10.62%

Average customer APR 
(MotoRate)

N/A Pre-MotoRate 
launch

10.59% 10.31%



Our partners



38 Aldermore Report to Society 2022 | Report to Society: Our progress 2022 H

4.4 Our partners

Industry partnerships

Aldermore is part of many ecosystems across different industries. By working with other 
organisations, we can be more impactful and deliver more in the areas that matter most. 
Here are some of the actions that we have taken:

 → Actively involved with industry bodies, including UK Finance, the Finance and Leasing 
Association and the Intermediary Mortgage Lenders Association 

 → Became a member of the Banking Standards Board

 → Joined with Bankers for Net Zero

 → Signatories of the Women in Finance Charter, Race to Work Charter, and the Mindful 
Business Charter

Addressing our supply chain 

We are establishing a position across our supply base that can be used to inform our 
actions and targets that will ultimately make a difference to the environmental impact of 
our key suppliers. 

Aldermore Group uses the Financial Services Qualification System (FSQS) in support of its 
third-party due diligence requirements at the supplier on-boarding stage as well as in-
life. FSQS is a community-based model used by a number of financial institutions to help 
drive a single standard for managing the increasingly complex demands for third-party 
information. The question set is updated each year and suppliers are also required to 
validate their responses annually. 

FSQS questions regarding sustainability have been extensively reworked this year. Among 
other questions, suppliers are asked whether they have plans in place to reduce their 
environmental impact. Focusing on Aldermore Group’s material and critical suppliers, as 
of September 2002 the responses were:

Yes 17%

No 21%

No response as yet 62%

This specific question has only been asked of suppliers since early 2022, and it will take 
a full 12 months for all suppliers to have responded (in line with the phasing of annual 
questionnaire renewals). 



39Aldermore Report to Society 2022 |  Report to Society: Our progress 2022 H

Delivering positive impact within our communities 

Aldermore plays an important role in many of the communities it serves, and we are 
always looking for new ways to best support those and the stakeholders within them. We 
provide positive community impact through giving and engagement.

Giving

Charity giving

In 2022, Aldermore decided to localise charity by backing our people to make a difference 
in causes that matter most to them. In FY 2022 the charitable giving amount was £60,858 
(2021: £56,000) This included pound for pound match funding of up to £1,000 of money 
raised, supporting a wide range of activities, including:

 → Participation in major national charity events, such as Macmillan’s Coffee Morning 
and Games Heroes.

 → Donating funds typically used for client Christmas gifts and cards

 → Raising money by climbing the national and Yorkshire three peaks

 → Corporate donations in memory of deceased colleagues

Volunteering

As an organisation that believes passionately in social mobility, we have built 
relationships with education providers in the communities where our offices are based. 
Employees were allocated time out of the office to provide skills-based volunteering by 
sharing their career insights and financial industry knowledge with those wishing to start 
a career in financial services or improve their financial well-being focusing on those from 
underserved communities. 

In 2022, we provided skills-based volunteering at 18 events held at seven locations in and 
around Manchester and four in and around Cardiff. Event topics covered interviewing, 
careers in finance, financial education, women in business and online-based work 
experience.

Engagement

Aspire programme

Number of active pupils 382

Number of active schools 4

Number of additional schools registered and committed to going active 25



40 Aldermore Report to Society 2022 | Report to Society: Our progress 2022 H

To further expand our community 
outreach, we supported the introduction 
of the Aspire programme, a new mobile 
application and financial education 
resource to help young people build their 
financial confidence, with particular 
focus on more deprived areas. Aspire 
will be accessible to over 300 schools 
throughout Cardiff and Greater 
Manchester and available free of charge 
through Aldermore’s partnership with 
digital education innovator EVERFI Inc.

Chartered Bankers Institute (CBI) Smart 
Futures programme

Aldermore is a primary partner of the 
CBI’s Smart Futures programme, a career 
development initiative that supports 
year 12 pupils (16-17 years old) to gain 
exposure to financial services through 
an internship placement followed by a 
ten-month mentoring programme with 
a senior leader. The programme is only 
available to pupils eligible for free school 
meals, thereby providing opportunities 
for those who traditionally face barriers 
to our industry. During 2022 we have 
supported two cycles of the programme 
and are committed to participating in 
additional programmes over the next 
year.

Apprenticeship levy transfer

As an apprenticeship levy payer, 
Aldermore has utilised current funding 
rules to transfer the sum of £60,000 
to Sandcastle Care Limited. This 
organisation provides therapeutic care to 
children throughout the North of England. 
Through this funding, ten colleagues 
will complete their Level 5 Children and 
Young Families Manager apprenticeship, 
growing their capability and offering 
support and care to children who have 
suffered trauma.



5. Closing



42 Aldermore Report to Society 2022 | Closing H

5.1 Analysis from the Purpose Coalition

This next section will involve an analysis of Aldermore Group’s work against a number of 
the most relevant Levelling Up Goals. The bank has acknowledged and is acting on its 
responsibility as an organisation to deliver social value - highlighted in its operational 
priority towards colleagues, customers, partners, shareholders and society as a whole. 

Goal 5: Open recruitment 

If we want to work towards a fair and equal society, careers and 
professions must be open to people of all backgrounds through 
transparent, accessible and open recruitment practices.

Aldermore concentrates on maintaining a clear and fair recruitment 
process through strategic hiring based on team make-up beyond 
technical skills. This process is supported by decoder tools that ensure 
all job advertisements use a neutral voice that does not speak to 

particular groups in a certain way. Underpinning this strategic work is a recognition of the 
value of diverse and inclusive teams to the business and the culture. 

Aldermore Group also uses partnerships with local schools, such as its Aspire programme 
set out on pages 39-40, the government backed ‘Kickstart Scheme’ and its extensive 
apprenticeship scheme, particularly the bank’s ‘Experience Aldermore’ initiative, to 
facilitate diverse talent pathways into the bank and the financial services sector. 

Aldermore Group goes one step further than putting in place open recruitment practices, 
the organisation actively seeks out diverse and disadvantaged people in communities 
who, traditionally, would not view themselves as having the potential to work in the 
banking sector, by prioritising these groups for specific initiatives - see page 40 for 
supported evidence on the ‘Chartered Bankers Institute Smart Futures Programme’.

Aldermore has gone above what is expected of a typical institution of its nature, 
displaying a continued commitment to welcoming and directly seeking out a diverse 
range of people into the organisation - and has seen the benefits of this process for all. 

Goal 7: Widening access to savings and responsible credit 

While the rainy day fund is a long-standing concept in personal 
finance, its importance has perhaps never been more widely 
recognised than at the present time, with household and business 
earnings dramatically impacted by the cost of living crisis. The 
increasing pressure on customers, colleagues and communities 
has provided a stark reminder to businesses and consumers of the 
urgent need to build up financial resilience to prepare for unexpected 
turbulence. 

Aldermore has directly supported colleagues who most need help during tough economic 
times, as explained on page 24. For customers the bank has recognised the importance of 
home ownership as a known driver of social mobility and general life stability. 



43Aldermore Report to Society 2022 |  ClosingH

It has undertaken deliberate measures to support less fortunate individuals and families 
to access the housing ladder through a more individualised approach than a heavily 
automated programme most banks use, which all too often makes it difficult for the most 
vulnerable to access a mortgage. Aldermore seeks to treat each applicant individually, 
benefiting first-time and self-employed mortgage buyers significantly - see pages 32 and 
33 for supporting data. 

Strategic measures aimed at extending and promoting the number of people who have 
access to savings and credit, especially first-time buyers, is a key contributor to increasing 
both financial stability and financial wellbeing and thus, levelling up. Aldermore Group has 
taken steps to strengthen the accessibility of savings and valuable credit opportunities 
for customers and colleagues, which is all too often linked to overall wellbeing and 
opportunities in life. 

The Purpose Coalition is proud to have Steven Cooper CBE as a Commissioner for Goal 7, 
as well as providing continued support in developing the metrics for this goal. 

Goal 9: Extending enterprise 

Delivering opportunities to communities and having more 
opportunities on one’s doorstep is often discussed in terms of inward 
investment and getting businesses to be able to invest in places that 
have traditionally been social mobility cold spots. However, enabling 
people and communities to create their own jobs is perhaps the most 
powerful way of driving opportunity. 

As such - SMEs have the potential to make a huge contribution to 
levelling up. They are the creators of opportunities that survive or thrive on their ability to 
attract the best talent. Many are the products of communities where opportunities are 
otherwise limited. Their success brings rewarding career paths closer to those facing the 
biggest barriers to opportunity - Aldermore is prioritising strategic assistance for SMEs to 
secure their immediate future and continued growth in the medium term. See page 31 for 
supporting in-depth data. 

Goal 12: Building homes and sustainable communities 

Communities that are safe and offer good quality of life and homes 
people can afford are communities that are sustainable in the long run. 
The bank is an organisation that cares about the places it operates in 
and represents, injecting strategic financial support directly into areas 
that need it the most, see page 39 for supporting data on Aldermore’s 
‘community impact’ programme and page 40 for its fantastic work in 
the transfer of apprenticeship levy funding to Sandcastle Care Ltd.

Aldermore also recognises climate change as a defining issue, with potentially far-
reaching impacts not only on communities but also colleagues, customers and partners. 
The bank is currently developing an environmental action plan - see page 27 for further 
detail. 



44 Aldermore Report to Society 2022 | Closing H

Along with numerous current measures, outlined on page 27, and the development 
of net-zero strategy, Aldermore plans to enhance its capability for disclosure, in 
alignment with recommendations from the Task Force on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures. Aldermore has committed to sharing key metrics that go beyond its own 
operational energy consumption and emissions. 

The Purpose Coalition welcomes the start Aldermore has made on its net-zero 
journey and looks forward to the bank building on its current groundwork.

Goal 14: Achieve equality, through diversity and inclusion 

The research is clear that more diverse companies make better 
decisions because they have a wider perspective and avoid 
groupthink. Diversity extends beyond gender and ethnicity 
to sexuality, disability and other challenges that can lead to 
disadvantage. More and more organisations across sectors are 
understanding that creating a level playing field of opportunity for 
all, has the potential to fully unleash Britain’s potential for the first 
time. 

Operating in a traditionally male-dominated industry, Aldermore has acknowledged 
the need to take strategic strides in this area. As a signatory of the government-
backed Women in Finance Charter, Aldermore is committed to driving gender 
diversity. See pages 22 to 25 for the bank’s current data and future objectives for 
gender diversity and inclusivity within the organisation.

Meeting and surpassing Goal 14 is not only about offering support but also about 
changing the way in which aspects of a business has traditionally been run. 
Aldermore introduced the ‘Leading Diverse Teams’ programme to support managers 
in developing more inclusive teams and allowing all people to thrive. 

Aldermore has various long-term goals related to the progress of staff from Black, 
Asian and minority ethnic backgrounds. Signalling a renewed commitment to 
diversity and inclusion measurements, Aldermore Group is signed up to the Race at 
Work Charter. One of the requirements to join the charter is being able to capture 
ethnicity data and publicising progress. To improve this, Aldermore has undertaken a 
number of campaigns to encourage staff to provide this data. 

This, in conjunction with the bank’s active work on the Equality of Opportunity 
Coalition, is a start to the process of a comprehensive campaign of socio-economic 
and diversity measurement.



45Aldermore Report to Society 2022 |  ClosingH

5.2 Conclusion and recommendations from the Purpose 
Coalition 

Looking to the future, based on the current work outlined above and 
Aldermore Group’s strategic priorities on levelling up and equality of 
opportunity - the Purpose Coalition has put together four purposeful 
recommendations as part of our joint focus on delivering equality of 

opportunity as a leading member of the Purpose Coalition.

Aldermore bank has acknowledged and addressed its responsibility under Goal 7, 
decisively meeting this goal by delivering for SME customers, savers, self-employed 
and first-time buyers in an extremely turbulent time. 

Contextualising customer needs 

For the first recommendation, can Aldermore Group better understand the 
socio-economic make-up of its customers? The bank’s current leadership on 
the Equality of Opportunity Coalition could be used to gain insights into their 
customers’ background - this can help to contextualise the bank’s financial 
products beyond merely credit scores. 

This would not only help the bank to stand out in terms of customer interactions 
compared to larger more automated institutions, but would allow Aldermore to 
tailor its products to customer needs even further. 

Fully building the external talent pipeline 

Secondly, can the community and outreach work be more effectively joined 
up? Can this support a more overt talent pipeline into banking at Aldermore? 
For example, can the Aspire programme be linked to the CBI Smart Futures 
programme? The work with Sandcastle children’s therapeutic centre could also 
be linked further back to Aldermore’s volunteering scheme, offering places on a 
skills-based volunteering programme to vulnerable children. 

Moreover, can Aldermore challenge itself to extend its current outreach to more 
social mobility cold spots and disadvantaged communities? In order to effect 
change for society as a whole, the bank needs more people like those whom it 
is trying to help within the business. 

Overall, is there the potential for a defined and well-resourced talent, covering 
outreach during the school years, through to apprenticeships and opportunities 
directly with Aldermore Group?



46 Aldermore Report to Society 2022 | Closing H

Internal pipeline 

Thirdly, can Aldermore internally continue the strategic external pipeline into 
the organisation? Does Aldermore have the potential to build upon internal 
progression tracking through extensively measuring whether people from all 
backgrounds can both get in and get on?

Following on from Equality of Opportunity socio-economic tracking as of 2023 - 
this could involve possible targets and benchmarks for specific demographics 
at certain levels in the company by a specific date. Overall, this would 
contribute to holistically building the talent pipeline through to the upper levels 
of the bank. 

Join Purpose Coalition members in the ‘OpenDoor’ campaign 

In further widening access to opportunity through its own recruitment 
processes, Aldermore should consider joining the Purpose Coalition partners 
using the new ‘Open Door’ platform. It seeks to form ‘opportunity bridges’ 
with a network of universities to help under-represented communities enter 
professions and roles that previously have been closed off to them.

‘Open Door’ will take the form of an online platform. It is being developed in 
partnership with the Adecco Group, a Purpose Coalition strategic partner, 
and one of the world’s largest recruitment agencies. The aim of the platform 
is to connect students at our universities with placement and recruitment 
opportunities within our purpose-led businesses.

Aldermore’s own recruitment could benefit from this new open talent pipeline 
and, with its links with small businesses, it makes the platform ideally placed 
to connect its SME customer base with a broader talent pool that gives fairer 
access to those from more deprived backgrounds.




	Introduction
	Message from the CEO
	Group highlights 2022

	About Aldermore Group
	About Aldermore Group
	Aldermore blueprint and purpose
	Our stakeholders
	FirstRand Limited

	Sustainability at Aldermore
	Our approach
	The UN’s Principles for Responsible Banking
	Levelling Up
	Innovation on Measuring Impact Through the Equality of Opportunity Coalition
	Structure and corporate governance

	Report to Society: Our progress 2022 
	Our people
	Our planet
	Our products
	Our partners

	Closing
	Analysis from the Purpose Coalition
	Conclusion and recommendations from the Purpose Coalition