SUSTAINABILITY 
REPORT

FY22

We are Fortescue

ABN 57 002 594 872



Culture
Fortescue is a values-based 
business with a strong, 
differentiated culture.  
We believe that by leveraging 
the unique culture of our 
greatest asset, our people, we 
will achieve our stretch targets

SAFETY

FAMILY

EMPOWERMENT

FRUGALITY

STRETCH TARGETS

INTEGRITY

ENTHUSIASM

COURAGE AND 
DETERMINATION

GENERATING IDEAS

HUMILITY

OUR VALUES

Fortescue's unique Values 
drive our performance  
in a way that sets us apart 
from others



  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    1

01 Overview 3
02 Our approach to sustainability 14
03 Corporate governance 20

04 Stakeholder engagement and collaboration 34

05 People – building sustainable communities 40

06 Planet – safeguarding natural systems 70

07 Process – operating with integrity 86

08 Corporate directory 104

CONTENTS



2  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

TOTAL GLOBAL  
ECONOMIC  

CONTRIBUTION

A$
 27.6bn

US$5.2bn

CASH ON HAND

US$15.91/wmt

C1 COST

US$0.9bn

NET DEBT

189.0 mt

IRON ORE SHIPPED

NET PROFIT 
AFTER TAX

US$6.2bn

YEAR AT A GLANCE

FY22 FINANCIAL  
PERFORMANCE



  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    3

OVERVIEW

FY22 SUSTAINABILITY 
PERFORMANCE 

Safety

1.8   
TRIFR  

iron ore operations

Employment

11,693  
Employees  

A$
3.7m 

Research and  
conservation programs

Environment

0  
Significant  
incidents

Diversity

15% 
Aboriginal  

employment across our 
Pilbara operations

27% 
Female employment in 
senior leadership roles

01



4  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

Fortescue is committed to open, transparent and meaningful 
engagement with our stakeholders

ABOUT THIS  
REPORT

Unless specified, all metrics in this report exclude data from 
Williams Advanced Engineering (WAE), which was acquired by 
Fortescue in March 2022.

The report was reviewed and approved by Fortescue’s Board 
of Directors (the Board) on 26 August 2022.

Assurance
Management has sought independent, third party verification 
of a range of metrics in this report. This includes data on 
safety performance, training and development, education 
initiatives, Aboriginal employment, heritage sites and 
employee training, the Billion Opportunities program, and 
gender diversity. All other metrics undergo a process of 
internal verification.

Independent assurance on emissions data is detailed in our 
FY22 Climate Change Report.

Feedback
We value all feedback. Please forward any comments 
on this report or requests for additional information to 
sustainability@fmgl.com.au

This report has been prepared for our stakeholders, including 
employees, investors, community groups, government, 
suppliers, customers and non-government organisations.

The report details the performance of Fortescue Metals 
Group Ltd (Fortescue) against key material sustainability 
commitments and targets during the financial year 1 July 
2021 to 30 June 2022 (FY22). It is part of our annual reporting 
suite which also includes the FY22 Annual Report, FY22 
Climate Change Report and the FY22 Corporate Governance 
Statement, which are available on our website at  
www.fortescue.com 

We are a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact 
(UNGC) and this report outlines our ongoing commitment 
to report progress towards the principles of the UNGC. This 
report has been prepared in accordance with the Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. A copy of the GRI content 
index is provided on pages 105 to 111.

The report also considers issues identified through 
Fortescue’s Risk Management Framework and guidance 
provided by key bodies, including the International Council on 
Mining and Metals (ICMM).

The report covers our operations, including those under 
exploration and development and those operated through 
subsidiaries and joint ventures where we have management 
control. The report also highlights the ongoing achievements 
of Fortescue Future Industries (FFI), which was established 
by Fortescue in FY21 to pursue green energy opportunities 
globally.

All references to our, we, us and Fortescue refer to Fortescue 
Metals Group Ltd (ABN 57 002 594 872) and its subsidiaries. 
All references to a year are to the financial year ended  
30 June 2022 unless otherwise stated. All monetary values 
are listed in Australian dollars (A$) unless otherwise stated. 

Fortescue acknowledges the First Nations peoples of the lands upon which we live 
and work. We acknowledge their rich cultures and their continuing connection  
to land, waters and community. We are proud to work, partner and engage with  

First Nations peoples. We pay our respects to the culture and people,  
their Elders and leaders, past, present and emerging.



  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    5

Elizabeth Gaines

CHIEF EXECUTIVE  
OFFICER'S MESSAGE

“ENSURING THE COMMUNITIES  
IN WHICH WE  

OPERATE BENEFIT FROM  
OUR SUCCESS”

This report marks my last as Chief Executive Officer of 
Fortescue and it has been a privilege to have steered 
the Company over the past four and a half years. I joined 
Fortescue in February 2013 as a Non-Executive Director, 
before becoming Chief Financial Officer in 2017 and then the 
Company’s third Chief Executive Officer in February 2018.   

Throughout my journey, I have seen Fortescue go from 
strength to strength to become one of the world’s lowest 
cost iron ore producers. However, we are not sitting on our 
success. We are capitalising on it for our next venture, – green 
energy and decarbonisation technology for heavy emitters 
– like Fortescue. Together with FFI, we are transitioning to an 
integrated, global green energy and resources company.   

Sustainability has never been more crucial to us at Fortescue. 
We remain committed to integrating sustainability into all 
aspects of the business and ensuring communities continue to 
benefit from our growth and development as we take a global 
leadership position in the green energy transition. And that 
journey to a greener future has already begun.  

Making sure the Fortescue family returns 
home safely  

The health and safety of our team members, their families 
and our local communities remains our highest priority  

We are focused on ensuring everyone goes home safely after 
every shift, and this commitment extends to the mental health 
and wellbeing of the entire team. During FY22, our unwavering 
focus on safety resulted in our lowest ever total recordable 
injury frequency rate (TRIFR) of 1.8 for iron ore operations, 
a 10 per cent improvement from FY21. While this was an 
outstanding result by the team, tragically on 30 September 
2021 our team member David Armstrong passed away as 
the result of an incident at our Solomon Hub operations. This 
devastating loss has been a stark reminder of why safety must 
be our greatest focus.  

Guided by our Values and unique culture, we entered our 
third year of managing the impacts of COVID-19. Through 
maintaining a comprehensive COVID-19 management plan 
and investing in business continuity planning measures, 
we have successfully mitigated potential disruption to our 
operations while protecting the health of our team members, 
their families and the local communities.   

As always, we engaged with our workforce through our Safety 
Excellence and Culture Survey which saw 95 per cent of our 
workforce participate. The annual survey provides valuable 
feedback on how we can continue to build on our culture and 
ensure the entire Fortescue family returns home safely after 
every shift.   

Building a diverse, equitable and inclusive 
workplace

We believe a diverse, equitable and inclusive workplace is 
key to our success  

As an industry, we faced some confronting truths during 
the year as we worked to better understand people’s 
experiences of sexual harassment at mining operations in 
Western Australia. The findings from the Western Australian 
Parliamentary Inquiry into sexual harassment against women 
in the fly-in fly-out (FIFO) mining industry were deeply 
disturbing, and it is no accident that the title of the report is 
‘Enough is Enough’. Fortescue participated actively in the 
Inquiry, and through our ongoing Workplace Integrity Review, 
we have implemented a range of initiatives to further enhance 
safety and wellbeing within our operations and ensure all team 
members continue to uphold our unique culture.  

We acknowledge that we, as an organisation contributing to 
the wider community, can always do more. We remain firmly 
committed to ensuring we have a workforce that is reflective 
of our community, which fosters a workplace culture that truly 
embraces diversity and inclusiveness.   



6  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

OVERVIEW

I was pleased that Fortescue’s female employment increased 
in FY22 to 23 per cent, with women comprising 27 per cent of 
senior leadership positions. We continue to lead from the front 
with 50 per cent of our Board being female as at 30 June 2022.  

Climate change, our collective greatest 
challenge  
There is no doubt that globally, climate change is society’s 
greatest challenge, and we must not make the climate crisis 
worse, by making poor decisions now, which can cause 
impacts to future generations. 

I firmly believe industry is key to addressing climate change 
and Fortescue is taking swift action to eliminate emissions 
across our operations and our entire value chain. Our targets 
to achieve carbon neutrality for Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 
2030 and net zero Scope 3 emissions by 2040 are industry 
leading, and we have made significant progress during the 
financial year to reduce emissions across our business. 
Together with FFI, we are investing in renewable energy and 
new technologies to remove our reliance on fossil fuels and to 
create significant value for our shareholders.

With a target to have our operations running on green energy 
by 2030, we must move quickly to reduce our emissions. 
Fortescue’s acquisition of UK-based WAE during the year 
provides the Company with technology and expertise in  
high-performance battery systems and electrification, as 
we deliver on our emissions reduction targets. We also 
entered into a strategic partnership with Tier 1 equipment 
manufacturer Liebherr for the development and supply 
of green mining haul trucks, with the first haul truck to be 
operational at our Pilbara sites in 2025.  

Ensuring communities benefit   
From the outset, it has been Fortescue’s vision to ensure 
that the communities in which we operate benefit from our 
success  

This year we contributed over $77 million through our 
voluntary social investment programs and continued 
important partnerships with Lifeline WA, Ronald McDonald 
House Charities WA, The Salvation Army and MADALAH 
Limited (MADALAH).  

In November 2021 we announced our five-year, $8 million 
partnership with the Royal Flying Doctor Service (RFDS) of 
Western Australia, to provide the first aeromedical helicopter 
service in the State. This important service provides RFDS 
frontline crews with greater capacity to respond quickly to 
patients’ needs with the most appropriate aircraft. Nothing 
is more important than the health and safety of our team 
members, their families and the communities in which we 
operate, and this partnership is a true testament to our strong 
culture and Values.  

Empowering Aboriginal people   
Our approach to working with Aboriginal people is 
underpinned by our culture and Values  

When I joined Fortescue in 2013, our pioneering Billion 
Opportunities program had awarded $1 billion in contracts 
to Aboriginal business and joint ventures since its inception 
two years prior. This year, I was immensely proud to announce 
that the initiative had surpassed $4 billion, creating significant 
sustainable business opportunities for Aboriginal people 
across Australia.  

We also remained one of Australia’s largest employers of 
Aboriginal people, with more than 1,100 Aboriginal people 
employed at Fortescue.  

Our commitment to building the capacity and capability of 
Aboriginal people is evidenced in other initiatives, including 
our Vocational Training and Employment Centre (VTEC) 
program which was established in 2006. Over 1,000 Aboriginal 
people have successfully completed VTEC and gone on to 
commence full time employment with Fortescue.   

Protecting heritage and culture   
Fortescue has the deepest respect for the Indigenous peoples 
of this land, the oldest continuing cultures in human history, 
and is committed to working with First Nations peoples to 
identify, manage and protect cultural heritage. Our primary 
objective at all times is to work on a cultural heritage 
avoidance basis and this is evidenced by our efforts to 
manage more than 6,100 heritage sites since we commenced 
operations.   

In line with this commitment, in September 2021 we 
announced the establishment of a co-management 
framework with members of the Wintawari Guruma Aboriginal 
Corporation. Under the innovative framework, Fortescue 
and members of Wintawari have established a culturally 
safe mining joint venture to mine the East and West Queens 
deposits on Eastern Guruma country.  

A working group was also formed to ensure collaboration 
on all stages of the mine development, from heritage and 
environmental approvals, resource drilling and definition and 
mine planning to operations and rehabilitation.  

Our Values and culture   
It is because of the passion and dedication of our people who 
show their commitment to our strong culture and Values 
every day, that we are able to maintain our commitment to 
integrating sustainability into all aspects of the business. As 
we enter a new phase of growth by taking a global leadership 
position in the green energy transition, the Fortescue team 
will continue to be guided by our strong, unique culture as we 
strive to achieve our stretch targets and drive future success. 
While my tenure as Chief Executive Officer is coming to an 
end, I look forward to continuing to be part of Fortescue’s 
journey as a Non-Executive Director and in my role as Global 
Ambassador for FFI.



As part of our transition to a vertically integrated green 
energy and resources company, Fortescue acquired WAE 
to expand our capacity to undertake research and develop 
and commercialise innovative low carbon solutions. WAE 
is an offshoot of the Williams F1 team and a world leading 
technology and engineering business renowned for its 
groundbreaking projects in high performance battery 
systems and electrification.

WAE’s race bred critical capabilities and battery 
technology will help us decarbonise our operations and 
deliver low carbon technologies to the significant global 
market. 

Drawing on WAE’s unique proprietary technology and 
expertise in high-performance battery systems, we are 
already progressing: 

• Zero emissions power systems to use in the haul trucks 
being developed under the partnership with Liebherr.

• The Infinity Train project – a world first iron ore train that 
will capture enough energy on the loaded, downhill 
journey to port that it will not require additional charging 
for the unladen return trip.

Fortescue Chief Executive Officer Elizabeth Gaines said, 
“Fortescue and WAE share strong cultural alignment with 
a focus on technology and innovation to support carbon 
neutrality, both companies being leaders in their 
respective industries.

“We have been working with WAE since early 2021, with 
WAE designing and building a battery system to power an 
electric mining haul truck; an important first step in the 
decarbonisation of Fortescue’s mining haul fleet. WAE’s 
expertise in battery systems and electrification further 
complements FFI’s green hydrogen projects for haul 
trucks and mobile fleet to further underpin our technical 
leadership.”

WILLIAMS ADVANCED ENGINEERING

CASE STUDY

  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    7



8  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

ABOUT
FORTESCUE

Transitioning to a global green energy  
and resources company 

Established in 2003, Fortescue is a proud West Australian 
company, recognised for our culture, Values, innovation 
and industry leading development of infrastructure and 
mining assets. As one of the world’s lowest cost iron ore 
producers, Fortescue is now shipping at an annual rate of 
over 180 million tonnes with more than 1.7 billion tonnes 
of iron ore delivered to our customers since 2008.

Through our green energy and technology company FFI, 
we are rapidly diversifying our business to become an 
integrated, global green energy and resources company. 
Key to this transition are our industry leading targets to 
achieve carbon neutrality for Scope 1 and 2 emissions 
by 2030 and net zero Scope 3 emissions by 2040. For 
our size and scale, there is no other mining company in 
the world that is taking the action we are to eliminate 
emissions. 

Our operations include three mining hubs in the Pilbara, 
Western Australia, which are connected to our five 
berth Herb Elliott Port and the Judith Street Harbour 
towage infrastructure in Port Hedland by 760 kilometres 
of the fastest heavy haul railway in the world. Our iron 
ore value chain extends to our innovative tug fleet and 
eight purpose-built 260,000 tonne capacity Fortescue 
Ore Carriers, which have been designed to complement 
the efficiency of our port and maximise the safety and 
productivity of Fortescue’s operations. 

Since the outset, Fortescue has been at the forefront of 
innovation in the mining industry. The Fortescue Hive, our 
integrated operations centre in Perth, brings together 
our entire value chain to deliver enhanced safety, 
productivity, efficiency and commercial benefits, and 
will strengthen our future use of technology, including 
artificial intelligence and robotics.

As a low cost supplier of seaborne iron ore to China, 
Fortescue maintains strong relationships with all our 
Chinese stakeholders, underpinned by a multifaceted 
approach spanning our key business pillars of iron ore 
supply, procurement, financing, investment and social 
engagement. Additionally, we have expanded into other 
markets including Japan and South Korea.

As a values-based business which celebrates diversity 
and inclusiveness, globally we are empowering thriving 
communities and delivering positive social and economic 
benefits through training, employment and business 
development opportunities, including for our First 
Nations’ employees and partners. By empowering our 
people and communities, we will continue to challenge 
the status quo to sustain operational excellence, achieve 
our stretch targets, drive future success and deliver 
strong returns to our shareholders.



  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    9

OUR  
OPERATIONS

As one of the world’s largest producers of iron ore, Fortescue’s 
wholly owned and integrated operations in the Pilbara include 

the Chichester, Solomon and Western mining hubs

Our mining infrastructure is connected to the five berth  
Herb Elliott Port and Judith Street Harbour towage facility in  
Port Hedland via the fastest heavy haul railway in the world



10  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

OVERVIEW

Chichester Hub 
Our Chichester Hub in the Chichester Ranges includes the 
Cloudbreak and Christmas Creek mines and has an annual 
production capacity of approximately 100 million tonnes per 
annum (mtpa) from three ore processing facilities (OPFs).

Consistent and sustained performance delivered from the 
OPFs has allowed us to optimise our product strategy through 
enhanced blending and beneficiation, supporting iron grades 
and reducing impurities. 

To further enhance our ore, the Christmas Creek OPF 
infrastructure has been upgraded to include a Wet High Intensity 
Magnetic Separator to recover high grade iron from the finer ore 
fed through the OPF.

Cloudbreak utilises 10km of relocatable conveyors that can be 
adjusted and relocated to any new mining areas to offset the 
increase in costs. Currently, this conveyor infrastructure helps to 
otherwise offset a fleet increase and helps manage our product 
strategy, while being cost-efficient and when powered by 
renewable energy, reducing greenhouse gas emissions. 

Solomon Hub 
The Solomon Hub in the Hamersley Ranges is located 60km 
north of Tom Price and 120km to the west of our Chichester Hub. 
It comprises the Firetail, Kings Valley and Queens Valley mines 
which together have a production range of 65 to 70mtpa. The 
expansion to Queens Valley has enabled continued production 
of the Kings Fines product. 

Solomon represents a valuable source of production, enabling 
the blend of higher iron grade Firetail ore with ore from Eliwana 
and the Chichester Hub to create our Fortescue Blend product. 

Fortescue Future Industries 
Fortescue is transitioning to an integrated, global green 
energy and resources company. We have set a target to 
decarbonise our operations by 2030, and we have set a target 
to achieve net zero Scope 3 emissions by 2040.

FFI will be a key enabler of these targets, with two clear 
objectives.

The first is to provide the technology and the innovation 
required to eliminate Fortescue’s emissions wherever possible. 
We are committed to providing the tool kit that Fortescue 
needs to meet or exceed our decarbonisation targets. By 
significantly reducing our reliance on diesel, we will also 
reduce cost. 

Our partnership with Liebherr during the financial year will see 
the delivery of a fleet of green mining haul trucks at our Pilbara 
operations – with the first delivery in 2025.

We are also working closely with WAE on the delivery of a 
world-leading regenerating battery electric iron ore train, 
which has the potential to be the most efficient battery electric 
train in the world.  

The second objective is to make green hydrogen at quantity 
and at speed and fulfil our obligations to our customers. Green 
hydrogen is a zero-emission fuel, that when used produces 
nothing but water. It is a practical and implementable solution 
that will help revolutionise the way we power our planet: 
helping to decarbonise heavy industry and create jobs 
globally.

Leveraging on Fortescue’s world leading track record of 
innovation and infrastructure, FFI will position Fortescue at the 
forefront of the renewable energy industry.  

Solomon HubFFI



  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    11

Cloudbreak
Christmas CreekFiretail, Kings 

and Queens

Concentrate pipeline

Eliwana

WESTERN HUB

SOLOMON HUB

CHICHESTER HUB

NYIDINGHU

IRON BRIDGE

Karratha

Dampier

Roebourne

Marble Bar

Nullagine

Newman

Tom Price

Port Hedland

Iron ore operations

Iron ore development

Pilbara
Western Australia

Chichester Solar Gas

Pilbara Energy Connect 

Rail operations

Chichester solar project

Pilbara Energy Connect 
solar farm

HERB ELLIOTT PORT

Goldfields Gas Pipeline

Dam
pie

r B
unbury

 G
as P

ip
elin

e

Western Hub 
Fortescue’s newest mine at Eliwana commenced operations in 
December 2020 and includes a 30mtpa dry OPF and 143km of 
rail linking the mine to our Hamersley rail line. 

Together with Eliwana’s innovative low profile designed OPF 
and dual stacker reclaimer, Eliwana has the capacity to direct 
load onto trains up to 9,000 tonnes per hour. Eliwana is now 
producing at an annualised run rate of 30mtpa, contributing 
to our low cost status and providing greater flexibility to 
capitalise on market dynamics. 

Hedland operations 
Fortescue wholly owns and operates our purpose built rail and 
port facilities, constructed to deliver iron ore from our mines to 
Port Hedland for shipment to our customers. Covering 760km 
of track, our railway is the fastest heavy haul line in the world. 

The efficient design and layout, optimal berthing configuration 
and ongoing innovation to increase productivity make our 
Herb Elliott Port the most efficient bulk port operation in 
Australia. The port has five operating berths and our current 
infrastructure is capable of safely and efficiently exporting in 
excess of 190mtpa. 

We have been granted approval to increase the licensed 
throughput capacity of Herb Elliott Port from 175mtpa to 
210mtpa, in line with our strategy to deliver growth through 
investment in significant projects including the Iron Bridge 
Magnetite Project. 

Our Judith Street Harbour towage infrastructure and fleet of 
tugs provide safe and reliable towage services that maximise 
the efficiency of our operations. Designed to complement our 
port infrastructure, the fleet of eight 260,000 tonne capacity 
Fortescue Ore Carriers delivers approximately 11 per cent of 
our shipping requirements, while improving load rates and 
efficiencies and reducing operating costs. Our shipping fleet 
completes our mine to market iron ore value chain. 

Iron Bridge Magnetite Project 
The US$3.6 – US$3.8 billion Iron Bridge Magnetite Project 
is under development and will deliver 22mtpa of high grade 

Iron Bridge

67% Fe magnetite concentrate product, with first production 
scheduled for the March 2023 quarter.

Iron Bridge is a strategic investment enabling Fortescue to 
provide an enhanced product range to our customers while 
increasing our production and shipping volumes. Located 
145km south of Port Hedland, Iron Bridge incorporates the 
world class North Star and Glacier Valley Magnetite ore bodies 
and represents one of the few large scale iron ore growth 
projects under construction globally.

The nature of the Iron Bridge ore bodies and our innovative 
use of a dry crushing and grinding circuit together contribute 
to the project’s operational efficiency across energy, water 
use and cost. Low-cost power will be delivered to Iron Bridge 
through Fortescue’s investment in the Pilbara Energy Connect 
(PEC) program, including hybrid solar gas generation and 
battery storage.

The Iron Bridge Magnetite Project is an unincorporated joint 
venture between Fortescue’s subsidiary FMG Magnetite Pty 
Ltd (69 per cent) and Formosa Steel IB Pty Ltd (31 per cent). 
It represents a compelling investment for the joint venture 
partners given its low capital intensity and competitive 
operating cost structure.



12  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

OVERVIEW

Exploration
Fortescue began as an exploration company and today our 
iron ore tenements remain key to maintaining mine life and 
sustaining product quality in our core iron ore business. 

Our exploration activities in the Western Hub, Solomon Hub 
and Eastern Hamersley are focused on adding high iron 
content, dry, low-cost tonnes to our product suite, providing 
further optionality for the business. 

Study work is progressing at Nyidinghu and Mindy South, 
located south-east of Nyidinghu in the Eastern Hamersley. 
Recent Australian exploration activity has been primarily 
focused on early stage target generation for copper-gold 
in the Paterson region in Western Australia. Additional 
exploration activity is underway in New South Wales and  
South Australia.

International footprint 
We recognise that early stage exploration can unlock 
significant value. Our world class exploration capability is 
driving future growth as we target global opportunities and 
commodities that support decarbonisation and electrification 
of the transport sector. 

Fortescue has a well established presence in Latin America, 
including Argentina where we currently hold tenements 
prospective for copper-gold. We are also assessing 
exploration and development opportunities in Colombia, 
Ecuador, Peru, Chile and Brazil. 

Fortescue has a 19 per cent stake in TSX listed Candente 
Copper Corporation and we are focused on advancing the 
Canariaco project in Peru. In Kazakhstan, a range of copper 
targets are being progressed to drilling while work in Portugal 
is focused on development of lithium opportunities. 

The Hive

World-leading technology 
Fortescue was the first company in the world to deploy 
Caterpillar autonomous haulage on a commercial scale when 
trucks fitted with autonomous haulage system (AHS)  
technology began operating at the Solomon Hub in 2013. 

Today, our AHS fleet is among the largest in the world and 
demonstrates our unique capability to manage and operate a  
multi-class truck size autonomous haulage site. 

In FY22, we achieved 2.5 billion tonnes of material moved by 
autonomous haulage. 

When our Train Control Centre opened in 2009, we were the first 
operation in Western Australia to control a railway from outside 
the region. Now known as the Fortescue Hive, the expanded, 
purpose-built Integrated Operations Centre in Perth was opened 
in 2020 and includes our Planning, Operations and Mine Control 
teams, together with Port, Rail, Shipping and Marketing teams. 

The Hive allows team members across our value chain to work 
together 24 hours a day, seven days a week to deliver improved 
safety, reliability, efficiency and commercial outcomes. In FY22,  
the Hive evolved to accommodate our Eliwana Plant and Mine 
Control teams and the newly formed Energy Operations team, 
enabling generation and the integrated distribution network for 
PEC to be remotely managed from Perth. 

Energy infrastructure 
Since October 2019, together with our partners, we have invested 
more than US$800 million in significant energy infrastructure 
projects which will increase our use of renewable energy, a key 
contributor to our pathway to achieve our emissions reduction 
targets. 

PEC, together with the Chichester Solar Gas Hybrid Project,  
will deliver 25 per cent of our stationary energy requirements 
from solar power. PEC leverages existing assets and provides us 
with a hybrid solar gas energy solution that enables the delivery 
of stable, low cost power and supports the incorporation of 
additional large-scale renewable energy in the future. 

At 30 June 2022, all 809 transmission poles for Stage 1 of PEC 
were complete, conductor strung and the line tested and ready 
for energisation. The new infrastructure builds on our previous 
energy initiatives, including construction of the Fortescue River 
Gas Pipeline and conversion of the Solomon Power Station  
from diesel to gas generation.

Argentina



  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    13

Exploration 
and discovery
Challenging geological 
thinking to identify 
valuable deposits

Extraction and 
recovery
Innovative use of 
technology suitable to 
Fortescue’s deposits

Processing
Ore processing 
facility design and 
wet processing 
optimise output

Marketing
Helping customers 
achieve best value 
in use

Ship loading
3 shiploaders and  
5 berths maximise outload 
capacity and utilisation

Mine to port
Heavy haul rail 
at 42t axle load

Blending and 
stockpiling
Port design 
facilitates blending 
and stockpiling of 
product suite

Modelling, 
planning and 
development

China port sales
FMG Trading 
Shanghai Co. Ltd 
(FMG Trading)

Rehabilitation
Mine closure and 
decommissioning

Shipping and towage
Delivery to Fortescue’s 
international customers’ 
specifications

8 Fortescue Ore Carriers 

Towage fleet provides safe 
and reliable towage services

IRON ORE
VALUE CHAIN



14  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY

Sustainability is critical to  
the future success of  
our Company and we  

integrate it into all aspects  
of our business  

Our Purpose  
and Values

Code of Conduct 
and Integrity

Targets

Opportunities 
and objectives

Policies 

Voluntary  
commitments  
and principles

Sustainability has never been more important to us 
at Fortescue. We are focused on achieving leading 
practice and ensuring communities continue to 
benefit from our growth and development as we take a 
global leadership position on climate change and the 
green energy transition.

Our sustainability commitments are developed in 
collaboration with our stakeholders and aim to create 
value for our investors, protect the health and safety of 
our employees, protect the environment and empower 
the communities in which we operate, assisting them 
to thrive and prosper.

Sustainability is integrated into our decision-making,  
strategic and risk management processes. 

02



  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    15

Compliance with all relevant legislation and obligations, 
including those that govern health, safety and 
environment, is the absolute minimum standard to which 
we operate.

Our unique culture and Values form the base of our 
sustainability framework, which incorporates specific 
polices, objectives and targets. 

Good governance is critical to strong sustainability 
performance, and our Board is responsible for the 
oversight of all sustainability matters, receiving regular 
updates through the Audit, Risk Management and 
Sustainability Committee (ARMSC).

Operationally, sustainability is managed by our Chief 
Executive Officer with support from our executive 

Sustainability Committee that meets at least quarterly to 
oversee all sustainability matters. Our Sustainability team 
coordinates the implementation of our sustainability strategy, 
related policies and targets across the business.

The Sustainability Committee works to ensure continuous 
improvement and that the sustainability strategy, related 
policies and targets are embedded throughout our business. 
Our sustainability strategy outlines commitments and 
targets and provides implementation guidance. The early 
identification and assessment of sustainability matters alerts 
Fortescue to potential risks and opportunities, and enables 
the planning of mitigation and optimisation strategies. These 
assessments may result in amendments to a project or 
avoidance if the risk of proceeding is found to be too high.



16  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY

MATERIAL TOPICS Research

Identification

3

Prioritisation

4

Validation

   5

   Review

2

1

Material topics are those that may have a significant impact on our ability 
to achieve our commitments and targets. These topics are identified 
through an annual assessment process that considers risks and 
opportunities, external stakeholder views, our internal subject matter 
expertise and third-party due diligence. The assessment involves a cycle 
of research, identification, prioritisation, validation and review.

During FY22, our materiality assessment considered the 
following:

• sustainability initiatives and targets 

• corporate risk assessments and audits 

• policies, standards and guidelines 

• results of internal and external stakeholder engagement 

• media and investor interest and feedback 

SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT

• material topics identified by peers, sustainability leaders 
and materiality analysis 

• benchmarking and environmental, social and governance 
assessments. 

Priorities were informed by internal and external stakeholder 
engagement. Materiality was validated by subject leaders and 
the Sustainability Committee, with 12 topics determined to be 
material within three sustainable development pillars: People, 
Planet and Process. 

Sustainable
development

P
eo

pl
e 

    

Planet  
 

Process

Sustainable development graphic

Final

Safeguarding natural system
s 

B
ui

ld
in

g
 s

us
ta

in
ab

le
 communities 

Operating with integrity

Climate
  action

Protecting 
  biodiversity

Protecting 
  water resources

Building 
    circularity

Employee 
 safety and 
  wellbeing

Diversity,
  inclusion 
     and equity

Respecting 
   human
    rights

Respecting 
 heritage 
  and culture

Building
  thriving 
   communities

Business 
  integrity

Economic 
contribution

Innovation and 
technology



  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    17

OUR PRIORITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS

We have aligned our approach 
to sustainability with the United 
Nations Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs) and will continue to 
work with our host governments as 
they strive to meet these goals.  
We have prioritised eight of the  
17 SDGs for which we can have the 
greatest impact.

  PEOPLE

    PLANET
 

     PROCESS
 

In November 2021, we launched our Sustainability Financing 
Framework, enabling the future issuance of debt instruments 
to access growing pools of sustainable capital to support 
investments in eligible green and social projects. 

The Framework seeks to mobilise investors and capital to 
contribute to the realisation of the United Nations SDGs. 
Eligible projects will include investments in renewable 
energy, green hydrogen and ammonia, energy storage, clean 
transportation and pollution control, as well as projects that 
focus on employment opportunities, educational and 
vocational training and socioeconomic empowerment. 

In April 2022, we successfully completed a US$1,500 million 
Senior Notes offering, which included our inaugural US$800 
million Green Use of Proceeds Notes which will be applied to 
Eligible Green Projects, pursuant to Fortescue’s Sustainability 
Financing Framework. In recognition of our inaugural Green 
Notes, we received confirmation that these Notes met the 
eligibility criteria and would be included within the Climate 
Bonds Initiative Green Bond database. This database 
includes all green debt instruments that are aligned with their 
Climate Bonds Taxonomy. 

Proceeds from the Green Senior Notes will be applied to a 
number of decarbonisation initiatives, including the 150MW 
solar generation component of the PEC Project, the 
acquisition of WAE and the hydrogen mobility project at our 
Christmas Creek mine site. 

Sustainability  
Financing Framework

Thriving communities  |  Global force

SUSTAINABLE FINANCE

CASE STUDY



18  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

MEASURING OUR  
PERFORMANCE

   PEOPLE

Employee Safety  
and Wellbeing

Objective: to be global leaders 
in safety

Objective: to be global leaders 
in safety

Objective: to be global leaders 
in safety

To ensure a leading safety 
culture and an organisation that 
actively cares for employees 
and contractors.

Target: Annually, achieve zero 
fatalities at our operations.

Target: Reduce TRIFR year on 
year to the lowest quartile in the 
global resources industry.

Target: Reduce our Injury Risk 
Profile by 15% through the 
completion of data driven injury  
risk mitigation activities.

Target: annually, achieve top 
quartile Safety Excellence and 
Culture Survey results.

FY22    1 FY22    x FY22    xx FY22    xx
FY21   0 FY21   2 FY21   xx FY21   xx
FY20   0 FY20   2.4 FY20   xx FY20   xx
Diversity, inclusion  
and equity

Objective: Increase the number 
of female employees to be 
reflective of general society

Objective: Provide opportunities 
for female employees to move 
into leadership positions

Objective: Increase the number 
of Aboriginal employees to be 
reflective of general society

Objective: Increase the number 
of Aboriginal employees to be 
reflective of general society

Target: Year on year increase in 
female employment

Target: Year on year increase in 
female employment in leadership 
roles

Target: Year on year increase in 
the Aboriginal employment rate

Target: Year on year increase in 
the Aboriginal employment rate 
in Pilbara operations

Female employment Females in leadership roles Aboriginal employment
Aboriginal people across  
Pilbara operations

FY22   23%  FY22  24%  FY22   10%  FY22   15%  
FY21   21% FY21  25% FY21   10% FY21   14%

FY20   19% FY20  25% FY20   10% FY20   14%

Respecting heritage  
and culture

Building thriving 
communities

Objective: Provide opportunities 
for Aboriginal people to move 
into leadership positions

Objective: Create a 
workplace where everyone 
feels safe to be themselves 
and is acknowledged and 
celebrated for the strengths 
each individual brings 

Objective: Work together with 
Indigenous people to manage 
Indigenous heritage responsibly 
and sustainably

Objective: Create economic 
opportunities for Aboriginal 
businesses through local 
procurement, business 
development, mentoring and 
capacity-building opportunities

Target: Year on year increase in 
the Aboriginal employment rate in 
leadership roles

Target: Create a workplace that 
reflects the community in which 
we live through diversity of age

Target: Annually, ensure no impact 
to Indigenous heritage without 
consultation with and consent 
from Indigenous people

Target: Annually, achieve a spend 
of 10 per cent with Aboriginal 
businesses

Aboriginal leadership roles FY22 age distribution
Significant heritage 
incidents

Spend with Aboriginal 
businesses

FY22   4%  ≤30   20%  FY22  0 FY22   5%  
FY21   4%  31-50  61% FY21  1 FY21   5%

FY20   4% ≥51    19% FY20  0 FY20   6%

  PEOPLE

Employee safety  
and wellbeing

Objective: To be global leaders 
in safety

Objective: To be global leaders 
in safety

Objective: To be global leaders 
in safety

Objective: To ensure a leading 
safety culture and be an 
organisation that actively cares 
for employees and contractors

Target: Reduce our Injury Risk 
Profile by 15 per cent through the 
completion of data driven injury  
risk mitigation activities

Target: Reduce TRIFR year on 
year to the lowest quartile in the 
global resources industry

Target: Annually, achieve zero 
fatalities at our operations

Target: Annually, achieve top 
quartile Safety Excellence and 
Culture Survey results

Injury Risk Profile Reduction 
Iron Ore Operations

TRIFR
Iron Ore Operations

Fatalities Categories in top quartile

FY22  21%  FY22   1.8  FY22   1 FY22  10/12  
FY21   2.0  FY21   0 FY21  10/12  
FY20   2.4 FY20   0 FY20  10/12



  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    19

    PROCESS

Business integrity Economic contribution

Objective: To ensure our Values 
reflect ethical conduct and 
respect and are embedded in 
the business

Objective: Deliver value to our 
communities through strategic 
social investment

Target: Annually, ensure ethical 
conduct is maintained by a 
targeted program, including 
leadership development, training, 
performance assessments and 
remuneration

Target: Allocate funding 
according to priorities set in the 
community investment strategy

Advanced training 
sessions delivered Social investment

FY22   863  
FY21   264

FY20   226

FY22   $77.4m  
FY21   $63.2m

Progress against our targets for climate action is reported 
in the FY22 Climate Change Report which is available on 
our website at www.fortescue.com

Progress against our targets for respecting human rights 
is reported in the FY21 Modern Slavery Statement which is 
available on our website at www.fortescue.com

Our FY22 Modern Slavery Statement will be published in 
December 2022.

Protecting water resources Building circularity Closure and rehabilitation

Objective: Use water 
responsibly by improving water 
use efficiency and minimising 
water loss through surface water 
discharge and evaporation

Objective: To reduce waste 
generation through prevention, 
reduction, recycling and reuse

Objective: Ensure the closure of 
our mines and key infrastructure 
areas is undertaken in a planned 
approach, with appropriate 
financial provisioning in place

Target: Annually, ensure at least  
80 per cent of water abstracted 
at the Cloudbreak and Christmas 
Creek mine sites is used for 
operational requirements or 
beneficial environmental purposes

Target: Recycle more than  
80 per cent of our non-
mineralised waste volumes at our 
operating sites, excluding tyres 
and concrete waste

Target: Closure plans to be in place 
for each major operational site

Waste recycled Closure plans in place

FY22   99%  FY22   83%  FY22   100%  
FY21   98% FY21   87% FY21   100%

FY20   98% FY20   89% FY20   100%

   PLANET

Protecting biodiversity Protecting water resources

Objective: Take responsibility 
for Fortescue’s disturbance by 
protecting biodiversity in the 
regions where we operate

Objective: Take responsibility 
for Fortescue’s disturbance by 
protecting biodiversity in the 
regions where we operate

Objective: Use water 
responsibly by improving 
water use efficiency and 
minimising water loss through 
surface water discharge and 
evaporation

Target: Achieve a net positive 
impact on biodiversity

Target: Achieve zero significant 
environmental incidents

Target: Set public, site-specific 
water management targets for 
each of our operating mines by 
FY23

Biodiversity Environmental incidents

•   Implementation of our 
Environmental Management 
System

•   Zero environmental fines or 
sanctions

•   $3.7m invested in research  
and conservation programs

FY22   0
A target is in place for our  
Chichester Hub. Targets to be  
set for other operations in FY23.FY21   0

FY20   0

   PEOPLE

Building thriving 
communities

Objective: Create economic 
opportunities in the regions 
in which we operate through 
engagement with local 
businesses, local employment 
and a residential workforce

Target: Annually, achieve a spend 
of five per cent with local Pilbara 
suppliers

Spend with Pilbara 
suppliers

FY22   5%  
FY21   4%

FY20   6%



20  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

03



  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    21

Good corporate governance is  
critical to the long-term,  

sustainable success of Fortescue

OVERVIEW OF  
GOVERNANCE

Good governance is the collective 
responsibility of the Board and all 
levels of management. Fortescue 
seeks to adopt leading practice, 
contemporary governance standards 
and apply these in a manner 
consistent with our culture and 
Values.

We support the intent of the 4th 
Edition of the Australian Securities 
Exchange (ASX) Corporate 
Governance Council’s Corporate 
Governance Principles and 
Recommendations. Unless otherwise 
disclosed, we report against the 
requirements of these Principles and 
Recommendations.

Our cornerstone principles of 
corporate governance are:

Transparency
Being clear and unambiguous 
about our structure, operations 
and performance, both externally 
and internally, and maintaining 
a genuine dialogue with, and 
providing insight to, stakeholders 
and the market generally.

Integrity
Developing and maintaining a 
corporate culture committed to ethical 
behaviour and compliance with the law. 

Empowerment
Everyone at Fortescue is empowered 
to make decisions that support our 
objectives and are in the best interests 
of stakeholders. Management and 
employees are encouraged to be 
innovative and strategic in making 
decisions that align with our risk 
appetite and are undertaken in a manner 
consistent with corporate expectations 
and standards.

Corporate accountability
Ensuring that there is clarity of decision 
making, with processes in place to 
authorise the right people to make 
effective and efficient decisions and 
appropriate consequences delivered 
when these processes are not followed.

Stewardship
Developing and maintaining a 
company wide recognition that 
Fortescue is managed for the benefit 
of its shareholders, taking into account 
the interests of other stakeholders.



22  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

BOARD

Audit, Risk Management 
and Sustainability 

Committee

Remuneration and 
People Committee

BUSINESS PROCESS

INTEGRATED RISK MANAGEMENT

DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY

CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY
GOVERNMENT

AND 
REGULATORS

STAKEHOLDERS

P
O

LI
C

IE
S 

A
N

D
 

P
R

O
C

ED
U

R
ES

IN
D

EP
EN

D
EN

T
 A

S
SU

R
A

N
C

E A
C

T
IV

IT
Y

CORPORATE CULTURE AND VALUES

BUSINESS
PARTNERS AND

INVESTORS
SHAREHOLDERS

MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY

Nomination 
Committee

Finance 
Committee 

EXECUTIVE AND MANAGEMENT

GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK

Our overall approach to corporate governance is detailed in our FY22 Corporate 
Governance Statement, available on our website at www.fortescue.com



  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    23

O
verview

Fortescue has a talented and diverse Board committed to  
enhancing and protecting the interests of shareholders and  

other stakeholders and fulfilling a strong governance role

OUR BOARD

Dr Andrew Forrest AO
Executive Chairman

Lord Sebastian Coe CH, KBE
Non-Executive Director

Dr Jean Baderschneider
Non-Executive Director

Mark Barnaba AM
Lead Independent Director/ 
Deputy Chair

Penny Bingham-Hall
Non-Executive Director

Jennifer Morris OAM
Non-Executive Director

Dr Ya-Qin Zhang
Non-Executive Director

Elizabeth Gaines
Chief Executive Officer/ 
Managing Director

Li Yifei
Non-Executive Director



24  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

The primary driver for the Board in seeking new directors 
is skills and experience that are relevant to the needs of the 
Board in discharging its responsibilities to shareholders. All 
new Board members benefit from a comprehensive induction 
process that supports their understanding of Fortescue’s 
business. 

Fortescue’s policy is to assess all potential Board candidates 
without regard to race, gender, age, physical ability, sexuality, 
nationality, religious beliefs, or any other factor not relevant to 
their competence and performance. 

There is also a range of support given to Board members that 
enables them to stay strongly connected to Fortescue, its 
culture and Values. 

This includes: 

• Opportunities for significant contribution to the annual 
strategy setting process conducted with executive and 
senior management. 

• Regular briefings from executive and senior management 
regarding all major business areas, tailored site visits and 
annual site tours to operations, subject to COVID-19 travel 
restrictions.

• Visits to meet with key customers that strengthen their 
understanding of the Company’s key markets.

• Regular formal and informal opportunities for the directors 
to meet with management and staff.

The Board has established committees to assist in the 
execution of its duties and to ensure that important and 
complex issues are given appropriate consideration. The 

primary committees of the Board are the Remuneration 
and People Committee, the Audit, Risk Management 
and Sustainability Committee (ARMSC), the Nomination 
Committee and the Finance Committee. 

Each committee has a non-executive Chair and operates 
under its own Charter which has been approved by the Board. 

Directors are expected to act independently and ethically and 
comply with all relevant requirements of the Corporations Act 
2001, ASX Listing Rules and the Company’s Constitution.

Fortescue actively promotes ethical and responsible 
decision-making through its Values and Code of Conduct  
and Integrity that embodies these Values. 

The Board and each of its committees have established a 
process to evaluate their performance annually. The process 
is based on a formal questionnaire covering a range of 
performance topics. The process is managed by the Company 
Secretary under the direction of the Lead Independent 
Director. The most recent review was undertaken in July 2022. 

The results and recommendations from the evaluation of 
the Board and committees are reported to the full Board for 
further consideration and action, where required. 

At the date of this report, the Board has eight non-executive 
directors and one executive director, being the Chief 
Executive Officer, Elizabeth Gaines. The Board believes that 
an appropriate mix of non-executive and executive directors 
is beneficial to its role and provides strong operational and 
financial insights to support the business.

The appointment and 
reappointment of directors is  

intended to maintain and 
enhance the overall quality of 

the Board through a 
composition that reflects a 
diversity of skills, ethnicity, 

experience, gender and age



  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    25

Dr Andrew Forrest AO 
Executive Chairman

Executive Chairman and Founder of Fortescue,  
Fortescue Future Industries, Minderoo Foundation 
and Tattarang.

As Founder and Executive Chairman, Dr Andrew Forrest has 
led Fortescue from inception to a top ten ASX listed natural 
resources company that has invested more than US$30 billion 
developing some of the world’s most efficient infrastructure. 

Fortescue will become zero-emissions across its operations 
by 2030. Key to enabling that is FFI. Established in 2020, FFI 
is a developer, financier and operator of a global portfolio of 
renewable energy resources to produce green energy at a 
scale equal to the oil and gas super-majors. Fortescue has 
been globally recognised for its industry leading work to 
decarbonise and has been appointed to the UN Race to Zero 
Coalition and the US President’s First Movers’ Coalition.

Dr Forrest’s commercial business, Tattarang, is backing new 
renewable green energy projects, including Windlab wind 
power and Sun Cable solar power, and expanding sustainable 
and carbon-neutral practices within agrifood business  
Harvest Road.

Dr Forrest has a PhD in Marine Ecology from the University of 
Western Australia, and serves as an IUCN Patron of Nature, a 
World Economic Forum Friend of Ocean Action and a member 
of the United Nations Environment Program’s Scientific 
Advisory Committee on the Assessment of Marine Litter and 
Microplastics.

Dr Forrest holds the Australia Medal, the Australian Sports 
Medal and was appointed by the Prime Minister and Cabinet 
of Australia to develop a blueprint for eliminating Australia’s 
Indigenous social and economic disparity through health, 
training and employment.

He is also Co-Chair of the Australia-China Senior Business 
Leaders’ Forum, Global Patron of the Centre for Humanitarian 
Dialogue and served as a Councillor of the Global Citizen 
Commission charged by the United Nations in 2016 to 
modernise the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights.

In 2017, Dr Forrest was appointed an Officer of the Order 
of Australia (AO) for distinguished service to philanthropy, 
mining, employment and sustainable foreign investment.

FFI is leading the green industrial revolution, developing 
technology solutions for hard-to-decarbonise industries, while 
investing in green hydrogen and green ammonia projects 
–  recently announcing it will partner with Germany’s largest 
energy distributor to supply five million tonnes of green 
energy per year to Europe by 2030.

In 2001, Dr Forrest co-founded Minderoo Foundation with his 
wife Nicola, and to date they have donated more than $2.7 
billion supporting initiatives addressing modern slavery, ocean 
health, cancer, Indigenous disparity, childhood development, 
artificial intelligence, disaster resilience and plastic waste. 

Committee memberships:  
Finance Committee (Member) and Nomination Committee 
(Member)

Mark Barnaba AM CitWA 
Lead Independent Director / Deputy Chairman

Deputy Chairman since November 2017; Lead Independent 
Director since November 2014; Non-Executive Director since 
February 2010.

Mr Barnaba is an Independent Director with a broad range 
of international experience in finance, commerce and 
natural resources. He has extensive and particularly diverse 
experience at board level in both the for-profit and  
non-profit sectors. He is currently a member of the Board 
(and Chairman of the Audit Committee) of the Reserve Bank 
of Australia and the Deputy Chairman and Lead Independent 
Director at Fortescue. In 2015, Mr Barnaba was named a 
Member of the General Division of the Order of Australia for 
significant service to the investment banking and financial 
sector, to business education and to sporting and cultural 
organisations. 

Mr Barnaba also chairs GLX (a specialist technology company 
that develops software-based marketplace solutions for 
commodities) and the Hospital Benefit Fund (HBF) Investment 
Committee. He is a member of the Senior Advisory Board of 
Appian Capital (a London-based pure-play mining private 
equity fund). He is also a member of the Board of The Centre 
for Independent Studies. He has previously chaired several 
publicly listed Australian companies within the mining 
and infrastructure sectors along with chairing non-profits, 
including the State Theatre Company of Western Australia and 
AFL club, the West Coast Eagles.

In his previous career, Mr Barnaba founded, led and sold 
two companies – GEM Consulting and Azure Capital (both 
independent corporate advisory firms which provide 
financial, corporate and strategic advice to public and private 
organisations in the Asia-Pacific region). He also held several 
senior executive roles at Macquarie Group (one being the 
Chairman and Global Head of the Natural Resources Group). 
He previously worked at McKinsey & Company in their London, 
Johannesburg and Sydney offices. 

Mr Barnaba was the Inaugural Chairman of the University of 
Western Australia Business School Board from 2002 to 2020 
and serves as an Adjunct Professor in Finance. He holds a 
Bachelor of Commerce (First Class Honours and University 
Medal) from the University of Western Australia, an MBA from 
Harvard Business School (Baker Scholar) and has an Honorary 
Doctor of Commerce from the University of Western Australia. 
He has lived in Australia, the United States, Italy, the United 
Kingdom and South Africa and is married with two children.

Committee memberships:  
Audit, Risk Management and Sustainability Committee (Chair), 
Nomination Committee (Member), Remuneration and People 
Committee (Member) and Finance Committee (Chair)

OUR BOARD CONTINUED



26  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

Lord Sebastian Coe CH, KBE 
Non-Executive Director

Non-Executive Director since February 2018.

Lord Coe is currently a Non-Executive Director of the Vitality 
Group of health and life insurance companies. In 2017, he 
became Chancellor of Loughborough University having 
previously served as Pro Chancellor of the University. 

Based in the United Kingdom, Lord Coe is the Non-Executive 
Chairman of CSM Sport and Entertainment, within the Chime 
Communications group, as well as Non-Executive Director 
of Vitality Health Ltd and Allwyn Entertainment AG. He was 
elected President of the International Association of Athletics 
Federations in 2015 (now World Athletics) where he is driving 
significant governance reforms through the organisation and 
its 214 Member Federations around the world. He is currently 
serving his second term as President. He was elected as a 
member of the International Olympic Committee in 2020 and 
became a director of the British Olympic Association at that 
time, having previously served as Chairman of the British 
Olympic Association from 2012 to 2016.

Lord Coe previously served as Chairman of the Organising 
Committee for the London 2012 Olympic Games and 
Paralympic Games. He was a member of the British athletics 
team at the 1980 and 1984 Olympic Games where he won 
two gold and two silver medals, as well as breaking 12 world 
records.

In 1992, Lord Coe became a Member of Parliament and during 
his political career served as a Government Whip and then 
Private Secretary to William Hague, Leader of the Opposition 
and Leader of the Conservative Party. He was appointed to the 
House of Lords in 2000.

Committee memberships:  
Nomination Committee (Chair)

Elizabeth Gaines
Chief Executive Officer

Chief Executive Officer/Managing Director since February 2018 
and Executive Director since February 2017; Former  
Non-Executive Director from February 2013 to February 2017. 

Ms Gaines has led Fortescue as Chief Executive Officer and 
Managing Director since February 2018 after joining the 
Executive team as Chief Financial Officer in February 2017 and 
serving on the Fortescue Board as a Non-Executive Director 
since 2013. 

A highly experienced business leader with extensive 
international experience as a chief executive officer, Ms 
Gaines has a proven track record in delivering financial and 
operational excellence. She has significant experience in the 
resources sector and exposure to the impact of the growth 
in Asian economies, particularly China, on the Australian 
business environment and economy as well as a deep 
understanding of all aspects of financial and commercial 
management at a senior executive level in both listed and 
private companies. 

She is a former Chief Executive Officer of Helloworld Limited 
and Heytesbury Pty Limited and has previously held  
Non-Executive Director roles with Nine Entertainment Co. 
Holdings Limited, NEXTDC Limited, Mantra Group Limited 
and ImpediMed Limited. 

Ms Gaines was ranked second in the 2019 Fortune Magazine’s 
Businessperson of the Year and in 2020 the Chamber of 
Minerals and Energy of Western Australia awarded her the 
‘Women in Resources Champion’ at the annual Women in 
Resources Awards.  In 2020, Ms Gaines was awarded Joint 
Australian Business Person of the Year by the Australian 
Financial Review.

Ms Gaines holds a Bachelor of Commerce from Curtin 
University, a Master of Applied Finance from Macquarie 
University and an Honorary Doctorate of Commerce from 
Curtin University. She is a Fellow of Chartered Accountants 
Australia and New Zealand, and a member of the Australian 
Institute of Company Directors and Chief Executive Women.

OUR BOARD CONTINUED



  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    27

Jennifer Morris OAM  
Non-Executive Director

Non-Executive Director since November 2016. 

Ms Morris is an accomplished corporate executive and 
non-executive director, with key experience in advising 
corporations and government entities on strategy 
development, governance controls, complex large-scale 
business transformation, human capital-related work, 
including remuneration, the embedding of ESG (environment, 
social and governance) policies and the understanding of 
high-performance environments learned during her varied 
career, including elite sport. 

Ms Morris is a Non-Executive Director of Sandfire Resources 
and is the Chair of the People and Performance Committee 
and a member of the Risk and Sustainability Committee. 
Ms Morris has recently been appointed as a Non-Executive 
Director of lithium miner Liontown Resources where she 
is Chair of the Remuneration and People Committee and 
member of the Audit, Risk and Sustainability Committee. In 
addition, Ms Morris is a Director of Levin Health, a  
start-up world-class sports science company focusing on 
research related to solving chronic pain and concussion 
issues.

Previously, Ms Morris was a Commissioner on the Australian 
Sports Commission, CEO of Walk Free, a global human rights 
organisation, and a senior executive of Andrew and Nicola 
Forrest’s Minderoo Foundation. She is a former Partner of 
global professional services firm Deloitte and also served as 
Chair of Healthway and a Director of AFL club, the Fremantle 
Dockers. Ms Morris is also a former member of the Australian 
Women’s Hockey Team, in which she won Olympic gold 
medals at the Atlanta 1996 and Sydney 2000 Olympic Games. 
In 1997, she was awarded a Medal of the Order of Australia 
(OAM). 

Ms Morris is a member of the Australian Institute of Company 
Directors, a Fellow of Leadership WA and a member of the 
Vice Chancellor’s List, Curtin University. She holds a Bachelor 
of Arts (Psychology and Journalism) received with Distinction 
and has completed Finance for Executives at INSEAD. 

Committee memberships:  
Remuneration and People Committee (Chair) and Audit, Risk 
Management and Sustainability Committee (Member)

Dr Jean Baderschneider  
Non-Executive Director

Non-Executive Director since January 2015. 

A highly regarded leader in both business and civil society, 
Dr Baderschneider brings 35 years of extensive international 
experience in procurement, strategic sourcing and supply 
chain management along with a deep understanding of high 
risk operations and locations and complex partnerships.

Dr Baderschneider retired from ExxonMobil in 2013 where she 
was Vice-President of Global Procurement. During her 30 year 
career, she was responsible for operations all over the world, 
including Africa, South America, the Middle East and Asia.

A past member of the Board of Directors of the Institute for 
Supply Management and the Executive Board of the National 
Minority Supplier Development Council, Dr Baderschneider 
also served on the boards of the Center of Advanced 
Purchasing Studies and the Procurement Council of both the 
Conference Board and the Corporate Executive Board.

Dr Baderschneider is the President of the Board of Trustees of 
the President Lincoln’s Cottage and a member of the Abraham 
Lincoln National Council of Ford’s Theatre. In addition, she is 
on the Board of Directors of the Nizami Ganjavi International 
Center and is a Commissioner on the United Nations and 
Liechtenstein’s Financial Sector Commission on Modern 
Slavery. With over 15 years of experience working on anti-
human trafficking efforts globally, she served on the Board 
of Directors of Polaris, Made in a Free World and Verite and is 
currently a Founding Board member and Chair of the Global 
Fund to End Modern Slavery.

Dr Baderschneider was a Presidential appointee to the US 
Department of Commerce’s National Advisory Council on 
Minority Business Enterprises and is a past recipient of 
Cornell’s Jerome Alpern Award and Nomi Network’s Corporate 
Social Responsibility Award.  She holds a masters degree from 
the University of Michigan and a PhD from Cornell University.

Committee memberships:  
Audit, Risk Management and Sustainability Committee 
(Member)

OUR BOARD CONTINUED



28  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

Penny Bingham-Hall  
Non-Executive Director

Non-Executive Director since November 2016. 

Ms Bingham-Hall has over 30 years’ experience in senior 
executive and non-executive roles in large ASX listed 
companies. She is a Non-Executive Director of Dexus 
Property Group, Supply Nation and the Crescent Foundation. 
Ms Bingham-Hall is also Chair of Vocus Group, Taronga 
Conservation Society Australia and the Advisory Committee of 
the Climate Governance Initiative Australia.

Ms Bingham-Hall has worked in the construction, 
infrastructure, mining and property industries across 
Australia and the Asian region. She has a particular interest in 
environmental sustainability, workplace safety and Indigenous 
employment. Prior to becoming a company director, Ms 
Bingham-Hall was Executive General Manager, Strategy 
at Leighton Holdings (now CIMIC) – Australia’s largest 
construction, mining services and property group. As part 
of the leadership team at Leighton, she had responsibilities 
across the group’s Australian and Asian operations.

She is a former director of BlueScope Steel Limited, Australia 
Post, Port Authority of NSW and Macquarie Specialised Asset 
Management. Ms Bingham-Hall was also Chair of the NSW 
Freight and Logistics Advisory Council and Deputy Chair and 
Life Member of the Tourism & Transport Forum.

Ms Bingham-Hall has a Bachelor of Arts in Industrial Design, 
is a Fellow of the Australian Institute of Company Directors, a 
Senior Fellow of the Financial Services Institute of Australasia 
and a member of Chief Executive Women and Corporate 
Women Directors.

Committee memberships:  
Audit, Risk Management and Sustainability Committee 
(Member), Remuneration and People Committee (Member) 
and Finance Committee (Member)

Dr Ya-Qin Zhang 
Non-Executive Director

Non-Executive Director since August 2019. 

Dr Ya-Qin Zhang is a renowned scientist, technologist and 
business executive. He is the founder and Chairman of Blue 
Entropy LLC, a Seattle-based technology consulting firm. He 
joined Tsinghua University as the Chair Professor and Dean of 
the Institute for AI Industry Research at Tsinghua University in 
2020. Dr Zhang was President of Baidu Inc. (NASDAQ: BIDU) 
from September 2014 to October 2019, a leading Chinese 
multinational technology company specialising in internet-
related services, mobility, artificial intelligence and cloud 
computing. Prior to joining Baidu, he was a key executive of 
Microsoft Corporation for 16 years, including Corporate Vice 
President for Mobile and Embedded Products, Managing 
Director of Microsoft Research Asia and Chairman of 
Microsoft China. 

Dr Zhang has made significant contributions to the digital 
media, AI, autonomous driving and cloud computing 
industries, with over 60 granted US patents, 500  
peer-reviewed publications, and numerous contributions 
to international standards. Dr Zhang was elected to the 
Chinese Academy of Engineering, the American Academy 
of Arts and Sciences, US National Academy of Inventors and 
the Australian Academy of Technology and Engineering. He 
became a Fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics 
Engineers in 1997 at the age of 31, making him the youngest 
scientist winning this honour in the 100+ year history of the 
organisation. 

Dr Zhang has served on the Board of Directors of WPP 
(NASDAQ: WPPGY), Chinasoft International Ltd (HKEX: 354) 
and AsiaInfo Technologies Ltd (HKEX: 1675). He serves on the 
Board of Stewardship for the Future of Mobility of the Davos 
World Economic Forum and Chairman of the Apollo Alliance, 
the largest open platform for autonomous driving in the 
world. Dr Zhang received his bachelor’s and master’s degree 
in Electrical Engineering from the University of Science and 
Technology of China, and a PhD in Electrical Engineering from 
George Washington University.

OUR BOARD CONTINUED



  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    29

OUR BOARD CONTINUED

Cameron Wilson

Company Secretary

Mr Wilson was appointed Company Secretary in February 
2018, bringing over 20 years’ mining industry experience 
across the gold, nickel, coal and mineral sands sectors.

Mr Wilson holds a Bachelor of Laws from the University of 
Western Australia and is a Graduate of the Australian Institute 
of Company Directors.

Gemma Tually

Joint Company Secretary

Ms Tually, Fortescue’s Group Manager Legal, was appointed 
Joint Company Secretary in February 2022.

Ms Tually holds a Bachelor of Laws from the University of 
Western Australia and master’s degrees from the University of 
Queensland and New York University.

Li Yifei 
Non-Executive Director

Non-Executive Director since August 2022.

Ms Li Yifei is the President of the QiBin Foundation and 
currently serves on the board of BlackRock China and is a 
Global Trustee of the Rockerfeller Foundation. 

Li was an Independent Board member of GAVI (The Global 
Alliance for Vaccines and Immunisation) from 2012 to 2018 
and was formerly the Country Chair for Man Group in China, 
one of the world’s largest hedge fund managers. 

Before joining Man Group, Li had over 18 years of senior 
management experience, having successfully led the 
expansion of several multinational companies in China, 
including Viacom, MTV networks and VivaKi of the Publicis 
Group.

Li has a Bachelor of Law degree from the Foreign Affairs 
College in Beijing and an M.A. in International Relations from 
Baylor University in the United States.



30  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

Fortescue’s Leadership team is accountable  
for the safety of our people, upholding the  

Values and acting with integrity and honesty      

LEADERSHIP TEAM 

To view our full Leadership team, please visit www.fortescue.com

Elizabeth Gaines
Chief Executive Officer 

Ian Wells
Chief Financial Officer

Dino Otranto
Chief Operating Officer,  
Iron Ore

Mark Hutchinson
FFI Chief Executive Officer

Dr Guy Debelle
FFI Chief Financial Officer



  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    31

Ian Wells 
Chief Financial Officer

Mr Wells commenced as Chief Financial Officer in February 
2018 having responsibility for the Fortescue Group capital 
management strategy, core finance functions, including 
reporting, tax and treasury, together with Group procurement 
and logistics, and technology and autonomy. Mr Wells is a 
Director of a number of Fortescue’s subsidiaries and is a 
member and alternate chair of the Iron Bridge Joint Venture 
Committee. 

Since joining Fortescue in 2010, he has held multiple senior 
executive roles within the Group Finance Leadership team, 
including Group Manager Corporate Finance, leading 
Fortescue’s capital management strategy, and Group Manager 
Planning and Analysis, and the position of Company Secretary. 

Mr Wells’ prior experience includes financing Fortescue’s 
major iron ore project developments, leading over  
US$30 billion in capital raising and refinancing transactions 
from domestic and international capital markets. 

With more than 25 years’ experience as a senior executive 
in leading ASX listed and private companies in the mining, 
energy infrastructure and healthcare industries, Mr Wells’ 
previous positions include Chief Financial Officer of Singapore 
Power subsidiary Jemena Limited and Acting Chief Financial 
Officer of Alinta Limited. 

Mr Wells holds a Bachelor of Business in Accounting, is a 
Fellow of CPA Australia, a Certified Finance and Treasury 
Professional and a Graduate of the Australian Institute of 
Company Directors. Mr Wells is Chairman of The Salvation 
Army’s WA Corporate and Philanthropic Council.

THE LEADERSHIP TEAM

Elizabeth Gaines
Chief Executive Officer

Ms Gaines has led Fortescue as Chief Executive Officer and 
Managing Director since February 2018 after joining the 
Executive team as Chief Financial Officer in February 2017 and 
serving on the Fortescue Board as a Non-Executive Director 
since 2013. 

A highly experienced business leader with extensive 
international experience as a chief executive officer, Ms 
Gaines has a proven track record in delivering financial and 
operational excellence. She has significant experience in the 
resources sector and exposure to the impact of the growth 
in Asian economies, particularly China, on the Australian 
business environment and economy as well as a deep 
understanding of all aspects of financial and commercial 
management at a senior executive level in both listed and 
private companies. 

She is a former Chief Executive Officer of Helloworld Limited 
and Heytesbury Pty Limited and has previously held  
Non-Executive Director roles with Nine Entertainment Co. 
Holdings Limited, NEXTDC Limited, Mantra Group Limited 
and ImpediMed Limited. 

Ms Gaines was ranked second in the 2019 Fortune Magazine’s 
Businessperson of the Year and in 2020 the Chamber of 
Minerals and Energy of Western Australia awarded her the 
‘Women in Resources Champion’ at the annual Women in 
Resources Awards.  In 2020, Ms Gaines was awarded Joint 
Australian Business Person of the Year by the Australian 
Financial Review.

Ms Gaines holds a Bachelor of Commerce from Curtin 
University, a Master of Applied Finance from Macquarie 
University and an Honorary Doctorate of Commerce from 
Curtin University. She is a Fellow of Chartered Accountants 
Australia and New Zealand, and a member of the Australian 
Institute of Company Directors and Chief Executive Women.



32  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

Dino Otranto 
Chief Operating Officer, Iron Ore

Mr Otranto commenced as Fortescue's Chief Operating 
Officer in 2021, with responsibility for leading the Company’s 
iron ore operations. 

A highly qualified senior executive, Mr Otranto has 20 years’ 
experience in the resources industry, spanning various 
commodities and operations across the globe. He brings 
significant operational, technical and financial expertise, and a 
strong focus on safety leadership and employee engagement 
to Fortescue’s Senior Executive team. 

Prior to joining Fortescue, Mr Otranto held the role of Chief 
Operating Officer at Vale, leading the company’s North 
American, European and Asian nickel and copper businesses, 
which encompass a global network of underground and open 
pit mines, smelters, refineries, power stations, port and rail 
infrastructure. 

Mr Otranto holds a Bachelor of Engineering (Chemical) and 
a Bachelor of Science (Chemistry) from Curtin University, a 
Graduate Diploma of Finance through Finsia and has recently 
attended an Executive Program at Tsinghua University, China.

THE LEADERSHIP TEAM

Mark Hutchinson  
FFI Chief Executive Officer

Mark Hutchinson commenced with FFI in July 2022, initially 
in the role of Director of Projects, before assuming the role 
of Global CEO of FFI in August 2022, reporting directly to the 
Fortescue Board.

He brings extensive business and leadership experience at 
the senior executive level, having held various roles at GE 
over a 25 year career, the two most recent as President and 
Chief Executive Officer in China and Europe. In these roles, 
Mr Hutchinson led the efforts to strengthen GE’s operations 
across China and Europe, and developed and executed a 
shared growth strategy for all the GE businesses which helped 
to drive significant growth, year on year. Mr Hutchinson also 
led the integration of Alstom’s power and grid businesses into 
GE following its €12.35 billion acquisition.

Prior to his 24 year tenure at GE, Mr Hutchinson held the 
role of Head of the Asian Project Advisory team for Barclays 
Merchant Bank, based in Hong Kong, where he led the 
successful privatisation of Western Harbour Crossing and 
the Route Three Project, both key elements of Hong Kong’s 
infrastructure development. 

A highly experienced international business leader with a 
passion for ESG, Mr Hutchinson has previously held a Board 
position at World Wide Generation Limited, and  
Non-Executive Director roles at BlueScope Steel Limited, 
Mission Australia, Allianz Australia Insurance Limited and 
Alpha Australia. 

Mr Hutchinson holds an Honorary Doctor of Business from the 
University of Queensland, where he is the primary sponsor of 
the Ethics Chair. 



  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    33

Dr Guy Debelle 
FFI Chief Financial Officer 

Dr Debelle commenced as Chief Financial Officer at Fortescue 
Future Industries in June 2022. 

He brings extensive experience in international finance and 
economic policy, having held the role of Deputy Governor 
of the Reserve Bank of Australia for nearly six years prior 
to joining FFI. Dr Debelle led the development of the Global 
Code of Conduct for the Foreign Exchange Market in his role 
as Chair of the Australian Foreign Exchange Committee and 
Chair of the BIS Markets Committee. Subsequently, he played 
an integral role in Australia’s response to the Global Financial 
Crisis as Assistant Governor (Financial Markets) of the 
Reserve Bank of Australia. 

Dr Debelle previously held roles at the International Monetary 
Fund, Bank for International Settlements and the Australian 
Treasury. He spent time as a visiting Professor in Economics at 
the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) and Chaired 
the Australian Council of Financial Regulators Working Group 
on Climate Finance. 

Dr Debelle holds a Bachelor of Economics (Honours) from the 
University of Adelaide and a Doctor of Economics from MIT.

THE LEADERSHIP TEAM

Julie Shuttleworth was FFI CEO for the FY2021/22 and has now moved into leading Global Growth.   
Further information on the Fortescue leadership team can be found at www.fortescue.com 



04



  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    35

Our engagement with stakeholders is underpinned  
by our Value of integrity and we are committed to  

ensuring our engagement delivers meaningful outcomes 

Fortescue engages with a broad range of stakeholders 
who have an interest in our business and operations. 
We recognise that effective stakeholder engagement is 
critical to maintaining our reputation and long-term social 
licence to operate in Australia and around the world. We are 
now extending the effective and meaningful stakeholder 
engagement established by Fortescue in Australia to our 
global minerals and energy activities. During FY22, we applied 
our stakeholder engagement approach for projects across the 
globe, spanning Australia and New Zealand, Asia, the Middle 
East, Europe, North and South America and Africa. 

Our stakeholder engagement process and guidelines align 
with the International Finance Corporation’s performance 
standards, and we are implementing a stakeholder relationship 
management tool across our business. This system assists 
us in tracking our stakeholder engagement, allowing our 
specialist teams to ensure that consultation is undertaken 
in accordance with the requirements of the jurisdictions we 
are working in. Stakeholder engagement is undertaken for all 
assets, from project planning stages through to post-closure.

Stakeholder identification
We identify our stakeholders as those that are connected to 
or influenced by our business operations. Our stakeholders 
include our employees and contractors, investors, regulators, 
elected government representatives, community members, 
customers, suppliers and industry peers as well as  
non-government organisations. We take a long-term view 
and plan our engagement in a manner that builds trust and 
respect. Stakeholders are identified according to their level of 
interest, potential impacts and opportunities, and we prioritise 
engagement with those who may be directly impacted by our 
activities. 

Engagement
Our Stakeholder Engagement Guidelines support the 
development of a specific Stakeholder Engagement Plan 
for each project or significant activity. The Plan sets out 
the identified stakeholders, the relevant issues and the 
engagement required during the process together with the 
tools, actions, management and monitoring needed. Each Plan 
ensures a stakeholder register is maintained, guiding the levels 
of engagement for relevant stakeholders of the projects. 

We share information, listen to community members and 
leaders, including First Nations peoples, and directly support 
local workers and businesses to ensure the benefits of 
our proposed projects, developments and activities are 
maximised. 

We continue to work towards the principle of Free, Prior and 
Informed Consent as a basis for our engagement with First 
Nations peoples. In Australia, this engagement is managed 
by our Native Title and Heritage teams. We acknowledge 
the special connection that First Nations peoples have with 
the land and seek to work with them to build respectful 
relationships for mutual benefit. 

FFI’s Global Communities group and in-country Communities 
teams are engaging with local communities and stakeholders 
in the areas being evaluated for green energy projects 
globally. These teams will adopt leading practice approaches 
to building trust and mutual respect with potential host 
communities and First Nations peoples wherever FFI is 
present. 

For green hydrogen projects, FFI will undertake stakeholder 
engagement in accordance with the requirements of the 
Green Hydrogen Standard, recently developed by the 
Green Hydrogen Organisation. The Standard requires 
that organisations undertake broad-based stakeholder 
consultation, engaging with governments and their agencies, 
companies and their suppliers, local communities who may 
be affected by the project, financial organisations, investors 
and non-governmental organisations in order to build trust, 
maximise our social licence to operate and support local 
economic development opportunities.

This report outlines our sustainability commitments and 
performance and is supported by communication throughout 
the year via media statements, company publications, our 
Annual General Meeting, our website and engagement with 
specific stakeholders. To ensure meaningful conversations and 
outcomes, the form and frequency of engagement depends on 
the stakeholder and the issues relevant to them.

Grievance processes
Our Whistleblower Hotline provides an independent, 
confidential and anonymous mechanism for anyone, including 
employees, contractors and members of the community, to 
raise concerns regarding potential illegal activity or breaches 
of the Code. 

Community grievances are managed in accordance with our 
Grievance Procedure, which is aligned with the United Nations 
Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. The 
procedure outlines a formal process for the community to raise 
concerns and ensures transparency in grievance management. 



36  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT AND COLLABORATION

Stakeholders Key interests and concerns 
expressed in FY22 How we engaged Related material topics Page

Employees and 
contractors

Fortescue and our 
subsidiaries’ employees 
and contractors

Health, safety and wellness

Fortescue and FFI growth and 
targets 

Employee safety in fly-in fly-out 
(FIFO) 

Leadership changes 

Weekly company wide meetings, 
intranet, company newsletter, 
team meetings, surveys, direct 
engagement, email, Workplace 
(an online collaborative platform), 
direct SMS 

Diversity, inclusion and 
equity 

Economic contribution

Employee safety and 
wellbeing

50 

89

41

Communities

Local residents, 
businesses and 
organisations, special 
interest and community 
groups

Aboriginal business 
development

Regional COVID-19 lockdowns

Mandatory vaccinations

Local jobs and training

Direct engagement, phone 
calls, email, newsletters, media, 
including newspapers, meetings, 
events, website, feedback, 
sponsorships, Community Grants 
Program, VTEC

Respecting human 
rights

59

First Nations peoples 

First Nations peoples, 
including native title 
partners 

Indigenous heritage protection

Regional COVID-19 lockdowns

Mandatory vaccinations

Direct engagement, phone 
calls, email, newsletters, media, 
including newspapers, meetings, 
events, website, feedback, 
sponsorships, Community Grants 
Program, VTEC and heritage 
surveys

Building thriving 
communities 
Respecting heritage 
and culture

Respecting human 
rights

66 

63 

59

Suppliers

We source from a 
range of businesses, 
including both local and 
multinational businesses

Supply chain disruptions and 
rising costs

COVID-19 and skill shortages

Modern slavery due diligence

Website, emails, direct 
engagement, monthly/ 
quarterly reviews, health and 
safety briefings, checklists and 
questionnaires, supplier visits

Business integrity

Economic contribution

Innovation and 
technology

Respecting human 
rights

87

89

101 

59

Customers

We supply our products 
to a global market

Iron ore price and trends

Changing regulations

Resource availability

War in Ukraine and raw 
materials supply

Decarbonisation strategy

Direct engagement, email, site 
visits, market briefings, annual 
reports, including Sustainability 
Report, Annual Report, Climate 
Change Report

Business integrity

Climate action 

Economic contribution

Innovation and 
technology

87

71

89

101

Shareholders and 
investors

We share regular 
updates with analysts, 
shareholders and 
investors via our 
reporting mechanisms

Iron ore price and trends

COVID-19 impact and pressures 

FFI growth and targets

Decarbonisation strategy

Heritage management 

Leadership changes

Website, investor briefings, annual 
general meetings, emails, annual 
reports, including Sustainability 
Report, Annual Report, Climate 
Change Report

Business integrity 

Climate action 

Economic contribution

Innovation and 
technology

Respecting heritage 
and culture

87

71

89

101 

63

Government and 
regulators

We engage across all 
levels of government, 
including local, state 
and national, in multiple 
countries

COVID-19 restrictions

Mandatory vaccinations

Skill shortages 

Inflation

Resource management

Aboriginal heritage

Workforce safety in FIFO

Changing climate policies 

Regulatory reform, including 
support for new energy 
projects

Meetings, briefings, presentations, 
events, working groups, forums, 
letters, emails, formal submissions, 
website, participation in industry 
associations and advocacy 
bodies, annual reports, including 
Sustainability Report, Annual 
Report, Climate Change Report

Climate action

Diversity, inclusion and 
equity 

Protecting water 
resources

Respecting heritage 
and culture

71

50 

77 

63

Non-government 
organisations (NGOs)

Social investment 
partners, education 
institutions, industry 
groups and peak bodies

Skills shortages

Diversification of workforce

Gender equity

Climate and environment

Direct engagement, email, events, 
partnerships, website

Building thriving 
communities 

Climate action

Diversity, inclusion and 
equity 

Protecting biodiversity

66 

71

50 

73



  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    37

During FY22, early engagement commenced with the 
local communities living near FFI’s proposed 
hydropower and green hydrogen production sites at 
Inga, in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). The 
overall aim of the engagement is to build constructive 
and respectful stakeholder relationships that are 
essential to developing the project in a socially and 
environmentally sustainable manner.

Our team frequently meets with local community 
members and engages with local clan chiefs to 
understand local protocols and customs. Our initial 
priority was to identify the preferred means of 
engagement as project evaluations are progressed. FFI’s 
aim is to empower the community to engage openly with 
FFI teams, to express concerns and to share 
expectations in terms of employment and community 

FFI  CONGO RIVER  
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT ENGAGEMENT

development. We have also held several consultation 
meetings with local, regional and national NGOs, media 
representatives and government stakeholders. 

Inclusive focus group discussions are essential to gain a 
better understanding of the key socio-cultural 
characteristics and livelihoods situation of people living 
in the Inga area. To date, this included community 
mapping with village leaders, women, elderly people, 
youth, local authorities and other stakeholders. Jean 
Lombo, Communities Coordinator DRC said,  
“A community needs assessment helped to inform the 
identification of several community investment projects. 
This early and inclusive engagement has created a 
foundation for continued dialogue with different 
stakeholders that will continue to grow during the 
comprehensive environmental and social baseline 
studies and impact assessments planned for the project.”

CASE STUDY



38  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT AND COLLABORATION

Awards and recognition
We were honoured to be recognised with these awards in 
FY22:

• Association of Mining and Exploration Companies (AMEC) 
Environment Award winner 2021: Night Parrot Monitoring 
Program

• Australian Financial Review Sustainability Leaders 2022: 
Category innovator, Resources, Energy and Utilities

• Dow Jones Sustainability Index: Australia

• Dow Jones Sustainability Index: Asia Pacific

• Dow Jones Sustainability Index: World

• FTSE4Good ESG Index

• Parity.org Best Companies for Women to Advance List 

• S&P Global Gold Class Sustainability Award

• S&P Global Sustainability Yearbook Member

• Women in Resources Awards: Finalist, Alison Terry (Women 
in Resources Champion category).

Voluntary standards and principles for transparent reporting 

ESG performance measures and benchmarking  

Workplace 
Gender Equality  
Agency 

UNGP

ISS



  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    39

Value proposition Benefits of joining and value to Fortescue

Policies and public positions 

Alignment of the association’s policies and public positions with our Values, objectives and 
policy framework, particularly regarding climate change, environmental stewardship, 
sustainability, diversity, human rights, employment of First Nations peoples and community 
engagement

Conditions of joining and 
ongoing obligations 

Internal commitment needed to meet conditions of memberships and ongoing obligations or 
standards

Members Existing members of the association, reputation and potential risks

Governance 
Strong governance demonstrating the association’s competency, diversity, skills and 
experience

Management Internal dedicated executive to manage relationship and obligations

Criteria considered in the selection and approval of memberships includes: 

This year, we participated in over 50 industry groups and associations, contributing $1.7 million in fees. Our most significant 
memberships of FY22 include: 

• Chamber of Minerals and Energy Western Australia – $560,419

• Port Hedland Industries Council – $380,000

• Australian Resources and Energy Employer Association – $128,000

• Business Council of Australia – $85,000

• Amira Global – $70,000.

Our previous memberships with DomGas Alliance and the New South Wales Minerals Council were discontinued in FY22, as we 
determined that these organisations were no longer aligned with our policies and public positions. 

Our FY22 Industry Association Report will be released on 1 October 2022 and will be available at www.fortescue.com 

Fortescue was recognised globally for our outstanding 
corporate sustainability performance in the 2022 S&P 
Global Sustainability Yearbook with a Gold Class 
Sustainability Award.

More than 2,100 companies, representing over 45 per 
cent of global market capitalisation, participated in the 
Corporate Sustainability Assessment, which is one of the 
most comprehensive compilations on corporate 

FORTESCUE RECOGNISED AS A 
GLOBAL LEADER IN S&P GLOBAL 

SUSTAINABILITY YEARBOOK

sustainability. The Gold Class Sustainability Award is 
awarded to companies with a Corporate Sustainability 
Assessment score within one per cent of the top score in 
their industry.

We were also listed on the Australian, Asia Pacific and 
World Dow Jones Sustainability Indices for the third year, 
recognising our continued commitment to sustainability. 

CASE STUDY

Memberships and commitments
We are members of a broad range of industry groups and associations, allowing us to contribute in a coordinated way to the 
development of effective policy frameworks, share best practice and access information and insights on material topics.

Associations and organisations are assessed against specific criteria before membership is recommended. All memberships 
must be approved by the CEO. 



05



  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    41

EMPLOYEE SAFETY  
AND WELLBEING 

Safety is a Fortescue Value and is deeply ingrained in our culture 

We recognise that our activities have the potential to expose 
our employees, contractors and communities to health 
and safety risks. We work to identify these risks and ensure 
suitable controls are in place to mitigate them.

As we strive to be a global leader in safety, the wellbeing of  
the entire Fortescue family is always our priority. Tragically, 
on 30 September 2021 we had a fatality at our Solomon Hub 
mine site, during a collapse of ground. David Armstrong, a 
much loved and respected member of the Fortescue family, 
is greatly missed, and we extend our deepest sympathy to his 
family, friends and colleagues. 

Mining operations at the mine site were temporarily 
suspended following this incident, and we continue to work 
closely with the WA Police, WA Department of Mines, Industry 
Regulation and Safety and other authorities as they continue 
to investigate the incident.

There were no workplace safety prosecutions in FY22. 

In March 2022, Western Australia adopted a new workplace 
health and safety legislative framework, the Work Health and 
Safety Act 2020 and supporting Regulations. We are working 
proactively to manage changes under the new framework, 
including launching a revised Health and Safety Policy and 
Health Safety and Management System (HSMS).  

We seek continuous improvement using industry metrics 
and benchmarking. Our health and safety management 
system aligns with the International Standard for 
Occupational Health and Safety, ISO 45001.

Our Board has ultimate responsibility for the management of 
safety and occupational health, while the Executive team has 
responsibility for managing health and safety across daily 
operations.

Our safety culture is built from the ground up, with all team 
members required to uphold the highest standards. This 
builds an environment where everyone feels empowered 
to pause, reassess the task and implement controls where 
needed.

To foster this safety culture, we work with industry and 
regulatory leaders to maintain the highest standards of 
education, coaching, training, monitoring and reporting.

We manage and mitigate high risk events through our risk 
profile reduction program and critical control auditing. 
Critical control auditing is undertaken by our leaders to 
ensure controls are effective. Sites and functions also take 
part in the annual Major Hazard Control Standards (MHCS) 
assurance program, where safety leaders and subject matter 
experts from around the business attend the operation and 
complete a week long intensive audit against the MHCS. 

Objective: To be global leaders in safety Objective: To be global leaders in safety Objective: To be global leaders in 
safety

Target: Reduce our Injury Risk Profile  
by 15 per cent through the completion of 
data driven injury risk mitigation activities

Target: Reduce TRIFR year on year to the 
lowest quartile in the global resources industry

Target: Annually, achieve zero fatalities at 
our operations

Injury Risk Profile Reduction 
Iron Ore Operations

TRIFR 
Iron Ore Operations

Fatalities

FY22  21%  FY22   1.8  FY22  1

FY21   2.0  FY21   0

FY20   2.4 FY20   0   



42  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

PEOPLE – BUILDING SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITIES

During FY22, the significant incident frequency rate (SIFR)  
per million hours at our iron ore operations was 2.5. Our 
company-wide focus on improving safety has seen our TRIFR 
reduced to our lowest ever rate of 1.8, which represents a 10 per 
cent reduction over the last year for our iron ore operations. 

Injury management and the care of injured team members has 
been a focus during FY22 and the injury severity rate at our iron 
ore operations was 61.

During FY22, we launched the hand safety campaign, 
Focus on the Task at Hand. The campaign was 
launched in response to an increasing number of hand 
injuries which accounted for up to two thirds of our 
recordable injuries across projects and operations.

While the incidents varied in nature, most were the 
result of fingers being crushed between heavy objects, 
caught between moving parts or coming into contact 
with sharp items.

The campaign ran over three months to encourage 
team members to refocus on tasks that involve hands. 
The campaign was supported by materials developed 
in collaboration with working groups and included 
posters, toolbox talks, presentations, focus groups and 
promotional video clips. 

As a result of the campaign, we have seen a 
measurable reduction in hand injuries.

FOCUS ON  
THE TASK AT HAND

CASE STUDY

2.8

Total recordable injury 
frequency rate 

2.0

2.4 10%
REDUCTION

1.8

113

Injury severity rate

61

67

61

F
Y

19
F

Y
20

F
Y

21
F

Y
22

F
Y

19
F

Y
20

F
Y

21
F

Y
22

Iron ore operations

In FY22, FFI recorded zero fatalities, a TRIFR of 0.7, 
an injury severity rate of 1.4 and a significant incident 
frequency rate of 1.4.

The rates provided include all employees and contractors 
working across our operational sites and are based on 
one million hours. The severity rate captures  
days lost and days restricted from work.



  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    43

Our Identify Then Rectify (ITR) program aims to address 
deficiencies in traditional hazard identification by 
focusing on the cause of the hazard, rather than simply 
correcting the hazard itself.  

The program includes a detailed analysis of five year 
recordable injury history at each location. The 
mechanisms and behaviours that contribute to the 
incident are reviewed and a location specific  
multidisciplinary team conducts a workshop to 
understand the behaviours most likely to lead to a 
recordable injury. Exposure reduction activities are 
developed and quantitative baseline injury risk  
profiles are established to track performance.

In FY22, we achieved a 10 per cent reduction in TRIFR at 
our iron ore operations. We also reduced our injury risk 
profile by 21 per cent. 

More than 5,300 ITRs were raised by our employees 
and contractors this year. Of these, nearly 2,900 have 
been completed, with exposure reduction activities 
identified and implemented.   

IDENTIFY  
THEN RECTIFY

CASE STUDY

IDENTIFY
THENRECTIFY

One of the ITRs completed in FY22 involved the 
redesign of our Aircraft Towable Conveyor Belt (TCB). 
The Aerodromes team employs 57 people across our 
five aerodromes. The TCB is operated on average  
25 times per week.

This ITR was developed after a team member 
sustained a significant injury to their left index finger 
while operating the TCB. 

After identifying potential exposure reduction 
activities, the team met with suppliers to design and 
build a world first electric TCB to eliminate identified 
risks. This also allowed us to convert the unit from 
diesel to battery power operation and reduce site 
emissions. 

The new TCB will be rolled out across our five owned 
and operated aerodromes. We have also shared our 
learnings and design with Qantas and other aircraft 
ground crew who operate the same TCB. 

AIRCRAFT TOWABLE  
CONVEYOR BELT SAFETY

CASE STUDY



44  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

PEOPLE – BUILDING SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITIES

Flu vaccination program
During FY22, we again offered free flu vaccinations to all 
employees and contractors to mitigate health risks and protect 
our people and their families. In partnership with our medical 
provider, Sonic HealthPlus, we delivered 767 vaccinations at our 
Perth locations over a period of four weeks. Our own medical 
teams also administered a further 1,701 vaccinations across our 
sites, with ongoing availability for the duration of the flu season. 
In total, 2,468 flu vaccinations have been administered.

COVID-19
Throughout FY22, we worked with our employees, contractors, 
industry groups and government agencies to maintain and 
improve our COVID-19 Management Plan. We implemented the 
COVID-19 Vaccination Directions for Resource Industry Workers, 
implemented pre-flight COVID-19 screening and COVID-19 
Business Resilience Plans, and supported COVID-19 Trigger 
Action Response Plans. During FY22, over 520,000 COVID-19 
tests (PCRs and RAT) tests were conducted as part of pre-flight, 
pre-entry, serial or symptomatic testing protocols.

As the COVID-19 pandemic continued to change the 
way we live and work, we adapted our practices to 
ensure the health and safety of our people while 
maintaining operations.  

In August 2021, the introduction of pre-flight COVID-19 
testing required any person entering a Fortescue site 
to complete a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test or 
supervised Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) before they 
boarded a flight or entered a site. This measure 
reduced the likelihood of a person unknowingly 
carrying the virus to one of our sites.  

We established a RAT testing facility at Perth airport to 
cater for the hundreds of passengers flying to our sites 
each day. People were also given the choice to attend a 
Clinipath clinic for a PCR test or complete a supervised 
RAT at the Fortescue Centre in Perth before they 
travelled. 

As of 30 June, 136,240 supervised RATs were 
completed at Perth airport, 40,336 PCRs were 
completed at Clinipath clinics and 37,574 supervised 
RATs were completed at the Fortescue Centre.  

When the Western Australian border opened to the 
rest of the country in March 2022, we implemented the 
following measures: 

• Maintained the minimum number of people required 
in each team to continue safe operations. 

• Identified critical workers who were needed on site 
and those who could continue their work from home. 

• Established care plans for team members who were 
required to isolate at our sites 

• Managed controls around hygiene, segregation and 
testing. 

• Assessed mass testing scenarios. 

• Developed onsite COVID-19 medical centres and 
deployed additional resources. 

As community transmission of COVID-19 increased in 
Western Australia, each person arriving to site was 
required to complete a self-administered RAT within 
72 hours following arrival. This additional measure 
allowed any asymptomatic or newly developed cases 
to be identified and managed.

The latest development in our COVID-19 testing 
processes allows people to complete pre-flight 
COVID-19 testing at home before they fly. This was 
welcomed by the FIFO workforce and embodies the 
Fortescue Value of integrity.

COVID -19 MANAGEMENT

CASE STUDY

As part of Fortescue’s response to the COVID-19 
pandemic, we purchased six PCR machines to provide 
point of care testing at our sites. 

Accredited PCR testing facilities were established at  
our Port Hedland, Iron Bridge, Christmas Creek, 
Cloudbreak, Solomon and Eliwana operations. Each 
machine was able to run four accurate COVID-19 tests 
every 70 minutes, significantly reducing the wait time 
for results and minimising delays in contact tracing. 
This quick turnaround ensured we were able to offer the 
best care for those with the virus and to prevent further 
infections at our sites. In total, 40,394 PCR tests were 
performed during the year across our sites and through 
Perth clinical laboratories.  

The PCR machines can also be used to screen for other 
notifiable diseases such as influenza, legionella and 
pertussis (whooping cough). Confirmation from a Perth 
clinical laboratory is still required if non-COVID-19 
notifiable diseases are detected; however, this early 
detection allows us to start immediate treatment for the 
individual.  

COVID -19 PCR TESTING

CASE STUDY

Fortescue nurse 
Tracey facilitating 

PCR testing.



  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    45

Our FY22 survey was completed by 17,979 employees and 
contractors, representing 95 per cent of our permanent 
workforce across iron ore and FFI operations. Nearly 43,000 
comments and suggestions were also received.

A Net Promoter Score (NPS) of +33.9 indicates a positive 
sentiment from respondents recommending Fortescue as a 
place to work. Our NPS has improved from +31 in FY21.

We use enhanced analytics to evaluate the survey results, 
identify trends and ensure continual improvement. In FY22, 10 
of the 12 culture elements benchmarked Fortescue in the top 
quartile.

Alcohol and other drugs
In FY22, we conducted 8,651 drug tests across our iron ore 
and FFI operations through random, blanket or ‘for cause’ 
programs.

Alcohol and other drug testing was also undertaken during 
inductions in Perth, in addition to pre-employment testing, to 
ensure team members joining us are safe to work on site. In 
FY22, 1.9 per cent of our drug tests returned positive results.

We know that excessive alcohol consumption can contribute 
to antisocial behaviour that makes people feel unsafe. Our 
alcohol sale limit of no more than four mid-strength alcoholic 
drinks in 24 hours applies across all our sites.

To prevent and manage substance abuse, we implement a 
range of initiatives, including online awareness and training, 

SAFETY EXCELLENCE AND CULTURE SURVEY RESULTS 

the Speak Up program and support through our leadership 
teams, our Chaplains and our Employee Assistance Program.

Emergency management
Our operational teams plan, prepare, and respond 
to emergencies by following the ‘plan, do, check, act’ 
management methodology.

Each site assesses relevant emergency scenarios and 
develops specific emergency management plans to ensure we 
are able to respond appropriately. These plans are developed 
in consultation with relevant stakeholders, including local 
governments and external emergency services providers such 
as the RFDS.

Each site has a trained Incident Management team, 
responsible for the decisions and actions required to address 
an emergency and support recovery efforts. In addition, each 
location has a fully trained Emergency Services team who 
provide on the ground support in an emergency.

Depending on the risks involved, locations may have fully 
trained medical personnel available. Equipment, vehicles and 
facilities are also provided where required. 

Emergency exercises are planned and conducted throughout 
the year to ensure our teams are available to respond to 
emergencies as they arise. We also assist local government 
emergency response teams where additional assistance is 
required. 

Safety culture

Each year, we conduct a Safety Excellence and Culture Survey of our employees and 
contractors. The survey is a valuable tool to measure engagement across our business

Objective: To ensure a leading safety 
culture and be an organisation  
that actively cares for employees  
and contractors

Target: Annually, achieve top quartile  
Safety Excellence and Culture Survey results

Categories in top quartile

FY22  10/12

FY21  10/12

FY20  10/12

Top Quartile

Management Leader Team Self

Valuing MV Management value people LV My leader values people TV My team value each other SV I am proud of Fortescue

Leading ML Management are credible LL My leader looks out for me TL My team support each other SL I go above to help others

Safe MS Management value safety LS My leader supports safety TS We look out for our mates SS I take control

MV ML MS LV LL LS TV TL TS SV SL

90

80

70

60

50

40

30

20

10

0

P
er

ce
nt

ile

SS



46  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

PEOPLE – BUILDING SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITIES

Wellbeing
The physical and mental health of our employees and 
contractors is a priority, and we implement a Mental Health 
and Wellbeing Blueprint to ensure we support the mental 
health and wellbeing of our team members.

We undertake annual mental health risk assessments to 
ensure there are adequate preventative controls to protect the 
mental health of our workforce and reactive controls to help 
manage and support recovery after a mental health incident. 
Assessments are undertaken in consultation with teams 
across the business and includes subject matter experts from 
our People, Chaplaincy, Operational, Accommodation and 
Health and Safety teams. This consolidated risk assessment 
captures existing controls as well as opportunities for 
improvement.

In FY22, we relaunched Health inSite, an online health 
and wellbeing resource that provides team members with 
tailored information and advice, including individual health 
recommendations, nutrition advice and health and wellbeing 
articles.

Our Chaplaincy team, a dedicated pastoral care service, offers 
support to all employees, contractors and their families with 
Chaplains available at all our sites. Additionally, our Employee 
Assistance Program  offers 24/7 support via professional 
counselling services for employees, contractors and their 
families. The use of respiratory protective equipment (RPE) is one 

of the critical controls we employ to protect against 
exposure to airborne hazards such as dust, fibres, gases 
and vapours. In FY22, we introduced improvements 
through mandatory fit testing and implementing the 
requirement to be clean-shaven for those working in 
exposed areas. 

For individuals unable to meet these requirements, we 
introduced powered air purifying respirators (PAPR). 
PAPR units were purchased across sites and 
departments, including for drill and blast teams, ore 
processing facilities operators and maintenance teams. 
Over 200 individual fit tests were completed during 
FY22.  

The FFI Green Fleet also utilised a PAPR system during 
the year for process/equipment testing where there is 
potential for ammonia gas exposure. 

To support the rollout of RPE control improvements, 
business wide company communication and online 
training programs were developed in accordance with 
Australian Standard 1715 for respiratory protection users.  

RESPIRATORY PROTECTION 
PROGRAM IMPROVEMENTS

CASE STUDY

FFI team member Louise donning PAPR in event 
of ammonia gas exposure

In February 2022, Fortescue’s Global Monitoring Centre 
(GMC) was formed to identify risks to the safety and 
security of our people, assets, reputation and information, 
and provide timely alerts, security risk advice and 
analysis. The GMC operates 24 hours a day, 365 days per 
year, using a range of data providers and software 
platforms to access the most up-to-date and relevant 
information. The team consists of security, intelligence 
and logistics professionals providing direct traveller 
support.  

The GMC supports travelling team members to ensure 
they reach their destination safely and securely and can 
access logistics and medical support and additional 
information in an emergency if needed. The GMC also 
produces security risk reports, summaries and threat 
assessments to travellers.  

FORTESCUE ’S GLOBAL  
MONITORING CENTRE

CASE STUDY



  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    47

OUR FORTESCUE  
FAMILY

Fortescue is committed to providing a safe and inclusive 
workplace that attracts, rewards, develops and  

retains motivated, high performing team members

Our commitment to our team members remained particularly 
important as we continued to experience the challenges 
presented by the COVID-19 pandemic. This year, the pandemic 
brought further uncertainty, mandates, skills shortages, 
lockdowns and travel restrictions to Western Australia.  

As of 30 June 2022, we employed 11,693 people, including 
1,122 directly employed by FFI. Of our employees, 9,146 worked 
in permanent full time roles, 529 worked in permanent part 
time roles, 426 worked in fixed term full time roles, 34 worked 
in fixed term part time roles, 15 worked on a casual basis and 
1,543 people worked under labour hire contracts.  

We have 11,140 employees based in Australia with the 
remainder working overseas in more than 30 countries, 
including Argentina, Ecuador, USA, China, Kazakhstan, 
Indonesia and Papua New Guinea (PNG). Within FFI,  
19 per cent of employees are based overseas. 

We respect freedom of association, including the right 
to representation by independent unions and collective 
bargaining or enterprise agreements. More than 42 per cent  
of our employees are covered by enterprise agreements.  
The annualised voluntary turnover in FY22 was 11 per cent.

We respect the right to a fair wage and work towards the 
commitment that all employees are treated fairly and without 
discrimination, including on the basis of age, race, gender, 
political or religious belief, culture, family commitments, 
physical or mental ability, marital status or sexual orientation.

MACA is a contracting group who provide services at our 
Eliwana mine site. In FY22, we facilitated the transition of 
more than 190 MACA contractors in the mining and drill 
and blast teams to permanent roles with Fortescue. In a 
move that improves employee pay and benefits, we 
applied our permanent employment conditions to these 
new team members. 

We are committed to providing team members with the 
opportunity to progress their career with us and ensure 
they are able to access benefits, including long service 
leave, superannuation entitlements and compassionate 
leave entitlements, in addition to other benefits such our 
staff incentive plan and our salary sacrifice share scheme. 

Ensuring that all employees receive these same benefits  
is an important part of our commitment to providing an 
inclusive workplace that aligns to our Values.

MACA TRANSITION  
AT ELIWANA

CASE STUDY

Engagement
We are renowned for our unique and differentiated culture and 
recognise that employee engagement is integral to building 
and maintaining this. Employees are empowered to provide 
feedback and help shape the way we operate. We encourage 
and measure engagement with team members through a 
number of channels, including forums, surveys and workshops.

Our Values Forums are important components of this 
engagement, allowing our Executive team to provide business 
updates and lead discussions on our Values. During FY22, we 
held nine Values Forums across all sites encouraging team 
members to engage directly with senior leaders. We also held 
four Senior Leaders Forums over the year, and senior leaders 
visited sites regularly to engage with our people.

Our annual Safety Excellence and Culture Survey was conducted 
in FY22 with a 95 per cent completion rate. The survey is a 
valuable tool to engage with employees and contractors. A 
summary of the survey results is provided on page 45.



48  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

PEOPLE – BUILDING SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITIES

There are five Northern Spirits categories that reflect those 
qualities most valuable to building our culture. We use these 
categories to recognise Fortescue family members who have 
made a special contribution to the business, over and above 
normal expectations.  

Northern Spirits originated as a symbol of triumph of spirit 
over adversity following the tragedy that emerged from 
Cyclone George in 2007. In FY22, there were 21 winners.  
Since the program’s inception in 2015, 202 team members 
have been recognised. 

Award recipients attend a breakfast event with the Leadership 
team, receive a Northern Spirits statue engraved with their 
name and award category, receive recognition at our company 
wide weekly meeting, and attend presentations from senior 
team members about the history and future of the business.

Northern Spirits
Northern Spirits, our recognition program,  
celebrates and rewards team members (employees,  
contractors and labour hire) who strive to build an even  
stronger culture.

Recognising individuals

Closing the gap 
by supporting 
Aboriginal 
development 

 
 Encouraging a 
diverse workplace 

Creating great  
teams, empowering  
communities and  
improving our  
environment

Having a crack at 
the bottom line

Looking out for our 
mates and ourselves

Legends tenure recognition
We also recognise those who have contributed to our 
success by celebrating our 5, 10 and 15 year Legends  
with events held in Perth and Port Hedland. In FY22,  
we celebrated 603 Legends.

Starting at Fortescue in 2006 in a short-term administrative 
role with the environment team, 15 year Legend Johanna 
Hopfmueller is now the Superintendent Information and 
Geospatial Delivery. Throughout her tenure, Johanna 
has worked in a number of roles across environment, rail 
projects, technical services, power and communications, 
and technology and autonomy functions. 

Her career highlights include: 

•  Being part of the team that procured our first fleet of 
locomotives, ore cars and the steel that was used to 
construct the railway between Cloudbreak and Port 
Hedland.

•  Seeing the first Fortescue ore pass through the newly 
commissioned rail car dumper and stacker at Port 
Hedland. 

•  Being the first female project manager on the T155 
project, successfully delivering $400 million of rail 
infrastructure within budget and on schedule. 

•  Delivering the first phase of the ServiceNow IT service 
management platform. 

•  Working with the Technology and Geographic 
Information Systems (GIS) teams to deliver a global 
geospatial strategy and architecture to meet growth 
and global expansion needs.

Alongside her impressive career journey, Johanna was 
married in 2012 and became a mother to two children, 
now aged three and eight. In her current role, Johanna is 
leading her team in delivering projects, including change 
analysis, using light detection and ranging (LiDAR) for 
bat cave relocation, developing a fire risk management 
platform and using geospatial data analysis to support 
FFI’s needs in global feasibility.  

As a vibrant, passionate and adaptable Fortescue family 
member, Johanna embodies our Values of enthusiasm and 
empowerment. 

A 15 YEAR LEGEND 

CASE STUDY

Johanna Hopfmueller

Northern Spirits is a three-tier program:

Awarded to 
recognise a team 
member in an 
informal way

A monthly award, including  
a prize up to $150, awarded  
to a team member when  
they have gone above  
and beyond in building  
our culture

A biannual award, selected by our  
Executive team to recognise the  
most outstanding recipients of a  
True Colours award in each of  
the Northern Spirits categories



  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    49

Development opportunities
Our dedicated Training and Organisational Development 
teams provide employees and contractors with a range of 
educational and professional development opportunities. 
Individual training plans are developed by team members in 
consultation with their direct leaders as part of the biannual 
performance review process. 

In FY22, we held 12 Empower programs, which are designed to 
support high performing team members develop their career 
pathways. This year, 62 per cent of participants were female. 

Our leaders are provided with appropriate training to allow 
them to excel and support their team. Our Leadership 
Excellence Pathway Program comprises four components:

• Leading the Values – A one day training program provided 
to new external leaders and existing team members moving 
into leadership roles with 244 team members completing 
this training in FY22.

• Leadership Fundamentals Program – For team members 
with six to 12 months in a leadership role. In FY22, 345 team 
members completed this program with 1,610 leaders trained 
since the inception of the program.

• Advanced Leadership Program – For team members with 
two to three years of experience in a leadership role. In FY22, 
63 leaders completed this program, with 462 leaders trained 
since the program commenced.

• Senior Leaders Program – A new two year program for 
selected GM and Manager level leaders who are supported 
through tertiary and experiential learning, coaching and 
think tanks over a two year program. In FY22, 26 senior 
leaders were successful in being selected for this program.

Our Trade Up program is an award winning initiative which 
provides participants with a pathway to an apprenticeship. It 
includes a four year apprenticeship contract, with specialist 

training conducted at our TAFE accredited training centre 
located at Cloudbreak, combined with practical experience 
at various Fortescue sites. In alignment with our diversity 
objectives, Trade Up provides development opportunities to 
our female and Aboriginal employees. In FY22, the program 
had 199 participants with 39 participants from earlier intakes 
successfully gaining permanent employment with us during 
the year. The program is supported by our contracting 
partners (E)Luminate, Wirlu-Murra, South Regional TAFE, 
North Regional TAFE, South Metropolitan TAFE and the 
Chamber of Commerce and Industry.

In FY22, we commenced succession planning for 
Superintendent and above leadership roles, which has been 
integral in identifying development and recruitment initiatives 
for future leaders and creates a pipeline of diverse successors.

Measuring effectiveness
We measure the success and outcomes of our various training 
and leadership programs using a combination of the following:

• Feedback – Surveys that follow the delivery of training 
assess whether learning outcomes have been met.

• Learning – An annual assessment is undertaken to 
better understand learning objectives and outcomes for 
employees.

• Performance monitoring – We review how employees apply 
their learnings.

• Results – We measure business outcomes by evaluating 
employee retention, productivity and morale.

The results of these assessments are used to improve and 
redesign training programs where required.

One hundred per cent of Fortescue employees have 
participated in training. During FY22, an average of 31 hours 
of training was provided per employee across our iron ore 
operations and FFI. 



50  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

DIVERSITY, INCLUSION  
AND EQUITY 

We are working to provide a workplace where everyone feels 
safe to be themselves and where they are acknowledged and 

celebrated for their strengths as an individual

DIVERSITY
Having a seat  

at the table

EQUITY
Having a fair opportunity  

to get to the table

INCLUSION
Having a voice  

at the table

In April 2021, the Sustainability Committee endorsed the FY22 Fortescue family diversity plan which embodies our commitment 
to a workforce that reflects the communities in which we live. Following 62 consultation sessions last year, our diversity areas 
were expanded to include the following key categories:

• Females 

• Aboriginal people  

• Diversity of age 

• LGBTQIA+

• Cultural backgrounds

• Differing abilities.

DIVERSITY METRICS

We are committed to diversity and inclusion in all its forms, and commit to a year on year increase across our measurable 
categories of diversity. Our Board has ultimate responsibility for diversity and inclusion matters through the Remuneration 
and People Committee. 

Male: 9,034

Female: 2,659

Employment  
by gender

77%

23%

Aboriginal employees in  
Australia: 1,113
Other employees in  
Australia: 10,027

Aboriginal
employment 

10%

Age

20%

61%

19%

≤ 30: 2,313

31-50: 7,097
≥ 51: 2,283

Nationality

Australian: 9,677

New Zealander: 728

British: 199

Argentinian: 139

Ecuadorian: 87

Other: 863

83%

6%
2%

1%

1%

7%



  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    51

Future focus areas
In FY23, we will focus on improvements in five key areas: 
measurement, programs, policy reviews, education and 
awareness, and partnerships. 

Actions identified in FY22 include:

• reviewing our policies and processes for inclusive 
approaches and language 

• using data from online exit surveys to develop retention 
strategies

• reviewing language on recruitment advertisements to 
encourage diverse applicants

• reviewing our paternity leave policy

• building diversity through the development of internal 
talent pools, succession planning and improved recruitment 
planning

• rolling out regular, ongoing diversity and inclusion 
discussion sessions

• sharing diversity and inclusion success stories and 
incorporating inclusive leadership modules into leadership 
programs 

• implementing an onboarding program that supports new 
starters

• rolling out regular, ongoing diversity and inclusion 
discussion sessions

• sharing diversity and inclusion success stories.

We have celebrated several LGBTQIA+ initiatives across 
the business in FY22, including inviting our team members 
and their families to participate in Pride WA’s PrideFEST.  

More than 60 people from the Fortescue family stepped 
out into the rainbow sea of colour to join Perth’s largest 
ever pride parade in November 2021 as we became 
a supporting sponsor of Pride WA, building on our 
commitment to support and encourage diversity across 
the business.  

We also supported International Day Against Homophobia, 
Biphobia, Interphobia and Transphobia (IDAHOBIT) 
across our operations with a series of events. We were 
delighted to demonstrate our support at our Eliwana mine 
with a coloured surface blast of a rainbow which is widely 
recognised as a symbol of LGBTQIA+ pride and identity.

Despite an increasing acceptance of LGBTQIA+ people  
in society and greater visibility in the media and public  
life, many LGBTQIA+ people still experience discrimination, 
harassment and violence at work, at school and in  
social situations.

RECOGNISING OUR RAINBOW COMMUNITY

CASE STUDY

Our General Manager at Eliwana, Rosli Wheelock, asked 
the Fortescue family to take action against discrimination, 
saying “I encourage everyone to have empathy, put 
yourself in another person’s shoes and treat people the 
way you would like to be treated. If you see discrimination, 
harassment or hostility, speak up against it, tell people to 
stop and think about how their comments or actions can 
cause distress and harm.”



FEMALE EMPLOYMENT AND DEVELOPMENT

52  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

PEOPLE – BUILDING SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITIES

Increasing our female employment rates remains a key priority 
for us. We employ 2,659 women, an increase from 2,141 in FY21 
and 1,650 in FY20. Our female employment rate continued to 
increase this year, with females holding 23 per cent of total 
positions, 24 per cent of leadership positions (Manager roles 
and above) and 27 per cent of senior leadership roles (GM roles 
and above). We also focus on gender diversity at the team level 
to help us build successful, high performing teams across our 
business.

For the third consecutive year, Fortescue was listed in Parity.org 
Best Companies for Women to Advance list. 

In FY22, our operational sites increased their female 
employment rates, with Eliwana leading female employment  
at 23 per cent and Pilbara operations at 16 per cent. 

Within the Fortescue Hive, 41 per cent of positions are 
consistently held by women and FFI currently has an overall 
female workforce of 34 per cent.

We have a number of inclusion and diversity initiatives to build 
talent pools and provide a supportive workplace for female 
employees, including:

• strengthening our flexible working arrangements, including 
the launch of our new two weeks on: two weeks off roster 
option

• continued operation of our Family Room at the Fortescue 
Centre in Perth 

• facilitating mentoring opportunities through Mentor Walks 
and our internal Rookies and Coaches mentoring program

• as an outcome of the Workplace Integrity Review, 
establishing Women in Mining groups across our locations 
who meet regularly to develop female support networks and 
discuss initiatives

• providing development opportunities through National 
Association of Women in Operations (NAWO) membership 

• providing speaking opportunities for females through our 
partnership with AusIMM

• providing 16 weeks paid parental leave for primary carers, 
available to men and women

• our ongoing commitment to gender pay equity.

As at 20 June 2022, our flexible work arrangements were being 
utilised by 565 of our employees, both male and female, an 
increase from 550 at the end of FY21. Females make up 36 per 
cent of our part time workforce.

During the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, office-based 
employees were able to access arrangements under our 
Temporary Work Management Guidelines, including working 
from home arrangements. 

Over 97 per cent of carers returned to work in FY22 following 
parental leave, and we maintained a high primary carers 
12-month retention rate of 85 per cent for those who returned 
following leave in FY21. This year, more than 1,000 bookings 
were made in our Fortescue Family Room in Perth. 

We maintain our commitment to addressing gender equality 
and creating a safe workplace free from violence through 
our Workplace Accreditation by White Ribbon Australia. To 
continue to highlight the important conversations about 
inappropriate behaviour within our society, including domestic 
violence, we sponsored a play, ‘Is there Anybody Out There’, 
presented by the Actors’ Hub which tackles this issue. 

Female development opportunities
We provide a range of professional and personal development 
opportunities for our female staff to promote gender equity in 
our workplace.  

During FY22, 116 women participated in the Empower Program. 
Due to the high demand for the program, six programs are run 
every six months to provide development opportunities for our 
people. 

This year, 65 mentees and 33 mentors participated in Mentor 
Walks, as part of our sponsorship that connects female 
participants with female leaders from across Perth.  

In FY22, 62 females participated in Trade Up. Since FY17, 103 
females have joined Trade Up, making up 23 per cent of overall 
participants. We also launched our Senior Leaders Program,  
of which 27 per cent of participants are female.

Objective: Increase the number 
of female employees to be 
reflective of general society

Objective: Provide 
opportunities for female 
employees to move into 
leadership positions

Target: Year on year increase in 
female employment

Target: Year on year increase 
in female employment in 
leadership roles

Female employment Females in leadership roles

FY22   23%  FY22   24%  
FY21   21% FY21   25%

FY20   19% FY20  25%



  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    53

Pay equity
We undertake an annual remuneration benchmarking 
assessment to ensure that remuneration is comparable 
with equivalent roles in the Australian mining industry 
and that equitable remuneration exists for like for like 
roles, independent of gender, race, age or culture. Where a 
discrepancy is identified, remuneration is adjusted. 

The mean gender pay gap for Fortescue iron ore operations 
employees based in Australia is -1.5 per cent, and for FFI 
employees is -2.6 per cent. The difference between male and 
female salaries is primarily driven by variations in the types of 
roles commonly held. Typically, there is a higher proportion of 
female employees in office-based roles and a higher proportion 
of male employees in technical and site-based roles. These 
employment areas differ significantly in remuneration. 

We undertake a gender pay equity review as part of the annual 
salary review process to ensure salaries are equitable on a role 
by role basis.  

Diversity in our supply chain 
We work closely with our suppliers to ensure their products 
and services meet our expectations and that they too are 
striving for the sustainability standards we have set ourselves. 
We hold workshops with key suppliers annually where we can 
share our learnings and work together to improve diversity in 
our workplaces.

Supporting science, technology, 
engineering and maths
We recognise the growing importance of science, technology, 
engineering and maths (STEM) education and invest in a 
variety of initiatives that encourage the uptake of STEM 
subjects in schools and universities, with a focus on those that 
promote diversity, including:

• Australian Resources and Energy Group (AMMA) Bright 
Future STEM Primary School Program

• Pilbara Resources Technology Program

• Perth Modern School’s Mechatronics Engineering 
Scholarship

• Teach Learn Grow: Rural Program, Nullagine Primary School

• Vacation and Graduate Recruitment Fair.

Focus areas
Our focus areas for supporting female employment and 
development in FY23 include:

• Recruitment: establishing expectations for female 
representation during the recruitment process, with the 
aim of interviewing at least one in three female candidates 
for each position, where they possess relevant skills and 
experience for the role.

• Leadership: implementing a new diverse leadership 
program that identifies females with leadership potential 
to take on a 12 month site Supervisor training placement as 
part of our leadership program refresh in FY23.



54  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

PEOPLE – BUILDING SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITIES

Increasing Aboriginal employment rates in our Australian 
workforce remains a key priority for us. In February 2022, we 
achieved the milestone of 1,000 Aboriginal employees. Our 
Aboriginal employment rate continued to increase this year, 
with Aboriginal people holding 10 per cent of total positions, 
four per cent of leadership positions and 15 per cent of 
positions within our Pilbara operations. 

In FY22, we celebrated the appointment of our first Aboriginal 
Executive, Rosli Wheelock, to the role of General Manager 
Eliwana.

Development opportunities for 
Aboriginal people
Our Vocational Training and Employment Centre (VTEC) has 
been providing sustainable career pathways for Aboriginal 
people for 15 years. Built on the concept that following 
the completion of training, participants are guaranteed 
employment. The program is a key part of our training and 
development strategy.

During FY22, 57 graduates completed training through VTEC. 
The recent cohort of graduates commenced employment in 
various roles at our Solomon, Eliwana and Chichester Hub, as 
well as our Hedland operations. Since its inception in 2006, the 
program has resulted in the successful employment of more 
than 1,100 Aboriginal people across our sites.

In FY22, there were 89 Aboriginal participants in our Trade Up 
program, representing 45 per cent of overall participants. 

Aboriginal leaders are critical to enabling a culture that 
supports and allows Aboriginal people to thrive. We provide 
a range of professional development opportunities for 
Aboriginal employees with leadership aspirations to realise 
their goals. A key component of this is our Leadership and 
Excellence in Aboriginal People (LEAP) program.

Since its inception in 2015, our LEAP program has provided 
115 Aboriginal employees with a 12 month formal training 
program which includes offsite education, practical onsite 
development, internal mentoring, Board exposure, Aboriginal 
leadership education and business leadership training. Of the  
people who have completed the program, 71 per cent were 
promoted with 22 per cent promoted into supervisor roles or 
above. Of the 19 participants in the FY22 cohort, 21 per cent 
have been promoted to supervisor level and a further 37 per 
cent have been acting in a step up position since commencing  
the LEAP program in November 2021. Native title partners 
make up 37 per cent of the FY22 participants.

Objective: Increase the number of 
Aboriginal employees to be reflective of 
general society

Increase the number of Aboriginal employees 
to be reflective of general society

Objective: Provide opportunities for 
Aboriginal people to move into  
leadership positions

Target: Year on year increase in the 
Aboriginal employment rate

Target: Year on year increase in the Aboriginal 
employment rate in Pilbara operations

Target: Year on year increase in the 
Aboriginal employment rate in leadership 
roles

Aboriginal employment Aboriginal people across  
Pilbara operations Aboriginal leadership roles

FY22   10%  FY22   15%  FY22   4%  
FY21   10% FY21   14% FY21    4%  
FY20   10% FY20   14% FY20    4%

ABORIGINAL EMPLOYMENT AND DEVELOPMENT

We are proud to be one of Australia’s largest employers of  
Aboriginal people, directly employing 1,113 Aboriginal people,  

representing 10 per cent of our Australian workforce



  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    55

Our Aboriginal training and employment programs are 
complemented by initiatives designed to overcome 
the barriers faced by Aboriginal people in securing and 
maintaining work. We employ a full time health coordinator 
and implement an Aboriginal Health Program that aims 
to improve the health of our Aboriginal workforce. Key 
responsibilities of the health coordinator are to:

• support candidates to address health barriers

• conduct health screening

• implement VTEC’s fitness program

• support trainees with health initiatives and fitness for work

• develop and deliver health and fitness training.

We strive to build a workplace that understands, supports and 
champions Aboriginal people through the following:

• compulsory cross-cultural awareness training for all 
employees

• ensuring leaders are provided with the skills and knowledge 
to support and lead Aboriginal employees

• recognising and rewarding employees who support 
Aboriginal employment and development

• celebrating significant Aboriginal cultural events throughout 
the year, including National Aborigines and Islanders Day 
Observance Committee (NAIDOC) Week.

Supporting our Aboriginal employees and 
their families
We are the only Pilbara-based mining company with flights 
between all mine sites and the major communities of 
Karratha, Port Hedland, Broome, Kununurra and Fitzroy 
Crossing. This allows Aboriginal people to remain on 
Country with their families while still accessing employment 
opportunities.

In FY22, all Pilbara-based employees were eligible to  
receive housing support and entitlements. Currently, 
301 Aboriginal employees are accessing our owned and 
leased properties. To support our Pilbara-based Aboriginal 
employees, we spent approximately $13.7 million on housing 
support this year. 

Focus areas
From FY23, we will focus on supporting Aboriginal 
employment and development through: 

• recruitment: establishing expectations for Aboriginal 
representation during the recruitment process, by 
targeting a one in five ratio of Aboriginal candidates, where 
they possess relevant skills and experience for the role

• leadership: developing and delivering a new leadership 
program that focuses on leading Aboriginal people as part 
of our refreshed leadership program

• native title partners: increasing employment opportunities 
for our native title partners and First Nations peoples 
and building talent pools, including by having native title 
partners form 50 per cent of our VTEC participants.

We strive  
to build a workplace  

that understands,  
supports and champions 

Aboriginal people



56  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

PEOPLE – BUILDING SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITIES

Diversity of age
Fortescue continues to provide opportunity pathways for 
prospective employees of all ages in several ways, including 
our Vacation and Graduate Program. In FY22, we welcomed 
84 vacation and 122 graduate students to the Fortescue family. 
This year, 18 of our previous graduates gained permanent 
employment with us. As part of our diversity calendar, we 
also acknowledge and celebrate International Day for Older 
Persons. During FY22, we reviewed our roster options 
to introduce a two week on: two week off roster option, 
encouraging flexibility for team members of all ages, along 
with continuing to promote job share arrangements.

LGBTQIA+
Through the work of our internal working group, Fortitude, we 
sponsored Pride WA and participated in the Pride parade in 
Perth for the first time in FY22. We also became a member of 
Pride in Diversity and continue to support Pride month, Wear 
it Purple Day and IDAHOBIT, support mentoring opportunities 
through Pride in Professionals mentoring program and making 
education sessions available to our team members which are 
facilitated by Transfolk WA. 

Culturally diverse backgrounds
We employ people in more than 30 countries, with team 
members representing over 70 different nationalities. The 
expansion of FFI as a global entity has seen a significant 
increase in the cultural diversity of our business.

We have recently called for team mates to share recipes 
that are representative of their heritage. The recipes will be 
published in our second edition of ‘A Taste of Fortescue,’ 
with all proceeds going to our Indigenous education charity 
partner, MADALAH. 

Important calendar dates recognising our cultural diversity 
include Chinese New Year, celebrated across the organisation, 
and Harmony Day, celebrated in March across our operations, 
recognising the part food plays in bringing us together.

Differing abilities
A neurodiversity working group has been established with 
the aim of providing support, education and awareness, 
and opportunities to further enhance the experience of our 
neurodiverse family. 

Ensuring accessibility to our offices is a focus, and during 
FY22 we worked with lessees to improve accessibility at the 
Fortescue Centre and the FFI Bennett Street office. 

Activ Foundation offers people with disability opportunities 
to enjoy full participation in their community, and to empower 
them to pursue the life they choose. In FY22, Activ Foundation 
commenced packing our RAT kits for distribution and we are 
currently exploring further partnership opportunities.

Inclusion and belonging
In FY22, we commenced diversity and inclusion awareness 
sessions. The first session focused on the science of inclusion 
and identified ways to engage in inclusive behaviours. The 
sessions will continue regularly through FY23 and feature 
external experts with employees sharing their knowledge and 
lived experiences. 

Eliminating bullying and harassment
We are committed to providing a workplace that is free 
from discrimination, bullying and harassment. Our Code of 
Conduct and Integrity, our Equal Opportunity Discrimination 
and Workplace Bullying Policy, and our Fair Treatment 
Procedure outline our expectations of employees, contractors 
and suppliers. These expectations are highlighted through 
inductions, training and leadership development programs. 
Our leadership development programs also focus on inclusive 
behaviour, Values-based recruitment practices and providing 
a safe work environment.

We foster a culture of speaking up. All team members are 
encouraged to raise any issue with their leader or a member 
of our Fortescue People team. We also provide additional 
avenues to raise issues anonymously, including our internal 
Speak Up hotline, and our external Whistleblower Hotline 
service.

Age

Objective: Create a workplace 
where everyone feels safe 
to be themselves and is 
acknowledged and celebrated 
for the strengths each  
individual brings 

Target: Create a workplace that 
reflects the community in which 
we live through diversity of age

FY22 age distribution

≤30   20%  
31-50   61%
≥51    19%



  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    57

Sexual harassment 
Sexual harassment has no place at Fortescue, in the mining 
sector, in the workplace or in society. Fortescue has a strong 
culture that is built on integrity and respect, and we are 
committed to ensuring we are providing a safe and inclusive 
work environment.  

In May 2021, the Parliament of Western Australia announced 
the Community Development and Justice Standing Committee 
Inquiry into Sexual harassment against women in the FIFO 
mining industry. 

In June 2021, we commenced our Workplace Integrity 
Review to hear directly from our Fortescue family on sexual 
harassment and inappropriate behaviour. We wanted to 
understand what makes our team members feel safe or 
unsafe while working at a Fortescue workplace and living at a 
Fortescue village, and where improvements can be made. The 
Review, which is ongoing, informs our actions to ensure that 
Fortescue continues to be a safe and inclusive place to work.  

During FY22, our Workplace Integrity Incident Management 
team was established. This team is chaired by our CEO and 
comprises key members from our Executive and senior 
management, to oversee the Review initiatives, as well as 
provide regular updates to the Board. 

We sought, and continue to seek, feedback from team 
members in a range of ways, including:

• facilitating company wide online surveys, including with our 
contracting partners 

• holding focus group discussions across operational sites

• offering one on one meetings with the Director of Fortescue 
People

• holding leadership walks across operational sites and 
offices

• holding a contractor forum with key labour suppliers 

• undertaking an independent review of our current site 
security and safety measures.

Contribution to the Parliamentary Inquiry
On 13 August 2021, we provided a written submission to the 
Parliamentary Inquiry in order to set out Fortescue’s approach 
to ensuring our workplaces are safe, and explain the practical 
work we are doing in this area. We also appeared before the 
Inquiry in person on 27 October 2021, with our CEO, Elizabeth 
Gaines, appearing alongside our Directors of Fortescue People 
and Health and Safety.

On 25 November 2021, we provided information to the Inquiry 
regarding the number of sexual harassment matters that had 
been reported to Fortescue in 2021. Between January and 
November of 2021, 32 matters concerning sexual harassment 
were reported to Fortescue. Each report was treated seriously.

•   Four matters resulted in employee dismissal.

•   25 matters resulted in disciplinary actions, including written 
warnings, disciplinary counselling, resignations, or the 
removal of a worker from site.

•   Three matters were not substantiated.

•   At the time, two matters were under investigation. These 
have since been closed with one matter not substantiated, 
and the other resulting in disciplinary action.

Of the cases reported to Fortescue in this period, the majority 
involved inappropriate communications including language 
and comments.

Training
During FY22, we revised our dedicated induction training 
modules to include content on inappropriate workplace 
behaviour. Our leadership training has also been enhanced to 
reinforce our expectations. 

Monthly toolbox training packages have been developed for 
all team members which focus on how to be a good bystander, 
modelling good behaviour, discussing sexual harassment, 
understanding how to raise concerns, as well as other 
related topics. We also launched a series of videos regarding 
respectful behaviour in the workplace, raising concerns, 
bullying and discrimination, responsible consumption of 
alcohol, supporting your mates and appropriate language.

In FY22, our Board completed sexual harassment and 
inappropriate behaviour training. 

Policy updates and improvement
During FY22, we revised related corporate policies, including 
our Social Media Policy, to ensure everyone understands what 
is expected of them while working at Fortescue. 

We continue to review our policies to ensure they remain 
relevant.

Changes to alcohol service
Through the conversations held with our workforce and 
contracting partners during our Workplace Integrity Review, 
it was emphasised that excessive alcohol consumption can 
contribute to antisocial behaviour.

In response, we reviewed our alcohol service limits and 
introduced changes to the sale and consumption of alcohol on 
site. The following changes were introduced on all Fortescue 
sites, including operational, exploration and project sites, from 
November 2021:

• introducing a sale limit of no more than four mid-strength 
alcoholic drinks in 24 hours per person 

• limiting the amount of wine available to purchase based on 
volume and percentage of alcohol 

• prohibiting the sale of full-strength beer and full-strength 
premix drinks

• prohibiting stockpiling of alcoholic beverages or bringing 
alcohol to site and introducing strict consequences for 
breaches of this requirement.

These changes are consistent with industry standards. We also 
reviewed our selection of mid-strength beverages across our 
villages to ensure there is more choice and increased offerings 
of non-alcoholic drink choices. Additional village activities are 
also now available to provide alternative recreational options.

These changes to alcohol service complement our existing 
requirement that employees, contractors and visitors 
must have a blood alcohol content of 0.00 while working. 
This requirement applies to all of our operational sites and 
corporate offices.



58  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

PEOPLE – BUILDING SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITIES

Village enhancements and security measures
In FY22, Fortescue reviewed and enhanced existing lighting 
across our operational sites and doubled the number of CCTV 
cameras across our villages. We also launched a program to 
upgrade accommodation door locks where required.

We have introduced female only gym rooms within gym 
facilities located at Solomon, Cloudbreak, Christmas Creek 
and Eliwana, and we will continue to introduce female only 
gyms or rooms across our other villages where possible.

At Christmas Creek, we have built a dedicated wellness room 
to facilitate social events, workshops, meditation sessions and 
other wellness activities. 

In FY22, we partnered with the Happiness Co to launch 
Fortescue Wellness online, an initiative to support the health 
and wellbeing of Fortescue team members. The portal hosts 
programs and resources created by the Happiness Co, 
including live and interactive webinars, guided meditation and 
mindfulness resources, online fitness training, podcasts and a 
FIFO beginners course for those new to working on site.

Speaking up
In line with Fortescue’s zero-tolerance approach to 
harassment, bullying, discrimination and intimidation, and 
any other forms of inappropriate behaviour, we encourage 
and empower our team members to call out inappropriate 
behaviour, speak up and take clear decisive action when 
behaviour which does not align with our Values is identified.

Our dedicated Fortescue People team are trained to deal 
with complaints of all types of inappropriate behaviour 
professionally and respectfully. There are many ways our 
employees can raise concerns or inappropriate behaviour, 
including:

• speaking with a leader

• speaking to a member of the Fortescue People team

• speaking with one of our Fortescue Chaplains

• reporting anonymously, via our internal Speak Up program 
or our external Whistleblower Hotline.

All matters are treated with the utmost confidentiality, and 
everyone is supported throughout this process.

‘Enough is Enough’ report
In June 2022, the WA Parliament Community Development 
and Justice Standing Committee released its ‘Enough is 
Enough’ report as the culmination of its Inquiry into sexual 
harassment against women in the FIFO mining industry. The 
report contained 79 findings and 24 recommendations. We 
participated fully in the Inquiry process and support the work 
undertaken by the Committee on this important issue. The 
full report can be accessed on the Parliament of Western 
Australia website.

Through our ongoing Workplace Integrity Review, we have 
made significant progress in relation to a number of the key 
recommendations of the report. We will continue to further 
enhance the safety, culture and experience of everyone 
working at Fortescue with reference to the recommendations 
of this report.

Looking forward
Our Workplace Integrity Review is ongoing. We continue to 
gather feedback from our team members about our culture 
and our workplaces, and to hear directly from them about what 
enhancements could be made to further ensure Fortescue 
remains a safe and inclusive place to work.

As part of this, in the coming year, we will continue to work to 
complete the initiatives we have already identified and develop 
new initiatives based on the feedback we receive. This will 
involve additional training packages, including further toolbox 
training for all team members and dedicated training for 
our leaders, and a refresh of some of our existing workplace 
behaviour policies. Work will also continue in our villages.  

We are committed to ensuring that everyone who works at a 
Fortescue workplace experiences our unique culture and sees 
firsthand why Fortescue is a great place to work. 

2,659  
females employed  
by Fortescue

412
additional CCTV cameras deployed and 
in operation in villages and operational 
sites between June 2021 and July 2022

100% 
of lighting  
upgrades completed

91% 
of accommodation door lock 
upgrades completed 

11 
training packages 
and awareness 
videos rolled out 

Workplace Integrity Review progress



  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    59

RESPECTING  
HUMAN RIGHTS

We are committed to respecting and  
promoting the human rights of all people

Human rights
We are committed to respecting and promoting the human 
rights of all people, including our employees, the communities 
in which we operate, those within our supply chains and those 
who may be impacted by our activities. 

Our Human Rights Policy outlines our business conduct, 
which strives to be consistent with the International Bill of 
Human Rights, the United Nations Guiding Principles on 
Business and Human Rights and the principles concerning 
fundamental rights set out in the International Labour 
Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and 
Rights at Work. We are also a signatory to the United Nations 
Global Compact.

Our Code of Conduct and Integrity and Human Rights Policy 
are the foundation documents for human rights protection 
across Fortescue. Our Human Rights Policy is applicable to 
our directors, employees, contractors and suppliers. 

We respect human rights through a range of mechanisms, 
including:

• Actively communicating our approach and expectations to 
all stakeholders, including suppliers.

• Seeking to secure the consent of First Nations peoples for 
mineral and energy exploration and development on their 
traditional lands.

• Improving our security performance by implementing 
the Voluntary Principles as an engaged member of the 
Voluntary Principles for Business and Human Rights.

• Engaging with stakeholders to understand the impacts of 
our activities and working with them to optimise benefits 
and limit negative impacts. 

• Undertaking ongoing due diligence to identify, prevent and 
mitigate the adverse impacts of our activities, capturing 
outputs in our corporate risk register.

• Participating in engagement sessions related to human 
rights policy and regulatory development. 



60  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

PEOPLE – BUILDING SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITIES

Human rights saliency
We identify and assess potential human rights risks via our 
company wide Risk Management Framework. This framework 
ensures the consideration of potential human rights risks by 
senior management and the Board. ARMSC is responsible for 
the oversight of risk management (including human rights 
risks) on behalf of the Board. 

In FY22, we undertook a human rights saliency assessment 
to identify the areas where we have the greatest potential to 
impact the human rights of people across our value chain: 
supply chain, operations and downstream. The scale, scope 
and ability to remediate of identified actual or potential 
adverse human rights impacts were analysed to determine 
the severity of the risk.

Land rights 
Rights of our community members in relation to land acquisition, access and use, 
including resettlement.

Community impacts
Rights of our community members that may be impacted by activities along the 
value chain, including migration, access to services, culture and cultural heritage and 
livelihoods.

First Nations peoples’ rights
Rights of First Nations peoples that may be impacted by our activities, including 
consent, self-determination, culture and cultural heritage and impacts on their 
traditionally owned lands, waters and resources.

Security and conflict
Rights of our community members that may be impacted by security activities, as well 
as broader security and conflict implications in country/region of operation such as 
conflict or government use of force.

Environmental impacts
Rights of community members that may experience environmental impacts directly 
as a result of our operations or across the value chain, including rights to water and 
sanitation, health and an adequate standard of living.

Diversity and non-discrimination
Rights of our employees/contractors and workers in the value chain that may 
be impacted by discrimination on the basis of gender, race, age, religion, sexual 
orientation, disability or other protected status.

Labour rights
Rights of our employees/contractors and workers in the value chain that may be 
impacted in relation to freedom from exploitation, including modern slavery, working 
hours and remuneration, and freedom of association and collective bargaining. 

Workplace health and safety
Rights of our employees/contractors and workers in the value chain to a safe and 
healthy working environment that may be impacted by our operations. 

As part of the assessment process, workshops and interviews 
were held with representatives from a cross section of the 
business, including Procurement and Logistics, Environment, 
Communities, Cultural Heritage, and Native Title, Health and 
Safety, Human Resources, Shipping, and Sustainability and 
Corporate Affairs, both in Australia and overseas. 

This work supports us to better understand, manage and 
report on our salient human rights and meet our human rights 
commitments and growing stakeholder expectations. 

The assessment outlined potential risks and impacts to right 
holders from our activities in the areas listed below. 

This year, Fortescue became an engaged member of 
the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights 
Initiative (VPI).

Created in 2000, the VPI is a multi-stakeholder group 
composed of companies, government, and NGOs 
committed to working together to address  
security-related human rights issues in the extractive, 
energy and related industries. By working collaboratively, 
the participants share common challenges, learn from 
each other’s experiences and develop joint approaches 
to address challenges of security and human rights at an 

VOLUNTARY PRINCIPLES  
ON SECURITY AND HUMAN  

RIGHTS INITIATIVE 

CASE STUDY
international, national and project level to drive change 
and have lasting impact.

The Voluntary Principles are an internationally 
recognised set of principles that guide companies 
on how to conduct their security operations while 
respecting human rights. We are committed to aligning 
our operations with the Voluntary Principles. 

As part of our membership, we attended the Annual 
Plenary Meeting in Toronto, Canada in May 2022, which 
included training on implementing the Principles. 

We are developing a work plan for the delivery of 
commitments as an engaged member, including: 

• producing an annual report consistent with the VPI 
Reporting Guidelines

• delivering our verification presentation

• finalising our Company Implementation Action Plan. 



  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    61

Human rights risks are captured in our corporate risk 
register, with mitigation and action items assigned under the 
framework of salient human rights issues.

Human rights management
To ensure continuous improvement we work to strengthen 
and refine our management of human rights. Key focus areas 
include: 

• Considering human rights in our investments and 
acquisitions, including a human rights assessment being 
conducted for our acquisition of WAE. 

• Conducting human rights due diligence for sourcing and 
purchasing activities and promoting our expectations via 
engagements and contract clauses.

• Developing a human rights screening tool to help teams 
identify possible human rights impacts related to business 
activities and determine mitigation strategies. 

• Undertaking additional human rights due diligence via 
specialist third party sources and our GMC intelligence 
analysts.

• Using a third party Environment Social & Governance 
Monitor to analyse human rights risks at a country level. 

• Implementing a Human Rights Impact Assessment tool that 
indicates when an HRIA should be conducted.

• Implementing a social performance toolkit, including 
guidance to avoid physical and economic displacement 
of project-affected people where possible. This process 
is consistent with the International Finance Corporation 
Performance Standard 5: Land Acquisition and Involuntary 
Resettlement.

• Chairing an internal cross-functional Human Rights 
Advisory Group to discuss human rights related matters, 
provide support and share knowledge.

• Implementing the Voluntary Principles on Security and 
Human Rights throughout our business.

Our Sustainability team includes human rights specialists that 
provide guidance and advice to the business on human rights 
related matters, including due diligence and the management 
of grievances.

Training
During FY22, we commenced the rollout of the online human 
rights training, An Introduction to Human Rights and Modern 
Slavery, which is mandatory for all employees. An updated, 
advanced training module on Human Rights and Modern 
Slavery continues to be delivered, face to face, to individuals 
working in higher risk areas. 

In FY22, we delivered face to face human rights and modern 
slavery training to more than 600 employees and online 
training to more than 1,700 employees. We expect these 
numbers will significantly increase in FY23 with further 
implementation of the online module.

Grievances
This year, we reviewed our grievance procedure to ensure 
alignment to the United Nation’s Guiding Principles on 
Business and Human Rights (UNGPs). The procedure requires 
that a locally appropriate grievance mechanism that is easy 
to access and is respectful of the local culture is developed 
and maintained in each country where we undertake activities 
that may impact on human rights. Where possible, our 
Communities teams will work with local stakeholders to design 
and implement the local mechanism. 

Complaints made to us are taken seriously, recorded, 
investigated and reported on in accordance with our 
Grievance Procedure. We also provide access to remedy via 
our Grievance Procedure. Implementation of this corporate 
procedure is ongoing. 

 
Labour 
rights

 

Salient 
human 
rights 
issues

Workplace 
health and safety

Land 
rights

Community 
impacts

Indigenous 
peoples’ rights

Security 
and conflict

Environmental 
impacts

Diversity and 
non-discrimination



62  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

PEOPLE – BUILDING SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITIES

Fortescue opposes all forms  
of slavery in our operations and  

those of our suppliers

Modern slavery
Our processes to address modern slavery involve identifying, 
assessing and mitigating human rights impacts and providing 
access to remedy through effective grievance mechanisms. We 
work in collaboration with our suppliers to eradicate modern 
slavery from our supply chain and aim to continually strengthen 
our actions.

During FY22, we undertook the following key actions: 

• refined our modern slavery work program

• refined our supplier risk assessment process

• implemented our Modern Slavery Procurement Procedure 
and updated our tender evaluation documents

• reviewed our standard terms and conditions to reference 
human rights, grievance, and reasonable assistance

• automated our Self-Assessment Questionnaire process 
which allows us to target a greater number of vendors

• increased use of third-party due diligence tools and 
verification reporting.

We believe that a collaborative approach is imperative to 
eradicating modern slavery, and in FY22 we continued our 
work with our suppliers and the following groups: 

• Global Compact Network Australia

• Human Rights in Resource and Energy Collaborative – 
modern slavery workstream 

• Walk Free Foundation.

During FY22, we did not identify any instances of modern 
slavery in our supply chain. We have identified eight high risk 
supply chain categories, where due diligence will continue to be 
critical and commensurate with the risk in these areas.

We promote our Whistleblower Hotline with suppliers. In 
FY22, we had zero whistleblower disclosures via our hotline 
pertaining to modern slavery allegations. 

To date, we have published four Modern Slavery Statements. 
The Board-approved statements outline the actions we have 
taken to assess and address modern slavery risks in our 
business and supply chain. 

Our FY22 Modern Slavery Statement will be published in 
December 2022 and will be available on our website at  
www.fortescue.com



RESPECTING HERITAGE  
AND CULTURE

Our commitment to preserve and promote Indigenous  
history and culture is embedded in our  

approach to operating sustainably and responsibly

  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    63

We work in partnership with the First Nations peoples of the 
land where our projects are located to ensure sites of cultural 
significance are identified and managed.

We respect and acknowledge the UN Declaration on the 
Rights of Indigenous Peoples and the human rights principles 
it embodies, including the principle of Free, Prior and Informed 
Consent. In alignment with the principles of the International 
Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM), we work to obtain the 
consent of First Nations peoples for activities located on their 
traditional lands, with consent processes focusing on reaching 
agreement on the basis upon which a project should proceed, 
as well as ensuring access to appropriate grievance and 
dispute resolution processes.

Preserving Aboriginal heritage
We have strong relationships with the First Nations peoples 
of the Pilbara region of Western Australia, which are built on 
open and transparent engagement, mutual respect and the 
development of comprehensive native title agreements.

We have dedicated Heritage, Native Title and Community 
teams that work hand in hand with our First Nations peoples 
to ensure Aboriginal heritage is managed sustainably and 
responsibly.

Native title partners
Fortescue is party to seven major native title agreements with 
native title groups in the Pilbara region, three of which are 
underpinned by registered Indigenous Land Use Agreements 
(ILUA): 

• Kariyarra (ILUA and Land Access Agreement)

• Palyku (ILUA and Land Access Agreement)

• Nyiyaparli (ILUA and Land Access Agreement)

• Nyamal (Project Area Agreement)

• Martu Idja Banyjima (Land Access Agreement)

• Eastern Guruma (Land Access Agreement)

• Puutu Kunti Kurrama and Pinikura (PKKP) (Land Access 
Agreement).

We are committed to working closely with our native title 
partner groups to update existing agreements and to 
negotiate new ILUAs.

Our native title agreements include principles and 
detailed processes for the identification, management and 
protection of significant Aboriginal cultural heritage. They 
also provide significant and sustainable outcomes for the 
relevant communities through a range of benefits, including 
financial compensation, vocational training and employment 
opportunities, and commercial contracting opportunities. 

Solomon land access
Our approach to Aboriginal heritage management and 
working with our native title partners is underpinned by our 
culture and Values. Our primary objective at all times is to work 
on a cultural heritage avoidance basis.

The Solomon project area intersects both the Eastern Guruma 
native title determination area and the Yindjibarndi number 
one native title determination area. In 2009, Fortescue 
entered into a Land Access Agreement with Wintawari 
Guruma Aboriginal Corporation (Wintawari) on behalf of the 
Eastern Guruma native title holders. This agreement was 
updated through a renegotiation process in 2019, and in 2021 
Fortescue and Wintawari entered into an additional framework 
agreement for a culturally safe mining approach to mining our 
Queens East and West deposits. 

We have conducted heritage surveys and consultations 
with Yindjibarndi people through Wirlu-Murra Yindjibarndi 
Aboriginal Corporation (WMYAC) and Yindjibarndi Ngurra 
Aboriginal Corporation (YNAC), ensuring legislative 

Objective: Work together with 
Indigenous people to manage 
Indigenous heritage responsibly 
and sustainably

Target: Annually, ensure no impact 
to Indigenous heritage without 
consultation with and  
consent from Indigenous people

Significant heritage 
incidents

FY22   0

FY21   1  
FY20   0



64  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

PEOPLE – BUILDING SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITIES

compliance. We do not currently have a native title agreement 
with the Yindjibarndi native title holders over the tenure 
associated with the Solomon Mineral Resource and Ore 
Reserve. However, we have delivered a valuable revenue 
stream for the Yindjibarndi community and a variety of 
business and employment opportunities through contracts for 
road maintenance, earthworks and airport transfers across our 
operational sites in the Pilbara, including the Solomon project, 
in partnership with WMYAC. 

We remain open to negotiating a native title agreement to 
the benefit of all Yindjibarndi people on similar terms to the 
agreements in place with other native title groups in the 
Pilbara region.  

Identification of Aboriginal heritage sites
To determine the location, nature and significance of 
Aboriginal heritage sites within an area, we engage with 
First Nations peoples and heritage professionals to conduct 
archaeological and ethnographic Aboriginal heritage surveys, 
in accordance with our land access or heritage agreements.

During FY22, we undertook 579 days of heritage surveys in 
the Pilbara region, archaeologically surveying 10,926 hectares 
and ethnographically surveying 12,533 hectares of land. The 
outcomes of these surveys are discussed with the relevant 
native title party via Heritage Sub-Committee meetings 
or similar forums which provide an opportunity to discuss 
learnings and improvements.

To date, we have archaeologically heritage surveyed 
over 297,000 hectares, and ethnographically heritage 
surveyed over 2.8 million hectares of land. Through our 
seven major native title agreements and many dozens of 
Aboriginal heritage agreements, we have worked closely and 
transparently to manage 6,196 heritage places.

Management and monitoring
We implement our Management and Protection of Aboriginal 
Cultural Heritage Guidelines to ensure we meet our 
obligations and commitments.

We maintain a register of cultural heritage sites and record 
site details in a highly sophisticated Geospatial Information 
System. We work in partnership with First Nations peoples 
to protect and manage places with special significance by 
applying the Heritage Restriction Zones status to a site and 
restricting access.

Sites determined to require on ground protection are 
demarked with heritage fencing. Where a site may require 
additional protection, a buffer may be applied to reduce the 
risk of impact from any future works. 

The Heritage team includes a specialised Compliance team 
which monitors compliance with our processes, requirements 
of any agreements as well as any legislative or approvals 
requirements. Where required, the Heritage Department 
engages heritage monitors from the relevant native title group. 
Action is undertaken to address any impacts, and processes 
are amended where required for continuous improvement.

Promoting Aboriginal culture
A critical component of our ongoing commitment to 
preserving Aboriginal heritage and promoting Aboriginal 
culture is cross-cultural awareness training.

We continued to deliver cross-cultural awareness training 
during FY22, with 2,748 employees and contractors 
undertaking the mandatory training this year. Heritage 
inductions are provided to employees or contractors who may 
encounter heritage sites through their work. Since inductions 
commenced in 2006, more than 56,000 inductions including 
heritage content have been delivered across the business. 

Maps can be a powerful communication tool when 
consulting with Aboriginal Elders about potential impacts 
to Country. However, the use of two dimensional (2D) 
maps is not always the most effective way to deliver 
information. 

Imagine if a map could be brought to life and allow 
Aboriginal Elders to be able to stand virtually at a 

HERITAGE TEAM EXPLORES  
3D MAPPING OF COUNTRY

CASE STUDY
significant site or explore a proposed development to see how 
it would look on Country. 

We are expanding our use of three dimensional (3D) maps to 
assist with consultation with our native title partners. We have 
partnered with Winyama, a West Australian, Aboriginal owned 
and operated business specialising in use of technology to 
visualise, interpret and integrate data in a 3D environment. 

Leveraging in-house software, Fortescue Sky, coupled with  
3D design data from the Project teams, we have created 
interactive 3D maps and virtual fly throughs of new project 
areas. The integration of 3D GIS technology with photo mesh 
models captured by drones or LiDAR sensors, helps to 
replicate the physical environment to allow a more immersive 
experience by the viewer.

The use of interactive 3D maps has transformed the way 
Fortescue consults with our native title partners, not only 
providing a more realistic visualisation of proposed projects 
but also allowing virtual access to areas or places that may 
otherwise not be accessible. 



  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    65

Respecting local culture
Respecting local culture is central to our principles and part of 
our Value of integrity. It is an essential aspect of our operations 
in the Pilbara since we were established in 2003. As we expand 
into new countries and territories, it is important that our 
culture and Values are upheld and that this respect is reflected 
in all that we do wherever we are. 

We will work together with First Nations peoples to manage 
Indigenous heritage responsibly and sustainably. We will 
focus on actively communicating with all stakeholders, 
including our local communities, and seek to secure the 
consent of First Nations peoples for any mineral exploration or 
development on their traditional lands. In FY22, we undertook 
archaeological heritage surveys for projects outside of 
Australia, including in Kazakhstan. 

The Karaganda region in Kazakhstan is 
one of the most important cultural 
centres of East Eurasia. Prior to 
undertaking any ground disturbing 
work for our exploration project based 
within this region, we contracted 
licensed archaeologists to undertake 
surveys over an area of 335km2 across 
our site.

The survey identified 17 sites of cultural 
significance, which were documented 
and reported to the authorities. This 
included a find of a burial mound 
(kurgan) on the main road, 
approximately 8km from our work area.  

Burial mounds are found across the region and are the 
predominant type of funeral structures from the Early 
Iron Age. The kurgan was dated between 500 and 700 
years BC as belonging to the Tasmoly archaeological 
culture directly. A crater dug into its centre was 
reported to the Centre for Protection of Historical and 
Cultural Heritage of the Administration of Culture, 
Archives and Documentation of Karaganda. The 
damage was thought to be from grave robbing at some 
point in its history. 

To ensure no additional damage or loss of historical 
and cultural heritage, and at the request of the local 
authorities, we performed an emergency 
archaeological excavation of the site to preserve 
remaining artefacts. During this excavation, an ancient 
balbal (stone sculpture) and a belemnite fragment were 
found buried in the centre of kurgan. This was a 
significant discovery as it is only the fifteenth to have 
been found across four regions in Kazakhstan. As the 
shape, style and features of the sculpture do not match 
with the geographic location of where it was found, its 
discovery is likely to lead to further research in terms of 
the distribution of the Tasmoly culture between the 5th 
and 7th century BC. 

KURGAN DISCOVERY, ULYTAU 
DISTRICT KAZAKHSTAN

CASE STUDY



66  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

BUILDING THRIVING  
COMMUNITIES

The Billion Opportunities program has awarded  
contracts and subcontracts worth more than $4 billion to  

over 140 Aboriginal businesses 

Billion Opportunities
Our Billion Opportunities program forms a critical element of 
our approach to ensuring economic opportunity and growth for 
the Traditional Custodians of the regions in which we operate. 

Since its commencement in 2011, the program has awarded 
contracts and subcontracts worth more than $4 billion to over 
140 Aboriginal businesses.

The program is complemented by a range of practical 
initiatives that provide Aboriginal businesses with the tools 
to build value and sustainability which, in turn, creates 
employment and development opportunities. 

Key to the success of the program has been:

• Providing opportunities for Aboriginal businesses based on 
their level of capacity and capability.

• Building the capability and capacity of Aboriginal 
businesses to ensure the businesses remain sustainable.

• Creating a company wide approach to engaging and 
mentoring Aboriginal businesses, including setting 
Aboriginal procurement targets and key performance 
indicators for our procurement leaders.

• Using well established and embedded procurement 
processes to ensure Aboriginal engagement is part of our 
tender evaluation.

• Establishing joint ventures that provide an opportunity 
for Aboriginal businesses to partner with established 
contractors to help build their capabilities, before securing 
contracts as majority owned businesses.

In FY22, we purchased $452 million worth of goods and 
services from Aboriginal businesses. Nearly 90 per cent of this 
spend was with businesses owned by native title partners and 
their members. We also awarded or extended 32 contracts to a 
value of $513 million to Aboriginal businesses. 

The Billion Opportunities program will continue to foster 
change and create sustainable communities. Through its 
continued success it is hoped the program will inspire other 
businesses to implement Aboriginal procurement strategies 
and provide opportunities to thousands of Aboriginal 
businesses across the country.

Objective: Create economic 
opportunities for Aboriginal businesses 
through local procurement, business 
development, mentoring and capacity-
building opportunities

Target: Annually, achieve a spend of 10 per 
cent with Aboriginal businesses

Spend with Aboriginal 
businesses

FY22   5%  
FY21   5%

FY20   6%

BUILDING BUSINESS CAPABILITIES



  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    67

ANZ funding scheme
A major barrier for Aboriginal businesses is accessing capital, 
with many finding it difficult to own assets due to an inability 
to access finance. Since 2017, we have partnered with ANZ 
to offer a $50 million funding scheme that allows eligible 
Aboriginal businesses to access finance at a competitive 
rate. We act as guarantor, which removes the need for the 
Aboriginal business to provide security. The Aboriginal 
business owns the assets at the expiry of the contract and is 
then able to use them as security in the future.  

In FY22, $15 million in funding was allocated to five Aboriginal 
businesses. This initiative has already guaranteed $46 million 
in funding to 15 Aboriginal businesses, of which $16 million has 
been repaid. More than 125 assets have been purchased using 
this funding, including excavators, graders, prime movers, 
buses and light vehicles. Wirlu-murra Enterprises Pty Ltd, 
the business arm of the Wirlu-murra Yindjibarndi Aboriginal 
Corporation, has purchased 24 assets using the ANZ funding 
scheme, and has gone on to purchase additional assets in 
their own right, due to the cashflow and credit history gained 
through Fortescue contracts and the ANZ scheme.  

GROUNDBREAKING EASTERN GURUMA  
CO -MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK

CASE STUDY

In September 2021, Fortescue established an innovative  
co-management framework with Wintawari Guruma 
Aboriginal Corporation (Wintawari), the prescribed body 
corporate for the Eastern Guruma People, to oversee the 
development of new mines at our Solomon Hub operations.

Under the framework, both parties will establish a culturally 
safe mining joint venture to mine the East and West Queens 
deposits on Eastern Guruma country. The 10 year mining 
services contract to be awarded to the new joint venture 
is estimated to be worth over $500 million, making the 
contract the largest we have awarded to an Aboriginal 
business to date.

A working group has been formed to collaboratively work 
on all stages of the mine development from heritage and 
environmental approvals, resource drilling and definition 
and mine planning to operations and rehabilitation. We will 
ensure that Eastern Guruma people are active participants 
in the future development of mines, enabling deeper 
consultation around the protection of culturally significant 
sites while building a better future for our people.

The establishment of this framework will continue to guide 
our future discussions with native title partners, and it forms 
part of our ongoing engagement with First Nations peoples 
to deliver training, employment and business development 
opportunities for their communities.



68  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

PEOPLE – BUILDING SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITIES

BUILDING SUSTAINABLE LOCAL COMMUNITIES

We are committed to ensuring the 
ongoing support and use  

of local businesses that in turn  
employ local people

We recognise the need to create vibrant and thriving 
communities that will attract and retain a mining workforce 
and their families. We seek regular feedback from our 
residential workforce and other stakeholders, including local 
governments and businesses, to ensure our initiatives and 
programs support and address the challenges facing these 
communities.

We are committed to creating positive social change 
in communities through local procurement, business 
development, mentoring and capacity building opportunities. 
We seek to understand local issues and tailor our approach 
based on potential impacts and community needs.

We support a regional FIFO workforce for our Pilbara iron ore 
operations, supporting employees based in Port Hedland, 
Broome, Fitzroy Crossing, Kununurra and Karratha. FIFO 
flights are provided from these regional centres to our sites, 
allowing employees to be based in the Pilbara. We also 
provide housing support to 495 Pilbara-based employees.

As we expand our portfolio globally, our commitment to 
building thriving communities also expands with us. Our 
objective to create economic opportunities in the regions in 
which we operate remains a key focus as we develop projects 
in new territories. We recognise that effective stakeholder 
engagement is critical in this process to both communicate 
our intentions as well as listen to the expectations and 
concerns of the local communities. 

Objective: Create economic 
opportunities in the regions in which 
we operate through engagement with 
local businesses, local employment 
and a residential workforce

Target: Annually, achieve a spend of five 
per cent with local Pilbara suppliers

Spend with Pilbara suppliers

FY22   5%  
FY21   4%

FY20   6%

Local procurement
In FY22, 3,158 Tier 1 suppliers were engaged with a total 
contestable spend of $8.7 billion (GST inclusive). Over  
94 per cent of our total procurement spend was with 
Australian businesses and entities, 71 per cent was within 
Western Australia and five per cent was in the Pilbara. Of our  
Tier 1 suppliers, 121 are considered critical, representing 50 
per cent of total contestable spend.

In FY22, our spend with international suppliers for Fortescue 
iron ore operations was $214 million with 25 Chinese suppliers, 
$79 million with 41 entities based in the United States of 
America, $23 million with 298 Argentinian entities, and 
$74 million with other overseas suppliers. For FFI, our FY22 
overseas spend was $17 million with eight entities based in  
the UK, $12 million with 26 entities based in the United States 
of America, $11 million with 16 entities based in PNG, and  
$52 million with other overseas suppliers.



  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    69

REGIONAL WORKERS THE WINNERS AS FFI ANNOUNCES GLOBAL 
GREEN ENERGY MANUFACTURING CENTRE IN QUEENSLAND

More than 100 jobs will be created by the construction of 
the world’s largest electrolyser, renewable industry and 
equipment factory at Gladstone, Queensland, with the first 
stage announced by FFI and the Queensland Government 
in October 2021.

The Green Energy Manufacturing Centre (GEM) will be 
powered by green energy and will be the first step in a 
series of projects that will continue to transform regional 
Australia through green industry manufacturing and 
energy production. 

The GEM will deliver specialist production lines to meet 
the requirements of FFI and its customers, including 
the manufacture of electrolysers. Potential expansion 
includes the manufacture of wind turbines, long-range 
electric cabling, solar photovoltaic cells and associated 
infrastructure. 

Stage one of the six stage project is the $114 million 
electrolyser facility, which will be expanded with demand. 
This will establish Australia’s first multi-gigawatt scale 
electrolyser factory, with an initial capacity of two 
gigawatts per annum – more than doubling current 
global production. Stage one will also deliver hundreds of 
construction and operational jobs.  

We plan to establish our first VTEC in Queensland at 
the GEM, in addition to Trade Up and Leadership and 
Excellence programs, to provide training and employment 
opportunities to First Nations peoples.

Construction of stage one commenced in February 2022.

CASE STUDY



06



Fortescue takes an industry leading position on reducing  
emissions by decarbonising our operations and working to deliver 

solutions and green energy products to the world

CLIMATE 
ACTION

  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    71

Fortescue is transitioning to a vertically integrated green 
energy and resources company. Through FFI, we are 
developing, commercialising and manufacturing the 
innovative low carbon solutions that will make it possible 
for us to decarbonise our own operations and supply green 
energy solutions to others.

Our strong action to address climate change is embedded 
throughout the business and is led by our Founder and 
Executive Chairman, Dr Andrew Forrest AO and our Board.

OUR CLIMATE CHANGE STRATEGY 
FOCUSES ON FOUR ELEMENTS 

Carbon neutrality 
across our operations  

by 2030

EMISSION REDUCTION TARGETS

Net zero emissions  
across our value chain  

by 2040

Our key highlights of FY22 include: 

Building capacity with the acquisitions of: 

•  WAE

•  60 per cent of High yield Energy Technologies (HyET) Group 

•  technology development company Ionix 

•  20 per cent of Sparc Hydrogen. 

Pioneering low carbon solutions with the development of: 

•  zero emission Infinity Train 

•  zero emission haul trucks 

•  FFI Green Pioneer – ammonia powered supply vessel 

•   partnering with Airbus and Universal Hydrogen to 
decarbonise aviation 

•  GEM centre.

Decarbonise

Maxim

ise

Engage and

collaborate
opportu

niti
es

 

B
ui

ld
 re

silie
nce

Four key  
elements of our 

strategy



72  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

PLANET – SAFEGUARDING NATURAL SYSTEMS

INFINITY TRAIN

Fortescue is developing a world first, zero emission 
Infinity Train. The regenerating battery electric train will 
use gravitational energy to fully recharge its battery 
electric systems without any additional charging 
requirements for the return trip to reload.

The Infinity Train will not only accelerate Fortescue’s race 
to be carbon neutral by 2030, but also lower our operating 
costs, create maintenance efficiencies and productivity 
opportunities.

This technology will enable emission reductions in the 
hard to abate heavy industry sector, and there are 
significant opportunities for this technology to be 
commercialised on a global basis.

The studies and development costs for the Infinity Train 
are expected to be US$50 million over the next two years. 

CASE STUDY

Our decarbonisation pathway
Enhancing technology is key to addressing climate change. 
We are investing in renewable energy to power our sites and 
new decarbonisation technologies to transform our mining 
fleet to run on green energy.

Our path to decarbonisation is focused on our largest sources 
of emissions: stationary power generation and diesel use in 
our mining fleet, and emissions generated from shipping and 
the production of steel within our value chain.

Risks and opportunities
Climate change presents both risks and opportunities to 
our business. We undertook a climate change focused risk 
assessment in FY22, which identified the following material 
climate-related risks and opportunities:

Transitional risks
• policy and regulatory changes

• technical viability of decarbonisation strategy

• reduced demand for products

• reputation damage

Physical risks – acute
• increased severity of extreme weather events

• increased frequency of intense heat

Physical risks – chronic
• rising sea levels and storm surge inundation

• changed precipitation patterns.

FFI is currently exploring options to pursue renewable and 
green hydrogen projects in over 50 countries. The evaluation 
of potential projects will include an assessment of  
climate-related risks.

FY22 performance
Our FY22 gross emissions from our operations were  
2.55 million tonnes of CO2-e

• 2.22 million tonnes of CO2-e Scope 1 emissions

• 0.33 million tonnes of CO2-e Scope 2 emissions.

Our increased use of renewable electricity from Alinta Energy’s 
Chichester solar-gas project has led to our emissions intensity 
of electricity falling from 3.50 to 3.32.

Our total FY22 gross Scope 3 emissions were 255 million 
tonnes of CO2-e. We expect that Scope 3 emissions from our 
customer steel mills will continue to trend downwards over 
time as we increase our focus on modifying the processing 
of our ores to maximise metallurgical performance and 
support our customers in adopting innovative lower emissions 
processes and technologies.

In line with our commitment to reduce net emissions annually 
from our FY20 baseline, we have procured and surrendered 
high quality offsets to reduce our net emissions to 2.28 million 
tonnes of CO2-e, which is three per cent year on year reduction 
from our FY20 operational emissions baseline.

Our Climate Change Report is aligned with the 
recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and is available on our website at 
www.fortescue.com



  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    73

We take a precautionary approach to environmental 
management and implement the mitigation hierarchy to  
avoid, minimise, rehabilitate and offset impacts across all of 
our activities.

We respect legally protected areas and species of 
conservation significance, including UNESCO World 
Heritage areas and the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species. 
Our activities are aligned with the 2003 ICMM position 
statement on Mining and Protected Areas and we operate in 
accordance with the local, state, national and international 
legal instruments relating to our areas of operation, complying 
with relevant laws and obligations as an absolute minimum 
standard.

Biodiversity is managed across our sites through the 
implementation of our Environment Policy, Biodiversity 
Standard and Environmental Management System (EMS), 
which is aligned with AS/NZS ISO 14001. This management 
framework reflects our commitment to continual improvement 
and provides a robust and comprehensive method for 
identifying and managing environmental impacts.

The ARMSC is responsible for overseeing all matters relating 
to environmental management on behalf of the Board. It is the 
collective responsibility of all our team members to safeguard 
the environment for future generations through responsible 
environmental management.

Specialists in our Environment team are responsible for 
protecting biodiversity and ensuring that we take a proactive 
approach to all matters in the regions where we operate. 
Our biodiversity specialists are supported by independent 
external consultants to survey exploration, development and 
operational areas. We use data collected during the surveys 
to inform project design and operational activities and 
contribute to detailed environmental impact assessments. 
The outcomes of these biological surveys assist with 
developing sound biodiversity protection measures.

We work closely with our stakeholders, including state and 
federal government agencies, First Nations peoples, and 
the general community to ensure appropriate mitigation 
practices are in place. We engage with our stakeholders 
throughout the life of our projects with formal engagement 
undertaken as part of the planning and approvals processes 
for each of our five mine sites as well as for our rail and port 
operations.

We have identified sites associated with critical biodiversity 
values (those of global or national significance) within or 
in close proximity to our operations and this information is 
provided in the Data Tables on pages 119 to 121. We work 
to ensure that these sites are managed to protect their 
significant biodiversity value. 

Objective: To take responsibility 
for Fortescue’s disturbance by 
protecting biodiversity in the 
regions where we operate

Objective: To take 
responsibility for Fortescue’s 
disturbance by protecting 
biodiversity in the regions 
where we operate

Target: Achieve a net positive 
impact on biodiversity

Target: Achieve zero 
significant environmental 
incidents

Biodiversity Environmental incidents

•   Ongoing implementation of our 
Environmental Management System

•  Zero environmental fines or sanctions

•   $3.7m invested in research and 
conservation programs

FY22   0

FY21   0

FY20   0

PROTECTING  
BIODIVERSITY

Our activities have the potential to impact the environment  
and we are committed to minimising these impacts by integrating 

mitigation measures into all stages of our operations



74  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

PLANET – SAFEGUARDING NATURAL SYSTEMS

The Environment Operations team has successfully 
reduced safety risks and achieved ongoing 
environmental compliance by incorporating drone 
technology into their sampling techniques. 

Environmental approvals at the Chichester Hub require 
biannual water quality monitoring to detect changes to 
the groundwater quality, such as increases in salinity, in 
mine voids when the water depth is greater than five 
metres.  

Originally, this monitoring was undertaken by boat. 
However, this presented risks and challenges to the 
team. Monitoring is now undertaken using a specially 
designed drone to prevent exposure to pit crests, 
unstable pit walls or open water bodies. 

Monitoring is undertaken by attaching a data logger to 
the drone and lowering the logger to profile the water 
column. The drone also collects water samples at 
specific depths and is a great example of how 
technology can reduce safety risks in the field. 

DRONES USED TO REDUCE 
SAFETY RISKS AND ACHIEVE 

ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE

CASE STUDY

Protecting conservation significant fauna
We implement a Conservation Significant Fauna Management 
Plan (CSFMP) across our active sites to identify potential 
impacts to conservation significant fauna and to ensure 
effective management and monitoring measures are in 
place. These measures aim to maximise the protection and 
conservation of these fauna within areas adjacent to our sites.

Fauna managed in accordance with the CSFMP include the 
Pilbara olive python, night parrot, northern quoll, greater bilby, 
ghost bat, Pilbara leaf-nosed bat and several migratory bird 
species.

Fortescue’s Night Parrot Monitoring Program won the 
Association of Mining and Exploration Companies’ 
Environment Award for 2021. 

This award reflects the increasing importance of 
managing environmental impacts of mineral mining 
and exploration projects and is awarded to a company 
that goes above and beyond in their management of 
environmental impacts or is developing innovative 
methods to achieve better long-term environmental 
outcomes. 

The night parrot is a small, nocturnal bird that is 
endemic to Australia. The species is listed as 
Endangered under the Environment Protection and 
Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999 (Cth), and Critically 
Endangered under the Biodiversity Conservation Act 
2016 (WA). 

After 15 years of surveying land adjacent to our 
Chichester Hub, night parrot calls were detected in 
2018 as part of a revitalised and class leading three 
year monitoring program at the Fortescue Marsh. 

The formal recognition of the award is a testament to 
the research and hours that have been undertaken in 
the development and implementation of our 
monitoring program. 

We will continue to monitor for the night parrot near 
the Fortescue Marsh, as part of our environmental 
management practices and commitment to protect 
biodiversity.  

NIGHT PARROT MONITORING 
PROGRAM AWARD

CASE STUDY



  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    75

Significant flora, vegetation and  
ecological communities 
We implement a Vegetation Health Monitoring and 
Management Plan (VHMMP) across our active sites to 
identify potential impacts to conservation significant flora and 
vegetation and ensure effective management and monitoring 
measures are in place.

Significant flora managed under the VHMMP includes 
threatened flora and priority flora species. Vegetation of 
significance includes threatened ecological communities, 
riparian vegetation, groundwater dependent vegetation, 
mulga and samphire communities.

The VHMMP allows us to minimise the direct and indirect 
impacts of our operations on significant flora and vegetation 
and to protect the values of these communities.

Protection of the Fortescue Marsh
The Chichester Hub incorporates our Cloudbreak and 
Christmas Creek mine sites. It lies north of the Fortescue 
Marsh, a wetland of national significance listed on the 
Directory of Important Wetlands of Australia.

The marsh is also culturally significant to the Banyjima, 
Nyiyaparli and Palyku First Nations peoples. We implement 
mitigation and management measures that are consistent 
with the WA State Government Fortescue Marsh Management 
Strategy (2018-24) to ensure the protection of the marsh. 

Our Environment team is working closely with specialised 
botanical experts to develop suitable methods to 
re-establish the threatened flora species Pilbara foxglove 
(Quoya zonalis).  

Cuttings of the species have recently been flown to Perth, 
where researchers at Kings Park Botanical Gardens and 
Parks Authority are trialling propagation methods. 

Seeds of the species have also been harvested for future 
propagation trials. Twenty per cent of these seeds were 
given to the Western Australian Threatened Flora Seed 
Centre. The Centre collects and stores seeds of 
conservation significant flora for an indefinite period. 

PROPAGATING TRIALS  
OF QUOYA ZONALIS 

CASE STUDY



Biodiversity surveys 
In FY22, our biodiversity surveys spanned vast areas of the 
Pilbara, with over $4.7 million spent on environmental baseline 
studies to better understand the environment that we work in.

Highlights include:

• A study to characterise the aquatic invertebrates of the 
Freshwater Claypans of the Fortescue Valley. This priority 
ecological community comes to life after summer rainfall, 
with large numbers of invertebrate species that have very 
short life cycles. The study aims to develop key indicator 
species to quickly assess the health of these ephemeral 
communities.

• A targeted survey for the Priority Flora species Triodia 
veniceae. This survey contributed significant data to 
the known distribution and abundance of this recently 
described species. 

• Over 150,000 ha of baseline flora, fauna, subterranean 
fauna at our Western Hub development areas to add to our 
ecological database.

These environmental surveys assist in the sustainable 
planning and development of current and future projects while 
ensuring the protection of the Pilbara’s unique biodiversity. 

Research and conservation initiatives 
We continue to contribute to research and conservation 
initiatives which improve the collective body of environmental 
knowledge in the areas where we operate.

In FY22, our contribution to research and conservation 
initiatives totalled $3.7 million, including:

• $1,369,900 towards research for threatened fauna, including 
development and validation of new non-invasive survey and 
monitoring techniques for the Pilbara leaf-nosed bat.

• $782,800 towards monitoring programs to improve the 
knowledge and management of rare and threatened fauna 
species, including the Pilbara leaf-nosed bat, ghost bat, 
Pilbara olive python, night parrot, greater bilby and northern 
quoll.

• $718,700 towards Fortescue Marsh biodiversity protection 
programs as part of a long-term strategic collaboration 
with the WA Department of Biodiversity, Conservation 
and Attractions. This includes the implementation of 
feral animal control programs, contributions towards 
our Marsh Management Strategy and the funding of our 
dedicated Marsh Conservation Officer. Since 2008, we have 
contributed over $7.6 million to this program. 

• $612,400 towards monitoring programs to enhance the 
knowledge and management of threatened or otherwise 
conservation significant flora species and ecological 
communities.

• $50,000 to support research into the taxonomy of 
subterranean pseudoscorpions as part of the WABSI 
subterranean fauna research program.

• $50,000 to the WA Parks Foundation as part of our 15 year 
partnership to enhance and protect biodiversity and inspire 
local communities to connect with nature.

• $49,500 for research into propagation methods for Quoya 
zonalis to support the restoration of populations.

• $45,800 to Curtin University to convene the second Pilbara 
leaf-nosed bat workshop in April 2022.

• $27,900 as part of the Frontier SI Collaborative Research 
Project that identifies and monitors groundwater dependent 
vegetation in the Pilbara region via earth observation data.

FFI and biodiversity
With a vast portfolio of potential renewable green energy 
projects across the globe, FFI is committed to ensuring the 
biodiversity of our project sites is studied, understood and 
assessed to inform project development decisions.

Most of our projects are in the feasibility phase and we are 
committed to ensuring baseline studies are conducted to 
international best practice. We are currently scoping and 
implementing surveys in Africa, North America, South 
America, Southeast Asia, Australia, the Middle East and 
Europe. As well as contributing to the global understanding of 
biodiversity across these different regions, we will ensure that 
impact assessments meet leading practice and the mitigation 
hierarchy of controls is implemented. 

Environmental incidents and monitoring 
During FY22, there were no significant environmental 
incidents and no environment-related fines, sanctions or 
grievances filed against Fortescue.  

All environmental incidents are investigated, and we 
undertake internal compliance auditing across all sites to 
measure performance against environmental obligations and 
relevant standards. Internal compliance is complemented by 
external independent audits.  

During FY22, the Western Australian Department of Water and 
Environmental Regulation completed desktop audits across 
our Pilbara operations, including exploration and development 
sites. The audits assessed compliance against Ministerial 
Statements issued under the Environmental Protection Act 
1986 (WA). These audits concluded that we demonstrate a 
high level of compliance and that our operations align with 
regulator expectations. 

Noise and vibration
We implement a Noise Management Plan to ensure that 
noise levels associated with rail and port activities comply 
with statutory requirements and acceptable standards and 
do not impact noise sensitive receptors. The plan includes 
requirements to measure impacts against baseline data.

Noise and vibration impacts are considered as part of our 
environmental impact assessments for all new project and 
project expansion plans. Ongoing stakeholder engagement 
is undertaken to ensure impacts are minimised. If impacts 
are found to be unacceptable, mitigation and management 
actions are modified accordingly.

76  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

PLANET – SAFEGUARDING NATURAL SYSTEMS



  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    77

Objective: Use water responsibly 
by improving water use efficiency 
and minimising water loss through 
surface water discharge and 
evaporation

Objective: Use water 
responsibly by improving water 
use efficiency and minimising 
water loss through surface water 
discharge and evaporation

Target: Set public, site-specific water 
management targets for each of our 
operating mines by FY23

Target: Annually, ensure at least  
80 per cent of water abstracted 
at the Cloudbreak and Christmas 
Creek mine sites is used for 
operational requirements or 
beneficial environmental purposes

A target is in place for our  
Chichester Hub. Targets to be set 
for other operations in FY23.

FY22   99%  
FY21   98%

FY20   98%

PROTECTING  
WATER RESOURCES

Water is a critical resource and its effective management  
is fundamental to the sustainability of our operations and the  

ecosystems and communities in which we operate



78  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

PLANET – SAFEGUARDING NATURAL SYSTEMS

Water activities
Our major interactions with water occur at our operational 
mine sites in the Pilbara. These operations require water for 
ore processing, dust control, and for village requirements, 
including the supply of drinking water. 

We take a proactive approach to responsible water 
management and acknowledge that our operations have the 
potential to impact water resources. We mitigate impacts by 
complying with all regulatory requirements as the absolute 
minimum and implement sustainable, adaptive water 
management practices across all our sites. 

Surface water is not used to supply water to any of our iron ore 
operations. Water is primarily sourced from local groundwater 
resources, with minor quantities purchased from municipal 
suppliers. Our port also uses desalinated seawater.  

We conduct mine pit dewatering at several of our mine sites 
to access iron ore present below the natural groundwater 
levels. The majority of this water is brackish or saline and is 
reused wherever possible, forming a key water source at our 
Cloudbreak, Christmas Creek, Eliwana and Solomon mine 
sites. The reuse of water is subject to a water quality hierarchy, 
ensuring that reused water is of a suitable quality for the 
required purpose. 

At locations where mine dewatering volumes exceed the 
operational and environmental water requirements, excess 
water is returned to the environment by reinjection. Of 
the 151GL of water abstracted for mine dewatering at our 
Chichester Hub, 126GL is reinjected as part of our Managed 
Aquifer Recharge program. We also maintain groundwater 
levels near groundwater-dependent ecosystems and water 
levels in some permanent pools that exist in local creeks.  

With the exception of our regulated surface water 
supplementation requirements, we do not discharge water to 
surface water bodies. 

Water risks
Our evaluation of water-related risks and opportunities, 
including those related to climate change, are integrated into 
multidisciplinary, company wide risk management processes 
and are considered as part of our overall business strategy. 
Facility level risk assessments are undertaken regularly as 
part of mine planning processes, including operational and 
environmental risks, constraints and challenges. 

Risk assessments consider risks at a site level and the actions 
required to address them. We assess our water risk and 
water stress using the World Resources Institute (WRI) BETA 
Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas tool. This tool helps us identify the 
areas which are most susceptible to river and coastal floods, as 
well as the severity of droughts and seasonal and interannual 
water variability and scarcity that can be expected.  

Our Cloudbreak, Christmas Creek, Solomon and Eliwana mine 
sites are located in low or low to medium water risk areas. Both 
our Port Hedland operations and Iron Bridge development 
are located in an extremely high water risk area. To manage 
this risk, over 60 per cent of the water for our Port Hedland 
operations is sourced from desalinated seawater.  

With limited suitable local groundwater sources within 100km 
of the Iron Bridge mine site, water for operational needs will 
primarily be sourced from the Canning Basin borefield, located 
160km east of Port Hedland. A 190km water supply pipeline 
is currently under construction, to transport water from the 
Canning Basin to Iron Bridge. Once the Iron Bridge mine 
becomes operational, magnetite slurry will be pumped to our 
concentrate handling facility in Port Hedland and recovered 
water will be returned to the mine site for reuse. 

Our existing mine, port and rail operations are not located 
within areas defined as water stressed by the BETA Aqueduct 
Water Risk Atlas. The Canning Basin, the primary water source 
area for the Iron Bridge development, falls within an area 
defined as highly water stressed. 

We do not have operations or developments located in areas 
defined as extremely highly water stressed by the BETA 
Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas. 

Water balance – Pilbara operations

Water 
Discharged: 
133GL

Water  
Withdrawn:  
186GL       

Water 
Consumed: 
53GL     

Water  
Reused:  
4GL

Water activities outside the Pilbara region are limited, 
accounting for less than one per cent of our total water use. 
In FY22, approximately 1ML of water was withdrawn from 
municipal supplies for FFI operations in the USA, Argentina 
and the DRC. Approximately 1.5ML was sourced from surface 
water to support our project in PNG. This accounts for less 
than 0.001 per cent of our total water abstraction in FY22. No 
excess water was produced at our non-Pilbara operations and 
none was discharged to the environment. 



  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    79

Water-related risks Relevant sites Mitigation and management actions

Potential impacts 
to the Fortescue 
Marsh

Chichester Hub

• Implement the Chichester Managed Aquifer  Recharge (MAR) program to 
minimise groundwater level change near the Fortescue Marsh

• Apply a set of triggers to inform mitigation measures if unforeseen changes 
occur

• Monitor groundwater levels

• Monitor groundwater dependent vegetation

Potential impacts to 
pools

Solomon, 
Eliwana and Iron 
Bridge mines

• Monitor groundwater levels, surface water levels and quality, as defined by 
environmental conditions

• Implement supplementation activities, where required

Potential impacts to 
stygofauna All sites

• Identify the extent of habitat and characterise stygofauna species

• Manage groundwater drawdown

Potential impacts 
to groundwater 
dependent 
vegetation

All sites

• Monitor groundwater levels

• Manage groundwater drawdown

• Monitor groundwater dependent vegetation

Potential impacts 
to other water 
users including 
pastoralists

All sites

• Engage with stakeholders regarding potential impacts and management 
measures

• Adhere to catchment scale water allocations

• Install additional water infrastructure where required

Increased flood 
risk due to climate 
change

All sites
• Assess the risk to critical infrastructure using various climate change 

scenarios

• Update the flood protection design criteria, where required

Balancing mine 
site water demand 
with available 
water supply within 
the constraints 
of regulatory 
approvals

Chichester 
Hub, Solomon, 
Eliwana

• Maintain a range of water supply options

• Monitor and manage existing and future water supply sources

• Conduct studies to assess potential environmental impacts and inform 
appropriate triggers for management actions

• Implement best practice techniques for mitigating environmental impacts 
such as Managed Aquifer Recharge and supplementation

Flood risk during 
wet season All mine sites

• Update hydrological models with any new data

• Conduct an annual risk assessment and implement a wet season 
preparedness plan

• Monitor flows and impacts during flood events 

Risk to mining 
production due 
to insufficient 
dewatering

Chichester 
Hub, Solomon, 
Eliwana

• Conduct hydrogeological investigations prior to pit development

• Design appropriate water management infrastructure through use of 
integrated hydrogeological numerical models and water system models

• Monitor dewatering response and feedback into design

Water management and stewardship
We are committed to sustainably managing water resources 
to avoid impacts to the environment and other water users 
and manage water resources at a catchment level across our 
operations. Site specific water balances are used to quantify 
supply and demand and identify opportunities to improve 
water use efficiency. We minimise losses through evaporation 
by avoiding surface water discharge or the use of evaporation 
ponds.

We monitor water quality and quantity at our operations, along 
with the health of key local water-dependent ecosystems 
and habitats. This monitoring allows us to ensure impacts 
are minimised and that we are operating in compliance with 
regulatory requirements.

Our dedicated Water Management team provides technical 
support across the business during all stages of operations, 
including planning and approvals. Specialist advice is provided 
on a wide range of issues, including flood management, water 
supply, climate change and dewatering.



80  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

The circular economy is based on 
three principles: designing out waste 
and pollution, keeping products and 
materials in use and regenerating 
natural systems.  

Circular  
Economy

Regenerate natural 
systems

Design out waste  
and pollution

Keep products  
and materials  

in use

Circular economy highlights

Completing the rollout of reusable crib containers across our operating sites, 
preventing more than 20,000 containers from entering landfill every day

   

Removing single use coffee cups from dining rooms, recreational rooms, aerodromes 
and site retail outlets. These areas now offer reusable cups, preventing around 5,000 
cups entering landfill every day    

Initiating a packaging reduction process with our key suppliers, with the aim of 
eradicating single use plastic from the goods delivered to our operations

Developing a process to recycle end-of-life high density polyethylene (HDPE) pipe

Installing recycling facilities for face masks at our aerodrome facilities

Expanding our Containers for Change program to cover all sites.  
Over 688,000 containers were deposited in FY22, raising more than  
$68,000 for our charity partners    

We continued our journey to a circular 
economy in FY22, with a focus on 
initiatives aimed at designing out waste 
and keeping products in use.  

Our mobile assets have an average lifespan of around 10 years. In line with our commitment to circularity, surplus aged 
equipment is either sold via our business disposals process or converted into scrap steel through a third party.

BUILDING CIRCULARITY

CIRCULAR ECONOMY 

A circular economy is a systemic approach to  
economic development driven by innovation and designed to  

benefit business, society and the environment



  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    81

As part of our move to eliminate single use coffee cups, 
we have partnered with Green Caffeen at our site retail 
outlets. Green Caffeen provides a swap and go reusable 
coffee cup system where reusable cups are scanned out 
and scanned back when returned. The coffee cups are 
free and in the first three months of operation at Kangi 
Café at Solomon, more than 3,000 Green Caffeen cups 
were checked out, avoiding single use cups entering 
landfill.

We’re also working with Green Caffeen to partner with 
local cafés near our head office at the Fortescue Centre 
in Perth.

GREEN CAFFEEN

CASE STUDY

In January 2022, we commenced a pilot program with 
key high-volume suppliers, to reduce single use plastics 
in packaging.  

One of our high volume suppliers, City Toyota, delivers 
over 3,000 packages to us each year. Prior to the pilot 
program, City Toyota used 1,200kg of single use plastics 
in deliveries to their local customers each year. 
Traditionally, their deliveries consisted of car parts 
wrapped or bagged in clear plastics. 

With our support, City Toyota has overhauled its 
approach to packaging and is now using paper 
wrapping to protect parts being transported in 
cardboard boxes. Plastic tapes and document wallets 
have been replaced with biodegradable alternatives. 

City Toyota estimates that they have already reduced 
single use plastics in Fortescue’s deliveries by more 
than 216kg per year. As a result of this program, City 
Toyota is intending to implement similar packaging 
methods for other customers. 

PLASTIC REDUCTION  
PARTNERSHIP WITH CITY TOYOTA

CASE STUDY

Before After

HDPE pipe is used across our sites for dewatering, 
process water supply, tailings transport and potable  
water supply. 

A trial is currently underway at our Solomon mine for the 
disposal and reuse of waste HDPE. King Kira Group, an 
Aboriginal owned and managed business, provided a 
solution that involves partner companies working 
together to facilitate the removal and recycling of the end 
of life pipe.  

The process begins with the King Kira Group and TCD 
Civil Construction coordinating the onsite removal and 
transport of waste pipe. D&M Waste Management, 
specialists in HDPE and PET waste recycling, then receive 
the pipe and manage recycling of the product from 
shredding to pelletising. Hydra Storm uses the pellets to 
manufacture both corrugated recycled HDPE (rHDPE) 
drainage pipe and rHDPE Diamond Grid ground 
stabilisation. The rHDPE drainage pipe is used in our non 
process infrastructure and the diamond grid is used for 
carpark delineation and footpaths. Both products are 
made from 100 per cent rHDPE material. 

The strategy provides a circular solution that gives 
Fortescue a positive financial, agile, sustainable process 
for the removal of HDPE pipe. The first 41 lengths of pipe 
were collected from Solomon in June 2022. If successful, 
this trial will be extended to other Fortescue sites in FY23.

We are also in the process of undertaking a review of 
dewatering pipe manufacturing specifications and in 
conjunction with TCD and Hydra Storm, applying new 
engineering technologies to extend the use of the 
recycled pipe into a mine specification dewatering pipe to 
create added value to Fortescue. This process aligns with 
the circularity principle of keeping materials in use at their 
highest possible value.

WASTE HDPE  
RECYCLING PILOT 

CASE STUDY



Our waste management approach aims to reduce waste 
through the prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse of 
waste produced across all sites. We continue to investigate 
options to minimise the volumes of non-mineral general waste 
being sent to landfill.

Non-mineralised waste
Non-mineralised waste generated at our sites includes steel, 
wood, rubber, food and food packaging wastes, used oil and 
office waste. Established reuse and recycling mechanisms 
exist for the following materials:

• Scrap steel: 13,000 tonnes were collected from sites and 
recycled by third party recyclers.

• Pallets: more than 6,500 tonnes were collected on site for 
internal reuse.

• Rubber: 2,500 tonnes were collected on site for internal 
reuse.

• Drink containers: 688,068 containers were recycled 
through Containers for Change.

Where waste cannot be recycled or reused, it is disposed of 
at regulated landfill facilities on site or at nearby municipal 
landfill facilities. In FY22, we recycled 83 per cent of  
non-mineralised waste volumes across all our sites,  
excluding tyres and concrete waste.

Waste is handled in accordance with our Waste Management 
Plan and Hazardous Materials Management Procedure. The 
Waste Management Plan aims to ensure that the disposal 
and management of waste does not adversely impact 
environmental values or the health, welfare and amenity 
of people, and also details the key management actions to 
achieve the plan’s objectives.

Hazardous materials
The potential impact of environmentally hazardous materials 
across our sites is managed under the Chemical and 
Hydrocarbon Management Plan. This plan includes measures 
to minimise the potential environmental impacts associated 
with chemical and hydrocarbon transport, storage, handling 
and disposal. Our Hazardous Materials Management and 
Chemical and Hydrocarbon Spills Procedures outline key risks 
and specific management actions. 

During FY22, 1,596 tonnes of hazardous waste, as classified 
under the Basel Convention, were generated, with none 
being disposed of onsite. This hazardous waste includes 
hydrocarbons, waste oil and batteries and is removed from our 
sites for recycling and disposal by licensed, third party waste 
management companies.

82  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

PLANET – SAFEGUARDING NATURAL SYSTEMS

Objective: To reduce waste generation 
through prevention, reduction, 
recycling and reuse

Target: Recycle more than  
80 per cent of our non-mineralised 
waste volumes at our operating sites, 
excluding tyres and concrete waste

Waste recycled

FY22   83%  
FY21   87%

FY20   89%

WASTE



  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    83

Our iron ore processing facilities generate a fine-grained  
by-product, referred to as tailings. Tailings are pumped as a 
slurry via pipelines to specifically designed Tailings Storage 
Facilities (TSFs). Over time, the fine-grained material settles, 
allowing water to be recovered and recycled where possible.  
In FY22, 25 million dry metric tonnes of tailings were produced 
at our sites. The tailings produced during the production of 
our iron ore are geochemically benign (non acid forming) 
and therefore pose a negligible environmental or health 
contamination risk.

We make use of internal expertise together with external 
consultants for tailings design, construction, monitoring and 
maintenance. This ensures that our TSFs are designed, built, 
operated and closed in line with regulatory requirements, 
Australian National Committee on Large Dams (ANCOLD) 
Guidelines and international best practice, minimising any 
environmental and community impacts, ensuring operational 
efficiency and eliminating any risk of catastrophic failure 
(uncontrolled release of tailings to the environment).

The management of tailings storage includes rigorous design 
practices, comprehensive monitoring and management 
programs, independent auditing and a strict corporate 
governance regime.

Our tailings storage facilities
During the TSF design phase, a number of aspects are 
considered, including the location of mining infrastructure, 
employees and communities, areas of environmental 
significance, topography, geological and climatic conditions, 
surface and groundwater, future land use, tailings 
characteristics and seismic activity in the area. 

We do not employ the upstream raise as a TSF design or 
construction method. All our TSFs are located in remote areas 
and there are no communities situated near these facilities.

We currently operate four active TSFs and manage an 
additional six inactive facilities. There are currently two TSFs 
under construction. All our facilities are located in the Pilbara 
region of Western Australia.

Two of the inactive facilities have been rehabilitated, one is in 
the process of being rehabilitated and another two are being 
dried for future rehabilitation. The final inactive TSF is located 
at our Iron Bridge project and is in care and maintenance.

The active TSFs are located at our operational mine sites at 
Cloudbreak, Christmas Creek and Solomon Hub. There is 
one TSF under construction at Christmas Creek and another 
under construction at Iron Bridge. None of our operating TSFs 
are considered large or complex engineering structures, or 
operated in geotechnically, geologically, topographically or 
meteorologically complex settings.

Based on the seven consequence rating categories defined by 
the ANCOLD (Very Low, Low, Significant, High C, High B, High 
A and Extreme), our TSFs at Cloudbreak and Christmas Creek 
are all classified as Very Low or Low consequence facilities. 
Our Solomon TSF is classified as a Significant consequence 
category and our Iron Bridge TSF, currently under 
construction, is classified as a High C consequence category. 
These classifications reflect an increased risk associated with 
operational infrastructure and environmentally sensitive areas 
located downstream of the TSFs. There are no communities 
situated downstream of these facilities in areas that could be 
impacted by any structural failure.

Based on the hazard potential criteria presented by the 
Mine Safety and Health Administration, our TSFs located at 
Cloudbreak and Christmas Creek are rated as Low hazard 
potential, and the TSFs at Ironbridge and Solomon are rated as 
Significant hazard potential due to the same factors described 
above.

Our TSF register can be found on the Environment page of our 
website at www.fortescue.com 

The tailings produced during the production of our iron ore are geochemically benign

TAILINGS MANAGEMENT 



01

05 02

0304

06

Planning, 
design and 

construction

Operation 
management

Performance 
reconciliation and 
design validation

Dam safety
 inspection

Independent 
dam safety 

reviews

Performance 
and risk control 
improvements

Tailings 
Management 

Framework 

84  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

PLANET – SAFEGUARDING NATURAL SYSTEMS

Inspections and audits
We implement internal TSF monitoring programs that 
include daily, weekly, fortnightly, monthly and quarterly visual 
inspections and instrumentation surveillance monitoring and 
alarm systems. All tailings-related team members are trained 
and must be assessed as competent prior to operating a TSF.

We are committed to the safe storage of tailings and support 
the improvements recommended by the Global Industry 
Standard on Tailings Management (GISTM). We have 
undertaken a formal gap analysis of our tailings management 
framework to identify actions required and we are actively 
progressing an implementation strategy. In accordance with 
GISTM requirements, accountable executives have been 
assigned to all sites and our Tailings Management Framework 
is being revised to ensure alignment. 

Our tailings management framework
We carry out all tailings management activities, including 
design, construction, operation and monitoring, in 
accordance with the requirements of risk based TSF 
management set out in the Western Australian Government’s 
Department of Mines, Industry Regulations and Safety 
tailings guidelines and the ANCOLD guidelines.

The risk based process ensures risks are identified and 
reviewed, and that implementation and control effectiveness 
are monitored and audited. This process also assists in 
mitigating the impacts of failure through targeted response 
plans.

We implement a lifecycle TSF management framework. 
The objective of this framework is to define, understand, 
prioritise, control, mitigate and effectively eliminate 
catastrophic TSF failure.

Our TSF management framework is underpinned by three 
preventative critical control groups, as follows:

• Critical Control Group #1

 Risk and consequence-based planning, investigation, 
design and construction supervision, and quality 
assurance and quality control.

• Critical Control Group #2

 Observational Trigger, Action, Response Plan (TARP) 
based operation, surveillance (inspection and monitoring) 
and maintenance.

• Critical Control Group #3

 Risk-focused condition, performance and dam safety 
inspections, reviews, audits and corrective planning and 
implementation.

Each active TSF has a comprehensive Operations, 
Surveillance and Monitoring Plan and a Dam Safety 
Emergency Plan that act in parallel with the site Emergency 
Response Plan. Our dam safety emergency processes are 
updated annually, or as required.

We do not employ the upstream raise as a  
TSF design or construction method



  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    85

Sustainable rehabilitation
All mining related landforms and disturbances will be 
rehabilitated to ensure they are safe, stable, non-polluting, 
integrated with the surrounding landscape and able to support 
self-sustaining, functional ecosystems. 

We have adopted a multidisciplinary approach to sustainable 
rehabilitation as we aim to ensure that progressive 
rehabilitation activities are integrated into all standard 
operating procedures and that closure environmental 
performance objectives are met. To achieve this, we have 
developed a range of practical, achievable solutions that 
ensure responsible rehabilitation practices are implemented 
throughout the mine life cycle. We consider a range of 
sustainable options which are fully costed prior to adoption.

We apply an integrated approach where rehabilitation 
monitoring procedures consider local environmental issues, 
using indices such as plant species diversity and composition, 
nutrient cycling, infiltration and erosion.

Each mine closure plan includes a progressive rehabilitation 
schedule. Our progressive rehabilitation activities are currently 
focused on improving our waste rock characterisation, 
updating our closure designs to align with the evolving 
mine development and preparing field trials. Rehabilitation 
implementation is focused on progressively backfilling pits to 
achieve our agreed closure outcomes.

During FY22, rehabilitation works included:

• Direct disposal (backfill) of more than 164 million tonnes 
of waste rock into exhausted mine pits at our Cloudbreak, 
Christmas Creek and Solomon mines.

• Continued geochemical and physical characterisation of the 
mineral waste rock, including tailings material.

• Ongoing review, involving computer modelling, of proposed 
post-mining landforms and water systems.

Partnerships and collaboration
During FY22, we continued to collaborate with industry  
peers to better understand and improve rehabilitation 
practices. We continued our support of the Cooperative 
Research Centre for Transformations in Mining Economies  
(CRC-TiME), participating in and co-sponsoring numerous 
projects, including:

• Research into increasing bio-available plant nutrients in 
mineral waste.

• Studies on improved prediction, remediation and closure of 
acid and neutral metalliferous drainage sites by examination 
of mine waste behaviour at the meso-scale.

• A review of the practices, techniques and procedures that 
are currently employed to quantify mine closure costs and 
benefits and associated mine closure risk.

• A review of water management associated with open pit 
mines.

In FY22, we continued our study in collaboration with  
CRC-TiME, the University of Western Australia and Curtin 
University to formulate a bioengineering process to increase 
plant available nutrient levels in waste rock using novel  
plant microbe systems.

Mine closure
Our mine closure planning focuses on returning the land to a 
state that provides future use and value. In our Pilbara mining 
operations, this is achieved by:

• Working collaboratively with our stakeholders, including local 
communities and First Nations peoples to explore future 
land use options and develop closure plans based on agreed 
future use.

• Ensuring we are adequately provisioned to comply with all 
relevant legal obligations and commitments once mining is 
complete.

• Seeking to improve closure outcomes and reduce closure 
costs through continuous improvement and innovation.

• Fostering a culture where planning for closure is considered 
at each development stage, where we work together to 
achieve the outcomes described in the closure plan.

Mine closure plans have been established for all our operational 
mine sites and key infrastructure.

The closure horizon for our mine sites is between 2030 and 
2040. Although none of our sites are expected to close within 
five years, we undertake studies and field trials to demonstrate 
the feasibility of proposed closure strategies.  

Financial provisions for closure are developed for all sites  
and revised every six months to capture mine and rehabilitation 
progress. These provisions are outlined in our FY22 Annual 
Report, which is available on our website at  
www.fortescue.com

Mine closure is a key consideration during the project feasibility 
phase when closure outcomes are agreed with stakeholders, 
and site strategies are created to minimise environmental 
impacts. To minimise the potential financial, social and 
environmental risks of mine closure, we review strategies over 
the life of each operation to ensure maximum effectiveness of 
rehabilitation activities and future uses.

Planning for closure starts when a project is being developed 
and continues throughout the mine life to ensure that the 
impacts of mining can be managed in an environmentally, 
socially and economically responsible manner.

Our closure planning cycle includes an annual closure review 
to ensure we develop outcomes that meet stakeholder needs 
and allow for sufficient time to consider accepted norms and 
obligations and ensure the best solutions can be implemented. 

Objective: Ensure the closure of 
our mines and key infrastructure 
areas is undertaken in a planned 
approach, with appropriate 
financial provisioning in place

Target: Closure plans to be in place 
for each major operational site

Closure plans in place

FY22   100%  
FY21   100%
FY20   100%

CLOSURE AND REHABILITATION



07



BUSINESS  
INTEGRITY 

  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    87

The Code of Conduct and Integrity (the Code) provides 
guidance on the standards of behaviour expected from those 
who work for and with us, including our directors, employees, 
contractors, suppliers, business partners, and all those 
affiliated with our subsidiaries and related companies over 
which we have control. 

Our core principles and Values are documented in the Code, 
which is supported by a suite of policies and standards that 
shape our business, including: 

• Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy

• Appropriate Use of Technology Policy

• Climate Change Policy

• Continuous Disclosure and Market Communications Policy

• Cyber Security Policy

• Declaration of Interests Policy

• Directors Code of Conduct Policy

• Diversity Policy

• Environment Policy

• Equal Opportunity, Discrimination and Workplace Bullying 
Policy

• External Communications Policy

• Gifts, Entertainment and Sponsored Travel Policy

• Health and Safety Policy

• Human Rights Policy

• Media Policy

• Privacy Policy

• Procurement Policy 

• Sanctions Compliance Policy

• Securities Trading Policy

• Whistleblower Hotline Policy. 

Our employees, contractors and suppliers must ensure they 
are familiar with the Code, which is accessible on our website 
and intranet.

Training provided across the business reinforces the 
requirements of the Code. All employees participate in 
performance assessments biannually where adherence to 
the Code is assessed and reported. Remuneration is linked to 
these assessments.

In FY22, 88 potential breaches of the Code were reported. An 
investigation has been completed for each of these cases, with 
21 substantiated breaches confirmed. Disciplinary action for 
these confirmed cases resulted in 16 terminations in FY22.

Reporting and investigation
We provide a range of mechanisms to report suspected 
breaches of the Code. These include:

• Encouraging employees to raise issues with their manager 
or a member of our Fortescue People team via the Speak Up 
program.

• Encouraging community members to report via our 
community or site offices or via our website.

• Providing a Whistleblower Hotline for employees and 
external stakeholders. 

Our Whistleblower Hotline provides an independent, 
confidential and anonymous mechanism for anyone, including 
employees, contractors, suppliers and members of the 
community, to raise concerns regarding potential illegal 
activity, violations or breaches of the Code. The hotline can be 
accessed via an online portal, phone, email or post and has 
multilingual capabilities. 

Objective: To ensure our Values 
reflect ethical conduct and 
respect and are embedded in 
the business

Target: Annually, ensure ethical 
conduct is maintained by a 
targeted program, including 
leadership development, training, 
performance assessments and 
remuneration

Advanced training 
sessions delivered

FY22   863  
FY21   264

FY20   226

Fortescue operates under a Code of Conduct and Integrity 
which reflects our Values and represents our commitment to 

uphold the highest ethical business practices



88  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

PROCESS – OPERATING WITH INTEGRITY

Our Whistleblower Hotline Policy is aligned to the Treasury 
Laws Amendment (Enhancing Whistleblower Protection) 
Act 2019, and provides protection to disclosers of reportable 
conduct, including suspected:

• bribery or corruption

• conflict of interest

• fraud or theft

• serious misconduct or dishonesty

• danger to the public or financial system

• improper state of affairs in relation to Fortescue.

During FY22, 65 Whistleblower Hotline disclosures were 
reported.

All disclosures are received and reviewed by our Corporate 
Governance and Compliance Manager who either conducts 
or commissions an investigation. Investigation findings are 
reported quarterly to the ARMSC.

The majority of issues raised via the Whistleblower Hotline 
were employee relations matters, including concerns of 
antisocial behaviour, discrimination, bullying and harassment. 
A number of these investigations resulted in corrective 
actions, including warnings and, in some cases, termination.

The effectiveness of the Whistleblower Hotline is reviewed 
annually.

Anti-bribery and corruption
Bribery and corruption undermine legitimate business 
activities, distort competition and have the potential to expose 
our business and people to significant risks. We practise a 
zero tolerance approach to all forms of bribery and corruption 
and are committed to working with local, state and federal 
governments to prevent corruption in our society. This 
commitment is formalised in our Anti-Bribery and Corruption 
Policy which is approved by the Board.

Our exposure to anti-bribery and corruption risks has 
increased as our business expands globally with FFI. We rely 
on our Value of integrity and our strong corporate culture to 
ensure that all business is conducted fairly, openly, honestly 
and in compliance with all applicable legislation. 

All employees must complete online anti-bribery and 
corruption training prior to commencing employment. 
In addition to this, all FFI team members must complete 
advanced face to face anti-bribery and corruption training 
within one month of joining our business. In FY22, 863 
employees completed this advanced training.

Our Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy and associated 
Standard describe the behavioural expectations that ensure 
strict compliance with all applicable legal regimes. Our 
Governance and Compliance team oversees compliance with 
our Anti-Bribery and Corruption Compliance Program which is 
designed to meet the requirements of the Australian Criminal 
Code and all other applicable legislation. Our Program 
includes:

• A management commitment to promoting a culture of 
compliance that rewards prudent conduct and permits 
escalation of potential issues without fear of reprisal.

• Bribery and corruption risk assessments that consider the 
potential, bribery and corruption risks associated with our 
business, third party partners and geographic locations.

• Robust internal controls that clearly and effectively identify, 
investigate, report and mitigate non-compliant activity.

• Independent testing and auditing of the effectiveness of 
internal controls.

• Targeted training of all employees on a periodic basis.

The ARMSC is responsible for overseeing matters related to 
anti-bribery and corruption.

In FY22, five cases of potential bribery or corruption were 
reported. An investigation has been completed for each of 
these cases, confirming that no actions constituting bribery or 
corruption occurred. No external investigations into bribery or 
corruption occurred in FY22.

Political donations
We do not make political donations to any political party, 
politician or candidate for public office in any country unless 
the donation has been approved in advance by the Board. No 
political donations occurred in FY22.

Attendance at political functions is permitted where there is 
a legitimate business reason. Attendance at these functions 
must be approved by the Governance and Compliance 
team and the Director of Communities, Environment and 
Government. A record, which includes the cost of attendance, 
is maintained.

Privacy
We are committed to maintaining the security of all personal 
information processed by Fortescue, regardless of whether 
this data belongs to our employees, customers or partners. 
We follow regulatory requirements and best practice to meet 
our data privacy obligations. We comply with, and our internal 
standards are aligned to, the Australian Privacy Principles. 

Our Privacy Policy, Privacy Standard and Data Protection 
Standard govern all data processing activities, detailing how 
we collect, use, manage and protect personal information.

Our Values guide our business decisions  
and foster integrity and honesty



TOTAL  
ECONOMIC 
CONTRIBUTION  
FY22

$27.6bn

Employee payments $1.9bn

Shareholders and investor payments $9.6bn

Government and native title payments $5.3bn

Suppliers and operational payments $10.8bn

  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    89

WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM

CASE STUDY

The 2022 Annual Meeting of the World Economic Forum 
was held in May, in Davos, Switzerland. The World Economic 
Forum engages the foremost political, business, cultural 
and other leaders of society to shape global, regional and 
industry agendas. The 2022 Meeting brought together more 
than 2,000 leaders and experts from around the world, all 
committed to improving the state of the world.

The Meeting facilitated global collaboration across eight 
themes: climate and nature, fairer economies, technology 
and innovation, jobs and skills, better business, health and 
healthcare, global cooperation and society and equity.

Our Executive Chairman and Founder Dr Andrew 
Forrest AO and our CEO Elizabeth Gaines attended and 
participated in sessions focused on Shaping the Integrated 
Energy Future, China in the Global Energy Transition and 
Turning up the Heat on Greenwashing.

ECONOMIC  
CONTRIBUTION

Payment of taxes is an important element of our commitment 
to ensure communities benefit from our operations. The 
taxes we pay contribute to the economic development of the 
countries in which we operate.

We strive for full and timely compliance with the letter and 
intent of the prevailing tax laws of all jurisdictions in which we 
operate and seek strong, collaborative working relationships 
with all relevant revenue authorities.

In line with our Board-approved Global Taxation Policy, we 
work to achieve this by:

• Ensuring implementation of and adherence to our Global 
Tax Corporate Governance Framework.

• Complying with all applicable tax laws and regulations of 
each country in which we operate, including reporting and 
paying all necessary taxes in a timely manner.

• Managing tax risks through constructing appropriate 
mechanisms that assess both short and long-term tax 
impacts when making major commercial decisions.

• Developing mutually transparent, cooperative and 
respectful relationships with tax authorities in the countries 
in which we operate and communicating with those 
authorities on tax matters where appropriate.

• Ensuring public disclosures are transparent, timely, accurate 
and meet stakeholder expectations.

• Operating in good faith through appropriate transfer pricing 
and not undertaking ‘profit shifting’ activities.

• Entering into transactions on the basis of commercial merit, 
not for the purpose of avoiding tax.

A copy of our Global Taxation Policy is available on our website 
at www.fortescue.com 

Fortescue’s economic contribution creates wealth in  
our Australian economy and around the world, with payments  

to our employees, suppliers and shareholders,  
and to the governments of the countries where we operate

OUR APPROACH TO TAX



90  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

PROCESS – OPERATING WITH INTEGRITY

Governance
Our Board is ultimately responsible for ensuring a robust 
system of internal controls is in place for tax governance 
purposes. Our Global Taxation Policy and comprehensive 
Global Tax Corporate Governance Framework are key to 

TAX GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK

BOARD OF DIRECTORS

VISION AND VALUES

Tax strategy 

Transparency 
Operates in 

good faith Compliance CollaborationLow risk

Corporate objectives
1     Manage risk 2   Timely and accurate disclosures 3   Preventative and detective controls

Fortescue’s Tax team is proactively involved in business operations and seeks external tax advice when necessary 

Revenue authorities

 

Fortescue business operations Fortescue Tax team

Audit, Risk Management and Sustainability Committee

Chief Executive Officer

Chief Financial Officer

Our attitude to tax risk
Fortescue accepts a low level of risk in relation to major 
transactions and tax compliance activities, undertaking to file 
only verified tax positions. Major transactions are determined 
based on the value of the transaction and associated tax risk, 
technical complexity of the transaction and interpretation of 
the prevailing tax legislation. Where the application of the tax 
legislation is unclear, we seek external tax advice and consult 
with the relevant taxation authorities to achieve an appropriate 
level of certainty. There are also a number of controls, systems 
and procedures in place to manage our exposure to tax risk.

Tax transparency code
We are committed to transparency across all aspects of 
our business, including in relation to our tax obligations. By 
providing our investors and other external stakeholders with 
relevant tax information, we offer a deeper understanding of 
our tax profile to the wider community.

Our continuous review of internal tax policies, industry best 
practice, feedback from key stakeholders and legislative 
developments further underpins our commitment to tax 
transparency.

Fortescue has been a signatory to the Australian Board of 
Taxation (BoT) voluntary Tax Transparency Code (TTC) since 
2017. The TTC sets out several principles and minimum 
standards to guide additional disclosures of tax information 
by multinational businesses. The TTC is divided into two parts, 
with the BoT recommending that Part A and Part B be adopted 
by large businesses such as Fortescue.

To comply with Part A of the TTC, we have extended the scope 
of our income tax disclosures contained within our annual 
financial reports since FY17. Part B disclosures are included 
in our sustainability reporting. This details our approach to 
tax strategy and governance, as well as providing additional 
information on overseas operations and international related 
party transactions.

Total tax contributions
We pay taxes according to the prevailing laws in each 
jurisdiction. As our primary revenue generating operations are 
in Australia, the majority of our tax liabilities arise and are paid 
in this jurisdiction.

governing the management of tax-related risks in Australia 
and in all relevant overseas jurisdictions. The Board, 
through the ARMSC, receives regular updates from senior 
management on the operation and effectiveness of our 
Global Tax Corporate Governance Framework.



  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    91

A$m

9,000

8,000

7,000

6,000

5,000

4,000

3,000

2,000

1,000

0

Corporate Taxes (incl employment taxes) (LHS)

EBITDA Margin A$/dmt (RHS)

Realised Price-Fortescue Revenue A$/dmt (RHS)

FY22

1,265
1,977

3,330 6,293
4,151

FY21FY20FY19FY18FY17

200

180

160

140

120

100

80

60

40

20

-

A$/dmtCorrelation between taxes paid and iron ore price

State Government Royalty (LHS)

744

653
529

1,560

823

1,285

2,075

Taxes applicable to our business include:

• Company taxes

• State government royalties

• Comprehensive employment taxes such as fringe benefits 
taxes, payroll taxes and various employee insurances.

We also collect and pay a number of additional taxes beyond 
those which are directly attributable to our business. These 
include pay as you go (PAYG) withholding tax from salary and 
wages paid to employees.

Given the current structure of our international operations, 
some companies are subject to the Australian Controlled 

Australian tax return information
Each year, the Australian Taxation Office (ATO) issues a Report 
of Entity Tax Information, which provides high level details 
of Fortescue’s most recently lodged tax return. Tax returns 
are usually due for lodgement in the January following each 
financial year-end i.e, the tax return for the year ended  
30 June 2022 is due on 16 January 2023. 

The following table reflects the Fortescue Australian tax 
consolidated group’s information based on lodgement of the 

Foreign Company (CFC) rules. Under these rules, profits 
generated by relevant overseas entities are attributable and 
taxable in Australia at the 30 per cent Australian corporate tax 
rate.

There is a direct correlation between our earnings before 
interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) margin 
and the total taxes paid. Our taxation payments therefore vary 
in proportion to earnings which are driven primarily by the iron 
ore price and cost of production. A summary of our FY22 tax 
obligations and tax payment history is provided below.

2018 to 2021 income tax returns. The 2021 income tax return 
information will be released by the ATO late in the 2022 
calendar year. 

All figures are disclosed in Australian dollars, after being 
calculated in Fortescue’s functional currency of US dollars 
and converted at the ATO’s average exchange rate for the 
relevant year. 



92  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

PROCESS – OPERATING WITH INTEGRITY

Fortescue Metals Group Ltd 

Australian tax consolidated group 
2021 
A$m 

2020 
A$m 

2019 
A$m 

2018 
A$m 

Total income  28,778 17,733 12,301 7,354

Accounting profit before tax  19,597 9,631 6,005 1,461

Taxable income  19,424 9,832 5,662 1,367

Income tax payable at 30% 5,827 2,950 1,698 410

Less: tax offsets¹ (38) (31) (27) (29)

Final income tax payable in Australia 5,789 2,919 1,671 381

Effective tax rate in Australia² 29.5% 30.3% 27.8% 26.1%

¹ Includes credits for foreign taxes paid on offshore income which is also taxed in Australia at 30 per cent (double taxation relief), and the research and 
development tax incentive.  

² Effective tax rate is calculated by dividing the final income tax payable in Australia by accounting profit before tax.

These amounts differ from the tax numbers disclosed in our 
annual report for the following reasons: 

•   The above amounts only reflect the Australian tax 
consolidated group whereas the annual report includes 
the global Fortescue group of entities. Foreign subsidiaries 
and Australian entities that are not wholly owned cannot be 
members of the Australian tax consolidated group. 

•   The above amounts only reflect current tax payable 
whereas the annual report includes the impact of deferred 
tax expense arising on temporary differences. Temporary 
differences exist where amounts are assessable or 
deductible for tax at a different time to when they are 
recognised under accounting practices. 

•   Income tax expense in the annual report is based on current 
year provisional calculations with tax return finalisation 
adjustments reflected in a subsequent year. 

As a top 100 Australian taxpayer, we are part of the ATO’s 
Justified Trust program that seeks to assure large companies 
are paying the right amount of tax. FY18 was our first year 
under the Justified Trust program and, at the outcome of its 
review, the ATO concluded that it had a high level of assurance 
that Fortescue paid the right amount of income tax. This high 
level of assurance is the highest possible assurance rating 
under the program and has been maintained for the FY19 
and FY20 income years. The FY21 income year is currently 
being reviewed by the ATO and is expected to be completed in 
December 2022.  

In 2019 the Justified Trust program was expanded to include 
Goods and Services Tax (GST) for Top 100 taxpayers. The 
purpose of this program was to test whether Fortescue 
reported and paid the right amount of GST in its Business 
Activity Statements during FY20. The ATO obtained a high 
level of assurance that Fortescue has paid the right amount 
of GST, which is again the highest possible rating that can be 
achieved under the program.  

We continue to engage transparently and cooperatively with 
the ATO in respect of all tax matters, including meeting with 
the ATO on a regular basis throughout the year to provide an 
update on business performance and significant transactions.

International related party transactions 
The ongoing growth and development of our business has led 
to an increase in our international related party dealings. 

In accordance with our global tax strategy, all international 
related party dealings are conducted on arm’s length 
principles, methodologies as prescribed by the Australian 
transfer pricing laws and the Organisation for Economic 
Cooperation and Development guidelines. 

We disclose all material international related party transactions 
through the lodgement of tax returns and other statutory 
disclosures to revenue authorities, including our detailed 
International Dealings Schedules and Country by Country 
reports. 

Our Group includes a number of revenue generating subsidiary 
companies that are incorporated in jurisdictions outside of 
Australia. These are summarised in the table on page 93. 

A list of our Group subsidiary companies incorporated in 
jurisdictions outside of Australia whose activities do not 
currently generate revenue from operations (and therefore 
income tax payments) are summarised in the Data Tables on 
pages 124-126. We recognise the significant impact that paying 
taxes can have on the social and economic development of 
local communities. The majority of our entities that do not 
generate revenue still pay taxes in their local jurisdiction by 
way of withholding taxes and Value Added Taxes (VAT) (which 
is not always creditable back to the company) providing 
benefits to the local communities where they operate.



  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    93

Revenue generating foreign incorporated subsidiary companies 
Unless stated otherwise, the entities listed below are wholly owned Fortescue Group entities incorporated and operating in 
jurisdictions outside of Australia. These entities have generated external revenue during the year ended 30 June 2022. 

All amounts are presented below in Australian dollars. Amounts are translated from the functional currency of the foreign subsidiary 
into Australian dollars at the average exchange rate for the relevant income year. Accounting profit before tax and taxable income 
are as per the most recently lodged annual income tax return or provisional income tax return for the period specified.

Company FMG Trading Shanghai Co., 
Ltd (FMG Trading) 

Accounting profit before tax $16.9 million 

Country China Taxable income $16.9 million 

Functional currency Renminbi Income tax payable in China $4.2 million 

For the year ended 31 December 2021 Tax paid in Australia $0.8 million 

Employees 43

The key purpose of FMG Trading is to supply iron ore products directly to Chinese customers in smaller volumes, in renminbi, 
from regional ports in China.

Income generated by FMG Trading is taxable in China at a corporate income tax rate of 25 per cent. An additional 5 per cent 
income tax is payable in Australia to top up the total tax paid to 30 per cent.

Company FMG Hong Kong Shipping 
Ltd (FMGHKS)

Accounting profit before tax $14.4 million

Country Hong Kong Taxable income Nil

Functional currency US dollars
Income tax payable in Hong 
Kong 

Nil

For the year ended 30 June 2021 Tax paid in Australia $2.8 million

FMGHKS provides iron ore transportation services to another wholly owned Australian subsidiary, FMG Pilbara Pty Ltd, under 
a Transportation Services Agreement using ore carriers. 

Income generated by FMGHKS is considered ‘exempt offshore profits’ and is not subject to corporate income tax in Hong 
Kong at a rate of 16.5 per cent. 

However, 5 per cent of the income generated by FMGHKS is taxed in Australia under the Australian Shipping Regime at a rate 
of 30 per cent. 

Company FMG International Pte Ltd 
(FMGI)

Accounting profit before tax $117.0 million

Country Singapore Taxable income $119.3 million

Functional currency US dollars
Income tax payable in 
Singapore

$20.3 million

For the year ended 30 June 2021 Tax paid in Australia $35.9 million

Employees 12

Since 2012, FMGI manages the majority of Fortescue’s shipping services, including chartering activities, voyage operations, 
technical and crew management, as well as the commercial management of Fortescue’s ore carriers. Under the Transportation 
Operations Agreement, FMGI provides ship management services to FMGHKS.

Income generated by FMGI is taxable in Singapore at a corporate income tax rate of 17 per cent. In addition, pursuant to 
Australia’s CFC rules, the majority of FMGI’s taxable income in Singapore is attributed back to Fortescue’s Australian tax 
consolidated group and is taxed at 30 per cent.

Company FMG Insurance Singapore 
Pte Ltd (FMG Insurance)

Accounting profit before tax $7.8 million

Country Singapore Taxable income $7.8 million

Functional currency US dollars
Income tax payable in 
Singapore

$1.3 million

For the year ended 30 June 2021 Tax paid in Australia Nil

FMG Insurance provides insurance services to the Fortescue Group. 

Income generated by FMG Insurance is taxable in Singapore at a corporate income tax rate of 17 per cent. No income was 
attributed to the Fortescue Australian tax consolidated group pursuant to the CFC rules. 



94  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

PROCESS – OPERATING WITH INTEGRITY

Health and wellness Education and development Environmental responsibility Arts and culture

Improving health, 
safety and wellness

Supporting education and 
reducing inequalities

Addressing biodiversity 
conservation, climate action 

and water stewardship

Promoting culture and 
providing access to the arts for 

regional communities

In FY22, we contributed over $77.4 million in social investment 
Social investment is defined as our investment in philanthropic, community and commercial initiatives. These investments 
aim to build sustainable communities and focus on areas of health, wellness, education, regional development, environmental 
responsibility, arts and culture, and providing employment and training opportunities to local and First Nations peoples. Social 
investment contributions include financial, in-kind contributions and management costs. 

Our FY22 voluntary social investment

Who we invest with FY22 contribution

CORPORATE PARTNERSHIPS

We have five corporate charity partners, with long-term commitments in place, allowing 
these charities to plan the most effective use of donated funds: 

• RFDS

• Lifeline WA

• MADALAH Limited (MADALAH) 

• Ronald McDonald House Charities WA (RMH) 

• The Salvation Army

$2.5 million to  
our corporate charity 
partners

COMMUNITY PARTNERSHIPS, DONATIONS AND SPONSORSHIPS

We support a broad range of community charities and groups, as well as sporting, 
educational and arts organisations.

$2.8 million 
towards community 
partnerships, donations 
and sponsorships 

OUR SOCIAL INVESTMENT FRAMEWORK

Voluntary social investment programs 
form a critical part of our commitment to 
build vibrant and thriving communities. 
Our programs are guided by our Social 
Investment Framework, which ensures 
investment is aligned with business 
objectives, our Sustainability Strategy 
and the SDGs. Our Social Investment 
Framework is based on the following 
principles:

• Purposeful – clear objectives, 
evaluated programs and effective 
outcomes for the community.

• Accountable – monitor progress 
and effectiveness of programs and 
communicate outcomes.

• Respectful – developed and guided 
by communities, supporting local 
customs, views and priorities.

• Ethical – sound legal and moral 
investment in accordance with 
relevant laws and standards.

These principles guide our investment 
across four social themes to deliver 
positive impact and outcomes for the 
communities where we do business.

Objective: Deliver value to our 
communities through strategic social 
investment

Target: Allocate funding according 
to priorities set in the community 
investment strategy

Social investment

FY22   $77.4m  
FY21   $63.2m



  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    95

Our FY22 voluntary social investment continued

Who we invest with Our contribution

COMMUNITY GRANTS

Operating for 14 years, our Community Grants Program provides funding for local 
organisations, projects and programs in Pilbara communities. 

Grants of up to $5,000 are available for eligible projects that support community 
initiatives within the council boundaries of the Town of Port Hedland, City of Karratha, 
Shire of Ashburton and Shire of East Pilbara. 

88 community grants 
totalling more than $251,000

A total of $2.6 million has 
been awarded through this 
program to date 

PILBARA TRAINING PROGRAMS

We provide Pilbara-based training and development programs, including 
apprenticeships, traineeships and our VTEC program. 

$41 million on  
community-based training 
and development 

SUPPORT OF PILBARA RESIDENTIAL EMPLOYEES

In FY22, we spent $24.2 million in housing support subsidies for 495 regionally based 
employees in the Pilbara. This includes subsidies for rent, water costs and electricity 
costs. 

In addition, $626,700 was provided to 58 employees under the Pilbara Home 
Ownership Program. This program applies to Karratha and Port Hedland employees 
for the purchase of a home that serves as their principal place of residence. We assist 
with upfront purchase costs (up to $25,000), ongoing mortgage interest payments, 
electricity and water costs. 

We spent $4.1 million in FY22 operating charter flights from regional airports at 
Broome, Kununurra and Karratha to provide a FIFO service to employees and 
contractors who are based in regional centres. This expenditure also contributes 
towards sustaining local jobs and activity through employment at Western Australia’s 
regional airports.

Support valued at  
$29 million to our  
Pilbara residential  
employees

Our FY22 in-kind contributions and management costs

Who we invest with FY22 contribution

IN-KIND CONTRIBUTIONS

Employee volunteering, use of company equipment, logistical support and donation 
of products, including: 

• Patient and staff transport on Fortescue flights for the Earbus Foundation.

• Employee volunteering at charities, including RMH and the Salvation Army.

• COVID-19 support to remote communities and charity organisations, including test 
kits and general supplies.

In-kind support to the value 
of more than $260,000 

MANAGEMENT COSTS

• Community investment team salaries

• Rental costs for community offices

$1.7 million in  
management costs 



96  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

PROCESS – OPERATING WITH INTEGRITY

Royal Flying Doctor Service

FY22 donation: $1.4 million
The RFDS provides emergency health care services to our 
regionally based families and remote operations. The RFDS 
has taken care of our employees in evacuations from site for 
medical reasons and we have worked alongside them to assist 
those in the community who needed urgent medical care. In 
FY22, we launched a new partnership with the RFDS to provide 
the first aeromedical helicopter service in Western Australia. 

Our five year partnership integrated two EC-145 helicopters to 
the RFDS WA fleet. The Fortescue Heli-Med Service provides 
RFDS frontline crews with greater capacity to respond quickly 
to patients’ needs with the most appropriate aircraft. The 
helicopters are equipped with the most advanced aeromedical 
equipment in the world and RFDS doctors and flight nurses 
have undergone additional training for the new aircraft.

The service supports hospital transfers and accesses regional 
communities, including Bunbury, Jurien Bay, Northam, 
Narrogin and Margaret River, as well as destinations as close 
to Perth as Rottnest Island and the Peel region. 

Nothing is more important than the health and safety of our 
team members, their families and the communities in which 
we operate, and this partnership is a true testament to our 
culture and Values. Together, we are improving the health 
equity of people living in remote and regional communities.

As part of our partnership with the RFDS to provide $8 million 
over five years, we contributed $1.4 million to the organisation 
in FY22. In addition, $10,000 was donated through our Great 
Days Program and $4,800 was donated through Containers 
for Change.

ROYAL FLYING DOCTOR  
FORTESCUE HELI-MED SERVICE

CASE STUDY

The new RFDS Fortescue Heli-Med Service took flight 
for the first time in May 2022, marking a historic moment 
for the RFDS in Western Australia. Its first ever patient 
was safely retrieved from Harvey and flown directly 
to a hospital in Perth for urgent care. This is the first 
time helicopters have been used by an RFDS service 
anywhere in Australia in its 94 year history.

The new aeromedical helicopter service is part of our 
five year partnership with the RFDS, providing RFDS 
frontline crews with greater capacity to respond quickly 
to patients’ needs with the most appropriate aircraft.

The RFDS Fortescue Heli-Med Service will be used for 
hospital-to-hospital transfers within a 250km radius  
of Perth. 

Our five corporate charity partners share a strong  
alignment with our Values and we are proud to support them  

with significant, long-term commitments 



  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    97

Lifeline WA

FY22 donation: 
$270,000

Lifeline WA delivers core suicide prevention and crisis support 
services and creates opportunities for emotional wellbeing 
across Western Australia. We have committed to ongoing 
support of Lifeline WA, with $750,000 to be donated over the 
three-year partnership. In FY22, we contributed $250,000. In 
addition to corporate charity partnership donations, Fortescue 
donated $20,000 in support of the annual Lifeline charity ball. 

In FY22, the Fortescue family made significant personal 
contributions to Lifeline through fundraisers hosted on the 
Fortescue Heart employee giving platform. The Fortescue 
Christmas Raffle raised more than $26,000 and donations 
from the sale of the Lifeline WA’s Christmas M&Ms raised more 
than $4,000.

The Salvation Army 

FY22 donation: 
$250,000

The Salvation Army supports those experiencing hardship 
or injustice. This is delivered through a range of programs, 
including youth services, homelessness services, emergency 
accommodation and street outreach. The Salvation Army also 
provides direct on ground support during disasters, as was 
evident during the recent Perth fires. They work with other 
organisations to support the victims of modern slavery, and 
assist those with alcohol and drug addiction. 

We have partnered with The Salvation Army WA to boost 
support for disadvantaged West Australians. Under the 
three-year partnership, we have committed $750,000 which 
will ensure the highest level of support and care can continue 
to be delivered. In addition to corporate charity partnership 
donations, Fortescue donated nearly $4,700 through 
Containers for Change. 

Ronald McDonald 
House Charities WA

FY22 donation: 
$250,000

Our partnership with Ronald McDonald House Charities 
WA (RMH), which provides emergency accommodation to 
regional families with children requiring medical treatment in 
Perth, was established in 2012. We continue to foster a strong 
partnership with RMH and this year contributed $250,000 
to the organisation. We have committed to ongoing support 
of RMH, with a minimum of $750,000 to be donated over 
the three-year partnership. In addition to corporate charity 
partnership donations, Fortescue donated over $13,000 
through Containers for Change.

MADALAH

FY22 donation: 
$250,000

We have partnered with MADALAH to boost education 
support for Aboriginal students from remote and regional 
communities in Western Australia. MADALAH works with 
students to develop their individual leadership potential, 
provides mentoring, and works with senior secondary and 
tertiary students to support sustainable career pathway plans 
and opportunities. 

Under the three-year partnership, we will commit $750,000 
to the not-for-profit organisation. This funding will directly 
support eight secondary and three tertiary students from 
the Pilbara region, to achieve their educational aspirations 
while receiving ongoing holistic support throughout their 
journey. MADALAH will also be offering TAFE scholarships to 
the Fortescue-funded students commencing from 2023. In 
addition to corporate charity partnership donations, Fortescue 
donated nearly $7,500 through Containers for Change. 



98  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

PROCESS – OPERATING WITH INTEGRITY

LENDING A HAND TO THE 
PARNNGURR COMMUNITY

CASE STUDY

In February, Christmas Creek’s Fortescue People 
team received a request from Western Desert Lands 
Aboriginal Corporation (WDLAC) for assistance to fix 
a piece of essential equipment at Parnngurr remote 
Community, located 370km from Newman.

The Christmas Creek Mobile Maintenance team assisted 
with repairs to the community’s front-end loader, driving 
five hours from Christmas Creek to assess the repairs 
and later returning to complete the task.

Terrance Jack, Community Project Officer at WDLAC 
thanked Fortescue for assisting the Community, saying, 
“Thank you to Fortescue for assisting the Parnngurr 
Community with the front-end loader. It was a big 
concern as the Community needs the loader to offload 
essentials for the shop as well as for other areas for  
the Community.”

GREAT DAYS PROGRAM 

CASE STUDY

An incident-free day at Fortescue is a Great Day for 
Fortescue Heart charities

The Fortescue Projects team donated a total of $50,000 
in FY22, as part of the Great Days incident free initiative. 
Developed to meet health, safety, environment and 
construction KPIs during project execution, this initiative 
rewards charities when all KPIs are met on any given day, 
making it a Great Day. Each Great Day has a monetary 
value that accumulates over the life of the project. 

The initiative was first implemented in January 2019 
during the construction of our now operational Eliwana 
mine. It has since continued through to the Iron Bridge 
Magnetite Project and projects undertaken by the Port, 
Pipes and Power team, together comprising over 5,000 
team members. These teams achieved an average of 
351 Great Days during FY22, resulting in a donation 
of $10,000 to each of the following charities: Clontarf 
Foundation, Foodbank Western Australia, Short Back 
and Sidewalks, RFDS and the Hedland Women’s Refuge. 

To date, the Iron Bridge Magnetite Project and the 
Port, Pipes and Power Projects have raised more than 
$120,000 via the Great Days initiative, keeping Fortescue 
team members safe and supporting our Fortescue Heart 
charities.



  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    99

RugbyWA and 
Western Force

Value $665,000

We have a longstanding association with rugby union in 
Western Australia and are the Naming Rights Partner of the 
RugbyWA senior rugby competition. The Fortescue Premier 
Grade is the highest level of competition for club rugby union 
in Western Australia. Our sponsorship helps to build a talent 
pool of players and provide a pathway to the Western Force 
while supporting the efforts of community volunteers and 
sports people who contribute to their local communities 
through sport.

Big hART

Value $100,000

We have partnered with Big hART since 2017 to support 
the delivery of Aboriginal youth workshops, which are 
focused on safety and wellbeing, increasing digital inclusion, 
intergenerational change, connection to culture and education 
pathways. This year, Big hART delivered youth workshops for 
young people living in the Roebourne community, including 
on Country trips, education in film, animation and illustration 
via the Digital Lab, and the delivery of a variety of community 
events, including the Songs for Peace concert and the Songs 
for Freedom music festival.

Hockey Australia 
and the Pilbara 
Community Hockey 
Program

Value $400,000

We continued our sponsorship of the Australian national men’s 
and women’s hockey teams, as the Naming Rights Partner of 
the Kookaburras and a Supporting Partner of the Hockeyroos. 
Under the umbrella of the National Indigenous Hockey 
Program, in partnership with Hockey Australia, we deliver the 
Pilbara Community Hockey Program to 13 schools and two 
local hockey associations. Through this program, members of 
the Kookaburras and Hockeyroos host workshops to develop 
hockey skills with positive messaging about healthy lifestyle 
to children in their capacity as national role models and elite 
athletes. 

Complementing the delivery of school workshops is the 
Indigenous Pathways function, which provides funding 
support and assistance for Indigenous children with the 
potential to engage in professional level hockey. The 
partnership also sees the Kookaburras and Hockeyroos 
participate in community outreach events such as the 
Welcome to Hedland Expo and Clean Up Australia school 
activities in Port Hedland.

Black Swan State 
Theatre Company

Value $333,000

We are the principal partner of the Black Swan State Theatre 
Company of WA (Black Swan). Established in 1991, Black Swan 
is Western Australia’s flagship theatre company and plays a 
key role in developing artists and reaching audiences across 
the state. Fortescue and Black Swan are both strong West 
Australian brands with a shared ambition for our state and a 
dedication to building vibrant communities across the state.

We recognise and thank all 
the groups and individuals 

we have worked with

Fortescue supported more than  
120 organisations via our social investment  

program in FY22

Port Hedland 
Community (Town of 
Port Hedland)

Value $200,000

We are committed to supporting and building the Pilbara 
region and ensuring the local townships are vibrant 
and sustainable communities. We have a longstanding 
partnership with the Town of Port Hedland and work 
collaboratively to achieve their vision of creating a vibrant 
and flourishing place for people to live and work. With more 
than 500 employees residentially based in the Pilbara, we are 
proud to support the communities where we live and work. 
This extends beyond financial support to investing time and 
working directly with people and organisations throughout 
the Pilbara.



100  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

PROCESS – OPERATING WITH INTEGRITY

PARTNERING TO DELIVER 
THE PILBARA ABORIGINAL 

COMMUNITIES VACCINATION 
OUTREACH PROGRAM

CASE STUDY

Fortescue partnered with the Pilbara Aboriginal Health 
Alliance and the Aboriginal Medical Services to deliver 
the Pilbara Aboriginal Communities Vaccination 
Outreach program, an initiative to increase COVID-19 
vaccine education and uptake in the region.  

Dr Aleeta Fejo, a Larrakia and Warumungu Elder and 
Traditional Custodian and a General Practitioner (GP) 
at Wirraka Maya Health Services in Port Hedland, is 
passionate about encouraging Aboriginal people in the 
region to receive the vaccine to protect themselves, 
their families and friends. June Councillor, Wirraka Maya 
Aboriginal Health Services CEO, saw this passion and her 
team developed an outreach program proposal for the 
Pilbara. 

In late 2021, vaccination rates in remote Pilbara 
communities were less than half the rates in the wider 
community, which is particularly concerning given that 
Aboriginal people are vulnerable to serious illness from 
COVID-19. During December 2021, Dr Aleeta, supported 
by Fortescue’s VTEC and Heritage teams, travelled 
to Newman and the remote communities of Jigalong, 
Warralong and Strelley to deliver these outreach clinics. 

As a local Aboriginal health service GP, Dr Aleeta 
is known and trusted within the communities, so 
supporting her to attend the remote clinics to deliver 
culturally appropriate education and understanding of 
the requirements to be vaccinated against COVID-19 has 
resulted in a much higher uptake of vaccinations being 
administered. 

The outreach clinics successfully vaccinated close to 
300 Aboriginal people, with the second phase of the 
program due to recommence this month focusing on 
West Pilbara communities. 



INNOVATION AND  
TECHNOLOGY

Our Values of generating ideas, stretch targets and empowerment  
foster an embedded culture of innovation across our workforce,  

placing our company at the forefront of technological development 
within the mining industry

When our Train Control Centre opened in 2009, we were the 
first operation in Western Australia to control a railway from 
outside the region. Now known as the Fortescue Hive, the 
expanded, purpose-built remote operations facility includes 
our planning, operations, and mine control teams, together 
with port, rail, shipping and marketing teams, enabling us to 
operate our Pilbara mines from the centre of Perth. 

The Hive has since evolved to accommodate the Eliwana 
plant and mine control teams and the newly formed Energy 
Operations team who manage the generation and integrated 
distribution network for the PEC project. 

In October 2020, we completed one of the largest fleet 
conversions to an AHS in the industry. We now have over  
190 AHS trucks operating across our Solomon and Chichester 
Hubs. On average, we have seen around a 30 per cent 
improvement in productivity, reflecting our commitment to 
increasing operational efficiency through industry leading 
technology and innovation.

Our shift to AHS has also shown that advancing technologies 
does not need to occur at the expense of employment. Our 
focus remains on ensuring that our workforce is prepared for 
the changing industry landscape through our training and 
redeployment program which has successfully transferred 
or upskilled employees to new roles across the business, 
resulting in no forced redundancies.

Innovation powering FFI
Through FFI, we are actively developing for commercialisation 
the technologies required to decarbonise our operations, 
create green hydrogen and green ammonia, and apply these 
solutions across hard to abate sectors such as shipping and 
iron and steel production. Given the considerable challenge 
in achieving these goals, where expertise does not exist in 
house, we have initiated a range of partnerships with research 
organisations and consortiums to accelerate this work.

  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    101



In June 2022, we announced a strategic partnership with 
equipment manufacturer Liebherr to develop and supply 
zero emissions haul trucks for use in our Pilbara mining 
operations.

Our companies have commenced a two year development 
period to progress and integrate Fortescue’s proprietary 
owned power system into Liebherr’s proprietary owned  
base truck. The first truck will be operational at our mine 
sites by 2025, and their phased delivery will be scheduled 
to align with our fleet replacement and sustaining capital 
expenditure forecast.

LIEBHERR

CASE STUDY

This development is the culmination of significant 
investment, research and development into the 
technologies required to decarbonise our mining fleet. 

This commitment relates to approximately 45 per cent 
of our current haul truck fleet. 

These zero emissions haul trucks will be available 
for commercial sale from 2025, enabling the 
decarbonisation of the mining industry.

102  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

PROCESS – OPERATING WITH INTEGRITY



Cyber security 
We aspire to build the cyber resilience Fortescue needs to 
operate and grow confidently.

Cyber security has been identified as a material operational 
risk to our business and we work continuously to ensure 
our operations are protected from potential threats. We 
adopt an enterprise approach to reducing risk, aligning 
priorities to build the cyber resilience needed to operate and 
grow with confidence. Our commitment is supported by a 
comprehensive Cyber Security Governance Framework, which 
ensures that:

• Appropriate controls are in place to protect our operations 
from potential threats.

• A strong culture based on shared responsibility for cyber 
security exists. 

• Cyber security risks are identified and effectively managed. 

• Cyber resilience and our ability to detect, respond and 
recover from cyber incidents are continually improved.

Our Board is responsible for ensuring that internal controls 
are robust and able to effectively manage cyber security. The 
ARMSC assists the Board in its oversight of the internal control 
framework, risk management and compliance by obtaining 
assurance of the effectiveness of our Cyber Security Control 
Framework.

Cyber security operations centre
Our 24/7 Cyber Security Operations Centre offers best in 
class security incident detection, analysis, containment, 
and mitigation. We analyse billions of system log events and 
monitor millions of user logins each year. Our program takes a 
risk-based approach to implement strong defences built upon: 

• industry leading technologies 

• regular training and awareness for our people

• designing systems with built in security.

We had no cyber security incidents resulting in data breaches 
or loss events in FY22. 

Training 
All new employees and contractors are required to complete 
cyber security training before gaining access to our systems. 
Our cyber awareness program provides ongoing training and 
updates on cyber best practice. 

Assurance
Our auditing and cyber security practices align with the 
National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) 
Cybersecurity Framework. We review and update our cyber 
security program annually and conduct regular external 
party assessments of our program aligned with the NIST 
Cybersecurity Framework. 

Our testing program is risk based and includes monthly 
phishing simulation exercises, monthly password cracking and 
regular engagement of third party assessors to evaluate the 
strength of our program through penetration and/or ethical 
hacking exercises. We rotate the delivery of assessment and 
testing between a panel of specialist service providers, as well 
as rotating the types of testing to simulate different conditions 
and objectives.

A key focus of our cyber resilience strategy is building 
‘muscle memory’ by conducting regular simulation exercises 
on emerging threats to test and continuously improve our 
response and recovery capabilities to cyber attacks.

Contributing to the industry and community
We understand that simply defending ourselves is not enough. 
We must also influence the broader cyber security landscape 
within which we operate. As such, we collaborate with our 
suppliers, industry peers, governments, and intelligence 
agencies on a global scale to share best practices, exchange 
information about threats, conduct joint exercises, and work to 
drive the adoption of industry wide standards and approaches 
that will enable the collective defence of the industries in 
which we operate against cyber security risks. 

We take a leadership role in fostering a culture of sharing 
among our competitors, championing forums such as the 
Mining and Metals Information Sharing Analysis Centre  
(MM-ISAC). 

More information on cyber security is available on our website 
at www.fortescue.com 

  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    103



08



  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    105

GRI 
Standard Disclosure Location

ICMM 
Principles

UNGC 
Principles

GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021

2-1 Organisational details About this report: page 4

2-2
Entities included in the 
organization’s sustainability 
reporting

About this report: page 4 2

2-3
Reporting period, frequency and 
contact point

About this report: page 4 10

2-4 Restatements of information There are no restatements in FY22

2-5 External assurance About this report: page 4 10

2-6
Activities, value chain and other 
business relationships

About Fortescue: page 8
Our operations: pages 9-12
Iron ore value chain: page 13
Building sustainable local communities: 
page 68

2-7 Employees
FY22 sustainability performance: page 3
About Fortescue: page 8
Data tables: pages 114-116

2-8 Workers who are not employees
About Fortescue: page 8
Data tables: pages 114-116

2-9
Governance structure and 
composition

Corporate governance: page 20 1

2-10
Nomination and selection of the 
highest governance body 

Our Board: pages 23-24
FY22 Corporate Governance Statement

2-11
Chair of the highest governance 
body

Our Board: pages 23-29
FY22 Corporate Governance Statement

2-12
Role of the highest governance 
body in overseeing the 
management of impacts 

Our Board: pages 23-24
FY22 Corporate Governance Statement

2-13
Delegation of responsibility for 
managing impacts 

Our Board: pages 23-29
FY22 Corporate Governance Statement

2-14
Role of the highest governance 
body in sustainability reporting

Our approach to sustainability: pages 14-19 
Corporate governance: pages 20-22 
Respecting human rights: pages 59-62 
FY22 Climate Change Report

2-15 Conflicts of interest 
Our Board: pages 23-29 
FY22 Corporate Governance Statement

2-16
Communication of critical 
concerns 

Our Board: pages 23-24 
FY22 Corporate Governance Statement

Navigational and GRI Content Index
Fortescue’s FY22 Sustainability Report contains General and Topic Disclosures in accordance with the GRI Standards, 
applying GRI 1: Foundation 2021. There were no omissions in FY22. The report also contains selected Standard Disclosures 
from the associated GRI Mining and Metals Sector Disclosures 2010 for information. It is noted that the GRI sector 
standard for Mining is currently under review, with the revised standard expected to be released in late 2023. 

The FY22 Sustainability Report also serves as our Active Level Communications on Progress for the United Nations 
Global Compact. The navigation index indicates the sections of Fortescue’s FY22 Sustainability Report, that align with 
the GRI Standards, the principles of the United Nations Global Compact and the 10 principles of the International Council 
on Mining and Metals. References to our FY22 Annual Report, FY22 Climate Change Report, FY22 Industry Association 
Review, FY22 Corporate Governance Statement and FY21 Modern Slavery Statement are provided where information is 
present in those reports.



106  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

CORPORATE DIRECTORY

GRI 
Standard Disclosure Location

ICMM 
Principles

UNGC 
Principles

GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021

2-17
Collective knowledge of the 
highest governance body

Our Board: pages 23-29

FY22 Corporate Governance Statement

2-18
Evaluation of the performance of 
the highest governance body 

Our Board: pages 23-24

FY22 Corporate Governance Statement

2-19 Remuneration policies 
Our Board: pages 23-24 
FY22 Annual Report 
FY22 Corporate Governance Statement

2-20
Process to determine 
remuneration

Our Board: pages 23-24 
FY22 Annual Report 
FY22 Corporate Governance Report

2-21 Annual total compensation ratio Data tables: page 123

2-22
Statement on sustainable 
development strategy

Chief Executive Officer’s message:  
pages 5-7
Our approach to sustainability: pages 14-19

2 1,4,5

2-23 Policy commitments 

Our Values: inside cover
Our approach to sustainability: pages 14-19
Respecting human rights: pages 59-62
Business integrity: pages 87-88
FY21 Modern Slavery Statement

1,2,3 10

2-24 Embedding policy commitments

Embedding policy commitments are noted 
throughout the report within the text
Stakeholder engagement and collaboration: 
pages 34-39
Respecting human rights: pages 59-62
Business integrity: pages 87-88
FY21 Modern Slavery Statement

2

2-25
Processes to remediate negative 
impacts 

Our Board: pages 23-24 
Stakeholder engagement and collaboration: 
pages 34-39

2-26
Mechanisms for seeking advice 
and raising concerns 

Business integrity: pages 87-88

2-27
Compliance with laws and 
regulations

Our Values: inside cover
Our approach to sustainability: pages 14-19
Business integrity: pages 87-88

2-28 Membership associations
Memberships and commitments: page 39
FY22 Industry Association Review

2

2-29
Approach to stakeholder 
engagement

Stakeholder engagement and collaboration: 
pages 34-39

4,10

2-30 Collective bargaining agreements Our Fortescue family: page 47 3 3

GRI 3: Material Topics 2021

3-1
Process to determine material 
topics

Material topics: page 16

3-2 List of material topics Material topics: page 16



  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    107

GRI 
Standard Disclosure Location

ICMM 
Principles

UNGC 
Principles

Material Topic: Employee safety and wellbeing

GRI 3: Material Topics 2021

3-3 Management of material topics Employee safety and wellbeing: pages 41-46

GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018

403-9 Work-related injuries
Employee safety and wellbeing: pages 41-46

Data tables: pages 112-113
5 1

Material Topic: Diversity, inclusion and equity

GRI 3: Material Topics 2021

3-3 Management of material topics Diversity, inclusion and equity: pages 50-58

GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016

405-1
Diversity of governance bodies 
and employees

Our Board: pages 23-24 
Diversity, inclusion and equity: pages 50-58 
Data tables: pages 114-116

3 6

GRI 404: Training and Education 2016

404-1
Average hours of training per year 
per employee

Data tables: pages 116-117 5 6

404-3
Percentage of employees 
receiving regular performance 
and career development reviews

Our Fortescue family: pages 47-49

Data tables: page 116
5 6

GRI 401: Employment 2016

401-1
New employee hires and 
employee turnover

Data tables: pages 115-116 3 6

Material Topic: Respecting human rights

GRI 3: Material Topics 2021

3-3 Management of material topics Respecting human rights: pages 59-62

GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021

2-23 Policy commitments

Our Values: inside cover 
Our approach to sustainability: pages 14-19

Respecting human rights: pages 59-62 
Business integrity: pages 87-88

FY21 Modern Slavery Statement

1,2,3 1,2,3,4,8,6,10

2-24 Embedding policy commitments

Stakeholder engagement and collaboration: 
pages 34-39 
Respecting human rights: pages 59-62 
Business integrity: pages 87-89 
FY21 Modern Slavery Statement

2 2,4,5,6

GRI 408: Child Labour 2016

408-1
Operations and suppliers at 
significant risk for incidents of 
child labour

FY21 Modern Slavery Statement 3 1,2,5

GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labour 2016

409-1
Operations and suppliers at 
significant risk for incidents of 
forced or compulsory labour

FY21 Modern Slavery Statement 3 1,2,4,5



108  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

CORPORATE DIRECTORY

GRI 
Standard Disclosure Location

ICMM 
Principles

UNGC 
Principles

Material Topic: Respecting heritage and culture

GRI 3: Material Topics 2021

3-3 Management of material topics
Respecting heritage and culture:  
pages 63-65

GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples 2016

411-1
Incidents of violations involving 
rights of Indigenous peoples

Respecting heritage and culture:  
pages 63-65 
Data tables: page 118

3,10 1,2

GRI Mining and Metals Sector Disclosures 2010

G4-MM5

Total number of operations taking 
place in or adjacent to Indigenous 
peoples’ territories, and number 
and percentage of operations 
or sites where there are formal 
agreements with Indigenous 
peoples’ communities

Respecting heritage and culture:  
pages 63-65 
Data tables: page 118

3,9 1,2

G4-MM6

Number and description of 
significant disputes relating to 
land use, customary rights of local 
communities and indigenous 
communities

Respecting heritage and culture:  
pages 63-65 
Data tables: page 118

3,9 1,2

Material Topic: Building thriving communities

GRI 3: Material Topics 2021

3-3 Management of material topics
Building thriving communities: pages 66-69

Aboriginal employment and development: 
pages 54-55

GRI 413: Local Communities 2016

413-1

Operations with local 
community engagement, impact 
assessments, and development 
programs

Stakeholder engagement and collaboration: 
pages 34-39 
Building business capabilities: pages 66-67 
Aboriginal employment and development: 
pages 54-55

3,9 6

413-2
Operations with significant actual 
and potential negative impacts on 
local communities

Stakeholder engagement and collaboration: 
pages 34-39  
Respecting heritage and culture:  
pages 63-65 
Building thriving communities: pages 66-69 
Data tables: page 118

9,10

GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016

203-2
Significant indirect economic 
impacts

Building thriving communities: pages 66-69 9

GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016

204-1
Proportion of spending on local 
suppliers

Building thriving communities: pages 66-69 2,9 6



  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    109

GRI 
Standard Disclosure Location

ICMM 
Principles

UNGC 
Principles

Material Topic: Climate action

GRI 3: Material Topics 2021

3-3 Management of material topics FY22 Climate Change Report

GRI 305: Emissions 2016

305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions
FY22 Climate Change Report 
Climate action: pages 71-72

6 8,9

305-2
Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG 
emissions

FY22 Climate Change Report 
Climate action: pages 71-72

6 8,9

305-4 GHG emissions intensity FY22 Climate Change Report 6 8,9

305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions FY22 Climate Change Report 6 8,9

Material Topic: Protecting biodiversity

GRI 3: Material Topics 2021

3-3 Management of material topics Protecting biodiversity: pages 73-76

GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016

304-1

Operational sites owned, leased, 
managed in, or adjacent to, 
protected areas and areas of 
high biodiversity value outside 
protected areas

Protecting biodiversity: pages 73-76 
Data tables: pages 118-121

7 8

304-2
Significant impacts of activities, 
products and services on 
biodiversity

Protecting biodiversity: pages 73-76 
Data tables: pages 118-121

7 8

304-3 Habitats protected or restored Protecting biodiversity: pages 73-76 7 8

304-4

IUCN Red List species and 
national conservation list species 
with habitats in areas affected by 
operations 

Protecting biodiversity: pages 73-76 
Data tables: pages 118-121

7 8

GRI Mining and Metals Sector Disclosures 2010

G4-MM1

Amount of land (owned or leased, 
and managed for production 
activities or extractive use) 
disturbed and rehabilitated

Data tables: page 118 6 8

G4-MM2

The number and percentage of 
total sites identified as requiring 
biodiversity management plans 
according to stated criteria, and 
the number (percentage) of those 
sites with plans in place

Protecting biodiversity: pages 73-76 7 8

G4-MM10
Number and percentage of 
operations with closure plans

Closure and rehabilitation: page 85 6,9 7,8



110  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

CORPORATE DIRECTORY

GRI 
Standard Disclosure Location

ICMM 
Principles

UNGC 
Principles

Material Topic: Protecting water resources

GRI 3: Material Topics 2021

3-3 Management of material topics Protecting water resources: pages 77-79

GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018

303-1
Interactions with water as a 
shared resource

Protecting water resources: pages 77-79 6 7,8

303-2
Management of water discharge-
related impacts

Protecting water resources: pages 77-79 6 7,8

303-3 Water withdrawal Data tables: page 122 6 7,8

303-4 Water discharge Data table: page 123 6 7,8

303-5 Water consumption Data table: page 122 6 8

Material Topic: Building circularity

GRI 3: Material Topics 2021

3-3 Management of material topics Building circularity pages 80-85

GRI 306: Waste 2020

306-1
Waste generation and significant 
waste-related impacts

Tailings management: pages 83-84 4,5,8 7,8,9

GRI Mining and Metals Sector Disclosures 2010

G4-MM3
Total amounts of overburden, 
rock, tailings, and sludges and 
their associated risks

Tailings management: pages 83-84 
Data tables: page 118

4,5,8 7,8,9

Material Topic: Business integrity

GRI 3: Material Topics 2021

3-3 Management of material topics Business integrity: pages 87-88

GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016

205-3
Confirmed incidents of corruption 
and actions taken

Business integrity: pages 87-88 1 10



  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    111

GRI 
Standard Disclosure Location

ICMM 
Principles

UNGC 
Principles

Material Topic: Economic contribution

GRI 3: Material Topics 2021

3-3 Management of material topics
Total economic contribution: page 89
Our approach to tax: pages 89-93
Data tables: pages 123-126

GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016

201-1
Direct economic value generated 
and distributed

Total economic contribution: page 89
Our approach to tax: pages 89-93
Data tables: pages 123-126

9

201-2
Financial implications and other 
risks and opportunities due to 
climate change

FY22 Climate Change Report 6 7

GRI 207: Tax 2019

207-1 Approach to tax Our approach to tax: pages 89-93

207-2
Tax governance, control, and risk 
management

Our approach to tax: pages 89-93

207-3
Stakeholder engagement and 
management of concerns related 
to tax

Our approach to tax: pages 89-93

207-4 Country-by-country reporting
Our approach to tax: pages 89-93 
Data tables: pages 123-126

Material Topic: Innovation and technology

GRI 3: Material Topics 2021

3-3 Management of material topics Innovation and technology: pages 101-103

Non-GRI

- Key approach and key activities Innovation and technology: pages 101-103

-
Number of cyber security 
incidents resulting in data 
breaches

Innovation and technology: pages 101-103



112  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

CORPORATE DIRECTORY

DATA TABLES

Health and Safety
Fatalities by region FY22 FY21 FY20 FY19 FY18 FY17
Australia 1 0 0 0 0 0

China 0 0 0 0 0 0

South America 0 0 0 0 0 0

Other international 0 0 0 0 0 0

Total 1 0 0 0 0 0

Safety Excellence and Culture 
Survey participation (%)

95 99 96 93 94 92

Positive drug test results (%) 1.9 2.0 0.5 0.8 0.6 0.5

FY22 FY22 Value FY21 FY21 Value FY20 FY20 Value
Safety fines by region fines (no.) (A$) fines (no.) (A$) fines (no.) (A$)
Australia 0 0 0 0 0 0

International 0 0 0 0 0 0

Total 0 0 0 0 0 0

Health and Safety Iron Ore Operations
FY22 FY22 FY22 FY21 FY20 FY19 FY18

TRIFR by region Total Employee Contractor Total Total Total Total
Australia 1.7 1.0 2.2 2.0 2.3 2.8 3.7

China 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0 0 0

South America 7.4 5.7 10.6 3.5 6.0 3.7 0

Other international 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0 0 0

Company wide 1.8 1.1 2.3 2.0 2.4 2.8 3.7

SIFR by region

FY22 

Total
Australia 2.5

China 0.0

South America 0.6

Other international 0.0

Total 2.5
 

Injury severity rate  
by region

FY22 FY22 FY22 FY21 FY21 FY20 FY20 FY19 FY19
Total Emp. Con. Emp. Con.  Emp. Con. Emp. Con.

Australia 61 40 76 40 76 53 80 83 132

China 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

South America 134 0 380 54 20 42 0 80 0

Other international 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

Company wide 61 39 78 40 76 52 79 79 132

Recordable occupational illness rate by region
Australia 0.02 0.06 0 0 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.1

China 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

South America 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

Other international 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

Total 0.02 0.06 0 0 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.1

LTIFR by region

FY22 FY22 FY22 

Total Employee Contractor 
Australia 0.3 0.2 0.4

China 0.0 0.0 0.0

South America 3.7 0.0 10.6

Other international 0.0 0.0 0.0

Total 0.4 0.1 0.3



  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    113

FY22 FY22 FY22 
TRIFR by region Total Emp. Con. 
Australia and New Zealand 1.0 0.0 34.9

Africa 0.0 0.0 0.0

Central Asia 0.0 0.0 0.0

Europe 0.0 0.0 0.0

Latin America 0.0 0.0 0.0

Middle East and North Africa 0.0 0.0 0.0

North America 0.0 0.0 0.0

South East Asia 0.0 0.0 0.0

Company wide 0.7 0.0 2.3

LTIFR by region

FY22 FY22 FY22 

Total Emp. Con.
Australia and New Zealand 1.0 0.0 34.9

Africa 0.0 0.0 0.0

Central Asia 0.0 0.0 0.0

Europe 0.0 0.0 0.0

Latin America 0.0 0.0 0.0

Middle East and North Africa 0.0 0.0 0.0

North America 0.0 0.0 0.0

South East Asia 0.0 0.0 0.0

Company wide 0.7 0.0 2.2

Recordable occupational 
illness rate by region

FY22 FY22 FY22 

Total Emp. Con.
Australia and New Zealand 0.0 0.0 0.0

Africa 0.0 0.0 0.0

Central Asia 0.0 0.0 0.0

Europe 0.0 0.0 0.0

Latin America 0.0 0.0 0.0

Middle East and North Africa 0.0 0.0 0.0

North America 0.0 0.0 0.0

South East Asia 0.0 0.0 0.0

Company wide 0.0 0.0 0.0

SIFR by region

FY22 FY22 FY22 

Total Emp. Con.
Australia and New Zealand 1.0 0.0 34.9

Africa 15.4 0.0 16.0

Central Asia 0.0 0.0 0.0

Europe 0.0 0.0 0.0

Latin America 0.0 0.0 0.0

Middle East and North Africa 0.0 0.0 0.0

North America 0.0 0.0 0.0

South East Asia 0.0 0.0 0.0

Company wide 1.4 0.0 4.5

Injury severity rate  
by region

FY22 FY22 FY22 

Total Emp. Con.
Australia and New Zealand 1.9 0.0 69.8

Africa 0.0 0.0 0.0

Central Asia 0.0 0.0 0.0

Europe 0.0 0.0 0.0

Latin America 0.0 0.0 0.0

Middle East and North Africa 0.0 0.0 0.0

North America 0.0 0.0 0.0

South East Asia 0.0 0.0 0.0

Company wide 1.4 0.0 4.5

Health and Safety FFI



114  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

CORPORATE DIRECTORY

Employment

Employment FY22 FY21 FY20 

Number of staff by gender (employees and labour hire)
Male 9,034 8,023 6,858

Female 2,659 2,141 1,650

Total 11,693 10,164 8,508

Number of staff by employee type and 
gender (employees and labour hire)

FY22
Female

FY22
Male

FY21 
Female

FY21 
Male

FY20 
Total

Full time 1,964 7,182 1,359 5,832 6,180

Part time 187 342 175 355 414

Fixed term full time 167 259 168 226 220

Fixed term part time 15 19 8 3 10

Casual 3 12 47 76 131

Labour hire 323 1,220 384 1,531 1,533

Total 2,659 9,034 2,141 8,023 8,508

Number of staff by region and gender 
(employees and labour hire)

FY22
Female

FY22
Male

FY21 
Female

FY21 
Male

FY20 
Female

FY20 
Male

Australia 2,480 8,660 1,991 7,741 1,521 6,631

China 22 23 16 18 13 14

South America 71 177 103 212 106 206

Other international 86 174 31 50 10 7

Total 2,659 9,034 2,141 8,021 1,650 6,858

Number of staff by employee type and 
region (employees and labour hire)

FY22 
Total

FY22
Australia

FY22
China

FY22 
S. America

FY22 
Other

FY21 
Total

Full time 9,146 8,787 40 196 123 7,191

Part time 529 526 0 2 1 530

Fixed term full time 426 368 4 40 14 394

Fixed term part time 34 32 0 2 0 11

Casual 15 7 0 8 0 123

Labour hire 1,543 1,420 1 0 122 1,915

Total 11,693 11,140 45 248 260 10,164

Number of staff by employment category 
and gender (employees only)

FY22 
Total

FY22
Female

FY22
Male

FY21 
Female

FY21 
Male

FY20 
Female

FY20 
Male

CEO 2 2 0 1 0 1 0

GM and above 100 26 74 16 50 13 40

Managers 416 95 321 68 205 49 147

Superintendents 655 143 512 77 361 58 259

Supervisors 680 86 594 64 531 44 449
Other (professionals, operators, trades, 
support staff)

8,297 1,984 6,313 1,531 5,345 1,175 4,720

Total 10,150 2,336 7,814 1,757 6,492 1,340 5,615



  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    115

Employment

Number of staff by age and gender 
(employees and labour hire)

FY22 
Total

FY22
Female

FY22
Male

FY21 
Female

FY21 
Male

FY20 
Female

FY20 
Male

≤30 years 2,313 770 1,543 654 1,401 469 1,288

31 – 50 years 7,097 1,564 5,533 1,202 4,931 960 4,122

≥51 years 2,283 325 1,958 285 1,691 221 1,448

Total 11,693 2,659 9,034 2,141 8,023 1,650 6,858

Number of staff in specific employment areas (employees and labour hire) FY22 FY21 FY20

Number of staff that utilised flexible working arrangements 565 550 438

Number of female staff that utilised flexible working arrangements 203 184 149

Females working in the Perth Office (%) 38 36 38

Females working in the Hive (%) 41 40 49

Aboriginal people working on Pilbara sites (%) 15 14 14

Females in management positions FY22 FY21 FY20

Females in senior leadership positions (GM and above) (%) 27 25 26

Females in manager and above positions (Manager and above) (%) 24 25 25

Board membership by gender FY22 FY21 FY20

Male 4 5 5

Female 4 4 4

Number of Aboriginal employees by gender (employees and labour hire) FY22 FY21 FY20

Male 804 687 616

Female 309 267 228

Total 1,133 954 844

Aboriginal people (%) 10 10 10

New employee hires FY22 FY21 FY20

New employee hires by gender (employees only)

Male 2,432 1,543 1,824

Female 945 586 464

Total 3,377 2,219 2,288

New employee hires by age (employees only)

≤30 years 1,237 - -

31 – 50 years 2,030 - -

≥51 years 522 - -

New employee hires by region (employees only)

Australia 3,175 - -

China 11 - -

South America 135 - -

Other international 468 - -

A dash (-) indicates where data has not been reported in previous years.



116  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

CORPORATE DIRECTORY

Employment

Employee turnover FY22 FY21 FY20

Employee turnover (employees only)

Voluntary (%) 11 8 8

Involuntary (%) 2 2 2

Total (%) 12 10 10

Voluntary employee turnover by gender (employees only)

Male (%) 10 8 8

Female (%) 12 8 10

Voluntary employee turnover by region (employees only)

Australia (%) 11 - -

China (%) 3 - -

South America (%) 4 - -

Other international (%) 15 - -

Voluntary employee turnover by age (employees only)

≤30 years (%) 12 - -

31 – 50 years (%) 10 - -

≥51 years (%) 12 - -

Parental leave (employees only) FY22 FY21 FY20

Number of employees who took primary carers parental leave 171 141 123

Number of female employees who took primary carers parental leave 119 94 92

Primary carers parental leave return to work rate (%) 97 99 94

Employees eligible for parental leave (%) 73 77 71

Parental leave 12 month retention rate (%) 85 - -

Absentee rate (Australian employees only) FY22 FY21 FY20

Absentee rate 3.7 4.0 -

Training and Development

FY22 FY21 FY20 FY19

Employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews by gender (%)

Male 100 100 100 100

Female 100 100 100 100

Employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews by employee category (%)

GM and above 100 100 100 100

Managers 100 100 100 100

Superintendents 100 100 100 100

Supervisors 100 100 100 100

Others (professionals, operators, trades, support staff) 100 100 100 100

A dash (-) indicates where data has not been reported in previous years.



  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    117

Training and Development

Total hours Average hours per 
employee

FY22 FY21 FY20 FY22

Total hours of training by gender (employees and labour hire)

Male 257,183 84,920 138,875 34

Female 62,910 75,523 23,052 28

Total 320,093 160,443 161,927 33

Total hours of training by employee type (employees and labour hire)

Permanent full time 298,796 150,305 149,621 33

Permanent part time 4,925 6,983 6,250 16

Fixed term 16,335 3,155 6,056 40

Casual 178 - - 22

Contractor (includes labour hire) 266,575 - - 17

Total 
hours

Average hours per 
employee

FY22 FY22

Total hours of training by employee category (employees and labour hire)

CEO 24 24

GM and above 694 8

Managers 4,483 12

Superintendents 12,131 19

Supervisors and teamleaders 38,930 32

Others (professionals, operators, trades, support staff) 261,183 36

Total hours of training by region (employees and contractors)

Australia 543,405 25

China 351 8

Singapore 91 7

Ecuador 267 7

Argentina 168 3

Portugal 332 30

Columbia 1 1

Other 48,161 14

Total hours Average hours per 
employee

FY22 FY21 FY20 FY22

Health and safety training in hours by gender and employment type

Male employees and labour hire 15,558 45,100 25,404 4

Female employees and labour hire 4,231 10,102 4,155 4

Male contractors and labour hire 32,300 93,285 67,653 3

Female contractors and labour hire 6,694 11,621 8,097 4

Total 
hours

Average hours per 
employee

FY22 FY22

Health and safety training in hours by region

Australia 58,475 2

China 75 2

Singapore 10 1

Ecuador 105 3

Argentina 54 1

Portugal 53 7

Columbia 1 1

Other 491 61

A dash (-) indicates where data has not been reported in previous years.



118  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

CORPORATE DIRECTORY

Environment and Land 

FY22 FY21 FY20

Environmental incidents

Number of significant environmental incidents 0 0 0

Land1

Total land owned/leased/managed 5,632,599 - -

Total land disturbed (ha) 41,438 41,888 32,202

Total land rehabilitated (ha) 2,215 3,840 3,523

Air

Total NOx emissions (metric tonnes) 12,689 14,877 14,347

Total SOx emissions (metric tonnes) 204 195 200

Total particulate emissions (PM10) (metric tonnes) 89,436 108,723 79,980

Total CO emissions (metric tonnes) 6,047 6,440 -

Total mercury (Hg) emissions (metric tonnes) 0.05 0.04 -

Total lead (Pb) emissions (metric tonnes) 2.3 2.4 -

Total volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions (metric tonnes) 955 956 -

Total persistent organic pollutant (POP) emissions (metric tonnes) 0 - -

Total hazardous air pollutant (HAP) emissions (metric tonnes) 428 - -

Waste

Total waste produced (tonnes) 30,717 26,710 27,589

Hazardous waste produced (tonnes) 1,596 - -

Total waste disposed on site (landfill) 5,191 - -

Total hazardous waste disposed  on site 0 0 0

Material recycled (%) 83 87 89

Material landfilled (%) 17 13 11

Tailings

Total tailings (dry metric tonnes) 24,927,811 26,818,651 25,766,916

Native Title and Heritage

Pilbara operations FY22 FY21 FY20

Number of reportable heritage incidents 0 1 0

Number of heritage places managed 6,196 6,022 5,933

Land ethnographically surveyed in current year (ha) 12,533 132,439 198,798

Land ethnographically surveyed - total (ha) 2,800,464 2,698,833 -

Land archaeologically surveyed in current year (ha) 10,926 32,545 -

Land archaeologically surveyed - total (ha) 297,328 273,581 -

Number of Land Access Agreements in place 7 7 7

Non-Pilbara operations FY22

Total number of significant incidents of violations involving the rights of Indigenous peoples 0

Number of operations 01

Number of operations located in or adjacent to Indigenous peoples’ territories 0

Number of operations located in or adjacent to Indigenous peoples’ territories with formal agreements in place 0

Percentage of operations located in or adjacent to Indigenous peoples’ territories with formal agreements in place 0

1 In FY22, there were zero non-Pilbara projects at an operational stage

1 Australian operations only

A dash (-) indicates where data has not been reported in previous years.



  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    119

Critical Biodiversity 

Fauna Species Conservation Significance Details

IUCN EPBC Other

Herb Elliott port facility

Green sawfish  
(Pristis zijsron)

CR VU, MI Bonn Present within the Port Hedland Inner Harbour

Australian humpback dolphin 
(Sousa sahulensis) 

VU MI - Present within the Port Hedland Inner Harbour

Dugong (Dugong dugon) VU MA, MI - Present within the Port Hedland Inner Harbour

Southern giant petrel (Macronectes 
giganteus) 

LC EN, MA, MI - Present within the Port Hedland Inner Harbour

Fork-tailed swift (Apus pacificus) LC MA, MI
CAMBA 
JAMBA 
ROKAMBA

Present within the Port Hedland Inner Harbour

Lesser frigatebird (Fregata ariel) LC MA, MI
CAMBA 
JAMBA 
ROKAMBA 

Present within the Port Hedland Inner Harbour

White-bellied sea eagle (Haliaeetus 
leucogaster)

LC MA - Present within the Port Hedland Inner Harbour

Barn swallow (Hirundo rustica) LC MA
CAMBA 
JAMBA 
ROKAMBA

Present within the Port Hedland Inner Harbour

Loggerhead turtle (Caretta caretta) VU EN, MA, MI Bonn Present within the Port Hedland Inner Harbour

Leatherback turtle (Dermochelys 
coriacea) 

VU EN, MA, MI Bonn Present within the Port Hedland Inner Harbour

Green turtle (Chelonia mydas) EN EN, MA, MI Bonn Present within the Port Hedland Inner Harbour

Hawksbill turtle (Eretmochelys 
imbricata) 

CR VU, MA, MI Bonn Present within the Port Hedland Inner Harbour

Various migratory birds - MI

CAMBA 
JAMBA 
ROKAMBA 
Bonn

Migratory wetland bird species protected under 
international agreements occasionally occur 
within the Inner Harbour

Fortescue railway

Greater bilby (Macrotis lagotis) VU VU - Present along the mainline railway

Northern quoll (Dasyurus 
hallucatus)

EN EN - Present along the mainline railway

Ghost bat (Macroderma gigas) VU VU - Occasional visitors along Eliwana Railway

Pilbara olive python (Liasis 
olivaceus barroni) 

LC VU - Occasional visitors along Eliwana Railway

Pilbara leaf-nosed bat 
(Rhinonicteris aurantia (Pilbara 
form)) 

LC VU - Occasional visitors along Eliwana Railway

Cloudbreak mine 

Night parrot (Pezoporus 
occidentalis) 

CR EN -

Northern quoll (Dasyurus 
hallucatus)

EN EN -

Greater bilby (Macrotis lagotis) VU VU -



120  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

CORPORATE DIRECTORY

Critical Biodiversity continued

Fauna Species Conservation Significance Details

IUCN EPBC Other

Christmas Creek mine 

Night parrot (Pezoporus 
occidentalis) 

CR EN -

Northern quoll (Dasyurus hallucatus) EN EN -

Greater bilby (Macrotis lagotis) VU VU -

Pilbara olive python (Liasis olivaceus 
barroni) 

LC VU -

Solomon mine 

Northern quoll (Dasyurus hallucatus) EN EN -

Pilbara olive python  
(Liasis olivaceus barroni) 

LC VU -

Pilbara leaf-nosed bat (Rhinonicteris 
aurantia (Pilbara form)) 

LC VU - Recorded in the western extent of the mine

Eliwana mine 

Northern quoll (Dasyurus hallucatus) EN EN - Recorded within the mine area

Ghost bat (Macroderma gigas) VU VU - Recorded within the mine area

Pilbara olive python  
(Liasis olivaceus barroni) 

LC VU - Recorded within the mine area

Pilbara leaf-nosed bat (Rhinonicteris 
aurantia (Pilbara form)) 

LC VU - Recorded within the mine area

Iron Bridge magnetite project

Northern quoll (Dasyurus hallucatus) EN EN -

Ghost bat (Macroderma gigas) VU VU - Known roosts within the mine footprint

Pilbara leaf-nosed bat (Rhinonicteris 
aurantia (Pilbara form)) 

LC VU - Known roosts within the mine footprint

Greater bilby (Macrotis lagotis) VU VU -

Pilbara olive python  
(Liasis olivaceus barroni) 

LC VU -

IUCN: IUCN Red List of Threatened Species 

EPBC: Threatened species under the Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999 

LE: least concern, NT: near threatened, VU: vulnerable, EN: endangered, CR: critically endangered, MI: migratory, MA: marine



  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    121

Critical Biodiversity continued

Flora Species and Vegetation Conservation Significance Details

Herb Elliott port facility

Mangrove assemblages Local significance 
Local occurrence of mangrove 
assemblages, providing habitat to wide 
range of vertebrate and invertebrate fauna. 

Iron Bridge magnetite project

Pilbara foxglove (Quoya zonalis) 

Biodiversity Conservation Act 2016 - 
Threatened 

Environment Protection and Biodiversity 
Conservation Act 1999 - Endangered

Occurs within the mine area

Other Biodiversity Conservation Significance Details

Cloudbreak and Christmas Creek mines 

Fortescue Marsh

Wetland of national significance listed on 
the Directory of Important Wetlands of 
Australia. 

Provides habitat for migratory wetland bird 
species and is a significant breeding area 
for several non-migratory wetland bird 
species. 

Located adjacent to our  
Chichester Hub mines 

Solomon mine 

Karijini National Park 
National Park. Karijini offers a diverse 
range of landscapes, including deep 
rugged gorges, waterfalls and pools.

Located immediately adjacent to Solomon 
mine 



122  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

CORPORATE DIRECTORY

Water

Water withdrawals (ML)
Areas where water stress  

is < High
Areas where water stress  

is ≥ High

FY22 FY21 FY20 FY22 FY21 FY20

Water withdrawal (total) 185,906 0 0 144 0 0

Surface water withdrawal (total) 1 0 0 0 0 0

   Surface water withdrawal (fresh) 1 0 0 0 0 0

   Surface water withdrawal (other) 0 0 0 0 0 0

Rainwater collected 0 0 0 0 0 0

Groundwater withdrawal (total) 183,037 151,093 169,181 144 0 0

   Groundwater withdrawal (fresh) 21,699 17,251 - 144 0 -

   Groundwater withdrawal (other) 161,338 133,842 - 0 0 -
    Groundwater withdrawal for mine dewatering at 

Chichesters
151,389 - - 0 - -

Seawater withdrawal 1,839 593 558 0 0 0

Produced water withdrawal (total) 0 - - 0 - -

   Produced water withdrawal (fresh) 0 - - 0 - -

   Produced water withdrawal (other) 0 - - 0 - -
Third party municipal water supplies, other public or 
private water utilities (total)

36 23 20 0 - -

    Third party municipal water supplies, other public 
or private water utilities (surface water)

0 - - 0 - -

    Third party municipal water supplies, other public 
or private water utilities (groundwater)

35 - - 0 - -

    Third party municipal water supplies, other public 
or private water utilities (seawater)

0 - - 0 - -

    Third party municipal water supplies, other public 
or private water utilities (produced water)

0 - - 0 - -

Other third party withdrawal 0 0 0 0 0 0
Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal 
of water

0 0 0 0 0 0

Water consumed (ML)
Areas where water stress  

is < High
Areas where water stress  

is ≥ High

FY22 FY21 FY20 FY22 FY21 FY20

Water consumed (total) 53,043 53,947 45,458 144 - -

   Ore processing facilities 36,412 36,461 35,329 0 - -

   Potable supply 1,830 1,983 1,329 0 - -

   Dust suppression and construction 1,424 15,503 8,800 144 - -

   Other use 12,384 - - 0 - -

Water reused (ML) FY22 FY21 FY20

Water reuse (total) 4,131 3,610 1,095

   TSF decant return water, reused at OPF 4,131 3,610 1,095

A dash (-) indicates where data has not been reported in previous years.



  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    123

Economic Contribution

FY22 FY21 FY20 FY19 FY18

Taxes paid ($ million)

Company taxes  3,544 5,805 2,922 1,669 381

Royalties  1,560 2,075 1,285 823 529

Foreign  35 20 14 13 12

Salaries and benefits ($ million)

CEO total remuneration1 4.420 - - - -

Mean total remuneration (excluding CEO)1 0.205 - - - -

Median total remuneration (excluding CEO)1 0.200 - - - -

Total salaries 1,486 1,211 1,074 768 694

Total superannuation 153 125 104 80 71

Other metrics ($ million)

Amount of housing support 23 17 15 11 11

1 Fortescue Iron Ore Operations only 

A dash (-) indicates where data has not been reported in previous years.

Water

Water discharge (ML)
Areas where water stress  

is < High
Areas where water stress  

is ≥ High

FY22 FY21 FY20 FY22 FY21 FY20

Water discharge (total by destination) 132,540 100,240 116,519 0 - -
    Managed aquifer recharge (groundwater injection) 

(total)
125,860 95,819 111,889 0 - -

    Managed aquifer recharge (groundwater injection) 
(Chichesters)

125,728 - - 0 0 -

   Surface water discharge 0 0 0 0 0 -

   Seawater discharge (brine from desalination plants) 1,139 - - 0 - -

   Supplementation 3,245 2,348 3,548 0 0 -

   Infiltration (discharge to land) 162 993 - 0 - -
   Wastewater treatment plant irrigation  
   (discharge to land)

933 - - 0 - -

   Evaporation and seepage 1,201 1,081 1,082 0 - -

   Third party 0 0 - 0 - -

   Third party water sent for use in other organisations 0 0 - 0 - -

Water discharge (total by quality) 132,539 - - 0 - -

   Total water discharge (fresh) 4,472 - - 0 - -

   Total water discharge (other) 128,067 - - 0 - -



124  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

CORPORATE DIRECTORY

Nature of Activities Entities Additional Information

Argentina

Exploration

Argentina Fortescue S.A.U.

Argentina Minera S.A.

Viridi S.A.

Each of these entities hold rights to explore for 
minerals in Argentina.  

Renewable Energy
Argentina Fortescue Future Industries 
S.A.

Incorporated during FY22 to pursue renewable 
energy generation opportunities in Argentina.

Brazil

Exploration Brasil Fortescue Mineração Limitada
Incorporated to pursue metals exploration 
opportunities in Brazil.

Renewable Energy
Brasil Fortescue Sustainable 
Industries Limitada

Incorporated during FY22 to pursue renewable 
energy generation opportunities in Brazil.

Cameroon

Renewable Energy
Cameroon Fortescue Future 
Industries Ltd

Incorporated during FY22 to pursue renewable 
energy generation opportunities Cameroon.

Canada

Renewable Energy
Canada Fortescue Future Industries 
Ltd

Incorporated during FY22 to pursue renewable 
energy generation opportunities in Canada.

Chile

Exploration Chile Fortescue SpA
Incorporated to pursue metals exploration 
opportunities in Chile.

Renewable Energy Chile Fortescue Future Industries SpA
Incorporated during FY22 to pursue renewable 
energy generation opportunities in Chile.

Colombia

Exploration Colombia Fortescue SAS
Incorporated to pursue metals exploration 
opportunities in Colombia.

Democratic Republic of Congo

Renewable Energy
Democratic Republic of Congo 
Fortescue Future Industries Ltd

Incorporated to pursue renewable energy generation 
opportunities in the DRC.

Ecuador

Exploration Ecuador Fortescue S.A.
Incorporated to pursue metals exploration 
opportunities in Ecuador.

Ethiopia

Renewable Energy
Fortescue Future Chemicals 
Manufacturing Ethiopia PLC

Incorporated during FY22 to pursue renewable 
energy generation opportunities in Ethiopia.

Gabon

Exploration Ivindo Iron S.A.
Incorporated during FY22 for the purpose of 
undertaking exploration activities in relation to the 
Belinga Iron Ore Project in Gabon.

Non-revenue generating foreign incorporated subsidiary companies
Each of the entities listed below are wholly owned Fortescue Group entities incorporated in jurisdictions outside of Australia as 
at 30 June 2022. No external operating revenue was generated by these entities during the 30 June 2022 income year.



  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    125

Nature of Activities Entities Additional Information

Greenland

Renewable Energy Greenland Fortescue A.S.
Incorporated to pursue renewable energy generation opportunities in 
Greenland.

Hong Kong

Magnetite FMG Iron Bridge Limited
In 2013, Fortescue and Formosa Plastics Group (Formosa) 
announced a joint venture to develop and operate the Iron Bridge 
Project located in Western Australia, Australia. 

Indonesia

Renewable Energy

PT Indonesia Fortescue 
Infrastructure

PT Indonesia Papua Fortescue 
Future Industries

Incorporated to pursue renewable energy production 
opportunities in Indonesia.

Kazakhstan

Exploration

Kazakhstan Fortescue LLP

Kazakhstan Fortescue  
Operations LLP

Incorporated to pursue metals exploration opportunities in 
Kazakhstan.
Kazakhstan Fortescue Operations LLP is the operator of the 
Fortescue Kazakhstan and National Mining Company ‘Tau-ken 
Samruk’ JSC unincorporated joint venture (the UJV). The purpose 
of the UJV is to pursue metals exploration opportunities in 
Kazakhstan.

Renewable Energy
Kazakhstan Fortescue Future 
Industries LLP

Incorporated during FY22 to pursue renewable energy generation 
opportunities in Kazakhstan.

Kenya

Renewable Energy
Fortescue Future Industries 
Kenya Ltd

Incorporated during FY22 to pursue renewable energy generation 
opportunities in Kenya.

Namibia

Renewable Energy
Fortescue Future Industries 
Namibia Proprietary Ltd

Incorporated during FY22 to pursue renewable energy generation 
opportunities in Namibia.

New Zealand

Renewable Energy
New Zealand Fortescue Future 
Industries Limited

Incorporated to pursue renewable energy generation 
opportunities in New Zealand.

Peru

Exploration Peru Fortescue S.A.C. Incorporated to pursue metals exploration opportunities in Peru.

Portugal

Exploration
Portugal Fortescue  
Unipessoal LDA

Incorporated to pursue metals exploration opportunities in 
Portugal.



126  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

CORPORATE DIRECTORY

Nature of Activities Entities Additional information

Papua New Guinea

Exploration Bougainville Fortescue Limited
Incorporated to pursue metals exploration 
opportunities in the autonomous region of 
Bougainville of Papua New Guinea.

Renewable Energy
Papua New Guinea Fortescue Future Industries 
Ltd

Incorporated to pursue renewable energy 
generation opportunities in Papua New Guinea.

Singapore

Investment

Fortescue International Marketing Pte Ltd 
FMG International Shipping Pte Ltd 
FMG Ecuador Operations Pte Ltd 
FMG Ecuador Tenements Pte Ltd 
FMG South America Pte Ltd 
FMG Colombia Operations Pte Ltd 
FMG International Exploration Pte Ltd

Fortescue has a number of companies incorporated 
and domiciled in Singapore. The primary purpose of 
these entities is to hold Fortescue investments.

Decarbonisation PSV Leveque Pte Ltd

Incorporated during FY22 to acquire a platform 
supply vessel for the purpose of trialling its 
conversion from diesel powered to a dual diesel and 
green ammonia fuel.

South Africa

Renewable Energy
South Africa Fortescue Future Industries  
Pty Ltd

Holds Fortescue’s investment in the Democratic 
Republic of Congo relating to renewable energy 
generation opportunities. 

United Kingdom

Exploration Belinga Joint Venture Company Limited
Incorporated during FY22 for the purpose of 
holding Fortescue’s investment in the Belinga Iron 
Ore project in Gabon.

USA

Corporate FMG America Finance Inc.
FMG America Finance Inc. has been Fortescue’s 
registered issuer of certain US dollar debt facilities.

Renewable Energy

MIH2 USA, Inc. 
MIH2 USA People, Inc.  
FFI Ionix, Inc. 
FFI Ionix IP, Inc. 
USA Fortescue Future Industries Inc. 

MIH2 USA, Inc. was incorporated in FY22 to hold 
FFI’s investments related to renewable energy 
technologies in the USA, including FFI Ionix and FFI 
Ionix IP which were also incorporated in FY22 to 
hold the assets acquired from Xergy, Inc.
MIH2 USA People, Inc. is the employing entity for 
FFI and its related entities in the USA.
USA Fortescue Future Industries, Inc.’s purpose is to 
pursue renewable energy generation opportunities 
in the USA.

Zambia

Exploration Zambia Fortescue Limited
Incorporated during FY22 to pursue metals 
exploration opportunities in Zambia.



  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    127

GLOSSARY

Aboriginal
Those who identify themselves as 
Australian Aboriginal and/or Torres 
Strait Islander.

Aboriginal employees in trade 
roles
The number of permanent, fixed term 
(full time and part time), and labour hire 
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander 
employees in roles defined internally 
as apprentice, trades, trades specialist 
or track maintenance, who work in 
Australia, as a percentage of the total 
number of permanent and fixed term 
(full time and part time) employees in 
roles defined internally as apprentice, 
trades, trades specialist or track 
maintenance. Calculated using data as 
at 30 June 2022.

Aboriginal employment rate
The number of permanent, fixed term 
(full time and part time), and labour hire 
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander 
employees who work in Australia, as 
a percentage of the total number of 
permanent, fixed term (full time and part 
time), and labour hire employees who 
work in Australia. Calculated using data 
as at 30 June 2022.

Aboriginal owned businesses
A business with equal to or greater 
than 50 per cent ownership by an entity 
registered as an Aboriginal Corporation 
by the Office of the Registrar of 
Indigenous Corporations, a member of a 
registered native title group, a member 
of the Aboriginal Chamber of Commerce 
and Industry, a Supply Nation Registered 
and Certified Supplier or a member of 
the Indigenous Land and Sea Council.

Aboriginal people employed
Total number of permanent, fixed term 
(full time and part time), and labour hire 
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander 
employees as at 30 June 2022.

Absentee rate
The number of absence days Australian 
direct employees accessed for personal 
leave (paid and unpaid), compassionate 
leave, or absent without leave as a 
percentage of their overall days rostered 
to work during FY22.

AHS
Autonomous haulage system.

AMMA
Australian Resources and Energy Group.

ARMSC
Audit, Risk Management and 
Sustainability Committee. A committee 
of Fortescue’s Board of Directors 
(Board).

ASX
Australian Securities Exchange.

Board membership
Members of Fortescue’s Board of 
Directors, who are elected in accordance 
with Fortescue’s Constitution and the 
Corporations Act 2001 (Cth).

Billion Opportunities
A Fortescue program to award contracts 
and subcontracts to Aboriginal 
businesses. From 2011 to 2019, 
businesses with 25 per cent or greater 
Aboriginal ownership were considered 
Aboriginal businesses. From 2020, 
businesses with 50 per cent or greater 
Aboriginal ownership are considered 
Aboriginal businesses.

Chichester Hub

Fortescue’s mining hub with two 
operating iron ore mines, Cloudbreak 
and Christmas Creek, located in the 
Pilbara, approximately 250 kilometres 
south-east of Fortescue’s Herb Elliott 
Port in Port Hedland.

CME
Chamber of Minerals and Energy.

Contestable spend
Spend (includes VAT/GST) that is 
subject to Fortescue’s procurement 
processes and managed in accordance 
with Fortescue’s Procurement 
Policy. It excludes shipping costs, 
government costs or charges (including 
royalties), donations, subscriptions 
and memberships, Native Title Group 
payments (other than payments made 
for the provision of direct goods or 
services), property leasing, related 
Fortescue entities and legal fees.

Contractors
Non-Fortescue employees working 
with the Company to support specific 
business activities. Excludes those 
classified as labour hire.

Corporations Act 
Corporations Act 2001 of the 
Commonwealth of Australia.

Critical biodiversity
Sites containing globally or nationally 
important biodiversity, which can 
include species classified as Critically 
Endangered, Endangered, or Vulnerable 
on the IUCN Red List, endemic species, 
internationally recognised areas such as 
World Heritage sites, Ramsar Wetlands, 
UNESCO biosphere reserves, nationally 
important biodiversity such as legally 
protected areas, habitats, and species.

Critical supplier
A critical supplier is a provider of  
critical components to our operations; 
high-volume consumables; or  
non-substitutable goods. 

CSFMP
Conservation Significant Fauna 
Management Plan.

Direct employees
Total number of permanent and 
fixed term (full-time and part-time) 
employees. Does not include labour hire 
or contractors.

dmt
Dry metric tonne.

EBITDA
EBITDA is defined as earnings 
before interest, tax, depreciation and 
amortisation, exploration, development 
and other expenses.

EBITDA margin
EBITDA/Operating sales revenue.

Employee contributions
Financial contributions donated by 
Fortescue employees.



128  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

CORPORATE DIRECTORY

Employee turnover (involuntary)
The number of involuntary exits through 
dismissals of permanent and fixed term 
(full time and part time) employees as a 
percentage of the average headcount 
for FY22.

Employee turnover (voluntary)
The number of voluntary exits through 
resignations of permanent and fixed 
term (full time and part time) employees 
as a percentage of the average 
headcount for FY22.

EPBC Act
Environment Protection and Biodiversity 
Conservation Act 1999 (Cth).

ESG
Environment, social and governance.

Fe 
The chemical symbol for iron.

Female employment rate
The number of female permanent, 
fixed term (full time and part time), and 
labour hire employees who work across 
Fortescue’s Australian and international 
sites, as a percentage of the total 
number of permanent, fixed term and 
labour hire employees. Calculated using 
data as at 30 June 2022.

Female employment rate in 
manager and above roles
The number of female, permanent 
and fixed term (full time and part 
time) employees, in roles defined as 
supervisor and above who work across 
Fortescue’s Australian and international 
sites, as a percentage of the total 
number of permanent and fixed term 
employees. This does not include labour 
hire employees. Calculated using data 
as at 30 June 2022.

Female employment rate in senior 
leadership roles
The number of female, permanent 
and fixed term (full time and part time) 
employees, in roles defined as group/
general manager and above who work 
across Fortescue’s Australian and 
international sites, as a percentage of 
the total number of permanent and fixed 
term employees. This does not include 
labour hire employees. Calculated using 
data as at 30 June 2022.

FFI
Fortescue Future Industries Pty Ltd.

FIFO
Fly-in fly-out, defined as circumstances 
of work where the place of work is 
sufficiently isolated from the worker’s 
place of residence to make daily 
commute impractical and workers are 
flown to their workplace for their shift.

Flexible working arrangements
Number of Fortescue employees in 
Australia utilising casual, part time or job 
share work arrangements. It does not 
include labour hire. Requests for flexible 
working arrangements are in accordance 
with the Fair Work Act 2009 (Cth).

Fortescue
Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  
(ACN 002 594 872) and its subsidiaries.

Freshwater
Water with concentration of total 
dissolved solids equal to or below  
1,000 mg/L.

FY
Financial Year.

GJ
Gigajoule.

GL
Gigalitre.

GMC
Global Monitoring Centre.

GRI
Global Reporting Initiative. GRI 
is an independent international 
organisation which provides companies 
with a framework to advance their 
sustainability agenda. The GRI 
Standards set a global best practice for 
reporting on economic, environmental 
and social impacts.

Ha
Hectares.

HAP
Hazardous air pollutants. Those 
pollutants that are known or suspected 
to cause cancer or other serious health 
effects, such as reproductive effects or 
birth defects, or adverse environmental 
effects. Listed by the US Environmental 
Protection Agency under the Clean Air 
Act.

Health and safety training hours
Total training hours for health and safety 
recorded during FY22 for permanent 
and fixed term (full time and part time) 
employees across all of Fortescue’s 
Australian sites. Excludes casual 
employees.

Hematite
An iron ore compound with an average 
iron content of between 57% and 63% 
Fe. Hematite deposits are typically large, 
close to the surface and mined via open 
pits.

ICMM
The International Council on Mining and 
Metals, established in 2001 to act as a 
catalyst for performance improvement 
in the mining and metals industry.

IDAHOBIT
International Day Against Homophobia, 
Biphobia, Interphobia and Transphobia.

ILO
International Labour Organization.

Injury severity rate
Represents the number of lost workdays 
experienced per 100 workers.

In-kind contributions
Donation of product, property 
and services by Fortescue, which 
includes employee time volunteering, 
secondments, use of company 
equipment and facilities as well as the 
donation of products.

Indigenous Land Use Agreement 
(ILUA)
Statutory agreement between a native 
title group and others about the use of 
land and waters.

ISR
Injury severity rate. Calculated using lost 
or restricted days methodology.

IUCN
International Union for Conservation of 
Nature.

kL
Kilolitre.

km
Kilometre.



  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    129

Labour hire employees
Contractors backfilling permanent 
Fortescue roles and employed through 
selected recurring external labour hire 
agencies.

Land archaeologically surveyed in 
FY22
The area of land archaeologically 
surveyed across Fortescue’s Western 
Australian tenement portfolio in FY22, 
measured in hectares. Surveys are 
undertaken by traditional land owners 
and a cultural heritage professional.

Land ethnographically surveyed in 
FY22
The area of land ethnographically 
surveyed across Fortescue’s Western 
Australian tenement portfolio during 
FY22, measured in hectares. The survey 
is undertaken by traditional land owners 
and a cultural heritage professional.

Leadership roles held by 
Aboriginal people
The number of permanent and fixed 
term (full time and part time) Aboriginal 
and Torres Strait Islander employees in 
roles defined as supervisor and above 
who work in Australia, as a percentage 
of the total number of permanent and 
fixed term employees in roles defined 
as supervisor and above who work in 
Australia. This does not include labour 
hire employees. Calculated using data 
as at 30 June 2022.

Local Pilbara supplier
Suppliers whose head office is located 
in the Pilbara region of Western 
Australia as defined by postcode. In 
cases where the work is performed 
in the Pilbara but the supplier’s head 
office is located outside the Pilbara, an 
analysis is undertaken to determine the 
percentage of spend attributed to the 
Pilbara.

LTIFR
Lost time injury frequency rate. 
Calculated using lost days methodology.

Lost or restricted days
A maximum of 180 lost or restricted 
days are allocated to any one single 
incident with the exception of a fatality 
which is always recorded as 220 days. 
When counting lost or restricted days, 
only rostered days of work are counted. 

m³
Cubic metres.

MADALAH
MADALAH Limited.

Magnetite
An iron ore compound that is typically 
a lower iron content than hematite iron 
ore. Magnetite ore requires significant 
beneficiation to form a saleable 
concentrate. After beneficiation, 
magnetite ore can be palletised for 
direct use as a high-grade raw material 
for steel production.

Material landfilled
The volume of waste sent to landfill from 
Fortescue’s Pilbara operations, including 
port and rail, as a percentage of the 
total volume of waste generated. Waste 
landfilled includes putrescible, glass and 
wooden damaged pallets.

Material recycled
The volume of waste recycled from 
Fortescue’s Pilbara operations, including 
port and rail, as a percentage of the 
total volume of waste generated. Waste 
recycled includes non-hazardous waste 
(including wood, rubber, aluminium, 
steel, batteries, cardboard and 
high-density polyethylene pipe) and 
hazardous waste (oil filters).

Mtpa
Million tonnes per annum.

Nationality
Nationality as self reported during the 
onboarding process.

NTP
Native title partners. This refers to the 
West Australian native title groups 
and native title holders with whom 
Fortescue has a relationship. These 
relationships allow the Company to 
undertake consultation for exploration 
and operations purposes. For some 
native title partners, this relationship 
is established through an Indigenous 
Land Use Agreement, Land Access 
Agreement or Heritage Agreements.

Number of heritage places 
managed
Total number of active recorded 
heritage places across Fortescue’s 
exploration and operations in Western 
Australia. Heritage places are managed 
through physical demarcation and 
through our geographic information 
system.

Number of reportable heritage 
incidents
Total number of reportable heritage 
breaches reported during FY22. 
Breaches are defined as offences 
relating to Aboriginal sites in 
accordance with the Aboriginal Heritage 
Act 1972.

Number of staff by employment 
category
Number of permanent and fixed term 
(full time and part time) employees 
across our Australian and international 
sites within each of the following 
employment categories: CEO, General 
Manager and above, Manager, 
Superintendent, Supervisor, and Other 
as at 30 June 2022. It does not include 
casual and labour hire employees.

Number of staff by region
Total number of permanent, fixed term 
(full time and part time), and labour hire 
employees by region as at 30 June 2022.

OPF
Ore processing facility.

Parental leave
Paid and unpaid primary or secondary 
carer leave taken for the purpose of 
caring for dependents in Australia 
during FY22.

PEC
Pilbara Energy Connect project.

Pilbara
The Pilbara region in the north-west of 
Western Australia.

POP
Persistent organic pollutants. Listed in 
the Stockholm convention on Persistent 
Organic Pollutants. Most are pesticides, 
industrial chemicals or by-products.

Produced water
Water that is a result of raw material use 
or other processing.

RFDS
Royal Flying Doctors Service.

Scope 1
Emissions from operations owned and 
controlled by Fortescue within Australia. 
These include emissions from our 
mining haul fleet and the power stations 
operated by us.



130  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

CORPORATE DIRECTORY

Scope 2
Indirect emissions generated from 
electricity purchased by Fortescue 
within Australia.

Scope 3
Indirect emissions within Fortescue’s 
value chain (excluding Scope 2), 
including upstream and downstream 
emissions.

Senior Executive
Leadership position where the employee 
has the title of Director or Group/
General Manager.

Significant environmental 
incidents
Incidents classified at Level 3 and 
above (as defined through Fortescue’s 
Environmental Consequence 
Descriptors Matrix). Level 3 
environmental incidents result in 
offsite environmental impact causing 
significant environmental harm.

SIFR
Significant incident frequency rate per 
million hours worked.

Social investment in our 
communities
Our investment in philanthropic, 
community and commercial initiatives. 
These investments aim to build 
sustainable communities and focus on 
areas of health, wellness, education, 
regional development, environmental 
responsibility, arts and culture and 
providing employment and training 
opportunities to local and Indigenous 
people. Contributions include 
financial (donations, grants, employee 
contributions, matched giving, 
partnerships, local training programs, 
support for local communities and 
Pilbara residential FIFO employees), 
in-kind contributions (volunteering, 
use of company equipment, logistical 
support and donation of products) 
and management costs (community 
investment staff salaries and 
overheads).

Solomon Hub
A mining hub with two operating iron  
ore mines, Firetail, Kings and Queens. 
The Hub is located approximately  
60 kilometres north of the township of 
Tom Price and 120 kilometres west of 
the railway that links the Chichester Hub 
to Port Hedland.

Training hours
Total training hours recorded during 
FY22 for permanent and fixed term (full 
time and part time) employees across all 
of Fortescue’s Australian sites. Excludes 
casual employees.

Training hours per employee
The total number of hours of training per 
permanent and fixed term employees 
(full time and part time) across 
Fortescue’s Australian sites during 
FY22. Excludes casual employees.

Total global economic contribution
Payments that contribute to the 
global economy, including payments 
to suppliers, employees (salaries 
and wages), governments (taxes and 
royalties), shareholders and investors 
(dividends and debt repayments).

Total land archaeologically 
surveyed
The cumulative area of land 
archaeologically surveyed across 
Fortescue’s Western Australian 
tenement portfolio to the end of FY22, 
measured in hectares. Surveys are 
undertaken by traditional land owners 
and a cultural heritage professional.

Total land disturbed
The total land area disturbed through 
clearing across Fortescue’s Pilbara 
operations, including port and rail, 
in 2021 (calendar year) measured 
in hectares. Land disturbance is 
measured in accordance with reporting 
requirements under the Mining Act 1978.

Total land ethnographically 
surveyed
The cumulative area of land 
ethnographically surveyed across 
Fortescue’s Western Australian 
tenement portfolio to the end of FY22, 
measured in hectares. Surveys are 
undertaken by traditional land owners 
and a cultural heritage professional.

Total land rehabilitated
The total land area rehabilitated across 
Fortescue’s Pilbara operations, including 
port and rail, in 2021 (calendar year), 
measured in hectares. The land area 
rehabilitated is measured in accordance 
with reporting requirements under the 
Mining Act 1978.

Total NOx emissions
The total oxides of nitrogen emissions 
across Fortescue’s Pilbara operations, 
including port and rail, in FY22, 
measured in metric tonnes. Emissions 
are measured in accordance with the 
reporting requirements of National 
Environment Protection (National 
Pollutant Inventory) Measure 1998.

Total particulate emissions
The total particulate matter (PM10) 
emissions across Fortescue’s Pilbara 
operations, including port and rail, in 
FY22, measured in metric tonnes. PM10 
are very small particles found in dust 
and smoke. They have a diameter of 10 
micrometres (0.01 mm) or smaller.

Total SOx emissions
The total sulphur dioxide emissions 
across Fortescue’s Pilbara operations, 
including port and rail, in FY22, 
measured in metric tonnes. Emissions 
are measured in accordance with the 
reporting requirements of National 
Environment Protection (National 
Pollutant Inventory) Measure 1998.

Total tailings
The total volume of fine-grained 
by-product, generated through 
Fortescue’s iron ore processing facilities 
at its operational sites in the Pilbara, 
measured in dry metric tonnes.

Total salaries
The total gross salaries paid to 
permanent, fixed term (full time and 
part time) Australian and international 
employees before taxes and deductions 
in FY22. Excludes salaries paid to labour 
hire and contractors.

Total superannuation
The total superannuation payments 
made to permanent or fixed term 
(full time and part time) Australian 
employees’ nominated superannuation 
fund in FY22. Excludes payments to 
labour hire and contractors.

Total waste
The volume of waste generated 
at Fortescue’s Pilbara operational 
sites, including port and rail, in FY22, 
measured in metric tonnes, including 
mineralised and non-mineralised waste. 



  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    131

TRIFR
Total recordable injury frequency rate 
per million hours worked, comprising 
lost time injuries, restricted work and 
medical treatments.

TSF 
Tailings storage facility.

TSF decant return water
Volume of water recovered from tailings 
storage facilities and made available for 
reuse.

UNGC
United Nations Global Compact, 
which provides a leadership platform 
for businesses that are committed to 
aligning their strategies and operations 
with 10 universally accepted principles 
in human rights, labour, environment 
and anti-corruption.

UNGP
United Nations Guiding Principles on 
Business and Human Rights. A set of 
guidelines for States and companies to 
prevent, address and remedy human 
rights abuses committed in business 
operations.

UN SDGs
United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals. The SDGs are a 
collection of 17 interlinked global goals 
designed to be a “blueprint to achieve a 
better and more sustainable future for 
all”.

VPI
Voluntary Principles Initiative. The 
Initiative promotes the Voluntary 
Principles on Security and Human 
Rights and its implementation by 
members from three pillars: corporate, 
government, and NGO.

VTEC
Vocational Training and Employment 
Centre.

WAE
Williams Advanced Engineering.

Water consumption
Total water used and reused across all 
of Fortescue’s Pilbara operational sites 
in FY22. Includes water use through ore 
processing facilities, potable camp supply 
and dust suppression and construction 
and TSF decant return water.

Water discharges
Total water returns across all of 
Fortescue’s Pilbara operational sites in 
FY22. Includes water returned through 
managed aquifer recharge, surface water 
discharge, supplementation, infiltration, 
evaporation and seepage.

Water withdrawn by source
Total water withdrawn from across all of 
Fortescue’s Pilbara operational sites in 
FY22. Includes water withdrawn from the 
following sources: groundwater, surface 
water, seawater, municipal water supplies 
and third party.

Whistleblower cases
The total number of whistleblower cases 
reported through the Whistleblower 
Hotline in FY22.

Whistleblower Hotline
This refers to the independent, 
confidential and anonymous mechanism 
for employees, contractors and members 
of the community to raise concerns 
regarding potential illegal activity 
or breaches of our Code of Conduct 
and Integrity across all Fortescue 
operations. The Whistleblower Hotline 
Policy is aligned with the Treasury Laws 
Amendment Act 2019 (Cth).

wmt
Wet metric tonne.

Workplace Integrity Review
Fortescue launched the Review in July 
2021 to directly engage with Fortescue’s 
workforce and contractors to understand 
their views about the factors that may 
contribute to sexual harassment and how 
Fortescue could enhance and expand 
upon existing measures to prevent it.



132  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd  FY22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

CORPORATE DIRECTORY

Fortescue Australia
Level 2, 87 Adelaide Terrace 
East Perth, WA 6004 
T: +61 8 6218 8888  
F: +61 8 6218 8880 
E: fmgl@fmgl.com.au 

www.fortescue.com

Fortescue VTEC and 
Community office 
1B/2 Byass Street 
South Hedland, WA 6722 
T: +61 8 9158 5800  
F: +61 8 6218 8880 
E: hedlandcommunity@fmgl.com.au 
E: vtec@fmgl.com.au

Australian Business 
Number
ABN 57 002 594 872

Auditor
PwC 
Level 15, 125 St Georges Terrace 
Perth, WA 6000 
www.pwc.com.au

Securities Exchange 
listings
Fortescue Metals Group Limited 
shares are listed on the Australian 
Securities Exchange (ASX) 
ASX Code: FMG

Fortescue Share Registry
Link Market Services Limited 
Level 12, QV1 Building 
250 St Georges Terrace 
Perth, WA 6000 
Locked Bag A14 
Sydney South, NSW 1235 
T: 1300 733 136 (within Australia) 
T: +61 2 8280 7603 (International) 
F: +61 2 9287 0309 
www.linkmarketservices.com.au

 

CONTACT DETAILS

Fortescue Shanghai, China
Unit 3, Floor 15 No. 1366 Lujiazui Ring 
Road Pudong New Area Shanghai, 
P.R China 

Singapore
FMG International  
The Central  
8 Eu Tong Sen St  
24-91 Singapore 059818

 
@FortescueNews

au.linkedin.com/company/ 
fortescue-metals-group 

STAY IN TOUCH
Latest news, reports and 
presentations via email
If you would prefer to receive 
information such as annual 
reports, notices of meetings and 
announcements via email, you 
can change your communication 
preferences on the Registry website:  
www.linkmarketservices.com.au

To get in touch with any other 
Fortescue office, please contact 
reception@fmgl.com.au

www.facebook.com/
fortescuemetalsgroupltd/



Fortescue's  
FY22 Annual Report and  

FY22 Climate Change Report  
are available on our website  

at www.fortescue.com



fortescue.com


	Overview
	Our approach to sustainability
	Corporate governance
	Stakeholder engagement and collaboration
	People building sustainable communities
	Planet safeguarding natural systems
	Process operating with integrity
	Corporate directory

	Button 2: 
	Page 5: 
	Page 7: 
	Page 11: 
	Page 13: 
	Page 15: 

	Button 8: 
	Page 5: 
	Page 7: 
	Page 11: 
	Page 13: 
	Page 15: 

	Button 3: 
	Page 5: 
	Page 7: 
	Page 11: 
	Page 13: 
	Page 15: 

	Button 4: 
	Page 5: 
	Page 7: 
	Page 11: 
	Page 13: 
	Page 15: 

	Button 5: 
	Page 5: 
	Page 7: 
	Page 11: 
	Page 13: 
	Page 15: 

	Button 6: 
	Page 5: 
	Page 7: 
	Page 11: 
	Page 13: 
	Page 15: 

	Button 7: 
	Page 5: 
	Page 7: 
	Page 11: 
	Page 13: 
	Page 15: 

	Button 1: 
	Page 5: 
	Page 7: 
	Page 11: 
	Page 13: 
	Page 15: 

	Button 49: 
	Page 9: 
	Page 89: 
	Page 91: 
	Page 93: 
	Page 95: 
	Page 97: 
	Page 99: 
	Page 101: 
	Page 103: 
	Page 105: 

	Button 50: 
	Page 9: 
	Page 89: 
	Page 91: 
	Page 93: 
	Page 95: 
	Page 97: 
	Page 99: 
	Page 101: 
	Page 103: 
	Page 105: 

	Button 51: 
	Page 9: 
	Page 89: 
	Page 91: 
	Page 93: 
	Page 95: 
	Page 97: 
	Page 99: 
	Page 101: 
	Page 103: 
	Page 105: 

	Button 52: 
	Page 9: 
	Page 89: 
	Page 91: 
	Page 93: 
	Page 95: 
	Page 97: 
	Page 99: 
	Page 101: 
	Page 103: 
	Page 105: 

	Button 53: 
	Page 9: 
	Page 89: 
	Page 91: 
	Page 93: 
	Page 95: 
	Page 97: 
	Page 99: 
	Page 101: 
	Page 103: 
	Page 105: 

	Button 54: 
	Page 9: 
	Page 89: 
	Page 91: 
	Page 93: 
	Page 95: 
	Page 97: 
	Page 99: 
	Page 101: 
	Page 103: 
	Page 105: 

	Button 55: 
	Page 9: 
	Page 89: 
	Page 91: 
	Page 93: 
	Page 95: 
	Page 97: 
	Page 99: 
	Page 101: 
	Page 103: 
	Page 105: 

	Button 56: 
	Page 9: 
	Page 89: 
	Page 91: 
	Page 93: 
	Page 95: 
	Page 97: 
	Page 99: 
	Page 101: 
	Page 103: 
	Page 105: 

	Button 9: 
	Page 17: 
	Page 19: 
	Page 21: 

	Button 10: 
	Page 17: 
	Page 19: 
	Page 21: 

	Button 11: 
	Page 17: 
	Page 19: 
	Page 21: 

	Button 12: 
	Page 17: 
	Page 19: 
	Page 21: 

	Button 13: 
	Page 17: 
	Page 19: 
	Page 21: 

	Button 14: 
	Page 17: 
	Page 19: 
	Page 21: 

	Button 15: 
	Page 17: 
	Page 19: 
	Page 21: 

	Button 16: 
	Page 17: 
	Page 19: 
	Page 21: 

	Button 17: 
	Page 23: 
	Page 25: 
	Page 27: 
	Page 29: 
	Page 31: 
	Page 33: 
	Page 35: 

	Button 18: 
	Page 23: 
	Page 25: 
	Page 27: 
	Page 29: 
	Page 31: 
	Page 33: 
	Page 35: 

	Button 19: 
	Page 23: 
	Page 25: 
	Page 27: 
	Page 29: 
	Page 31: 
	Page 33: 
	Page 35: 

	Button 20: 
	Page 23: 
	Page 25: 
	Page 27: 
	Page 29: 
	Page 31: 
	Page 33: 
	Page 35: 

	Button 21: 
	Page 23: 
	Page 25: 
	Page 27: 
	Page 29: 
	Page 31: 
	Page 33: 
	Page 35: 

	Button 22: 
	Page 23: 
	Page 25: 
	Page 27: 
	Page 29: 
	Page 31: 
	Page 33: 
	Page 35: 

	Button 23: 
	Page 23: 
	Page 25: 
	Page 27: 
	Page 29: 
	Page 31: 
	Page 33: 
	Page 35: 

	Button 24: 
	Page 23: 
	Page 25: 
	Page 27: 
	Page 29: 
	Page 31: 
	Page 33: 
	Page 35: 

	Button 25: 
	Page 37: 
	Page 39: 
	Page 41: 

	Button 26: 
	Page 37: 
	Page 39: 
	Page 41: 

	Button 27: 
	Page 37: 
	Page 39: 
	Page 41: 

	Button 28: 
	Page 37: 
	Page 39: 
	Page 41: 

	Button 29: 
	Page 37: 
	Page 39: 
	Page 41: 

	Button 30: 
	Page 37: 
	Page 39: 
	Page 41: 

	Button 31: 
	Page 37: 
	Page 39: 
	Page 41: 

	Button 32: 
	Page 37: 
	Page 39: 
	Page 41: 

	Button 33: 
	Page 43: 
	Page 45: 
	Page 47: 
	Page 49: 
	Page 51: 
	Page 53: 
	Page 55: 
	Page 57: 
	Page 59: 
	Page 61: 
	Page 63: 
	Page 65: 
	Page 67: 
	Page 69: 
	Page 71: 

	Button 34: 
	Page 43: 
	Page 45: 
	Page 47: 
	Page 49: 
	Page 51: 
	Page 53: 
	Page 55: 
	Page 57: 
	Page 59: 
	Page 61: 
	Page 63: 
	Page 65: 
	Page 67: 
	Page 69: 
	Page 71: 

	Button 35: 
	Page 43: 
	Page 45: 
	Page 47: 
	Page 49: 
	Page 51: 
	Page 53: 
	Page 55: 
	Page 57: 
	Page 59: 
	Page 61: 
	Page 63: 
	Page 65: 
	Page 67: 
	Page 69: 
	Page 71: 

	Button 36: 
	Page 43: 
	Page 45: 
	Page 47: 
	Page 49: 
	Page 51: 
	Page 53: 
	Page 55: 
	Page 57: 
	Page 59: 
	Page 61: 
	Page 63: 
	Page 65: 
	Page 67: 
	Page 69: 
	Page 71: 

	Button 37: 
	Page 43: 
	Page 45: 
	Page 47: 
	Page 49: 
	Page 51: 
	Page 53: 
	Page 55: 
	Page 57: 
	Page 59: 
	Page 61: 
	Page 63: 
	Page 65: 
	Page 67: 
	Page 69: 
	Page 71: 

	Button 38: 
	Page 43: 
	Page 45: 
	Page 47: 
	Page 49: 
	Page 51: 
	Page 53: 
	Page 55: 
	Page 57: 
	Page 59: 
	Page 61: 
	Page 63: 
	Page 65: 
	Page 67: 
	Page 69: 
	Page 71: 

	Button 39: 
	Page 43: 
	Page 45: 
	Page 47: 
	Page 49: 
	Page 51: 
	Page 53: 
	Page 55: 
	Page 57: 
	Page 59: 
	Page 61: 
	Page 63: 
	Page 65: 
	Page 67: 
	Page 69: 
	Page 71: 

	Button 40: 
	Page 43: 
	Page 45: 
	Page 47: 
	Page 49: 
	Page 51: 
	Page 53: 
	Page 55: 
	Page 57: 
	Page 59: 
	Page 61: 
	Page 63: 
	Page 65: 
	Page 67: 
	Page 69: 
	Page 71: 

	Button 41: 
	Page 73: 
	Page 75: 
	Page 77: 
	Page 79: 
	Page 81: 
	Page 83: 
	Page 85: 
	Page 87: 

	Button 42: 
	Page 73: 
	Page 75: 
	Page 77: 
	Page 79: 
	Page 81: 
	Page 83: 
	Page 85: 
	Page 87: 

	Button 43: 
	Page 73: 
	Page 75: 
	Page 77: 
	Page 79: 
	Page 81: 
	Page 83: 
	Page 85: 
	Page 87: 

	Button 44: 
	Page 73: 
	Page 75: 
	Page 77: 
	Page 79: 
	Page 81: 
	Page 83: 
	Page 85: 
	Page 87: 

	Button 45: 
	Page 73: 
	Page 75: 
	Page 77: 
	Page 79: 
	Page 81: 
	Page 83: 
	Page 85: 
	Page 87: 

	Button 46: 
	Page 73: 
	Page 75: 
	Page 77: 
	Page 79: 
	Page 81: 
	Page 83: 
	Page 85: 
	Page 87: 

	Button 47: 
	Page 73: 
	Page 75: 
	Page 77: 
	Page 79: 
	Page 81: 
	Page 83: 
	Page 85: 
	Page 87: 

	Button 48: 
	Page 73: 
	Page 75: 
	Page 77: 
	Page 79: 
	Page 81: 
	Page 83: 
	Page 85: 
	Page 87: 

	Button 57: 
	Page 107: 
	Page 109: 
	Page 111: 
	Page 113: 
	Page 115: 
	Page 117: 
	Page 119: 
	Page 121: 
	Page 123: 
	Page 125: 
	Page 127: 
	Page 129: 
	Page 131: 
	Page 133: 

	Button 58: 
	Page 107: 
	Page 109: 
	Page 111: 
	Page 113: 
	Page 115: 
	Page 117: 
	Page 119: 
	Page 121: 
	Page 123: 
	Page 125: 
	Page 127: 
	Page 129: 
	Page 131: 
	Page 133: 

	Button 59: 
	Page 107: 
	Page 109: 
	Page 111: 
	Page 113: 
	Page 115: 
	Page 117: 
	Page 119: 
	Page 121: 
	Page 123: 
	Page 125: 
	Page 127: 
	Page 129: 
	Page 131: 
	Page 133: 

	Button 60: 
	Page 107: 
	Page 109: 
	Page 111: 
	Page 113: 
	Page 115: 
	Page 117: 
	Page 119: 
	Page 121: 
	Page 123: 
	Page 125: 
	Page 127: 
	Page 129: 
	Page 131: 
	Page 133: 

	Button 61: 
	Page 107: 
	Page 109: 
	Page 111: 
	Page 113: 
	Page 115: 
	Page 117: 
	Page 119: 
	Page 121: 
	Page 123: 
	Page 125: 
	Page 127: 
	Page 129: 
	Page 131: 
	Page 133: 

	Button 62: 
	Page 107: 
	Page 109: 
	Page 111: 
	Page 113: 
	Page 115: 
	Page 117: 
	Page 119: 
	Page 121: 
	Page 123: 
	Page 125: 
	Page 127: 
	Page 129: 
	Page 131: 
	Page 133: 

	Button 63: 
	Page 107: 
	Page 109: 
	Page 111: 
	Page 113: 
	Page 115: 
	Page 117: 
	Page 119: 
	Page 121: 
	Page 123: 
	Page 125: 
	Page 127: 
	Page 129: 
	Page 131: 
	Page 133: 

	Button 64: 
	Page 107: 
	Page 109: 
	Page 111: 
	Page 113: 
	Page 115: 
	Page 117: 
	Page 119: 
	Page 121: 
	Page 123: 
	Page 125: 
	Page 127: 
	Page 129: 
	Page 131: 
	Page 133: