Goodman Group Sustainability Report and 2022 Annual Report 

29 September 2022   

 
The Goodman Group Sustainability Report and 2022 Annual Report (incorporating the consolidated 
financial reports for Goodman Limited, Goodman Industrial Trust, and Goodman Logistics HK 
Limited) were dispatched to Securityholders today.  
 
The reports and covering letter are attached.  
 

– ENDS – 
 
Authorised for release to the ASX by Carl Bicego, Group Head of Legal and Company Secretary. 
  
For further information, please contact:  

 

 
  Media Investors 
Michelle Chaperon  James Inwood 
Head of Group Corporate Communications Head of Group Stakeholder Relations 
Michelle.Chaperon@goodman.com  James.Inwood@goodman.com 
Ph: +61 (0) 416 285 907 Tel: + 612 9230 7400 
   
 
About Goodman  

Goodman Group is an integrated property group with operations throughout Australia, New Zealand, Asia, 
Europe, the United Kingdom, North America and Brazil. Goodman Group, comprised of the stapled entities 
Goodman Limited, Goodman Industrial Trust and Goodman Logistics (HK) Limited, is the largest industrial 
property group listed on the Australian Securities Exchange and one of the largest listed specialist investment 
managers of industrial property and business space globally. 

Goodman’s global property expertise, integrated own+develop+manage customer service offering and 
significant investment management platform ensures it creates innovative property solutions that meet the 
individual requirements of its customers, while seeking to deliver long-term returns for investors. 

For more information visit: www.goodman.com 

     

mailto:Michelle.Chaperon@goodman.com
mailto:James.Inwood@goodman.com
https://www.goodman.com/
https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCqPJamGrRaP3OaT16gOCCeQ
https://www.linkedin.com/company/goodman
https://www.instagram.com/goodman.group/
https://twitter.com/Goodman_Group


29 September 2022

Dear Securityholder

At Goodman, we believe the ability to evolve in a changing world is essential in delivering our long-term 
strategy. In FY22 we demonstrated the resilience of our strategy and our team to deliver another strong result 
for all our stakeholders.

The enclosed documents provide you with an overview of the year as well as an opportunity to join us either 
physically or virtually at our Annual General Meetings in November.

FY22 Annual report 

The enclosed annual report includes consolidated financial reports for Goodman Limited (being for the entire 
consolidated Goodman Group), Goodman Industrial Trust and Goodman Logistics (HK) Limited. It provides 
detailed information on our strong performance in FY22.

FY22 Sustainability Report 

The theme of this year’s sustainability report is Response Ability, where we demonstrate:

• How we’re building a highly responsible and sustainable business

• Why we’ve integrated ambitious and tangible ESG targets into our organisation and KPIs, and 

• The action we’re taking to make a tangible difference to the planet and the people on it.

Our 2022 Sustainability Report is fully electronic and can be accessed at  
www.2022sustainabilityreport.goodman.com. Alternatively, you can also scan the QR code below  
which will take you directly to the report.

Annual General Meetings 

The Annual General Meetings for the Goodman Group entities will be held at 10.00am on  
Thursday, 17 November 2022 at the Times on the Park Room, Sheraton Grand Sydney Hyde Park,  
161 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. The meeting will be a hybrid event giving you the option to attend in  
person or online. Details of how to participate can be found in the Notice of Meetings.

Thank you for your ongoing support.

Gregory Goodman
Group Chief Executive Officer

29
10

66
_0

4_
V

1



Title Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

1

Goodman Group 
Sustainability Report 
2022



2

Table of contents Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

Introduction 03

Performance highlights 04

Leadership statements 05

– Chairman’s letter 
– Group CEO’s letter

About Goodman 15

– About us 
– Own/Develop/Manage 
– Our strategy 
– Global network 
– Our values 
– Our purpose 
– Our structure 
– Corporate governance

Live. Shop. Build. Renew 23

– Sustainability approach  
– Sustainability overview  
– Our material issues 
– Engaging our stakeholders

Sustainability approach 32

– 2030 Sustainability strategy  
– Our pillars 
– Addressing the UNSDGs

Sustainability results 40

Sustainable properties 45

People and culture 70

Corporate performance 87

Goodman Foundation 94

ESG metrics 110

– Overview 
– Energy and carbon emissions 
– Goodman global workforce, health and safety 
– GRI table 
– ESG affiliations and partnerships

Corporate information 120

– Board of directors   
– Five year financial summary  
– Corporate directory  
– Disclaimer



3

Introduction Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

A responsible organisation needs to be future 
focused, authentic and agile. At Goodman, the ability 
to evolve in an ever-changing world is essential in 
delivering our long-term strategy.
That’s why we’re building a highly responsible and 
sustainable business. One that makes a tangible 
difference to the planet and the people on it.
We think innovatively about the key issues that  
matter to all of us – supporting more sustainable 
supply chains, improving workplaces for people,  
and developing cleaner, greener, more compact cities.
We all have a role to play. That’s why we’ve integrated 
ambitious and tangible ESG targets into our business 
– to help us live up to our purpose of making space  
for greatness.St

re
ng

th
 in

 
ac

tio
n



4

Performance highlights Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

1  Operating profit comprises profit attributable to Securityholders adjusted for property valuations, derivative and foreign currency mark to market and other non-cash or non-recurring items.
2  Operating EPS is calculated using operating profit and weighted average diluted securities of 1,879.0 million which includes 15.3 million LTIP securities which have achieved the required  

performance hurdles and vest in September 2022 and September 2023.
3  Statutory profit includes the Group’s share of valuation gains, non-cash items and derivative and mark to market improvements.
4  Gearing is calculated as total interest bearing liabilities over total assets, both net of cash and the fair values of certain derivative financial instruments included in other financial assets  

of $133.3 million (30 June 2021: $134.1 million). Total interest bearing liabilities are grossed up for the fair values of certain derivative financial instruments included in other financial liabilities  
of $79.6 million (30 June 2021: $62.3 million).

5  Includes available liquidity across the Group and Partnerships. Partnership investments are subject to Investment Committee approval.
6  Partnership industrial and warehouse assets (excludes office properties which have been earmarked for redevelopment) and represents 97% of Partnership assets.
7 Science Based Targets initiative.

FY22 performance highlights

Financial OPERATIONAL SUSTAINABILITY

$1.5bn
Operating profit1

$73bn
Total AUM

SBT
Science-based target

Targets for reducing  
carbon emissions 
validated by SBTi7

81.3c
Operating EPS2

$13.6bn
Development work in progress

Carbon
Carbon neutral operations

Addressing embodied  
carbon and on track 
for carbon neutral 
operations

$3.4bn
Statutory profit3

98.7%
Occupancy6

US$500m
Sustainability-linked bond (SLB)

Establishment of 
Sustainable Financing  
Framework and issue  
of SLB

8.5%
Gearing4

3.9%
NPI growth6

203MW
Solar installations and commitments

More than halfway 
to 400MW target of 
solar PV globally

$20.9bn
Available liquidity5

$8.5bn
Revaluation gains

$11.6m
Charity contributions

Contributions from 
the Goodman 
Foundation  and 
Goodman team 



5

Leadership statements Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

Stephen Johns 

Independent Chairman

This year we’ve continued to prove our capabilities  
in all areas of Goodman’s business. 

CHAIRMAN’S LETTER

Artist's impression of Green Dock Logistics Centre, Paris, France

We have a robust strategy to deliver essential infrastructure for the digital 
economy with an experienced and passionate team. We seek to realise our 
vision of making positive change to the environment and communities we 
operate in.

Throughout the year, we have progressed our sustainability initiatives across all aspects of the 
Environmental, Social and Governance areas. You will see throughout this report that our focus is on both 
short-term programs that we can implement and measure today, while establishing long-term strategies 
that will have an enduring impact on our business – and that of our customers – and stakeholders into the 
future. This includes the Group’s Long Term Incentive Plan which provides alignment with securityholders 
and incorporates environmental and sustainability targets in assessing performance for all employees. 



6

Leadership statements Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

Investing in sustainable innovation

Over several years, the Group has been working to expand its innovation strategy. We aim to facilitate  
and invest in products that provide sustainable solutions to customers across property technology, 
supply chain, transport, construction and manufacturing. Examples include smart metering, carbon 
neutral building products, on-site safety management and the use of robotics and electric vehicles to 
assist with logistics and transportation. 

Our investment strategy across these technologies provides the Group with greater access, visibility  
and insight into the technological trends affecting real estate. Our focus is on evaluating how these can  
be applied to our own portfolio to improve sustainable outcomes for all.

Sustainability governance

From 1 October, we will be establishing a new Sustainability and Innovation Committee to support  
the management team, and to enhance the Board’s visibility and efficacy on our ESG initiatives.  
This Committee will be Chaired by Chris Green with Phil Pryke and newly appointed Directors  
Hilary Spann and Vanessa Liu as members. Chris, Hilary and Vanessa are all New York-based, 
actively work in the sustainability and innovation space in their day-to-day businesses, and therefore 
are expertly positioned for these roles. Phil has experience in the green energy field, is the Chair of  
the Remuneration Committee and plays an important role in setting and reviewing the 
aforementioned LTIP targets.

In summary, the Committee will have responsibility in relation to overseeing the Group’s: 

 +  Sustainability strategy – including reviewing and monitoring performance, assessing material 
drivers and risks, making recommendations, and reporting on performance

 +  Innovation strategy – including reviewing innovation and developments that may impact  
the Group’s strategy and assets, and monitoring the performance of investments or  
potential collaborations.

Sustainability and Innovation Committee Charter

https://www.goodman.com/-/media/files/sites/global/who-we-are/corporate-governance/charters/sustainability-and-innovation-committee-charter-2022.pdf


7

Leadership statements Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

Board progression

This year we have made significant progress to deliver on our strategy to maintain a diverse Board 
with the appropriate mix of skills, gender and geographic representation. To this effect we have 
appointed two US-based Directors.

In April we appointed Hilary Spann, a highly experienced global real estate executive with an extensive 
background in public and private equity markets, both in the US and globally, with a particular focus on 
real estate. She is currently a senior executive at NYSE-listed Boston Properties, Inc.

Vanessa Liu was appointed in May. She’s an experienced technology innovator, business leader and 
digital media entrepreneur. Vanessa is currently Co-Founder and CEO of SaaS technology company 
Sugarwork, and an Independent Director of ASX-listed artificial intelligence company, Appen Ltd. 

Both Hilary’s and Vanessa’s experience and insights are well aligned to our long-term strategy and  
values, while bringing greater diversity to the Board and helping continue to shape Goodman as a 
forward-thinking company.

Demonstrating action

This report demonstrates Goodman’s continued determination to deliver tangible outcomes  
that will have a measurable and meaningful impact on the business and the wider community.  
Our Sustainability initiatives are entrenched into the Group’s strategy and will continue to remain  
a key priority for the Board and management.

Sincerely,

Stephen Johns

Independent Chairman

OUR SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVES ARE 
ENTRENCHED INTO THE GROUP’S 

STRATEGY AND WILL CONTINUE TO 
REMAIN A KEY PRIORITY FOR THE 

BOARD AND MANAGEMENT.



8

Leadership statements Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

Greg Goodman 

Group CEO

Goodman Group takes a long-term view. As providers 
of essential infrastructure for the digital economy,  
we recognise the impact that our business has on the 
planet and communities that we operate in. 

GROUP CEO’S LETTER

Goodman Commerce Center Eastvale, Los Angeles, USA.

Through our location choices, sustainable building approach, and focus on 
relationships, we work to make a tangible difference today, and long into the 
future. We integrate sustainability throughout our business. It’s embedded 
in our values, our investment strategy and our key performance indicators  
for executive remuneration. 

With $73 billion of assets under management and $13.6 billion of developments in progress around 
the world, we are one of the largest developers of industrial property globally. This scale comes with 
enormous responsibility. We acknowledge that our actions today can have significant implications in  
the future, so we lead by example. 

Our properties add value to local communities and the wider economy and we know it’s important 
that we continue to operate in a responsible and sustainable way. We continue to assess the most 
material issues for our business and have refined our 2030 sustainability strategy as the roadmap  
for our wide range of ESG activities. 

Our strategy creates a framework to deliver on our sustainability targets that minimise our adverse 
impacts and maximise positive outcomes for people and planet. It shapes the operation of our core 
business, and we focus on the areas where we have the greatest control and influence, including the 
development and management of a global portfolio of sustainable industrial properties.



9

Leadership statements Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

Through our strategy, Goodman is proactively responding to the global challenges of climate  
change. We’re taking action now by reducing carbon emissions, using renewable energy and 
developing greener buildings. We’re also adopting circularity, regenerating infill sites, building more 
equitable supply chains, and partnering with community groups. You’ll read more about these 
activities and more throughout this report. 

We believe that allocating financial resources and human capital to reduce potential impacts now  
makes commercial sense over the long term. By integrating sustainability throughout our business,  
we also achieve our financial goals as our properties and services will be more attractive to customers 
and investors well into the future. 

Setting science-based targets 

Reducing our carbon emissions is vital on the path to Net Zero.

Goodman is on track to maintain its carbon neutral status for its global operations for the second 
consecutive year. We continue to work on decarbonising our development projects, taking into account 
upfront embodied emissions and designing for efficiency throughout the whole building’s lifecycle. 

We are ready to go further. This year we developed science-based targets that will see us significantly 
reduce our global greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 2030. We are aiming to reduce absolute  
Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 42% and relative Scope 3 emissions by 50% from an FY21 base  
year. These targets are approved by the Science Based Targets initiative and are aligned to the  
Paris Agreement’s objective to keep global warming below 1.5 degrees. Meeting these goals, particularly  
Scope 3 goals, will require collaboration with our stakeholders including both suppliers and customers.



10

Leadership statements Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

Increasing our investment in sustainability

Achieving these targets won’t be easy. It will require genuine commitment, and significant investment in 
time, money and resources. However, we see both a moral and a financial business case for sustainability. 

While we’ve been investing in the sustainability space for a number of years, our future commitment  
has increased to approximately $820 million from $700 million across the Group and Partnerships.  
This investment will fund our sustainability initiatives to 2025. 

While it includes standard programs such as solar installations, LED lighting upgrades, water saving 
features, carbon reduction and renewable energy, we’re also pushing well beyond these programs.  
We are investing in technology and innovation that will drive significant long-term change. 

Generating our own carbon offsets

Our first priority is to reduce our carbon emissions. Where we’re unable to reduce our operational  
and embodied emissions, we purchase carbon offsets. As part of our approach, Goodman has  
recently made a strategic investment in an integrated carbon credit and regeneration platform – 
Wyuna Regenerative Agriculture.

Investing alongside Australia’s Clean Energy Finance Corporation, this innovative project responds 
to multiple UN Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDGs), operating at the intersection of land 
regeneration, sustainable food production and carbon markets. It’s focused on regenerating large 
areas of land driving biodiversity value and sustainable red meat production, together with the 
creation of carbon credits. 

Goodman Business Park, Greater Tokyo, Japan.

WE BELIEVE BUILDINGS THAT  
AREN’T SUSTAINABLE AND ADAPTABLE, 

WILL BECOME OBSOLETE OVER TIME. 



11

Leadership statements Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

Collaborating to reduce carbon in building products

Achieving carbon neutral buildings that require little to no offsets requires low-carbon, innovative 
building products and close collaboration. That’s why we’re working with material suppliers, industry 
groups and experts in the field to support the development of materials with lower embodied carbon. 

Maximising property efficiency

We’re also investing in innovative ways to get more productivity and operational efficiencies out of 
our buildings for customers. One solution is to invest in PropTech or other specialist technology 
companies to help them develop and grow. In return, we learn more about the future of these 
technologies and what they mean for our customers and industry. Examples include drone delivery 
technology and infrastructure through Skyports, parking management and traffic management 
systems and smart meters for energy and water.

Another way we help improve the efficiency of buildings is by optimising land use. Goodman’s focus is 
on infill locations, close to consumers, where we can regenerate existing sites and optimise space by 
building multi-storey facilities. 

Artist’s impression, multi-storey development, Sydney, Australia.



12

Leadership statements Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

Aligning with our customers’ goals

A growing number of our customers are now on their own sustainability journeys. By providing the 
sustainable infrastructure they need, we’re helping them achieve their own sustainability goals. 

Although our sustainability investments are significant, they’re prudent. Our customers increasingly 
require a minimum standard of sustainability features. For many, we help them go beyond that. 

The benefits are twofold. While our actions drive positive customer relationships they make financial 
sense too – we believe buildings that aren’t sustainable and adaptable, will become obsolete over time.

Highbrook Business Park, Auckland, New Zealand.

Generating financial sustainability

For a business to be truly sustainable, it needs to be financially sustainable. Goodman’s consistent and 
prudent financial management provides the resources we need to carry out our sustainability vision. 
Capital markets endorsed this approach, so we created a Sustainable Finance Framework which 
provides us with financial flexibility to issue sustainability-linked bonds and loans. 

This year, the Group issued a $US500 million sustainability-linked bond. Additionally, several of our 
Partnerships have entered into sustainability-linked finance instruments. This is just one element of a 
capital management strategy which sees Goodman with available liquidity of $20.9 billion across the 
Group and our Partnerships.    

WE HAVE THE STRATEGY IN PLACE 
TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE AND THE 

COMMITTED CAPITAL, PEOPLE AND 
RESOURCES TO EXECUTE IT.



13

Leadership statements Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

Progressing our Reconciliation Action Plan

Goodman recognises the importance of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities in Australia. 
We also recognise the need for reconciliation and this year we’ve moved through the Reflect stage of 
our Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP). 

We have created economic empowerment through charitable and business opportunities, as well as 
created cultural learning occasions for our people. We move forward through our RAP process with a 
strong determination to take action and make a difference.

Supporting workforce wellbeing

This year we continued to play close attention to the health and safety of our own people as well as the 
workforces of our customers and contractors. Goodman has embraced a flexible work environment 
that helps retain and attract the best staff globally. This flexibility supports our diverse and inclusive 
team by improving wellbeing, morale and productivity. 

For our customers, we continue to evolve our designs to provide spaces that encourage wellbeing 
across their own workforce, such as providing more natural light, outdoor fitness equipment, stylish staff 
amenities and creating more breakout areas. This focus has led to Goodman being the first logistics  
real estate company in Hong Kong to achieve the WELL Health-Safety Rating from the International 
WELL Building Institute. 

Smoking Ceremony and Welcome to Country, The Hayesbery, Sydney, Australia.



14

Leadership statements Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

Stepping up the impact of our Foundation

In another challenging year, the Goodman Foundation made a tangible and sustainable difference to 
the communities we operate in, facilitating $11.6 million in donations. We also extended beyond our 
established pillars, responding to emergencies including the humanitarian crisis in the Ukraine and the 
floods in Europe and Eastern Australia. 

In addition to the worthy programs we support around the world, we also increased our support of the 
Australian Indigenous community.

Looking forward

Goodman has taken meaningful action and is making significant progress in achieving our 
sustainability targets. I’d like to thank our people, customers, investors and all other stakeholders for 
their continued support and contribution to Goodman’s sustainable growth.

We have the strategy in place to make a difference and the committed capital, people and resources  
to execute it.

Sincerely,

Greg Goodman

Group Chief Executive Officer

UNICEF Blue Dot Hub.



15

About Goodman Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

About Goodman

Goodman is a global industrial property specialist group. 
We own, develop and manage high-quality sustainable 
properties that are close to consumers and provide essential 
infrastructure for the digital economy.

We have 410 properties located in key consumer markets in 14 countries across  
the Asia Pacific, Europe, the UK and the Americas. With $73 billion of assets  
under management, we are the largest property group listed on the Australian 
Securities Exchange and invest significantly alongside our capital partners in our 
investment Partnerships. 

But we’re more than our properties. We’re a collaborative team who work together 
to make a tangible difference for our customers, our people and communities we 
operate in. We believe in innovation, determination, integrity and sustainability –  
and we strive to make space for greatness in everything we do.

$73BN  
29
ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT   

OFFICE LOCATIONS  ACROSS ASIA PACIFIC,   
EUROPE, THE UK AND THE AMERICAS

410
PROPERTIES  



16

About Goodman Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

Goodman’s Own Develop Manage model focuses our business 
on our customers’ current and future needs.
We own and maintain high-quality properties close to consumers, 
we develop sustainable properties, and we manage our global 
investment portfolio to the highest standards. We work alongside 
our capital partners, which include sovereign wealth, pension and 
large multi-manager funds. In each market, our dedicated local 
teams take care of all aspects of property asset and investment 
management, ensuring a high level of customer service.

OUR INTEGRATED 
BUSINESS MODEL



17

About Goodman Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

OUR STRATEGY
Providing essential infrastructure 
for the digital economy

Urbanisation, globalisation, demographics, digitisation, sustainability and 
an increased focus on health and wellbeing have all changed the way 
people live, work and consume. These structural shifts have increased the 
importance of industrial properties in the global supply chain. 

Globally, the logistics and warehousing sectors are now considered 
essential infrastructure for digital economies, and key to the efficient 
distribution of products to consumers. As industrial property specialists, 
Goodman’s long-term strategy is built on supporting our customers to 
operate in the most productive, sustainable and efficient way possible.  
We focus on key markets and concentrate our portfolio where we can 
create the most value for customers and investors. 

Proximity to people

Our properties are located close to 
consumers, in urban infill locations 
where barriers to entry are high and 
supply is limited. Choosing locations 
close to large consumer populations 
helps our customers meet rising 
delivery and service expectations.  
It also provides greater resilience for 
customers’ supply chains.

Accessibility

Properties located close to major 
transport infrastructure, like motorways, 
ports and airports, enable efficient 
deliveries and reduce supply chain 
costs and transport-related emissions 
for our customers. They also make 
commuting to work easier for our 
customers’ workforce.

By positioning our portfolio in these key 
locations we are fulfilling our customers’ 
needs for sustainable properties that 
provide efficiency and faster speed to 
market. In doing so, we are building a 
sustainable business for our investors.

Goodman Tsuen Wan West Centre, Hong Kong SAR, China.



18

About Goodman Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

STRATEGIC LOCATIONS

As a global industrial property specialist, We aim to be the best at what we do, rather than the 
biggest. Our properties are strategically located in major consumer markets, providing our 
customers with faster speed to market and the opportunity to reduce transport costs and 
related carbon emissions. When considering new locations, our focus is on acquiring urban 
infill assets or brownfields sites that can be redeveloped into sustainable properties, allowing 
us to minimise our carbon footprint. With higher density of land use in these locations, our 
customers are looking to maximise their supply chain efficiency with greater utilisation of 
automation and increased sustainability features.

EUROPE/UK

$11.9bn  
AUM

132 
PROPERTIES

100% 
OCCUPANCY

130+ 
PEOPLE

CITIES 
Amsterdam 
Birmingham 
Brussels 
Düsseldorf 
Hamburg 
London 
Luxembourg 
Madrid 
Milan 
Munich 
Paris 

ASIA

$22.8bn  
AUM

71 
PROPERTIES

98% 
OCCUPANCY

300 
PEOPLE

CITIES  
Beijing 
Chengdu 
Chongqing 
Guangzhou 
Hong Kong 
Osaka 
Shanghai 
Shenzhen 
Tokyo

AUS/NZ

$29.8bn 
AUM

179 
PROPERTIES

99% 
OCCUPANCY

370+ 
PEOPLE

CITIES  
Auckland 
Brisbane 
Melbourne 
Sydney

THE AMERICAS

$8.5bn 
AUM

28 
PROPERTIES

96% 
OCCUPANCY

100+ 
PEOPLE

CITIES  
Los Angeles 
New Jersey 
Pennsylvania  
San Francisco 
São Paulo

OUR NETWORK

$73.0BN
AUM

410 
PROPERTIES

14
COUNTRIES

1,000+ 
PEOPLE 



19

About Goodman Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

Goodman’s values reflect who we are are today  
and who we want to be long into the future.

OUR VALUES



20

About Goodman Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

OUR PURPOSE
Goodman’s purpose of making space for greatness recognises our 
stakeholders’ needs and drives us to help them reach their full potential. 

Here’s how we make space for greatness for each of our stakeholders.

Customers

Our customers come from a wide range of industries including 
e-commerce, logistics, retail, consumer goods, automotive, pharmaceutical 
and technology. Regardless of their sector, they all need the right properties 
in the right locations. Proximity to their end consumer is key: increasing 
speed to market, and reducing transport costs and related emissions. 
Our customers are increasingly taking a strategic approach to their 
infrastructure decisions. They’re boosting their investment in our buildings 
to maximise both supply chain efficiency and overall capacity as the digital 
economy grows.

To help our customers make space for greatness, we create sustainable 
logistics spaces in high-quality locations. Here, the greatest ambitions of 
our customers can flourish as we give them the space and services they 
need to reach their goals.

Securityholders and investment partners

At Goodman, we manage the investment portfolio alongside our 
investment partners – some of the world’s largest pension and 
sovereign wealth funds. We have a patient and long-term approach 
to managing capital and focus on growing a sustainable business 
over time.

This long-term approach guides our decision making. By owning, 
developing and managing high-quality sustainable properties in 
key locations, we provide both short-term and long-term benefits 
for our customers while simultaneously delivering sustainable 
returns for our Securityholders and investors.

Community partners

We work with local charities and community partners in all our 
markets to make a positive difference. Whether it’s working 
with organisations on emergency response, community and 
community health, children and youth, or food rescue and 
the environment, the Goodman Foundation provides tangible 
assistance that translates to real support where it’s needed most.

We make space for greatness in the communities we operate 
in by taking a multi-year partnership approach with the 
organisations the Foundation supports. We share our resources, 
knowledge and experience to make a tangible difference and 
improve the quality of life, standard of living and health of people 
in our communities.

Oakdale West Industrial Estate, Sydney, Australia.



21

About Goodman Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

Our people

Our team of around 1,000 people in 29 offices 
around the world are key to our long-term 
success. Skilled and diverse, team members use 
their expertise across the range of cultures and 
locations we operate in to deliver strong results. 
There are many opportunities for our people 
to get involved, to learn and to build rewarding 
careers with us. Our sustainability strategy 
and actions help with attracting new talent and 
retaining our people.

Goodman encourages innovation. We look 
for people who want to realise their ambitions, 
challenge our thinking, drive change and develop 
new ideas that deliver a sustainable business, 
making a tangible difference today – and long into 
the future. Through Goodman’s long-term incentive 
program, our team have a stake in our business, 
which motivates them to work hard and take a  
long-term strategic approach to decision making.

Supply chains

We acknowledge that providing a high-quality sustainable 
offering to our customers is a team effort, requiring relationships 
built on integrity. Our network of suppliers extends from our 
general building contractors who we work with closely to build 
facilities for our customers, to the providers of our office supplies.  

In each case, we respect the needs of our suppliers. This ranges 
from implementing strategies against modern slavery to treating 
our suppliers as part of our team, keeping them safe and paying 
them fairly and on time. In return, we expect our suppliers to abide 
by our high standards and communicate these requirements within 
their own supply chains.

OUR TEAM OF 1000+ IN 29 OFFICES 
AROUND THE WORLD ARE KEY TO OUR 

LONG-TERM SUCCESS.



22

About Goodman Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

HOW WE’RE
STRUCTURED

Goodman works as one integrated team, executing  
our global strategy on a local level. 

Our specialist property management, development 
and investment management teams within countries 
work alongside our corporate services. By everyone 
focusing their skills we can provide a quality industrial 
property offering that best serves our customers and 
investors alike. 

Our corporate governance statement provides more 
information on our corporate governance framework. 

The Boards and Committees

Goodman Group is a triple stapled entity comprised 
of: the Australian company, Goodman Limited (GL); 
the Australian trust, Goodman Industrial Trust (GIT); 
and the Hong Kong company, Goodman Logistics 
(HK) Limited (GLHK). The Boards of GL and Goodman 
Funds Management Limited, as the responsible entity 
of GIT, comprise the same Directors while GLHK has 
a distinct Board with some overlap. Together they are 
referred to as the Boards.

The Goodman Boards and management team are 
committed to the highest standards of governance 
and recognise that an effective corporate governance 
culture is critical to the long-term performance of  
the business.

Goodman’s corporate governance framework 
underpins our commitment to maximise long-term 
sustainable value for Securityholders through:

 +  Effective controls, risk management,  
transparency and corporate responsibility

 +  Strategic planning and alignment of the interests  
of employees with those of securityholders and 
other stakeholders

 +  Meeting stakeholder expectations of a global  
ASX-listed entity through acting lawfully and 
responsibly while prudently managing both financial 
and non-financial risk.

Reflecting the increasing importance of sustainability 
issues and the continuing rate of change through 
technology and innovation, the Board has also agreed 
to establish a new Sustainability and Innovation 
Committee drawing on the skills and experience  
of Chris Green (Committee Chair), Vanessa Liu,  
Phil Pryke and Hilary Spann. The new Committee will 
commence from 1 October 2022.

Goodman’s corporate 
governance framework

View Goodman’s 2022 Corporate Governance  
statement online

View Goodman’s corporate governance framework 
documents (including Charters and Policies) online

https://www.goodman.com/-/media/files/sites/global/who-we-are/corporate-governance/statements/corporate-governance-statement-2022.pdf
https://www.goodman.com/-/media/files/sites/global/who-we-are/corporate-governance/statements/corporate-governance-statement-2022.pdf
https://www.goodman.com/about-goodman/corporate-governance
https://www.goodman.com/about-goodman/corporate-governance


23

Live. Shop. Build. Renew. Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

As our climate changes, every action we take to mitigate its 
effects can have an impact on the future. Green buildings are 
only part of the solution. 
Sustainability needs to be woven through every aspect of our 
lives, and sustainability thinking is vital. It’s a perspective we 
need to apply to how we design, build and live in our cities,  
how we shop and even where we source our food. 
We spoke to global industry thought-leaders to learn more 
about the big picture. Their take? The key to a cleaner, greener 
world is developing the ability to do more without requiring 
more. Here are their tips on where our attention needs to go.

Watch the highlights video

LIVE. 
SHOP.  
BUILD. 
RENEW.

https://youtu.be/UyG5HOHMEDA


24

Live. Shop. Build. Renew. Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

City living is on the rise. But what we think of as a 
successful city today – a place with high density  
office jobs in the centre, housing on the outside,  
and tourist attractions, amenities, services, and  
public space throughout – is fast becoming a thing  
of the past. Those attributes are still important,  
but there’s something else making way for us to  
live more sustainably in these environments. 

“Digitisation,” says Professor Greg Clark,  
Group Adviser, Future Cities and New Industries  
for HSBC, “is revolutionising the way our cities work. 
Firstly, digitisation is making the systems of our cities 
more efficient. Transport, buildings, commerce, 
entertainment – so much more happens in an  
omni-channel way using digital platforms”.

Greg says that the abundance of jobs in technology-led 
sectors is a development that allows city dwellers to work  
in ways that are connected to other parts of the planet.  
But digitisation is also shaping these individuals’ lives every 
day. “It’s giving our citizens a new set of choices about  
how they work, where they live, when they travel and how 
they consume.”

During the industrial period land use in our cities was highly 
separated. But one of the effects of new, clean energy and 
buildings is that we’re able to remix cities in ways we couldn’t 
100, 200 and 300 years ago.

“We now see it’s perfectly possible,” Greg says, “for clean 
industries to exist side-by-side with residential areas, 
schools, hospitals and more.” 

Creating efficiency with our land and building use means 
we’re able to accommodate more people in our cities 
without the effects of overcrowding. One way to optimise 
the limited space we do have is to reclaim and re-utilise 
brownfield locations, or urban sites that have already been 
developed, and to move them from single static use, to 
mixed use, plus flexible formats. “Agile land use,” says Greg, 
“is a very important new ingredient for cities.”

LIVE.

DIGITISATION IS 
REVOLUTIONISING  

THE WAY OUR  
CITIES WORK



25

Live. Shop. Build. Renew. Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

The switch to digital cities

According to Clark, the digital city will be a place  
“that optimises its space, and also the time of its 
citizens, by making access and connectivity instant, 
predictable and seamless.” It will shape cities that, over 
time, will become cleaner, greener and more compact.

Cities are attracting more people than ever before. 
Today, 57% of us – a total of 4.4 billion people – live in 
cities. This percentage is trending upwards. By 2050, 
the World Bank says almost 70% of us will be  
city dwellers.

“The shapes and sizes of our cities have actually been 
changing for some time,” says Clark. “Because we can 
now do so many things these days online, cities have 
to switch focus and specialise on things that are best 
done face-to-face, or, face-to-place.”

It’s true our cities are already starting to feel different.  
There are more delivery vans in the city during the day, 
buses and trains are less full than pre-pandemic but are 
getting fuller, and office buildings can be busy some days  
but not others. “Cities are in a great adjustment process,” 
says Clark, “trying to manage the road and the transport 
system to be able to accommodate the changes in patterns 
of travel, delivery and distribution.”

Offices too are reinventing themselves as places of creativity 
and connection, and employees have new expectations of 
what a safe, healthy and flexible working environment is.

As our cities change around us, if we want to achieve  
Net Zero, we need to change the behaviours of those living 
in them. As Clark points out, given our burgeoning urban 
populations, cities are an essential part of a sustainable 
future for all. “Without cities and the people in them, and the 
ability of cities to trigger behaviour changes, and spur new 
innovations,” Clark says, “we can’t decarbonise the planet.”



26

Live. Shop. Build. Renew. Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

Natalie predicts that in the future, retail will consist of fewer 
but better-quality stores, and that investing in e-commerce 
and digital experiences will be crucial to meet customers 
wherever they are. 

More than ever before, retailers will need to be agile. The path  
to purchase is no longer linear and there is a plethora of 
choice when it comes to how shoppers access retail brands. 
We’re experiencing a convergence of our online and offline 
worlds and, according to Natalie, it will soon be hard to know 
where one world ends and the other begins.

“When we think about the store of the future it has to be 
frictionless,” says Natalie.

Ironically, delivering that level of experience in a physical 
store in the 21st century relies heavily on technology. 
According to Natalie, the challenge for retailers is working 
out how to do it so they offer customers an experience that 
is seamless, integrated and holistic.

“Retailers have to give shoppers a compelling reason to 
ditch their screens and offer a sensory-filled, memorable 
experience,” she says.

SHOP.

WHEN WE THINK  
ABOUT THE STORE  

OF THE FUTURE  
IT HAS TO BE  

FRICTIONLESS

Consumers know what they want and today, they want more 
than ever before. As the retail industry scrambles to reconfigure 
its offering for the digital era, consumers are raising their 
expectations. One of the fastest growing expectations is that 
their next purchase will be a sustainable one. 

“The retail sector has undergone seismic structural shifts,” says 
Natalie Berg, retail analyst, trend forecaster, and founder of retail 
consultancy, NBK Retail.

Those personal shopping devices (aka: phones) we each have in 
our pockets, Natalie explains, do more than allow us to be digitally 
connected when we walk into a physical store. They empower us 
to shop on our own terms.

“We’re seeing an acceleration in the demise of mediocre retail,” 
says Natalie. “COVID has exacerbated the many challenges the 
industry was facing, and retailers are finding that if they weren’t 
relevant before the pandemic, they’re certainly not relevant now.”



27

Live. Shop. Build. Renew. Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

Supporting conscious consumers

Today’s consumers want more from retailers  
than ever before. But environmentally speaking,  
they want their impact to be low. The shift to conscious 
consumerism becoming mainstream means retailers 
need to consider sustainability in every aspect of their 
businesses to remain competitive.

Transparency is also part of the picture. There’s 
significant pressure on retailers to become transparent 
around their sustainability initiatives. Why? Consumers 
want assurances that the products and services 
they’re buying are not damaging to people or the 
planet. Even one bad experience can be detrimental  
to a retail brand.

“We’re entering an era where our own values will 
trump monetary value,” says Natalie. In other words, 
consumers are looking for more than just a financial 
exchange for goods or services. Physical stores are 
quickly becoming representative of an experience;  
one of community, discovery, curation, human touch 
and emotional connection.

Behind the scenes, the increased focus on decarbonising 
distribution chains to support the boom in online purchases 
means price wars are being replaced by delivery wars.  
But with more and more delivery vans on our roads, there’s 
a growing need for delivery that is sustainable as well as fast 
and reliable.

“Big retailers are recognising that they have a duty to 
improve the way that they do business,” says Natalie.  
“And this is only going to continue with pressure coming 
directly from consumers.”

Overall, consumers might be calling the shots, but innovative 
retailers are rising to the challenge. Whatever form our future 
purchases take, it will certainly be a richer experience.



28

Live. Shop. Build. Renew. Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

Currently the way we use our building materials 
is fairly linear. “We take, we make, we use, and 
we dispose,” says Catriona. We need to shift to a 
circular economy to keep value in materials for as 
long as possible. “Individuals want to have a long 
life,” she says. “We want our materials to have a 
long life too.”

Circularity within the built environment means 
creating a closed loop so that whatever we design, 
and build can essentially be dismantled – without 
being contaminated with chemicals. It’s then 
reused or adapted for use in the future.

There are challenges with implementing a  
circular economy in any industry, but the scale 
of our built environment creates additional 
complexity for the sector.

“We’re calling for new design methods, new 
construction practices and different materials,” 
says Catriona. While these added levels of 
complexity can bring higher upfront financial 
costs, the biggest challenge is probably the 
commitment required from stakeholders across 
every stage of the value chain.

BUILD.

37% OF ENERGY- 
RELATED CARBON  
EMISSIONS COME  
FROM THE BUILT 
ENVIRONMENT

37% of energy-related carbon emissions come from the  
built environment. It’s a term that, doesn’t just refer to buildings, 
it’s also the infrastructure that sits around them. 

Catriona Brady, Director of Strategy and Development at the 
World Green Building Council, says there are some estimates 
that the equivalent of a city the size of Paris is being built every 
single week. “The raw materials and the energy being used for 
that is absolutely monumental,” she says.

In contrast, we could have an equally significant impact – this 
time positive – by rethinking the global approach to building 
policies and procedures. Large-scale actions like this are vital, 
Catriona points out, as she emphasises the urgency to both 
sustainably retrofit existing buildings and to ensure new  
buildings are not locking in emissions for decades to come.

Goodman Huiyang Industrial Park, Huiyang, China.



29

Live. Shop. Build. Renew. Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

The ongoing life cycle of circular

A building that’s designed to be circular and then gets demolished 
or sent to landfill is not a circular building. “It has to be about how  
it’s treated throughout its whole life cycle,” says Catriona. “And that’s 
a real challenge because it requires engagement from every single 
person or stakeholder organisation that’s participating in the 
lifespan of the building.”

We also need to take into account the whole life carbon emissions 
of an asset, not just the emissions when it’s operational. “We need 
to change our thinking,” says Catriona. “How can we make sure 
that the building will have as sustainable an impact as it can on the 
planet, from beginning to end?”

As complex an endeavour as this might sound, there are changes 
we can make right now by retrofitting existing buildings. There’s a 
real business case to be made for creating a lean, clean and green 
building, and the key ingredient is people. “I think it’s important for us 
to frame the business case for today in the context of society as it 
exists right now,” says Catriona. “The business case for a sustainable 
building now is influenced by the fact that people want to work in a 
healthy space. They want to know their health is being protected,  
and that the building has net positive environmental benefits.” 

Once the case is made, the concepts of lean, clean and 
green can be rolled out. “Lean is all about being efficient in 
your energy use,” she says. “Clean is all about the systems 
that are being used – making sure they’re as energy efficient 
as possible, clean in their power requirements and use.”  
And lastly, “Green is all about the production and 
consumption of renewable energy. How can we use green 
technologies as far as possible? How can we innovate and 
use green renewable energy requirements to generate clean 
power onsite?” 

The good news for the sector is that this type of change 
is not just good for the planet. Compared to the standard 
alternative, sustainable buildings represent a more resilient 
investment too.

Roma Road Estate, Auckland, New Zealand.



30

Live. Shop. Build. Renew. Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

There are many different types of urban 
agriculture, but Sarah’s approach is to try and use 
vacant rooftop spaces.

Utilising a 7,000 sqm logistics rooftop,  
Plantation Paris is a greenhouse and garden 
project located high above the city of Paris in 
the 18th arrondissement. It offers a myriad of 
benefits, including that it creates opportunities 
to build large-scale farms close to the people 
who will consume the produce. By partnering 
with industrial and logistics property developers, 
the project provides opportunities to access 
sustainable heat sources. In the case of  
Plantation Paris, this heat comes from a data 
centre located directly beneath its greenhouse.

“It’s very important to have the lowest carbon 
footprint on all the aspects of what we are doing,” 
says Sarah. “For example, if we want to grow 
tropical varieties, we need to do it with a secured 
sustainable source of heat, like our project does 
with a data centre.” 

RENEW.
If we’re going to meet the targets set out in the Paris Agreement, 
we need to rethink the way we use and decarbonise the buildings, 
assets and spaces we already have.

As our cities evolve, our buildings are increasingly becoming  
multi-purpose, performing different functions at different times 
of day, or different days of the week. We are also starting to see 
buildings service dual industries side-by-side.

Urban farming, the practise of cultivating, processing and 
distributing food in urban areas, is one welcome trend that’s 
solving multiple sustainability issues in the heart of our cities. 
It offers extensive partnership opportunities for the industrial 
property sector.

Sarah Msika, cofounder of Plantation Paris, one of Europe’s largest 
urban rooftop ecosystems, is passionate about bringing agriculture 
into the city and reducing the carbon impact of our end produce.



31

Live. Shop. Build. Renew. Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

Plantation Paris produces microgreens and herbs in its 
greenhouse and 70 different varieties of vegetables and herbs 
in its permaculture garden. There are also edible flowers, which 
otherwise travel from the Netherlands. In a few short years the 
site has been completely transformed. “Urban farming has a very 
big role to play in biodiversity,” says Msika, who reports seeing 
many kinds of bees, birds and wildlife in the area. “Which is huge,” 
she says. “There was no wildlife when we arrived and now, we 
have a whole wildlife ecosystem, including falcons.”

Today, Plantation Paris supplies tonnes of fresh food all over 
the city but for Sarah the social impact is more important than 
the volumes produced. People want to know where their food 
is coming from and being so close to the city means it can be 
delivered environmentally. “We won’t be able to sustain the whole 
city,” says Sarah. “But people can see it’s possible to buy their 
produce the same day it was harvested.”

A number of Michelin hatted restaurants regularly collaborate 
with Sarah’s team. They discuss growing options and menu 
ideas. Some even harvest ingredients themselves on a weekly 
basis. “Urban agriculture,” says Sarah, “is giving chefs the chance 
to work directly with farmers, and for the farmers to see the 
produce grown a few Metro stations away from their kitchens.”

As well as the greenhouse and garden, Plantation Paris has a 
communal event space with a full view of the sky, an unusual 
feature for Paris. “It’s important to have a place where you 
can just go and feel well and our garden is a good place 
for that,” says Sarah.” This space is where yoga courses, 
meditation sessions, plant-based cuisine workshops and 
private events are held: a place where the urban farm 
becomes a place for daily inspiration.

Urban agriculture is a positive example of the community-led 
greening of the built environment Catriona say our cities 
desperately need. “We need whole communities to be 
green,” she says. “We want them to be physically green, 
we want to see nature, we want to be able to encourage 
rewilding the return of biodiversity and ecosystem services.”

THERE WAS NO  
WILDLIFE WHEN WE 
ARRIVED AND NOW,  
WE HAVE A WHOLE 

WILDLIFE ECOSYSTEM, 
INCLUDING FALCONS.

To hear more from these global thought leaders, watch the Goodman Thought starters series

http://www.goodman.com/our-purpose/thought-starters


32

Sustainability approach Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

Sustainability approach

A responsible and sustainable strategy

ESG is an integral part of Goodman’s business strategy. We make 
investment decisions based on strategic long-term thinking and 
operate with sustainability goals front of mind.

As Goodman has grown to become Australia’s largest  
listed-property company, our commitment to ESG principles 
continues to shape our operations. 

Our role in providing essential infrastructure for supply chains 
means we are uniquely positioned to identify and adapt to 
global trends. As the world begins to work more actively on 
climate mitigation, Goodman continues to seek and embrace 
opportunities to become a truly sustainable business. In 
doing so we’re not only aiming to meet the expectations of 
our stakeholders, but we’re acting in alignment with our own 
company values. 

Material and ambitious targets

Under our 2030 Sustainability Strategy, Goodman has committed to making 
change across a range of ESG activities. This includes working towards 
measurable and ambitious sustainability targets, to help make a tangible and 
positive difference in the world.

The breadth of our targets means we’re able to embrace the strategic 
opportunities currently available to those willing to make real change in their 
organisations and supply chains. It also mitigates against key ESG risks which 
come with inaction. 

Our strategy includes actions that will reduce carbon emissions and increase 
the use of renewable energy across our portfolio. We’re also very active in our 
development of greener buildings, an action which not only helps the planet,  
but leads to healthier  work environments with greater amenity for our customers. 

People are integral to our strategy too. We’re creating diverse leadership teams, 
building more equitable supply chains, and partnering with community groups 
who deliver life changing support in our communities. 

We don’t consider this activity ‘additional’ to our day-to-day. Instead, it’s embedded 
within our core business. We also firmly believe our approach will help deliver 
sustainable returns and positive outcomes for our stakeholders.

Chifley Business Park South, Melbourne, Australia. 



33

Sustainability approach Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

Local teams, global network

Operating across a global network presents both challenges and 
opportunities for our people. While we’ve set ourselves global sustainability 
targets, achieving these requires contribution from local teams in each of 
our markets. 

While we have a relatively small global workforce of around 1,000 people,  
a large number of people have been with the business for many years.  
Our team is motivated and incentivised to demonstrate our corporate 
values of determination, innovation, integrity and sustainability. The people 
at the top of our business aim to lead by example as they demonstrate 
these values in their behaviours and decision making. Our values are also 
part of how we assess the performance of our people. 

Although our global business allows us to share knowledge and best practice 
across jurisdictions, it also highlights the disparity between the policies and 
opportunities across the markets where Goodman operates. Our ambition 
to use 100% renewable energy is one example of how great this challenge is. 
In some markets, this commitment is in line with customer expectations and 
market trends; while in others, availability of renewable energy options makes 
the transition more difficult.  

Regardless of the location however, we’re determined to find pathways to achieve 
the sustainability targets we’ve set for ourselves. The challenge requires our team 
to think strategically, collaborate with market leaders and create opportunities to 
overcome hurdles. 

Goodman Interlink, Hong Kong SAR, China.



34

Sustainability approach Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

The material issues which shape 
our sustainability strategy

In 2019, Goodman set its 2030 Sustainability Strategy 
based on six material ESG priorities. We believed 
each was not only critical to our business and ESG 
performance but would also be an area where we could 
make a tangible and positive impact.

It’s important that these material priorities are dynamic 
and are reviewed regularly. We start by considering 
them alongside global sustainability trends to gain an 
understanding of where and how they interconnect.  
Next, they’re influenced by our stakeholders, customers 
and investment partners. Lastly, we factor in the broader 
economic and social context. 

This approach aligns our sustainability strategy  
with our operational drivers to address shared  
global challenges. 

With the above in mind, we reviewed our material  
ESG priorities in 2022. 

We partnered with leading sustainability advisors 
BWD Strategic for the review. The process was 
rigorous and involved a series of interviews with 
external stakeholders as well as an assessment of the 
effectiveness and suitability of our strategy. The review 
also considered how our measurable targets respond 
to a suite of current and emerging global ESG trends.

The result saw us keep our original six material issues and 
add two more. The updated list of material ESG issues for 
Goodman includes: 

 +  Actively contributing to the Net Zero transition

 +  Owning strategically located properties close to 
consumers in key global markets

 +  Developing and adapting innovative, efficient and flexible 
properties with a future focus

 +  Demonstrating Goodman’s values and promoting 
diversity, inclusiveness and social equity

 +  Investing responsibly with defined governance and 
sustainable capital structures

 +  Promoting workplace safety and wellbeing for all

 +  Delivering resilient assets that support human health and 
value natural capital

 +  Influencing the sustainability practices of our value chain.

We consider these priorities to be essential to Goodman’s 
continued success and have shaped our sustainability 
strategy accordingly.

Goodman Akamatsudai, Greater Tokyo, Japan.



35

Sustainability approach Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

Venlo III Logistics Centre, Venlo, The Netherlands.

Sustainable assets

Our buildings are fundamental to Goodman’s business strategy. 

Goodman’s developments increasingly include a range of 
sustainable design features and innovations that improve energy 
efficiency, water efficiency and the wellbeing of our customers. 

Sustainability also plays a role in our choice of locations. Our strategy 
of prioritising properties in urban infill markets that are close to 
large consumer populations is gaining momentum. 

These properties (often re-purposed existing buildings in older 
industrial precincts) are in high demand. Not only do they present 
opportunities for our customers to improve efficiency and reduce 
transport-related emissions and costs, but they can also unlock 
positive social outcomes. We’ve found that revitalising underused 
and outdated precincts quickly provides new opportunities for 
employment and other community benefits.

While sustainable building design is prioritised on 
every Goodman property, we look well beyond 
the design itself.  We find opportunities to innovate 
with materials and onsite energy generation, 
taking a building lifecycle approach. This is helping 
us transition to carbon neutral developments, 
and to meet growing market demand for reducing 
carbon emissions. 

As our properties have emerged as essential 
infrastructure for the storage and movement of 
goods around the world, we’ve seen automation 
become a priority for many supply chains. 
This global trend is impacting the design of 
our buildings. We are developing buildings that 
enable our customers to incorporate automation 
and technology. 

Partnerships like this shift the value proposition for 
well-located and well-designed logistics properties. 
Often, they result in longer lease periods, which 
aligns with Goodman’s long-term strategy.  



36

Sustainability approach Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

Responding to climate risk

Climate risk presents a real and unfolding 
challenge to Goodman’s business and 
properties. 

Goodman’s Boards and leadership teams 
are fully committed to taking pragmatic 
action to identify, mitigate and respond to 
this risk, including designing and building 
properties which are resilient in the face of 
climate-related disruptions.

This year, Goodman reinforced its support 
of the Paris Agreement by developing an 
emissions reduction target, which aligns  
with the Science Based Targets initiative,  
to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees. The 
process was an extension of our 2021 
carbon neutral operations achievement  
and involved an in-depth review of our global 
carbon emissions and the opportunities to 
reduce them. 

Goodman Cajamar, São Paulo, Brazil.

Our targets consider our Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions.  
We look at our design and construction processes and actively engage 
with our supply chain to encourage the supply of low carbon materials. 

For the time being, carbon offsets are part of our transition to a  
lower carbon business. However, based on conversations we’re having 
with investors and our supply chain, new technologies will play a  
greater role in enabling us to achieve our sustainability goals and rely 
less on offsets.

Our commitments to solar and renewable energy targets remain 
resolute. They’re an essential piece of our low carbon future and a vital 
element to reduce global emissions. 

Our commitments to solar power are also a very tangible way to make 
a positive difference. This aligns well with the ambitions of many of our 
large global customers, who are increasingly setting their own carbon 
reduction targets.

Engaging our stakeholders

Meeting the needs of our stakeholders is paramount to Goodman’s 
ongoing success. Regular engagement with our stakeholders and 
nurturing of long-term relationships helps us understand their priorities 
and anticipate their needs. This way we can better support their 
ambitions and deliver sustainable returns for our investors. 

We prioritise to the effective disclosure of our ESG performance 
to our stakeholders. These include our customers, investors and 
securityholders, our employees, suppliers and local communities. 

We disclose through multiple channels and provide regular updates via 
Goodman’s website, our Sustainability and Annual Reports, and the 
ESG reporting benchmarks we work towards. 



37

Sustainability approach Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

Airgate Business Park, Sydney, Australia.

Our customers

Goodman has a diverse range of 
global and local customers within 
the ecommerce, logistics, retail, 
consumer goods, automotive, 
pharmaceutical and technology 
industries. Our business is 
focused on their current and 
future needs.

We work with our customers to 
gain a deep understanding of 
their real estate needs. We also 
look for where our sustainability 
goals align. This provides new 
and ongoing opportunities to 
collaborate.

Most of our top 10 global 
customers have set significant 
carbon emissions reduction 
targets and renewable energy 
commitments. As a result, they’re 
increasingly looking for partners 
who can help them take action 
and make significant progress 
towards their targets. 

We’re gaining momentum too, 
when it comes to the quality and 
number of conversations we’re 
having with our customers about 
aligned sustainability goals. These 
discussions usually centre around 
the future of green buildings and 
focus on opportunities, such as 
onsite power generation, where 
we can innovate to fast-track our 
shared and individual goals.

Top 20 customers by rent



38

Sustainability approach Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

Long-term investment partners

Through our managed Partnerships, Goodman has developed longstanding 
relationships with several of the world’s largest and leading pension and sovereign 
wealth groups. 

Engagement with our investment partners about our ESG strategy has increased this 
year, as well as become broader and more detailed. Many of our equity partners are 
increasingly intent on working with companies with clearly articulated ESG strategies. 
Goodman’s strong ESG approach is integral to their decision to do business with us.

Many of our investment partners operate according to their own dynamic ESG 
policies. This in turn has an influence on Goodman’s development and management 
activities. We regularly seek feedback from our investment partners during our 
investor updates and customer meetings. This feedback helps us to review our 
material sustainability priorities and impacts of our business. 

In the last few years, we’ve increased our use of video conferencing and online 
communication tools to communicate with a wide group of investors, without the need to 
travel. We see this as a long-term trend that aligns well with our own sustainability goals.  

Finally, we participate in several ESG benchmarks and ratings, including GRESB, 
MSCI and Sustainalytics. These platforms review the non-financial ESG performance 
aspects of our operations and provide value to the investment sector. 

Bungarribee Industrial Estate, Sydney, Australia.



39

Sustainability approach Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

The global supply chain

Our supply chain consists of small, medium and large-scale suppliers who 
we partner with to help deliver our global property development, property 
management and funds management activities. 

We’ve established, extensive supply chain relationships across each of our 
operating regions. We engage with these partners at every stage, from initial 
development through to operation and management.

We also actively engage with suppliers and organisations who can help us 
make progress on our sustainability targets. This work includes engineering 
organisations and associations such as the Materials and Embodied 
Carbon Leaders Alliance (MECLA), whose members are driven to reduce 
embodied carbon in the building and construction industry.

Communities

The Goodman Foundation utilises our people, 
properties and resources to address disadvantage 
in the world. Together, they make a tangible and 
sustainable difference to people’s lives. By partnering 
with likeminded charities and funding projects with 
clearly defined timelines and outcomes, we’re able to 
provide real support where it is needed most.

For the broader community, Goodman provides a 
comprehensive overview and regular updates on its 
ESG performance. We do this through our website, 
media releases and social media platforms including 
LinkedIn, Twitter and Instagram. 

We also respond to enquiries through our website and 
emails to our investor relations team.

Goodman’s global team

With a global workforce of more than 1,000 employees and a relatively flat 
organisational structure, constant engagement and communication across 
our global teams is vital. It is one of the many ways we remain focused on 
our strategy, performance, and the direction of our business. 

The health and wellbeing of our people remains a significant priority for 
Goodman. Programs such as the (good) life aim to support our people to 
find a productive work life balance. We survey our employees periodically. 
Throughout the COVID period we increased communication as well as 
online team engagement.

We induct new employees using e-learning modules and one-on-one 
sessions during their early months at Goodman. Ongoing training is 
generally delivered online and is available to all Goodman employees.  

Half yearly and annual performance reviews help us understand which 
people are suitable for role progression and a training plan. This allows  
us to identify succession opportunities, career aspirations and boost 
diverse leadership. 

We prioritise the rewarding and advancing of our people’s careers, on skills 
development and the provision of challenging work opportunities. We believe 
our high retention rate is partly due to programs like our long-term employee 
equity plan which gives our people a stake in the business.



40

Sustainability results Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

2030 Sustainability Strategy

Goodman’s 2030 Sustainability Strategy shapes all aspects of  
our business and is one important way we measure our success. 
Our strategy builds on our work to date, aligns with our purpose and 
approaches the future proactively. It’s helping transition our business  
into a truly resilient and low-carbon company. 

Our pillars

The three pillars of our strategy capture the sustainability 
commitments and goals for our global business. They set the context 
for our specific long-term and short-term targets based on material 
ESG issues which we track, measure and report against annually.

Goodman Kunchi East China, Shanghai, China.



41

Sustainability results Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

SUSTAINABLE 
PROPERTIES

Our sustainably designed, energy-efficient and 
professionally managed properties are strategically 
located and designed to meet our customers’ business 
needs and to remain resilient to tomorrow’s global 
challenges.

Read more on page 45



42

Sustainability results Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

PEOPLE AND 
CULTURE

Our workplaces promote the health, safety and 
wellbeing of our people, our contractors and our 
customers. Our people are recruited and rewarded 
based on their commitment to our values, long-term 
strategic thinking, expertise and performance.

Read more on page 70



43

Sustainability results Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

CORPORATE 
PERFORMANCE

Our capital structure is sustainable, and we have a 
positive impact in our global communities through the 
Goodman Foundation. We promote strong leadership and 
governance, engage regularly with our stakeholders, and 
measure and disclose our financial and community impact.

Read more on page 87



44

Sustainability results Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

Supporting the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals

The UN Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDGs) are a call to action to address the 
world’s most significant challenges including climate change, poverty, gender equality 
and good health and wellbeing for all.
Goodman’s 2030 Sustainability Strategy and ESG targets are in alignment with 9 of 
the 17 SDGs which are most relevant to our operations. Our progress towards these 
targets helps towards solving some of the world’s biggest challenges.

  GOOD HEALTH AND WELLBEING 

  GENDER EQUALITY 

  AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY 

  DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH 

  INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE 

  SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES 

  RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION 

  CLIMATE ACTION 

  LIFE ON LAND 



45

Sustainable properties Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

Sustainable properties

Goodman Kunchi East China, Shanghai, China.

As a leading owner, developer and manager of industrial 
real estate globally, we recognise the role our properties 
play in our customer’s value chain. Our preference 
for strategic infill development sites provides not only 
opportunities for our customers to be close to transport 
hubs and consumers, but is also a chance to rejuvenate 
and reposition existing brownfield sites into modern 
business precincts. 

Our sustainably designed, energy-efficient and well 
managed properties are strategically located to 
meet the business, health and wellbeing needs of our 
customers. We collaborate to provide the properties 
they need today, and the resilience to withstand the 
global challenges of tomorrow. Sustainability shapes 
our commitment to reduce carbon emissions from our 
developments and create buildings that are energy 
efficient and help generate their power.   

We measure the embodied carbon emissions of our 
developments and continue to collaborate with our 
supply chain partners to support developments in  
lower-carbon materials and designs.  

Material drivers

 +  Actively contributing to the Net Zero transition

 +  Owning strategically located properties close  
to consumers in key global markets

 +  Developing or adapting properties to be  
innovative, energy-efficient, and flexible

 +  Delivering resilient assets that support human  
health and value natural capital

 Goodman Huiyang Industrial Park, Huiyang, China.



46

Sustainable properties Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

TARGET FY22 ACTIVITY PROGRESS

400MW of solar 
PV capacity in 
operation by 2025 

A further 78 MW of solar PV installed  
or committed to during FY22.

Taking Goodman’s global installations  
to approximately 203MW.

2019 2022 2025

400MW203MW0MW
On track

100% renewable 
energy use within 
our operations by 
2025 

Achieved 100% renewable energy use 
Australia in FY22 and increased to 
approximately 65% globally.

Continued investing in solar to increase 
energy use across our portfolio.

2019

0 65% 100%

2022 2025

On track

Carbon neutral 
operations by 2025

Maintaining carbon neutrality for our 
global operations in FY22. This includes 
emissions within our operational control 
and excludes embodied emissions from 
our developments and our customers’ 
emissions.

We will continue to lower our operational 
emissions and increase our use of 
renewable energy. 

 

20252019 2021 2022

Achieved On track
Carbon neutral operations

Maintain >95% 
overall occupancy 
rate

Achieved 98% occupancy rate.  
 

 

2022

Occupancy
Surpassed

 >95%

Progress against targets

These targets are incorporated into Goodman’s performance review process from financial year 2022.



47

Sustainable properties Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

SUSTAINABLE DESIGN
AND DEVELOPMENT

Sustainable design 
approach

Goodman’s properties are 
designed to be efficient and 
highly functional both today and 
into the future. We achieve this 
by combining sustainable design 
fundamentals with the use of 
innovative materials and building 
automation.

Our experience plays a key role 
too. Goodman’s designs have 
been shaped by our many years 
developing cutting-edge logistics 
properties. Our designs also 
incorporate wellbeing initiatives 
that positively impact our 
customers and their workforce. 

Strategic assets

Extensive engagement with our 
customers is at the core of our 
design approach. We look to 
include emerging technologies 
so we can better support design 
priorities.

We view our properties as a 
strategic part of our customer’s 
supply chain. Using this lens we 
take a lifecycle approach with our 
designs, developing flexible and 
adaptable properties we know will 
be in demand in the years to come.  

Although we incorporate many 
sustainable design features as 
part of our standard designs, we 
also work closely with customers 
to see where, together, we can 
push boundaries.

The long-term relationships  
we build with our customers are 
reflected in our high occupancy 
levels, sustained rental growth 
and strong level of development 
activity.

Chifley Business Park South, Melbourne, Australia.

Goodman Business Park, Greater Tokyo, Japan.



48

Sustainable properties Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

 Multi-storey 
properties optimising 
land use in strategic 
infill locations close 
to consumers 
and transport 
infrastructure

Solar panels for 
renewable energy 
and skylights

Promoting innovative 
building materials like  
low-carbon concrete 

Automated LED 
lighting and  
sub-metering to 
reduce and monitor 
energy use

Efficient water 
fittings and rainwater 

harvesting

Low-E glazing to improve  
comfort and energy efficiency

Improving circularity 
through recycling and 
reusing materials 

End-of-trip 
facilities

Employee amenity, 
health and fitness

EV charging

Enhancing 
biodiversity, extensive 
landscaping,  
and beehives

Sustainability property design features



49

Sustainable properties Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

Actively adapting

Our efforts to improve resilience 
across Goodman’s portfolio are 
an important part of our strategy. 
We aim to develop properties that 
are flexible with greater resilience 
to intensifying climate-related 
events. They also need to adapt 
to shifting customer and market 
dynamics. 

The locations of our properties 
and accessibility for customers 
remain integral to Goodman. 
We understand the value of 
strategically-located properties 
and our preference for sites in 
these locations supports our  
long-term approach to real estate. 

Our commitment to reduce carbon in the 
development process and provide buildings 
that generate energy has greatly influenced 
our design process. The priorities support 
the broader commitments that Goodman, 
as well as many of our customers and 
investment partners, have made towards 
reducing emissions.

Our environmental targets will be achieved 
through collaboration and alignment across 
the entire value chain. We’re pleased that the 
conversations we’re increasingly having with 
our stakeholders show that we’re moving in 
the right direction. 

We’re also continuing our transition to 
carbon neutral buildings. We’ve established 
processes for calculating embodied 
emissions consistently across our global 
operations, and this is now a standard part 
of our development approach. 

Our work to decarbonise our developments 
by supporting the take up of lower 
carbon materials is progressing. As part 
of this commitment, our participation 
in industry movements such as the 
Materials and Embodied Carbon Leaders 
Alliance (MECLA) provides a channel for 
organisations to work together to reduce 
embodied carbon emissions in the building 
and construction industry. 

Highbrook Business Park, Auckland, New Zealand.



50

Sustainable properties Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

DESIGN
IN ACTION

MULTI-STOREY DEVELOPMENT IN SPAIN

As land is becoming scarce in Barcelona the answer for logistics companies is increasingly:  
‘go up’. Making use of limited land is vital when the vacancy rate in the Catalan logistics market is  
very low – less than 2%.

Multi-storey warehouses like the Goodman Castellbisbal Logistics Centre provide a sustainable 
solution for our Spanish customers. Featuring two units of 13,200 sqm, the multi-storey facility lies at 
an intersection of the two most important highways in Spain, just 28 km from the centre of Barcelona. 
This strategic location allows our customers to be close to Barcelona’s 5.5 million consumers1 and 
maximise last mile operations.  

Goodman first introduced multi-storey logistics centres to Spain in 2021. Now Goodman  
Castellbisbal Logistics Centre is Goodman’s second multi-storey real estate logistics project in 
the country. Multi-storey facilities are a sophisticated solution to land scarcity and urbanisation 
challenges. They streamline delivery processes and reduce traffic – benefiting cities and 
communities. They reduce the distance of the last mile and provide flexibility for our customers.

Goodman has been developing multi-storey facilities globally since 2012. We have now worked on  
46 of these properties around the world.



51

Sustainable properties Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

SUSTAINABILITY EXCELLENCE IN ACTION IN MILAN 

In East Milan, Goodman’s new Pioltello Logistics Centre has achieved one of the highest BREEAM 
rating scores for a logistics asset in Italy. The property achieved BREEAM New Construction Excellent 
certification with an outstanding score of 79.5%.

The 10,000 sqm property is a great example of sustainability applied to logistics real estate.  
A Life Cycle Analysis provided insight into the overall carbon impact of the building over the long term, 
and it was designed and developed adhering to the highest sustainability standards. 

Achieving the excellence rating from BREEAM required the Pioltello Logistics Centre to rank strongly 
across nine categories: management, energy, pollution, health and wellbeing, land use and ecology, 
transport, materials, waste and water.

Water management was the top performer, with a 100/100 score. This is in large part due to its design 
that minimises flood risks and reuses rainfall.

BREEAM wasn’t the only certification achieved for this property. The building’s energy efficiency 
features including high performing HVAC also earned the building an A4 energy performance 
certification – the highest available in Italy. 

Features include:

 + High-performance insulation

 + LED lighting with motion and daylight sensors

 + 470kWp of rooftop solar providing 52MWh per year

 + 54 EV charging stations with another 200 ready to be installed when needed.

As with all our developments, strategic location is key. Pioltello Logistics Centre provides easy access 
to a large consumer market with 2.5 million people accessible in a 30-minute drive time.1



52

Sustainable properties Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

STRATEGIC LOCATION AND SUSTAINABILITY 
MEET AT FULLERTON

In a former paper factory just 20 miles from the Port of Los Angeles/Long Beach, Goodman Logistics 
Center Fullerton has both strategic location and environmental credentials in its favour. 

This LEED registered, modern facility feels worlds apart from its origins. Today, 13.5 million people 
live within a one-hour drive of the four-building industrial campus, which reduces delivery times 
and transport emissions for our customers servicing the local market. There’s another benefit too: 
Fullerton’s connectivity to the greater Los Angeles areas and direct access to I-91 and other major 
motorways means 20 million customers fall into its same-day delivery zone.1

The brownfield development was built with 95% of recycled materials already on site and incorporates 
a number of sustainability features such as electric vehicle charging stations, motion detected lighting 
and a solar ready roofing system. 

When it comes to wellbeing, Goodman Logistics Center Fullerton offers various employee amenities 
encouraging a healthy and active workforce including breakout areas outside with enabled Wi-Fi, 
and a greenscaped walking trail for midday walks. The site is also close to world-class restaurants, 
shopping, Disneyland Resort, Downtown Fullerton, Honda Center, Anaheim Convention Center,  
Angel Stadium and California State University, Fullerton – making it an attractive destination for 
people to work.

To see more examples of sustainable design in action,  
go to www.goodman.com/sustainability/casestudies

1. Source: Michael Bauer Research

http://www.goodman.com/sustainability/casestudies


53

Sustainable properties Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

RESPONDING TO
CLIMATE RISK

Goodman’s Boards have 
committed to addressing  
climate risk at the highest level 
of the organisation. We work to 
maintain our understanding of 
current potential exposure to 
risks, gauge their impact on the 
business and identify meaningful 
mitigation responses.

Our view of risk goes beyond the 
direct physical risks to our assets 
posed by climate change. It also 
includes transitional risks to our 
business that relate to shifts in 
policy, regulatory and disclosure 
obligations, insurance impacts, 
and the market broadly.

Goodman’s Boards have 
committed to addressing  
climate risk at the highest level 
of the organisation. We work to 
maintain our understanding of 
current potential exposure to 
risks, gauge their impact on the 
business and identify meaningful 
mitigation responses.

Our view of risk goes beyond the 
direct physical risks to our assets 
posed by climate change. It also 
includes transitional risks to our 
business that relate to shifts in 
policy, regulatory and disclosure 
obligations, insurance impacts, 
and the market broadly.

This year, we finalised our 2030 science-based 
emission reduction targets, which are considered 
ambitious and aligned with a 1.5°C pathway.

Our first scenario-based climate-risk assessment 
aligned with the Task Force on Climate-Related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) guidelines was completed 
in 2020 and is reviewed annually. This assessment 
examined the key physical and transitional risks in our 
major regions and determined the following to be the 
most material: 

 +  Increasing temperatures and heatwaves

 +  Extreme precipitation events

 +  Windstorms (tropical and extra tropical)

 +  Severity of hailstorms

 +  Sea level rise.

The 2020 assessment process provided Goodman 
with an effective method of communicating risks 
and opportunities to our investors. It also led to us 
setting ambitious targets around reducing emissions, 
increasing renewable energy, and achieving carbon 
neutrality. 

We continue to evaluate the risks posed by extreme 
weather events and update our due diligence, design 
guidelines and property management operations to 
help mitigate our risks.

 
View our TCFD Statement

Redbank Motorway Estate, Brisbane, AustraliaRedbank Motorway Estate, Brisbane, Australia

https://www.goodman.com/-/media/files/sites/global/who-we-are/corporate-governance/policies-2022/gmg_o_tcfd_statement.pdf


54

Sustainable properties Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

CARBON  EMISSIONS
Goodman recognises the risk changing climate presents to our business. 
How we respond to these risks influences how we operate, develop and 
manage our properties now and in the future. Managing climate risk is 
incorporated into Goodman’s broader risk management framework and 
our responses are strategic and based on long-term outcomes.

Science-based approach

During the year, we finalised our science-based emission reduction targets. 
Using 2021 as our baseline year, our 2030 targets have been validated by 
the SBTi as being aligned with the UN Paris Agreement’s goal of 1.5°C. 

Our science-based target commitments include:

 +  42% reduction in absolute Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions.  
These include Goodman’s electricity, fuel and refrigerant emissions

 +  50% sqm intensity reduction of Scope 3 GHG emissions, including indirect 
emissions generated during the use of our stabilised and sold assets.

Our targets were derived in collaboration with greenhouse gas accounting 
specialists using the SBTi methodology. As our ability to control our  
Scope 3 emissions is limited, collaboration with suppliers and customers 
will be important. We will also need to remain focused on factors like 
efficient design and the location of our properties, supply of onsite 
renewable energy, EV infrastructure and our ability to influence our 
customers’ own emission reduction commitments.

Sustainability-linked finance 

This year Goodman created a Sustainability-Linked Bond Framework 
(Framework) to outline how Goodman Group will link our financing strategy with 
our sustainability strategy. The Framework uses Goodman’s science-based 
targets for our Scope 1 and Scope 2 reduction as performance criteria. 

After developing the framework, we issued our first US$500 million of 
Sustainability-Linked Bonds (SLB) into the Rule 144A / Reg S market with 
a scheduled maturity of 2032. They reflect the Group’s focus on operating 
sustainably as well as our commitment to reducing emissions aligned with 
1.5°C science-based targets. Failure to meet our targets has a financial 
consequence under the terms of the SLB. 

Maintaining carbon neutral certification

We’re on track to maintain our carbon neutral certification for our global 
corporate operations under the Climate Active Carbon Neutral Standard.  
We remain focused on reducing our operational emissions through 
efficiencies and increasing our use of renewable energy.

Our carbon inventory includes Goodman Scope 1 and 2 emissions. It also 
encompasses Scope 3 emissions from operational activities.

Importantly, the boundary of our carbon neutral certification excludes the 
embodied emissions from our developments and the emissions of our 
customers from the spaces they lease from Goodman. However, our solar 
PV and efficient building designs help support our customers’ Scope 1 and 2 
emissions reductions targets.

GoodNature, vegetable garden at Interchange Park,
Sydney, Australia.



55

Sustainable properties Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

Carbon neutral developments 

Embodied carbon is a key issue for 
Goodman as building materials and 
construction account for approximately 11% 
of global energy-related carbon emissions. 

Through our design approach, we reduce 
our customers’ emissions by including 
features like solar PV, EV charging stations, 
energy-efficient LED motion-sensor lights, 
passive lighting and electric heat pumps.

To tackle the challenge of reducing embodied 
emissions, we are collaborating with our 
supply chain partners to encourage lower 
carbon materials in our building designs. 

As part of this work, we recently 
introduced a process to measure and 
offset the embodied emissions of our 
new developments. Our approach uses 
Life Cycle Assessments (LCA) and 
helps us create carbon baselines for our 
developments across each of our regions. 
These can be used to forecast emissions.

This process to measure embodied 
emissions enables us to place a value on 
carbon. It also provides a framework for 
investing in carbon reductions, including 
offsets. Over time, we anticipate that the 
availability of low carbon materials which  
we can use will increase, further reducing 
our embodied emissions.

Investing in carbon offsetting 

We realise investing in carbon offsets is 
necessary to support the world transition to 
Net Zero. We invest in carbon offsets both 
to meet Goodman’s Climate Active Carbon 
Neutral certification, and as part of our 
transition to carbon neutral developments. 

This year we refined our process and  
criteria for purchasing carbon offsets.  
This will help mitigate risks and help us 
procure quality offsets. 

We prefer nature-based projects and if 
feasible, projects occurring in the regions 
where Goodman operates. We partner with 
leading carbon offset suppliers to procure  
offsets which meet our high standards. 
These suppliers provide additional due 
diligence on carbon offset projects and 
guidance on the additional social and 
biodiversity benefits of different projects. 

Goodman Logistics Center Fontana II, Los Angeles, USA.



56

Sustainable properties Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

ORIGINATING CARBON OFFSETS

As part of our procurement of quality carbon offsets, Goodman has made a strategic investment in an 
integrated carbon credit and regenerative platform in Australia – Wyuna Regenerative Agriculture. 

Investing alongside Australia’s Clean Energy Finance Corporation, this project assists land 
regeneration, sustainable food production and land-based solutions to climate change. 

Carbon credits for the scheme will be produced using the Clean Energy Regulator’s ‘Human Induced 
Regeneration’ methodology. It deploys technology and improved land management practices that 
result in the growth of vegetation to deliver carbon sequestration. 



57

Sustainable properties Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

RENEWABLE
ENERGY

We are reducing emissions across our business by decreasing energy demand in  
our buildings and transitioning towards renewable energy sources. This includes  
energy which we generate ourselves through our solar PV installations and electricity  
we purchase.

At Goodman it’s now standard practice to incorporate sustainability into our 
developments at the design stage. We continue to increase our knowledge and 
awareness of new products and technologies so that we can develop cutting edge 
energy efficient buildings. 

Some examples of our approach include the use of carbon neutral cladding  
and insulation in the UK, efficient heat pumps for heating in Continental Europe,  
and deploying building management systems in our properties around the world  
(see Sustainable design section above for more information). 

We also enhance the operational energy efficiency of our stabilised assets and invest  
in upgrades to keep improving. These opportunities include energy-efficient LED 
motion-sensor lights, and electric heat pumps and energy monitoring systems.

Generating clean energy 

To help our customers reduce their emissions and to reduce the demand on electricity 
grids, we continue to build our own capacity to generate clean energy. This year,  
in collaboration with our customers, we installed and committed to 78MW of new 
solar PV capacity on both our developments and stabilised assets. This takes us up to 
203MW of solar PV installed globally; on track to meet our 400MW target by 2025.

Shifting to renewable energy

Where our properties cannot generate enough energy to cover their consumption, 
we are increasingly looking to source 100% renewable electricity from accredited 
suppliers. Around 65% of Goodman’s global electricity consumption (in Goodman’s 
controlled areas) is generated from renewable energy sources and we remain on 
track to meet our 100% renewable energy target by 2025.



58

Sustainable properties Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

LARGE SCALE SOLAR – ROTTERDAM I LOGISTICS CENTRE

At the Rotterdam I Logistics Centre in the Netherlands, connection to the future is obvious.  
The 65,926 sqm of first-generation warehouse space is equipped with smart meters, efficient  
lighting and EV charging stations.  

But it’s the rooftop that really shows Goodman’s commitment to a sustainable future. This year,  
we installed 7MW of solar panels on the roof. This complex project required over 17,000 panels to be 
spread across a space roughly the size of five football fields.

Rotterdam I Logistics Centre has the largest solar installation on one building in our global network.  
It’s also currently the largest solar roof in South Holland – providing enough green energy to support 
the electricity needs of the equivalent of 1,934 Dutch households per annum.

Key statistics

7MW of solar capacity
17,000+ solar panels
1,934 Dutch households’ equivalent average electricity use p.a.



59

Sustainable properties Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

LATEST SOLAR AT GOODMAN BUSINESS PARK WEST BUILDING  

At Goodman Business Park, Greater Tokyo, our 500,000 sqm master planned business and 
technology precinct now hosts another of Goodman’s largest solar installations globally. 

The latest installation is a 3MW solar array on the recently completed Goodman Business Park West 
Building. For this installation, building and customer energy needs are prioritised with remaining power 
sold to the grid. 

While the solar array at Goodman Business Park, Chiba, is impressive, it’s only one of the sustainability 
features on a site renowned for its design and customer amenities. This multi-level, carbon-neutral 
development features EV chargers, LED sensor lighting, rooftop urban gardens and break-out spaces. 
Customers and the local community can also take advantage of the amenities in the Park, including 
a child care facility, a gym, restaurants, and a coffee shop – all in a strategic location with excellent 
access to downtown Tokyo. 

Our next major development in Japan will also feature a large solar array with Joso 1 planning 4.52MW 
of solar in addition to plans for battery storage. 

Key statistics

3MW of energy capacity
9,940 solar panels
14.9MW across the entire estate



60

Sustainable properties Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

Solar progress

203MW
REACHED IN 2022 78MW

THIS YEAR

400MW
TARGET BY 2025



61

Sustainable properties Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

GASLESS HVAC IN EUROPE 

Goodman has mandated that from FY22 all new developments and renovations in Europe will no 
longer use gas as a heating or cooling source. Transitioning from gas to gasless heating sources is an 
important climate-driven decision. However, it has gained momentum with the geopolitical issues in 
the region impacting oil and gas prices and availability. 

There are several heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) technologies in the market,  
but not all are technically and economically viable. The diagram below shows some of the gasless 
heating technologies currently commercially available. 

Goodman will use the right system for each individual property and operational requirement.

The preferred gasless heating technology uses electric HVAC systems coupled with onsite renewable 
energy production. In our recently completed Halle VI Logistics Centre development in Germany,  
the warehouse and office space are 100% heated and cooled by electric heat pumps.

Goodman Europe’s gasless strategy

 +  New developments and renovations will solely consider electric HVAC systems and on-site 
renewables.

 +  For stabilised assets, a roadmap for HVAC replacements is being developed.

BIOMASS
Dependent on local 

availability

BIOGAS
Considered together  

with price volatility  
forecast

HEAT  
NETWORKS

Dependent on local 
availability

H2
Competitiveness  

expected to increase  
by 2030

LOW 
CARBON
HEATING

ELECTRIC  
HVAC + ON-SITE 

RENEWABLES
Efficient and soalable 

option

Halle VI Logistics Centre, Halle, Germany.



62

Sustainable properties Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

BROWNFIELD 
DEVELOPMENTS

Repurposing adaptive 
properties

More than 50% of our global development 
program occurs on brownfield sites. These 
are previously developed properties that are 
no longer in use or out of date and require 
regeneration or remediation by specialists 
like Goodman.

Brownfield sites are integral to Goodman’s 
sustainability strategy and support 
Goodman’s commitment to circularity by 
reducing, recycling and reusing existing 
resources for as long as possible. 

Brownfield developments offer  
Goodman opportunities to use our  
expertise to regenerate existing sites,  
reuse finite materials and reduce waste, 
improve natural habitats and enhance 
biodiversity, and reduce our construction 
emissions while providing logistics facilities 
in strategic locations. 

By replacing or repurposing outdated 
buildings found on brownfield sites, we can 
improve the quality and performance of 
existing building stock without requiring 
additional land. In a world with a growing 
population, urbanisation and land scarcity, 
this is particularly important.

Brownfield sites are close to transport 
infrastructure and large populations, 
providing our customers with opportunities 
to find efficiencies within their logistics 
operations. Transforming these industrial 
areas into modern, efficient and sustainable 
commercial precincts also unlocks 
additional labour benefits for our customers, 
as brownfield sites are often close to a  
large workforce. 

The social value we add serves local 
communities too. Our new industrial 
precincts often include cafes and fitness 
and recreation facilities. Goodman 
developments such as Goodman Business 
Park Chiba, in Greater Tokyo Japan, and 
Highbrook Business Park in Auckland,  
New Zealand are recent examples.

(Before) Goodman Commerce Center Santa Fe Springs, Los Angeles, USA.

(After) Goodman Commerce Center Santa Fe Springs, Los Angeles, USA.



63

Sustainable properties Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

REGENERATION AT AUCKLAND’S ROMA ROAD 

Regeneration is underway at the former Foodstuffs distribution centre on Roma Road in Auckland. 

As we target a 5 Green Star Built rating, our company-wide commitment to circularity is paying off. 
Around 96% of demolition material from Roma Road was diverted from landfill. We recycled steel 
framing and roofing, large volumes of concrete and masonry were crushed onsite and retained for 
construction base, and local stone masons used the volcanic rock we uncovered. 

All four new warehouses will use sustainably sourced materials where possible and energy-efficiency 
will feature prominently. Customers will have LED lighting, EV charging systems, and low emission 
refrigerants for HVAC. 

Roofs have a role too. They’ll generate solar energy and harvest 80,000 litres of rainwater. An urban 
ngahere (forest) will be planted where native plants will replace exotics, attracting birds and enriching 
the environment for the workforce.

NZ Post will anchor the new development. The last mile location will mean fewer trucks and lower 
transport emissions for its increasing number of deliveries as e-commerce grows in New Zealand.

Artist’s impression of Roma Road Estate, Auckland, New Zealand.



64

Sustainable properties Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

DESIGNING CIRCULARITY INTO DECONSTRUCTION – 
REUSING MATERIALS AT TREMBLAY-EN-FRANCE 

At Tremblay-en-France, 30km from the centre of Paris, Goodman was able to reuse, recover or 
recycle 99.1% of waste from the old buildings on this brownfield site. 

Approximately 44 tons of materials, including partition walls, fire doors and raised floors were re-used 
locally – within an average of 60km from the site. We also recycled 7,900 tons of materials like glass, 
carpet, ceramics, plaster and steel. 

In the extensive pre-deconstruction stage, which included cleaning, sorting and on-site repairs, 
specialist local SMEs and circular economy start-ups helped identify the right channel for each 
resource. At one stage, 16 types of waste were stored across the Tremblay-en-France property. 

The deconstruction process required specific methods, tools and machinery. It also required more 
people on site – a 20% increase over the standard demolition workforce. We worked closely with our 
contractors to train their people in the new techniques.

Learnings from Tremblay-en-France will be employed across future Goodman projects. 



65

Sustainable properties Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

REVITALISING OUR PORTFOLIO

Not all brownfield developments are newly acquired. Our practice of buying strategically located 
sites means we already own some older sites ripe for redevelopment. This is particularly the case in 
Australia, where we’ve operated for almost 30 years.

One example is in the Sydney suburb of Smithfield, just 24 km from the CBD. Easy access to  
Sydney’s motorway network meant customers had long coveted the strategic location of the old 
Smithfield Distribution Centre, but the property had reached the end of its economic life.

This year we completed the transformation of this outdated warehouse into a flexible, modern  
multi-unit estate. Now, Gateway@Smithfield houses eight customer units across two buildings, 
providing 46,455 sqm GLA. 

As part of our sustainability commitment, we installed 1.14MW of solar for the new development. We 
also included provisions for EV charging on 10% of the car spaces and LED lighting with daylight 
harvesting capabilities in all warehouse spaces, 10% translucent roof sheeting and 5kL rainwater 
collection tanks. 

Brownfield redevelopments are complex, and Smithfield was no exception. The timing of the 
regeneration project meant that strict lockdowns were in place during some of the process, while  
the team also had to contend with sustainably managing contaminated materials during the 
demolition and building process.

The site is now fully leased to a range of customers who appreciate the easy access and proximity  
to 4.5 million consumers within a 60-minute drive time1.



66

Sustainable properties Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

BIODIVERSITY
Using circularity to 
support biodiversity

Nature provides many of the essential 
resources we rely on to survive. Yet, global 
biodiversity and the health of ecosystems 
are under threat. Scarcity of resources and 
demand for more materials are creating 
the need for businesses to challenge 
themselves to respond to these threats.  
We can design for circularity by identifying 
new strategies to operate more efficiently, 
design out waste through reuse and 
recycling, and where possible use fewer 
resources. In this light, circularity can help 
reduce biodiversity loss.

Circularity, or the circular economy 
approach, is a blueprint for action, and it’s 
gaining traction. Consumers, investors, 
companies and governments are 
recognising the importance of circularity 
and how it can be used to respond to global 
challenges like climate change, reducing 
pollution and declining biodiversity.

Goodman has a responsibility to do what it 
can to preserve and improve biodiversity 
across its global operations. Our ambition 
is to deliver resilient assets that support 
human health and value natural capital, and 
our customers and investment partners 
are looking to us to lead on these efforts. 
We are certain that disclosure of natural 
capital and biodiversity management will 
increase, highlighted by the global launch of 
the Taskforce for Nature-Related Financial 
Disclosures (TNFD) framework. 

Our preference for re-developing brownfield 
sites, and when needed, rehabilitating 
contaminated industrial environments, 
supports the circularity approach. It offers 
Goodman the opportunity to enhance 
the local environment and improve 
biodiversity as well as make other positive 
improvements. This work is underway. We’ve 
already begun establishing urban forests, 
linking wildlife corridors, installing gardens 
with beehives and expanding conservation 
areas at our sites. 

Beehives on rooftop, Senlis Logistics Centre, Paris, France.

GoodNature – vegetable garden at Interchange Park, Sydney, Australia.



67

Sustainable properties Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

BIODIVERSITY KEY TO BEDFORD COMMERCIAL PARK 

Set in a landscaped park environment, Bedford Commercial Park will offer green open spaces and 
attractive surroundings for our customers and their employees to enjoy. 

The Park includes a network of landscaped ponds, designed to support local wildlife and protect 
natural habitats. The Park is complemented by a community orchard, extensive woodland planting, 
and a series of pedestrian footpaths and cycle routes which link the Park with its natural surroundings. 
It will also be the home to a future canal link between Bedford and Milton Keynes.

Since we completed Phase 1 in 2019, we’ve worked with the local charitable trust, the Forest of 
Marston Vale, to increase tree canopy cover in the area by 30%. More than 950 native trees have 
been planted across the Park, with Goodman people also volunteering their time to help. 

Once complete, Bedford Commercial Park will include four acres of ponds and close to seven acres 
of new and existing woodland.



68

Sustainable properties Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

IMPROVING BIODIVERSITY BY SUPPORTING BEES

Bees help support biodiversity across the globe. Without them, many ecosystems would cease to 
exist. But today’s global bee populations face a multitude of threats, including habitat destruction, 
disease and the use of agricultural chemicals. 

To help, Goodman is colonising wild bees by planting wildflower meadows with nesting sites on  
the grounds at some of our German properties in Pforzheim, Nuremberg, Stuttgart and Hamburg. 
The project, supported by bee experts and beekeepers at Pforzheim III Logistics Centre in Germany, 
will help these threatened species as we improve biodiversity in the area. It will also provide wellbeing 
benefits to the local workforce, as they will be able to enjoy the improved natural surroundings. 

Another way we support biodiversity is through the 100-plus beehives now installed across our 
European sites. In Germany, our honeybees produced almost 600 kilograms of honey this year.  
Some of it came from the beehives located at our logistics sites in Nuremberg, Eppertshausen,  
Leipzig and Pforzheim, where our customers are partnering with us to support the bees. 



69

Sustainable properties Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

INNOVATIONS AND SUSTAINABILITY IN OUR LANDSCAPING 

Preserving and maintaining our natural assets is important to Goodman. Innovation – both in technology 
and in our thinking – has helped us make big leaps in sustainable landscaping practices in Australia.

Through pilot projects, collaboration with suppliers and trials of new technologies, we have been able 
to reorient our landscaping operations with sustainability front of mind. 

Technology-led solutions to reduce water waste

Last year we installed 384 potable water meter devices – at least one on each Australian property. 
These meters track the 1,468 megalitres of water used across our portfolio every year. Their real time 
data helps customers understand their water usage and identify leaks or wastage so that they can be 
repaired well before a bill arrives. 

We also deployed smart irrigation across Goodman’s Australian portfolio. This technology-led solution 
is so smart that individual garden beds can be remotely controlled, reducing water use at some 
properties by 54%.

Making our landscaping practices more sustainable

We used new technology to reduce the chemicals used to tackle weeds. After comparing various  
low-toxic weed control options, we trialled new equipment combining saturated steam and boiling 
water. This solution helps nurture soil and use less of the chemical Glyphosate. We are working closely 
with the manufacturer to make it more portable so we can use it more widely.

From December 2022 all our landscaping contractors will need to use lithium battery-powered 
blowers, hedge trimmers and other handheld landscaping equipment. These are lighter, quieter and 
easier to handle than combustion options – and don’t rely on fossil fuels for power.

A sustainable approach to trees

There are 21,000 trees across the Australian portfolio. We have a maintenance plan in place which 
helps maintain optimum health and longevity. Soon, when our trees are trimmed, the branches will be 
broken down into mulch, soil or compost and then reused. A green waste recycling pilot project on 
several Goodman properties in Sydney processed an estimated 500 cubic metres of green waste in 
just six months. This project will soon roll out nationally.

1. Source: Esri and Michael Bauer Research



70

People and culture Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

People and culture

Our people are our greatest asset. Their determination 
and innovation combined with the strong relationships 
they build with our customers and partners, push 
our business forward. That’s why we work hard to 
create a culture that enables our people to realise 
their ambitions. It’s integral to who we are and what we 
stand for. We encourage innovation and we offer skills 
development and challenging work opportunities that 
advance people’s careers. 

Team approach 

Goodman people work as a collaborative and engaged 
team. We strongly believe that using a team-based 
approach, where our people, customers, partners and 
contractors work together, is the way we can all perform 
at our best.

To support and retain our people and attract new talent, 
we foster a diverse and inclusive culture. Our people 
participate in the Group’s long term incentive scheme, 
in part to build collective responsibility, and to align with 
the interests of our stakeholders. 

Goodman actively supports a strong culture in many 
ways. To keep our people healthy, connected and 
motivated, we provide regionally specific online and 
interactive health and wellbeing initiatives. These 
initiatives have become even more important during the 
pandemic. Incorporating health and wellbeing features 
into our properties for our customers is also a focus. 
These include facilities like recreational and fitness 
facilities, break-out spaces and garden areas. 

We focus on our safety standards and monitoring 
to prioritise the safety of each team member and 
contractor. And we are seeking to protect human rights 
by mitigating the risk of modern slavery in our global 
supply chains, and continuously improving our business 
ethics and processes.



71

People and culture Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

We operate a hybrid working model globally.  
Our commitment to flexibility allowed us to adapt 
and successfully work through lockdowns, travel 
restrictions and home schooling, while continuing to 
meet our customers’ needs during the pandemic. 

Our remuneration strategy is designed to attract the 
best talent and retain our people. We invest in retaining 
our people through our unique long-term employee 
equity plan. This gives all our people a material stake in 
the business. 

We value and welcome diversity. We recognise the 
need to increase our female senior management 
representation and to reach our target of 40% by 
2030. We are actively working towards this target 
through succession planning, promotions, recruitment 
and employee development. We are also providing 
this cohort with increased direct involvement with 
large customers and investors, and additional talent 
management opportunities.

Material drivers

 +  Promoting workplace safety and wellbeing for all 

 +  Demonstrating Goodman’s values and promoting  
diversity, inclusiveness, and social equity

 +  Group and regional leadership

 +  Influencing the sustainability practices  
of our value chain.



72

People and culture Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

Progress against targets

TARGET FY22 ACTIVITY PROGRESS

Safe working 
environment

 

In FY22, zero fatalities occurred on 
construction projects under the control 
of our Principal Contractors.

This achievement was supported 
through the launch of a Return to Zero 
program for our contractors which 
increased operational monitoring of 
safety standards.

We also developed specifications for 
minimum contractual safety standards 
on construction projects for Principal 
Contractors.

Safety policy Safety training

On track

Improve supply 
chain business 
ethics 

 

Development of our Sustainable 
Sourcing Framework, including updates 
to our Supplier Code of Conduct. These 
commitments will assist us in protecting 
human rights within our supply chain and 
to mitigate the risk of modern slavery.

A comprehensive modern slavery 
training module was launched in FY22.

 

Sustainable 
sourcing framework

Modern Slavery 
Statement

20252019

On track

20222021

Gender ratio of 
50/50, with 40% 
female senior 
executives by 2030

 

We reached a gender ratio of 44% female 
and 56% male. 

Goodman maintained 30% female senior 
executives. Gender ratio 50/50

Female Target Male

40% female senior executives

2022 2030

30% 40%

100% of employees 
assessed as 
demonstrating 
Goodman’s values

As of September 2022, 98% of 
employees had been rated as at least 
‘demonstrate’ or above of the Group’s 
values. 

Demonstrate Goodman values
Achieved 98%0



73

People and culture Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

Sustainability, innovation, determination and integrity – 
Goodman’s values are integral to the success of the business. 
They shape our culture and focus our teams on delivering  
high-quality service, and innovative property and investment 
solutions over the long term. As part of the annual performance 
review process, our people are assessed on their demonstration 
of the Goodman values.

LIVING 
OUR VALUES



74

People and culture Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

SUPPORTING
OUR PEOPLE

Our wellbeing offering evolved during the year to respond to the ongoing nature of the 
pandemic. Our people in some regions took part in anonymous mental health surveys 
with the results helping our managers better understand the indicators of mental health 
in our people, and how to support their team members across the globe. 

We encouraged our managers to have more regular check-ins with their team members 
to better support them throughout the pandemic and beyond. We continued to provide 
counselling for our people and their families, as well as tailored online educational 
support on a range of health and wellbeing issues. In some regions these programs were 
run by an expert external provider. 

Goodman continues to offer flexibility and remote working. We are strong supporters 
of flexible work and the benefits it brings. Plus, our people like the flexibility and we 
want to support them in this. Now, our people typically work in a hybrid arrangement 
depending on their commitments. Both options have benefits for our people, customers, 
relationships and our culture. 

Connected wellbeing 

Flexibility allowed Goodman to adapt and successfully work through lockdowns, travel 
restrictions and home schooling, while continuing to be productive and meet our 
customers’ changing needs in a time of global disruption.

Where the pandemic impacted our people’s work and home lives, we offered  
region-specific online and interactive health and wellbeing initiatives to keep them 
physically and mentally healthy, connected to their colleagues and motivated.  
These included virtual fitness sessions, karaoke competitions, walking groups, cooking 
competitions, book clubs, guided meditations, wellness talks, and other initiatives. 

In China and Hong Kong, we provided additional support for our people during the 
extended lockdowns through tutoring services for children who were unable to attend 
school, and other opportunities for regular communication with management and 
colleagues across their region.

People first design 

Our offices are designed for collaboration, health, wellbeing, 
connectivity and sustainability. We provide a mix of quiet spaces 
and areas to connect and collaborate –all in contemporary and 
sustainable surroundings. 

Where possible, we design our workspaces to maximise natural 
light and fresh air. We use natural non-toxic materials and 
incorporate plants and trees to lower stress and improve mental 
clarity. Several of our offices have yoga rooms, gyms, multi-faith 
rooms and end-of-trip facilities.

Our workplaces also allow for limited physical contact,  
which helps prevent the spread of illness. We have touchless 
entry to our buildings, and our people use their own technology 
equipment. There is also plenty Connected wellbeing of 
physical space between people in the office. 

Goodman’s office at The Hayesbery, Sydney, Australia.



75

People and culture Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

HUMAN CAPITAL
MANAGEMENT

The value of diversity

At Goodman, we are committed to enhancing diversity and encouraging inclusion.  
We each bring unique perspectives, experiences, knowledge, backgrounds and 
thinking. Diverse teams foster a rich mix of differing views and ideas, all of which 
challenge our thinking and result in better decision making and business performance. 

Diversity allows our people to know they genuinely belong and feel included.  
Diversity of thought is greatly valued at Goodman. Our success depends on it.

Our diversity policy supports:

 +  Workplaces free of harassment or unlawful discrimination

 +  Recruitment and promotion based on merit

 +  Equal access to personal development, management skills and career 
opportunities

 +  Cultural differences

 +  The needs of individuals with family and carer responsibilities

 +  Customers’ diversity and their expectations

 +  An inclusive work environment where ideas and opinions are shared

 +  A range of philanthropic channels for community contributions

 + Increased career advancement opportunities for women.



76

People and culture Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

In FY22, Goodman undertook several diversity and inclusion 
initiatives to enhance our workplaces. These included:

 +  Conducted training and other initiatives in various regions 
on inclusion and diversity, as well as specific inclusive 
leadership training

 +  As part of the Group’s support of Our Watch, Goodman 
worked closely with the organisation to establish the 
Our Watch Institute (for more information see page 94). 
Starting in FY23, gender equality training will be rolled out 
to all Goodman employees, commencing in Australia . 
This training is designed to reinforce the message within 
Goodman about the importance of gender equality in the 
wider community, recognising it as the primary cause of 
violence against women. Participant feedback will help 
assist Our Watch refine training content in preparation for 
rollout across other workplaces. As part of the support 
from Goodman, valuable communication and marketing 
advice will help to implement the program with other 
corporates, and ultimately the wider community

 +  Important corporate messages translated into local 
languages when needed to improve understanding and 
demonstrate to our people that the Group is cognisant 
of language differences

 +  Parental leave entitlements were reviewed and 
increased in the UK, New Zealand and Australia. 
We also introduced online tools, such as Circle In 
and Enboarder in Australia and NZ, to assist in the 
transition to and from parental leave and improve 
communication with our people on parental leave

 +  A flexible work policy was introduced in Japan, 
an employment market that traditionally has not 
embraced flexible work to the same extent as  
some others

 +  In Continental Europe and New Zealand, we 
implemented an improved (voluntary) approach  
to capture workplace demographics, in order to  
assist with planning and target setting

 +  In support of FY22 International Women’s Day (IWD),  
various offices around the world participated in 
activities to enhance gender equality 

 –  The Goodman Hong Kong business undertook 
the Women Build 2022 project in conjunction 
with Habitat for Humanity Hong Kong (for more 
information see page 94) 

 –  Goodman NZ recognised IWD by launching an 
updated parental leave policy.  The enhancements 
support the Group’s commitment to reduce bias 
and improve representation across genders through 
providing practical and financial support to parents 
and caregivers. Also, employees attended an IWD 
“Break The Bias” webinar hosted by the Property 
Council NZ

 –  Also in NZ, a refreshed diversity and inclusion survey 
was launched which for the first time included a 
question on identifying as part of the LGBTQI+ 
community. The section of the Circle In platform 
was also utilised by an employee (who is part of the 
LGBTQI+ community) who shared their parenting 
story with the Goodman and wider Circle In 
community 

 –  In Australia, Patty Kinnersely, CEO of Our Watch, 
presented at a Goodman staff web conference 
to outline the importance of gender equality and 
addressed the key features of the training program

 +  A steering group was established in Australia to support 
the development of a comprehensive and meaningful 
Diversity and Inclusion strategy

 +  Also in Australia, the development of a Reconciliation 
Action Plan is underway to drive awareness and 
reconciliation with First Nations peoples. (See Advancing 
reconciliation with Australia’s First Nations people section 
below for more detail)

 +  We continue to support the Property Council of 
Australia’s 500 Women in Property Mentoring Program. 
Goodman’s Australian business also sponsors the 
Women in Industrial Program, which promotes female 
participation in the industrial property sector

 +  Within the Australian business, internal group mentoring  
is available to some of our people by senior leaders.

WE EACH BRING UNIQUE  
PERSPECTIVES, EXPERIENCES, 
KNOWLEDGE, BACKGROUNDS  

AND THINKING.



77

People and culture Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

Developing leadership

Building an inclusive workplace at Goodman starts with our leaders. 
They lead by example when creating the culture of our business. 

In Continental Europe, our management and reporting  
structure continue to evolve to strongly encourage teamwork.  
In Australia, we facilitated leadership workshops that focused  
on the value of inclusion.  

This is important long-term work. We know by leveraging diverse 
thinking and enriching our capabilities, we can create a positive 
work and team culture, improve collaboration and positively 
impact the performance of our global business. The result of this 
work creates a culture where our people realise their potential 
and are empowered to pursue leadership. 

We have a global workforce of approximately 1,000 people and 
a relatively flat organisational structure. So when evaluating if an 
employee should be categorised as a senior executive, we consider:

 +  Proximity of the employee on the Group’s organisational  
chart to the Group CEO or regional CEOs

 +  Scope of the role

 +  Potential commercial impact

 +  Accountability for risk factors

 +  Total remuneration level.

Encouraging leadership styles that recognise the importance of 
inclusion, supports our aim of creating a more diverse workplace 
by lifting the representation of females in leadership roles. We are 
committed to 40% of females in the senior executive category 
by 2030. In FY22, this was maintained at 30% through targeted 
recruitment, talent reviews and promotions. We also continued 
to upskill senior female employees, where opportunities become 
available, by giving them more responsibility and exposure to 
major customers, investors or corporate activity.

The (good) life

To foster engagement, promote a greater  
work-life balance and enhance productivity, 
Goodman provides a range of activities for  
our people around the world. 

In Australia, Goodman’s health and wellbeing 
program, the (good) life, supports our people 
through six pillars:

 + the (social) life  

 + the (healthy) life

 + the (balanced) life

 + the (energetic) life

 + the (informed) life

 + the (beneficial) life

In the last few years we have expanded this 
program so that our people can take part while 
working from home with a focus on exercise  
and education.



78

People and culture Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

People resources and skills

Goodman is proactive about identifying and managing human capital risks. 
As our business evolves, this risk management approach includes identifying 
potential gaps in available human resources. A recent example includes the 
recruitment of specialist personnel with experience managing Life Cycle 
Carbon Assessments.  

Goodman operates with global mandates to provide technical expertise 
and alignment across the Group. For example, the Group Technical Director, 
Group Insurance Manager and Group Safety Manager engage with our 
regional teams. Goodman’s Group Head of HR reports to the Remuneration 
Committee on any material employee relations and HR issues, along with 
gender equity and related matters. The Nominations Committee oversees 
the Group’s succession plan at senior levels. 

Building capacity

Online learning provides an effective platform for learning and training 
for Goodman’s global teams. However, we also consider it a positive sign 
that there was a return to more face-to-face learning for key technical 
requirements in FY22.

Goodman’s Continental Europe business ran the Goodman Academy again 
this year, where internal subject matter experts present to peers on technical 
aspects of their roles. These sessions provide employees the opportunity to 
present and engage within the business. 

These types of peer-to-peer training sessions are highly valued by Goodman, 
and we run similar programs in other regions, such as the ‘In Focus’ program 
in Australia. 

This year we also launched a global communications training program, 
facilitated by an external writing expert. The program has been rolled out 
in Australia, New Zealand, Continental Europe and North America – with 
remaining regions to be trained in FY23. 

Goodman’s people can also access a comprehensive catalogue of LinkedIn 
Learning content via the Group’s global learning system, Aspire. Aspire 
is the gateway to a range of professional development and skills training 
relating to compliance, technical and management skills. It’s the backbone 
of Goodman’s human capital skills offerings. All content is kept current and it 
remains a popular method of self-paced learning among our employees. 

During FY22, 69% of Goodman’s global workforce accessed LinkedIn 
learning to view 9,565 hours of training across both internal and external 
courses. The most popular online modules were communication and 
negotiation, personal coaching, and leadership.

Goodman’s Greater China team has developed its own competency 
framework designed to assist employees identify what skills and experiences 
they require to progress their development and learning pathways.



79

People and culture Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

Managing our team

Goodman’s human resources team manages our human capital 
including the global performance management process in place for 
our workforce.

We do background checks on new employees where relevant 
and ongoing checks on employees where required by regulatory 
bodies. Our Code of Conduct covers all employees and regular 
governance compliance training takes place to  boost awareness, 
among employees, of their obligations.

We look at human capital metrics including gender representation, 
gender pay equity, remuneration, diversity, learning, turnover 
and absenteeism. Voluntary turnover across Goodman Group is 
around 6.4% per annum.

Across the Group, we prioritise equal fixed remuneration  
for employees who do similar work within the same region. 
Differences in total remuneration, including incentives, are based 
on performance. 

These performance-based incentives are a large portion of our 
remuneration. All employees globally participate in our LTIP and 
it is a critical element of the Group’s remuneration philosophy. 
The structure and long-term nature of the LTIP is fundamental in 
generating the type of culture that we want for long-term success. 
It creates significant long-term alignment  between the sustained 
financial and operational outcomes of the business delivered and 
the returns to securityholders.

Career direction

It is important to Goodman that we recruit, engage, develop and retain  
the best people in the market.

We focus on providing development opportunities for our people 
throughout their career with Goodman. This includes setting clear 
performance expectations from the outset. We induct new employees with 
face-to-face and e-learning modules during their early months at Goodman. 

Crucial to the development of our people is monitoring performance and 
providing competitive remuneration and benefits. To develop careers, 
we offer learning and development opportunities that help build new and 
existing skills. We prioritise talent and use succession planning to make sure 
we build a strong workforce and leadership team for the future.

Employee development plans are reviewed each year with managers. 
These focus on career aspirations, goals, and potential training.  
Our people are offered incentives to study during their career at Goodman. 
This includes study support schemes, which in some regions includes an 
allowance of up to AU$8,000.

The annual performance review and development process helps identify 
and plan for role progression and identify what specialised management 
training is required. This training includes peer-to-peer engagement with 
Goodman’s senior leadership team and management committees, which 
helps identify succession opportunities and creates a diverse leadership 
team for the longer term.



80

People and culture Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

Sustainable movement

Our holistic approach to sustainability not only focuses on Goodman’s 
business but also supports sustainability actions for our people.

To help our people access more sustainable transport we continued 
offering electric vehicle (EV) incentives. Our people who purchase an  
EV are offered a financial subsidy by the Group, with the popularity of this 
scheme gaining momentum each year. 

We are also transitioning Goodman’s global vehicle fleet to electric,   
with programs in place in Australia, Continental Europe and New Zealand 
to upgrade their fleets. In addition, Goodman’s developments globally 
increasingly feature EV bays with battery charging stations. 



81

People and culture Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

ADVANCING
RECONCILIATION

WITH AUSTRALIA’S
FIRST NATION’S

PEOPLE
Reflect: Our Reconciliation Action Plan 

Goodman sees it as our responsibility to listen to, learn from and 
amplify First Nations voices where we work and live in Australia. 

We are at the beginning of realising our ambitions in this space.  
Our focus this year has been on moving through the Reflect stage 
of our Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP). A RAP is designed to 
provide tangible and substantive benefits for Aboriginal and  
Torres Strait Islander peoples around the core pillars of 
relationships, respect and opportunities. Like anything we do,  
it’s important that our first RAP is authentic and ambitious –  
we’re determined to make a difference. 

Relationships

We are actively engaging with Indigenous organisations to  
assist us with our Reflect RAP, including cultural immersion  
and building relationships with Local Land Councils in the  
areas where we operate. 

To understand the right training and immersion opportunities 
to offer, we surveyed our people and offered senior leadership 
briefings on reconciliation and the RAP process. Both will  
enable our people to be a part of our engagement with  
First Nations peoples.

Respect

Acknowledging Country at Goodman’s official investor  
events such as the AGM and results presentations is an 
important mark of respect. For new developments, we conduct  
a Welcome to Country and smoking ceremony officiated by 
Local Land Councils.

During NAIDOC Week and National Reconciliation Week we 
worked to further facilitate greater understanding and respect 
through cultural immersions, communication, Indigenous movie 
screenings and food workshops. 



82

People and culture Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

Smoking Ceremony to mark the start of construction at Proximity@Botany, Sydney, Australia. 

Opportunities 

Goodman is engaging with Indigenous suppliers where possible  
and seeking opportunities to employ indigenous people within our 
Australian team.

Through the Goodman Foundation we are committed to  
education support programs like the Clontarf Foundation and  
other culturally safe initiatives as with the Stepping Stone House  
Bawaga program. 

More information about our broad indigenous support can be found  
in the Goodman Foundation section (see page 94).



83

People and culture Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

NAIDOC WEEK

NAIDOC Week is a time to celebrate the history, culture and achievements of Aboriginal and  
Torres Strait Islander peoples. It seemed the right moment to conduct a Welcome to Country and 
smoking ceremony at Goodman’s flagship workspace, The Hayesbery in Sydney’s Rosebery. 

Uncle Allen Madden from the Metro Local Aboriginal Land Council conducted the Welcome on  
behalf of the Gadigal people.

“ABORIGINAL CULTURE IS EASY TO 
UNDERSTAND. IT’S ALL ABOUT SHARING AND 
CARING, AND RESPECT. THAT’S SOMETHING 
THAT’S ALWAYS IN YOUR HEART AND MIND.”

Uncle Allen Madden

Smoking Ceremony and Welcome to Country, The Hayesbery, Sydney, Australia.



84

People and culture Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

SYSTEMS
FOR SAFETY

Major safety initiatives

During FY22 our priority was achieving zero fatal accidents on construction 
projects controlled by Principal Contractors. We launched a ‘Return to 
Zero’ program to directly influence contractors and increase operational 
monitoring of safety standards. 

We developed specifications for minimum contractual safety standards on 
construction projects for Principal Contractors. The standards outline our 
expectations for contractors as they provide control measures for high-risk 
activities. During FY22 we proactively monitored the implementation of 
these contractual safety standards during construction.  

During our ‘Return to Zero’ program, we conducted frequent safety 
inspections and issued non-conformance reports and stop work orders to 
Principal Contractors. This not only enforced our standards but also served 
to influence contractor safety standards overall.

We also developed a program to provide increased powers for our site  
safety representatives and initiated penalties for contractors deemed to be 
non-compliant with Goodman expectations. Our combined approach helped 
us achieve zero fatal accidents on contractor-controlled projects this year.

Goodman is a global business and our 
commitment to safety is consistent 
across regions. Our global safety 
framework helps us implement our 
approach to safety management for 
construction and maintenance activities 
in our portfolio. 

The major risks for life safety, and 
a key area of our focus, are in the 
development and construction of our 
properties on sites under control and 
supervision of Principal Contractors. 

Goodman is committed to positively 
influencing high safety standards in our 
contracted workforce. We also actively 
monitor safety standards to minimise 
incidents and achieve our objective of 
zero fatal accidents in our supply chain.

Crossways Commercial Park, London, United Kingdom.



85

People and culture Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

CUSTOMER
WELLBEING

Our commitment to sustainable properties means we 
develop and own buildings that are great  places to 
work in and support the health and wellbeing needs of 
our customers.  
We believe that our commitment to providing healthy, 
sustainable buildings makes it easier for our customers 
to attract their own workforce to our properties. In turn, 
our business benefits from high occupancy levels and 
sustained rental growth.



86

People and culture Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

WELL HEALTH-SAFETY RATING FOR 10 HONG KONG PROPERTIES

In Hong Kong, urban density means our properties are central hubs and home to bigger workforces  
than many other locations. 

The globally-recognised WELL Health-Safety Rating, from the International WELL Building Institute 
(IWBI), guides, validates and recognises the efforts of building owners and operators on critical  
health and safety issues. This year Goodman submitted 10 of our Hong Kong properties for the rating. 
We became Hong Kong’s first logistics developer in our asset class to achieve it.

The WELL rating assesses more than 20 features across five core areas:

 + Cleaning and sanitisation procedures

 + Emergency preparedness programs

 + Health service resources

 + Air and water quality management

 + Stakeholder engagement and communication.

Health, safety and wellbeing is a priority at Goodman. Now, when customers, suppliers or our team 
walk into our Hong Kong properties and see the WELL certification logo, they can be reassured this 
remains a key commitment.

Goodman Yuen Long Logistics Centre, Hong Kong SAR, China.



87

Corporate performance Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

Corporate performance

We are proactive about ESG at Goodman. It is a people-focused approach that achieves 
positive outcomes for our business, people, stakeholders and the communities where we 
operate, in the long term.

Goodman’s Boards are committed to managing ESG matters with the highest priority. 
The Boards monitor progress towards our 2030 Sustainability Strategy and targets. 
They recently established a Sustainability and Innovation Committee to support the 
management team. The new Committee, along with Goodman’s Risk and Compliance 
Committee, will enhance the Board’s visibility and oversight of our ESG initiatives. 

ESG has been further embedded into our business recently through our remuneration 
structure. Meeting environmental and sustainability targets is now a further performance 
assessment for vesting of our LTIs linked to operational outcomes, and is measurable and 
disclosed as part of our remuneration structure. It means our people have a long-term 
financial interest in the environmental and sustainability performance of our business. 

Maintaining sustainable sources of capital requires demonstratable governance of 
ESG priorities. During the year, Goodman established a Sustainability Linked Bond 
Framework. This provides a structure to link financing with our sustainability strategy and 
the achievement of our sustainability goals.

Our reputation is important so we act in line with our Code of Conduct (the Code) 
and comprehensive suite of governance policies, and with integrity wherever we do 
business. Together, these documents set the standard of professional and ethical 
behaviour expected from all of those who represent us. They are available on 
Goodman’s global website. The Code was updated during the year to better align 
with our revised values. 

Effective and regular disclosure of our ESG performance with stakeholders helps 
maintain trust in Goodman’s governance and leadership teams. We participate in 
several ESG ratings and benchmarks that our investment partners value, and we 
use these as tools to identify where we can improve. The benchmarks/ratings we 
participate in are set to grow in FY23. The list currently includes:

 + Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark (GRESB)

 + MSCI ESG Index

 + Sustainalytics benchmark.

In 2022, 10 Goodman partnerships participated in the GRESB, with results due over 
the coming months. Last year, we achieved excellent results including our Japanese 
Core Partnership being awarded Sector Leader in the industrial distribution 
warehouse category for the fourth consecutive year. 

Crossways Commercial Park, Greater London, UK.



88

Corporate performance Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

Progress against targets

Material drivers

 +  Sustainable operations and results 

 + Effective disclosures of ESG performance 

 +  Investing responsibly with defined governance and 
sustainable capital structures

 +  Protecting human rights and sourcing sustainably

 +  Supporting the community through the Goodman 
Foundation

TARGET PROGRESS

Retain investment 
grade credit rating

Continued to meet financial targets to 
underpin capital sources and retain credit 
rating. Maintained credit rating at BBB+ (S&P) 
and Baa1 (Moody’s).

Maintained credit rating at BBB+ 
(S&P) and Baa1 (Moody’s)

2019 2022

Achieved

Adopt the TCFD 
guidelines for climate 
risk assessment and 
disclosure by 2022

Adopted Task Force on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) guidelines in 
2020 and updated in 2022.

2019 2020 2022

Achieved in 2020 
Maintained in 2022 

$50 million in social 
investment by the 
Goodman Foundation 
by 2030

The Goodman Foundation contributed 
more than $10.6 million in cash, plus another 
$1 million in staff fundraising and in-kind 
contributions. This takes our total investment 
to $37.3 million since our 2030 sustainability 
strategy came into effect in 2019.  
302 Goodman people contributed 2,196 
volunteering hours to our community efforts. Goodman Foundation social investment

$M 37.3 50

2019 2022 2030

On track



89

Corporate performance Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

Governance of ESG issues

At Goodman, we are committed to the highest standards of corporate 
governance and recognise that an effective corporate governance 
framework is critical to the long-term performance of the business.  
This extends to governance relating to ESG matters, which we believe is 
essential to maximise long-term sustainable value for securityholders. 

The Sustainability and Innovation Committee will focus on Goodman’s 
sustainability strategy, responding to material drivers such as climate risk,  
as well as our performance on our ESG targets. The Committee will also 
oversee and monitor Goodman’s investment in innovation and review the 
impact of innovation and technological developments on the business. 

Goodman’s team will provide quarterly updates to the Sustainability and 
Innovation Committee as it does for the Risk and Compliance Committee. 
These committees provide strategic insights to Goodman’s Boards. 

We believe the overall long-term sustainability of our business requires 
long-term strategic operational objectives. These must sit alongside a 
remuneration system which builds a culture of ownership for our employees 
as we focus performance on long-term success rather than short-term gains.

Goodman’s remuneration structure is integrated into the business to 
encourage sustainable financial results alongside improvement in all 
areas of ESG over time. This includes sustainability targets which are 
incorporated into the performance reviews and remuneration structure  
for Goodman’s management teams.  

In particular, for LTI awards made since 2021 the Board has discretion to 
apply a reduction to the number of performance rights that vest where 
it considers that management’s performance is not sufficient against 
sustainability targets. For the awards made in September 2022, these 
targets will include:

 +  Renewable energy  
–    Increasing our global renewable energy usage to include 70% 

of electricity generated from renewable sources (including the 
allocation of renewable energy certificates) as we progress to our 
long-term target of 100% renewable energy use by 2025

 +  Solar Power 
–    65MW of new solar PV installations or commitments (on-site and off-

site sources) as we progress to our 2025 400MW target*

 +  Carbon 
–    Maintaining carbon-neutral operations (within our direct operational 

control) by reducing emissions and using verified carbon offsets

  –    Embodied carbon emissions of new developments are calculated 
and considered in investment papers. This will be done on a globally 
consistent basis for carbon neutral developments

  –    A reduction in the Group’s Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 2030, 
against 2021 baseline, in line with 1.5°C Paris Agreement pathway as 
validated by SBTi (this is a new target for FY22)

 +  TCFD  
–    Maintaining and updating our climate disclosures in line with the  

TCFD guidelines

 +  Occupancy  
–    Maintaining a >95% occupancy rate.

 

Inclusion of these assessments provides real financial impact to our people 
if they materially underperform on these long-term objectives.

*Subject to government, local authority and network operator approvals, and meeting community or social issues.



90

Corporate performance Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

The Code has nine guiding principles to preserve 
Goodman’s reputation of doing the right thing by our 
customers and team members. The principles are: 

 +  Act in a professional manner

 +  Work as a team and respect others

 +  Treat stakeholders fairly 

 +  Value honesty and integrity

 +  Follow the law and our policies

 +  Respect confidentiality and do not misuse 
information

 +  Support our sustainability strategy and targets

 +  Manage conflicts of interest

 +  Strive to be a great team member.

These principles operate alongside Goodman’s values, 
policies and procedures and everyone is expected to 
follow them when representing Goodman.

View our full Code of Conduct

View our Governance Policies and Charters

View Goodman’s Corporate Governance Statement

Code of conduct 

At Goodman we believe in conducting ourselves and 
our business with integrity. Maintaining our reputation 
is critical. 

These beliefs underly our Code of Conduct (the Code), 
which clearly sets out the standards of professional 
and ethical behaviour expected from those who 
represent us.

Goodman updated its Code during the year to better 
align with our values. The updated Code is more 
comprehensive and links directly to our corporate 
governance policies. Our corporate governance 
policies were also reviewed during the year. 

The Code is endorsed by Goodman’s Boards and 
extends to anyone who works for Goodman, including 
non-executive directors (Directors) as well as 
employees and contractors (team members). It also 
informs how we interact with everyone we encounter 
at work, including customers, suppliers, partners, 
regulators and securityholders. 

At Goodman, we have zero tolerance for any  
improper or unethical conduct, including bribery 
and corruption. All team members complete 
ethical behaviour training, which includes bullying, 
harassment, anti-bribery and corruption. 

https://www.goodman.com/-/media/files/sites/global/who-we-are/corporate-governance/policies-2022/september-2022/code-of-conduct.pdf
https://www.goodman.com/about-goodman/corporate-governance
https://www.goodman.com/-/media/files/sites/global/who-we-are/corporate-governance/statements/corporate-governance-statement-2022.pdf


91

Corporate performance Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

Human rights and modern slavery

Goodman supports the protection of human rights, and equity and fairness within our 
supply chains. We acknowledge that modern slavery is a global risk and that managing 
this risk is an ongoing responsibility. Modern Slavery is a serious form of exploitation 
present in global supply chains, that can take place through labour rights abuses 
including forced labour, debt bondage and child labour. It can come about through the 
use of coercion, threats or deception to exploit and deprive people of their freedoms, 
rights and access to safe and fairly compensated employment.

Modern slavery spans industries, but an estimated 18% of modern slavery victims are 
in the property and construction industry. Additionally, 22% of forced labour occurs in 
the manufacture and production of raw materials – key suppliers to the property and 
construction industry. 

Goodman is not immune to the risk of modern slavery. The risk of modern slavery is 
most likely to be present within our supply chain which includes over 8,000 suppliers 
(as opposed to our direct employees where we have strong controls in place).

Our Sustainable Sourcing Framework and our robust, risk-based approach 
to modern slavery both enable us to respond better to these risks, and work 
with suppliers to mitigate them. We have also committed to developing and 
implementing global operational and supplier standards and guidance on modern 
slavery to assist our teams involved in procurement in FY23. Together, these 
actions represent a strong signal about business ethics that will spread along our 
operations and through our supply chain.

View our Modern Slavery Statement

https://www.goodman.com/-/media/files/sites/global/who-we-are/corporate-governance/statements/modern-slavery-statement.pdf


92

Corporate performance Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

Goodman Group 2030 Sustainability Strategy

Sustainable Sourcing Framework

Procurement Policies

Modern Slavery, Business Ethics and Other Social Procurement

Sustainable Property

People and Culture

Corporate Performance
A framework to achieve 
Goodman’s sourcing and 
supply chain objectives that 
support our sustainability goals

Local procurement  
policies adapted from  
our global principles

Commitments and principles 
that shape our procurement 
practices, including our Global 
Procurement Principles, Code 
of Conduct, Workplace Safety 
and Modern Slavery policies

Goodman recognises the impact of procured products  
and services on the environment and people. As a result,  
this year we expanded our procurement policies to support 
the new Framework – they now prioritise environmental, 
social and governance objectives. 

We aim to adopt procurement strategies which  
avoid unnecessary consumption and, where possible, 
benefit society, while considering environmental impact  
and lifecycle. 

We anticipate our new Framework and procurement 
decision making will see us increase the number of 
our suppliers that prioritise social, environmental and 
governance factors. We look forward to working with  
like-minded suppliers. 

We recognise that our suppliers operate in a variety of legal 
frameworks and cultural environments around the world. 
However, we believe that engaging consistently with our 
supply chain on our Framework will lead to broader positive 
change in our sector. 

Sustainable sourcing

This year Goodman developed its Sustainable Sourcing 
Framework. The Framework provides direction to achieve 
Goodman’s overarching sourcing and supply chain 
objectives globally. We recognise we have an opportunity to 
influence the sustainability outcomes of a value chain that 
consists of over 8,000 suppliers. The Framework will help 
us to protect human rights within our supply chain and to 
mitigate the risk of modern slavery, as well as respond to  
the social, environment and governance targets in our  
2030 sustainability strategy. 

We have developed a roadmap to successfully implement 
the Framework from FY23. 

The first step of the roadmap is engaging with our internal 
and external stakeholders to build awareness of our sourcing 
and supply chain objectives and expectations. Internal 
working groups have been established to support this task, 
and to help with implementation of the Framework in each of 
the regions where we operate.



93

Corporate performance Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

ESG benchmarking

ESG performance and rating benchmarks allow Goodman to measure 
and communicate our ESG efforts to our stakeholders. They also allow us 
to assess opportunities for improvement. We participate in several global 
benchmarking programs, including the Global Real Estate Sustainability 
Benchmark (GRESB), the MSCI ESG Index, and the Sustainalytics benchmark.

One of the leaders in sustainability assessments in real estate is GRESB, 
which helps our stakeholders contextualise our sustainability performance. 
Over the decade Goodman has been a participant in GRESB, we have 
continually improved our scores and increased our number of participating 
entities. This year, 10 of our partnerships made submissions, with the results 
due for release late 2022. 

To date Goodman has achieved some excellent GRESB results within our 
peer groups. While 2022 results are due later this year, 2021 highlights include:

 +  Goodman Group maintained its ‘A’ rating for its public ESG disclosure

 +  Goodman Japan Core Partnership achieved 5 Stars  
and Sector Leader for the fourth consecutive year

 +  Goodman Australia Partnership achieved joint overall  
Regional Sector Leader

 +  Goodman UK Partnership was ranked First in the  
Development benchmark.

We were also active in other benchmarks this year. In March 2022, 
Goodman received an ESG Risk Rating of 9.5 from Sustainalytics, where we 
were assessed as being at ‘Negligible’ risk of experiencing material financial 
impacts from ESG factors – a strong result. 

The Group was also upgraded by MSCI to ‘AA’ from ‘A’, reflecting our robust 
corporate governance and anti-corruption controls. 

Investment grade credit rating

Maintaining a sustainable and strong balance sheet with available liquidity 
and ongoing access to capital is important to our business. Increasingly, our 
finance partners are valuing ESG performance and using their investments 
to influence sustainable outcomes like those which Goodman supports.  

Goodman Group has longstanding relationships with some of the world’s 
largest pension and sovereign wealth groups through our managed 
Partnerships. Our approach to sustainability, and the targets we set 
ourselves, are one way we can build trust with our stakeholders, including 
our investment partners. 

Many of our investment partners operate with their own dynamic ESG 
policies. As a result, these relationships have supported Goodman’s 
investment teams to adopt sustainability principles in our own 
development and management activities. This has contributed to the 
sustained improvement in Goodman’s external ESG benchmarks.

We measure our financial sustainability and strength through our credit 
ratings of BBB+ (S&P) and Baa1 (Moody’s). These ratings reflect our 
sustainable operations and results, capital stability and approach to 
responsible investments. 

During the year, Goodman developed its Sustainability Linked Bond 
Framework (framework). The framework outlines how Goodman Group can 
link our financing strategy with our sustainability strategy, helping to deliver 
on our sustainability goals. Following the development of the framework, 
Goodman closed its first US$500 million Sustainability Linked Bond into 
the US144A/Reg S market.

Crossways Commercial Park,  Greater London, UK.



94

Goodman Foundation Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

The Goodman Foundation brings together our 
people, properties and resources to address 
disadvantage in the world and make a tangible and 
sustainable difference to people’s lives. We partner 
with like-minded charities and fund projects with 
clearly defined timelines and outcomes, to provide 
real support where it’s needed most. We are proud 
that across the world, our people are increasingly 
engaged with the Foundation and living our values 
through these efforts.

A changing world

With another year of global challenges, the Goodman Foundation 
continued to support our charity partners as the world changed 
around them yet again. While demand for charitable services soared, 
capacity to deliver or implement crucial fundraising activities remained 
compromised. Working in partnership with local charities who know 
best what their communities need, the Goodman Foundation helped 
them respond strategically and scale their impact as required. 

We stayed generous and flexible, our doors open, whether we were 
responding to disasters like floods or helping those impacted by the 
war in the Ukraine. We also remained acutely aware of the new and 
pressing challenges COVID was creating for our communities.

This year, our support for the Indigenous community in Australia 
increased and we expect will continue to increase in coming years. 
We worked closely with existing partners to find ways to contribute 
to their Indigenous programs, such as Meals for the Mob through 
FareShare. Plus, we sought new partnerships to help us work towards 
the objectives of our Reconciliation Action Plan. 

Across the year our support totalled $10.6 million in cash, plus another 
$1 million in staff fundraising and in-kind contributions. This takes our 
total investment to $37.3 million since our 2030 sustainability strategy 
came into effect in 2019.

The Clontarf Foundation, Tennant Creek Primary Academy in 
Northern Territory.



95

Goodman Foundation Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

How we help

The Goodman Foundation partners with charities in three 
key areas: children and youth, community and community 
health, and food/product rescue and the environment.

Our focus is on providing real support where it’s needed 
most, so emergency response became a significant part 
of our program this year. By integrating our support into an 
organisation’s strategy, we enable growth and help them 
make a bigger impact. 

Our support is offered as:

Cash grants 
Funding for projects with defined outcomes (usually over 
one to three years) that enable charities to scale or make a 
bigger, tangible impact. 

Do good  
Goodman people volunteering or fundraising for charities.

Give back 
Workplace giving schemes that equally match contributions 
from Goodman people.

In-kind 
Donations of our expertise, space, office furniture, 
computers and other critical items.

Thread Together, Sydney, Australia.

THE GOODMAN FOUNDATION 
PARTNERS WITH CHARITIES IN  

THREE KEY AREAS: CHILDREN AND 
YOUTH, COMMUNITY AND COMMUNITY 
HEALTH, AND FOOD/PRODUCT RESCUE 

AND THE ENVIRONMENT.



96

Goodman Foundation Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

EMERGENCY
RESPONSE

Ukraine humanitarian crisis

Responding to the humanitarian crisis in Ukraine  
and surrounding countries, the Foundation committed 
€1 million to support emergency response and  
ongoing aid. 

Nearly two-thirds of Ukraine’s children are now displaced. 
For those crossing the border to safety, many find 
sanctuary within a Blue Dot Hub – safe spaces along 
migration routes for children and families. 

Blue Dot Hubs provide critical information, emergency 
supplies, medical and psychological first aid, logistics and 
supplies for the onward journey, child-friendly spaces and 
activities, and more. Part of Goodman’s larger donation 
to UNICEF has been used to support the initial set-up 
and running costs of a Blue Dot Hub. 

This year the Goodman team also wanted to support 
the people of Ukraine. Our fundraising efforts boosted 
Goodman’s total contribution towards the Blue Dot Hub 
initiative to more than $400,000. 

As it became obvious that rapid medical relief was 
required on the ground, the Goodman team began 
discussions with one of our European Foundation 
partners, Universitair Ziekenhuis Brussel (UZ Brussel). 
We worked together to send medicine and medical 
equipment to hospitals in Ukraine with the assistance of 
local non-government organisations (NGOs).

Disasters like floods, fires or droughts 
now happen on a size and frequency not 
seen in our lifetime. When they affect 
the work of our charity partners or the 
communities we operate in, we step up to 
help them respond at speed or at scale. 
In emergency situations, like the 
humanitarian crisis in Ukraine, providing 
support is just the right thing to do, 
despite us not having a presence in that 
market. Here, we turn to local experts to 
find ways to assist. 
In either situation, our people play an 
important role – mainly by raising funds.

https://www.unicef.org/emergencies/3-things-know-about-blue-dots


97

Goodman Foundation Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

Goodman funded a convoy of minivans 
loaded with medical supplies, including 
anaesthesia for surgeries. The vans made  
the 1,800-kilometre trip from Belgium to 
the small town of Medyka on the Poland-
Ukraine border. 

Once supplies were delivered, transport  
was offered to Ukrainians wishing to depart 
for safe haven in Brussels. In April, 19 
refugees, mostly families of women and 
children, took up this offer to travel to safety.  

The program has adapted as needs have 
been revealed. For example, when Goodman 
learned many of the children had no means 
of communication, we stepped in to provide 
phones or laptops.  

We have also allocated funding to UZ 
Brussel for future dedicated Ukrainian 
support, with a focus on settlement needs 
for the Ukrainian refugees in Belgium.

The impact of this humanitarian crisis will be 
felt for some time. That’s why the Foundation 
is currently working to identify medium-
term projects that will provide tangible 
and sustainable benefits for the people of 
Ukraine, now and into the future.

Perinatal Centre in Kharkiv, Ukraine, supported by UNICEF.

RFS Helicopter donated by Goodman, assisting with flood rescue in NSW, Australia.



98

Goodman Foundation Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

Flood relief in Europe 
and Australia

As climate change takes hold around the 
world, major floods devastated two of our 
communities in the last year. In Europe and 
Australia, we saw tens of thousands of people 
struggle with the after-effects of these events.  

In Europe, major floods hit the Netherlands, 
Belgium and Germany in July 2021, killing 
hundreds and devastating local communities, 
households and the environment. The Red 
Cross stepped in to coordinate a response, 
and Goodman donated to support its efforts. 

The European floods left the region’s rivers 
filled with debris and plastic. After the floods 
subsided, 32 of Goodman’s European team 
joined Belgian environmental organisation 
River Cleanup in its fight against plastic 
pollution. The team spent a day removing 
rubbish from local rivers, with Goodman 
covering the cost of all clean-up materials. 

The Goodman Foundation also turned its 
attention to floods in Australia. 

A state-of-the-art helicopter, donated to 
the NSW Rural Fire Service by Goodman in 
2021, had its first deployment helping local 
authorities in the State’s west after flooding 
in Forbes.

The helicopter has done over 190 hours 
since coming into service in October 2021, 
participating in over 130 operations.

Goodman took further action when floods 
in Queensland, New South Wales and 
Central Australia left thousands without 
housing, income or clothing. We turned to 
our partners and their networks, asking 
how we could best help them provide the 
emergency response needed on the ground.

One of these partners, Good360 Australia, 
has been working hard throughout the 
Australian floods. Good360 connects the 
right goods to the right people at the right 
time during all stages of a disaster, supporting 
affected communities with the essential items 
they need. Our funding in previous years 
helped Good360 establish disaster recovery 
capabilities. Since February 2022, our funding 
has helped provide over 618,000 items to  
194 flood affected communities.

Goodman team assisting in River CleanUp following European floods.



99

Goodman Foundation Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

Continued response to COVID 

In this second year of the COVID pandemic, 
Goodman increased support to charity partners 
in many parts of the world, including Australia, 
New Zealand, China, Hong Kong and Germany. 

Lockdowns impacted livelihoods, education and 
mental health. When strict lockdowns were in 
place in Sydney, Australia, Goodman’s donation to 
Good360, Australia helped this matching charity 
get personal protection equipment into heavily 
impacted communities in South-west Sydney. 

For social enterprise, the Bread and Butter Project 
café closures meant it lost most of its income from 
wholesale bread supply, so we made a significant 
donation to keep its refugee staff in work. We also 
provided two of our warehouses to OzHarvest, 
which gave its teams of volunteers space to 
build more than 300,000 food hampers. And we 
funded the supply of more than 800,000 meals 
to families in the most impacted Sydney suburbs 
before Christmas. 

We found extended lockdowns were affecting  
the mental health of young people. With our 
support, Raise Foundation helped 280 at-risk 
youth in 18 schools, receive access to youth 
mentors – some of them were our own people.

We are also a founding partner 
of Thread Together, which has 
been incredibly active after 
the Australian floods. Thread 
Together works with 1,000 
brands and retailers nationally. 
It provides new clothing to those 
experiencing homelessness, 
escaping domestic violence,  
or surviving natural disasters. 

Increased support from the 
Goodman Foundation helped 
Thread Together expand its 
operations into flood-affected 
communities. For many impacted 
community members, the clothes 
provided by Thread Together are 
the only outfits they now own. 

OZ Harvest food hampers prepared with help from Goodman.



100

Goodman Foundation Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

COMMUNITY AND
COMMUNITY HEALTH

Our Watch

Violence against women is a serious problem globally.  
In Australia, on average one woman a week is murdered 
by her current or former partner. Our Watch, an Australian 
organisation that works to prevent violence against 
women and their children, has undertaken evidence-
based research which demonstrates gender inequality is 
at the heart of the problem for violence against women. 
Our Watch works to embed gender equality and prevent 
violence where Australians live, learn, work and socialise.

To expand the reach of its services and effect real 
change across the country, Our Watch is partnering  
with the Goodman Foundation to establish the  
Our Watch Institute. The Institute’s mission is to inspire 
and support Australians to end violence against women 
by doing their part to promote gender equality.  
Through training and practical tools, individuals and 
organisations will be equipped to lead prevention work  
in their own communities and spheres of influence.

Nationally there’s limited workplace training, expertise 
and evidence-based resources on preventing violence 
against women. There’s also limited understanding of 
the difference between workplace activities that prevent 
violence against women and those that respond to 
experiences of violence. The Institute will address these 
gaps by providing expert, tailored and trusted advice and 
support to advance gender equality in workplaces and 
inspire and support them to end violence against women.

The Goodman Foundation has committed $1 million 
towards the establishment and launch of the Institute 
and will commit a further $700,000 over the coming 
years to assist the operations. For the first phase in 
2023, the Institute will focus on corporate Australia and 
workplaces. Over time we plan for the Institute to inspire 
and support organisations, workplaces, education 
institutions and sporting clubs to collectively put an end 
to domestic violence in Australia.

To learn more, watch: Let’s change the story:  
Violence against women in Australia – YouTube

Charity organisations in the community and 
community health space support those living 
with a condition, illness or disability. Or their 
efforts help to create a more inclusive and 
equitable community.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E4e_WR6YnYA
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E4e_WR6YnYA


101

Goodman Foundation Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

Habitat for Humanity, Hong Kong

On International Women’s Day this year, the Goodman Foundation 
announced a new partnership with Habitat for Humanity, Hong 
Kong, to support its Women Build 2022 campaign – supporting  
disadvantaged women and children’s groups in Hong Kong. 

Goodman provided funding to renovate three facilities for 
disadvantaged women and children across two local NGOs on the 
Women Build project and utilised its team’s expertise to provide 
support in the planning and design. 

Mother’s Choice provides a Child Care Home for children without 
families and pregnant teenagers who cannot be adequately 
cared for by their families. Goodman and Habitat renovated the 
outside areas at the Child Care Home, creating a safer and more 
welcoming environment for the people living there.

PathFinders operates a community centre and a shelter for  
some of Hong Kong’s 390,000 migrant domestic workers. 
Goodman funded an upgrade to the community centre to make 
space for additional facilities and provide a more functional, 
welcoming environment for existing counselling, education and 
healthcare services. 

Funding also helped provide new furniture and fittings for  
the PathFinders shelter, which offers emergency and temporary 
accommodation for migrant domestic workers and their  
new-born babies.

Through this project, we hope to make a tangible difference 
in achieving gender equality and supporting women in need in 
Hong Kong.

Kris Harvey, Goodman Greater China CEO, at the opening of three renovated  
facilities provided to Habitat for Humanity.

Sternenbrücke Children’s 
Hospice, Germany

In the west of Hamburg, the Sternenbrücke 
Children’s Hospice cares for terminally ill children 
and their families. Since it opened in 2003, around 
700 families have already been guests. 

Families can stay at the children’s hospice not only 
in the final stages of the young people’s lives, but 
also for 28 days a year, allowing them to gain new 
strength and recuperate during this difficult time. 
Even after the child dies, the organisation continues 
to support their family through their grief. 

Physical distancing requirements and the 
increased demand for Sternenbrücke’s service 
have led to new space constraints. As part of our 
participation in the 19th Hamburg Logistics Days 
in mid-May, Goodman donated funds towards 
construction of a winter garden. The conservatory 
will serve as both a dining and recreation room 
and will visually connect families with the beautiful 
Klövensteen forest area surrounding the hospice.

Sternebrücke Children’s Hopsice, Germany. 



102

Goodman Foundation Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

UZ Brussel, Belgium 

The staff of the paediatric intensive care unit 
(PICU) in UZ Brussel in Belgium, have a saying:  
“We want to care, not scare.”

Built in 1984, and treating 400 children a year, 
the unit is outdated in both size and function. 
150 children a year are turned away for lack of 
space. There are other problems too. The tubes, 
machines, blank ceilings, tiny rooms and excessive 
noise aren’t child-friendly or welcoming.

That will change with the build of a new paediatric 
intensive care unit, funded in part by Goodman.  
By increasing to 10 beds, they will be able to 
treat up to 550 children a year. The unit will 
feature leading technology that helps alleviate 
the wires and beeps that can scare children and 
cause them distress. It also includes sofa beds 
for parents to stay with their children and much 
welcomed space to gather in. Video chat in each 
room means kids can stay in contact with friends 
and family while undergoing lifesaving care.

Sport dans la Ville, France 

For over 20 years, French charity Sport 
dans la Ville has built sports facilities in 
underprivileged urban areas. Sport is used 
to support change. It’s also a precursor 
to structured experiences like cultural 
exchanges, academic support and 
employment mentoring. 

Goodman’s support this year will allow 
Sport dans la Ville to build a football pitch 
in Île Saint Denis and run twice-weekly 
free classes for at risk youth. In this 
disadvantaged district within the Parisian 
community, 26% of 16-to-25 year-olds are 
out of school and unemployed. Sport offers 
connection and a chance to build  
self-confidence and other soft skills.

Sport dans la Ville, France.

Sport dans la Ville, France.

Paediatric Intensive Care Unit, UZ Brussel, Belgium



103

Goodman Foundation Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

CHILDREN AND
YOUTH

The Goodman Mais Education Program, Brazil

Brazil faces a raft of issues stemming from serious social inequality.  
As the country faced a huge burden from COVID, unemployment in the 
world’s eighth-largest economy soared. Now, inflation is the highest it’s  
been for 20 years. 

Goodman’s team in Brazil understand the depth of the country’s challenges. 
They thought long and hard about how their contribution through the 
Goodman Foundation could make the most impact in their community. 

The team decided to focus on education, given its capacity to improve so 
many aspects of a person’s life. In 2019, more than 36.5% of Brazilians under 
19 didn’t finish high school, while in 2018 almost a third of the country’s  
15-to 17-year-olds dropped out of school to earn income for their families. 

Together with experts from the education sector and other partners,  
our project team worked through the pandemic to bring the Goodman  
Mais (‘More’) Education Program to life.  

The bespoke program has been carefully designed to build skills and 
confidence and support its graduates to find jobs in the challenging  
Brazilian market. 

Over a number of months, our team carefully selected 30 energised, 
motivated young adults from disadvantaged areas of Sao Paulo. These young 
people have become the Goodman Mais Education Program’s first cohort. 

Program organisers remained flexible, providing support as unanticipated 
challenges arose: some students had no access to laptops – so were provided 
one. For others, the cost of bus travel to and from school was a barrier – 
monthly bus passes are now built into the program.

Formal studies in Environment Management, delivered 
by training provider Senac, will provide participants with 
an impactful technical qualification. Additionally, regular 
presentations from employers across the sector will 
inspire the students, revealing how to apply their upcoming 
qualification in future employment. Towards the end of the 
program, the goal is for many of these employers to also 
provide students with valuable work placements.

The Goodman team will play a crucial role. Each student 
has been assigned a personal mentor to meet with monthly 
across the life of the program. It’s here that the team’s 
commitment to the success of Goodman Mais speaks 
volumes with almost 50% of our people in Brazil having 
already signed up as mentors. 

Charity organisations in the children and 
youth space help protect, nurture and support 
children or young people.

Participants in the Goodman Mais program with the Goodman team,  
São Paulo, Brazil.



104

Goodman Foundation Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

Stepping Stone House, Australia

About 45,000 young people in Australia are  
homeless. It’s a statistic New South Wales organisation 
Stepping Stone House has spent 33 years working 
hard to change. 

By providing safe places for children and young people 
at risk or experiencing homelessness, the charity helps 
them begin to heal, build resilience and become the 
best they can be.

Many of the young people at Stepping Stone House 
have a childhood background of trauma. Government 
funded services in NSW will only support children until 
they are 18, but they often need help for much longer. 
That’s why the community at Stepping Stone House, 
which is independently funded, provides long-term 
accommodation and support until they are 24 years old.

This people-centred approach has already helped 
over 450 young people become independent adults. 
The educational outcomes alone are significant. 
Stepping Stone House graduates have school 
attendance figures of 87%. They also have 100% 
employment rates on graduation from the program.  

Goodman, a long-term partner of Stepping Stone 
House, significantly increased its support to the 
organisation this year. Multi-year funding supported its 
Bawaga Indigenous program through the employment 
of Indigenous support workers for the home. It also 
provided cultural awareness training for staff. 

As the charity’s programs have grown, activities like 
career workshops, workplace dressing, cooking and 
sewing classes have outgrown the spaces available in 
Stepping Stone’s residential houses. The answer is a 
new Community Hub housed within a Goodman site in 
Sydney’s Alexandria. The Hub will become a home for 
these important ancillary programs, and a place for the 
Stepping Stone community to meet.  

Goodman provided the fit-out and building works 
for the new space, and members of our team also 
designed and sourced items for the Community Hub’s 
welcoming interior.

There’s been a lot happening in this partnership – 
Goodman’s cars are used to help Stepping Stone 
House residents learn to drive, and we’re a major 
partner of its key Sleeping Under the Stars fundraiser. 

The charity is currently working on a strategy to 
integrate and scale its support model, to replicate 
its success across Australia. Doing so, it says, would 
halve youth homelessness figures, increase education 
outcomes, and provide a myriad of short and long-
term community benefits.

Stepping Stone House Community Hub, Sydney Corporate Park, Australia.



105

Goodman Foundation Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

Hope in a Suitcase, USA

Every year in Southern California, 30,000 kids enter 
the foster care system. Especially in emergency 
situations, they often enter the system with nothing 
but the clothes on their backs or with just a few 
personal belongings that they carry from home to 
home in a rubbish bag. Throughout the year, Hope 
in a Suitcase helps change the situation for many 
of these children by providing suitcases and duffel 
bags filled with new clothing and other essentials. 

At its (free of charge) ‘Shopping Events’  Hope in a 
Suitcase provides an opportunity for foster children 
to stock up on clothes, shoes and other essentials. 
Volunteers walk with the participants to help them 
shop as they fill their bag with brand new items. 
For foster youth who are frequently at the mercy 
of other people’s decisions, the ability to select 
the items that THEY want and need is particularly 
empowering.

Over the past two years, the Goodman Foundation 
has donated funds to help Hope in a Suitcase 
purchase the new items. The events have also seen 
growing numbers of Goodman volunteers. Many 
eagerly await these events, where the excitement of 
the young attendees is contagious. 

Shanghai Sunrise, China 

Disadvantaged students were especially affected by COVID 
lockdowns in Shanghai.

This year Goodman began an annual commitment to support 
20 disadvantaged students in secondary and tertiary education 
through local charity, Shanghai Sunrise. In its 25 years of 
operation, Shanghai Sunrise has helped educate more than 
3,200 students.  

Goodman’s team was also keen to provide short-term support for 
each of the 100 students through the Shanghai Sunrise program. 
Activities included webinars and mental health support, reading 
camps and annual online book subscriptions. Additionally,  
30 technology scholarships helped students buy laptops or 
printers so they could engage with home education.

Shanghai Sunrise, Shanghai, China.

Hope in a Suitcase, California, USA.



106

Goodman Foundation Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

The Clontarf Foundation, Australia 

The Clontarf Foundation, founded in 2000, aims to help close 
the gap for young Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander males. 
Today the organisation partners with 152 schools across 
Australia, to help improve school attendance and graduation 
rates for over 10,400 at-risk teenage boys. 

Participants in Clontarf ’s programs experience a wide variety of 
activities, environments and social settings to help broaden their 
thinking about life’s possibilities and their future. 

In partnership with teachers, parents and each community, 
local staff work as mentors. They also assist graduates to find 
employment or help them transition into further study or training. 

Having supported Clontarf academies in Western Sydney in 
the past, this year Goodman began working with the Clontarf 
Foundation to fund a new Academy in the NSW community 
of Lake Cargelligo. Our annual contribution will directly cover 
costs for 40+ Indigenous students to participate in the holistic 
program which focuses on education, leadership, employment, 
health and wellbeing. 

The Clontarf Foundation.

THE CLONTARF FOUNDATION HELPS 
IMPROVE SCHOOL ATTENDANCE AND 
GRADUATION RATES FOR OVER 10,400 

AT-RISK TEENAGE BOYS.



107

Goodman Foundation Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

FOOD RESCUE
AND ENVIRONMENT

UKHarvest, United Kingdom

UKHarvest is on a mission to eliminate hunger and reduce 
food waste. It’s work that has become increasingly challenging 
this year as inflation has jumped to a 40-year high, impacting 
communities right across the UK. 

A combination of factors has led to soaring prices for food,  
fuel and energy. For many families this new environment can 
result in impossible choices. Should they turn on the heat or  
feed their family? 

It’s against this backdrop that the impact of this charity,  
which rescues and redistributes 75,000 meals every week,  
has become increasingly important – supplying fresh food, dry 
goods hampers and pre-made meals that make a real difference. 

About 50% of the food eaten in the UK comes from Europe. A fact 
that has caused havoc with the UK’s food supply this year – the 
first since it exited the European Union. For many farmers, the new 
(and largely untested) import procedures that came as a result of 
Brexit saw some farmers’ seeds stuck in limbo for so long that they 
missed their entire planting season. 

As founding partner of UKHarvest, the Goodman Foundation increased its 
support by committing to funding for the next three years. The extra funds will help 
UKHarvest continue to scale up operations and feed more people finding it tough. 

Despite the challenges thrown at them, UKHarvest has remained determined and 
stayed innovative, providing new solutions for communities, such as pop-up pantries.  

Eight pop-up pantries were implemented this year, which allow 50 to 100 
families to visit each pantry, fill up a bag of fresh produce for £2.50, and access 
wraparound care from services like a Citizen’s Advice Bureau and housing 
support. At the same time, visitors to the pantries also left with new skills. 
Education is a big part of UKHarvest’s mission and families are offered classes  
in reducing food waste or cooking well for less, while they are on site. 

At the charity’s Nourish Hub in London’s Shepherd’s Bush, an eclectic mix of 
diners visit for the daily ‘pay what you can’ lunch. Volunteers also prepare catering 
for those vulnerable people who are housebound. On-site food education classes 
run for everyone including refugees, including recent refugees from Afghanistan 
and Ukraine, while school holidays are used to teach disadvantaged youth how to 
become food waste warriors and to combat school holiday hunger. In addition,  
40 days of sessions ran throughout UKHarvest over the summer holidays in a 
variety of venues. These reached thousands of young people.

Watch the Nourish Hub video

Charity organisations in the food rescue and 
environment space reduce waste and support 
those in need by redistributing fresh food or 
useful items that would otherwise go to landfill.

Her Majesty The Queen Consort and a  
UK Harvest volunteer, London, UK.

Nourish Hub, London, UK.

https://youtu.be/Uo1vH2BXq6E


108

Goodman Foundation Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

OzHarvest, Australia

A founding partner of OzHarvest since it began in 2004, 
the Goodman Foundation continued its support of 
Australia’s leading food rescue organisation this year. 

In addition to the Food Hamper support outlined earlier, 
another project Goodman contributed to this year was a 
unique community space, Refettorio OzHarvest Sydney. 

This social impact collaboration between OzHarvest 
and one of the world’s leading culinary figures, chef 
Massimo Bottura, was an Australian first. Since 2015, 
using his charity Food for Soul, Bottura has dedicated 
himself to reducing food waste and forming community 
projects across the globe.  

The result includes Refettorios – physical, zero-waste 
spaces designed as community hubs to inspire and 
empower human potential. By day, Refettorio OzHarvest 
Sydney (on Crown Street in Surry Hills) opens its doors 
to the most vulnerable people in the local community, 
providing a nourishing meal and a place to connect. 

By night OzHarvest uses the space to host 
Neighbourhood Dinner, open to anyone keen to support 
the Refettorio and experience its delicious food and 
warm service.  It’s a great way to raise awareness and 
funds, and within three years the restaurant aims to be 
self-sustaining. 

Goodman was one of a handful of partners helping 
to fund the operational costs of this unique social 
enterprise initiative.

In additional to our support of special projects that help 
OzHarvest scale its impact, the Goodman Foundation 
continues to provide cash grants for the charity’s annual 
operational costs.

Refettorio, Sydney, Australia. Photo credit Nikki To.

Refettorio, Sydney, Australia. Photo credit Nikki To.



109

Goodman Foundation Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

Second Harvest Food Bank of Orange County, USA 

Finding enough affordable food is an ongoing struggle for many in Orange 
County, California, with one in seven children experiencing food insecurity.

Second Harvest Food Bank of Orange County is driven by its purpose to 
end hunger in the local community. The organisation collaborates with 
over 250 food pantries and partners that all work towards this goal. 

Harvest Solutions Farm was developed in partnership with the UC South 
Coast Research and Extension Center and A.G Kawamura, Chairman of 
Solutions for Urban Agriculture. This local sustainability farming pioneer 
manages 45 acres of property and has provided space for the non-profit 
to grow its own food. 

This year, Goodman Foundation donated money for an electric/hybrid farm 
vehicle to help transport produce from the farm with greater ease and make a 
huge difference to the farm’s efficiency. Volunteers work hard, having helped 
harvest over 53 truckloads of fresh produce in the last 12 months.

LIFE Community’s Christmas Box initiative, New Zealand

The charitable trust, LIFE Community, is behind the Christmas Box initiative, 
providing families in need with Christmas hampers made up of donated food 
and other goods. Last Christmas, volunteers helped pack hampers in Auckland, 
Kaikohe, Whangārei, Hamilton, Tauranga, Rotorua, Palmerston North, Wellington, 
Christchurch and Dunedin. 

The Goodman Foundation was pleased to play a part, providing warehousing space 
at M20 Business Park in Wiri for this annual event. Operating as a distribution hub 
for the other centres, over 260 tonnes of food was processed with around half of 
this packed into 12,000 hampers for the wider Auckland region. In total, 25,000 
boxes were distributed to families in need, from Kaitaia to Bluff. 

LIFE Community, New Zealand.

FareShare, Australia 

FareShare operates charity kitchens in Melbourne and Brisbane, transforming 
quality rescued and donated food, together with vegetables in its own kitchen 
gardens, into millions of delicious of healthy meals for people who are struggling 
to put food on the table. Together with Moorabbin Airport Corporation, 
Goodman Foundation has supported FareShare since 2016, providing a  
3,000 sqm kitchen garden on airport land. Our team has also actively 
volunteered with harvesting produce and maintaining the garden. 

With the continuing pandemic, rising cost of living pressures and natural disasters, 
the demand for FareShare’s free meals has never been greater. To assist, Goodman 
provides multi-year funding for a farmhand on FareShare’s Baguley farm site. The 
support will help the charity harvest nearly 100,000kg of vegetables a year from 
this location. 

Goodman has also committed to help scale up a new program by FareShare 
called Meals for the Mob. The program provides healthy meals – cooked 
by First Nations peoples for First Nations peoples – and transports them to 
remote communities. Our multi-year funding will employ a chef to oversee the 
program, empowering Meals for the Mob to expand. 

Fare Share Community Garden, Moorabbin, 
Victoria, Australia.

Second Harvest Food Bank of Orange County volunteers, 
California, USA.



110

ESG metrics Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

ESG metrics

GOODMAN GROUP GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS

Reporting boundary 

Goodman Group calculates its global greenhouse gas emissions from its operations 
using the GHG Protocol. Goodman reports its operational carbon inventory annually 
to Climate Active as part of our commitment to maintaining our carbon-neutral 
organisation certification. 

Our emissions boundary is based on operational control. Our inventory includes 
emissions generated from Goodman’s corporate activities and managed portfolio 
emissions, which relate to properties and areas where we are involved in the day-
to-day operations. For example, electricity emissions generated by common area 
lifts or carpark lights of an estate would be included, as Goodman oversees the 
operating and maintenance schedules. 

We take responsibility for 100% of these emissions, regardless of the Group’s 
equity share in the Investment Partnership that owns the property. For our Climate 
Active carbon-neutral organisation certification, our boundary excludes emissions 
generated by our customers’ activities within leased areas. However, our science-
based targets, discussed below, include customer emissions.



111

ESG metrics Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

Carbon inventory 

The below table details our FY22 operational emissions 
used for Climate Active certification. During the year,  
we saw a significant decrease in Scope 2 emissions 
due to the purchase of 100% GreenPower across 
Goodman’s Australian offices and properties.

Science-based targets

This year Science Based Targets initiative validated 
Goodman’s 2030 emissions reduction commitments. 
Using a 2021 baseline, our targets include reducing  
our absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 42% in total. 

Our Scope 3 targets include reducing emissions by 50% 
per square metre, including both downstream leased and 
sold assets.  Our progress is detailed below.

Sustainability-linked bond

This year Goodman created a Sustainability-Linked 
Bond (SLB) Framework using Goodman’s science-based 
targets for our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions as the 
performance criteria. After developing the Framework, 
Goodman issued its first SLB into the Rule 144A / Reg S 
market with a scheduled maturity of 2032. 

Our annual progress can be seen in the below table. 
Note that the large reduction in Scope 2 emissions is 
predominantly due to the uptake of 100% GreenPower 
in our Australian business.

1      Validated by the Science Based Targets initiative 
2     Externally verified under ASRS 4400 by a qualified, independent reviewer
3     Market-based emissions. Scope 2 location-based emissions are equivalent  

to 29,765 tCO
2
-e.

1     Market-based emissions. Scope 1+2 location-based emissions are equivalent to 
32,870 tCO

2
-e.

1      Due to the availability of more current data, previous data has  
been updated, where applicable. 

2     Market-based emissions. Scope 2 location-based emissions  
are equivalent to 29,765 tCO

2
-e. 

3     Accommodation, water use, advertising, cleaning,  
telecommunications, other expenses.

2022 OPERATIONAL EMISSIONS (tCO
2
-e)

GHG Scope Emissions Source
2021 
tCO

2
-e1

2022  
tCO

2
-e

Scope 1

Natural Gas 1,001 899 

Fuels 898 846 

Refrigerants 1,414 1,360 

Scope 2 Electricity 37,065 11,6372 

Scope 3

Energy 4,251 748 

Waste 3,073 2,975 

IT 1,388 1,320 

Marketing 999 1,141 

Corporate travel 474 590 

Employee commuting 292 438 

Working from home 132 169 

Other expenses3 1,974 1,605 

Total 52,962 23,728 

Scope 1

Scope 3

Scope 2

3,10
5

8,986 11,637

GHG 
Scope

Unit 2021 2022 2030 
target

Scope 1+2 tCO
2
-e 40,379            14,7421 23,420

Scope 3 kgCO2-e/m2 
leased assets

39.9               37.8 20.0

Scope 3 kgCO2-e/m2 
sold assets

502.5 442.6 251.2

SCOPE 1 SCOPE 2 SCOPE 3

ANNUAL OPERATIONAL EMISSIONS (tCO2-e)

60,000

45,000

30,000

15,000

0

2021 2022

GHG Scope 2021  tCO
2
-e1 2022  tCO

2
-e2 2030 target

Scope 1 3,314  3,105 

Scope 2 37,065 11,6373 

Total 40,379 14,742 23,420



112

ESG metrics Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

GOODMAN GLOBAL WORKFORCE

WORKFORCE FY20 FY21 FY22

Total number of contractor employees (fixed term/temporary)  < 5%  < 5%  < 5%

Number of employees at end of year global  963  922  950

Australia  288  287 314

NZ  63  58 61

Europe 214 187 202

UK 35 33 37

China 212 192 171

Japan 63 63 64

US 56 58 70

Brazil 32 33 31

 
Total workforce by age

<20 1 0 2

20–29 166 139 135

30–39 357 331 317

40–49 299 289 296

50–59 102 129 144

> 60 36 34 36

 
Total workforce by gender

Female 43% 44% 44%

Male 57% 56% 56%

 
Governance bodies

Non-executive Directors on Goodman Boards 70% 70% 72%

Female Directors on Goodman Boards (Non-executive) 28.5% 28.5% 27%

 
Parental leave

Total number of employees entitled to parental leave All employees in 
accordance with 
local regulations

All employees in 
accordance with 
local regulations

All employees in 
accordance with 
local regulations

Number of employees who took parental leave through the year 23 Male 
11 Female

27 Male 
22 Female

12 Male 
38 Female

Number of employees who returned from parental leave 24 Male 
12 Female

27 Male 
22 Female

10 Male 
25 Female

Number of employees who returned from leave still employed  
12 months later

24 Male 
11 Female

26 Male 
19 Female

13 Male 
12 Femal

 
Learning and development

Percentage of employees who had regular performance and career 
development reviews

93% 93% 96%



113

ESG metrics Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

HEALTH AND SAFETY

HEALTH AND SAFETY FY20 FY21 FY22

 
Goodman employees

Employees in Goodman controlled premises covered  
by the Goodman Safety System 100% 100% 100%

Number and rate of employee workplace fatalities 0 0 0

Number and rate of lost time injury frequency1 0 0 0

Total number of employee hours worked c.2 million c.2 million c.2 million

 
Development projects – Principal Contractor Controlled Sites2

Number of contractor fatalities 1 contractor 
1 visitor

4 contractors 0

Number and rate lost time injury frequency rate1 1.35 0.59 0.49

Number and rate total recordable injury frequency rate1 4.00 1.96 1.84

Total number of worker hours worked  
(Development Principal Contractors) c.5.3 million c.12.1 million c.17.6 million

1. Frequency rates are standardised to 200,000 hours.
2. Development data is taken from sites under the control of Principle Contractors.



114

ESG metrics Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX

DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION LOCATION OR DIRECT RESPONSE

GRI102: General Disclosures  

102-1 Name of the organisation Goodman Group which comprises of three entities:

Goodman Limited 

Goodman Funds Management Limited, as the responsible entity for Goodman Industrial 
Trust Goodman Logistics (HK)

102-2 Activities, brands, products, and 
services

Goodman.com/What we do

102-3 Location of headquarters 1-11 Hayes Road, Roseberry NSW 2018, Australia

102-4 Location of operations Goodman Sustainability Report, Strategic Locations - page 18

102-5 Ownership and legal form Goodman.com/About us

102-6 Markets served Goodman.com/About us

102-7 Scale of the organisation Goodman.com/About us

102-8 Information on employees and 
other workers

Goodman Sustainability Report, Human capital management - page 75 

102-9 Supply chain Modern slavery statement

102-10 Significant changes to the 
organisation and its supply chain

Annual Report – page 24

102-11 Precautionary Principle or 
approach

Goodman’s risk management process includes evaluation using the precautionary 
principle. This means Goodman’s actions are based on potential ESG impact, instead of 
proven impact, as a precaution.

102-12 External initiatives Goodman Sustainability Report, ESG affiliations and partnerships - page 119

United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, SBTi, TCFD, GRESB, Climate Leaders 
Coalition, Sustainalytics, MSCI, GRI and ISO Standards

102-13 Membership of associations Goodman Sustainability Report, ESG affiliations and partnerships - page 119

Various global relationships including Property Council of Australia, Green Building 
Council of Australia, Australasian Investor Relations Association, GRESB, ANREV and 
INREV plus various professional memberships

102-14 Statement from senior  
decision-maker

Goodman Sustainability Report, Chairman’s Letter – page 05 

Goodman Sustainability Report, CEO’s letter – page 08

102-15 Key impacts, risks and 
opportunities

Goodman Sustainability Report, CEO’s letter – page 08 

Goodman Sustainability Report, Sustainability approach - page 32

TCFD Statement – pages 4-8

102-16 Values, principles, standards and 
norms of behaviour

Diversity and inclusion policy – page 1

Code of Conduct – page 3

Statement of Business ethics – page 2

Workplace bullying and harassment policy – page 3

Corporate Governance Statement – page 3, Principle 3

102-17 Mechanisms for advice and 
concerns about ethics 

Ethical concerns

Corporate Governance Statement – page 3, Principle 3

Corporate Governance Statement– page 3, Principle 4

Corporate Governance Statement – page 3, Principle 7

https://www.goodman.com/what-we-do/own-develop-manage
https://www.goodman.com/who-we-are/about-us
https://www.goodman.com/who-we-are/about-us
https://www.goodman.com/who-we-are/about-us
https://www.goodman.com/-/media/files/sites/global/who-we-are/corporate-governance/statements/modern-slavery-statement-2022.pdf
https://www.goodman.com/-/media/files/sites/global/investor-centre/gmg-goodman-group/reports-and-newsletters/annual-reports/goodman-group-2022-annual-report.pdf
https://www.goodman.com/-/media/files/sites/global/who-we-are/corporate-governance/policies-2022/gmg_o_tcfd_statement.pdf
https://www.goodman.com/-/media/files/sites/global/who-we-are/corporate-governance/policies-2021/diversity-and-inclusion.pdf
https://www.goodman.com/-/media/files/sites/global/who-we-are/corporate-governance/policies-2022/september-2022/code-of-conduct.pdf
https://www.goodman.com/-/media/files/sites/global/who-we-are/corporate-governance/policies-2022/september-2022/statement-of-business-ethics.pdf
https://www.goodman.com/-/media/files/sites/global/who-we-are/corporate-governance/policies-2022/september-2022/workplace-bullying-and-harassment.pdf
https://www.goodman.com/-/media/files/sites/global/who-we-are/corporate-governance/statements/corporate-governance-statement-2022.pdf
https://www.goodman.com/-/media/files/sites/global/who-we-are/corporate-governance/policies-2022/september-2022/ethical-concerns.pdf
https://www.goodman.com/-/media/files/sites/global/who-we-are/corporate-governance/statements/corporate-governance-statement-2022.pdf
https://www.goodman.com/-/media/files/sites/global/who-we-are/corporate-governance/statements/corporate-governance-statement-2022.pdf
https://www.goodman.com/-/media/files/sites/global/who-we-are/corporate-governance/statements/corporate-governance-statement-2022.pdf


115

ESG metrics Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX

102-18 Governance Structure Goodman Sustainability Report, How we’re structured – page 22

Corporate Governance Statement – page 2, Principle 1

Corporate Governance Statement – page 3, Principle 2

Corporate Governance Statement – page 3, Principle 3

Corporate Governance Statement – page 3, Principle 4

Corporate Governance Statement – page 3, Principle 7

102-20 Executive-level responsibility for 
economic, environmental, and 
social topics

Corporate Governance Statement – page 4

102-21 Consulting stakeholders on 
economic, environmental, and 
social topics

Corporate Governance Statement – page 3, Principle 6

102-22 Composition of the highest 
governance body and its 
committees

Corporate Governance Statement – page 3, Principle 2

Corporate Governance Statement – page 5, Board composition

102-23 Chair of the highest governance 
committee

Goodman Sustainability Report, Board of Directors – page 120

Board of Directors

102-24 Nominating and selecting the 
highest governance body

Corporate Governance Statement – page 2, Principle 1

Corporate Governance Statement – page 3, Principle 2

102-25 Conflicts of interest Conflicts of interest – pages 2-3

Corporate Governance Statement – page 3, Principle 2

Corporate Governance Statement – page 3, Principle 3

102-26 Role of highest governance body 
in setting purpose, values, and 
strategy

Goodman Sustainability Report, The Boards and Committees - page 22

Board of Directors

Corporate Governance Statement – page 2, Principle 1

102-27 Collective knowledge of highest 
governance body

Goodman Sustainability Report, Board of Directors – page 120

Board of Directors

Corporate Governance Statement  – page 3, Principle 2

Corporate Governance Statement – page 7, Board skills

102-28 Evaluating the highest governance 
body’s performance

Corporate Governance Statement – page 2, Principle 1

102-29 Identifying and managing, 
economic, environmental, and 
social impacts

Corporate Governance Statement – page 3, Principle 7

102-30 Effectiveness of risk management 
processes

Corporate Governance Statement – page 3, Principle 7

102-31 Review of economic, 
environmental, and social topics

Corporate Governance Statement – page 3, Principle 7

102-32 Highest governance body’s role in 
sustainability reporting

Corporate Governance Statement – page 3, Principle 3

Corporate Governance Statement – page 3, Principle 7

102-33 Communicating critical concerns Corporate Governance Statement – page 3, Principle 7

102-35 Remuneration policies Corporate Governance Statement – page 3, Principle 8

Remuneration Committee Charter

102-36 Process for determining 
remuneration

Corporate Governance Statement – page 3, Principle 8

Remuneration Committee Charter

102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in 
remuneration

Corporate Governance Statement – page 3, Principle 6

Remuneration Committee Charter

https://www.goodman.com/-/media/files/sites/global/who-we-are/corporate-governance/statements/corporate-governance-statement-2022.pdf
https://www.goodman.com/-/media/files/sites/global/who-we-are/corporate-governance/statements/corporate-governance-statement-2022.pdf
https://www.goodman.com/-/media/files/sites/global/who-we-are/corporate-governance/statements/corporate-governance-statement-2022.pdf
https://www.goodman.com/-/media/files/sites/global/who-we-are/corporate-governance/statements/corporate-governance-statement-2022.pdf
https://www.goodman.com/-/media/files/sites/global/who-we-are/corporate-governance/statements/corporate-governance-statement-2022.pdf
https://www.goodman.com/-/media/files/sites/global/who-we-are/corporate-governance/statements/corporate-governance-statement-2022.pdf
https://www.goodman.com/-/media/files/sites/global/who-we-are/corporate-governance/statements/corporate-governance-statement-2022.pdf
https://www.goodman.com/-/media/files/sites/global/who-we-are/corporate-governance/statements/corporate-governance-statement-2022.pdf
https://www.goodman.com/-/media/files/sites/global/who-we-are/corporate-governance/statements/corporate-governance-statement-2022.pdf
https://www.goodman.com/about-goodman/board-of-directors
https://www.goodman.com/-/media/files/sites/global/who-we-are/corporate-governance/statements/corporate-governance-statement-2022.pdf
https://www.goodman.com/-/media/files/sites/global/who-we-are/corporate-governance/statements/corporate-governance-statement-2022.pdf
https://www.goodman.com/-/media/files/sites/global/who-we-are/corporate-governance/policies-2022/september-2022/conflicts-of-interest.pdf
https://www.goodman.com/-/media/files/sites/global/who-we-are/corporate-governance/statements/corporate-governance-statement-2022.pdf
https://www.goodman.com/-/media/files/sites/global/who-we-are/corporate-governance/statements/corporate-governance-statement-2022.pdf
https://www.goodman.com/about-goodman/board-of-directors
https://www.goodman.com/-/media/files/sites/global/who-we-are/corporate-governance/statements/corporate-governance-statement-2022.pdf
https://www.goodman.com/about-goodman/board-of-directors
https://www.goodman.com/-/media/files/sites/global/who-we-are/corporate-governance/statements/corporate-governance-statement-2022.pdf
https://www.goodman.com/-/media/files/sites/global/who-we-are/corporate-governance/statements/corporate-governance-statement-2022.pdf
https://www.goodman.com/-/media/files/sites/global/who-we-are/corporate-governance/statements/corporate-governance-statement-2022.pdf
https://www.goodman.com/-/media/files/sites/global/who-we-are/corporate-governance/statements/corporate-governance-statement-2022.pdf
https://www.goodman.com/-/media/files/sites/global/who-we-are/corporate-governance/statements/corporate-governance-statement-2022.pdf
https://www.goodman.com/-/media/files/sites/global/who-we-are/corporate-governance/statements/corporate-governance-statement-2022.pdf
https://www.goodman.com/-/media/files/sites/global/who-we-are/corporate-governance/statements/corporate-governance-statement-2022.pdf
https://www.goodman.com/-/media/files/sites/global/who-we-are/corporate-governance/statements/corporate-governance-statement-2022.pdf
https://www.goodman.com/-/media/files/sites/global/who-we-are/corporate-governance/statements/corporate-governance-statement-2022.pdf
https://www.goodman.com/-/media/files/sites/global/who-we-are/corporate-governance/statements/corporate-governance-statement-2022.pdf
https://www.goodman.com/-/media/files/sites/global/who-we-are/corporate-governance/charters/gmg-remuneration-committee-charter.pdf
https://www.goodman.com/-/media/files/sites/global/who-we-are/corporate-governance/statements/corporate-governance-statement-2022.pdf
https://www.goodman.com/-/media/files/sites/global/who-we-are/corporate-governance/charters/gmg-remuneration-committee-charter.pdf
https://www.goodman.com/-/media/files/sites/global/who-we-are/corporate-governance/statements/corporate-governance-statement-2022.pdf
https://www.goodman.com/-/media/files/sites/global/who-we-are/corporate-governance/charters/gmg-remuneration-committee-charter.pdf


116

ESG metrics Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX

102-40 List of stakeholder groups Goodman Sustainability Report, Our Purpose – page 20

Goodman Sustainability Report, Engaging our stakeholders - page 36 

102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Goodman is not opposed to collective bargaining although the relationship we have with 
our employees means we have no single global collective bargaining agreement

102-42 Identifying and selecting 
stakeholders

Goodman Sustainability Report, Engaging our stakeholders - page 36

102-43 Approach to stakeholder 
engagement

Goodman Sustainability Report, Engaging our stakeholders - page 36

102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Goodman Sustainability Report, Sustainability approach - page 32

102-45 Entities included in the 
consolidated financial statements

Annual Report 

102-46 Defining report content and topic 
Boundaries

This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI standards core option. Our 
report includes FY22 performance highlights from across Goodman’s global operations. 

Goodman.com/Corporate governance 

102-47 List of material topics Goodman Sustainability Report, Sustainability approach - page 32

102-48 Restatements of information No restatements have been made

102-49 Changes in reporting No changes. Reporting is aligned with GRI standards: Core option

102-50 Reporting period Reporting period is for 12 months: 

1 July 2021 – 30 June 2022

102-51 Date of most recent report December 2021

102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 

102-53 Contact point for questions 
regarding the report

james.vesper@goodman.com

102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance 
with the GRI standard

This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option

102-55 GRI content index This document represents the company’s content index

102-56 External assurance External assurance is provided over financials and selected carbon emissions data is 
independently verified

GRI 201 Economic Performance 

201-1 Direct economic value generated 
and distributed

Annual Report

201-2 Financial implications and other 
risks and opportunities due to 
climate change

TCFD Statement – pages 4-8

GRI 205 Anti-corruption 

205-1 Operations assessed for risks 
related to corruption

Anti-bribery and corruption policy – page 3

Ethical concerns – page 2

205-2 Communication and training 
about anti-corruption policies and 
procedures

Code of Conduct – page 3

Anti-bribery and corruption policy – page 3

205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption 
and actions taken

There were no instances of corruption identified during this period

GRI 206 Anti-competitive behaviour 

206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive 
behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly 
practices

No current legal actions are recorded

https://www.goodman.com/-/media/files/sites/global/investor-centre/gmg-goodman-group/reports-and-newsletters/annual-reports/goodman-group-2022-annual-report.pdf
https://www.goodman.com/who-we-are/corporate-governance
https://www.goodman.com/-/media/files/sites/global/investor-centre/gmg-goodman-group/reports-and-newsletters/annual-reports/goodman-group-2022-annual-report.pdf
https://www.goodman.com/-/media/files/sites/global/who-we-are/corporate-governance/policies-2022/gmg_o_tcfd_statement.pdf
https://www.goodman.com/-/media/files/sites/global/who-we-are/corporate-governance/policies-2022/september-2022/anti-bribery-and-corruption.pdf
https://www.goodman.com/-/media/files/sites/global/who-we-are/corporate-governance/policies-2022/september-2022/ethical-concerns.pdf
https://www.goodman.com/-/media/files/sites/global/who-we-are/corporate-governance/policies-2022/september-2022/code-of-conduct.pdf
https://www.goodman.com/-/media/files/sites/global/who-we-are/corporate-governance/policies-2022/september-2022/anti-bribery-and-corruption.pdf


117

ESG metrics Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX

GRI 304 Biodiversity  

304-4 IUCN Red List species and 
national conservation list species 
with habitats in areas affected by 
operations

Ecologists are engaged to research, identify and report on threatened species, terrestrial 
or aquatic, on development sites

GRI 305 Emissions  

305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Goodman Sustainability Report, Carbon inventory – page 111

305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG 
emissions

Goodman Sustainability Report, Carbon inventory – page 111

305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG 
emissions

Goodman Sustainability Report, Carbon inventory – page 111

305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Goodman Sustainability Report, Carbon inventory – page 111

GRI 306 Water  

306-3 Significant spills No significant spills were identified

306-4 Transport of hazardous waste Goodman does not transport hazardous waste as part of day-to-day operations. 

If remediation is required, Goodman appoints principal contractors to complete works in 
accordance with applicable laws and regulations.  
Under its lease obligations, Moorabbin Airport, a subsidiary of Goodman Limited, 
manages legacy obligations relating to historical use PFAS at the airport.

GRI 307 Environmental Compliance  

307-1 Non-compliance with 
environmental laws and regulations

No significant breaches of environmental laws

GRI 401 Employment   

401-1 New employee hires and employee 
turnover

6.4% voluntary turnover rate

401-2 Benefits provided to full-time 
employees that are not provided to 
temporary or part-time employees

Part-time employees receive the same benefits on a pro-rated basis or eligibility as 
full-time employees. Employees on a fixed term or casual basis do not participate in the 
Goodman long-term incentive plan.

401-3 Parental leave Goodman Sustainability Report, ESG metrics, Goodman global workforce – page 112

GRI 403 Occupational Health and Safety  

403-1 Occupational health and safety 
management system

Goodman Sustainability Report, Systems for Safety - page 84

403-2 Hazard identification, risk 
assessment, and incident 
investigation

Goodman Sustainability Report, Systems for Safety - page 84

403-3 Occupational health services Goodman Sustainability Report, Systems for Safety - page 84

403-4 Worker participation, consultation, 
and communication on 
occupational health and safety

Goodman Sustainability Report, Systems for Safety - page 84

403-5 Worker training on occupational 
health and safety

Goodman Sustainability Report, Systems for Safety - page 84

403-8 Workers covered by an 
occupational health and safety 
management system 

Goodman Sustainability Report, ESG metrics, Health and Safety – page 113

403-9 Work-related injuries Goodman Sustainability Report, ESG metrics, Health and Safety – page 113

https://www.moorabbinairport.com.au/about-us/environment


118

ESG metrics Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX

GRI 404 Training and Education  

404-2 Programs for upgrading employee 
skills and transition assistance 
programs

Goodman Sustainability Report, Human capital management – page 75

404-3 Percentage of employees receiving 
regular performance and career 
development reviews

Goodman Sustainability Report, Human capital management – page 75

GRI 405 Diversity and Equal Opportunity  

405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and 
employees

Goodman Sustainability Report, Goodman global workforce – page 112

GRI 407 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 

407-1 Operations and suppliers in which 
the right to freedom of association 
and collective bargaining may be 
at risk

Goodman does not prohibit or restrict freedom of association

GRI 413 Local Communities  

413-1 Operations with local community 
engagement, impact assessments, 
and development programs

Goodman Sustainability Report, Goodman Foundation - page 94

Goodman Sustainability Report, Reconciliation Action Plan - page 81

GRI 418 Customer Privacy  

418-1 Substantiated complaints 
concerning breaches of customer 
privacy and losses of customer 
data

There were no reported incidents



119

ESG metrics Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

ESG AFFILIATIONS AND PARTNERSHIPS

R E A L  E S T A T E

TCFD 
The TCFD aims to guide companies in incorporating the considerations of the effects of 
climate change into business and financial decisions to help facilitate the transition to a 
more sustainable, lower carbon economy.

CLIMATE ACTIVE 
Climate Active certification is awarded to businesses and organisations that have 
credibly achieved carbon neutrality. The Climate Active initiative and Climate Active 
Carbon Neutral Standard provide a framework for businesses to measure, reducevvz 
and offset their carbon emissions.

SCIENCE BASED TARGETS 
The Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) drives ambitious climate action in the private 
sector by enabling organisations to set science-based emissions reduction targets.

CLIMATE LEADERS COALITION 
CLC is a group of cross-sectoral Australian corporate CEOs supporting the Paris 
Agreement commitments and setting public decarbonisation targets.

MSCI
The MSCI ESG Ratings are designed to measure the long-term resilience of a company 
by investigating ESG performance and industry-specific material risks not identified 
through conventional financial analysis.

RECONCILIATION AUSTRALIA 
Reconciliation Australia is a not-for-profit foundation that advances the national focus for 
reconciliation between Indigenous and non-Indigenous Australians.

GRESB
GRESB globally benchmarks the ESG performance of commercial real estate and 
infrastructure companies to provide investors with standardised and validated data for 
informing investment decision making. 

SUSTAINALYTICS
Sustainalytics’ ESG Risk Ratings measure and assess a company’s managed and 
unmanaged industry-specific ESG risks. 

MECLA
Driving reductions in embodied carbon in the building and construction industry.

GREENPOWER
GreenPower is 100% renewable energy available for households and businesses 
through most energy retailers in Australia.



120

Corporate information Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

Corporate information

BOARD OF DIRECTORS

   Chris Green 
Independent Director 
Appointed 28 April 2019

   Vanessa Liu 
Independent Director 
Appointed  1 June 2022

   Greg Goodman 
Group Chief Executive Officer 
Appointed 7 August 1998

   Stephen Johns 
Independent Chairman 
Appointed  1 January 2017

   Mark G. Johnson 
Independent Director 
Appointed  1 June 2020

   Danny Peeters 
Executive Director, Corporate 
Appointed  1 January 2013

   Hilary Spann 
Independent Director 
Appointed 4 April 2022

   Rebecca McGrath 
Independent Director 
Appointed 3 April 2012

   Phillip Pryke 
Independent Director 
Appointed 13 October 2010

   Anthony Rozic 
Deputy Group Chief Executive 
Officer and  
Chief Executive Officer,  
North America 
Appointed  1 January 2013



121

Corporate information Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

INCOME STATEMENT 2018 
$M

2019 
$M

2020 
$M

2021 
$M

2022 
$M

Gross property income  150.4  114.6  115.9  112.4 138.0

Management income  316.5  469.7  511.2  383.9 511.4 

Development income  1,115.8  1,134.3  882.6  1,492.0  1,441.6 

Net gain/(loss) on disposals of assets  108.1  27.9  56.3  42.7  86.3 

Net gain from fair value adjustments on investment properties  71.1  146.8  45.2  63.1 260.1 

Share of net results of equity accounted investments  910.9  1,132.5  1,022.2  1,708.9  2,718.2 

Distributions from investments – – – – 0.8

Total income  2,672.8  3,025.8  2,633.4  3,803.0 5,156.4

Property expenses (36.4) (40.2) (36.4) (32.8) (33.7)

Development expenses (808.9) (727.3) (443.4) (862.3) (554.9)

Employee expenses (180.7) (191.9) (203.7) (210.8) (258.9)

Share based payments expense (125.6) (196.6) (164.0) (268.8) (257.6)

Administrative and other expenses (68.7) (75.8) (88.6) (83.2) (90.4)

Net finance costs (267.3) (49.3) (80.2)  74.9  222.8 

Total expenses (1,487.6) (1,281.1) (1,016.3) (1,383.0) (1,418.3)

Profit before income tax  1,185.2  1,744.7  1,617.1  2,420.0 3,738.1

Income tax expense (82.4) (116.8) (113.0) (108.1) (324.1)

Profit for the year  1,102.8  1,627.9  1,504.1  2,311.9  3,414.0 

Profit attributable to other non-controlling interests (4.6)  –  –  –  – 

Profit attributable to Securityholders  1,098.2  1,627.9  1,504.1  2,311.9  3,414.0

OPERATING PROFIT RECONCILIATION (NON-IFRS)      

Operating profit 
Adjustments for:

 845.9  942.3  1,060.2  1,219.4  1,528.0 

Property valuation related movements  639.0  871.7  621.3  1,308.5  2,326.3 

Fair value adjustments and unrealised foreign currency 
exchange movements related to liability management (174.4)  17.0  6.8  55.0 (191.4)

Other non-cash adjustments or non-recurring items (212.3) (203.1) (184.2) (271.0) (248.9)

Profit attributable to Securityholders  1,098.2  1,627.9  1,504.1  2,311.9  3,414.0 

Operating profit per stapled security (cents)1  46.7  51.6  57.5  65.6  81.3

Dividends/distributions per security (cents)  28.0  30.0  30.0  30.0  30.0 

1. Fully diluted for performance rights.   

Five year financial summary



122

Corporate information Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

Five year financial summary

STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION 2018 
$M

2019 
$M

2020 
$M

2021 
$M

2022 
$M

Cash and receivables  3,088.7  1,981.4  2,172.5  1,529.2  1,447.2 

Property assets  2,732.6  2,966.1  3,081.4  3,279.0  4,148.0 

Equity accounted investments  6,585.5  8,452.4  9,370.8  10,660.0  14,379.6 

Intangible assets  816.7  840.0  845.8  822.6  795.4 

Other (including derivative financial instruments)  235.9  672.9  667.7  576.2  662.2 

Total assets  13,459.4  14,912.8  16,138.2  16,867.0  21,432.4 

Payables, provisions and contract liabilities  918.4  944.1  988.3  1,009.3  1,032.2 

Interest bearing liabilities  3,081.5  2,975.0  2,938.5  2,060.3  2,832.2 

Other (including derivative financial instruments)  285.8  471.2  690.8  635.9  1,143.2 

Total liabilities  4,285.7  4,390.3  4,617.6  3,705.5  5,007.6 

Net assets attributable to Securityholders  9,173.7  10,522.5  11,520.6  13,161.5  16,424.8 

Net tangible assets per security ($)  4.64  5.34  5.84 6.68 8.37

Gearing ratio (%)  5.1  9.7  7.5  6.8  8.5 

STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY

Total equity at the beginning of the year  8,622.2  9,173.7  10,522.5  11,520.6  13,161.5 

Total comprehensive income for the year  1,304.9  1,795.4 1,467.7  2,027.1  3,581.1 

 9,927.1  10,969.1 11,990.2  13,547.7  16,742.6 

Contributions of equity, net of transaction costs  –  –  –  64.7  109.7 

Distributions provided or paid (504.2) (544.2) (548.5) (554.2) (560.1)

Other transactions with equity holders  82.4  97.6 78.9  103.3  132.6 

Movements in other non-controlling interests (331.6)  –  –  –  – 

Total equity at the end of the year  9,173.7  10,522.5  11,520.6  13,161.5  16,424.8 

CASH FLOW STATEMENT

Net cash provided by operating activities  1,161.2  827.5  1,156.9  1,114.7  841 .0

Net cash provided by/(used in) investing activities (26.5) (818.2) (306.4) (549.9) (1,001.5)

Net cash used in financing activities (799.2) (849.2) (660.9) (1,349.1) 299.7

Net increase/(decrease) in cash held  335.5 (839.9)  189.6 (784.3) 139.2

Cash at the beginning of the year  2,095.1  2,406.8  1,607.1  1,792.8  920.4 

Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held (23.8)  40.2 (3.9) (88.1) (3.6)

Cash at the end of the year  2,406.8  1,607.1  1,792.8  920.4  1,056.0 



123

Corporate information Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

Corporate directory

GOODMAN GROUP

Goodman Limited 
ABN 69 000 123 071 
Goodman Industrial Trust 
ARSN 091 213 839 
Responsible Entity of  
Goodman Industrial Trust

Goodman Funds  
Management Limited 
ABN 48 067 796 641 
AFSL Number 223621

Goodman Logistics  
(HK) Limited 
Company No. 1700359 
ARBN 155 911 149

 
REGISTERED OFFICES

The Hayesbery 
1-11 Hayes Road 
Rosebery NSW 2018 
Australia 
GPO Box 4703 
Sydney NSW 2001 
Australia

Telephone  
1300 791 100  
(within Australia) 
+61 2 9230 7400 
(outside Australia)

Facsimile 
+61 2 9230 7444

Suite 901 
Three Pacific Place 
1 Queen’s Road East 
Hong Kong

Telephone 
+852 2249 3100

Facsimile 
+852 2525 2070

Email 
info-au@goodman.com

Website 
goodman.com

OTHER OFFICES

Amsterdam 
Auckland 
Beijing 
Birmingham 
Brisbane 
Brussels 
Chengdu 
Chongqing 
Düsseldorf 
Guangzhou 
Hamburg 
Hong Kong 
London 
Los Angeles 
Luxembourg 
Madrid 
Melbourne 
Milan 
Munich 
New Jersey 
Osaka 
Paris  
Pennsylvania  
San Francisco 
São Paulo 
Shanghai 
Shenzhen 
Tokyo

DIRECTORS

Goodman Limited and 
Goodman Funds 
Management Limited

Stephen Johns 
Independent Chairman

Greg Goodman 
Group Chief Executive Officer

Chris Green 
Independent Director

Mark G Johnson 
Independent Director

Vanessa Liu 
Independent Director

Rebecca McGrath 
Independent Director

Danny Peeters 
Executive Director

Phillip Pryke 
Independent Director

Anthony Rozic 
Executive Director

Hilary Spann 
Independent Director

Company Secretary 
Carl Bicego

Goodman Logistics 
(HK) Limited

Stephen Johns 
Independent Chairman

David Collins 
Independent Director

Danny Peeters 
Executive Director

Company Secretary 
Goodman Secretarial 
Asia Limited

SECURITY REGISTRAR 
Computershare Investor  
Services Pty Limited 
Level 5, 115 Grenfell Street 
Adelaide SA 5000 
Australia 
GPO Box 1903 
Adelaide SA 5001 
Australia

Telephone 
1300 723 040 
(within Australia) 
+61 3 9415 4043  
(outside Australia)

Facsimile 
+61 8 8236 2305

Email 
investorcentre.com/contact

Website  
computershare.com

 
ASX CODE

GMG

 
AUDITOR

KPMG 
Level 38, Tower Three 
International Towers Sydney 
300 Barangaroo Avenue 
Sydney NSW 2000 
Australia

http://www.goodman.com
http://www.investorcentre.com/contact
http://www.computershare.com


124

Corporate information Goodman Group Sustainability Report 2022

Disclaimer: This document has been prepared by Goodman Group (Goodman Limited (ABN 69 000 123 071), Goodman Funds Management Limited (ABN 48 067 796 
641; AFSL Number 223621) as the Responsible Entity for Goodman Industrial Trust (ARSN 091 213 839) and Goodman Logistics (HK) Limited (Company No. 1700359; 
ARBN 155 911 149)). It is not intended to be relied upon as advice to investors or potential investors and does not take into account the investment objectives, financial 
situation or needs of any particular investor. These should be considered, with professional advice, when deciding if an investment is appropriate. This document 
is not an offer or invitation for subscription or purchase of securities or other financial products. It does not constitute an offer of securities in the United States. 
Securities may not be offered or sold in the United States unless they are registered under the US Securities Act of 1933 or an exemption from registration is available. 
This document contains certain “forward-looking statements”. The words “anticipate”, “believe”, “expect”, “project”, “forecast”, “estimate”, “likely”, “intend”, “should”, 
“could”, “may”, “target”, “plan” and other similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Indications of, and guidance on, future earnings and 
financial position and performance as well as expectations, objectives and assumptions in our climate change and sustainability related statements are also forward-
looking statements. Due care and attention have been used in the preparation of forecast information. Such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future 
performance and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are beyond the control of Goodman Group, that may cause actual 
results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in such statements. There can be no assurance that actual outcomes will not differ materially from these 
statements. All values are expressed in Australian currency unless otherwise stated. September 2022.



https://twitter.com/goodman_group
http://www.youtube.com/channel/UCqPJamGrRaP3OaT16gOCCeQ
http://www.linkedin.com/company/goodman/
http://www.goodman.com
http://www.instagram.com/goodman.group/


Goodman Group 
Annual Report 
2022



GOODMAN GROUP

2



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

3

Chairman’s letter 4

Group CEO letter 6

Corporate Governance 2021 8

Goodman Limited and its controlled entities  9

Appendix A – Goodman Logistics (HK) Limited and its subsidiaries  154

Securities information  207

Glossary  208

Corporate directory 209

Contents



GOODMAN GROUP

4

Sustained vision
2022 saw Goodman deliver another very strong result with operating 
earnings per security increasing by 24%, well ahead of the initial guidance 
to the market of 10%. Significant contributions were made from all areas 
of the business. The resilience of the Group’s business strategy and that 
of our team has been tested in a challenging environment, and Goodman’s 
management has demonstrated their ability to adapt and grow with 
changing market conditions. 

We remain focused on the long-term sustainability of the business and 
are cautious and prudent in our approach to capital management, 
retaining significant resources and liquidity to manage through uncertain 
economic environments. 

Throughout the year, we have progressed our sustainability initiatives 
across all aspects of the Environmental, Social and Governance areas. 
Our focus is on both short-term programs that we can implement and 
measure today while establishing long-term strategies that will have 
provide enduring benefits for our business – and for of all our stakeholders 
– well into the future. 

This includes the Group’s Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) which both 
incentivises management to achieve superior results and provides 
alignment with the interests of securityholders. The Plan also incorporates 
environmental and sustainability targets in assessing performance for 
all employees. 

Our people are our strength and attracting and retaining talent in all our 
markets is critical to our success. Given our track record and global 
expertise, this has become increasingly difficult as competitors seek 
to recruit our high-performing people around the world. Goodman’s 
remuneration strategy, featuring a long-term incentive plan that includes 
the whole team, has been a key driver of our success, and ability to retain 
talent globally. 

Investing in sustainable innovation
Over several years, the Group has been working to expand its innovation 
strategy. We aim to facilitate and invest in products that provide 
sustainable solutions to customers across property technology, supply 
chain and transport and construction and manufacturing. Examples 
include smart metering, carbon neutral building products, on site safety 
management and the use of robotics and electric vehicles to assist with 
logistics and transportation. 

Our investment strategy across these technologies provides the Group 
with greater access, visibility and insight into the related trends affecting 
real estate. Our focus is on evaluating how these can be applied to our 
own portfolio to improve sustainable outcomes for all. 

Sustainability governance
Our Sustainability initiatives are entrenched into the Group’s business 
strategy and continue to remain a key priority for the Board and 
management. To support the management team and to enhance the 
Board’s visibility and efficacy on our ESG initiatives, we are in the process 
of establishing a new Sustainability and Innovation Committee which will 
commence its activities in October of this year. This Committee will be 
Chaired by Chris Green with Phil Pryke and newly appointed Directors, 
Hilary Spann and Vanessa Liu, as members. Chris, Hilary and Vanessa 
are all New York-based and actively work in the sustainability and 
innovation space in their day-to-day businesses and are expertly 
positioned for these roles. Phil has experience in the green energy field 
and, as the Chair of the Remuneration Committee, plays an important 
role in setting and reviewing the LTIP targets.

The Sustainability and Innovation Committee charter can be found here:  
https://www.goodman.com/-/media/files/sites/global/who-we-are/
corporate-governance/charters/Sustainability-and-Innovation-Committee-
charter-2022.pdf

Chairman's letter



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

5

Board progression 
This year we have made significant progress to deliver on our strategy to 
maintain a diverse Board with the appropriate mix of skills, gender and 
geographic representation. 

Hilary Spann, appointed in April, is a highly experienced global real 
estate executive with an extensive background in public and private 
equity markets. She is currently a senior executive at NYSE-listed Boston 
Properties, Inc, based in New York.

Vanessa Liu was appointed in May. She is an experienced technology 
innovator, business leader and digital media entrepreneur. Vanessa is 
currently Co-Founder and CEO of SaaS technology company Sugarwork, 
and an Independent Director of ASX-listed artificial intelligence company, 
Appen Ltd. 

Both Hilary’s and Vanessa’s experience and insights are well aligned to our 
long-term strategy and values, while bringing greater diversity to the Board 
and helping continue to shape Goodman as a forward-thinking company.

At this year’s AGM, Hilary and Vanessa will be standing for election to the 
Board. Independent Directors Phil Pryke and Chris Green together with 
Executive Director Anthony Rozic will be standing for re-election.

Rebecca McGrath has notified the Goodman Board of her intention to 
bring forward her retirement from the Board from the 2024 AGM to 28 
February 2023 to accommodate her expanding commitments with other 
companies. Since joining the Goodman Board in 2011, the Group has 
undergone substantial growth and changed markedly. – Rebecca has 
played an important role particularly through her chairmanship of the Risk 
and Compliance Committee. – On behalf of the Board and management, 
I thank Rebecca for her significant contribution over the last 11 years.

In light of the appointment of our two new directors and the forthcoming 
replacement for Rebecca, the Board has asked long standing director, 
Phil Pryke, the Chair of the Remuneration Committee, to stand again 
for re-election at this year’s AGM. This will help preserve knowledge 
and experience on the Board. It is intended that Phil would retire from 
the Board during his next term after facilitating a smooth transition for 
a new Remuneration Committee Chair. 

Demonstrating action
At Goodman we remain focused on our long-term sustainable business 
model. With a strong and determined global team, we are working with 
our customers to address the needs for more efficient and sustainable 
supply chains and for our investors to achieve long term, sustainable 
returns. At the same time, we are focused on providing our own people 
with opportunities and workplaces that enable them to be challenged 
and grow. I believe we have the right strategy and culture to achieve 
these objectives. 

On behalf of the Board, I sincerely thank our customers and investors 
for their continued support and the Goodman team for their considerable 
efforts in making 2022 a most successful year for the Group.

Sincerely

Stephen Johns 
Independent Chairman



GOODMAN GROUP

6

Goodman Group delivered a strong result for FY22, reflecting the 
continued demand for industrial space in our markets. Our customers’ 
need for more productivity and sustainability from their supply chains 
continues to drive this demand. By focusing our portfolio and development 
workbook on key infill locations, we have seen accelerating market rental 
growth, significant valuation uplift and subsequent outperformance of 
our Partnerships.

Key financial highlights:

+  Operating profit was $1.5 billion, up 25% on FY21,

+  Operating EPS was 81.3 cents, up 24% on FY21

+  Statutory profit was $3.4 billion, up 48%. 

All business areas have contributed to the Group’s solid performance with: 

+  Investment earnings up 20%

+  Management earnings up 28%

+  Development earnings up 34%.

Assets under management have grown 26% to $73 billion, with an average 
total return of 21.4% for our Partnerships. We continue to be prudent and 
patient with our capital. Over the year $1.8 billion in third party equity was 
raised and we completed $8.5 billion of debt refinancing across the Group 
and Partnerships. 

As a result, the Group’s balance sheet remains well positioned with low 
gearing at 8.5%, $2.8 billion of available liquidity, and $18.1 billion available 
across the Partnerships.

Optimising operations 
The structural changes driving demand for industrial property remain. The 
digital economy continues to grow alongside our customers’ need for greater 
supply chain efficiency and sustainable properties close to consumers. 

We’re working closely with our customers to optimise space, leverage 
technology, and provide strategic locations that lower transport 
requirements, costs and delivery times. 

Property fundamentals remain strong in our markets. With stabilised 
occupancy at 98.7%, organic growth through our $13.6 billion development 
book continues to provide our customers with a source of quality properties 
in key locations. Our developments were 99% leased on completion and the 
high level of customer demand, coupled with low levels of supply have seen 
market rental growth accelerating at a rapid pace. 

Consistent execution of our development workbook, and value-add 
across our sites, is contributing to strong margins, and offsetting cost 
pressure from increased construction costs globally. 

Taking action on climate
Goodman is proactively responding to the global challenges of climate 
change and delivering on our ESG commitments. We’re taking action 
by reducing carbon emissions, regenerating infill sites, using renewable 
energy, developing greener buildings and creating more equitable 
supply chains. Through the Goodman Foundation, we’re partnering 
with community groups, and have facilitated $11.6 million of charity 
contributions throughout the year. We have increased our sustainability 
initiatives and commitments have grown from $700 million to 
approximately $820 million through to 2025.

Working with our customers and reducing our carbon emissions remains 
a priority. We’ve had our carbon reduction targets validated by the 
Science-Based Targets initiative and the Group is more than halfway to 
our 2025 target of having 400MW of solar PV installed across our global 
portfolio. Goodman is also on track to maintain carbon neutrality for our 
operations, while importantly, calculating and addressing the embodied 
carbon in our developments and investigating low carbon materials. 

Group CEO letter



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

7

Outlook for FY23
Goodman is forecast to deliver another good performance in FY23, off 
the back of a strong year. We have a significant development workbook 
underway, continued underlying structural demand from our customers, 
and a robust capital position across the Group and Partnerships. As a 
result, we expect FY23 operating EPS growth to be 11%.

Focused team
Goodman’s agility, locational strategy and strong balance sheet, mean 
we are well positioned to continue to adapt to ongoing market challenges. 
Our global team remains focused on providing value and operational 
excellence for our customers and investors. 

I’d like to thank our people who have continued to live our values of integrity, 
determination, innovation and sustainability. They have worked together to 
deliver an excellent result for our securityholders and investors. I would also 
like to thank you, our securityholders, as well as our customers, and all other 
stakeholders for your continued support and contribution to Goodman’s 
sustainable growth.

Sincerely

 

Gregory Goodman 
Group Chief Executive Officer



GOODMAN GROUP

8

Goodman Group (Goodman or Group) is a triple stapled entity comprised 
of the Australian company, Goodman Limited (GL), the Australian trust, 
Goodman Industrial Trust (GIT) and the Hong Kong company, Goodman 
Logistics (HK) Limited (GLHK). The Boards of GL and Goodman Funds 
Management Limited as the responsible entity of GIT comprise the same 
directors while GLHK has a distinct Board with some overlap. Together 
they are referred to as the Boards.

The Goodman Boards and management team are committed to the 
highest standards of corporate governance and recognise that an 
effective corporate governance culture is critical to the long-term 
performance of the business.

Goodman’s corporate governance framework underpins our commitment 
to maximise long-term sustainable value for Securityholders through:

+  Effective controls, risk management, transparency and 
corporate responsibility

+  Strategic planning and alignment of the interests of employees with 
those of Securityholders and other stakeholders

+  Meeting stakeholder expectations of a global ASX listed entity 
through acting lawfully and responsibly while prudently managing 
both financial and non-financial risk.

The diagram below shows an overview of Goodman’s Corporate 
governance framework.

Goodman's Corporate Governance Framework

 
Reflecting the increasing importance of sustainability issues and the 
continuing rate of change through technology and innovation, the Board 
has also agreed to establish a new Sustainability and Innovation Committee 
drawing on the skills and experience of Chris Green (Committee Chair), 
Vanessa Liu, Phil Prkye and Hilary Spann. The new Committee will 
commence from 1 October 2022.

Goodman’s Corporate Governance Statement can be viewed on our 
website at goodman.com/who-we-are/corporate-governance Goodman’s 
core corporate governance framework documents including Charters and 
Policies are available at goodman.com/who-we-are/corporate-governance. 
Additional information for securityholders is available at the Goodman 
Investor Centre at goodman.com/investor-centre

Corporate Governance 2022



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

9

CONTENTS

Directors’ report 10

Lead auditor’s independence declaration  78

Consolidated statements of financial position 79

Consolidated income statements 80

Consolidated statements of comprehensive income 81

Consolidated statements of changes in equity 82

Consolidated cash flow statements 84

Notes to the consolidated financial statements 

Basis of preparation 
1 Basis of preparation 85

Results for the year
2 Profit before income tax 87

3 Profit per security 90

4 Segment reporting 91

5 Taxation 95

Operating assets and liabilities
6 Property assets 98

7 Receivables 110

8 Contract balances 111

9 Assets held for sale 112

10 Payables 113

11 Provisions 113

12 Property, plant and equipment 114

13 Leases 114

14 Goodwill and intangible assets 115

Capital management
15 Net finance (expense)/income 119

16 Interest bearing liabilities 120

17 Other financial assets and liabilities 123

18 Financial risk management 124

19 Dividends and distributions 133

20 Issued capital 134

Other items
21 Notes to the cash flow statements 136

22  Equity attributable to Goodman Limited 
and non-controlling interests 139

23 Controlled entities 141

24 Related parties 143

25 Commitments 145

26 Auditors’ remuneration 146

27 Parent entity disclosures 147

28 Events subsequent to balance date 148

Directors’ declaration 149

Independent auditor’s report 150

Appendix A – Goodman Logistics (HK) Limited 
financial report for the year ended 30 June 2022 154

Goodman Limited and its controlled entities
Consolidated financial report for the year ended 30 June 2022



GOODMAN GROUP

10

The directors (Directors) of Goodman Limited (ABN 69 000 123 071) 
and Goodman Funds Management Limited (GFML), the responsible entity 
for Goodman Industrial Trust (ARSN 091 213 839), present their Directors’ 
report together with the consolidated financial statements of Goodman 
Limited and the entities it controlled (Goodman or Group) and the 
consolidated financial statements of Goodman Industrial Trust and 
the entities it controlled (GIT) at the end of, or during, the financial year 
ended 30 June 2022 (FY22) and the audit report thereon. 

Shares in Goodman Limited (Company or GL), units in Goodman Industrial 
Trust (Trust) and CHESS Depositary Interests (CDIs) over shares in 
Goodman Logistics (HK) Limited (GLHK) are stapled to one another and 
are quoted as a single security on the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX). 
In respect of stapling arrangements, Australian Accounting Standards 
require an acquirer to be identified and an in-substance acquisition to be 
recognised and accordingly GL is identified as having acquired control over 
the assets of GIT and GLHK. The consolidated financial statements of  
GL therefore include the results of GIT and GLHK.

As permitted by the relief provided in Australian Securities & Investments 
Commission (ASIC) Instrument 20-0568, the accompanying consolidated 
financial statements present both the financial statements and 
accompanying notes of Goodman and GIT. GLHK, which is incorporated 
and domiciled in Hong Kong, prepares its financial statements under 
Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards and the applicable requirements 
of the Hong Kong Companies Ordinance and accordingly the financial 
statements of GLHK have not been included as adjacent columns in the 
consolidated financial statements. The financial statements of GLHK have 
been included as an appendix to this financial report. 

GFML, as responsible entity for the Trust, is solely responsible for the 
preparation of the accompanying consolidated financial report of GIT, in 
accordance with the Trust’s Constitution and the Corporations Act 2001.

Directors’ report



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

11

OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
About Goodman
Goodman is a specialist global industrial property group. We own, 
develop and manage high-quality, sustainable properties that are close to 
consumers and provide essential infrastructure for the digital economy.

Goodman and its Partnerships have 410 properties located in key 
consumer markets in 14 countries across Asia Pacific, Europe and the 
Americas. With $73.0 billion of assets under management, Goodman is the 
largest property group listed on the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX) 
and invests significantly alongside our capital partners in our Partnerships. 

Our integrated business model

Goodman’s Own Develop Manage model focuses the business on its 
customers’ current and future needs.

We own and maintain high-quality properties close to consumers, develop 
sustainable properties, and manage our global investment portfolio to 
a high standard. Goodman works alongside our capital partners, which 
include sovereign wealth, pension and large multi-manager funds. In each 
market, our dedicated local teams take care of all aspects of property asset 
and investment management, ensuring a high level of customer service.

Our strategy
Maximise returns by providing essential, sustainable infrastructure for the 
digital economy.

+  Urbanisation, globalisation, demographics, digitalisation, sustainability 
and an increased focus on health and wellbeing: all have changed 
the way people live, work and consume. These structural shifts 
have increased the importance of industrial properties in the global 
supply chain

+  Globally, the logistics and warehousing sectors are now considered 
essential infrastructure for digital economies, and key to the efficient 
distribution of products to consumers. As industrial property 
specialists, Goodman’s long-term strategy is built on supporting our 
customers to deliver in the most sustainable and efficient way possible. 
Goodman focuses on key markets and concentrates our portfolio 
where the most value can be created for customers and investors.

Our values
As a specialist global industrial property group, we aim to be the best 
at what we do, rather than the biggest. Goodman’s values reflect who 
we are today and who we want to be long into the future.

These core values are: 

1.  Innovation – New ideas push our business forward. We focus on 
the future, proactively looking for new opportunities and improved 
solutions for our stakeholders that will make the world a better 
place for all of us

2.  Determination – Determination gets things done. We are motivated 
by excellence and work hard to achieve it, actively pursuing the very 
best outcomes for our stakeholders

3.  Integrity – We have integrity, always. We work inclusively and 
transparently, balancing the needs of our business and our people, 
with the needs of the community and those we do business with

4.  Sustainability – We are building our business for the long term. That 
is why we consider the planet and all the people on it in everything 
we do. Our initiatives demonstrate our ongoing commitment to having 
a positive economic, environmental and social impact on the world.



GOODMAN GROUP

12

Directors’ report
Operating and financial review (continued)

 

$3,414.0M
PROFIT ATTRIBUTABLE TO SECURITYHOLDERS
$2,311.9 million in FY21 
Increase of 47.7% 
183.2c Statutory profit per security (FY21: 125.4c)

$1,528.0M OPERATING PROFIT
$1,219.4 million in FY21 
Increase of 25.3%

81.3¢ OPERATING PROFIT PER SECURITY (OPERATING EPS)1

65.6c in FY21 
Increase of 23.9%

30¢ DIVIDENDS/DISTRIBUTIONS PER SECURITY
30c in FY21 
Stable, in line with financial risk management objective to sustainably fund future investments 
1,863.7 million weighted average number of securities on issue

$8.37 NET TANGIBLE ASSETS PER SECURITY
$6.68 in FY21 
Increase of 25.3% 
1,868.2 million securities on issue

$73.0BN TOTAL ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT
$57.9 billion in FY21 
Increase of 26.1%

$13.6BN DEVELOPMENT WORK IN PROGRESS2

$10.6 billion in FY21 
Increase of 28.3%

8.5% GEARING3

6.8% in FY21

$2.8BN LIQUIDITY
$1.9 billion in FY21

36.7X INTEREST COVER4

63.7 times in FY21 
6.2 years weighted average debt maturity (FY21: 6.3 years)

1.  Operating profit per security (operating EPS) is the operating profit divided by the weighted average number of securities on issue during FY22, including securities relating to performance rights 
that have not yet vested but where the performance hurdles have been achieved. Operating profit comprises profit attributable to Securityholders adjusted for net property valuations gains, 
non-property impairment losses, net gains/losses from the fair value movements on derivative financial instruments and unrealised fair value and foreign exchange movements on interest bearing 
liabilities and other non-cash adjustments or non-recurring items e.g. the share based payments expense associated with Goodman’s Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP). 

  As it is closely aligned with operating cash generation, the Directors consider that Goodman’s operating profit is a key measure by which to examine the underlying performance of the business, 
notwithstanding that operating profit is not an income measure under International Financial Reporting Standards.

2. Development work in progress (WIP) is the projected end value of active developments across Goodman and its investments in associates and joint ventures (referred to as Partnerships).
3.  Gearing is calculated as total interest bearing liabilities over total assets, both net of cash and the fair values of certain derivative financial instruments included in other financial assets of $133.3 million 

(2021: $134.1 million). Total interest bearing liabilities are grossed up for the fair values of certain derivative financial instruments included in other financial liabilities of $79.6 million (2021: $62.3 million).
4.  Interest cover is operating profit before net finance expense (operating) and income tax (operating) divided by net finance expense (operating). The calculation is in accordance with the financial 

covenants associated with the Group’s unsecured bank loans and includes certain adjustments to the numerator and denominator.



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

13

Overview
Goodman has delivered a strong operating performance during FY22 
with operating profit increasing by 25.3% to $1,528.0 million. This equates 
to an operating EPS of 81.3 cents, up 24.0% on FY21. 

The business environment is changing, with increased interest rates, 
inflation, geopolitical risks and the ongoing impacts of the COVID-19 
pandemic; however, the long-term structural drivers of demand for 
our assets have not changed. Tight supply and strong customer 
demand continue to support leasing across our stabilised portfolio and 
developments, with high occupancy in the markets the Group has chosen 
to invest in. Our customers continue to intensify their warehousing in order 
to enhance their ability to service their customers in urban locations. 
There has been an increase in the use of automation and technology to 
optimise delivery and improve supply chain efficiency and the Group aims 
to continue to facilitate this with the selection of assets in the portfolio.

We have continued to successfully execute our strategy, which is 
providing our customers with essential locations and offering productivity 
improvements to help absorb cost and time. It is also delivering to the 
Group and Partnerships a portfolio of assets with consistently strong risk 
adjusted returns. This is reflected in both the Group’s property investment 
earnings and management earnings.

Development activity has again been a significant contributor to the 
operating performance. Construction costs are increasing globally but 
the Group has been able to manage these impacts successfully. However, 
by delivering increased productivity and value from our sites and 
development execution, Goodman has provided productivity benefits 
to customers which has assisted in the maintenance of strong returns.

The investor and customer demand for industrial space has led to 
another strong property valuation result, especially in the first half of 
the financial year. Rising interest rates have meant that the pace of the 
capitalisation rate compression, and therefore valuation growth, slowed 
in the second half of the financial year; however, growth in rental income 
that is occurring in Goodman’s portfolio has contributed an increasing 
proportion of the valuation result. While transactional activity has slowed 
in the last quarter, transactions that have completed show that valuations 
for good quality real estate in the right locations remain supported. 
The total property uplifts (net of tax), including the Group’s share of 
Partnerships, for FY22 was $2,326.3 million and the weighted average 
capitalisation rate for the stabilised assets in the portfolios contracted 
from 4.3% at 30 June 2021 to 4.0% at 30 June 2022. 

The operating performance and property valuation results have 
contributed to Goodman’s statutory profit attributable to Securityholders 
for FY22 increasing by $1,102.1 million to $3,414.0 million. The statutory 
profit is reported net of the accounting expense of the Goodman LTIP 
of $257.6 million and a loss of $191.4 million from derivative fair value 
movements. These items, as well as the property valuation gains, are 
excluded from the calculation of operating profit.

Goodman’s capital position remains sound. At 30 June 2022, gearing 
was 8.5% and the cash and undrawn bank lines available to the Group 
were $2.8 billion. In April 2022, the Group closed a US$500 million 
Sustainability Linked Bond into the US144A/Regulation S market. 
Dividends and distributions relating to FY22 were maintained at 30 cents 
per security, equivalent to 37% of operating profit. The cash retained 
for future investment in the business enables the maintenance of the 
balance sheet and capital position that is consistent with the financial risk 
management targets and is considered appropriate given the significant 
development activity and the commensurate growth in investments that 
is expected in the near term. 

Over the year, progress on Environmental, Social and Governance 
(ESG) objectives was met or exceeded. Please refer to the FY22 Group 
Sustainability Report for more detail. This is expected to be released 
before the 2022 Annual General Meeting (AGM).

Key operational highlights for FY22:

Property investment:

+ Property investment earnings of $494.6 million (2021: $411.5 million)

+ $73.0 billion (2021: $57.9 billion) of total AUM, of which the Group 
owns a whole or a part share

+ 3.9% like for like growth in net property income (NPI) in Partnerships

+ 98.7% occupancy across the Partnerships.

Management:

+ Management earnings of $588.4 million (2021: $459.1 million)

+ $68.7 billion of external AUM in Partnerships

+ Partnerships reported 21.4% weighted average total return on net assets.

Development:

+ Development earnings of $960.7 million (2021: $717.9 million)

+ $13.6 billion of development WIP (by estimated end value)

+  85% of WIP is currently conducted within, or pre-sold to,  
Partnerships or third parties.



GOODMAN GROUP

14

Directors’ report
Operating and financial review (continued)

Analysis of performance 
Goodman’s key operating regions are Australia and New Zealand (reported 
on a combined basis), Asia (Greater China (including the Hong Kong SAR) 
and Japan), Continental Europe (with the vast majority of assets located in 
Germany and France), the United Kingdom and the Americas (principally 
North America and including Brazil). The operational performance can be 
analysed into property investment earnings, management earnings and 
development earnings, and the Directors consider this presentation of the 
consolidated results facilitates a better understanding of the underlying 
performance of Goodman given the differing nature of and risks associated 
with each earnings stream.

Property investment earnings consist of gross property income 
(excluding straight lining of rental income), less property expenses, plus 
Goodman’s share of the operating results of Partnerships that is allocable 
to property investment activities which excludes the Group’s share of 
property revaluations and derivative mark to market movements. The 
key drivers for maintaining or growing Goodman’s property investment 
earnings are increasing the level of AUM (subject also to Goodman’s 
direct and indirect interest), maintaining or increasing occupancy and 
rental levels within the portfolio, and controlling operating and financing 
costs within Partnerships. 

Management earnings relate to the revenue from managing both the 
property portfolios and the capital invested in Partnerships (management 
income). This includes performance related revenues but excludes 
earnings from managing development activities in Partnerships, which 
are included in development earnings. The key drivers for maintaining 
or growing management earnings are activity levels, asset performance, 
and increasing the level of AUM, which can be impacted by property 
valuations and asset disposals and is also dependent on liquidity including 
the continued availability of third party capital to fund both development 
activity and acquisitions across Goodman’s Partnerships. 

Development earnings consist of development income, plus Goodman’s 
share of the operating results of Partnerships that is allocable to 
development activities, plus net gains or losses from disposals of 
investment properties and equity investments that are allocable to 
development activities, plus interest income on loans to development JVs, 
less development expenses. Development income includes development 
management fees and also performance related revenues associated 
with managing individual development projects in Partnerships. The key 
drivers for Goodman’s development earnings are the level of development 
activity, land and construction prices, property valuations and the 
continued availability of third party capital to fund development activity.



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

15

The analysis of Goodman’s performance and the reconciliation of the operating profit to profit for the year attributable to Securityholders for FY22 are 
set out in the table below:

Note
2022

$M
2021

$M

Analysis of operating profit

Property investment earnings  494.6  411.5 

Management earnings  588.4  459.1 

Development earnings  960.7  717.9 

Operating earnings  2,043.7  1,588.5 

Operating expenses (349.3) (294.0)

 1,694.4  1,294.5 

Net finance expense (operating)1 (39.3) (16.4)

Income tax expense (operating)2 (127.1) (58.7)

Operating profit  1,528.0  1,219.4 

Adjustments for:

Property valuation related movements

– Net gain from fair value adjustments on investment properties 6(e)  260.1  63.1 

– Share of fair value adjustments attributable to investment properties in Partnerships after tax 6(f)  2,272.9  1,295.8 

– Deferred tax on fair value adjustments on investment properties 5(d) (206.7) (50.4)

 2,326.3  1,308.5 

Fair value adjustments related to liability management

– Fair value adjustments on derivative financial instruments 15 (189.7)  83.9 

– Share of fair value adjustments on derivative financial instruments in Partnerships 6(f) (1.7) (28.9)

(191.4)  55.0 

Other non-cash adjustments or non-recurring items

– Share based payments expense 2 (257.6) (268.8)

– Straight lining of rental income and tax deferred adjustments  8.7 (2.2)

(248.9) (271.0)

Profit for the year attributable to Securityholders  3,414.0  2,311.9 

1.  Net finance expense (operating) excludes derivative mark to market and unrealised foreign exchange movements and interest income from related parties of $6.2 million that has been reported 
under development earnings in the analysis above.

2. Income tax expense (operating) excludes the deferred tax movements relating to investment property valuations and other non-operating items, such as the Group’s LTIP.



GOODMAN GROUP

16

Property investment

Property investment earnings in FY22 of $494.6 million increased by 
20% on the prior year and comprised 24% of the total operating earnings 
(2021: 26%).

2022
$M

2021
$M

Analysis of property investment earnings

Direct  103.7  79.3 

Partnerships 390.9  332.2 

494.6 411.5

2022 2021

Key metrics:

Weighted average 
capitalisation rate (WACR) (%)

4.0 4.3

Weighted average 
lease expiry (WALE) (years)

5.2 4.5

Occupancy (%) 99 89

Goodman’s property portfolios are concentrated in large, urban locations 
where available space remains restricted, driven by significant customer 
demand, combined with relatively high barriers to entry and limited 
supply. Consequently, we are seeing significant market rental growth 
across many locations globally. This is supporting strong underlying 
investment fundamentals and cash flows in our portfolio.

The directly held properties are primarily in Australia and have potential 
for significant long-term growth from redevelopment to more intense 
or higher and better uses. The net income from the Group’s directly 
held properties increased compared to the prior year as a result of both 
like for like increases in NPI and rental income earned from completed 
developments (held in inventories, mainly in Continental Europe) prior 
to their disposal to Partnerships or third parties.

The more significant component of the Group’s property investment 
earnings was from its cornerstone interests in the Partnerships. The 
earnings from the Group’s share of these stabilised assets increased 
by $58.7 million to $390.9 million compared to the prior year. This 
was due to the stabilisation of developments in FY21 and FY22, as the 
Group has continued to invest in the Partnerships to fund its share of 
those developments and rental income growth from existing stabilised 
properties. NPI from the Partnership portfolios in FY22 was up by over 
3.9% on a like for like basis compared to FY21 and average occupancy 
increased to 99%. 

During FY22, the Group’s share of property valuations from the stabilised 
portfolios (before deferred tax) was $2,138.8 million (2021: $1,174.9 million), 
which included valuation uplifts of $204.3 million (2021: $164.2 million) 
on developments that reached completion during the year. In addition, 
the Group’s share of property valuations from investment properties 
Under Development and those held for sale was $452.1 million 
(2021: $223.6 million). Valuation gains occurred in all regions and while 
capitalisation rate compression was the main driver, in the first half of the 
year, both rental income growth and development activities have provided 
an increasing contribution. At 30 June 2022, the WACR for the Group’s 
portfolios was 4.0%, compared to 4.3% at the start of the financial year.

The operating income return on Goodman’s investment in the stabilised 
portfolios held by the Partnerships was 4.2% compared to 4.3% in FY21, 
as the growth in NPI was offset by the impacts of the valuation uplifts 
that increased the investment base. These valuation uplifts resulted 
in a 21% total return for the financial year. The income returns from 
the Partnerships were also impacted by the increased level of active 
development which has not yet begun to deliver rental income. Gearing 
was maintained at the lower end of target ranges, which continued to 
be appropriate given the ongoing development activity and the aim of 
Goodman and its investment partners to position the Partnerships for 
sustainable long-term growth. 

Directors’ report
Operating and financial review (continued)  
Analysis of performance (continued)



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

17

Management

Management earnings in FY22 of $588.4 million increased by 28% 
compared to the prior year and comprised 29% of total operating 
earnings (2021: 29%). This increase was a combination of higher base 
management and property service fees and higher performance fees.

The higher base management fees were primarily a result of the increased 
AUM. During FY22, external AUM increased by 27% to $68.7 billion from 
$54.0 billion, primarily due to valuations, acquisitions and developments 
in the Partnerships.

External AUM

2022
$B

At the beginning of the year   54.0

Acquisitions 4.2

Disposals (0.9)

Capital expenditure (developments)   2.6

Valuations   8.2

Foreign currency translation   0.6

At the end of the year   68.7 

Excluding performance related income, management fee income 
earned from the overall management of the Group’s Partnerships was 
$380.4 million (2021: $310.1 million). Base management fee income 
increased in line with the external AUM, noting that a significant component 
of the valuation uplifts were recorded at 31 December 2021 and that the 
completion of developments throughout the year was skewed to the 
second half of FY22. The base management fee income was supplemented 
by both property services income, which was based on the gross property 
income in Partnerships, and other income such as leasing fees and 
transactional fees. 

Performance fee revenue of $208.0 million (2021: $149.0 million) again 
provided a strong contribution to the Group’s operating earnings. As in 
the prior year, these performance fees arose in Australia/New Zealand, 
Asia and Continental Europe, with the higher performance fees in FY22 
due to the timing of the assessment dates relative to the prior year. For 
FY22, the Partnerships reported a weighted average total return on net 
assets of 21.4% (2021: 17.7%) and with the consistently strong performance 
of the Partnerships in recent times, a significant backlog of potential fees 
may be earned in the future should conditions remain stable.

Development

In FY22, development earnings were $960.7 million (excluding revaluation 
gains), an increase of 34% on the prior year and comprised 47% of total 
operating earnings (2021: 45%). 

Strong occupier demand has continued to give the Group confidence 
to grow the development workbook as customers look for sites closer 
to consumers and invest in new facilities to accommodate significant 
investments in technology and automation. Goodman’s development 
activity is underpinning its organic growth with an average annual 
production rate for FY22 (based on expected development end value) 
of approximately $7.0 billion, an increase of over $1.0 billion on FY21.

WIP (based on development end value) is $13.6 billion at 30 June 2022 
(2021: $10.6 billion). The WIP is globally diversified across 85 projects and 
has grown in volume, scale and value. The increased scale and complexity 
have seen the average development period increase from 19 to 23 months 
over the past year. The majority of development activity in FY22 was 
again undertaken by or for the Partnerships and third parties (85% of WIP 
at 30 June 2022). 

While costs have increased globally across the construction process 
due to supply chain, labour and material shortages, Goodman’s margins 
have remained strong. This has been managed proactively through the 
Group’s procurement practices and contingencies for time and cost. In 
addition, rental growth and value-add activities across the portfolio and 
development projects have provided the ability to mitigate these costs. 

The Group remains focused on regeneration of existing land and buildings 
and enhancing value through intensification of use such as multi-storey 
developments which make up $7.7 billion of the current WIP. Goodman is 
continuing to add opportunities to its portfolio incrementally to support 
future development in constrained markets, while reducing its impact 
on the environment through brownfield developments. Brownfield 
developments and regeneration of sites continues to be greater than 
50% of our global WIP.

Given the strength in customer demand, especially in locations where the 
supply of available land is restricted, the Group has chosen to commence 
certain projects prior to securing a pre-lease commitment. Consequently, 
of the $7.9 billion of project commencements during the year, 59% had 
pre-committed leases. However, of the $6.0 billion of development 
completions during the year, 99% had pre-committed leases, a reflection 
of the strong customer demand and the Group’s ability to convert that into 
lease contracts that support the value of the investment.



GOODMAN GROUP

18

Operating expenses

For FY22, operating expenses were $349.3 million, up from $294.0 million 
in the prior year, an increase of $55.3 million. This was primarily in wages 
and salaries, due to additional headcount to support the ongoing activity 
levels, inflationary pressures in most regions and additional short-term 
incentives due to the outperformance in the Group’s overall operating 
profit. The Group’s aim is to keep base remuneration costs relatively 
steady, and instead use variable remuneration to incentivise staff.

Administrative and other expenses increased to $90.4 million from 
$83.2 million due to recommencement of travel and the associated 
costs, higher information technology expenditure and increased 
charitable donations.

Net finance expense (operating)

Net finance expense (operating), which excludes interest income on 
loans to development JVs, derivative mark to market and unrealised 
foreign exchange movements, increased to $39.3 million from 
$16.4 million. This was due to a greater level of interest bearing liabilities, 
including the new US$500 million Sustainability Linked Bond and higher 
interest rates, partly offset by an increase in capitalised interest. 

Income tax expense (operating)

Income tax expense (operating) for FY22 at $127.1 million 
(2021: $58.7 million) increased compared to the prior year. A significant 
proportion of Goodman’s earnings related to GIT and its controlled 
entities, which, as trusts, are ‘flow through’ entities under Australian tax 
legislation, meaning Securityholders (and not GIT) are taxed on their 
respective share of income. However, the increase in the tax expense 
was primarily due to the nature and geographic location of the Group’s 
increased revenues.

Capital management
 
Interest bearing liabilities

At 30 June 2022, the Group’s available debt facilities and fixed rate 
long-term bonds, which totalled $4.6 billion (of which $2.9 billion had been 
drawn), had a weighted average maturity of 6.2 years with $0.1 billion due 
to mature in FY23. The Group’s cash and undrawn bank facilities totalled 
$2.8 billion. During the year, the Group’s issued its first US$500 million 
10-year Sustainability Linked Bond into the US144A/Regulation S debt 
capital market.

At 30 June 2022, gearing was 8.5% (2021: 6.8%), which continued to 
be at the lower end of the Group’s policy range of 0% to 25%. Interest 
cover was 36.7 times (2021: 63.7 times) and the Group continued to have 
significant headroom relative to its financing covenants. Goodman’s 
strong investment grade credit ratings were unchanged over the year.

During FY22, the Group and its Partnerships issued new long-term bonds 
of $2.0 billion (including $859.0 million of Sustainability Linked Bonds), 
refinanced $6.4 billion of bank debt and secured third party equity 
commitments to allocate $1.8 billion that will provide liquidity for ongoing 
acquisition and development opportunities. At 30 June 2022, 
the Partnerships had $18.1 billion in available cash, undrawn bank 
facilities and equity commitments, noting that the majority of the equity 
commitments remain subject to the approval by the relevant investment 
partners, including Goodman, of proposed property investments for 
which the funding is required.

Dividends and distributions

The Group’s distribution for FY22 was maintained at 30 cents per security, 
a pay-out ratio of 37%, with 15 cents per security paid on 24 February 
2022 and 15 cents per security to be paid on 25 August 2022. This pay-out 
ratio has assisted the Group in retaining sufficient funds for its ongoing 
development activity and in keeping gearing at an appropriate level, within 
the desired range. The distribution reinvestment plan was not in operation 
during the year.

In respect of the separate components that comprise the 30 cents per 
security distribution for FY22:

+ Goodman Limited did not declare any dividends during the financial 
year (2021: $nil)

+ Goodman Industrial Trust declared and accrued distributions 
of 27.5 cents per security (2021: 24.0 cents per security), amounting 
to $513.8 million (2021: $443.4 million) 

+ GLHK declared and accrued a dividend of 2.5 cents per security 
(2021: 6.0 cents per security), amounting to $46.7 million 
(2021: $110.8 million).

Directors’ report
Operating and financial review (continued) 
Analysis of performance (continued)



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

19

Summary of items that reconcile operating 
profit to statutory profit
 
Property valuation related movements

The net gain from fair value adjustments on investment properties directly 
held by Goodman was $260.1 million (2021: $63.1 million). The uplift in 
value was primarily due to the contraction in capitalisation rates.

Goodman’s share of net gains from fair value adjustments before 
deferred tax attributable to investment properties in Partnerships was 
$2,330.8 million (2021: $1,335.4 million), a reflection of the quality of the 
property portfolios and the continued customer and investor demand 
for industrial assets. This valuation uplift comprised $1,674.4 million 
(2021: $947.6 million) in respect of the stabilised portfolio, $204.3 million 
(2021: $164.2 million) on developments that stabilised during the year) 
and $452.1 million (2021: $223.6 million) from investment properties that 
were still under development at 30 June 2022.

At 30 June 2022, the WACR for Goodman’s stabilised property portfolios 
(both directly held and Partnerships) was 0.3 percentage points lower 
than 30 June 2021, declining from 4.3% to 4.0%.

At 30 June 2022, the Group’s share of cumulative valuation gains on 
properties that were subject to conditional contracts for disposal, 
incorporating all valuation gains since the most recent repositioning 
activities commenced, was $429.6 million (2021: $95.9 million).

 These gains related to directly held properties and properties held in 
Partnerships that have been contracted for disposal and included two 
directly held properties that were contracted for disposal in the current 
year. The Group’s share of these cumulative valuation gains that have 
been reported as part of the statutory result included $333.7 million 
recognised in FY22 and $95.9 million in prior reporting periods. No 
valuation gains in respect of properties that had previously been subject 
to a conditional contract for disposal were realised in the current year 
(2021: $nil) and therefore none of the gains has been reflected in the 
operating profit for the current or any past periods.

There were no impairment losses associated with the Group’s inventories 
during the year. 

Fair value adjustments and unrealised foreign currency 
exchange movements related to liability management

The amount reported in the income statement associated with the 
Group’s derivative financial instruments was a net loss of $191.4 million 
(2021: $55.0 million net gain). This was primarily due to the weakening 
of the AUD against the USD and HKD partly offset by a strengthening 
of the AUD against the JPY, EUR and GBP and the impact of higher 
interest rates on the associated hedge contracts.

Under the Group’s policy, it continues to hedge between 65% and 90% 
of the net investment in its major overseas operations. Where Goodman 
invests in foreign assets, it will borrow in that currency or enter into 
derivative financial instruments to create a similar liability. In so doing, 
Goodman reduces its economic exposures to those currencies. The 
unrealised fair value movement of the derivative financial instruments 
(up or down) is recorded in the income statement; however, the foreign 
currency translation of the net investment that is being hedged is 
recorded directly in reserves. In FY22, the movement in reserves 
attributable to foreign currency movements was a gain of $145.3 million 
(2021: $279.4 million loss).

Other non-cash adjustments or non-recurring items

The principal other non-cash adjustments or non-recurring items for 
FY22 related to the share based payments expense of $257.6 million 
(2021: $268.8 million) for Goodman’s LTIP. The decrease primarily related 
to the fact that the Goodman Group security price fell from $21.17 to 
$17.84 during FY22 compared to an increase from $14.85 to $21.17 in FY21.



GOODMAN GROUP

20

Statement of financial position

2022
$M

2021
$M

Stabilised properties   2,387.1 2,022.2 

Cornerstone investments 
in Partnerships 11,903.9 8,668.6 

Development holdings   4,455.2 3,645.1 

Intangible assets 795.4 822.6 

Cash and cash equivalents   1,056.0 920.4 

Other assets 834.8 788.1 

Total assets   21,432.4 16,867.0 

Interest bearing liabilities   2,832.2 2,060.3 

Other liabilities   2,175.4 1,645.2 

Total liabilities 5,007.6 3,705.5 

Net assets   16,424.8 13,161.5 

The carrying value of the directly held stabilised investment properties 
(which included assets held for sale at 30 June 2022 of $598.1 million) 
increased by $364.9 million to $2,387.1 million at 30 June 2022. This was 
due to acquisitions in Australia and Asia of $409.9 million, development 
completions of $477.5 million and valuation uplifts of $260.1 million being 
partly offset by disposals of $823.9 million.

The value of Goodman’s cornerstone investments in Partnerships, which 
excludes the Group’s share of their development assets, increased by 
$3,235.3 million to $11,903.9 million. This movements during the year 
included the Group’s net investments in the Partnerships of $462.1 million, 
the valuation uplifts (net of deferred tax) across the portfolios of 
$1,821.6 million, transfers from development properties on stabilisation of 
$709.3 million and the impact of foreign currency translation $195.1 million.

Goodman’s development holdings include directly held properties 
(primarily inventories) of $1,976.4 million (2021: $1,650.5 million) and the 
Group’s share of development assets in the Partnerships of $2,478.8 million 
(2021: $1,994.6 million), and on a combined basis increased during the 
year by $810.1 million to $4,455.2 million (2021: $3,645.1 million). This was a 
reflection of the increased activity levels in most regions with the Group’s 
development WIP (as measured by estimated end value) having increased 
from $10.6 billion at 20 June 2021 to $13.6 billion at 30 June 2022.

The increase in the directly held development properties is due to the 
ongoing acquisitions and development expenditure of $1,267.1 million, 
which was greater than the disposals and transfers to stabilised assets 
at completion of $909.8 million. 

The increase in the Group’s share of development assets in the 
Partnerships was due to acquisitions of $710.2 million and valuation 
uplifts of $451.3 million (net of deferred tax), partly offset by transfers 
to stabilised assets at completion of $724.9 million. 

The principal goodwill and intangible asset balances are in Continental 
Europe and the United Kingdom. The movement during the year related 
to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and there were no 
impairments or reversals of impairments.

The movement in the cash balance during the year is explained in the cash 
flows section of this report. In respect of the interest bearing liabilities, 
Goodman has renegotiated a number of bank facilities to provide ongoing 
funds for the business, but the principal change in the drawn debt during 
the year was the completion of a US$500 million Sustainability Linked 
Bond into the US144A/Regulation S market. The foreign private placement 
of ¥12.5 billion is scheduled to mature in April 2023 and is disclosed as a 
current liability.

Other assets included receivables, right of use assets from the Group’s 
operating leases (primarily office premises) and the fair values of certain 
derivative financial instruments, which hedge the Group’s interest rate and 
foreign exchange rate risks. There were no material movement during FY22. 

Other liabilities include trade and other payables, lease liabilities, the 
provision for distributions to Securityholders, fair values of certain 
derivative financial instruments and tax liabilities (including deferred 
tax). The increase in other liabilities is primarily due to mark to market 
movements on derivative financial instruments.

Directors’ report
Operating and financial review (continued) 



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

21

Cash flows

2022
$M

2021
$M

Operating cash flows   841.0 1,114.7

Investing cash flows (1,001.5) (549.9)

Financing cash flows  
(excluding dividends and distributions)   856.9 (797.7)

Dividends and distributions paid (557.2) (551.4)

Net increase/(decrease) in cash held   139.2 (784.3)

Cash and cash equivalents 
at the beginning of the year   920.4   1,792.8

Effect of exchange rate 
fluctuations on cash held (3.6) (88.1)

Cash and cash equivalents 
at the end of the year   1,056.0 920.4

 
Operating cash flows

Operating cash flows of $841.0 million (2021: $1,114.7) million were lower 
than the prior year. This was mainly due to an increase in the payments 
associated with development activities. There was also an increase 
in other cash payments, lower cash received from the Partnership 
distributions (as a result of sales completed last year) that were partly 
offset by higher cash receipts from portfolio performance fees.

The net development cash inflow was $367.1 million (2021: $612.9 million). 
The gross receipts from development activities were similar to the prior 
year at $1,587.8 million (2021: $1,560.3 million), but the gross payments for 
development activities were higher than the prior year at $1,220.7 million 
(2021: $947.4 million). This arose in part due to the nature and structure 
of the development activities and also the timing of completions, 
especially in respect of the developments that are undertaken directly 
by the Group and subsequently sold to Partnerships or third parties. 
However, it also reflected an investment in inventories that will be 
developed to generate profits in future periods. For FY22 overall, 
compared to the prior year Goodman undertook a similar percentage 
of its total development activities in the Partnerships. When Partnerships 
require funding for development activities, then the Group’s share of the 
investment is reported in investing cash flows.

The increase in other cash payments is due to the increase in operating 
costs, primarily wages and salaries, and also includes the cost of cash 
settled performance rights under the LTIP. The cash settled portion of 
the LTIP was offset by the issue of new securities to raise an equivalent 
amount of funds. That issue is reported in the financing cash flows.  
As a result, the LTIP was cash neutral overall. 

The distributions received from Partnerships in FY22 were $442.5 million, 
lower than $536.9 million received in the prior year. The Partnerships 
continued to distribute their net cash flows from property investment 
(rental income) but the primary reason for this decrease was the timing 
of distributions associated with the Group’s share of development 
activities in the Partnerships.

The timing of receipts of portfolio performance fees are dependent 
on the assessment dates for the Partnerships although revenues may 
be recognised in advance of the assessment dates where the consistently 
strong Partnership returns mean that the receipt of revenue is highly 
probable. The current year included cash receipts from previously 
accrued portfolio performance fees; hence, overall receipts were higher 
than the prior year.

Investing cash flows

Investing net cash outflow was $1,001.5 million, an increase of 
$451.6 million compared to the prior year. During FY22, the principal 
investing cash outflows related to acquisitions of directly held properties 
in Asia and the United Kingdom of $431.7 million (2021: $192.2 million) 
and to investments in the Group’s Partnerships of $1,332.3 million 
(2021: $790.3 million). The Group received proceeds of $671.8 million 
from the disposals of investment properties in the United Kingdom 
and Australia. Capital returns from the Partnerships of $91.8 million 
(2021: $256.3 million) occurred after capital management initiatives 
in Goodman UK Partnership and Goodman North America Partnership.

Financing cash flows

Financing cash inflow (net of dividends and distributions) was 
$299.7 million, an increase of $1,648.8 million compared to a net cash 
outflow of $1,349.1 million in the prior year.

Proceeds from borrowings and derivative financial instruments were 
$1,466.5 million (2021: $204.6 million). This included cash inflows in 
respect of the the completion of a US$500 million Sustainability Linked 
Bond into the US144A/Regulation S debt capital market and drawdowns 
on the Group’s revolving bank loans of $777.3 million.

Payments on borrowings and derivative financial instruments were 
$789.3 million (2021: $891.9 million). This included repayments on the 
Group’s revolving bank loans of $768.4 million. In the prior year, the 
cash outflows included the redemption of US$453.8 million notes in the 
US144A/Regulation S market.

The net cash flow from related party loans was an inflow of $111.4 million 
(2021: $135.0 million net outflow). These loans are provided by the Group 
to fund developments in the Partnerships (including JVs) and are repaid 
either at completion or when the Partnership obtains its own external debt.

The net proceeds from the issue of stapled securities of $109.7 million 
(2021: $64.8 million) were directly used to fund obligations under the LTIP 
that have been reported as part of the Group’s operating cash flows.

The other principal financing cash outflows were the distributions paid 
to Securityholders of $557.2 million (2021: $551.4 million).



GOODMAN GROUP

22

Outlook
Goodman has developed significant expertise and a deliberate strategy 
to target high barrier to entry markets and to undertake larger, more 
complex projects over longer periods of time, providing our customers 
access to facilities where they are scarce and has positioned the Group 
well for future growth. 

In the near term, market conditions are likely to be volatile and the risks 
associated with rising inflation, interest rates and slowing economic 
activity are elevated. This may impact consumers; however, they 
continue to seek faster and more flexible delivery, which requires ongoing 
intensification of warehousing in urban locations to optimise delivery 
and improve productivity. The business remains agile, focused on the 
changing consumption habits across the physical and digital space and, 
as a result, the evolving requirements of customers around the world. 

Demand is currently exceeding supply in our markets, supporting our 
development-led growth strategy and producing well located assets for 
the Group and our Partnerships. In addition to strategic site acquisitions, 
the opportunities for regeneration of existing assets support our future 
development workbook by providing value add opportunities, while 
reducing our environmental impact. Our production rate, depth of 
customer demand and strong margins are supporting the outlook for 
development earnings into FY23.  

In addition, the Group continues to maintain a strong balance sheet, which 
combined with retained income, provides significant liquidity, stability and 
financial resources.

 The outlook for property investment and management earnings remains 
strong, as the customer demand and supply constraints in the Group’s 
markets provide support for both rental growth and a high level of 
occupancy. Investment and management earnings will also benefit from 
the completion of ongoing developments. Development completions and 
market rental growth are also expected to support growth in AUM. 

Goodman has made a strong start to FY23 with a significant development 
workbook underway, continued underlying structural demand from 
customers and a robust capital position across the Group and 
Partnerships. The Board believes the Group is positioned to continue to 
deliver growth despite the risks associated with current market volatility 
and expects to achieve operating EPS growth of 11% in FY23.

 The Group sets financial performance targets annually and reviews them 
regularly. Forecasts are subject to there being no material adverse change 
in market conditions or the occurrence of other unforeseen events.

Directors’ report
Operating and financial review (continued) 



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

23

Risks
Goodman identifies strategic and operational risks for each of its regions as part of its strategy process. The key risks, an assessment of their 
likelihood of occurrence and consequences and controls that are in place to mitigate the risks are reported to the Board annually. 

Goodman has established formal systems and processes to manage the risks at each stage of its decision making process. This is facilitated 
by a Group Investment Committee comprising senior executives, chaired by the Group Chief Executive Officer, which considers all major operational 
decisions and transactions. The Group Investment Committee meets on a weekly basis.

The Board has separate committees to review and assess key risks. The Risk and Compliance Committee reviews and monitors a range of material 
risks in Goodman’s risk management systems including, among other risks, market risks, operational risks, sustainability, regulation and compliance 
and information technology. The Audit Committee reviews and monitors financial risk management and tax policies.

The key risks faced by Goodman and the controls that have been established to manage those risks are set out below: 

Risk area Mitigation

Capital management 
(debt, equity and cash flow)

Goodman could suffer an inability to deliver 
its strategy, or an acute liquidity or solvency 
crisis, financial loss or financial distress as a 
result of a failure in the design or execution of 
its capital management and financing strategy.

+  Low gearing, ample liquidity and appropriate hedging and duration to absorb market shocks

+ Appropriate hedging quantities and duration in accordance with Goodman's FRM policy

+ Diversification and tenure of debt funding sources and maturities

+ Capital partnering transfers risks into Partnerships

+ Diversification of investment partners

+ Distribution pay-out ratio consistent with contribution to increasing development workbook

+ Strong assets that can generate better rental outcomes

+ Long lease terms with prime customers

+ Key urban market strategy – urban, infill locations support re-usability of property

+ Adaptable and re-usable building design – ease to reconfigure for another customer

+ Insurance program including project specific insurance.

Economic and 
geopolitical environment

Global economic conditions and government 
policies present both risks and opportunities 
in the property and financial markets and the 
business of our customers, which can impact 
the delivery of Goodman's strategy and its 
financial performance. 

A continued increase in geopolitical tension 
between countries could have potential 
consequences on our people, operations and 
capital partners.

In the near-term, market conditions are likely to 
be volatile and the risks associated with rising 
inflation, interest rates and slowing economic 
activity are elevated.

+ Global diversification of Goodman's property portfolios

+ Focus on core property portfolios in key urban market locations

+ Focus on cost management

+  Prudent capital management with low gearing, appropriate hedging and significant 
available liquidity to allow for potential market shocks

+ Co-investment with local capital partners

+ Long term leases with review mechanisms.

Governance, regulation 
and compliance

Non-compliance with legislation, regulators, 
or internal policies, or to understand and 
respond to changes in the political and 
regulatory environment (including taxation) 
could result in legal action, financial 
consequences and damage our standing 
and reputation with stakeholders.

+ Independent governance structures

+ Core values and attitudes, with an embedded compliance culture focused on best practice

+ Dedicated Chief Risk Officer and Compliance Officer

+ Review of transactions by the Goodman Investment Committee

+ Verification and sign off process for all public announcements

+  Comprehensive insurance program, covering property, liability, directors and officers 
and professional indemnity.

People and culture Failure to recruit, develop, support, and 
retain staff with the right skills and experience 
may result in significant underperformance 
or impact the effectiveness of operations 
and decision making, in turn impacting 
business performance.

+ Succession planning for senior executives

+ Competitive remuneration structures, including the LTIP

+ Performance management and review

+ Goodman values program

+ Learning, development and engagement programs

+ Staff engagement through team strategy days, town halls and the (good) life program.



GOODMAN GROUP

24

Development Development risks may arise from location, 
site complexity, planning and permitting, 
infrastructure, size, duration along with general 
contractor capability.

+ Review of development projects by the Goodman Investment Committee

+  Goodman defined design specifications, which cover environmental, technological, 
and safety requirements, protecting against short-term obsolescence

+ Redevelopment of older assets to intensify use

+  Pre-selecting and engaging general contractors that are appropriately capitalised 
and reviewing contractor liquidity

+ Internal audit reviews

+ Insurance program, both Goodman and general contractor, including project specific insurance

+  Ongoing monitoring and reporting of WIP and levels of speculative development, with 
Goodman Board oversight including limits with respect to speculative development and 
higher development risk provisions

+ Capital partnering development projects.

Disruption, changes in 
demand and obsolescence

The longer-term risk that an inability 
to understand and respond effectively 
to changes in our competitive landscape 
and customer value chain could result 
in business model disruption and asset 
obsolescence, including the perception 
of obsolescence in the short term.

+ Key urban market strategy – urban, infill locations support re-usability of property

+ Adaptable and re-usable building design – ease to reconfigure for another customer

+ Geographic diversification

+ Capital partnering transfers risks into Partnerships

+  Insurance program (both Goodman's and key contractors), including project specific 
insurance covering design and defects

+ Long lease terms with prime customers

+ Investment in innovation and technology strategies.

Environmental 
sustainability and 
climate change

Failure to deliver on Goodman's sustainability 
leadership strategy and ambitions may lead to 
a negative impact on Goodman's reputation, 
ability to raise capital and a disruption to 
operations and stranded assets.

+ Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability policy

+  2030 Sustainability Strategy including the assessment of individual assets to improve 
resilience and implementation of sustainability initiatives

+ Sustainability guidelines for development projects

+  Review and approval of acquisitions and development projects by the Goodman 
Investment Committee and relevant Partnership Investment Committee, including 
consideration of climate in due diligence and specification

+  Adoption of the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures recommendations 
as a framework for climate risks.

Asset and portfolio Inability to execute asset planning and 
management strategies, including leasing 
risk exposures, can reduce returns from 
Goodman's portfolios.

+ Key urban market strategy – urban, infill locations where customer demand is strongest

+ Diversification of customer base and lease expiries

+  Review of significant leasing transactions and development projects by the Goodman 
Investment Committee

+ Capital expenditure programs keeping pace with property lifecycle.

Concentration 
of counterparties 
and markets

Over-exposure to specific areas, such 
as capital partners, supply chain, 
customers and markets, may limit growth 
and sustainability opportunities.

+ Diversification of customer base and lease expiries

+ Diversification of capital partners and Partnership expiries

+ Contractor pre-selection and tendering

+ Independence governance structure.

Information and 
data security

Maintaining security (including cyber 
security) of IT environment and data, ensuring 
continuity of IT infrastructure and applications 
to support sustainability and growth and 
prevent operational, regulatory, financial and 
reputational impacts.

+ Reporting of risks and management activity

+ Proactive monitoring, review and testing of infrastructure

+ Disaster recovery and business continuity planning and testing

+ Benchmarked strategy for delivery of security IT infrastructure and systems

+  Training and awareness program and other assurance activities for monitoring 
and improvement.

Infectious disease 
pandemic

There continues to be significant uncertainty 
associated with the COVID-19 pandemic, 
with mutations of the virus and significant 
outbreaks continuing to occur globally. The 
approach in enabling the world to stabilise 
and transition to a "normal" footing is still to 
be understood, while "Zero COVID" policies 
by some nations is having both economic and 
supply chain issues globally.

+ Protect and support our people

+ Global diversification of Goodman's property portfolios

+ Diversification of customer base

+  In-house property management team enabling flexibility to support and respond 
to customers

+ Capital model, strong balance sheet with adequate liquidity available.

Directors’ report
Risks (continued)



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

25

QUALIFICATIONS, EXPERIENCE AND 
SPECIAL RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS 
AND COMPANY SECRETARY 

Board of Directors 

Stephen Johns 
Independent Chairman
Stephen is the Independent Chairman and a Non-executive Director of 
Goodman Limited, Goodman Funds Management Limited and Goodman 
Logistics (HK) Limited.

Appointed: 1 January 2017 (Goodman Limited and Goodman Funds 
Management Limited); 19 November 2020 (Goodman Logistics (HK) Limited).

Board Committees: Member of the Audit Committee and Remuneration 
Committee, and Chairman of the Nomination Committee. 

Skills, Experience and Expertise

Stephen retired as Chairman of Brambles Limited in June 2020 after a 
period of 16 years on that Board and was previously Chairman of Leighton 
Holdings Limited and Spark Infrastructure Group.

Stephen is a former executive of Westfield Group where he had a long 
executive career during which he held a number of senior positions including 
that of Finance Director from 1985 to 2002. He was a non-executive director 
of Westfield Group from 2003 to 2013.

He has a Bachelor of Economics degree from The University of Sydney 
and is a Fellow of Chartered Accountants Australia and New Zealand and 
a Fellow of the Australian Institute of Company Directors.

Other Directorships and Offices

+ Director of the Garvan Institute of Medical Research

+ Director of European-Australian Business Council.

Directorships of Other Listed Entities in the Past Three Years

+ Brambles Limited (August 2004 to June 2020).

Gregory Goodman 
Group Chief Executive Officer
Greg is the Managing Director of Goodman Limited and Goodman Funds 
Management Limited and Group Chief Executive Office of Goodman. 
He is also an alternate director of Goodman Logistics (HK) Limited. 

Appointed: 7 August 1998 (Goodman Limited and 17 January 1995 
Goodman Funds Management Limited); 18 January 2012 (Goodman 
Logistics (HK) Limited).

Board Committees: Nil. 

Skills, Experience and Expertise

Greg is responsible for Goodman’s overall operations and the 
implementation of its strategic plan. He has over 30 years of experience 
in the property industry with significant expertise in industrial property. 
Greg is the founder of Goodman, playing an integral role in establishing 
its specialist global position in the property market through various 
corporate transactions, including takeovers, mergers and acquisitions. 

Other Directorships and Offices

+  Director of Goodman (NZ) Limited (the manager of the New Zealand 
Exchange listed Goodman Property Trust)

+  Director and/or representative on other subsidiaries and management 
companies of Goodman and its Partnerships.

 
Christopher Green 
Independent Director 
Chris is an Independent Non-executive Director of Goodman Limited 
and Goodman Funds Management Limited. 

Appointed: 28 April 2019.

Board Committees: Member of the Nomination Committee and the 
Remuneration Committee (since 19 November 2021). Chris retired 
as a member of the Audit Committee on 19 November 2021.

Skills, Experience and Expertise

Chris spent 16 years at Macquarie Group and was the Global Head 
of Macquarie Capital’s real estate business leading its global expansion 
through to 2018.

He has a Bachelor of Laws (Honours) degree and a Bachelor of Commerce 
(Computer Science and Accounting) degree from The University of Sydney.

Chris is also the Founder and Chief Executive Officer of GreenPoint 
Partners, a New York headquartered firm investing in real estate 
innovation, technology and private equity. 

 Other Directorships and Offices

+ Chief Executive Officer of GreenPoint Partners

+ Director of Wyuna Regenerative Ag Pty Limited

+ Director of Infinium Logistics Solutions UK Limited 

+ Director of The Opportunity Network

+ Director of Ility inc.



GOODMAN GROUP

26

Mark Johnson 
Independent Director 
Mark is an Independent Non-executive Director of Goodman Limited 
and Goodman Funds Management Limited. 

Appointed: 1 June 2020.

Board Committees: Chairman of the Audit Committee and member 
of the Risk and Compliance Committee.

Skills, Experience and Expertise

Mark is a trained accountant and spent 30 years at 
PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) where he was CEO from 2008 to 2012 
as well as holding positions as Asian Deputy-Chairman and as a member 
of PwC’s global strategy council. 

Mark also has extensive experience as a Director of charities, educational 
bodies and mutual organisations and he is currently a director of the 
Smith Family, a Councillor at UNSW Sydney and the Chairman of the 
Hospitals Contribution Fund of Australia. He was until recently Chairman 
and a director of G8 Education Limited and was formerly an independent 
director of Coca-Cola Amatil Limited and Westfield Corporation Limited.

Mark holds a Bachelor of Commerce (UNSW) degree and is a Fellow 
of Chartered Accountants Australia and New Zealand, Certified 
Practicing Accountant Australia and Fellow of the Australian Institute 
of Company Directors.

Other Directorships and Offices

+ Director of Aurecon Limited

+ Director of Boral Limited

+ Director of Metcash Limited.

Former Directorships of Other Listed Entities in the Past Three Years 

+ Coca-Cola Amatil Limited (December 2016 – May 2021) 

+ G8 Education Limited (January 2016 – November 2021).

Vanessa Liu  
Independent Director 
Vanessa is an Independent Non-executive Director of Goodman Limited 
and Goodman Funds Management Limited.

Appointed: 1 June 2022. 

Board Committees: Nil. 

Skills, Experience and Expertise

Vanessa is an experienced technology business leader and currently 
Co-Founder and CEO of SaaS technology company Sugarwork, and 
an independent director of ASX-listed artificial intelligence company 
Appen Ltd (since March 2020). She has more than twenty years 
of experience in the technology sector having started her career 
at McKinsey in the Telecom, Media & Technology Practice. 

She was most recently Vice President of SAP.iO North America, 
SAP’s early-stage venture arm, where she recruited and accelerated 
87 enterprise software startups. Prior to SAP, Vanessa was Chief 
Operating Officer at Trigger Media Group, a digital media venture studio, 
and co-founded Trigger’s portfolio companies: digital media company 
InsideHook and SaaS technology company Fevo.

Vanessa graduated magna cum laude highest honours with an AB 
in Psychology from Harvard University and cum laude with a JD from 
Harvard Law School. She was a Fulbright Scholar at Universiteit Utrecht 
in the Netherlands. She serves as a Past President Director of the 
Harvard Alumni Association and is a Board Advisor of Talking Talent Ltd. 
and a Board Observer of Fevo.

Other Directorships and Offices

+ Director of Appen Ltd 

+ CEO of Sugarwork.

Rebecca McGrath 
Independent Director
Rebecca is an Independent Non-executive Director of Goodman Limited 
and Goodman Funds Management Limited.

Appointment: 3 April 2012.

Board Committees: Chairman of the Risk and Compliance Committee 
and member of the Nomination Committee and the Audit Committee 
(appointed on 19 November 2021). Rebecca resigned as a member of the 
Remuneration Committee on 19 November 2021.

Skills, Experience and Expertise

During her executive career at BP plc, Rebecca held numerous senior 
roles in finance, operations, corporate planning, project management 
and marketing in Australasia, the UK, and Europe. Her last role as a senior 
executive was as Chief Financial Officer of BP Australasia. Rebecca was 
formerly a director of CSR Limited and Incitec Pivot Limited.

Rebecca holds a Bachelors degree of Town Planning and a Masters of 
Applied Science (Project Management) and is a graduate of the Cambridge 
University Business and Environment Programme. She is Victorian Council 
President of the Australian Institute of Company Directors and a member 
of the National Board and a member of The Australian British Chamber 
of Commerce Advisory Council. 

Other Directorships and Offices

+  Chairman of OZ Minerals Limited (Director since November 2010) 

+  Director of Macquarie Group Limited and Macquarie Bank Limited 
(since January 2021)

+  Director of Investa Wholesale Funds Management Limited

+ Director of Investa Office Management Holdings Pty Ltd

+ Chairman of Scania Australia Pty Limited. 

Former Directorships of Other Listed Entities in the Past Three Years 

+ Incitec Pivot Limited (September 2011 to December 2020).

Directors’ report
Qualifications, experience and special responsibilities of Directors and Company Secretary (continued)



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

27

Danny Peeters  
Executive Director, Corporate
Danny is an Executive Director of Goodman Limited, Goodman Funds 
Management Limited and Goodman Logistics (HK) Limited. 

Appointed: 1 January 2013 (Goodman Limited and Goodman Funds 
Management Limited); 1 February 2018 (Goodman Logistics (HK) Limited).

Board Committees: Nil.

Skills, Experience and Expertise

Danny was formerly CEO of Goodman’s European business and has 
oversight and is currently the Acting CEO of Goodman’s Brazilian 
operations. Danny has been with Goodman since 2006 and has over 
20 years of experience in the property and logistics sectors. 

During his career, Danny has built up extensive experience in the design, 
implementation and outsourcing of pan- European supply chain and real 
estate strategies for various multinationals. Danny was Chief Executive 
Officer of Eurinpro, a developer of tailor made logistic property solutions 
in Europe acquired by Goodman in May 2006. 

Other Directorships and Offices

+  Director and/or representative of Goodman’s subsidiaries and 
Partnership entities in Europe and Brazil.

Phillip Pryke 
Independent Director
Phillip is an Independent Non-executive Director of Goodman Limited 
and Goodman Funds Management Limited.

Appointed: 13 October 2010.

Board Committees: Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, member 
of the Audit Committee and the Risk and Compliance Committee 
(from 19 November 2021).

Skills, Experience and Expertise

Phillip has wide experience in the fishing, energy, financial services, and 
health and technology industries and holds a Bachelor of Economics degree.

Phillip is currently a director of Carbine Aginvest Corporation Limited. 
He was formerly the Deputy Chairman and Lead Independent Director 
of New Zealand Exchange listed Contact Energy Limited, a director of 
Tru-Test Corporation Limited and North Ridge Partners Pty Limited, Vice 
President of EDS, Chief Executive of Nextgen Networks, Chief Executive 
Officer of Lucent Technologies Australia Pty Limited and New Zealand 
Health Funding Authority and a member of the Treaty of Waitangi 
Fisheries Commission.

Other Directorships and Offices

+  Director of Goodman (NZ) Limited (the manager of the New Zealand 
Exchange listed Goodman Property Trust)

+ Director of Carbine Aginvest Corporation Limited.

Anthony Rozic  
Deputy Chief Executive Officer and 
Chief Executive Officer North America
Anthony is an Executive Director of Goodman Limited and Goodman 
Funds Management Limited. 

Appointed: 1 January 2013.

Board Committees: Nil. 

Skills, Experience and Expertise

Anthony is an Executive Director and Deputy Chief Executive Officer 
(since August 2010). He was appointed Chief Executive Officer North 
America in September 2016, and in that role is responsible for setting and 
managing the strategy, business performance and corporate transactions 
for the Group’s North American business. 

Anthony joined Goodman in 2004 as Group Chief Financial Officer and 
was appointed Group Chief Operating Officer in February 2009 before 
taking on his current positions. 

Anthony is a qualified Chartered Accountant and has over 20 years’ 
experience in the property industry having previously held a number 
of senior roles in the property funds management industry and chartered 
accountancy profession. 

Other Directorships and Offices

+  Director and/or representative of Goodman’s subsidiaries 
and Partnership entities in North America.

 
Hilary Spann 
Independent Director
Hilary is an Independent Non-executive Director of Goodman Limited 
and Goodman Funds Management Limited.

Appointed: 4 April 2022.

Board Committees: Nil. 

Skills, Experience and Expertise

Hilary has an extensive background in public and private equity markets 
and is currently a senior executive at NYSE-listed Boston Properties, Inc. 
(NYSE: BXP), based in New York. There, she is responsible for all aspects 
of the office developer, owner, and manager’s portfolio in the New York 
region. She was previously the Head of Real Estate for the Americas at 
CPP Investments and prior to that she held a number of senior real estate 
roles at JPMorgan in the United States.

 Hilary graduated from the Georgia Institute of Technology with a BS and 
a Masters in City Planning, both from the College of Architecture. She also 
studied architecture at L’École Nationale Supérieure D’architecture de Paris 
– La Villette.

Other Directorships and Offices

+   Executive Vice President, Boston Properties, Inc. (NYSE: BXP)

+  Director, ULI Foundation.



GOODMAN GROUP

28

Penny Winn 
Independent Director 
Penny retired as an Independent Non-executive Director of Goodman 
Limited and Goodman Funds Management Limited.

Appointed: 1 February 2018 and retired on 18 November 2021.

Board Committees: Member of the Remuneration Committee 
and Risk and Compliance Committee until 18 November 2021.

Skills, Experience and Expertise

Penny has over 30 years of experience in retail, supply chain and digital 
strategy in senior management roles in Australia and overseas, including 
as Director Group Retail Services with Woolworths Limited (2011–2015) 
where she was responsible for leading the Logistics and Information 
Technology divisions, Online Retailing and the Customer Engagement 
teams across the organisation. She previously served as a director 
of a Woolworths business, Greengrocer.com, a Myer business,  
sass & bide, Quantium Group and Port Waratah Coal Services Limited. 

Penny is a graduate of the Australian Institute of Company Directors 
and holds a Bachelor of Commerce from The Australian National 
University and a Master of Business Administration from the University 
of Technology, Sydney.

Other Directorships and Offices

+  Director of CSR Limited (since November 2015)

+  Director of Ampol Limited (since November 2015).

Former Directorships of Other Listed Entities in the Past Three Years

+  Coca-Cola Amatil Limited (December 2019 to May 2021).

Company Secretary
Carl Bicego  
Group Head of Legal and Company Secretary 
Appointed: 24 October 2006.

Skills, Experience and Expertise

Carl is the Group Head of Legal and Company Secretary of the Company. 
He was admitted as a solicitor in 1996 and joined Goodman from 
law firm Allens in 2006. Carl holds a Master of Laws and Bachelor 
of Economics/Bachelor of Laws (Hons).

Directors’ report
Qualifications, experience and special responsibilities of Directors and Company Secretary (continued)



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

29

Directors’ meetings (GL and GFML)

The number of Directors’ meetings held (including meetings of committees of Directors) and the number of meetings attended by each of the 
Directors during the financial year were: 

Board meetings
Audit Committee 

meetings
Remuneration 

Committee meetings
Risk and Compliance 
Committee meetings

Nomination 
Committee meetings

Directors Held1 Attended Held1 Attended Held1 Attended Held1 Attended Held1 Attended

Stephen Johns 10 10 4 4 3 3 – – 6 6

Gregory Goodman 10 10 – – – – – – – –

Christopher Green2 10 10 1 1 2 2 – – 6 6

Mark Johnson 10 10 4 4 – – 4 4 – –

Vanessa Liu3 1 1 – – – – – – – –

Rebecca McGrath4 10 10 3 3 1 1 4 3 6 6

Danny Peeters 10 10 – – – – – – – –

Phillip Pryke5 10 10 4 4 3 3 3 3 – –

Anthony Rozic 10 10 – – – – – – – –

Hilary Spann6 4 4 – – – – – – – –

Penny Winn7 4 4 – – 1 1 1 1 – –

1. Reflects the number of meetings individuals were entitled to attend. 
2. Christopher Green resigned as a member of the Audit Committee and commenced as a member of the Remuneration Committee on 19 November 2021.
3. Vanessa Liu was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2022.
4. Rebecca McGrath resigned as member of the Remuneration Committee and commenced as a member of the Audit Committee on 19 November 2021.
5. Phillip Pryke commenced as a member of the Risk and Compliance Committee on 19 November 2021.
6. Hilary Spann was appointed to the Board on 4 April 2022.
7. Penny Winn retired on 18 November 2021.



GOODMAN GROUP

30

  Letter from the Chairman and the Remuneration Committee Chair 

1.  REMUNERATION GOVERNANCE

1.1  The role of the Board and Remuneration Committee

1.2  Key activities of the Remuneration Committee for FY22

1.3  Key Management Personnel (KMP)

2.  REMUNERATION STRATEGY

2.1  Key remuneration principles

2.2  Objectives of the remuneration strategy

2.3 Remuneration mix and alignment across the Group

3.  EXECUTIVE REMUNERATION FRAMEWORK

3.1  Feedback and response

3.2  Remuneration enhancements for executive KMP

3.3  When is remuneration earned and received?

3.4  Short-term incentive

3.5  Long-term incentive

3.5.1  FY23 LTI awards (five and ten-year plans)

3.5.2  FY22 LTI awards

3.5.3  FY21 LTI awards

3.5.4   Setting operating EPS hurdles for proposed ten year plan 
awards to the Group CEO, other executive KMP and other 
senior executives

3.5.5   Operating EPS – long-term cash flow alignment with 
vesting outcomes

3.6  Non-financial measures

3.6.1  Types of non-financial measures

3.6.2  Integration of non-financial measures into STI

3.6.3  Integration of non-financial measures into LTI

3.7  Considerations for setting of awards

3.7.1  Considerations for award quantum – Goodman Group in context

3.7.2  Considerations for award quantum – structure

3.7.3  Valuation of performance rights (economic value) ten-year grants

4.  GROUP PERFORMANCE AND OUTCOMES

4.1  Group FY22 highlights

4.2  Financial measures 

4.3  Total security price returns comparison

4.4  Remuneration outcomes for FY22

4.4.1  STI outcomes

4.4.2  ESG assessment

4.4.3  LTI outcomes

4.4.3.1  Operating EPS hurdle (75% weighting)

4.4.3.2 Relative TSR hurdle (25% weighting) 

4.4.4  Group CEO achievements

4.4.5 Other executive KMP achievements

4.5  LTI grants in relation to FY22 performance

5.  NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REMUNERATION

5.1  Key elements of the Non-Executive Director remuneration policy

5.2 Board and committee annual fees

6.  STATUTORY DISCLOSURES

6.1  KMP remuneration (statutory analysis)

6.2  Movements in performance rights held by executive KMP

6.3  Analysis of performance rights held by executive KMP

6.4  Securities issued on exercise of performance rights

6.5  Unissued securities under performance rights

6.6  Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration (statutory analysis)

6.7 Movements in Goodman securities held

6.8  Transactions with Directors, executives and their related entities

Directors’ report
Remuneration report – audited



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

31

Letter from the Chairman and the Remuneration Committee Chair

 
Dear Securityholders,

On behalf of the Board, we are pleased to present the 2022 remuneration report, outlining Goodman’s remuneration strategy and principles. 

FY22 was another successful year for the Group, significantly exceeding financial performance expectations while making significant progress on our ESG 
initiatives. This has been delivered in difficult conditions. The ongoing impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, global political instability, rising inflation and higher 
interest rates have all presented challenges for Goodman’s business, our people, customers, investors, and the communities in which we operate and live. 

The attraction and retention of talent are critical for the success of the Group and is increasingly challenging as opportunistic competitors seek 
to recruit high-performing teams around the world. The Group’s longstanding and consistent approach to remuneration has been a key driver of our 
sustained success as an international business. 

Our approach is reflected in our strong financial results for FY22 including:

+ Operating profit of $1.5 billion (+25%) for Goodman in FY22 and growth of 59% for the three year period to FY22 
(which aligns with the Group’s LTIP testing period) 

+ Statutory profit of $3.4 billion for Goodman and $9.0 billion across the combined Group and Partnerships

+ Goodman operating EPS growth of 24% materially exceeding initial expectations of 10% 

+ Significant growth in the end value of development work in progress up 28% to $13.6 billion at 30 June 2022, providing a solid base for future profitability

+ Total AUM increasing 26% to $73.0 billion

+ Substantial revaluation growth increasing $8.5 billion across the Group and Partnerships reflecting the quality of the portfolio and the contribution 
management has made to enhance its value

+ Low leverage of 8.5% and significant liquidity of $2.8 billion providing strong financial capacity both for resilience and growth. 

We have continued to reflect the importance placed on providing financial returns and operating within appropriate sustainability and environmental 
objectives, incorporating key targets into the operations and long-term business strategies of the Group. 

2021 AGM results and subsequent securityholder engagement

Given the positive feedback from investors on the innovations introduced last year in relation to the new 10 year Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) for senior 
executives and the introduction of environmental objectives into both the five and 10 year plans, and the significant outperformance of the Group in FY21, 
we were disappointed at the level of support for our remuneration report and executive director grants at the 2021 AGM. The Remuneration Committee 
takes the result of our remuneration vote extremely seriously and has engaged with a significant proportion of our top 50 securityholders to discuss this 
and other governance matters. We also engaged with proxy advisory firms to better understand their views.

In response to investor feedback, we have:

+ Retained the ten year plan for senior executives continuing significant long term alignment with securityholders

+ Reduced the proposed quantum of awards significantly while recognising the exceptional outperformance of the Group in FY22

 –  for the Group CEO, the proposed number rights under the FY23 awards have declined by 36% and the face value of the proposed award has 
declined by 46% relative to FY22 award

 –  for other executive KMP, the proposed number of rights under the FY23 awards have declined by 20% and the face value of the proposed 
awards has declined by 33% relative to FY22 award

+ Adopted significantly more challenging and competitive hurdles for operating EPS, notwithstanding the current, considerable market uncertainties, 
which if achieved at the top end of the range, should provide Securityholders with strong performance in both relative and absolute terms. Full 
vesting requires almost 60% growth in Operating Profit over four years, relative to the very strong FY22 result.

The Board is always mindful of the focus on overall remuneration levels and spends considerable time each year determining remuneration outcomes. 
On the one hand, we recognise the need to attract, retain and incentivise our employees while, on the other hand, meet the range of expectations 
of our Securityholders. This is evidenced by the fact that, notwithstanding the outstanding performance achieved in FY22, the Board intends to grant 
a significantly reduced number of performance rights to the Group CEO and other executive KMP in FY23 while making the hurdles more challenging.

We look forward to receiving your views and support at our 2022 AGM.
 
Yours sincerely,

Stephen Johns Phillip Pryke 
Chairman Chairman, Remuneration Committee



GOODMAN GROUP

32

1. REMUNERATION GOVERNANCE
1.1 The role of the Board and Remuneration Committee

The Board and the Remuneration Committee is responsible for the 
structure of the remuneration of the Group’s employees and for the 
specific pay of the Group CEO and other KMP. In setting these, the Board 
considers remuneration with a five to ten-year horizon. It takes into 
consideration the impact that decisions made over the last three to five 
years have had on current performance and how it expects the business 
to perform over the next five years and beyond. It is not solely an exercise 
in reviewing a single year. 

The Board believes the success of Goodman is primarily due to its people 
and their ability to execute a global strategy that requires agility, strong 
collaboration and an inclusive culture, all of which are key elements 
supported by the LTIP.

The Board:

+ Encourages management to take a long-term strategic view rather 
than opportunistic approach to property investment

+ Expect the senior leadership team to accept collective responsibility 
for the outcomes

+ Integrates the operational, financial, environmental, and human 
strategy to create long-term sustainable returns

+ Focuses on the consistency of cash generation, through the Group’s 
operating profit, as the most tangible means of measuring long-term 
value creation for Securityholders.

When determining the remuneration levels and outcomes for FY22, the 
Remuneration Committee has considered 

+ Feedback from Securityholder engagement

+  The significant operational and financial outperformance of the Group 

+ The specifics of individual performance. 

These have been assessed in the context of the ongoing challenges 
presented by COVID-19, the significant volatility and inflationary conditions 
affecting the global operating environment and particularly construction 
and development. Given the nature of the Group’s global operations the 
Remuneration Committee has considered the impact of strong competitor 
activity in our sector on attracting and retaining employees. 

Refinements to the LTIP this year aim to better balance Securityholder 
and employee outcomes while continuing to reinforce Goodman’s long-
term decision making. This is in line with the evolution of the business and 
operational strategy, as well as providing competitive remuneration to 
attract and retain high quality people. 

1.2 Key activities of the Remuneration Committee for FY22

Members of the Remuneration Committee for FY22 were:

Member Role

Phillip Pryke Independent Director and Chairman 
of the Remuneration Committee

Stephen Johns Independent Director and Chairman 
of Goodman Group

Christopher Green Independent Director 
(appointed 19 November 2021)

Rebecca McGrath Independent Director 
(resigned as a member of the Remuneration 
Committee on 19 November 2021)

Penny Winn Independent Director 
(retired as a Director on 18 November 2021)

 
Following significant enhancements to the Remuneration plan in 2021, 
the Remuneration Committee has made additional changes for the FY23 
awards, in response to investor feedback. Key decisions made and items 
considered in the determination of FY22 remuneration, include the following:

+ The quantum of Long Term Incentive (LTI) awards has been reviewed 
and in determining these, consideration of both face value and 
economic value have been taken into account. Subsequently, there 
has been a significant reduction in the number of performance rights 
and the face value of proposed FY23 awards:

 –  for the Group CEO, the number rights has declined by 36% and 
the face value of the proposed award has declined by 46% relative 
to FY22 awards

 –  for other executive KMP, the number of rights has declined 
by 20% and the face value of the proposed award has declined 
by 33% relative to FY22 awards

+ Agreed with the Group CEO (as in prior years) that he would 
not participate in the STI award and all his performance-based 
remuneration in relation to his FY22 performance will be in the form 
of LTI. In general, LTI remains the significant focus of remuneration 
awards across the Group

+ Continued the issuance of LTI awards under the ten-year plan for 
the Group CEO, executive KMP and other senior executives

+ Continued to make the five-year LTIP plan available to the balance 
of employees

+ Further increase in challenge and outperformance required to achieve 
hurdles. For the maximum vesting to occur on the operating EPS linked 
portion of the plan, a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 11% per 
annum must be achieved over four years; this equates to almost 60% 
growth in Operating Profit in FY26 relative to the very strong FY22 result

+ Additional environmental and sustainability targets have been 
included in the FY23 performance right testing conditions. 

Changes are also proposed to the Non-Executive Director annual fee 
pool to be considered at the 2022 AGM, to facilitate greater use 
of committees, keep fees in line with market levels, manage Board 
succession and accommodate the potential appointment of additional 
Directors’. This is the first change in the Directors’ fee pool since 2006.

Directors’ report 
Remuneration report – audited (continued) 



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

33

1.3 Key Management Personnel (KMP)

Member Role Tenure at Goodman

Executive KMP

Gregory Goodman Group Chief Executive Officer 27 years

Danny Peeters Executive Director Corporate 16 years 1 month

Anthony Rozic Deputy CEO and CEO North America 18 years 1 month

Nick Kurtis Group Head of Equities 22 years 4 months

Michael O’Sullivan Group Chief Risk Officer 19 years 10 months

Nick Vrondas Group Chief Financial Officer 16 years 2 months

Non-Executive KMP

Stephen Johns Chairman and Non-Executive Director 5 years 6 months

Chris Green Non-Executive Director 3 years 2 months

Mark Johnson Non-Executive Director 2 years 1 month

Vanessa Liu Non-Executive Director 1 month

Rebecca McGrath Non-Executive Director 10 years 3 months

Phillip Pryke Non-Executive Director 11 years 9 months

Hilary Spann Non-Executive Director 3 months 

David Collins GLHK Non-Executive Director 4 years 5 months

2. REMUNERATION STRATEGY 
Goodman is one of the largest listed industrial real estate fund managers and developers globally. The Group’s people are largely based outside Australia. 
The remuneration structure reflects the requirements in the highly competitive labour markets the Group operates in globally, not just in Australia, and the 
objective of aligning multiple regional businesses and operational segments with a global strategy and pay for performance outcomes. 

A significant proportion of the value of the Group, reflected in the $17.7 billion premium between the security price of $17.84 at 30 June 2022 and 
Goodman’s net tangible assets per security of $8.37, is attributable to the value created across the global platform. Given the active nature of the Group’s 
operations, the Board believes that this is almost entirely due to Goodman’s people, the decisions they make and their ability to execute consistently 
and at all levels that has positioned the Group to sustainably grow the cash generation measure of the business that is encapsulated by Operating Profit 
(as described in the section 3.5.5).

The retention of talent is therefore critical for the long-term success of the Group and is increasingly challenging as opportunistic competitors seek 
to recruit high-performing teams around the world. The Group’s remuneration policy is crucial to its ability to have the appropriate human resources 
to deliver on the strategy, create the right culture and drive performance for the benefit of all stakeholders. 

The Group’s remuneration structure, in particular the focus on equity based reward, has been a key component of its success as an international 
organisation. The Board believes aligning all employees with Securityholders through the Group’s remuneration policy has added significant value 
to the Group. It has been a fundamental differentiator in generating and rewarding long-term performance and retaining quality people in a highly 
competitive global environment. It is particularly important considering the challenges created by COVID-19 and global political and capital markets 
volatility, as it binds all employees together as owners of the business and is a powerful incentive and driver of operational resilience.



GOODMAN GROUP

34

2.1  Key remuneration principles 

Continuing alignment of remuneration in line with Group strategy, 
structural changes and ESG aspirations

Given the cyclical nature of real estate, incentive structures within real 
estate businesses are highly outcome driven (particularly by private 
equity real estate managers where most institutional assets reside). 
The Group’s capital and resource allocations shift over time in response 
to variable market circumstances. The effect of these strategies take 
time to manifest, requiring rewards to be measured over longer periods. 
The Group’s remuneration framework is therefore focused on influencing 
long-term decision making and collaboration across business units and 
international operations to derive sustainable outcomes. 

There are several key principles of remuneration that the Board considers 
to be most relevant:

+ Focus on LTI as the predominant source of pay for performance 
for senior members and a material factor for all employees of the 
Group. All employees are eligible to receive LTI grants as a material 
component of remuneration and are tested using challenging hurdles 
without encouraging inappropriate risk (see section 3.5.4), enhancing 
alignment of rewards across the Group with Securityholders 

 –  Aligning the deliverable outcomes of all employees globally, with 
Goodman’s aspirations of long-term cash flow growth, resilience, 
and sustainability. This is practically achieved through the focus 
on operating profit (which is closely aligned with cash profits) 
as the primary testing measure for LTI awards (see section 3.8.5)

 –  Goodman’s remuneration structure results in a significantly higher 
proportion of pay in the form of equity-based performance awards 
(87% for the Group CEO versus around 45% for S&P/ASX20 and 
S&P/ASX100 CEO’s). As a consequence, despite only 25% of LTI 
testing against relative total securityholder return (TSR), employees 
have significant alignment and exposure to TSR outcomes versus 
typical remuneration structures. In addition, Operating Profit 
which determines operating EPS is a cash based measure which 
management globally can have a tangible influence on. Importantly 
operating EPS is the underlying value driver for Goodman and will 
ultimately align with TSR outcomes over the longer term

+ Securityholders are the beneficiaries of the Group-wide outcomes. 
Collaboration is required to achieve Group-wide targets across 
regions and business units. Remuneration should engender a 
collective responsibility for the consolidated outcomes which can 
facilitate decision making that leads to the optimal allocation of 
resources between locations and activity types to pursue the most 
appropriate opportunities at different points in time

+ A culture of ownership, inclusion and alignment, where all employees 
experience investment returns aligned with Securityholders creates 
stability which reduces turnover

+ Balancing reward and retention with long-term cost to Securityholders 
at respective levels of performance. 

Business evolution requires long remuneration time frames 
to align outcomes 

Goodman’s business has evolved significantly over the past 13 years since 
the introduction of the LTIP. Our increased focus on urban infill markets 
with their significant increase in complexity has led to longer development 
horizons to maximise outcomes which have delivered significant rewards 
to investors. In summary:

+ Site acquisition and value add to existing stabilised sites, typically 
require five to ten-year (and sometimes longer) time frames to achieve 
highest and best use and urban regeneration outcomes

+ The Group’s approach to development considers the lifecycle of an 
asset even for new developments which allow further intensification 
or change of use at a later time. This sometimes comes at the expense 
of short-term performance; however, this approach is consistent with 
the Group’s strategic objectives and provides future value realisation 
potential, over significant time periods 

+ Increased focus on ESG and integration of environmental sustainability 
aspirations into the Group’s operational activities requires significant 
time periods (often beyond five years) for implementation. Goodman’s 
approach to community, environmental sustainability and wellbeing are 
long-term aspirations aligned with the financial sustainability objectives. 

In the Board’s view, the long-term nature of the structural trends impacting 
the sector, the Group’s approach to real estate investment in relation to 
this, and investor feedback, supports continuation of the LTIP structure. 
The 10 year plan for the Group CEO, other executive KMP and other 
senior executives in the organisation, will continue to influence decision 
making and closely align with the time periods required to deliver superior 
operational results on a sustainable basis. It also provides sufficient 
time to implement key ESG initiatives and achieve the Group’s targets, 
particularly in relation to longer-dated environmental and sustainability 
objectives, in a manner that creates alignment with the outcomes for 
Securityholders. The five-year LTIP is longer than most in the S&P/ASX 
100 and remains in place for all eligible employees who do not participate 
in the ten-year plan but will include hurdles aligned with the ten-year plan.

Directors’ report
Remuneration report – audited (continued)



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

35

2.2  Objectives of the remuneration strategy

Attract Reward Long-term alignment of our people and Securityholders

Remuneration structure Performance conditions Alignment with strategy and long-term performance

Fixed remuneration

Low fixed costs, with the 
focus on “at-risk” equity.

Scope and complexity of the role, 
individual absolute and relative 
comparison in the relevant market 
and comparator group.

Real estate investment management and development are cyclical, so fixed 
employee costs are kept relatively low, below median and mean for comparable 
companies. CEO fixed remuneration has not changed for 16 years.

 A
t-

ri
sk

 re
m

un
er

at
io

n 
(t

yp
ic

al
ly

 9
0

%
 o

f C
EO

 to
ta

l r
em

un
er

at
io

n)

STI remuneration is a 100% 
at-risk performance base 
award tied to operational 
performance metrics over the 
past 12 months. However, 

the Group CEO forgoes 
STI in favour of LTI.

Similarly, other executive KMP 
received between 11% to 21% of 
total remuneration in STI.

For the other executive KMP, 
payments will be made in 
two instalments, the first in 
September after the financial 
year end and the second  
12 months later.

Assessment includes four 
key components:

+ Meeting Goodman 
behavioural expectations 
per the Code of Conduct

+ Achieving operating EPS target
+ Individual financial and 

operational assessment
+ Assessment against environmental 

and sustainability objectives.

STI is an at-risk component, rewarding financial and non-financial performance 
against objectives of the individual and the Group. Awards in FY22 represent 87% 
of the maximum for executive KMP (excluding Group CEO). 

The performance of individuals is assessed through a performance appraisal 
process based on contribution to strategic, financial, operational and ESG 
objectives, while also reflecting behavioural expectations (see section 4.4.). 

Financial performance is the primary measure in determining the maximum level 
of STI for the individual; however, this can be penalised if behavioural standards 
or ESG targets are not met or breached (up to 100% of STI for certain measures). 
These factors together encourage not only the operating EPS targets being met, 
but also that that the method in which they are met matches appropriate risk and 
governance settings. Given the complex nature of the Group’s global operations, 
individual financial metrics are reflected in the operating EPS. This structure is 
simple and transparent and aligns management with the operating EPS growth 
expectations of Securityholders. Detailed financial metrics for the business are 
additionally disclosed in reporting to the market.

STI uses the operating EPS hurdle that forms part of the formal financial guidance 
to the market. It is not directly linked to LTI operating EPS targets as LTIP targets 
are set over four years and represent the longer term aspirations of the business.

LTI is “at-risk” remuneration 
that rewards long-term 
sustained performance.

New awards will be granted 
in FY23 in relation to FY22 
performance achievements 
assessment of potential future 
contributions and relevant 
alignment of KMP. 

Ten-year plan awards to Group 
CEO, executive KMP and 
senior executives tested over 
four years and vesting in equal 
tranches annually from the 
end of year four to the end of 
year ten.

Five-year plan awards to 
remaining employees tested 
over three years and vesting 
in equal tranches annually 
from the end of year 3 to the 
end of year 5.

75% tested based on achieving 
the cash-based operating EPS 
hurdle range 

25% tested based on relative TSR 
against the S&P/ASX 100 constituents. 
The benchmark index aligns with 
a significant portion of investors’ 
benchmarks relevant to their holdings 
and provides closest alignment with 
their performance

Environmental and sustainability 
targets (set by the Board) over 
the LTIP testing period with penalty 
to vesting outcomes of up to 20% 
of rights satisfying the operating 
EPS hurdle for material 
underperformance against targets.

The weighting to LTI is believed to be the most effective way of rewarding 
sustained performance and retaining talent while maintaining alignment with 
Securityholders’ experience. 

Hurdles are set to be competitive relative to reference groups, challenging for 
management with a significant stretch component but without encouraging 
inordinate risk in execution (see sections 3.5.4 and 3.5.5) relative to external and 
internal reference points.

TSR provides an effective check against increasing risk or unsustainable practices 
within the Group. The price to earnings multiple attributable to securities will reflect 
the risk in achieving operating EPS targets, which impacts the likelihood of vesting 
and the ultimate value upon vesting.

The relative TSR and operating EPS hurdles interact as TSR impacts the value of 
all performance rights. Given the significant skew in remuneration to performance 
rights, the impact of the TSR on remuneration is significantly greater than its 
25% weighting. The combination of 25% TSR testing and 70-90% equity based 
awards for executive KMP, provides significant overall exposure to TSR based on 
the Group’s remuneration structure is high.

The total number of performance rights outstanding under the LTIP at 30 June 
2022 equates to 3.8% of the Group’s issued securities. The maximum number of 
performance rights under the LTIP is limited to 5% of the Group’s issued securities. 
Equity issuance to all employees encourages a collaborative approach and 
broader distribution of remuneration across the entire workforce when the Group 
is performing.



GOODMAN GROUP

36

2.3 Remuneration mix and alignment across the Group 

The Board believes that the alignment between pay and long-term 
performance is evidenced by the significant proportion of the total 
remuneration that is at risk for the Group CEO, the other executive 
KMP and employees throughout the organisation. In respect of the 
Group CEO, all of his at risk remuneration is in the form of LTI. 

This is demonstrated in the charts below that consider the vested 
remuneration received during FY22. Vested remuneration represents 
the value that is received during FY22. It includes fixed base pay, STI 
and the value of performance rights that vested during FY22 (from prior 
grants) using the closing Goodman security price on the day of vesting. 

The Board believes that this demonstrates the alignment of the remuneration 
outcomes for the Group CEO with the outcomes for Securityholders, who 
have experienced strong performance over a significant period alongside 
the Group CEO. Had the Securityholder returns been lower, the level of at 
risk remuneration would have been lower (due to lower vesting outcomes 
and lower value of vesting performance rights) and fixed remuneration 
would have made up a greater proportion of the total vested remuneration 
in FY22 for all employees, but especially for the Group CEO and the other 
executive KMP.

FY22 vested remuneration outcome

 

Group CEO FY22 remuneration

3.2%

96.8%

SQUARE-FULL LTI     SQUARE-FULL Fixed remuneration

 

Executive KMP (excluding Group CEO) 
FY22 remuneration 3 year rolling

5%

95%

SQUARE-FULL STI and LTI     SQUARE-FULL Fixed remuneration

 

All employees (excluding Executive KMP) 
FY22 remuneration

24.6% 75.4%

SQUARE-FULL STI and LTI     SQUARE-FULL Fixed remuneration

Directors’ report
Remuneration report – audited (continued)



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

37

3. EXECUTIVE REMUNERATION FRAMEWORK
3.1 Feedback and response

Securityholder feedback Response

Strong positive feedback regarding the structure 
of the plan, testing and vesting period. 

Continued the issuance of LTI awards under the ten-year plan for the Group CEO, other executive 
KMP and other senior executives (as detailed in Section 3). This will apply to the intended 
grant of performance rights to be made in September 2022 in respect of FY22 performance.

While Securityholders recognised the long-term 
nature of LTI awards and many recognize economic 
value approach, the majority use face value for 
determining outcomes.

A significant emphasis has been placed on face value comparison while economic value 
assessment has been reviewed. This has seen a significant reduction in face value of awards. 
Face value of the proposed FY23 performance rights awards for the Group CEO has declined 
46% on FY22 and 33% for executive KMP (excluding Group CEO).

Hurdles are set to be competitive and challenging in 
line with long term performance and the risk settings 
appropriate for the Group. However, feedback from 
some securityholders indicated that additional 
‘stretch’ is desirable in the targets based on market 
expectations and the Groups strong performance 
in recent years, resulting in high vesting outcomes.

LTI hurdles have been reviewed and set such that they remain competitive relative to peers 
and challenging for management. The increase in the Upper level of cumulative operating 
EPS growth to 11% per annum is in a more uncertain and volatile geopolitical and commercial 
environment. Noting that for the CEO LTI forms most of the remuneration, so performance 
below threshold will result in 0% vesting and only base salary. 

Hurdles for the proposed grants are based off a significant year of outperformance in FY22 
(24% operating EPS growth) and if achieved reflects almost 60% Operating Profit growth 
over the coming four years. This compares very favourably to the average for the peer groups 
and relative to what the Board believes are reasonable long term “Targets” with considerable 
additional required stretch.

Preference for Long Term ESG targets. ESG targets will remain as an additional test for operating EPS tranches of Performance 
Rights, allowing for up to 20% reduction in vesting outcomes if targets are materially 
missed. Additional environmental and sustainability targets have been included in the 
testing conditions for FY23 awards. Progress against targets is reviewed annually.

Preference for long-term at-risk remuneration. 
Securityholders prefer in principle lower fixed 
and STI remuneration and more at risk LTI.

Agreed with the Group CEO (as in prior years) that he would not participate in the STI award 
and all his performance based remuneration in relation to his FY22 performance will be in the 
form of LTI.



GOODMAN GROUP

38

3.2 Remuneration enhancements for executive KMP

Key testing criteria and modifications made to the Long Term Incentive plan 

EPS performance testing Ten-year plan FY22 Change Ten-Year plan FY23 Comment/rationale

Threshold 6% (CAGR) in operating 
EPS.

No 6% CAGR in operating 
EPS.

Performance at the threshold hurdle level (CAGR in operating EPS of 
6% for the 4 years to FY26) for performance rights vesting to start has 
been set such that it requires performance in excess of that expected 
from relevant peer groups S&P/ASX100 (0%pa) and S&P/ASX200 REIT’s 
(4.6%pa) based on “Visible Alpha” and broker research) but would only 
result in 25% vesting and subsequent remuneration outcomes that are 
expected to be in line with the median for the peers.

Vesting at Threshold 25% No 25%  

Target Not previously disclosed. Yes 8-9% CAGR in operating 
EPS.

Performance at Target hurdle level (CAGR in operating EPS of 8-9% 
for the 4 years to FY26 pa) is in line with aspirations determined by the 
Board to be reasonable (which already include a significant number of 
assumptions concerning growth in activity levels, funding needs and 
market conditions remaining buoyant) and is in excess of broker research 
estimates1 for the Group (7.8% pa) and materially in excess of peers.

Vesting at Target N/a 55

%-70%

Upper level 10% CAGR in operating 
EPS.

Yes 11% CAGR in operating 
EPS.

Performance at the Upper level (CAGR in operating EPS of 11% pa for the 4 
years to FY26) would require outcomes significantly above Target (2%-3% 
pa) significantly higher than broker research estimates (+3% pa). The 
upper level of the testing range represents an additional approximately 
$200 million of additional operating profit to be generated in FY26 relative 
to the Target and consensus views.

Vesting at Upper level 100% No 100%

   

TSR performance hurdle Ten-Year plan FY22 Change Ten-Year plan FY23 Comment/rationale

Testing criteria TSR against ASX 100. No TSR against ASX 100. Peer group for relative TSR is to remain the S&P/ASX 100, which correlates 
with most investor benchmarks relevant to Securityholders.

Testing thresholds 0% at 50th percentile 
25% at 51st percentile 
Straight line vesting 
percentage to 
90th percentile 
where 100% vests.

No 0% at 50th percentile 
25% at 51st percentile 
Straight line vesting 
percentage to 
90th percentile 
where 100% vests.

Outperformance required before any portion is vested.

Environmental and 
sustainability hurdles

Ten-Year plan FY22 Change Ten-Year plan FY23 Comment/rationale

Environmental 
and sustainability 
performance

Targets set by the Board 
are tested at the end of 
year four.

Penalty applies to the 
number of performance 
rights that have 
satisfied the operating 
EPS hurdle with 20% 
maximum reduction 
in the event of material 
underperformance 
against targets.

Yes 
(additional 
Hurdles)

Targets set by the Board 
are tested annually and 
at the end of year four.

Penalty applies to the 
number of performance 
rights that have satisfied 
the operating EPS 
hurdle with 20% 
maximum reduction in 
the event of material 
underperformance 
against targets.

Given environmental and sustainability initiatives are integrated into 
the operations of the business, the penalty applies to the number of 
performance rights that have satisfied the operating EPS hurdle with 20% 
maximum reduction in the event of material underperformance against 
targets.

Directors’ report
Remuneration report – audited (continued)



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

39

The chart below illustrates the components of KMP remuneration in relation to FY22 performance using:

+ Current fixed base pay

+ STI award (where applicable)

+ LTI award value using 100% of the intended grant to be made in September 2022 based on the face value at 30 June 2022 as detailed in section 3.4. 

REMUNERATION

Gregory Goodman

Danny Peeters

Anthony Rozic

Nick Kurtis

Michael O’Sullivan

Nick Vrondas

Fixed remuneration (%) STI (%) LTI (%)

14 86

10 76

11 74

15 68

14 66

17

15

1210 78

20

14

Note: This analysis is different to both the statutory presentation of remuneration and the vested remuneration, which are referred to elsewhere in the remuneration report. 

Under the ten-year plan and with the above remuneration structure:

+  The Group CEO would not receive any performance-based reward in respect of his performance for FY22 if the Group does not meet its minimum 
performance hurdles under the LTIP over the next four years (measured at 30 June 2026) 

+ The ultimate value of the award will be subject to Goodman’s security price performance and will only be fully realised over the ten years to 
September 2032. 



GOODMAN GROUP

40

3.3 When is remuneration earned and received?

The chart below illustrates the timing of receipt of the remuneration components for executive KMP. Performance goals under the ten-year plan must 
be achieved over a period of four years to qualify for performance-based pay. Vesting then occurs in seven equal tranches from years four to ten. There 
is no certainty of vesting and the final cash outcome is dependent on the movement in the security price over the next ten years.

14% of LTI award (subject to service/
performance requirements) vests 
shortly after the end of year 4

14% of LTI award (subject to service / performance 
requirements) vests shortly after the end of year 5

14% of LTI award (subject to service / performance requirements) 
vests shortly after the end of year 6

14% of LTI award (subject to service / performance requirements) 
vests shortly after the end of year 7

14% of LTI award (subject to service / performance requirements) 
vests shortly after the end of year 8

14% of LTI award (subject to service / performance requirements) 
vests shortly after the end of year 9

14% of LTI award (subject to service / performance requirements) 
vests shortly after the end of year 10

25% of award based on a relative TSR hurdle. 
Performance measured at the end of year 4

75% of award based on an operating EPS hurdle 
and subject to no material underperformance 
against environmental and sustainability targets. 
Performance measured at the end of year 4.

50% of total STI 
deferred for 1 year, 
awarded in cash

Current year Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 Year 6 Year 7 Year 8 Year 9 Year 10

Performance 
period (1 year), 
50% awarded 
in cash

100% of fixed pay 
awarded in cash

STI

Fixed 
remuneration

Performance period 
(1 year)

LTI

A
t r

is
k 

re
m

un
er

at
io

n

Directors’ report
Remuneration report – audited (continued)



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

41

3.4 Short-term incentive

STI is a component of remuneration that is at risk. It is specific to achievement of financial and non-financial objectives. This structure is very transparent 
and aligns management with the operating EPS growth expectations of Securityholders. 

Questions

Who is eligible 
to participate 
in the STI?

All full-time and part-time permanent employees. 

The Group CEO agreed with the Board not to participate in the STI awards, to emphasise reward for long-term decision making across 
the organisation.

What is the form 
of the STI award?

Cash. For executive KMP, 50% of the STI award is paid on finalisation of Goodman’s full year result. 

50% of the STI award is deferred and paid in cash after a period of 12 months and the deferred STI amount is subject to forfeiture under malus 
provisions (see below).

What is the maximum 
award participants  
may earn?

STI awards are capped at 150% of fixed remuneration for executive KMP. Target STI for individuals is also compared to market based 
remuneration data and their manager’s own assessment of what an appropriate level of incentive compensation may be relative to the long-term 
value that person brings to the Group.

How is the  
STI earned?

The Board sets budget targets for the business annually. These targets are set relative to the market conditions, earnings visibility, financial 
structure and strategy and are believed to be challenging and appropriate. 

STI for all staff is subject to: (1) meeting behavioural expectations under the Group Code of Conduct; (2) achieving operating EPS (based on 
the annual target for the relevant year which is disclosed to the market at the beginning of the year in the form of “guidance” (3) financial and 
operational assessment; and (4) assessment against environmental and sustainability targets. 

How is the 
individual STI 
award determined?

STI rewards annual performance against objectives of the individual and the Group.

The Group objectives include multiple factors as set from time to time, dependent on the market and strategy of the Group. Overall Group 
financial performance relative to targets is the primary assessment, overlaid with required achievement against environmental and sustainability 
objectives and adherence to the Group’s core values. The Remuneration Committee looks at conduct and specific judgements are made in 
relation to this.

The performance of individuals is assessed through a detailed and formal performance appraisal process based on contribution to defined 
objectives, behavioural expectations, annual contribution to results as well as strategic and other contributions where these results or benefits 
may be reflected in future years.

Consideration is also given to the total remuneration package with a view to retaining and appropriately aligning and motivating employees.

Is there 
malus/clawback?

The executive KMP STI awards are subject to 50% deferral for 12 months from the date of publication of Goodman’s financial statements. 
This deferral period provides protection from malus. The Board has discretion to forfeit deferred amounts for material misstatement, fraud 
or adverse changes that would have affected the award where there is executive responsibility. 

Is STI deferred 
into equity?

No. A much greater portion of remuneration for executive KMP is in the form of LTI (equity) than arguably any other S&P/ASX 100 entity and 
hence they are already significantly more aligned with Securityholders’ outcomes than executives at other listed entities. As a result, in the 
Board’s view, there is little further benefit in deferring STI into equity. 

What happens to STI 
upon termination?

For all executive KMP, the deferred portion of STI award is subject to immediate forfeiture in circumstances where employees are dismissed 
for cause without notice (e.g. fraud or serious misconduct) or resign from the organisation. The Board has discretion to pay deferred STI in 
exceptional circumstances, where employees leave the Group, with good leaver status, due to certain personal circumstances or due to 
permanent disablement or death.

3.5 Long-term incentive

The LTIP is an equity plan where rewards are at risk and dependent on performance and time. It is open to all permanent employees to create 
alignment with the interests of Securityholders over the long term.

+ No value is derived from LTI unless minimum performance hurdles of operating EPS and relative TSR are met or exceeded, and performance rights 
have no entitlement to income or assets until they vest. The threshold target with respect to operating EPS (where only 25% of performance rights 
vest) is significantly ahead of estimates for the S&P/ASX 100 and S&P/ASX200 REIT sector

+ If performance achieves or exceeds long-term targets and performance rights vest, LTI represents the majority of remuneration for executive 
KMP and becomes a material component of remuneration for all participating employees.

+ Performance rights represent a small portion of the Group equity and a small percentage of the value created for Securityholders if they vest

The key terms of both plans are set out overleaf. 



GOODMAN GROUP

42

3.5.1 FY23 LTI awards (five and ten-year plans)

Questions in relation to grants to be made in FY23

Who is eligible  
to participate?

All full-time and part-time permanent employees are eligible to participate in either the five year or the ten-year plans. Executive KMP and senior 
executives participate in the ten-year plan.

What is the form 
of the award?

The LTIP awards performance rights linked to the underlying ASX listed securities. The performance rights do not receive distributions or have 
any right to income, net assets or voting until vesting.

What is the maximum 
LTI participants 
may earn?

When considering the overall size of LTI awards, the Board also considers the number of securities that could vest and the associated impact 
on the operating EPS growth. The total five year and ten-year performance rights outstanding under the LTIP are capped at 5% of issued capital 
with vesting of approximately 1% pa, assuming all hurdles are met and all employees remain employed. The Board considers the performance 
of the Group in comparison with the comparator group, the amount of overall operating profit, the competitive nature of the global labour markets 
in which the Group operates and the value of the team in the local and global marketplace, as appropriate.

How is the number 
of rights determined?

The Board’s sets the quantum based on a number of factors described in sections 3.7.1 and 3.7.2. The number of rights is then determined 
by dividing the LTI award amount by face value per right, as determined by the Board.

What are the 
performance 
measures?

Behaviour in accordance with Goodman’s core values is an absolute requirement for the granting of performance rights. 

The Board believes that the commercial decisions management makes in fulfilment of its overall financial objectives are best reflected in two key 
indicators: operating EPS and TSR (relative to the S&P/ASX 100).

Operating EPS is a critical measure of long-term Group-wide performance of the operations (see section 3.5.5).

The hurdles are set to be competitive and challenging relative to external and internal historical and prospective reference points (see section 3.5.4).

TSR provides an effective check against increasing risk practices within the Group in that the security price to earnings multiple will reflect the 
perceived risk in the Group in achieving operating EPS targets.

Focus on LTI is an efficient way of rewarding sustained performance and retaining talent.

The proposed FY23 LTI awards, will incorporate environmental and sustainability targets, in addition to the operating EPS and relative TSR 
hurdles. Targets set by the Board will be tested annually and at the end of the LTIP testing period. A penalty can apply to the number of 
performance rights that have satisfied the operating EPS hurdle, with 20% maximum reduction if material underperformance against the 
environmental and sustainability targets occur.

What is the weighting? 75% operating EPS hurdle 25% relative TSR hurdle

What is the 
performance period?

Ten-Year plan: both operating EPS and relative TSR performance are tested over four financial years starting from 1 July in the year the grant was 
made. Operating EPS growth is assessed in the fourth year relative to the year preceding the year of the grant. Environmental and sustainability 
targets are reviewed annually and tested at the end of year four.

Five year plan: both operating EPS and relative TSR performance are tested over three financial years starting from 1 July in the year the grant 
was made. Operating EPS growth is assessed in the third year relative to the year preceding the year of the grant. Environmental and sustainability 
targets are reviewed annually and tested at the end of year three.

How do the LTIP 
awards vest?

Ten-Year plan: Subject to meeting performance hurdles, vesting occurs in equal tranches shortly after the end of years 4 – 10, provided 
participants remain employed by the Group.

Five year plan: Subject to meeting performance hurdles, vesting occurs in equal tranches shortly after the end of years 3 – 5, provided 
participants remain employed by the Group.

Is there 
malus/clawback?

Subject to immediate forfeiture in circumstances where employees are dismissed for cause without notice (e.g. fraud or serious misconduct).  
LTI will also be forfeited where employees cease to be employed, unless in Special Circumstances.

What happens 
to LTIP awards 
upon termination?

Performance rights lapse upon the employee leaving Goodman unless in Special Circumstances (primarily Death, Total and Permanent 
Disablement, Redundancy and Retirement in the normal course) in which case they are not subject to the employment requirement and vest 
subject to performance hurdles being met and the usual timetable. 

What rights are 
attached to the 
performance rights?

Performance rights have no Securityholder rights prior to vesting (e.g. distributions, voting, rights issue participation). They would be subject 
to reconstruction in instances of corporate events such as stock splits or stock consolidations.

Executive KMP 
equity holding

Executive KMP are required to hold 100% of the value of their fixed remuneration in Goodman securities, determined at time of purchase.  
In addition, Goodman’s remuneration structure includes significant emphasis on performance-based remuneration in equity and the overall 
exposure of executive KMP to Goodman Group securities extends significantly beyond this requirement principally through participation in 
the LTIP.

Directors’ report
Remuneration report – audited (continued) 



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

43

What are the vesting 
conditions for FY23 
ten-year plan grants?

Operating EPS tested (75% of grant)
The Board has set an operating EPS performance 
hurdle of growing operating EPS from the FY22 result 
of 81.3 cents to between 102.7 cents (Threshold level) 
and 123.4 cents (Upper level) in FY26. Vesting of 25% 
of the operating EPS portion occurs upon satisfying 
testing conditions at the Threshold level with a sliding 
scale up to 100% at the Upper level. The range is 
equivalent to between 6%pa and 11%pa CAGR 
in operating EPS or approximately 26% to 52% 
cumulatively over the four year testing period. 

In addition, a penalty may apply to the number of 
performance rights that have satisfied the operating 
EPS hurdle if environmental and sustainability targets 
are not met. These are reviewed by the Board annually 
and at the end of the testing period with 20% maximum 
reduction in the number of rights vesting under the 
operating EPS tranches, in the event of material 
underperformance against targets at final testing year.

Relative TSR tested (25% of grant)
TSR awards are subject to achievement of cumulative. TSR relative to the S&P/ASX 100 
over a four year period:

– 25% of awards vest for performance at the 51st percentile.

–  Awards vest on a sliding scale between 25% and 100% for performance between 
the 51st and the 90th percentile.

–  100% of awards vest for performance at the 90th percentile or above.

What are the vesting 
conditions for FY23  
five year plan grants?

Operating EPS tested (75% of grant)
The Board has set an operating EPS performance 
hurdle of growing operating EPS from the FY22 result 
of 81.3 cents to between 96.9 cents (Threshold level) 
and 111.2 cents (Upper level) in FY25. Vesting of 25% 
of the operating EPS portion occurs upon satisfying 
testing conditions at the Threshold level with a sliding 
scale up to 100% at the Upper level. The range is 
equivalent to between 6% pa and 11% CAGR in operating 
EPS or approximately 19% to 37% cumulatively over 
the three year testing period. 

In addition, a penalty may apply to the number of 
performance rights that have satisfied the operating 
EPS hurdle if environmental and sustainability targets 
are not met. These are reviewed by the Board annually 
and at the end of the testing period with 20% maximum 
reduction in the number of rights vesting under the 
operating EPS tranches, in the event of material 
underperformance against targets at final testing year.

Relative TSR tested (25% of grant)
TSR awards are subject to achievement of cumulative TSR relative to the S&P/ASX 100 
over a three year period:

– 25% of awards vest for performance at the 51st percentile.

–  Awards vest on a sliding scale between 25% and 100% for performance between 
the 51st and the 90th percentile.

– 100% of awards vest for performance at the 90th percentile or above.

Can the hurdles 
be adjusted?

No (subject to ASX Listing Rule adjustments). No.



GOODMAN GROUP

44

3.5.2   FY22 LTI awards

Questions specific to grants made in FY22

What happens to 
LTIP awards upon 
termination?

Performance rights lapse upon the employee leaving Goodman unless in Special Circumstances (primarily Death, TPD, Redundancy and 
Retirement in the normal course) in which case they are not subject to the employment requirement and vest subject to performance hurdles 
being met and the usual timetable. 

What are the vesting 
conditions for FY22 
ten-year plan grants?

Operating EPS tested (75% of grant)
The Board has set an operating EPS performance hurdle of 
growing operating EPS from the FY21 result of 65.6 cents to between 
82.8 cents (Threshold level) and 96.0 cents (Upper level) in FY25. 
Vesting of 25% of the operating EPS portion occurs upon satisfying 
testing conditions at the Threshold level with a sliding scale up 
to 100% at the Upper level. The range is equivalent to between 
6% and 10% CAGR in operating EPS or approximately 26% to 46% 
cumulatively over the four year testing period. 

In addition, a penalty may apply to the number of performance rights 
that have satisfied the operating EPS hurdle if environmental and 
sustainability targets are not met. These are reviewed by the Board 
annually and at the end of the testing period with 20% maximum 
reduction in the number of rights vesting under the operating EPS 
tranches, in the event of material underperformance against targets 
at final testing year.

Relative TSR tested (25% of grant)
TSR awards are subject to achievement of cumulative. TSR relative 
to the S&P/ASX 100 over a four year period:

– 25% of awards vest for performance at the 51st percentile.

–  Awards vest on a sliding scale between 25% and 100% for 
performance between the 51st and the 90th percentile.

–  100% of awards vest for performance at the 90th percentile 
or above.

What are the vesting 
conditions for FY22 
five year plan grants?

Operating EPS tested (75% of grant)
The Board has set an operating EPS performance hurdle of growing 
operating EPS from the FY21 result of 65.6 cents to between 78.1 
cents (Threshold level) and 87.3 cents (Upper level) in FY24. Vesting 
of 25% of the operating EPS portion occurs upon satisfying testing 
conditions at the Threshold level with a sliding scale up to 100% at the 
Upper level. The range is equivalent to between 6% and 10% CAGR 
in operating EPS or approximately 19% to 33% cumulatively over the 
three year testing period. 

Relative TSR tested (25% of grant)
TSR awards are subject to achievement of cumulative TSR relative 
to the S&P/ASX 100 over a three year period:

– 25% of awards vest for performance at the 51st percentile.

–  Awards vest on a sliding scale between 25% and 100% for 
performance between the 51st and the 90th percentile.

–  100% of awards vest for performance at the 90th percentile 
or above.

3.5.3   FY21 LTI awards

Questions specific to the grants made in FY21 

What are the 
vesting conditions 
for FY21 grants?

Operating EPS tested (75% of grant)
The Board has set an operating EPS performance hurdle of growing 
operating EPS from the FY20 result of 57.5 cents to between 68.5 
cents (Threshold level) and 74.5 cents (Upper level) in FY23. Vesting 
of 25% of the operating EPS portion occurs upon satisfying testing 
conditions at the Threshold level with a sliding scale up to 100% at the 
Upper level. The range is equivalent to between 6% and 9% CAGR 
in operating EPS or approximately 19% to 30% cumulatively over the 
three year testing period. 

Relative TSR tested (25% of grant)
TSR awards are subject to achievement of cumulative TSR relative 
to the S&P/ASX 100 over a three year period:

– 50% of awards vest for performance at the 51st percentile

–  Awards vest on a sliding scale between 50% and 100% for 
performance between the 51st and the 76th percentile

–  100% of awards vest for performance at the 76th percentile 
or above.

Directors’ report
Remuneration report – audited (continued) 



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

45

3.5.4  Setting operating EPS hurdles for proposed ten-year plan awards to 
the Group CEO, other executive KMP and other senior executives

The operating EPS target range under the ten-year plan is only for the 
purpose of testing criteria for vesting of performance rights. The range 
does not constitute earnings guidance for the Group. 

The hurdles are set in line with the “pay for performance” culture and the 
desire for them to be both challenging and competitive while maintaining 
the integrity of the business strategy and risk management objectives 
in a sustainable manner. 

More challenging hurdles have been set for the FY23 performance rights 
awards when compared to recent years. The Board has set an operating 
EPS performance hurdle for operating EPS growth relative to the FY22 
result of 81.3 cents of between 102.7 cents (Threshold level) and 123.4 cents 
(Upper Level) in FY26. At the Threshold level, 25% satisfy the hurdle with a 
sliding scale up to 100% satisfying the hurdle at the Upper Level. This range is 
equivalent to between 6% and 11% CAGR in operating EPS or approximately 
26% to 52% cumulative growth over the four year testing period.

The range has been set with particular reference to: 

+ The significant proportion of the Group’s revenue over the next four 
years, being at risk in the sense that it is not currently contracted 
and subject to a wide number of variables, particularly in regard to 
development activities and performance fees

+ The range of potential real estate opportunities for the Group 
globally, given the Group’s risk parameters and concentrated locations 
of operation

+ The long-run historical performance of the Group, noting that previous 
history is not a reflection of future earnings

+ Increased volatility across the global economic and political 
environment which are manifesting in higher cost inflation, slower real 
GDP growth rates and higher interest rates

+ The ongoing potential for disruption to business activity resulting 
from COVID-19. 

Consistent with the Board’s aim to set hurdles which are both challenging 
for management and competitive against peers, it is believed that 
achievement at or above the top end of the range will represent a strong 
performance in both relative and absolute terms. For the Upper Level 
vesting to occur on the Operating EPS linked portion of the plan, almost 
60% growth in operating profit relative to the very strong FY22 result 
needs to be achieved over the next four years. 

The Board believes that the hurdles are competitive and challenging for 
the following reasons:

+ Goodman’s operating EPS grew strongly over FY20, FY21 and FY22, 
despite the impact of COVID over the period (no hurdles were amended 
to adjust for COVID during this period). This has resulted in a significantly 
higher base year from which to measure operating EPS growth 
compared with peer groups. For the 3 year period from FY19-FY22:

 – The Group has grown operating EPS by 56%

 – The average growth for the S&P/ASX 100 is approximately 24% 

 –  The S&P/ASX 200 REIT’s EPS declined by an average 
of approximately 14%

+ The strong growth in earnings in FY22, combined with the higher 
hurdles for Upper Level vesting means that a significant acceleration 
of growth in operating profit is required to achieve full vesting (relative 
to that embedded within the FY22 grants). By way of comparison, an 
extrapolation of the growth rates contained within the FY22 grants to 
FY26 and applying the previous Upper Level hurdle rate would have 
resulted in an operating profit benchmark that is over $300 million 
lower than that which will now be applicable for FY26 under the new 
hurdles to be applied to the FY23 grant (see table below)

Operating Profit comparison of vesting conditions

At grant 
date of FY22 

Awards 
$M

At grant 
date of FY23 

Awards 
$M

Base year Profit 1,358 1,528

FY26 interpolated profit 
@ Threshold (6%pa) 1,714 1,929 

FY26 interpolated profit @ the Upper 
Level (10% at FY22, 11% at FY23) 1,988 2,320 

Additional profit required due 
to higher base year and hurdles 331

 
+ Performance at “Target” hurdle level (CAGR in operating EPS of 

8-9% for the 4 years to FY26 pa) is in line with aspirational objectives 
the Board believes are appropriate (which take into account the risk 
management constraints of the Group the Board believes appropriate 
for the business, given the context of the global economic and political 
environment, higher interest rates, inflation, cost of capital and risk 
settings). It is contingent upon increased activity levels and market 
conditions remaining favourable. Importantly the Target hurdles are 
in excess of peers (see below) and broker research estimates for the 
Group (CAGR of approximately 8%)



GOODMAN GROUP

46

+  Performance at the threshold hurdle level (CAGR in operating EPS of 
6% pa for the 4 years to FY26) for performance rights vesting to start 
has been set such that it requires performance in excess of relevant 
peer groups (S&P/ASX 100 (current market consensus expectations 
average 0%pa) and S&P/ASX200 REIT’s (current market consensus 
expectations average 4% per annum) but would only result in 25% 
vesting. Under this scenario it is estimated that the remuneration 
outcomes will be well below the median for the above peer groups and 
the ASX100

+ Performance at the Upper Level hurdle (CAGR in operating EPS of 11% 
for the four years to FY26) would require outcomes significantly ahead 
of internal targets and significantly (3% per annum) higher than market 
consensus expectations (this equates to an additional circa $200 
million in operating profit in FY26 compared to the average broker 
research consensus) 

+ The hurdles reflect approximately 50% relative earnings growth 
outperformance compared to estimates for the S&P/ASX100 and 
require the Group to absorb the risk associated with the significant 
increase in volatility in the global operating environment, interest rates 
and inflation. 

The Board believes the higher FY22 hurdle is significantly more 
challenging given the current economic environment. The hurdles are 
set for the entire period of the plan and hence performance must 
be achieved regardless of changes to business conditions globally. 
Management and other employees carry the risk associated with external 
factors negatively impacting operating earnings and in the Board’s 
view this risk has increased given the ongoing and unknown impacts of 
COVID-19, geo-political tensions and impacts on supply chains, and global 
economic activity.

In addition, the hurdles are set with the desire to achieve a sustainable 
long-term growth rate that is competitive with the market on a risk 
adjusted basis. This is reflected in the relatively low gearing of the Group 
and its other risk settings. Taking into account the difference in gearing, 
the FY23 hurdles are relatively high compared to peers.

3.5.5  Operating EPS – long-term cash flow alignment with 
vesting outcomes

The Group presents statutory profit in accordance with Australian 
Accounting Standards, including all required disclosures. The Board 
believes that managing the business, on what is primarily a cash profit 
basis, is fundamental to long-term resilience and is the strongest 
determinant of value creation for Securityholders over time. That is the 
intent of the Group’s Operating Profit definition, and it is one of the key 
measures used to drive the business strategy that is communicated to 
employees to execute. This is also why the Board has used operating EPS 
as one of the principal targets in its awards of both STI and LTI. 

Calculation of operating EPS

Operating EPS has been calculated and applied consistently since being 
adopted in 2005.

+ Operating profit intentionally excludes non-cash measures. Previously, 
the Group has excluded significant realised gains (such as the urban 
renewal realisation gains) where these were believed to be cyclical in 
nature and not reflective of underlying long-term earnings

+ As required under the accounting standards, the share-based payments 
(SBP) expense in the Group’s statutory income statement reflects the 
amortisation of the aggregated fair value applicable to the outstanding 
performance rights. Given the volatility inherent in the accounting 
valuation of the performance rights, the SBP expense is excluded 
from operating profit, like other non-cash items (such as revaluations). 
Instead, the Board believes the cost of the plan, which arises from the 
future dilution through the issuance of securities under the LTIP, is most 
appropriately reflected by including all vested and tested performance 
rights in the denominator used for determining operating EPS. This is not 
subject to accounting estimation and is a more reliable measure

+ The operating EPS at each reporting date is calculated using the 
weighted average number of securities, which includes: 

 – all securities that have already vested 

 –  rights that have been tested and assessed as having met the hurdles 
but have not yet vested

LTI hurdle period 
(estimated)

Ten-Year plan
operating 

EPS hurdles 
(cents)

CAGR 
in EPS1 
FY23 – 

FY26

Ten-Year plan
Cumulative 

growth in EPS1 

FY23 to FY26

S&P/ASX 1002 -0.1% -0.2%

S&P/ASX 200 REITs2 4.6% 19.7%

Broker Consensus 
for GMG3 7.8% 35.2%

Threshold level 102.7 6% 26.4%

Target Level 110.6 – 114.8 8% – 9% 36% – 41%

Upper level 123.4 11% 51.8%

1. Operating EPS for Goodman Group.
2. Broker Estimates
3. Visible Alpha.

Directors’ report
Remuneration report – audited (continued)



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

47

The inclusion of these unvested performance rights in the operating 
EPS calculation is a conservative treatment as:

+	 The financial impact of the performance rights occurs only when 
securities are issued through the dilution to net assets at the time of 
issuance and the dilution to future operating EPS

+	 Not all performance rights vest. This can only occur if testing criteria 
are met and by extension, the Group’s performance has achieved or 
exceeded performance criteria, which doesn’t align with SBP expense

+	 Following successful testing at years three or four (for the five year 
plan and ten-year plan respectively), performance rights still have no 
entitlement to income (distributions) or net assets nor do they have 
any of the other usual Securityholder rights until they vest, which may 
be up to six years later (under the ten-year plan).

Therefore, in the Board’s view realised cash profit as represented by 
diluted operating EPS is the most reliable measure of value creation for 
Securityholders and continues to be an appropriate means by which to 
assess employee performance. It is also consistent with the predominant 
method of valuation of Goodman by the market.

Use of cash settled “Phantom” performance rights

In certain jurisdictions, it is impractical to issue performance rights which 
vest into Goodman securities. In these instances, cash settled Phantom 
performance rights are issued, with the same economic outcome on 
vesting. From time to time, the Group may issue new securities into 
the market to fund the settlement of those rights. This results in the 
same outcome to Securityholders as if the Phantoms had been settled 
in Goodman securities because it results in the situation where the 
dilutionary impact to operating EPS is consistent with the equity settled 
performance rights. As in recent years, the Board’s current intention is 
to issue securities to fund the cash requirements to settle the Phantoms. 
This results in the effective funding of the LTIP having no cash impact for 
the Group and as a consequence the share based payments expense 
remains effectively a non-cash item in the context of the definition of 
operating profit.

3.6 Non-financial measures

3.6.1 Types of non-financial measures

Goodman continues to increase accountability and transparency across 
a range of non-financial measures which are important to the Group 
culture, its stakeholders and the world more broadly. These are integral 
components to the operations of the organisation, the health and wellbeing 
of the Group’s people and the communities in which Goodman operates.

These values and aspirations encompass a wide range of areas including:

+	 Environmental considerations for developments and building operations

+	 Energy procurement including renewable targets

+	 Group emissions and embodied emissions

+	 Health and wellbeing of Goodman’s people and communities

+	 Good corporate and social governance including diversity and 
inclusion in the workforce

+	 Behaviour in line with Goodman’s Code of Conduct.

All of these aspirations are integrated into Goodman’s culture and 
business operations and the Group’s financial results are achieved while 
also implementing and performing to these standards. 

The way employees conduct themselves is crucial to the success of the 
Group. Goodman has consistent and transparent practices in place for 
managing non-compliance with policies and the approach to risk guides 
the way all employees are expected to conduct themselves. Within the 
Code of Conduct, there is a set of eight guiding principles that encourage 
employees to uphold Goodman’s reputation and behave appropriately 
in dealing with our customers and other team members. The guiding 
principles are:

+	 Act in a professional manner

+	 Work as a team and respect others

+	 Treat stakeholders fairly

+	 Value honesty and integrity

+	 Follow the law and our policies

+	 Respect confidentiality and do not misuse information

+	 Manage conflicts of interest

+	 Strive to be a great team member.

 



GOODMAN GROUP

48

Individuals’ behaviour and adherence to the Code of Conduct, governance, implementation of diversity principles and social programs are assessed 
as a gate to STI and LTI awards. Breaches can also result in forfeiture of LTI or potentially more severe consequences depending on severity.

Consequences of breaches of Code of Conduct in FY22

Conduct and or behavioural Issues

Consequences Termination, forfeiture of STI, forfeiture of LTI

In respect of the FY22 STI awards and the intended LTI awards that will be made in September 2022 (in respect of FY22 performance), key environmental 
and sustainability targets will also be assessed based on the individuals’ areas of influence and contributions as part of overall assessment.

 
3.6.2 Integration of non-financial measures into STI 

STI process

 Impact

1st Hurdle Conduct, Governance, Social and Diversity Gate 

2nd Hurdle Operating EPS Gate 

Financial, and operational assessments 
(including environmental objectives) Individual assessment 0% – 100%

 
3.6.3 Integration of non-financial measures into LTI

The Board also believes that ownership through the LTIP embeds a culture of inclusion and sense of place in the organisation and that this has been 
strongly reflected in the Group’s performance over many years and particularly through COVID-19. Behaviour and adherence to the Group’s Code 
of Conduct have always been a prerequisite to entitlement to vested LTI and since 2021, additional hurdles for vesting, related to our environmental 
and sustainability targets have been incorporated into intended awards. 

+	 The Board will review progress on targets annually and set review long term targets each year as they relate to the new testing period

+	 Environmental and sustainability objectives and their execution are integrated into the operations of the Group, particularly for development projects. 
For this reason, the additional penalty criteria will apply to the operating EPS tested performance rights. This aligns operational targets which 
are within the control of senior executives and employees at all levels and therefore have the most logical connection to operational performance 

+	 Targets set by Board will be tested formally at the end of the testing period (year four for the ten-year plan)

+	 The penalty applies to the number of performance rights that have satisfied the operating EPS hurdle with 20% maximum reduction in the event 
of material underperformance against targets

+	 Targets will be reported each year in the remuneration report.

LTI Process – three and four year testing period  

 Impact

1st Hurdle Conduct and behaviour Gate: 0% – 100%

2nd hurdle Operating EPS and relative TSR 0% – 100%

Group 
assessment

Environmental 
and sustainability

The penalty applies to the number of performance rights that have satisfied 
the operating EPS hurdle with 20% maximum reduction in the event of material 
underperformance against targets

Directors’ report
Remuneration report – audited (continued)



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

49

3.7 Considerations for setting of awards 

The Board is focused on creating a remuneration structure that supports the Group’s strategy and is aligned with outcomes for Securityholders 
and then on determining an appropriate quantum of remuneration under that structure. In assessing the Group CEO and other executive KMP 
remuneration for FY22, the Board has given consideration to:

+	 Feedback from investor engagement following the disappointing level of support at the November 2021 AGM for remuneration related matters

+	 Maintaining the general structure and principles of the Group’s remuneration strategy

+	 The Group’s relative performance against operational targets FY22

+	 The Group’s consistent track record over the past ten years that has also positioned the business for the future

+	 Global market conditions for human capital in the sector

+	 Balancing employee and Securityholder outcomes

+	 Hurdles and testing criteria for performance rights.

The Board has assessed outcomes for Securityholders, based on the testing criteria under the five and ten-year plan and that the pay for performance 
alignment is with all Goodman employees (all permanent employees, 1020 people, are eligible to participate in the LTIP). Based on the proposed 
hurdles, the Board believes that significant balance and alignment exists between the cost of the plan and net outcomes achieved for Securityholders 
as demonstrated below (see note 4 below): 

+	 before any performance awards are realised under the ten-year plan hurdles, significant Securityholder value, that equates to $11 billion in market 
capitalisation growth, must be created, consistent with >33% TSR over the period (all other things being equal and based on the assumptions set 
out in the table below) 

+	 The maximum employee share of the value created will occur if the awards fully vest through reaching the cumulative 11% CAGR in operating EPS 
after four years and the relative TSR performance is at the 90th percentile. This represents only 3.1% of the $19 billion value potentially created for 
Securityholders (net of dilution) or 52% potential security price growth (all other things being equal). This would result in approximately 60% TSR 

+	 If growth were to exceed 11% per annum and the security price grows beyond the assumption above, the employee share diminishes relative 
to Securityholders. 

Estimated Securityholder value over the four year testing period under the ten-year plan

Plan <5.99% CAGR over 
four years

6.0% CAGR 
over four years

11.0% (or greater) 
CAGR over 

four years

Economic outcomes    

Cumulative operating profit growth <32.1% 32.1% 58.5%

Cumulative operating EPS growth <26.2% 26.2% 51.8%

Percentage of performance rights vesting1 0.0% 25.0% 100.0%

Year 4 operating profit to meet operating EPS hurdle <$2.1B $2.1B $2.4B

Market capitalisation (MCAP) at end of year 42 <$43.8B $43.8B $52.6B 

Net value created for Securityholders (growth in MCAP)2 <$10.4B $10.5B $19.3B 

Assumed security price3 n/a $22.52 $27.08

Effect cost of total plan / MCAP 0.0% 0.3% 1.1%

Employee share of Securityholder value created4 0.0% 1.4% 3.1%
 
1. Assumes that the proportion of rights that vest under the operating EPS hurdle also applies to the rights that vest under the relative TSR hurdle.
2.  Based on 30 June 2022 security price, assuming the market Price/Earnings (P/E) multiple applied to operating EPS remains unchanged over time and is inclusive of an allowance for increases 

in the securities on issue because of securities vesting under the LTIP. Excludes distributions and dividend payments that may be made during the period.
3. Assumes constant P/E multiple at the end of year 4 and the relevant CAGR in operating EPS growth.
4.  Values the number of vested securities at the assumed security price which is calculated using the 30 June 2021 value and growing it at the same rate as the operating EPS growth. This includes 

full dilution including the five-year plan securities assuming the same growth rate for FY26.



GOODMAN GROUP

50

3.7.1 Considerations for award quantum – Goodman Group in context

The Board and Remuneration Committee have considered the entire 
enterprise of the Group and its Partnerships globally, when assessing the 
executives’ roles and remuneration awards. 

In this context, Goodman:

+	 Is an international real estate fund manager

+	 Reported $3.4 billion statutory profit, and a combined statutory profit 
across the Group and Partnerships of $9.0 billion in FY22 

+	 Delivered $8.5 billion in valuation growth across the Group and 
Partnerships in FY22

+	 Reported NTA of $8.37, with gearing of 8.5% and available liquidity 
of $2.8 billion

+	 Is the largest listed specialist developer of logistics real estate in the 
world, with $13.6 billion of WIP

+	 Manages and creates value across of $73 billion of assets globally 
which has almost doubled in the past 5 years

+	 Manages capital allocation and funding across various activity types, 
which is sourced from multiple jurisdictions

+	 Has grown to $33.3 billion market capitalisation at 30 June 2022 and 
is a member of the S&P/ASX 20 index

+	 Generates 71% of operating earnings from management and 
development activities which require more intensive day to day 
activity than a passive investment portfolio

+	 Provides its customers and partners with investment management, 
asset management, development, financial, transaction and 
capital management services in the listed and private equity capital 
markets globally

+	 Derives 71% of operating earnings from international markets with 
approximately 70% of employees situated offshore.

The Group has limited direct comparable market peers in Australia, 
having operating businesses in five continents and 14 countries, each with 
market driven remuneration outcomes. The Group has 1,025 employees 
at 30 June 2022, the majority of whom are offshore, and consequently 
Goodman competes for labour in an international market, which the 
Board considers when assessing the quantum of remuneration awards.  
In FY22, the Board has referenced: 

+	 A range of local and global comparators with operations of similar 
scale and complexity and certain companies in the ASX 20 

+	 Private equity (PE) firms. Noting that PE firms are significant players 
in the logistics real estate sector with considerable new capital with 
a desire to assemble teams and invest in the sector. PE remuneration 
is particularly relevant because 

 –  the nature of pay for performance remuneration structures is 
highly equity based and outcome-driven similar to the Group’s 
remuneration structure and 

 –  the period of testing and realisation of remuneration is linked to 
investor outcomes over significant periods up to ten years, again 
a similar remuneration structure. The majority of the Group’s 
assets are within PE (unlisted) market entities, which in turn creates 
significant competition for high quality people

+	 Prologis and Segro are relevant global peers from the logistics real 
estate sector, albeit Segro is predominantly in the UK

 –  Prologis is larger by market capitalisation and assets, but Goodman 
has a more significant proportion of earnings from development and 
Management activities 

 –  Segro is smaller, and predominantly UK focused, with small 
proportion of its assets in Europe whereas Goodman operates 
in 14 countries globally

 –  The range of Remuneration outcomes are approximately 
$10 million-$37 million for these two companies.

Directors’ report
Remuneration report – audited (continued)



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

51

Various Reference Groups

Annual CEO remuneration

Peer group 
comparator

Reason for 
comparison

Range Average Median % LTI LTI 
Term 
years

1 year 
TSR

3 years 
TSR

5 year 
TSR

Goodman Goodman Group CEO n/a $19.2m1  86% 10 -14.56% 25% 151%

S&P/ASX 20 Goodman is number 14 
in the S&P/ASX 20 index

$6m – $28m $10.4m $9.6m 47% 4 0% 18% 77%

Selected 
global 
comparators 
including ASX 
companies 
with global 
operations

71% of Goodman’s earnings are 
outside Australia. 
The comparator group provides 
a reference to 
local companies with 
international operations and 
similar global companies 

$6m – $37m $16m $13m 62% 4 -11% 29% 90%

S&P/ASX 
100 Property 
Companies / 
REITs

Goodman is in the REIT index, 
but has limited comparability 
given, 
typically this Group:

–  are domestic only vs 
Goodman in 14 countries

– have <20% active earnings vs 
Goodman at 70%

–  have an average 
MCAP of only $12bn 
vs Goodman at $33bn

$5m – $19m $8.3m $7.2m 47% 3 -7% 21% 114%

1. Based on proposed FY23 Award.

In the Board’s view, the competitive environment for logistics assets and consequently also for teams with skills to develop and manage the products 
and services over the long term, has intensified significantly over the past 24 months. Goodman is seen as a global leader in this space and the 
potential loss of key employees and regional teams poses significant commercial risk. The Board has also assessed the FY22 awards in this context.

3.7.2 Considerations for award quantum – structure

Given the variability in the components of remuneration structures in the market, Goodman’s comparator group analysis of value and quantum 
of awards is assessed in the context of the degree of risk associated with the structures and the vesting periods: 

+	 The Board has set the hurdles in respect of the intended LTI award for FY23 to provide substantially increased challenges (and risk of achievement) 
for all employees and to achieve a high degree of alignment and balance with Securityholder outcomes

+	 Performance rights awarded under the LTIP do not have any voting rights or rights to dividends until vested, even after passing testing hurdles

+	 Significant financial outperformance in FY22 versus targets and continued outperformance of peer Group over three and five years. 

While not the primary measure this year, the Board has considered the economic value of performance rights when allocating awards to employees, as 
this is a relevant component for how employees and the Board look at value. Employees make commercial assessments of the equity awards based on:

+	 The composition of remuneration, taking into consideration the proportion of cash versus conditional equity 

+	 An appropriate discount to allow for the lower probability of vesting over the testing period and the more challenging hurdles set by the Board

+	 A further discount for time value of money differential given the vesting of the rights occurs over ten years.



GOODMAN GROUP

52

However, as discussed previously, with respect to quantum, the Board has predominantly made final comparison of the awards based on face value. 
On this basis of the total remuneration outlined, (noting the proposed LTI awards with longer testing period, longer vesting period and significantly 
larger portion at risk) and considering the market capitalisation and performance differentials of the groups above, it is considered that an appropriate 
benchmark for the Group CEO’s remuneration is around A$20 million ($10 million economic value). 

The Boards proposed award for the Group CEO is detailed below:

 Performance 
Rights

Price at 
30 June

Face Value 
(25% vesting)

$M

Face Value 
(100% vesting)

$M

Fixed 
Remuneration

$M

Total 
Remuneration 
(25% vesting)

$M

Total 
Remuneration 

(100% vesting)
$M

FY22 CEO 1,000,000 $17.84 4.5 17.8 1.4 5.9 19.2

FY21 CEO 1,560,000 $21.17 8.3 33.0 1.4 9.7 34.4

% Change -36%  -46% -46% 0% -39% -44%

Group CEO maximum possible outcomes for FY22 versus FY21 

Based on the proposed award, the maximum face value of remuneration which can be received by the Group CEO, (over ten years), if 100% vesting 
occurs, is 46% lower than the equivalent award last year, noting that FY22 was the strongest financial performance in the Group’s history.

+ At Threshold performance, (6% pa CAGR in operating EPS for the 4 years to FY26), the Group will have 

 –  significantly outperformed S&P/ASX100 EPS growth estimates over the 4 years to FY26 (56% outperformance) 

 – significantly outperformed S&P/ASX100 REIT EPS growth estimates over the 4 years to FY26 (32% outperformance)

+ CEO potential remuneration, (all else being equal) to be received over a further 7 years would be $5.9 million, lower than the median of the S&P/ASX20, 
the S&P/ASX100 REIT’s and the S&P/ASX100 average 

+  At the Upper level, (11% pa CAGR in operating EPS for the 4 years to FY26), the Group will have also

 –  significantly outperformed analyst broker estimates (Visible Alpha) for the Group (7.8% pa CAGR in EPS for the 4 years to FY26)

 – delivered 59% TSR to securityholders 

+ CEO potential remuneration, (all else being equal) to be received over a further 7 years would be $19 million, still below various global and local peers 
as per the table above

In economic value terms, the award is estimated to be $8.4 million using the valuation methodology employed by Deloitte (an international accounting firm) 
(see below). Applying this same methodology to the FY21 award means that the economic value is down 28%.

3.7.3 Valuation of performance rights (Economic Value) 10 year grants

The Board engaged Deloitte (an international accounting firm) to assist in the determination of an economic value for the performance rights.  
A modified Black Scholes approach was applied having regard, among other things, to:

+ The probability of achieving the TSR and EPS vesting criteria, and the associated impact that this has on the expected vesting outcome

+  Expectations with respect to the Group’s security price (including growth and volatility) and distribution payments

+  The time value of money applied through a discount rate.  

For the determination of the discount rate, a single discount rate was determined having regard for a Discount for Lack of Marketability and the 
Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM) framework. The economic valuation has included the probability of achieving the TSR and EPS measures, which 
are based on historical statistical analysis. This economic valuation returned a value of $8.40 per right as at June 2022. This same methodology 
applied to the grants made in 2021 would have returned a valuation of $7.47 per right as at June 2021. 

The economic value of the performance rights is determined on a different basis to the fair value of the performance rights for accounting purposes. 

Directors’ report
Remuneration report – audited (continued)



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

53

4. GROUP PERFORMANCE AND OUTCOMES 
The Group has delivered and exceptional result, significantly outperforming the original estimates notwithstanding the challenging operating 
conditions and market volatility. Despite the volatility in the global equity markets, Goodman’s security price has continued to demonstrate 
a significant premium to underlying net assets and therefore the value creation by employees and subsequently medium and longer term 
outperformance of the peer group indices.

The Group’s remuneration strategy, focused on long-term outcomes, is the key driver of this sustained performance. 

4.1  Group FY22 highlights

Financial
Statutory profit of $3,414.0 million for Goodman and $9,029.6 million for the combined Group and Partnerships

Operating profit of $1,528.0 million (up 25% on FY21)

Operating EPS of 81.3 cents (up 24% on FY21)

Maintained distribution of 30.0 cents per security to sustain financial risk management objectives

Net tangible assets per security increased 25% to $8.37 per security

Operational property investment, management, and development
High occupancy maintained at 99% and like for like net property income growth of 3.9%

Total AUM of $73 billion (up 26% on FY21)

Significant outperformance by the 16 Partnerships achieving weighted average returns of over 21%

Development WIP (end value) increased to $13.6 billion and with 99% commitment levels on completions 
and 14 year weighted average lease terms

People and culture
Social investment of over $11 million by the Goodman Foundation and through efforts of employees worldwide

Female senior roles now 30% in FY22. Goodman continues to work towards 40% females in senior roles by 2030 
and 50/50 representation overall by 2030

Expansion of Goodman’s supply chain ethics towards a global supplier code of conduct increasing the focus 
on human rights and potential modern slavery

Strong focus to employees on reinforcing behaviours that are consistent with the Group’s values

Feedback from employees in the Australian business via surveys undertaken in FY22 indicates strong 
communication and employee engagement

Environmental
Goodman’s global operations achieved carbon neutrality and certified as a Carbon Neutral Organisation

Transitioned to 100% certified GreenPower secured for Goodman’s Australian operations on 1 July 2021,  
increasing Goodman’s global renewable energy usage to approximately 65%

Approximately 203MW of solar PV now installed or committed across the global portfolio, an increase of 78MW in FY22

Commenced calculating the embodied emissions of all of Goodman’s logistics developments globally and  
established a framework for integration into approval processes as we transition to carbon neutral developments

Capital management
Maintained significant available liquidity of $2.8 billion for the Group and capital resources of $18.1 billion in the Partnerships

Significant business growth while maintaining low gearing at 8.5%

Group and Partnerships completed debt refinancing transactions totalling $8.5 billion



GOODMAN GROUP

54

Over the past decade, the Group has established a global business with significant specialist expertise, financial resources, and a strategic real estate 
portfolio. The business has been deliberately positioned to maximise cash flow resilience in varying market cycles, primarily through:

+	 Concentration of the portfolio on logistics real estate in urban infill markets, where supply is limited, and demand is relatively high due to the long term 
structural trends that have been identified many years ago

+	 Deleveraging the Group’s balance sheet and retaining significant liquidity

+	 Partnering with long-term capital to share risk and return over a significant globally diversified platform.

This has included specific actions over several years, including: 

+	 Significant reduction in financial leverage (gearing) with the target gearing range reduced to 0% to 25% and retaining a position below the mid-point 
in the past five years

+	 Increased quality of the property portfolio through $30 billion of asset sales since 2013, concentrating the portfolio in predominantly urban infill 
markets and providing funding for the development of new buildings

+	 Established an international platform with significant depth of experience required to generate excess returns in competitive high barrier to entry markets

+	 Diversification of the Group’s sources of debt and tenor

+	 Reduced operational risk through undertaking more development activity in Partnerships, which has reduced the volatility of earnings while 
increasing return on assets for the Group. The impact of increased development within the Partnerships has increased their returns and the 
prospects for Goodman to earn performance fees in the medium to longer term

+	 Significant sales of assets that were reconfigured for higher and better residential use over recent years. For these transactions, the substantial profit 
was not included in operating profit despite being cash realised gains as they were believed to be over and above the usual course of business

+	 Maintained a conservative distribution pay-out ratio to retain funding for growing development activity 

+	 Investment in innovation and technology to provide knowledge of potential future risks and opportunities for our operations.

Many of these strategic initiatives rely on foregoing some short-term returns to secure potentially larger long-term sustainable returns. 

The resilience of the Group through this period is largely due to strategic long-term thinking, a highly talented team with specialist skills, and 
incentivising those employees through equity, linked to sustained operational performance over a long period.

4.2 Financial measures 

Performance measures FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 FY21 FY22

Operating profit ($M) 776.0 845.9 942.3 1,060.2 1,219.4 1,528.0

Operating EPS (cents) 43.1 46.7 51.6 57.5 65.6 81.3

Operating EPS growth (%) 7.5 8.3 10.5 11.4 14.1 24.0

Security price as at 30 June ($) 7.87 9.62 15.03 14.85 21.17 17.84

Distributions per security (cents) 25.9 28.0 30.0 30.0 30.0 30.0

3 year rolling TSR (%)1 72.7 69.5 130.8 103.4 133.4 24.7

NTA per security ($) 4.21 4.64 5.34 5.84 6.68 8.37

Growth in NTA ($B) 0.2 0.9 1.3 1.0 1.7 3.3

Gearing (%) 5.9 5.1 9.7 7.5 6.8 8.5

AUM ($B) 34.6 38.3 46.2 51.6 57.9 73.0

Market capitalisation premium to NTA ($B) 6.6 9.0 17.6 16.5 26.8 17.7

1.  TSR is the increase in market capitalisation plus dividends and distributions, attributable to the respective financial year.

Directors’ report
Remuneration report – audited (continued)



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

55

The key financial metrics which are aligned with the Group’s strategy, long-term performance and STI and LTI programs for all employees, are operating 
EPS and relative TSR. CAGR in operating EPS over the past five years has been exceptional at 13.5%, which has exceeded forecasts. This has been 
achieved while at the same time reducing gearing, and not utilising the short-term benefits of low interest rates to financially engineer performance. 
 

GearingEPS "Guidance" and Growth %  

0
2018 2019 2020 2021 2022

5.0

9.7

7.5
6.8

8.5

2

4

6

8

10

 

 

EPS Growth

 

 
EPS Guidance

  

0

5

10

15

20

25

FY22FY21FY20FY19FY18

6.0
7.0

8.3

10.5
9..0

11.4

14.1

10.0

24.0

%

9.0

4.3 Total security price returns comparison

Goodman is the only real estate group currently in the ASX 20 and the 14th largest ASX listed entity at 30 June 2022 with a market capitalisation of 
over $33 billion. Despite the volatility in the past 6 months impacting pricing of global interest rate sensitive sectors, the chart below shows the Group 
has consistently outperformed the S&P/ASX 20, S&P/ASX 100 and S&P/ASX 200 A-REIT indices over the past three, five and ten years. Importantly, 
underlying performance of the operations has been significantly ahead of target. 

Security price returns

Goodman Group S&P ASX 20 S&P ASX 100 S&P ASX 200 / A-REIT (sector)

800

700

600

500

400

300

200

100

0 06/2012 06/2013 06/2014 06/2015 06/2016 06/2017 06/2018 06/2019 06/2020 06/2021 06/2022

R
eturn (%

)



GOODMAN GROUP

56

4.4 Remuneration outcomes for FY22

4.4.1 STI outcomes

The Board has again agreed with the Group CEO that he will not participate in the STI award. In line with continued focus on sustained long-term 
performance, all performance based remuneration relating to the Group CEO’s FY22 performance will be awarded in the form of performance rights. 

Given the global nature of the Group’s operations, the recommendations for the other executive KMP are based on the Remuneration Committee’s 
review of several sources of market information relating to the individual’s role, region and global comparisons and specific incentive schemes that 
apply in competitor organisations.

It should be noted that based on the Group and individual performances in FY22, other executive KMP were eligible for the maximum STI.

Test Metrics Result

Gate 1: Behaviour Code of Conduct: Pass/Fail Pass

Gate 2: Operating EPS – FY22 
operating EPS versus target

Operating EPS growth: Target 10% (72.1 cents) 24.0% operating EPS growth (81.3 cents)

Financial and operational assessments 
(including environmental objectives) 

Individual assessment Various (0 – 100%) 

The table below indicates the maximum possible STI and the actual STI awarded for FY22.

 
Executive

 
Year

STI 
maximum

Actual STI 
awarded

Cash 
component

Deferred 
component

Actual STI % 
of maximum

$M $M $M $M

Gregory Goodman FY22 2.10 – – – –

 FY21 2.10 – – – –

Nick Kurtis FY22 1.05 1.0 0.5 0.5 95

 FY21 1.05 – – – –

Michael O’Sullivan FY22 0.75 0.55 0.275 0.275 73

 FY21 0.75 0.50 0.25 0.25 67

Nick Vrondas FY22 1.05 0.90 0.45 0.45 86

 FY21 1.05 0.70 0.35 0.35 67

 €M €M €M €M

Danny Peeters FY22 0.92 0.70 0.35 0.35 76

 FY21 0.85 0.70 0.35 0.35 82

 US$M US$M US$M US$M

Anthony Rozic FY22 1.05 1.05 0.525 0.525 100

 FY21 1.05 1.05 0.525 0.525 100

Directors’ report
Remuneration report – audited (continued)



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

57

4.4.2 ESG assessment

STI (and LTI) award grant assessments are undertaken with reflection on behaviour, governance, social, environmental and sustainability goals and 
targets. The Group has made significant contributions and efforts in a wide range of areas, with key highlights including:

+	 Goodman’s global operations maintained certification under the Climate Active program for being a Carbon Neutral Organisation*

+	 Development of science-based emissions reduction targets validated by the Science Based Target initiative as being ambitious and aligned with 
a 1.5°C Paris Agreement pathway

+	 Approximately 203MW of solar PV installed and committed on Goodman’s rooftops globally, reaching the halfway point to our 2025 400MW target

+	 Continued transition to renewable energy across Goodman’s operations, including 100% GreenPower for Goodman’s Australian operations 
electricity usage

+	 Integrated a consistent process for calculating and including embodied emissions into the approval process for new developments, with 
approximately 750,000 carbon offsets purchased so far for embodied emissions as we transition to carbon neutral developments

+	 Development of a Sustainability Linked Bond Framework, providing the criteria for the US$500 million of Sustainability-Linked Bond issuance 
completed this year

+	 Recognised by Sustainalytics as an ‘Sector’ and ‘Region’ Top Rated ESG performer during 2022 in the ESG Ratings

+	 Achieved Sector Leader in the 2021 Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark (GRESB) for the Goodman Japan Partnership in the Japan 
Industrial Distribution peer group

+	 Goodman Group’s Task Force on Climate related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) statement has been updated and is available on the Goodman website  

+	 Cutting edge sustainability design initiatives in our global development specifications including solar PV, electric vehicle charging points,  
LED lighting and drought tolerant landscaping

+	 Greater than 50% of Goodman’s developments globally were completed on brownfield developments

+	 Continued focus on biodiversity initiatives including support of urban forests and reforestation with tree planting projects completed across 
the Continental Europe, United Kingdom and NZ operations

+	 Zero workplace fatalities across Goodman’s global operations including our workforce and contractors

+	 Development of Goodman’s Sustainable Sourcing Framework to increase focus on supply chain human rights and help meet our sustainability goals 

+	 Contributed a further $11.6 million to community and philanthropic causes.

*Subject to final verification

Key areas of assessment for FY22 are disclosed below in addition to two new targets for FY23 onwards. The form of disclosure below (subject 
to relevant evolution and changes over time as set by the Board) will be used as the basis for future assessment of environmental and sustainability 
measures. The measures are formally set over the testing period for performance rights, and are reviewed annually for relevant progress.

Assessment of progress on prior period targets

Target Long-term target Progress

Renewable Energy 100% renewable electricity 
use within Goodman’s 
operations by 2025

Achieved 100% Renewable electricity use Australia 
(in Goodman’s operations) during FY22, resulting 
in approximately 65% renewable electricity use globally*

*Subject to final verification

 On target

Solar PV Installation 400MW of solar PV installed 
or committed by 20251 

Solar PV installations and commitments increased 
to approximately 203MW in FY22

 On target

Carbon Neutral Carbon neutral 
operations by 2025

Maintained Carbon Neutral operations during FY222.  
This was initially achieved in FY21, four years ahead of target

Ahead of target

TCFD Achieve TCFD by FY22 TCFD compliance achieved, with FY22 statements 
updated and registered. This is available online

Occupancy >95% 99% Materially 
ahead of target

1. Subject to Government regulation in each jurisdiction.
2. Formal confirmation from Climate Active due in October 2022.



GOODMAN GROUP

58

Directors’ report
Remuneration report – audited (continued)

Additional Targets for FY23 onwards

Target Long-term target Progress

Embodied 
Carbon

We are committed to measuring, 
reducing and offsetting 
embodied carbon emissions 
from our global development 
workbook and have commenced 
the process to reduce and offset 
this over time

New Target for FY23 onwards. Embodied carbon emissions calculated 
and included in all Group Investment Committee development papers 
in preparation for future carbon neutral buildings. A number of buildings 
have been built on an embodied carbon neutral basis as offsets have 
been purchased and retired. Offset procurement guidance and criteria 
have been established and procedures are in place with global teams. 
Formal Targets to be established during the year

New target

Science 
Based Targets

In addition to our continued 
commitments to renewable 
energy and carbon neutrality, 
the Group has committed to 
Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions 
reductions of 42% by 2030 in 
line with 1.5°C Paris Agreement 
pathway and validated by SBTi

New Target for FY23 onwards New target

Code of conduct, behaviour, social and governance requirements

Assessment area Long-term target Outcome Pass/Fail

Diversity

Gender ratio 
in the workforce

50% gender ratio in 
the workforce by 2030

Female representation stable with total employees 44% female, 56% male 
overall. Senior female roles represent 30% of senior positions. Significant 
progress has been made on career development (job scope widening, 
internal promotions etc) and recruitment of females into roles that should 
over time evolve into senior roles 

 On target

Women in 
senior roles

>40% in senior roles by 2030 Senior female roles represent 30% of senior positions. Significant progress 
has been made on career development (job scope widening, internal 
promotions etc) and recruitment of females into roles that should over time 
evolve into senior roles The Group is on track to reach >40% by 2030 

 On target

Governance

Workplace safety Safe working environment with 
demonstrable risk controls, 
contractor management and 
monitoring of key safety metrics 

There have been zero fatalities in FY22. This includes Goodman employees 
or contractors on Goodman controlled areas or contractor controlled 
sites. There has been significant focus on ensuring the implementation and 
execution of the Group’s comprehensive safety processes and procedures. 
made particularly difficult through pandemic given regional visitation was 
not possible

 On target

Significant 
reputational 
issues arising 
from illegal 
conduct

Zero Zero  On target

Social

Social/charitable 
donations

$50 million in social investment 
by Goodman Foundation 
by 2030

$11.6 million was contributed to community and philanthropic causes 
during FY21, taking our total to $31 million in the past 3 years

 Ahead of target



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

59

4.4.3  LTI outcomes

Testing as at 30 June 2022 was completed for the grants of performance rights made to executive KMP in respect of executive KMP performance in 
FY19 (called FY20 awards). These performance rights were tested over three years and vest in three equal tranches shortly after the third, fourth and fifth 
anniversary of the grant. The FY20 awards had two hurdles: operating EPS and a relative TSR, both measured over the three years ended 30 June 2022.

The mechanics of the testing are detailed in section 3.5.

 4.4.3.1 Operating EPS hurdle (75% weighting)

The operating EPS is calculated by dividing operating profit by the weighted average number of securities on issue adjusted to include all performance 
rights which have passed the testing criteria, even though they are not yet vested (issued) to account for potential operating EPS dilution. Operating 
EPS growth for the three year period to 30 June 2022 was 57.6%, compared to a cumulative target of 29.5% at the upper level of the threshold. 

Threshold level Upper level Actual Outperformance Outcome

FY19 LTIP grant – Operating EPS hurdle1 61.4 cents 66.8 cents 81.3 cents 14.5 cents 100%

1. Testing period for grant: EPS growth from 1 July 2019 to 30 June 2022. At the threshold level, 25% satisfy the hurdle with a sliding scale up to 100% satisfying the hurdle at the upper level.

4.4.3.2 Relative TSR hurdle (25% weighting)

TSR provides an effective check against increasing risk practices within the Group, as the price to earnings multiple will reflect the perceived risk in the 
Group. Relative TSR is measured against the S&P/ASX 100 peer group. Vesting applies on a sliding scale: 

+	 0% vests up to and including the 50th percentile

+	 Vesting of 50% starts at the 51st percentile on a sliding scale with 100% vesting at the 75th percentile.

Goodman posted a three year TSR of 20.5% to 30 June 2022, under the LTIP TSR calculation methodology. This ranked Goodman in the 68th percentile 
against the S&P/ASX 100 and consequently 84% of these performance rights vested.

Goodman TSR1 S&P/ASX 100 TSR1 Percentile Outcome

FY19 LTIP grant – TSR hurdle1 20.5% 16.0% 68th 84%

1.  Testing period for grant: 1 July 2019 to 30 June 2022, in accordance with the LTIP the TSR is based on the 10 day volume weighted average price (VWAP) at beginning and end of testing period and 
is therefore different from the three year TSR, sourced from Bloomberg and presented elsewhere in this report.

As a result of satisfying 100% of the operating EPS hurdle and 84% of the relative TSR hurdle, a total of 10,296,905 equity settled performance rights 
will vest in September 2022, September 2023 and September 2024. In addition, 2,837,750 cash settled performance rights will also vest. The Group 
currently intends to issue the equivalent number of new securities to satisfy those obligations in the future.



GOODMAN GROUP

60

4.4.4 Group CEO achievements

In determining the Group CEO’s remuneration, the Board acknowledged his strong leadership through the challenges of COVID-19, positioning the 
business for resilience and significant outperformance in FY22, far exceeding the Group’s operational targets. It has also considered the following 
contributing factors and highlights: 

Gregory Goodman Group CEO

Leadership + Developed and drove a consistent global business strategy across all markets to sustain the performance of the Group despite prolonged and 
significant challenges presented by COVID-19 and the increases in volatility, costs and risk in the global operating environment. The Group has 
adapted to these challenges and continues to outperform targets, retaining employees and increasing community support and charitable programs

+ He has positioned the business as a leader in its field, managing, motivating and incentivising key personnel across the platform to perform in highly 
competitive environment 

+ Fostered a culture that focused on delivering quality across all aspects of the business: people, properties and service

+ Led global internal programs to promote a strong culture of inclusion, collaboration and conduct across the organisation, underpinned by the long-held 
principles in the Group’s Code of Conduct, treating all stakeholders with integrity, and accountability, reflected in top decile engagement scores

+ Reinforced Goodman’s purpose aimed at understanding the drivers of change and the needs of customers and all stakeholders to support 
their future success

+ 6.4% voluntary staff turnover in FY22

Financial and risk + He has fostered continuity of strategy over successive years leading to continued outperformance over benchmark indices and comparator 
companies in FY22, and with strong and sustained TSR of 151.36% over five years

+ Delivered:

 –  Statutory profit of $3.4 billion (up 48%), driven by growth in property values as a result of asset selection over the past few years and operational 
activities such as development

 –  Significant Operating Profit growth of 25% on FY21, to $1,528 million, significantly ahead of budget

 –  Revaluation growth across the Group and Partnership of $8.5 billion

 –  Operating EPS of 81.3 cents, up 24% on FY21

 –  NTA increased 25% to $8.37 per security

 –  Occupancy increased to 99%

+ Exceeded earnings guidance in FY22 after posting significant outperformance in FY21 through the pandemic and volatile economic conditions

+ Drove a clearly defined capital management strategy with financial leverage of 8.5% and maintained a strong Group balance sheet with 
$2.8 billion of liquidity

+ Continued managing relationships with capital partners and secured additional equity and financial facilities to total $18.1 billion of available 
funding capacity

+ Integrated strong risk management approaches globally. 

Environment + Instrumental in significantly increasing the focus on ESG initiatives and programs throughout the Group and a culture which continually looks 
to improve Goodman’s impact on the world. In particular:

 –  Establishing a carbon neutral emissions target for the Group by 2025 and achieving it in FY21

 –  Significant progress on the 2025 solar PV installation on the rooftops of Goodman’s global portfolios and installing or committing to 78 MW 
in FY22 taking global installation and commitment to over 200MW

 –  Maintained compliance with TCFD since FY21

+ Established a framework for measuring and assessing embodied carbon to transition to carbon neutral developments

+ Drove the development of science-based emissions reduction targets validated by the Science Based Target initiative as being ambitious and 
aligned with a 1.5°C Paris Agreement pathway

+ Supported implementation and progression of EV incentive scheme for staff globally to encourage a shift towards lower emissions vehicles.

Social and cultural + Continues to lead the shift for all employees to increase alignment with Securityholders through the LTIP as the preferred form of remuneration 
by taking 100% of performance based remuneration in performance rights and working with the Board to implement the ten-year plan. 

+ Commenced new initiatives and Goodman Foundation commitments to enable it to meet its $50 million 2030 social impact target. The Group 
CEO led initiatives that:

 –  Contributed $11.6 million to community and philanthropic causes including $200,000 raised directly by staff. Expansion of Goodman’s supply 
chain ethics towards a global supplier Code of Conduct increasing the focus on human rights and potential modern slavery

 –  Enabled the Goodman team globally to contribute 2,195 hours to volunteering and community events through the year. The Goodman 
Foundation focuses on children and youth, community and its health, and food rescue and the environment

 –  Through Goodman’s founding food rescue partners have provided meals to charities that help feed people in need and made a significant 
commitment to domestic violence prevention.

Directors’ report
Remuneration report – audited (continued)



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

61

The charts below demonstrate the performance of the Group and various key metrics relative to the Group CEO’s vested remuneration outcomes 
in FY22 and prior years. They illustrate that the significant operating profit growth, security price growth and consequently returns for Securityholders 
over the testing and vesting periods, correlate with increased Group CEO remuneration over time. Despite significant market volatility and price 
movement in FY22, the market price of securities between the time of the grant and the time of vesting has seen significant growth, and the Group 
CEO (and all recipients of the LTIP) has participated in this performance alongside Securityholders.  

The table below includes awarded remuneration at grant date and the vested remuneration over the past five years for the Group CEO. The figures 
in this table differ from the statutory disclosure in section 5 primarily due to the differences in the measurement and timing of recognition in respect 
of performance rights granted under the LTIP and not the final vesting outcome. The below figures show the base salary received by the Group CEO 
in the respective year plus the value of performance rights which vested during that year at the closing price on the day the performance rights vested.

The table highlights:

+	 No change in fixed remuneration over the period

+	 The proportion of remuneration from fixed (cash) salary has continued to decline

+	 Significant growth in the value of LTI from grant date to the vesting date due to the increase in security price (on average an increase of 169% for grants 
vesting in FY22).

FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 FY21 FY22

$M $M $M $M $M $M

Base salary 1.4 1.4 1.4 1.4 1.4 1.4

STI – – – – – –

Value of LTI on grant date1 3.8 4.7 7.3 11.6 14.4 15.9

Value of LTI on vesting date 7.0 8.8 13.5 25.4 35.6 42.9

Total remuneration based on LTI value at grant date1 5.2 6.1 8.7 13.0 15.8 17.3

Total vested remuneration based on LTI value at vesting date 8.4 10.2 14.9 26.8 37.0 44.3

Increase in LTI value due to security price performance of the Group 3.2 4.1 6.2 13.8 21.2 26.9

Percentage growth in value of LTI during vesting period 84% 88% 86% 119% 147% 169%

1.  Value based on the security prices at the grant dates for the performance rights that vested in the financial year. This is so as to allow comparison of the security price outperformance over the 
period between grant and vesting dates.



GOODMAN GROUP

62

The chart below illustrates the increase in the value of the Group CEO’s vested LTI in FY22 from the date of the original awards in 2017, 2018 and 2019. 
These significant gains have arisen due to consistent earnings growth and security price outperformance of the Group. 

Performance rights Gain due to increase in security price

Value at grant date ($M) Value of LTIP on vesting ($M)

15.9 42.9

 
4.4.5 Other executive KMP achievements

In FY22, the Board considered the following highlights when assessing other executive KMP:

Danny Peeters Executive Director, Corporate

+  Successfully overseeing Brazil, playing a critical role in communicating and reinforcing the Group’s strategy, both from 
a real estate and corporate perspective – currently acting as CEO ad interim

+ Played a key role in overseeing the Brazil Investment Partnership with strong financial outcomes

+  Continued to progress acquisition and permitting of significant infill development sites, positioning the Group and 
Partnership in a strong position to capitalise on the growing e-commerce penetration

+  Construction completion including permits and successful leasing progress of major development sites despite the 
challenging pandemic context in Brazil – strong leasing results and asset rotation. Strong focus 
on quality of developments and property management to drive long term value of the assets

+  Provided guidance and team coaching in a complex acquisition and development environment effecting above-target performance

+ Embedded key controls and culture with the team working cohesively and capability increasing

+ Drove further integration of the Brazil operation into the global network

+  Provided advice and support to senior management in Continental Europe and Group regarding sustainability and 
innovation initiatives

+ Important direct link for the Board to the operations in Continental Europe and Brazil

+ Further improved key controls and culture with the team working cohesively and increasing capability.

Directors’ report
Remuneration report – audited (continued)



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

63

Anthony Rozic Chief Executive Officer North America, and Deputy Group Chief Executive Officer

+ Significant outperformance to budget EBIT and valuations.

+  Significant investment outperformance during the year through strategic value add, development, re-leasing and debt 
issuance initiatives

+ Critical role in communicating and reinforcing the Group’s strategy in the region

+  Managed a focused and motivated team with an emphasis on succession planning strong leadership in embedding 
the Goodman values in the behaviour of the team and encouraging teamwork and collaboration

+  With the COVID-19 disruption and employees working remotely, a high level of productivity has been maintained with 
a focus on key operational priorities

+  Continued to develop a high-quality portfolio and strongly differentiated brand position and building team capabilities 
and skill sets for complex acquisitions and developments ahead of future growth

+  Commenced 2.7 million square feet, completed 2.4 million square feet, stabilised 2.2 million square feet of infill 
development projects

+  Continued to grow infill development pipeline with acquisitions of 2.3m sf in major US gateway cities providing strong 
positioning for future performance

+  Successfully entered the two new target markets of New York and San Francisco with the acquisition of strategic 
developments and value add opportunities

+  Continued to diversify capital sources with the doubling of the debt facility with the second USPP Bond issuance 
of $400 million and bank debt extension and increase of $300 million taking total debt to $1 billion with $200 million 
of liquidity at the end of the financial year. Maintained gearing level below 14%

+  Successfully oversaw strong growth in business operations in North America, achieving a number of key milestones:

 – Significant growth in AUM to $8.4 billion 

 – Stabilised occupancy of 96.4%

 – Maintained a long WALE of 8.9 years 

 – Total available uncommitted liquidity in the Partnership $3.8 billion at financial year end

+  Introduced new regional and global customer relationships to the portfolio over FY22 with a number of developments 
pre-leased and replenishing the land/value-add inventory. Emphasis on developing major infill sites and value-add 
development skill sets

+  Successfully launched numerous ESG initiatives including renewable energy solar power and carbon 
neutral developments.

Nick Kurtis Group Head of Equities

+  Formulated and implemented the Partnerships’ strategies to successfully deliver significant total returns. Partnership 
investment portfolio delivered annualised average total return on net assets of 21.4% (based on the respective 
Partnership reporting periods). Materially in excess of benchmark and target hurdle returns

+ Delivered strong performance metrics including:

 – Management earnings contribution of $588 million to the Group’s operating earnings

 – Performance fee revenue of $208 million 

 – Growth in external AUM up 27% to $68.7 billion across 16 Partnerships in 14 countries

+ Strategic asset planning and new asset selection focus resulting in superior property level returns

+ Establishment and communication of Group strategy and values across the investment management platform

+  Communication with key capital partners during the COVID-19 disruption and established strategies to ensure portfolio 
strategy and execution was consistent with capital partner expectations

+  Oversight of Partnership capital management plans, including equity, debt and hedging strategies across the whole 
portfolio in all jurisdictions

+ Developed the strategy and led execution on new equity raisings of $1.8 billion in FY22

+ Fostered strong relationships with existing and new capital partners 

+ Successfully executed continuation of several Partnerships through the course of FY22

+ Established new Partnerships with investors

+  Provided strategic advice across a range of corporate and structural transactions in the business to position 
opportunities for future years.



GOODMAN GROUP

64

Michael O’Sullivan Group Chief Risk Officer

+  Responsible for identifying, assessing, and monitoring risks at Goodman and reporting to the Risk and Compliance Committee

+  Oversee and aligned the Group Investment Committee (GIC) process with strategy execution to ensure 
final commercial outcomes remain consistent with Group strategy

+  A requested member of regional due diligence committee meetings relating to major acquisitions, disposals, and 
capital market transactions 

+  Performs a critical role in commercial oversight and assessment of globally complex transactions of the  
Group to allow the required level of autonomy at a regional level within delegated authority limits

+  Maintained risk management frameworks with improved outcomes across the Group and Partnerships 
in FY22 adapting to the changing nature of our business including nature, scale, and complexity of development 
projects globally

+  Responsible for co-ordination and reporting of Group Corporate Service functions, specifically as they 
relate to the identification and monitoring of non-financial risks with specific reference to internal audit,  
safety, sustainability, compliance, insurance and business continuity planning

+  Work closely with all Group functions, in particular, Finance, Legal, Compliance, Technical, Investment Management 
and IT where it relates to risk management practices and processes in those specific functions

+  FY22 saw continued Group activities, in relation to the GIC process including:

 – Over 400 GIC submissions with over 20% involving detailed involvement from the Group Risk function

 – WIP of $13.6 billion with an annual production rate of $7.1 billion

 –  $2.3 billion of asset sales, including both the disposals of directly held developments and disposals 
to external parties globally

 – $8.4 billion of global acquisitions and development expenditure

 –  16 Partnership business plans and strategy proposals across $68.7 billion of external AUM, in which the Group’s 
equity investment was $14.4 billion. 

Nick Vrondas Group Chief Financial Officer

+  Successfully developed and played a key role in the execution of the business strategy including the management 
and allocation of capital that has delivered strong returns to investors over several years culminating in FY22 operating 
profit of over $1.5 billion

+  Full oversight of balance sheet and profit and loss outcomes for the Group and Partnerships across multiple 
jurisdictions in 14 countries. Effective statutory and management financial reporting giving clarity to support strong 
operational decision making

+  Built improvements and resilience into systems and controls framework. Strengthened monitoring, co-ordination 
and consolidation of financial performance and financial position of regional business units 
and divisions to exceed budget and financial plans

+  Effected strong capital management and compliance with financial risk management policies of Group 
and Partnerships

+  Established and oversaw debt finance transactions in banking and debt capital markets of over $8 billion 
for the Group and its Partnerships, adding term to maturity profile and diversity of funding sources 

+  Effective hedging and financial risk management. Involved in and oversaw money market and hedge transactions 
of $11 billion for the Group and its Partnerships. Progressed framework for future risk mitigation measures and 
appropriate enhancements in line with changing nature of the business and industry

+  Led operational improvements in relation to business IT systems and processes, particularly considering 
the necessary changes that the recent operating climate have given rise to

+  Updated and improved various operational policies to enhance compliance and reduce risk. Has demonstrated 
an ability to manage through variable market conditions. Maintains valuable relationships in the capital markets.

Directors’ report
Remuneration report – audited (continued) 



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

65

4.5 LTI grants in relation to FY22 performance

The remuneration proposed by the Board in respect of the executive KMP performance in FY22 comprise fixed remuneration, STI awards and awards 
under the LTIP. 

As discussed in earlier sections, the Board has decided to reduce the number of performance rights to be issued to the Group CEO and other 
executive KMP under the LTIP. The Board has taken into account the face value of the grants and their economic value in making its determination. 
The Board believes that the significant reduction will find a new balance between the interests of Securityholders and the recipients. The Board also 
believes that this will not adversely impact the motivations of the recipients.

The table below lists the maximum number of performance rights which could vest if the maximum hurdles are met over the four years ending 
30 June 2026. The minimum vesting percentage is 0% if the threshold hurdles are not met. The vesting of those performance rights that achieve 
the performance hurdles (if any) will occur in seven equal tranches in September each year, starting from September 2026 with the last tranche 
vesting ten years from initial grant, in September 2032. 

The grants that the Board intends to make in September 2022 and proposes to make for Executive Directors after the AGM (subject to Securityholder 
approval) in respect of the executive KMP performance in FY22, are detailed below. The FY23 performance rights awards reflect:

+ A reduction in the number of rights for the Group CEO of 36% and other executive KMP of 20%

+ A reduction in the face value for the Group CEO of 46% and 33% for other executive KMP.

Executive
Year of 

grant
Performance

rights proposed

Face value per 
performance right 

$

Face value 
of grant 

$M

Economic value per 
performance right 

$

Economic 
value of grant 

$M

Gregory Goodman FY23 1,000,000 17.84 17.8 8.40 8.4

Danny Peeters FY23 500,000 17.84 8.9 8.40 4.2

Anthony Rozic FY23 550,000 17.84 9.8 8.40 4.6

Nick Kurtis FY23 645,000 17.84 11.5 8.40 5.4

Michael O’Sullivan FY23 450,000 17.84 8.0 8.40 3.8

Nick Vrondas FY23 550,000 17.84 9.8 8.40 4.6



GOODMAN GROUP

66

5. NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REMUNERATION
5.1 Key elements of the Non-Executive Director remuneration policy

– The policy is structured to ensure independence of judgement in the performance of their duties. 

– Non-Executive Directors receive fixed fees for Board membership and additional fees for membership of committees.

–  The fees are set considering the size and scope of Goodman’s activities and the responsibilities and experience of the Directors. Periodically, 
these fees are benchmarked against data for comparable entities provided by external advisers.

–  As approved by Securityholders at the 2006 AGM, total remuneration (including superannuation) payable by Goodman to all Non-Executive 
Directors in aggregate must not exceed $2.5 million per annum. For FY22, total Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration was $2.4 million 
(2021: $2.4 million). With the recent appointments, increasing size and depth of operations of the Group, and responsibilities of Directors, 
the Group will be seeking an increase in permitted Non-Executive Director fee pool at the 2022 AGM.

– The Board has approved the establishment of a Sustainability and Innovation Committee which will be constituted in FY23.

–  Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to participate in any STI or LTI schemes as they may be perceived to create a bias when overseeing 
executive decision making. 

–  To align the interests of the Board with Securityholders, the Board updated the Directors’ Security Holding Policy in April 2021. The policy 
requires Non-Executive Directors to accumulate and hold Goodman securities with a value equivalent to their pre-tax annual base fee 
within three years of appointment, or in the case of the Chairman the pre-tax Chairman’s fee within three years of appointment as Chairman 
(subject to a transitional year following adoption of the new policy). For the purpose of this policy, the value of each parcel acquired is the 
higher of the purchase price or market value at the end of the financial year.

 
5.2 Board and committee annual fees

The Board and committee fees that applied for FY22 are set out below:

Board
Audit  

Committee
Risk and Compliance 

Committee
Remuneration 

Committee
Nomination 
Committee

 $ $ $ $ $

Chairman 625,000 60,000 50,000 50,000 n/a

Member 240,000 30,000 30,000 30,000 30,000

The remuneration of the Non-Executive Director of GLHK was HK$680,000.

Directors’ report
Remuneration report – audited (continued) 



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

67

6. STATUTORY DISCLOSURES
6.1 KMP remuneration (statutory analysis)

Details of the nature and amount of each major element of the remuneration of each executive KMP, as calculated under Australian Accounting 
Standards, are set out below:

Long-term

Share 
based 

payments
Performance 

related

S
al

ar
y 

an
d 

fe
es

1

B
on

us
 (S

T
I)

2

O
th

er
3

,4

To
ta

l

S
up

er
an

nu
at

io
n 

be
ne

fi
ts

B
on

us
 (S

T
I)

2

O
th

er
3

P
er

fo
rm

an
ce

 
ri

gh
ts

 (L
T

I)
5

To
ta

l

S
T

I a
nd

 L
T

I 
as

 %
 o

f t
ot

al

LT
I a

s 
%

 o
f t

ot
al

Executive 
KMP $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ % %

Gregory 
Goodman

FY22 1,445,570 – – 1,445,570 23,568 – 10,199 14,293,367 15,772,704 90.6 90.6

 FY21 1,447,398 – 11,201 1,458,599 21,694 – 44,203 11,854,105 13,378,601 88.6 88.6

Nick Kurtis FY22 687,955 – – 687,955 23,568 1,000,000 8,584 6,253,120 7,973,227 91.0 78.4

 FY21 707,113 – 12,468 719,581 21,694 – 17,509 4,742,939 5,501,723 86.2 86.2

Michael 
O’Sullivan

FY22 500,095 – – 500,095 23,568 550,000 6,403 4,424,720 5,504,786 90.4 80.4

 FY21 474,143 – 11,423 485,566 21,694 500,000 13,242 3,336,045 4,356,547 88.1 76.6

Nick 
Vrondas

FY22 713,882 – – 713,882 23,568 900,000 8,159 5,706,958 7,352,567 89.9 77.6

 FY21 679,746 – 11,423 691,169 21,694 700,000 18,073 4,598,229 6,029,165 87.9 76.3

  € € € € € € € € €

Danny 
Peeters6 FY22 610,450 – – 610,450 – 700,000 – 3,539,015 4,849,465 87.4 73.0

 FY21 593,400 – – 593,400 – 700,000 – 2,656,555 3,949,955 85.0 67.3

  US$ US$ US$ US$ US$ US$ US$ US$ US$

Anthony 
Rozic7 FY22 729,880 – 20,149 750,029 17,100 1,050,000 14,651 4,305,210 6,136,989 87.3 70.2

 FY21 697,211 – 29,466 726,677 16,210 1,050,000 (1,715) 3,445,575 5,236,747 85.8 65.8

The footnotes for this table are set out on the following page. 



GOODMAN GROUP

68

Executive KMP are engaged under written employment contracts until notice is given by either Goodman or the executive KMP. Notice periods 
are for six months except for Gregory Goodman and Danny Peeters for whom the period is 12 months. Danny Peeters provides his services through 
a management company, DPCON Bvba.

Footnotes to the executive KMP remuneration table:

1. Salary and fees represent the amounts due under the terms of executives’ service contracts and include movements in annual leave provisions. 
2.  Executives’ bonus (STI) awards are paid in two instalments: 50% on finalisation of Goodman’s financial statements and 50% 12 months later. Under Australian Accounting Standards, this means 

the entire bonus award is considered as a long-term benefit with regard to the disclosure of individual executive’s remuneration. No bonuses were forfeited during the financial year. 
3.  Other includes changes in long service leave provisions and in the prior year, car parking and reportable fringe benefits.
4.  The Board agreed certain tax equalisation arrangements with Anthony Rozic in connection with his employment arrangements in the United States and Australia to ensure that he was no better 

or worse off. As a result, in FY20 Goodman made additional tax related payments of US$150,005 in respect of the period prior to 1 January 2019. These amounts were on top of Anthony Rozic’s 
Australian tax obligations for which he remained exclusively responsible. The Board also advanced under an interest free loan, double-tax amounts in respect of the period prior to 1 January 2019 
for which foreign income tax offsets from the Australian Taxation Office will be used to repay the advances. 

  At 1 July 2021 the advances made by Goodman amounted to US$503,729, and as there have been no further advances or repayments during the year ended 30 June 2022, the balance at 
30 June 2022 is also US$503,729. The amount of interest that would have been payable if charged on an arm’s length basis during the year is $20,149 (2021: $20,149). The notional interest amount 
has been included in Anthony Rozic’s statutory remuneration (Other remuneration). No other executive KMP received a loan from the Group during the current or prior financial years.

5.  Performance rights are an LTI and in accordance with Australian Accounting Standards: the values of the awards are determined using option pricing models and amortised in the income 
statement over the vesting periods.

6.  The remuneration of Danny Peeters is disclosed in Euros, the currency in which his base remuneration and STI are determined. The value attributed to his performance rights is translated from 
Australian dollars at the weighted average rate for the relevant financial year.

7.  The remuneration of Anthony Rozic is disclosed in US dollars, the currency in which his base remuneration and STI are determined. The value attributed to his performance rights is translated from 
Australian dollars at the weighted average rate for the relevant financial year.

Directors’ report
Remuneration report – audited (continued) 



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

69

6.2 Movements in performance rights held by executive KMP

The movements in the number of performance rights during FY22 are summarised as follows:

 
Held at the 

start of the year
Granted as 

compensation Vested Forfeited
Held at the 

end of the year

Executive Directors

Gregory Goodman FY22 5,316,667 1,560,000 (1,866,666) – 5,010,001

 FY21 6,350,000 950,000 (1,983,333) – 5,316,667

Danny Peeters FY22 1,846,667 625,000 (566,666) – 1,905,001

 FY21 1,996,250 380,000 (529,583) – 1,846,667

Anthony Rozic FY22 2,013,333 690,000 (633,333) – 2,070,000

 FY21 2,241,666 400,000 (628,333) – 2,013,333

Other executive KMP

Nick Kurtis FY22 2,103,333 805,000 (633,333) – 2,275,000

 FY21 2,290,416 490,000 (677,083) – 2,103,333

Michael O’Sullivan FY22 1,450,000 560,000 (413,333) – 1,596,667

 FY21 1,503,750 340,000 (393,750) – 1,450,000

Nick Vrondas FY22 2,050,000 690,000 (650,000) – 2,090,000

 FY21 2,323,750 420,000 (693,750) – 2,050,000



GOODMAN GROUP

70

6.3 Analysis of performance rights held by executive KMP

Details of the awards of performance rights under the LTIP granted by Goodman as compensation to the executive KMP are set out in the following tables:

Executive 
Directors N

um
be

r o
f 

pe
rf

or
m

an
ce

 
ri

gh
ts

 g
ra

nt
ed

D
at

e 
pe

rf
or

m
an

ce
 

ri
gh

ts
 g

ra
nt

ed

Ye
ar

Fa
ir

 v
al

ue
 p

er
 

pe
rf

or
m

an
ce

 r
ig

ht
1 

$ To
ta

l v
al

ue
 o

f 
pe

rf
or

m
an

ce
 

ri
gh

ts
 g

ra
nt

ed
1 

$ V
es

te
d 

in
 p

ri
or

 y
ea

rs
  

% V
es

te
d 

in
 th

e 
ye

ar
  

% Fo
rf

ei
te

d 
% V

al
ue

 o
f 

pe
rf

or
m

an
ce

 ri
gh

ts
 

ve
st

ed
 in

 th
e 

ye
ar

3 

$ Fi
na

nc
ia

l  
ye

ar
s 

in
 w

hi
ch

 
gr

an
t v

es
ts

4

Gregory 
Goodman

1,560,000 18 Nov 2021 FY22 20.16 31,449,600 – – – – 2026–2032

 950,000 19 Nov 2020 FY21 16.07 15,266,500 – – – – 2024–2026

 900,000 20 Nov 2019 FY20 11.48 10,332,000 – – – – 2023–2025

 1,600,000 15 Nov 2018 FY19 8.72 13,952,000 – 33.3 – 12,245,326 2022–2024

 1,600,000 16 Nov 2017 FY18 6.70 10,720,000 33.3 33.3 – 12,245,326 2021–2023

 2,400,000 30 Sep 2016 FY17 5.64 13,536,000 66.7 33.3 – 18,368,000 2020–2022

Danny Peeters 625,000 18 Nov 2021 FY22 20.16 12,600,000 – – – – 2026–2032

 380,000 19 Nov 2020 FY21 16.07 6,106,600 – – – – 2024–2026

 350,000 20 Nov 2019 FY20 11.48 4,018,000 – – – – 2023–2025

 550,000 15 Nov 2018 FY19 8.72 4,796,000 – 33.3 – 4,209,326 2022–2024

 550,000 16 Nov 2017 FY18 6.70 3,685,000 33.3 33.3 – 4,209,326 2021–2023

 600,000 30 Sep 2016 FY17 5.64 3,384,000 66.7 33.3 – 4,592,000 2020–2022

Anthony Rozic 690,000 18 Nov 2021 FY22 20.16 13,910,400 – – – – 2026–2032

 400,000 19 Nov 2020 FY21 16.07 6,428,000 – – – – 2024–2026

 380,000 20 Nov 2019 FY20 11.48 4,362,400 – – – – 2023–2025

 600,000 15 Nov 2018 FY19 8.72 5,232,000 – 33.3 – 4,592,000 2022–2024

 600,000 16 Nov 2017 FY18 6.70 4,020,000 33.3 33.3 – 4,592,000 2021–2023

 700,000 30 Sep 2016 FY17 5.64 3,948,000 66.7 33.3 – 5,357,326 2020–2022

Refer to page 71 for explanatory footnotes.

Directors’ report
Remuneration report – audited (continued)



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

71

 
 
 

Other 
executive 
KMP N

um
be

r o
f 

pe
rf

or
m

an
ce

 
ri

gh
ts

 g
ra

nt
ed

D
at

e 
pe

rf
or

m
an

ce
 

ri
gh

ts
 g

ra
nt

ed

Ye
ar

Fa
ir

 v
al

ue
 p

er
 

pe
rf

or
m

an
ce

 r
ig

ht
1 

$ To
ta

l v
al

ue
 o

f 
pe

rf
or

m
an

ce
 

ri
gh

ts
 g

ra
nt

ed
1

$ V
es

te
d 

in
 p

ri
or

 y
ea

rs
  

% V
es

te
d 

in
 th

e 
ye

ar
  

%
2

Fo
rf

ei
te

d 
% V

al
ue

 o
f 

pe
rf

or
m

an
ce

 r
ig

ht
s 

ve
st

ed
 in

 th
e 

ye
ar

3 

$ Fi
na

nc
ia

l 
ye

ar
s 

in
 w

hi
ch

 
gr

an
t v

es
ts

4

Nick Kurtis 805,000 30 Sep 2021 FY22 17.22 13,862,100 – – – – 2026–2032

 490,000 30 Sep 2020 FY21 15.77 7,727,300 – – – – 2024–2026

 380,000 30 Sep 2019 FY20 11.26 4,278,800 – – – – 2023–2025

 600,000 28 Sep 2018 FY19 8.52 5,112,000 – 33.3 – 4,592,000 2022–2024

 600,000 30 Sep 2017 FY18 6.41 3,846,000 33.3 33.3 – 4,592,000 2021–2023

 700,000 30 Sep 2016 FY17 5.64 3,948,000 66.7 33.3 – 5,357,326 2020–2022

Michael 
O’Sullivan

560,000 30 Sep 2021 FY22 17.22 9,643,200 – – – – 2026–2032

 340,000 30 Sep 2020 FY21 15.77 5,361,800 – – – – 2024–2026

 300,000 30 Sep 2019 FY20 11.26 3,378,000 – – – – 2023–2025

 400,000 28 Sep 2018 FY19 8.52 3,408,000 – 33.3 – 3,061,326 2022–2024

 390,000 30 Sep 2017 FY18 6.41 2,499,900 33.3 33.3 – 2,984,800 2021–2023

 450,000 30 Sep 2016 FY17 5.64 2,538,000 66.7 33.3 – 3,444,000 2020–2022

Nick 
Vrondas

690,000 30 Sep 2021 FY22 17.22 11,881,800 – – – – 2026–2032

 420,000 30 Sep 2020 FY21 15.77 6,623,400 – – – – 2024–2026

 380,000 30 Sep 2019 FY20 11.26 4,278,800 – – – – 2023–2025

 600,000 28 Sep 2018 FY19 8.52 5,112,000 – 33.3 – 4,592,000 2022–2024

 600,000 30 Sep 2017 FY18 6.41 3,846,000 33.3 33.3 – 4,592,000 2021–2023

 750,000 30 Sep 2016 FY17 5.64 4,230,000 66.7 33.3 – 5,740,000 2020–2022

 
Footnotes to the analysis of executive KMP performance rights table:

1.  The fair value was determined at grant date for each of the tranches and calculated using a combination of the standard Black Scholes model with a continuous dividend/distribution yield and 
a Monte Carlo model which simulated total returns for each of the S&P/ASX 100 entities and discounted the future value of any potential future vesting performance rights to arrive at a present value.

2.  As performance rights had an exercise price of $nil, Goodman securities were automatically issued to employees when the performance rights vested. Accordingly, the percentage of performance 
rights that vested during the year equalled the percentage of securities issued during the year. 

3. The value of performance rights vested was calculated using the closing price of a Goodman security on the ASX of $22.96 on 1 September 2021, the day the performance rights vested.
4.  As Goodman securities were automatically issued to employees when the performance rights vested, and lapsed where they failed to do so, the vesting date was also deemed to be the expiry date.



GOODMAN GROUP

72

6.4 Securities issued on exercise of performance rights 

During FY22, Goodman issued 14,716,648 securities as a result of the vesting of performance rights. The amount paid by the employees on exercise 
of these securities was $nil.

No performance rights have vested since the end of the financial year. 

6.5 Unissued securities under performance rights

At the date of this Directors’ report, unissued securities of Goodman under performance rights, i.e. those performance rights that have not yet vested, were:

Vesting date1 Exercise price $ Number of performance rights2

Ten-year plan

Sep 2031 – 1,607,145

Sep 2030 – 1,607,143

Sep 2029 – 1,607,144

Sep 2028 – 1,607,142

Sep 2027 – 1,607,142

Sep 2026 – 1,607,142

Sep 2025 – 1,607,142

Five-year plan

Sep 2026 – 2,501,648

Sep 2025 – 6,607,973

Sep 2024 – 10,183,285

Sep 2023 – 12,920,177

Sep 2022 – 13,645,975

1.  As Goodman securities were automatically issued to employees when the performance rights vested, and lapsed where they failed to do so, the vesting date was also deemed to be the expiry date.
2. The number of performance rights at the date of this Directors’ report is net of any rights forfeited and excludes 14,641,586 performance rights where the intention is to cash settle.

Directors’ report
Remuneration report – audited (continued)



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

73

6.6 Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration (statutory analysis)

Details of the nature and amount of each major element of the remuneration of Non-Executive Directors, as calculated under Australian Accounting 
Standards, are set out below:

Salary and fees Superannuation benefits Total

Non-Executive Directors – GL and GFML $ $ $

Stephen Johns1 FY22 601,432 23,568 625,000

FY21 480,131 21,694 501,825

Ian Ferrier2 FY22 – – –

FY21 234,619 8,437 243,056

Christopher Green FY22 300,000 – 300,000

FY21 264,062 – 264,062

Mark Johnson FY22 306,432 23,568 330,000

FY21 264,060 21,694 285,754

Vanessa Liu3 FY22 20,000 – 20,000

FY21 – – –

Rebecca McGrath FY22 344,108 5,892 350,000

FY21 282,368 21,694 304,062

Phillip Pryke4 FY22 408,701 23,568 432,269

FY21 357,068 21,694 378,762

Hilary Spann5 FY22 59,048 – 59,048

FY21 – – –

Penny Winn6 FY22 107,850 9,195 117,045

 FY21 258,306 21,694 280,000

Non-Executive Director – GLHK HK$ HK$ HK$ HK$

David Collins7 FY22 680,000 – 680,000

FY21 625,000 – 625,000

1. Stephen Johns was appointed Chairman on 19 November 2020 and movement in Director’s fees reflects this appointment.
2. Ian Ferrier retired as a Director on 19 November 2020.
3. Vanessa Liu was appointed as a Director on 1 June 2022.
4.  Salary and fees for Phillip Pryke included an amount of A$93,747 (NZ$100,000) (2021: A$83,760 (NZ$90,000)) due in respect of his role on the board and audit committee of Goodman (NZ) 

Limited, the manager of Goodman Property Trust.
5. Hilary Spann was appointed as a Director on 4 April 2022.
6. Penny Winn retired as a Director on 18 November 2021.
7. David Collins is a director of GLHK and his director’s fees are disclosed in Hong Kong dollars.

 



GOODMAN GROUP

74

6.7 Movements in Goodman securities held

The movements during the year in the number of Goodman securities held, directly, indirectly or beneficially, by each KMP, including their related 
parties, are set out below:

Non-Executive Directors –  
GL and GFML 

Held at 
the start of 

the year1

Securities issued 
on vesting of 

performance rights Acquisitions Disposals
Held at the end 

of the year2

Stephen Johns FY22 41,143 – – – 41,143

FY21 25,000 – 16,182 (39) 41,143

Christopher Green FY22 78,996 – – – 78,996

FY21 78,996 – – – 78,996

Mark Johnson FY22 5,000 – 10,000 - 15,000

FY21 – – 5,000 - 5,000

Vanessa Liu FY22 – – – – –

FY21 – – – – –

Rebecca McGrath FY22 43,061 – - - 43,061

FY21 42,144 – 917 - 43,061

Phillip Pryke FY22 59,880 – – – 59,880

FY21 59,880 – – – 59,880

Hilary Spann FY22 – – 3,500 – 3,500

FY21 – – – – –

Penny Winn FY22 24,700 – – – 24,700

FY21 24,700 – – – 24,700

Non-Executive Director – GLHK

David Collins FY22 5,000 – – – 5,000

FY21 5,000 – – – 5,000

Executive Directors – GL and GFML

Gregory Goodman FY22 38,487,880 1,866,666 – (1,750,000) 38,604,546

 FY21 38,104,547 1,983,333 – (1,600,000) 38,487,880

Danny Peeters FY22 1,633,131 566,666 – - 2,199,797

 FY21 2,103,548 529,583 – (1,000,000) 1,633,131

Anthony Rozic FY22 1,209,460 633,333 – (891,486) 951,307

FY21 1,475,958 628,333 – (894,831) 1,209,460

Other executive KMP

Nick Kurtis FY22 554,286 633,333 – (684,000) 503,619

FY21 503,330 677,083 – (626,127) 554,286

Michael O’Sullivan FY22 843,119 413,333 – (190,000) 1,066,452

 FY21 666,601 393,750 – (217,232) 843,119

Nick Vrondas FY22 129,909 650,000 – (650,000) 129,909

FY21 – 693,750 – (563,841) 129,909

1. Relates to securities held at the later of the start of the financial year or the date of becoming a KMP.
2. Relates to securities held at the earlier of the end of the financial year or the date of ceasing to be a KMP.

 

Directors’ report
Remuneration report – audited (continued)



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

75

6.8  Transactions with Directors, executives and their related entities

GreenPoint Real Estate Innovation and Technology Venture, LP

In order to enhance understanding of and access to technologies 
that may influence the property sector and the business, the Group 
has committed to investing USD15.0 million in GreenPoint Real Estate 
Innovation and Technology Venture, LP, a property technology fund that 
is a Delaware limited partnership, managed by Greenpoint Group LP, 
also a Delaware limited partnership. Greenpoint Group LP is beneficially 
owned and controlled by Christopher Green, a director of GL. As at 
30 June 2022, the Group had invested USD5.3 million.

Wyuna Regenerative Ag Investment Fund (Wyuna) 

The Group has, as part of our ESG strategy, committed to investing 
$30.0 million in Wyuna, a fund offering a model blending carbon farming, 
red meat production and regeneration in Australia. The fund is managed 
by Wyuna Regenerative Ag, which is 50% owned by Christopher Green, 
a director of Goodman Limited. As at 30 June 2022, the Group had 
invested $nil.

Other than as disclosed elsewhere in the remuneration report, there were 
no other transactions with Directors, executives, and their related entities. 



GOODMAN GROUP

76

Environmental regulations
Goodman has policies and procedures to identify and appropriately 
address environmental obligations that might arise in respect of 
Goodman’s operations that are subject to significant environmental 
laws and regulation. The Directors have determined that Goodman has 
complied with those obligations during the financial year and that there 
has not been any material breach.

Declaration by the Group Chief Executive Officer 
and Group Chief Financial Officer
The Group Chief Executive Officer and Group Chief Financial Officer 
declared in writing to the Board that, in their opinion, the financial records 
of Goodman for the year ended 30 June 2022 have been properly 
maintained and the financial report for the year ended 30 June 2022 
complies with accounting standards and presents a true and fair view of 
Goodman’s financial condition and operational results. The Group Chief 
Executive Officer and Group Chief Financial Officer confirmed that the 
above declaration was, to the best of their knowledge and belief, founded 
on a sound system of risk management and internal control and that the 
system was operating effectively in all material respects in relation to the 
financial reporting risks.

Disclosure in respect of any indemnification 
and insurance of officers and auditors
Pursuant to the Constitution of Goodman, current and former Directors 
and officers of Goodman are entitled to be indemnified. Deeds of 
Indemnity have been executed by Goodman, consistent with the 
Constitution, in favour of each Director. The Deed indemnifies each 
Director to the extent permitted by law for liabilities (other than legal 
costs) incurred in their capacity as a director of Goodman Limited 
or a controlled entity and, in respect of legal costs, for liabilities incurred 
in defending or resisting civil or criminal proceedings.

Goodman has insured to the extent permitted by law, current and former 
Directors and officers of Goodman in respect of liability and legal expenses 
incurred in their capacity as a director or officer. As it is prohibited under the 
terms of the contract of insurance, the Directors have not included details 
of the nature of the liabilities covered or the amount of the premiums paid. 

The auditors of Goodman are not indemnified by Goodman or covered 
in any way by this insurance in respect of the audit.

Non-audit services

During the financial year, KPMG, Goodman and GIT’s auditor,  
performed certain other services in addition to the audit and review 
of the financial statements. 

The Board has considered the non-audit services provided during the 
financial year by the auditor and, in accordance with written advice 
authorised by a resolution of the Audit Committee, resolved that it is 
satisfied that the provision of those non-audit services during the financial 
year by the auditor is compatible with, and did not compromise, the 
auditor independence requirements of the Corporations Act 2001 for the 
following reasons:

+ All non-audit services were subject to the corporate governance 
procedures adopted by Goodman and have been reviewed by the 
Audit Committee to determine they do not impact the integrity and 
objectivity of the auditor

+ The non-audit services provided do not undermine the general 
principles relating to auditor independence as set out in APES 110 
Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, as they did not involve 
reviewing or auditing the auditor’s own work, acting in a management 
or decision making capacity for Goodman, acting as an advocate for 
Goodman or jointly sharing risks and rewards.

Details of the amounts paid to the auditor of Goodman and GIT, KPMG and 
its network firms, for the audit and non-audit services provided during the 
financial year are set out in note 26 to the consolidated financial statements.

Lead auditor’s independence declaration under section 
307C of the Corporations Act 2001
The lead auditor’s independence declaration is set out on page 78 and 
forms part of this Directors’ report for the financial year.

Directors’ report
(continued) 



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

77

Rounding
Goodman and GIT are entities of a kind referred to in ASIC Corporations 
(Rounding in Financial/Directors’ Reports) Instrument 2016/191. In 
accordance with that Instrument, amounts in this Directors’ report and 
the consolidated financial statements have been rounded to the nearest 
hundred thousand dollars, unless otherwise stated.

Events subsequent to balance date
There has not arisen in the interval between the end of the financial year 
and the date of this report any item, transaction or event of a material and 
unusual nature likely, in the opinion of the Directors, to affect significantly 
the operations of Goodman, the results of those operations, or the state 
of affairs of Goodman, in future financial years.

The Directors’ report is made in accordance with a resolution of the Directors.

 

Stephen Johns 
Independent Chairman

 

Gregory Goodman 
Group Chief Executive Officer

Sydney, 16 August 2022



GOODMAN GROUP

78

To the Directors of Goodman Limited and Goodman Funds Management Limited,  
as Responsible Entity for Goodman Industrial Trust 

I declare that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, in relation to the audits of Goodman Limited (as the deemed parent presenting the stapled 
security arrangement of the Goodman Group) and Goodman Industrial Trust for the financial year ended 30 June 2022, there have been:

(i)  no contraventions of the auditor independence requirements as set out in the Corporations Act 2001 in relation to the audits; and

(ii)  no contraventions of any applicable code of professional conduct in relation to the audits.

   
KPMG   Eileen Hoggett 

 Partner

  Sydney  
  16 August 2022

 
Lead Auditor's Independence Declaration 
under Section 307C of the Corporations Act 2001

KPMG, an Australian partnership and a member firm of the KPMG global organisation of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Limited, a private English company limited 
by guarantee. All rights reserved. The KPMG name and logo are trademarks used under license by the independent member firms of the KPMG global organisation. Liability limited by a scheme 
approved under Professional Standards Legislation.



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

79

Goodman GIT

Note 2022
$M

2021
$M

2022
$M

2021
$M

Current assets

Cash and cash equivalents 21(a)  1,056.0  920.4  473.6  379.8 

Receivables 7  217.8  331.3  131.0  816.1 

Contract assets 8  77.6  80.9 – –

Inventories 6(b)  389.0  235.1 – –

Other financial assets 17  1.6  16.5  1.6  16.5 

Assets held for sale 9  608.2  41.5  608.2 –

Total current assets  2,350.2  1,625.7  1,214.4  1,212.4 

Non-current assets

Receivables 7  173.4  277.5  3,137.4  2,528.5 

Inventories 6(b)  1,727.1  1,192.7  5.9  5.9 

Investment properties 6(b)  1,423.7  1,851.2  495.3  1,155.7 

Investments accounted for using the equity method 6(b)  14,379.6  10,660.0  11,356.1  8,078.4 

Deferred tax assets 5(d)  25.2  19.9 –  – 

Other financial assets 17  496.4  362.8  373.1  314.4 

Property, plant and equipment 12  61.4  54.6  –  – 

Intangible assets 14  795.4  822.6  –  – 

Total non-current assets  19,082.2  15,241.3  15,367.8  12,082.9 

Total assets  21,432.4  16,867.0  16,582.2  13,295.3 

Current liabilities

Payables 10  606.5  565.9  72.7  607.6 

Current tax payables 5(c)  173.4  160.1 – –

Interest bearing liabilities 16  133.3 –  133.3 –

Provisions 11  299.2  294.2  233.5  166.3 

Lease liabilities 13  12.5  11.9 – –

Other financial liabilities 17  71.2  1.9  25.9  1.9 

Total current liabilities  1,296.1  1,034.0  465.4  775.8 

Non-current liabilities

Payables 10  111.0  125.5  723.8  232.2 

Interest bearing liabilities 16  2,698.9  2,060.3  2,692.1  2,062.8 

Deferred tax liabilities 5(d)  380.3  168.4  267.9  124.0 

Provisions 11  15.5  23.7 – –

Lease liabilities 13  58.1  82.1 – –

Other financial liabilities 17  447.7  211.5  325.3  124.6 

Total non-current liabilities  3,711.5  2,671.5  4,009.1  2,543.6 

Total liabilities  5,007.6  3,705.5  4,474.5  3,319.4 

Net assets  16,424.8  13,161.5  12,107.7  9,975.9 

Equity attributable to Securityholders

Issued capital 20(a)  8,206.1 8,096.4  8,154.5 7,849.0 

Reserves  352.7 134.8  238.8 (33.7)

Retained earnings  7,866.0 4,930.3  3,714.4 2,160.6 

Total equity attributable to Securityholders  16,424.8  13,161.5  12,107.7  9,975.9 

Comprising:

Total equity attributable to GL 22(a)  2,292.9  1,635.6 

Total equity attributable to other entities stapled to GL 22(b)  14,131.9  11,525.9 

Total equity attributable to Securityholders  16,424.8  13,161.5 

The consolidated statements of financial position are to be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.

Consolidated statements of financial position
as at 30 June 2022



GOODMAN GROUP

80

Goodman GIT

Note 2022
$M

2021
$M

2022
$M

2021
$M

Revenue 

Gross property income 2  138.0  112.4  51.7  60.2 

Management income 2  511.4  383.9 – –

Development income 2  1,441.6  1,492.0 – –

Distributions from investments  0.8 –  6.4  9.1 

 2,091.8  1,988.3  58.1  69.3 

Property and development expenses

Property expenses (33.7) (32.8) (16.5) (20.2)

Development expenses 2 (554.9) (862.3) – (2.3)

(588.6) (895.1) (16.5) (22.5)

Other income

Net gain from fair value adjustments on investment properties 6(e)  260.1  63.1  208.3  60.2 

Net gain on disposal of investment properties  73.6  37.7  69.8  39.3 

Net gain on disposal of assets held for sale  12.5 – – –

Net gain on disposal of equity investments 2  0.2  5.0 –  3.2 

Share of net results of equity accounted investments 6(f)  2,718.2  1,708.9  2,173.0  1,373.8 

 3,064.6  1,814.7  2,451.1  1,476.5 

Other expenses

Employee expenses 2 (258.9) (210.8) – –

Share based payments expense 2 (257.6) (268.8) – –

Administrative and other expenses (90.4) (83.2) (60.4) (52.1)

Reversal of previous impairment 2 – – –  17.6 

(606.9) (562.8) (60.4) (34.5)

Profit before interest and tax  3,960.9  2,345.1  2,432.3  1,488.8 

Net finance (expense)/income

Finance income 15  8.3  94.3  72.8  177.9 

Finance expense 15 (231.1) (19.4) (304.4) (42.4)

Net finance (expense)/income (222.8)  74.9 (231.6)  135.5 

Profit before income tax  3,738.1  2,420.0  2,200.7  1,624.3 

Income tax expense 5(a) (324.1) (108.1) (133.1) (49.5)

Profit for the year  3,414.0  2,311.9  2,067.6  1,574.8 

Profit attributable to GL 22(a)  552.6  300.2 

Profit attributable to other entities stapled to GL 22(b)  2,861.4  2,011.7 

Profit for the year attributable to Securityholders  3,414.0  2,311.9 

Basic profit per security (¢) 3  183.2  125.4 

Diluted profit per security (¢) 3  178.8  122.1 

The consolidated income statements are to be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.

Consolidated income statements
for the year ended 30 June 2022



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

81

 

Goodman GIT

Note 2022
$M

2021
$M

2022
$M

2021
$M

Profit for the year  3,414.0  2,311.9  2,067.6  1,574.8 

Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the year  
Items what will not be classified to profit or loss

Actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit 
retirement schemes, net of income tax  5.6 (6.0) – –

Effect of foreign currency translation  1.6 (0.8) – –

 7.2 (6.8) – –

Items that are or may be reclassified 
subsequently to profit or loss

Increase due to revaluation of other financial assets  0.3  0.3  5.0 (2.2)

Cash flow hedges:

– Change in value of financial instruments  15.9  0.3  15.9  0.3 

Effect of foreign currency translation  143.7 (278.6)  221.8 (182.2)

 159.9 (278.0)  242.7 (184.1)

Other comprehensive income/(loss) 
for the year, net of income tax  167.1 (284.8)  242.7 (184.1)

Total comprehensive income for the year  3,581.1  2,027.1  2,310.3  1,390.7 

Total comprehensive income attributable to GL 22(a)  542.7  271.6 

Total comprehensive income attributable 
to other entities stapled to GL 22(b)  3,038.4  1,755.5 

Total comprehensive income for the year 
attributable to Securityholders  3,581.1  2,027.1 

The consolidated statements of comprehensive income are to be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.

Consolidated statements of comprehensive income
for the year ended 30 June 2022



GOODMAN GROUP

82

Attributable to Securityholders

Goodman
Issued 
capital

Asset 
revaluation 

reserve

Cash flow 
hedge 

reserve

Foreign 
currency 

translation 
reserve

Employee 
compensation 

reserve

Defined 
benefit 

retirement 
schemes 

reserve
Total  

reserves
Retained 
earnings Total

Note $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M
Balance at 1 July 2020  8,031.7 (7.2) (5.2)  188.6  239.8 (31.3)  384.7  3,104.2  11,520.6 
Total comprehensive 
income/(loss) for the year
Profit for the year  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  2,311.9  2,311.9 
Other comprehensive 
income/(loss)
Effect of foreign currency translation  –  0.2  0.5 (279.3)  – (0.8) (279.4)  – (279.4)
Cash flow hedges:
–  Change in value of financial instruments  –  –  0.3  –  –  –  0.3  –  0.3 
Increase due to revaluation 
of other financial assets

 –  0.3  –  –  –  –  0.3  –  0.3 

Actuarial losses on defined benefit 
superannuation funds, net of income tax

 –  –  –  –  – (6.0) (6.0)  – (6.0)

Total other comprehensive income/(loss) 
for the year, net of income tax

 –  0.5  0.8 (279.3)  – (6.8) (284.8)  – (284.8)

Total comprehensive income/(loss) 
for the year, net of income tax  –  0.5  0.8 (279.3)  – (6.8) (284.8)  2,311.9  2,027.1 

Transfers  –  –  –  – (68.4)  – (68.4)  68.4  – 
Contributions by and distributions to owners
Dividends/distributions on stapled securities 19  –  –  –  –  –  –  – (554.2) (554.2)
Issue of stapled securities 20(a)  65.1  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  65.1 
Issue costs (0.4)  –  –  –  –  –  –  – (0.4)
Purchase of stapled securities for the LTIP  –  –  –  – (22.4)  – (22.4)  – (22.4)
Equity settled share based payments expense  –  –  –  –  134.7  –  134.7  –  134.7 
Deferred taxes associated with the LTIP  –  –  –  –  8.1  –  8.1  –  8.1 
Transfer to payables  –  –  –  – (17.1)  – (17.1)  – (17.1)
Balance at 30 June 2021 8,096.4 (6.7) (4.4) (90.7)  274.7 (38.1)  134.8  4,930.3  13,161.5 
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year
Profit for the year  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  3,414.0  3,414.0 
Other comprehensive (loss)/income
Effect of foreign currency translation  –  – (0.4)  144.1  –  1.6  145.3  –  145.3 
Cash flow hedges:
– Change in value of financial instruments  –  –  15.9  –  –  –  15.9  –  15.9 
Increase due to revaluation of other 
financial assets

 –  0.3  –  –  –  –  0.3  –  0.3 

Actuarial gains on defined benefit 
superannuation funds, net of income tax

 –  –  –  –  –  5.6  5.6  –  5.6 

Total other comprehensive income 
for the year, net of income tax

 –  0.3  15.5  144.1  –  7.2  167.1  –  167.1 

Total comprehensive income 
for the year, net of income tax  –  0.3  15.5  144.1  –  7.2  167.1  3,414.0  3,581.1 

Transfers  –  –  –  – (81.8)  – (81.8)  81.8  – 
Contributions by and distributions to owners
Dividends/distributions on stapled securities 19  –  –  –  –  –  –  – (560.1) (560.1)
Issue of stapled securities 20(a)  109.8  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  109.8 
Issue costs (0.1)  –  –  –  –  –  –  – (0.1)
Purchase of stapled securities for the LTIP  –  –  –  – (28.0)  – (28.0)  – (28.0)
Equity settled share based payments expense  –  –  –  –  164.8  –  164.8  –  164.8 
Deferred taxes associated with the LTIP  –  –  –  – (4.2)  – (4.2)  – (4.2)
Balance at 30 June 2022 8,206.1 (6.4)  11.1  53.4  325.5 (30.9)  352.7  7,866.0  16,424.8 

  
The consolidated statements of changes in equity is to be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. For an analysis of equity attributable to 
non-controlling interests, refer to note 22(b).

Consolidated statements of changes in equity
for the year ended 30 June 2022



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

83

Attributable to Unitholders

GIT
Issued 
capital

Asset 
revaluation 

reserve

Cash flow 
hedge 

reserve

Foreign 
currency 

translation 
reserve

Employee 
compensation 

reserve
Total  

reserves
Retained 
earnings Total

Note $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M

Balance at 1 July 2020  7,623.5  7.0 (5.2) (38.4)  173.3  136.7  1,029.2  8,789.4 

Total comprehensive (loss)/income for the year

Profit for the year  –  –  –  –  –  –  1,574.8  1,574.8 

Other comprehensive (loss)/income

Effect of foreign currency translation  – (0.2)  0.4 (182.4)  – (182.2)  – (182.2)

Cash flow hedges:

– Change in value of financial instruments  –  –  0.3  –  –  0.3  –  0.3 

Increase due to revaluation of other financial assets  – (2.2)  –  –  – (2.2)  – (2.2)

Total other comprehensive (loss)/income for the year,  
net of income tax

 – (2.4)  0.7 (182.4)  – (184.1)  – (184.1)

Total comprehensive (loss)/income for the year  – (2.4)  0.7 (182.4)  – (184.1)  1,574.8  1,390.7 

Contributions by and distributions to owners

Distributions on ordinary units 19  –  –  –  –  –  – (443.4) (443.4)

Issue of ordinary units 20(a)  42.5  –  –  –  –  –  –  42.5 

Issue of ordinary units for the LTIP 20(a)  183.2  –  –  –  –  –  –  183.2 

Issue costs on ordinary units (0.2)  –  –  –  –  –  – (0.2)

Equity settled share based payments transactions  –  –  –  –  13.7  13.7  –  13.7 

Balance at 30 June 2021 7,849.0  4.6 (4.5) (220.8)  187.0 (33.7)  2,160.6  9,975.9 

Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year

Profit for the year  –  –  –  –  –  –  2,067.6  2,067.6 

Other comprehensive (loss)/income

Effect of foreign currency translation  – (0.2) (0.3)  222.3  –  221.8  –  221.8 

Cash flow hedges:

– Change in value of financial instruments  –  –  15.9  –  –  15.9  –  15.9 

Increase due to revaluation of other financial assets  –  5.0  –  –  –  5.0  –  5.0 

Total other comprehensive income for the year,  
net of income tax

 –  4.8  15.6  222.3  –  242.7  –  242.7 

Total comprehensive income for the year  –  4.8  15.6  222.3  –  242.7  2,067.6  2,310.3 

Contributions by and distributions to owners

Distributions on ordinary units 19  –  –  –  –  –  – (513.8) (513.8)

Issue of ordinary units 20(a)  71.2  –  –  –  –  –  –  71.2 

Issue of ordinary units for the LTIP 20(a)  234.4  –  –  –  –  –  –  234.4 

Issue costs on ordinary units (0.1)  –  –  –  –  –  – (0.1)

Equity settled share based payments transactions  –  –  –  –  29.8  29.8  –  29.8 

Balance at 30 June 2022  8,154.5  9.4  11.1  1.5  216.8  238.8  3,714.4  12,107.7 

The consolidated statements of changes in equity is to be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. 

Consolidated statements of changes in equity
for the year ended 30 June 2022



GOODMAN GROUP

84

Goodman GIT

 
Note

2022
$M

2021
$M

2022
$M

2021
$M

Cash flows from operating activities

Property income received  138.4  108.3  50.8  62.1 

Cash receipts from development activities  1,587.8  1,560.3  –  – 

Other cash receipts from management and other activities  523.8  346.4  –  – 

Property expenses paid (28.6) (41.7) (13.9) (21.1)

Payments for development activities (1,220.7) (947.4) (1.1)  – 

Other cash payments in the course of operations (456.8) (381.6) (60.4) (54.1)
Distributions received from equity investments 
 including Partnerships

 442.5  536.9  245.3  381.7 

Interest received  9.3  9.2  8.9  8.7 

Finance costs paid (44.2) (34.3) (32.5) (38.2)

Net income taxes (paid)/refunded (110.5) (41.4) (1.1)  0.5 

Net cash provided by operating activities 21(b)  841.0  1,114.7  196.0  339.6 

Cash flows from investing activities

Net proceeds from disposal of investment properties  671.8  170.2  345.6  161.9 
Proceeds from disposal of controlled entities,  
net of cash disposed

 0.4  –  –  – 

Net proceeds from disposal of equity investments  4.4  13.1  22.6  11.3 

Return of capital by Partnerships  91.8  256.3  20.9  166.1 

Payments for investment properties (431.7) (192.2) (15.1) (17.5)

Payments for investments in Partnerships (1,332.3) (790.3) (1,050.0) (464.9)

Payments for plant and equipment (5.9) (7.0)  –  – 

Net cash used in investing activities (1,001.5) (549.9) (676.0) (143.1)

Cash flows from financing activities

Net proceeds from issue of stapled securities  109.7  64.8  71.1  42.3 

Net cash flows from/to loans with related parties  111.4 (135.0)  279.6  25.1 

Proceeds from borrowings and derivative financial instruments  1,466.5  204.6  1,456.4  246.8 
Payments on borrowings and derivative 
financial instruments

(789.3) (891.9) (787.4) (891.9)

Dividends and distributions paid (557.2) (551.4) (446.6) (478.2)

Payments of lease liabilities (13.4) (17.8)  –  – 

Purchase of securities to fund LTIP obligations (28.0) (22.4)  –  – 

Net cash provided by/(used in) financing activities  299.7 (1,349.1)  573.1 (1,055.9)

Net increase/(decrease) in cash held  139.2 (784.3)  93.1 (859.4)

Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year  920.4  1,792.8  379.8  1,302.6 

Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held (3.6) (88.1)  0.7 (63.4)

Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 21(a)  1,056.0  920.4  473.6  379.8 

The consolidated cash flow statements are to be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.

Non-cash transactions are included in note 21(c).

Consolidated cash flow statements
for the year ended 30 June 2022



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

85

BASIS OF PREPARATION

This section sets out the general basis upon which Goodman and 
GIT have prepared their financial statements and information that 
is disclosed to comply with the Australian Accounting Standards, 
Corporations Act 2001 or Corporations Regulations. 

Specific accounting policies can be found in the sections to which 
they relate.

1 Basis of preparation
Goodman Limited and Goodman Industrial Trust are for-profit entities 
domiciled in Australia. 

Statement of compliance

These consolidated financial statements are general purpose financial 
statements which have been prepared in accordance with Australian 
Accounting Standards adopted by the Australian Accounting Standards 
Board (AASB) and the Corporations Act 2001. International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRS) form the basis of Australian Accounting 
Standards adopted by the AASB. The consolidated financial statements 
also comply with IFRS.

The consolidated financial statements are presented in Australian dollars 
and were authorised for issue by the Directors on 16 August 2022.

Basis of preparation of the consolidated financial reports

Shares in the Company, units in the Trust and CDIs over shares in 
GLHK are stapled to one another and are quoted as a single security 
on the ASX. Australian Accounting Standards require an acquirer 
to be identified and an in-substance acquisition to be recognised. 
In relation to the stapling of the Company, the Trust and GLHK, 
the Company is identified as having acquired control over the assets 
of the Trust and GLHK. In the consolidated statement of financial 
position of the Group, equity attributable to the Trust and the CDIs 
over the shares of GLHK are presented as non-controlling interests.

As permitted by the relief provided in ASIC Instrument 20-0568, 
these financial statements present both the financial statements and 
accompanying notes of Goodman and GIT. GLHK, which is incorporated 
and domiciled in Hong Kong, prepares its financial statements under 
Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards and the applicable requirements 
of the Hong Kong Companies Ordinance and accordingly the financial 
statements of GLHK have not been combined and included as adjacent 
columns in this report. The financial statements of GLHK have been 
included as an appendix to this report. 

The consolidated financial statements are prepared on the historical 
cost basis, subject to any impairment of assets, except that the following 
assets and liabilities are stated at fair value: 

+ Investment properties

+ Derivative financial instruments

+ Investments in unlisted securities

+ Liabilities for cash settled share based payment arrangements.

In accordance with ASIC Corporations (Rounding in Financial/Directors’ 
Reports) Instrument 2016/191, amounts in these consolidated financial 
statements have been rounded to the nearest hundred thousand dollars, 
unless otherwise stated.

Foreign currency translation

Functional and presentation currency

Items included in the consolidated financial statements of each of the 
controlled entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the entity operates (functional currency). The 
consolidated financial statements are presented in Australian dollars, which 
is the Company’s and the Trust’s functional and presentation currency.

Transactions

Foreign currency transactions are translated to each entity’s functional 
currency at rates approximating to the foreign exchange rates ruling at 
the dates of the transactions. Amounts receivable and payable in foreign 
currencies at the balance date are translated at the rates of exchange 
ruling on that date. Resulting exchange differences are recognised in the 
income statement.

Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of 
historical cost are translated at rates of exchange applicable at the date 
of the initial transaction. Non-monetary items which are measured at fair 
value in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the 
date when the fair value was determined.

Translation of controlled foreign operations

The assets and liabilities of controlled foreign operations are translated 
into Australian dollars at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance date.

Revenue and expenses are translated at weighted average rates for the 
financial year. Exchange differences arising on translation are taken directly 
to the foreign currency translation reserve. On cessation of operations 
in a foreign region, the cumulative exchange differences relating to the 
operations in that region, that have been included in the foreign currency 
translation reserve, are reclassified to the income statement.

Exchange differences arising on monetary items that form part of the net 
investment in a controlled foreign operation are recognised in the foreign 
currency translation reserve on consolidation.

Notes to the consolidated financial statements



GOODMAN GROUP

86

Exchange rates used

The following exchange rates are the main exchange rates used 
in translating foreign currency transactions, balances and financial 
statements to Australian dollars:

Weighted average As at 30 June

Australian dollars (AUD) to 2022 2021 2022 2021

New Zealand dollars (NZD) 1.0667 1.0745 1.1057 1.0739

Hong Kong dollars (HKD) 5.6626 5.7958 5.4241 5.8222

Chinese yuan (CNY) 4.6840 4.9419 4.6154 4.8412

Japanese yen (JPY) 85.1512 79.6101 93.7770 83.2780

Euros (EUR) 0.6442 0.6262 0.6594 0.6327

British pounds sterling (GBP) 0.5456 0.5546 0.5676 0.5432

United States dollars (USD) 0.7255 0.7472 0.6912 0.7497

Brazilian real (BRL) 3.8037 4.0236 3.5905 3.7528

 
Changes in accounting policies

A fundamental reform of major interest rate benchmarks is being 
undertaken globally, including the replacement of some interbank offered 
rates (IBORs) with alternative risk-free rates (referred to as IBOR reform). 
The Group has adopted Interest Rate Benchmark Reform – Phase 2 
(Amendments to IFRS 9, IAS 39, IFRS 7, IFRS 4 and IFRS 16) from 
1 July 2021. These amendments provide reliefs relating to modifications 
of financial instruments and lease contracts or hedging relationships 
triggered by a replacement of a benchmark interest rate in a contract 
with a new alternative benchmark rate. The Group applied the Phase 2 
amendments retrospectively. However, in accordance with the exceptions 
permitted in the Phase 2 amendments, the Group has elected not to 
restate comparatives for the prior periods to reflect the application 
of these amendments. 

The overall impact of the IBOR reform is not significant in the context 
of Goodman’s financial position and performance.

See note 18 for related disclosures about risks, financial assets and 
financial liabilities indexed to IBORs.

Apart from the above, the AASB has also issued other amendments 
to standards that are first effective from 1 July 2021 but none of these 
have a material impact on the Group’s financial statements.

Australian Accounting Standards issued but not yet effective 

The Group has not applied any new or amended standard that is not 
yet effective but available for early application in the current accounting 
period. None of the new or amended accounting standards are expected 
to have a significant impact on the future results of the Group. 

Critical accounting estimates used in the preparation of the 
consolidated financial statements

The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires estimates 
and assumptions concerning the application of accounting policies and 
the future to be made by Goodman. Estimates are continually evaluated 
and are based on historical experience and other factors, including 
expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under 
the circumstances. 

The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a 
material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within 
the next financial year can be found in the following notes:

+ Note 6 – Property assets

+ Note 14 – Goodwill and intangible assets

+ Note 18 – Financial risk management.

The accounting impacts of revisions to estimates are recognised in the 
period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.

Measurement of fair values

A number of Goodman’s accounting policies and disclosures require the 
measurement of fair values, for both financial and non-financial assets 
and liabilities.

When measuring the fair value of an asset or a liability, Goodman uses 
market observable data as far as possible. Fair values are categorised into 
different levels in a fair value hierarchy and have been defined as follows:

+ Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical 
assets or liabilities

+ Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are 
observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) 
or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices)

+ Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on 
observable market data (unobservable inputs).

Further information about the assumptions made in measuring fair values 
is included in the following notes:

+ Note 6 – Property assets

+ Note 18 – Financial risk management.

Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Basis of preparation (continued)



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

87

RESULTS FOR THE YEAR

The notes in this section focus on the significant items in the income 
statement, and include the profit per security, analysis of the results 
by operating segment and taxation details.

2 Profit before income tax

Gross property income

Gross property income comprises rental income under operating leases 
(net of incentives provided) and amounts billed to customers for outgoings 
(e.g. rates, levies, cleaning, security, etc). Amounts billed to customers for 
outgoings are a cost recovery for Goodman and are recognised once the 
expense has been incurred. The expense is included in property expenses.

Rental income under operating leases is recognised on a straight-line 
basis over the term of the lease contract. Where operating lease rental 
income is recognised relating to fixed increases in rentals in future 
years, an asset is recognised. This asset is a component of the relevant 
investment property carrying amount. The cost of lease incentives 
provided to customers is amortised on a straight-line basis over the life 
of the lease as a reduction of gross property income.

Management and development income

The revenue from management and development activities is measured 
based on the consideration specified in a contract with a customer. 
Goodman recognises revenue when it transfers control over a product 
or service to a customer.

Management income

Fee income derived from management services relates to investment 
management base fees and property services fees and is recognised and 
invoiced progressively as the services are provided. Customers make 
payments usually either monthly or quarterly in arrears. 

Performance related management income generally relates to portfolio 
performance fee income, which is recognised progressively as the 
services are provided but only when the income can be reliably measured 
and is highly probable of not being reversed. These portfolio performance 
fees are typically dependent on the overall returns of a Partnership 
relative to an agreed benchmark return, assessed over the life of the 
Partnership, which can vary from one year to seven years. The returns 
are impacted by operational factors such as the quality and location 
of the portfolio, active property management, rental income rates and 
development activity but can also be significantly affected by changes 
in global and local economic conditions. Accordingly, portfolio performance 
fee revenue is only recognised towards the end of the relevant assessment 
period, as prior to this revenue recognition is not considered to be 
sufficiently certain. 

In determining the amount of revenue that can be reliably measured, 
management prepares a sensitivity analysis to understand the impact 
of changes in asset valuations on the potential performance fee at 
the assessment date. The assessment of revenue will depend on the 
prevailing market conditions at the reporting date relative to long-term 
averages and also the length of time until the assessment date e.g. the 
longer the time period to assessment date, the greater the impact of the 
sensitivity analysis. The potential portfolio performance fee revenue 
is then recognised based on the length of time from the start of the 
assessment period to the reporting date as a proportion of the total 
assessment period. Where the income is attributable to development 
activities or it relates to a combination of inextricable management and 
development activities that have occurred over the performance fee 
period, then it is reported as development income; otherwise, the income 
is reported as management income. The Partnerships make payments 
in respect of portfolio performances fees at the end of the performance 
periods once the attainment of the conditions has been verified and the 
amount of the fee has been agreed by all parties.



GOODMAN GROUP

88

Development income – disposal of inventories

The disposal of inventories is recognised at the point in time when control 
over the property asset is transferred to the customer. This will generally 
occur on transfer of legal title and payment in full by the customer. The 
gain or loss on disposal of inventories is calculated as the difference 
between the carrying amount of the asset at the time of disposal and 
the proceeds on disposal (less transaction costs) and is included in the 
income statement in the period of disposal.

Development income – development management services

Fee income from development management services (including master-
planning, development management and overall project management) 
is recognised progressively as the services are provided in proportion 
to the stage of completion by reference to costs. Payments are received 
in accordance with the achievement of agreed milestones over the 
development period. The development period can be up to 24 months 
for larger, more complex projects.

Performance related development income includes income associated 
with the returns from individual developments under the Group’s 
management and performance fee income that relates to development 
activity. Income in respect of individual developments is recognised by 
Goodman on attainment of the performance related conditions, which 
is when the income can be reliably measured and is highly probable of 
not being reversed. These amounts are paid by the Partnership when 
the amounts have been measured and agreed. Income associated with 
development activities as part of a portfolio assessment is recognised on 
the same basis as outlined above in the management income section. 

Development income – fixed price development contracts

Certain development activities are assessed as being fixed price 
development contracts. This occurs when a signed contract exists, either 
prior to the commencement of or during the development phase, to 
acquire a development asset from Goodman on completion. Revenue and 
expenses relating to these development contracts are recognised in the 
income statement in proportion to the stage of completion of the relevant 
contracts by reference to costs. The payments may be on completion of 
the development once legal title has been transferred. The development 
period can be up to 24 months for larger, more complex projects.

Net gain on disposal of investment properties 

The disposal of an investment property is recognised at the point in time 
when control over the property has been transferred to the purchaser. 

Employee expenses

Wages, salaries and annual leave

Wages and salaries, including non-monetary benefits, and annual 
leave represent present obligations resulting from employees’ services 
provided to the balance date. These are calculated at undiscounted 
amounts based on rates that are expected to be paid as at balance date 
including related on-costs, such as insurances and payroll tax.

Bonuses

A liability is recognised in other payables and accruals for bonuses where 
there is a contractual obligation or where there is a past practice that has 
created a constructive obligation. Liabilities for bonuses are measured at 
the amounts expected to be paid, including related on-costs, when they 
are settled. 

Superannuation

Defined contribution funds

Obligations for contributions to defined contribution funds are recognised 
as an expense as incurred.

Defined benefit retirement schemes

The net obligation in respect of defined benefit retirement schemes 
is recognised in the statement of financial position and is calculated 
separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that 
employees have earned in the current and prior periods, discounting that 
amount and deducting the fair value of any plan assets. The calculation 
of defined benefit obligations is performed annually by a qualified actuary 
using the projected unit credit method. Remeasurements of the net 
defined benefit liability, which comprise actuarial gains and losses and the 
return on plan assets (excluding interest), are recognised immediately 
in other comprehensive income. Net interest expense and other expenses 
related to defined benefit retirement schemes are recognised in the 
income statement.

Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Results for the year (continued) 
2 Profit before income tax (continued)



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

89

Profit before income tax has been arrived at after crediting/(charging) the following items:

Goodman GIT

Note
2022

$M
2021

$M
2022

$M
2021

$M

Gross property income

Rental income  120.9  93.0  41.4  45.9 

Recovery of property outgoings  17.1  19.4  10.3  14.3 

Gross property income  138.0  112.4  51.7  60.2 

Management activities

Management services  380.5  310.1  –  – 

Performance related income  130.9  73.8  –  – 

Management income  511.4  383.9  –  – 

Development activities

Income from disposal of inventories  803.0  890.5  –  – 

Income from fixed price development contracts  206.8  195.0  –  – 

Other development income, including development management1  388.3  274.2  –  – 

Net gain on disposal of assets held for sale  –  132.3  –  – 

Net gain on disposal of special purpose 
development entities, including JVs

 43.5  –  –  – 

Development income  1,441.6  1,492.0  –  – 

Inventory cost of sales (381.8) (686.8)  – (2.3)

Other development expenses (173.1) (175.5)  –  – 

Development expenses (554.9) (862.3)  – (2.3)

Disposal of equity investments

Net consideration from disposal of associates and JVs  8.5  17.0  –  11.3 

Carrying value of associates and JVs disposed 6(f) (8.3) (12.0)  – (8.1)

Net gain on disposal of equity investments  0.2  5.0  –  3.2 

Employee expenses

Wages, salaries and on–costs (251.4) (203.4)  –  – 

Annual and long service leave (0.6) (1.4)  –  – 

Superannuation costs (6.9) (6.0)  –  – 

Employee expenses (258.9) (210.8)  –  – 

Share based payments expense

Equity settled share based payments expense (164.8) (134.7)  –  – 

Cash settled share based payments expense (57.3) (105.4)  –  – 

Other share based payments related costs (35.5) (28.7)  –  – 

Share based payments expense (257.6) (268.8)  –  – 

Amortisation and depreciation (17.1) (23.0)  –  – 

Impairment reversals

Reversal of previous impairment on loans to related parties  –  –  –  17.6 

Impairment reversals  –  –  –  17.6 

1.  Fee revenues from single contractual arrangements involving a combination of inextricable investment management and development 
management services and recognised over the life of the underlying development projects are classified as development income for statutory 
reporting purposes. During the year, $77.0 million (2021: $75.2 million) of such income was recognised.



GOODMAN GROUP

90

3 Profit per security
Basic profit per security of the Group is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to the Securityholders by the weighted average number of 
securities outstanding during the year. Diluted profit per security is determined by adjusting the profit attributable to the Securityholders and weighted 
average number of securities outstanding for all dilutive potential securities, which comprise performance rights issued under the LTIP.

Goodman

2022
¢

2021
¢

Profit per security

Basic profit per security  183.2  125.4

Diluted profit per security  178.8  122.1

Profit after tax of $3,414.0 million (2021: $2,311.9 million) was used in calculating basic and diluted profit per security.

Weighted average number of securities used in calculating basic and diluted profit per security:

2022 2021

Number of securities

Weighted average number of securities used in calculating basic profit per security  1,863,693,802  1,844,221,829 

Effect of performance rights on issue  45,396,402  48,908,249

Weighted average number of securities used in calculating diluted profit per security 1,909,090,204  1,893,130,078 

The calculation of profit per security is not required for GIT.

Goodman Limited

Under Australian Accounting Standards, the issued units of the Trust and the CDIs over the shares of GLHK are presented as non-controlling interests. 
As a consequence, the Directors are required to present a profit per share and a diluted profit per share based on Goodman Limited’s consolidated 
result after tax but excluding the results attributable to the Trust and GLHK.

2022
¢

2021
¢

Profit per Goodman Limited share

Basic profit per Goodman Limited share 29.7 16.3

Diluted profit per Goodman Limited share 28.9 15.9

Profit after tax of $552.6 million (2021: $300.2 million) was used in calculating basic and diluted profit per Goodman Limited share.

Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Results for the year (continued)



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

91

4 Segment reporting
An operating segment is a component of Goodman that engages in 
business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses. 
Goodman reports the results and financial position of its operating 
segments based on the internal reports regularly reviewed by the Group 
Chief Executive Officer in order to assess each segment’s performance 
and to allocate resources to them.  

Operating segment information is reported on a geographic basis and 
Goodman has determined that its operating segments are Australia 
and New Zealand (reported on a combined basis), Asia (Greater China 
(including the Hong Kong SAR) and Japan), Continental Europe (with 
the vast majority of assets located in Germany and France), the United 
Kingdom and the Americas (principally North America and including Brazil). 

The activities and services undertaken by the operating segments include: 

+ Property investment, through both direct ownership and cornerstone 
investments in Partnerships

+ Management activities, both investment and property management

+ Development activities, including development of directly owned 
assets (predominantly disclosed as inventories) and management 
of development activities for Partnerships.

The segment results that are reported to the Group Chief Executive 
Officer are based on profit before net finance expense and income tax 
expense, and also exclude non-cash items such as fair value adjustments 
and impairments, corporate expenses and share based remuneration. 
The assets allocated to each operating segment are the property assets, 
including the investments in Partnerships and trade and other receivables 
associated with the operating activities, but exclude inter-entity funding, 
income tax receivables and corporate assets. The liabilities allocated 
to each operating segment primarily relate to trade and other payables 
associated with the operating activities, but exclude interest bearing 
liabilities, derivative financial instruments, provisions for distributions and 
corporate liabilities. 

The accounting policies used to report segment information are the 
same as those used to prepare the consolidated financial statements 
of Goodman and GIT.

For the purpose of operating segment reporting, there are no material 
intersegment revenues and costs.

Information regarding the operations of each reportable segment 
is included on the following pages.



GOODMAN GROUP

92

Information about reportable segments

Goodman
Australia and 
New Zealand Asia

Continental 
Europe United Kingdom Americas Total

Income statement
2022

$M
2021

$M
2022

$M
2021

$M
2022

$M
2021

$M
2022

$M
2021

$M
2022

$M
2021

$M
2022

$M
2021

$M

External revenues

Gross property income  90.4  95.8  15.4  6.5  27.5  8.5  3.0  1.0  1.7  0.6  138.0  112.4 

Management income  256.2  147.0  131.3  110.2  91.0  107.4  5.7  3.3  27.2  16.0  511.4  383.9 

Development income  207.6  223.6  192.0  164.8  891.9  796.5  32.8  245.3  117.3  61.8  1,441.6  1,492.0 

Total external revenues  554.2  466.4  338.7  281.5  1,010.4  912.4  41.5  249.6  146.2  78.4  2,091.0  1,988.3 

Analysis of external revenues

Revenue from contracts with customers

Assets and services 
transferred at a point in time  71.7  106.3  25.0  17.2  792.0  730.5  12.8  228.7 – –  901.5  1,082.7 

Assets and services transferred over time  405.2  282.6  299.5  260.4  193.7  174.2  25.7  20.0  144.5  77.8  1,068.6  815.0 

Other revenue

Rental income 
(excludes outgoings recoveries)  77.3  77.5  14.2  3.9  24.7  7.7  3.0  0.9  1.7  0.6  120.9  90.6 

Total external revenues  554.2  466.4  338.7  281.5  1,010.4  912.4  41.5  249.6  146.2  78.4  2,091.0  1,988.3 

Reportable segment profit before tax  616.9  467.4  386.4  324.5  582.5  458.8  41.1  31.8  210.8  128.9  1,837.7  1,411.4 

Share of net results of equity 
accounted investments  1,171.5  853.0  215.4  273.2  174.9  165.7  213.6  32.9  942.8  384.1  2,718.2  1,708.9 

Material non-cash items not included 
in reportable segment profit before tax

Net gain/(loss) from fair value 
adjustments on investment properties  260.4  63.1 (0.3) – – – – – – –  260.1  63.1 

Share of net gain from fair value adjustments 
in equity accounted investments  1,012.0  667.8  96.2  163.1  119.9  107.5  203.8  26.9  839.3  301.6  2,271.2  1,266.9 

Australia and 
New Zealand Asia

Continental 
Europe United Kingdom Americas Total

Statement of financial position
2022

$M
2021

$M
2022

$M
2021

$M
2022

$M
2021

$M
2022

$M
2021

$M
2022

$M
2021

$M
2022

$M
2021

$M

Reportable segment assets  8,106.2  6,619.9  4,162.0  3,565.7  2,779.7  2,382.2  1,024.9  840.6 4,030.8  2,475.9 20,103.6 15,884.3 

Included in reportable segment assets are:

Investment properties  1,086.9  1,687.3  336.8  137.7 – – –  26.2 – –  1,423.7  1,851.2 

Investments accounted for 
using the equity method  5,709.6  4,251.0  3,102.8  2,808.8  1,020.7  865.2  680.6  408.0  3,865.9  2,327.0  14,379.6  10,660.0 

Non-current assets  7,195.8  6,314.6  3,888.8  3,261.8  2,483.6  2,126.5  966.6  761.8  3,876.3  2,335.8  18,411.1  
14,800.5 

Additions to non-current assets include:

– Investment properties  22.9  23.5  181.2  138.5 – –  243.7  25.8 – –  447.8  187.8 

–  Investments accounted for 
using the equity method  455.8  222.4  159.7  129.6  63.3  10.0  162.1  178.8  431.3  196.1  1,272.2  736.9 

Reportable segment liabilities  129.9  113.9  268.6  242.4  122.6  111.0  94.5  80.4  319.5  156.2  935.1  703.9 

Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Results for the year (continued)  
4 Segment reporting (continued)



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

93

GIT
Australia and 
New Zealand Asia

Continental 
Europe Americas Total

Income statement
2022

$M
2021

$M
2022

$M
2021

$M
2022

$M
2021

$M
2022

$M
2021

$M
2022

$M
2021

$M

External revenues

Gross property income  51.7  60.2  –  –  –  –  –  –  51.7  60.2 

Distributions from investments  –  –  –  –  5.6  9.1  –  –  5.6  9.1 

Total external revenues  51.7  60.2  –  –  5.6  9.1  –  –  57.3  69.3 

Analysis of external revenues

Revenue from contracts with customers

Assets and services transferred over time  10.3  14.3  –  –  –  –  –  –  10.3  14.3 

Other revenue

Rental income (excludes outgoings recoveries)  41.4  45.9  –  –  –  –  –  –  41.4  45.9 

Distributions from investments  –  –  –  –  5.6  9.1  –  –  5.6  9.1 

Total external revenues  51.7  60.2  –  –  5.6  9.1  –  –  57.3  69.3 

Reportable segment profit before tax  239.7  240.2  34.5  33.0  57.3  69.2  91.0  73.9  422.5  416.3 

Share of net results of equity accounted investments  1,053.0  726.2  66.4  137.3  144.9  140.0  908.7  370.3  2,173.0  1,373.8 

Material non–cash items not included 
in reportable segment profit before tax

Net gain from fair value adjustments on investment properties  208.3  60.2  –  –  –  –  –  –  208.3  60.2 

Share of net gain from fair value adjustments 
in equity accounted investments  917.7  562.9  31.7  104.3  97.5  86.1  808.8  290.5  1,855.7  1,043.8 

Australia and 
New Zealand Asia

Continental 
Europe Americas Total

Statement of financial position
2022

$M
2021

$M
2022

$M
2021

$M
2022

$M
2021

$M
2022

$M
2021

$M
2022

$M
2021

$M

Reportable segment assets 6,178.8 4,947.0 1,719.4 1,522.5 878.5 732.9 3,736.5 2,268.1 12,513.1 9,470.5

Included in reportable segment assets are:

Investment properties  495.3  1,155.7  –  –  –  –  –  –  495.3  1,155.7 

Investments accounted for using the equity method  5,054.0  3,601.7  1,719.4  1,522.5  856.4  711.0  3,726.3  2,243.2  11,356.1  8,078.4 

Non–current assets  5,555.1  4,939.3  1,719.4  1,522.5  877.8  727.9  3,726.3  2,243.2  11,878.6  9,432.9 

Additions to non–current assets include:

– Investment properties  17.6  22.0  –  –  –  –  –  –  17.6  22.0 

– Investments accounted for using the equity method  509.9  186.0  35.5  33.6  61.9  –  415.7  189.4  1,023.0  409.0 

Reportable segment liabilities  45.2  44.6  –  –  –  0.6  269.5  124.1  314.7  169.3 



GOODMAN GROUP

94

Reconciliation of reportable segment revenues, profit or loss, assets and liabilities

Goodman GIT

Note 2022
$M

2021
$M

2022
$M

2021
$M

Revenues

Total revenues for reportable segments  2,091.0  1,988.3  57.3  69.3 

Total revenues for other segments  0.8  –  0.8  – 

Consolidated revenues  2,091.8  1,988.3  58.1  69.3 

Profit or loss

Total profit before tax for reportable segments

Property investment earnings  494.6  411.5  422.5  416.3 

Management earnings  588.4  459.1  –  – 

Development earnings1  960.7  717.9  –  – 

Operating expenses allocated to reportable segments (206.0) (177.1)  –  – 

Reportable segment profit before tax  1,837.7  1,411.4  422.5  416.3 

Corporate expenses not allocated to reportable segments (143.3) (116.9) (59.1) (51.7)

 1,694.4  1,294.5  363.4  364.6 

Valuation and other items not included 
in reportable segment profit before tax:
–  Net gain from fair value adjustments 

on investment properties 6(e)  260.1  63.1  208.3  60.2 
–  Share of fair value adjustments attributable 

to investment properties in Partnerships 6(f)  2,272.9  1,295.8  1,849.0  1,072.1 
–  Reversal of previous impairment 

on loans to related parties  –  –  –  17.6 
–  Share of fair value adjustments on derivative 

financial instruments in Partnerships 6(f) (1.7) (28.9)  6.7 (28.3)
– Share based payments expense 2 (257.6) (268.8)  –  – 
–  Straight lining of rental income 

and tax deferred adjustments (1.0) (3.2)  4.9  2.6 
Profit before interest and tax  3,967.1  2,352.5  2,432.3  1,488.8 

Net finance (expense)/income1 15 (229.0)  67.5 (231.6)  135.5 

Consolidated profit before income tax  3,738.1  2,420.0  2,200.7  1,624.3 

Assets

Assets for reportable segments  20,103.6  15,884.3  12,513.3  9,470.5 

Cash  649.4  514.6  450.6  349.6 

Other unallocated amounts2  679.4  468.1  3,618.3  3,475.2 

Consolidated total assets  21,432.4  16,867.0  16,582.2  13,295.3 

Liabilities

Liabilities for reportable segments  935.1  703.9  314.7  169.3 

Interest bearing liabilities  2,832.2  2,060.3  2,825.4  2,062.8 

Provisions for dividends/distributions to Securityholders 19  280.0  277.1  233.5  166.3 

Other unallocated amounts2  960.3  664.2  1,100.9  921.0 

Consolidated total liabilities  5,007.6  3,705.5  4,474.5  3,319.4  

1. Development earnings include $6.2 million (2021: $7.4 million) of interest income from a loan to a development JV. The interest income is reported under finance income in note 15.
2.  Other unallocated amounts in Goodman and GIT included other financial assets and liabilities, deferred tax assets, tax payables and provisions which did not relate to the reportable segments. 

Additionally, other unallocated assets and liabilities in GIT included loans due from/to controlled entities of Goodman.

Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Results for the year (continued) 
4 Segment reporting (continued)



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

95

5 Taxation
Income tax for the period comprises current tax and movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities. Current tax and movements in deferred tax 
assets and liabilities are recognised in the income statement except to the extent that they relate to items recognised directly in equity, in which case 
the relevant amounts of tax are recognised directly in equity.

Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the financial year and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous financial years.

Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes 
and the amounts used for taxation purposes. The following temporary differences are not accounted for:

+ Goodwill

+ The initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit

+ Differences relating to investments in controlled entities to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.

The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities. 
Deferred tax assets or liabilities in respect of investment properties held at fair value are calculated on the presumption that the carrying amount 
of the investment property will be recovered through sale. A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable 
profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the 
related tax benefit will be realised.

Additional income taxes that arise from dividends/distributions are recognised at the same time as the liability to pay the related dividends/distributions. 

(a) Amounts recognised in the income statement

Goodman GIT

2022
$M

2021
$M

2022
$M

2021
$M

Current tax expense recognised in the income statement

Current year (142.4) (66.3) (6.0) (0.9)

Changes in estimates related to prior years  7.3  8.5 – –

Current tax expense (135.1) (57.8) (6.0) (0.9)

Deferred tax expense recognised in the income statement

Origination and reversal of temporary differences (189.0) (50.3) (127.1) (48.6)

Deferred tax expense (189.0) (50.3) (127.1) (48.6)

Total income tax expense recognised in the income statement (324.1) (108.1) (133.1) (49.5)



GOODMAN GROUP

96

(b) Reconciliation of profit before income tax to income tax expense

Goodman

2022
$M

2021
$M

Profit before income tax  3,738.1  2,420.0 

Prima facie income tax expense calculated at 30% (2021: 30%) on the profit before income tax (1,121.4) (726.0)

Decrease/(increase) in income tax due to:

– Profit attributable to GIT Unitholders  680.4  483.5 

– Current year losses for which no deferred tax asset was recognised (36.8) (34.3)

– Other non-assessable/(non-deductible) items, net  168.7  135.7 

– Benefit of previously unrecognised temporary differences, including tax losses  95.7  68.9 

– Difference in overseas tax rates  23.6  11.2 

– Changes in estimates related to prior years  7.3  8.5 

– Taxes on Partnership income (149.7) (62.8)

– Other items  8.1  7.2 

Income tax expense (324.1) (108.1)
 
GIT

The income tax expense recorded by GIT relates to withholding taxes on actual distributions and deferred taxes on potential future distributions from 
Partnerships. Refer to note 5(e).

(c) Current tax receivables/payables

Goodman

2022
$M

2021
$M

Net income tax payable

Net income tax payable at the beginning of the year (144.0) (131.8)

Decrease/(increase) in current tax payable due to:

– Net income taxes paid  110.5  41.4 

– Current tax expense (135.1) (57.8)

– Other (0.9)  4.2 

Net income tax payable at the end of the year (169.5) (144.0)

Current tax receivables (refer to note 7)  3.9  16.1 

Current tax payables (173.4) (160.1)

(169.5) (144.0)

Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Results for the year (continued) 
5 Taxation (continued)



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

97

(d) Deferred tax assets and liabilities

Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) are attributable to the following:

Goodman

2022 2021 2022 2021

Deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities

$M $M $M $M

Investment properties1 – – (403.4) (182.0)

LTIP  39.3  27.3 – –

Other items  19.9  17.4 (10.9) (11.2)

Tax assets/(liabilities)  59.2  44.7 (414.3) (193.2)

Set off of tax (34.0) (24.8)  34.0  24.8 

Net tax assets/(liabilities)  25.2  19.9 (380.3) (168.4)

1. Including potential future distributions from the disposal of investment properties by Partnerships.

Movements in deferred taxes recognised in expenses and equity are attributable to the following:

Goodman

2022 
$M

2021 
$M

Deferred tax (expense)/benefit recognised in expenses

Investment properties – fair value adjustments (206.7) (50.4)

LTIP  16.2  19.2 

Other items 1.5 (19.1)

Total deferred tax expense recognised in expenses (189.0) (50.3)

Deferred tax (expense)/benefit recognised in equity

LTIP (4.2)  8.1 

Other items – (4.7)

Total deferred tax (expense)/benefit recognised in equity (4.2)  3.4 

Total deferred tax movements recognised in expenses and equity (193.2) (46.9)

 
Deferred tax assets of $266.9 million (2021: $323.3 million) arising primarily from tax losses (revenue and capital in nature) and deductions associated 
with the LTIP have not been recognised by Goodman.

GIT

At 30 June 2022, deferred tax liabilities of $267.9 million (2021: $124.0 million) have been recognised in relation to potential future distributions from 
the disposal of investment properties by Partnerships.

(e) Taxation of GIT

Under current Australian income tax legislation, the Trust is not liable for income tax, including capital gains tax, provided that Securityholders 
are presently entitled to the distributable income of the Trust as calculated for trust law purposes. The controlled entities of the Trust that operate 
in certain foreign jurisdictions are liable to pay tax in those jurisdictions. 



GOODMAN GROUP

98

OPERATING ASSETS AND LIABILITIES

The notes in this section focus on Goodman’s property assets, 
working capital and goodwill and intangible assets.

6 Property assets

(a) Principles and policies

Investment in property assets includes both inventories and investment 
properties (including those under development), which may be held either 
directly or through investments in Partnerships (both associates and JVs).

Inventories

Inventories relate to land and property developments that are held 
for sale or development and sale in the normal course of the Group’s 
business. Inventories are carried at the lower of cost or net realisable 
value. The calculation of net realisable value requires estimates and 
assumptions which are regularly evaluated and are based on historical 
experience and expectations of future events that are believed to be 
reasonable under the circumstances.

Inventories are classified as non-current assets unless they are contracted 
to be sold within 12 months of the end of the reporting period, in which case 
they are classified as current assets.

Investment properties

Investment properties comprise investment interests in land and 
buildings held for the purpose of leasing to produce rental income and/or 
for capital appreciation. Investment properties are carried at fair value. 
The calculation of fair value requires estimates and assumptions which 
are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and 
expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under 
the circumstances. Investment properties are not depreciated as they 
are subject to continual maintenance and regularly revalued on the basis 
described below. Changes in the fair value of investment properties are 
recognised directly in the income statement.

Components of investment properties

Land and buildings (including integral plant and equipment) comprising 
investment properties are regarded as composite assets and are 
disclosed as such in the consolidated financial report. 

Investment property carrying values include the costs of acquiring the 
assets and subsequent costs of development, including costs of all labour 
and materials used in construction, costs of managing the projects, holding 
costs and borrowing costs incurred during the development periods. 

Amounts provided to customers as lease incentives and assets relating 
to fixed rental income increases in operating lease contracts are included 
within investment property values. Lease incentives are amortised 
over the term of the lease on a straight-line basis. Direct expenditure 
associated with leasing a property is also capitalised within investment 
property values and amortised over the term of the lease.

Classification of investment properties

Investment properties are classified as either properties under development 
or stabilised properties. Investment properties under development 
include land, new investment properties in the course of construction and 
investment properties that are being redeveloped. Stabilised investment 
properties are all investment properties not classed as being under 
development and would be completed properties that are leased or are 
available for lease to customers. 

For investment properties under development, the carrying values are 
reviewed by management at each reporting date to consider whether 
they reflect the fair value and at completion external valuations are 
obtained to determine the fair values.

For stabilised investment properties, independent valuations are obtained 
at least every two years to determine the fair values. At each reporting 
date between obtaining independent valuations, the carrying values are 
reviewed by management to ensure they reflect the fair values.

Deposits for investment properties

Deposits and other costs associated with acquiring investment properties 
that are incurred prior to obtaining legal title are recorded at cost and 
disclosed as other receivables in the statement of financial position.

Notes to the consolidated financial statements



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

99

(b) Summary of investment in property assets

Goodman GIT

Note
2022

$M
2021

$M
2022

$M
2021

$M
Inventories
Current 6(d)  389.0  235.1 – –
Non-current 6(d)  1,727.1  1,192.7  5.9  5.9 

 2,116.1  1,427.8  5.9  5.9 
Assets held for sale
Investment properties 9  609.3  41.5 – –
Investment properties
Stabilised investment properties  1,286.6  1,791.1  358.3  1,093.4 
Investment properties under development  137.1  60.1  137.0  62.3 

6(e)  1,423.7  1,851.2  495.3  1,155.7 
Investments accounted for using the equity method
Associates 6(f)(i)  7,850.7  6,302.6  6,814.4  5,292.9 
JVs 6(f)(ii)  6,528.9  4,357.4  4,541.7  2,785.5 

 14,379.6  10,660.0  11,356.1  8,078.4 
Total property assets  18,528.7  13,980.5  11,857.3  9,240.0 

 

At 30 June 2022, the total property assets of $18,528.7 million included properties that have been repositioned and were subject to conditional contracts 
for disposal. As discussed in the Directors’ report on page 19, the Group’s share of valuation gains since the repositioning activities commenced, was 
$429.6 million (2021: $95.9 million).

(c)  Estimates and assumptions in determining property carrying values

Inventories

For both inventories held directly and inventories held in Partnerships, external valuations are not performed but instead valuations are determined 
using the feasibility studies supporting the land and property developments. The end values of the developments in the feasibility studies are based on 
assumptions such as capitalisation rates, letting up periods and incentives that are consistent with those observed in the relevant market. If the feasibility 
study calculations indicate that the forecast cost of a completed development will exceed the net realisable value, then the inventories are impaired.

Investment properties

Stabilised investment properties

The fair value of stabilised investment properties is based on current prices in an active market for similar properties in the same location and 
condition and subject to similar lease and other contracts. The current price is the estimated amount for which a property could be exchanged 
between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arm’s length transaction after proper marketing wherein the parties had each acted knowledgably, 
prudently and without compulsion.

Approach to determination of fair value

The approach to determination of fair value of investment properties is applied to both investment properties held directly and investment properties 
held in Partnerships.

Valuations are determined based on assessments and estimates of uncertain future events, including upturns and downturns in property markets 
and availability of similar properties, vacancy rates, market rents and capitalisation and discount rates. Recent and relevant sales evidence and other 
market data are taken into account. Valuations are either based on an external independent valuation or on an internal valuation. 

External valuations are undertaken only where market segments were observed to be active. In making the determination of whether a market 
segment is active, the following characteristics are considered: 

+ Function of the asset (distribution/warehouse or suburban office)

+ Location of asset (city, suburb or regional area)

+ Carrying value of the asset (categorised by likely appeal to private (including syndicates), national and/or institutional investors)

+ Categorisation as primary or secondary based on a combination of location, weighted average lease expiry, quality of tenant covenant (internal 
assessment based on available market evidence) and age of construction.

Each property asset is assessed and grouped with assets in the same or similar market segments. Information on all relevant recent sales 
is also analysed using the same criteria to provide a comparative set. The number of sales and the circumstances of each sale are assessed 
to determine whether a market segment is active or inactive.



GOODMAN GROUP

100

Where a market segment is observed to be active, then external 
independent valuations are performed for stabilised investment 
properties where there has been a combination of factors that are likely 
to have resulted in a material movement in valuation. The considerations 
include a greater than 10% movement in market rents, more than a 
25 basis point movement in capitalisation rates, a material change in 
tenancy profile (including changes in the creditworthiness of a significant 
customer that may have a material impact on the property valuation), 
significant capital expenditure, a change in use (or zoning), a development 
has reached completion/stabilisation of the asset or it has been two years 
since the previous external independent valuation. For all other stabilised 
investment properties in an active market segment, an internal valuation 
is performed based on observable capitalisation rates and referenced to 
independent market data. 

Where a market segment is observed to be inactive, then no external 
independent valuations are performed and internal valuations are 
undertaken based on discounted cash flow (DCF) calculations. The 
DCF calculations are prepared over a 10-year period. The key inputs 
considered for each individual calculation are:

+ Current contractual lease terms

+ Current market rents

+ Projected growth in market rents

+ Expected and likely capital expenditures

+ Projected letting up incentives provided to customers and vacant time 
on expiry of leases

+ Discount rates – computed using the 10 year bond rate or equivalent in 
each jurisdiction plus increments to reflect country risk, tenant credit 
risk and industry risk. Where possible, the components of the discount 
rate are benchmarked to available market data. 

Market assessment

The investment market for industrial, logistics and warehousing 
properties has continued to be strong during FY22, despite the increased 
interest rates in the last quarter of FY22. At 30 June 2022, the Board has 
been able to assess that all markets in which the Group operated were 
active and as a consequence no adjustments have been made to the 
carrying values of the Group’s stabilised investment property portfolios 
on the basis of internally prepared discounted cash flow valuations. 

The overall weighted average capitalisation rates for the divisional 
portfolios (including Partnerships) are as set out in the table below: 

Total portfolio weighted average capitalisation rate

Goodman GIT

Division
2022

% 
2021

% 
2022

%
2021

%

Australia and New 
Zealand 3.9  4.4 3.8  4.4 

Asia 4.3  4.4 3.8  3.9 

Continental 
Europe 3.5  3.8 3.5  3.9 

United Kingdom 3.7  4.1 – –

Americas 4.1  4.0 4.1  4.0 

In respect of the Group’s and GIT’s directly held investment properties 
at 30 June 2022, 57% (2021: 59%) and 100% (2021: 78%), respectively, 
had been valued by an external independent valuer during the financial 
year. All independent valuers used by the Group are required to hold 
a recognised and relevant professional qualification and have recent 
experience in the location and category of the investment properties 
being valued. 

For the Partnerships, all properties bar one that had been stabilised 
investment properties throughout FY22 were valued by an external 
independent valuer during the financial year.

Sensitivity analysis

The fair value measurement approach for directly held investment 
properties has been categorised as a Level 3 fair value based on the inputs 
to the valuation method used (see note 1). The stabilised investment property 
valuations at 30 June 2022 are most sensitive to the following inputs:

+ Capitalisation rates

+ Market rents

+ Incentives provided to customers and/or vacant time 
on expiry of leases.

The directly held stabilised investment properties are in Australia 
and Asia. The range of market rents and average capitalisation rates 
are summarised in the table below:

Valuation 
technique

Significant 
unobservable inputs 2022 2021

Income 
capitalisation

Range of net market 
rents (per square metre 
Aper annum)

$90 to 
$450

$90 to 
$450

Capitalisation rate 
(weighted average) 4.4% 4.4%

 

Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Operating assets and liabilities (continued) 
6 Property assets (continued)



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

101

The impacts on the Group’s financial position that would arise from the changes in capitalisation rates, market rents and incentives/vacant time are 
set out in the table below. This illustrates the impacts on Goodman in respect of both the directly held stabilised investment properties and its share 
of those stabilised investment properties held by Partnerships.

Goodman GIT

Valuation impact for the Group Valuation impact for GIT

Directly held 
properties Partnerships1

Directly held 
properties Partnerships1

$M $M $M $M

Book value at 30 June 2022  1,286.6  15,215.0  358.3  11,835.5 

Changes in capitalisation rates:

Increase in cap rates +50 bps  (132.9)  (1,722.6)  (41.0)  (1,367.3) 

Increase in cap rates +25 bps  (70.1)  (913.4)  (21.7)  (725.6) 

Decrease in cap rates -25 bps  78.6  1,039.2  24.8  827.3 

Decrease in cap rates -50 bps  167.5  2,232.4  53.3  1,779.5 

Changes in market rents:

Decrease in rents -10%  (70.8)  (627.6)  (16.5)  (466.2) 

Decrease in rents -5%  (35.4)  (313.8)  (8.3)  (233.1) 

Increase in rents +5%  35.4  313.8  8.3  233.1 

Increase in rents +10%  70.8  627.6  16.5  466.2 

Changes in voids/incentives2:

Increase in incentives/ vacant time +3 months  (6.9)  (30.6)  (1.4)  (20.7) 

Increase in incentives/ vacant time +6 months  (13.9)  (61.2)  (2.8)  (41.3) 

1. Goodman’s share of stabilised investment properties held by Partnerships.
2. On assumed lease expiries over the next 12 months.

Investment properties under development

For the directly held investment properties under development, external independent valuations are generally not performed, but instead valuations 
are determined at each reporting date using the feasibility assessments supporting the developments. The end values of the developments in the 
feasibility assessments are based on assumptions such as capitalisation rates, market rents, incentives provided to customers and vacant time that 
are consistent with those observed in the relevant market adjusted for a profit and risk factor. This profit and risk factor is dependent on the function, 
location, size and current status of the development and are generally in a market range of 10% to 15%; although for larger more complex projects that 
are at an early stage of the development, the profit and risk factor could be up to 35%. This adjusted end value is then compared to the forecast cost 
of a completed development to determine whether there is an increase or decrease in value.

In respect of the Partnerships, certain Partnerships obtain external independent valuations of investment properties under development at reporting 
dates. However, the majority determine the fair values at reporting dates by reference to the feasibility assessments, with external independent 
valuations obtained when the properties has been stabilised. 



GOODMAN GROUP

102

(d) Inventories

Goodman GIT

2022
$M

2021
$M

2022
$M

2021
$M

Current

Land and development properties  389.0  235.1 – –

 389.0  235.1 – –

Non-current

Land and development properties  1,727.1  1,192.7  5.9  5.9 

 1,727.1  1,192.7  5.9  5.9 

Goodman

During the current and prior financial year, no impairment losses were recognised on land and development properties.

During the financial year, borrowing costs of $3.1 million (2021: $3.8 million) previously capitalised into the carrying value of inventories were expensed 
to the income statement on disposal of the inventories.

(e) Investment properties

Reconciliation of carrying amount of directly held investment properties

Goodman GIT
2022

$M
2021

$M
2022

$M
2021

$M

Carrying amount at the beginning of the year  1,851.2  1,901.2  1,155.7  1,202.4 

Acquisitions  420.4  163.0 – –

Capital expenditure  27.4  24.8  17.6  22.0 

Carrying value of properties disposed (546.5) (127.8) (276.9) (128.9)

Transfers to assets held for sale (609.3) (41.5) (609.3) –

Transfers from/(to) inventories  2.5 (131.5) – –

Net gain from fair value adjustments  260.1  63.1  208.3  60.2 

Effect of foreign currency translation  17.9 (0.1) (0.1) –

Carrying amount at the end of the year  1,423.7  1,851.2  495.3  1,155.7 

Analysed by segment:

Australia and New Zealand  1,086.9  1,687.3  495.3  1,155.7 

Asia  336.8  137.7 – –

United Kingdom –  26.2 – –

 1,423.7  1,851.2  495.3  1,155.7 

Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Operating assets and liabilities (continued) 
6 Property assets (continued)



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

103

Goodman

During the financial year, borrowing costs of $nil (2021: $nil) previously capitalised into the carrying value of investment properties were expensed 
to the income statement on disposal of the investment properties.

Non-cancellable operating lease commitments receivable from investment property customers

The analysis in the table below reflects the gross property income, excluding recoverable outgoings, based on existing lease agreements. It assumes that 
leases will not extend beyond the next review date, where the customer has an option to end the lease.

Goodman GIT

2022
$M

2021
$M

2022
$M

2021
$M

Non-cancellable operating lease commitments receivable:

Less than one year  57.6  80.7  27.1  45.8 

One to two years  47.4  63.9  20.1  37.0 

Two to three years  37.9  49.4  14.8  28.6 

Three to four years  24.5  38.4  8.4  21.1 

Four to five years  15.9  30.1  5.5  16.8 

More than five years  87.0  120.4  10.9  36.9 

 270.3  382.9  86.8  186.2 

 (f) Investments accounted for using the equity method

Investments accounted for using the equity method comprise associates and JVs, which are collectively referred to as Partnerships. 

Associates

An associate is an entity in which Goodman exercises significant influence but not control over its financial and operating policies. 

JVs

A JV is an arrangement in which Goodman is considered to have joint control for accounting purposes, whereby Goodman has rights to the net assets 
of the arrangement, rather than rights to its assets and obligations for its liabilities. 

In the consolidated financial statements, investments in Partnerships are accounted for using the equity method. Under this method, Goodman’s 
investment is initially recognised at cost. Subsequent to initial recognition, the consolidated financial statements include Goodman’s share of the gains 
or losses and other comprehensive income of Partnerships until the date on which significant influence or joint control ceases. 



GOODMAN GROUP

104

(i) Investments in associates

Investments in Partnerships classified as associates are set out below:

Goodman GIT

Share of net 
results

Ownership 
interest

Investment 
carrying amount

Share of 
net results

Ownership 
interest

Investment 
carrying amount

Name of associate Country of 
establishment

2022 
$M

2021 
$M

2022 
%

2021 
%

2022 
$M

2021 
$M

2022 
$M

2021 
$M

2022 
%

2021 
%

2022 
$M

2021 
$M

Property investment

Goodman Australia 
Industrial Partnership 
(GAIP) Australia  503.4  366.9  28.6  29.1  3,008.3  2,208.5  503.4  366.9  28.6  29.1  3,008.3  2,208.5 

Goodman Australia 
Partnership (GAP) Australia  234.1  192.1  19.9  19.9  1,060.0  850.9  234.1  192.1  19.9  19.9  1,060.0  850.9 

Goodman Property 
Trust (GMT)1 New Zealand  150.0  126.7  24.9  22.4  825.9  633.4  31.6  –  5.1  –  170.3  – 

Goodman Hong Kong 
Logistics Partnership 
(GHKLP) Cayman Islands  66.4  137.3  20.3  20.3  1,719.4  1,522.5  66.4  137.3  20.3  20.3  1,719.4  1,522.5 

Goodman Japan Core 
Partnership (GJCP)2 Japan  47.3  29.8  14.4  14.7  380.7  376.3 – – – – – –

Goodman European 
Partnership (GEP) Luxembourg  144.9  140.0  19.8  20.4  856.4  711.0  144.9  140.0  19.8  20.4  856.4  711.0 

 1,146.1  992.8  7,850.7  6,302.6  980.4  836.3  6,814.4  5,292.9 

1.  GMT is listed on the New Zealand Stock Exchange (NZX). At 30 June 2022, the market value of Goodman’s investment in GMT using the quoted price on the last day of trading was $651.7 million 
(2021: $676.6 million), which compared to the carrying value of $825.9 million. Goodman does not consider its investment impaired as the carrying value is equal to its share of GMT’s net assets 
and is supported by independent valuations of the individual investment properties in GMT. 

  GIT has a 5.1% ownership interest in GMT and is part of Goodman, which has a combined ownership in GMT of 24.9%. As a result, the Directors have assessed that GIT has significant influence 
over GMT and has applied the equity method of accounting for its 5.1% interest.

2.  Goodman’s ownership interest in GJCP reflected the weighted average ownership interest in the various property investment vehicles.

Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Operating assets and liabilities (continued) 
6 Property assets (continued)



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

105

The reconciliation of the carrying amount of investments in Partnerships classified as associates is set out as follows:

Goodman GIT

Movement in carrying amount of investments in associates
2022

$M
2021

$M
2022

$M
2021

$M

Carrying amount at the beginning of the year  6,302.6  5,617.2  5,292.9  4,761.4 

Share of net results after tax (before fair value adjustments)  242.7  261.7  201.3  225.4 

Share of fair value adjustments attributable to investment properties after tax  914.7  765.8  790.9  643.3 

Share of fair value adjustments on derivative financial instruments (11.3) (34.7) (11.8) (32.4)

Share of net results  1,146.1  992.8  980.4  836.3 

Share of movements in reserves  15.0  0.3  15.0  0.3 

Acquisitions  575.6  287.2  605.1  211.6 

Disposals (4.9) (3.9) – –

Capital return  – (79.7) – (79.7)

Distributions received and receivable (193.2) (318.4) (155.1) (287.6)

Effect of foreign currency translation  9.5 (192.9)  76.1 (149.4)

Carrying amount at the end of the year  7,850.7  6,302.6  6,814.4  5,292.9 



GOODMAN GROUP

106

The table below includes further information regarding Partnerships classified as associates, held at the end of the financial year:

GAIP GAP GMT GHKLP GJCP GEP

2022

$M

2021

$M

2022

$M

2021

$M

2022

$M

2021

$M

2022

$M

2021

$M

2022

$M

2021

$M

2022

$M

2021

$M

Summarised statement 
of financial position

Total current assets  1,081.6  698.4  100.6  61.3  6.1  8.3  187.4  75.0  232.2  227.6  200.2  461.3 

Total non–current assets  12,266.3  9,338.5  6,513.1  5,338.1  4,435.0  3,562.2  10,679.1  9,188.4  3,825.8  3,672.8  6,818.2  5,318.4 

Total current liabilities  348.9  402.2  142.1  98.9  24.0  113.7  244.9  176.2  231.8  23.7  233.7  456.5 

Total non–current liabilities  2,545.6  2,097.3  1,212.3  1,094.9  1,105.8  685.8  2,236.3  1,584.9  1,189.4  1,324.7  2,456.5  1,832.1 

Net assets (100%) 10,453.4  7,537.4  5,259.3  4,205.6  3,311.3  2,771.0  8,385.3  7,502.3  2,636.8  2,552.0  4,328.2  3,491.1 

Summarised statement 
of comprehensive income

Revenue  459.0  418.1  288.6  256.2  112.1  109.4  287.8  270.9  414.2  189.8  239.0  440.8 

Profit after tax and 
revaluations  1,739.1  1,263.1  1,181.0  964.6  701.7  590.2  326.6  677.1  329.4  189.5  656.1  744.4 

Other comprehensive income  –  –  –  –  –  –  74.7  1.5  –  –  –  – 

Total comprehensive 
income (100%)  1,739.1  1,263.1  1,181.0  964.6  701.7  590.2  401.3  678.6  329.4  189.5  656.1  744.4 

Goodman

Consolidated 
ownership interest 28.6% 29.1% 19.9% 19.9% 24.9% 22.4% 20.3% 20.3% 14.4% 14.7% 19.8% 20.4%

Consolidated 
share of net assets  2,990.7  2,190.9  1,047.2  837.3  825.7  621.1  1,706.2  1,521.2  380.8  376.2  856.4  711.0 

Other items, including 
capitalised costs  0.1  1.2  –  0.3  0.2  12.3  1.3  1.3 (0.1)  0.1  –  – 

Distributions receivable1  17.5  16.4  12.8  13.3  –  –  11.9  –  –  –  –  – 

Carrying amount 
of investment  3,008.3  2,208.5  1,060.0  850.9  825.9  633.4  1,719.4  1,522.5  380.7  376.3  856.4  711.0 

Distributions received 
and receivable  66.3  66.2  25.1  24.1  17.8  14.7  35.5  33.6  20.3  16.1  28.2  163.7 

GIT

Consolidated 
ownership interest 28.6% 29.1% 19.9% 19.9% 5.1%  – 20.3% 20.3%  –  – 19.8% 20.4%

Consolidated 
share of net assets  2,990.7  2,190.9  1,047.2  837.3  169.6  –  1,706.2  1,521.2  –  –  856.4  711.0 

Other items, including 
capitalised costs  0.1  1.2  –  0.3  0.7  –  1.3  1.3  –  –  –  – 

Distributions receivable1  17.5  16.4  12.8  13.3  –  –  11.9  –  –  –  –  – 

Carrying amount 
of investment  3,008.3  2,208.5  1,060.0  850.9  170.3  –  1,719.4  1,522.5  –  –  856.4  711.0 

Distributions received 
and receivable  66.3  66.2  25.1  24.1  –  –  35.5  33.6  –  –  28.2  163.7 

 
1.  Distributions receivable related to distributions provided for but not paid by the Partnerships at 30 June 2022. This was applicable to trusts in Australia where unitholders were presently entitled to 

income at the end of the financial year.

Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Operating assets and liabilities (continued) 
6 Property assets (continued)



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

107

(ii) Investments in JVs

A summary of the results and ownership interests of principal Partnerships classified as JVs is set out below: 

Goodman GIT

Share of net 
results

Ownership 
interest

Investment 
carrying amount

Share of 
net results

Ownership 
interest

Investment 
carrying amount

Name of JV Country of 
establishment

2022 
$M

2021 
$M

2022 
%

2021 
%

2022 
$M

2021 
$M

2022 
$M

2021 
$M

2022 
%

2021 
%

2022 
$M

2021 
$M

Property investment 
and development

Goodman China 
Logistics Partnership 
(GCLP)

Cayman 
Islands

56.8 65.2 20.0 20.0 918.0 832.7 – – – – – –

Goodman UK 
Partnership (GUKP)1

United Kigdom 213.4 32.9 35.3 33.3 676.3 404.0 – – – – – –

Goodman North 
America Partnership 
(GNAP)

United States 
of America

938.6 379.5 55.0 55.0 3,846.0 2,310.6 904.4 365.7 53.0 53.0 3,706.4 2,226.8

Other JVs2 363.3 238.5   1,088.6 810.1 288.2 171.8   835.3 558.7

1,572.1 716.1 6,528.9 4,357.4 1,192.6 537.5 4,541.7 2,785.5

1. The consolidated ownership interest in GUKP reflected the weighted average ownership in GUKP, GUKP II and GUKP III. 
2.  Other JVs included a development JV in Australia where GAIP has paid Goodman a refundable fee of $22.6 million for an option to acquire a 40% interest in the JV from the Group. At 30 June 2022, 

the transaction is conditional on certain matters and settlement would only occur on stabilisation of certain development properties in the JV. Therefore, the disposal transaction had not 
been reflected in the Group’s results at 30 June 2022. The investment carrying amount at 30 June 2022 and the Group’s share of the fair value adjustment attributable to the properties in the 
JV for the year ended 30 June 2022 were aligned with to the disposal price under the option deed.



GOODMAN GROUP

108

The reconciliation of the carrying amount of investments in Partnerships classified as JVs is set out as follows:

Goodman GIT

Movement in carrying amount of investments in JVs
2022

$M
2021

$M
2022

$M
2021

$M

Carrying amount at the beginning of the year 4,357.4 3,753.6 2,785.5 2,386.9

Share of net results after tax (before fair value adjustments) 204.3 180.3 116.0 104.6

Share of fair value adjustments attributable to investment properties after tax 1,358.2 530.0 1,058.1 428.8

Share of fair value adjustments on derivative financial instruments 9.6 5.8 18.5 4.1

Share of net results 1,572.1 716.1 1,192.6 537.5

Share of movements in reserves 7.2 2.9 – –

Acquisitions 696.8 449.7 417.9 197.4

Disposals (3.4) (8.1) – (8.1)

Transfer on reclassification as a controlled entity (15.6) – – –

Capital return (91.8) (176.6) (20.9) (86.4)

Distributions received and receivable (248.7) (218.0) (83.8) (85.0)

Effect of foreign currency translation 254.9 (162.2) 250.4 (156.8)

Carrying amount at the end of the year 6,528.9 4,357.4 4,541.7 2,785.5
 

Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Operating assets and liabilities (continued)
6 Property assets (continued)



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

109

The table below includes further information regarding principal Partnerships classified as JVs, held at the end of the financial year:

GCLP1 GUKP GNAP

2022
$M

2021
$M

2022
$M

2021
$M

2022
$M

2021
$M

Summarised statement of financial position
Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents  427.4  281.3  41.1  43.4  75.0  62.8 
Other current assets  148.3  84.4  12.9  1,490.3  56.8  33.7 
Total current assets  575.7  365.7  54.0  1,533.7  131.8  96.5 
Total non–current assets  6,303.3  5,537.5  2,421.8  –  8,270.0  4,846.1 
Current liabilities
Other current liabilities  2,940.6  2,796.4  24.7  36.1  273.8  102.8 
Total current liabilities  2,940.6  2,796.4  24.7  36.1  273.8  102.8 
Non–current liabilities
Financial liabilities  1,111.8  757.7  537.8  287.0  1,144.3  640.3 
Other non–current liabilities  718.3  613.7  –  –  –  6.7 
Total non–current liabilities  1,830.1  1,371.4  537.8  287.0  1,144.3  647.0 
Net assets (100%)  2,108.3  1,735.4  1,913.3  1,210.6  6,983.7  4,192.8 
Summarised statement 
of comprehensive income
Revenue  215.0  193.6  39.8  28.5  250.0  181.7 
Net finance (expense)/income (20.3) (19.2) (1.0) (3.7)  14.9  6.4 
Income tax expense (46.3) (37.4) (0.2)  – (0.4) (0.5)
Profit after tax and revaluations  283.8  326.2  575.6  98.7  1,706.6  690.0 
Other comprehensive income/(loss)  36.2 (12.8)  –  –  –  – 
Total comprehensive income (100%)  320.0  313.4  575.6  98.7  1,706.6  690.0 
Goodman
Consolidated ownership interest 20.0% 20.0% 35.3% 33.3% 55.0% 55.0%
Consolidated share of net assets  421.7  347.1  676.0  403.5  3,841.0  2,306.0 
Shareholder loan1  492.9  482.3  –  –  –  – 
Other items, including capitalised costs  3.4  3.3  0.3  0.5  5.0  4.6 
Distributions receivable  –  –  –  –  –  – 
Carrying amount of investment  918.0  832.7  676.3  404.0  3,846.0  2,310.6 
Distributions/dividends 
received and receivable  7.3  6.1  3.9  4.6  68.9  57.8 

GIT
Consolidated ownership interest  –  –  –  – 53.0% 53.0%
Consolidated share of net assets  –  –  –  –  3,701.4  2,222.2 
Other items, including capitalised costs  –  –  –  –  5.0  4.6 
Distributions receivable  –  –  –  –  –  – 
Carrying amount of investment in JV  –  –  –  –  3,706.4  2,226.8 
Distributions/dividends 
received and receivable  –  –  –  –  66.4  55.7 

 
1.  Shareholder loans have been provided by investors of GCLP in proportion to their ownership interest. The shareholder loans are interest free and unsecured and have no fixed terms 

of repayment. The shareholder loans are not expected to be repaid within 12 months from the end of the reporting period and the Directors consider the loans to form part of Goodman’s 
investment in GCLP.

With respect to Goodman’s other JVs, the total profit after tax and revaluations was $1,333.2 million (2021: $721.5 million) and total other comprehensive 
income was $nil (2021: $nil). With respect to GIT’s other JVs, the total profit after tax and revaluations was $1,024.5 million (2021: $460.1 million) and total 
other comprehensive income was $nil (2021: $nil).



GOODMAN GROUP

110

7 Receivables
Receivables comprise trade and other receivables and loans to related parties and are recognised on the date that they are originated, initially at fair 
value plus any directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest rate method, less any impairment losses.

Receivables are derecognised when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the receivable expire or the Group transfers the rights to receive the 
contractual cash flows on the receivable in a transaction in which substantially all the risks and rewards of the receivable are transferred.

Goodman GIT

2022
$M

2021
$M

2022
$M

2021
$M

Current

Trade receivables  7.8  16.4  0.1  0.1 

Tax receivables  3.9  16.1  –  1.4 

Other receivables  123.1  197.2  3.8  5.8 

Amounts due from related parties1  83.0  101.6  –  0.1 

Loans to related parties1  –  –  127.1  808.7 

 217.8  331.3  131.0  816.1 

Non–current

Other receivables  5.9  7.1  –  – 

Loans to related parties1  167.5  270.4  3,137.4  2,528.5 

 173.4  277.5  3,137.4  2,528.5 

1. Refer to note 24 for details of amounts due from and loans to related parties.

Goodman assessed the receivables balances at 30 June 2022 for expected credit losses (risk of non-payment). The level of provisioning was not 
significant in the context of the Group’s financial position.

Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Operating assets and liabilities (continued)



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

111

8 Contract balances
Contract assets primarily comprise amounts recoverable from fixed price development contracts (disclosed net of any payments received on account) 
and accrued performance fee income where the Group assesses that the income can be reliably measured. 

Contract liabilities primarily comprise consideration received in advance of the completion of development contracts and rental guarantees. 

The following table provides an analysis of receivables from contracts with customers (excluding rental income receivables), contract assets and contract 
liabilities at the reporting dates:

Goodman

2022
$M

2021
$M

Current

Receivables, which are included in trade receivables, 
other receivables and amounts due from related parties   111.7   143.6

Contract assets   77.6   80.9

Contract liabilities   4.7   5.0

Non-current

Contract liabilities –   1.0

 
Significant changes in the contract assets and the contract liabilities balances during the year are set out below:

 Goodman 

2022 2021

Contract 
assets

$M

Contract 
liabilities

$M

Contract 
assets

$M

Contract 
liabilities

$M

Balance at the beginning of the year  80.9  6.0  25.7  13.8 

Increase due to changes in the measure 
of progress during the year  476.9  –  237.5  – 

Transfers from contract assets to receivables (480.5)  – (182.3)  – 

Revenue recognised that was included in the 
contract liability balance at the beginning of the year  – (1.6)  – (7.7)

Increases due to cash received, excluding 
amounts recognised as revenue during the year  –  0.1  –  0.1 

Effect of foreign currency translation  0.3  0.2  – (0.2)

Balance at the end of the year  77.6  4.7  80.9  6.0 

Current contract assets and liabilities  77.6  4.7  80.9  5.0 

Non–current contract liabilities  –  –  –  1.0 

 77.6  4.7  80.9  6.0 



GOODMAN GROUP

112

Transaction price allocated to the remaining contract obligations

The amount of the transaction price allocated to the remaining 
performance obligations under Goodman’s existing contracts was 
$nil (2021: $12.5 million). This amount represents revenue expected 
to be recognised in the future from ongoing management and fixed 
price development contracts with customers. Goodman will recognise 
the expected revenue in the future as the work is completed, which 
is expected to be within the next 12 months. 

Details regarding Goodman’s future rental income associated with 
existing lease agreements is included in note 6.

In addition, Goodman receives investment management, development 
management and property services fees under various contracts that 
it has with its Partnerships. These contracts are for varying lengths of time 
and are typically transacted on terms that are consistent with market 
practice. The revenues under these contracts are linked to the AUM, total 
development project costs or gross property income of Partnerships and 
are invoiced as the services are provided. 

9 Assets held for sale
In June 2022, the Group entered into a conditional contract to dispose 
of three controlled entities which own two investment properties. As the 
conditions under the contracts had not been satisfied as at 30 June 2022, 
the directly held assets and liabilities to be disposed have been presented 
as a disposal group held for sale.

Assets and liabilities of disposal group held for sale

At 30 June 2022, the disposal group was held at the lower of carrying 
amount and fair value less costs to sell, and comprised the following 
assets and liabilities within the Australia and New Zealand segment:

$M

Receivables 2.5

Investment properties 609.3

Payables (3.6)

Assets held for sale 608.2

No impairment losses have been recognised in FY22 in respect of the 
disposal group.

In the prior year, assets held for sale amounting to $41.5 million comprised 
an investment property in Australia. The disposal of the investment 
property was completed in FY22.

Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Operating assets and liabilities (continued) 
8 Contract balances (continued)



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

113

10 Payables
Trade and other payables are recognised initially at trade date fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, 
trade and other payables are measured at amortised cost.

Trade and other payables are derecognised when the contractual obligations are discharged or cancelled or expire.

Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount presented in the statement of financial position when, and only when, there is a legal right 
to offset the amounts and an intention to either settle on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.

Goodman GIT

2022
$M

2021
$M

2022
$M

2021
$M

Current

Trade payables  76.4  73.1  7.9  7.1 

Other payables and accruals  525.4  487.8  61.5  51.3 

Contract liabilities  4.7  5.0  –  – 

Loans from related parties1  –  –  3.3  549.2 

 606.5  565.9  72.7  607.6 

Non–current

Other payables and accruals  111.0  124.5  3.3  3.7 

Contract liabilities  –  1.0  –  – 

Loans from related parties1  –  –  720.5  228.5 

 111.0  125.5  723.8  232.2 

1. Refer to note 24 for details of loans from related parties.

11 Provisions
A provision is recognised when there is a legal, equitable or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that a future sacrifice 
of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, the timing or amount of which is uncertain.

Goodman GIT

Note
2022

$M
2021

$M
2022

$M
2021

$M

Current

Dividends/distributions to Securityholders 19  280.0  277.1  233.5  166.3 

Other  19.2  17.1  –  – 

 299.2  294.2  233.5  166.3 

Non–current

Defined benefit retirement schemes in the United Kingdom  13.9  22.0  –  – 

Other  1.6  1.7  –  – 

 15.5  23.7  –  – 



GOODMAN GROUP

114

12 Property, plant and equipment

2022
$M

2021
$M

Property, plant and equipment at cost 147.0 128.7 

Accumulated amortisation (85.6) (74.1)

Property, plant and equipment 
at net book value1 61.4   54.6 

1. Refer to note 13 for property, plant and equipment held as a lessee. 

13 Leases
Goodman leases office buildings, motor vehicles and office equipment. 
Certain investment properties and developments classified as inventories 
are also built on land held under leasehold interests. 

Goodman recognises a right of use asset and a lease liability at the 
lease commencement date. The right of use asset is initially measured 
at cost plus any direct costs incurred and an estimate of costs to restore 
the underlying asset or the site on which it is located, less any lease 
incentives received. 

The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease 
payments that are not paid at the commencement date, discounted 
using the lessee’s incremental borrowing rate. After initial recognition, 
the lease liability is measured at amortised cost and interest expense 
is calculated using the effective interest rate method. The lease liability 
is remeasured when there is a change in future lease payments arising 
from a change in an index or rate, or there is a change arising from the 
reassessment of whether Goodman will be reasonably certain to exercise 
an extension or termination option. 

The right of use assets in respect of office buildings, motor vehicles and 
office equipment are depreciated using the straight-line method over 
the period of the lease. Right of use assets that meet the definition of 
investment property are carried at fair value in accordance with note 6(a). 
Ground leases of development land that are classified as inventories are 
not depreciated but are assessed at each reporting date for impairments 
to ensure they are recorded at the lower of cost and net realisable value. 

Information about leases for which Goodman is a lessee is detailed below:

2022
$M

2021
$M

Right of use assets

Inventories 453.3 359.2 

Investment properties  568.0 340.3

Property, plant and equipment 42.4  39.6

  1,063.7   739.1 

Lease liabilities

Current   12.5   11.9

Non-Current   58.1   82.1

70.6 94.0 

The following were recognised during the year:

2022
$M

2021
$M

Additions to right of use assets 338.4 402.9

Depreciation for right of use assets 12.6 15.1

Interest expense on lease liabilities 1.0 1.0

Cash outflows on lease liabilities 14.4 18.8

Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Operating assets and liabilities (continued)



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

115

14 Goodwill and intangible assets
Goodman recognises both goodwill and indefinite life management rights 
in its statement of financial position.  

Goodwill

Goodwill arising on the acquisition of controlled entities is stated at cost 
less any accumulated impairment losses (refer below). No amortisation 
is provided. 

Management rights

When fund and/or investment management activities are acquired as 
part of a business combination, management rights are recorded where 
they arise from contractual or other legal rights, and the fair value can 
be measured reliably. 

Management rights are stated at cost less impairment. Management 
rights are not amortised as they are assumed to have an indefinite 
life given they are routinely renewed at minimal cost and on broadly 
similar terms.

Impairment

The carrying amounts of goodwill and management rights are tested 
annually for impairment. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill 
and management rights are allocated to the related cash-generating 
units monitored by management. An impairment loss is recognised 
whenever the carrying amount of the cash-generating unit exceeds its 
recoverable amount. Recoverable amount is the greater of the fair value 
(net of disposal costs) and the value in use but given that goodwill and 
management rights are not frequently traded (i.e. fair value is difficult to 
ascertain), the recoverable amount will be equal to the value in use of the 
cash-generating unit. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash 
flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate 
that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and 
the risks specific to the cash-generating unit.

Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement. Impairment 
losses recognised in respect of cash-generating units are allocated first 
to reduce the goodwill allocated to the cash-generating unit, then to 
the carrying amount of the management rights allocated to the cash-
generating unit and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other 
assets in the cash-generating unit on a pro rata basis.

An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. An impairment 
loss for management rights is reversed only to the extent that its carrying 
amount does not exceed its original cost.

A summary of Goodman’s goodwill and intangible assets is set out by below:

Goodman

2022
$M

2021
$M

Goodwill 685.6 715.2

Management rights 109.8 107.4

795.4 822.6



GOODMAN GROUP

116

The carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets is analysed by division in the table below:

2022
$M

2021
$M

Analysed:

Goodwill
Continental Europe  577.0  601.4 
United Kingdom  86.6  90.5 
Other  22.0  23.3 
Subtotal – goodwill  685.6  715.2 
Management rights
Continental Europe  32.7  34.1 
Other  77.1  73.3 
Subtotal – management rights  109.8  107.4 
Total  795.4  822.6 

 
A reconciliation of the movement in the cost of goodwill and management rights during the year is set out below:

Balance at 
30 June 

2020

Effect of 
foreign 

currency 
translation

Balance at 
30 June 

2021 Disposals

Effect of 
foreign 

currency 
translation

Balance at 
30 June 

2022

Cost $M $M $M $M $M $M

Goodwill

Continental Europe  628.6  (19.6)  609.0  –  (24.7)  584.3 

United Kingdom  127.9  3.1  131.0  –  (5.6)  125.4 

Other  33.7  (2.8)  30.9  –  (1.6)  29.3 

Subtotal – goodwill  790.2  (19.3)  770.9  –  (31.9)  739.0 

Management rights

Continental Europe  35.3  (1.2)  34.1  – (1.4)  32.7 

Other  87.2  (2.5)  84.7  (10.9)  3.3  77.1 

Subtotal – management rights  122.5  (3.7)  118.8  (10.9)  1.9  109.8 

Total  912.7  (23.0)  889.7  (10.9)  (30.0)  848.8 
 

A reconciliation of the movement in the impairment losses during the year is set out below:

Balance at 
30 June 

2020

Effect of 
foreign 

currency 
translation

Balance at 
30 June 

2021 Disposals

Effect of 
foreign 

currency 
translation

Balance at 
30 June 

2022

Impairment losses $M $M $M $M $M $M

Goodwill

Continental Europe  7.8  (0.2)  7.6  –  (0.3)  7.3 

United Kingdom  39.5  1.0  40.5  –  (1.7)  38.8 

Other  7.8  (0.2)  7.6  –  (0.3)  7.3 

Subtotal – goodwill  55.1  0.6  55.7  –  (2.3)  53.4 

Management rights

Other  11.8  (0.4)  11.4  (10.9)  (0.5)  – 

Subtotal – management rights  11.8  (0.4)  11.4  (10.9)  (0.5)  – 

Total  66.9  0.2  67.1  (10.9)  (2.8)  53.4 

Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Operating assets and liabilities (continued)
14 Goodwill and intangible assets (continued)



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

117

Impairments and reversals of impairments

There were no impairment losses or reversals of impairment losses during either the current or prior financial year.

Impairment testing for intangible assets

The carrying values of both goodwill and indefinite life management rights are assessed for impairment annually. For the purpose of impairment 
testing, goodwill and indefinite life management rights are allocated to the Goodman divisions that represent the lowest level within Goodman at which 
the goodwill and indefinite life management rights are monitored for internal management purposes. Where goodwill and management rights arise 
in the same division, impairment testing has been performed on the combined intangible asset.

The impairment tests for all intangible assets are based on each division’s value in use. Value in use is determined by discounting the future projected 
cash flows generated from continuing operations. These cash flows are for a five-year period, with a year five terminal value calculated using a terminal 
growth rate and an appropriate discount rate for each division. 

The key drivers of value in respect of the intangible assets are: 

+ Development cash flows, which are impacted by development volumes and margins and whether the developments are undertaken directly 
by Goodman or directly by Partnerships or in joint venture with Partnerships

+ Management cash flows, which are driven by the level of AUM and net property income in Partnerships and, in the case of portfolio performance 
fee income, the long-term performance of the Partnerships. 

The estimation of future cash flows requires assumptions to be made regarding uncertain future events. The cash flows do not assume a downturn 
in earnings that might arise in the event of a significant adverse change in market conditions for the Group. The cash flows also assume that 
Goodman’s management contracts with Partnerships have an indefinite life. This is on the basis that in the past these contracts have been typically 
renewed at minimal cost and on broadly similar financial terms.

When assessing a potential impairment, the value in use is compared against the sum of the intangible asset balance and the plant and equipment 
balance for each division. 

Value in use

The value in use for both Continental Europe and the United Kingdom are consistent with the prior years. The Group’s strategy remains the same with 
assets focused on core infill locations.

Continental Europe United Kingdom

Value in use (A$M) 2022  2,444.3 191.8

2021  2,344.9 161.1

Key assumptions

Continental Europe United Kingdom

Pre-tax discount rate (per annum) 2022 11.6% 11.9%

2021 9.7% 9.6%

Average annual development (million square metres) 2022  0.60  0.12 

2021  0.60  0.16 

Average annual growth in AUM 2022 7.7% 13.2%

2021 8.0% 21.6%

All amounts were calculated in local currency and translated to Australian dollars at the closing exchange rate at the end of the financial period. 
Averages related to average amounts over the five-year forecast period.

Discount rates

The post-tax discount rates were determined using the capital asset pricing model, with individual assumptions referenced to market data, where 
available, and adjusting for specific factors associated with each division. A risk premium was included in each division’s discount rate, reflecting the 
level of forecasting, size, country and financing risks for that division. The value in use was determined using the after-tax cash flows and the post-tax 
discount rates, with the discount rates then converted to the equivalent pre-tax rates.



GOODMAN GROUP

118

Developments

Demand for modern, well-located industrial product in both Continental Europe and the United Kingdom remains strong. Earnings forecasts for each 
division include projects which have not yet been contracted. 

Continental Europe

The activities will be focused on core markets in western and southern Europe. The average annual development activity over the next five years 
is expected to be 0.60 million square metres and the estimated cash outflow from Goodman and Partnerships required to fund the assumed 
development pipeline across the forecast period is A$1.28 billion per annum.

United Kingdom

The activity will continue to be focused on the core markets close to London and along the M1 corridor. In the short term, developments will include 
a number of sites that have already been acquired. The division’s development activity over the next five years is forecast to be 0.12 million square 
metres per annum, on average, which will be undertaken by GUKP, with Goodman earning development management fee income. The estimated cash 
outflow from Goodman and GUKP required to finance the assumed development pipeline across the forecast period is A$0.51 billion per annum.

Sources of funding for development activity 

Capital inflows required to fund acquisitions and development activity in both divisions are assumed to arise from the following sources: equity investment 
directly into Partnerships (including distribution reinvestment plans) by Goodman and its investment partners (in some cases, the projections assume future 
equity investment will be greater than existing commitments); lending facilities advanced to Partnerships; debt capital markets; customer-funded turnkey 
developments; and proceeds from disposals of assets. It is not practicable to determine the percentage of the total which will flow from each source.

Funds available to Goodman and its investment partners are assumed to be sourced from available global markets and are not limited to lending 
markets in the regions to which the relevant intangible asset relates. 

AUM 

For Continental Europe, the average annual increase in AUM of 7.7% (2021: 8.0%) over the forecast period is consistent with the prior year assumption. 
The projected AUM assumes that most of the development over the forecast period is for Partnerships. For the purpose of the value in use 
assessments, property values are expected to be stable over the period and no portfolio performance revenue is assumed.

For United Kingdom, the average annual increase in AUM of 13.2% (2021:21.6%) is lower than the prior year forecast due to the stabilisation of 
developments during FY22 i.e. a higher starting AUM position. The UK Partnerships are developing several sites that underpin the projected growth 
over the five-year period. For the purpose of the forecasts, property values are expected to be stable over the period.

Assumptions impacting the terminal year

Continental Europe United Kingdom

Growth rate applied to future cash flows (per annum) 2022 2.3% 2.8%

2021 0.4% 1.5%

Development in terminal year (million square metres) 2022  0.60  0.14 

2021  0.60  0.19 

Development in terminal year (cost in A$B) 2022  1.34  0.55 

2021  0.92  0.36 

Long-term growth rates have been used to extrapolate cash flow projections beyond the period covered by the five-year forecast. For both Continental 
Europe and United Kingdom, the growth rate was based on the consumer price indices. 

The forecast cost of developments in year five represents the estimated total funding requirements for both directly held developments and developments 
within Partnerships. The cost of developments in Australian dollars has remained relatively stable.

Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Operating assets and liabilities (continued)
14 Goodwill and intangible assets (continued)



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

119

CAPITAL MANAGEMENT 

The notes in this section focus on Goodman’s and GIT’s financing activities, capital structure and management of the financial risks involved.

15 Net finance (expense)/income
Interest income and expense are recognised using the effective interest rate method.

Finance costs relating to a qualifying asset are capitalised as part of the cost of that asset using a weighted average cost of debt. Qualifying assets are assets 
which take a substantial time to get ready for their intended use or sale. All other finance costs are expensed using the effective interest rate method.

Goodman GIT

2022
$M

2021
$M

2022
$M

2021
$M

Finance income

Interest income from:

– Related parties  6.5  8.1  72.3  69.1 

– Other parties  1.8  2.3  0.5  1.4 

Fair value adjustments on derivative financial instruments  –  83.9  –  104.0 

Foreign exchange gains  –  –  –  3.4 

 8.3  94.3  72.8  177.9 

Finance expense

Interest expense from third party loans, overdrafts and derivatives (42.4) (18.3) (38.2) (25.9)

Interest expense from related party loans  –  – (9.7) (11.7)

Other borrowing costs (9.5) (7.4) (5.3) (4.8)

Fair value adjustments on derivative financial instruments (189.7)  – (181.5)  – 

Foreign exchange losses (0.3) (0.4) (69.7)  – 

Capitalised borrowing costs1  10.8  6.7  –  – 

(231.1) (19.4) (304.4) (42.4)

Net finance (expense)/income (222.8)  74.9 (231.6)  135.5 

1. Borrowing costs were capitalised to inventories and investment properties under development during the year at rates between 0.95% and 4.85% per annum (2021: 0.92% and 4.0% per annum).



GOODMAN GROUP

120

16 Interest bearing liabilities
Interest bearing liabilities comprise bank loans, notes issued in the capital markets and private placements. Interest bearing liabilities are recognised 
initially at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, interest bearing liabilities are measured at amortised 
cost using the effective interest rate method.

Goodman GIT

 
Note

2022
$M

2021
$M

2022
$M

2021
$M

Current

Unsecured:

– Foreign private placement 16(d)  133.3  –  133.3  – 

 133.3  –  133.3  – 

Non–current

Secured:

– Bank loans 16(a)  9.0  –  –  – 

Unsecured:

– Bank loans 16(a)  –  –  –  – 

– USD denominated notes 16(b)  1,953.1  1,133.8  1,953.1  1,133.8 

– EUR denominated notes 16(c)  758.3  790.3  758.3  790.3 

– Foreign private placement 16(d)  –  150.1  –  150.1 

Borrowing costs (21.5) (13.9) (19.3) (11.4)

 2,698.9  2,060.3  2,692.1  2,062.8 

(a) Bank loans

Secured

As at 30 June 2022, Goodman and GIT had the following secured bank facilities:

Goodman GIT

Facility maturity date
Facility limit 

$M

Amounts 
drawn 

$M
Facility limit 

$M

Amounts 
drawn 

$M

13 May 20261  65.0  –  65.0  – 

13 May 20261  65.0  –  65.0  – 

13 May 20271  130.0  –  130.0  – 

18 March 2034  28.2  9.0  –  – 

Total at 30 June 2022  288.2  9.0  260.0  – 

Total at 30 June 2021  –  –  –  – 

1. These facilities, amounting to $260.0 million, are held by a controlled entity that is part of a disposal group at 30 June 2022. The facilities are secured against investment properties that also form 
part of the disposal group. Refer to note 9.

Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Capital management (continued)



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

121

Unsecured

 As at 30 June 2022, Goodman and GIT had the following unsecured bank facilities:

Goodman GIT

Facility maturity date
Facility limit 

$M

Amounts 
drawn 

$M
Facility limit 

$M

Amounts 
drawn 

$M

31 December 2024  100.0  –  100.0  – 

31 March 2025  70.0  –  70.0  – 

31 March 2025  30.0  –  30.0  – 

31 March 2026  85.2  –  –  – 

31 March 2026  160.0  –  –  – 

1 July 2026  100.0  –  100.0  – 

31 July 2026  144.7  –  144.7  – 

30 September 2026  160.0  –  –  – 

30 September 2026  54.3  –  54.3  – 

30 September 2026  37.5  –  37.5  – 

21 October 2026  150.0  –  150.0  – 

22 October 2026  150.0  –  150.0  – 

31 December 2026  113.7  –  113.7  – 

30 June 2027  70.0  –  70.0  – 

30 June 2027  30.0  –  30.0  – 

Total at 30 June 2022  1,455.4  –  1,050.2  – 

Total at 30 June 2021  1,045.7  –  589.4  – 

The majority of the unsecured bank loans are multi-currency facilities. 

(b) USD denominated notes

As at 30 June 2022, Goodman and GIT had notes on issue in the US144A/Regulation S bond market as follows:

Maturity date

Carrying amount Coupon
(fixed) per 

annumA$M US$M

15 Mar 2028  759.5  525.0 3.70%

04 May 2032  723.4  500.0 4.63%

15 October 2037  470.2  325.0 4.50%

Carrying amount at 30 June 2022  1,953.1  1,350.0 

Carrying amount at 30 June 2021  1,133.8  850.0 

(c) EUR denominated notes

As at 30 June 2022, Goodman and GIT had A$758.3 million (2021: A$790.3 million) (€500.0 million) Reg S EUR denominated senior notes on issue. 
The notes have a fixed coupon of 1.375% per annum and mature on 27 September 2025.

(d) Foreign private placement

As at 30 June 2022, Goodman and GIT had A$133.3 million (2021: A$150.1 million) (¥12.5 billion) in a foreign private placement denominated in Japanese 
yen. The facility has a fixed coupon of 3.32% per annum payable semi-annually and expires on 3 April 2023.



GOODMAN GROUP

122

(e) Finance facilities

Goodman GIT

Facilities
 available1

$M

Facilities
utilised

$M

Facilities
 available1

$M

Facilities
utilised

$M

30 June 2022

Secured:

– Bank loans1  288.2  9.0  260.0  – 

Unsecured:

– Bank loans  1,455.4  –  1,050.2  – 

– USD denominated notes  1,953.1  1,953.1  1,953.1  1,953.1 

– EUR denominated notes  758.3  758.3  758.3  758.3 

– Foreign private placement  133.3  133.3  133.3  133.3 

– Bank guarantees2  –  7.3  –  7.3 

 4,588.3  2,861.0  4,154.9  2,852.0 

30 June 2021

Unsecured:

– Bank loans  1,045.7  –  589.4  – 

– USD denominated notes  1,133.8  1,133.8  1,133.8  1,133.8 

– EUR denominated notes  790.3  790.3  790.3  790.3 

– Foreign private placement  150.1  150.1  150.1  150.1 

– Bank guarantees2  –  32.7  –  32.7 

 3,119.9  2,106.9  2,663.6  2,106.9 

1. Facilities available under secured bank loans include $260.0 million of unutilised loans held by a controlled entity that is part of a disposal group at 30 June 2022. Refer to note 9.
2. Bank guarantees are drawn from facilities available under unsecured bank loans. The guarantees are not reflected as a liability in the statements of financial position.

Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Capital management (continued) 
16 Interest bearing liabilities (continued)



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

123

17 Other financial assets and liabilities
Other financial assets and liabilities primarily comprise derivative financial instruments that are recognised initially on the trade date at which Goodman 
and GIT become a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.

Derivative financial instruments and hedging

Goodman and GIT use derivative financial instruments to hedge their economic exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from 
operating, investing and financing activities. In accordance with the Group’s financial risk management (FRM) policy, Goodman and GIT do not hold 
or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative trading purposes. 

Goodman and GIT’s derivative financial instruments are not designated as a hedge for accounting purposes, and accordingly movements in the fair 
value of derivative financial instruments are recognised in the income statement. 

Cash flow hedges

Certain of Goodman and GIT’s associates and JVs continue to designate derivative financial instruments as cash flow hedges for accounting purposes. 
Goodman’s and GIT’s share of the effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments in associates and JVs that are 
designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in the cash flow hedge reserve. The gain or loss relating to any ineffective portion is recognised 
in the income statement. 

Other financial assets

Goodman GIT

2022
$M

2021
$M

2022
$M

2021
$M

Current

Derivative financial instruments1  1.6  16.5  1.6  16.5 

 1.6  16.5  1.6  16.5 

Non-current

Derivative financial instruments1  482.8  354.5  341.3  292.4 

Investment in unlisted securities, at fair value  13.6  8.3  31.8  22.0 

 496.4  362.8  373.1  314.4 

1. Includes fair values of derivative financial instruments equating to $133.3 million (2021: $134.1 million) that hedge Goodman’s net investments in Continental Europe and the United Kingdom.

Other financial liabilities

Goodman GIT

2022
$M

2021
$M

2022
$M

2021
$M

Current

Derivative financial instruments1  71.2  1.9  25.9  1.9 

 71.2  1.9  25.9  1.9 

Non-current

Derivative financial instruments1  447.7  211.5  325.3  124.6 

 447.7  211.5  325.3  124.6 

1. Includes fair values of derivative financial instruments equating to $79.6 million (2021: $62.3 million) that hedge Goodman’s net investments in Continental Europe and the United Kingdom.



GOODMAN GROUP

124

18 Financial risk management
The Directors have ultimate responsibility for Goodman’s FRM 
processes and have established policies, documented in the FRM policy, 
to manage Goodman’s exposure to financial risks and to utilise capital 
in an efficient manner. 

Goodman’s treasury function is responsible for monitoring the day to 
day compliance with the Group’s FRM policy and prepares reports for 
consideration by management committees and the Board including:

+ Cash flow projections over a period of at least 12 months to assess 
the level of cash and undrawn facilities, and headline gearing at each 
month end

+ Debt maturity profile, to allow the Group to plan well in advance 
of maturing facilities

+ Interest rate hedge profile over the next 10 years, to allow the Group 
to manage the proportion of fixed and floating rate debt in accordance 
with its FRM policy

+ Capital hedge position (by currency) and profile of expiring currency 
derivatives, to allow the Group to manage its net investment hedging 
in accordance with its FRM policy.

Any significant investments or material changes to the finance facilities 
or FRM policy require approval by the Board.

Capital management

Goodman’s principal capital management objectives are to maintain 
a strong capital base and provide funds for operating activities (including 
development expenditure), capital expenditure and investment 
opportunities as they arise. This is achieved through an appropriate mix 
of debt and equity.

Goodman is able to alter the capital mix by issuing new Goodman debt 
and equity securities or hybrid securities, by reinstating the distribution 
reinvestment plan, by adjusting the timing of development and capital 
expenditure and by selling assets to reduce borrowings. Goodman also 
manages capital through its distribution policy in which distributions made 
to Securityholders are based on the Group’s operating profit, subject 
to a minimum distribution equal to the taxable income of the Trust. 

Goodman’s key financial risks are market risk (including foreign exchange 
and interest rate risk), liquidity risk and credit risk.

(a) Market risk

Foreign exchange risk

Goodman is exposed to foreign exchange risk through its investments in 
New Zealand, Hong Kong, China, Japan, Continental Europe, the United 
Kingdom, North America and Brazil. Foreign exchange risk represents the 
gain or loss that would be recognised from fluctuations in currency prices 
against the Australian dollar as a result of Goodman’s net investment in 
foreign operations, future commercial transactions, and other foreign 
currency denominated assets and liabilities. 

Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Capital management (continued) 



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

125

In managing foreign exchange risks, Goodman aims to reduce the impact of short-term fluctuations on Goodman’s earnings and net assets. However, 
over the long term, permanent changes in foreign exchange rates will have an impact on both earnings and net assets. 

Goodman’s capital hedge policy for each overseas region is to hedge between 65% and 90% of foreign currency denominated assets with foreign currency 
denominated liabilities. This is achieved by borrowing in the same currency as the overseas investments to form a natural economic hedge against any 
foreign currency fluctuations and/or using derivatives such as cross currency interest rate swaps (CCIRS) and foreign exchange contracts (FEC).

The Group’s hedge position is monitored on an ongoing basis and the Group will enter into new derivatives (including forward start contracts) and 
close out or enter into contra derivative contracts to manage the capital hedge position.

As at 30 June 2022, the principal that was used to hedge its exposures using derivatives and the weighted average exchange rates, by currency, are 
set out below: 

Goodman

2022 2021

Amounts 
payable

Amounts 
receivable

Weighted 
average 

exchange 
rate

Amounts 
payable

Amounts 
receivable

Weighted 
average 

exchange 
rate

 NZD’M AUD’M AUD/NZD  NZD’M AUD’M AUD/NZD

AUD receivable/NZD payable (750.0)  696.4 1.0775 (600.0)  557.3 1.0771 

 HKD’M AUD’M AUD/HKD  HKD’M AUD’M AUD/HKD

AUD receivable/HKD payable (8,340.0)  1,466.9 5.6976 (7,490.0)  1,301.8  5.7659 

 EUR’M AUD’M AUD/EUR  EUR’M AUD’M AUD/EUR

AUD receivable/EUR payable (825.0)  1,314.0 0.6283 (675.0)  1,086.7 0.6214 

 GBP’M AUD’M AUD/GBP  GBP’M AUD’M AUD/GBP

AUD receivable/GBP payable (380.0)  703.4 0.5403 (330.0)  587.6 0.5635 

 USD’M AUD’M AUD/USD  USD’M AUD’M AUD/USD

AUD receivable/USD payable (1,050.0)  1,455.5 0.7221 (650.0)  894.7 0.7276 

 JPY’M AUD’M AUD/JPY  JPY’M AUD’M AUD/JPY

AUD receivable/JPY payable (23,000.0)  297.2 77.5413 (23,000.0)  297.2 77.5413 

CNY’M USD’M USD/CNY CNY’M USD’M USD/CNY

USD receivable/CNY payable (4,258.6)  539.6 7.8927 (4,545.2)  600.0 7.5753 
 



GOODMAN GROUP

126

GIT

2022 2021

Amounts 
payable

Amounts 
receivable

Weighted 
average 

exchange 
rate

Amounts 
payable

Amounts 
receivable

Weighted 
average 

exchange 
rate

 NZD’M AUD’M AUD/NZD  NZD’M AUD’M AUD/NZD

AUD receivable/NZD payable (450.0)  416.3 1.0814 (600.0)  557.3 1.0771 

 HKD’M AUD’M AUD/HKD  HKD’M AUD’M AUD/HKD

AUD receivable/HKD payable (7,190.0)  1,264.6 5.6981 (6,990.0)  1,217.8 5.7523 

 EUR’M AUD’M AUD/EUR  EUR’M AUD’M AUD/EUR

AUD receivable/EUR payable (50.0)  75.7 0.6605  –  –  – 

 GBP’M AUD’M AUD/GBP  GBP’M AUD’M AUD/GBP

AUD receivable/GBP payable (125.0)  228.9 0.5460 (330.0)  587.6 0.5635

 USD’M AUD’M AUD/USD  USD’M AUD’M AUD/USD

AUD receivable/USD payable (600.0)  820.9 0.7318 (200.0)  260.2 0.7688 

 JPY’M AUD’M AUD/JPY  JPY’M AUD’M AUD/JPY

AUD receivable/JPY payable (17,000.0)  225.3 75.4506 (17,000.0)  225.3 75.4506 

In addition to the derivatives detailed in the table above, GIT also has a FEC with a controlled entity of GL to hedge that entity’s USD exposure. On maturity 
of the contract, GIT will receive USD 81.8 million from GL (2021: USD 257.3 million) and pay GBP 53.8 million to GL (2021: GBP 183.9 million).

Sensitivity analysis

Throughout the financial year, if the Australian dollar had been 5% stronger against all other currencies, with all other variables held constant, the 
profit attributable to Securityholders, excluding derivative mark to market and unrealised foreign exchange movements, would have decreased 
by A$107.9 million (2021: A$72.9 million decrease) for Goodman and A$48.1 million (2021: A$28.6 million) for GIT. If the Australian dollar had been 
5% weaker against all other currencies, with all other variables held constant, the profit attributable to Securityholders, excluding derivative mark 
to market and unrealised foreign exchange movements, would have increased by A$107.9 million (2021: A$72.9 million increase) for Goodman and 
A$48.1 million (2021: A$28.6 million) for GIT.

Interest rate risk

Goodman’s interest rate risk arises from variable rate borrowings and the Group’s CCIRS that hedge the overseas investments. Goodman adopts 
a policy of hedging such that between 60% and 100% of its current year exposure to changes in interest rates on borrowings is on a fixed rate basis. 
Goodman enters into interest rate derivatives (IRD), comprising both interest rate swaps and interest rate caps, to manage cash flow risks associated 
with the interest rates on borrowings that are floating. The IRD contracts are for 90-day intervals and involve quarterly payments or receipts of the 
net amount of interest. 

Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Capital management (continued)
18 Financial risk management (continued)



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

127

As at 30 June 2022, Goodman and GIT’s fixed and floating interest rate exposure (by principal) based on existing interest bearing liabilities and 
derivative financial instruments is set out below:

Goodman 

Interest bearing 
liabilities

A$M

Impact of derivatives Net interest
rate exposure

A$M
CCIRS

A$M
IRD

A$M

30 June 2022
Fixed rate liabilities  2,844.7  –  747.1  3,591.8 
Floating rate liabilities  9.0 (75.6) (747.1) (813.7)

 2,853.7 (75.6)  –  2,778.1 
30 June 2021
Fixed rate liabilities  2,074.2  – (101.4)  1,972.8 
Floating rate liabilities  – (123.6)  101.4 (22.2)

 2,074.2 (123.6)  –  1,950.6 

 
GIT

Interest bearing 
liabilities

A$M

Impact of derivatives Net interest
rate exposure

A$M
CCIRS

A$M
IRD

A$M
A$M A$M A$M A$M

30 June 2022
Fixed rate liabilities  2,844.7  – (539.8)  2,304.9 
Floating rate liabilities  –  3.0  539.8  542.8 

 2,844.7  3.0  –  2,847.7 
30 June 2021
Fixed rate liabilities  2,074.2  – (575.6)  1,498.6 
Floating rate liabilities  – (71.6)  575.6  504.0 

 2,074.2 (71.6)  –  2,002.6 
 
As a result of the fixed rate interest bearing liabilities and derivative financial instruments that existed at 30 June 2022, Goodman and GIT would have 
the following fixed interest rate exposure (by principal) at the end of each of the next five financial years. This assumes all interest bearing liabilities and 
derivative financial instruments mature in accordance with current contractual terms.

Goodman  

2022 2021

Number of years post balance date

Fixed 
interest rate 

(by principal) 
A$M

Weighted average 
interest rate 

% per annum

Fixed 
interest rate 

(by principal) 
A$M

Weighted average 
interest rate 

% per annum
1 year  3,716.6  2.12  1,951.0  2.15 
2 years  3,826.1  2.06  2,075.2  2.12 
3 years  3,107.3  2.51  2,176.4  1.97 
4 years  2,160.9  3.22  1,900.8  2.29 
5 years  1,368.3  4.43  1,065.2  3.36 

 
GIT 

2022 2021

Number of years post balance date

Fixed 
interest rate 

(by principal) 
A$M

Weighted average 
interest rate 

% per annum

Fixed 
interest rate 

(by principal) 
A$M

Weighted average 
interest rate 

% per annum
1 year  2,502.1  3.01  1,476.9  2.99 
2 years  2,674.5  2.80  1,601.0  2.89 
3 years  2,651.1  2.84  1,767.9  2.54 
4 years  1,836.2  3.70  1,742.8  2.53 
5 years  1,111.4  5.33  907.1  4.00 



GOODMAN GROUP

128

Sensitivity analysis

Throughout the financial year, if interest rates on borrowings (based 
on the interest bearing liabilities and derivative financial instruments 
in place at the end of the year) had been 100 basis points per annum 
higher/lower, with all other variables held constant, the profit attributable 
to Securityholders would have increased/decreased by A$8.1 million 
(2021: increased/decreased by A$0.2 million) for Goodman and 
decreased/increased by A$5.4 million (2021: decreased/increased 
by A$5.0 million) for GIT.

Managing interest rate benchmark reform and associated risks

A fundamental reform of major interest rate benchmarks is being 
undertaken globally, including the replacement of some interbank 
offered rates (IBORs) with alternative risk-free rates (referred to as IBOR 
reform). The Group has exposure to IBORs through certain of its bank 
loans (interest bearing liabilities) and its derivative instruments (IRD and 
CCIRS). Most of the Group’s external interest bearing liabilities are bonds 
with fixed coupons and are not exposed to IBORs. The Group’s derivative 
instruments are governed by contracts based on the International Swaps 
and Derivatives Association (ISDA) master agreements.

The United Kingdom, Japan and the United States had announced 
plans to discontinue using London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) by 
31 December 2021. The alternative reference rate for sterling LIBOR 
is the Sterling Overnight Index Average rate, for Japanese yen LIBOR 
is the Tokyo Overnight Average Rate and for US dollar LIBOR is the 
Secured Overnight Financing Rate. Amendments to the Group’s 
financial instruments with contractual terms indexed to sterling LIBOR 
or Japanese yen LIBOR, such that they incorporate the new benchmark 
rates, were completed by 31 December 2021. Although US dollar LIBOR 
was planned to be discontinued by the end of 2021, in November 2020 
the Intercontinental Exchange Benchmark Administration, the Financial 
Conduct Authority-regulated and authorised administrator of LIBOR, 
announced that it had started to consult on its intention to cease the 
publication of certain US dollar LIBORs after June 2023. It is still unclear 
when the announcement that will set a date for the termination of the 
publication of US dollar LIBOR will take place. Nevertheless, the Group 
has finished the process of implementing appropriate fallback provisions 
for all US dollar LIBOR indexed exposures. 

For Goodman’s other IBOR exposures, the transition to alternative 
risk-free rates has been deferred and/or extended and therefore no action 
has been or will be taken in that regard until such time as the alternative 
reference rates are defined and scheduled. It is expected that these 
will follow the conventions established in other markets and the Group 
will apply the same principles for those transitions as and when they 
become relevant.

The table below details the Group’s exposure at 30 June 2022 to 
significant IBORs subject to reform that have yet to transition to alternate 
benchmark rates:

USD LIBOR
Notional amount

Goodman GIT

$M $M

IRD   900.0 500.0 

CCIRS   2,330.0   1,430.0 

  3,230.0   1,930.0 
 
The exposure disclosed is for derivatives with contractual maturities 
after 30 June 2022. Derivative exposure has been reported using the 
notional contract amount and where derivatives such as CCIRS have 
both a receiver and a payer leg with exposure to IBOR reform, the notional 
contract amount is disclosed for both legs.

(b) Liquidity risk

Liquidity risk is the risk that Goodman will not be able to meet its 
financial obligations as they fall due. Goodman’s objective is to maintain 
sufficient liquidity to fund short-term working capital, capital expenditure, 
investment opportunities, debt expiries and distributions. This is achieved 
through the monthly preparation of a three-year cash flow forecast to 
understand the uses of funds and to identify potential shortfalls in funding 
or potential breaches of financial covenants in its loan arrangements. 
This allows Goodman to plan for renewal of debt facilities, negotiation 
of new debt facilities, new issues of securities, including the distribution 
reinvestment plan, and other potential sources of funding.

Goodman’s treasury function is responsible for reporting details of all debt 
maturities to the Board at its regular meetings. 

Goodman seeks to spread its debt maturities such that the total debt 
repayable in a single financial year does not exceed Board approved 
policy levels.

Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Capital management (continued)
18 Financial risk management (continued)



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

129

The contractual maturities of financial liabilities are set out below:

Carrying 
amount

Contractual 
cash flows

Less than 
1 year

1-2 
year(s)

2-3 
years

3-4 
years

4-5 
years

More than 
5 years

Goodman $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M

As at 30 June 2022

Non–derivative financial liabilities

Payables (excluding contract liabilities)  712.8  712.8  601.8  58.2  26.4  17.6  8.8  – 

Lease liabilities  70.6  121.6  12.5  14.2  76.5  4.1  3.9  10.4 

Bank loans, secured1  9.0  9.0  –  –  –  –  –  9.0 

USD denominated notes, unsecured  1,953.1  2,822.9  139.2  82.7  82.7  82.7  82.7  2,352.9 

EUR denominated notes, unsecured  758.3  799.9  18.3  10.4  10.4  760.8  –  – 

Foreign private placement, unsecured  133.3  137.7  137.7  –  –  –  –  – 

Total non–derivative financial liabilities  3,637.1  4,603.9  909.5  165.5  196.0  865.2  95.4  2,372.3 

Derivative financial (assets)/liabilities – net

Net settled2  33.8  35.3  14.0  5.7  22.2  8.2  3.5  (18.3)

Gross settled3:

(Inflow)  0.7  (1,565.0)  (249.5)  (411.0)  (257.1)  (310.8)  (171.2)  (165.5)

Outflow  –  1,113.4  218.5  329.5  169.6  189.7  156.4  49.7 

Total derivative financial 
(assets)/liabilities – net  34.5  (416.3)  (17.0)  (75.8)  (65.3)  (112.9)  (11.3)  (134.1)

As at 30 June 2021

Non–derivative financial liabilities

Payables (excluding contract liabilities)  685.4  685.4  560.9  61.9  31.3  20.9  10.4  – 

Lease liabilities  94.0  179.2  11.9  7.9  6.3  6.8  6.3  140.0 

USD denominated notes, unsecured  1,133.8  1,625.3  45.4  45.4  45.4  45.4  45.4  1,398.3 

EUR denominated notes, unsecured  790.3  836.5  10.9  10.9  10.9  10.9  792.9  – 

Foreign private placement, unsecured  150.1  158.9  5.0  153.9  –  –  –  – 

Total non–derivative financial liabilities  2,853.6  3,485.3  634.1  280.0  93.9  84.0  855.0  1,538.3 

Derivative financial (assets)/liabilities – net

Net settled2  (18.9)  (17.8)  (36.8)  0.8  10.2  16.9  (1.2)  (7.7)

Gross settled3:

(Inflow)  (138.7)  (570.0)  (82.9)  (78.0)  (176.1)  (77.1)  (75.7)  (80.2)

Outflow  –  371.2  57.5  87.3  72.1  29.8  62.5  62.0 

Total derivative financial 
(assets)/liabilities – net  (157.6)  (216.6)  (62.2)  10.1  (93.8)  (30.4)  (14.4)  (25.9)

 

1. Contractual cash flows relating to bank loans exclude any estimate of interest payments that might arise under Goodman’s revolving loan facilities.
2. Net settled includes IRD and FEC.
3. Gross settled includes CCIRS.



GOODMAN GROUP

130

The contractual maturities of financial liabilities are set out below:

Carrying 
amount

Contractual 
cash flows

Less than 
1 year

1-2 
year(s)

2-3 
years

3-4 
years

4-5 
years

More than 
5 years

GIT $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M

As at 30 June 2022

Non–derivative financial liabilities

Payables  796.5  796.5  72.7  4.8  64.5  282.7  139.4  232.4 

USD denominated notes, unsecured  1,953.1  2,822.9  139.2  82.7  82.7  82.7  82.7  2,352.9 

EUR denominated notes, unsecured  758.3  800.0  18.3  10.4  10.4  760.8  –  – 

Foreign private placement, unsecured  133.3  137.7  137.7  –  –  –  –  – 

Total non–derivative financial liabilities  3,641.2  4,557.1  367.9  97.9  157.6  1,126.2  222.1  2,585.3 

Derivative financial (assets)/liabilities – net

Net settled1  (22.0)  141.6  39.4  35.5  33.3  33.5  10.5  (10.5)

Gross settled2:

(Inflow)  30.3  (737.3)  (104.8)  (234.6)  (90.9)  (115.1)  (51.6)  (140.1)

Outflow  –  753.2  161.1  237.7  100.7  125.6  87.3  40.8 

Total derivative financial 
(assets)/liabilities – net  8.3  157.5  95.7  38.6  43.1  44.0  46.2  (109.8)

As at 30 June 2021

Non–derivative financial liabilities

Payables  839.8  839.8  607.6  –  95.9  9.2  123.3  3.8 

USD denominated notes, unsecured  1,133.8  1,625.4  45.4  45.4  45.4  45.4  45.4  1,398.3 

EUR denominated notes, unsecured  790.3  836.4  10.9  10.9  10.9  10.9  792.9  – 

Foreign private placement, unsecured  150.1  158.9  5.0  153.9  –  –  –  – 

Total non–derivative financial liabilities  2,914.0  3,460.5  668.9  210.2  152.2  65.5  961.6  1,402.1 

Derivative financial (assets)/liabilities – net

Net settled1  (98.3)  (91.3)  (37.0)  (28.2)  (12.5)  (6.6)  (0.8)  (6.2)

Gross settled2:

(Inflow)  (84.1)  (446.9)  (71.4)  (60.7)  (120.0)  (54.4)  (62.7)  (77.7)

Outflow  –  303.7  56.3  84.1  67.2  28.6  36.9  30.6 

Total derivative financial 
(assets)/liabilities – net  (182.4)  (234.5)  (52.1)  (4.8)  (65.3)  (32.4)  (26.6)  (53.3)

 

1. Net settled includes IRD and FEC.
2. Gross settled includes CCIRS.

Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Capital management (continued)
18 Financial risk management (continued)



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

131

(c) Credit risk

Credit risk represents the loss that would be recognised if counterparties failed to perform as contracted.

The maximum exposure to credit risk on financial assets, excluding investments, which have been recognised on the statement of financial position, 
is equal to the carrying amount.

Goodman has a policy of assessing the creditworthiness of all potential customers and is not materially exposed to any one customer. Goodman evaluates all 
customers’ perceived credit risk and may require the lodgement of rental bonds or bank guarantees, as appropriate, to reduce credit risk. In addition, all rents are 
payable monthly in advance. Bank guarantees are accepted from financial institutions which have an investment grade credit rating from a major rating agency. 

Concentration of credit risk may exist due to receivables in respect of the disposals of investment properties. The credit risk is minimised as legal title 
to the properties is only transferred upon receipt of proceeds and typically Goodman will have either received a cash deposit or be the beneficiary 
of a bank guarantee for 10% to 20% of the total proceeds.

In relation to material bank deposits, Goodman minimises credit risk by dealing with major financial institutions. The counterparty must have a long-term 
investment grade credit rating from a major rating agency. The amounts and other terms associated with bank deposits are formally reviewed monthly.

The credit risks associated with derivative financial instruments are managed by: 

+ Transacting with multiple derivatives counterparties that have a long-term investment grade credit rating

+ Utilising ISDA agreements with derivative counterparties in order to limit exposure to credit risk through netting of amounts receivable and amounts 
payable to individual counterparties (refer below)

+ Formally reviewing the mark to market position of derivative financial instruments by counterparty on a monthly basis.

Master netting off or similar agreements

Goodman enters into derivative transactions under ISDA master netting off agreements. Under these agreements, where certain credit events occur (such 
as a default), all outstanding transactions under the agreement are terminated and a single net termination value is payable in full and final settlement. 

As Goodman does not have any current legally enforceable right to offset, the fair values associated with derivative financial instruments have 
been presented gross in the statement of financial position. However, if a credit event occurred, the ISDA master netting off agreement would allow 
A$361.3 million (2021: A$175.2 million) and A$256.1 million (2021: A$112.9 million) of financial assets and financial liabilities in relation to Goodman’s 
and GIT’s respective derivative financial instruments to be offset.

(d) Fair values of financial instruments

The carrying amounts shown in the statement of financial position and fair values of financial assets and liabilities are as follows:

Goodman GIT
Carrying 

amount
Fair 

value
Carrying 

amount
Fair 

value
Carrying 

amount
Fair 

value
Carrying 

amount
Fair 

value
2022 2022 2021 2021 2022 2022 2021 2021

$M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents  1,056.0  1,056.0  920.4  920.4  473.6  473.6  379.8  379.8 
Receivables  391.2  391.2  608.8  608.8  3,268.4  3,268.4  3,344.6  3,344.6 
Other financial assets:
– IRD  210.5  210.5  114.3  114.3  129.1  129.1  111.9  111.9 
– CCIRS  271.6  271.6  256.7  256.7  194.8  194.8  194.7  194.7 
– FEC  2.3  2.3  –  –  19.0  19.0  2.3  2.3 
– Investments in unlisted securities  13.6  13.6  8.3  8.3  31.8  31.8  22.0  22.0 

 1,945.2  1,945.2  1,908.5  1,908.5  4,116.7  4,116.7  4,055.3  4,055.3 
Financial liabilities
Payables (excluding contract liabilities)  712.8  712.8  685.4  685.4  796.5  796.5  839.8  839.8 
Interest bearing liabilities1  2,832.2  2,670.6  2,060.3  2,236.3  2,825.4  2,528.3  2,062.8  2,236.3 
Other financial liabilities:
– IRD  126.2  126.2  15.9  15.9  126.2  126.2  15.9  15.9 
– CCIRS  272.3  272.3  118.0  118.0  225.0  225.0  110.6  110.6 
– FEC  120.4  120.4  79.5  79.5  –  –  –  – 

 4,063.9  3,902.3  2,959.1  3,135.1  3,973.1  3,676.0  3,029.1  3,202.6  

1. The fair value of certain fixed rate interest bearing liabilities has been determined by reference to the quoted market prices at 30 June 2022.



GOODMAN GROUP

132

Fair value hierarchy

The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value, by valuation method:

Goodman GIT

Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total

$M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M

As at 30 June 2022

Derivative financial assets  –  484.4  –  484.4  –  342.9  –  342.9 

Investments in unlisted securities  –  –  13.6  13.6  –  –  31.8  31.8 

 –  484.4  13.6  498.0  –  342.9  31.8  374.7 

Derivative financial liabilities  –  518.9  –  518.9  –  351.2  –  351.2 

 –  518.9  –  518.9  –  351.2  –  351.2 

As at 30 June 2021

Derivative financial assets  –  371.0  –  371.0  –  308.9  –  308.9 

Investments in unlisted securities  –  –  8.3  8.3  –  –  22.0  22.0 

 –  371.0  8.3  379.3  –  308.9  22.0  330.9 

Derivative financial liabilities  –  213.4  –  213.4  –  126.5  –  126.5 

 –  213.4  –  213.4  –  126.5  –  126.5 

There were no transfers between the levels during the year.

Valuation techniques used to derive Level 2 and Level 3 fair values

The Level 2 derivative financial instruments held by Goodman and GIT consist of IRD, CCIRS and FEC.

The fair values of derivative financial instruments are determined using generally accepted pricing models which discount estimated future cash 
flows based on the terms and maturity of each contract and current market interest rates and/or foreign currency rates, adjusted for specific features 
of the instruments.

Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Capital management (continued)
18 Financial risk management (continued)



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

133

19 Dividends and distributions
Dividends and distributions are recognised when they are declared and before deduction of any withholding tax. Any non-recoverable withholding tax 
is included in income tax.

Goodman

FY22 dividends/distributions

Dividends/distributions 
cents per security

Total amount
$M

Date of
payment

GL – – n/a

GIT

– 31 December 2021   15.0   280.2 24 Feb 2022

– 30 June 2022   12.5   233.6 25 Aug 2022

GLHK   2.5   46.7 25 Aug 2022

  30.0   560.5

Distributions on treasury securities (0.4)

  30.0   560.1
 

FY21 dividends/distributions

Dividends/distributions 
cents per security

Total amount
$M

Date of
payment

GL – – n/a

GIT

– 31 December 2020   15.0   277.1 25 Feb 2021

– 30 June 2021 9.0   166.3 26 Aug 2021

GLHK 6.0   110.8 26 Aug 2021

  30.0 554.2
 

GIT

In FY22, GIT’s distributions were 27.5 cents per security (2021: 24.0 cents per security) amounting to $513.8 million (2021: $443.4 million).

Movement in provision for dividends/distributions to Securityholders

Goodman GIT

2022
$M

2021
$M

2022
$M

2021
$M

Balance at the beginning of the year 277.1 274.3   166.3   201.1

Provisions for dividends/distributions 560.1 554.2   513.8   443.4

Dividends/distributions paid (557.2)   (551.4) (446.6) (478.2)

Balance at the end of the year   280.0   277.1   233.5   166.3



GOODMAN GROUP

134

20 Issued capital

(a) Ordinary securities

Ordinary securities are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to issues of ordinary securities are recognised as a deduction from 
equity, net of any tax effects.

Goodman GIT
2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021

Number of securities $M $M $M $M
Stapled securities:
– Issued and fully paid 1,866,989,276 1,847,429,255   8,367.1   8,257.3   8,303.3   7,997.7
– Treasury securities 1,233,333 – – – – –
Derivative financial liabilities (161.0) (160.9) (148.8) (148.7)
Total issued capital 1,868,222,609 1,847,429,255   8,206.1 8,096.4   8,154.5   7,849.0

 
Terms and conditions

Stapled security means one share in the Company stapled to one unit in the Trust and one CDI over a share in GLHK. Holders of stapled securities 
are entitled to receive dividends or distributions as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per security at Securityholders’ meetings. 
In the event of a winding up, Securityholders rank after creditors and are fully entitled to any net proceeds of liquidation. 

Movement in ordinary securities

Date Details
Number of
securities

Goodman
$M

GIT
$M

30 Jun 2020 Balance before accumulated issue costs 1,828,413,236  8,192.2  7,772.0 
31 Aug 2020 Securities issued to employees under the LTIP 15,438,241  –  183.2 
4 Sep 2020 Issue of securities 3,577,778  65.1  42.5 
30 Jun 2021 Balance before accumulated issue costs 1,847,429,255  8,257.3  7,997.7 
31 Aug 2021 Securities issued to employees under the LTIP 14,716,648  –  216.3 
31 Aug 2021 Issue of treasury securities 1,233,333  –  18.1 
2 Sep 2021 Issue of securities 4,843,373  109.8  71.2 

Less: Accumulated issue costs (161.0) (148.8)
30 Jun 2022 Closing balance 1,868,222,609 8,206.1 8,154.5

(b) Share based payments

LTIP

The Group’s share based payments primarily relate to performance rights awarded to employees under the LTIP. These performance rights entitle 
an employee to either acquire Goodman securities for $nil consideration (equity settled performance rights) or, in certain jurisdictions, to receive 
an amount in cash equal to the value of the securities (cash settled performance rights), subject to the vesting conditions having been satisfied.  
Further details regarding the vesting conditions are included in the remuneration report section of the Directors’ report.

During the year, the movement in the number of equity settled and cash settled performance rights under the LTIP was as follows: 

Number of rights

2022 2021

Outstanding at the beginning of the year  68,640,720  73,987,645 

Granted  23,468,860  16,079,977 

Exercised (19,545,855) (19,016,019)

Forfeited (813,081) (2,410,883)

Outstanding at the end of the year  71,750,644  68,640,720 

Exercisable at the end of the year  –  – 

Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Capital management (continued) 



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

135

Share based payments transactions 

The fair value of equity settled performance rights at the grant date is expensed with a corresponding increase in the employee compensation reserve 
over the period from the grant date to the vesting dates. The expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of performance rights for which the 
related service and non-market vesting conditions are expected to be met. The accumulated share based payments expense of performance rights 
which have vested or lapsed is transferred from the employee compensation reserve to retained earnings. 

The fair value of cash settled performance rights is also recognised as an expense but with a corresponding increase in liabilities over the vesting 
period. The expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of performance rights for which the related service and non-market vesting conditions 
are expected to be met. The liability is remeasured at each reporting date and at the vesting date based on the fair value of the rights.

The fair value of services received in return for performance rights granted under the LTIP is measured by reference to the fair value of the 
performance rights granted. The fair value of the performance rights granted during the year was measured as follows:

+ Operating EPS tranche: these rights were valued as a granted call option, using the standard Black Scholes model with a continuous 
dividend/distribution yield

+ Relative TSR tranche: these rights were valued using a Monte Carlo model which simulated total returns for each of the ASX 100 stocks and 
discounted the future value of any potential future vesting performance rights to arrive at a present value. The model uses statistical analysis 
to forecast total returns, based on expected parameters of variance and co-variance.

The model inputs for performance rights, both equity and cash settled, awarded during the current financial year included the following:

10–year  
rights 

issued on

10–year 
rights 

issued on

5–year 
rights 

issued on

18 Nov 2021 30 Sep 2021 30 Sep 2021

Fair value at measurement date ($)  20.16  17.22  17.87 

Security price ($)  24.49  21.68  21.68 

Exercise price ($)  –  –  – 

Expected volatility (%)  25.45  25.36  28.54 

Rights’ expected weighted average life (years)  6.8  6.9  3.9 

Dividend/distribution yield per annum (%)  1.23  1.38  1.38 

Average risk free rate of interest per annum (%)  1.51  1.03  0.49 

The model inputs for the remeasurement of the cash settled performance rights at 30 June 2022 included the following:

10-year 
rights issued 

in FY22

5-year 
rights issued 

in FY22

5-year 
rights issued 

in FY21

5-year 
rights issued 

in FY20

5-year 
rights issued 

in FY19

5-year 
rights issued 

in FY18

Fair value at measurement date ($) 13.61 14.12 15.02 17.49 17.64 17.79 

Security price ($) 17.84 17.84 17.84 17.84 17.84 17.84 

Exercise price ($) – – – – – –

Expected volatility (%) 27.44 29.24 28.56 32.65 36.02 44.77 

Rights’ expected weighted average life (years) 6.2 3.2 2.2 1.2 0.7 0.2 

Dividend/distribution yield per annum (%) 1.68 1.68 1.68 1.68 1.68 1.68 

Average risk free rate of interest per annum (%) 3.42 3.09 2.90 2.35 2.12 1.53 

Amounts recognised as an expense are set out in note 2. At 30 June 2022, a liability of $126.6 million (2021: $158.0 million) was recognised in relation 
to cash settled performance rights.

 
Goodman’s New Zealand Long Term Incentive Plan

Under Goodman’s New Zealand Long Term Incentive Plan, employees receive approximately half of their LTI in the form of performance rights over 
GMT units that vest subject to meeting performance hurdles based on the achievement of distributable earnings targets by GMT and the relative total 
unitholder return from holding GMT units compared to other NZX property vehicles. On vesting, delivery of units in GMT is made from units held by 
Goodman or acquired on-market.



GOODMAN GROUP

136

OTHER ITEMS

The notes in this section set out other information that is required to be disclosed to comply with the Australian Accounting Standards, 
Corporations Act 2001 or Corporations Regulations. 

21 Notes to the cash flow statements

(a) Reconciliation of cash

For the purpose of the cash flow statements, cash and cash equivalents includes cash on hand at the bank and short-term deposits at call. Cash at the 
end of the year as shown in the cash flow statements is reconciled to the related items in the statements of financial position as follows:

Goodman GIT

2022
$M

2021
$M

2022
$M

2021
$M

Bank balances  811.3  853.7  184.2  313.1 

Call deposits  244.7  66.7  289.4  66.7 

 1,056.0  920.4  473.6  379.8 

(b) Reconciliation of profit for the year to net cash provided by operating activities

Goodman GIT

2022
$M

2021
$M

2022
$M

2021
$M

Profit for the year  3,414.0  2,311.9  2,067.6  1,574.8 

Items classified as investing activities

Net gain on disposal of investment properties (73.6) (37.7) (69.8) (39.3)

Net gain on disposal of equity investments (0.2) (5.0)  – (3.2)

Non–cash items

Amortisation and depreciation  17.1  23.0  –  – 

Share based payments expense  257.0  266.9  –  – 

Net gain from fair value adjustments on investment properties (260.1) (63.1) (208.3) (60.2)

Reversal of previous impairments  –  –  – (17.6)

Share of net results of equity accounted investments (2,718.2) (1,708.9) (2,173.0) (1,373.8)

Net finance expense/(income)  222.8 (74.9)  231.6 (135.5)

Income tax expense  324.1  108.1  133.1  49.5 

 1,182.9  820.3 (18.8) (5.3)

Changes in assets and liabilities during the year:

– Decrease/(increase) in receivables  93.4 (146.7)  0.7  1.7 

– Increase in inventories (646.1) (29.9)  –  – 

– (Increase)/decrease in other assets (0.1) (6.0)  1.4 (2.2)

– (Decrease)/increase in payables (85.5)  6.7 (1.5)  1.8 

– Decrease in provisions (0.1) (0.1)  –  – 

 544.5  644.3 (18.2) (4.0)

Distributions/dividends received from Partnerships  441.9  536.9  238.9  372.6 

Net finance costs paid (34.9) (25.1) (23.6) (29.5)

Net income taxes (paid)/received (110.5) (41.4) (1.1)  0.5 

Net cash provided by operating activities  841.0  1,114.7  196.0  339.6 

(c) Non-cash transactions

During the current and prior financial years, other than disclosed elsewhere in the consolidated financial statements, there were no significant 
non-cash transactions.

Notes to the consolidated financial statements
 
 
 



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

137

(d) Reconciliation of liabilities arising from financing activities

Interest 
bearing 

liabilities

Derivative 
financial 

instruments

Provision 
for 

distributions
Lease 

liabilities Total

Goodman $M $M $M $M $M

Balance at 30 June 2020  2,938.5 (83.7)  274.3  46.8  3,175.9 

Changes from financing cash flows

Proceeds from borrowings and 
derivative financial instruments

 200.0  4.6  –  –  204.6 

Payments on borrowings and 
derivative financial instruments

(891.9)  –  –  – (891.9)

Payment of lease liabilities  –  –  – (17.8) (17.8)

Distributions paid  –  – (551.4)  – (551.4)

Total changes from financing cash flows (691.9)  4.6 (551.4) (17.8) (1,256.5)

Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates (195.8)  5.4  –  – (190.4)

Changes in fair value (25.7) (83.9)  –  – (109.6)

Other changes

New leases  –  –  –  64.2  64.2 

Other borrowing costs  0.6  –  –  –  0.6 

Interest expense on lease liabilities  –  –  –  0.8  0.8 

Debt modification costs  34.6  –  –  –  34.6 

Distributions declared  –  –  554.2  –  554.2 

Total other changes  35.2  –  554.2  65.0  654.4 

Balance at 30 June 2021  2,060.3 (157.6)  277.1  94.0  2,273.8 

Proceeds from borrowings and 
derivative financial instruments

 1,466.5  –  –  –  1,466.5 

Payments on borrowings and 
derivative financial instruments

(779.2) (10.1)  –  – (789.3)

Payment of lease liabilities  –  –  – (13.4) (13.4)

Distributions paid  –  – (557.2)  – (557.2)

Total changes from financing cash flows  687.3 (10.1) (557.2) (13.4)  106.6 

Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates  83.2  12.5  – (1.6)  94.1 

Changes in fair value (2.2)  189.7  –  –  187.5 

Other changes

New leases  –  –  –  15.6  15.6 

Other borrowing costs  3.6  –  –  –  3.6 

Interest expense on lease liabilities  –  –  –  1.0  1.0 

Disposal of right of use assets  –  –  – (25.0) (25.0)

Distributions declared  –  –  560.1  –  560.1 

Total other changes  3.6  –  560.1 (8.4)  555.3 

Balance at 30 June 2022  2,832.2  34.5  280.0  70.6  3,217.3 
 



GOODMAN GROUP

138

Interest 
bearing 

liabilities

Derivatives 
used for 
hedging 

Provision 
for 

distributions

Loans with 
related 

parties, net Total

GIT $M $M $M $M $M

Balance at 30 June 2020  2,939.5 (130.7)  201.1 (2,319.2)  690.7 

Changes from financing cash flows

Net cash flows from loans to related parties  –  –  –  25.1  25.1 

Proceeds from borrowings and derivative 
financial instruments

 200.0  46.8  –  –  246.8 

Payments on borrowings and derivative 
financial instruments

(891.9)  –  –  – (891.9)

Distributions paid  –  – (478.2)  – (478.2)

Total changes from financing cash flows (691.9)  46.8 (478.2)  25.1 (1,098.2)

Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates (195.4)  5.5  – (4.0) (193.9)

Changes in fair value (25.8) (104.0)  – (0.2) (130.0)

Other changes

Issue of units under the LTIP  –  –  – (183.2) (183.2)

Equity settled share based payments transactions  –  –  – (13.7) (13.7)

Interest income  –  –  – (69.1) (69.1)

Interest expense  –  –  –  11.7  11.7 

Interest paid  –  –  – (6.9) (6.9)

Other borrowing costs  2.1  –  –  –  2.1 

Debt modification costs  34.3  –  –  –  34.3 

Distributions declared  –  –  443.4  –  443.4 

Total other changes  36.4  –  443.4 (261.2)  218.6 

Balance at 30 June 2021  2,062.8 (182.4)  166.3 (2,559.5) (512.8)

Changes from financing cash flows

Net cash flows from loans to related parties  –  17.4  –  262.2  279.6 

Proceeds from borrowings and derivative 
financial instruments

 1,456.4  –  –  –  1,456.4 

Payments on borrowings and derivative financial instruments (777.3) (10.1)  –  – (787.4)

Distributions paid  –  – (446.6)  – (446.6)

Total changes from financing cash flows  679.1  7.3 (446.6)  262.2  502.0 

Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates  79.8  1.9  –  60.3  142.0 

Changes in fair value  –  181.5  –  –  181.5 

Other changes

Issue of units under the LTIP  –  –  – (234.4) (234.4)

Equity settled share based payments transactions  –  –  – (29.8) (29.8)

Interest income  –  –  – (72.3) (72.3)

Interest expense  –  –  –  9.7  9.7 

Interest paid  –  –  –  5.7  5.7 

Other borrowing costs  3.7  –  –  –  3.7 

Derivative financial instrument settlement 
through loans with related parties  –  –  –  17.4  17.4 

Distributions declared  –  –  513.8  –  513.8 

Total other changes  3.7  –  513.8 (303.7)  213.8 

Balance at 30 June 2022  2,825.4  8.3  233.5 (2,540.7)  526.5 
 

Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Other items (continued)
21 Notes to the cash flow statements (continued)



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

139

22 Equity attributable to Goodman Limited and non-controlling interests
Under Australian Accounting Standards, stapled entities are required to separately identify equity attributable to the parent entity from equity 
attributable to other entities stapled to the parent. The equity attributable to other entities stapled to the parent is presented as non-controlling 
interests in the statement of financial position of the Group. The tables below in notes 22(a) and 22(b) provide an analysis of equity, profit for the 
year and total comprehensive income for the year attributable to each of Goodman Limited and the other entities stapled to Goodman Limited 
(non-controlling interests). 

(a) Equity attributable to Goodman Limited

Attributable to Goodman Limited

Issued 
capital

Foreign 
currency 

translation 
reserve

Employee 
compensation 

reserve

Defined 
benefit 

retirement 
schemes 

reserve
Total 

reserves
Retained 
earnings Total

$M $M $M $M $M $M $M

Balance at 1 July 2020  483.2 (36.9)  33.1 (23.3) (27.1)  821.9  1,278.0 

Total comprehensive 
(loss)/income for the year
Profit for the year  –  –  –  –  –  300.2  300.2 
Other comprehensive (loss)/income
Effect of foreign currency translation  – (28.6)  –  – (28.6)  – (28.6)
Total comprehensive (loss)/income 
for the year, net of income tax  – (28.6)  –  – (28.6)  300.2  271.6 
Transfers  –  – (68.4)  – (68.4)  68.4  – 
Contributions by and 
distributions to owners
Purchase of securities for the LTIP  –  – (22.4)  – (22.4)  – (22.4)
Issue of securities  11.4  –  –  –  –  –  11.4 
Issue costs (0.1)  –  –  –  –  – (0.1)
Equity settled share based 
payments transactions  –  –  106.1  –  106.1  –  106.1 
Deferred tax associated with the LTIP  –  –  8.1  –  8.1  –  8.1 
Transfer to payables  –  – (17.1)  – (17.1)  – (17.1)
Balance at 30 June 2021  494.5 (65.5)  39.4 (23.3) (49.4)  1,190.5  1,635.6 
Total comprehensive 
(loss)/income for the year
Profit for the year  –  –  –  –  –  552.6  552.6 
Other comprehensive (loss)/income
Effect of foreign currency translation  – (10.9)  –  1.0 (9.9)  – (9.9)
Total comprehensive (loss)/income 
for the year, net of income tax  – (10.9)  –  1.0 (9.9)  552.6  542.7 

Transfers  –  – (81.8)  – (81.8)  81.8  – 
Contributions by and 
distributions to owners
Purchase of securities for the LTIP  –  – (28.0)  – (28.0)  – (28.0)
Issue of securities  19.8  –  –  –  –  –  19.8 
Equity settled share based 
payments transactions  –  –  127.0  –  127.0  –  127.0 
Deferred tax associated with the LTIP  –  – (4.2)  – (4.2)  – (4.2)
Balance at 30 June 2022  514.3 (76.4)  52.4 (22.3) (46.3)  1,824.9  2,292.9 

 



GOODMAN GROUP

140

(b) Equity attributable to other entities stapled to Goodman Limited (non-controlling interests)

Attributable to other entities stapled to Goodman Limited (non–controlling interests)

Issued 
capital

Asset 
revaluation 

reserve

Cash flow 
hedge 

reserve

Foreign 
currency 

translation 
reserve

Employee 
compensation 

reserve

Defined 
benefit 

retirement 
schemes 

reserve
Total 

reserves
Retained 
earnings Total

$M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M

Balance at 1 July 2020  7,548.5 (7.2) (5.2)  225.5  206.7 (8.0)  411.8  2,282.3  10,242.6 

Total comprehensive 
income/(loss) for the year

Profit for the year  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  2,011.7  2,011.7 

Other comprehensive 
income/(loss)

Effect of foreign 
currency translation  –  0.2  0.5 (250.7)  – (0.8) (250.8)  – (250.8)

Actuarial losses on defined 
benefit superannuation 
funds, net of income tax  –  –  –  –  – (6.0) (6.0)  – (6.0)

Other changes  –  0.3  0.3  –  –  –  0.6  –  0.6 

Total comprehensive 
income/(loss) for the year, 
net of income tax  –  0.5  0.8 (250.7)  – (6.8) (256.2)  2,011.7  1,755.5 

Contributions by and 
distributions to owners

Dividends/distributions on 
stapled securities  –  –  –  –  –  –  – (554.2) (554.2)

Issue of securities  53.7  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  53.7 

Issue costs (0.3)  –  –  –  –  –  –  – (0.3)

Equity settled share based 
payments transactions  –  –  –  –  28.6  –  28.6  –  28.6 

Balance at 30 June 2021  7,601.9 (6.7) (4.4) (25.2)  235.3 (14.8)  184.2  3,739.8  11,525.9 

Total comprehensive 
income/(loss) for the year

Profit for the year  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  2,861.4  2,861.4 

Other comprehensive 
income/(loss)

Effect of foreign 
currency translation  –  – (0.4)  155.0  –  0.6  155.2  –  155.2 

Actuarial gains on defined 
benefit superannuation 
funds, net of income tax  –  –  –  –  –  5.6  5.6  –  5.6 

Other changes  –  0.3  15.9  –  –  –  16.2  –  16.2 

Total comprehensive income 
for the year, net of income tax  –  0.3  15.5  155.0  –  6.2  177.0  2,861.4  3,038.4 

Contributions by and 
distributions to owners

Dividends/distributions on 
stapled securities  –  –  –  –  –  –  – (560.1) (560.1)

Issue of stapled securities  90.1  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  90.1 

Issue costs (0.2)  –  –  –  –  –  –  – (0.2)

Equity settled share based 
payments transactions  –  –  –  –  37.8  –  37.8  –  37.8 

Balance at 30 June 2022  7,691.8 (6.4)  11.1  129.8  273.1 (8.6)  399.0  6,041.1  14,131.9 

Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Other items (continued)
22 Equity attributable to Goodman Limited and non-controlling interests (continued)



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

141

23 Controlled entities
Controlled entities are entities controlled by the Company. Under Australian Accounting Standards, the Company is identified as having acquired 
control over the assets of the Trust and GLHK. The consolidated financial statements incorporate the assets and liabilities of all controlled entities 
as at 30 June 2022 and the results of all such entities for the year ended 30 June 2022. 

Where an entity either began or ceased to be controlled during the financial year, the results of that entity are included only from or to the date control 
commenced or ceased.

Unrealised gains and losses and inter-entity balances resulting from transactions with or between controlled entities are eliminated in full on consolidation.

The significant controlled entities of the Company are set out below:

Significant controlled entities of Goodman Limited Country of establishment/ incorporation

GA Industrial Portfolio Trust1 Australia

GIT Investments Holding Trust No.31 Australia

Goodman Australia Finance Pty Limited1 Australia

Goodman Capital Trust1 Australia

Goodman Europe Development Trust1 Australia

Goodman Finance Australia Trust1 Australia

Goodman Funds Management Australia Limited Australia

Goodman Funds Management Limited Australia

Goodman Industrial Funds Management Limited Australia

Goodman Industrial Trust Australia

Goodman Property Services (Aust) Pty Limited Australia

Goodman Treasury Trust1 Australia

Moorabbin Airport Corporation Pty Ltd Australia

Goodman Belgium NV Belgium

Goodman Management Services (Belgium) NV Belgium

Goodman China Asset Management Limited Cayman Islands

Goodman China Developments Cayman Islands

Goodman Developments Asia Cayman Islands

Goodman Management Consulting (Beijing) Co. Ltd China

Goodman Management Consulting (Shanghai) Co. Ltd China

Goodman France Sàrl France

Goodman Germany GmbH Germany

GFM Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong

Goodman Asia Limited Hong Kong

Goodman China Limited Hong Kong

Goodman Hong Kong Investment Trust1 Hong Kong

Goodman Logistics (HK) Limited Hong Kong

Goodman UK Investment (HK) Limited Hong Kong

GPS Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong

Goodman Italy S.R.L. Italy
 

1.  Significant controlled entities of Goodman Industrial Trust.



GOODMAN GROUP

142

Significant controlled entities of Goodman Limited Country of establishment/ incorporation

Goodman Japan Funds Limited Japan

Goodman Japan Limited Japan

GELF Management (Lux) Sàrl Luxembourg

Goodman Finance (Lux) Sàrl1 Luxembourg

Goodman Finance Two (Lux) Sàrl1 Luxembourg

Goodman Management Holdings (Lux) Sàrl Luxembourg

Goodman Midnight Logistics (Lux) Sàrl Luxembourg

Goodman Property Opportunities (Lux) Sàrl, SICAR Luxembourg

GPO Advisory (Lux) Sàrl Luxembourg

Goodman Finance NZ Limited1 New Zealand

Goodman Investment Holdings (NZ) Limited New Zealand

Goodman (NZ) Limited New Zealand

Goodman Property Services (NZ) Limited New Zealand

Goodman Galaxy Holding BV The Netherlands

Goodman Netherlands BV The Netherlands

Goodman Real Estate (Spain) S.L. Spain

Goodman Logistics Developments (UK) Limited United Kingdom

Goodman Real Estate (UK) Limited United Kingdom

Goodman Development Management LLC United States

Goodman Management USA Inc United States

Goodman North America LLC United States

Goodman North America Management LLC United States

Goodman US Finance Three, LLC1 United States

Goodman US Finance Four, LLC1 United States

Goodman US Finance Five, LLC1 United States

Tarpon Properties REIT Inc1 United States

1.  Significant controlled entities of Goodman Industrial Trust.

Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Other items (continued)
23 Controlled entities



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

143

24 Related parties
The names of KMP of Goodman at any time during the financial year are as follows:

Non-Executive Directors – GL and GFML Executive KMP

Stephen Johns Gregory Goodman

Christopher Green Danny Peeters

Mark Johnson Anthony Rozic

Vanessa Liu Nick Kurtis

Rebecca McGrath Michael O’Sullivan

Phillip Pryke Nick Vrondas

Hilary Spann

Penny Winn

Non-Executive Director – GLHK

David Collins 

Remuneration of KMP

The KMP remuneration totals are as follows:

Goodman Goodman Limited1

2022
$000

2021
$000

2022
$000

2021
$000

Short-term employee benefits   7,596.6 7,693.9 – –

Post-employment benefits 203.6 211.8 – –

Post-employment benefits 42,106.0 27,760.3 – –

Long-term employee benefits 5,037.4 3,787.7 – –

54,943.6 39,453.7 – –

1. The remuneration is paid by wholly owned controlled entities of Goodman Limited.

GIT does not employ personnel in its own right. However, it is required to have an incorporated responsible entity to manage its activities and GFML 
is considered to be the key management personnel of GIT.

Individual Directors’ and executives’ compensation disclosures

Information regarding individual Directors’ and executives’ compensation and some equity instruments disclosures as required by Corporations 
Regulations 2M.3.03 is provided in the remuneration report section of the Directors’ report.

GreenPoint Real Estate Innovation and Technology Venture, LP

In order to enhance understanding of and access to technologies that may influence the property sector and the business, GIT committed to investing 
USD15.0 million in GreenPoint Real Estate Innovation and Technology Venture, LP, a property technology fund that is a Delaware limited partnership, 
managed by Greenpoint Group LP, also a Delaware limited partnership. Greenpoint Group LP is beneficially owned and controlled by Christopher 
Green, a director of GL. During the year, GIT invested a further USD1.5 million, such that that the total investment at 30 June 2022 was USD5.3 million 
(2021: USD3.8 million).

Wyuna Regenerative Ag Investment Fund (Wyuna) 

During the year, as part of its ESG strategy, Goodman committed to investing $30.0 million in Wyuna, a fund offering a model blending carbon 
farming, red meat production and regeneration in Australia. The fund is managed by Wyuna Regenerative Ag, which is 50% owned by Christopher 
Green, a director of GL. Total investment in Wyuna at 30 June 2022 is $nil.



GOODMAN GROUP

144

Transactions with associates and JVs

The transactions with Partnerships during the year were as follows:

Revenue from disposal 
of investment properties

Revenue from management 
and development activities

Interest charged on loans 
to associates and JVs

Goodman
2022

$000
2021

$000
2022

$000
2021

$000
2022

$000
2021

$000

Associates  400,825.4  163,046.2  1,279,744.9  712,234.5  –  – 

JVs 274,018.6  –  447,461.7  442,607.0  6,514.7  8,131.9 

GIT

Associates  346,825.4  163,046.2  –  – (36.1)  15.7 

JVs  –  –  –  –  6,166.6  7,417.6 

 In addition to the transactions included in the table above:

+ Goodman incurred $3.7 million of costs from Partnerships, primarily for the leasing of office premises 

+ GAIP paid Goodman a refundable fee of $22.6 million for an option to acquire a 40% interest in a JV from the Group.

Amounts due from Partnerships at 30 June 2022 were as follows: 

Goodman GIT
Amounts due from 

related parties1
Loans provided 

by Goodman2
Amounts due from 

related parties1
Loans provided 

by GIT2

2022
$000

2021
$000

2022
$000

2021
$000

2022
$000

2021
$000

2022
$000

2021
$000

Associates

GAIP  14,204.2  10,811.2  –  –  –  –  –  – 
GAP  5,626.5  3,843.9  –  –  –  –  –  – 
GMT  3,579.3  2,123.8  –  –  –  –  –  – 
GHKLP  9,757.3  41,987.7  –  –  –  –  –  – 
GJCP  4,371.3  3,017.4  –  –  –  –  –  – 
GEP  13,912.2  8,454.0  –  –  –  –  –  – 

 51,450.8  70,238.0  –  –  –  –  –  – 
JVs
GCLP  6,617.4  12,566.5  –  –  –  –  –  – 
Other JVs  24,865.6  18,803.7  167,464.7  270,368.8  4.8  70.5  140,162.8  240,731.6 

 31,483.0  31,370.2  167,464.7  270,368.8  4.8  70.5  140,162.8  240,731.6 

1. Amounts due from related parties include contract assets arising from transactions with related parties.
2. Loans provided by Goodman and GIT to associates and JVs have been provided on an arm’s length basis. 

Transactions between GIT and other Goodman entities

The transactions with other Goodman entities during the year were as follows:

GIT

2022
$000

2021
$000

Management income   1,850.9   2,384.0 

Revenue from disposal of investment properties –   8,073.0 

Reimbursement of expenses   58,381.5 50,392.9

60,232.4 60,849.9 

Interest bearing loans exist between GIT and other Goodman entities. At 30 June 2022, interest bearing loans of $3,122.6 million (2021: $3,096.5 million) 
were receivable by GIT from other Goodman entities and $723.8 million (2021: $777.7 million) was payable by GIT to other Goodman entities. Loans to 
related Goodman entities bear interest at rates referenced to GIT’s external funding arrangements.

Additionally, during the year GIT acquired 65,906,199 units in GMT from a controlled entity of GL for consideration of NZ$139.1 million.

Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Other items (continued)
24 Related parties (continued)



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

145

25 Commitments

Development activities

At 30 June 2022, Goodman was committed to expenditure in respect of 
$691.8 million (2021: $534.7 million) on inventories and other development 
activities. GIT has no such commitments (2021: $nil).

Investment properties

At 30 June 2022, Goodman had capital expenditure commitments 
of $6.1 million (2021: $nil) in respect of its existing investment property 
portfolio. GIT had capital expenditure commitments of $4.5 million 
(2021: $nil).

Partnerships

At 30 June 2022, Goodman had remaining equity commitments of 
$217.9 million (2021: $144.7 million) into GAIP and $135.0 million 
(2021: $63.0 million) into GEP. In addition, Goodman has undertaken to 
acquire up to 82.1 million units in GAIP if their holder elects to sell them. 
The price Goodman will pay will be determined by the prevailing unit price 
at the time of the sale. As at 30 June 2022, this equates to a total value 
of $162.1 million (cum distribution value) or $161.1 million (ex distribution 
price). Goodman’s commitment to this sale process ends in May 2026. 
These commitments also apply to GIT.

In relation to GEP, Goodman offers two liquidity facilities which allow 
certain of the partners to sell to the Group some or all of their investments 
in GEP, but only when Goodman’s ownership interest in GEP is below 
40.0%. At 30 June 2022, Goodman’s ownership interest in GEP was 19.8% 
and therefore the facilities are available to the partners. The first facility, 
which applies to 6.4% of the issued and committed units, would require 
Goodman to purchase up to €210.5 million of units (at a 1% discount to 
current unit value), subject to a maximum in each quarter of 2.5% of units. 
The second facility, which applies to 12.7% of the issued and committed 
units, would require Goodman to purchase up to €150.0 million of units 
(at a 5% discount to current unit value), subject to a maximum in each 
calendar year of €50.0 million.

Furthermore, in respect of certain Partnerships, Goodman and its 
investment partners have committed to invest further capital, subject to 
the approval by the partners (including Goodman) of the expenditures for 
which the funding is required. Goodman’s commitment in respect of these 
Partnerships is set out below:

+ $30.0 million (2021: $nil) into Wyuna 

+ $130.7 million (2021: $136.2 million) into 
KWASA Goodman Germany

+ $344.8 million (2021: $410.1 million) into 
Goodman Japan Development Partnership

+ $793.8 million (2021: $808.0 million) into GCLP

+ $599.3 million (2021: $512.8 million) into GUKP

+ $1,888.9 million (2021: $2,156.2 million) into GNAP

+ $73.0 million (2021: $72.7 million) into 
Goodman Brazil Logistics Partnership.



GOODMAN GROUP

146

26 Auditors’ remuneration
Goodman GIT

2022
$000

2021
$000

2022
$000

2021
$000

Audit services

Auditor of the Company:

– Audit and review of financial reports (KPMG Australia)  1,279.1  1,161.9  737.3  691.9 

– Audit and review of financial reports (overseas KPMG firms)  1,218.7  1,127.9  77.3  85.8 

 2,497.8  2,289.8  814.6  777.7 

Other services

– Other regulatory services (KPMG Australia)  64.9  56.7  41.8  35.7 

– Other assurance services (KPMG Australia)1  670.0  –  –  – 

– Other advisory services (KPMG Australia)  15.0  –  –  – 

– Other advisory services (overseas KPMG firms)  –  18.2  –  – 

– Taxation compliance services (KPMG Australia)  –  100.0  –  91.7 

– Taxation compliance services (overseas KPMG firms)  172.8  196.3  –  – 

– Taxation advice (KPMG Australia)  –  23.0  –  – 

– Taxation advice (overseas KPMG firms)  178.8  338.5  –  – 

 1,101.5  732.7  41.8  127.4 

Total paid/payable to KPMG  3,599.3  3,022.5  856.4  905.1 

Other auditors

– Audit and review of financial reports (non–KPMG firms)  151.5  163.4  –  – 
 
1. These assurance services relate to the issue of the US$500 million Sustainability Linked Bond in the US144A/Regulation S market.

Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Other items (continued)



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

147

27 Parent entity disclosures
As at, and throughout the financial year ended, 30 June 2022, the parent entities of Goodman and GIT were Goodman Limited and Goodman Industrial 
Trust respectively. The financial information for the parent entities is disclosed as follows:

Goodman GIT

2022
$M

2021
$M

2022
$M

2021
$M

Result of the parent entity

Profit for the year  176.8  63.0  451.7  140.0 

Other comprehensive income for the year  –  –  –  – 

Total comprehensive income for the year  176.8  63.0  451.7  140.0 

Financial position of the parent entity at year end

Current assets  223.9  49.1  3,076.5  2,329.3 

Total assets  1,895.5  1,591.9  8,075.8  7,424.8 

Current liabilities  108.6  164.4  553.9  1,107.4 

Total liabilities  1,192.4  1,163.7  3,016.6  2,666.1 

Total equity of the parent entity comprising:

Issued capital  937.4  852.5  8,154.5  7,849.0 

Profits reserve  90.7  90.7  –  – 

Employee compensation reserve  52.4  39.3  216.8  159.8 

Accumulated losses (377.4) (554.3) (3,312.1) (3,250.1)

Total equity  703.1  428.2  5,059.2  4,758.7 

 



GOODMAN GROUP

148

The financial information for the parent entities of Goodman and GIT 
has been prepared on the same basis as the consolidated financial 
statements, except as set out below:

Investments in controlled entities and Partnerships

Investments in controlled entities and Partnerships are accounted for 
at cost in the financial statements of GL and GIT. Distributions/dividends 
received from Partnerships are recognised in the income statement, rather 
than being deducted from the carrying amount of these investments.

Tax consolidation

GL is the head entity in a tax consolidated group comprising all Australian 
wholly owned subsidiaries (this excludes GIT). The head entity recognises 
all of the current tax assets and liabilities of the tax consolidated group 
(after elimination of intra-group transactions).

Financial guarantees

Where the parent entities have provided financial guarantees in relation 
to loans and payables of controlled entities for no compensation, the 
fair values of these guarantees are accounted for as contributions and 
recognised as part of the cost of the investment.

Parent entity capital commitments

At 30 June 2022, the parent entities had no capital commitments 
(2021: $nil). 

Parent entity contingencies

Capitalisation Deed Poll

The Company, GFML, as responsible entity of the Trust, GLHK and 
certain of their wholly owned controlled entities are ‘investors’ under 
a Capitalisation Deed Poll (CDP) dated 23 May 2007. Under the CDP, 
each investor undertakes to pay to the relevant controlled entity borrower 
(borrower) any amounts owing under finance documents for the purpose 
of the CDP when the borrower fails to make a payment. Any payments 
by an investor to a borrower will be by way of loan to, or proceeds for the 
subscription of equity in, the borrower by the investor. 

US144A/Regulation S senior notes

Under the issue of notes in the US144A/Regulation S bond market (refer 
to notes 16(b) and 16(c)), controlled entities of GIT had on issue USD 
and EUR notes amounting to US$1,350.0 million and €500.0 million 
respectively. GL, GFML, as responsible entity of the Trust, and GLHK have 
unconditionally and irrevocably guaranteed on a joint and several basis 
the payment of principal and interest in respect of each of the notes.

28 Events subsequent to balance date

Goodman and GIT

Other than as disclosed elsewhere in the consolidated financial report, 
there has not arisen in the interval between the end of the financial year 
and the date of this consolidated financial report any item, transaction 
or event of a material and unusual nature likely, in the opinion of the 
Directors, to affect significantly the operations of Goodman and GIT, 
the results of those operations, or the state of affairs of Goodman and GIT, 
in future financial years.

Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Other items (continued)



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

149

In the opinion of the directors of Goodman Limited and the directors 
of Goodman Funds Management Limited, the responsible entity for 
Goodman Industrial Trust:

a.  the consolidated financial statements and the notes of Goodman 
Limited and its controlled entities and Goodman Industrial Trust and 
its controlled entities set out on pages 79 to 148 and the remuneration 
report that is contained on pages 30 to 75 in the Directors’ report,  
are in accordance with the Corporations Act 2001, including:

 (i)  giving a true and fair view of Goodman’s and GIT’s financial 
position as at 30 June 2022 and of their performance for the 
financial year ended on that date

 (ii)  complying with Australian Accounting Standards (including 
Australian Accounting Interpretations) and the Corporations 
Regulations 2001

b.  there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Company and the 
Trust will be able to pay their debts as and when they become due 
and payable.

 The Directors have been given the declarations required by section 295A 
of the Corporations Act 2001 from the Group Chief Executive Officer and 
Chief Financial Officer for the financial year ended 30 June 2022.

The Directors draw attention to note 1 to the consolidated financial 
statements, which includes a statement of compliance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards.

Signed in accordance with a resolution of the Directors.

Stephen Johns 
Independent Chairman

 

Gregory Goodman 
Group Chief Executive Officer 
Sydney  
16 August 2022

Director's declaration



GOODMAN GROUP

150

Independent auditor’s report
To the stapled security holders of Goodman Group and the unitholders of Goodman Industrial Trust

Report on the audits of the Financial Report  
 
Opinion
We have audited the Financial Report of Goodman Limited (the Company) 
as the deemed parent presenting the stapled security arrangement of the 
Goodman Group (the Goodman Group Financial Report). 

We have also audited the Financial Statements and Directors’ 
Declaration of Goodman Industrial Trust (the Trust Financial Report).

In our opinion, each of the accompanying Goodman Group Financial 
Report and Trust Financial Report are in accordance with the Corporations 
Act 2001, including:

+  giving a true and fair view of the Goodman Group’s and of the 
Trust’s financial position as at 30 June 2022 and of their financial 
performance for the year ended on that date; and

+  complying with Australian Accounting Standards and the 
Corporations Regulations 2001.

The content of each of the Goodman Group and Trust Financial 
Reports comprise:

+  Consolidated statement of financial position as at 30 June 2022;

+  Consolidated income statement, Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income, Consolidated statement of changes in equity 
and Consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended;

+  Notes including a summary of significant accounting policies; and 
(collectively referred to as Financial Statements)

+ Directors’ Declaration.

The Goodman Group consists of Goodman Limited and the entities it 
controlled at the year-end or from time to time during the financial year, 
Goodman Industrial Trust (the Trust) and the entities it controlled at the 
year-end or from time to time during the financial year, and Goodman 
Logistics (HK) Limited and the entities it controlled at the year-end or 
from time to time during the financial year.

Basis for opinions 

We conducted our audits in accordance with Australian Auditing Standards. 
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions.

Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the 
Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Report section 
of our report.

We are independent of the Goodman Group, Goodman Limited, 
Goodman Funds Management Limited (the Responsible Entity of the 
Trust) and the Trust in accordance with the Corporations Act 2001 and 
the ethical requirements of the Accounting Professional and Ethical 
Standards Board’s APES 110 Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants 
(including Independence Standards) (the Code) that are relevant to our 
audits of the Financial Report in Australia. We have fulfilled our other 
ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.

 
Key Audit Matters

The Key Audit Matters we identified for the Goodman Group are:

+ Recognition of development income; and

+  Valuation of investment properties, investments accounted for using 
the equity method and inventories.

Key Audit Matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, 
were of most significance in our audit of the Financial Report of the 
current period.

These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the Financial 
Report as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not 
provide a separate opinion on these matters.

KPMG, an Australian partnership and a member firm of the KPMG global organisation of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Limited, a private English company limited by 
guarantee. All rights reserved. The KPMG name and logo are trademarks used under license by the independent member firms of the KPMG global organisation. Liability limited by a scheme approved 
under Professional Standards Legislation.



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

151

Recognition of development income ($1,441.6m)

Refer to Note 2 to the Financial Report

The key audit matter How the matter was addressed in our audit

Development income was a key audit matter due to:

+ its significant value (28% of revenue and other income);

+ the unique nature of contracts; and

+  the judgements applied by us to assess Goodman Group’s 
determination of revenue recognised during the period in relation 
to contracts which remain in progress at period end.

Income from development management services is recognised 
progressively, requiring judgment by us when considering Goodman 
Group’s determination of the amount and extent of the services provided 
within the period based on contract deliverables.

Goodman Group’s policy is for income from inventory disposals to be 
recognised at a point in time when control is transferred to the customer 
and fixed price development contracts to be recognised in proportion 
to the stage of completion of the relevant contracts.

We focused on the stage of completion estimation which is based on costs 
incurred as a percentage of estimated total costs for each contract.

Our procedures included:

+  Evaluating Goodman Group’s recognition of development income 
against the criteria in the accounting standards;

+  Selecting specific contracts from development income recognised 
based on quantitative and qualitative information (such as the size 
and complexity of the arrangement) and performed the following:

 –      Understanding the underlying contractual arrangements, 
in particular their unique terms, for their impact to recognition 
of development income;

  –      Where recognition of development income was conditional 
upon certain events occurring, checking conditions within the 
contract to evidence of achievement of conditions, such as 
correspondence with external parties;

 –       Assessing Goodman Group’s determination of revenue 
recognised during the period in accordance with the provision 
of services stipulated in the underlying contract or the stage of 
completion; and

 –       For revenue recognised based on the stage of completion, assess 
the cost assumptions used by the Group in determining the stage 
of completion estimate as follows:

        •       Costs incurred – assessing a sample of costs incurred to date 
to relevant underlying external sources, such as invoices; and

        •       Estimated total costs – assessing a sample of total forecast 
costs to secured contracts for construction activities, other 
relevant underlying sources, and our understanding of the 
industry and economic conditions.

 



GOODMAN GROUP

152

Valuation of investment properties ($1,423.7m), investments accounted for using the equity method ($14,379.6m) 
and inventories ($2,116.1m)

Refer to Note 6 to the Financial Report

The key audit matter How the matter was addressed in our audit

Goodman Group’s investments in property assets include investment 
properties and inventories, which are held either directly or through 
its investments accounted for using the equity method.

Goodman Group’s policy is investment properties are held at fair value 
and inventories are held at the lower of cost and net realisable value, 
determined using internal methodologies or through the use of external 
valuation experts.

The valuation of property assets is a key audit matter as they are 
significant in value (being 84% of total assets) and contain assumptions 
with estimation uncertainty.

This leads to additional audit effort due to differing assumptions 
used by Goodman Group based on asset classes, geographies and 
characteristics of individual property assets.

We considered significant assumption in the valuation of property 
assets including :

+ Investment properties:

 – capitalisation rates;

 – discount rates;

 – market rental income;

 – weighted average lease expiry and vacancy levels;

 – projections of capital expenditure; and

 – lease incentive costs.

+ Inventories:

 – forecast capitalisation rates and market rental income;

 – land value per square metre;

 – letting up periods and lease incentive costs; and

 – development costs.

In assessing this Key Audit Matter, we involved real estate valuation 
specialists, who understand the Group’s investment profile, business 
and the economic environment it operates in.

Our procedures included:

+  Obtaining an understanding of Goodman Group’s process regarding 
the valuation of property assets;

+  Assessing the methodologies used in the valuations of property 
assets, for consistency with accounting standards, industry practice 
and Goodman Group’s policies;

+  Working with real estate valuation specialists to read published 
reports and industry commentary to gain an understanding 
of prevailing property market conditions.

For a sample of investment properties, taking into account asset classes, 
geographies and characteristics of individual investment properties:

+  Assessing the scope, competence and objectivity of external 
valuation experts and Goodman Group’s internal valuers;

+  Challenging significant assumptions, with reference to  
published industry reports and commentary of prevailing property 
market conditions;

+  With assistance of real estate valuation specialists, assessing 
a sample of significant assumptions including capitalisation rates, 
discount rates, customer covenant strength, market rental income, 
weighted average lease expiry and vacancy levels, projections 
of capital expenditure and lease incentive costs. We did this by 
comparing to market analysis published by industry experts, recent 
market transactions, inquiries with Goodman Group’s historical 
performance of the assets and using our industry experience;

+  Assessing the disclosures in the financial report using our 
understanding obtained from our testing, against accounting 
standard requirements. 

For a sample of inventories:

+  Challenging the key assumptions included in Goodman Group’s 
internal recoverability assessments and valuations by comparing to 
commentary published by industry experts, recent market transactions, 
and our knowledge of historical performance of the assets.



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

153

Other Information
Other Information is financial and non-financial information in  
Goodman Group’s annual reporting which is provided in addition to the 
Financial Report and the Auditor’s Report. The Directors of the Company 
and the Directors of the Responsible Entity are responsible for the  
Other Information.

The Other Information we obtained prior to the date of this Auditor’s 
Report was the Directors’ Report (including the Remuneration Report).

Our opinion on the Financial Report does not cover the Other Information 
and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or any form of 
assurance conclusion thereon, with the exception of the Remuneration 
Report and our related assurance opinion.

In connection with our audit of the Financial Report, our responsibility 
is to read the Other Information. In doing so, we consider whether the 
Other Information is materially inconsistent with the Financial Report 
or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be 
materially misstated.

We are required to report if we conclude that there is a material 
misstatement of this Other Information, and based on the work we have 
performed on the Other Information that we obtained prior to the date 
of this Auditor’s Report, we have nothing to report.

 
Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Report
The Directors of the Company and the Responsible Entity are  
responsible for:

+  preparing the Financial Report that gives a true and fair view 
in accordance with Australian Accounting Standards and the 
Corporations Act 2001;

+  implementing necessary internal control to enable the preparation 
of a Financial Report that gives a true and fair view and is free from 
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; and

+  assessing the Goodman Group and Trust’s ability to continue 
as a going concern and whether the use of the going concern basis 
of accounting is appropriate. This includes disclosing, as applicable, 
matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis 
of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Goodman 
Group or the Trust or to cease operations, or have no realistic 
alternative but to do so.

Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Report

Our objective is:

+  to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Financial Report 
as a whole is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud 
or error; and

+ to issue an Auditor’s Report that includes our opinion.

Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee 
that an audit conducted in accordance with Australian Auditing 
Standards will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.

Misstatements can arise from fraud or error. They are considered material 
if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected 
to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the 
Financial Report.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the Financial 
Report is located at the Auditing and Assurance Standards Board website 
at: https://www.auasb.gov.au/admin/file/content102/c3/ar1_2020.pdf. 
This description forms part of our Auditor’s Report.

 
Report on the Remuneration Report
Opinion

In our opinion, the Remuneration Report of Goodman Limited for 
the year ended 30 June 2022, complies with Section 300A of the 
Corporations Act 2001.

Directors’ responsibilities

The Directors of Goodman Limited are responsible for the preparation 
and presentation of the Remuneration Report in accordance with  
Section 300A of the Corporations Act 2001.

Our responsibilities

We have audited the Remuneration Report included on pages 30 to 75 
of the Directors’ report for the year ended 30 June 2022.

Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Remuneration Report, based 
on our audit conducted in accordance with Australian Auditing Standards.

 

KPMG Eileen Hoggett 
 Partner

 Sydney  
 16 August 2022



GOODMAN GROUP

154

CONTENTS
Report of the Directors 155

Independent auditor’s report  165

Consolidated statement of financial position  167

Consolidated statement of comprehensive income  168

Consolidated statement of changes in equity  169

Consolidated cash flow statement  170

Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Basis of preparation
1 Basis of preparation  171

Results for the year
2 Profit before interest and income tax  172

3 Segment reporting  174

4 Taxation  177

5 Profit attributable to equity shareholders of the Company  178

Operating assets and liabilities
6 Property assets  179

7 Receivables  186

8 Contract balances  187

9 Payables  189

10 Leases  189

Capital management
11 Net finance expense  190

12 Interest bearing liabilities  190

13 Other financial assets and liabilities  191

14 Financial risk management  191

15 Dividends  196

16 Share capital  197

Other items
17 Notes to the consolidated cash flow statement  199

18 Reserves  201

19 Retained earnings  201

20 Investments in subsidiaries  202

21 Related party transactions  203

22 Commitments  205

23 Contingencies  205

24 Company level statement of financial position  206

25 Subsequent events  206

Appendix A – Goodman Logistics (HK) Limited 
and its subsidiaries
Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2022



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

155

Report of the Directors

The Directors have pleasure in submitting their annual financial report 
together with the audited financial statements of Goodman Logistics (HK) 
Limited (Company) and its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the 
Consolidated Entity) for the year ended 30 June 2022 (FY22).

Incorporation and principal place of business
Goodman Logistics (HK) Limited was incorporated in Hong Kong on  
18 January 2012 and has its principal place of business at Suite 901,  
Three Pacific Place, 1 Queen’s Road East, Hong Kong.

On 22 August 2012, the Company became a party to the stapling deed with 
Goodman Limited (GL) and Goodman Industrial Trust (GIT), and together 
the three entities and their subsidiaries are known as Goodman Group. 
Goodman Group is listed on the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX).

Principal activities
The principal activities of the Consolidated Entity are investment in 
directly and indirectly held industrial property, investment management, 
property management services and development management. The 
principal activities and other particulars of the subsidiaries are set out 
in note 20 to the consolidated financial statements.

Financial statements
The financial performance of the Consolidated Entity for the year ended 
30 June 2022 and the Consolidated Entity’s financial position at that date 
are set out in the consolidated financial report on pages 167 to 206.

During the financial year, the Company declared a final dividend of 
2.5 cents per share amounting to $46.7 million. This dividend will be 
paid on 25 August 2022. In the prior year, the Company declared a final 
dividend of 6.0 cents per share amounting to $110.8 million. This was 
paid on 26 August 2021.

Share capital
Details of the movements in share capital of the Company during FY22 
are set out in note 16 to the consolidated financial statements. 

Directors
 The Directors during the year and up to the date of this report were:

Stephen Paul Johns

David Jeremy Collins 

Gregory Leith Goodman (alternate Director to Stephen Paul Johns)

Daniel Cornelius D. Peeters.

Directors of subsidiaries
The names of Directors who have served on the Boards of the 
subsidiaries of the Company during FY22 are set out below:

Ai Ning Tan

Andrew McGregor 

Aurelien Noel

Bart Manteleers

Béla Kakuk

Charles Crossland

Chi Wing Lin 

Christof Prange

Chun Kit Fung

David Anthony Hinchey 

Dirk Mölter

Dominique Prince

Edwin Chong Chee Wai

Francisco Palacio

Garcia Cuenca Ignacio

Gareth Owen

Godfrey Abel

Goh Hoi Lai  

Hans Ongena

Henry Kelly

Hugh Baggie

Izak ten Hove

James Cornell

James Nicholson

Jan Palek

Jason Harris

Jie Yang

John Conway

John Morton Dakin

Jorn Bruyninckx

Joseph Salvaggio

Karl Dockx

Kelly Moore

Kim Swee Seah

Kristoffer Allan Harvey

Lien Standaert

Luke Caffey

Mak Chun Kit Jacky

Marwan Bustani

Matthew Macdonald

Matthew Phillips

Michael O'Sullivan

Michael Woodford

Nicholas Kurtis

Nick Taunt

Nigel Allsop

Paul Adams

Paul Heslop

Peck Khim Yap

Peter Ralston

Philip Turpin

Philippe Arfi

Philippe Van der Beken

Robert Nicholson

Robert Reed

Shiling Li

Simone Weyermanns

Song Yun 

Stephen Young

Tai Yit Chan 

Tan Ai Ning

Tang Chenying

Tim Cruypelans

Timothy Downes

Timour Wielemans

Wai Ho Stephen Lee

Wang Chen

Xiaoyin Zhang



GOODMAN GROUP

156

BUSINESS REVIEW
State of affairs
There were no significant changes in the Consolidated Entity’s state 
of affairs during the year.

About Goodman Group
Goodman Group is a global industrial property specialist group whose 
strategy is to maximise returns by providing essential infrastructure for 
the digital economy.

+ Urbanisation, globalisation, demographics, digitalisation, sustainability 
and an increased focus on health and wellbeing: all have changed 
the way people live, work and consume. These structural shifts 
have increased the importance of industrial properties in the global 
supply chain 

+ Globally, the logistics and warehousing sectors are now considered 
essential infrastructure for digital economies, and key to the efficient 
distribution of products to consumers. As industrial property specialists, 
Goodman Group’s long-term strategy is built on supporting its 
customers to deliver in the most sustainable and efficient way possible. 
Goodman focuses on key markets and concentrates our portfolio where 
the most value can be created for customers and investors.

Goodman Group’s integrated business model

 
Goodman Group’s Own Develop Manage model focuses 
the business on its customers’ current and future needs.

The Consolidated Entity owns and maintains high-quality properties 
close to consumers, develops sustainable properties, and manages its 
global investment portfolio to a high standard. The Consolidated Entity 
works alongside its capital partners, which include sovereign wealth, 
pension and large multi-manager funds. In each market, the Consolidated 
Entity has dedicated local teams which take care of property asset and 
investment management, delivering a high level of customer service.

Report of the Directors
(continued)



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

157

Performance review
The Consolidated Entity has operations in Asia, Continental Europe 
and the United Kingdom, and its earnings are derived from property 
investment, development and management activities.

The business environment is changing, with increased interest rates, 
inflation, geopolitical risks and the ongoing impacts of the COVID-19 
pandemic; however, the long-term structural drivers of demand have 
not changed. Tight supply and customer demand continues to support 
leasing across the stabilised portfolio and developments, with high 
occupancy in the Consolidated Entity’s markets. The Consolidated 
Entity’s customers continue to intensify warehousing in urban locations 
and increase automation and technology to optimise delivery and 
improve supply chain efficiency.

The Consolidated Entity has continued to successfully execute its strategy, 
which is providing customers with essential locations and offering 
productivity improvements to help absorb cost and time. It is also 
delivering the Consolidated Entity and its Partnerships a portfolio 
of assets at consistently strong risk adjusted returns. This is reflected 
in both the property investment earnings and the management earnings.

Development activity has again been a significant contributor to the 
operating performance. Construction costs are increasing globally. 
However, by delivering increased productivity and value from the project 
sites and development execution, the Consolidated Entity has maintained 
strong returns.

In assessing the Consolidated Entity’s underlying performance, the 
Directors consider operating profit as well as statutory profit. Operating 
profit is a proxy for ‘cash earnings’ and is not an income measure 
under Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards. It is defined as profit 
attributable to Shareholders adjusted for property valuations, impairment 
losses and other non-cash adjustments or non-recurring items. 

The Consolidated Entity has delivered a strong operating performance 
for FY22, with operating profit increasing by 21.5% to $607.4 million, 
compared to $499.8 million for the prior year.

2022
$M

2021
$M

Analysis of operating profit

Property investment earnings  82.1  46.1 

Management earnings  170.6  146.3 

Development earnings  689.1  528.0 

 941.8  720.4 

Operating expenses (207.9) (199.6)

 733.9  520.8 

Net finance expense (operating)1 (12.4) (8.8)

Income tax expense (114.1) (12.2)

Operating profit  607.4  499.8 
 

1. Net finance expense (operating) excludes derivative mark to market and unrealised foreign 
exchange movements.

Property investment activities

Property investment earnings in FY22 of $82.1 million were higher than the 
prior year and comprised 9% of the total earnings (2021: 6%). 

2022
$M

2021
$M

Net property income  40.9  13.4 

Partnerships  41.2  32.7 

Property investment earnings  82.1  46.1 

Key metrics 2022 2021

Weighted average capitalisation rate (%)  4.7  4.9 

Weighted average lease expiry (years)  4.2  3.8 

Occupancy (%)  97.6  98.0 

Property investment earnings comprise gross property income 
(excluding straight lining of rental income), less property expenses, plus 
the Consolidated Entity’s share of the results of property investment joint 
ventures (JV) (referred to by the Consolidated Entity as Partnerships). 
The key drivers for maintaining or growing the Consolidated Entity’s property 
investment earnings are increasing the level of assets under management 
(AUM) (subject also to the Consolidated Entity’s direct and indirect interest), 
maintaining or increasing occupancy and rental levels within the portfolio,  
and controlling operating and financing costs within Partnerships.

The Consolidated Entity’s property portfolios are concentrated in large, urban 
locations where available space remains restricted, driven by significant 
customer demand, combined with barriers to entry and limited supply. 
Consequently, the Consolidated Entity is seeing significant market rental 
growth across its locations. This is supporting strong underlying investment 
fundamentals and cash flows in the Consolidated Entity’s portfolio.

The net income from the Consolidated Entity’s directly held properties 
increased by 205% to $40.9 million compared to the prior year as a result 
of acquisitions in Asia in both the current and prior year and rental income 
earned from completed developments (held in inventories, mainly in 
Continental Europe) prior to their disposal.

The Consolidated Entity’s share of investment earnings from its cornerstone 
holdings in the Partnerships increased by 26% to $41.2 million compared 
to the prior year. This was due to the stabilisation of developments 
in FY21 and FY22, as the Consolidated Entity has continued to invest 
in the Partnerships to fund its share of those developments and rental 
income growth from existing stabilised properties.

During FY22, the Consolidated Entity’s share of property valuations 
from the stabilised portfolios was $269.8 million. Valuation gains occurred 
in all regions and while capitalisation rate compression was the main 
driver, especially in the first half of the year, both rental income growth 
and development completions have provided an increasing contribution. 
At 30 June 2022, the weighted average capitalisation rate for the 
Consolidated Entity’s portfolios was 4.7%, compared to 4.9% at the start 
of FY22.



GOODMAN GROUP

158

Management activities

Management earnings in FY22 of $170.6 million increased by 17% compared 
to the prior year and comprised 18% of total operating earnings (2021: 20%). 
The main driver of management earnings was the increase in external AUM. 
A reduction in performance related revenue was the result of the timing 
of calculation and recognition of fees. 

2022
$M

2021
$M

Management earnings  170.6  146.3 

Key metrics 2022 2021

Number of Partnerships  8  7 

External AUM ($B)  27.8  23.0 

Management earnings relate to the revenue from managing both 
the property portfolios and the capital invested in the Partnerships 
(management income). This includes performance related revenues 
but excludes earnings from managing development activities in the 
Partnerships, which are included in development earnings. The key 
drivers for maintaining or growing management earnings are activity 
levels, asset performance, and increasing the level of AUM, which can 
be impacted by property valuations and asset disposals and is also 
dependent on liquidity including the continued availability of third party 
capital to fund both development activity and acquisitions across the 
Consolidated Entity’s Partnerships. 

Development activities

In FY22, development earnings were $689.1 million, an increase of 31% on 
the prior year, and comprised 73% of total operating earnings (2021: 73%). 

Development activity continued to be strong with work in progress 
of $7.1 billion across 36 projects at 30 June 2022. The increase in the 
Consolidated Entity’s development earnings was primarily volume driven.

2022
$M

2021
$M

Net development income  645.7  487.7 

Partnerships  43.4  40.3 

Development earnings  689.1  528.0 

Key metrics 2022 2021

Work in progress ($B)  7.1  5.8 

Work in progress 
(million square metres)  2.3  2.0 

Work in progress 
(number of developments)  36  37 

Developments completed during 
the year (number of developments)  23  18 

Development earnings consist of development income, plus the 
Consolidated Entity’s share of the operating results of Partnerships 
that is allocable to development activities, plus net gains or losses from 
disposals of investment properties and equity investments that are 
allocable to development activities, plus interest income on loans to 
development JVs, less development expenses. Development income 
includes development management fees and performance related 
revenues associated with managing individual development projects in 
Partnerships. The key drivers for the Consolidated Entity’s development 
earnings are the level of development activity, land and construction 
prices, property valuations and the continued availability of capital to fund 
development activity.

Most of the inventory disposals and fixed price contract income 
arose in Continental Europe, as Goodman Group’s Partnerships in 
Continental Europe generally acquire completed developments from 
the Consolidated Entity. In the Consolidated Entity’s other operating 
segments, development earnings are a mix of development management 
income, including performance related income, and transactional 
activity, including the Consolidated Entity’s share of development profits 
reported by the Partnerships themselves. Consistent with the prior year, 
most of the development activity in FY22 was undertaken by or for the 
Partnerships and third parties.

Other items
Operating expenses increased mainly due to remuneration costs as a result 
of modest inflation pressure and cash incentives paid as a result of the 
Consolidated Entity’s overall performance. Borrowing costs have increased 
as a result of increased borrowings on the Consolidated Entity’s loans. The 
increase in tax expense is primarily a function of changes to the origin and 
nature of revenue arising from management and development activities.

Report of the Directors
Business review (continued)



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

159

Statement of financial position

2022
$M

2021
$M

Stabilised investment properties  336.8  163.9 

Cornerstone investments 
in Partnerships  1,845.6  1,470.0 

Development holdings  1,552.6  1,140.9 

Cash  357.5  358.4 

Other assets  1,190.8  1,233.0 

Total assets  5,283.3  4,366.2 

Loans from related parties  1,941.0  1,891.1 

Other liabilities  756.2  705.2 

Total liabilities  2,697.2  2,596.3 

Non-controlling interests  28.2  22.2 

Net assets attributable 
to Shareholders  2,557.9  1,747.7 

The stabilised investment properties relate to acquisitions in Asia.

The carrying value of cornerstone investments in Partnerships has 
increased by $375.6 million to $1,845.6 million, principally due to the net 
investment in the Partnerships and the valuation uplifts. A reconciliation 
of the current year movement in cornerstone investments in Partnerships 
is detailed in note 6(f) to the consolidated financial statements. 

The increase in development holdings by $411.7 million to $1,552.6 million 
is primarily due to additional expenditure on development projects 
in Continental Europe, China and the United Kingdom during the year. 

Other assets included receivables, fair values of derivative financial 
instruments that are in an asset position, contract assets, property, 
plant and equipment and tax assets (including deferred tax). Other 
liabilities included trade and other payables, the provision for dividends 
to Shareholders, fair values of derivative financial instruments that are 
in a liability position, employee benefits and tax liabilities (including 
deferred tax). 

Cash flows

2022
$M

2021
$M

Operating cash flows  216.5  473.6 

Investing cash flows (234.8) (271.2)

Financing cash flows  12.5 (200.5)

Net (decrease)/increase 
in cash held (5.8)  1.9 

Effect of exchange rate 
fluctuations on cash held  4.9 (11.7)

Cash and cash equivalents 
at the beginning of the year  358.4  368.2 

Cash and cash equivalents 
at the end of the year  357.5  358.4 

The decrease in the net operating cash flows is primarily due to more 
development disposals in Continental Europe in the prior year and the 
increased investment into new development opportunities.

The net investing cash outflow was due to the net investment in the 
Consolidated Entity’s Partnerships, to fund acquisitions and new 
developments, plus the acquisitions of investment properties in Asia.

Financing cash flows principally relate to the net proceeds from loans 
with related parties and payment of the dividend in August 2021. 



GOODMAN GROUP

160

Outlook
The Consolidated Entity has developed significant expertise and 
a deliberate strategy to target high barrier to entry markets and to 
undertake larger, more complex projects over longer periods of time, 
providing our customers access to facilities where they are scarce 
and has positioned the Consolidated Entity well for future growth. 

In the near term, market conditions are likely to be volatile and the risks 
associated with rising inflation, interest rates and slowing economic 
activity are elevated. This may impact consumers; however, they 
continue to seek faster and more flexible delivery, which requires ongoing 
intensification of warehousing in urban locations to optimise delivery 
and improve productivity. The business remains agile, focused on the 
changing consumption habits across the physical and digital space and, 
as a result, the evolving requirements of customers around the world. 

Demand is currently exceeding supply in the Consolidated Entity’s markets, 
supporting the Consolidated Entity’s development-led growth strategy 
and producing well located assets for the Consolidated Entity and its 
Partnerships. In addition to strategic site acquisitions, the opportunities for 
regeneration of existing assets support our future development workbook 
by providing value add opportunities, while reducing the Consolidated 
Entity’s environmental impact. The Consolidated Entity’s production rate, 
depth of customer demand and strong margins are supporting the outlook 
for development earnings into FY23.  

The outlook for property investment and management earnings 
remains strong, as the customer demand and supply constraints in the 
Consolidated Entity’s markets provide support for both rental growth 
and a high level of occupancy. Investment and management earnings will 
also benefit from the completion of ongoing developments. Development 
completions and market rental growth are also expected to support 
growth in AUM.

Further information as to other likely developments in the operations 
of the Consolidated Entity and the expected results of those operations 
in future financial years has not been included in this report of the 
Directors because disclosure of the information would be likely to result 
in unreasonable prejudice to the Consolidated Entity.

Risks
Goodman Group identifies strategic and operational risks for each of its 
regions as part of its strategy process. The key risks, an assessment of their 
likelihood of occurrence and consequences and controls that are in place 
to mitigate the risks are reported to the Goodman Group Board annually. 

Goodman Group has established formal systems and processes to 
manage the risks at each stage of its decision-making process. This is 
facilitated by a Goodman Group Investment Committee comprising 
senior executives, chaired by the Group Chief Executive Officer, which 
considers all major operational decisions and transactions. The Goodman 
Group Investment Committee meets on a weekly basis.

The Goodman Group Board has separate Board committees to review 
and assess key risks. The Risk and Compliance Committee reviews and 
monitors a range of material risks in Goodman Group’s risk management 
systems including, among other risks, market, operational, sustainability, 
regulation and compliance and information technology. The Goodman 
Group Audit Committee reviews and monitors financial risk management 
and tax policies.

Report of the Directors
Business review (continued)



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

161

The key risks faced by Goodman Group and the controls that have been established to manage those risks are set out below:

Risk area Mitigation

Capital 
management 
(debt, equity 
and cash flow)

Goodman Group could suffer an inability to deliver its strategy, or an 
acute liquidity or solvency crisis, financial loss or financial distress as 
a result of a failure in the design or execution of its capital 
management and financing strategy.

+  Low gearing, ample liquidity and appropriate hedging and duration 
to absorb market shocks

+ Appropriate hedging quantities and duration in accordance with 
Goodman Group’s financial risk management policy

+ Diversification and tenure of debt funding sources and maturities

+ Capital partnering transfers risks into Partnerships

+ Diversification of investment partners

+ Change in distribution pay-out ratio consistent with contribution 
to increasing development workbook

+ Strong assets that can generate better rental outcomes

+ Long lease terms with prime customers

+ Key urban market strategy – urban, infill locations support re-usability 
of property

+ Adaptable and re-usable building design – ease to reconfigure for 
another customer

+ Insurance program including project specific insurance.

Economic and 
geopolitical 
environment

Global economic conditions and government policies present both 
risks and opportunities in the property and financial markets and the 
business of customers, which can impact the delivery of Goodman 
Group’s strategy and its financial performance.

A continued increase in geopolitical tension between countries 
could have potential consequences on its people, operations and 
capital partners.

In the near term, market conditions are likely to be volatile and the 
risks associated with rising inflation, interest rates and slowing 
economic activity are elevated.

+ Global diversification of Goodman Group’s property portfolios

+ Focus on core property portfolios in key urban market locations

+ Focus on cost management

+ Prudent capital management with low gearing, appropriate hedging 
and significant available liquidity to allow for potential market shocks

+ Co-investment with local capital partners

+ Long-term leases with review mechanisms.

Governance, 
regulation and 
compliance

Non-compliance with legislation, regulators, or internal policies, or to 
understand and respond to changes in the political and regulatory 
environment (including taxation) could result in legal action, financial 
consequences and damage its standing and reputation with stakeholders.

+ Independent governance structures

+ Core values and attitudes, with an embedded compliance culture 
focused on best practice

+ Dedicated Chief Risk Officer and Compliance Officer

+ Review of transactions by the Goodman Group Investment Committee

+ Verification and sign off process for all public announcements

+ Comprehensive insurance program, covering property, liability, 
directors and officers and professional indemnity.

People 
and culture

Failure to recruit, develop, support, and retain staff with the right skills 
and experience may result in significant underperformance or impact 
the effectiveness of operations and decision making, in turn impacting 
business performance.

+ Succession planning for senior executives

+ Competitive remuneration structures, including the Goodman 
Group Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)

+ Performance management and review

+ Goodman Group values program

+ Learning, development and engagement programs

+ Staff engagement through team strategy days, town halls and the 
(good) life program.

Development Development risks may arise from location, site complexity, 
planning and permitting, infrastructure, size, duration along with 
general contractor capability.

+ Review of development projects by the Goodman Group 
Investment Committee

+ Goodman Group defined design specifications, which cover 
environmental, technological, and safety requirements, protecting 
against short-term obsolescence

+ Redevelopment of older assets to intensify use

+ Pre-selecting and engaging general contractors that are 
appropriately capitalised and reviewing contractor liquidity

+ Internal audit reviews

+ Insurance program, both Goodman Group and general contractor, 
including project specific insurance

+ Ongoing monitoring and reporting of work in progress and levels 
of speculative development, with Goodman Group Board oversight 
including limits with respect to speculative development and higher 
development risk provisions

+ Capital partnering development projects.



GOODMAN GROUP

162

Risk area Mitigation

Disruption, 
changes in 
demand and 
obsolescence

The longer-term risk that an inability to understand and respond 
effectively to changes in the competitive landscape and customer value 
chain could result in business model disruption and asset obsolescence, 
including the perception of obsolescence in the short term.

+ Key urban market strategy – urban, infill locations support 
re-usability of property

+ Adaptable and re-usable building design – ease to reconfigure 
 for another customer

+ Geographic diversification

+ Capital partnering transfers risks into Partnerships

+ Insurance program (both Goodman Group’s and key contractors), 
including project specific insurance covering design and defects

+ Long lease terms with prime customers

+ Investment in innovation and technology strategies.

Environmental 
sustainability and 
climate change

Failure to deliver on Goodman Group’s sustainability leadership 
strategy and ambitions may lead to a negative impact on Goodman 
Group’s reputation, ability to raise capital and a disruption to 
operations and stranded assets.

+ Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability policy

+ 2030 Sustainability Strategy including the assessment of 
individual assets to improve resilience and implementation 
of sustainability initiatives

+ Sustainability guidelines for development projects

+ Review and approval of acquisitions and development projects 
by the Goodman Group Investment Committee and relevant 
Partnership Investment Committee, including consideration 
of climate in due diligence and specification

+ Adoption of the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial 
Disclosures recommendations as a framework for climate risks.

Asset and 
portfolio

Inability to execute asset planning and management strategies, 
including leasing risk exposures, can reduce returns from Goodman 
Group’s portfolios. 

+ Key urban market strategy – urban, infill locations where customer 
demand is strongest

+ Diversification of customer base and lease expiries

+ Review of significant leasing transactions and development 
projects by the Goodman Group Investment Committee

+ Capital expenditure programs keeping pace with property lifecycle.

Concentration 
of counterparties 
and markets

Over-exposure to specific areas, such as capital partners, supply chain, 
customers and markets, may limit growth and sustainability opportunities.

+ Diversification of customer base and lease expiries

+ Diversification of capital partners and Partnership expiries

+ Contractor pre-selection and tendering

+ Independence governance structure.

Information and 
data security

Maintaining security (including cyber security) of IT environment 
and data, ensuring continuity of IT infrastructure and applications 
to support sustainability and growth and prevent operational, 
regulatory, financial and reputational impacts.

+ Reporting of risks and management activity

+ Proactive monitoring, review and testing of infrastructure

+ Disaster recovery and business continuity planning and testing

+ Benchmarked strategy for delivery of security information 
technology infrastructure and systems

+ Training and awareness program and other assurance activities 
for monitoring and improvement.

Infectious disease 
pandemic

There continues to be significant uncertainty associated with the 
COVID-19 pandemic, with mutations of the virus and significant outbreaks 
continuing to occur globally. The approach in enabling the world to 
stabilise and transition to a “normal” footing is still to be understood, while 
“Zero COVID” policies by some nations is having both economic and 
supply chain issues globally.

+ Protect and support Goodman Group’s people

+ Global diversification of Goodman Group’s property portfolios

+ Diversification of customer base

+ In-house property management team enabling flexibility to 
support and respond to customers

+ Capital model, strong balance sheet with adequate liquidity available.

Report of the Directors
 



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

163

Environmental regulations
The Consolidated Entity has policies and procedures to identify and appropriately address environmental obligations that might arise in respect of 
the Consolidated Entity’s operations that are subject to significant environmental regulation under the laws of the countries the Consolidated Entity 
operates in. The Directors have determined that the Consolidated Entity has complied with those obligations during the financial year and that there 
has not been any material breach. 

Disclosure in respect of any indemnification of Directors
A permitted indemnity provision (as defined in section 469 of the Hong Kong Companies Ordinance) for the benefit of the Directors of the Company 
is currently in force and was in force throughout this year. 

Directors’ interests in contracts
No contract of significance in relation to the Consolidated Entity’s business to which the Company, its subsidiaries or any of its fellow subsidiaries was 
a party and in which the Directors of the Company had a material interest, whether directly or indirectly, subsisted at the end of the year or at any time 
during the year.

Directors’ interests in shares
At the end of the year, the Directors (including alternate Directors) held the following interests in the stapled securities of Goodman Group, which are 
listed on the ASX: 

Directors
Directly held 

securities
Indirectly held 

securities Total

Stephen Paul Johns –  41,143  41,143 

David Jeremy Collins  5,000 –  5,000 

Gregory Leith Goodman  874,873  37,729,673  38,604,546 

Daniel Cornelius Peeters –  2,199,797  2,199,797 
 
In addition, Gregory Goodman and Daniel Peeters participate in the LTIP under which they hold performance rights. Performance rights entitle 
participants to receive Goodman Group stapled securities without the payment of consideration, subject to Goodman Group satisfying performance 
criteria and the participants remaining employees of Goodman Group.  

Details of the awards of performance rights under the LTIP granted as compensation to the Directors (including alternate Directors) at 30 June 2022 
are as follows:

Number of 
performance 

rights at the start 
of the year

Number of 
performance 

rights granted 
during the year

Number of 
performance 
rights vested 

during the year

Number of 
performance 

rights forfeited 
during the year

Number of 
performance 

rights at the end 
of the year

Date 
performance 

rights granted

Financial years 
in which 

grant vests

Gregory Leith Goodman  –  1,560,000  –  –  1,560,000  18 Nov 21 2026 – 2032

 950,000  –  –  –  950,000  19 Nov 20 2024 – 2026

 900,000  –  –  –  900,000  20 Nov 19 2023 – 2025

 1,600,000  – (533,333)  –  1,066,667  15 Nov 18 2022 – 2024

 1,066,667  – (533,333)  –  533,334  16 Nov 17 2021 – 2023

 800,000  – (800,000)  –  –  30 Sep 16 2020 – 2022

Daniel Cornelius Peeters  –  625,000  –  –  625,000  18 Nov 21 2026 – 2032

 380,000  –  –  –  380,000  19 Nov 20 2024 – 2026

 350,000  –  –  –  350,000  20 Nov 19 2023 – 2025

 550,000  – (183,333)  –  366,667  15 Nov 18 2022 – 2024

 366,667  – (183,333)  –  183,334  16 Nov 17 2021 – 2023

 200,000  – (200,000)  –  –  30 Sep 16 2020 – 2022

Apart from the above, at no time during the year was the Company, its subsidiaries or any of its fellow subsidiaries a party to any arrangement to 
enable the Directors of the Company to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in or debentures of the Company or any other related 
body corporate.



GOODMAN GROUP

164

Auditors
KPMG retire and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-appointment. 
A resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG as auditors of the Company 
is to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.

Subsequent events
There has not arisen in the interval between the end of the financial year 
and the date of this report any item, transaction or event of a material and 
unusual nature likely, in the opinion of the Directors, to affect significantly 
the operations of the Consolidated Entity, the results of those operations, 
or the state of affairs of the Consolidated Entity, in future financial years.

Declaration by the Group Chief Executive Officer and Chief 
Financial Officer
The Directors have been given declarations equivalent to those required of 
listed Australian companies by section 295A of the Corporations Act 2001 
from the Group Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer for the 
year ended 30 June 2022.

By order of the Board of Directors

Stephen Paul Johns 
Independent Chairman 

David Jeremy Collins 
Director

Sydney 
16 August 2022

Report of the Directors
 



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

165

Opinion
We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Goodman 
Logistics (HK) Limited (the Company) and its subsidiaries (the Group) 
set out on pages 167 to 206, which comprise the consolidated statement 
of financial position as at 30 June 2022, the consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of changes in equity 
and the consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended and 
notes to the consolidated financial statements, including a summary 
of significant accounting policies.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair 
view of the consolidated financial position of the Group as at 30 June 2022 
and of its consolidated financial performance and its consolidated cash 
flows for the year then ended in accordance with Hong Kong Financial 
Reporting Standards (HKFRSs) issued by the Hong Kong Institute of 
Certified Public Accountants (HKICPA) and have been properly prepared 
in compliance with the Hong Kong Companies Ordinance.

Basis for opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with Hong Kong Standards 
on Auditing (HKSAs) issued by the HKICPA. Our responsibilities under 
those standards are further described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for 
the audit of the consolidated financial statements section of our report. 
We are independent of the Group in accordance with the HKICPA’s Code 
of Ethics for Professional Accountants (the Code) and we have fulfilled 
our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the Code. We believe 
that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate 
to provide a basis for our opinion.

Information other than the consolidated financial statements 
and auditor’s report thereon
The Directors are responsible for the other information which comprises 
all the information included in the Company’s Report of the Directors.

Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not cover 
the other information and we do not express any form of assurance 
conclusion thereon.

In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial statements, 
our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, 
consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the 
consolidated financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit 
or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.

If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a 
material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report 
that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.

Responsibilities of the Directors for 
the consolidated financial statements
The Directors are responsible for the preparation of the consolidated 
financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with 
HKFRSs issued by the HKICPA and the Hong Kong Companies Ordinance 
and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to 
enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free 
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the Directors are 
responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to continue as a going 
concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and 
using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either 
intend to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or have no realistic 
alternative but to do so.

Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit 
of the consolidated financial statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the 
consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report 
that includes our opinion. This report is made solely to you, as a body, in 
accordance with section 405 of the Hong Kong Companies Ordinance, and 
for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility towards or accept 
liability to any other person for the contents of this report.

Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee 
that an audit conducted in accordance with HKSAs will always detect 
a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud 
or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, 
they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions 
of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements.

As part of an audit in accordance with HKSAs, we exercise professional 
judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. 
We also:

+ Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the 
consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, 
design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, 
and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to 
provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material 
misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from 
error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, 
misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.

+ Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit 
in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the 
circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion 
on the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control.

+ Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the 
reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures 
made by the Directors.

Independent Auditor’s Report
To the members of Goodman Logistics (HK) Limited (Incorporated in Hong Kong with limited liability)



GOODMAN GROUP

166

+ Conclude on the appropriateness of the Directors’ use of the going 
concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence 
obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events 
or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability 
to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material 
uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s 
report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial 
statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our 
opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up 
to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions 
may cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern.

+  Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the 
consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures, and 
whether the consolidated financial statements represent the underlying 
transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.

+  Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial 
information of the entities or business activities within the Group to 
express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are 
responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the 
Group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.

We communicate with the Directors regarding, among other matters, 
the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, 
including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify 
during our audit.

 
 

Certified Public Accountants 
8th Floor, Prince’s Building 
10 Chater Road 
Central, Hong Kong 
16 August 2022

 
Independent Auditor's Report (continued)
To the members of Goodman Logistics (HK) Limited (incorporated in Hong Kong with limited liability)



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

167

(expressed in Australian dollars)

Note 2022
$M

2021
$M

Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents 17(a)  357.5  358.4 
Inventories 6(b)  175.2  106.4 
Receivables 7  115.6  744.3 
Contract assets 8  60.5  55.7 
Current tax receivables 4(c)  0.6  4.2 
Other assets  3.2  12.9 
Total current assets  712.6  1,281.9 
Non-current assets
Inventories 6(b)  1,377.4  1,034.5 
Investment properties 6(b)  336.8  163.9 
Investments accounted for using the equity method 6(b)  1,845.6  1,470.0 
Receivables 7  789.6  276.2 
Other financial assets 13  174.8  102.6 
Deferred tax assets 4(d)  18.8  15.2 
Property, plant and equipment  24.0  17.1 
Other assets  3.7  4.8 
Total non-current assets  4,570.7  3,084.3 
Total assets  5,283.3  4,366.2 
Current liabilities
Payables 9  274.6  263.0 
Loans from related parties 21(c)  125.4  806.7 
Current tax payables 4(c)  32.5  48.9 
Employee benefits  49.0  45.1 
Dividend payable 15  46.7  110.8 
Other financial liabilities 13  45.4  – 
Total current liabilities  573.6  1,274.5 
Non-current liabilities
Payables 9  93.2  124.7 
Interest bearing liabilities 12  9.0  – 
Loans from related parties 21(c)  1,815.6  1,084.4 
Deferred tax liabilities 4(d)  50.5  1.6 
Employee benefits  13.9  22.0 
Other financial liabilities 13  141.4  89.1 
Total non-current liabilities  2,123.6  1,321.8 
Total liabilities  2,697.2  2,596.3 

Net assets  2,586.1  1,769.9 

Equity attributable to Shareholders
Share capital 16(a)  873.0  791.9 
Reserves 18 (605.1) (629.0)
Retained earnings 19  2,290.0  1,584.8 
Total equity attributable to Shareholders  2,557.9  1,747.7 
Non-controlling interests  28.2  22.2 
Total equity  2,586.1  1,769.9 

The notes on pages 171 to 206 form part of these consolidated financial statements.

Approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 16 August 2022.

 
 

 

  

  
Stephen Paul Johns David Jeremy Collins 
Director Director

Consolidated statement of financial position
as at 30 June 2022



GOODMAN GROUP

168

(expressed in Australian dollars)

Note
2022

$M
2021

$M

Revenue 

Gross property income  45.9  15.6 
Management income 2  193.7  188.7 
Development income 2  1,075.0  1,171.7 
Dividends from investments  0.2  0.8 

 1,314.8  1,376.8 
Property and development expenses
Property expenses (5.0) (2.2)
Development expenses 2 (433.5) (684.7)

(438.5) (686.9)
Other income
Net loss from fair value adjustments on investment properties 6(e) (0.3) –
Net gain/(loss) on disposal of investment properties  3.8 (1.9)
Share of net results of equity accounted investments 6(f)  345.3  164.7 
Net gain on disposal of equity accounted investments  0.2  1.8 

 349.0  164.6 
Other expenses
Employee expenses (170.5) (166.6)
Share based payments expense 16(b) (94.0) (124.0)
Administrative and other expenses (37.4) (33.0)
Transaction management fees (23.1) (42.4)

(325.0) (366.0)
Profit before interest and income tax  900.3  488.5 
Net finance expense
Finance income 11  48.0  21.8 
Finance expense 11 (71.4) (82.9)
Net finance expense (23.4) (61.1)
Profit before income tax  876.9  427.4 
Income tax expense 4 (a) (114.1) (12.2)
Profit for the year  762.8  415.2 
Profit for the year attributable to:
Shareholders 19  751.9  408.4 
Non-controlling interests  10.9  6.8 
Profit for the year  762.8  415.2 
Other comprehensive income/(loss)
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
Increase due to revaluation of other financial assets  9.4  7.6 
Actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit retirement schemes (net of tax)  5.6 (6.0)

 15.0  1.6 
Item that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
Effect of foreign currency translation  0.1 (21.5)

 0.1 (21.5)
Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the year, net of tax  15.1 (19.9)
Total comprehensive income for the year  777.9  395.3 
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to:
Shareholders  767.8  389.0 
Non-controlling interests  10.1  6.3 
Total comprehensive income for the year  777.9  395.3 

The notes on pages 171 to 206 form part of these consolidated financial statements.

Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 30 June 2022



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

169

Year ended 30 June 2021 
(expressed in Australian dollars)

Attributable to Shareholders
Share 

capital Reserves
Retained 
earnings Total 

Non–controlling 
interests

Total 
equity

Note $M $M $M $M $M $M
Balance at 1 July 2020  732.0 (624.5)  1,287.2  1,394.7  20.0  1,414.7 
Total comprehensive 
income/(loss) for the year
Profit for the year 19  –  –  408.4  408.4  6.8  415.2 
Other comprehensive loss for the year  – (19.4)  – (19.4) (0.5) (19.9)
Total comprehensive (loss)/income 
for the year, net of income tax  – (19.4)  408.4  389.0  6.3  395.3 
Contributions by and 
distributions to owners
Dividends declared/paid 15  –  – (110.8) (110.8) (9.0) (119.8)
Issue of shares to employees 
of Goodman Group 16(a)  48.6  –  –  48.6  –  48.6 
Issue of ordinary shares 16(a)  11.3  –  –  11.3  –  11.3 
Equity settled share based 
payments transactions 18(c)  –  6.8  –  6.8  –  6.8 
Deferred tax associated with the LTIP 18(c)  –  8.1  –  8.1  –  8.1 
Acquisition of special purpose 
development entity with  
non–controlling interests  –  –  –  –  4.9  4.9 
Balance at 30 June 2021  791.9 (629.0)  1,584.8  1,747.7  22.2  1,769.9 

Year ended 30 June 2022 
(expressed in Australian dollars)

Attributable to Shareholders
Share 

capital Reserves
Retained 
earnings Total 

Non–controlling 
interests

Total 
equity

Note $M $M $M $M $M $M
Balance at 1 July 2021  791.9 (629.0)  1,584.8  1,747.7  22.2  1,769.9 
Total comprehensive 
income/(loss) for the year
Profit for the year 19  –  –  751.9  751.9  10.9  762.8 
Other comprehensive 
income/(loss) for the year

 –  15.9  –  15.9 (0.8)  15.1 

Total comprehensive income 
for the year, net of income tax  –  15.9  751.9  767.8  10.1  777.9 
Contributions by and 
distributions to owners
Dividends declared/paid 15  –  – (46.7) (46.7) (5.5) (52.2)
Issue of shares to employees 
of Goodman Group 

16(a)  57.4  –  –  57.4  –  57.4 

Issue of treasury shares 16(a)  4.8  –  –  4.8  –  4.8 
Issue of ordinary shares 16(a)  18.9  –  –  18.9  –  18.9 
Equity settled share based 
payments transactions

18(c)  –  12.2  –  12.2  –  12.2 

Deferred tax associated with the LTIP 18(c)  – (4.2)  – (4.2)  – (4.2)
Acquisition of special purpose 
development entity with  
non–controlling interests  –  –  –  –  1.4  1.4 
Balance at 30 June 2022  873.0 (605.1)  2,290.0  2,557.9  28.2  2,586.1 

The notes on pages 171 to 206 form part of these consolidated financial statements.

Consolidated statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 30 June 2022



GOODMAN GROUP

170

(expressed in Australian dollars)

Note
2022

$M
2021

$M

Cash flows from operating activities

Property income received  42.7  14.7 

Cash receipts from development activities  1,036.2  1,155.0 

Other cash receipts from services provided  300.0  251.7 

Property expenses paid (5.9) (2.0)

Payments for development activities (886.8) (821.6)

Other cash payments in the course of operations (262.6) (204.8)

Dividends/distributions received  66.1  81.7 

Interest received  15.5  16.1 

Finance costs paid (1.0) (1.0)

Net income taxes paid (87.7) (16.2)

Net cash provided by operating activities 17(b)  216.5  473.6 

Cash flows from investing activities

Net proceeds from disposal of investment properties  272.5  5.4 

Payments for investment properties (413.0) (173.0)

Net proceeds from disposal of equity accounted investments  4.4  – 

Return of capital from equity accounted investments  166.3  139.8 

Payments for equity investments (263.3) (243.1)

Payments for plant and equipment (1.7) (0.3)

Net cash used in investing activities (234.8) (271.2)

Cash flows from financing activities

Net proceeds from issue of ordinary shares  18.9  11.3 

Proceeds from borrowings  9.0  – 

Net proceeds from/(repayments of) loans with related parties  107.5 (83.7)

Payments on derivative financial instruments  – (42.2)

Dividends paid to Shareholders (110.8) (73.1)

Dividends paid to non–controlling interests (5.5) (9.0)

Payments of lease liabilities (8.0) (8.7)

Capital contributed by non–controlling interests  1.4  4.9 

Net cash provided by/(used in) financing activities  12.5 (200.5)

Net (decrease)/increase in cash held (5.8)  1.9 

Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year  358.4  368.2 

Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held  4.9 (11.7)

Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 17(a)  357.5  358.4 

 
The notes on pages 171 to 206 form part of these consolidated financial statements. 

Consolidated cash flow statement
for the year ended 30 June 2022



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

171

BASIS OF PREPARATION

1 Basis of preparation

(a) Statement of compliance

These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
all applicable Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards (HKFRSs), 
which collective term includes all applicable individual Hong Kong 
Financial Reporting Standards, Hong Kong Accounting Standards and 
Interpretations issued by the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public 
Accountants (HKICPA) and accounting principles generally accepted 
in Hong Kong. These financial statements also comply with the applicable 
requirements of the Hong Kong Companies Ordinance. 

(b) Basis of preparation of the consolidated financial statements

The measurement basis used in the preparation of the consolidated 
financial statements is the historical cost basis except for investment 
properties and other financial assets which are stated at fair value.

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with HKFRSs 
requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions 
that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets, 
liabilities, income and expenses. The estimates and associated 
assumptions are based on historical experience and various other 
factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, 
the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about 
carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent 
from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates.

The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing 
basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period 
in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, 
or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects 
both current and future periods.

(c) Accounting for acquisitions of non-controlling interests

Acquisitions of non-controlling interests are accounted for as transactions 
with equity holders in their capacity as equity holders and therefore no gain 
or loss and no goodwill is recognised as a result of such transactions.

(d) Foreign currency translation

Functional and presentation currency

Items included in the consolidated financial statements of each of the 
Company’s subsidiaries are measured using the currency of the primary 
economic environment in which the entity operates (functional currency). 
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Australian dollars, 
which is the Company’s functional and presentation currency.

Transactions 

Foreign currency transactions are translated to each entity’s functional 
currency at rates approximating the foreign exchange rates ruling at the 
dates of the transactions. Amounts receivable and payable in foreign 
currencies at the reporting date are translated at the rates of exchange 
ruling on that date. Resulting exchange differences are recognised in 
profit or loss.

Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical 
cost are translated at rates of exchange applicable at the date of the initial 
transaction. Non-monetary items which are measured at fair value in a 
foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date when 
the fair value was determined.

Translation of controlled foreign operations

The assets and liabilities of controlled foreign operations are translated 
into Australian dollars at foreign exchange rates applicable at the 
reporting date.

Revenue and expenses are translated at weighted average rates for 
the financial year. Exchange differences arising on translation are taken 
directly to the foreign currency translation reserve until the disposal 
or partial disposal of the operations. 

Exchange differences arising on monetary items that form part of the net 
investment in a controlled foreign operation are recognised in the foreign 
currency translation reserve on consolidation.

Exchange rates used

The following exchange rates are the main exchange rates used 
in translating foreign currency transactions, balances and financial 
statements to Australian dollars.

Weighted average As at 30 June

Australian dollars (AUD) to 2022 2021 2022 2021

Hong Kong dollars (HKD) 5.6626 5.7958 5.4241 5.8222

Chinese yuan (CNY) 4.6840 4.9419 4.6154 4.8412

Japanese yen (JPY) 85.1512 79.6101 93.7770 83.2780

Euros (EUR) 0.6442 0.6262 0.6594 0.6327

British pounds sterling (GBP) 0.5456 0.5546 0.5676 0.5432

United States dollars (USD) 0.7255 0.7472 0.6912 0.7497

(e) Changes in accounting policies

A fundamental reform of major interest rate benchmarks is being 
undertaken globally, including the replacement of some interbank offered 
rates (IBORs) with alternative risk-free rates (referred to as IBOR reform). 
The Consolidated Entity has adopted Interest Rate Benchmark Reform 
– Phase 2 (Amendments to International Financial Reporting Standard 
(IFRS) 9, International Accounting Standard (IAS) 39, IFRS 7, IFRS 4 and 
IFRS 16) from 1 July 2021. These amendments provide reliefs relating to 
modifications of financial instruments and lease contracts or hedging 
relationships triggered by a replacement of a benchmark interest rate 
in a contract with a new alternative benchmark rate. 

The overall impact of the IBOR reform is not significant in the context 
of the Consolidated Entity’s financial position and performance.

See note 14 for related disclosures about risks, financial assets and 
financial liabilities indexed to IBORs.

(f) Accounting standards issued but not yet effective

The Consolidated Entity has not applied any new standard or 
interpretation that is not yet effective for the current accounting period. 
None of the new accounting standards or interpretations is expected to 
have a significant impact on the future results of the Consolidated Entity.

Notes to the consolidated financial statements
(expressed in Australian dollars)



GOODMAN GROUP

172

(g)  Critical accounting estimates used in the preparation 
of the consolidated financial statements

The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires estimates 
and assumptions concerning the application of accounting policies 
and the future to be made by the Consolidated Entity. Estimates are 
continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other 
factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be 
reasonable under the circumstances. 

The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing 
a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities 
within the next financial year can be found in the following notes:

+ Note 6 – Property assets

+ Note 14 – Financial risk management.

The accounting impacts of revisions to estimates are recognised in the 
period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.

Measurement of fair values

A number of the Consolidated Entity’s accounting policies and 
disclosures require the measurement of fair values, for both financial and 
non-financial assets and liabilities.

When measuring the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Consolidated 
Entity uses market observable data as far as possible. Fair values are 
categorised into different levels in a fair value hierarchy and have been 
defined as follows:

+ Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical 
assets or liabilities

+ Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that 
are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or 
indirectly (i.e. derived from prices)

+ Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on 
observable market data (unobservable inputs).

Further information about the assumptions made in measuring fair values 
is included in the following notes:

+ Note 6 – Property assets

+ Note 14 – Financial risk management.

RESULTS FOR THE YEAR

2  Profit before interest and income tax

Gross property income

Gross property income comprises rental income under operating 
leases (net of incentives provided) and amounts billed to customers for 
outgoings (e.g. rates, levies, cleaning, security, etc). Amounts billed to 
customers for outgoings are a cost recovery for the Consolidated Entity 
and are recognised once the expense has been incurred. The expense 
is included in property expenses.

Rental income under operating leases is recognised on a straight-line 
basis over the term of the lease contract. Where operating lease rental 
income is recognised relating to fixed increases in rentals in future 
years, an asset is recognised. This asset is a component of the relevant 
investment property carrying amount. The cost of lease incentives 
provided to customers is amortised on a straight-line basis over the life 
of the lease as a reduction of gross property income.

Management and development income

The revenue from management and development activities is measured 
based on the consideration specified in a contract with a customer. 
The Consolidated Entity recognises revenue when it transfers control 
over a product or service to a customer.

Management income

Fee income derived from management services relates to investment 
management base fees and property services fees and is recognised and 
invoiced progressively as the services are provided. Customers make 
payments usually either monthly or quarterly in arrears. 

Performance related management income generally relates to portfolio 
performance fee income, which is recognised progressively as the 
services are provided but only when the income can be reliably measured 
and is highly probable of not being reversed. These portfolio performance 
fees are typically dependent on the overall returns of a Partnership 
relative to an agreed benchmark return, assessed over the life of the 
Partnership, which can vary from one year to seven years. The returns 
are impacted by operational factors such as the quality and location 
of the portfolio, active property management, rental income rates and 
development activity but can also be significantly affected by changes in 
global and local economic conditions. Accordingly, portfolio performance 
fee revenue is only recognised towards the end of the relevant 
assessment period, as prior to this revenue recognition is not considered 
to be sufficiently certain. 

Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Basis of preparation (continued)



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

173

In determining the amount of revenue that can be reliably measured, 
management prepares a sensitivity analysis to understand the impact 
of changes in asset valuations on the potential performance fee at 
the assessment date. The assessment of revenue will depend on the 
prevailing market conditions at the reporting date relative to long-term 
averages and also the length of time until the assessment date e.g. the 
longer the time period to assessment date, the greater the impact of the 
sensitivity analysis. The potential portfolio performance fee revenue 
is then recognised based on the length of time from the start of the 
assessment period to the reporting date as a proportion of the total 
assessment period. Where the income is attributable to development 
activities or it relates to a combination of inextricable management and 
development activities that have occurred over the performance fee 
period, then it is reported as development income, otherwise the income 
is reported as management income. The Partnerships make payments 
in respect of portfolio performances fees at the end of the performance 
periods, when the attainment of the conditions has been verified and the 
amount of the fee has been agreed by all parties.

Development income – disposal of inventories

The disposal of inventories is recognised at the point in time when control 
over the property asset is transferred to the customer. This will generally 
occur on transfer of legal title and payment in full by the customer. The 
gain or loss on disposal of inventories is calculated as the difference 
between the carrying amount of the asset at the time of disposal and the 
proceeds on disposal (less transaction costs) and is included in profit or 
loss in the period of disposal.

Development income – development management services

Fee income from development management services (including master-
planning, development management and overall project management) 
is recognised progressively as the services are provided in proportion 
to the stage of completion by reference to costs. Payments are received 
in accordance with the achievement of agreed milestones over the 
development period. The development period can be up to 24 months for 
larger and more complex developments.

Performance related development income includes income associated 
with the returns from individual developments under the Consolidated 
Entity’s management and performance fee income that relates to 
development activity. Income in respect of individual developments is 
recognised by the Consolidated Entity on attainment of the performance 
related conditions, which is when the income can be reliably measured 
and is highly probable of not being reversed. These amounts are paid 
by the Partnership when the amounts have been measured and agreed. 
Income associated with development activities as part of a portfolio 
assessment is recognised on the same basis as outlined above in the 
management income section. 

Development income – fixed price development contracts

Certain development activities are assessed as being fixed price 
development contracts. This occurs when a signed contract exists, either 
prior to the commencement of or during the development phase, to acquire 
a development asset from the Consolidated Entity on completion. Revenue 
and expenses relating to these development contracts are recognised 
in profit or loss in proportion to the stage of completion of the relevant 
contracts by reference to costs. The payments may be on completion of the 
development once legal title has been transferred. The development period 
can be up to 24 months for larger and more complex developments.

Net gain/(loss) on disposal of investment properties

The disposal of an investment property is recognised at the point in time 
when control over the property has been transferred to the purchaser. 

Employee benefits

Wages, salaries and annual leave

Wages and salaries, including non-monetary benefits, and annual 
leave represent present obligations resulting from employees’ services 
provided to the reporting date. These are calculated at undiscounted 
amounts based on rates that are expected to be paid as at the reporting 
date including related on-costs, such as workers’ compensation insurance 
and payroll tax.

Bonuses

A liability is recognised in other payables and accruals for bonuses where 
there is a contractual obligation or where there is a past practice that 
has created a constructive obligation. Liabilities for bonuses that are 
expected to be settled within 12 months are measured at the amounts 
expected to be paid, including related on-costs, when they are settled. 

Superannuation

Defined contribution retirement plans

Obligations for contributions to defined contribution retirement plans are 
recognised as an expense as incurred.

Defined benefit retirement schemes

The net obligation in respect of defined benefit retirement schemes 
is recognised in the statement of financial position and is calculated 
separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that 
employees have earned in the current and prior periods, discounting that 
amount and deducting the fair value of any plan assets. The calculation of 
defined benefit obligations is performed annually by a qualified actuary 
using the projected unit credit method. Remeasurements of the net defined 
benefit liability, which comprise actuarial gains and losses and the return 
on plan assets (excluding interest), are recognised immediately in other 
comprehensive income. Net interest expense and other expenses related 
to defined benefit retirement schemes are recognised in profit or loss.



GOODMAN GROUP

174

Profit before interest and income tax has been arrived at after crediting/(charging) the following items:

2022
$M

2021
$M

Management services  162.7  135.1 

Performance related income  31.0  53.6 

Management income  193.7  188.7 

Income from disposal of inventories  747.4  809.8 

Development income from fixed price development contracts  114.6  98.5 

Other development income, including development management1  169.6  131.1 

Net gain on disposal of assets previously classified as held for sale  –  132.3 

Net gain on disposal of special purpose development entities, including JVs  43.4  – 

Development income  1,075.0  1,171.7 

Inventory cost of sales (354.9) (619.4)

Other development expenses (78.6) (65.3)

Development expenses (433.5) (684.7)

Included in employee expenses are the following items:

Salaries, wages and other benefits (169.1) (163.5)

Contributions to defined contribution retirement plans (1.4) (3.1)

Employee expenses (170.5) (166.6)

Depreciation of plant and equipment (8.7) (9.6)

Auditor’s remuneration (1.5) (1.5)

1. Fee revenues from single contractual arrangements involving a combination of inextricable investment management and development management services and recognised over the life of the 
underlying developments projects are classified as development income for statutory reporting purposes. During the period, $77.0 million (2021: $75.2 million) of such income was recognised.

3 Segment reporting
An operating segment is a component of the Consolidated Entity that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur 
expenses. The Consolidated Entity reports the results and financial position of its operating segments based on the internal reports regularly reviewed 
by the Group Chief Executive Officer in order to assess each segment’s performance and to allocate resources to them.  

Operating segment information is reported on a geographic basis and the Consolidated Entity has determined that its operating segments are Asia 
(which consists of Greater China and Japan), Continental Europe and the United Kingdom. 

The activities and services undertaken by the operating segments include: 

+ Property investment, both through direct ownership and cornerstone investments in Partnerships

+ Management activities, both investment and property management

+ Development activities, including development of directly owned assets (predominantly disclosed as inventories) and management 
of development activities for the Consolidated Entity’s Partnerships.

The segment results that are reported to the Group Chief Executive Officer are based on profit before net finance expense and income 
tax expense, and also exclude non-cash items such as fair value adjustments and impairments, corporate expenses and share based remuneration. 
The assets allocated to each operating segment relate to the properties, which also include the investments in Partnerships, and the trade and other 
receivables associated with the operating activities, but exclude receivables from GL, GIT and their controlled entities, income tax receivables and 
corporate assets. The liabilities allocated to each operating segment primarily relate to trade and other payables associated with the operating activities, 
but exclude payables to GL, GIT and their controlled entities, provision for dividends to Shareholders, income tax payables and corporate liabilities. 

The accounting policies used to report segment information are the same as those used to prepare the consolidated financial statements for the 
Consolidated Entity.

For the purpose of operating segment reporting, there are no material intersegment revenues and costs.

Information regarding the operations of each reportable segment is included on the following pages.

Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Results for the year (continued) 
2 Profit before interest and income tax (continued)



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

175

Information about reportable segments

Asia Continental Europe United Kingdom Total

Statement of comprehensive income
2022

$M
2021

$M
2022

$M
2021

$M
2022

$M
2021

$M
2022

$M
2021

$M
External revenues
Gross property income  15.3  6.2  27.6  8.4  3.0  1.0  45.9  15.6 

Management income  96.8  77.8  90.9  106.7  6.0  4.2  193.7  188.7 

Development income  150.2  129.9  892.1  796.5  32.7  245.3  1,075.0  1,171.7 

Dividends from investments  0.2  0.8  –  –  –  –  0.2  0.8 

Total external revenues  262.5  214.7  1,010.6  911.6  41.7  250.5  1,314.8  1,376.8 

Analysis of external revenues:
Revenues from contracts 
with customers
Assets and services transferred at a point in time  24.8  10.3  792.2  729.9  12.8  228.8  829.8  969.0 

Assets and services transferred over time  223.2  197.7  193.7  174.0  25.9  20.8  442.8  392.5 

Other revenue
Rental income (excludes outgoings recoveries)  14.3  5.9  24.7  7.7  3.0  0.9  42.0  14.5 

Dividends from investments  0.2  0.8  –  –  –  –  0.2  0.8 

Total external revenues  262.5  214.7  1,010.6  911.6  41.7  250.5  1,314.8  1,376.8 
Reportable segment 
profit before income tax  252.5  205.4  505.2  376.5  42.8  20.4  800.5  602.3 
Other key components of financial 
performance included in reportable 
segment profit before income tax
Share of net results of equity 
accounted investments in Partnerships 
(before fair value adjustments)  67.2  60.4  7.6  6.5  9.8  6.1  84.6  73.0 

Material non–cash items not 
included in reportable segment 
profit before income tax
Share of fair value adjustments 
attributable to investment properties 
in Partnerships  43.7  44.2  22.3  19.2  203.8  26.8  269.8  90.2 

Asia Continental Europe United Kingdom Total

Statement of financial position
2022

$M
2021

$M
2022

$M
2021

$M
2022

$M
2021

$M
2022

$M
2021

$M
Reportable segment assets  1,971.9  1,573.6  1,312.4  1,030.2  957.2  752.2  4,241.5  3,356.0 
Included in reportable 
segment assets are:
Investments in Partnerships  1,000.8  908.0  164.2  154.0  680.6  408.0  1,845.6  1,470.0 

Non–current assets  1,743.8  1,306.6  1,017.0  779.6  899.0  673.6  3,659.8  2,759.8 

Additions to non–current assets include:
 – Investment properties  181.3  138.4  –  –  243.6  25.8  424.9  164.2 

 –  Investments accounted for 
using the equity method

 99.9  57.1  1.3  10.0  162.1  178.8  263.3  245.9 

Reportable segment liabilities  160.8  137.0  124.1  106.3  113.5  85.8  398.4  329.1 



GOODMAN GROUP

176

Reconciliation of reportable segment revenue, profit or loss, assets and liabilities

Note
2022

$M
2021

$M

Revenue

Total revenue for reportable segments  1,314.8  1,376.8 

Consolidated revenues  1,314.8  1,376.8 

Profit or loss

Total profit before income tax for reportable segments  800.5  602.3 

Corporate expenses not allocated to reportable segments (66.6) (81.5)

 733.9  520.8 

Valuation and other adjustments not included in reportable segment profit before income tax:

 – Net loss from fair value adjustments on investment properties 6(e) (0.3)  – 

 – Share of fair value adjustments attributable to investment properties in Partnerships 6(f)  269.8  90.2 

 – Share of fair value adjustments on derivative financial instruments in Partnerships 6(f) (9.1)  1.5 

 – Share based payments expense 16(b) (94.0) (124.0)

Net finance expense 11 (23.4) (61.1)

Consolidated profit before income tax  876.9  427.4 

Assets

Total assets for reportable segments  4,241.5  3,356.0 

Other unallocated amounts1  1,041.8  1,010.2 

Consolidated total assets  5,283.3  4,366.2 

Liabilities

Total liabilities for reportable segments  398.4  329.1 

Other unallocated amounts1  2,298.8  2,267.2 

Consolidated total liabilities  2,697.2  2,596.3 

1. Other unallocated amounts comprise principally receivables from and payables to GL, GIT and their controlled entities.

Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Results for the year (continued) 
3 Segment reporting (continued)



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

177

4 Taxation
Income tax for the period comprises current tax and movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities. Current tax and movements in deferred tax 
assets and liabilities are recognised in profit or loss except to the extent that they relate to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly 
in equity, in which case the relevant amounts of tax are recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity respectively.

Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the period, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date, 
and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.

Deferred tax assets and liabilities arise from deductible and taxable temporary differences respectively, being the differences between the carrying 
amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and their tax bases. Deferred tax assets also arise from unused tax losses and unused 
tax credits. Apart from differences which arise on initial recognition of assets and liabilities, all deferred tax liabilities and all deferred tax assets, to the 
extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised, are recognised.

The amount of deferred tax recognised is measured based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of the assets 
and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.

(a) Taxation in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income

2022
$M

2021
$M

Current tax expense – Hong Kong profits tax

Current year (14.2) (15.1)

Changes in estimates related to prior years  1.9  1.6 

(12.3) (13.5)

Current tax expense – overseas

Current year (59.8) (9.2)

Changes in estimates related to prior years  0.4  5.7 

(59.4) (3.5)

Deferred tax (expense)/benefit

Origination and reversal of temporary differences (42.4)  4.8 

(42.4)  4.8 

Total income tax expense (114.1) (12.2)

The provision for Hong Kong profits tax for the year ended 30 June 2022 is calculated at 16.5% (2021: 16.5%) of the estimated assessable profits for the 
year. Taxation for overseas subsidiaries is charged at the appropriate current rates of taxation ruling in the relevant countries.

(b) Reconciliation between accounting profit and income tax expense at applicable tax rates

2022
$M

2021
$M

Profit before income tax  876.9  427.4 

Notional tax on profit before income tax, calculated at the rates applicable to profits in the countries concerned (206.4) (133.3)

(Increase)/decrease in income tax due to:

– Current year losses for which no deferred tax asset was recognised (11.4) (15.3)

– Non–assessable income  123.5  172.8 

– Non–deductible expense (45.4) (47.1)

– Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses  23.3  3.4 

– Changes in estimates related to prior years  2.3  7.3 

Income tax expense (114.1) (12.2)



GOODMAN GROUP

178

(c)  Current tax receivables/payables

2022
$M

2021
$M

Net income tax payable at the beginning of the year (44.7) (47.4)

Decrease/(increase) in current net tax payable due to:

– Net income taxes paid  87.7  16.2 

– Net income tax expense on current year’s profit (74.0) (24.3)

– Changes in estimates related to prior years  2.3  7.3 

– Other (3.2)  3.5 

Net income tax payable at the end of the year (31.9) (44.7)

Current tax receivables 0.6 4.2

Current tax payables (32.5) (48.9)

(31.9) (44.7)

(d) Deferred tax assets and liabilities

Deferred tax assets of $18.8 million (2021: $15.2 million) arising from performance rights awarded under the LTIP and deferred tax liabilities 
of $50.5 million (2021: $1.6 million) arising from investment properties were recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position.

Movements in deferred taxes recognised in expenses and equity are attributable to the following:

2022
$M

2021
$M

Deferred tax (expense)/benefit recognised in expenses

Investment properties – fair value adjustments (54.6) (0.1)

LTIP  7.8  5.6 

Other items  4.4 (0.7)

Total deferred tax (expense)/benefit recognised in expenses (42.4)  4.8 

Deferred tax benefit/(expense) recognised in equity

LTIP (4.2)  8.1 

Other items  – (4.7)

Total deferred tax (expense)/benefit recognised in equity (4.2)  3.4 

Total deferred tax movements recognised in expenses and equity (46.6)  8.2 
 

Deferred tax assets of $190.0 million (2021: $236.6 million) arising primarily from tax losses have not been recognised by the Consolidated Entity.

5 Profit attributable to equity shareholders of the Company 
The consolidated profit attributable to equity shareholders of the Company includes a profit of $265.3 million (2021: $329.9 million) which has been 
dealt with in the financial statements of the Company.

Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Results for the year (continued) 
4 Taxation (continued)



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

179

OPERATING ASSETS AND LIABILITIES 

6 Property assets

(a) Types of property assets

Investment in property assets includes both inventories and investment 
properties (including those under development), which may be held  
either directly or through investments in Partnerships.

 Inventories

Inventories relate to land and property developments that are held 
for sale or development and sale in the normal course of business. 
Inventories are carried at the lower of cost or net realisable value.  
The calculation of net realisable value requires estimates and 
assumptions which are regularly evaluated and are based on historical 
experience and expectations of future events that are believed to be 
reasonable under the circumstances.

Inventories are classified as non-current assets unless they are 
contracted to be sold within 12 months of the end of the reporting period, 
in which case they are classified as current assets.

Investment properties 

Investment properties comprise investment interests in land and 
buildings held for the purpose of leasing to produce rental income and/or 
for capital appreciation. Investment properties are carried at fair value. 
The calculation of fair value requires estimates and assumptions which 
are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and 
expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under 
the circumstances. Investment properties are not depreciated as they 
are subject to continual maintenance and regularly revalued on the basis 
described below. Changes in the fair value of investment properties are 
recognised directly in profit or loss.

Components of investment properties

Land and buildings (including integral plant and equipment) comprising 
investment properties are regarded as composite assets and are 
disclosed as such in the consolidated financial statements. 

Investment property carrying values include the costs of acquiring the 
assets and subsequent costs of development, including costs of all labour 
and materials used in construction, costs of managing the projects, holding 
costs and borrowing costs incurred during the development periods. 

Amounts provided to customers as lease incentives and assets relating 
to fixed rental income increases in operating lease contracts are included 
within investment property values. Lease incentives are amortised 
over the term of the lease on a straight-line basis. Direct expenditure 
associated with leasing a property is also capitalised within investment 
property values and amortised over the term of the lease.

Classification of investment properties

Investment properties are classified as either properties under 
development or stabilised properties. Investment properties under 
development include land, new investment properties in the course 
of construction and investment properties that are being redeveloped. 
Stabilised investment properties are all investment properties not 
classified as being under development and would be completed 
properties that are leased or are available for lease to customers. 

For investment properties under development, the carrying values are 
reviewed by management at each reporting date to consider whether 
they reflect their fair values and at completion external valuations are 
obtained to determine the fair values.

For stabilised investment properties, independent valuations are obtained 
at least every two years to determine the fair values. At each reporting 
date between obtaining independent valuations, the carrying values are 
reviewed by management to ensure they reflect the fair values.

Deposits for investment properties

Deposits and other costs associated with acquiring investment properties 
that are incurred prior to obtaining legal title are recorded at cost and 
disclosed as other assets in the consolidated statement of financial position.



GOODMAN GROUP

180

(b) Summary of the Consolidated Entity’s investment in property assets

Note
2022

$M
2021 

$M

Directly held properties:

Inventories

Current 6(d)  175.2  106.4 

Non-current 6(d)  1,377.4  1,034.5 

 1,552.6  1,140.9 

Investment properties

Stabilised investment properties 6(e)  336.8  163.9 

 336.8  163.9 

Property held by Partnerships:

Investments accounted for using the equity method – JVs 6(f)  1,845.6  1,470.0 

 1,845.6  1,470.0 

(c)  Estimates and assumptions in determining property carrying values

Inventories

For both inventories held directly and inventories held in Partnerships, 
external valuations are not performed but instead valuations are 
determined using the feasibility studies supporting the land and property 
developments. The end values of the developments in the feasibility 
studies are based on assumptions such as capitalisation rates, letting 
up periods and incentives that are consistent with those observed in 
the relevant market. If the feasibility study calculations indicate that the 
forecast cost of a completed development will exceed the net realisable 
value, then the inventories are impaired.

Investment properties

Stabilised investment properties

The fair value of stabilised investment properties is based on current 
prices in an active market for similar properties in the same location and 
condition and subject to similar lease and other contracts. The current 
price is the estimated amount for which a property could be exchanged 
between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arm’s length transaction 
after proper marketing wherein the parties had each acted knowledgably, 
prudently and without compulsion.

Approach to determination of fair value

The approach to determination of fair value of investment properties 
is applied to both investment properties held directly and investment 
properties held in Partnerships.

Valuations are determined based on assessments and estimates of 
uncertain future events, including upturns and downturns in property 
markets and availability of similar properties, vacancy rates, market rents 
and capitalisation and discount rates. Recent and relevant sales evidence 
and other market data are taken into account. Valuations are either based 
on an external, independent valuation or on an internal valuation. 

External valuations are undertaken only where market segments were 
observed to be active. In making the determination of whether a market 
segment is active, the following characteristics are considered: 

+ Function of the asset (distribution/warehouse or suburban office)

+ Location of the asset (city, suburb or regional area)

+ Carrying value of the asset (categorised by likely appeal to private 
(including syndicates), national and/or institutional investors)

+ Categorisation as primary or secondary based on a combination 
of location, weighted average lease expiry, quality of tenant covenant 
(internal assessment based on available market evidence) and age 
of construction.

Each property asset is assessed and grouped with assets in the same 
or similar market segments. Information on all relevant recent sales 
is also analysed using the same criteria to provide a comparative set. 
The number of sales and the circumstances of each sale are assessed 
to determine whether a market segment is active or inactive.

Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Operating assets and liabilities (continued) 
6 Property assets (continued)



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

181

Where a market segment is observed to be active, then external 
independent valuations are performed for stabilised investment 
properties where there has been a combination of factors that are likely 
to have resulted in a material movement in valuation. The considerations 
include a greater than 10% movement in market rents, more than a 
25 basis point movement in capitalisation rates, a material change in 
tenancy profile (including changes in the creditworthiness of a significant 
customer that may have a material impact on the property valuation), 
significant capital expenditure, a change in use (or zoning), a development 
has reached completion/stabilisation of the asset or it has been two years 
since the previous external independent valuation. For all other stabilised 
investment properties in an active market segment, an internal valuation 
is performed based on observable capitalisation rates and referenced 
to independent market data. 

Where a market segment is observed to be inactive, then no external 
independent valuations are performed and internal valuations are 
undertaken based on discounted cash flow (DCF) calculations. The 
DCF calculations are prepared over a 10-year period. The key inputs 
considered for each individual calculation are:

+ Current contractual lease terms

+ Current market rents

+ Projected growth in market rents

+ Expected and likely capital expenditures

+ Projected letting up incentives provided to customers and vacant 
time on expiry of leases

+ Discount rates – computed using the 10-year bond rate or equivalent 
in each jurisdiction plus increments to reflect country risk, tenant 
credit risk and industry risk. Where possible, the components of the 
discount rate are benchmarked to available market data. 

Market assessment

The investment market for industrial, logistics and warehousing properties 
has continued to be strong during FY22, despite the increased interest 
rates in the last quarter of FY22. At 30 June 2022, the Board has been 
able to assess that all markets in which the Consolidated Entity operated 
were active and as a consequence no adjustments have been made to the 
carrying values of the Consolidated Entity’s stabilised investment property 
portfolios on the basis of internally prepared DCF valuations.

The overall weighted average capitalisation rates for the divisional 
portfolios (including Partnerships) are set out in the table below: 

 

Total portfolio weighted 
average capitalisation rate

Segment
2022 

%
2021 

%

Asia 5.2 5.4

Continental Europe 3.4 3.7

United Kingdom 3.7 4.1

Sensitivity Ananlysis

The fair value measurement approach for directly held investment 
properties has been categorised as a Level 3 fair value based on the 
inputs to the valuation method used (see note 1(g)). The stabilised 
investment property valuations at 30 June 2022 are most sensitive 
to the following inputs:

+ Capitalisation rates

+ Market rents

+ Incentives provided to customers and/or vacant time on expiry of leases.

The directly held stabilised investment properties are in Asia. The average 
net market rent and weighted average capitalisation rate is summarised 
in the table below:

 

Valuation 
technique Significant unobservable inputs 2022

Income 
capitalisation

Average net market rent 
(per square metre per annum)

$258

Capitalisation rate (weighted average) 4.2%



GOODMAN GROUP

182

The impacts on the Consolidated Entity’s financial position that would arise from the changes in capitalisation rates, market rents and incentives/vacant 
time are set out in the table below. This illustrates the impacts on the Consolidated Entity in respect of both the directly held stabilised investment 
properties and its share of those stabilised investment properties held by Partnerships.

Directly held 
properties

A$M
Partnerships1

$M

Book value at 30 June 2022  336.8  1,907.8 

Changes in capitalisation rates:

Increase in capitalisation rates +50 basis points (bps) (35.6) (195.2)

Increase in capitalisation rates +25 bps (18.8) (103.0)

Decrease in capitalisation rates -25 bps  21.1  116.1 

Decrease in capitalisation rates -50 bps  45.1  248.1 

Changes in market rents:

Decrease in rents -5% (14.0) (86.0)

Decrease in rents -2.5% (7.0) (43.0)

Increase in rents +2.5%  7.0  43.0 

Increase in rents +5%  14.0  86.0 

Changes in incentives/vacant time2:

Increase in incentives/vacant time +3 months (3.4) (6.0)

Increase in incentives/vacant time +6 months (6.8) (12.0)
 

1. Reflects the Consolidated Entity’s share in Partnerships.
2. On assumed lease expiries over the next 12 months.

Investment properties under development

For the directly held investment properties under development, external independent valuations are generally not performed, but instead valuations are 
determined at each reporting date using the feasibility assessments supporting the developments. The end values of the developments in the feasibility 
studies are based on assumptions such as capitalisation rates, market rents, incentives provided to customers and vacant time that are consistent with 
those observed in the relevant market, adjusted for a profit and risk factor. The profit and risk factors are dependent on the function, location, size and 
current status of the developments and are generally in a market range of 10% to 15%; although for larger more complex projects that are at an early stage 
of the development, the profit and risk factor could be in the order of 25%. This adjusted end value is then compared to the forecast cost of a completed 
development to determine whether there is an increase or decrease in value.

In respect of the Partnerships, certain Partnerships obtain external independent valuations of investment properties under development at reporting 
dates. However, the majority determine the fair values at reporting dates by reference to the feasibility assessments, with external independent 
valuations obtained when the properties has been stabilised. 

Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Operating assets and liabilities (continued) 
6 Property assets (continued)



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

183

(d) Inventories

2022 
$M

2021 
$M

Current

Land and development properties 175.2 106.4 

175.2 106.4 

Non–current

Land and development properties 964.1 719.1

Leasehold land and development properties 413.3 315.4

1,377.4 1,034.5 

 
During the current and prior financial year, no impairment losses were 
recognised on land and development properties. 

(e) Investment properties

Reconciliation of carrying amount of directly held investment properties

2022
$M

2021
$M

Carrying amount at the beginning of the year  163.9  7.2 

Acquisitions  420.4  163.0 

Capital expenditure  4.5  1.2 

Disposals (269.7) (7.4)

Net loss from fair value adjustments (0.3)  – 

Effect of foreign currency translation  18.0 (0.1)

Carrying amount at the end of the year  336.8  163.9 

Analysed by segment:

Asia  336.8  137.7 

United Kingdom  –  26.2 

 336.8  163.9 

 
Non-cancellable operating lease commitments receivable 
from investment property customers

The analysis in the table below reflects the gross property income, 
excluding recoverable outgoings, based on existing lease agreements. 
It assumes that leases will not extend beyond the next review date, 
where the customer has an option to end the lease.

2022
$M

2021
$M

Non–cancellable operating lease 
commitments receivable:

Less than one year  8.6  4.1 

One to two years  8.7  2.7 

Two to three years  8.2  1.1 

Three to four years  6.6  1.1 

Four to five years  3.5  0.2 

 35.6  9.2 

(f) Investments accounted for using the equity method

JVs

A JV is an arrangement (referred to by the Consolidated Entity as a 
Partnership) in which the Consolidated Entity is considered to have joint 
control for accounting purposes, whereby the Consolidated Entity has 
rights to the net assets of the arrangement, rather than rights to its assets 
and obligations for its liabilities. 

In the consolidated financial statements, investments in Partnerships 
are accounted for using the equity method. Under this method, 
the Consolidated Entity’s investment is initially recognised at cost. 
Subsequent to initial recognition, the consolidated financial statements 
include the Consolidated Entity’s share of the gains or losses and other 
comprehensive income of Partnerships until the date on which significant 
influence or joint control ceases.

Transactions eliminated on consolidation

Unrealised gains arising from asset disposals with JVs, including those 
relating to contributions of non-monetary assets on establishment, are 
eliminated to the extent of the Consolidated Entity’s interest. Unrealised 
gains relating to JVs are eliminated against the carrying amount of 
the investment. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as 
unrealised gains unless they evidence an impairment of an asset.

The Consolidated Entity’s principal Partnerships are set out below



GOODMAN GROUP

184

Consolidated  
share of net  

results recognised
Consolidated 

ownership interest

Consolidated 
investment 

carrying amount

Name
Country of
establishment

2022
$M

2021
$M

2022
%

2021
%

2022
$M

2021
$M

Property investment and development

Goodman China Logistics Partnership (GCLP) Cayman Islands  56.8  65.2  20.0  20.0  918.0  832.7 

Goodman UK Partnership (GUKP)1 United Kingdom  213.4  32.9  35.3  33.3  676.3  404.0 

Other JVs  75.1  66.6  251.3  233.3 

 345.3  164.7 1,845.6 1,470.0 

1. The consolidated ownership interest in GUKP reflected the weighted average ownership in GUKP, GUKP II and GUKP III.

The Consolidated Entity’s property investment Partnerships have a long-term remit to hold investment properties to earn rental income and for capital 
appreciation, although they will undertake developments when an appropriate opportunity arises.

The reconciliation of the carrying value at the beginning of the year to the carrying value at the end of the year is set out as follows:

Movements in carrying amount of investments in JVs
2022

$M
2021

$M

Carrying amount at the beginning of the year  1,470.0  1,276.2 

Share of net results after tax (before fair value adjustments)  84.6  73.0 

Share of fair value adjustments attributable to investment properties after tax  269.8  90.2 

Share of fair value adjustments on derivative financial instruments (9.1)  1.5 

Share of net results  345.3  164.7 

Share of movements in reserves  7.2  3.1 

Acquisitions  263.3  245.9 

Disposals (3.4)  – 

Capital return (166.3) (143.2)

Dividends/distributions received and receivable (65.8) (76.4)

Effect of foreign currency translation (4.7) (0.3)

Carrying amount at the end of the year  1,845.6  1,470.0 

Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Operating assets and liabilities (continued) 
6 Property assets (continued)
 



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

185

Summary financial information of JVs

The following table summarises the financial information of the material Partnerships as included in their own financial statements. The table also 
reconciles the summarised financial information to the carrying amount of the Consolidated Entity’s interest in the JVs.

GCLP GUKP

2022
$M

2021
$M

2022
$M

2021
$M

Summarised statement of financial position

Current assets

Cash and cash equivalents  427.4  281.3  41.1  43.4 

Other current assets  148.3  84.4  12.9  1,490.3 

Total current assets  575.7  365.7  54.0  1,533.7 

Total non–current assets  6,303.3  5,537.5  2,421.8  – 

Current liabilities

Financial liabilities (excluding trade payables and other provisions)  70.6  89.6  –  – 

Other current liabilities  2,870.0  2,707.0  24.7  36.1 

Total current liabilities  2,940.6  2,796.6  24.7  36.1 

Non–current liabilities

Financial liabilities (excluding trade payables and other provisions)  1,111.8  757.7  537.8  287.0 

Other non–current liabilities  718.3  613.7  –  – 

Total non–current liabilities  1,830.1  1,371.4  537.8  287.0 

Net assets (100%)  2,108.3  1,735.2  1,913.3  1,210.6 

Consolidated ownership interest (%)  20.0  20.0  35.3  33.3 

Consolidated share of net assets  421.7  347.0  676.0  403.1 

Shareholder loans1  492.9  482.3  –  – 

Other items, including acquisition costs  3.4  3.4  0.3  0.9 

Carrying amount of interest in JV  918.0  832.7  676.3  404.0 

Summarised statement of comprehensive income

Revenue  215.0  193.6  39.8  28.5 

Net finance expense (20.3) (19.2) (1.0) (3.7)

Income tax expense (46.3) (37.4) (0.2)  – 

Profit and total comprehensive income (100%)  320.0  313.4  575.6  98.7 

Consolidated share of profit and total comprehensive income  64.0  67.8  213.4  32.9 

Dividends/distributions received and receivable by the Consolidated Entity  7.3  6.1  3.9  4.6 

1. Shareholder loans have been provided by investors of GCLP in proportion to their ownership interest. The shareholder loans are interest-free, unsecured and have no fixed terms of 
repayment. The shareholder loans are not expected to be repaid within 12 months from the end of the reporting period and the Directors consider the loans to form part of the Consolidated 
Entity’s investment in GCLP.

With respect to the Consolidated Entity’s other JVs, the total profit after tax and revaluations was $308.7 million and total other comprehensive 
income was $nil.



GOODMAN GROUP

186

7 Receivables

Non-derivative financial assets

The Consolidated Entity initially recognises loans and receivables and 
deposits on the date that they are originated. All other financial assets 
are recognised initially on the trade date at which the Consolidated Entity 
becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.

The Consolidated Entity derecognises a financial asset when the 
contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or it transfers 
the right to receive the contractual cash flows on the financial asset in a 
transaction in which substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership 
of the financial asset are transferred. Any interest in transferred financial 
assets that is created or retained by the Consolidated Entity is recognised 
as a separate asset or liability.

Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount presented 
in the consolidated statement of financial position when, and only when, 
the Consolidated Entity has a legal right to offset the amounts and 
intends to either settle on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle 
the liability simultaneously.

Loans and receivables

Loans and receivables are financial assets with fixed or determinable 
payments that are not quoted in an active market. Such assets are 
recognised initially at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction 
costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, loans and receivables are 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method,  
less allowance for impairment of doubtful debts, except where 
the receivables are interest-free loans made to related parties without 
any fixed repayment terms or the effect of discounting would be 
immaterial. In such cases, the receivables are stated at cost less 
allowance for impairment of doubtful debts.

Loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables, amounts 
due from related parties and loans to related parties.

Amounts recoverable on development contracts

Amounts recoverable on development contracts arise when the 
Consolidated Entity contracts to sell a completed development asset 
either prior to or during the development phase. The receivables are 
stated at cost plus profit recognised to date less an allowance for 
foreseeable losses and less amounts already billed.

Impairment

Non-financial assets

The carrying amounts of the Consolidated Entity’s assets (except 
inventories, refer to note 6(d); and deferred tax assets, refer to note 4) 
are reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any 
indication of impairment. If such indication exists, the asset is written 
down to the recoverable amount. The impairment is recognised in profit 
or loss in the reporting period in which it occurs.

An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of 
an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount. 
Impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss, unless an asset has 
previously been revalued, in which case the impairment loss is recognised 
as a reversal to the extent of that previous revaluation, with any excess 
recognised through profit or loss.

Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating units are 
allocated to the carrying amount of any identified intangible asset and 
then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit (group 
of units) on a pro rata basis.

Financial assets and contract assets

The Consolidated Entity recognises an impairment loss allowance for 
expected credit losses (ECLs) on financial assets measured at amortised 
cost and contract assets. Financial assets measured at amortised cost 
include cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, amounts and loans 
due from related parties and other receivables.

Other financial assets measured at fair value are not subject to the 
ECL assessment. 

Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Operating assets and liabilities (continued)



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

187

Measurement of ECLs

ECLs are a probability-weighted estimate of credit losses. Credit losses are 
measured as the present value of all expected cash shortfalls. In measuring 
ECLs, the Consolidated Entity takes into account information about past 
events, current conditions and forecasts of future economic conditions.

Impairment loss allowances for trade receivables, amounts due from 
related parties, other receivables and contract assets are measured 
at an amount equal to a lifetime ECL. Lifetime ECLs are losses that are 
expected to result from all possible default events over the expected lives 
of the items to which the ECL model applies.

The Consolidated Entity recognises an impairment loss allowance equal 
to the expected losses within 12 months after the reporting date on loans 
to related parties, unless there has been a significant increase in credit 
risk of the loans since initial recognition, in which case the loss allowance 
is measured at an amount equal to lifetime ECLs. 

Note
2022

$M
2021

$M

Current

Trade receivables  5.0  12.4 

Other receivables  70.2  94.0 

Amounts due 
from related parties  37.1  75.3 

Loans to 
related parties 21(c)  3.3  562.6 

 115.6  744.3 

Non–current

Loans to 
related parties 21(c)  789.6  276.2 

 789.6  276.2 

The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value 
of each class of receivable mentioned above. All non-current receivables 
of the Consolidated Entity are due within five years from the reporting 
date. There is no material difference between the carrying values and the 
fair values of receivables.

Trade receivables

No trade receivables were impaired at 30 June 2022 and 2021.  
There are no significant overdue trade receivables at 30 June 2022.

Other receivables

At 30 June 2022, none of the other receivables balance was overdue 
or impaired (2021: $nil). 

Amounts due from related parties

At 30 June 2022, none of the amounts due from related parties was 
overdue or impaired (2021: $nil). Amounts due from related parties are 
typically repayable within 30 days. The amounts due from related 
parties are unsecured.

Loans to related parties

Loans to related parties principally relate to loans to fellow subsidiaries 
of GL and GIT and loans to JVs. Refer to note 21(c) for details of loans 
to related parties. During the year, no impairment losses were 
recognised on loans to related parties (2021: $nil). The loans to related 
parties are unsecured.

8 Contract balances
Contract assets primarily comprise amounts recoverable from fixed 
price development contracts (disclosed net of any payments received 
on account) and accrued performance fee income where the 
Consolidated Entity assesses that the income can be reliably measured. 

Contract liabilities primarily comprise deposits and other amounts 
received in advance for development contracts and rental guarantees. 

The following table provides an analysis of receivables from contracts 
with customers (excluding rental income receivables), contract assets 
and contract liabilities at the reporting dates:

2022
$M

2021
$M

Current

Receivables from contracts 
with customers, which are 
included in trade receivables, 
other receivables and amounts 
due from related parties   42.7   87.2 

Contract assets 60.5   55.7 

Contract liabilities   4.6   4.8 

Non–current

Contract liabilities –   1.0 

Significant changes in the contract assets and the contract liabilities 
balances during the year are set out below:



GOODMAN GROUP

188

2022 2021

Contract 
assets

Contract 
liabilities

Contract 
assets

Contract 
liabilities

$M $M $M $M

Balance at the beginning of the year  55.7  5.8  25.1  13.8 

Revenue recognised that was included in the 
contract liability balance at the beginning of the year  – (1.4)  – (7.7)

Transfers from contract assets to receivables (380.4)  – (70.5)  – 

Increase due to changes in the measure of progress during the year  385.0  –  101.1  – 

Effect of foreign currency translation  0.2  0.2  – (0.3)

Balance at the end of the year  60.5  4.6  55.7  5.8 

Current contract assets and liabilities  60.5  4.6  55.7  4.8 

Non–current contract liabilities  –  –  –  1.0 

 60.5  4.6  55.7  5.8 
  
Transaction price allocated to the remaining contract obligations

The amount of the transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations under the Consolidated Entity’s existing contracts is $nil (2021: $nil). 

Details regarding the Consolidated Entity’s future rental income associated with existing lease agreements is included in note 6.

In addition, the Consolidated Entity receives investment management, development management and property services fees under various contracts 
that it has with its Partnerships. These contracts are for varying lengths of time and are typically transacted on terms that are consistent with market 
practice. The revenues under these contracts are linked to the AUM, total development project costs or gross property income of the Partnerships 
and are invoiced as the services are provided. 

Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Operating assets and liabilities (continued) 
8 Contract assets (continued)



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

189

9 Payables

Non-derivative financial liabilities

The Consolidated Entity initially recognises debt securities issued and 
subordinated liabilities on the date that they are originated. All other 
financial liabilities are recognised initially on the trade date at which 
the Consolidated Entity becomes a party to the contractual provisions 
of the instrument.

The Consolidated Entity derecognises a financial liability when the 
contractual obligations are discharged or cancelled or expire.

Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount presented 
in the consolidated statement of financial position when, and only 
when, the Consolidated Entity has a legal right to offset the amounts 
and intends to either settle on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle 
the liability simultaneously.

The Consolidated Entity has classified non-derivative financial liabilities 
into the other financial liabilities category. Such financial liabilities are 
recognised initially at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction 
costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, these financial liabilities are 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.

Other financial liabilities comprise trade payables, other payables and 
accruals and contract and lease liabilities.

Note
2022

$M
2021

$M

Current

Trade payables  45.7  50.3 

Other payables 
and accruals

 216.1  201.2 

Contract liabilities 8  4.6  4.8 

Lease liabilities 10  8.2  6.7 

 274.6  263.0 

Non–current

Other payables 
and accruals

 56.1  64.4 

Contract liabilities 8  –  1.0 

Lease liabilities 10  37.1  59.3 

 93.2  124.7 

10 Leases
The Consolidated Entity leases office buildings, motor vehicles and office 
equipment. Certain investment properties and developments classified 
as inventories are also built on land held under leasehold interests. 

The Consolidated Entity recognises a right of use asset and a lease 
liability at the lease commencement date. The right of use asset is initially 
measured at cost plus any direct costs incurred and an estimate of costs 
to restore the underlying asset or the site on which it is located, less any 
lease incentives received. 

The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease 
payments that are not paid at the commencement date, discounted using 
the lessee’s incremental borrowing rate. After initial recognition, the lease 
liability is measured at amortised cost and interest expense is calculated 
using the effective interest rate method. The lease liability is remeasured 
when there is a change in future lease payments arising from a change 
in an index or rate, or there is a change arising from the reassessment 
of whether the Consolidated Entity will be reasonably certain to exercise 
an extension or termination option. 

The right of use assets in respect of office buildings, motor vehicles and 
office equipment are depreciated using the straight-line method over 
the period of the lease. Right of use assets that meet the definition of 
investment property are carried at fair value in accordance with note 6(a). 
Ground leases of development land that are classified as inventories are 
not depreciated but are assessed at each reporting date for impairments 
to ensure they are recorded at the lower of cost and net realisable value. 

Information about leases for which the Consolidated Entity is a lessee is 
detailed below:

2022
$M

2021
$M

Right of use assets

Inventories  413.3  315.5 

Investment properties  336.8  137.7 

Property, plant and equipment  18.1  12.1 

  768.2  465.3 

Lease liabilities

Current  8.2  6.7 

Non–current  37.1  59.3 

  45.3  66.0 

The following were recognised during the year:

2022
$M

2021
$M

Additions to right of use assets  332.0  344.3 

Depreciation of right of use assets  6.9  7.6 

Interest expense on lease liabilities  0.4  0.5 

Cash outflows on lease liabilities  8.0  8.7 



GOODMAN GROUP

190

Notes to the consolidated financial statements

CAPITAL MANAGEMENT

11 Net finance expense

Finance income

Interest is recognised on an accruals basis using the effective interest 
rate method, and, if not received at the reporting date, is reflected in the 
consolidated statement of financial position as a receivable.

Finance expense

Expenditure incurred in obtaining debt finance is offset against the 
principal amount of the interest bearing liability to which it relates, and 
is recognised as a finance cost on an effective interest rate basis over 
the life of the facility or until the facility is significantly modified. Where 
a facility is significantly modified, any unamortised expenditure in relation 
to that facility and incremental expenditure incurred in modifying the 
facility are recognised as a finance cost in the financial year in which 
the significant modification occurs. 

Finance costs relating to a qualifying asset are capitalised as part of the 
cost of that asset using a weighted average cost of debt. Qualifying assets 
are assets which take a substantial time to get ready for their intended 
use or sale. All other finance costs are expensed using the effective 
interest rate method.

Note
2022

$M
2021

$M

Finance income

Interest income on loans to: 

– Related parties 21(c)  11.6  12.7 

– Other parties  0.9  0.8 

Interest income from derivatives  8.0  8.3 

Foreign exchange gain  27.5  – 

 48.0  21.8 

Finance expense

Interest expense from related party loans 21(c) (41.8) (38.9)

Other borrowing costs (2.7) (1.1)

Fair value adjustments 
on derivative financial instruments (38.5) (20.1)

Foreign exchange losses  – (32.2)

Capitalised borrowing costs  11.6  9.4 

(71.4) (82.9)

Net finance expense (23.4) (61.1)

Borrowing costs were capitalised to inventories and investment 
properties under development during the financial year at rates between 
1.0% and 10.6% per annum (2021: 1.0% and 10.6% per annum).

12 Interest bearing liabilities
Interest bearing liabilities comprise bank loans. Interest bearing liabilities 
are recognised initially at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction 
costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, interest bearing liabilities are 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.

Note
2022

$M
2021

$M

Secured:

– Bank loans 12(a) 9.0 –

9.0 –
 

(a) Bank loans, secured

As at 30 June 2022, the Consolidated Entity had the following secured 
bank facilities.

Facility 
limit

$M

Amounts
drawn

$M

Facility maturity date

18 March 2034 28.2 9.0

Total at 30 June 2022 28.2 9.0

Total at 30 June 2021 – –
 

(b) Finance facilities

Facilities 
available

$M

Facilities 
utilised

$M

30 June 2022

Secured:

– Bank loans 28.2 9.0

28.2 9.0

30 June 2021

Secured:

– Bank loans – –

– –



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

191

13 Other financial assets and liabilities
Other financial assets and liabilities are recognised initially on the trade 
date at which the Consolidated Entity become a party to the contractual 
provisions of the instrument.

Derivative financial instruments and hedging

The Consolidated Entity uses derivative financial instruments to hedge 
its economic exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising 
from operating, investing and financing activities. In accordance with its 
treasury policy, the Consolidated Entity does not hold or issue derivative 
financial instruments for speculative trading purposes. 

The Consolidated Entity’s derivative financial instruments are not designated 
as a hedge for accounting purposes, and accordingly movements in the 
fair value of derivative financial instruments are recognised in profit or loss. 

Investments in unlisted securities

Subsequent to initial recognition, investments in unlisted securities 
are measured at fair value and changes therein are recognised as 
other comprehensive income and presented in the asset revaluation 
reserve in equity. Dividends are recognised as income in profit or loss 
unless the dividend clearly represents a recovery of part of the cost 
of the investment. Other net gains and losses are recognised in other 
comprehensive income and are never reclassified to profit or loss. 
When such an asset is derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss in 
equity is transferred to retained earnings.

Other financial assets

2022
$M

2021
$M

Derivative financial instruments   131.3 64.4

Investment in unlisted 
securities, at fair value1 43.5 38.2 

174.8 102.6 

1. Principally relates to the Consolidated Entity’s 10.0% (2021: 10.0%) interest in Goodman 
Japan Limited. During the year, a revaluation gain of $9.4 million was recognised in other 
comprehensive income (2021: $7.6 million gain). Refer to note 14(d) for assumptions made 
in measuring fair value of the unlisted securities.

Other financial liabilities

2022
$M

2021
$M

Current

Derivative financial instruments 45.4 –

45.4 –

Non–current

Derivative financial instruments 141.4 89.1

141.4 89.1

14 Financial risk management
The Consolidated Entity’s capital management and financial risk 
management processes are managed as part of the wider Goodman 
Group. There are established policies, documented in Goodman Group’s 
financial risk management (FRM) policy document, to ensure both the 
efficient use of capital and the appropriate management of the exposure 
to financial risk. 

Goodman Group’s treasury function is responsible for monitoring the day 
to day compliance with Goodman Group’s FRM policies and prepares 
reports for consideration by management committees and Goodman 
Group’s Board including:

+ Cash flow projections over a period of at least 12 months to assess 
the level of cash and undrawn facilities, and headline gearing at each 
month end

+ Debt maturity profile, to allow the Goodman Group to plan well in 
advance of maturing facilities

+ Interest rate hedge profile over the next 10 years, to allow Goodman 
Group to manage the proportion of fixed and floating rate debt in 
accordance with its FRM policy

+ Capital hedge position (by currency) and profile of expiring currency 
derivatives, to allow Goodman Group to manage its net investment 
hedging in accordance with its FRM policy.

Any significant investments or material changes to the finance facilities 
or FRM policies require approval by the Goodman Group Board.

The Consolidated Entity’s key financial risks are market risk (including 
foreign exchange and interest rate risk), liquidity risk and credit risk.

(a) Market risk

Foreign exchange risk

The Consolidated Entity is exposed to transactional foreign currency 
risk and net investment foreign currency risk through its investments 
in Hong Kong, Japan, China, Continental Europe and the United Kingdom 
and also loans to related parties in North America. Foreign exchange risk 
represents the loss that would be recognised from adverse fluctuations in 
currency prices as a result of future commercial transactions, recognised 
assets and liabilities and, principally, net investments in foreign operations. 

Goodman Group manages foreign currency exposure on a consolidated 
basis. In managing foreign currency risks, Goodman Group aims to 
reduce the impact of short-term fluctuations on earnings and net assets. 
However, over the long term, permanent changes in foreign exchange will 
have an impact on both earnings and net assets. 

Goodman Group’s capital hedge policy for each overseas region is 
to hedge between 65% and 90% of foreign currency denominated 
assets with foreign currency denominated liabilities. This is achieved by 
borrowing in the same functional currency as the investments to form 
a natural economic hedge against any foreign currency fluctuations 
and/or using derivatives such as cross currency interest rate swaps 
(CCIRS) and forward exchange contracts (FEC).



GOODMAN GROUP

192

Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Capital management (continued) 
14 Financial risk management (continued)

As at 30 June 2022, a summary of the derivative financial instruments used to hedge the Consolidated Entity’s exposures arising from its investments 
in foreign operations is set out below:

2022 2021

Amounts 
payable

Amounts 
receivable

Weighted 
average 

exchange 
rate

Amounts 
payable

Amounts 
receivable

Weighted 
average 

exchange 
rate

 HKD’M AUD’M AUD/HKD  HKD’M AUD’M AUD/HKD

AUD receivable/HKD payable (1,150.0)  202.3  5.6948 (500.0)  83.9  5.9560 

 EUR’M AUD’M AUD/EUR  EUR’M AUD’M AUD/EUR

AUD receivable/EUR payable (775.0)  1,238.3  0.6263 (675.0)  1,086.7  0.6214 

 GBP’M AUD’M AUD/GBP  GBP’M AUD’M AUD/GBP

AUD receivable/GBP payable (255.0)  474.4  0.5375  –  –  – 

 USD’M AUD’M AUD/USD  USD’M AUD’M AUD/USD

AUD receivable/USD payable (450.0)  634.6  0.7092 (450.0)  634.6  0.7092 

 JPY’M AUD’M AUD/JPY  JPY’M AUD’M AUD/JPY

AUD receivable/JPY payable (6,000.0)  71.9  83.4650 (6,000.0)  71.9  83.4650

CNY’M USD’M USD/CNY CNY’M USD’M USD/CNY

USD receivable/CNY payable (4,258.6)  539.6  7.9827 (4,545.2)  600.0  7.5753

Sensitivity analysis

Throughout the financial year, if the Australian dollar had been 5% (2021: 5%) stronger against all other currencies, with all other variables held constant, 
the Consolidated Entity’s profit attributable to Shareholders, excluding derivative mark to market and unrealised foreign exchange movements, would 
have decreased by $48.8 million (2021: $36.7 million). If the Australian dollar had been 5% (2021: 5%) weaker against all other currencies, with all other 
variables held constant, the Consolidated Entity’s profit attributable to Shareholders, excluding derivative mark to market and unrealised foreign exchange 
movements, would have increased by $48.8 million (2021: $36.7 million).

Interest rate risk

Goodman Group adopts a policy that at all times interest rates on between 60% and 100% of the Group’s external borrowings and derivatives (by principal) 
are hedged for the next 12 months. The Consolidated Entity’s interest rate risk arises from floating interest rates on related party loans (receivable and 
payable) and from the floating interest rate legs of certain CCIRS. The Consolidated Entity does not hedge its interest rate exposure on related party loans 
but has entered into interest rate derivatives (IRD) to manage certain cash flow risks associated with floating interest rates on its CCIRS.

As at 30 June 2022, the Consolidated Entity’s fixed and floating rate exposure (by principal) arising from its derivative financial instruments is set out below:

Interest bearing 
liabilities

$M

Impact of derivatives Net interest
rate exposure

$M
CCIRS

$M
IRD
$M

30 June 2022

Fixed rate liabilities  –  –  1,106.0  1,106.0 

Floating rate liabilities  9.0 (69.9) (1,106.0) (1,166.9)

 9.0 (69.9)  – (60.9)

30 June 2021

Fixed rate liabilities  –  –  474.2  474.2 

Floating rate liabilities  – (52.1) (474.2) (526.3)

 – (52.1)  – (52.1)

As a result of the derivative financial instruments that existed at 30 June 2022, the Consolidated Entity would have the following fixed interest rate 
exposure (by principal) at the end of each of the next five financial years. This assumes all derivative financial instruments mature in accordance with 
current contractual terms.



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

193

2022 2021

Number of years post
balance date

Fixed 
interest rate 

(by principal)
$M

Weighted 
average 

interest rate
% per annum

Fixed 
interest rate 

(by principal)
$M

Weighted 
average 

interest rate
% per annum

1 year  1,033.7  0.54  474.2 (0.47)

2 years  970.7  0.54  474.2 (0.47)

3 years  275.3  0.44  408.5 (0.45)

4 years  151.7  0.31  158.1 (0.31)

5 years  151.7  0.31  158.1 (0.31)

Sensitivity analysis

Based on the Consolidated Entity’s interest bearing borrowings at 30 June 2022, if interest rates on borrowings had been 100 bps per annum 
(2021: 100 bps per annum) higher/lower, with all other variables held constant, the Consolidated Entity’s profit attributable to Shareholders would have 
been $11.8 million lower/higher (2021: $10.8 million lower/higher).

Managing interest rate benchmark reform and associated risks

A fundamental reform of major interest rate benchmarks is being undertaken globally, including the replacement of some interbank offered rates 
(IBORs) with alternative risk-free rates (referred to as IBOR reform). The Consolidated Entity has exposure to IBORs through certain of its related 
party loans and its derivative instruments (IRD and CCIRS). The Consolidated Entity’s derivative instruments are governed by contracts based 
on the International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA) master agreements.

The United Kingdom, Japan and the United States had announced plans to discontinue using London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) by 31 December 
2021. The alternative reference rate for sterling LIBOR is the Sterling Overnight Index Average rate, for Japanese yen LIBOR is the Tokyo Overnight 
Average Rate and for US dollar LIBOR is the Secured Overnight Financing Rate. Amendments to the Consolidated Entity’s financial instruments with 
contractual terms indexed to sterling LIBOR or Japanese yen LIBOR, such that they incorporate the new benchmark rates, were completed by 
31 December 2021. Although US dollar LIBOR was planned to be discontinued by the end of 2021, in November 2020 the Intercontinental Exchange 
Benchmark Administration, the Financial Conduct Authority-regulated and authorised administrator of LIBOR, announced that it had started to consult 
on its intention to cease the publication of certain US dollar LIBORs after June 2023. It is still unclear when the announcement that will set a date for 
the termination of the publication of US dollar LIBOR will take place. Nevertheless, the Consolidated Entity has finished the process of implementing 
appropriate fallback provisions for all US dollar LIBOR indexed exposures.

For the Consolidated Entity’s other IBOR exposures, the transition to alternative risk-free rates has been deferred and/or extended and therefore 
no action has been or will be taken in that regard until such time as the alternative reference rates are defined and scheduled. It is expected that these 
will follow the conventions established in other markets and the Consolidated Entity will apply the same principles for those transitions as and when 
they become relevant.

The table below details the Consolidate Entity’s exposure at 30 June 2022 to significant IBORs subject to reform that have yet to transition to alternate 
benchmark rates:

USD LIBOR
Notional amount 

$M

IRD 400.0 

CCIRS 900.0 

 1,300.0 

The exposure disclosed is for derivatives with contractual maturities after 30 June 2022. Derivatives exposure has been reported using the notional 
contract amount and where derivatives such as CCIRS have both a receiver and a payer leg with exposure to IBOR reform, the notional contract 
amount is disclosed for both legs.



GOODMAN GROUP

194

Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Capital management (continued) 
14 Financial risk management (continued)

(b) Liquidity risk

Liquidity risk is the risk that the Consolidated Entity will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Consolidated Entity’s objective 
is to maintain sufficient liquidity to fund short-term working capital, capital expenditure, investment opportunities and dividends. Management 
seeks to achieve these objectives through the preparation of regular forecast cash flows to understand the application and use of funds and through 
the identification of future funding, primarily through loans from related parties in Goodman Group.

The contractual maturities of financial liabilities are set out below: 

Carrying 
amount

Contractual 
cash flows

Up to 12 
months

1 to 2  
year(s)

2 to 3  
years

3 to 4  
years

4 to 5  
years

More than 5 
years

$M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M

As at 30 June 2022

Non–derivative financial liabilities

Trade and other payables 
(excluding contract liabilities)

 317.9  317.9  261.8  56.1  –  –  –  – 

Lease liabilities  45.3  94.9  8.4  10.9  73.3  0.9  0.6  0.8 

Bank loans, secured  9.0  9.0  –  –  –  –  –  9.0 

Loans from related parties  1,941.0  1,949.0  129.3  3.1  26.3  504.8  708.9  576.6 

Total non–derivative financial liabilities  2,313.2  2,370.8  399.5  70.1  99.6  505.7  709.5  586.4 

Derivative financial liabilities

Net settled1:  (39.6)  15.5  22.0  5.9  19.6  (20.5)  (5.0)  (6.5)

Gross settled2:

(Inflow)  95.1  (459.5)  (78.4)  (95.3)  (88.8)  (118.5)  (72.8)  (5.7)

Outflow  –  308.4  47.1  80.3  57.8  53.2  63.2  6.8 

Total derivative financial liabilities  55.5  (135.6)  (9.3)  (9.1)  (11.4)  (85.8)  (14.6)  (5.4)

As at 30 June 2021

Non–derivative financial liabilities

Trade and other payables (excluding 
contract liabilities)

 315.9  315.9  251.5  64.4  –  –  –  – 

Lease liabilities  66.0  151.4  6.7  3.8  3.3  3.8  3.3  130.5 

Loans from related parties  1,891.1  1,905.3  811.1  104.4  43.2  74.6  540.5  331.5 

Total non–derivative financial liabilities  2,273.0  2,372.6  1,069.3  172.6  46.5  78.4  543.8  462.0 

Derivative financial liabilities

Net settled1:  79.4  73.5  0.2  29.0  22.7  23.5  (0.3)  (1.6)

Gross settled2:

(Inflow)  (54.7)  (123.1)  (11.5)  (17.3)  (56.1)  (22.7)  (13.0)  (2.5)

Outflow  –  67.5  1.2  3.2  4.9  1.1  25.6  31.5 

Total derivative financial liabilities  24.7  17.9  (10.1)  14.9  (28.5)  1.9  12.3  27.4 

1. Net settled includes IRD and FEC. 
2. Gross settled includes CCIRS.



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

195

(c) Credit risk

Credit risk represents the loss that would be recognised if counterparties failed to perform as contracted.

The maximum exposure to credit risk on financial assets, excluding investments, of the Consolidated Entity which have been recognised in the 
consolidated statement of financial position, is the carrying amount (refer to note 7).

The Consolidated Entity has a policy of assessing the creditworthiness of all potential customers and is not materially exposed to any one customer. 
The Consolidated Entity evaluates all customers’ perceived credit risk. 

In relation to material bank deposits, the Consolidated Entity minimises credit risk by dealing with major financial institutions. The counterparty must 
have a long-term investment grade credit rating from a major rating agency. The amounts and other terms associated with bank deposits are formally 
reviewed monthly.

From time to time, the Consolidated Entity also makes loans to JVs, typically to fund development projects. In making its investment decisions, the 
Consolidated Entity will undertake a detailed assessment of the development feasibility and credit risks associated with the relevant counterparties.

During the current and prior year, credit risk arising from cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, amounts and loans due from related parties 
and other receivables was not determined to be significant and no impairment losses were recognised.

The credit risks associated with derivative financial instruments are managed by: 

+ Transacting with multiple derivatives counterparties that have a long-term investment grade credit rating

+ Utilising ISDA agreements with derivative counterparties in order to limit exposure to credit risk through netting of amounts receivable and 
amounts payable to individual counterparties (refer below) 

+ Formal review of the mark to market position of derivative financial instruments by counterparty on a monthly basis.

Master netting off or similar agreements

Goodman Group enters into derivative transactions under ISDA master netting off agreements. Under these agreements, where certain credit events occur 
(such as a default), all outstanding transactions under the agreement are terminated and a single net termination value is payable in full and final settlement. 

(d) Fair values of financial instruments

Except for derivative financial instruments and investments in unlisted securities which are carried at fair value, the Consolidated Entity’s financial 
instruments are carried at cost or amortised cost. The carrying amounts of the Consolidated Entity’s financial instruments carried at cost or amortised 
cost were not materially different from their fair values as at 30 June 2022 and 2021.

(i) Fair value hierarchy

The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value, by valuation method (see note 1(g)): 

Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total

$M $M $M $M

As at 30 June 2022

Derivative financial assets  –  131.3  –  131.3 

Investment in unlisted securities  –  –  43.5  43.5 

 –  131.3  43.5  174.8 

Derivative financial liabilities  –  186.8  –  186.8 

 –  186.8  –  186.8 

As at 30 June 2021

Derivative financial assets  –  64.4  –  64.4 

Investment in unlisted securities  –  –  38.2  38.2 

 –  64.4  38.2  102.6 

Derivative financial liabilities  –  89.1  –  89.1 

 –  89.1  –  89.1 

There were no transfers between the levels during the year.



GOODMAN GROUP

196

Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Capital management (continued) 
14 Financial risk management (continued)

(ii) Valuation techniques used to derive Level 2 and Level 3 fair values

The Level 2 derivative financial instruments held by the Consolidated Entity consist of IRD, CCIRS and FEC. 

The fair values of derivatives are determined using generally accepted pricing models which discount estimated future cash flows based on the terms 
and maturity of each contract and current market interest rates and/or foreign currency rates, adjusted for specific features of the instruments. 

The fair value measurement for investment in unlisted securities has been categorised as a Level 3 fair value. The following table shows the valuation 
technique used in measuring fair value as well as the significant unobservable inputs used: 

Type Valuation technique Significant unobservable inputs

Inter–relationship between 
significant unobservable inputs 
and fair value measurement

Equity securities

+  Goodman 
Japan Limited

DCF: The valuation model was 
determined by discounting the future 
cash flows expected to be generated 
from continuing operations. The 
future cash flows were based on fund 
and development forecasts and then 
estimating a year five terminal value 
using a terminal growth rate and an 
appropriate discount rate.

+  Assets under management 
of $6.1 billion in year five

+  Average annual development 
of 82,500 square metres

+  Five–year terminal value growth 
rate of 0.63%

+  Risk adjusted post tax discount 
rate of 7.20% per annum.

The estimated fair value would 
increase/(decrease) if: 

+  The level of assets under 
management, development 
activity and terminal value growth 
rate were higher/(lower) or

+  The risk adjusted discount rate 
were lower/(higher).

(iii) Reconciliation of Level 3 fair values

2022
$M

2021
$M

Carrying amount at the beginning of the year   38.2 34.3

Net change in fair value – included in other comprehensive income/(loss)   9.4 7.6

Effect of foreign currency translation (4.1) (3.7)

Carrying amount at the end of the year 43.5 38.2
 

15  Dividends
During the financial year, the Company declared a final dividend of 2.5 cents per share amounting to $46.7 million. This dividend will be paid on 25 August 2022 
In the prior year, the Company declared a final dividend of 6.0 cents per share amounting to $110.8 million. This was paid on 26 August 2021.



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

197

16 Share capital

(a) Ordinary shares

Ordinary shares of the Company are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to issues of ordinary shares are recognised as a deduction 
from equity, net of any tax effects.

2022 2021 2022 2021

Number of shares $M $M

Share capital  1,868,222,609  1,847,429,255  873.6  792.5 

Less: Accumulated issue costs (0.6) (0.6)

Total issued capital  1,868,222,609  1,847,429,255  873.0  791.9 

 Share capital 

Date Details  Number of shares  $M 

Ordinary shares, issued and fully paid

30 Jun 2020 Balance at 30 June 2020  1,828,413,236  732.6 

31 Aug 2020 Shares issued to employees of Goodman Group1  15,438,241  48.6 

4 Sep 2020 Ordinary shares issued  3,577,778  11.3 

30 Jun 2021 Balance at 30 June 2021  1,847,429,255  792.5 

31 Aug 2021 Shares issued to employees of Goodman Group1  14,716,648  57.4 

31 Aug 2021 Treasury shares issued  1,233,333  4.8 

2 Sep 2021 Ordinary shares issued  4,843,373  18.9 

30 Jun 2022 Balance at 30 June 2022  1,868,222,609  873.6 

1. During the year, the Company issued 14,716,648 (2021: 15,438,241) shares to employees of Goodman Group under the LTIP. 

The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings 
of the Company. All ordinary shares rank equally with regard to the Company’s residual assets.

(b) Equity settled share based payment transactions

LTIP

Goodman Group’s share based payments primarily relate to performance rights awarded to employees under the LTIP. These performance rights 
entitle an employee to either acquire Goodman Group securities for $nil consideration (equity settled performance rights) or, in certain jurisdictions, 
to receive an amount in cash equal to the value of the securities (cash settled performance rights), subject to the vesting conditions having been satisfied. 

During the year, the movement in the number of equity settled and cash settled performance rights under the LTIP was as follows: 

Number of rights

2022 2021

Outstanding at the beginning of the year  22,734,427  24,921,436 

Issued  8,220,860  5,580,560 

Vested (6,208,554) (5,952,229)

Forfeited (130,552) (1,815,340)

Outstanding at the end of the year  24,616,181  22,734,427 

Exercisable at the end of the year  –  – 



GOODMAN GROUP

198

Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Capital management (continued) 
16 Share capital (continued)

Share based payments transactions 

The fair value of equity settled performance rights at the grant date is expensed with a corresponding increase in the employee compensation reserve 
over the period from the grant date to the vesting dates. The expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of performance rights for which the 
related service and non-market vesting conditions are expected to be met. The accumulated share based payments expense of performance rights 
which have vested or lapsed is transferred from the employee compensation reserve to retained earnings. 

The fair value of cash settled performance rights is also recognised as an expense but with a corresponding increase in liabilities over the vesting 
period. The expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of performance rights for which the related service and non-market vesting conditions 
are expected to be met. The liability is remeasured at each reporting date and at the vesting date based on the fair value of the rights.

The fair value of services received in return for performance rights granted under the LTIP is measured by reference to the fair value of the 
performance rights granted. The fair value of the performance rights granted during the year was measured as follows:

+ Operating earnings per security tranche: these rights were valued as a granted call option, using the standard Black Scholes model with a 
continuous dividend yield

+ Relative total shareholder return tranche: these rights were valued using a Monte Carlo model which simulated total returns for each of the ASX 100 
stocks and discounted the future value of any potential future vesting performance rights to arrive at a present value. The model uses statistical 
analysis to forecast total returns, based on expected parameters of variance and co-variance.

The model inputs for performance rights, both equity and cash settled, awarded during the current financial year included the following:

10–year rights 
issued on

18 Nov 2021

10–year rights 
issued on

30 Sep 2021

5–year rights 
issued on

30 Sep 2021

Fair value at measurement date ($)  20.16  17.22  17.87 

Security price ($)  24.49  21.68  21.68 

Exercise price ($)  –  –  – 

Expected volatility (%)  25.45  25.36  28.54 

Rights’ expected weighted average life (years)  6.8  6.9  3.9 

Dividend/distribution yield per annum (%)  1.23  1.38  1.38 

Average risk–free rate of interest per annum (%)  1.51  1.03  0.49 

The model inputs for the remeasurement of the cash settled performance rights at 30 June 2022 included the following:

10–year 
rights 

issued in

5–year 
rights 

issued In

5–year 
rights 

issued In

5–year 
rights 

issued In

5–year 
rights 

issued In

5–year 
rights 

issued In

FY22 FY22 FY21 FY20 FY19 FY18

Fair value at measurement date ($)  13.61  14.12  15.02  17.49  17.64  17.79 

Security price ($)  17.84  17.84  17.84  17.84  17.84  17.84 

Exercise price ($)  –  –  –  –  –  – 

Expected volatility (%)  27.44  29.24  28.56  32.65  36.02  44.77 

Rights’ expected weighted average life (years)  6.2  3.2  2.2  1.2  0.7  0.2 

Dividend/distribution yield per annum (%)  1.68  1.68  1.68  1.68  1.68  1.68 

Average risk–free rate of interest per annum (%)  3.42  3.09  2.90  2.35  2.12  1.53 
 
 Share based payment expense included in profit or loss was as follows:

2022
$M

2021
$M

Share based payment expense:

– Equity settled  41.2  44.5 

– Cash settled  52.8  79.5 

 94.0  124.0 

At 30 June 2022, a liability of $91.7 million (2021: $111.2 million) was recognised in relation to cash settled performance rights.



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

199

OTHER ITEMS

17  Notes to the consolidated cash flow statement
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits with original maturities of three months or less.

(a) Reconciliation of cash

Cash as at the end of the year as shown in the consolidated cash flow statement is reconciled to the related items in the consolidated statement 
of financial position as follows:

2022
$M

2021
$M

Cash assets 357.5 358.4

357.5 358.4

(b) Reconciliation of profit for the year to net cash provided by operating activities

2022
$M

2021
$M

Profit for the year  762.8  415.2 

Items classified as investing activities

Net gain/(loss) on disposal of investment properties (3.8)  1.9 

Net gain on disposal of equity accounted investments (0.2) (1.8)

Non-cash items

Depreciation of plant and equipment  8.7  9.6 

Share based payments expense  94.0  124.0 

Net loss from fair value adjustments on investment properties  0.3  – 

Share of net results of equity accounted investments (345.3) (164.7)

Net finance expense  23.4  61.1 

Income tax expense  114.1  12.2 

 654.0  457.5 

Changes in assets and liabilities during the year:

– Decrease/(increase) in receivables  52.0 (39.5)

– Increase in inventories (447.8) (93.2)

– Decrease/(increase) in other assets  10.9 (1.5)

– (Decrease)/increase in payables (45.8)  69.5 

– Increase in provisions (including employee benefits)  0.6  1.0 

 223.9  393.8 

Dividends/distributions received from equity accounted investments  65.8  80.9 

Net finance income received  14.5  15.1 

Net income taxes paid (87.7) (16.2)

Net cash provided by operating activities  216.5  473.6 

 



GOODMAN GROUP

200

Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Other items (continued) 
17 Notes to the consolidated cash flow statement (continued)

(c) Reconciliation of liabilities arising from financing activities

Interest 
bearing 

liabilities

Derivatives 
used for 
hedging

Dividends 
payable

Loans 
(to)/from 

related 
parties

Lease 
liabilities

$M $M $M $M $M

Balance at 1 July 2020  –  46.8  73.1  1,067.6  28.3 

Changes from financing cash flows

Payments on derivative financial instruments  – (42.2)  –  –  – 

Net repayments of loans with related parties  –  –  – (83.7)  – 

Payments of lease liabilities  –  –  –  – (8.7)

Dividends paid  –  – (73.1)  –  – 

Total changes from financing cash flows  – (42.2) (73.1) (83.7) (8.7)

Changes arising from disposal of controlled entities  –  –  –  14.6  – 

Effect of foreign exchange movements  –  –  –  50.0  – 

Changes in fair value  –  20.1  –  –  – 

Other changes

Issue of shares under the LTIP  –  –  – (48.6)  – 

Equity settled share based payments transactions  –  –  –  26.2  – 

New leases  –  –  –  –  45.9 

Interest income  –  –  – (12.7)  – 

Interest expense  –  –  –  38.9  0.5 

Dividends declared  –  –  110.8  –  – 

Total other changes  –  –  110.8  3.8  46.4 

Balance at 30 June 2021  –  24.7  110.8  1,052.3  66.0 

Balance at 1 July 2021  –  24.7  110.8  1,052.3  66.0 

Changes from financing cash flows

Proceeds from borrowings  9.0  –  –  –  – 

Net (repayments of)/proceeds from loans with related parties  – (17.4)  –  124.9  – 

Payments of lease liabilities  –  –  –  – (8.0)

Dividends paid  –  – (110.8)  –  – 

Total changes from financing cash flows  9.0 (17.4) (110.8)  124.9 (8.0)

Changes arising from disposal of controlled entities  –  –  –  1.5  – 

Effect of foreign exchange movements  –  9.7  –  11.2  – 

Changes in fair value  –  38.5  –  –  – 

Other changes

Issue of shares under the LTIP  –  –  – (57.4)  – 

Equity settled share based payments transactions  –  –  – (32.0)  – 

New leases  –  –  –  –  13.4 

Interest income  –  –  – (11.6)  – 

Interest expense  –  –  –  41.8  0.4 

Disposal of right of use assets  –  –  –  – (26.5)

Derivative financial instrument settlement through loans with related parties  –  –  –  17.4  – 

Dividends declared  –  –  46.7  –  – 

Total other changes  –  –  46.7 (41.8) (12.7)

Balance at 30 June 2022  9.0  55.5  46.7  1,148.1  45.3 



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

201

18 Reserves
Consolidated Company

 
Note

2022
$M

2021
$M

2022
$M

2021
$M

Asset revaluation reserve 18(a)  36.7  27.3  36.2  27.0 

Foreign currency translation reserve 18(b)  13.6  12.7  –  4.8 

Employee compensation reserve 18(c)  56.3  48.3  52.4  40.2 

Defined benefit retirement schemes reserve 18(d) (8.8) (14.4)  –  – 

Common control reserve1 18(e) (702.9) (702.9)  –  – 

Total reserves (605.1) (629.0)  88.6  72.0 

1. The common control reserve arises from the acquisition of entities from other members of Goodman Group under the pooling of interest method. The amount in the common control reserve 
reflects the difference between the consideration paid and the carrying values of the assets and liabilities of the acquired entity at the date of acquisition. 

The movements in reserves of the Consolidated Entity and the Company are analysed below:

Consolidated Company

2022
$M

2021
$M

2022
$M

2021
$M

(a) Asset revaluation reserve

Balance at the beginning of the year  27.3  19.7  27.0  19.7 

Increase due to revaluation of other financial assets  9.4  7.6  9.2  7.3 

Balance at the end of the year  36.7  27.3  36.2  27.0 

(b) Foreign currency translation reserve 

Balance at the beginning of the year  12.7  33.5  4.8  – 

Net exchange differences on conversion of foreign operations  0.9 (20.8) (4.8)  4.8 

Balance at the end of the year  13.6  12.7  –  4.8 

(c) Employee compensation reserve 

Balance at the beginning of the year  48.3  33.4  40.2  33.4 

Equity settled share based payment transactions  12.2  6.8  12.2  6.8 

Deferred tax associated with the LTIP (4.2)  8.1  –  – 

Balance at the end of the year  56.3  48.3  52.4  40.2 

(d) Defined benefit retirement schemes reserve

Balance at the beginning of the year (14.4) (8.2)  –  – 

Actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit retirement schemes (net of tax)  5.6 (6.0)  –  – 

Effect of foreign currency translation  – (0.2)  –  – 

Balance at the end of the year (8.8) (14.4)  –  – 

(e) Common control reserve 

Balance at the beginning of the year (702.9) (702.9)  –  – 

Balance at the end of the year (702.9) (702.9)  –  – 

19 Retained earnings
Consolidated Company

Note
2022

$M
2021

$M
2022

$M
2021

$M

Balance at the beginning of the year  1,584.8  1,287.2  794.7  575.6 

Profit for the year  751.9  408.4  265.3  329.9 

Dividends declared 15 (46.7) (110.8) (46.7) (110.8)

Balance at the end of the year  2,290.0  1,584.8  1,013.3  794.7 
 



GOODMAN GROUP

202

Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Other items (continued)

20  Investments in subsidiaries

Subsidiaries

Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company. The Company controls an entity when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its 
involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. When assessing whether the Company has 
power, only substantive rights (held by the Company and other parties) are considered.

An investment in a subsidiary is consolidated into the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control 
ceases. When an entity ceases to be controlled by the Company, it is accounted for as a disposal of the entire interest in the entity, with a resulting gain 
or loss being recognised in profit or loss.

In the Company’s statement of financial position, an investment in a subsidiary is stated at cost less impairment losses.

The following list contains only the particulars of subsidiaries which principally affected the results, assets or liabilities of the Consolidated Entity. 
The class of shares held is ordinary unless otherwise stated.

Interest held

Significant controlled companies Principal activities
Country of

incorporation
2022

%
2021

%

Goodman Asia Limited Investment and property management services Hong Kong  100.0  100.0 

Goodman China Limited Property management and development management consultancy services Hong Kong  100.0  100.0 

Goodman UK Holdings (HK) Limited Intermediate holding company Hong Kong  100.0  100.0 

Goodman China Asset Management Limited Investment management Cayman Islands  100.0  100.0 

Goodman Developments Asia Investment and property development Cayman Islands  100.0  100.0 

GJSP Limited Investment management Japan  100.0  100.0 

GELF Management (Lux) Sàrl Investment management Luxembourg  100.0  100.0 

Goodman Management Holdings (Lux) Sàrl Intermediate holding company Luxembourg  100.0  100.0 

Goodman Midnight Logistics (Lux) Sàrl Investment holding company Luxembourg  100.0  100.0 

Goodman Property 
Opportunities (Lux) Sàrl SICAR Property investment and development Luxembourg  94.0  94.0 

GPO Advisory (Lux) Sàrl Property management services Luxembourg  100.0  100.0 

Goodman Logistics Developments (UK) Limited Investment and property management services United Kingdom  100.0  100.0 

Goodman Real Estate (UK) Limited Investment and property development United Kingdom  100.0  100.0 
 



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

203

Combination of entities or businesses under common control

Where the Consolidated Entity acquires entities or businesses from 
other members of Goodman Group such that all of the combining 
entities (businesses) are ultimately controlled by Goodman Group 
Securityholders both before and after the combination, the Consolidated 
Entity applies the pooling of interests method.

At the date of the combination of entities under common control, the 
assets and liabilities of the combining entities are reflected at their 
carrying amounts. No adjustments are made to reflect fair values, or 
recognise any new assets or liabilities that would otherwise be done under 
the acquisition method. The only goodwill that is recognised is any existing 
goodwill relating to either of the combining entities. Any difference 
between the consideration transferred and the equity “acquired” by the 
Consolidated Entity is reflected within equity (common control reserve).

Similar to the acquisition method, the results of the “acquired” entity are 
included only from the date control commenced. Comparatives are not 
restated to present the consolidated financial statements as if the entities 
had always been combined. 

21 Related party transactions

Related parties

 (i)  A person, or a close member of that person’s family, is related to the 
Company if that person:

 (1) Has control or joint control over the Company

 (2) Has significant influence over the Company or

 (3)  Is a member of the key management personnel of the Company 
or the Company’s parent.

(ii)  An entity is related to the Company if any of the following 
conditions applies:

 (1)    The entity and the Company are members of the same group 
(which means that each parent, subsidiary and fellow subsidiary 
is related to the others)

 (2)  One entity is an associate or JV of the other entity (or an 
associate or JV of a member of a group of which the other entity 
is a member)

 (3) Both entities are JVs of the same third party

 (4)  One entity is a JV of a third entity and the other entity is an 
associate of the third entity

 (5)  The entity is a post-employment benefit plan for the benefit 
of employees of either the Company or an entity related to 
the Company

 (6)  The entity is controlled or jointly controlled by a person 
identified in (i) 

 (7)  A person identified in (i)(1) has significant influence over 
the entity or is a member of the key management personnel 
of the entity (or of a parent of the entity) or

 (8)  The entity, or any member of a group of which it is a part, 
provides key management personnel services to the Company 
or the Company’s parent.

Close members of the family of a person are those family members 
who may be expected to influence, or be influenced by, that person in their 
dealings with the entity.

(a) Directors’ remuneration

Directors’ remuneration (including alternate Directors) disclosed pursuant 
to section 383(1) of the Hong Kong Companies Ordinance and Part 2 of 
the Companies (Disclosure of Information about Benefits of Directors) 
Regulation is as follows:

2022
$M

2021
$M

Directors’ fees 0.6 0.7

Salaries, allowances and benefits in kind 3.6 3.7

Share based payments 19.8 16.1

24.0 20.5
 



GOODMAN GROUP

204

Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Other items (continued) 
21 Related party transactions (continued)

(b) Transactions and amounts due from related parties

Management and 
development activities

Amounts due 
from related parties1

2022 2021 2022 2021

$M $M $M $M

JVs

GCLP  104.5  64.9  6.6  12.6 

GUKP  55.8 –  2.1 –

KWASA Goodman Germany  10.1  141.7 – –

Goodman Japan Development Partnership – –  0.7 –

170.4  206.6  9.4  12.6 

Related parties of GL and GIT

Goodman Hong Kong Logistics Partnership  139.1  135.2  9.8  42.0 

Goodman European Partnership  769.2  221.9  47.7  36.4 

Other related parties  5.8  67.0  –  10.4 

 914.1  424.1  57.5  88.8 

1. Includes contract assets arising from transactions with related parties.

Transactions with GL

During the year, the Consolidated Entity recognised expenses of $23.1 million (2021: $42.4 million) for services provided by a controlled entity of GL. 

(c) Financing arrangements with related parties

Loans to  
related parties1

Loans from  
related parties1

Interest 
income/(expense) 

charged on loans 
to/from related parties

2022
$M

2021
$M

2022
$M

2021
$M

2022
$M

2021
$M

JVs  27.3  29.6  –  –  0.4  0.3 

GL, GIT and their controlled entities  765.6  809.2 (1,941.0) (1,891.1) (30.6) (26.5)

 792.9  838.8 (1,941.0) (1,891.1) (30.2) (26.2)

1. Loans by the Consolidated Entity to/from JVs and other related parties have generally been provided on an arm’s length basis. At 30 June 2022, details in respect of the principal loan balances are 
set out below:

+ Loans to GL, GIT and their controlled entities amounting to $765.6 million (2021: $809.2 million) are interest bearing and repayable on demand.  
The interest bearing loans incur interest at rates ranging from 0.6% to 5.1% per annum (2021: 0.7% to 7.2% per annum)

+ Loans from GL, GIT and their controlled entities are interest bearing and amount to $1,941.0 million (2021: $1,891.1 million). $125.4 million of the loans 
is repayable on demand and $1,815.6 million is repayable greater than one year from the reporting date. The interest bearing loans incur floating 
interest at rates ranging from 0.2% to 10.6% per annum (2021: 0.9% to 10.6% per annum).



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

205

22 Commitments

Development activities

At 30 June 2022, the Consolidated Entity was committed to $206.4 million 
(2021: $351.3 million) expenditure in respect of inventories and other 
development activities.

Investment properties

At 30 June 2022, the Consolidated Entity had capital expenditure 
commitments of $0.1 million (2021: $nil). In the prior year, the Consolidated 
Entity had contracted to acquire an investment property for $67.7 million.

23 Contingencies

Capitalisation Deed Poll

GLHK, GL, GIT and certain of their wholly owned controlled entities are 
“investors” under a Capitalisation Deed Poll (CDP) dated 23 May 2007. 
Under the CDP, each investor undertakes to pay to the relevant controlled 
entity borrower (borrower) any amounts owing under finance documents 
for the purpose of the CDP when the borrower fails to make a payment. 
Any payments by an investor to a borrower will be by way of loan to, or 
proceeds for the subscription of equity in, the borrower by the investor. 

US144A/Regulation S senior notes

Under the issue of notes in the US144A/Regulation S bond market, 
controlled entities of GIT had on issue USD and EUR notes amounting 
to US$1,350.0 million and €500.0 million respectively. GL, Goodman 
Funds Management Limited, as responsible entity of GIT, and GLHK have 
unconditionally and irrevocably guaranteed on a joint and several basis 
the payment of principal and interest in respect of each of the notes.



GOODMAN GROUP

206

Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Other items (continued)

24 Company level statement of financial position
 

2022 2021
Note $M $M

Current assets
Cash  138.5  167.8 
Receivables  7.9  126.1 

Total current assets  146.4  293.9 

Non-current assets
Investments in subsidiaries  2,550.5  1,821.9 
Receivables  32.9  169.8 
Other financial assets  267.7  171.8 

Total non-current assets  2,851.1  2,163.5 

Total assets  2,997.5  2,457.4 

Current liabilities
Payables  0.5  96.0 
Dividend payable  46.7  110.8 
Other financial liabilities  45.4  – 

Total current liabilities  92.6  206.8 

Non-current liabilities
Payables  807.7  505.2 
Other financial liabilities  122.3  86.8 

Total non-current liabilities  930.0  592.0 

Total liabilities  1,022.6  798.8 

Net assets  1,974.9  1,658.6 

Equity attributable to Shareholders
Share capital  873.0  791.9 
Reserves 18  88.6  72.0 
Retained earnings 19  1,013.3  794.7 

Total equity attributable to Shareholders  1,974.9  1,658.6 

 

The Company level statement of financial position was approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 16 August 2022.

 

Stephen Paul Johns David Jeremy Collins 
Independent Chairman Director

25 Subsequent events
There has not arisen in the interval between the end of the financial year and the date of this financial report any item, transaction or event of a material 
and unusual nature likely, in the opinion of the Directors, to affect significantly the operations of the Consolidated Entity, the results of those operations, 
or the state of affairs of the Consolidated Entity, in future financial years.



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

207

Securities information

Top 20 Securityholders 
As at 8 September 2022

Number of 
securities

Percentage of total 
issued securities

1. HSBC CUSTODY NOMINEES (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED 681,499,089 36.24

2. J P MORGAN NOMINEES AUSTRALIA PTY LIMITED 561,957,776 29.88

3. CITICORP NOMINEES PTY LIMITED 190,580,369 10.13

4. NATIONAL NOMINEES LIMITED 76,665,425 4.08

5. BNP PARIBAS NOMS PTY LTD <DRP> 68,172,806 3.63

6. CITICORP NOMINEES PTY LIMITED <COLONIAL FIRST STATE INV A/C> 36,355,892 1.93

7. BNP PARIBAS NOMINEES PTY LTD <AGENCY LENDING DRP A/C> 36,269,494 1.93

8. TRISON INVESTMENTS PTY LTD 17,463,993 0.93

9. BEESIDE PTY LTD ATF THE BEESIDE TRUST 13,192,040 0.70

10. HSBC CUSTODY NOMINEES (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED <NT-COMNWLTH SUPER CORP A/C> 9,373,751 0.50

11. AUSTRALIAN FOUNDATION INVESTMENT COMPANY LIMITED 8,835,000 0.47

12. CUSTODIAL SERVICES LIMITED <BENEFICIARIES HOLDING A/C> 4,426,940 0.24

13. BNP PARIBAS NOMINEES PTY LTD HUB24 CUSTODIAL SERV LTD <DRP A/C> 4,075,984 0.22

14.    UBS NOMINEES PTY LTD 3,289,853 0.17

15. NETWEALTH INVESTMENTS LIMITED <WRAP SERVICES A/C> 3,009,858 0.16

16. CPU SHARE PLANS PTY LTD <GMG VAR CONTROL A/C> 2,820,000 0.15

17. DPCON BVBA 2,678,465 0.14

18. ONE MANAGED INVESTMENT FUNDS LTD <CHARTER HALL MAXIM PROPERTY SE> 2,500,000 0.13

19. BNP PARIBAS NOMS (NZ) LTD <DRP> 2,278,718 0.12

20. GOODMAN EQUITIES PTY LTD 2,229,540 0.12

Securities held by top 20 Securityholders 1,727,684,993 91.88
Balance of securities held 152,784,095 8.12

Total issued securities 1,880,469,088 100.00
 

Range of securities
Number of 

Securityholders
Number of 
securities

Percentage of total 
issued securities

1 – 1,000 29,629 11,301,082 0.60

1,001 – 5,000 18,141 41,687,906 2.22

5,001 – 10,000 3,142 22,361,098 1.19 

10,001 – 100,000 1,813 38,963,560 2.07

100,001 – over 105 1,766,155,442 93.92

Total 52,830 1,880,469,088 100

There were 1,113 Securityholders with less than a marketable parcel in relation to 12,398 securities as at 8 September 2022.

Substantial Securityholders1 Number of securities

Vanguard Group Inc.  167,546,666 

Leader Investment Corporation; China Investment Corporation 167,247,241

Blackrock Investment Management Limited 137,503,983

State Street Corporation 99,948,106 

1. In accordance with latest Substantial Securityholder Notices as at 26 August 2022.

Goodman Logistics (HK) Limited CHESS Depository Interests. ASX reserves the right (but without limiting its absolute discretion) to remove Goodman Logistics (HK) Limited, Goodman Limited and 
Goodman Industrial Trust from the official list of the ASX if a CHESS Depository Interest (CDI) referencing an ordinary share in Goodman Logistics (HK) Limited, a share in Goodman Limited or a unit in 
Goodman Industrial Trust cease to be stapled, or any new securities are issued by Goodman Logistics (HK) Limited, Goodman Limited or Goodman Industrial Trust and are not (or CDIs in respect of them are 
not) stapled to equivalent securities in the Goodman Group.

Voting rights. On a show of hands at a general meeting of Goodman Limited or Goodman Industrial Trust, every person present who is an eligible Securityholder shall have one vote and on a poll, every person 
present who is an eligible Securityholder shall have one vote for each Goodman Limited share and one vote for each dollar value of Goodman Industrial Trust units that the eligible Securityholder holds or 
represents (as the case may be). At a general meeting of Goodman Logistics (HK) Limited, all resolutions will be determined by poll, and eligible Securityholders will be able to direct Chess Depositary Nominees 
Pty Limited to cast one vote for each Chess Depositary Instrument (referencing a Goodman Logistics (HK) Limited share) that the eligible Securityholder holds or represents (as the case may be).

Securityholder approval of securities. During the financial year, 18,892,650 performance rights were issued under the Long Term Incentive Plan, of which 2,875,000 performance rights were issued to 
Executive Directors with Securityholder approval under ASX Listing Rule 10.14.

On-market buy-back. There is no current on-market buy-back.



GOODMAN GROUP

208

AASB Australian Accounting Standards Board.

ASX Australian Securities Exchange, or ASX Limited (ABN 98 008 624 691) 
or the financial market which it operates as the case requires.

AUM Assets under management: total value of properties directly held 
or under management.

CPP Investments. Formerly Canada Pension Plan Investment Board.

Cps Cents per security.

Cpu Cents per unit.

DPS Distribution per security. Total distributions to investors divided 
by the number of securities outstanding.

EPS Earnings per security.

GADP Goodman Australia Development Partnership, an unlisted 
property investment vehicle specialising in the investment of industrial 
property in Australia.

GAIP Goodman Australia Industrial Partnership, an unlisted property 
investment vehicle specialising in the investment of industrial property 
in Australia.

GAP Goodman Australia Partnership, an unlisted property investment 
vehicle specialising in the investment of industrial property in Australia.

GBLP Goodman Brazil Logistics Partnership.

GCLP Goodman China Logistics Partnership Limited, an unlisted 
property investment vehicle specialising in the investment of industrial 
property in China.

GEP Goodman European Partnership, an unlisted property 
investment vehicle specialising in the investment of industrial property 
in Continental Europe.

GFML Goodman Funds Management Limited (ABN 48 067 796 641; 
AFSL Number 223621).

GHKLP Goodman Hong Kong Logistics Partnership, an unlisted property 
investment vehicle specialising in the investment of industrial property 
in Hong Kong.

GIT Goodman Industrial Trust (ARSN 091 213 839) and its controlled 
entities or GFM as Responsible Entity for GIT, where the context requires.

GJCP Goodman Japan Core Partnership, an unlisted property investment 
vehicle specialising in the investment of industrial property in Japan.

GJDP Goodman Japan Development Partnership, a logistics and 
industrial partnership specialising in the development of industrial 
property in Japan.

GL Goodman Limited (ABN 69 000 123 071) and where the context 
requires, its controlled entities.

GMT Goodman Property Trust, a listed property trust on the NZX 
managed by GMG.

GNAP Goodman North America Partnership, a logistics and 
industrial partnership specialising in the investment of industrial property 
in North America.

GLHK Goodman Logistics (HK) Limited (Company No. 1700359; ARBN 
155 911 149) and where the context requires, its controlled entities.

Goodman Group or GMG Goodman Limited, Goodman Industrial Trust 
and Goodman Logistics (HK) Limited, trading as Goodman Group and 
where the context requires, their controlled entities.

GUKP Goodman United Kingdom Partnership.

KGIP KWASA-Goodman Industrial Partnership, an unlisted property 
investment vehicle specialising in the investment of industrial property 
in Australia.

KGG KWASA-Goodman Germany, an unlisted property trust specialising 
in the investment of industrial property in Germany.

Stapled The linking together of a GIT unit, a GL share and a CDI in 
respect of a GLHK share so that one may not be transferred or otherwise 
dealt with without the other and which are quoted on the ASX jointly as a 
“stapled security”.

Stapled Security or Security A GIT unit, a GL share and a CDI in 
respect of a GLHK share which are stapled so that they can only be 
traded together.

NAV Net asset value: the value of total assets less liabilities. For this 
purpose, liabilities include both current and long-term liabilities. To 
calculate the net asset value per ordinary security, divide the net asset 
value by the number of securities on issue. 

NZX New Zealand Exchange Limited or New Zealand Exchange being the 
equity security market operated by it, as the case requires.

Responsible Entity Responsible Entity means a public company that holds 
an Australian Financial Services Licence (“AFSL”) authorising it to operate 
a managed investment scheme. In respect of GIT, the Responsible Entity 
is GFML, a wholly-owned subsidiary of GL.

S&P Standard & Poor’s: an independent rating agency that provides 
evaluation of securities investments and credit risk.

Securityholder A holder of a Stapled Security. 

Shareholder A shareholder of GL and/or GLHK.

Sqm Square metres.

Sq ft Square feet.

Substantial Securityholder A person or company that holds at least 5% 
of Goodman Group’s voting rights.

TSR Total securityholder return.

Glossary



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

209

GOODMAN GROUP
Goodman Limited 
ABN 69 000 123 071

Goodman Industrial Trust 
ARSN 091 213 839

Goodman Funds Management Limited 
Responsible Entity of Goodman Industrial Trust  
ABN 48 067 796 641 
AFSL Number 223621

Goodman Logistics (HK) Limited 
Company No. 1700359 
ARBN 155 911 149 

REGISTERED OFFICES
The Hayesbery 
1-11 Hayes Road 
Rosebery NSW 2018

Australia

GPO Box 4703 
Sydney NSW 2001 
Australia

Telephone 1300 791 100 (within Australia) 
 +61 2 9230 7400 (outside Australia)

Facsimile +61 2 9230 7444

Suite 901 
Three Pacific Place 
1 Queen’s Road East 
Hong Kong

Telephone +852 2249 3100

Facsimile +852 2525 2070

Email info au@goodman.com

Website goodman.com 

OTHER OFFICES
Amsterdam 
Auckland 
Beijing 
Birmingham 
Brisbane 
Brussels 
Chengdu 
Chongqing 
Düsseldorf 
Guangzhou

Hamburg 
Hong Kong 
London 
Los Angeles 
Luxembourg 
Madrid 
Melbourne 
Milan 
Munich 
New Jersey 

Osaka 
Paris 
Pennsylvania 
San Francisco 
São Paulo 
Shanghai 
Shenzhen 
Tokyo

DIRECTORS
Goodman Limited and Goodman Funds Management Limited

Stephen Johns 
Independent Chairman

Greg Goodman 
Group Chief Executive Officer

Chris Green 
Independent Director

Mark G Johnson 
Independent Director

Vanessa Liu 
Independent Director

Rebecca McGrath 
Independent Director

Danny Peeters 
Executive Director

Phillip Pryke 
Independent Director

Anthony Rozic 
Executive Director

Hilary Spann 
Independent Director

Carl Bicego 
Company Secretary

 
Goodman Logistics (HK) Limited

Stephen Johns 
Independent Chairman

David Collins 
Independent Director

Danny Peeters 
Executive Director

Goodman Secretarial 
Asia Limited 
Company Secretary

 
SECURITY REGISTRAR
Computershare Investor Services Pty Limited 
Level 5, 115 Grenfell Street 
Adelaide SA 5000 
Australia

GPO Box 1903 
Adelaide SA 5001 
Australia

Telephone 1300 723 040 (within Australia) 
 +61 3 9415 4043 (outside Australia)

Facsimile +61 8 8236 2305

Email www.investorcentre.com/contact

Website computershare.com/au 

 
ASX CODE
GMG

 
AUDITOR
KPMG 
Level 38, Tower Three 
International Towers Sydney 
300 Barangaroo Avenue 
Sydney NSW 2000 
Australia

Corporate directory



GOODMAN GROUP

210

Disclaimer: This document has been prepared by Goodman Group (Goodman Limited (ABN 69 000 123 071), Goodman Funds Management Limited (ABN 48 067 796 641; AFSL Number 
223621) as the Responsible Entity for Goodman Industrial Trust (ARSN 091 213 839) and Goodman Logistics (HK) Limited (Company No. 1700359; ARBN 155 911 149)). It is not intended to be 
relied upon as advice to investors or potential investors and does not take into account the investment objectives, financial situation or needs of any particular investor. These should be considered, with 
professional advice, when deciding if an investment is appropriate. This document is not an offer or invitation for subscription or purchase of securities or other financial products. It does not constitute 
an offer of securities in the United States. Securities may not be offered or sold in the United States unless they are registered under the US Securities Act of 1933 or an exemption from registration 
is available. This document contains certain “forward-looking statements”. The words “anticipate”, “believe”, “expect”, “project”, “forecast”, “estimate”, “likely”, “intend”, “should”, “could”, “may”, “target”, 
“plan” and other similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Indications of, and guidance on, future earnings and financial position and performance are also forward-looking 
statements. Due care and attention have been used in the preparation of forecast information. Such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve known and unknown 
risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are beyond the control of Goodman Group, that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in such statements.  
There can be no assurance that actual outcomes will not differ materially from these statements. All values are expressed in Australian currency unless otherwise stated. September 2022.



ANNUAL REPORT 2022

211