TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

1 
 

Welcome to your CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 

 

 

W0. Introduction 

W0.1 

(W0.1) Give a general description of and introduction to your organization. 

Halkbank was established in 1938 to support tradesmen, and craftsmen and to accelerate permanent economic development and has become one of 

Turkey's steadily growing, well-established, pioneering, and respected brands. Pioneering the development of the Turkish banking sector for 83 years, 

the Bank continues to serve the real sector with its innovative products and services with a global vision, with 1,018 branches in the country and 5 

abroad as of the end of 2021. 

Halkbank aims for a livable world where economic, social, and environmental impacts are in balance in all areas where it creates value, especially in its 

own operations, and growth takes place without compromising these effects. In this direction, it shapes its work with the awareness that it is possible to 

move forward more strongly towards the future by focusing on sustainable economic, environmental and social development. In this context, it 

develops products such as the Green Energy Loan Package to support efforts to reduce carbon emissions through renewable energy and energy 

efficiency projects in order to direct investments to more sustainable technologies and businesses. This package, provides renewable energy 

investment, green workplace investment, energy efficiency, green-certified construction project, and green light commercial vehicle loans. In addition,  it 

also offers free technical consultancy services for the efficient realization of investment in a way to benefit from the knowledge and experience of 

engineers with energy manager certificates. Going beyond just providing financial resources to companies the use of resources, while Halkbank works 

hard to produce innovative solutions for such demands and needs of its customers, it pays great attention to ensuring that its activities are compatible 

with factors such as environmental protection and energy efficiency. It continues to implement digitalization practices that will accelerate the transition 

to emission reduction, waste management, and paperless banking, minimizing the carbon footprint resulting from its operations. In line with this, 

Halkbank has certified all its service buildings, including its Head Office and branches, with the ISO 14001 Environmental Management System and 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

2 
 

ISO 50001 Energy Management System, and becoming the first bank in the Turkish banking industry to establish and get certified in the ISO 50001 

Energy Management System. It uses a program namely "İKLİM", which it has developed with its own internal resources, in order to manage, monitor, 

evaluate and report these systems by integrating the relevant environmental and energy management systems and implementing all the requirements. 

In addition, the Bank continues its waste reduction efforts with the principle of separating its wastes and zero waste within the responsible banking 

culture, taking into account waste management within the scope of reducing the environmental impacts of its activities. As of 2019, all service locations 

have complied with the Zero Waste System, and in 2021, 1,055 service locations, including all branches, received Zero Waste Certificates. Halkbank 

also continues to contribute to “Green and Circular Economy” issues, Turkey's green agreement harmonization process, and stud ies in this context with 

the initiatives it has developed under the umbrella of Sustainable Banking. 

In addition, Halkbank has been reporting to the Carbon Disclosure Project, one of the public disclosure platforms, since 2013 due to the importance it 

attaches to the transparency of its operations and has been included in the BIST Sustainability Index since 2017. It is also committed to achieving net-

zero by 2050 as one of the first signatories of the NZBA in Turkey by mid-2022. 

W0.2 

(W0.2) State the start and end date of the year for which you are reporting data. 

 Start date End date 

Reporting year January 1, 2021 December 31, 2021 

W0.3 

(W0.3) Select the countries/areas in which you operate. 

Turkey 

W0.4 

(W0.4) Select the currency used for all financial information disclosed throughout your response. 

TRY 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

3 
 

W0.5 

(W0.5) Select the option that best describes the reporting boundary for companies, entities, or groups for which water impacts on 

your business are being reported. 

Companies, entities or groups over which operational control is exercised 

W0.6 

(W0.6) Within this boundary, are there any geographies, facilities, water aspects, or other exclusions from your disclosure? 

No 

W0.7 

(W0.7) Does your organization have an ISIN code or another unique identifier (e.g., Ticker, CUSIP, etc.)? 

Indicate whether you are able to provide a unique identifier for your organization. Provide your unique identifier 

Yes, a Ticker symbol HALKB 

Yes, an ISIN code TRETHAL00019 

W1. Current state 

W1.1 

(W1.1) Rate the importance (current and future) of water quality and water quantity to the success of your business. 

 Direct use 

importance 

rating 

Indirect use 

importance 

rating 

Please explain 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

4 
 

Sufficient amounts of 

good quality freshwater 

available for use 

Important Important i&iii) The reason for importance rating and future water dependency for direct use: Halkbank 

uses water directly to meet the clean drinking water needs of employees in its operations and 

to ensure the cleanliness of the branches. Also, the Bank is committed to protecting its 

employees' right to access clean water and providing a healthy working environment. 

Therefore, sufficient amounts of good quality freshwater availability are important and will 

continue to be important in the future since Halkbank operates in areas that are likely to 

experience water scarcity. 

 

ii&iv) The reason for importance rating and future water dependency for indirect use: Water 

use is quite high in the production operations of Halkbank's suppliers that make up its value 

chain or in the activities of the customers to whom the Bank provides loans. Therefore, 

sufficient amounts of good quality freshwater availability are essential and will continue to be 

important in the future in indirect water use, since Halkbank's stakeholders operate in areas 

that are likely to experience water scarcity. 

Sufficient amounts of 

recycled, brackish and/or 

produced water available 

for use 

Neutral Neutral i&iii) The reason for importance rating and future water dependency for direct use: The use of 

recycled/manufactured water in Halkbank's direct operations is currently only possible in a 

very small portion of its branches. Reverse osmosis treatment systems have been installed in 

the kitchens of the Halkbank Headquarters Building and the Davutpaşa Assistant 

Headquarters Service Building to provide quality drinking water. For this reason, it was chosen 

as neutral because it is not of great importance yet. In the Bank's direct operations, there may 

be an increase in the use and importance of recycled/brackish water in the future as Halkbank 

continues to implement new technologies to reduce the use of fresh water in our branches. 

 

ii&iv) The reason for importance rating and future water dependency for indirect use: In its 

indirect operations, some of Halkbank's suppliers and customers use recycled water where 

appropriate, such as on production lines. Therefore, importance was chosen as neutral. Also 

for indirect use, customers and suppliers will need to reduce their use of fresh water in the 

future due to water scarcity. In this case, Halkbank anticipates that circular water systems will 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

5 
 

be applied to several operations, which will increase the use of recycled/brackish water. For 

this reason, its importance is expected to increase in the coming years. 

W1.2 

(W1.2) Across all your operations, what proportion of the following water aspects are regularly measured and monitored? 

 % of 

sites/facilities/operations 

Please explain 

Water withdrawals – total 

volumes 

100% Halkbank has been calculating its carbon footprint since 2013 as a part of its environmental 

management system. In order to monitor the data required for this account, the IKLIM software 

developed by the IT department of the bank has been used since 2019. Thanks to this software, 

100% water usage levels of all Halkbank buildings in Turkey are measured in line with both the 

environmental management system and the water targets set. In addition, Halkbank aims to 

reduce and optimize water usage and increase water efficiency. Therefore, this parameter is 

monitored monthly, evaluated by the General Directorate at the end of the year, and verified by 

third parties in the annual reports. 

Water withdrawals – volumes 

by source 

100% Turkey is a country with a high risk of water stress and 82% of Halkbank's facilities are located 

in regions with high water stress. All of Halkbank's business units use the existing municipal 

resources of the municipalities where they are located. We follow where the municipalities 

withdraw water from according to the basins they are in and we know the amount of water used 

in our branches with monthly billings. Thus, Halkbank can follow its source of water withdrawal 

amounts on a basin basis. 

Water withdrawals quality 100% All water used by Halkbank is drawn from municipal networks and the quality of the drawn water 

is constantly monitored by the municipalities. In addition, the quality of water drawn from basins 

and rivers to be treated by municipal administrations can be viewed online. As part of 

Halkbank's commitment to access clean and high-quality water, all information on water quality 

is monitored annually through these reports. 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

6 
 

Water discharges – total 

volumes 

100% Municipal sewerage system is used for water discharge at all Halkbank facilities. The 

municipalities report the discharge volumes to the branches every month via invoices. In 

addition, Halkbank aims to reduce and optimize water use and increase water efficiency. For 

this reason, Halkbank monitors monthly discharge volumes from the monthly bills of 

municipalities. 

Water discharges – volumes 

by destination 

100% All Halkbank facilities across the country use the municipality's sewer system for water 

discharge, and each of these discharges is monitored separately by the administrative 

municipalities. Treated wastewater discharged from treatment plants can be monitored through 

the reports of both the municipality and the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. In line with the 

Sustainable Development Goals, Halkbank also annually monitors the use of watersheds 

broken down to ensure the quality and sustainability of water resources and wider ecosystems 

related to water. 

Water discharges – volumes 

by treatment method 

100% Wastewater discharges from all Halkbank branches are domestic and these wastewaters are 

discharged into sewer systems under the control of local municipalities. These wastewaters are 

treated in municipal water treatment plants in accordance with the Urban Wastewater Treatment 

Regulation. Methods implemented by wastewater treatment plants nationwide are available 

online on municipal and government websites. Halkbank follows these methods annually as it is 

committed to complying with local laws and obligations. 

Water discharge quality – by 

standard effluent parameters 

100% Water discharges to environments are of great importance. At Halkbank branches, wastewater 

is discharged directly into the sewerage system of municipalities and is treated in accordance 

with standards in treatment plants. Treated wastewater that has been discharged from 

treatment plants must be in compliance with the wastewater parameters of Regulation on Water 

Pollution Control and the Communique on Wastewater Treatment Plants Technical Procedures. 

This can be monitored through the municipalities' websites and monthly reports. Halkbank 

follows these methods annually as it is committed to complying with local laws and obligations. 

Water discharge quality – 

temperature 

100% Halkbank only discharges its wastewater into the sewer system of the municipality. Waste water 

is discharged at room temperature, which may vary slightly depending on seasonal weather 

conditions.Temperature is an important parameter of discharged wastewater. Therefore, it is 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

7 
 

monitored by treatment plants and municipalities while being discharged into the aquatic 

environment. Halkbank monitors the compliance of values from the annual reports of 

municipalities. 

Water consumption – total 

volume 

100% Halkbank's water use consists of cleaning, hygiene, and other domestic water needs equivalent 

to water drawn from the municipal network. In some regions, municipal water can be used as 

drinking water, and in places where municipal water is not used for drinking purposes, drinking 

water is purchased in the form of 0.5 liter recyclable PET bottles. In Ataşehir and Davutpaşa 

Headquarters Service Buildings and in some district buildings, drinking water is provided with 

reverse osmosis systems connected to the main line in order to reduce greenhouse gas 

emissions from plastic bottles and transportation. Halkbank aims to reduce and optimize water 

use and increase water efficiency. Therefore, this parameter is monitored monthly on billings of 

consumed and/or purchased water and evaluated by the General Directorate at the end of the 

year. 

Water recycled/reused Not relevant There is no water recycling process throughout the company. A recycling system will be 

monitored when implemented. 

The provision of fully-

functioning, safely managed 

WASH services to all workers 

100% Halkbank provides fully functional water disinfection and hygiene services to its employees. 

Such services are monitored and maintained by the support services department. The water 

usage levels of all buildings in Turkey are measured and reported as 100% in Halkbank's 

environmental management procedures with the İKLİM software. These reports are checked 

annually by the head office at the end of the year and verified by third parties. 

W1.2b 

(W1.2b) What are the total volumes of water withdrawn, discharged, and consumed across all your operations, and how do these 

volumes compare to the previous reporting year? 

 Volume 

(megaliters/year) 

Comparison with 

previous reporting 

year 

Please explain 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

8 
 

Total 

withdrawals 

213.2 About the same Total water withdrawal is calculated as the sum of water withdrawn from the municipal water 

system and drinking water supplied from local suppliers in the form of 0.5 liter recyclable PET 

bottles. The total water withdrawal value in 2021 is 213.2 megaliters. While the discharge volume 

increased due to 10 branches opened in 2021, the decrease in water consumption as a result of 

the IT and call center departments working completely from home created a balance in the total 

water withdrawal value and no change was observed. Year-to-year changes in values between 

5% and 15% are considered "high" or "low", and changes over 15% are considered "much 

higher" or "much lower" for bank operations. With the possible water efficiency projects that 

Halkbank can implement, this value is expected to decrease slightly. 

Total 

discharges 

206.2 About the same The total discharge is directly related to the total withdrawals from the municipalities. The total 

water discharge volume, which was 202.3 megaliters in 2020, increased to 206.2 in 2021. 

Halkbank's return to pre-pandemic conditions with a hybrid system and the opening of 10 new 

branches resulted in an increase of 1.93% in the total discharge volume. Year-to-year changes in 

values between 5% and 15% are considered "high" or "low", and changes over 15% are 

considered "much higher" or "much lower" for bank operations. While accepting this change as 

almost the same, this value is expected to decrease slightly in the future with water efficiency 

applications. 

Total 

consumption 

7.07 Much lower The total consumption is equal to the total water purchased for the consumption of the personnel. 

The total water consumption volume, which was 10.9 megaliters in 2020, increased to 7.07 in 

2021. Although new personnel was recruited in 2021, there was a 35% decrease in water 

consumption as IT and call center units started working entirely at home. Year-to-year changes in 

values between 5% and 15% are considered "high" or "low", and changes over 15% are 

considered "much higher" or "much lower" for bank operations. While accepting this change as 

almost the same, this value is expected to decrease slightly in the future. 

W1.2d 

(W1.2d) Indicate whether water is withdrawn from areas with water stress and provide the proportion. 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

9 
 

 Withdrawals are 

from areas with 

water stress 

% withdrawn 

from areas with 

water stress 

Comparison with 

previous 

reporting year 

Identification 

tool 

Please explain 

Row 

1 

Yes 76-99 About the same WRI Aqueduct Halkbank uses the WRI Aqueduct Tool to evaluate many water-related 

parameters such as the quality and quantity of the regions where it 

operates while performing water management as part of its environmental 

management. One of the most important parameters that this tool looks at 

is water stress. While it is predicted that Turkey's water stress will 

gradually increase, Halkbank analyzed the current stress situations specific 

to the provinces and therefore included extremely high and high-risk 

activities in its assessment and calculated it as 82%. The WRI tool is used 

with the function of imported and exported excel data sheets for the water 

stress areas, then the withdrawal volumes from stressed areas to total 

withdrawals are calculated. Since the majority of the regions where 

Halkbank operates are currently in high-risk regions, it is anticipated that 

the recently stated percentage will remain approximately the same. When 

the rate of water withdrawn from regions with extremely high and high 

water stress risk is compared to last year, it has been observed that there 

is no change and we anticipate that this amount will decrease in the 

coming years. 

W1.2h 

(W1.2h) Provide total water withdrawal data by source. 

 Relevance Volume 

(megaliters/year) 

Comparison with 

previous 

reporting year 

Please explain 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

10 
 

Fresh surface water, including 

rainwater, water from 

wetlands, rivers, and lakes 

Not 

relevant 

  Halkbank uses municipal water in all its branches. It does not draw 

fresh surface water from any river or basin and does not carry out 

rainwater harvesting practices. 

Brackish surface 

water/Seawater 

Not 

relevant 

  Halkbank uses municipal water in all its branches. It does not purify or 

use brackish or sea water in any of its facilities. 

Groundwater – renewable Not 

relevant 

  Halkbank uses municipal water in all of its branches. No groundwater is 

drawn in any of its facilities throughout the country. 

Groundwater – non-

renewable 

Not 

relevant 

  Halkbank uses municipal water in all of its branches. No groundwater is 

drawn in any of its facilities throughout the country. 

Produced/Entrained water Not 

relevant 

  Halkbank uses municipal mains water in all its branches. There is no 

water production in any of its branches. 

Third party sources Relevant 213.2 About the same Quality and sufficient amount of fresh water are needed for the 

consumption and hygiene of the employees in all branches. All water 

withdrawals are from the municipal water mains and drinking water is 

supplied from local suppliers in the form of 0.5 liter recyclable PET 

bottles. The total water withdrawal value in 2020 is 213.2 megaliters 

and this value has not changed in 2021. While the discharge volume 

increased due to 10 branches opened in 2021, the decrease in water 

consumption as a result of the IT and call center departments working 

completely from home created a balance in the total water withdrawal 

value and no change was observed. With the possible water efficiency 

projects that Halkbank can implement, this value is expected to 

decrease slightly. 

W1.2i 

(W1.2i) Provide total water discharge data by destination. 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

11 
 

 Relevance Volume 

(megaliters/year) 

Comparison with 

previous 

reporting year 

Please explain 

Fresh surface 

water 

Not 

relevant 

  Halkbank does not discharge water directly to any fresh surface water. All of 

Halkbank's wastewater is discharged to the municipal sewer system. 

Brackish surface 

water/seawater 

Not 

relevant 

  Halkbank does not directly discharge any brackish water/seawater. All of 

Halkbank's wastewater is discharged to the municipal sewer system. 

Groundwater Not 

relevant 

  Halkbank does not directly discharge water into any groundwater. All of 

Halkbank's wastewater is discharged to the municipal sewer system. 

Third-party 

destinations 

Relevant 206.2 About the same All of the wastewater is discharged into sewer systems managed by 

municipalities. In the Halkbank, the amount of water discharge is equal to the 

amount of water drawn from the municipal water network. Since drinking water is 

considered water consumption, it is not taken into account when calculating the 

water discharge level. The total water discharge volume, which was 202.3 

megaliters in 2020, increased to 206.2 in 2021. Halkbank's return to pre-pandemic 

conditions with a hybrid system and the opening of 10 new branches resulted in 

an increase of 1.93% in the total discharge volume. Year-to-year changes in 

values between 5% and 15% are considered "high" or "low", and changes over 

15% are considered "much higher" or "much lower" for bank operations. While 

accepting this change as almost the same, this value is expected to decrease 

slightly in the future with water efficiency applications. 

W1.2j 

(W1.2j) Within your direct operations, indicate the highest level(s) to which you treat your discharge. 

 Relevance of 

treatment 

Volume 

(megaliters/year) 

Comparison of 

treated volume 

% of your 

sites/facilities/operations 

this volume applies to 

Please explain 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

12 
 

level to 

discharge 

with previous 

reporting year 

Tertiary 

treatment 

Not relevant    Domestic wastewater is not treated in any of the 

branches across the country. All treatment 

processes are carried out by wastewater 

treatment plants operated by the municipal 

administration. 

Secondary 

treatment 

Not relevant    Domestic wastewater is not treated in any of the 

branches across the country. All treatment 

processes are carried out by wastewater 

treatment plants operated by the municipal 

administration. 

Primary 

treatment only 

Not relevant    Domestic wastewater is not treated in any of the 

branches across the country. All treatment 

processes are carried out by wastewater 

treatment plants operated by the municipal 

administration. 

Discharge to the 

natural 

environment 

without 

treatment 

Not relevant    There is no discharge to the natural environment. 

All treatment processes are carried out by 

wastewater treatment plants operated by the 

municipal administration 

Discharge to a 

third party 

without 

treatment 

Relevant 206.2 About the same 100% In all of Halkbank's operations, wastewater 

discharges are made to the municipal sewerage 

system, and wastewater treatment is carried out at 

the treatment plants operated by the 

municipalities. Wastewater is treated by the 

Ministry of Environment and Urbanization in 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

13 
 

accordance with the Turkish Environmental Law, 

in accordance with the Urban Wastewater 

Treatment Regulation. The total water discharge 

volume, which was 202.3 megaliters in 2020, 

increased to 206.2 in 2021. Year-to-year changes 

in values between 5% and 15% are considered 

'high' or 'low', and changes over 15% are 

considered 'much higher' or 'much lower'. 

Therefore, this change is considered to be 

approximately the same. It is predicted that the 

discharge volume will decrease slightly. 

Other Not relevant    Domestic wastewater is not treated in any of the 

branches across the country. All treatment 

processes are carried out by wastewater 

treatment plants operated by the municipal 

administration. 

W1.3 

(W1.3) Provide a figure for your organization’s total water withdrawal efficiency. 

 Revenue Total water 

withdrawal volume 

(megaliters) 

Total water 

withdrawal efficiency 

Anticipated forward trend 

Row 

1 

86,606,887,000 213.2 406,223,672.60788 Halkbank is increasing its branches throughout Turkey with each passing year and 

implementing water efficiency initiatives. In this context, it is estimated that the 

efficiency value will slightly decrease since total water withdrawals are expected to 

decrease and the revenue to increase. 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

14 
 

W1.4 

(W1.4) Do you engage with your value chain on water-related issues? 

Yes, our suppliers 

Yes, our customers or other value chain partners 

W1.4a 

(W1.4a) What proportion of suppliers do you request to report on their water use, risks and/or management information and what 

proportion of your procurement spend does this represent? 

Row 1 

% of suppliers by number 

51-75 

% of total procurement spend 

51-75 

Rationale for this coverage 

i) An explanation of why these suppliers were selected for reporting: A company-wide attention is paid to Halkbank's compliance with ISO 

50001, ISO 14001, and ISO 9001 standards. Within the scope of the requirements of these standards, credit and project evaluation reports and 

water-related data are obtained from the suppliers and these data are collected within the Bank. In the Bank's strategy, all commercial loan 

requests from SMEs and loan requests over 35 million TL are subject to the credit evaluation report. In this report, the activities of the 

companies are evaluated in terms of sustainability and environmental criteria. 

 

ii) How suppliers are incentivized to report: Customers requesting credit have to fill out these forms and meet the requirements. Sustainability 

evaluation was made in 73% of the Firm Evaluation Reports evaluated by the Headquarters in 2021. 

Impact of the engagement and measures of success 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

15 
 

iii) Details of the type of information requested from suppliers: The most important criterion in the international arena for the prevention of water 

pollution is the decisions of the RAMSAR agreement, which aims to ensure the protection and sustainable use of wetlands. Therefore, this 

criterion is definitely evaluated in the evaluation reports. If the negative effects of the activities carried out or the planned projects within the 

company are determined on the wetlands specified in the RAMSAR contract, the projects are not financed even if there is an ISO environmental 

management standard certificate. 

 

iv) How the information is used within the company: Environmental Impact Assessment, which is a part of credit and project evaluation reports, 

influences the lending process and decision. In case of any inconsistency between bank policies and customers, improvements and revisions 

are recommended to customers, the best actions are taken on climate and water issues, and targets are set. 

 

v) Details of how success is measured: The Bank offers trainings to SMEs via the online platform. The demand and participation rate in these 

trainings successfully proves the applicability of the bank's strategy. 

Comment 

 

W1.4b 

(W1.4b) Provide details of any other water-related supplier engagement activity. 

 

Type of engagement 

Innovation & collaboration 

Details of engagement 

Educate suppliers about water stewardship and collaboration 

Other, please specify 

Run an engagement campaign to educate suppliers about climate change 

% of suppliers by number 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

16 
 

51-75 

% of total procurement spend 

76-100 

Rationale for the coverage of your engagement 

i) An explanation for the engagement coverage: Regular and effective communication with stakeholders is the cornerstone of Halkbank's 

Sustainability Approach. The Bank selects the suppliers with which it does the most financial work in the trainings it conducts suppliers on water 

issues related to climate change. Therefore, the coverage of supplier involvement corresponds to 55% of all suppliers. In addition, the trained 

suppliers correspond to 80% of the entire supply. The main purpose of these trainings is to provide resources to suppliers about the 

environmental, social, and economic aspects of the concept of sustainability and to guide them in this area. 

Impact of the engagement and measures of success 

ii) Details of the beneficial water-related outcomes of the engagement activity: The results obtained through the realization of this engagement 

help Halkbank in two ways; the first is to help create better-managed sustainability for humanity on climate change and water issues, and the 

second is to indirectly reduce Halkbank's environmental impacts on water problems related to climate change, such as water scarcity. The 

opinions and actions of its suppliers on the water have changed over the years, thanks to Halkbank's engagement efforts. The Bank has been 

organizing these trainings and meetings with its suppliers since 2016. There is a noticeable increase in the number of suppliers that perform 

better and take action on climate change and water problems in their businesses. 

Comment 

 

W1.4c 

(W1.4c) What is your organization’s rationale and strategy for prioritizing engagements with customers or other partners in its value 

chain? 

i) Engaged partners within the value chain and a rationale for the engagement: As within the scope of its sustainability and environmental policy, which 

it has established in line with the Sustainable Development Goals, Halkbank aims and encourages to increase the awareness of all its internal and 

external stakeholders on climate change, to reduce direct water use, and to find remedial practices in the financing of its customers, especially water-

intensive projects. 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

17 
 

 

ii) The method of engagement with the value chain partners: The biggest water-related risk for the banking sector is the risk arising from the loan 

portfolio. For example, non-repayment of loans extended to customers operating in water-intensive sectors due to the decrease in their income due to 

drought, flood and other water-related problems is one of the important water-related risks. For this reason, Halkbank tries to manage water-related 

risks with a detailed Environmental and Social Impact Assessment in its credit evaluation modules. In addition, since Halkbank's primary mission is to 

support SMEs, online training programs are offered to customers through the www.halkbankkobigelisim.com.tr website. Halkbank also works to reduce 

the bank's general water withdrawal and raise awareness, and in this context, it provides training to its personnel on climate change and water-related 

issues. Thanks to these practices, the water withdrawal figures in the branches have decreased noticeably since 2018. 

 

iii) How engagement success is measured:  The demand of SMEs for the trainings offered by Halkbank is one of the success criteria. In addition, 

thanks to practices such as personnel awareness trainings in direct operations, the water withdrawal figures in branches have decreased noticeably 

since 2018. 

W2. Business impacts 

W2.1 

(W2.1) Has your organization experienced any detrimental water-related impacts? 

Yes 

W2.1a 

(W2.1a) Describe the water-related detrimental impacts experienced by your organization, your response, and the total financial 

impact. 

 

Country/Area & River basin 

Turkey 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

18 
 

Other, please specify 

Gediz 

Type of impact driver & Primary impact driver 

Acute physical 

Drought 

Primary impact 

Impact on company assets 

Description of impact 

A branch of Halkbank in Izmir was damaged in a flood in 2021. The biggest damage caused by this raid was the damage to the power line and 

this event caused a financial loss for the Bank. However, the impact of this loss was not considered significant as it constituted 0.000011% of 

revenue. 

Primary response 

Improve maintenance of infrastructure 

Total financial impact 

10,000 

Description of response 

In response to the damage, approximately 10.000 TL was spent on the water discharge service, submersible pump purchase, and electricity line 

renewal. However, the impact of this loss was not considered significant as it constituted 0.000011% of revenue. 

W2.2 

(W2.2) In the reporting year, was your organization subject to any fines, enforcement orders, and/or other penalties for water-related 

regulatory violations? 

No 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

19 
 

W3. Procedures 

W3.3 

(W3.3) Does your organization undertake a water-related risk assessment? 

Yes, water-related risks are assessed 

W3.3a 

(W3.3a) Select the options that best describe your procedures for identifying and assessing water-related risks. 

 

Value chain stage 

Direct operations 

Supply chain 

Other stages of the value chain 

Coverage 

Full 

Risk assessment procedure 

Water risks are assessed as part of other company-wide risk assessment system 

Frequency of assessment 

Annually 

How far into the future are risks considered? 

3 to 6 years 

Type of tools and methods used 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

20 
 

Tools on the market 

Databases 

Other 

Tools and methods used 

WRI Aqueduct 

Internal company methods 

External consultants 

Nation specific databases, tools, or standards 

Contextual issues considered 

Water availability at a basin/catchment level 

Water quality at a basin/catchment level 

Stakeholder conflicts concerning water resources at a basin/catchment level 

Water regulatory frameworks 

Status of ecosystems and habitats 

Access to fully-functioning, safely managed WASH services for all employees 

Stakeholders considered 

Customers 

Employees 

Investors 

Local communities 

NGOs 

Regulators 

Suppliers 

Water utilities at a local level 

Comment 

N/A 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

21 
 

W3.3b 

(W3.3b) Describe your organization’s process for identifying, assessing, and responding to water-related risks within your direct 

operations and other stages of your value chain. 

1. The application of the tools:  

Halkbank's operational risks include loss of income as a result of flooding that may cause property and asset damage, not being able to get clean water 

and the spread of infection are possible water-related risks. Therefore, as part of the risk assessment process, the Bank evaluates the quantitative 

analysis such as water stress risk and qualitative analysis such as water quality parameters of the regions where its operational activities are carried 

out with the WRI Aqueduct Tool and the government's annual reports and databases are used as a tool and resource in determining risks and internal 

methods. After identifying these risks, the Bank integrates the outputs into the Environmental and Social Impact Assessment as an internal method 

created within the company and evaluates its customers. 

 

2. Management of outputs of the risk assessment: 

 Experienced or potential harmful water-related effects are always considered as part of the risk assessment process. As a result of the evaluation, 

possible material damage, loss of income, and inability to operate are taken into consideration, and customers are questioned in this context during the 

environmental and social impact assessment process.  Risks are evaluated from a global perspective at least four times a year at Sustainability 

Committee meetings, once a month at Sustainability Coordination group meetings, and once a year in management reviews of the Board of Directors. 

By sharing the experiences of different business units, emerging issues are brought to the agenda, possible solutions are discussed and optimal 

solutions are decided. Budget adjustments are made for necessary measures. For example, regarding the supply chain, since the Bank's main water 

suppliers are municipalities, their inability to supply water may increase the Bank's operational costs such as water transportation and storage. In the 

event of such risks, there are communication protocols for local branches and these are responded to immediately by the head office support units. 

 

3. Reason for contextual issues considered:  

Halkbank uses water as a part of WASH in its direct operations. In addition, the water use of the customers, especially for agriculture and hydroelectric 

power plant projects, is quite high. Therefore, the water availability and quality at a basin level is very important for the Bank in both direct and indirect 

use and is considered part of the risk assessment process. 

 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

22 
 

Failure to comply with water regulations and having a negative impact on the ecosystem or habitat status poses both regulatory and reputational risks 

for the bank. Therefore, during the environmental and social impact assessment process, environmental legislation/legislation changes are followed, 

revisions are made in the domestic legislation and necessary steps are taken.  

 

The Bank is committed to protecting employees' right to access clean water and providing a healthy working environment. Failure to do so carries 

operational and reputational risks for the bank. For this reason, access to fully functional, securely managed WASH services for all employees is 

addressed in the risk assessment. 

 

4. Reason for stakeholder considered:  

Water-related risks may affect the repayment ability of customers, especially those in the agricultural sector, which creates credit risk for the bank.  

 

The Bank includes its employees in the evaluation with the principle of clean water and sanitation within the scope of SDG 6 as it carries operational 

and reputational risks for its direct and indirect operations.  

 

Relationships between the bank and investors are important in terms of access to foreign funds. Many international funds require individuals to have 

standard practices in their activities and to consider environmental issues in loan allocation.  

 

Conflicts that may arise with the views of local people and NGOs in projects to be financed carry a reputational risk for the bank, therefore local people 

and NGOs are included in the process. For example, a Sustainability Priority Questionnaire is sent to NGOs, and expectations and current situation 

analyses from Halkbank are compiled in these surveys.  

 

Non-compliance with regulations carries reputational and regulatory risks for Halkbank. Therefore, changes in environmental legislation created by 

regulators are monitored by the Bank's legal department and sustainability expert, revisions are made in domestic legislation and necessary steps are 

taken. In addition, the legislations are followed and necessary arrangements are made to ensure compliance. 

 

Supplier-based risks carry operational risks for the bank. In addition, the bank provides drinking water from the municipality. It is accepted that the 

water levels in the basins used by the municipalities as a resource have decreased. Since this situation will also create stress on the communities that 

use municipal water, local water services are also taken into account in the relevant risk assessments. 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

23 
 

W4. Risks and opportunities 

W4.1 

(W4.1) Have you identified any inherent water-related risks with the potential to have a substantive financial or strategic impact on 

your business? 

Yes, both in direct operations and the rest of our value chain 

W4.1a 

(W4.1a) How does your organization define substantive financial or strategic impact on your business? 

Water-related risks are primarily relevant to the extent that they pose a threat to Halkbank's business, which could potentially affect its customers' 

creditworthiness and ability to repay loans. While achieving the targets and strategies of the Bank collectively and for each type of risk, there is a limit of 

risk we want to carry. The threshold level is determined to ensure that the Bank remains within the limits of its risk capacity. The trigger level refers to 

the level of early warning of the risk level. The purpose of the risk level framework is not to prevent taking risks, but to ensure that bank strategies and 

plans are applied in a consistent manner with the risk level determined by the Board of Directors and that the Bank has an appropriate risk profile. Risk 

and performance indicators are created by taking into account the scope of the risk in order to provide an analysis of risk factors that are considered to 

have an impact. While creating these indicators, it should be taken into consideration that operational losses/errors may affect risks. Therefore, the 

same metrics can be taken into account both in determining operational risk and in assessing reputation risks. Apart from this, metrics that do not 

indicate operational risk but point to reputation risk can be created. The numerical quantities in the indicators and the changes these sizes show over 

time are used in the process of determining and evaluating the risks. For example, reconciliation errors, staff turnover rate, number of system outages, 

transaction volumes and error numbers, audit scores, number/rate of non-audit activity areas. Risk indicators (for example, the number of system 

outages in a given period) are used to monitor possible factors related to key risks. Performance indicators (for example, customer satisfaction index, 

indicators such as a high degree of change in stock prices compared to banks of similar scale) provide meaningful information about the current state 

of business processes with operational weaknesses, errors and losses. Both risk and performance indicators act as a trigger mechanism at trigger 

levels where risk levels approach or exceed threshold/limits and require immediate risk reduction.    

 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

24 
 

Definition and quantifiable indicators of substantive financial impact: Arising from water issues related to climate change, under the operational 

risk category, operational risk limits can be taken as a basis in CDP reporting. An operational risk event arising from climate change exceeding TL 

55,000,000 to be experienced on an annual basis or in a single event can be considered to have a significant financial impact for Halkbank. 

 

In addition, Halkbank evaluates the significant risks related to water in the following context: 

(a) The presence of water-related risks in the projects financed by the Bank has a negative impact on both financial and non-financial performance, 

such as the default risk of loans, and reputational loss from bad loans. 

(b) Lending Projects that are sensitive to water-related risks, such as agricultural industries and investments, carry a risk of repayment. 

(c) Service interruption caused by natural disasters such as floods may have a temporary negative impact on income, even if there is no substantial 

change in the broad grid business. 

(d) Companies that have been exposed to the media for activities that cause water pollution may pose a risk to the Bank's reputation. Newspapers and 

news are followed regularly by the Bank's relevant units, and such news is detected and necessary actions are taken. 

W4.1b 

(W4.1b) What is the total number of facilities exposed to water risks with the potential to have a substantive financial or strategic 

impact on your business, and what proportion of your company-wide facilities does this represent? 

 Total number of 

facilities exposed 

to water risk 

% company-wide 

facilities this 

represents 

Comment 

Row 

1 

113 1-25 Due to the products it serves, the banking sector generally faces risks related to water originating from the 

producers it finances. The risk that can have a strategic impact on the bank's direct operations is acute 

physical risks such as flooding. Considering both income and water stress risk, it was determined that 113 

facilities out of a total of 1056 branches of the bank could be damaged by a strategic effect in a possible 

flood. 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

25 
 

W4.1c 

(W4.1c)  By river basin, what is the number and proportion of facilities exposed to water risks that could have a substantive financial 

or strategic impact on your business, and what is the potential business impact associated with those facilities? 

 

Country/Area & River basin 

Turkey 

Other, please specify 

Sea of Marmara Coast 

Number of facilities exposed to water risk 

2 

% company-wide facilities this represents 

Less than 1% 

% company’s total global revenue that could be affected 

Less than 1% 

Comment 

 

 

Country/Area & River basin 

Turkey 

Tigris & Euphrates 

Number of facilities exposed to water risk 

111 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

26 
 

% company-wide facilities this represents 

1-25 

% company’s total global revenue that could be affected 

1-10 

Comment 

 

W4.2 

(W4.2) Provide details of identified risks in your direct operations with the potential to have a substantive financial or strategic 

impact on your business, and your response to those risks. 

 

Country/Area & River basin 

Turkey 

Other, please specify 

Sea of Marmara Coast 

Type of risk & Primary risk driver 

Acute physical 

Flood (coastal, fluvial, pluvial, groundwater) 

Primary potential impact 

Impact on company assets 

Company-specific description 

Extreme weather events are increasing every year with climate change. According to the Turkey Climate Evaluation Report prepared by the 

General Directorate of Meteorology, 2021 was recorded as the year in which the most extraordinary weather events took place, with 1024 

extraordinary weather events. 89% of these weather events are floods. The loss caused by these events is important for Halkbank's operational 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

27 
 

and liquidity risk assessments. In big cities such as Ankara and Istanbul, where the Bank has many operational buildings and vehicles, natural 

events such as floods and hail caused by extreme weather conditions may cause physical damage to property due to these natural events. One 

of the units that will have a strategic impact on the bank in a possible flood disaster is the IT building. The Bank has taken insurance measures 

in case of possible damage to the electric lines and equipment. 

Timeframe 

4-6 years 

Magnitude of potential impact 

Medium 

Likelihood 

Likely 

Are you able to provide a potential financial impact figure? 

Yes, a single figure estimate 

Potential financial impact figure (currency) 

500,000 

Potential financial impact figure - minimum (currency) 

 

Potential financial impact figure - maximum (currency) 

 

Explanation of financial impact 

The damage to the power line of the bank's data processing building, the computers, and other equipment inside the building was calculated as 

approximately 500,000 TL in a possible flood. 

 

Primary response to risk 

Increase insurance coverage 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

28 
 

Description of response 

Extreme weather events such as floods are increasing every year because of climate change. As a result of the Bank's risk assessments related 

to water, the bank expanded its insurance coverage in case of damage to its strategic buildings, especially the IT building. 

Cost of response 

150,000 

Explanation of cost of response 

In response to the related risk, approximately 150000 TRY is estimated for expanding the coverage of insurance companies. Exact values 

cannot be disclosed due to confidential data. 

W4.2a 

(W4.2a) Provide details of risks identified within your value chain (beyond direct operations) with the potential to have a substantive 

financial or strategic impact on your business, and your response to those risks. 

 

Country/Area & River basin 

Turkey 

Tigris & Euphrates 

Stage of value chain 

Other, please specify 

Portfolio 

Type of risk & Primary risk driver 

Acute physical 

Drought 

Primary potential impact 

Changing revenue mix and sources 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

29 
 

Company-specific description 

As part of its sustainable financing efforts, Halkbank contributes to facilitating Turkey's transition to a low-carbon economy by reducing foreign 

dependency on energy. In this direction, the share of HPP, WPP, BPP, and SPP renewable energy and energy-saving projects in the energy 

investments portfolio it supports is constantly increasing. In 2021, 654 million TL was provided for 25 renewable power plant projects with a total 

installed capacity of 301.49 MW. Thanks to these power plants, which were evaluated by Halkbank, approximately 295,754 tons of CO2e 

emissions were reduced. The Bank provided the most financing to HPP facilities in renewable energy projects until 2021. However, the fact that 

Turkey is a region with high water stress and the fact that these power plants are located in regions with high water stress risk is considered a 

water-based credit risk. Three of these HEPP facilities are located in the Tigris-Euphrates basin, which was found to be at high water stress risk 

using the WRI Aqueduct Tool. Therefore, taking this risk assessment into account, the renewable energy loan distribution in 2021 has been 

balanced within the portfolio as WPP, SPP, BPP, and HPP, respectively. 

Timeframe 

4-6 years 

Magnitude of potential impact 

Medium-high 

Likelihood 

Very likely 

Are you able to provide a potential financial impact figure? 

Yes, a single figure estimate 

Potential financial impact figure (currency) 

1,000,000,000 

Potential financial impact figure - minimum (currency) 

 

Potential financial impact figure - maximum (currency) 

 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

30 
 

Explanation of financial impact 

Halkbank evaluated that the 3 power plants located in the Euphrates-Tigris basin, which has a higher risk of water stress compared to other 

HEPP projects it finances, have a strategic impact on revenue. In the event of a possible drought, the maximum cost of repayment and credit 

risk was calculated based on the scenario that these facilities would not be able to produce any energy. Consideringly, this cost is calculated by 

the sum of the income obtained from the difference between the interest applied to the loan given and funds transfer pricing, and it has been 

observed that the risk cost of the loans given is approximately 1,000,000,000 TL. 

Primary response to risk 

Direct operations 

Develop new products and/or markets 

Description of response 

Turkey, which has a wide range of renewable energy resources, is among the countries that are suitable for the use of wind energy in the world. 

Wind and solar energy are among the renewable energy sources. By the end of 2021, Turkey's total installed wind power has reached 10,750 

megawatts. In addition, in 2021, 9.4% of Turkey's electricity production was obtained from wind and 4% from solar. In response to the potential 

drought-related risks by hydroelectric power plants in the future, Halkbank balanced its renewable energy loan distribution in the portfolio as 

WPP, SPP, BPP, and HEPP, respectively, in 2021. 

Cost of response 

512,334,200 

Explanation of cost of response 

Halkbank provided 257.120.00 TL for WPP projects and 188.388,000 TL for SPP projects in 2021. Halkbank, which provides the portfolio 

distribution at this rate against the risks of HEPP projects, provided a total of 445,508,000 TL in financing. The portfolio risk in HEPP has 

decreased to %15 from %45 in 2021. In contrast to that, the ratio of WPP financings in total renewable project portfolio has increased to 39%; 

and SPP has increased to 29% from 21% in 2021. The interest income of these loans is estimated as 15%  of the amounts given, 

corresponding to approximately 66,8 M TRY.  The cost of response has been calculated as 512,334,200TL with the sum of these two values. 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

31 
 

W4.3 

(W4.3) Have you identified any water-related opportunities with the potential to have a substantive financial or strategic impact on 

your business? 

Yes, we have identified opportunities, and some/all are being realized 

W4.3a 

(W4.3a) Provide details of opportunities currently being realized that could have a substantive financial or strategic impact on your 

business. 

 

Type of opportunity 

Products and services 

Primary water-related opportunity 

Increased sales of existing products/services 

Company-specific description & strategy to realize opportunity 

i) An explanation of why this opportunity is considered strategic for the company: As part of its sustainable financing efforts, Halkbank 

contributes to facilitating Turkey's transition to a low-carbon economy by reducing foreign dependency on energy. In this direction, the share of 

HPP, WPP, BPP, and SPP renewable energy and energy-saving projects in the energy investments portfolio it supports is constantly 

increasing. The increased risk of water stress with the climate crisis reduces the demand for HPP. In addition, Turkey's electricity production 

was 9.4% from wind and 4% from solar in 2021. Since solar energy is expected to be the trend energy in the world in 2022, Halkbank evaluated 

the financing distribution of its 2021 portfolio according to this opportunity. 

 

ii) An explanation of the action being taken to realize the opportunity: Halkbank annually evaluates the water stress risk of both the regions 

where it directly operates and the regions it finances with the WRI Aqueduct Tool and determines its strategy accordingly. Having provided the 

highest share in renewable energy financing to HPPs until 2021, the Bank re-established the balance in its portfolio in 2021, considering that 

these power plants are located in regions with high water stress risk and carry a repayment risk. 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

32 
 

 

iii) An example of the action taken to realize the opportunity, with reference to their outcome and timescale of implementation: The renewable 

energy loan distribution in 2021 has been balanced within the portfolio as WPP, SPP, BPP, and HPP, respectively. 

Estimated timeframe for realization 

Current - up to 1 year 

Magnitude of potential financial impact 

Medium-high 

Are you able to provide a potential financial impact figure? 

Yes, a single figure estimate 

Potential financial impact figure (currency) 

66,800,000 

Potential financial impact figure – minimum (currency) 

 

Potential financial impact figure – maximum (currency) 

 

Explanation of financial impact 

Turkey, which has a wide range of renewable energy resources, is among the countries that are suitable for the use of wind energy in the world. 

Wind and solar energy are among the renewable energy sources. By the end of 2021, Turkey's total installed wind power has reached 10,750 

megawatts. In addition, in 2021, 9.4% of Turkey's electricity production was obtained from wind and 4% from solar. In response to the potential 

drought-related risks by hydroelectric power plants in the future, Halkbank balanced its renewable energy loan distribution in the portfolio as 

WPP, SPP, BPP, and HEPP, respectively, in 2021.  Halkbank provided 257.120.00 TL for WPP projects and 188.388,000 TL for SPP projects in 

2021. Halkbank, which provides the portfolio distribution at this rate against the risks of HEPP projects, provided a total of 445,508,000 TL in 

financing. The portfolio risk in HEPP has decreased to %15 from %45 in 2021. In contrast to that, the ratio of WPP financings in total renewable 

project portfolio has increased to 39%; and SPP has increased to 29% from 21% in 2021. The interest income of these loans is estimated as 

15%  of the amounts given, corresponding to approximately 66,8 M TRY. 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

33 
 

W5. Facility-level water accounting 

W5.1 

(W5.1) For each facility referenced in W4.1c, provide coordinates,  water accounting data, and a comparison with the previous 

reporting year. 

 

Facility reference number 

Facility 1 

Facility name (optional) 

Headquarters 

Country/Area & River basin 

Turkey 

Other, please specify 

Sea of Marmara Coast 

Latitude 

41.008237 

Longitude 

28.978358 

Located in area with water stress 

Yes 

Total water withdrawals at this facility (megaliters/year) 

18 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

34 
 

Comparison of total withdrawals with previous reporting year 

Higher 

Withdrawals from fresh surface water, including rainwater, water from wetlands, rivers and lakes 

0 

Withdrawals from brackish surface water/seawater 

0 

Withdrawals from groundwater - renewable 

0 

Withdrawals from groundwater - non-renewable 

0 

Withdrawals from produced/entrained water 

0 

Withdrawals from third party sources 

18 

Total water discharges at this facility (megaliters/year) 

17.5 

Comparison of total discharges with previous reporting year 

Higher 

Discharges to fresh surface water 

0 

Discharges to brackish surface water/seawater 

0 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

35 
 

Discharges to groundwater 

0 

Discharges to third party destinations 

17.5 

Total water consumption at this facility (megaliters/year) 

0.5 

Comparison of total consumption with previous reporting year 

Much lower 

Please explain 

The water accounting data of the Headquarters, which is located in the Sea of Marmara coast and has a strategic effect, specified in the 1st line 

of question W4.1c , is given in this line. Halkbank monitors the water stress risk of all branches with the WRI Aqueduct Tool. Halkbank monitors 

the water stress risk of all branches with the WRI Aqueduct Tool. Water consumption value is the volume of water purchased for employees to 

drink. The water discharge volume is the water volume supplied from the municipal water source. The total withdrawal volume is calculated by 

the sum of these two uses. Halkbank defines the change between 5% and 15% as high or low in its operations. If the comparison result is less 

than 5%, it is considered about the same, if it is higher than 15%, it is considered very high or very low. Since the water used in all business 

units is supplied only from municipalities and clean water purchasing services, the withdrawal and discharge sources other than third party is 

calculated as 0. 

 

Facility reference number 

Facility 2 

Facility name (optional) 

Information Technology Center 

Country/Area & River basin 

Turkey 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

36 
 

Other, please specify 

Sea of Marmara Coast 

Latitude 

41.008237 

Longitude 

28.978358 

Located in area with water stress 

Yes 

Total water withdrawals at this facility (megaliters/year) 

1.92 

Comparison of total withdrawals with previous reporting year 

Much higher 

Withdrawals from fresh surface water, including rainwater, water from wetlands, rivers and lakes 

0 

Withdrawals from brackish surface water/seawater 

0 

Withdrawals from groundwater - renewable 

0 

Withdrawals from groundwater - non-renewable 

0 

Withdrawals from produced/entrained water 

0 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

37 
 

Withdrawals from third party sources 

1.92 

Total water discharges at this facility (megaliters/year) 

1.9 

Comparison of total discharges with previous reporting year 

Much higher 

Discharges to fresh surface water 

0 

Discharges to brackish surface water/seawater 

0 

Discharges to groundwater 

0 

Discharges to third party destinations 

1.9 

Total water consumption at this facility (megaliters/year) 

0.02 

Comparison of total consumption with previous reporting year 

Much lower 

Please explain 

The water accounting data of the IT, which is located in the Sea of Marmara Coast and has a strategic effect, specified in the 1st line of question 

W4.1c, is given in this line. Halkbank monitors the water stress risk of all branches with the WRI Aqueduct Tool. Water consumption value is the 

volume of water purchased for employees to drink. The water discharge volume is the water volume supplied from the municipal water source. 

The total withdrawal volume is calculated by the sum of these two uses. Halkbank defines the change between 5% and 15% as high or low in its 

operations. If the comparison result is less than 5%, it is considered about the same, if it is higher than 15%, it is considered very high or very 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

38 
 

low. Since the water used in all business units is supplied only from municipalities and clean water purchasing services, the withdrawal and 

discharge sources other than third party is calculated as 0. 

 

Facility reference number 

Facility 3 

Facility name (optional) 

111 Branches located in the Euphrates-Tigris basin 

Country/Area & River basin 

Turkey 

Tigris & Euphrates 

Latitude 

37.167403 

Longitude 

38.795514 

Located in area with water stress 

Yes 

Total water withdrawals at this facility (megaliters/year) 

22.42 

Comparison of total withdrawals with previous reporting year 

About the same 

Withdrawals from fresh surface water, including rainwater, water from wetlands, rivers and lakes 

0 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

39 
 

Withdrawals from brackish surface water/seawater 

0 

Withdrawals from groundwater - renewable 

0 

Withdrawals from groundwater - non-renewable 

0 

Withdrawals from produced/entrained water 

0 

Withdrawals from third party sources 

22.42 

Total water discharges at this facility (megaliters/year) 

21.68 

Comparison of total discharges with previous reporting year 

Higher 

Discharges to fresh surface water 

0 

Discharges to brackish surface water/seawater 

0 

Discharges to groundwater 

0 

Discharges to third party destinations 

21.68 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

40 
 

Total water consumption at this facility (megaliters/year) 

0.74 

Comparison of total consumption with previous reporting year 

Much lower 

Please explain 

The data of the 111 branches, which are located in the Euphrates Tigris river and have a strategic effect, specified in the 2nd line of the W4.1c 

question, are grouped by the river basin and their water accounting data is given in this row. Halkbank monitors the water stress risk of all 

branches with the WRI Aqueduct Tool. Water consumption value is the volume of water purchased for employees to drink. The water discharge 

volume is the water volume supplied from the municipal water source. The total withdrawal volume is calculated by the sum of these two uses. 

Halkbank defines the change between 5% and 15% as high or low in its operations. If the comparison result is less than 5%, it is considered 

about the same, if it is higher than 15%, it is considered very high or very low. Since the water used in all business units is supplied only from 

municipalities and clean water purchasing services,  the withdrawal and discharge sources other than third party is calculated as 0. 

W5.1a 

(W5.1a) For the facilities referenced in W5.1, what proportion of water accounting data has been third party verified? 

Water withdrawals – total volumes 

% verified 

76-100 

Verification standard used 

 

ISAE3000 (Revised) 

Water withdrawals – volume by source 

% verified 

76-100 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

41 
 

Verification standard used 

 

ISAE3000 (Revised) 

Water withdrawals – quality by standard water quality parameters 

% verified 

76-100 

Verification standard used 

 

The total water withdrawal volume of Halkbank includes the drinking water purchased for its employees and the water discharged. Municipalities 

take samples and verify the water quality parameters, which are accredited 17025 in their own laboratory. 

Water discharges – total volumes 

% verified 

76-100 

Verification standard used 

 

ISAE3000 (Revised) 

Water discharges – volume by destination 

% verified 

76-100 

Verification standard used 

 

ISAE3000 (Revised) 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

42 
 

Water discharges – volume by final treatment level 

 

% verified 

76-100 

Verification standard used 

 

In all of Halkbank's operations, wastewater discharges are made to the municipal sewerage system, and wastewater treatment is carried out at 

the treatment plants operated by the municipalities.  The water discharge volume by final treatment level is verified according to ISAE 3000 

(Revised). 

Water discharges – quality by standard water quality parameters 

% verified 

76-100 

Verification standard used 

 

In all of Halkbank's operations, wastewater discharges are made to the municipal sewerage system, and wastewater treatment is carried out at 

the treatment plants operated by the municipalities.  Municipalities take samples and verify the water quality parameters, which are accredited 

17025 in their own laboratory. 

Water consumption – total volume 

% verified 

76-100 

Verification standard used 

 

ISAE3000 (Revised) 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

43 
 

W6. Governance 

W6.1 

(W6.1) Does your organization have a water policy? 

Yes, we have a documented water policy that is publicly available 

W6.1a 

(W6.1a) Select the options that best describe the scope and content of your water policy. 

 Scope Content Please explain 

Row 

1 

Company-

wide 

Description of business 

dependency on water 

Description of business impact on 

water 

Company water targets and goals 

Commitments beyond regulatory 

compliance 

Commitment to stakeholder 

awareness and education 

Commitment to safely managed 

Water, Sanitation and Hygiene 

(WASH) in the workplace 

Acknowledgement of the human 

right to water and sanitation 

Halkbank is aware of how climate change can affect water problems. It has sustainability and 

environmental policies consisting of the approaches and actions to be taken in order to protect the 

environment and minimize the negative effects of its functions. In line with these policies, the WRI 

Aqueduct Tool and the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry monitor the water stress and amount of 

water in the basins. Thus, the Bank's water-related strategies can be determined through qualitative 

and quantitative analysis. 

As Halkbank, we are aware of the importance of water in human life. In this framework, the Bank 

constantly reviews and improves its policies, environmental, energy, and water management 

systems in all its branches and regions; aims and undertakes to reduce the consumption of 

resources such as energy and water by controlling it and reducing the negative effects that may 

arise from its activities. 

In addition, the Bank, which advocates that water is a natural human right and that everyone should 

have access to clean water for consumption and hygiene, prefers to cooperate with suppliers who 

are aware of the importance of water in its business relations with the value chain. In this context, it 

takes initiatives to raise awareness by organizing trainings on water and climate issues as much as 

possible in the value chain. In addition, the Bank offers trainings and resources on water and 

climate change to SME customers via the online platform. 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

44 
 

Recognition of environmental 

linkages, for example, due to 

climate change 

W6.2 

(W6.2) Is there board level oversight of water-related issues within your organization? 

Yes 

W6.2a 

(W6.2a) Identify the position(s) (do not include any names) of the individual(s) on the board with responsibility for water-related 

issues. 

Position of 

individual 

Please explain 

Board-level 

committee 

i) Responsibilities of the committee: The Sustainability Committee consists of 20 members at the level of two Board Members, four Deputy 

General Managers, two Group Presidents, and twelve Department Heads. The chairman of the committee serves as the independent board 

member of the Bank, and the vice-chairman of the committee serves as a member of the bank's board of directors. The Sustainability 

Committee is responsible for coordinating the Bank's sustainability efforts, assessing the economic, environmental, and social impacts of its 

activities, assessing and managing risks related to climate, water, and sustainability, taking decisions to take necessary actions, and 

overseeing the risks related to climate and water that the bank will face. The Committee reports to the Bank's Board of Directors to 

coordinate the Bank's sustainability activities. It also conveys risks and other issues subject to the board's authorization level to the board of 

directors. 

 

ii) Example of a water-related decision: The energy, environment, and water management performance of the branches is monitored with 

the software called İKLİM, which means the climate, created with the bank's own resources. In 2020, the Board Level Sustainability 

Committee decided to include the results of this software in branch performance evaluations and to implement incentive mechanisms 

according to the performance of branches in line with reduction targets in water and other environmental issues. In 2021, the Committee 

decided to improve business processes in order to adapt to national and international developments within the scope of combating the 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

45 
 

climate crisis. In this direction, the Committee has decided to establish a Climate Action Plan and also has joined the Net-Zero Banking 

Alliance, and committed to setting GHG emission reduction targets across its operations and its portfolio in line with SBTI criteria in 2022. 

W6.2b 

(W6.2b) Provide further details on the board’s oversight of water-related issues. 

 Frequency that water-

related issues are a 

scheduled agenda item 

Governance mechanisms 

into which water-related 

issues are integrated 

Please explain 

Row 

1 

Scheduled - all meetings Monitoring implementation 

and performance 

Overseeing major capital 

expenditures 

Providing employee 

incentives 

Reviewing and guiding 

annual budgets 

Reviewing and guiding 

business plans 

Reviewing and guiding major 

plans of action 

Reviewing and guiding risk 

management policies 

Reviewing and guiding 

strategy 

Reviewing and guiding 

corporate responsibility 

strategy 

The Board of Directors carries out the Sustainability Management by joining the 

Sustainability Committee with two members (at the level of President and Vice President). 

The sustainability committee meets at least 4 times a year for its regular scheduled 

meetings. At these regular meetings, risks and opportunities for sustainability issues, 

including water issues, are evaluated and targets are set. Budget adjustments and 

performance targets are discussed and decided by a majority vote in order to achieve the 

targets. In addition, the periodic performance of the targets is compared with the results of 

the determined period and necessary revisions are decided. Decisions on rewarding 

performance on sustainability issues are also taken at regular meetings of the Sustainability 

Committees. The sustainability committee may meet urgently and from time to time to 

discuss and take decisions on urgent and important issues that arise outside of the regular 

meeting periods. The Sustainability Practices, Environment, and Energy Management 

Department Manager is authorized to call irregular sustainability committee meetings. 

Decisions taken by the committee that may have important results are reported to the board 

of directors. In addition, a Management review meeting is held at least once a year to ensure 

the adequacy and effectiveness of the Bank's sustainability practices. Thus, actions can be 

taken for measures and opportunities for possible water-related risks. 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

46 
 

Reviewing innovation/R&D 

priorities 

W6.2d 

(W6.2d) Does your organization have at least one board member with competence on water-related issues? 

 Board member(s) have 

competence on water-

related issues 

Criteria used to assess competence of board member(s) on water-related issues 

Row 

1 

Yes As Halkbank, we are subject to Turkish Banking Law and Capital Markets Board (CMB) regulations in the elections of 

the Board of Directors. The education level of the board about sustainability is important as a climate change 

competency. The chairman of the Sustainability Committee, who is also a member of BoD, is competent in sustainable 

development and economics due to their training and expertise. These criteria meet the board members' competence 

on climate-related issues. 

 

In addition, all Sustainability Committee members have KPIs on environmental and sustainability issues. In order to 

evaluate their competence in climate and water-related issues, the fact that they have achieved these targets in the past 

is used as a criterion and proves their competence. 

W6.3 

(W6.3) Provide the highest management-level position(s) or committee(s) with responsibility for water-related issues (do not include 

the names of individuals). 

 

Name of the position(s) and/or committee(s) 

Other C-Suite Officer, please specify 

Chairman of Sustainability Committee 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

47 
 

Responsibility 

Assessing water-related risks and opportunities 

Managing water-related risks and opportunities 

Frequency of reporting to the board on water-related issues 

Quarterly 

Please explain 

i) Water-related topics that are reported to the board: As part of sustainable finance, Halkbank commits to the management of water use in the 

determination of targets and action plans. It evaluates water-related risks since its external stakeholders, especially the sectors it finances, are 

highly dependent on water, within the scope of operational and credit risks, and sets targets in the regular meetings where the committee meets 

at least 4 times a year. 

 

ii) Water-related responsibilities of the committee: The chairman of the committee leads the committee in monitoring the committee's duties and 

authorities and fulfilling the committee's responsibilities. Issues that require further authority from the sustainability committee are forwarded to 

the board of directors for decision. The sustainability committee may meet urgently and from time to time to discuss and take decisions on 

important water-related issues that arise outside of the regular meeting periods. 

W6.4 

(W6.4) Do you provide incentives to C-suite employees or board members for the management of water-related issues? 

 Provide incentives for management of water-related issues Comment 

Row 1 Yes N/A 

W6.4a 

(W6.4a) What incentives are provided to C-suite employees or board members for the management of water-related issues (do not 

include the names of individuals)? 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

48 
 

 Role(s) entitled to 

incentive 

Performance 

indicator 

Please explain 

Monetary 

reward 

Other C-suite Officer 

Chairman of 
Sustainability 
Committee 

Reduction of water 

withdrawals 

Reduction in 

consumption volumes 

Improvements in 

efficiency - direct 

operations 

Improvements in 

efficiency - supply 

chain 

Improvements in 

efficiency - product-use 

Increased access to 

workplace WASH 

Implementation of 

water-related 

community project 

i) Details on the indicator/s chosen: Halkbank monitors the water withdrawal and consumption 

values annually with the İKLİM software, which means "the climate", it has developed and 

reports it mainly with GHG emission calculations. 

 

ii) The rationale for the chosen indicator/s:  In line with the water targets that Halkbank has 

determined by considering its environmental policy; is committed to reducing and optimizing 

water consumption and withdrawal in its direct operations and increasing water efficiency both 

in its direct operations and in its supply chain. In addition, no concessions are made on 

observing the right of employees to access clean water and provide a healthy working 

environment. Therefore, the sustainability committee and committee chairperson, who develop 

projects and realize KPIs within the scope of these principles and objectives, are supported 

with monetary awards. 

 

iii) The linkage between the selected performance indicator and type of incentive: In return for 

a 2% annual reduction in water use in GHG emissions, the Chairman of the Sustainability 

Committee is given incentive awards such as monetary rewards. 

Non-

monetary 

reward 

Other C-suite Officer 

Chairman of 
Sustainability 
Committee 

Reduction of water 

withdrawals 

Reduction in 

consumption volumes 

Improvements in 

efficiency - direct 

operations 

i) Details on the indicator/s chosen: Halkbank monitors the water withdrawal and consumption 

values annually with the İKLİM software, which means "the climate", it has developed and 

reports it mainly with GHG emission calculations. 

 

ii) The rationale for the chosen indicator/s:  In line with the water targets that Halkbank has 

determined by considering its environmental policy; is committed to reducing and optimizing 

water consumption and withdrawal in its direct operations and increasing water efficiency both 

in its direct operations and in its supply chain. In addition, no concessions are made on 

observing the right of employees to access clean water and provide a healthy working 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

49 
 

Improvements in 

efficiency - supply 

chain 

Improvements in 

efficiency - product-use 

Increased access to 

workplace WASH 

Implementation of 

water-related 

community project 

environment. Therefore, the sustainability committee and committee chairperson, who develop 

projects and realize KPIs within the scope of these principles and objectives, are supported 

with monetary awards. 

 

iii) The linkage between the selected performance indicator and type of incentive: In return for 

a 2% annual reduction in water use in GHG emissions, the Chairman of the Sustainability 

Committee is given incentive awards such as monetary rewards. 

W6.5 

(W6.5) Do you engage in activities that could either directly or indirectly influence public policy on water through any of the 

following? 

Yes, direct engagement with policy makers 

Yes, trade associations 

Yes, other 

W6.5a 

(W6.5a) What processes do you have in place to ensure that all of your direct and indirect activities seeking to influence policy are 

consistent with your water policy/water commitments? 

 i) A description of the process used to ensure consistency: The Bank's water policy and procedures are included in the Bank's environmental policy. 

Compliance with all activities within this policy is ensured by routine inspection of inspection and internal control units.  In addition, the carbon footprint 

is calculated regularly in order to follow the targets we have determined within the scope of the policy, and the water withdrawal and consumption 

values are regularly monitored for each branch.  In line with the decisions taken at the committee meetings and management reviews, the Bank 

communicates with the ministry when necessary, exchanges views, and participates in meetings and seminars. Also, opinions are constantly being 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

50 
 

exchanged with local municipalities, which are the main water supplier of the bank, by their local offices and central office. In addition, the Bank is a 

member of the Banks Association of Turkey (TBB) and participates in working groups on the subject.  

 

 ii) An explanation of the action taken if the inconsistency is discovered: Nonconformities detected in these audits are reported, and discussed in the 

committee and the results are shared with the board of directors. Afterward, the relevant departments are informed to take necessary 

actions.  Halkbank negatively evaluates projects in sectors that are accepted and banned in a very high-risk group in the international literature. 

W6.6 

(W6.6) Did your organization include information about its response to water-related risks in its most recent mainstream financial 

report? 

Yes (you may attach the report - this is optional) 

2021-Integrated-Report_Halkbank.pdf 

W7. Business strategy 

W7.1 

(W7.1) Are water-related issues integrated into any aspects of your long-term strategic business plan, and if so how? 

 Are water-

related issues 

integrated? 

Long-term 

time horizon 

(years) 

Please explain 

Long-term 

business 

objectives 

Yes, water-related 

issues are 

integrated 

11-15 Environmental, social and governance (ESG) criteria are gaining more and more importance in global 

investment strategies. In its long-term business strategies, Halkbank aims to effectively manage the 

risks and opportunities it faces in this regard, particularly climate change, and to provide the financing 

needed for the transition to a low-carbon economy. In this context, it controls the environment and 

water management in both its direct and indirect activities under the guidance of international standards 

and regulations. 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

51 
 

One of Halkbank's goals regarding direct use of water is to continue to raise awareness in all of its 

branches and to reduce water withdrawal and water consumption figures annually. 

Its objectives regarding indirect water use are to monitor the water-related aspects of the projects it 

provides loans and to actively develop ways to mitigate climate-related impacts, including water 

problems. These considerations are important given the ever-increasing risks of water scarcity and 

drought. 

Moreover, since Halkbank is one of the first signatories of NZBA in mid-2022 and committed to 

reaching net-zero by 2050, its long-term business strategies are taking action in line with both this 

decision and the sustainability strategic plan of the Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency 

(BDDK). 

Strategy for 

achieving long-

term objectives 

Yes, water-related 

issues are 

integrated 

11-15 Halkbank includes environmental and water-related physical and transitional risks in its risk assessment 

process in line with its long-term strategy. As part of this process, it monitors the direct water usage on 

a monthly basis with the İKLİM software, which means climate, developed in 2019, monitors the water 

stress of the regions it operates in annually through the WRI Aqueduct Tool, and provides regular 

trainings to raise the awareness of its employees. 

In addition, as a bank that aims to increase the awareness of its internal and external stakeholders on 

climate change and water management, Halkbank tries to manage its water-related risks with a detailed 

Environmental and Social Impact Assessment in the credit evaluation modules of the projects it 

finances. Moreover, since Halkbank's primary mission is to support SMEs, it offers its customers an 

online training program on the www.halkbankkobigelisim.com.tr website. 

Financial 

planning 

Yes, water-related 

issues are 

integrated 

11-15 Risks related to water issues are evaluated with the participation of all relevant business units of the 

bank. Among the members of the Sustainability Group is the Assistant General Manager of the 

Financial Management and Planning Department. The financial aspects of water and climate issues 

directly related to operations and the value chain are always considered in long-term business 

planning. 

In the quarterly meetings of the committee, budget adjustments and performance targets are discussed 

and decided by a majority of the votes to reach the targets. The financial aspects and targets of water 

risks are also decided with the participation of the finance department. 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

52 
 

W7.2 

(W7.2) What is the trend in your organization’s water-related capital expenditure (CAPEX) and operating expenditure (OPEX) for the 

reporting year, and the anticipated trend for the next reporting year? 

Row 1 

Water-related CAPEX (+/- % change) 

6 

Anticipated forward trend for CAPEX (+/- % change) 

5 

Water-related OPEX  (+/- % change) 

 

26 

Anticipated forward trend for OPEX (+/- % change) 

3 

Please explain 

The increase in CAPEX is related to the opening of a total of 10 new branches in 2021. Cost calculation covers the supply of water-related 

applications such as faucets, water tanks, water pumps, and digital water meter systems when necessary. Since Halkbank is a growth-oriented 

bank, it expects a 5% increase in CAPEX expenses depending on the number of new branches to be opened next year. 

 

Annual water withdrawal and consumption expenditures are taken into account for operating expenses. The increase in OPEX is related to the 

replacement of 19-liter water bottles with 0.5-liter personal recyclable PET bottles due to pandemic measures. In addition, regular increases in 

water prices have a great impact on this increase. Considering the impact of both the increasing prices and the increasing water needs of the 

employees in the branches, an increase of approximately 3% is expected in the OPEX values next year. 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

53 
 

W7.3 

(W7.3) Does your organization use scenario analysis to inform its business strategy? 

 Use of scenario analysis Comment 

Row 1 Yes  

W7.3a 

(W7.3a) Provide details of the scenario analysis, what water-related outcomes were identified, and how they have influenced your 

organization’s business strategy. 

 Type of 

scenario 

analysis 

used 

Parameters, assumptions, analytical 

choices 

Description of possible water-related 

outcomes 

Influence on business strategy 

Row 

1 

Water-

related 

Climate-

related 

Halkbank uses climate scenarios to predict 

the possible consequences for its lending 

activities and its own operations in the 

future due to climate change. The Network 

for Greening the Financial System (NGFS) 

focuses on climate scenarios and 

determines its strategies by taking into 

account the future analyses of the WRI 

Aqueduct Tool. 

While NGFS offers 6 scenarios, the Bank, 

which has committed to becoming net-zero 

until 2050 to the NZBA  in mid-2022, 

considers the Net-Zero 2050 scenario, 

which is one of the regular scenarios, in its 

The annual amount of usable water per 

capita in Turkey is around 1,350 cubic 

meters. It is predicted that the amount of 

water per capita will be around 1,000 cubic 

meters due to the population reaching 100 

million in 2030 and the increase in water 

pollution and the effects of drought. This 

situation will make it difficult to meet the 

water demand, especially in densely 

populated areas, and may cause new 

regulations and changes in water distribution 

and restrictions for sectors with intensive 

water use in industries. Halkbank foresees 

such water cuts/restrictions especially in the 

A description of the response to the water 

related outcomes and the anticipated 

timescale: With the results of the related 

scenario analysis, Halkbank plans to reduce 

the water consumption levels arising from its 

activities, not establish customer relations 

with companies that may cause water 

pollution unless the necessary measures 

determined in the standards are taken, and 

develop practices that encourage 

environmentally friendly technologies. In 

addition, within the scope of the scenario 

analysis results, it is expected that the 

hydroelectric and agriculture sector 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

54 
 

strategies. Net-Zero 2050 assumes that 

global warming is limited to 1.5°C, strict 

climate policies are in place, and it is 

possible to reach net-zero greenhouse 

gases by 2050. One of the most important 

topics that this scenario focuses on is 

resource efficiency, especially for the 

energy and agriculture sectors. Since 

Halkbank provides financing to the 

hydroelectric power plant and agriculture 

sector, it also takes water into account 

under this heading and evaluates possible 

risks for water with future analyzes of the 

WRI Aqueduct Tool. In this tool, possible 

changes in Turkey's water stress, seasonal 

variability, water supply, and water demand 

between 2030-2040 are followed. 

energy and agriculture sectors that it 

finances and includes it in the risk 

assessment process as a loan payment risk. 

companies will be affected by the decreases 

in precipitation levels and the effects of 

droughts. This expectation requires 

regulation in the credit allocation evaluation 

methods of banks. Halkbank has integrated 

the necessary water-related criteria into the 

environmental and social impact assessment 

in its credit evaluation modules. In addition, 

by taking climate change into account in its 

portfolios, it balances credit distributions 

against the risks that may be experienced. 

Moreover, as a precaution, the bank plans to 

use circular water systems in its branches 

until 2030. 

W7.4 

(W7.4) Does your company use an internal price on water? 

Row 1 

Does your company use an internal price on water? 

No, but we are currently exploring water valuation practices 

Please explain 

Halkbank operates in the banking sector and its activities are not considered water-intensive. Despite this, necessary measures are constantly 

taken to reduce water consumption and water withdrawal levels are monitored for possible optimizations. In this context, the Bank plans to take 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

55 
 

steps to increase water efficiency in its operations by being aware of the possible risks related to water in the future. Internal water price could 

be one of these improvements. Halkbank is currently researching best practices that can be integrated into its operations. 

W7.5 

(W7.5) Do you classify any of your current products and/or services as low water impact? 

 Products and/or 

services classified 

as low water 

impact 

Primary reason  for not classifying any 

of your current products and/or services 

as low water impact 

Please explain 

Row 

1 

No, but we plan to 

address this within 

the next two years 

Important but not an 

immediate business priority 

As a company serving in the banking sector, Halkbank does not produce any 

product, and water use is not intensive. Therefore, there is currently no low water 

impact product or service. However, the most important product and service it offers 

is the loans it gives to projects within the scope of sustainable finance. Taking into 

account the water management of the projects for which environmental and social 

impact assessment is made, the Bank may update the relevant procedure in the 

future to prioritize projects with low water impact. The Bank continues its research 

in this direction. 

W8. Targets 

W8.1 

(W8.1) Describe your approach to setting and monitoring water-related targets and/or goals. 

 Levels for 

targets and/or 

goals 

Monitoring at 

corporate level 

Approach to setting and monitoring targets and/or goals 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

56 
 

Row 

1 

Company-wide 

targets and 

goals 

Basin specific 

targets and/or 

goals 

Targets are 

monitored at the 

corporate level 

Goals are monitored 

at the corporate 

level 

Halkbank aims to provide clean drinking water to its employees, raise awareness by providing necessary 

training to its customers, exchange opinions with public authorities on the creation of sustainable water 

policies and management models, and support initiatives in the sustainability scene. In this context, regarding 

regulations and within the scope of ISO 14001 Environmental Management System, it regularly monitors its 

impact on the environment and water in its direct and indirect operations and calculates GHG emissions and 

total water withdrawals and consumption every year. However, since it operates in a country with high water 

stress, it evaluates the water stress of both its own activities and the regions of projects it finances with the 

WRI Aqueduct Tool and works to achieve the goals which are explained in the questions below. Attaching 

importance to transparency, the Bank publishes its sustainability targets and related accounts for the year, 

and the projects it finances, in the integrated report it publishes on its website. 

W8.1a 

(W8.1a) Provide details of your water targets that are monitored at the corporate level, and the progress made. 

 

Target reference number 

Target 1 

Category of target 

Water withdrawals 

Level 

Company-wide 

Primary motivation 

Reduced environmental impact 

Description of target 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

57 
 

Halkbank's target is to have absolute water withdrawals from its branches across the country by 2035 compared to 2018. It is to reduce its 

environmental impact by reducing water withdrawal by 25%. As employees' water consumption and WASH services depend on this, water is an 

important input for Halkbank's direct use. To achieve this, investments are made in equipment and assets that use water more efficiently in 

branches. This target will also provide savings in water costs in line with efficiency. 

Quantitative metric 

% reduction of water withdrawals from municipal supply 

Baseline year 

2018 

Start year 

2020 

Target year 

2035 

% of target achieved 

68 

Please explain 

Halkbank has already achieved 68% of this target, thanks to the training provided to its employees and the more efficient infrastructures 

established. Pandemic measures also affected this figure positively. As long as progress maintains the current pace, it is thought that this target 

will be reached early. 

W8.1b 

(W8.1b) Provide details of your water goal(s) that are monitored at the corporate level and the progress made. 

 

Goal 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

58 
 

Engaging with customers to help them minimize product impacts 

Level 

Company-wide 

Motivation 

Reduced environmental impact 

Description of goal 

i) Why this goal is important to the company: Halkbank aims to increase the awareness of all its internal and external stakeholders about climate 

change, reduce direct water use, and improve the financing of its customers, especially water-intensive projects, within the scope of its 

sustainability and environmental policy, which it has established in line with the Sustainable Development Goals. Therefore, Halkbank tries to 

manage water-related risks with a detailed Environmental and Social Impact Assessment in its credit evaluation modules. In addition, 

Halkbank's primary mission is to support SMEs. 

 

ii) How the company is implementing the goal across its chosen level: Halkbank achieves its company-wide target of reducing the environmental 

impact of its customers by offering online training programs on climate and water to its SME customers through the website 

www.halkbankkobigelisim.com.tr. 

Baseline year 

2016 

Start year 

2017 

End year 

2040 

Progress 

i) Indicator used to assess progress: The development of this application, which Halkbank has offered since 2016, is evaluated by the 

participation rate. 

 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

59 
 

ii) The threshold of success and how it has progressed against it: The fact that at least 50% of SMEs attend the relevant training shows that this 

target has successfully progressed. When the customers who have participated in the trainings are evaluated, it is seen that this target has 

been successfully progressed. 

W9. Verification 

W9.1 

(W9.1) Do you verify any other water information reported in your CDP disclosure (not already covered by W5.1a)? 

Yes 

2021-Integrated-Report_Halkbank.pdf 

Halkbank CDP WS Assurance Report_2207.pdf 

W9.1a 

(W9.1a) Which data points within your CDP disclosure have been verified, and which standards were used? 

Disclosure 

module 

Data verified Verification 

standard 

Please explain 

W1 Current 

state 

Amount of total water withdrawal volume, total water 

discharge volume and total water consumption volume 

ISAE 3000 All data shared in Current State has been verified by third 

parties to the ISAE 3000 (Revised) standard. 

W10. Sign off 

W-FI 

(W-FI) Use this field to provide any additional information or context that you feel is relevant to your organization's response. Please 

note that this field is optional and is not scored. 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

60 
 

  You may find additional information regarding our sustainability approach on our web site at https://www.halkbank.com.tr/en/investor-

relations/corporate-governance/sustainability.html   

 

Attached, there is verification report of water data disclosed in the questionnaire. The water withdrawal amount in the report is the amount that 

withdrawn from municipalities. When reporting to CDP, the withdrawals are calculated as the sum of municipality withdrawals and PET bottled water 

consumed.   

2021-Integrated-Report_Halkbank.pdf 

Halkbank CDP WS Assurance Report_2207.pdf 

W10.1 

(W10.1) Provide details for the person that has signed off (approved) your CDP water response. 

 Job title Corresponding job category 

Row 1 Chairman of Sustainability Committee (Halkbank Independent Board Member) Board/Executive board 

W10.2 

(W10.2) Please indicate whether your organization agrees for CDP to transfer your publicly disclosed data on your impact and risk 

response strategies to the CEO Water Mandate’s Water Action Hub [applies only to W2.1a (response to impacts), W4.2 and W4.2a 

(response to risks)]. 

 

Submit your response 

In which language are you submitting your response? 

 

Please confirm how your response should be handled by CDP 



TÜRKİYE HALK BANKASI A.Ş. CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022 Friday, July 22, 2022 

 

 

61 
 

 I understand that my response will be shared with all requesting stakeholders Response permission 

Please select your submission options  Public 

 

 

Please confirm below 

 

 


	Welcome to your CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2022
	W0. Introduction
	W0.1
	W0.2
	W0.3
	W0.4
	W0.5
	W0.6
	W0.7

	W1. Current state
	W1.1
	W1.2
	W1.2b
	W1.2d
	W1.2h
	W1.2i
	W1.2j
	W1.3
	W1.4
	W1.4a
	W1.4b
	W1.4c

	W2. Business impacts
	W2.1
	W2.1a
	W2.2

	W3. Procedures
	W3.3
	W3.3a
	W3.3b

	W4. Risks and opportunities
	W4.1
	W4.1a
	W4.1b
	W4.1c
	W4.2
	W4.2a
	W4.3
	W4.3a

	W5. Facility-level water accounting
	W5.1
	W5.1a

	W6. Governance
	W6.1
	W6.1a
	W6.2
	W6.2a
	W6.2b
	W6.2d
	W6.3
	W6.4
	W6.4a
	W6.5
	W6.5a
	W6.6

	W7. Business strategy
	W7.1
	W7.2
	W7.3
	W7.3a
	W7.4
	W7.5

	W8. Targets
	W8.1
	W8.1a
	W8.1b

	W9. Verification
	W9.1
	W9.1a

	W10. Sign off
	W-FI
	W10.1
	W10.2

	Submit your response