50 Jardine Matheson  
Annual Report 2022

Sustainability

Sustainability as a Key Enabler
For almost 200 years, we have adopted an entrepreneurial 
mindset combined with a long-term and sustainable 
approach to how we do business. Today, our approach 
is more relevant than ever, as we face an increasingly 
complex and volatile landscape. With this in mind, 
we continue to believe that seeking opportunities to build 
resilience in our businesses, the communities we serve 
and future generations is vital for business continuity, 
and this is a fundamental part of our corporate purpose.

Over the past year, the Group continued to progress its 
sustainability agenda, with a focus on providing greater 
transparency of sustainability activities across our 
businesses. The Group reached a key milestone with 
the publication of its inaugural Sustainability Report in 
June 2022, disclosing the sustainability practices and 
performance of the Group and its businesses. We have 
continued to work with our Group businesses to enhance 
alignment across Jardines, while our businesses have 
actively led sustainability agendas relevant to their 
own operations.

Building Towards 2030
Jardines strongly believes that creating a shared sense of 
purpose in sustainability will encourage closer collaboration 
and support between our businesses and the Group. It will 
also enable us to move forward together to build resilience 
to challenges that lie ahead and ensure long-term value 
creation for our stakeholders.

The Group’s sustainability strategy, Building Towards 2030, 
is informed by the Group’s response to social and 
environmental megatrends shaping the future of our 
business and the communities in which we operate. It is 
built on nine focus areas under three strategic pillars: 
Leading Climate Action, Driving Responsible Consumption 
and Shaping Social Inclusion. Demonstrating our 
commitment to support the global agenda to end poverty, 
protect the planet and ensure that all people enjoy peace 
and prosperity by 2030, our sustainability strategy is 
aligned with five of the 17 United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals (‘UNSDGs’).



51Jardine Matheson  
Annual Report 2022

Sustainability

Health

Education

LivelihoodNature

Plastic

Food

Carbon

Risk

Leading Climate
Action

Driving Responsible 
Consumption

Shaping Social
Inclusion

Resilience

Building Towards 2030 articulates our sustainability 
direction at the Group-level and facilitates consistent 
implementation of sustainability strategy across our 
portfolio. With support and guidance from the Group, 
our businesses drive their own sustainability agendas, 
taking account of their business nature, operating markets 
and the benefits of alignment with the Group’s 
sustainability approach.

To ensure we focus our efforts and resources, we have 
identified key priorities to enable us to deliver effectively 
on the matters which are most important. In 2022, 
we maintained our focus on implementing our 
decarbonisation strategy, with a number of our Group 
businesses committing to develop, or progressing the 
formulation of, science-based medium-term targets. 
We have also dedicated significant efforts towards 
proactively communicating our journey to our stakeholders 
and developing our Group sustainability culture.

Sustainability Governance
We have underpinned our sustainability approach with 
an effective governance structure, which enables us to 
operate to the highest business standards and deliver 
sustainable value creation. Our sustainability governance 
structure includes the Sustainability Leadership Council 
(‘SLC’), the Jardine Matheson Board and the boards/Risk 
Management and Compliance Committees of our Group 
companies, supported by the Group Sustainability Team 
and a number of sustainability working groups.

Sustainability Leadership Council
The SLC is led by Jardine Matheson Executive Chairman, 
Ben Keswick. It currently comprises more than 20 
members, including the Jardine Matheson Group Managing 
Director, Executive and non-Executive Directors, Chief 
Executives of all the Group's principal businesses and the 
Heads of relevant Group functions as core members.



52 Jardine Matheson  
Annual Report 2022

Sustainability

Meeting twice a year, the SLC serves as a collaboration 
platform for the senior management from across the Group 
to exchange insights and perspectives on sustainability 
strategy, planning and direction for the Group. Material 
sustainability issues are communicated and discussed 
at the SLC, and the Group’s sustainability strategy and 
policies are further refined with input from the 
management teams of our Group businesses. The SLC 
provides opportunities for the Group and our businesses 
to regularly share best practices and discuss Group-wide 
sustainability (including climate) risks and opportunities, 
with the aim of improving the Group’s performance and 
ensuring consistent integration of sustainability 
considerations into corporate policies and business 
operations.

Group Sustainability
The Group Sustainability Team is responsible for facilitating 
the Group’s development and implementation of the 
sustainability strategy and initiatives, as well as the setting 
of appropriate and relevant ESG metrics and targets to 
track material ESG issues. The team monitors sustainability 
trends and provides advice on sustainability-related 
issues, as well as progressing the Group's approach to 
improving ratings, reporting and disclosure, and driving a 
range of Group-led initiatives. The team also coordinates 
with representatives from our Group businesses to 
facilitate cross-business activities.

In addition, the team works with other Group functions 
including Group Finance, Group Audit & Risk Management 
(‘GARM’), Group Human Resources, Group Corporate 
Secretariat, Group Legal, Group Tax and Group 
Communications to offer support on sustainability matters, 
including budgets and reporting, sustainability risks and 
opportunities, human capital, corporate governance, 
business ethics, tax reporting and sustainability 
communications.

Sustainability Working Groups
Each pillar of our sustainability strategy is supported by a 
working group, which is chaired by representative(s) from 
our businesses and consists of individuals from across 
the Group who are responsible for driving the relevant 
sustainability agendas within their organisations. 
The primary objectives of the working groups are to support 
the execution of the Group’s sustainability strategy within 

businesses, identify, develop and recommend Group-wide 
initiatives that will strengthen cohesion between the 
Group businesses, and share knowledge and experience 
across the Group.

Group Businesses
The boards of our Group businesses are responsible for 
overseeing sustainability within their respective 
businesses. Each individual business is expected to 
develop and implement a sustainability strategy that is 
aligned to the Group strategy, and set sustainability 
metrics and targets to effectively address material issues. 
The leadership of each of the Group’s listed and private 
businesses reports twice a year on the progress of their 
sustainability agenda to their own boards (in the case of 
listed businesses) or their respective Risk Management 
and Compliance Committees ('RMCCs')(in the case of 
private businesses).

Audit Committee
The Audit Committee supports the Board in overseeing and 
reviewing the consolidated Group-wide principal risks and 
uncertainties (including climate risks). The Audit 
Committee also has oversight responsibility for reviewing 
independent assurance obtained by the Group in respect of 
the effectiveness of sustainability metrics that measure the 
Group’s sustainability strategy, initiatives and goals, as 
disclosed in the Company’s annual Sustainability Report. 
In support of this, external and internal assurance is 
conducted on the Group’s sustainability reporting and the 
effectiveness of its governance, respectively. Please refer 
to the Audit Committee Report and the Principal Risks and 
Uncertainties section of ths Report for details.

Sustainability, including climate action, is a regular agenda 
item at Board and RMCC meetings, both for our individual 
businesses and at the Group level. Senior management of 
the Group (a number of whom who also sit on the 
Company's Board) are members of the boards of our Group 
businesses, and have the opportunity to reiterate to our 
businesses the strategic importance of sustainability to 
Jardines and make sure the commitment to sustainability 
(including climate action) is ingrained in major business 
decisions. For details of the Board, please refer to the 
Corporate Governance section of this Report.



53Jardine Matheson  
Annual Report 2022

Sustainability

The Boards/Committees

Internal/external audit

Operational teams

Report

Oversee

The dotted line indicates 
that the SLC does not 
directly report to the Board 
and boards of the Group 
businesses. However, the 
management teams of the 
Company and our Group 
businesses (who are SLC 
members) report to their 
respective Boards.

Sustainability Leadership Council

Climate Action
Working Group

Responsible
Consumption

Working Group

Social Inclusion
Working Group

Group
Sustainability

Group Businesses Audit Committees/
Risk Management and Compliance Committee

Group Businesses Boards of Directors The Company Audit Committee

Group Businesses
Risk Management/
Compliance Teams

Group Businesses
Internal Audit

The Company Board of Directors 

Group Businesses Governance 

Group Audit and
Risk Management (‘GARM’)

External
Audit

Remark: 

For details of the Risk 
Governance Structure, please 
refer to the Risk Management 
and Internal Control section.

Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality 
Assessment
We are committed to conducting an ongoing dialogue with 
our stakeholders, to communicate our sustainability 
progress and seek their valuable feedback. Through these 
engagements, we gather stakeholder feedback on the key 
issues they are focussed on, which helps us confirm and 
further refine our sustainability strategy and focus areas.

Following the launch of our first standalone Sustainability 
Report last June, we conducted a series of meetings with 
our investors to share key highlights from the Report, and 
our current progress and future plans in our sustainability 
journey. We simultaneously collected our investors’ views 
and suggestions on the Group’s sustainability strategy, 
performance and disclosure. We also actively engaged with 
rating agencies in a more systematic manner, to ensure 
that the analysis of Jardine’s sustainability performance 
accurately reflects our sustainability approach, 
commitments, actions and progress. Through the 
coordinated efforts made across the Group’s businesses, 
we have achieved a significant improvement in our 
ESG ratings in 2022.

Engaging our internal stakeholders is a key focus, and we 
use a range of channels, from internal surveys to events 
and campaigns, to encourage a dialogue among colleagues 
on sustainability . We use an internal sustainability 
communication channel to provide regular updates to our 
colleagues on sustainability accomplishments and events, 
share the latest sustainability news and trends, and 
provide access to sustainability-related learning courses.

We also reference the latest global reporting standards, 
the sustainability reports of our Group businesses and 
those of our peers, expert insights and environmental 
and social megatrends to identify new and emerging 
sustainability issues relevant to the Group. Informed by the 
results of our stakeholder engagement activities and the 
rapidly evolving sustainability landscape, we continuously 
review and enhance our sustainability strategy and focus 
areas to ensure relevance and materiality to the Group.

Climate Action
We know climate change will increasingly impact our 
business and we are actively identifying the physical and 
transition risks we face, as well as approaches for 
mitigation. At the same time, we view supporting and 
contributing to the transition to a low carbon and, 
ultimately, a net-zero world as not only a business 
imperative but also a source of new opportunities for 
impact and growth. As a primarily Asian-based owner and 
operator, we fully understand the challenges and the 
operating environment in the region. Our network of 
partners, the skills of our colleagues and the credibility we 
have in the region, give us a unique platform to accelerate 
the transition, by creating and leveraging opportunities to 
leapfrog to the sustainable economies of the future.

While this Sustainability section provides the Group’s 
perspective, we acknowledge that Jardines’ overall climate 
change performance is the result of a collaborative effort 
with each of our businesses. As our Group businesses 
continue to build their climate resilience, the Group will 
provide support, guidance, and oversight to ensure that 
Jardines as a whole is ready for the future.



54 Jardine Matheson  
Annual Report 2022

Sustainability

TCFD Report
This section provides details on our climate journey based 
on the TCFD recommendations. Please refer to the 
Consistency with TCFD Requirements section on page 58 
for a detailed view on the extent of alignment with the 
recommendations.

Governance
Climate action is one of the critical topics reviewed and 
assessed by the SLC. The SLC receives updates on global 
and regional climate and sustainability trends, policies, 
initiatives and activities undertaken by Group businesses 
and the Group twice a year. Progress on climate risk 
assessments and identified climate risks and opportunities 
are also provided to the SLC, to inform their discussion of 
sustainability strategy and priorities. A number of 
sustainability-related policies, including the Group’s 
Climate Change Policy, were reviewed by the SLC and 
published in 2022. All sustainability-related policies are 
periodically reviewed by executive management and 
updated as required.

The Climate Action Working Group comprises 
representatives from each of our businesses, who are 
responsible for delivering climate-related initiatives within 
their companies. The Working Group meets on a quarterly 
basis and the chairpersons provide updates on progress to 
the SLC.

The Group Sustainability Team, headed by the Group Head 
of Corporate Affairs and Sustainability, supports the 
SLC and the Climate Action Working Group in developing 
the overall sustainability strategy and respective 
initiatives. A monthly meeting is held by the Group 
Sustainability Team with the Executive Chairman, to report 
progress on our sustainability agenda.

For more information on respective roles and 
responsibilities, and management oversight of the 
sustainability agenda (including climate risks and 
opportunities) across the Group, please refer to the 
Sustainability Governance section on page 51.

Strategy
Over the past few years, we have been engaged in an 
ongoing exercise to identify and analyse material climate 
risks and opportunities across the Group. Climate 
scenarios are adopted, to evaluate the resilience of our 
businesses to the impacts of climate change on our 

strategy and financial planning. At Jardines, we use three 
sets of time horizons to analyse climate-related risks and 
opportunities: short-term (within five years), medium-term 
(five to ten years) and long-term (beyond ten years).

In 2021, we completed a preliminary study of physical risks 
likely to have a material impact on the Group, through 
asset damage and business disruption. We analysed 
the exposure and impact of acute1 and chronic2 hazards 
on more than 800 significant assets across our Group 
businesses in 22 countries and regions, under three 
Representative Concentration Pathways (‘RCPs’) developed 
by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 
(‘IPCC’)3. Our top identified climate hazards, their 
corresponding impacts and mitigation measures are 
summarised in the table below. 

In 2022, the Group initiated an assessment of transition 
risks that may impact our businesses, with the assistance 
of Group Sustainability and GARM. The exercise aimed to 
develop a consistent set of scenarios and assumptions for 
risk assessment across the Group, setting the foundation 
for a robust methodology which would result in comparable 
outcomes across our businesses. Two scenarios were 
developed based on internationally recognised data sets4 
with the following characteristics:

Low-emissions scenario High-emissions scenario

• Global warming is 
limited to well below 2˚C

• Rapid coordinated 
global response to 
climate change

• Implementation of strict 
climate policies

• Active decarbonisation 
of businesses

• High consumer 
awareness of climate 
change

• Global warming is on 
track to reach at least 
3.3˚C

• No significant 
acceleration and climate 
action from currently 
announced policies

• Slow investment in 
climate transition

• Lack of consumer 
awareness of climate 
change

The scenarios will be periodically refreshed to align with 
the climate science updates and significant changes in our 
operating environments as a result of shifts in policy, 
regulations and other signals.

1 Acute hazards include landslide, rainfall flood, river flood, storm surge, and typhoon.
2 Chronic hazards include extreme heat, snow melt, drought, and sea level rise.
3 RCP 2.6 represents a low-emission scenario, RCP 4.5 represents a medium-emission scenario and RCP 8.5 represents a high-emission scenario. 
4 Scenarios are based on the IPCC Representative Concentration Pathways, the Network for Greening the Financial System (‘NGFS’) and the International Energy Agency (‘IEA)’, 

supplemented by additional research to reflect the unique regional context. 



55Jardine Matheson  
Annual Report 2022

Sustainability

The assessment produced distinct transition risk heat maps for the High-emissions and Low-emissions scenarios, identifying 
the critical impact of transition risk drivers across the business activities of our Group business in their most material 
geographic regions, based on revenue and/or strategic value. A number of mitigation planning workshops have been 
conducted across the businesses to kickstart thinking in relation to building a structured approach to climate resilience and 
equipping our businesses with the right knowledge and resources to implement it.

We believe that climate risks are emerging in the short term, but are most likely to materialise in the medium and long-term. 
A summary of the identified physical and transition risks that may have a material impact on our business, and our response 
(mitigation measures) , is included in the table below:

Physical risks Potential impacts Our response

Typhoon
Severity as measured by wind speed is 
increasing in Southeast Asia and is 
expected to move north, with more 
frequent and destructive typhoons in 
the Chinese mainland, Hong Kong, 
Vietnam, and the Philippines.

• Disruption of services and 
business operations

• Damage to equipment, facilities 
and properties

• Decrease in business demand 
due to business disruption and 
loss of attractions to tourist areas

• Develop business contingency plans

• Incorporate special considerations 
during planning and design of 
new projects

• Implement inspection and 
preventative maintenance 
programmes for critical infrastructure

• Set up emergency response teams

• Engage with government bodies on 
flood defences 

Rainfall flooding
Severity as measured by flood depth is 
expected to increase across Asia. This 
will have major implications for our low 
lying and flood vulnerable assets 
throughout the region.

Extreme heat
Measured by the combined impact of 
temperature and humidity on the 
human body and is forecasted to 
increase in the period to 2030 across 
Asia. Higher latitudes are expected to 
be most adversely affected.

• Adverse effect on employees’ 
health and safety

• Damage to equipment, facilities 
and properties 

• Develop safety work procedures for 
employees working in extreme 
heat conditions

• Develop business contingency plans

• Incorporate special considerations 
during planning and design of 
new projects

• Implement inspection and 
preventative maintenance 
programmes for critical infrastructure

Transition risks Potential impacts Our response

Carbon price
Direct (e.g. carbon tax) or indirect costs 
associated with emissions reduction 
regulatory or fiscal policies.

• Increased cost of raw materials 
such as steel and cement, 
products, and services

• Increased capital expenditures 
and cost of operations

• Supply chain disruptions

• High energy efficiency 
requirements

• Changing customer preferences 
and behaviour

• Increased risk of litigation, 
requiring additional efforts for 
compliance

• Source alternative low-carbon 
materials

• Introduce new low-carbon products 
and services

• Invest in energy efficiency

• Invest in R&D/innovation

• Regular study of customer 
preferences and behaviour

• Monitor upcoming carbon and 
climate-related regulatory 
requirements

• Build climate resilience capability 
across the Group

Energy price
The rising prices of primary and 
secondary energy, i.e., fossil fuels and 
electricity.

Polices and regulations
Examples include green building 
policies which are applicable to most 
of our businesses, and electric vehicle 
policies which are applicable to our 
motor businesses. 



56 Jardine Matheson  
Annual Report 2022

Sustainability

We are progressively building on our learning every year, 
to further enhance our methodology and future-proof our 
business. We have been proactive in responding to climate 
risks, but there is still much to learn and do. The climate 
risk assessment will help inform discussions on business 
strategy, financial planning and capital allocation, to move 
forward in a way that leverages the opportunities 
uncovered by the transition, while mitigating climate 
change impacts and adapting to the effects that are 
already taking place.

Our success as a business is based on our ability to 
identify emerging risks and opportunities and make the 
right capital investment decisions. The risk management 
process described below enables the integration of these 
risks and opportunities, including climate-related ones, 
into our long-term strategy. This is the first step in putting 
climate risk on the agenda in all aspects of how we operate 
our businesses, including strategic and financial planning, 
investment and divestment decisions, managing our 
supply chains, developing products and services, and daily 
business operations across all Group businesses.

With guidance from Group Finance and Group 
Sustainability, each of our Group businesses allots a 
budget to fund sustainability and climate action-related 
activities. The budgets are approved by the Chief Finance 
Officers of our businesses and the Group Finance Director. 
One of the Group's focus areas for 2022 is the development 
of a framework for a systematic incorporation of 
sustainability considerations, including climate risks, 
into capital allocation decisions.

We are pursuing climate resilient development on the 
journey to a low carbon economy. As an Asian-based 
conglomerate, we want to be a key partner for the region 
in contributing to an orderly and equitable transition, 
which helps to reduce energy poverty, create economic 
opportunities, and strengthen climate resilience. In this 
context, Jardine Matheson and our Group businesses 
published a Just Energy Transition statement in June 2022.

We are actively expanding our involvement in the 
renewable energy sector, with key investments in this area 
by Refrigeration Electrical Engineering Corporation (‘REE’), 
a Vietnam-based associate of JC&C, and our Indonesian 
subsidiary, Astra. Vietnam is one of the region’s fast-

growing markets for renewables, where installed capacity 
of wind, solar and hydro is forecast to double to 150GW by 
2030; and REE has been a leading developer of sustainable 
infrastructure since 2010. Astra is investing in hydro, wind 
and solar projects, as well as exploring new technologies 
and innovations in biomass waste-to-energy. 

Risk Management
To evaluate and prioritise the climate risks faced by the 
Group, risk heat maps have been developed, which classify 
all relevant risks into different impact severity groups 
ranging from low to high. Understanding the implications 
of these risks to the businesses and the Group will 
guide our planning of risk mitigation and enable us to 
prioritise action.

An important objective of the climate risk assessments we 
have conducted in the past two years was building a 
culture of climate action across our businesses. Most of 
our businesses are actively attuning their business 
capabilities to better evaluate and respond to climate risk. 
The Group will continue to guide the discussion, to further 
improve our businesses’ approach to assessing the 
significance and impact of climate risks in relation to 
other risks.

We have incorporated the best practices of enterprise risk 
management into the process of climate risk identification 
and assesssment. The teams responsible for risk 
management in each of our Group businesses provide a 
business-specific risk perspective to the sustainability 
team in the business. GARM also collaborates with the 
Group Sustainability Team to develop the Group's climate 
risk assessment framework and approach. In addition, 
different business functions, including Procurement, 
Operations and Marketing & Sales are involved in the 
process to provide feedback on the identified climate risks.

Physical and transition risk reports have been provided to 
the Group businesses to further explore the implications 
for, and develop mitigation measures to minimise the 
impact to, our businesses, including both property damage 
and business disruption. The Group businesses are also 
encouraged to assign risk owners to manage risks in a 
holistic manner. Guidance and support on climate risk 
management and mitigation measures planning are 
provided by GARM and Group Sustainability, when needed. 



57Jardine Matheson  
Annual Report 2022

Sustainability

Climate risks and mitigation measures are reported to 
GARM twice a year. GARM and Group Sustainability will 
review the information and provide feedback, if any, to the 
Group businesses to improve the process and outcome.

In addition, climate risk is a topical area frequently 
included in internal risk management training and 
conferences, and it is also included in risk newsletters 
published by GARM to raise the awareness of climate 
change and climate action across the Group, particularly 
targeting finance and risk management colleagues.

The Group’s approach to overall risk management 
combines a top-down strategic view with a complementary 
bottom-up process. As with other principal risks and 
uncertainties, those risks identified as material to our 
businesses are consolidated at the Group level into the 
Group’s risk register and risk heat map, which are reported 
to the Audit Committee twice a year. Climate risks have 
been already been reported by some businesses who are 
advanced in their sustainability journey and featured in the 
Group’s Principal Risk and Uncertainties. 

Building on the Group-wide climate risk assessments 
performed in 2021 and 2022, climate change modelling 
and financial impact assessments will be conducted for our 
businesses based on a common set of scenarios and 
assumptions which have been developed. The financial 
impact of existing climate risks reported by some 
businesses will be revisited. For the businesses which 
have not yet reported climate risks in their risk registers, 
financial impact will be assessed, so that the climate risks 
identified can be fully integrated into risk registers and 
managed together with other business risks within the 
existing enterprise risk management framework.

Please refer to the Risk Management and Internal Control 
section of this Report for details of the Group’s risk 
management framework, including risk identification, 
assessment, treatment, and reporting and monitoring. 
The Monitoring of Risk Management and Internal Control 
Systems section provides details on how GARM monitors 
the approach taken by the businesses to managing risk.

Metrics and Targets
Building on the climate risk assessment work carried out in 
the past couple of years, we are now in the process of 
establishing metrics and indicators to help the Group 
manage relevant climate risks and opportunities. As we 
drive forward the climate action agenda in 2023 and 
beyond, we will consider forward-looking metrics to help us 
build resilience to climate change.

In 2021, we developed GHG emissions guidance which is 
in line with the GHG Protocol methodology on measuring 
Scope 1 and 2 emissions, and aggregated data to provide a 
Group-wide picture of our collective GHG emissions. At the 
time of publication of this Report, the Group’s 2022 
performance is still undergoing external assurance, and 
further details will therefore be provided in the forthcoming 
Sustainability Report 2022. The Group’s 2021 performance 
is extracted in the table below:

Metric Unit of 
measure

Group total 
in 2021

Scope 1 emissions tCO2e 4,112,571

Scope 2 emissions 
(location-based)

tCO2e 1,305,804

Scope 2 emissions 
(market-based)

tCO2e 1,299,662

Total GHG emissions 
(Scope 1 and location-
based Scope 2)

tCO2e 5,418,375*

* The data was subject to independent limited assurance by PricewaterhouseCoopers as 
part of our 2021 Sustainability Report which is available on our website.

2021 was the first year for which we collected GHG 
emissions data across the Group, starting with direct 
emissions (Scope 1 and 2). The Group is aware of the 
importance of collecting our indirect emissions (Scope 3) 
data, and we are already planning to collect and disclose it 
in the near future.



58 Jardine Matheson  
Annual Report 2022

Sustainability

Decarbonisation has been a key focus area of the Group’s 
sustainability strategy. The Group’s ultimate strategic 
ambition is to transition towards net-zero, in line with 
climate science. The Group has set its sights on developing 
a credible medium-term target aligned with a 1.5°C 
trajectory. The success of the Group in reducing carbon 
emissions is dependent on the decarbonisation progress 
by each individual business. Every business is responsible 
and held accountable for developing science-based 
decarbonisation plans and delivering on the agreed 
targets. In 2022, the Group continued to build momentum 
on our net-zero strategy, and the following businesses 
made significant progress aligning to the Group’s net-zero 
approach:

• Hongkong Land had its 1.5°C near-term5 target validated 
by the Science-Based Target initiative (‘SBTi’); and

• Hactl and Gammon submitted commitment letters for 
1.5°C near-term5 targets to SBTi.

A number of our other businesses are also progressing the 
development of a science-based approach which will align 
with the Group's ambitions in this area.

Consistency with TCFD requirements
Our climate-related disclosures meet the reporting 
requirements for UK standard listed companies, and are 
consistent with the TCFD recommendations on:

• governance – all recommended disclosures;

• strategy – disclosures (a) and (b);

• risk management – all recommended disclosures;

• metrics and targets – disclosures (b).
 
As we are still in the early stages of our TCFD journey, 
we acknowledge that we are not fully consistent with 
TCFD requirements, including the additional guidance for 
all sectors published in October 2021. It will take some 
time for us to fully consider and plan the actions necessary 
to achieve alignment. We will continue to move forward 
and improve our disclosure in the coming years.
 
For strategy disclosure (c), we are still analysing our 
climate risk assessment results and are in the process of 
identifying potential climate opportunities, and we have 
not yet fully adjusted our business strategy for climate 
resilient development under the low emissions scenario. 
This is an ongoing area of collaboration between Group 
Sustainability, GARM and Group Strategy in the short term.
 

For metrics and targets disclosure (a), as we are finalising 
the results of climate risk assessment, we have not yet 
reached the stage of developing metrics. For disclosure (c), 
as a conglomerate operating across a variety of sectors, 
setting a single Group-wide target is complex. We will start 
developing the metrics and explore the feasibility of 
setting a Group-wide target in line with climate science in 
the short term.

Responsible Consumption
Promoting resource efficiency and seeking opportunities 
for circularity are at the heart of our operations. In early 
2022, we established the Responsible Consumption 
Working Group (‘RCWG’) as a platform for our businesses to 
collaborate and drive the Group strategy across three focus 
areas: Plastic, Food and Nature. The RCWG met quarterly in 
2022 to establish a framework and a coordinated approach 
for more efficient use of resources across our operations. 
Through closer collaboration, we create more value as a 
Group by leveraging our synergies and cross-sectoral 
expertise. Our businesses are actively sharing insights and 
exploring collaboration opportunities.

In 2022, one of the key priorities of the RCWG was to 
identify major waste streams and expand ongoing waste 
reduction initiatives. We prioritised our efforts on the major 
types of wastes produced in our operations, namely food 
waste, plastic waste and construction waste. Going 
forward, the members of the RCWG will continue to 
collaborate and seek ways to enhance data collection and 
improve data quality, to support target setting in the future.

Group Sustainability keeps up-to-date on the latest market 
trends and engages with our businesses to discuss specific 
issues that may have a significant impact on our 

5 SBTi defined near-term target as five to ten years, which is the medium-term target as defined by Jardines.



59Jardine Matheson  
Annual Report 2022

Sustainability

businesses. In 2022, external experts were invited to host 
a workshop on the latest legislation and best practices in 
circularity in relation to the food and beverages industry in 
Hong Kong. Relevant Group businesses also shared their 
initiatives and challenges in waste management and 
circularity. They actively sought waste reduction 
collaboration opportunities, and actions have been 
identified to follow up the discussions.

Contributing to the protection of nature is a key element of 
our commitment to sustainability. Nature risks include loss 
of biodiversity and degradation of ecosystems. As part of a 
global effort to protect and restore nature for current and 
future generations, governments from around the world 
came together in December 2022 for the UN Biodiversity 
Conference (‘COP 15’). A series of goals and targets for 
2030 and 2050 were established as part of a framework to 
halt and reverse biodiversity loss. Jardines is closely 
monitoring global developments post-COP15, including the 
regulatory requirements of the Task Force for Nature-related 
Financial Disclosure (‘TNFD’), and increasing interest on 
biodiversity conservation, as well as future opportunities 
for the Group. We have engaged closely with our 
businesses and relevant stakeholders to address 
biodiversity issues, including supporting the long-term 
preservation of the Tapanuli orangutan in the areas near 
the Martabe mine in Indonesia. More details can be 
found in the statement on the Martabe mine and 
Tapanuli orangutan in the Sustainability section of the 
Company’s website.

Social Inclusion
Supporting our communities has been a longstanding 
commitment at Jardines. Our community investment 
strategy focuses on positively contributing to the issues 
of education, health (especially mental health) and 
livelihoods.

In 2022, the Jardine Foundation celebrated its 40th 
anniversary of providing access to higher education. 
Over the past four decades, the Foundation has awarded 
over 400 scholarships at the undergraduate and 
postgraduate level to help outstanding students from 
the Group's Asian markets study at top UK universities. 
As part of the anniversary celebrations, we announced the 
expansion of the Foundation's focus to support access to 
leading Asian universities, with the launch of two new 
scholarships, with the University of Hong Kong and the 
Universitas Gadjah Mada in Indonesia.

Recognising the prevalence of mental health-related issues 
and the need to increase access to quality mental health 
care and effective treatments, Jardines established 
MINDSET in Hong Kong in 2002, with a vision to create 
inclusive communities where everyone is empowered to 
improve their mental health. When MINDSET was first 
established, the mental health community was 
underserved and affected by social stigma. As MINDSET 
celebrated its 20th anniversary in 2022, the awareness and 
understanding of mental health have improved as more 
resources are available to support people tackling mental 
health difficulties and help rehabilitated individuals 
integrate into the community. Operations expanded into 
Singapore in 2011. MINDSET collaborates with several 
mental health organisations to raise awareness and 
support people with mental ill-health. Since the launch of 
MINDSET Hong Kong in 2002, over HK$78 million has been 
raised to support 198,000 beneficiaries.

Engaging our employees and developing a sustainability 
culture, where everyone is aware they have a role to play in 
our sustainability journey, is essential to the success of our 
strategy. Sustainability was a key focus of our employee 
engagement activities in 2022. We also hosted several 
events dedicated to raising the awareness of our 
colleagues on sustainability. During LearnFest 2022, 
Jardine’s annual learning week, sustainability-related 
sessions provided colleagues with the opportunity to 
increase their knowledge in this area. The Jardine 
Internship Programme and Jardine Executive Trainee 
Programme included a Sustainability Challenge to 
inspire innovative ideas amongst our young talents, 
with guidance and support from Group Sustainability. 
We will continue to provide a range of learning 
opportunities to build up sustainability capabilities and 
further develop a sustainability culture for our employees 
across the Group.