Izabele Cristina da Silva Melo 
Commercial Analyst, JBS

JBS ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY 
REPORT 2021



CONTENTS
FOREWORD, 3 

Organizational culture, 4
Message from the Global CEO, 5
Message from the Chairman of the 
Board of Directors, 7
Our journey to Net Zero, 9 
About this report, 17
2021 at a glance, 18
Key global indicators, 19

ABOUT JBS, 20 
About us, 21
Our businesses, 23 

VALUE CREATION MODEL, 44 
Food quality and safety, 45
Innovation and our brand, 49
Innovation in practice, 51
Customers and consumers, 53

APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY  
AND ESG, 55 

Strategy, 56 
Materiality, 58
Progress on the JBS 2030  
Global Goals, 60

Environmental (E), 62
Environmental stewardship, 62
Climate change, 63
Energy management, 66
Waste management, 69  
Reverse logistics, 71
Sustainable business model, 72
Circular economy, 73
Water and effluent management, 74
Biodiversity, 76
Product integrity, 77 
Responsible sourcing, 78 
Supplier engagement, 82

Social (S), 86 
Social responsibility, 86
Our people, 87
Diversity & inclusion, 96 
Occupational health & safety, 99 
Communities, 103
Animal welfare, 109
Breeding and management, 111
Transportation, 118  
Production, 120

Governance (G), 122 
Our purpose, 122 
Management structure, 123 
Risk management, 125
Compliance, 129 
Partnerships, memberships, 
awards and recognition, 135

FINANCIAL AND OPERATING 
PERFORMANCE, 136

Operational and financial health,  137 

APPENDIXES, 140  
Global GRI content index, 141
Statement Verification SGS, 160
Credits, 161

2FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



3

FOREWORD

FOREWORD ABOUT JBS ESG STRATEGY ABOUT US OUR BUSINESSES VALUE CREATION MODEL

• Organizational culture
• Message from the Global CEO
• Message from the Chairman of the 

Board of Directors
• Our journey to Net Zero 
• About this report
• 2021 at a glance
• Key global indicators

3FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



Our organizational culture is defined by 
a set of values that embody our essence, 
guide our approach to doing business, 
and help us achieve our enterprise goals. 

GRI 102-16

Organizational 
culture

Our Mission
To be the best in everything 
we do, fully focused on the 
business, delivering the best 
products and services to our 
customers, building trust 
with our suppliers, creating 
value for our shareholders, 
and offering a better future 
for our workforce.

Our Beliefs
• We are obsessed about 

product quality

• We are detail-oriented

• We take a hands-on approach

• We achieve through hard work

• We have the right people in 
the right place

• We are passionate about 
what we do

• Our actions speak louder 
than our knowledge

• Real leaders build trust

• We lead by example

• We are results-oriented

• We work with people who 
are better than we are

• Belief makes the difference

Our Values
• Ownership

• Determination

• Discipline

• Availability

• Sincerity

• Humility

• Simplicity

4FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



I believe that 
with innovation, 
investment and 
collaboration, Net 
Zero is within our 
reach

Message from 
the Global CEO
GRI 102-14, 102-15

In 2021 we navigated another challeng-
ing year. But amid the adverse business 
conditions, stemming primarily from the 
covid-19 pandemic, we continued to 
advance our business strategy with our 
global multi-protein platform, our broad 
portfolio of value-added products, and 
our strong brands. These provide a firm 
foundation for our future growth and con-
tinued contribution to one of the biggest 
challenges facing humanity: feeding 10 
billion people, and doing so ever more 
sustainably. 

Our diversified geographies and protein 
types remain one of our key strengths, 
along with our organizational culture. 
Some of our businesses and regions were 
faced with particularly adverse conditions 
and cycles, and these were offset by other 
geographies thanks to diversification. A 
privileged view of global market develop-
ments means we can effectively manage 
our product mix and costs, and detect 
trends and opportunities. The results of 
this were seen in 2021, with JBS delivering 
its best financial performance to date.

We ended 2021 with a Full Investment 
Grade rating and record-setting opera-
tional indicators: net revenue was R$350.7 
billion, EBITDA was R$45.7 billion, net 
income was R$20.5 billion, and we had 
the lowest level of indebtedness to date. 
These results demonstrate operational ex-
cellence and our ability to reconcile short-
term returns with growth. Indeed, we 
continued to invest heavily in both organic 
expansion and acquisitions, supporting 
job creation and the development of the 
communities where we operate. 

Our efforts this year have laid the ground-
work for sustained growth in the coming 
years. JBS, formerly a local company 
focused on a single protein, has grown 
into a global food enterprise with a di-
versified footprint, operating across the 
main protein types with a vast portfolio of 
value-added products and strong brands.

We completed seven strategic acqui-
sitions in the year that have expanded 
our presence in segments where we see 
potential for growth. JBS’s acquisition of 
Vivera, for example, has put us in a lead-
ing position in the European plant-based 

protein market and given us a platform 
from which to achieve growth and syner-
gies across our global operations in the 
sector. With our acquisition of Huon, in 
Australia, we now produce our own fish 
products with a leading position in the 
regional market, and are well-positioned 
for outward expansion. The year also saw 
our first foray into the cultured protein 
market with our acquisition of Biotech 
Foods, in Spain, and our announcement 
of a new cultured protein R&D center in 
Florianópolis, southern Brazil. 

As we expand our production capacity, 
we are also transforming our approach to 
engaging with customers and consumers. 
In the last two years we have witnessed 
unprecedented growth in the use of 
direct-sales and third-party e-commerce 
platforms. For instance, Friboi Online, 
Seara Store, Comer Bem and Swift Online 
offer our brands and products across re-
gions in Brazil, also benefiting our custom-
ers’ channels. In the US and Mexico, Wild 
Fork Foods offers ready-to-eat meals and 
an assortment of proteins online.

5FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



We owe these advances to the efforts 
of our nearly 250,000 employees in 
the more than 20 countries where we 
operate. Our acquisitions in the year 
brought more than 7,500 team members 
and their families into our fold—fami-
lies who rely on JBS's strength for their 
livelihoods. A core part of our strategy is 
having the best people in the right plac-
es, with a mindset that is aligned with 
our culture and our values. Our focus 
on people and culture has enabled us to 
grow into the largest protein-based food 
company in the world, and will continue 
to drive our successful future.

JBS’s growth has also created a respon-
sibility, as a leading player in the global 
food industry, to help tackle another of 
humanity’s most pressing challenges: 
the climate emergency. We need to 
transform our food production model 
along the entire value chain. Our life-
style is consuming more resources than 
Earth can regenerate. As global leaders, 
we have undertaken a commitment to 
decarbonize our end-to-end value chain 
as we implement best practices around 
the ESG agenda.

At JBS, sustainability is an overarching 
value against which all other strategic 
aspects are assessed. Guiding us on 
this mission is the Net Zero commit-
ment we announced in March 2021—to 
bring our net greenhouse gas emissions 
to zero by 2040. We will invest US$ 1 
billion through 2030 to decarbonize our 
operations, and we will allocate US$ 100 
million to research and development. By 

mid-2023, we will submit to the Science 
Based Targets Initiative (SBTi) a detailed 
roadmap to deliver on our Net Zero 
pledge.

Several initiatives have already been put 
into place globally. For example, in 2021 
we created a partnership to introduce a 
nutritional supplement that can signifi-
cantly reduce enteric methane emis-
sions from cattle on a global scale. The 
initiative is being implemented initially in 
Brazil. We are also helping to fund a new 
Feedlot Innovation Center at the Uni-
versity of Nebraska, and have pledged 
support for Colorado State University’s 
AgNext program to develop carbon se-
questration solutions for different types 
of pastureland.

We are also engaged in efforts to make 
the electricity we use increasingly clean 
and renewable. Today, 100% of the 
electricity that our Pilgrim’s Pride UK 
facilities source is renewable. In Brazil 
the figure has now reached 90%. In Moy 
Park UK’s transportation division, we’re 
decarbonizing the local vehicle fleet by 
purchasing natural gas trucks. Mean-
while, No Carbon—our new electric 
truck rental business—has started com-
mercial operation, initially serving our 
own Group companies in Brazil.  

A core aspect of this journey has been 
our zero-tolerance approach to illegal 
deforestation. To monitor our 80,000 
suppliers in Brazil, 10 years ago we 
implemented a geospatial monitoring 
system in line with our responsible beef 

sourcing policy. In 2021 we launched a 
Transparent Livestock Farming Platform 
that is using blockchain technology to 
extend livestock monitoring further 
upstream in the value chain. By year-end 
2025, we will be able to track compli-
ance along the entire value chain. 

But blocking nonconforming suppliers 
is just the first step. We believe a truly 
sustainable system is one that supports 
ranchers in improving their livestock 
practices. Recognizing this, we have 
established 15 Green Offices through-
out Brazil to provide technical support 
to more than 2,000 direct and indirect 
producers. The program also provides 
facilitated access to credit via partner 
financial institutions. 

We have continued to strengthen our 
initiatives in support of disadvantaged 
communities. Our Good Deeds Are 
Good Indeed program, which donated 
more than R$ 400 million to support the 
pandemic response, and the JBS Ama-
zon Fund, which is funding initiatives to 
promote sustainable social and econom-
ic development in the Amazon, are ex-
amples of these efforts in Brazil. These 
endeavors have also extended to our op-
erations around the world, including the 
US and Canada, where our Hometown 
Strong initiative has invested US$ 100 
million in the last two years to support 
our communities, and where our Better 
Futures program has funded educational 
courses for more than 2,500 people. 

We may not have all the answers yet, 
but we have a firm commitment that 
has been integrated into our culture. We 
believe that, by producing high-quali-
ty and more sustainable food, we can 
feed the world with the best there is, 
improving people’s lives. We are confi-
dent that, through collaboration, we can 
meet humanity’s challenge of feeding a 
growing global population in an increas-
ingly sustainable manner, helping to 
build a better planet for ours and future 
generations. 

Gilberto Tomazoni
Global CEO 

6FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



JBS is determined to be an agent of 
development in the regions and communi-
ties where we operate, while helping build 
a business environment that upholds high 
standards of integrity, ethics and social 
and environmental responsibility. Within 
this vision, our Board of Directors, recog-
nizing JBS’s responsibility as a leader in 
the global agribusiness sector, has worked 
continuously to integrate the ESG agenda 
into our strategy, supporting initiatives 
that capture opportunities created by the 
new industry landscape.

In 2021, in an important effort to advance 
best governance practices and foster 
a fairer and more equitable workplace 
environment, we created a Diversity & 
Inclusion Committee, supported by four 
affinity groups—Gender, Ethnic & Racial, 
LGBTQIAP+ and People with Disabilities—
to develop affirmative action policies. 
With this addition, we now have six advi-
sory committees supporting the Board of 
Directors in strategic decision-making.

As another significant improvement to 
our governance structure, we ended 2021 
with seven independent Board members 
out of a total of nine, a ratio well above 
the minimum under the B3 Novo Mercado 
listing rules, illustrating our commitment 
to continuously perfect our controls and 
decision-making processes. And with 22% 
women on our Board of Directors, which 
earned us Women On Board certification 
last year, we have yet another reason to 
celebrate.

The efforts we have made to improve our 
risk management and decision-making 
processes have been recognized by both 
the Brazilian and global capital markets, as 
denoted by our stock appreciation in the 
year and our investment-grade rating from 
the leading global rating agencies.

In the social sphere, we have continued 
to support our communities and employ-
ees in mitigating the impacts from the 
Covid-19 pandemic. Through programs 

like Hometown Strong, in North Ameri-
ca, and Good Deeds Are Good Indeed, 
in Brazil, we have invested more than R$ 
700 million over the last two years, be-
queathing a legacy to the regions where 
we are present. The JBS Amazon Fund 
has selected six projects that will contrib-
ute to social development in the region. 
Through our Better Futures program and 
the Germinare Business School, we have 
helped to improve access to education 
and to train future leaders.

In the environmental dimension, in March 
2021 we undertook what I believe to be 
one of the biggest challenges in our histo-
ry: our Net Zero 2040 commitment, un-
der which we will reduce our direct (scope 
1 and 2) and indirect (scope 3) emissions, 
while offsetting any residual emissions. 
With our mission of feeding the world 
with the best there is and in an increas-
ingly sustainable manner, JBS aspires to 
lead in advancing the responsible devel-
opment of our communities—supporting 

Message from the 
Chairman of the 
Board of Directors
GRI 102-14, 102-15

7FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



jobs, disseminating best management and 
governance practices, and preventing and 
mitigating environmental impacts.

Within JBS, we often say that sustainabil-
ity is our strategy. And we mean it.  As 
a long-time executive at JBS and now 
as chairman of the Board of Directors, 
I have witnessed how this has been put 
into practice in our organization’s day-to-
day activities. We have made significant 
efforts to advance the circular economy 
and for more than a decade have tracked 
indicators measuring the impacts from our 
operations on the environment.

With support from the Board, JBS is 
building a global governance system 
around our Net Zero goal, with a focus on 
management, collaboration and inte-
gration and on setting clear, actionable, 
science-based targets so we are able to 
fulfill our commitment to society and to 
the future of the next generations. 

We share the view that agribusiness can 
be an important part of the solution to 
the challenges created by the climate 
emergency. Within this vision, throughout 
2021 we worked to build a broad global 
strategy to decarbonize the end-to-end 
beef value chain. In our Brazil operations, 
this effort comprises three major pillars: 
supplier monitoring, cattle farm manage-
ment and support, and cattle manage-
ment. Other initiatives are being advanced 
at a global level to make our operations 

increasingly sustainable, such as the ex-
panded use of renewable energy sources, 
decarbonization of our logistics activities, 
and efficient water resource management.

In the following pages of this report, we 
describe JBS’s progress throughout 2021 
across the environmental, social and 
governance fronts. Reconciling sharehold-
er value with social and environmental 
responsibility, we completed seven new 
acquisitions in the year and delivered 
our best financial performance to date, 
while laying the foundation for continued 
progress in sustainable business practices. 
This was only possible through the efforts 
of our 250,000 employees in more than 
20 countries on five continents, whose 
commitment and dedication are a source 
of pride and deep gratitude.

Jeremiah O’Callaghan
Chairman of the Board of Directors

In 2021 we created a Diversity & Inclusion 
Committee under the Board of Directors, 
and we ended the year with seven 
independent Board members (78%) out of a 
total of nine, a ratio well above the minimum 
under the B3 Novo Mercado listing rules

8FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



Our journey to 
Net Zero 

GRI 103-2, 103-3 | 305, TCFD

2021 is the year we committed to net zero 
emissions of GHG, reducing our direct 
and indirect emissions to the extent possi-
ble, and offsetting any residual emissions. 
The Company will submit a science-based 
action plan with targets consistent with 
the criteria of the Science-Based Targets 
initiative (SBTi).

This ambitious commitment is a reflection 
of JBS’ objective of providing the food and 
nutritional needs of a growing world popu-
lation in an increasingly sustainable manner, 
preserving the planet’s resources for future 
generations. Sustainability is more than 
just an element of our strategy. It is the 
very strategy of JBS. It guides everything 
we do. Why is this? First of all, because we 
recognize we are in a climate emergency. 
This crisis already affects our planet and 
is harming some of the more vulnerable 
countries and communities in a very tragic 
way. Furthermore, we believe that not only 
is the future of the planet at stake, but also 
the continuity of our business.

Climate change has a direct and negative 
impact on food production. If we do not 
stop global warming, we will no longer be 
able to create value for all our stakehold-
ers - our shareholders, customers, suppli-
ers, employees, communities, and society 
at large. We will no longer be able to feed 
the planet.

Not only must we put a stop to global 
warming, but we must ensure food secu-
rity for a world population that, in 2050, 
will be 10 billion people. These challenges 
cannot be overcome alone. We must find 
a way to produce more while simultane-
ously reducing the impact on the environ-
ment. Farming is a critical component of 
climate change, as it is able to feed the 
world more sustainably. This is why we 
must promote a transformation in agricul-
ture and cattle raising.

Based on this goal, we are working to 
adopt global best practices within a 
robust governance approach and circular 
economy. Our priority is to be agents of 
change, combining best environmental 

practices and economic development. 
This is why a circular economy is an in-
severable part of JBS’ business. It is both 
sustainable and profitable. 

In 2021 we decided to zero our net carbon 
emissions from all operations by 2040. 
This marks the next phase of our sustain-
ability journey and builds on 10 years of 
investment in concrete environmental 
actions across our value chain. We are one 
of the first industry players to invest in pol-
icies and technologies to fight, discourage, 
and eliminate deforestation in the Amazon. 

Sustainability is JBS’ 
strategy and guides 
everything we do

9FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



We have had a Responsible Sourcing Policy 
since 2009, defining socio-environmental 
criteria for supplier selection, and exclud-
ing any farms involved in deforestation. 
We have one of the world’s largest supplier 
monitoring systems, using satellite images 
to monitor an area equivalent to France 
and Germany combined to ensure com-
pliance with our Responsible Purchasing 
Policy. All farms in the Amazon that directly 
supply beef cattle to JBS are monitored 
using satellite images and georeferenced 
data on the property.

Since 2012, JBS has published its green-
house gas emissions inventories using 
IPCC methodology and recognized and 
regionalized emission factors, the GHG 
Protocol approach and, more recently, ISO 
14064. We also use a life-cycle inventory 
database such as ecoinvent, which pro-
vides a more detailed understanding of the 
environmental impact of our value chain. 

Given this, the company has been inves-
tigating and implementing a number of 
projects to mitigate its scope 1, 2, and 3 
emissions at its operating facilities around 
the world. As this culture matured, it 
consolidated the concept of a circular 
economy as a JBS business philosophy. 
Transforming the waste we generate into 
new products is an essential component 
of our value chain. It is also a successful 
model, as shown by JBS New Businesses 
(more on page 32). 

To address such a large challenge—emis-

sions in the beef cattle chain—JBS has a 
well-defined strategy to promote sustain-
ability among its partner cattle ranchers, 
combining technology and management 
to monitor and trace its direct and indirect 
suppliers, and disseminate best practic-
es for environmental regulation of cattle 
ranchers. By 2021 the company was al-
ready monitoring all of its direct suppliers 
in all biomes where it is present in Brazil: 
the Amazon, Cerrado, Pantanal, Atlantic 
Forest, and Caatinga.

All these initiatives are part of the JBS 
sustainability journey and are shared with 
the various stakeholders as public indica-
tors, promoting information sharing and 
transparency across society. 

Journey challenges  

and the means to get 
there
We are working on a number of in-com-
pany and external fronts to consolidate 
a long-term sustainability strategy and 
achieve the target of being Net Zero by 
2040.  One of the main elements of this 
new commitment is developing global 
governance, connecting departments and 
companies around the world to identify 
opportunities and share knowledge and 
best practices, scaling the efforts and 
reducing Company emissions. 

As part of its journey to Net Zero, by 2023 
JBS will submit to the SBTi a detailed 
roadmap of targets consistent with the ini-
tiative’s methodology to cap the increase 
in the global temperature at 1.5°C com-
pared to pre-industrial levels. 

To work on this roadmap, JBS engaged 
the support of two consulting firms of 
national and international repute for 
their work on sustainability, who are now 
working with the Company to find project 
opportunities, define clear KPIs, and build 
science-based action-plans and targets. 

Internally, JBS created a working group 
(WG) with focal points for all business-
es (Brazil, US, Canada, Mexico, Europe, 
Australia/New Zealand) to find solutions 
to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and 

We will invest  
US$ 1 billion 
in projects to 
decarbonize our 
operations by 2030

create value. This group meets from time 
to time to exchange experiences and 
look for common projects. Another six 
WGs were created in Brazil to identify 
and analyze proposals for all operations 
in-country.  These working groups are 
entitled: Agro; Sourcing; Engineering & 
Energy; Environment; R&D; Innovation; 
and the Circular Economy, and Logistics. 
Coordination and consolidation of these 
initiatives is the responsibility of a new 
position created within the Company - the 
Global Net Zero PMO, reporting directly 
to the JBS Global CEO.

To reinforce its commitment to the theme, 
a variable compensation policy that 

10FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



includes climate targets is being designed 
for senior executives.

In addition to promoting advances in gov-
ernance, JBS will invest up to US$ 1 billion 
in projects to decarbonize all its operations 
by 2030. US$ 100 million will be invested 
in research to come up with solutions to 
reduce our emissions, such as improved 
regenerative agricultural practices, more 
intense carbon sequestration in soil, and 
technologies focused on supplier farms.  

The maturity of JBS management sustain-
ability has been recognized by the industry. 
In 2021 the company was able to capture 
funds from four sustainability-related 
issuances (reduced emissions, the number 
of cattle ranchers who subscribed to the 
Transparent Cattle Ranching Platform), 
which raised US$ 3.2 billion. 

The philosophy in 
practice
To overcome the challenge of decarbon-
ization we have a plan that includes: An 
emissions inventory (map of risks and 
opportunities), developing scenarios (com-
bining strategy and the business), project 
assessment (checking the effectiveness of 
the measures), and target setting (aligning 
targets to the company’s level of ambition). 

Along this path, the main activities being 
looked into to reduce direct (scope 1 and 
2) emissions in our proprietary opera-
tions in Brazil (plants and DCs) include 
minimizing waste and expanding the use 
of biodigestors to dispose of organic 
waste and produce biogas; implementing 
cleaner and more efficient logistics with 
biofuels and electric vehicles, increased 
energy efficiency (plants and DCs), and 
expanding the share of renewably sourced 
energy in its operations. 

Our main challenge in reducing indirect 
(scope 3) emissions involves the sources 
of GHG emissions associated with raising 
cattle. These primarily include forest con-
servation, enteric animal emissions (meth-
ane), and pasture quality (carbon fixation 
in soil). Our initiatives to reduce these 
emissions in Brazil include monitoring and 
tracking our supply chain to ensure it is 
free of illegal deforestation (read more in 
the Beef Cattle Supplier Decarbonization 
Chain on page 13).

JBS’ key projects already show the 
company is committed to achieving its 
purpose. Our efforts are already making a 
positive impact on people, the planet and 
business continuity. These are described 
further in this report. 

The decision to reach 
net zero carbon 
emissions is based on 
a solid sustainability 
journey

11FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



scopes

scopes

scopes

scopes

scope
2022

2023

2021

2

2

2 3

2

1

1

1

1

3

Emissions 
reported for 100% 
of our operations 
(since 2012) 

Emissions reporting and 
audits spanning 100% 
of our operations

Emissions audits 
across 100% of our 
operations 

TARGET APPROVAL 
BY SBTi

Target assessment by 
SBTi

Completed

In progress

Emissions audit 
in Brazil 

Europe 2030 
targets approved 
by SBTi

Roadmap of science-
based emissions 
reduction targets (SBTi)

12FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



Decarbonization of the 
beef cattle supply chain

Given our position and scale, we have a 
duty to promote transformation in agri-
culture and ranching, making them more 
productive and sustainable. This requires 
the engagement of all links in the value 
chain. JBS is at the intersection of the 
farmer and consumer, transforming labor 
in fields and ranches into food products 
that sustain human life. We want to 
encourage and adopt new agro-ranch-
ing technologies to sustainably feed the 
growing world population.

Implementing sustainability policies in 
complex production chains such as beef 
cattle is a major challenge and can only 
be completely overcome with the joint 
effort and commitment of all stakehold-
ers. Aware of the impact of this value 
chain on scope 3 emissions, for over 
ten years the Company has promoted a 
number of initiatives to increase the sus-
tainability of its suppliers of beef cattle. 
This action front is supported by three 
main pillars: supplier monitoring, cattle 
ranch management and support, and 
cattle management.

Monitoring  
and tracking

Traceability – to ensure a value chain 
that is free from illegal deforestation, in 
2021 we created the Transparent Cattle 
Ranching Platform that, using blockchain 
technology, enables traceability beef cat-
tle The goal is to have a supply chain that 
is free of illegal deforestation by 2025, 
including direct and indirect suppliers. 
Monitored suppliers must comply with 
the Company’s Responsible Purchasing 
Policy or be suspended. By January 2026 
all direct suppliers must subscribe to the 
Platform. In December 2021 14.6% of the 
cattle processed by the Company in 2020 
had been registered on the Platform.

We seek ways to promote 
decarbonization of the beef cattle 
supply chain

Supplier monitoring – we successfully 
monitor all farms that directly supply 
cattle to us, using a geospatial system 
and satellite images. This system is 
considered one of the best and most so-
phisticated in the industry. We monitor 
an area of over 860,000 square kilome-
ters (86 million hectares, equivalent to 
Germany and France combined), and 
look at over 80,000 potential direct sup-
pliers every day. Since deploying this 
system, some 14,000 properties have 
been suspended for breaching the JBS 
Responsible Raw Material Purchasing 
Policy.

13FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



Cattle rancher 
support and 
management

Green Offices  – to help cattle ranchers 
in the Amazon biome, especially those 
who supply our cattle suppliers, we 
installed 15 Green Offices in processing 
units located in different regions that 
are key for cattle raising. This service 
provides free support for ranchers with 
environmental restrictions, helping 
them bring their properties in line with 
environmental regulations. Over 1,400 
suppliers have been helped since April 
2021. In early 2022 JBS announced it was 
partnering with Banco do Brasil and Ban-
co Bradesco to facilitate access to farm 
credit (read more on page 81).

Assessment of the carbon balance of 
cattle farms – a project to assess the 
carbon balance of farms and identify 
the largest number of carbon-efficient 
suppliers.

Fazenda Nota 10 [A+ Farm]  –  this is the 
largest group of cattle ranchers in Brazil, 
whose mission is to positively transform 
farms by comparing and managing re-
sults. Provides participants with relevant 
production and financial references 
regarding the property team and man-
agement. One of the mentoring lines 
to show ways to more efficient cattle 
raising focuses on pasture improvement, 
handling, and fertilizing to help fix car-
bon in the soil. 

Rebanho Araguaia [Araguaia Herd]  – an 
initiative that promotes the development 
of sustainable cattle ranching in the Mid-
dle-Araguaia in the state of Mato Gros-
so, a major cattle region in Brazil. Using 
education and technology as allies, the 
project aims to demonstrate what truly 
impacts the business and show paths for 
more efficient cattle raising that respects 
social and environmental policies. JBS 
offers technical support from consultants 
specializing in pasture management and 
handling to help reduce GHG emissions.

• Alta Floresta (Mato Grosso)

• Porto Velho (Roraima)

• São Miguel do Guaporé (Roraima)

• Juara (Mato Grosso)

• Pontes e Lacerda (Mato Grosso)

• Pedra Preta (Mato Grosso)

• Campo Grande (Mato Grosso do Sul)

• Marabá (Pará)

• Tucumá (Pará)

• Redenção (Pará)

• Santana do Araguaia (Pará)

• Confresa (Mato Grosso)

• Mozarlândia (Goiás)

• Goiânia (Goiás)

• Barra do Garças (Mato Grosso)

LEARN MORE
Read on in this report to 
learn about our initiatives 
across each of the 
environmental, social and 
governance dimensions of 
ESG.

14FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



Circular economy 
Sustainably meeting the nutritional and 
food requirements of the world’s bur-
geoning population is the most urgent 
challenge facing us. We monitor the 
environmental impact of our operations 
and work to ensure 100% of our produc-
tion chain complies with our sustainabili-
ty standards. Our priority is to be agents 
of change, combining environmental 
best practices and economic develop-
ment. We innovate to add value from 
managing our waste, providing environ-
mentally adequate destinations for this 
waste, creating profitable businesses, 
employment, and income in the commu-
nities where we work.

A circular economy is a strategic con-
cept that aims to ensure reduction, re-
use, recovery, and recycling of materials 
and energy, creating an economic circle 
based on minimizing disposal and waste. 
At JBS this gives rise to new businesses 
and disruptive solutions that contribute 
to the continuity of our activities. There-
fore, it is part of our business model and 
influences our long-term decisions, in a 
closed-circuit that expects waste will be 
recycled and reused. 

One example of the application of the 
circular economy to our business is our 
beef chain. Over the past two decades 
we took a number of initiatives to suit-
ably and sustainably dispose of our beef 
processing waste such as tallow, hides, 
and bovine serum. These byproducts are 
transformed into biodiesel, collagen for 
the food and dermocosmetics industries, 
soaps, and food packaging, contributing 

to the sustainable use of natural resourc-
es and benefiting the environment.

This effort translates into significant 
numbers. We are the world’s largest 
integrated biodiesel producers from 
beef tallow. We also export functional 
collagen to over 40 countries. This is 
an input for the food industry and used 
as a protein base in different segments 
such as processed meats and breads. 
We are also active in the personal care 
and cleaning areas, leading the manufac-
ture of bar soaps for the B2B segment in 
Brazil, where 70% of all bar soap is made 
from beef tallow. We are global leaders 
in the reuse of hides, an area where we 
have a positive social impact by creating 
income for vulnerable groups and are 
pioneers in Brazil in the use of organic 
waste generated by our plants to make 
organo-mineral fertilizer. 

Inedible waste from JBS facilities in the 
US are used to make tallow, bone, and 
blood meal sold for use in the manu-
facture of cosmetics, pharmaceutical 
products, and animal feed.

To learn more about JBS and the circular 
economy see the infographic on page 73.

Cattle and soil 
management

Feed additives – to help reduce methane emissions in the beef 
value chain, we are partnering with science-based companies and 
research centers to develop and expand the use of feed additives. 
During COP26, in 2021, we signed an agreement with Royal DSM 
to use Bovaer® in our beef chain. We also have research part-
nerships with the Institute of Animal Science (IZ), linked to the 
São Paulo State Department of Agriculture and Food Supply, and 
Silvateam, a world-leading producer of plant-based extracts used 
in animal feed.

Increasing production efficiency – our strategy aims to improve 
feed conversion ratios by reducing age at slaughter.

Carbon fixation in the soil – this front works to improve pasture 
management and promote integrated crop-livestock-forest systems.

2021 RESULTS

R$ 1.15 billion
raised in “green CRAs”, with the proceeds 
earmarked for our Transparent Livestock 
Farming Platform

1st year target exceeded 
the number of animals registered on the 
Platform represented 14.6% of animals 
processed in 2020

15FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



Progress so far 2023 2025 2030 2040
• Responsible sourcing policy

• Announced our Net Zero commitment

• Pilgrim’s Moy Park – Net Zero targets approved by SBTi

• Pilgrim's UK - 2030 targets to limit global temperature rise 
to 1.5°C approved by SBTi

• GHG inventories compiled since 2012, and audited since 
2019

• Global commitments to Race to Zero and the World 
Economic Forum

• 100% of direct cattle suppliers monitored in Brazil

• Cattle supply chain monitoring and traceability through 
programs such as our Transparent Livestock Farming 
Platform and Green Offices, in Brazil

• Biodiversity protection initiatives such as the JBS Amazon 
Fund and fire responder crews in the pantanal

• Integrated livestock-forestry programs, such as Rebanho 
Araguaia

• Solar power, biogas and energy efficiency programs    

• 84% of electricity produced from renewable sources in 
Brazil and 100% at Pilgrim´s UK

• Co-products processed into biodiesel, fertilizers, collagen 
and leather, advancing the circular economy  

• Initiatives to reduce waste and increase recycling

• More efficient logistics and electric vehicles

• Research and collaborations towards the use of feed 
additives 

• Biodigesters installed in Australia and Canada

• Investment in programs* to develop solutions and 
technologies for reducing GHG emissions

Decarbonization 
strategy developed by an 
internationally recognized, 
independent consulting firm

Target assessment 
by SBTi

Install biodigesters 
in our operations in 
the US, Canada, Brazil, 
Australia and Mexico

100% of our beef 
supply chain free 
of illegal deforestation in 
Brazilian biomes, including 
the Amazon

Net Zero

100% renewable 
electricity across our 
operations

Reduce scope 1 and 2 
emissions by 30% from a 
2019 baseline

Reach 60% 
renewable 
electricity

15% reduction  
in water intensity from a 
2019 baseline

US$ 1 billion invested 
in projects to reduce 
emissions, including  
US$ 100 million 
invested in R&D

2021 and beyond...

*Feedlot Innovation Center (University of Nebraska), the  Greener Cattle Initiative of the Foundation 
for Food & Agriculture Research, and Grazing Management Principles for the 21st century

16FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



About this report

JBS is the largest protein-based food 
producer in the world. As such, we have 
a duty and commitment to transparently 
report on our aspirations, strategies and 
targets, and our performance in pursuing 
a sustainable journey.

As part of this commitment, we are 
pleased to publish the 11th edition of our 
Annual Sustainability Report, prepared 
in accordance with the Global Reporting 
Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core option. 
The disclosures in the report are mapped 
to the relevant Sustainable Develop-
ment Goals (SDGs) of the United Nations 
(UN) Global Compact. JBS continues to 
report in accordance with the standards 
issued by the Sustainability Accounting 
Standards Board (SASB), the Task Force 
on Climate-related Financial Disclosures 
(TCFD), the World Economic Forum 
(WEF) and the International <IR> Frame-
work. GRI 102-4

The purpose of this report is to articulate 
how we conduct business and carry out 
our mission of delivering the best products 
and services to our customers, building 
trust-based relationships with our suppli-
ers, creating value for our shareholders, 

and offering a better future for our work-
force, all within our purpose of feeding the 
world with the best there is.

The chapters in the report are inspired 
by our ESG (environmental, social and 
governance) practices across our four 
material topics: Animal welfare; Environ-
mental stewardship; Product integrity; and 
Social responsibility (read more in Materi-
ality). The report also provides information 
about strategic solutions, quality, innova-
tion, economic performance, productivity, 
competitiveness, sustainability/ESG and 
governance. Information about other sus-
tainability-related initiatives is available on 
the JBS website. GRI 102-46, 102-47

With the exception of our acquisitions in 
2021, all Group operations, including the 
margarine and mayonnaise businesses 
acquired from Bunge in late 2020, are in-
cluded in this report. The reporting period 
is from January 1 to December 31, 2021 
and the report content covers our opera-
tions, business structure and governance 
practices. GRI 102-45, 102-50

Financial information has been prepared 
in accordance with the International 

Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) 
issued by the International Accounting 
Standards Board, and has been audited by 
Grant Thornton. Brazilian production and 
environmental disclosures (energy inten-
sity; total water withdrawals by source; 
and effluents) have been audited by SGS, 
a globally leading testing, inspection and 
certification company. GRI 102-56

If you have any feedback, 
suggestions, questions or 
critiques about this report, 
please write to relatorio.anual@
jbs.com.br, to our Investor 
Relations department by email 
to ri@jbs.com.br, or to our 
Sustainability department by 
email to sustentabilidade@jbs.
com.br. GRI 102-53

17FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES

https://jbs.com.br/sustentabilidade/home/


2021 at a glance

We undertook a global 
commitment to be Net Zero by 

2040

Diversity & 
inclusion

Created a Diversity & Inclusion 
Committee to advise the Board of 

Directors

Growth
R$ 5.3 billion invested in expanding our 
operations in Brazil and around the world

• Seara plant expansions and upgrades
• New Italian specialties and salami plant 

in Columbia (US)
• New processing lines in Grand Island 

and Omaha (US)
• Chiller expansion in Australia
• New bacon plant in Missouri (US)

Global governance 
changes
We re-created the Global President of 
Operations function, divided into two 
structures: North America and Latin 
America, Oceania and Plant-based. 
The new structure reflects our growth 
and expansion into different sectors 
and geographies, and our ambitious 
sustainability targets and programs

Financial results

• R$ 350.7  
billion in net revenue

• R$ 45.7  
billion in adjusted EBITDA 

• R$ 20.5  
billion in net income

• R$ 25.2  
billion in operating cash flow

Acquisitions

R$ 11.2 billion
in acquisitions, supporting geographic and portfolio 
diversification

7 acquisitions 
Vivera, Kerry Meats and Meals, Rivalea, Huon, King’s 
Group, Sunnyvalley and BioTech Foods

18FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



Key global 
indicators

GRI 102-7

2019 2020 2021

ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL INDICATORS (R$ MILLION) 

Net operating revenue 204,523.6 270,204.2 350,695.6

Cost of goods sold -172,577.2 -224,985.9 -284,510.6

Gross profit 31,946.4 45,218.3 66,185.0 

Gross margin 15.6% 16.7% 18.9%

EBITDA 19,881.1 29,554.6 45,662.2

EBITDA Margin 9.7% 10.9% 13.0%

Net income 6,068.4 4,598.3 20,486.6

Net margin 3.0% 1.7% 5.8%

Investment cash flow 5,854.5 7,833.1 18,858.4

Net debt 42,994.1 46,227.0 69,279.0

Operating cash flow 17,098.4 27,001.6 25,197.5

Free cash flow 9,502.7 17,795.0 11,856.7

2019 2020 2021

SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS 

Number of employees  231,124 243,918 247,745

Total GHG emissions by weight (tCO2e) 
– Scope 11  3,871,5574  4,625,8324 4,675,368

Total GHG emissions by weight (tCO2e) 
– Scope 22  1,615,690  1,554,087 1,399,521

Total GHG emissions by weight (tCO2e) 
– Scope 33 836,3194 61,121,3374 65,032,995

Water withdrawals (thousand m3)  171,961,209  171,142,648 177,251,718

Investments in environmental 
management and improvements (R$ 
million)

698.8 494.3 568.4

* Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions and water withdrawal information for Brazil has been independently assured.
1. Emissions from own sources, fuel used to generate energy or heat in our operations, effluent treatment ponds and enteric 
fermentation of animals in confinement operations or on our farms, amongst others.
2. Indirect energy emissions from sources over which the company has no responsibility or has indirect responsibility. These 
stem from the use of electricity.
3. Indirect emissions. This scope includes emissions over which the company has no operational control or has indirect
responsibility. Our 2019 emissions derive from a third-party fleet, commercial flights and waste decomposing on third-party
land, amongst other items. For 2020 and 2021, see the scope of categories by year in the table on p. 65.
4. Data altered in relation to the previous year.

ASSURED*

19FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



ABOUT JBS • About us
• Our businesses

20FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



ABOUT US

We are a team dedicated to pursuing ex-
cellence, always innovating to place qual-
ity products on the tables of millions of 
people around the world and to look after 
the planet. Driven by our yearning to feed 
the world as well as possible, JBS is the 
largest global producer of protein-based 
food products (beef, pork, poultry, lamb, 
fish and plant-based), and has recently 
entered the cultured protein segment. We 
also have a strong presence in prepared 
foods in both Brazil and internationally.  
GRI 102-1

We are present in more than 20 countries 
in five continents, with more than 500 
production units and commercial offices 
dotted around Australia, Brazil, Canada, 
USA, Mexico, New Zealand, Argentina, 
Uruguay, UK and Europe. Our roughly 
250,000 employees follow guidelines 
regarding sustainability matters—environ-
mental, social and governance—, inno-
vation, quality and food safety, adopting 
best practices, always underpinned by 
our Mission and Values. This provides us 
the platform to serve our approximately 
275,000 customers worldwide. We also 

export to some 190 countries. In 2021 our 
exports stood at USD 16.9 billion, growth 
of 24.3% on the previous year (USD 13.6 
billion). GRI 102-6

We are also a standard setter in activities 
related to our production chain, such 
as leather, biodiesel, collagen, personal 
hygiene and cleanliness, natural casings, 
solid waste management solutions, recy-
cling, metal packaging, transportation and 
other areas. GRI 102-2

We boast a wide range of products, com-
prised of dozens of globally recognized 
brands, including Pilgrim’s Pride, Swift, 
Just Bare, Seara, Moy Park, Primo, Friboi, 
Doriana and Delícia. GRI 102-2

JBS offers a wide range of products, 
consisting of dozens of globally recognized 
brands

21FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



Market presence  
and expansion
We are one of Brazil’s largest multinationals, 
operating through a diversified global plat-
form offering a variety of protein products 
and established prepared-food brands. 
This strategy affords us greater operational 
flexibility, also mitigating risks posed by any 
trade barriers or health restrictions.

To serve our diverse customer base, we 
draw on a broad national and international 
sales and distribution network, as well as 
distribution centers and commercial offic-
es in the leading consumer regions world-
wide. We export to some 190 countries, 
which enables us to reduce exposure to 
individual markets whilst affording access 
to all consumer markets. 

Thanks to an acquisition strategy that 
has included Seara, Swift, Pilgrim’s Pride, 
Swift Prepared Foods (formerly Plumrose) 
and Tulip Company (now Pilgrim’s UK), 
leading companies in their segments, the 
Company has diversified and developed 
differentials that cater to all consum-
er profiles, with innovative and quality 
high-added-value products.

In 2021, we acquired BioTech Foods; Vive-
ra, the prepared food and meals division 
of Kerry Consumer Foods; Rivalea; Huon 
Aquaculture; Sunnyvalley; and King’s 
Group. GRI 102-10

In the USA we invested in two major ven-
tures in our plants in Missouri: we opened 
our cooked bacon unit in Moberly and 
began building a charcuterie plant making 
Italian delicacies and salami in Colombia, 
set to start operating in 2023. GRI 102-10

There was a solid investment in expanding 
and modernizing Seara’s plants and build-
ing new plants of JBS Biodiesel, Campo 
Forte (organomineral fertilizers), Colagen 
and Peptides and Zempack (metallic 
packaging). roughly 250,000 

employees worldwide
GRI 102-7, 102-8

275,000 customers
in approximately 190 countries

20+ countries  
with production units and/or commercial offices

We operate through 
a diversified global 
platform offering a 

variety of protein 
products and solid 

prepared-food brands.

22FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



JBS is structured into the following 
operations: 1. JBS Brazil, which 
encompasses the companies Friboi, 
Swift, JBS Couro and New Business; 2. 
Seara; 3. JBS USA Beef (JBS USA Beef, 
JBS Canada, JBS USA Retail Ready, JBS 
USA Carriers and JBS Australia); 4. JBS 
USA Pork (JBS USA Pork, JBS USA Live 
Pork, Swift Prepared Foods and JBS USA 
Retail Ready); 5. PPC (Pilgrim’s); and 6. 
Rigamonti.

See where each business unit is located 
on the map.

GRI 102-2, 102-4. 102-6, 102-7

Our businesses

FRIBOI SEARA SWIFT JBS COUROS

Brazil MexicoEurope Australia and 
New Zealand

CanadaUnited States

JBS NEW BUSINESS PILGRIM’S PRIDERIGAMONTI JBS USA PORK JBS USA BEEF

23FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



JBS BRAZIL 

Our operations in Brazil consist of produc-
ing beef, chicken, pork, fish and plant-
based proteins, as well as prepared and 
frozen food products. We also operate in 
the leather segment and businesses as-
sociated with byproducts and waste from 
our operations.

Our portfolio in Brazil is highly diversified. 
Our brands include Friboi, a leader in 
beef; Seara, a chicken and pork producer 
and exporter; and Swift, a leader in frozen 
food products.

As part of our strategy of adding value 
to the production chain, we are engaged 
in the leather segment, via JBS Couros, 
which makes products for the automotive, 
furniture, footwear and decor sectors. 

Alongside these operations, the Company 
has JBS New Business, a pioneer in the 
closed loop of harnessing industrial waste 
and byproducts to generate products 
such as biodiesel, collagen, fertilizer, plas-
tic packaging and hygienic and cleaning 
items. We also provide strategic services 
to the group and third parties.  This strat-
egy fuels our innovation, efficiency and 
sustainable practices and advances the 
circular economy. 

Our portfolio in Brazil is 
diversified, with operations 
in beef, chicken, pork, fish, 
plant-based, prepared foods 
and frozen foods

24FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



Friboi

A leader of Brazil’s beef segment, Friboi 
has 35 production units in the country, 
boasting one of the most comprehen-
sive product ranges in the sector. With 
a 40-year legacy, it offers food products 
that satisfy a whole range of profiles and 
consumption requirements, also exporting 
to 106 countries.

Its operating base is founded on guaran-
teeing the source, quality and safety of 
food, ranging from animal welfare until 
delivery of the produce to the consumer, 
complying with best sustainability practic-
es throughout its value chain.

The company markets the brands Fri-
boi, Reserva Friboi, Maturatta Friboi, Do 
Chef Friboi, 1953 Friboi and Black Friboi, 
amongst others. It also has programs 
tailored for retail and wholesale custom-
ers, such as Açougue Nota 10 [Top Notch 
Butcher's], present in over 1,750 stores 
with the same standard of service, guar-
anteeing the best displays of cuts, support 
for management and training and higher 
profits for storeowners. It also offers the 
Gourmet 1953 Friboi Butchers in super-
markets to offer premium cuts in portions 
and packaging chosen by consumers.

Main brands

25FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



Operations map

9 feedlots

12 distribution centers

8 prepared food plants

35  beef processing plants

38,000+
employees

PA

MT

RO

AC

MS

TO

GO

CE

PE

BA

MG

RJSP

PR

RS

26FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



Seara

With over 60 years’ history, Seara has 
cemented its leadership in the frozen 
and plant-based product categories. Its 
differentials are founded on Quality and 
Innovation, strategic pillars that steer the 
company to making products increasingly 
aligned with nutritional requirements and 
the diverse preferences of our consumers. 
The company is also the second largest 
exporter of chicken and pork in Brazil.

In 2021, Seara advanced its portfolio 
diversification strategy by entering a new 
category in the deli meats segment by 
launching Levíssimo Seara. (see more 
in Innovation in practice) and Frango de 
Padaria Seara. It also boasts the first com-
plete range of 100% plant-based products 

in Brazil, including diced chicken, chicken 
fillets, minced beef, beef steaks and beef 
slices. It also entered the spicy products 
segment, creating the line Seara Super 
Picante [Super Hot].

The brand introduced ten new product 
options over the course of 2021. Its fish 
and seafood range includes tilapia fillets, 
paella packs, mussels, calamari and four 
shrimp options, including breaded shrimp. 
They are individually frozen, which allows 
consumers to use just the amount they 
need and save the rest for later, thereby 
guaranteeing the quality and locking in 
the flavor and nutritional properties. It 
also launched salmon chunks and salmon 
steaks bearing ASC certification, attest-
ing to the sustainability of the production 
chain and traceability from source.

Seara launched a total of 138 products 
in 2021.

Main brands

27FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



Operations map

8 pork processing plants

22 prepared food plants

17 distribution centers

1 port terminal

30  poultry processing plants 

89,000+
employees

MT

MS

CE

PE

BA

MG

RJSP

PR

SC

RS

28FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



Swift

A leader in quality frozen food products, 
Swift leveraged momentum and visibil-
ity from its business strategy, offering 
innovation to consumers, such as flash 
freezing, using special equipment to keep 
the produce fresh, with better tenderness, 
flavor and succulence. It offers more than 
500 products, including beef for the day 
to day and barbecues, as well as fish, 
pork, lamb, poultry, snacks, side dishes, 
vegetables, deserts and seasoning for 
barbecues, amongst others.

Its processes factor in sustainability, such 
as reducing the use of plastics and food 
waste, CO2 emissions and the increasing 
use at scale of water recycling and clean 
energy sources.

In continuity of its expansion plan, in 2021 
Swift opened 63 proprietary stores in São 
Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Goiás and Distrito 
Federal, closing the year with a total of 
206 units.

By way of its store-in-store program, Swift 
takes personalized spaces managed by the 
brand, with specialist associates and re-
al-time temperature control, guaranteeing 
product quality and a unique shopping ex-
perience. There are 47 partner retailers in 
more than 337 points of sale in São Paulo, 
Distrito Federal, Rio de Janeiro and Goiás.

Main brands

29FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



JBS Couros

JBS Couros imbues sustainability in its 
business model. It is currently the largest 
processor of cattle hides and the global 
leader in the leather segment, with a pres-
ence in eight countries on four continents 
and more than 5,000 employees. Through 
ongoing investment in technology to op-
timize its production processes, it makes 
wet blue, wet white, crust and finished 
leather products for the automotive, furni-
ture, footwear and decor sectors.

JBS Couros’ innovations include Kind 
Leather. Created in 2019, the productive 
concept Kind Leather provides a new ap-
proach for leather production, using only 
the choicest parts of hides during man-
ufacturing and removing sections with 
more natural marks and imperfections 
at the start of production, before apply-
ing chemical products and using natural 
resources. This process makes it possi-
ble to send the removed parts to other 
industries, such as pharmaceuticals and 
food, thereby reducing the consumption 
of water, energy and chemicals used, and 
diminishing the amount of waste in our 

production chain. This innovation yields 
high-quality leather that is more consis-
tent and increases use of the surface, 
reducing waste by 93%. 

Responding quickly to market demands is 
essential and demonstrates the resilience 
of JBS Couros’ Research & Development 
team. V-Block exemplifies this. Launched 
in 2021, this leather is coated with antivi-
ral technology that can inactivate SARS-
CoV-2, the virus that causes covid-19 
(find out more in Innovation in practice 
on page 52). 

Another business differential is the JBS360 
– Leather ID online platform, which allows 
any individual to trace the route taken by 
the leather, from origin to curing.  

 

Main brands

30FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES

https://jbs360.com.br/leather-id/


Operations map

6 commercial offices 

5 distribution centers

4 showrooms

1 port terminal 

2  research centers

22  production units 

3  cutting plants 

5,000+ 
employees

31FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



JBS New Business 

JBS New Business is a pioneer in the 
closed loop of harnessing industrial 
waste, fueling innovation, efficiency and 
sustainable practices and advancing the 
circular economy.

The company plays a fundamental role 
in the value chain by transforming raw 
materials derived from the Company's 
other operations into high-added-value 
products, such as biodiesel, collagen, 
pharmaceuticals, processed meat cas-
ings, hygiene and cleaning products and 
fertilizers, amongst others. Its products 
are sold in Brazil and exported to more 
than 40 countries.

JBS New Business also operates correlat-
ed activities, such as metallic packaging, 
trading and transportation which are 
strategic services for the Company.

Manages and treats recyclable and 
nonrecyclable post-industrial solid waste, 
disposing of it correctly, in addition to pro-
ducing new plastic products and recycled 
resins made from the waste.

In 2021 the unit continued expanding its 
circular economy work. As a result, the 
green flooring and WPC pallet projects, 
which recycle plastic waste from mul-
tilayer food packaging produced in the 
Company’s operations, removed 35,000 
kg of waste, which would have otherwise 
been directed to landfills.

Our businesses

R$ 13 million
invested in seven plants built 
in 2021

32FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



It is the largest vertically integrated 
global producer of biodiesel from beef 
tallow and the first in Brazil that qualified 
to sell carbon credits obtained through 
RenovaBio (CBios), a federal government 
program introduced to reduce emissions 
based on Paris Agreement obligations.

With its third plant in Mafra (SC), in 2021 
JBS Biodiesel added more than 369,000 
m3 a year to its production base. The 
company also has biodiesel plants in Lins 
(SP) and Campo Verde (MT).

Formerly known as JBS Embalagens 
Metálicas, this business unit produces 
steel tins for food products, such as pre-
cooked meats, fish, vegetables and toma-
toes. It is also engaged in the production 
of aerosols for the cosmetic and chemical 
sectors, with more than 20 packaging op-
tions, in addition to exporting its products. 

With an investment exceeding R$ 80 mil-
lion, Zempack opened a new tin factory 
in Guaiçara, in São Paulo state. The new 
factory went online in 2021 and expanded 
our aerosol production capacity to more 
than 220 million tins a year, also serving 
the cosmetics and deodorant sectors.

It is the largest producer of natural beef 
casings in the world and supplies the 
largest processed meat industries in Brazil 
and overseas.

The leading producer of soaps and bar 
soap in the B2B segment, it sells to the 
leading hygiene and cleaning brands in 
Brazil and overseas. Since 2020 it has also 
been making special soaps with different 
properties, fragrances and shapes. 

220 million+
aerosol cans produced annually 
by Zempack

With its third plant, JBS 
Biodiesel added more than 
369,000 m3 a year to its 
production base

The company has two plants that run on 
energy supplied by Biolins, JBS’ electricity 
production unit that uses material from 
renewable sources only, such as sugar-
cane bagasse and reforestation chippings. 
All the packaging the company produces 
is also completely recyclable, as well as 
lightweight and resistant, boasting excep-
tional quality and robustness.

This new unit makes Zempack one of the 
largest metallic packaging companies in 
Brazil, and the sole supplier of aluminum 
and steel aerosols in the country.

33FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



Focusing on animal welfare and a leader 
in live cargo transportation, it serves JBS 
and other clients through its 41 branches 
dotted around Brazil. Its propriety fleet 
consists of 1,300 trucks traced by satel-
lite. It is also engaged in the container, dry 
cargo and chilled cargo segments, as well 
as leather. 

The company set up Uboi in 2020, a 
trailblazing service for moving cattle 
between farms, confinements, auctions 
and slaughterhouses. Uboi enables small, 
medium-sized and large cattle farmers to 
participate in a qualified animal transpor-
tation system, helping grow the produc-
tive chain of the food sector.

It is one of the largest producers of func-
tional bovine collagen for the food industry 
and provides innovative solutions in pro-
tein-based ingredients for multiple seg-
ments: processed meats, bread and dairy 
products, amongst others. It exports to more 
than 40 countries under its global reach.

It sells raw materials in the food, hygiene 
and cleaning, fuel, pharmaceutical and 
pulp segments. The products it offers 
include vegetable oil, animal fat, chemi-
cals, resins and raw material for fertilizers. 
It has storage facilities in the main ports 
of Brazil and handled more than 500,000 
metric tons of products in 2021.

It acquires new vehicles for JBS com-
panies and sells preowned trucks and 
trailers. 

Dedicated to producing inputs for the 
pharmaceutical industry, it provides raw 
material to institutes engaged in research, 
molecular development, genetic therapies 
and vaccines, as well as producing culture 
mediums for laboratories for export.

Bringing proteins and ingredients to life
NOVAPROM

With a plant in Guaiçara, in São Paulo 
state, JBS is the first company in Brazil 
to use the organic waste produced in its 
factories to make fertilizer. Solid organic, 
organomineral and special fertilizers will 
be made. This project is coherent with 
JBS’ circular economy strategy. A prom-
ising business and a high-added-value 
product, Campo Forte Fertilizantes began 
operating in March 2022. 

JBS launched No Carbon in April 2022, a 
company specializing in leasing out 100% 
electric trucks. These VUC Trucks (urban 
cargo vehicles) are used to transport fro-
zen and chilled produce, for distribution 
in retail, catering to JBS’ logistical opera-
tions distributing Friboi, Seara and Swift 
products. These vehicles will circulate in 
the cities of São Paulo, Brasília, Curitiba, 
Ribeirão Preto, Campinas and Itajaí. In line 
with JBS’ commitment to be Net Zero by 
2040, each electric truck will avoid the 
annual releasing of some 30 metric tons 
of carbon dioxide (CO2) equivalent into 
the atmosphere.

In 2021 it began building a collagen and gelatin peptides factory 
to cater to the nutraceuticals sector. Located in Presidente 
Epitácio, in São Paulo state, this plant will exude sustainability, 
with the conscientious management of all natural resources. The 
plant is expected to start up in 2022.

34FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



Operations map

4,000+
employees

NEW BUSINESS

1 operation, 18 branches 

3 manufacturing plants

3 manufacturing plants

2 manufacturing plants, 34 branches

1 manufacturing plant

1 operation, 41 branches 

1 manufacturing plant

1 operation

1 operation, 3 branches

1 manufacturing plant

1 manufacturing plant

Trucks and 
preowned vehicles

Bringing proteins and ingredients to life
NOVAPROM

PA

MT

RO

MS

GO

BA

MG

SP

SC

RS

Bringing proteins and ingredients to life
NOVAPROM

35FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



JBS USA 

JBS USA supplies diversified and 
high-quality food products, including a 
range of renowned brands and premium 
products that are innovative and high-add-
ed-value to meet the requirements of its 
customers and consumers. It is also com-
mitted to animal welfare issues, informing 
the various production methods used 
during raising, that are antibiotic free.

JBS USA is the majority shareholder 
(80.21%) of Pilgrim’s Pride Corporation 
(Pilgrim’s), with operations in the USA, 
Mexico and Europe, where it leads the 
prepared food and poultry segments. It 
leads the pork and prepared food sectors 
in the United Kingdom.

The company is structured around three 
business units: JBS USA Beef (JBS USA 
Beef, JBS Canada, JBS USA Retail Ready, 
JBS USA Carriers and JBS Australia), JBS 
USA Pork (JBS USA Pork, JBS USA Live 
Pork, Swift Prepared Foods and JBS USA 
Retail Ready) and PPC (Pilgrim’s). Its oper-
ations are distributed in the USA, Puerto 
Rico, Canada, Mexico, Australia and New 
Zealand, and also now in France, the 
Netherlands and UK following the acquisi-
tions of Moy Park and Tulip.

JBS USA's range 
includes renowned 
brands and premium 
products that are 
innovative and high-
added-value

36FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



JBS USA Beef 

JBS USA Beef is the largest beef company 
in the world and is dedicated to producing 
and distributing beef, lamb and prepared 
foods in the USA, Canada and Australia 
(through Primo). 

JBS USA Beef
JBS USA Beef includes nine beef pro-
duction facilities in the U.S. split into two 
business units: Fed Beef and Regional 
Beef. They are strategically located near 
traditional cattle production centers in 
the U.S. to ensure access to the product, 
while our five regional beef facilities are 
located in strategic areas close to major 
population centers to increase our flexibil-
ity to meet the evolving needs of discern-
ing customers.

The business has fresh products in its 
portfolio, with leading, household brands 
targeting both local markets and exports, 
such as Swift, 5Star, 1855, Great Southern 
and Grass Run Farms, among others.

JBS Canada
Based in Calgary, Alberta, JBS Canada is 
one of the largest Canadian beef proces-
sors and prepared food manufacturers 
and one of the largest employers in south-
ern Alberta.

JBS Australia   
and New Zealand
A leading processor of Australian meat 
products, JBS Australia owns Primo 
Foods, a leading producer of ham, bacon, 
salami and deli meats. It is also the major-
ity shareholder of Andrews Meat Indus-
tries, a provider of meat solutions for the 
food industry, headquartered in Sydney.

The company holds the share control of 
Scott Technology, a global developer and 
leader in automation and robotics solu-
tions, which enhance the safety, produc-
tivity, reliability and performance in the 
workplace.

JBS Australia also exports to more than 
70 countries, with a sizeable domestic 
market share in beef and lamb.

JBS USA Beef is 
the largest beef 
company in the 
world

JBS USA Retail Ready
This includes two production facilities that 
specialize in further-processed beef and 
pork products. Our Retail Ready opera-
tions are strategically located on opposite 
coasts of the U.S. to provide service to 
customers across the country.

JBS Australia exports to 
more than 70 countries

37FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



Operations map

18  beef processing plants

13 processed products units

6 feedlots

8  distribution centers

1  leather plant

2  lamb plants

7  logistics units

1  pork plant

5  plant-based units

39,000+
employees

CANADA

USA BEEF

WA

CA

UT
CO

AZ

TX

NE

WI

MI

OH
PA

NC

SC

TN

38FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



WESTERN
AUSTRALIA

VICTORIA

NEW ZEALAND

QUEENSLAND

NEW SOUTH WALES

SOUTH
AUSTRALIA

TASMANIA

18  beef processing plants

13 processed products units

6 feedlots

8  distribution centers

1  leather plant

2  lamb plants

7  logistics units

1  pork plants

5  plant-based units

NETHERLANDS

39FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



JBS USA Pork 

The world’s second largest pork producer, 
JBS USA Pork provides high-quality fresh, 
prepackaged, and ready to cook products 
including bacon, ham, sliced meats and 
pork cuts. 

This facility’s strategy is to produce quality 
products and services, and quality rela-
tions with customers, always enhancing 
operational efficiency.

The business also invests in producing 
teams engaged in research, development 
and innovation, especially in fresh pork, 
focusing on food safety and quality in 
order to identify and implement new pro-
cessing technologies.

Through Swift Prepared Foods, it pro-
vides high-quality, prepared food prod-
ucts throughout the U.S. and includes five 
production facilities that specialize in sliced 
deli meats, bacon, barbecue items and ribs.

Main brands

40FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



Operations map

15 prepared product plants

2 distribution centers

2 genetics labs

5  pork processing plants

11,000+
employees

CA

OK
AR

MS

NC

INIL

IA

MN

VT

USA PORK

41FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



Pilgrim’s Pride 
Corporation (PPC) 

As a leading chicken producer, Pilgrim’s 
has provided wholesome, high-quali-
ty products for more than six decades. 
With operations in 14 U.S. states, Puerto 
Rico, Mexico and Europe, Pilgrim’s has 
the capacity to process 45 million chick-
ens per week, as well as producing and 
selling fresh meats, prepared foods and 
prepackaged foods for high-added-value 
consumption. 

Pilgrim’s is also the owner of Moy Park, one 
of Northern Ireland’s largest private-sector 
businesses, one of Europe’s leading poultry 
producers and the largest producer of 

organic chicken in the world,  and Pilgrim’s 
UK, a leading fully integrated pork and 
prepared foods company in the U.K. 

In 2021, PPC acquired the prepared food 
and meals operations of Kerry Consumer 
Foods in the UK and Ireland, subsequently 
rebranded as Pilgrim’s Food Masters. 
JBS USA is the majority shareholder of 
Pilgrim’s. GRI 102-10

Main brands

42FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



FRANCE

NETHERLANDS

MEXICO
PUERTO RICO

UNITED 
KINGDOM

Operations map

54,000+
employees

AR

NC

VA
WV

WI

Santa Catarina

TN

GAAL

FL

TX LA

KY

MN

3 pork processing plants

26 prepared products plants

25 distribution centers

36  poultry processing plants 

1  lamb plant

43FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



VALUE  
CREATION  
MODEL 

• Food quality and safety 
• Innovation and brands
• Innovation in practice 
•  Customers and consumers

44FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



Food quality and safety

Our commitment to excellence begins 
with high quality standards instilled in 
all operations, manufacturing and sup-
plies to all our business units.

The US-based Global Food Quality and 
Quality Assurance Board is directly sub-
ordinated to the Global Presidency and 
is tasked with ensuring compliance with 
guidelines and enhancing standards, so 
that all operations meet or exceed local 
regulations and legislations.

As quality is a competitive differential, 
JBS has a global structure with a robust 
food safety and quality program that 
harnesses standardized operational 
procedures, critical control point and 
hazard analysis and technologies that 
can monitor, prevent and correct or 
address nonconformities. Specialized 
food safety and quality teams imple-
ment local policies and guidelines. The 
aim is to always seek the highest health 

Global actions ensure we can provide 
healthier and safer products to consumers

GRI 103-2, 103-3 | 416

standards in all our operations, instilling 
a culture of food safety and quality.

The best practices implemented in local 
operations are also shared with all our 
companies, during quarterly meetings 
with the global food safety and quality 
assurance board. This aims to exchange 
experiences, initiatives and future proj-
ects, with targets laid down for achiev-
ing results.

All business units follow Best Practic-
es in Manufacturing; recalls, providing 
resources to guarantee product trace-
ability, identifying information for all 
processing and distribution; and annual 
certification in accordance with stan-
dards recognized by the Global Food 
Safety Initiative (GFSI).

Teams are trained in our Food safety 
and Quality Management System upon 
recruitment and receive specific peri-

45FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



odical training. In addition to regular 
internal audits, annual independent 
audits are conducted on all production 
units in Brazil, USA, Canada, Europe 
and Australia, and 86% of operations in 
Mexico.

By complying with global food quality 
and food safety requirements, all the 
company’s facilities are committed to 
supplying the best products and ser-
vices to their customers and consumers, 
regardless of their country of origin.

One of the indicators for measuring the 
quality of JBS’ products is the number 
of recalls. We maintain comprehensive 
systems to provide safe premium-qual-
ity products to consumers. Neverthe-
less, situations can still arise requiring 
a recall. In such cases there are stan-
dardized documents that describe each 
stage to be followed to ensure that all 

affected products are promptly traced 
and removed from consumption and 
distribution channels. A notification is 
issued to inform customers and con-
sumers that follows local government 
guidelines for officially reporting the 
incident.

No products were recalled in Brazil in 
2021. Two incidents were registered 
at Pilgrim’s Moy Park involving aller-
gens, and one in Australia related to a 
pathogen.
SASB FB-MP-250a.3

Our practices

• Responsible marketing;

• Structural transparency and responsibilities;

• Documented risk assessment;

• Team training and capacity building;

• Certification audits;

• Effective traceability;

• Supplier assessment and development;

• Investigating incidents and corrective actions

• Disclosing quantitative targets and indicators; and

• Customer surveys.

Production units in Brazil, USA, 
Canada, Europe, Australia and 
Mexico are audited annually

46FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



Seara
In 2021, Seara recorded the best quality 
management performance in its history 
in terms of lower levels of complaints by 
customers and consumers in the domestic 
and international markets, with this indi-
cator falling by 22.6%. This is thanks to 
ongoing efforts and investment in quality, 
under the auspices of Seara's presidency, 
which is tasked with setting the standards 
conducive with process and product safe-
ty and quality.

A technical team was formed in 2021 to 
oversee points of sale and ensure product 
safety and quality is maintained through-
out our chain. We also trained sales 
promoters about all important details of 
products, from displays to suitable tem-
peratures in order to maintain quality and 
safety. This entire process is monitored 
for complaints, and there were no records 
of recalls or product withdrawal orders 
because of contamination. 

The SAC 2.0 project established training 
procedures for the customer and con-
sumer service team to provide details and 
specifics for each Seara launch. During 
this training, our Research & Development 
(R&D) team explains what the product is, 
where it will be made and its nutritional 
properties and formulation, also con-
ducting a sensory analysis so employees 
can try the product. Project SAC 2.0 also 
ramped up the integration of all our com-
munications channels (WhatsApp, e-mail, 
telephone and social networks) with cus-

tomers and consumers. We also improved 
physical service areas for associate 
well-being, which has direct ramifications 
on work. Seara uses the Net Promoter 
Score (NPS) to assess customer service. 
The fact there are no adverse indicators in 
the past attests to consumer satisfaction.

As a part of the ongoing improvement of 
its processes, in 2022 Seara will imple-
ment stage three of the safe software 
being developed for laboratories, respon-
sible for processes ranging from collecting 
the samples through issuing the quality 
reports for the products.  In 2021 Seara 
expanded its analytical laboratory controls 
by 26.8% to 323,668 audited analyses, 
which generate export certificates.

Swift
Swift is maintaining its commitment to 
deliver healthy, practical and sustainable 
food products. The products are assessed 
in laboratories in 11 different categories of 
commercial planning.

Initiatives: developing an internal man-
agement program (e-Global, wherever 
our business is) in which it is possible to 
conduct audits on our sales channels and 
suppliers, cross-referencing the depart-
ment’s KPIs in a management dashboard 
and heat map, in accordance with prede-
termined concepts.

Quality manages food safety topics, and 
internal audits are carried out on trained 
employees and on certain suppliers, 
whose production of our labels is moni-
tored by our auditors.

We have other specific food safety certifi-
cations, with a number of suppliers hold-
ing BRC status (British Retail Consortium).

Friboi
JBS does not rest in its pursuit of quality, 
trust and sustainability and is a part of its 
continuous improvement of practices and 
processes, seeking to go beyond market 
requirements. In 2018, Friboi launched 
its Supply Chain Certification program, 
to demonstrate compliance with its strict 
food safety and sanitation quality stan-
dards amidst growing demand by custom-
ers and consumers for verified informa-
tion certifications and more demanding 
requirements.

The topics addressed in the strict cer-
tification protocols are: animal welfare, 
traceability, sustainability, operations, pro-
duction, quality, manufacturing and sales. 
The parameters created follow global ref-
erences such as the British Retail Consor-
tium (BRC), Council Regulation (EC) No. 
1099 on the protection of animals at the 
time of killing, AMI animal welfare guide-
lines in the US and the European Union’s 
traceability regulations.

The certification process for JBS’ units 
has five stages, including a gap analysis 
conducted by external consultants and 
specific training. All of Friboi's Brazilian fa-
cilities currently follow the Certification’s 
protocols and undergo annual indepen-
dent auditing by Serviço Brasileiro de 
Certificações (SBC).

Find out more here.

LEARN MORELEARN MORE
Find out more about Food Find out more about Food 
Safety and Quality initiatives Safety and Quality initiatives 
on the on the page..

47FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES

https://jbs.com.br/qualidade/selo-da-cadeia-de-fornecimento/
https://jbs.com.br/sustentabilidade/home/
https://jbsesg.com.br/


JBS’ Brazilian operations boast 446 certification and audit 
processes in their units, covering multiple topics such as the 
environment, food safety and quality, social responsibility, 
customers and markets and others.  
GRI FP2, FP5

In international operations, JBS USA is annually certified 
in Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI) standards, covering 
100% of its in natura processing facilities in the USA, Canada, 
Europe and Australia and 71% of its operations in Mexico.

Certifications

48FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



JBS is a company which is in constant 
transformation. We innovate to offer con-
sumers products that meet their nutritional 
requirements and ethical expectations, 
driven by the belief that we are all respon-
sible for building the future we want: a 
more sustainable and more humane future.

Through continuous investment in state-
of-the-art technologies and research, our 
innovative culture permeates the develop-
ment of new products, the monitoring of 
raw materials, manufacturing operations 
and recycling waste.

Three years ago our Global Innovation 
Team was conceived, to stimulate our 
teams and the sharing of experiences. In 
addition to harnessing JBS’ competitive 
advantages, GIT promotes the sharing of 
experiences between business units on five 
continents, in order to discover new trends 
in the consumer market, whilst ramping up 
innovation and creating global platforms 
that nurture innovative practices.

In the US we partner with Colorado State 
University (CSU), which funds the Global 

Innovation and brand
An innovative culture runs deep through the veins of JBS

Food Innovation Center, an education and 
research center created to enhance prac-
tices including food safety, meat sciences, 
animal welfare, the creation of education-
al and training initiatives and equipment 
testing.

In Brazil Seara began supporting pioneer-
ing research by the University of São Pau-
lo (USP), Food Technology Institute (Ital) 
and National Industrial Training Service /
Integrated Manufacturing and Technology 
Center (Senai/Cimatec) in 2021. Other 
brand initiatives included the Technolo-
gy Gaps project, conceived to enhance 
processes that result in consumers having 
a better opinion of our products, and de-
veloping the Seara Innovation Hub geared 
towards a culture of innovation and digital 
transformation. Seara ploughed a total of 
R$ 70 million into Research & Develop-
ment (R&D).

To optimize our efforts to develop prod-
ucts which will stoke greater demand 
amongst customers, JBS has manage-
ment tools that help assess global food 
megatrends , such as lower salt and fat 

contents and smaller portions, amongst 
other factors.

JBS is also putting together a methodolo-
gy to monitor regional innovation pro-
cesses and to enable learnings made to 
be shared globally, especially in relation to 
prepared foods and creating brand value.

49FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



Entering  
new markets

In 2021 JBS entered one of the most 
promising and innovative markets in the 
food industry: cultured protein production. 
It did this by entering an agreement 
to acquire the share control of Spain's 
BioTech Foods, which owns commercially 
viable technology in this field.  

In conjunction with the acquisition, JBS 
unveiled plans to build the first Research 
and Development Center (R&D) for Cul-
tured Protein and Food Biotechnology in 
Brazil. This center will develop new tech-
niques to expedite gains of scale and drive 
down cultured protein production costs, 
with a view to selling it. 

The new technology has the potential to 
produce bovine protein as well as chicken, 
pork and fish protein.

JBS will allocate a total of USD 100 million 
to the two initiatives, which are conducive 
with our strategy of diversifying proteins, 
keeping up with new consumer trends 
and population growth expected in the 
coming decades.

Innovation Platform

For Friends  
and Family:

pre-cooked food to make 
life easier when entertaining 

relatives and friends.

Examples: Kings of the Grill 
(Mexico), Zap Wings (UK), and 

Bordon and Al Fresco ready and 
conserved products (Brazil).

functional products, with a 
high standard of traceability 

and minimal socio-
environmental impact.

Examples: Just Bare and Naked 
Meats (USA) and Seara Nature 

(Brazil).

premium food products that 
tickle your fancy and provide 
unique experiences.

Examples: 1953 Friboi, Swift Black 
and Seara Gourmet (Brazil).

Easy, fast-to-prepare products 
with excellent functional 
properties.

Examples: AdapTable (USA) and 
Pilgrim’s (Mexico).

Indulgence  
and Feelings:

Prepare, Cook 
and Eat:

Healthy Products: 

50FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



In 2021, JBS continued blazing its trail 
of innovation, investing in research and 
technology to develop products, monitor 
production and raw materials, optimize in-
dustrial processes and cut waste. A number 
of these initiatives are presented below.

Innovation  
in practice

Seara launched the 
new product Delícia, 
the only margarine 
containing cream

This brand created a new category in the 
cold cuts segment by launching Levíssimo 
Seara. Made entirely from pork loin with 
38% less salt and 30% less fat, blending 
the taste of ham with the lightness of tur-
key breast, this product boasts the usual 
properties the brand is renowned for such 
as quality, innovation, healthiness and 
sustainability.

Elsewhere, Seara launched the new Delí-
cia, the only margarine in Brazil containing 
cream, expanding the product range of 
the Seara Gourmet brand, with new prod-
ucts for barbecues.

In 2021 the brand launched 138 innovative 
products within its categories for the do-
mestic and international markets, including 
Frango de Padaria chicken and the first line 
of 100% plant-based meat substitutes.  

Advanced technology 
Seara also continues to lead technological 
development in terms of its management 
strategy in aid of quality, efficiency and 
resource use optimization. In this journey 
it is investing in cutting-edge resources, 
such as artificial intelligence, sensorization 
and monitoring, cloud technology, data 
lakes and business intelligence to digitally 
transform its operations.

The Innovation and Strategy Broad’s proj-
ects for the brand to continually improve 
its operations are based on a cycle that 
harnesses artificial intelligence and data 
engineering in multiple applications, such 
as dashboards, automatic processes and 
proprietary applications. Under this sys-
tem, information management becomes 
faster and more efficient, supporting our 
business pillars. An example of how this is 
used is the computational vision project to 
track the performance of the cone debon-
ing line at our Caxias do Sul unit. The 
system provides information and prompt 
alerts to managers, substantially enhanc-
ing the daily management of our produc-

tion line, which was previously done by 
sampling. The performance control is now 
monitored all the time, enabling targeted 
actions to be taken immediately.

Another initiative on this front is the Super-
AgroTech digital platform, used to manage 
the operations of outgrower farms.  The 
technology folds into a single cloud-based 
system reports, documents, a communica-
tion channel, real-time monitoring and an 
exclusive e-commerce platform for inputs 
and equipment. The project stems from 
a partnership between JBS and Google 
Cloud, as well as other tech start-ups and 
financial institutions. In the platform you 
can analyze data about production effi-
ciency and socio-environmental indica-
tors, such as water consumption, waste 
management and energy consumption. 
A score is produced for each outgrower 
based on this information, the Seara Score, 
which will be used when extending credit 
and possible discounts in the e-commerce 
platform in the application.

51FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



In 2021 Friboi's Meat Technology and 
Study Center began operating. Boasting 
state-of-the-art equipment, used in sci-
entific research in renowned laboratories 
and universities around the world, our 
research facility was set up to monitor, 
evaluate, enhance, innovate processes 
and assure the quality of animal products 
in terms of source, tenderness, flavor and 
succulence.

At Cetec, certain steps permeate the 
entire production chain, such as analyses 
that measure temperature, pH, texture 
and colorimetry of meat, chemical com-
position (nutritional information), marbling 
and thickness of subcutaneous fat, allow-
ing us to assess consistent quality stan-
dards in meat products from source to the 
packaged products that fill supermarket 
shelves. This data makes it possible to 
enhance processes, improving production 
safety, quality and agility.  

The Center also carries out shelf-life stud-
ies and develops technical science-based 
responses to resolve production issues. 

Innovation is present in the V-Block tech-
nology, which inactivates the SARS-CoV-2 
virus that causes covid-19. Leather is coat-
ed with a silver nanoparticle additive that 
has antiviral properties, suitable for sur-
faces that could be constantly exposed to 
the virus, such as items of furniture, seats 
and steering wheels. Clothing, handbags 
and purses, which are frequently handled, 
can also be made from leather treated 
with this nanotechnology. Studies carried 
out by the Biological Sciences Institute 
of the University of São Paulo (ICB-USP) 
found that 99% of the virus had been 
inactivated after 30 minutes’ exposure to 
the virus.

JBS Environmental created green floor-
ing from recycled plastic after two years 
of studies. Obtained by recycling waste 
from JBS’ operations which would other-
wise be directed to landfills, the product 
boasts groundbreaking technology and 
is intended for use in civil construction. 
Trimmings from multilayer PVDC (Poly-
vinylidene chloride) packaging, a plastic 
used for vacuum-packed fresh products 
that is hard to recycle, is transformed 
into interlocking pavers for use in outside 
areas, such as yards. 

JBS USA also invests heavily in technology 
and innovation, which helps guarantee 
that its packaging products and solutions 
meet elite quality standards. Our ap-
proach to innovation draws on consumer 
insights and customer requirements, 
ascertained from opinion surveys and 
market growth opportunities. Leading 
initiatives on this front include the start-up 
Planterra Foods, which marketed a veg-
etable protein used in the OZO-branded 
product range, also launched by the com-
pany. The OZO brand has a plant-based 
portfolio with innovative, sustainable and 
healthy solutions sourcing protein fer-
mented by mushrooms, including ham-
burgers, frankfurters and meatballs. In 
May 2021 Planterra Foods launched the 
OZO product line in Asia, showcasing it at 
the Sial China Fair – the largest innovation 
event on that continent. 

The acquisition of Vivera in 2021 also 
propelled innovation at JBS. With the 
third largest market share in Europe, the 
company owns technological know-how 
that will ratchet up our operations in the 
plant-based segment. 

USA

52FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



Customers 
Under our commitment to supply healthy 
and innovative products and services of 
the highest quality, we invest in the best 
solutions to meet increasingly demand-
ing consumer expectations and help 
customers make their businesses more 
profitable. In 2021, the digital experience 
was upgraded following the launching of 
the recipes site Minha Receita, in addition 
to proprietary e-commerce channels of 
Swift and Seara, such as Digital Trade and 
Comer Bem. 

Friboi developed a special sales channel 
for retailers and wholesalers through the 
program Açougue Nota 10 [Top Notch 
Butcher's]. In addition to providing a 
groundbreaking model for selling beef, the 
program supports butchers by training pro-
fessionals, cutting waste and differentiating 
products at the point-of-sale. The program 
now also supplies pork and poultry in part-
nership with Seara, having reached more 
than 1,700 stores across Brazil.  

Customers and 
consumers

The Friboi brand also has a B2B e-com-
merce platform Friboi Online, aimed 
at small and medium-sized enterprises 
(SMEs), selling more than one thousand 
products. Launched in 2020, the plat-
form is available to more than 80,000 
customers in both retail and Food Ser-
vice, 24-hours a day, seven days a week, 
and accepts credit cards (find out more 
on the site). 

Swift runs a program for retail chain 
stores, to which it takes personalized 
spaces managed by the brand, with 
specialist associates and real-time tem-
perature control. Set up at 47 partnering 
retailers, the program now has more than 
330 points of sale in São Paulo and the 
Federal District.

JBS USA wants its customers and con-
sumers to receive information about its 
various products. To build closer engage-
ment and expand its reach, we harness 
multiple practical resources such as 

information channels and sites about the 
various products comprising our portfo-
lio, primarily sold to customers that sell 
directly to their consumers through food 
services or retail channels. 

A common practice amongst JBS USA's 
business units is to offer the possibility 
of creating personalized accounts on 
each of their sites. This gives customers 
access to information about point-of-
sale materials, packaging specifications, 

brands, premium programs, added-value 
products, food safety and quality and 
how the animal was raised.

53FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES

https://www.minhareceita.com.br/
https://www.friboionline.com.br/
https://www.friboionline.com.br/


Consumers
JBS produces high-quality innovative and 
healthy products with lower fat, salt and 
artificial preservative content (find out 
more in Food safety and quality and In-
novation), constantly striving to meet and 
exceed increasingly demanding consumer 
expectations. 

To continue enhancing its portfolio of 
products in harmony with the aspirations 
of the people that wish to buy them, 
Friboi, Seara and Swift invite consumers 
to participate in surveys that gather data 
to help discover trends and the improve-
ments needed for each brand. Other 
important sources of information about 
the public’ interests are provided by our 
relationship channels, such as Consumer 
Services (SAC) and social networks. 

In order to enhance and gage the perfor-
mance of products in points of sale, Seara 
created the Loja Perfeita program, which 
provides a unique experience for con-
sumers. Another of the brand’s initiatives 
is Loja Seara, which allows consumers to 
quickly and practically find products on 
the e-commerce platforms of major retail-
ers.  This service had more than 21 million 
visits in 2021 (see Loja Seara).

JBS USA provides the required informa-
tion about product options, their nutri-
tional content and the various production 
methods used during raising – such as 
traditional, without antibiotics and organic 
–, to help consumers choose products. 

Relationship transparency is achieved 
through multiple channels, including 
dedicated brand sites and social media 
channels in which consumers can learn 
more about our products and brands, as 
well as in “Contact Us” forms. There are 
also dedicated telephone lines for con-
sumers and email.

Communications channels

FRIBOI | SAC: 0800 011 5057 |  
website: friboi.com.br

SEARA | SAC: 0800 047 2425 |  
website: seara.com.br

SWIFT | SAC: 0800 400 2892 |  
website: swift.com.br

JBS USA | Visit Our Brands — JBS 
Foods (jbsfoodsgroup.com) and see 
all our brands and their respective 
communication channels  

USA

We produce high-quality 
innovative and healthy products 
with lower fat, salt and artificial 
preservative content 

54FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES

https://www.lojaseara.com.br/
http://friboi.com.br/
http://seara.com.br/
https://www.swift.com.br
https://jbsfoodsgroup.com/our-brands
https://jbsfoodsgroup.com/our-brands
http://jbsfoodsgroup.com


APPROACH TO 
SUSTAINABILITY 
AND ESG 

• Strategy
• Materiality
• Progress on the JBS 2030 Global 

Goals
• Environmental stewardship
• Product integrity
• Our people
• Communities
• Animal welfare
• Governance

55FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



Sustainability and related topics are embed-
ded in our strategy and are managed through 
a well-established governance structure. 

In our Brazil operations, we have a Corporate 
Sustainability department and each business 
has its own sustainability function. A Social 
and Environmental Responsibility Committee, 
led by the chairman of the Board, is tasked 
with discussing and advising the Board of 
Directors on strategic and global issues.

At JBS USA, sustainability leadership is 
exercised by the Head of Corporate Affairs 
and Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO), who 
oversees the regional sustainability depart-
ments and reports directly to the CEO. JBS 
USA’s governance structure also includes an 
Independent Advisory Board that assists and 
advises the executive team.

These governance bodies work to build 
engagement around our commitment to 
sustainable business, establish guidelines, 
policies and initiatives, and liaise between 
the company and stakeholders. 

We have established five core pillars as part of 
our commitment to advancing progress on envi-
ronmental, social and governance (ESG) issues: 

STRATEGY 

R$ 7+ billion
invested globally in 
sustainability in 2021

Sustainability 
Strategy

Business Strategy

ESG Strategy

• Using natural resources responsibly, and 
minimizing environmental impacts from 
the value chain; 

• Ensuring animal welfare; 

• Protecting and supporting the develop-
ment of our employees; 

• Building a positive legacy for society 
by supporting the social and economic 
development of the communities where 
we operate; and 

• Maintaining a robust and transparent 
governance system as a sound founda-
tion from which to evolve in compliance 
with internationally recognized stan-
dards.

In this chapter, we describe actions and ini-
tiatives through which we have delivered on 
this commitment.

56FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



SUSTAINABILITY IS OUR STRATEGY
SUSTAINABILITY

ESG STRATEGY

BUSINESS
STRATEGY

Purpose
In 2021 we continued to reaf-

people, communities and 
protecting our planet.

Transparency
•Scope 1,2,3 GHG inventory
•CDP
•Annual Report

Commitments
•Net Zero
•2030 Agenda

Environment
•Net Zero Commitment
•Natural Resource Management

•Investments in Renewable Energy
•Circular Economy
•Biodiversity Projects
•Responsible sourcing

Governance
•Compliance
•Ethics
•Board Independence
•Diversity & Inclusion
•Global Policies

Social
•Animal Welfare
•Community engagement
•Good Deeds Are Good Indeed
•Hometown Strong
•Better Future
•Germinare School
•Supplier engagement
•Employee Health and Safety

JBS operates through 

variety of protein 
products and solid 
prepared-food brands.

Proteins:
•Beef
•Pork
•Poultry
•Plant-based
•Cultured
•Fish

Our resources
•Financial
•Human
•Technological
•Physical

Global presence

More
than 500
production sites and 

57FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



Our materiality matrix is based on four 
major pillars representing the global 
challenges facing the Company: product 
integrity; social responsibility; environ-
mental stewardship; and animal wel-
fare, and is informed by related policies 
and outcomes. The prioritized topics are 
closely connected to sustainability, both 
for the Company and for stakeholders. 

In developing the materiality matrix, we 
considered the different methodologies 
used by and the circumstances of our 
operations around the world. Our material 
topics were revisited in 2019 through a 
survey of internal and external stakehold-
ers. We held a series of interviews with 
leaders from our global operations, as well 

Materiality 

as selected customers in Australia, Brazil, 
Canada, the US and Europe. The survey 
used a consensus-building methodolo-
gy and did not involve any weighting or 
prioritization. The four selected topics are 
material to strategy building and our initia-
tives at JBS. GRI 102-21, 102-40, 102-42, 102-43

Our approach to managing sustainability 
at JBS is aligned with the 17 Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs).

Several different communication channels are 
available to our stakeholders, including:

• Our company and brand websites;

• Customer service channels;

• Our ethics line;

• Profiles on social media platforms such as 
LinkedIn, Instagram and Facebook; and

• Communication channels for employees and other 
stakeholders, including customers, consumers, 
suppliers, investors, and the media.

Our communication channels 

Our four material topics are 
directly connected to the 
sustainability of our business and 
of our stakeholders

58FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



OUR SUSTAINABILITY PRIORITIES GRI 102-44, 102-47, 103-1

Topics Sub-topics Related disclosures SDG*

Product integrity

Traceability

416-1, FP5, FP6, FP7

 

417-1, 417-3, FP8

 SASB: FB-MP-250a.1, FB-MP-250a.2, FB-MP-
250a.3, FB-MP-250a.4

Supplier relations

204-1

308-1, 308-2

414-1, 414-2

Social responsibility

Our people 401-1, 401-2, 404-1, 404-3, 405-1, 406-1

Occupational health and safety
 403-1, 403-2, 403-3, 403-4, 403-5, 403-6, 403-
7, 403-8, 403-9, 403-10

SASB: FB-MP-320a.1

Communities 203-1, 203-2

413-1

Environmental stewardship

Water and wastewater management
303-1, 303-2, 303-3, 303-4, 303-5

SASB: FB-MP-140a.2

Climate change
305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, 305-5

SASB: FB-MP-110a.1, FB-MP-110a.2

Energy 302-1

Waste and packaging
301-1, 301-2, 301-3

306-1, 306-2, 306-3, 306-4, 306-5

Animal welfare

Breeding
FP9, FP10, FP11, FP12

Transportation
 SASB: FB-MP-410a.1, FB-MP-410a.1, FB-MP-
410a.3Production

*Sustainable Development Goals.

59FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



PROGRESS ON THE JBS 2030 GLOBAL GOALS

ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL

REDUCE scope 1+2 GHG emissions by 30% 
from a 2019 baseline

• Progress in 2021:
No significant progress was made on this 
target as we are working to refine our 
inventory of scope 1+2 GHG emissions

Renewable energy

Reach 60% renewable electricity

• Progress in 2021:
43% of the electricity used in our opera-
tions was renewably sourced

Water

REDUCE water intensity by 15% from a 2019 
baseline

• Progress in 2021:
No significant progress was made on this tar-
get due to increased sanitation measures to 
mitigate the spread of covid-19 throughout 
our operations, but we remain committed to 
reducing our usage of this critical resource

People

REDUCE our global injury rate by 30% 
compared to a 2019-2020 average 
baseline

• Progress in 2021:
We met 11% of our 2030 target

CONTINUED INVESTMENT in the towns where 
JBS operates, enhancing team member, family, and 
community well-being

• Progress in 2021:
In Brazil, through our Good Deeds Are Good 
Indeed program, JBS donated 400 oxygen cyl-
inders to Manaus, Amazonas; and R$ 320,000 
to equip the Escola Abaré Hospital Ship. We 
also invested R$ 101.2 million in the Germinare 
Business School. Through our Hometown Strong 
initiative, JBS USA and Pilgrim’s have continued 
to invest in projects creating a lasting impact 
on the communities where they operate. The 
initiative has invested more than US$ 40 million 
in around 200 approved projects

2030 Target

2030 Target

2030 Target

2030 Target

2030 Target2030 Target

CONTINUE TO PROVIDE life-changing educational 
and developmental opportunities for team members 
and their families

• Progress in 2021:
Through our Better Futures program, JBS USA and 
Pilgrim's continued their initiatives to provide access 
to higher education to employees and their de-
pendents. In the year, 1,000 students enrolled and 
US$ 335,000 was invested in tuition fees. Student 
retention rates are as high as 70%, compared to a 
national average of 50% in community colleges. 
Approximately 75% of participants identify as non-
white, and 56% identify as Hispanic/Latino

60FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



GOVERNANCE

DEVELOP A GLOBAL SCORECARD 
and set 2030 targets

• Progress in 2021:
We are currently working to im-
prove our data collection methods

Food safety and  
quality assurance

DEVELOP A GLOBAL SCORECARD 
and set 2030 targets

• Progress in 2021:
We launched our Global Food 
Safety and Quality Assurance 
(FSQA) Scorecard to benchmark 
performance indicators across 
global operations and business 
units, bolster accomplishments by 
identifying areas of improvement, 
and encourage the pursuit of 
achieving continuous and positive 
results. The scorecard evaluates 
12 metrics across four priority pil-
lars of focus, including regulatory 
compliance, animal welfare and 
prevention of antimicrobial resis-
tance, customer and consumer 
satisfaction, and product safety 
and quality

Compliance

CONTINUE to use our Ethics Line, a comprehensive and 
confidential reporting tool, to assist management and team 
members in working together to address fraud, abuse, 
and other misconduct in the workplace, with a focus on 
cultivating a positive work environment

CONTINUE to advance compliance with legal and 
regulatory requirements in all jurisdictions where we do 
business. Develop and support a culture of ethical business 
conduct for the company and team members, and 
promote the company's Mission and Values

• Progress in 2021:
We continued to deliver and progress on our 
responsibility to disseminate and promote a 
culture of ethics in each of our businesses, at our 
business partners, and across the value chain.
We made consistent progress in our Compli-
ance Program—ensuring conformity to all legal, 
regulatory and industry requirements in all ju-
risdictions where we operate—and towards our 
goal of having the best agribusiness compliance 
program in the industry.
We encouraged our business partners to im-
plement good integrity practices and integrity 
programs, and encouraged agribusiness agents 
to collectively engage around integrity in the 
global industry.

Animal welfare

2030 Target

2030 Target

2030 Target

61FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



E Environmental
ENVIRONMENTAL  
STEWARDSHIP
Responsibly using natural resources pro-
tects our future as a going concern and is 
a part of our essence. Sustainably meet-
ing the nutritional and food requirements 
of the world’s burgeoning population is 
the most urgent challenge facing us. To 
overcome this challenge we have to make 
fewer resources go further.

We work globally to mitigate environmen-
tal impacts, instilling best practices and 
innovation in our operations and our pro-
duction chains. We use our computerized 
Environmental Management System that 
follows our Global Environmental Policy 
guidelines to manage the environmental 
indicators of our production units, such as 
water use, effluent generation and anal-
ysis, energy consumption, waste genera-
tion, transportation, refrigerants, produc-
tion data and greenhouse gas emission 
indicators, amongst other items. This 
enables us to monitor the performance 
of our plants and benchmark it against 
targets to reduce consumption and emis-
sions and efficiently use natural resources, 
as well as directing our investments. The 
Environmental Management System in 
place in our plant is audited internally and 
is based on ISO 14001 specifications.

Our priorities include playing the role of 
transformation agents, coupled with best 
environmental practices for economic 
development, which is why we innovate to 
transform the management of our waste 
into profitable businesses, creating jobs 
and income in our local communities. 
We are proud to be driving development 
and good environmental practices in the 
Amazon. We are the foremost economic 
activity in various municipalities in the 
region.

Aware that we need to keep moving for-
wards, in March 2021 we announced our 
Net Zero 2040 global commitment. Our 
target is to eliminate our greenhouse gas 
emissions, reducing the intensity of direct 
and indirect emissions to the bare mini-
mum and offsetting all residual emissions.

This is a commitment that goes way 
beyond business sustainability. Mindful 
of our responsibility as one of the largest 
global food producers, we are commit-
ted to protecting the planet’s future. The 
future that belongs to all of us.

We invested R$ 568.4 million in the envi-
ronmental management of JBS’ operations 
worldwide in 2021.

We are working across a 
wide range of issues to help 
mitigate impacts on the 
environment, minimize GHG 
emissions, and create positive 
externalities

62FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



Slowing down climate change is one of 
the greatest challenges mankind has ever 
faced. We must act urgently to con-
tain temperature rise by 2050. Climate 
change is also the main risk facing our 
long-term operations. Scientists say that 
climate change is an existential threat, to 
both our company, and people, society 
and earth itself. 

We were the first global company in the 
protein sector to undertake the commit-
ment in March 2021 to eliminate our net 
balance of GHG emissions, i.e., to reduce 
the intensity of our direct and indirect 
emissions and offset all residual emissions 
by 2040, ten years ahead of the deadline 
set by most companies and governments 
in the world.

The Company will develop targets to re-
duce greenhouse gas emissions in its global 
operations and value chains in South Amer-
ica, North America, Europe, UK, Australia 
and New Zealand (find out more in Tran-
sitioning to Net Zero). We will therefore 

present a science-based plan to reach Net 
Zero, in line with the criteria established by 
the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi). 
Note that Pilgrim’s Moy Park and Pilgrim's 
UK have now had their emissions reduction 
targets approved by SBTi.

To bolster this commitment, in 2021 
we issued and priced four issuances in 
the international market indexed to our 
sustainability targets, worth a total of USD 
3.2 billion. These operations are related to 
the commitment to reduce the Company’s 
GHG emissions and to engage with the 
Transparent Farming Platform.

These initiatives are only possible thanks 
to our lengthy track record of respect 
for the environment and commitment to 
sustainability. For 12 years now, JBS has 
been monitoring and recording its direct 
and indirect GHG emissions and reporting 
them under scopes 1, 2 and 3 through 
annual GHG inventories in a computerized 
system. The information is reported under 
the Brazilian GHG Protocol Program, CDP 

Climate change
GRI 103-2, 103-3 | 305

See our actions to
achieve the target of eliminating
carbon emissions by
2040 in Our journey towards
Net Zero.

LEARN MORE

63FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



Climate Change, CDP Forests and the 
Paraná state government, all voluntarily.

Its reporting has earned JBS GHG Proto-
col Status and Clima Paraná Gold Status 
in recent years. Our shares are also listed 
on the B3 Carbon Efficient Index (ICO2) 
and the CDP Climate Resilience Index 
(ICDPR-70).

The main change caused by our Zero 
commitment to GHG emissions reporting 
is the enhanced management of scope 
3 emissions globally. The accuracy of 
data obtained increases as we progress 
on expanding emissions monitoring. We 
accordingly recorded a sharp increase 
in JBS’ scope 3 GHG emissions in 2021 
compared with 2019.

Our journey is also one of constant learn-
ing and evolution. We are fully aware that 
monitoring our scope 3 chain is a daunt-
ing task and we continue progressing 
towards our goal of monitoring all appli-
cable categories.

In Brazil, for instance, we analyzed the 
15 scope 3 emissions categories adopt-
ed by the GHG Protocol and found that 
ten of them are the most relevant to our 
activities, whereas the others are essen-
tially irrelevant or not applicable to our 
operations.

See the scope and performance of scope 
3 categories in the table below: 

GHG EMISSIONS BY SCOPE (tCO2e) - Global data 
GRI 305-1, 305-2, 305-3

2019 2020 2021

Scope 11 3,871,5574 4,625,8324 4,675,368

Scope 22 1,615,690 1,554,087 1,399,521

Scope 33 836,3194 61,121,3374 65,032,995

1. Emissions from own sources, fuel used to generate energy or heat in our operations, effluent treatment ponds and enteric 
fermentation of animals in confinement operations or on our farms, amongst others.

2. Indirect energy emissions from sources over which the company has no responsibility or has indirect responsibility. These 
stem from the use of electricity.

3. Indirect emissions. This scope includes emissions over which the company has no operational control or has indirect 
responsibility. Our 2019 emissions derive from a third-party fleet, commercial flights and waste decomposing on third-party 
land, amongst other items. For 2020 and 2021, see the scope of categories by year in the table on p. 65.

4. Data altered in relation to the previous year.

* Assurance conducted on Brazil data in scopes 1 and 2.

We have reduced 
our scope 1 + 2 
GHG emissions by 
9% compared to 
2017

ASSURED*

64FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



GHG Protocol categories¹ Australia Brazil Canada Europe Mexico USA

2020 2021 2020 2021² 2020 2021 2020 2021 2020 2021 2020 2021

CATEGORY 1. Purchased goods 
and services (includes enteric 
fermentation of purchased cattle, 
grain purchases and packaging)

CATEGORY 2. Capital goods

CATEGORY 3. Fuel- and ener-
gy-related activities not included in 
Scope 1 or Scope 2 

CATEGORY 4. Transportation and 
distribution (upstream) 

CATEGORY 5. Waste generated 
in operations (including landfills, 
composting and incineration) 

CATEGORY 6. Business travel

CATEGORY 7. Employee commut-
ing

CATEGORY 9. Transportation and 
distribution (downstream)

CATEGORY 10. Processing of sold 
products

CATEGORY 12. End-of-life treat-
ment of sold products

1. Other categories do not apply.   
2. Category 1. Does not include changes in land use for cattle (to be included in 2022).
3. Australia, Brazil, Canada, Europe, Mexico and USA.   

Categories included in scope 3 emissions
JBS Global³

2022

Completed In progress Partially completed

65FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



Our global guidelines require us to respon-
sibly manage the natural resources need-
ed by our operations. In relation to the use 
of energy in our facilities, we prioritize in-
vestments in clean renewable sources and 
energy efficiency projects, with a target of 
using 60% renewable electricity by 2030.

As this is a material topic in our manage-
ment, both for emissions and eco-effi-
ciency, we have a strategy and invest in 
adopting best practices regarding energy 
consumption. Around the world JBS 
is dedicated to on-site production and 
energy consumption reduction projects, 
in order to achieve a better economic and 
environmental performance. 

Energy 
management
GRI 103-2, 103-3 | 302

This is a trend applying to all sources of 
energy consumed by JBS, including fossil 
fuels. A necessary step in this joint effort 
is monitoring data related to the topic. 
One of the key metrics we monitor is 
energy intensity.

Our efforts are reflected in the percent-
age of renewable energy we use. 87% of 
our energy consumption in Brazil currently 
derives from renewable sources.

See the complete content about 
energy management on our 
Website

LEARN MORE

We prioritize investments in clean 
renewable sources and energy 
efficiency projects

66FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



Energy efficiency

Our business engineering teams are 
dedicated to identifying opportunities to 
reduce energy use, by developing eco-ef-
ficiency projects and replacing equipment. 
These efforts focus on optimizing our cold 
generation operation (machine room). We 
ran projects to optimize steam consump-
tion by installing more efficient equipment 
and recycling condensate.

We continually invest in energy efficien-
cy technologies, including LED lighting, 
real-time measurement devices, predictive 
maintenance, more efficient equipment 
and electrifying heating, transportation 
and refrigeration systems.

The Company also runs campaigns and 
training to raise employee awareness 
about responsible electricity consumption.

In Brazil, for instance, we set monthly and 
annual energy consumption targets, based 
on indicators including kWh/cattle pro-
cessed and metric ton of produce or item 
of leather produced.

Our business unit JBS USA Carriers is 
focused on improving fuel  efficiency as 
the main means for driving down energy 
use and GHG emissions. We improved fuel 
efficiency across our entire fleet in 2021 by 
0.05 miles a gallon (0.02 km per liter) and 
diminished GHG emissions by 8% on 2020.

Renewable energy

In line with our commitment to reduce 
scope 2 emissions, we are ramping up 
global investments to increase clean ener-
gy as a proportion of overall consumption. 
In 2021, renewable sources accounted for 
43% of the total energy consumed by JBS’ 
production units worldwide.  

An example of our efforts in Brazil is the 
Biolins cogeneration unit in the Lins indus-
trial estate, in São Paulo state. This facility 
produces electricity and steam from 
biomass (sugarcane bagasse, eucalyptus 
chips and various biomass waste), with a 
capacity of 45 megawatts (MW), enough 
to power a city of 300,000 inhabitants. 

Biolins provides 100% of the electricity 
and steam to the plants of Friboi, JBS 
Leathers and JBS New Business inside 
the Lins industrial estate. The powerplant 
alone generates the equivalent of 25% 
of the total electricity used by all of JBS’ 
units in Brazil.

Another JBS brand in Brazil that helped 
achieve this goal is Swift. The Company 
expanded the use of solar energy from 
nine stores in 2020 to 50 stores in 2021. 
Our goal is to achieve this in 100% of 
stores by 2025. Alongside this clean ener-
gy, 75% of stores have refrigeration equip-
ment that do not use gases and consume 
40% less energy.

Pilgrim’s UK operations are already using 
100% renewable electricity. We are also 
investing in the construction of solar 
energy plants in Australia and the USA 
(Texas) to power our operations. These 
projects complement another seven solar 
generation systems deployed in the USA 
(3), Australia (1) and Europe (3).

This investment in renewable energy 
includes ventures to produce biogas 
from the waste produced in operations. 
Two biodigester projects are currently in 
progress in Australia and Mexico. In Brazil, 
JBS is looking into implementing similar 
initiatives in its business units.

67FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



ENERGY CONSUMPTION WITHIN THE ORGANIZATION – Global  (GJ) 
GRI 302-1

In 2021, 43% of the energy we used 
in our operations was renewable, 
including electricity, mobile 
combustion and stationary combustion

2019

2020

2021

72,446,287¹

Renewable energy

Renewable energy

Renewable energy

Non- renewable energy

Non- renewable energy

Non- renewable energy

71,612,236¹

73,633,645

44%

45%

43%

Total

Total

Total

56%

55%

57%

1. Data restated in relation to the previous report.

* Assurance conducted on Brazil data.

ASSURED*

68FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



Oriented by a global recycling policy, 
we manage waste at our units around 
the world in order to reduce, reuse or 
recycle the maximum amount of mate-
rials with the goal of sending as little to 
landfills as possible.

Global opportunities are identified in sev-
eral ways, both daily with specific actions 
against waste and by developing new tech-
nologies. Material that can be recycled is 
separated and sent to recycling companies. 

In Brazil, the Solid Waste Management 
Plan (PGRS) is prepared by the environ-
mental owners of the production unit 
and lays down procedures for collecting, 
transporting and disposing of waste cor-
rectly, as well as defining best practices 
for reducing waste generation in specific 
parts of the process, aligned with Brazil’s 
National Waste Policy (PNRS). PARUS – 
Seara Rural Environmental Program, for 
instance, aims to collect the waste gener-
ated in outgrower rural production. This 
program involves the collection of solid 
waste, such as packaging, plastics and 

Waste 
management
GRI 103-2, 103-3 |  306 |  

sackcloth from rural properties, ensuring 
they are properly disposed of.

The Company also partners with com-
posting companies, which transform 
organic waste into compost that can be 
used as manure in crop fields, for exam-
ple. Nonrecyclable, hazardous and harm-
ful waste, in turn, is separated for suitable 
final disposal. 

JBS views packaging as essential to pro-
tect food products and keep them safe 
and consumable, from manufacturing until 
they reach the consumer’s table; This is 
why we ensure they return to the produc-
tion chain, in order to help recycle waste 
and diminish the impact of their disposal 
in landfills. We have annual targets to 
reduce packaging losses during the manu-
facturing process.

One of the aims of our Research and 
Development (R&D) teams is to reduce 
and optimize the use of primary packag-
ing (in direct contact with produce), and 
secondary and tertiary packaging, thereby 

In 2021 we reused 1.08 million 
metric tons of waste, accounting 
for 53.7% of the total produced. 
The material was sent for 
composting, recycling, energy 
cogeneration and waste-to-
energy applications

69FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



diminishing the amount of waste generat-
ed by customers and consumers.

Since 2014 our R&D teams in Brazil have 
been working on adapting packaging to 
comply with the environmental labeling 
rules determined by the Brazilian Asso-
ciation for Standardization (ABNT NBR 
16182). The regulations standardize the 
symbols that inform consumers about 
the suitable disposal of packaging post 
consumption. 

This makes it possible to separate dry 
waste from moist waste, directing it for 
segregation and subsequent sorting. This 
helps us continually improve recycling 
chains in multiple material sectors. We 
create processes that cut waste and 
packaging costs. 86% are also made from 
renewable materials.

JBS Environmental has a project develop-
ment methodology, but the whole process 
starts by brainstorming ideas to make 
them feasible. One of the main strategies 
is plotting these opportunities on charts. 
We reached out to the sustainability and 
R&D practices of Seara and Friboi to have 
monthly meetings on how to identify 
opportunities to reduce the use of pack-
aging from fossil fuel sources and increase 
recycled packaging.

There is a project with a specialist consul-
tancy firm to trace the source of packag-
ing with a blockchain platform, from the 
consumer through to waste pickers until it 
reaches JBS Environmental to identify the 
waste’s entire journey.

Pilgrim’s Moy Park is committed to 
eliminating waste sent to landfills, while 
Pilgrim’s UK has ramped up this commit-
ment to include most of its units. Both 
Moy Park and Pilgrim’s UK have adopted 
the strategy of “Remove, Reduce, Recycle 
and Research” and will begin using 100% 
recyclable rigid packaging by 2022. All 
other packaging will be widely recyclable 
by 2025. 

We concentrate our efforts on managing 
our waste with a potential impact in order 
to ensure it is environmentally correct-
ly disposed of. At Seara, for example, 
whenever possible, we prioritize the 
disposal of organic waste in composting 
systems, thereby avoiding disposal in 
industrial landfills. In other initiatives, used 
lubricants are stored in marked drums for 
subsequent allocation to oil re-refining 
companies. 

New JBS Environmental units will start 
operating in Seara's production units in 
2022, joining those opened in 2021, which 
will make material reuse and segregation 
more efficient, substantially increasing the 
volume of waste recycled. Find out more 
on our website. GRI 306-1, 306-2

WASTE GENERATED IN OPERATIONS BY TYPE AND DISPOSAL –  
Global data (t) 306-3, 306-4, 306-5

Waste generated 
by type 2019 % 2020 % 2021 %

Hazardous waste 32,707 1.5% 21,306 1.1% 14,839 0.7%

Nonhazardous 
waste

2,144,269 98.5% 1,924,909 98.9% 2,004,798 99.3%

Total volume of 
waste 2,176,976 100% 1,946,217 100% 2,019,636 100%

Waste directed to disposal by type

Company 
landfilling

19,261 0.9% 9,463 0.5%  8,418 0.4%

Third-party 
landfilling

469,614 21.6% 320,258 16.4% 329,831 16.3%

Composting 588,655 27.0% 627,570 32.2% 710,351 35.2%

Incineration 13,289 0.6% 24,636 1.3% 28,846 1.4%

Recycling 304,952 14.0% 217,199 11.2% 252,423 12.5%

Energy recovery 121,764 5.6% 95,174 4.9% 57,216 2.8%

Cogeneration 54,873 2.5% 44,738 2.3% 64,652 3.2%

Fertigation (Land 
Farm)

527,199  24.2%  522,879  26.9% 457,886 22.7%

Other 77,369  3.6%  84,300  4.3%  110,013 5.5%

70FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



It is our practice to ensure packaging re-
turns to the production chain, in order to 
help recycle waste and reduce the impact 
of its disposal in landfills. 

In Brazil, JBS also creates processes that 
cut waste and packaging costs - 86% is 
made from renewable materials. We also 
sponsor reverse logistics projects, comply-
ing with the Brazilian National Solid Waste 
Policy, such as Prolata, Programa Cidade+, 
of Instituto Recicleiros, and eureciclo. 

The platform Leather Labs, of JBS Couros, 
carries out the environmental offsetting 
of 200% of post-consumption packag-
ing created. By way of the partnership 
entered in 2021 with the eureciclo label, 
one of the largest reverse logistics certi-
fying bodies in Brazil, the company is now 
offsetting double the waste generated 
by its packaging, in terms of weight and 
material. This is another step by the brand 
to bolster its commitment to sustainability 
and reduce its environmental impacts.

The partnership between the compa-
ny and eureciclo strengthens the entire 
recycling chain, as the invested funds are 

Reverse logistics
GRI 103-2, 103-3 | 301, 301-1, 301-2, 301-3

allocated to cooperatives and collection 
centers, which provide a means of living 
for numerous workers. Eureciclo also part-
ners with Swift. In 2020 the JBS brand 
initiated a project to environmentally 
offset 100% of its sold packaging, in order 
to neutralize its possible impacts, going 
beyond PNRS requirements. In 2021 the 
partnership resulted in more than 2,500 
metric tons of material being removed 
from the environment.

Friboi and Seara partner with Prolata 
and Programa Cidade+ in their reverse 
logistics projects. The companies recycled 
a total of 7,862 metric tons of plastic and 
cardboard packaging and 11,008 metric 
tons of metal in 2021. In partnership with 
JBS Environmental, these companies have 
another project in progress to segregate 
recyclable materials more efficiently.

See the projects JBS sponsors 
on our website

LEARN MORE

71FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



JBS believes the closed-loop system for 
reusing and recycling waste is fundamen-
tal to the operation’s sustainability. We 
have a business unit that steers its oper-
ations to reuse the waste generated in its 
production processes, JBS New Business. 

Sustainable 
model 

• Develop solutions that minimize the disposal of 
waste generated by our operations;

• Diminish the environmental impact of packaging 
used in our products;

• Foster the circular economy within and without 
the Company’s operations; and

• Foster recycling in our consumption chain.

Our commitments:

Other JBS businesses also make innova-
tive improvements, resulting in products 
with a small environmental footprint, such 
as JBS Leathers.

72FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



sustainable practices in a pioneering closed-cycle 
system for the reuse and recycling of waste materials.

Cattle

Industry

The circular economy is integrated into our business model. We create 
innovative solutions for our waste; we dispose of all waste materials in an 
environmentally compliant manner; we create new jobs; and we invest in 
innovation and technology. This allows us to transform coproducts and 
materials from beef processing into a range of high value-added products.

Leather

Plastic
shopping
carts at
Swift stores

JBS
green
�ooring

Circular economy

Tallow

Fertilizers

company in Brazil 
to use organic 
waste from our 
plants to produce 
fertilizers.   

Recycling
69% of the materials 
produced by JBS 
Ambiental in 2021 
were from recyclable 
materials (resins and 
plastics).     

Biogas
Produced 
from waste 
generated 
at our 
processing 
plants.  

Sausage casings
Supplied to major food companies in 
Brazil and around the world for the 
production of sausages.  

Collagen
Used as an ingredient in the food 

products, such as bread, dairy 
products and sausages.  

Leather
JBS is a global leader in hides 
processing. With our vertically 
integrated value chain, we are able 
to add value to a food industry 
coproduct that would otherwise 
be treated as waste.

Peptides
We are currently building a collagen 
and gelatin peptides factory to cater 
to the nutraceuticals sector.    

Pharmaceutical ingredients
We supply raw materials for research 
centers, molecule development, gene 
therapy and vaccines, as well as producing 
culture media for laboratories for export.

Soaps
The largest producer of bar 
soaps in Brazil’s B2B segment. 
We use 100% of the tallow from 
the production process.

Biodiesel
We are the world’s largest 
integrated biodiesel 
producers from beef tallow.

JBS Natural
Casings

JBS Couros

Novaprom

JBS Higiene
& Limpeza

JBS
Biodiesel

Orygina

Genu-in

73FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



We have a global water stewardship policy 
that steers all of our businesses in the con-
stant pursuit of rational water use in pro-
cesses, creating strategies and projects that 
minimize the need for new water sources, 
which are priorities in work routines.

The investments in innovative technolo-
gies and initiatives to reduce water use in 
our units and improve process efficiency 
enable us to ensure that 85% of water 
withdrawn returns to the environment 
clean. 100% of production wastewater is 
currently treated.

Another issue we systemically track is 
the water stress risk. We carried out an 
assessment that enabled us to identify and 
prioritize the projects of importance to 
each drainage basin. According to the wa-
ter criticality matrix, 73% of our facilities 
have a low or medium-low water stress 
risk level, with those diagnosed as high-
risk standing at just 2%.

We constantly monitor the performance 
of our wastewater treatment plants that 
process the wastewater produced in our 
production process, in accordance with 
the physical and chemical standards 

Water and wastewater management
GRI 103-2, 103-3 | 303

required by legislation. Wastewater is 
treated at our plants either internally or in 
the public system. 

The main indicators measured are water 
withdrawal by source, the volume of water 
reused and volume of effluents gener-
ated and discharged. The performance 
indicator used is water consumption per 
metric ton of product, which is an intensi-
ty indicator.

Our units in Brazil follow the Sustainable 
Water Management Program (PGSA). 
At each facility we therefore monitor the 
sources of water withdrawal and discharg-
es of treated wastewater, wastewater 
treatment programs and the use of water 
by production intensity, as well as estab-
lishing re-usage and recycling strategies. 
All plants also apply the reduce, reuse and 
recycle approach.

JBS USA's approach to water steward-
ship is defined at a corporate level, but 
targets and goals are set by units to 
guarantee commitment and accountabil-
ity. Water stress risk analyses on opera-
tions in the USA, Canada, Australia, New 
Zealand, Europe and Mexico found that 

100% of production wastewater 
is currently treated

INVESTMENTS IN 2021

R$ 110.3 million
on improvements in water usage 
and wastewater in operations in 
Brazil

most of our facilities have a low-to-medi-
um or medium-to-high risk, as defined by 
the Aqueduct tool created by the World 
Resources Institute. 

74FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



2030 COMMITMENT

The Company reused  
1.7 billion   
liters of water in 2021

WATER WITHDRAWAL BY SOURCE (m3)** - Global data GRI 303-3, 303-5

VOLUME OF EFFLUENTS GENERATED AND DISCHARGED. (m3)** - Global data GRI 
303-4

2019 2020 2021

Surface¹ 45,228,057² 26.3% 44,748,043 26.1% 43,709,279 24.7%

Groundwater 57,677,295 33.5% 56,957,299 33.3% 59,451,109 33.5%

Public utilities 68,940,053 40.1% 69,323,367 40.5% 74,091,330 41.8%

Other sources 115,805 0.1% 113,939 0.1% 0 0

Total² 171,961,210 100%  171,142,648 100%  177,251,718 100%

1. In accordance with GRI methodology, in 2021 the rainwater harvesting data was added to Surface data.

2. Data altered in relation to the previous report.

* Assurance conducted on Brazil data. 

** The data is being reported in m³ to facilitate a historical comparison.

2019¹ 2020¹ 2021

Water body 80,931,603 52.6% 80,361,473 55.5% 81,809,989  54.6% 

Fertigation 18,349,248 11.9% 13,983,917 9.7% 14,523,138  9.7% 

Utility 47,130,042 30.7% 50,134,143 34.6% 50,262,676  33.5% 

Other sources 7,406,135 4.8% 262,056 0.2% 3,357,016  2.2% 

Total 153,817,028 100% 144,741,589 100% 149,952,819 100%  

1. Data restated in relation to the previous report.

*Assurance conducted on Brazil data.

** The data is being reported in m³ to facilitate a historical comparison.

ASSURED*

ASSURED*

75FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



In line with our Global Environment and 
Biodiversity Policy, we nurture a continu-
ous improvement model and are mindful 
that environmental protection, natural 
ecosystems, biodiversity and resource 
preservation are fundamental for current 
and future generations.

Seara's farming production system in 
Brazil, for instance, is predominately 
integrated. In this system, 100% of farms 
guarantee compliance with Brazil’s forest 
code, which requires a legal reserve be 
maintained on these properties. This pro-
tects local biodiversity in the forest.

The topic is also addressed through ini-
tiatives such as JBS Fund for the Amazon 
and Fire Prevention in Pantanal. 

Biodiversity

Fire Prevention in Pantanal

This initiative harnesses artificial intelli-
gence through a fire management platform 
that cross-references information from 
satellites, images from cameras installed on 
farms, meteorological data and historical 
fire data in the location to issue real-time 
warnings in the event a fire breaks out. 
With the R$ 26 million contributed by JBS 
distributed over four years, the project has 
been designed to cover 2 million hectares 
in the states of Mato Grosso and Mato 
Grosso do Sul. The technology employed 
could reduce burned areas by up to 90%. 
The system will provide information for 
the operations of some 80 Fire Brigades 
operating in the region.

JBS Fund for the Amazon

The fund has been created to foster and 
finance the sustainable development of the 
Amazon biome, to promote the conserva-
tion and sustainable use of the forest and 
improve the living standards of its popula-
tion (read more on page 107).

76FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



We consider products to have integrity 
when they meet the highest standards of 
food safety, quality and sustainability. In 
order to achieve and sustain such stan-
dards of excellence, we invest in enhanc-
ing our operation, our manufacturing and 
supply of products, ranging from adopting 
socio-environmental practices at source to 
certifications for best practices, processes 
and routines by independent auditors. 

Mindful of the leading role we play in 
the value chain, we seek to responsibly 
purchase raw materials, ubiquitously 
influencing the chain from the adoption 
of best practices by suppliers to the final 
quality of products. This is why we estab-
lished a partner relationship, encouraging 
and developing actions related to en-
hancing the management and practices 
of our suppliers.

Product 
integrity

JBS’ acquisition of raw materials is under-
pinned by responsible purchasing prin-
ciples. These principles embrace issues 
such as compliance with each country’s 
regulations and legislations and standard 
practices in the sector. 

We invest in enhancing our 
operation, our manufacturing 
and supply of products, from 
adopting socio-environmental 
practices at source to 
certifications for best practices

77FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



In purchasing raw materials, we adhere 
to responsible sourcing principles and 
ensure compliance with both the laws 
and regulations of the countries where 
we operate and industry best practices. 
It is important that we invest in a sustain-
able value chain for the production and 
marketing of our products. 

In the beef cattle supply chain, we only do 
business with cattle suppliers that meet 
our stringent social and environmental 
standards, ensuring we deliver products 
that are internationally recognized for 
quality and, where applicable, that are 
certified and traceable. 

In line with our Responsible Sourcing 
Policy, all cattle purchases in Brazil are 
made from suppliers that: are not locat-
ed in deforested lands, indigenous lands 
or protected areas; do not use slave or 
compulsory labor; and are not subject 
to any environmental restrictions. In our 
poultry and hog supply chain, we pur-
chase soybean meal only from suppliers 
that are signatories of the Amazon Soy 
Moratorium, ensuring that our products 
are not in any way linked or contributing 

Responsible sourcing
GRI 103-2, 103-3 | 204 | 308 | 414

to Amazon deforestation. JBS has been a 
signatory of the National Pact to Eradicate 
Slave Labor since 2007, and has been a 
member of the Institute for the National 
Pact to Eradicate Slave Labour (InPACTO) 
since 2014.

We also have a robust social and environ-
mental monitoring system to ensure our 
cattle suppliers are compliant with the 
social and environmental requirements in 
our Policy, helping to ensure a sustainable 
supply chain. On a daily basis, more than 
80,000 registered cattle supplier farms 
are assessed in the Amazon, Cerrado, 
Pantanal, Atlantic Forest, Caatinga and 
Pampas biomes. To date, we have proac-
tively debarred more than 14,000 suppli-
ers for noncompliance with our policies 
and standards.

Our supplier monitoring system is man-
aged by Friboi’s Sustainability department. 
It is regularly audited internally by our 
Sustainability, Internal Audit and Compli-
ance departments, and is annually audited 
externally by independent auditors. In 2021 
we invested R$ 4.5 million in this area. 
To further bolster our strategy, supplier 

monitoring performance has been includ-
ed among the targets established for the 
Sustainability department at Friboi. 

Our Certified Origin Program, launched 
in 2020, is using sophisticated technolo-
gy to improve on our existing traceability 
process. Customers and consumers can 
access complete information about the 

We do business only with cattle 
suppliers that meet stringent 
social and environmental 
standards 

78FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



origin of our products by scanning a QR 
Code printed on the packaging. Through 
the program, we are implementing contin-
uous improvement across all levels of the 
supply chain.

In the US and Canada, cattle suppliers 
are required to sign a statement that they 
are compliant with government regu-
lations and animal welfare certification 
programs such as Beef Quality Assurance 
(BQA) or equivalent.

In Australia, suppliers are required to 
provide a National Vendor Declaration 
(NVD). In addition, before leaving the 
property where they were bred, animals 
must be identified with a device ap-
proved by the National Livestock Identifi-
cation System (NLIS).

In poultry, our operations in the US 
work with outgrower farms—we ensure 
traceability and provide all required 
inputs, including chicks and feed, as well 
as technical and veterinary support. In 
Europe and Mexico, we operate our own 
poultry facilities. 

In the hog supply chain, in addition to 
working together with producers, all pur-
chases meet the applicable legal require-
ments of the country of origin. In the US, 
we require all hog suppliers to be certified 
within the Pork Quality Assurance Plus 
(PQA+) Program. Hogs for sale in Australia 
are branded with a unique farm identifica-
tion number. The PigPass national tracking 
system provides real time information on 
the movements of all animals in Australia.

Leather ID

In 2019 JBS Couros launched the first 
global leather traceability platform, 
called Leather ID, providing access to 
comprehensive information from source 
farm to end product. Each item carries a 
tag that allows users to identify the farm 
where the raw material was produced, 
the location of each farm, and the pro-
duction plant or tannery where the leath-
er was processed.

In Europe, producers selling hogs to Pil-
grim’s UK production facilities are required 
to be certified and undergo third-party 
audits confirming that their hogs are 
raised in accordance with the Royal Soci-
ety for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals 
(RSPCA), the Red Tractor or the Quality 
Meat Scotland (QMS) standards.

79FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES

https://jbs360.com.br/leather-id/


Transparent Livestock 
Farming Platform  

With a goal to extend our ten-year 
supplier monitoring program across all 
links in the beef value chain, in April 2021 
we launched the Transparent Livestock 
Farming Platform as a way to advance 
best social and environmental practices in 
the sector. Using block chain technology 
to protect data confidentiality, the tool al-
lows JBS cattle suppliers to register their 
own suppliers for compliance with social 
and environmental requirements in cattle 
farming. This will support unprecedented 
progress in cattle traceability in the Ama-
zon and other Brazilian biomes. 

JBS’s efforts to protect this biome go back 
many years. Since 2009 we have moni-
tored the region using satellite imagery, 
and in 2021 we monitored 86 million hect-
ares, an area the size of France and Germa-
ny combined. Our two most recent audits, 
conducted by an independent certification 
organization, attested that 100% of the 
verified cattle we sourced were compliant 
with our Responsible Sourcing Policy. 

In 2021 we began registering suppliers on 
the Transparent Livestock Farming Plat-
form on a voluntary basis. Cattle producers 
that sell animals directly to JBS provide a 
list of their animal suppliers on the plat-
form, which are then assessed on social 
and environmental compliance using the 
same criteria as for direct suppliers, includ-
ing: deforestation, land grabbing in indige-

nous lands or protected areas; compulsory 
labor; and the use of land embargoed by 
the environmental authorities.

The assessment results are delivered 
directly to suppliers who, for the first 
time, are now able to view the social and 
environmental compliance status of their 
entire supply chain. This enables them to 
develop plans to mitigate risks and imple-
ment initiatives to help ranchers achieve 
compliance as necessary.

No sensitive information is accessible to 
JBS, but only information on whether the 
producer’s suppliers are compliant. As a 
core part of the project, we are currently 
developing a strategy to engage with the 
supply chain in building a register of pro-
ducers that are compliant with social and 
environmental standards.

Illustrating our commitment to advancing 
cattle traceability in Brazil, we launched 
a R$ 1.15 billion Agribusiness Receivables 
Certificate (CRA) program in which the 
proceeds are allocated to achieving an illegal 
deforestation-free supply chain by 2025. 

Agribusiness Receivables 
Certificates (CRAs)

All JBS beef cattle suppliers must sign up 
to the program by the end of 2025. Re-
latedly, as part of our recently announced 
2040 Net Zero commitment, we have 
brought forward our zero illegal defor-
estation target for upstream suppliers in 
the Cerrado, Pantanal, Atlantic Forest and 
Caatinga biomes from 2030 to 2025. This 
reflects the rapid progress we have made 
on the Transparent Livestock Farming 
Platform and our long-standing commit-
ment to the Amazon.

The Transparent Livestock Farming 
Platform met its engagement target for 
2021. As of December 2021, the number 
of animals registered on the platform 
accounted for 14.6% of total processed 
animals in 2020.

80FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



Green Offices
Created to support cattle farmers in 
achieving environmental compliance, our 
Green Offices assist ranchers that have 
environmental liabilities on their proper-
ties and are looking to achieve compliance 
so they are eligible to supply animals to 
other farms and/or slaughter facilities.

Through specialized consultancies, these 
offices provide free legal and environmen-
tal advice on addressing environmental 
liabilities. Consulting services can be in 
person—at offices hosted at Friboi pro-
cessing plants—or by email, telephone or 
WhatsApp. The services address issues 
involving illegal deforestation and environ-
mental embargoes.  

In 2022 JBS establish partnerships with 
Banco do Brasil and Bradesco to facilitate 

access to rural credit to assist farmers in 
their efforts to achieve compliance and 
improve productivity.

We currently have 15 Green Offices at 
processing plants throughout Brazil: in 
Marabá, Santana do Araguaia, Tucumã 
and Redenção (Pará); Porto Velho and São 
Miguel do Guaporé (Rondônia) and an-
other six in Mato Grosso—Alta Floresta, 
Barra do Garças, Confresa, Pedra Preta, 
Juara, and Pontes e Lacerda. The initiative 
has also been extended to Goiânia and 
Mozarlândia (Goiás) and Campo Grande 
(Mato Grosso do Sul). 

Learn more about our 
Green Offices here

LEARN MORE
Our 15 Green Offices are 
hosted at JBS processing 
plants throughout Brazil

81FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES

https://jbs360.com.br/escritorios-verdes/


JBS recognizes that supplier engagement 
is essential to the prosperity of our value 
chain. That is why we have developed a 
series of actions to build closer engage-
ment with these stakeholders, in a rela-
tionship based on trust, respect, ethics 
and transparency.

We maintain regular dialog with suppliers, 
especially on matters relating to human 
rights and compliance with national and 
local labor laws. Our supplier relations are 
guided by the JBS Code of Conduct for 
Business Partners, which sets out guide-
lines for suppliers to align themselves with 
JBS’s business standards. 

JBS works alongside producers as busi-
ness partners, providing technical and 
management support. To help suppliers 
ensure the sustainability and perpetuity of 
their businesses, we have launched devel-
opment programs as a way to share value 
and knowledge along the value chain.

One of our concerns in implementing 
this model is the need for credit facilities 
for farmers implement needed transfor-
mations, as it is more difficult to adapt 
existing farms that it is to build new ones. 
Despite these challenges, our target is to 
include all suppliers in the new format and 
expand production in Brazil. We have set 
a goal to have 100% of farms adapted to 
the new model by 2025. To help reduce 
costs and avoid waste, we are re-utilizing 
demolished steel and metal materials to 
make partitions for collective stalls. This 

Supplier engagement

way we are reconciling sustainability with 
cost reduction in farm renovations.

Seara has 9,000 outgrower farms under 
exclusive contracts. Outgrowers re-
ceive training on animal handling, animal 
welfare, compliance and environmental 
licensing, in a partnership governed by our 
Code of Conduct for Business Partners.

GRI 103-2, 103-3 | 204, 308, 414, 102-9

140,000+ 
cattle, lamb, poultry and pork 
suppliers around the world

82FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



This app simplifies the commercial 
relationship with producers—from 
animal purchases to processing—con-
necting thousands of producers to the 
best business opportunities available. 
The online platform provides secure, 
equal access to cattle farmers of differ-
ent sizes, and creates greater transpar-
ency around the entire process, with 
information displayed in real time. 

Launched in 2020, this initiative provides 
training on high-performance manage-
ment, helping beef cattle farms in Brazil to 
maximize results. The program, developed 
in partnership with Instituto Inttegra, is 
available to cattle farmers throughout Bra-
zil. With 416 farms currently enrolled, this 
is the largest group of cattle farmers ever 
engaged in an initiative of this kind in Brazil. 

We have led a series of initiatives to 
strengthen sustainability in the beef value 
chain and improve our relationship with 
suppliers. Learn about some of these 
initiatives below:

In a partnership with the Working Group 
on Sustainable Livestock (GTPS) and NGO 
Solidaridad, JBS is supporting implemen-
tation of a Sustainable Livestock Indicators 
Guide (GIPS) in the state of Pará. Devel-
oped by GTPS, the GIPS assists producers 
in self-assessing the sustainability of their 
properties across different dimensions, and 
provides guidance on developing sustain-
able cattle farming operations.

The Social Biofuel Mark, a program creat-
ed by the Brazilian Ministry of Agriculture, 
Livestock and Food Supply (MAPA), is an 
initiative linked to the National Biodiesel 
Production Program (PNPB) that provides 
technical assistance to smallholders and as-
sists them in accessing markets to sell their 
produce, while also contributing toward a 
more sustainable energy mix and to reducing 
greenhouse gas and pollutant emissions.

We support the program through a partner-
ship between Friboi and JBS Biodiesel, in 
São Miguel do Guaporé (RO), that is helping 
to train small cattle farmers. The goal of the 
project is to improve pastureland, property 
management, herd management and herd 
genetics, with the company also committing 
to purchase farmers’ beef tallow—a co-prod-
uct from beef processing and the second 
most important source of raw material for 
biodiesel production in Brazil.

Including the beef value chain in the PNPB 
program has provided an economic stimulus 
in the region. It has also earned JBS Biodiesel 
a Social Biofuel Mark from the Brazilian gov-
ernment. Since integrating cattle farming into 
the program in 2015, JBS has purchased more 
than 110,000 animals from 437 properties in 
21 municipalities served by the program, and 
has invested approximately R$ 5 million in 
providing free technical assistance focused on 
efficient and responsible production.

83FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



This initiative aims to promote sustainable livestock 
production in the Médio Vale do Araguaia region, in 
Mato Grosso, one of Brazil’s main cattle-producing 
regions. In a partnership with Liga do Araguaia, the 
initiative provides participating cattle farmers with 
production and financial advice for managing their 
properties, through dedicated mentors. Combining 
education with technology, the project aims to positively 
impact the productivity and profitability of participating 
properties, to demonstrate what really matters to their 
bottom line, and to point the way to more efficient cattle 
farming in line with social and environmental policies.

In the 20/21 crop year, the initiative had 12 participating 
farms with more than 57,000 head of cattle, spread 
across more than 56,000 hectares of land. In the first 
quarter of the current crop year, 21/22, there were 14 
participating farms with more than 51,000 head of cattle 
across 42,000 hectares of land.

JBS consultants provide technical support in pasture 
management to improve productivity on environmentally 
compliant properties, while increasing profits for 
farmers. The initiative is also helping to reduce net 
greenhouse gas emissions in cattle farming.

 Participating farms implement continuous 
improvements toward best practice in environmental, 
social, governance and product quality aspects.

Rebanho Araguaia 

84FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



Trusted information 
for cattle farmers and 
outgrowers
Friboi and Seara produce two television 
programs with content aimed at livestock 
farmers and outgrowers, aired nationwide 
on Canal Rural.  The first, called O Giro 
do Boi, is a news program about current 
issues in beef cattle farming across Brazil, 
also providing updates on live cattle 
market prices. The second, Ligados & 
Integrados, is focused on the poultry and 
pork supply chains. Both programs are 
recognized as trusted sources in their 
respective sectors.

JBS USA and the supply 
chain
At JBS USA, all suppliers who provide 
products or services that have direct 
contact with food must pass Global Food 
Safety Initiative (GFSI) or British Retail 
Consortium (BRC) audits, or produce 
equivalent certification, along with a letter 
of guarantee, or must be assessed and 
approved by our Supplier Quality Team. 

At JBS USA, we serve a broad customer 
base that demands diverse types of beef 
and lamb products. This diversification 
is reflected in our broad supply chain, 
which ranges from small family farm and 
ranch partners who supply us with live-
stock and poultry to large, multinational 
companies that manufacture and provide 

materials and services for our production 
facilities. We work in partnership with 
over 77,000 suppliers to ensure the high-
est-quality inputs.

As part of its efforts to minimize social 
and environmental impacts in the supply 
chain, JBS USA has developed a Suppli-
er Code of Conduct addressing human 
rights, forced labor, freedom of associa-
tion and collective bargaining, minimum 
age for employment, equal employment 
opportunity, employment practices, health 
and safety, environmental issues and busi-
ness integrity, which includes anti-corrup-
tion and bribery. JBS USA has also issued 
a Responsible Sourcing Policy. 

Potential suppliers are evaluated based 
on several criteria, including compliance, 
commercial offering, supply flexibility and 
responsiveness, service, risk management, 
quality, price, reliability, financial capabili-
ty, reputation and experience. In addition, 
JBS USA recognizes that sourcing prod-
ucts, ingredients and services from within 
our communities helps further support 
local economies.

In the United States and Canada, live-
stock suppliers must sign a statement 
indicating compliance with government 
regulations and animal welfare certifi-
cation programs such as Beef Quality 
Assurance (BQA) or equivalent.

In Australia, all livestock that are con-
signed for sale are required to have a 
National Vendor Declaration (NVD), a 
document verifying Australian meat and 

livestock food-safety, as well as the prod-
uct’s origin. In signing the NVD, produc-
ers declare compliance with Livestock 
Producer Assurance (LPA), an inde-
pendently audited on-farm food-safety 
certification program.  As an added 
traceability control, before livestock 
leave their property of birth, they must 
be tagged with an approved National 
Livestock Identification System (NLIS) 
device. This allows animal movements to 
be recorded in a national database.

Our Pilgrim's Moy Park Beef Orléans busi-
ness, in France, purchases beef for further 
processing from approved suppliers that 
are audited annually for food safety and 
animal welfare. The company has also de-
veloped contracting initiatives with French 
beef farmers associations to ensure 
available supply. In addition, suppliers are 
encouraged to purchase cattle from farms 
that have subscribed to the Charte des 
Bonnes Pratiques d’Élevage (Good Farm-
ing Practices Charter). This also applies to 
beef supplied from Holland and Ireland.

Pilgrim’s UK provides the only fully 
dedicated lamb supply chain in the UK, 
partnering with our network of 425 ded-
icated sheep farmers. All Pilgrim’s lamb 
producers are Farm Assured and raise 
lambs according to our higher-than-indus-
try standards. Our lamb producer partners 
also complete a Responsible Efficient 
Production Assessment biannually.

In the U.S., we require all family farm 
partners supplying hogs to our facilities to 
be certified in accordance with the Pork 

Quality Assurance Plus (PQA+) Program. 
Hogs for sale in Australia are branded with 
a unique farm identification number. The 
PigPass national tracking system provides 
real time information on the movements 
of all hogs in Australia, including the prop-
erty they came from.

In Europe, producers selling hogs to Pil-
grim’s UK production facilities are required 
to be certified and undergo third-party 
audits confirming that their hogs are 
raised in accordance with the Royal Soci-
ety for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals 
(RSPCA), the Red Tractor or the Quality 
Meat Scotland (QMS) standards.

85FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES

http://3.142.36.111/stories/jbs-usa-food-company-vendor-code-of-conduct/
http://3.142.36.111/stories/jbs-usa-food-company-vendor-code-of-conduct/
https://sustainability.jbsfoodsgroup.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/07/JBS_ResponsibleRawMaterialSourcing_Global_Policies.pdf


S Social SOCIAL 
RESPONSIBILITY

One of the fundamental components of 
JBS’ mission is to ensure a better future 
for its employees. This necessarily re-
quires investing in their qualification, train-
ing, healthcare, and safety. It also requires 
that we offer them a diverse and inclusive 
work environment. In addition, we must 
invest in the socioeconomic development 
of the communities where we are present.

We craft structuring initiatives 
that immediately transform and 
create a relevant social legacy

Our commitment to the communities 
translates into structuring initiatives 
that immediately transform and create 
a relevant social legacy. These focus on 
developing opportunities for volunteering, 
donations, and education and inclusion 
programs, all of which respect the local 
lifestyle and culture.

86FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



With a team of some 250,000 employees, 
JBS stands out as a major employer in a 
number of countries such as Brazil (where 
it is the largest employer), Mexico, the US, 
UK, and Australia. As ours is a labor-in-
tense industry, we have a global employee 
management policy based on adherence 
to the organization’s culture and its busi-
ness mission. We are committed to hire 
and drive the development of our profes-
sionals regardless of nationality, gender, 
sexual orientation, gender identity, or age, 
and also foster the inclusion of people 
with disabilities.

As a global company, our staff is diverse 
in terms of ethnicity, culture, religion, 
language, and country of origin. In Europe, 
for example, 89% of the team is made up 
of immigrants. In Brazil, our staff includes 
immigrants from numerous countries such 
as Senegal, Haiti, and Venezuela, as well 
as indigenous peoples. Another place 
where there is a multiplicity of cultures 
in the US, where JBS employees speak 
60 different languages and dialects. To 
ensure that all team members are able to 
express themselves and understand the 
key messages, all company materials are 
available in different languages and dia-

Our people

lects. This material includes information 
for team members such as benefits, safety 
instructions, and new materials about hir-
ing and continuous training. Furthermore, 
all facilities provide unlimited access to 
Language Lines, available in over 200 
languages to create immediate access to 
clear communication at all our facilities. 

JBS USA joined the U.S. Immigration 
and Customs Enforcement (ICE) Mutual 
Agreement between Government and 
Employers (Image) program in 2012. 
The Image program promotes voluntary 
compliance with the work authorization 
provisions of the Immigration and Nation-
ality Act, and helps prevent the hiring or 
continued employment of individuals who 
are not authorized to work in the country.

To reinforce its position, in 2020 JBS and 
other consumer goods companies signed 
the Public Commitment for Racial Equity, 
whose goal is to reinforce measures to 
fight structural racism.

2020 was a particularly challenging 
year, given the demands imposed by the 
Covid-10 pandemic to preserve employ-
ee health and support the communities 

Our staff has a diverse 
range of ethnicities, 
cultures, religions, 
languages, and countries of 
origin

87FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



where they live. JBS focused on adjusting 
its operations, understanding the needs 
of each country and investing where it 
was urgent and necessary to save lives. 
In 2021, we continued to invest in emer-
gency measures, in mobilizing to accel-
erate vaccination of employees and their 
families, and on developing health and 
hygiene protocols for employee safety 
while performing their activities in the 
work environment of our facilities. 

JBS encourages professional development 
in many ways. The company’s Human 
Resource area operates regionally, with the 
support of corporate HR and the global 
head of HR, and abides by local laws and 
standards. There is a structured process of 
information exchange between the region-
al offices, and best practices are shared.

In addition to focusing on talent attrac-
tion, local projects value personal devel-
opment. In Brazil, the In-House Talents 
program is the driver of this policy, as is 
the JBS Without Frontiers Program, which 
takes Brazilian boners to Canada. The goal 

is to create an attractive work environ-
ment to cultivate and maintain talents. For 
this, among other policies, the Company 
also periodically reviews its compensation 
and benefits policy.   

HR health and safety management made 
progress in trainings and delivered effec-
tive results. We also created our severity 
index, a global safety indicator. 

In 2021, one of the challenges was to hire 
employees in the United States. The pan-
demic imposed restrictions on cross-bor-
der travel, interrupting the migratory pro-
cess and making it harder to fill positions 
in some plants in the US. In Europe, Brexit 
became an additional variable.

invested in Human Resources 
worldwide in 2021

R$ 206.9 millionThe HR area operates 
regionally, with the support of 
corporate HR, abiding by local 
laws and regulations

88FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



Team Management
GRI 103-2, 103-3 | 401

Incentivizing new talents and hiring and 
retaining employees follows standards 
that fit our corporate culture. To moni-
tor and improve our processes, annual 
reviews include people management 
policies and the main health and safety, 
churn, absenteeism, and overtime indi-
cators. In line with best practices, JBS 
is committed to hiring and promoting 
professionals regardless of color, race, 
ethnicity, nationality, social origin, age, 
marital status, religious beliefs, disabili-
ty, gender, sexual orientation, or gender 
expression or identity.

Workforce profile

In 2021 we had a total of 250,000 em-
ployees. Despite a prolonged challenging 
scenario caused by the Covid-19 pandem-
ic, we continued hiring in all countries 
where we operate. GRI 102-8

In Brazil our turnover increased some-
what, from 24% in 2020 to 25% in 2021. 
GRI 401-1

Ninety-two percent of the employees of 
Friboi, Seara, Swift, JBS Leather, and JBS 
New Business are covered by collective 
bargaining agreements. In other countries 
the following percentages are covered by 
similar agreements: 57% in the US and 
Puerto Rico, 90% in Canada, 68% in Mex-
ico, and 54% in Europe.  In Australia and 
New Zealand, 86.5% of the employees 
are covered either by collective bargaining 
agreements or Modern Federal Awards 
(documents that stipulate minimum terms 
and conditions for employment, and the 
National Employment Standards). GRI 

102-41

2021

247,745
Total

Men Women

60% 40%

EMPLOYEE PROFILES - WORLDWIDE

TOTAL # OF EMPLOYEES – WORLDWIDE GRI 102-8

2019 2020 2021

Brazil  128,414  141,887  143,213 

JBS USA, Pilgrim´s USA, 
JBS Australia, JBS Canada, 
Pilgrim´s Europe (UK+Moy 
Park), Pilgrim´s Mexico

 102,710  102,031  104,532 

Total  231,124  243,918  247,745 

89FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



PERCENT EMPLOYEES BY GENDER AND OPERATION GRI 102-8

GenderGender 20202020 20212021

% %

Brazil

Men 59.0% 57.4%

Women 41.0% 42.6%

JBS USA¹

Men 65.8% 65.5%

Women 34.2% 34.5%

Pilgrim’s USA²

Men 57.4% 58.5%

Women 42.6% 41.5%

JBS Australia

Men 70.1% 68.7%

Women 29.9% 31.3%

JBS Canada

Men 63.2% 62.9%

Women 36.8% 37.1%

Pilgrim’s Europe (UK + Moy Park)

Men 63.3% 62.8%

Women 36.7% 37.2%

Pilgrim's Mexico

Men 62.0% 64.7%

Women 38.0% 35.3%

Total worldwide

Men 60.7% 59.9%

Women 39.3% 40.1%

1. Includes all operations in the United States, except poultry.
2. Includes all operations in the United States.

90FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



PERCENT EMPLOYEES  
BY RACE (%) GRI 102-8

2019 2019 2019

2020 2020 2020

2021 2021 2021

•  Black (Black and Brown) • Caucasian • Indigenous
•  Undeclared/Not informed • Asian 

•  Hispanic or Latino • Caucasian  
• Black or African-American • Other  
• Native-Hawaiian or Pacific-Islander  
• Asian •  Indigenous American or Native Alaskan  

•  Hispanic or Latino • Caucasian  
• Black or African-American • Other  
• Native-Hawaiian or Pacific-Islander  
• Asian •  Indigenous American or Native Alaskan  

44.3%
46.9% 36.7%

36.2%

34.2%

47.6%

48.0%

53.1%

20.2% 32.0%

32.1%

31.3%

19.8%

19.3%

9.6%

27.5%

27.9%

30.8%

9.6%

8.7%

0.4%

1.3%0.9%

44.9%51.9%

0.9%
1.4% 0.9%

45.8%50.5%

1.3%

1.4%

1%

JBS BRASIL
JBS USA PILGRIM'S USA

0.6%

0.7%

0.9%
1.7%

0.3%

0.3%

0.4%

21.5%

21.0%

21.0%

0.9%

1.0%

0.4%

0.4%

0.4%

0.3%

0.3%

0.4%

0.8%

0.9%

0.9%

2.3%

2.2%

2.0%

2020

2021

91FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



PERCENT LEADERSHIP BY GENDER  GRI 102-8 PERCENT MANAGEMENT BY RACE  GRI 102-8

2019 2020 2021
% % %

Brazil
Men 76.4% 74.8% 73.2%
Women 23.6% 25.2% 26.8%
JBS USA
Men 72.7% 70.5% 69.8%

Women 27.3% 29.5% 30.2%

Pilgrim's USA
Men 64.2% 63.0% 61.2%

Women 35.8% 37.0% 38.8%

JBS Australia
Men 83.5% 82.2% 78.0%

Women 16.5% 17.8% 22.0%

JBS Canada
Men 20.8% 57.1% 57.2%

Women 79.2% 42.9% 42.8%

PILGRIM's EUROPE (UK + MoyPark)
Men NA 66.2% 73.7%

Women NA 33.8% 26.3%

Pilgrim's Mexico
Men 69.0% 69.2% 84.8%

Women 31.0% 30.8% 15.2%

2019 2020 2021
% % %

Brazil
Asian 1.1% 1.1% 1.1%
White 72.6% 71.6% 72.1%
Indigenous 0.1% 0.1% 0.0%
Undeclared/not informed. 0.4% 0.7% 0.8%
Black (Black + Brown) 25.8% 26.5% 26.0%
JBS USA
Hispanic or Latino 31.9% 33.5% 33.6%
White 57.7% 55.0% 54.2%
Black or African-American 4.6% 5.6% 5.9%
Native-Hawaiian or Pacific-Islander 0.1% 0.2% 0.2%
Asian 4.5% 4.6% 4.7%
Indigenous-American or Native-
Alaskan 0.3% 0.3% 0.3%

Other 0.9% 0.8% 1.1%
Pilgrim's USA
Hispanic or Latino 14.5% 14.8% 18.7%
White 65.8% 62.8% 59.8%
Black or African-American 17.6% 19.9% 19.0%
Native-Hawaiian or Pacific-Islander 0.0% 0.2% 0.1%
Asian 1.1% 1.2% 1.1%
Indigenous-American or Native-
Alaskan 0.4% 0.3% 0.3%

Other 0.6% 0.8% 1.0%

92FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



PERCENT EMPLOYEES BY AGE GROUP AND OPERATION  GRI 102-8

By age group 2020 2021
% %

Brazil
< 30 43.4% 42.2%
30 - 50 47.2% 47.7%
> 50 9.4% 10.1%
JBS USA¹
< 30 21.0% 22.6%
30 - 50 47.8% 47.1%
> 50 31.2% 30.3%
Pilgrim’s USA²
< 30 23.0% 22.2%
30 - 50 42.3% 42.6%
> 50 34.7% 35.2%
JBS Australia
< 30 24.3% 23.2%
30 - 50 51.8% 48.4%
> 50 23.9% 28.4%
JBS Canada
< 30 14.4% 18.1%
30 - 50 64.9% 60.4%
> 50 20.7% 21.5%
Pilgrim’s Europe (UK + Moy Park)
< 30 17.0% 17.7%
30 - 50 58.0% 54.4%
> 50 25.0% 27.9%
Pilgrim's Mexico
< 30 39.0% 36.2%
30 - 50 52.0% 52.5%
> 50 9.0% 11.3%
Grand total
< 30 34.9% 34.1%
30 - 50 47.9% 47.9%
> 50 17.2% 18.0%

1. Includes all operations in the United States, except poultry.
2. Includes all operations in the United States.

93FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



People development  
GRI 103-2, 103-3 | 404

We have a number of initiatives to encour-
age and support the professional develop-
ment of our employees. 

In Brazil, the following are deserving of 
attention: 

The In-House Talent Development pro-
gram focuses on our plants and selects 
young people with leadership potential 
who can manage teams and processes 
in the Company’s various business units, 
then trains them to be supervisors in 
maintenance, production, and its agricul-
tural and cattle raising operations. In 2021 
41 talents completed the program.

Another front we opened is the Labor 
Attorney Program for professionals who 
graduated from Law school two years 
ago or less. Since 2016, 49 attorneys have 
completed the program in nine JBS units 
and the Company’s main office.

Career development via qualification also 
takes place at the corporate universities or 
training academies that exist at each JBS 
business unit:

• Friboi – Friboi University, Knife 
Handling Training Center (CFF) and 
the Boner Training Center (CFD)

• Seara – Seara University and Quality 
Academy

• JBS Leather – Leadership Academy

• Swift – Sales and Leadership 
Academy

The average monthly hours of training in 
2021 was 3.02* per employee. The aver-
age in 2020 was 3.94**. GRI 404-1

*. Refers to Friboi, Seara, Swift, JBS New Business and 
JBS Leather.
**. Refers to Friboi, Swift, JBS New Business and JBS 
Leather.

JBS has people development at 
the corporate level, and in each 
business unit

94FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



Frontierless JBS
This program was created in 2015 to offer 
opportunities of specialized deboners at 
Friboi and Seara to work at JBS Canada, 
located in Brooks, Alberta. This project 
reinforces the Company’s global position 
and provides international experience and 
opportunities, fosters knowledge ex-
change, and helps retain employees.

Since it was created, professionals from 
the states of Bahia, Goiás, Mato Grosso, 
Mato Grosso do Sul, Pará, Rondônia, and 
São Paulo have been sent to Canada. 

JBS USA Leadership 
Development
Members of JBS in the US have the 
opportunity to receive leadership training 
from one of the programs offered by the 
company. One example, the Management 
Trainee Program, is available to recent 
graduates. This is a 12-month rotation 
program designed to develop project 
management, problem solving, and col-
laboration skills based on the interests and 
career aspirations of each participant. 

Over 100 trainees are selected each year 
at JBS in the United States, Canada, and 
Mexico. This is an opportunity to gain 
practical experience in several areas, as 
well as an in-depth understanding of how 
the business works. 

Performance  
assessment  
GRI 103-2, 103-3, 404-3

Performance assessments are conduct-
ed based on JBS values, and are used 
to ensure adherence to the Company 
culture. They include peer and subordi-
nate assessments, as applicable, as well 
as assessments by leaders, suppliers, and 
internal customers. In 2021, 11,622 eligible 
employees in Brazil were assessed using 
this methodology.

JBS has people 
development programs at 
the corporate level, as well 
as in each business unit 

95FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



As a global company, JBS 
must help build a more 
inclusive society

We are committed to promoting and 
defending human rights in our operations 
and our entire value chain, as well as the 
communities we are part of. As a global 
company we must reflect the diversity of 
our consumers and communities, and help 
build a more inclusive society. 

In line with its Diversity and Inclusion Policy 
published in 2021, the Company promotes 
gender and race equality in leadership 
positions. The guidelines for this policy are 
based on three key pillars: Diversity and 
Inclusion, Equal Opportunities, and Respect 
for Diversity. The goal is to have an increas-
ingly inclusive environment that embraces 
differences, with measures to ensure and 
promote equal access to permanence and 
opportunities to all employees across all 
areas and positions, as well as continuous 
awareness of the impact of these mea-
sures. We also created the Diversity and 
Inclusion Committee in 2021, designed to 
implement and manage diversity and inclu-
sion programs.

Diversity and inclusion
GRI 103-2, 103-3 | 405, 406

The Company started a process of social 
literacy for senior leaders in themes relat-
ed to diversity, equity, and inclusion. 

Four Affinity Groups were created: Race, 
PwD, Gender, and LGBTQIAP+. The goal 
of AGs is to identify the main challenges 
each of these groups faces in the Com-
pany, creating a list of affirmative actions 
in response to these issues, and following 
their implementation. 

96FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



AGs are responsible for:

• Connecting people and providing a 
respective and inclusive exchange 
environment;

• Craft, implement, and validate the 
internal measures of the D&I program; 
and

• Work with HR to attract a diversity of 
talents.

Based on the work of the AGs, the Diver-
sity & Inclusion Committee advises the 
Board of Directors on this theme.

On another front, JBS has subscribed to 
the Women 360 Movement, a group of 
60 large companies with the common 
target of increasing the number of women 
in the corporate environment. 

The results of these efforts have already 
started to emerge. One example is the 
Women on Board (WOB) certificate 
awarded to JBS. This award is given to 
companies with at least two women 
board members or executive officers 
(Read more about our Purpose). Women 
on Board is supported by UN Women, 
and is an independent initiative that aims 
to promote best practices in corporate 
environments, and monitor the benefits 
companies experience as a result of 
diversity in management.

JBS USA is the 15th most sought after 
company by women, out of the 16,905 
companies in our industry.

Our respect for Human Rights is stated 
in the Company’s Code of Conduct and 
Ethics, a set of rules that applies to all JBS 
employees. In 2021, the Company’s Com-
pliance team provided training to fight 
harassment and discrimination for all JBS 
employees in Brazil, via its online platform.

JBS USA has an Equal Employment 
opportunities Policy that reaffirms its 
commitment to recruit, hire, promote, 
and train all team members, regardless of 
race, religion, color, nationality, gender, 
sexual orientation, gender identity, or age, 
and focuses on promoting equal oppor-
tunities for all, including veterans and 
people with disabilities.

JBS USA provides annual training on 
harassment to all employees at all levels. 
Harassment by supervisors or colleagues 
is a violation of federal law and company 
policy. JBS USA has policies regarding all 
forms of harassment, including but not lim-
ited to sexual harassment, and harassment 
and retaliation against those who report 
any form of harassment in the workplace.

Each JBS USA unit has both anonymous 
and non-anonymous channels employees 
can use to log complaints. Team mem-
bers may take their concerns directly to 
management with no retaliation or fear of 
retaliation. Our Open-Door Policy encour-
ages full-time and part-time team mem-
bers to share problems they believe are 
affecting their performance or the work 
environment with their supervisors or the 
HR Department. Team members are also 
encouraged to talk to their supervisors 
about situations in which they feel they 
were dealt with unfairly.

The JBS USA Ethics Hotline is available 
for all team members in any country, and 
is available in 11 languages to accommo-
date our diversified workforce. The Ethics 
Hotline provides a toll-free number and 
online platform that all members of the 
JBS USA team can use to safely and confi-
dentially report their concerns, and share 
non-ethical behaviors and policy viola-
tions. Reports may be anonymous.

The JBS USA Equal Employment 
Opportunity Policy reinforces 
our commitment to diversity in 
hiring

All team members are made aware of the 
Open-Door Policy and the Ethics Hotline 
during onboarding, and all new managers 
discuss the policy and related procedures 
with senior managers when they start in 
their position. Data from the Open-Door 
Policy and Ethics Hotline is used to moni-
tor overall team member perception.

Regarding People with Disabilities (PwD), 
JBS has training programs to help insert 
them in company operations and the job 
market at large.

Working with government and private 
entities, JBS leads the Experimental Work 
Workshop Project in Brazil. Training lasts 
six months and qualifies workers to join 
the Company’s staff, but more than that, 
it trains people for employability, creating 
conditions for autonomy, social inclusion, 
integration, and effective participation 
in society. The project resumed in 2021, 
having been interrupted in 2020 due to 
the Covid-19 pandemic.

97FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



JBS has also subscribed to MOVER - Movement for 
Racial Equity [Movimento pela Equidade Racial]. 
This initiative combines companies in different 
industries around the public commitment to work 
to reduce racial inequality in Brazil. MOVER plans to 
create 10,000 leadership positions for Blacks in the 
coming years, and opportunities for 3 million people 
by 2030, via a series of practical actions.

The company is committed to ensur-
ing diversity and providing employment 
opportunities for everyone. The goal for 
2022 is to implement a diversity program 
known as Swift for All. This program aims 
to ensure compliance with legal quotas 
for people with disabilities (5%), develop a 
Young Apprentice program for economi-
cally and socially vulnerable young people, 
practice inclusion of those over 50 in 
the job market (4%), and ensure equal 
employment and compensation for men, 
women, and minorities. GRI 405-1

2021 Highlights

MOVER [MOVE]

Swift

• over 50%  
of our employees and  
leaders are women

• 35%  
of our employees  
are Black

• 25% of our leaders  
are black

98FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



The safety of our employees is non-nego-
tiable. In 2021, measures to contain the 
Covid-19 pandemic remained a priority 
in the workplace. In 2020 we created 
global medical partnerships to assess 
and monitor the safety protocols for our 
administrative, operating, and commer-
cial units, working with Hospital Einstein 
and infectiologists in Brazil. In the US we 
retained epidemiologists, in a partnership 
with Colorado State University (CSU) and 
the University of Nebraska.

In our search to fight the dissemination 
of the virus and continue manufacturing 
and distributing foods, we invested a total 
of R$ 5.2 billion worldwide in health and 
safety measures to protect our workforce. 

Occupational health 
and safety

The Company’s prevention and protec-
tion protocols for its ~250,000 em-
ployees in production units, distribution 
centers, offices and other facilities was 
implemented in 2020, and was reviewed 
and improved throughout 2021. Period-
ic audits ensured its enforcement in all 
production units. We also ensured our 
employees had access to vaccinations.

483,866 hours of training 
in Health and Safety were provided in 
Brazil in 2021

GRI 103-2, 103-3 | 403

99FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



Covid-19

Main protection measures implemented 
by the Company:

• Safety for high-risk groups, including 
distance working;

• Sanitizing and disinfection: additional 
measures to sanitize and disinfect 
common areas such as buses, cafe-
terias, locker rooms, and leisure and 
rest areas;

• Safe distancing: implementing a 
structure and adopting procedures to 
avoid crowds, such as doubling the 
number of buses, organizing access 
to the company entrance, marking 
off safe-distancing, controlling access 
to locker rooms by using shifts, and 
increased distances of the tables in 
the cafeteria and risk areas;

• Personal care: hand sanitizer is pro-
vided in all areas where there may 

be people, such as gates, cafeterias, 
locker rooms, bathrooms, leisure 
areas, and buses; masks and other 
personal protective equipment pro-
vided to all employees and their use 
enforced; 

• Clinical consulting: retaining special-
ized medical consulting services;

• Incentives for Covid-19 vaccination. 
In addition, the Company offers free 
vaccination against the H1N1 flu to all 
employees; and

• Monitoring: additional ambulatory 
care units set up outside and attached 
to plants, to run permanently.

Global medical partnerships are essential 
to assess and improve the safety 
protocols of our administrative, operating, 
and commercial units 

100FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



Preventive and  
corrective management 
GRI 103-2, 103-3 | 403-1, 403-2, 403-3, 403-4, 
403-5, 403-6, 403-7

Our Global Workplace Health and Safety 
Policy guides our initiatives in this area, 
while abiding by the specificities of local 
legislation. In practice, we are responsible 
for the health and safety of our workforce, 
business partners, suppliers, and other 
stakeholders. Our goal is to improve our 
Overall Safety Index by 30% by 2030, 
compared to the 2019-2020 baseline.

To ensure the implementation of our 
guidelines in this area, we manage indica-
tors using a digital platform that allows us 
to anticipate and avoid accidents across 
the company. We also invest in contin-
uous improvement of our processes, 
machinery, and equipment, and promote 
control measures to eliminate or minimize 
incidents. We strive to create awareness, 
and develop, train and qualify employ-
ees, assigning them the responsibility for 
ensuring and fostering a safe and healthy 
work environment, supported by the 
Company’s Code of Conduct and Ethics. 
We also built and disseminated a culture 
of health and safety, individual account-
ability, and shared vigilance as values, 
with leaders as role models.

Finally, we define safety targets with a 
focus on continuous improvement, and 
monitor key indicators during periodic 
meetings.

In Brazil, the Self-Managed Health and 
Safety Program, which combines the stan-
dards and principles used to standardize 
company procedures, processes, and 
programs, as per legislation on occupa-
tional health and safety, guides how these 
themes are addressed by Company units. 
The goal is to encourage health preven-
tion and monitoring measures among 
employees by performing occupational 
physicals. Corporate policies are also used 
to promote healthy habits. Right now two 
nation-wide campaigns are underway on 
themes relevant to the health and wellbe-
ing of our teams, and ad-hoc campaigns 
are undertaken at each plant. GRI 403-10

Preventive measures created for the entire 
employee work-cycle include training, as 
well as the development of in-house tools. 
Among them are conversations about 
safety, behavioral audits, systemic inspec-
tions, communiques (forms to register 
unsafe conditions or behaviors, or suggest 
improvements), and Accident Prevention 
committees to integrate and allow all em-
ployees to directly and effectively partici-
pate in health and safety.

We also perform audits based on applica-
ble legislation and company procedures. 
Non-conformities are monitored locally 
by the safety committees. They are also 
monitored by a corporate committee 

comprised of the HR Directors of the 
businesses, and the managers of SESMT, 
the service that specializes in Occupation-
al Health and Safety Engineering, which 
analyzes the data from all divisions, along 
with the outcome of inspections by Minis-
try of Labor auditors, and the independent 
audits performed by Company customers.

JBS employees are represented by Cipas 
(Internal Accident Prevention Commit-
tees), that help ESMT prevent occupa-
tional accidents and illnesses, and seeks 
to preserve worker health and safety. 

JBS USA promotes a culture of safe work 
among its employees. Its Occupational 
Health and Safety Management System 
focuses on training and qualifying em-
ployees on how to eliminate workplace 
hazards. This system complies with the 

relevant government requirements of the 
countries where JBS does business:

• Facilities in the US and Puerto Rico 
meet the standards of the US Occu-
pational Health and Safety Adminis-
tration (OSHA); 

• In Europe they comply with RIDDOR 
(Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and 
Dangerous Occurrences) of the 
Health and Safety Executive; 

• In Australia, each jurisdiction has its 
own Occupational Health and Safety 
regulations to which our various facili-
ties are subject. The broader structure 

101FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



R$ 5.2 billion  
invested in health and safety worldwide  
in 2021

WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS, THE TOTAL REPORTABLE INCIDENT RATE (TRIR) 
AND FATALITY RATE GRI 403-9, SASB FB-MP-320A.1

JBS Brasil¹ 2019 2020 2021
Employees

Number of hours worked 231,042,735.7 239,741,327.0 253,431,036.0
No. of fatalities as a result of work-
related injury 3 3 6

Rate of fatalities as a result of work-
related injury 0 0 0

No. of high-consequence work-related 
injuries (excluding fatalities) 350 295 233

Rate of high-consequence work-
related injuries (excluding fatalities) 1.5 1.2 0.9

No. of recordable work-related injuries 
(including fatalities) 7,813 7,237 6,457

Rate of recordable work-related 
injuries (including fatalities) 33.8 30.2 25.5

JBS USA²
Number of hours worked 158,681,562.5 155,436,581.2 96,501,758.3
No. of fatalities as a result of work-
related injury 2 1 1

Rate of fatalities as a result of work-
related injury 0 0 0

No. of high-consequence work-related 
injuries (excluding fatalities) 176 101 130

Rate of high-consequence work-
related injuries (excluding fatalities) 0.2 0.1 0.1

No. of recordable work-related injuries 
(including fatalities) 3,295 2,817 3,259

Rate of recordable work-related 
injuries (including fatalities) 4.2 3.6 3.3

1. The numbers for 2019 and 2020 were reviewed using GRI methodology. Based on 1,000,000 hours worked. 
GRI 102-48
2. The numbers for 2019 and 2020 include only JBS USA (excluding Empire Packaging), Pilgrim's US, Pilgrim's 
UK, and JBS Canada. Information for 2021 includes JBS USA (excluding Empire Packaging), Pilgrim's US, 
Pilgrim's Moy Park, Pilgrim's UK, Pilgrim's Mexico, JBS Australia, and JBS Canada. Based on hours worked: 
200,000.

of our safety management system is 
Australia is in line with the Nation-
al Audit Tool (NAT) for self-insured 
organization, which in turn is based 
on Australian Standards 4804 - Occu-
pational Health and Safety Manage-
ment, and 4801 - Occupational Health 
and Safety Management Systems

• In Mexico, our team tracks data as 
required by the Government’s De-
partment of Labor and its Health and 
Safety Regulations, which comply 
with OSHA standards; and

• In Canada, the Safety Health and 
Management System is in line with 
the Alberta Occupational Health and 
Safety (OH&S) Law. This facility also 
has a Certificate of Recognition (COR) 
given by the Alberta Food Processing 
Association (AFPA), meaning that 
the JBS Canada Health and Safety 
Management System was certified by 
an auditor and meets the provincial 
standards.

To ensure the successful implementation 
of JBS USA’s health and safety policies, 
safety data is entered into a shared digital 
platform. In 2021, JBS USA and Pilgrim’s 
had a DART (Days Away, Restricted, or 
Transferred) rate of 2.63. This enables 
finding trends and taking data-driven 
corrective measures, including observa-
tions by team members along with safety 
inspections and audits.

102FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



We are committed to continuously 
contributing to the development of the 
communities surrounding our operations. 
Activities take the form of support for vari-
ous initiatives that focus on childhood and 
youth education and training, the profes-
sional qualification of young people and 
adults, and training and social inclusion of 
people with disabilities. Each business unit 
is independent to decide what to do in 
this area, whether through sponsorships, 
volunteer activities, or direct investment. 

The company is aware of the social im-
pact it has in the areas where it is active. 
In Brazil alone JBS is present in over 100 
cities and towns, many of them far from 
urban centers and in locations where JBS 
is responsible for most direct and indirect 
jobs. JBS facilities are the gateway to the 
job market for immigrants from many 
parts of the world (read more about this in 
Our People).

In Brazil, JBS prioritizes investments in 
projects that focus on education, such as 
the Germinare Business School. The Com-

Communities

pany also designed activities that focus 
on the community with its Fazer O Bem 
Faz Bem [Good Deeds are Good Indeed] 
Program. In 2020 the program focused on 
supporting measures to fight the Covid-19 
pandemic. In 2021 this working front 
continued, together with other initiatives 
(read more about this in Good Deeds are 
Good Indeed).  
 

JBS USA has a long history of partner-
ing with different NGOs. To ensure our 
volunteer activities, sponsorships, and 
donations have a significant impact on 
the community, the Company encourag-
es employee-engagement and invests in 
initiatives such as Hometown Strong and 
Better Futures, which benefit schools, 
hospitals, and care organizations. These 
are also regularly assessed, and analyses 
are used as the basis for deciding on new 
supports. 

To continue measures to support local 
communities, each unit of JBS USA, has 
an annual budget to support such initia-

tives, with the exception of Pilgrim’s Moy 
Park, whose budget is centralized. Pil-
grim’s Moy Park has a £ 1 million Commu-
nity Support Fund to be used for commu-
nity and volunteer actions, as well as to 
support institutions in the communities 
where it does business.

GRI 103-2, 103-3 | 413

103FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



Germinare Business 
School

This NGO in São Paulo was created by 
JBS in 2009 to train business leaders with 
quality education. The Company is the 
school’s main supporter, having invested 
R$ 101.2 million in 2021. Company execu-
tives have also worked as volunteer tutors 
in recent years.

In 2021, 368 students were registered, 
and no tuition is paid. In 2021 JBS hired 
49 Germinare graduates. In all, it has hired 
367 Germinare graduates since 2016.

To reach new levels of excellence, Ger-
minare provide the means for students 
to develop their personal and intellectual 
skills, and handle professional and group 
challenges. In this way students learn 
about business management in practice 
with projects, internships, and experienc-
es at companies and industries to enable a 
more well-rounded education.

This organization provides free, high-qual-
ity education to students from the 6th 
grade to the end of secondary school. 
The school complements the traditional 
curriculum with entrepreneurial activities 
and the training of business managers 
with technology classes that focus on 
programming language. At the end of 
secondary school combined with profes-
sional training, students receive a tech-
nical degree in Business Administration. 
Admissions are open for any student who 
meets the requirements. 

Óleo Amigo [Friendly Oil]

This program to gather used cooking oil is 
an initiative of JBS Environmental, partner-
ing with JBS Biodiesel. The program for 
environmental conservation and education 
works to reduce the impact of used cook-
ing oil on the city sewer system. This initia-
tive encourages the collection of cooking 
oil from schools in the public network and 
other collection points in Lins (SP) and the 
surrounding areas, making people aware of 
the importance of recycling and properly 
disposing of this waste. The oil collected is 
used to manufacture Biodiesel. 

There are over 300 collection points at 
schools and charity organizations. The 
money from selling the oil to JBS is used 
to improve the facilities. Since 2016, more 
than 17 million liters of used cooking oil 
have been collected in 20 cities and towns. 
This avoided polluting over 340 billion 
liters of water. This is more than the annual 
water consumption in the city of São Paulo.

In 2021 JBS invested 
R$ 101.2 million in the 
Germinare School

Special Chefs Institute

In line with its social commitment, Friboi 
partnered with the Special Chefs Insti-
tute, combining the flavors of gastronomy 
with the social inclusion of people with 
Down syndrome. This institution and JBS 
have been partners since 2013, and offer 
cooking classes that encourage students 
to improve their independences as they 
develop new skills in the kitchen. Right 
now the project serves 300 people a year 
in the city of Sao Paulo. Friboi discloses 
the recipes prepared by the institution’s 
students on its social networks. The chefs 
suggest dishes to be made with JBS prod-
ucts on Instagram (@friboibrasil), Face-
book and YouTube.

104FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



Amigos do Bem [Friends 
for Good]: Sertão NE 
JBS supports a project to help regions with 
poor water supply and/or infrastructure, 
as well as measures in education, income 
generation, and a range of projects to 
promote local development and social 
inclusion to eradicate hunger and extreme 
poverty in the Northeast.  

Couro do Bem [Leather 

for the Good]

For JBS Leather, providing the market 
with more sustainable leather is not 
enough.  The company also invests in 
actions that have social impact and can 
generate income.  Its Leather Labs fund 
Couro do Beam [Leather for the Good], 
a range of products made by the women 
in the OrientaVida NGO. This NGO finds 
women in a vulnerable situation in the 
Paraíba and provides them with profes-
sional training and qualification. It creates 
a source of income for these women and 
their families, contributing to their finan-
cial freedom and empowerment. Leather 
Labs donated machinery and tools to 
work with leather, and has been training 
these women served by the NGO. The 
leather goods produced by these women 
are sold on the Leather Labs website, in 
the Couro do Bem store.

Hometown Strong

In the US, JBS has strengthened the 
Hometown Strong program that supports 
the communities where it is located with 
financial donations, scholarships, and 
support for building homes, among other 
activities. Within this program, JBS USA 
and Pilgrim’s have committed to investing 
US$ 100 million to support the surround-
ing communities. By late 2021, over US$ 
40 million had already been spent on 
more than 200 projects. One of the high-
lights of the year was the donation made 
to Green Bay, Wisconsin, where JBS is 
building over 200 homes.

In the US, JBS is 
contributing to building 
200 homes in Wisconsin, 
via the Hometown 
Strong program

Better Futures

JBS USA and Pilgrim’s are creating the 
largest free university program in rural 
America - Better Futures, part of Home-
town Strong. In this program, team 
members and their dependent children 
have a chance to get a university diploma 
or professional certificate at technical and 
community colleges.

JBS USA and the management of Pilgrims 
also support team members so they un-
derstand the registration process, which 
can be a hurdle for those applying to 
college for the first time.

By late 2021 the Better Futures program 
had already invested US$ 335,000 in the 
future of its employees, their families, and 
the communities where JBS operates. 

105FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



JBS created the Good Deeds Are Good 
Indeed program, dedicated to activities 
to transform and provide social sup-
port for the communities where it does 
business, and encourage employees to 
volunteer. Created in 2019, over 75 cities 
and towns and more than 90 institutions 
are registered. Between 2020 and 2021 
the program spent R$ 400 million on the 
communities it serves in Brazil. World-
wide the company donated over R$ 700 
million to address the Covid-19 pandem-
ic. Throughout this period more than 77 
million people benefitted.

To fight hunger, JBS donated over 500 
tons of protein to prepare meals and help 
underprivileged families in 2020 and 2021. 
Company donations are sent to NGOs and 
third-sector institutions that are partners 
of the Doing Good Does Good program, 
and work in the preparation and distribu-
tion of meals in several parts of Brazil.

Since it started, the program has donated 
over R$ 20 million to NGO and social insti-
tution programs, benefiting over 2 million 
socially vulnerable people across Brazil. In 

2021 the Health in the Forest Program pro-
vided tele-medicine services to commu-
nities in 25 cities and towns in the state of 
Amazonas. Another tele-medicine activity, 
also in the Amazon region, is a partner-
ship with healthtech Saúde da Gente [Our 
Health]. In early 2022 this project provid-
ed 600 incidents of medical care in the 
river-side communities of São Pedro do Rio 
Arapiuns e Parauá, in the Tapajós-Arapi-
uns (Resex) Forest Preserve in em San-
tarém-PA. This program also helped train 
healthcare agents, with tele-medicine visits 
at UBS (Primary Care Units), and donated 
boxes to store medicines.

JBS donated 400 oxygen cylinders to the 
city of Manaus, in Amazonas, in response 
to the Covid emergency in 2021. It also 
donated R$ 350,000 to equip the Abaré 
Teaching Hospital Ship that takes medical 
and dental care to over 20,000 inhab-
itants in the region, including over 70 
river-bank communities, quilombolas, and 
indigenous peoples in Western Pará. GRI 

203-1, 203-2

Good Deeds Are Good Indeed activities 
benefited over 300 Brazilian cities and 
towns across the country, with lasting 
measures in public health, such as the 
construction of two hospitals, refurbishing 
existing healthcare units, and donations of 
ambulances and hospital equipment.

All projects are audited by Tyno Consult-
ing for the administrative area, and Grant 
Thornton in the case of donations. Both 
companies do this on a pro-bono basis.

Read more about this 
project here

LEARN MORE

GRI 103-2, 103-3 | 203

106FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES

http://jbs.com.br/fazerobemfazbem%20


Dedicated to fostering and funding the 
sustainable development of the Amazon 
biome, promote the sustainable use of the 
forest, and improve the quality of life of 
the population, in the second quarter of 
2021 the JBS Amazon Fund announced 
the first six projects approved for invest-
ment. These initiatives are in line with our 
following pillars: forest conservation and 
restoration, community socioeconomic 
development, and scientific and tech-
nological development. Together, all six 
projects will receive over R$ 51 million 
from the fund over the coming years. 

The main areas of these projects are:

• Restore the Amazon Project – a low-carbon agricultural 
initiative for 1,500 families, associated with increased productivity 
and forest restoration.

• Inclusive Community Economies Program – promotes the 
açaí chain, including research and education for young people, as well 
as female involvement in the business, increasing household income.

• Fair and Sustainable Fishing – strengthen the pirarucu and 
other fish chains, increasing the fishing market for 55 river-side 
communities.

• Unlocking Credit for the Forest Bioeconomy – a project 
to facilitate access to Pronaf (National Program to Strengthen 
Family Farming) credit for more than 2,500 small and family 
farmers, fishermen, and forest extraction professionals in the region 
through Banco da Amazônia (Basa).

• Amaz – Aceleradora & Investimentos de Impacto 
[Accelerator and Impactful Investments] – stimulates 
an entrepreneurial environment in the Amazon, enabling startups in 
areas of business that value standing forests and local economies. 
In 2021 six businesses of social impact were selected to receive an 
initial amount of R$ 200,000.

• Technical Partnership with Embrapa – to encourage new 
technologies and social innovation on behalf of the bioeconomy and 
to reduce deforestation in the Amazon. 

Created in 2020, the JBS Amazon Fund 
will receive R$ 250 million in the first five 
years to ensure the start of activities and 
the implementation of the first initiatives 
approved. Furthermore, JBS is committed 
to matching donations by third parties until 
JBS has donated a total of R$ 500 million. 
The goal is to reach R$ 1 billion by 2030.

107FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



THE AMAZON FUND  
IN NUMBERS

• 14,000 families benefited

• 22% to 39% increased productivity 
in cocoa, calves, açaí, and pirarucu

• 1.5 million hectares  
restored via the Coco Agro-Forest System 
[Sistema Agroflorestal com Cacau - SAF 
Cacau]

• 30% - 40% increased  
revenue among participants

• 1.4 million metric tons reduced CO2 
emissions

• 31.500 hectares of best-practice 
pastureland

Strategic partnerships

Partnered with the Fund to support the 
RestaurAmazônia [Restore the Amazon] 
project. US$ 450,000, donated over three 
years, will be used for an initiative that 
combines cocoa and cattle-raising in Pará. 
JBS matched this donation.

Some R$ 1.5 million donated to the Fund. 
This amount will be donated over three 
years for projects to enable the expan-
sion of bioeconomies and socioeconomic 
inclusion in the Amazon region.

R$ 500,000 donated to the project to 

More than R$ 3 million donated for 
investment in Fund projects. This will be 
invested in the Fair and Sustainable Fish-
ing, the Inclusive Community Economies, 
and the AMAZ (Accelerator and Impactful 
Investments) projects, in addition to a 
technical partnership with Embrapa for re-
forestation, socioeconomic inclusion, new 
technologies, and R&D initiatives over the 
next three years.

Unlock Credit for the Forest Bioeconomy, 
that seeks to foster forestry chains - Brazil 
nuts, açaí, fish, timber, essential oils, and 
resins by facilitating access to rural credit 
to hire and train local activists to enable at 
least 2,500 Pronaf credit agreements.

108FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



In line with our Global Animal Welfare 
Policy, we are committed to ensuring 
that best practices in animal welfare 
are followed both in our own and in our 
suppliers’ operations. Underlying this 
commitment is the principle of valuing 
life and meeting the demands of society, 
customers and consumers. Our operations 
are benchmarked against best practices 
and conform to the globally recognized 
“Five Freedoms” developed by the Farm 
Animal Welfare Council (FAWC). The five 
freedoms are: 1 - Freedom from hunger 
and thirst; 2 - Freedom from discomfort; 
3 - Freedom from pain, injury or disease; 
4 - Freedom to express normal behavior; 
and 5 - Freedom from fear and distress. 
We also comply with all local standards 
and regulations.

These practices, and the progress we 
have made in this area, have been enabled 
by partnerships with producers around 
the world, and by investment in training 

Animal welfare
GRI FP10, FP11

our teams and revising animal handling 
procedures for mandatory adoption by 
suppliers. Ensuring compliance with the 
standards and regulations in each region 
where we operate and with the Five Free-
doms and humane slaughter principles 
is integral to our approach to managing 
animal welfare.

JBS beliefs that these practices must 
permeate the entire value chain, with a 
particular focus on three critical stages: 
origination, transportation and production.

Employees and suppliers attend regular 
training and development programs, and 
the entire value chain is tracked against 
performance indicators that help identify 
opportunities for improvement. 

The JBS Animal Welfare Program estab-
lishes corrective measures to address any 
deviations. The entire system is subject to 

stringent quality monitoring that is attest-
ed by certification. In the US, Brazil and 
Canada, Quality Assurance personnel are 
specialized in humane handling and hold 
certification issued by the Professional 
Animal Auditor Certification Organization 
(PAACO). In Australia, auditors are certified 
within the Australian Animal Welfare Cer-
tification System (AAWCS). Other animal 
welfare certifications include Global GAP 
and Certified Humane, for our Seara oper-
ations; Royal Society for Prevention of Cru-
elty to Animals (RSPCA) certification, for 
100% of our Pilgrim's UK operations; and 
the National Feedlot Accreditation Scheme 
(NFAS), for our Australian operations. 

Internal personnel and independent 
consultants conduct audits on key wel-
fare indicators (KWIs). These audits are 
witnessed by customers in both domestic 
and foreign markets. JBS’s commitment to 
best practices is evident in these indi-

We are committed 
to ensuring that best 

practices in animal 
welfare are followed 

both in our own and in 
supplier operations

109FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



cators, which far exceed minimum legal 
requirements. 

To be able to serve certain markets, JBS 
is required to adopt religious standards 
that are consistent with the cultural traits 
and diversity of those markets. JBS is 
constantly working to reduce the use 
of antibiotics in animals throughout the 
supply chain. 

In Brazil, JBS has a permanent Corporate 
Animal Welfare Committee. The duties of 
this committee include: reviewing and dis-
cussing business-related matters, describ-
ing procedures and implementing needed 
controls across the value chain to ensure 
continuous improvement in our animal 
welfare practices. The committee also 
serves as a forum for discussing strategies 
to inform and engage employees around 
the issue.

At JBS USA, our animal welfare programs 
are often reviewed by animal handling and 
welfare experts from universities across 

the globe. These lasting academic part-
nerships have assisted JBS USA in identi-
fying and investing in additional upgrades 
to both our facilities and team member 
training programs to further enhance the 
welfare of our animals.

Over the last five years, we have annual-
ly organized an enterprise-wide Animal 
Welfare Week in Brazil in which the entire 
organization focuses its attention on this 
important topic.

Five Freedoms

1. Freedom from hunger or thirst

2. Freedom from discomfort

3. Freedom from pain, injury or disease

4. Freedom to express normal behavior

5. Freedom from fear and distress

R$ 453.7 million
invested globally in animal welfare 
programs in Brazil in 2021

20,876
employees trained in Brazil in 2021

110FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



An especially critical stage when it comes 
to animal welfare, breeding is managed in 
each of our protein chains in accordance 
with global standards. 

In Brazil, JBS organizes campaigns, work-
shops and seminars on cattle farms, and 
sponsors programs to engage suppliers. 
Technical literature on animal health and 
welfare, prepared by our own technical 
staff, and Good Practice Manuals devel-
oped by the Animal Ecology and Etiology 
Research Group (ETCO Group), which 
have been sponsored and re-released by 
JBS, are available for reference on our 
digital platform.

All suppliers sign a commitment to use 
veterinary products (such as antibiotics 
and anti-parasitics) on a need-only basis, 
and never to use forbidden substances. 

Breeding 

A small portion of the cattle we process 
spends a short period of time in feed-
lots operated by the Company. Animal 
welfare is ensured in these environments 
by providing periodic training to handlers, 
continuously improving facilities, and 
implementing corrective action where 
necessary. In addition, we are currently 
implementing camera monitoring systems 
covering all of our feedlot pens so animal 
handling can be remotely monitored.

Cattle in our JBS Australia feedlots are 
housed in groups in open-pen, dirt lots. 
Pen stocking rates meet or exceed indus-
try standards and are based on the ani-
mal’s expected final weight. Cattle have 
access to an unlimited supply of clean wa-
ter and are fed twice daily. The pens are 
sloped for proper drainage during winter 
months and wet periods to provide cattle 

a dry place to lie down and reduce mud 
in the pens. For feedlots that are located 
in regions with extreme weather, shade 
is provided to prevent heat stress, and 
bedding is supplied to provide a dry and 
warm place to lie down in winter months. 

In Brazil, our Animal Welfare Committee 
establishes guidelines to improve animal 
welfare policies. The committee is com-
posed of representatives from the Corpo-
rate Sustainability, Quality, Agriculture and 
Processing departments.  

111FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



JBS is supporting efforts to reduce hot-
iron branding in the beef supply chain, a 
current trend aimed at enhancing animal 
welfare. Farms are now adopting a range of 
different technologies to reduce suffering. 
Hot-iron branding is being replaced by ear 
tags, buttons and tattoos using innovative, 
sustainable technology. 

Related initiatives in 2021 engaged four 
partner farms, and included: status 
assessments, explaining how individual 
identification affects farm management 
(including individual identification with 
electronic tags, buttons and tattoos and 

identification of the year and month 
of arrival or birth on the farm using 
color-coded buttons); training on and 
implementation of good identification 
management practices; and follow-up on 
implemented initiatives. At partner farms, 
65,000 hot-iron branding procedures were 
avoided throughout the year. 

Participating farms implement continuous 
improvements toward best practice in 
environmental, social, governance and 
product quality aspects.

Hot-Iron Branding Reduction

112FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



Poultry and hogs

The poultry and hogs we source are 
raised by approximately 9,000 outgrow-
er farms. Properties undergo stringent 
assessments for compliance with animal 
welfare practices at each stage. The items 
assessed in these audits include aspects 
such as layout, technology and tempera-
ture conditions suited for animals’ health 
and physiological needs. In addition, 
equipment management, animal hus-
bandry practices, and controlled environ-
ments (lighting, ventilation, humidity and 
temperature) provide optimal conditions 
for animal welfare, and allow animals to 
express their natural behavior. 

Farm properties have biosecurity systems 
in place to protect animals from diseases 
that could compromise their health and 
welfare. Items such as protection barriers, 
bird protection netting, water monitoring 
and treatment, and compliant waste dis-
posal all contribute to enhance the bios-
ecurity of the flock. To provide adequate 
nutrition, animals receive a balanced diet 
formulated according to their needs at 
each production stage. Feed is produced 
at our own feed factories, where the 
quality of the inputs is fully supervised by 
trained technicians.

Various procedures and controls are in 
place to ensure animal welfare require-
ments are met throughout the entire pro-
duction chain. Structures and equipment 
are constantly improved and emergency 

procedures have been established in the 
event any significant anomalies occur. 

A series of indicators are used to measure 
animal welfare conditions, such as: 

• Mortality
• Viability
• Medicine use
• Footpad dermatitis
• Weight gain 
• Density  
• Fasting time
• Transit time

In our poultry breeding operations, 43% 
of animals are housed with stocking den-
sities of less than 30 kg/m2. Our average 
density of 35 kg/m2 is well below the limit 
of 39 kg/m2 under our policies. In addi-
tion, no animal husbandry practices are 
used that cause pain or mutilation. For 
example, no debeaking is performed on 
our broiler chickens. The aviary bedding 
is made of dry, soft material that provides 
adequate comfort for the animals. Light 
exposure is controlled, ensuring dark peri-
ods of at least six hours per day. All laying 
hens, which provide fertile eggs for broiler 
farms, are bred in cage-free systems.

In pig breeding operations, we have 
policies to encourage farms to adapt their 
facilities and gradually replace individual 
gestation crates with collective gestation 

stalls. These adaptations are designed to 
ensure that sows spend a maximum of 28 
days in individual gestation crates. The new 
systems use a pre-implantation transfer 
system that allows sows to be housed in 
collective systems after artificial insemina-
tion. Nurseries are 100% temperature-con-
trolled to offer piglets optimal comfort. 
Environmental enrichment projects are also 
currently being implemented. Procedures 
that cause pain or discomfort are discour-
aged and surgical castration has been 
discontinued—at Seara, 100% of male pigs 
are immunocastrated. 

113FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



Initiatives and projects in Brazil

Poultry Pork

• Seara has poultry farms that provide environmental en-
richment for resident animals. Each year, more than 50 
million broiler chickens are bred using this system, at 
farms providing access to perches, hay bales and toys. 

• Granja 4.0: created in 2020, Granja 4.0 is an integrat-
ed connectivity and artificial intelligence solution that 
supports on-farm animal welfare monitoring using sen-
sors that provide real-time information on parameters 
such as ambient temperature and humidity, air quality, 
weight, and even animal behavior.

• Construction of 124,000 fully temperature-controlled 
nursery positions to improve animal welfare. JBS has 
committed to having all nurseries temperature-con-
trolled by 2023.

• Construction of 16,000 pre-implantation transfer sys-
tem positions.

• Active participation in discussions at animal welfare 
organizations (WAP and 3T Alliance).

• Introduction of financial incentives for outgrowers to 
adapt their farm facilities for compliance with best ani-
mal welfare practices.

114FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



At JBS USA, a US$ 111 million expansion 
project at its beef processing plant in 
Grand Island, Nebraska, announced in 
2019, is nearing completion. The expan-
sion includes improved animal handling 
facilities, a state-of-the-art, tempera-
ture-controlled harvest floor and facility 
reconfiguration designed to improve team 
member experience, food safety and 
product quality. JBS USA Grand Island 
partners with more than 670 local produc-
ers to export U.S. beef to more than 30 
countries around the world.

In the U.S., our beef and pork production 
facilities implement animal welfare pro-
grams that align with the North American 
Meat Institute (NAMI) guidelines and are 
compliant with USDA FSIS Directives 
6,100.1, 6,900.2 and 9 CFR Part 313. All of 
our facilities have voluntarily implemented 
the USDA’s recommended program for 
animal handling: A Systematic Approach 
to Humane Handling and Slaughter. This 
program has four elements:

• Initial assessment of where and under 
what circumstances livestock may 
experience excitement, discomfort or 
accidental injury while being handled 
in connection with transportation, 
holding or slaughter

LEARN MORE
Further information on our 
animal handling practices 
is available on our website

• Facility design and implementation 
of training and practices, addressed 
through standard operating proce-
dures that will minimize the risk of 
undue excitement, discomfort or 
accidental injury

• Periodic auditing of facility design and 
practices used to ensure that live-
stock are handled humanely

• Continuous improvement of our 
process using internal and third-party 
audit results, incorporation of regu-
latory changes, performance trends 
and improvement opportunities that 
arise during discussion in our weekly 
Animal Welfare Team meetings.

All of our U.S. pork production facilities use 
controlled atmospheric stunning technolo-
gy, and as such, use a modified internal An-
imal Welfare Index that includes metrics for 
humanely filling the gondolas, where hogs 
are gathered for atmospheric stunning.

Recent initiatives at JBS Australia have 
included improvements to loading and 
unloading facilities, modernization of 
feedlot shade structures for feed pens and 
receival and induction systems, expand-
ed access to water and improved water 
delivery systems. 

At Pilgrim’s, handling of hogs and lambs 
is done using low-stress techniques and 
facilities are maintained to ensure appro-
priate animal flow. Controlled atmospher-
ic stunning is utilized for all hogs.

JBS USA Grand Island 
exports U.S. beef to 

more than 30 countries 
around the world

115FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES

https://jbs.com.br/sustentabilidade/home/


Use of antibiotics GRI FP12

At JBS, the use of antibiotics in animals is 
subject to local regulations. 

In Brazil, Seara has developed a detailed 
policy regarding the use of antibiotics. 
The use of medicines, vaccines and other 
substances not authorized by Seara, and 
the use of products that are not supplied 
by our technical staff, is strictly prohib-
ited. Responsible use of medicines and 
vaccines is among the requirements in our 
outgrower agreements, and is described 
in technical procedures and batch mon-
itoring sheets, in addition to being ad-
dressed during training. 

Seara has an internal monitoring plan for 
all approved medicines. The company 
works continuously to reduce the use 
of antibiotics in poultry and pig farms 
by improving biosecurity, implementing 
vaccination and disinfection programs, 
and using alternative products to antibiot-
ics, such as adding probiotics and organic 
acids to animal feed and water.

In the cattle supply chain, the prophylactic 
use of antibiotics is discouraged. Suppli-
ers are instructed on the responsible use 
of antibiotics and on the importance of 
veterinarian supervision to ensure animal 
health and food safety.

Practices such as cloning and genetic en-
gineering are not employed in JBS’s sup-
ply chain. In addition, the use of growth 

hormones is prohibited under applicable 
Brazilian regulations.

At JBS USA, all antibiotics are used under 
the supervision of licensed and accredited 
Doctors of Veterinary Medicine and only 
for the purposes of preventing, controlling 
or treating disease. JBS USA’s antibiotic 
policy also requires diligent record-keep-
ing and tracking of all antibiotic use and 
training programs for team members. In 
light of growing concerns about antimi-
crobial resistance, we have developed 
statements regarding antibiotic use for 
our cattle and pork supply chain partners 
in the U.S. 

JBS USA has conducted extensive research 
to optimize livestock and poultry manage-
ment and minimize the use of antibiotics. 
To reduce the incidence of disease and 
identify other products that promote and 
strengthen animal health, JBS USA works 
closely with companies that produce alter-
native compounds, as well as universities 
and private researchers to make sure that 
we are on the leading edge of innovation as 
we continue to provide our customers with 
wholesome, healthy and nutritious meat 
and chicken products.

The farm and ranch partners who supply 
cattle and hogs guarantee compliance 
with these requirements by completing 
an affidavit at the point of sale and are 
randomly third-party audited. Our pro-

116FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



cess-verified programs (natural, organic, 
grass-fed, antibiotic free, etc.) may require 
additional compliance depending upon 
specific program requirements.

Pilgrim’s has similar antibiotics proce-
dures and is also compliant with local 
regulations. Pilgrim’s antibiotic policy 
is reviewed annually, and any medica-
tion used is licensed by the FDA or U.K. 
Veterinary Medicines Directorate. In the 
U.S., Pilgrim’s has been antibiotic free in all 
company hatcheries since 2016 and is ful-
ly compliant with FDA Guidance 209 and 
213 Veterinary Feed Directive (VFD) rule. 
For Pilgrim’s Mexico, the use of antibiotics 
is supervised by veterinarians. For trace-
ability and control purposes, farms keep 
a record of the medication, dosage and 
application period, to meet the withdraw-

al times established by the regulator. 

Pilgrim’s UK has introduced an indus-
try-leading initiative to reduce the need 
for antibiotic use by improving pig man-
agement and health. We have voluntarily 
implemented stringent controls on the use 
of Critically Important Antibiotics (CIAs). 
Since implementing our antibiotic stew-
ardship strategy in 2013, we have reduced 
use by more than 70%.

Pilgrim’s UK’s independent supply part-
ners, as part of the UK swine industry, 
have achieved the Responsible Use of 
Medicines in Agriculture Alliance (RUMA) 
target for the responsible use of antibiot-
ics since its start in 2017.

100%  
of personnel involved in 
animal handling have been 
trained within our animal 
welfare program

Pilgrim’s antibiotic policy is 
reviewed annually

117FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



JBS has procedures to ensure the wel-
fare of animals in transit. All transporta-
tion vehicles (both company-owned and 
third-party vehicles) are built for purpose 
and driven by specialized drivers who 
receive training at least annually, including 
training on safety procedures in the event 
of an emergency in transit. Adequate 
transportation avoids bruising and mini-
mizes animal stress during transportation, 
loading and unloading. We have specified 
maximum transportation distances and 
transit times, and procedures for resting, 
feeding and watering at defined intervals. 

JBS is constantly investing in projects to 
improve and modernize animal transport 
vehicles, as well as in the renewal of its 
own fleet, with the objective of increasing 
the safety and comfort of animals during 
transportation. In live animal logistics, vehi-
cle routes are planned based on distance, 
travel time and speed along the route. 

At Seara, the average distances are 56 km 
for poultry and 63 km for pigs. At Friboi, 
the average radius is 211.75 km, with an 
average transport time of 4.9 hours.

Friboi has controls and targets for sourcing 
animals from farms close to its strategically 

Transportation 

located units. Transportation is provided 
both by JBS and by contractor vehicles.

In both cases, vehicles and drivers are 
trained on animal welfare aspects involved 
in vehicle preparation, loading, transit 
and unloading. In addition, transportation 
contractors are periodically audited by the 
production unit quality assurance teams, 
so that the quality of the service provided 
is maintained and improved.

JBS USA requires adherence to humane 
handling standards in animal transportation 
and, depending on the country, the NAMI 
Transportation Guidelines, CFIA Humane 
Transport Guidelines, Australian Welfare 
Standards and Guidelines – Land Trans-
port of Livestock and RSPCA, Red Tractor 
or QMS. Our U.S. and Canadian beef and 
pork production facilities also require all 
transporters to present documentation that 
demonstrates their understanding of and 
adherence to the JBS USA guidelines. Oth-
er requirements in the U.S. include certifi-
cation within with Beef Quality Assurance 
Transportation (BQAT), Canadian Livestock 
Transportation (CLT), and the National 
Pork Board’s Transport Quality Assurance 
(TQA) programs. Improper handling of 
livestock results in immediate corrective 

118FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



actions and can result in the transporter 
being permanently banned from delivering 
livestock to JBS USA.

In Europe, our pork and approved lamb 
production facilities require that livestock 
are moved in their ‏social groups, and hog 
trailers are equipped with lifting decks to 
make loading as stress free as possible. 
Trailers are bedded with straw and in the 
summer months extra drinking water is 
provided. We monitor transport time with 
an average journey time of four hours, and 
our position is that no animal should be in 
transit to a Pilgrim’s UK production facility 
for longer than eight hours.

Our JBS USA Carriers business is respon-
sible for providing safe transportation to 
more than 1.5 million cattle each year. 
Delivering cattle in a manner that pro-
motes humane handling during loading 
at the feed yard, a safe journey for both 
drivers and animals, and minimal stress on 
cattle during unloading at our facilities is 
our priority. Team training is based on the 

BQAT program, which is widely recog-
nized as the industry standard for truck 
driver training.

Poultry transportation at Pilgrim's follows 
clear standards. One aspect that is ad-
dressed is temperature. When Pilgrim’s 
chickens are transported during cold 
weather, we add side and front panels 
to the transport cages to keep chickens 
warm. During the summer months, we 
reduce the number of chickens per cage 
and keep them cool and minimize heat 
stress with shade, fans and misters. We 
monitor handling and transportation animal 
welfare metrics of our chickens. We work 
to minimize the amount of time chickens 
spend in cages, consistent with regionally 
appropriate animal welfare practices. 

Uboi
JBS Transportadora, Brazil’s leading live-
stock transportation company, recently 
launched Uboi, an innovative service for 
transporting cattle between farms, feed-
lots, auctions and processing units. Uboi is 
an app that enables small, medium-sized 
and large cattle farmers to participate in 
a qualified animal transportation system, 
contributing to animal welfare and the 
growth of the food value chain. More than 
3,000 partner vehicles and 600 company 
vehicles serving the entire country are 
currently registered on the platform. The 
service also offers real-time cattle tracking.

119FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



JBS has continued its efforts to innovate 
and improve its facilities, and to invest in 
state-of-the-art equipment and structures. 
In addition, we train specialist teams at 
our production units to monitor and en-
sure animal welfare across the end-to-end 
process, from arrival to processing. Animal 
welfare performance at each stage is reg-
ularly assessed and audited, both internal-
ly and externally, using specific metrics.

All operations are compliant with local 
regulations and technical standards, as well 
as the Five Freedoms and humane slaugh-
ter principles. For commercial reasons, JBS 
adopts religious standards that are consis-
tent with the cultural traits and diversity of 
the markets where we operate.

Friboi was the first company in the beef 
processing sector in Brazil to use camera 
systems for monitoring animal welfare 
indicators. 

Another animal handling project launched 
in 2021 in our beef processing operations 
is a hydraulically operated push system 
with a hot-galvanized carbon steel frame 
that is designed to move animals into the 
stun box in a way that is consistent with 

Production

animal welfare and humane slaughter 
principles. The hydraulic push system is 
used in conjunction with a hydraulic gate 
and helps to minimize the use of electric 
prods in lead-up chutes.

One of the project’s goals is to minimize 
prodding in the lead-up chute and reduce 
nonconformities in external animal welfare 
audits. It will also meet future market de-
mands, such as our global ESG scorecard 
program, in which we will publicly disclose 
animal welfare indicators such as the use 
of electric prods.  The project has already 
delivered positive results, including a 
15-minute reduction in average daily stop-
page time due to inefficiency, fewer falls on 
the ramp and increased satisfaction among 
lead-up chute and stun box employees.

120FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



Seara has implemented closed-circuit 
TV systems at some of its sites as a tool 
to improve and enhance animal welfare 
practices. Cameras are placed in poten-
tial problem areas, and action is taken to 
address any observed issues. This helps to 
ensure that critical animal handling activ-
ities are carried out in a humane manner 
and in accordance with applicable stan-
dards. In 2021 we organized two training 
programs on animal welfare, one for each 
species (poultry and hogs). 

In 2020 Seara met its target of sourcing 
eggs only from cage-free egg supply 
chains. However, with the acquisition of 
Bunge’s margarine and mayonnaise busi-
nesses in 2021, these new additions to the 
portfolio will have up to 2025 to complete 
the transition to cage-free raw materials. 
In 2021, cage-free eggs accounted for 
54% of the total purchased.

Seara offers three product lines that are 
internationally certified in animal welfare: 

• Seara DaGranja – chickens are bred 
by exclusive farms and fed with 100% 
plant-based feed. Breeding is anti-
biotic- and anticoccidial-free. The 
process is traceable along the entire 
production chain and is certified by an 
independent organization.

• Nhô Bento Free-range Chicken – 

specially bred free-range chickens 
that have access to external paddocks 
for foraging. Nhô Bento chickens 
are of a slow-growing breed and are 
raised to a minimum age of 70 days, 
as required by Brazilian standards for 
free-range chicken. This is certified by 
an independent organization.

• Seara Orgânico – poultry receive a 
plant-based diet consisting of GMO-
free, 100% organic soybeans and 
corn, in addition to vitamins and min-
erals. Animals also have free access to 
external paddocks, and all production 
inputs and handling procedures are 
validated by an organic certification 
organization.

The results from our initiatives in this area 
can be seen in The Business Benchmark 
on Farm Animal Welfare (BBFAW), an 
annual report with a global reach on good 
animal welfare practices. 

In 2021, JBS retained its position 
among the best companies in 

the world, in Tier 3, as ranked by 
BBFAW, a global annual report on 

good animal welfare practices

121FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



To deliver on our mission of feeding the 
world with the best there is, our 70-year 
history has been underpinned by business 
expansion and innovation. This trajectory 
is cemented on the continuous improve-
ment of our corporate management 
mechanisms, adopting best corporate 
governance practices to create value, 
establishing trust-based relationships with 
its stakeholders and producing sustain-
able results throughout our value chain.

As a listed company with shares traded 
on Brazil’s B3 stock exchange, JBS' com-
mitments include having a representative 
and robust corporate governance frame-
work. Our highest decision-making body, 
the Board of Directors, is currently com-
posed of nine members, seven of whom 
(78%) are independent, which exceeds 
the requirements of the B3 Novo Merca-
do segment we are listed on. Our gender 
and nationality diverse board includes 
representatives from two other countries 
and two (22%) women1. GRI 102-5

The Board of Directors is advised by six 
dedicated committees. In 2021 we set up 
our Diversity & Inclusion Committee (read 
more in Diversity & Inclusion). Alongside 
these structures lie our Global Compli-
ance Board, Executive Board, Permanent 
Oversight Board and five strategic prac-

tices subordinated to the Global Presi-
dency: Food Quality and Safety, Procure-
ments, Human Resources, Marketing and 
the Center of Excellence and Innovation. 
Our Brazilian and international operations 
also have their own CEOs, each with man-
agement independence. GRI 102-18

In August 2021, JBS unveiled changes to 
its global structure, to accommodate its 
growth, expansion of sectors and ge-
ographies and ambitious sustainability 
programs and targets. In January 2022 we 
resurrected our Global Operations Pres-
idency, spearheaded by two executives. 
André Nogueira took over US operations 
and Wesley Batista Filho JBS’ operations 
in Latin America, Oceania and our plant-
based business. 

In early 2022 Gilberto Xandó also left our 
Board of Directors to take the helm of JBS 
in Brazil, with Tim Schellpeper assuming 
the presidency of JBS USA, formerly head-
ing the presidency of JBS USA Fed Beef.

 

G Governance
OUR PURPOSE

1. Composition of the Board of Directors in April 
2022

We are working across a wide range 
of issues to help mitigate impacts 
on the environment, minimize GHG 
emissions, and create positive 
impacts

122FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



GLOBAL MANAGEMENT 
STRUCTURE GRI 102-18

João Campos 
President

Seara

Brant 
Eastwood 

CEO
JBS Australia

Claudio Palladi 
Rigamonti 

CEO

Willem van 
Weede 

CEO
Vivera

Gilberto Xandó 
CEO

JBS Brasil

Renato  
Costa

President
Friboi

Nelson 
Dalcanale
President
JBS New 
Business

Guilherme 
Motta

President
JBS Couros

José Roberto 
Tambasco
President

Swift

Guilherme Cavalcanti
Global CFO

Vincent Trius
Global CEO

of New Projects

Wesley Batista Filho
COO for Latin America, 

Oceania and Plant-based 
ops

Alfred "Al" Almanza
Global Head

of Food Quality
and Safety

Gilberto Tomazoni
Global CEO

Board of Directors

Board of Directors PPC

Sérgio Valente
Global CMO

Eduardo Noronha
Global Officer of HR and

Excellence Innovation

Fabio Sandri
Global PPC CEO

Chris Kirke
President
Moy Park

Charles Von 
Der Heyde
President

PPC Mexico

Ivan Siqueira
President

Pilgrims UK

Nick Robinson
President

Pilgrims Food 
Masters

Kristina Lambert
Officer  

Prepared Foods 
PPC USA

Clay Matthews
Fresh meats 

Officer PPC USA

André Nogueira
COO for North America

Tim Schellpeper
President
JBS USA

Shannon Grassl
Chair

JBS USA
Regional Beef

Steve Cohron
President
JBS USA
Fed Beef

David Colwell
President

JBS Canada

Bob Kreps
Chair

JBS USA Pork

Thomas Lopez
President

Swift Prepared Foods

Chris Benson
President 

JBS Retail Ready

Rodrigo Horvath
President

JBS Carriers

Marty Dooley
Senior Director 
Empire Packing

Darcey Macken
President

Planterra Foods

123FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



The Board of Directors is our highest governance 
body. It is comprised of nine members, including a 
chair, a deputy chair and seven serving independent 
directors, two of whom are women. Elected at the 
General Shareholders’ Meeting for unified terms of two 
years, directors are tasked with determining business 
guidelines and policies as well as economic, social 
and environmental targets, in addition to monitoring 
the company’s performance and overseeing the 
management of the Executive Board.

To find out more about JBS’ Board of Directors, click here.

JBS’ shares trade in Brazil on the B3 Novo Mercado, a 
segment comprised of companies that have voluntarily 
committed to comply with corporate governance 
practices that go above and beyond those required 
by law. 51.17% of our issued shares are held by non-
controlling shareholders, more than the 25% Novo 
Mercado requirement. Moreover, our share capital 
comprises common shares only, which afford equal 
rights to shareholders.

JBS’ Executive Board is its executive administrative body. 
Executive officers are our legal representatives and are in 
charge of internal organization, decision-making processes and 
daily operations and implementing the general policies and 
guidelines periodically laid down by the Board of Directors.

Members of the Company's Executive Board are elected by 
the Board of Directors for a renewable term of three years.

Board Advisory 
Committees
• Socio-environmental 

Responsibility Committee

• Statutory Audit Committee

• Financial and Risk Management 
Committee

• Governance, Compensation and 
Appointments Committee

• Related Parties Committee

• Diversity & Inclusion Committee

Board of Directors

Ownership structure

Executive Board

SHARE AND OWNERSHIP 
STRUCTURE1

30.36%48.83%

20.81%

Other noncontrolling 
shareholders

(J&F + Formosa) 

BNDES 

1. Data valid for May 2022.

124FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES

https://ri.jbs.com.br/investidores-esg/governanca-corporativa/diretorias-conselhos-e-comites/


JBS has a global risk management prac-
tice, with its own board and direct access 
to senior management through the Finan-
cial and Risk Management Committee, 
which advises the Board of Directors. It 
has been created to track the variables 
and factors that JBS is exposed to related 
to financial issues - market, credit and 
liquidity - and non-financial issues, such 
as socio-environmental matters. Climate 
change, for example, is one of the risks 
monitored. We also have a strategic Food 
Quality and Safety practice subordinated 
to the Global Presidency. JBS USA has 
an Independent Advisory Board tasked 
with discussing and advising the exec-
utive team on managing risks posed by 
policies, procedures, impacts and risks 
related to sustainability. 

Risk management

The Risk Control Board is charged with 
detecting, assessing, mitigating and 
monitoring financial risks inherent to the 
Company’s operations. Based on the 
Commodities and Financial Risk Man-
agement Policy approved by the Board of 
Directors, the board also helps operational 
units identify and monitor the risks posed 
by their own activities, assisted by expert 
professionals and dedicated systems. GRI 

102-29, TCFD 

Climate change is one of the 
risks JBS monitors.

125FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



Category Risk Description Responding to the Risk

Cyber Cybersecurity

Risk of JBS’ systems 
being invaded by hackers

• Network topology developed to protect it against unauthorized access and damage

• Deep and Dark Web monitoring by Tempest

• Annual penetration testing to detect vulnerabilities in the system

• An action plan is prepared for any vulnerabilities found. After corrections are made, a new test 
is carried out.

• Vulnerability and intrusion tests before launching a new system

• All developers, contractors or users of JBS’ system have to pass dual authentication before 
entering the intended system

• Security stores back-ups and logs that guarantee operations can resume in the event the 
system goes offline

• Hard disks in all of the Company’s laptops are encrypted.

• Antivirus software is permanently updated

• Our security system is audited annually by third parties

• Working alongside government authorities in the event of systemic threats

Operational Workforce safety Risk of workplace accidents

JBS has a Corporate Health and Safety practice dedicated to health and safety standards and 
processes. Each unit has a matrix organizational structure and OHS teams in each Operating 
Unit. In Brazil, risk management is carried out through the Self-management Health and Safety 
Program - PSSAG, which is integrated with legal requisites to contribute to the management of risks 
and hazards, where all tools have periodical updating and monitoring routines.  There are Safety 
Committees operating from senior management down to the structure of each Operating Unit, 
which address specific topics and monitor the implementation of health and safety routines and 
processes, as well as departmental key performance indicators.

TOP FINANCIAL AND SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL RISKS GRI 102-30, 102-31

126FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



Category Risk Description Responding to the Risk

Financial Risks

Market

Exchange, interest and 
commodities risks, where 
fluctuations could potentially 
affect JBS’ operations

Exposures plotted in real time

Use of hedging instruments, including derivatives, subject to Board approval.

Credit
Risk of delinquency posed by 
accounts receivable, investment 
and hedging instruments

Trade accounts receivable: wide distribution of portfolio and establishing secure parameters for 
extending credit, always subject to proportional limits, financial and operational indexes, and 
consulting credit bureaus.

Financial transactions involving financial institutions: exposure limits defined by the Risk 
Management Committee and approved by the Board of Directors, based on risk ratings issued by 
leading international agencies

Liquidity

Possibility of mismatches 
between tradable assets 
and liabilities due that could 
impair our capacity to honor 
outstanding financial obligations

Management of capital structure focused on modified immediate liquidity metrics - i.e., equivalents 
plus short-term investments divided by short-term debt - and working capital, to sustain the 
Company and its subsidiaries’ leverage. A Liquidity Management Policy was published in 2019 
which lays down the guidelines for managing the Company and its subsidiaries’ liquidity in Brazil and 
elsewhere

Social and Environmental 
Risks

Acquisition of raw 
materials

Risk of acquiring raw materials 
from suppliers involved in 
native forest deforestation, 
encroachment on indigenous lands 
or environmental conservation 
units - the use of child, forced or 
slave labor or products that pose a 
health risk

•   Buying cattle: adopting and announcing socio-environmental criteria for buying livestock and 
encouraging the use of best farming practices 

• In Brazil it monitors suppliers’ farms, using a geospatial system that can detect 
nonconformities and block purchases of raw materials from suppliers operating irregularly

• The Transparent Farming Platform allows JBS’ cattle suppliers to onboard their own suppliers 
in order to comply with socio-environmental cattle-raising requirements (find out more here)

• Poultry and pork: the source and quality of the raw material are guaranteed by the close 
relations between the Company and livestock breeders. Periodical visits and audits are 
conducted on suppliers to assure that production practices comply with JBS requirements (find 
out more here)

• Product quality: global practice dedicated to monitoring the entire production process, 
audited internally by multiple regulatory agencies and clients, in order to sustain elite standards 
of food quality and safety and the credentials for serving all markets (find out more here)

Category Risk Description Responding to the Risk

127FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES

https://www.pecuariatransparente.org.br/
https://jbs.com.br/sustentabilidade/integridade-do-produto/relacao-com-fornecedores-de-aves-e-suinos/
https://jbs.com.br/qualidade/home/


Social and Environmental 
Risks Climate Change

Climate change could also 
negatively impact the company’s 
business. Resources such as 
water, electricity and animal 
feed (dependent on farming) 
are essential for producing raw 
materials (cattle, poultry, hogs and 
sheep). Operations could also be 
impacted by new legislation and 
regulations around the matter

TCFD

• Monitoring the environmental footprint of operations and actions to diminish these impacts, 
both in internal operations and those of our suppliers

• Global inventory of direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions, in accordance with the 
international GHG Protocol methodology

• Monitoring indicators regarding electricity and water consumption in order to optimize 
production processes to reduce consumption

• The Company has assumed the commitment to reduce its carbon emissions (scopes 1, 2 
and 3) to zero by 2040

Compliance Corruption
Risk of conduct contravening JBS’ 
Code of Conduct

• Annual training cycles for all team members: members of our team received anti-corruption 
training worldwide in 2021

• Reviewing the Codes of Conduct and Ethics applicable to employees and business partners

• Anti-corruption Policy

• Joining the Collective Agribusiness Anti-corruption Action Group - UN Global Compact

• Constantly updating control processes

• Under the due diligence, more than 7,800 global background checks were conducted in 2021

• Policies:  Third-party Risk; Payments to Individuals; Use of Company Aircraft;  Travel 
expenses; Discounts / Rebates for Clients; Gifts / Donations / Sponsorship

128FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



Always doing the right thing is nonne-
gotiable. All our people must conduct 
themselves ethically, transparently, hon-
estly and legally at all times. We remain 
committed to creating a workplace with 
the highest ethical standards, as one of 
the main drivers of our success, and each 
employee's conduct is essential to the 
Company’s achievements and contributes 
to the construction of a more wholesome 
business environment.

We do business ethically within this world 
of dynamism, business growth and the 
challenges and risks inherent to our opera-
tions - such as political and economic 
instability, the pandemic and cyber and 
reputation risks. Senior leadership plays a 
key role in disseminating and building our 
global compliance strategy, which is con-
tinually shaping each of the eight pillars of 
our Faça Sempre o Certo [Always do the 
Right Thing] Compliance Program (see 
more in the table Faça Sempre o Certo).

To foster and disseminate a culture of 
compliance within our Company, our 
governance framework has six Ethics 
Committees, one for each division and 
Corporate, tailored to the features and 
specificities of our operations. 

Compliance 
GRI 102-17

We also set up a strategic Institutional 
Ethics Committee, which determines the 
guidelines of the Faça Sempre o Certo 
program such as: assessing and recom-
mending topics to enhance our Compli-
ance Program and analyzing its quarterly 
indicators. It has six members: the Global 
COO for Latin America, Oceania and 
Plant-based ops; the CEO of JBS Brasil; 
the Global Compliance Officer; Chief 
Legal Officer; the Corporate Control and 
Administration Officer; and the Business 
president of JBS, to be appointed by the 
Global Compliance Officer.

From its base in Brazil, the Global Com-
pliance Board creates and coordinates 
compliance strategies, and is tasked with 
implementing the Faça Sempre o Certo 
program. This board is autonomous and 
independent and answers to the Board of 
Directors, submitting quarterly progress 
reports for the program.

In tandem with the Global Executive 
Board, JBS USA has an Independent Ad-
visory Board that supports local executive 
leadership in matters related to corporate 
governance, governmental and regulatory 
matters, commodities risk management 
and marketing. Faça Sempre o Certo is 

Our governance framework 
in Brazil has six Ethics 
Committees to foster and 
disseminate a culture of 
compliance within the 
Company.

129FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



implemented by Compliance and Eth-
ics, which also answers to the Executive 
Officer of JBS USA and the Board of 
Directors.

Faça Sempre o Certo has become a global 
benchmark on account of both the size of 
our operation and the progress and results 
achieved since its inception in 2017. The 
program strives to nurture ethical and 
wholesome processes throughout the 
Company. 

Code of Conduct  
and Ethics GRI 102-16

JBS launched its global Code of Con-
duct and Ethics in five languages in 2018: 
Portuguese, English, Spanish, Italian and 
French. This code sets out clear guidelines 
around our ethical, fair, wholesome and 
transparent conduct with our employees, 
customers, suppliers and competitors.

We simultaneously launched our Code of 
Conduct for Business Partners in four lan-
guages: Portuguese, English, Spanish and 
Italian, to guarantee that our chain dis-
plays the same commitment in business 
operations that we do (these documents 
can be seen on our website). 

Communications  
and training 
GRI 103-2, 103-3 | 406

Communication and training initiatives are 
being developed and enhanced annually 
since the program was implemented. 
Internal communications campaigns and 
in-person and remote training focus on 
Compliance. In Brazil the 2021 Round of 
Training established programs defined by 
the organization based on detected risks, 
with plain and simple language and con-
tent produced for specific audiences. 

We draw your attention to the training in 
our Code of Conduct and Ethics in three 
different formats: 

• In-person - for senior leadership, 
carried out by the Global Compliance 
Officer and a facilitator, with debates 
and a presentation on the program’s 
progress. 

• E-learning - for employees with access 
to computers. Interactive content 
including quizzes about situations that 
arise in the course of business. People 
taking this type of training are test-
ed, and are required to score at least 
70%. 

• Videos - for operational staff. This 
training has exclusive content about 
the Code of Conduct and Ethics, with 
interactive content throughout the 
presentation. 

118,644 employees completed the Code 
of Conduct and Ethics training in Brazil, 
i.e., 93.64% of those eligible. All em-
ployees of JBS USA and Pilgrim's Pride 
carry out annual training in the Code of 
Conduct and Ethics. In 2021, the online 
training completion rates were 94% and 
95% respectively

The anti-corruption training was provided 
in the format e-learning. 25,387 employ-
ees completed the training, i.e., 95.10% 
of those eligible. People taking this type 
of training are tested, and are required to 
score at least 70%. Anti-corruption train-
ing at JBS USA started in 2022. 

Harassment and Discrimination training 
was provided in the format e-learning. 
24,612 employees were trained, i.e., 92.1% 

of those eligible. People taking this type 
of training are tested, and are required to 
score at least 70%. 7,503 employees of 
JBS USA underwent training in our Gifts 
Policy and 6,078 in our Conflict of Inter-
ests Policy. GRI 102-25

Anti-trust training was administered by 
the Global Compliance Manager to a spe-
cific audience. A total of 151 employees 
completed the competition training, i.e., 
100% of those eligible. Thematic compe-
tition training was also provided, focus-
ing on labor, also to a specific audience. 
In 2021, 136 employees completed the 
antitrust labor training, i.e., 100% of those 
eligible. 2,345 employees of JBS USA 
underwent the Competition training.

Third-party training in Brazil specifically 
targeted outgrowers of chickens and hogs 
and cattle raisers. More than 9,000 out-
growers underwent training in the format 
‘train the trainers’ in topics including: com-
bating corruption, animal welfare, human 
rights, harassment, labor and immigration 
rules, sustainability and Ethics Hotline, 
receiving a certificate of attendance. In 
December 2020 video training began 
for cattle farms, which will be reviewed 
and enhanced in 2022 to include compli-
ance topics in existing business ventures, 
such as Fazenda Nota 10 and Plataforma 
Pecuária Transparente.

In order for the Compliance Activities to 
permeate everyday business operations, 
an effective communication plan is crucial 
for establishing the tone at the top of se-
nior leadership. Every month we email all 

Our Faça Sempre 
o Certo program 
has become a 
global benchmark 
on account of both 
the size of our 
operation and the 
progress and results 
achieved.

130FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES

https://jbs.com.br/compliance/codigos-e-politicas/codigos-de-conduta/


employees our Compliance News bulletin, 
also posting it on noticeboards. In acces-
sible language, this bulletin addresses 
topics such as our Code of Conduct and 
Ethics, internal policies and procedures, 
message from the leadership and initia-
tives of the Compliance Program in four 
languages: Portuguese, English, Spanish 
and Italian.

Between December 06 and 09, 2021, JBS 
and companies of J&F Group held the 2nd 
Compliance Meeting online, attended by 
some of the leading experts in the matter 
in Brazil, to debate progress in this agenda 
and construct a more wholesome and 
ethical business environment for all. More 
than 1,600 people watched the event in 
digital platforms, which received 12,000 
content views. The event is an important 
initiative to communicate and foster the 
topic of integrity for JBS, its production 
chain and society in general. 

Reporting channels
To guarantee compliance with and ef-
fectiveness of the Faça Sempre o Certo 
program, JBS runs the JBS Ethics Hotline 
for all stakeholders (employees, suppliers, 
investors and clients, amongst others), 
free of charge, 24/7 and in 17 languages.

This is a service provided by independent 
specialized firms for reporting irregulari-
ties or violations of our Code of Conduct 
and Ethics, Code of Conduct for JBS Busi-
ness Partners, policies and procedures 
and the existing legislation. 

3,032 grievances were submitted to 
JBS’ Ethics Hotline in Brazil and 516 to 
JBS USA in 2021. All reports received 
were duly handled and investigated. 
Disciplinary measures and action plans 
are imposed for substantiated or partly 
substantiated cases. We are committed to 
resolving more than 90% of investigated 
grievances within 60 days (find out more 
on our  site). 

Website
linhaeticajbs.com.br

Telephones
Argentina – 0800 666 1659
Brazil – 0800 377 8055
Uruguay – 000 401 90861

Website
jbsusa.ethicspoint.com

Telephones
• Germany – 0-800-225-5288
• Australia – 1-800-270-824
• Belgium – 0-800-100-10
• Canada – 1-888-536-1510
• China –South: 10-811 / North: 108-888
• USA – 1-888-536-1510
• France – 0800-91-6908
• Netherlands – 0800-0201706
• Mexico – 001-800-462-4240
• New Zealand – 0508-868-976
• United Kingdom – 0808-234-9445
• Czech Republic – 00-800-222-55288

Our communication 
channels

131FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES

https://jbs.com.br/compliance/codigos-e-politicas/codigos-de-conduta/
http://linhaeticajbs.com.br
http://jbsusa.ethicspoint.com


 LEADING ISSUES REPORTED 

2021
JBS Brasil JBS USA

202174% 53%

17%

5% 11%

4%
5%4%

5%
3%

4%
2%

5%

8%  
(others)

• Incidents of misconduct • Breaking the law
• Fraud/theft/corruption  • Conflicts of interest
• Improper procedures • Health and safety 

• Incidents of misconduct • Breaking the law
• Fraud/theft/corruption  • Conflicts of interest
• Improper procedures • Health and safety
• Hiring/Termination/Performance/Payroll  • Other 

The 2nd Compliance Meeting 
brought together experts 
in Brazil to debate progress 
made on this front and to 
construct a more wholesome 
and ethical business 
environment for all.

132FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



Compliance Risk  
Assessment

Compliance Risk Assessment plays an 
important role in detecting, analyzing and 
monitoring the Company's risks thereby 
enabling it to take the best decisions for 
the business, creating an even more ethi-
cal, wholesome and enduring environment. 

Policies and Procedures

Our Compliance Program has policies and 
procedures around specific topics, which 
help employees and service providers 
carry out their work at JBS:

• Global Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corrup-
tion Policy

• Global Conflict of Interests Policy

• Related-party Transactions Policy;

• Policy for Engaging with Governmental 
Entities and Officials

• Third-party Due Diligence Policy;

• Policy for Offering/Receiving Gifts, 
Presents and Entertainment;

• Donations Policy;

• Sponsorship Policy

• Ethics Hotline Procedure; and

• Procedure for Investigating Grievances.

Third-party  
due diligence

The due diligence process introduced in 
2017 has an automated tool especially 
designed to assess reputation risks of 
third parties.

More than 6,391 reputation analyses were 
conducted in Brazil and more than 1,500 
in the USA in 2021.

As a response to integrity risks, we estab-
lish preventive and detective measures 
consisting of policies, procedures, internal 
controls, training and communications 
and the JBS Ethics Hotline. These mea-
sures seek to detect potential irregulari-
ties and reflections and mitigate them, as 
well as remediating any potential damage.

Always do the Right 
Thing

To ensure an ethical and wholesome envi-
ronment across all the company’s busi-
nesses, JBL monitors, assesses and en-
hances compliance initiatives adopted by 
way of its Faça Sempre o Certo program. 
Created in 2017 under the auspices of our 
Global Compliance Board, this initiative is 
founded upon eight pillars of action:

• Risk assessment

• Leadership and governance

• Policies and procedures

• Whistleblowing hotline

• Controls

• Training and communications

• Third-party due diligence

• Assessment and monitoring

This program continued evolving in 2021, 
carrying out multiple initiatives, such as 
organizing ordinary meetings of the Board 
of Directors, Ethics Committees and 
Statutory Audit Committee. Other devel-
opments were the revision of the Com-
pliance Program’s policies and making 
improvements to third-party due diligence 
software. The 2021 Round of Training 
it is also noteworthy, which included 
senior management, and participation in 
agribusiness sector discussions through 
collective anti-corruption initiatives in the 
Global Compact Network Brazil and Bra-
zilian Animal Protein Association (ABPA) 
and the improved governance rating in 
Instituto Ethos indicators. 

133FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES

https://jbs.com.br/compliance/codigos-e-politicas/codigos-de-conduta/


2021 compliance 
figures

154,000  
EMPLOYEES  

worldwide (including members 
of the Board of Directors and 

advisory committees) trained in 
our Code of Conduct and Ethics

+ 1,600 PEOPLE watched on-
line the 2nd Compliance Meeting 
in Brazil with 12,0000+ video 
content views

9000+ OUTGROWERS 
underwent training in the format 
‘train the trainers’ in topics 
including combating corruption, 
animal welfare, human 
rights, harassment, labor and 
immigration rules, sustainability 
and Ethics Hotline.

25,387  
EMPLOYEES  

worldwide (administrative and 
leadership) trained in anti-

corruption, moral and sexual 
harassment and diversity and 

inclusion

2,632   
EMPLOYEES  

worldwide (administrative and 
leadership) trained in anti-trust 

and labor anti-trust 

3,548    
REPORTS RECEIVED  

worldwide via JBS’ Ethics Hotline

7,800+    
Global reputation  

ANALYSES  
(due diligence) carried out

3,252    
INTERNAL PROCESSES 
assessed and monitored

in Brazil

1,178    
CONFLICT-OF-INTEREST  

forms submitted for assessment 
in Brazil

134FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



Partnerships, associations, 
awards and recognition

JBS participates in trade and sustainability 
associations, as well as external working 
groups, associations and initiatives related 
to the topic.

See below a number of these organizations.  
GRI 102-12 GRI 102-13 

LEARN MORE
The full list of these 
organizations can be seen 
on our website 

• Women on Board (WOB)

• Plástico Sul Innovation and Sustainability Award – JBS Environ-
mental received the award in the category Sustainable Manage-
ment – Recycler, for its Green Flooring  

• Reclame Aqui Customer Service Award – Swift came first in the 
category Supermarkets and Wholesalers – Online

• Reclame Aqui Award – Seara came 2nd 

• BandNews Most Admired Brands in Brazil Award – Seara 
topped the ranking of the most admired brands in the Agribusi-
ness and Food Industry sector.

• Highly Renowned Brand – Seara received this accolade from the 
National Industrial Property Institute (INPI).  

• POPAI Brazil 2021 Award – Seara received three gold medals and 
three bronze medals, excelling in the categories: Marketing trade, 
display and merchandising item initiatives, Digital economy and 
Special projects.

• Revista SA Retail Award – Friboi took first place and is the 
brand most recognized and remembered by retailers. The brands 
Maturatta Friboi and Do Chef Friboi also performed well, ranked 
amongst the 20 most remembered brands by those surveyed 
Swift was voted the third most remembered brand in the category 
packaged pork cuts.

• Top of Mind Award – Folha de S.Paulo newspaper – Friboi was 
recognised in the category Meat and is one of the Top Food 
brands. Primor was recognised as being one of the most remem-
bered brands in the north-east. 

• Valor Major Groups List – JBS was the largest employer in Brazil

JBS received 
the following 
accolades over 
the course of 
2021: 

135FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



FINANCIAL AND 
OPERATING 
PERFORMANCE

136FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



Operational and  
financial health

In 2021 we laid the foundations for JBS’ 
long-term growth. We made seven stra-
tegic acquisitions enabling us to increase 
our presence in segments and businesses 
with growth potential, bolstering our posi-
tion as a global producer of multiple types 
of proteins. We also ramped up organic 
and greenfield investments, especially in 
brands and added value.

Our liability management actions were 
essential to achieving our healthiest ever 
financial fundamentals, in which we 
lengthened our debt – through successful 
bond issuances, including an issuance 
with the lowest ever spread in history for 
a corporate issuer in Brazil, in November 
2021. Our leverage at the end of 2021 ac-
cordingly dropped to its lowest ever level 
of 1.52x in Reais and 1.46x in US dollars. 
This has been crucial to paving the way 
for growth.

We closed the year with unprecedented 
recognitions, including Full Investment 
Grade status, placing JBS in the company 

of the most solid and respected compa-
nies worldwide, along with record oper-
ating indicators: consolidated revenue of 
R$ 350.7 billion, EBITDA of R$ 45.7 billion 
and net income of R$ 20.5 billion.

These results show we are on the right 
track in our strategy of increasing our 
global presence, with a portfolio of val-
ue-added strong brands, coupled with 
strict financial discipline and material 
gains in our ESG agenda.

GRI 103-2, 103-3 | 201

137FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



NET REVENUE

GROSS PROFIT

ADJUSTED EBITDA

NET INCOME 

OPERATING CASH  
FLOW

NET DEBT AND LEVERAGE

Net debt  
in Reais:

Net debt in  
US Dollars:

Net leverage  
in Reais:

Net leverage in  
US Dollars:

R$ 270.2 billion
R$ 350.7 billion 

R$ 45.2 billion
R$ 66.2 billion

R$ 29.6 billion
R$ 45.7 billion

R$ 4.6 billion
R$ 20.5 billion

R$ 27 billion
R$ 25.2 billion

R$ 46.2 billion
R$ 69.3 billion

USD 8.9 billion
USD 12.4 billion

1.56x
1.52x

1.58x
1.46x

    20202020              20212021

Our results demonstrate the success Our results demonstrate the success 
of our strategy of geographical of our strategy of geographical 
expansion and diversifying production, expansion and diversifying production, 
underpinned by financial discipline and underpinned by financial discipline and 
ESG advancesESG advances

138FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



JBS and  
aquaculture

In line with our portfolio and geography 
diversification strategy, in 2021 JBS ac-
quired Huon Aquaculture, the second larg-
est salmon farmer in Australia. This ac-
quisition inserts the Company into one of 
the most promising protein markets in the 
long-term, as today global per-capita fish 
consumption is higher than other proteins. 
This consumption is expected to continue 
rising as consumers turn to healthier food 
products with higher protein content. 

Acquiring Huon means JBS now has its 
own fish farming operation, with a state-
of-the-art operational infrastructure 
and sustainable practices in the salmon 
production cycle, laying the foundations 
for developing a new business platform. 
Through this investment we intend to 
blaze the same leadership trail in this pro-
tein segment that we have consolidated in 
the cattle, pork and poultry sectors. 

139FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



APPENDIXES

140FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



GRI Standards Contents Page/URL Omission SDG*

GENERAL DISCLOSURES

GRI 101: Foundation 2016

GRI 101 contains no disclosures

ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE

GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 

102-1 Name of the organization 21 - -

102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 21, 23 - -
102-3 Location of headquarters São Paulo - -
102-4 Location of operations 23 - -

102-5 Ownership and legal form 122 - -

102-6 Markets served 21, 23 - -

102-7 Scale of the organization 19, 22, 23 - -

102-8 Information on employees and other 
workers 22, 89, 91 - 8, 10

102-9 Supply chain 82 - -

102-10 Significant changes to the organization 
and its supply chain 22, 42 - -

102-11 Precautionary principle or approach

JBS USA: the risk-management approach is 
inclusive of the material issues identified by our 
stakeholders, compliance audits and our high-
priority areas identified by our executive team.
 For further information, see page 125.

- -

102-12 External initiatives 135 The full list of these organizations can be 
seen on our website. - -

102-13 Membership of associations 135. The full list of these organizations can be 
seen on our website. - -

Global GRI Content Index GRI 102-55

141FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES

https://jbs.com.br/sustentabilidade/home/
https://jbs.com.br/sustentabilidade/home/


GRI Standards Contents Page/URL Omission SDG*

STRATEGY

GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 5, 7 - -

102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 5, 7 - -

ETHICS AND INTEGRITY

GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 

102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms 
of behavior 4, 130 - 16

102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns 
about ethics 129 - 16

GOVERNANCE

GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 

102-18 Governance structure 122, 123 - -

102-20 Executive-level responsibility for 
economic, environmental, and social topics 

Information on this disclosure can be found on 
our website. - -

102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, 
environmental, and social topics 58 - 16

102-22 Composition of the highest governance 
body and its committees

The JBS Board of Directors is comprised of nine 
members, including a chair, a deputy chair and 
seven serving independent directors, two of 
whom are women. Further information can be 
found on our website.

- 5, 16

102-23 Chairman of the highest governance 
body

The chair of Board of Directors, our highest 
governance body, is not an executive officer. - 16

102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest 
governance body 

Information on this disclosure can be found on 
our website. - 5, 16

102-25 Conflicts of interests 130 - 16

142FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES

https://ri.jbs.com.br/investidores-esg/governanca-corporativa/diretorias-conselhos-e-comites/
https://ri.jbs.com.br/investidores-esg/governanca-corporativa/diretorias-conselhos-e-comites/
https://ri.jbs.com.br/investidores-esg/governanca-corporativa/diretorias-conselhos-e-comites/


GRI Standards Contents Page/URL Omission SDG*

GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 

102-26 Role of highest governance body in 
setting purpose, values, and strategy

Further information is available in our Reference 
Form, p. 371. - -

102-28 Evaluating the highest governance 
body's performance

Further information is available in our Reference 
Form, p. 352. - -

102-29 Identifying and managing economic, 
environmental, and social impacts 125 - 16

102-30 Effectiveness of risk management 
processes 126 - -

102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and 
social topics 126 - -

102-32 Highest governance body’s role in 
sustainability reporting

Senior leadership at JBS reviews and approves 
the sustainability report to ensure all material 
topics are covered.

- -

102-35 Remuneration policies Information on this disclosure can be found on 
our Investor Relations website. - -

STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT

GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 

102-40 List of stakeholder groups 58 - -

102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 89 - 8

102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 58 - -

102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 58 - -

102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 59 - -

143FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES

https://api.mziq.com/mzfilemanager/v2/d/043a77e1-0127-4502-bc5b-21427b991b22/b37a2f82-0c6c-f380-6f09-49064c511e01?origin=1
https://api.mziq.com/mzfilemanager/v2/d/043a77e1-0127-4502-bc5b-21427b991b22/b37a2f82-0c6c-f380-6f09-49064c511e01?origin=1
https://api.mziq.com/mzfilemanager/v2/d/043a77e1-0127-4502-bc5b-21427b991b22/b37a2f82-0c6c-f380-6f09-49064c511e01?origin=1
https://api.mziq.com/mzfilemanager/v2/d/043a77e1-0127-4502-bc5b-21427b991b22/b37a2f82-0c6c-f380-6f09-49064c511e01?origin=1
https://api.mziq.com/mzfilemanager/v2/d/043a77e1-0127-4502-bc5b-21427b991b22/cc693a3b-90c8-df97-b3a5-7bf62e2e22b2?origin=1


GRI Standards Contents Page/URL Omission SDG*

REPORTING PRACTICES

GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 

102-45 Entities included in the consolidated 
financial statements 17 - -

102-46 Defining report content and topic 
Boundaries 17 - -

102-47 List of material topics 59 - -

102-48 Restatements of information 102 - -

102-49 Changes in reporting There were no significant changes in the 
reporting scope. - -

102-50 Reporting period 17 - -

102-51 Date of most recent report 2020 - -

102-52 Reporting cycle Annual - -

102-53 Contact point for questions regarding 
the report 17 - -

102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with 
the GRI Standards 17 - -

102-55 GRI content index 141 - -

102-56 External assurance 17 - -

144FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



GRI Standards Disclosure Page/URL Omission SDG*

ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE

GRI 103: Management 
approach 2016 

103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary

59 - -

103-2 The management approach and its 
components

137 - -

103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 137 - -

GRI 201: Economic 
performance 2016

201-1 Direct economic value generated and 
distributed

Information on this 
disclosure is available 
here, p. 51.

- 8, 9

INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS

GRI 103: Management 
approach 2016 

103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary

59 - -

103-2 The management approach and its 
components

106 - -

103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 106 - -

GRI 203: Indirect economic 
impacts 2016

203-1 Infrastructure investments and services 
supported 

106
JBS USA: reason for omission – Information not 
available –  Infrastructure investments and services 
supported are not tracked.

5, 9, 11

203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 106 - 1.3.8

Material topics

145FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES

https://api.mziq.com/mzfilemanager/v2/d/043a77e1-0127-4502-bc5b-21427b991b22/eac02211-749d-a40d-be0d-70603f99b68e?origin=1”u%20HYPERLINK%20“https://api.mziq.com/mzfilemanager/v2/d/043a77e1-0127-4502-bc5b-21427b991b22/eac02211-749d-a40d-be0d-70603f99b68e?origin=1


GRI Standards Disclosure Page/URL Omission SDG*

PROCUREMENT PRACTICES

GRI 103: Management 
approach 2016 

103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary

59 - -

103-2 The management approach and its 
components

Information on this 
disclosure is available 
on the JBS website.

- -

103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
Information on this 
disclosure is available 
on the JBS website.

- -

GRI 204: Procurement 
practices 2016

204-1 Proportion of spending on locally-based 
suppliers 

Information on this 
disclosure is available 
on the JBS website.

- 8

MATERIALS

GRI 103: Management 
approach 2016 

103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary

59 - -

103-2 The management approach and its 
components

71 - -

103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 71 - -

GRI 301: Materials 2016

301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 71 - 8, 12

301-2 Recycled input materials used 71 - 8, 12

301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging 
materials

71 - 8, 12

146FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES

https://jbs.com.br/sustentabilidade/home/
https://jbs.com.br/sustentabilidade/home/
https://jbs.com.br/sustentabilidade/home/


GRI Standards Disclosure Page/URL Omission SDG*

ENERGY

GRI 103: Management 
approach 2016 

103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary

59 - -

103-2 The management approach and its 
components

66 - -

103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 66 - -

GRI 302: Energy 2016
302-1 Energy consumption within the 
organization

68 - 7, 8, 12, 13

WATER & EFFLUENTS

GRI 103: Management 
approach 2016 

103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary

59 - -

103-2 The management approach and its 
components

74 - -

103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 74 - -

GRI 303: Water and effluents 
2019

303-1 Interactions with water as a shared 
resource

Information on this 
disclosure is available 
on the JBS website.

- 6, 12

303-2 Management of water discharge related 
impacts

Information on this 
disclosure is available 
on the JBS website.

- 6

303-3 Water withdrawal 75 - 6, 8, 12

303-4 Water discharge 75 - 6

303-5 Water consumption 75 6

147FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES

https://jbs.com.br/sustentabilidade/home/
https://jbs.com.br/sustentabilidade/home/


GRI Standards Disclosure Page/URL Omission SDG*

EMISSIONS

GRI 103: Management 
approach 2016 

103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary

59 - -

103-2 The management approach and its 
components

63 - -

103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 63 - -

GRI 305: Emissions 2016

305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 64 -
3, 12, 13, 
14, 15

305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG 
emissions

64 -
3, 12, 13, 
14, 15

305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 64 -
3, 12, 13, 
14, 15

305-4 GHG emissions intensity
Information on this 
disclosure is available 
on the JBS website.

- 13, 14, 15

305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions
Information on this 
disclosure is available 
on the JBS website.

- 13, 14, 15

WASTE

GRI 103: Management 
approach 2016 

103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary

59 - -

103-2 The management approach and its 
components

69 - -

103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 69 - -

148FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES

https://jbs.com.br/sustentabilidade/home/
https://jbs.com.br/sustentabilidade/home/


GRI Standards Disclosure Page/URL Omission SDG*

GRI 306: Waste 2021

306-1 Waste generation and significant waste-
related impacts

70
Swift: reason for omission – Not applicable – There are 
no significant impacts as the primary waste material is 
plastic packaging, which is disposed of compliantly.

3, 6, 11, 12

306-2 Management of significant waste-
related impacts

70 - 3, 6, 11, 12

306-3 Waste generated 70 -
3, 6, 12, 
14, 15

306-4 Waste diverted from disposal 70 - 3, 11, 12

306-5 Waste directed to disposal 70 -
3, 6, 11, 12, 
14, 15

SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT

GRI 103: Management 
approach 2016 

103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary

59 - -

103-2 The management approach and its 
components

82 - -

103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 82 - -

149FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



GRI Standards Disclosure Page/URL Omission SDG*

GRI 308: Supplier 
environmental assessment 
2016

308-1 New suppliers that were screened using 
environmental criteria

Information on this 
disclosure is available 
here

Swift: reason for omission – Not applicable. Raw 
materials are purchased directly from JBS Group 
in accordance with its Sourcing Policy, Responsible 
Cattle Sourcing Policy, and Animal Welfare Policy.

JBS USA: reason for omission – Information not 
available. All new and existing JBS USA suppliers 
are held to the Supplier Code of Conduct, which 
covers a number of criteria including environmental 
issues. However, suppliers are not currently screened 
routinely using social criteria.

-

308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the 
supply chain and actions taken

Information on this 
disclosure is available 
here

-

EMPLOYMENT

GRI 103: Management 
approach 2016 

103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary

59 - -

103-2 The management approach and its 
components

89 - -

103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 89 - -

150FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES

https://jbs.com.br/sustentabilidade/home/
https://jbs.com.br/sustentabilidade/home/


GRI Standards Disclosure Page/URL Omission SDG*

GRI 401: Employment 2016

401-1 New employee hires and employee 
turnover

In 2021 JBS hired 
52,325 people in Brazil, 
0.43% more than in 
2020. The overall 
turnover rate in our 
Brazil operations rose 
from 0.28% in 2020 
to 0.36% in 2021. See 
p. 89

- 5, 8, 10

401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees 
that are not provided to temporary or part-
time employees

Information on this 
disclosure is available 
on the JBS website.

- 3, 5, 8

OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY

GRI 103: Management 
approach 2016

103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary

59 - -

103-2 The management approach and its 
components

101 - -

103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 96 - -

151FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES

https://jbs.com.br/sustentabilidade/home/


GRI Standards Disclosure Page/URL Omission SDG*

GRI 403: Occupational 
health and safety 2019

403-1 Occupational health and safety 
management system

101 - 8

403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, 
and incident investigation 

101 - 3, 8

403-3 Occupational health services 101 - 3, 8

403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and 
communication on occupational health and 
safety

101 - 8, 16

403-5 Worker training on occupational health 
and safety

101 - 8

403-6 Promotion of worker health 101 - 3

403-7 Prevention and mitigation of 
occupational health and safety impacts directly 
linked by business relationships

101 - 8

403-9 Work-related injuries 102 - 3, 8, 16

403-10 Work-related ill health 101
JBS USA: reason for omission – Confidentiality 
constraints.

3,8, 16

TRAINING AND EDUCATION

GRI 103: Management 
approach 2016 

103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary

59 - -

103-2 The management approach and its 
components

94 - -

103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 94 - -

152FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



GRI Standards Disclosure Page/URL Omission SDG*

GRI 404: Training and 
education 2016

404-1 Average hours of training per year per 
employee

94 - 4, 5, 8, 10

404-3 Percentage of employees receiving 
regular performance and career development 
reviews 

Information on this 
disclosure is available 
on the JBS website.

- 5, 8, 10

DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY

GRI 103: Management 
approach 2016 

103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary

59 - -

103-2 The management approach and its 
components

96 - -

103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 96 - -

GRI 405: Diversity and equal 
opportunity 2016

405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and 
employees

98. For further 
information, visit the 
JBS website.

- 5, 8

NON-DISCRIMINATION

GRI 103: Management 
approach 2016 

103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary

59 - -

103-2 The management approach and its 
components

96, 130 - -

103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 96, 130 - -

GRI 406: Non-discrimination 
2016

406-1 Incidents of discrimination and 
corrective actions taken

Information on this 
disclosure is available 
on the JBS website.

- 5, 8

153FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES

https://jbs.com.br/sustentabilidade/home/
https://jbs.com.br/sustentabilidade/home/
https://jbs.com.br/sustentabilidade/home/


GRI Standards Disclosure Page/URL Omission SDG*

LOCAL COMMUNITIES

GRI 103: Management 
approach 2016 

103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary

59 - -

103-2 The management approach and its 
components

103 - -

103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 103 - -

GRI 413: Local communities 
2016

413-1 Operations with local community 
engagement, impact assessments, and 
development programs

Information on this 
disclosure is available 
on the JBS website.

- -

SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT

GRI 103: Management 
approach 2016 

103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary

59 - -

103-2 The management approach and its 
components

82 - -

103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 82 - -

GRI 414: Supplier social 
assessment 2016

414-1 New suppliers that were screened using 
social criteria

Information on this 
disclosure is available 
on the JBS website.

Swift: reason for omission – Not applicable. Raw 
materials are purchased directly from JBS Group 
in accordance with its Sourcing Policy, Responsible 
Cattle Sourcing Policy, and Animal Welfare Policy.

JBS EUA: reason for omission. Information not 
available – All new and existing JBS USA suppliers 
are held to the Supplier Code of Conduct, which 
covers a number of criteria including social issues. 
However, suppliers are not currently screened using 
social criteria.

5, 8, 16

414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply 
chain and actions taken

- 5, 8, 16

154FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES

https://jbs.com.br/sustentabilidade/home/
https://jbs.com.br/sustentabilidade/home/


GRI Standards Disclosure Page/URL Omission SDG*

CONSUMER HEALTH AND SAFETY

GRI 103: Management 
approach 2016 

103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary

59 - -

103-2 The management approach and its 
components

45 - -

103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 45 - -

GRI 416: Consumer health 
and safety 2016

416-1 Assessment of the health and safety 
impacts of product and service categories

Information on this 
disclosure is available 
on the JBS website.

JBS Couros: not applicable to the business. -

Food Processing Sector 
Supplement - Customer 
health and safety

FP5 Percentage of production volume 
manufactured in sites certified by an 
independent third party according to 
internationally recognized food safety 
management system standards

Information on this 
disclosure is available 
on the JBS website.

JBS Couros: not applicable to the business. 3

FP6 Percentage of total sales volume of 
consumer products, by product category, that 
are lowered in saturated fat, trans fats, sodium 
and added sugars

Information on this 
disclosure is available 
on the JBS website.

Friboi: not applicable to the business. Most Friboi 
products are fresh. For other processed products, 
none contain increased nutritious ingredients like 
fiber, vitamins, minerals, phytochemicals or functional 
food additives.

JBS Couros: not applicable to the business.

2

FP7 Percentage of total sales volume of 
consumer products, by product category, that 
contain increased nutritious ingredients like 
fiber, vitamins, minerals, phytochemicals or 
functional food additives

Information on this 
disclosure is available 
on the JBS website.

JBS Couros: not applicable to the business.

Swift: reason for omission – Not applicable. 
No products were developed with  increased 
nutritious ingredients like fiber, vitamins, minerals, 
phytochemicals or functional food additives.

2

155FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES

https://jbs.com.br/sustentabilidade/home/
https://jbs.com.br/sustentabilidade/home/
https://jbs.com.br/sustentabilidade/home/
https://jbs.com.br/sustentabilidade/home/


GRI Standards Disclosure Page/URL Omission SDG*

MARKETING AND LABELING

GRI 103: Management 
approach 2016 

103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary

59 - -

103-2 The management approach and its 
components

Information on this 
disclosure is available 
on the JBS website.

- -

103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
Information on this 
disclosure is available 
on the JBS website.

- -

GRI 417: Marketing and 
labeling 2016

417-1 Requirements for product and service 
information and labeling

Information on this 
disclosure is available 
on the JBS website.

JBS Couros:  not applicable – The company does not 
market its products directly to end consumers.

12

417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning 
marketing communications

Information on this 
disclosure is available 
on the JBS website.

JBS USA: reason for omission – Confidentiality 
constraints.

16

Food Processing Sector 
Supplement - Marketing and 
labeling

Policies and practices on communication to 
consumers about ingredients and nutritional 
information beyond legal requirements

Information on this 
disclosure is available 
on the JBS website.

JBS Couros: not applicable to the business. 2

156FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES

https://jbs.com.br/sustentabilidade/home/
https://jbs.com.br/sustentabilidade/home/
https://jbs.com.br/sustentabilidade/home/
https://jbs.com.br/sustentabilidade/home/
https://jbs.com.br/sustentabilidade/home/


GRI Standards Disclosure Page/URL Omission SDG*

ANIMAL WELFARE

Food Processing Sector 
Supplement – Animal 
welfare

FP9 Percentage and total of animals raised 
and/or processed, by species and breed type, 
per housing type

Information on this 
disclosure is available 
on the JBS website. Friboi: reason for omission – Not applicable – Friboi 

sources beef cattle from third parties.

2, 15

FP10 Policies and practices, by species and 
breed type, related to physical alterations and 
the use of anesthetic

Information on this 
disclosure is available 
on the JBS website.

-

FP11 Percentage and total of animals raised 
and/or processed, by species and breed type, 
per housing type

Information on this 
disclosure is available 
on the JBS website.

JBS USA: reason for omission – Percent information 
confidential.

-

FP12 Policies and practices on antibiotic, 
anti-inflammatory, hormone, and/or growth 
promotion treatments, by species and breed 
type

116

Friboi: reason for omission – Not applicable. The 
company does not breed its own animals but instead 
sources them from third parties in relation to which 
it has no control over the use of antibiotics or anti-
inflammatory treatments. The use of animals that 
have received growth promotion treatments is 
prohibited in our beef cattle chain. This is controlled 
via: letters of guarantee signed by suppliers before 
shipping animals for slaughter; residue control via 
testing at our own and third-party laboratories; 
the MAPA; PNCR; and animal health and welfare 
manuals providing suppliers with related guidance.
Seara: reason for omission – This information is 
strategic.
JBS USA: reason for omission – Confidentiality 
constraints.

2

157FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES

https://jbs.com.br/sustentabilidade/home/
https://jbs.com.br/sustentabilidade/home/
https://jbs.com.br/sustentabilidade/home/


SASB Disclosure Page/URL Omission SDG*

Beef, poultry and dairy

Greenhouse gas 
emissions

SASB FB-MP-110a.2 Discussion of long-term 
and short-term strategy or plan to manage 
Scope 1 emissions, emissions reduction 
targets, and an analysis of performance 
against those targets

Information on this 
disclosure is available 
on the JBS website.

Swift: reason for omission – Not applicable. Pollutant emissions at 
stores are negligible. -

Water 
management

SASB FB-MP-140a.2 Description of water 
management risks and discussion of 
strategies and practices to mitigate those 
risks

Information on this 
disclosure is available 
on the JBS website.

- -

Food Safety

SASB FB-MP-250a.1 Global Food Safety 
Initiative (GFSI) audit (1) non-conformance 
rate and (2) associated corrective action 
rate for (a) major and (b) minor non-
conformances

Information on this 
disclosure is available 
on the JBS website.

Swift: reason for omission – Not applicable. Swift has no 
production facilities. More than 90% of the products it sells are 
purchased from Friboi (beef) or Seara (poultry and pork). 

Seara Margarinas: reason for omission – Not applicable. Seara 
Margarinas plants do not produce beef, poultry or dairy products 
sold directly to consumers.

JBS Couros: reason for omission – Not applicable to the business.

JBS USA: reason for omission – Confidentiality constraints.

-

SASB FB-MP-250a.2 Percentage of supplier 
facilities certified to a Global Food Safety 
Initiative (GFSI) food safety certification 
program

Information on this 
disclosure is available 
on the JBS website.

Swift: reason for omission – Not applicable. Swift has no 
production facilities. More than 90% of the products it sells are 
purchased from Friboi (beef) or Seara (poultry and pork). 

Seara Margarinas: reason for omission – Not applicable. Seara 
Margarinas plants do not produce beef, poultry or dairy products 
sold directly to consumers.

JBS Couros: reason for omissiono – Not applicable to the 
business.

-

SASB

158FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES

https://jbs.com.br/sustentabilidade/home/
https://jbs.com.br/sustentabilidade/home/
https://jbs.com.br/sustentabilidade/home/
https://jbs.com.br/sustentabilidade/home/


SASB Disclosure Page/URL Omission SDG*

Food Safety

SASB FB-MP-250a.3 (1) Number of recalls 
issued and (2) total weight of products 
recalled

46

Seara Margarinas: reason for omission – Not applicable. Seara 
Margarinas plants do not produce beef, poultry or dairy products 
sold directly to consumers.

JBS USA: reason for omission – Confidentiality constraints. JBS 
USA does not report recall information.

-

SASB FB-MP-250a.4 Discussion of markets 
that ban imports of the entity’s products

Information on this 
disclosure is available 
on the JBS website.

Swift: reason for omission – Not applicable. Swift does not export 
to any countries with bans on products from Brazil.

Seara Margarinas: reason for omission – Not applicable. Seara 
Margarinas plants do not produce beef, poultry or dairy products 
sold directly to consumers.

JBS Couros: reason for omissiono – Not applicable to the 
business.

JBS USA: reason for omission – Confidentiality constraints. 

-

Fair Labor 
Practices & 
Workforce 
Health & Safety

SASB FB-MP-320a.1 (1) Total recordable 
incident rate (TRIR) and (2) fatality rate

Information on this 
disclosure is available 
on the JBS website.

- -

Animal Welfare

SASB FB-MP-410a.1 Percentage of pork 
produced without the use of gestation crates

Information on this 
disclosure is available 
on the JBS website.

Friboi: reason for omission – Not applicable. Swift does not 
produce pork products. -

SASB FB-MP-410a.2 Percentage of cage-free 
shell egg sales -

Friboi: reason for omission – Not applicable. Friboi does not 
produce poultry.

Seara: reason for omission – Not applicable. 

JBS USA: reason for omission – Not applicable.

-

SASB FB-MP-410a.3 Percentage of 
production certified to a third party animal 
welfare standard

Information on this 
disclosure is available 
on the JBS website.

- -

* Sustainable Development Goals.

159FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES

https://jbs.com.br/sustentabilidade/home/
https://jbs.com.br/sustentabilidade/home/
https://jbs.com.br/sustentabilidade/home/
https://jbs.com.br/sustentabilidade/home/


 

 
 

STATEMENT VERIFICATION  
 

VERIFICATION STATEMENT This Verification Statement certifies that the Verification SGS 
do Brasil Ltda, CNPJ 33.182.809/0083-87, Avenida Piracema, 1341 - Galpão Horizon, 1st 

Floor, Tamboré, ZIP CODE 06460-030, Accreditation No. OVV 0007 conducted the 

Verification activity at the Inventory Organization JBS S/A, CNPJ 02. 916.265/0001-60, 

Avenida Marginal Direita do Tietê, 500 - Vila Jaguara - São Paulo / SP, ZIP Code 05118-100, 

Brazil, for the Sustainability Indicators for the year 2021 and related to the following business 

units of JBS S/A: 
• JBS Brasil: Corporate.  

• Friboi: Beef Jerky; Beef Slaughter, Beef Deboning; Industrialized; Portioning; 

Charque; Beef Jerky; Beef Confinement; Logistic Terminal.  

• JBS Couros: Distribution Center; Semi-finished; Wet-blue. 

• JBS Mercado de carne (Swift).  
• JBS Novos Negócios: - JBS New Business: Biodiesel; Biolins; Collagen; Metallic 

Packaging; Hygiene and Cleaning. 

• Transportadora.  

• Terminal Portuário. 

• Seara: Feed Mill; Chicken Farm; Distribution Center; Chicken Slaughtering + 

processed; Hatchery; Pork Slaughtering + processed; Pig Farm; Turkey Farm; Turkey 

Slaughtering; Turkey Hatchery; Margarine Factory. 

• JBS Exterior: Leather Processing.   

 

SGS conducted a Third-Party verification of the JBS S/A Sustainability Indicators provided by the 

CREDIT 360 System and based on the verification scope and objectives and requirements agreed 

upon between SGS and JBS on March 14-18, 2022, and using as verification criteria the 

requirements of the indicators or disclosures of the GRI Standards and ISO14064-3:2019 and 

Brazilian GHG Protocol Program. 

 

The level of confidence agreed upon is limited, considering that the verifications were carried out 

by remote means due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 

 

The materiality required for the verification was considered by SGS to be 5%, according to the 

need of the intended user of the indicator statement (GRI criteria).  

 

For this purpose, the verified data used the following facilities inspected (remote mode) by 

Verification: 

 

 

 

 
Site Name Address Verification 

Date 
JBS - Corporativo Avenida Marginal Direita do Tietê, 

500 – Jaguara – São Paulo/SP – 
ZIP CODE: 05118-100. Brazil. 
 

03/14/22 
(remotely) 

Friboi: Abate bovinos + Desossa 
bovinos + Industrializados - Lins/SP 

Parque Industrial, SN – Parque 
Industrial – Lins/SP – ZIP CODE: 
16404-110. 
 

03/14/22 
(remotely) 

Seara: Abate de suínos + Processados 
- Dourados/MS. 

Rodovia BR 163, Km 06 Centro - 
Dourados – MS - ZIP CODE 
79.804-970. Brazil. 
 
 

03/14/22 
(remotely) 

Seara: Abate de Frangos – 
Rolândia/PR 

Rod. BR 369, Km 178 – Parque 
Industrial III – Rolândia/PR – ZIP 
CODE: 8660-000. Brazil 
 

03/15/22 
(remotely) 

 

Friboi: Abate bovinos + Desossa 
bovinos + Industrializados – Campo 
Grande II/MS. 
 

Rodovia BR 060, s/n, KM 359,8 – 
Campo Grande – MS – ZIP CODE: 
079064-000. Brazil 

03/16/22 
(remotely) 

 

Cogeração de Energia - Lins/SP. Parque Industrial, SN – Parque 
Industrial – Lins/SP – ZIP CODE: 
16404-110. Brazil. 

03/17/22 
(remotely) 

 
JBS: Transportadora Lins/SP  Parque Industrial, SN – Parque 

Industrial – Lins/SP – ZIP CODE: 
16404-110. Brazil. 

03/17/22 
(remotely) 

 
JBS: Semi-acabado (Couros)  Lins/SP Rod. BR 153, km 179 - Zona 

Urbana - Lins/SP ZIP CODE: 
16400-972. Brazil. 

03/17/22 
(remotely) 

 
 
 

JBS S/A has provided Sustainability Indicators data based on the requirements of GRI 

Standards and ISO14064-1:2018 and the Brazilian GHG Protocol Program and has been 

verified by SGS to a limited level of confidence, consistent with the agreed verification scope, 

objectives, and criteria. The indicators verified and assured by this declaration for the period 

from 01/01/2021 to 12/31/2021 were:  

• Production Data. 
• GHG Emissions Intensity: GRI 305-4. 

• GHG Emissions: GRI 305-1: 305-2. 

• Energy Intensity: GRI 302-3. 

• Energy Consumption: GRI 302-1 

• Total Water Volume by Source: GRI 303-3 and 303-5. 

• Effluents, Water Discharge by Quality and Disposal: GRI 303-4. 

 
In SGS's opinion the Sustainability Indicators Statement presented:  

- Is materially correct and is a fair representation of the data and information contained 

 

in "CREDIT 360 for the annual monitoring of the sustainability indicators of JBS S/A 

2021"  

- It has been prepared in accordance with ISO 14064-1:2018 and disclosures from the 

GRI Standards, mentioned above. 
 
 
 
 

Barueri, July 06, 2022. 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

Verifier Leader Independent Reviewer 
Rafael da Silva Caldeira Fabian Peres Gonçalves 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Aware: Inventory Organization 
JBS S/A 

Statement Verification SGS

160FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES



CREDITS
Coordination
JBS Sustainability, Investor Relations and Corporate 
Communication

Content, design and consulting
grupo report – rpt.sustentabilidade

Translation
Ivan van Rheenen, Roger Barlow e Judy Ryan. 
America Latina Traduçoes

Photo credits
JBS image bank

161FOREWORD ABOUT JBS VALUE CREATION SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG OPERATING PERFORMANCE APPENDIXES


	Botão 7: 
	Página 2: 
	Página 3: 
	Página 4: 
	Página 5: 
	Página 6: 
	Página 7: 
	Página 8: 
	Página 9: 
	Página 10: 
	Página 11: 
	Página 12: 
	Página 13: 
	Página 14: 
	Página 15: 
	Página 16: 
	Página 17: 
	Página 18: 
	Página 19: 

	Botão 8: 
	Página 2: 
	Página 3: 
	Página 4: 
	Página 5: 
	Página 6: 
	Página 7: 
	Página 8: 
	Página 9: 
	Página 10: 
	Página 11: 
	Página 12: 
	Página 13: 
	Página 14: 
	Página 15: 
	Página 16: 
	Página 17: 
	Página 18: 
	Página 19: 

	Botão 9: 
	Página 20: 
	Página 21: 
	Página 22: 
	Página 23: 
	Página 24: 
	Página 25: 
	Página 26: 
	Página 27: 
	Página 28: 
	Página 29: 
	Página 30: 
	Página 31: 
	Página 32: 
	Página 33: 
	Página 34: 
	Página 35: 
	Página 36: 
	Página 37: 
	Página 38: 
	Página 39: 
	Página 40: 
	Página 41: 
	Página 42: 
	Página 43: 

	Botão 11: 
	Página 20: 
	Página 21: 
	Página 22: 
	Página 23: 
	Página 24: 
	Página 25: 
	Página 26: 
	Página 27: 
	Página 28: 
	Página 29: 
	Página 30: 
	Página 31: 
	Página 32: 
	Página 33: 
	Página 34: 
	Página 35: 
	Página 36: 
	Página 37: 
	Página 38: 
	Página 39: 
	Página 40: 
	Página 41: 
	Página 42: 
	Página 43: 

	Botão 5: 
	Página 44: 
	Página 45: 
	Página 46: 
	Página 47: 
	Página 48: 
	Página 49: 
	Página 50: 
	Página 51: 
	Página 52: 
	Página 53: 
	Página 54: 
	Página 140: 
	Página 141: 
	Página 142: 
	Página 143: 
	Página 144: 
	Página 145: 
	Página 146: 
	Página 147: 
	Página 148: 
	Página 149: 
	Página 150: 
	Página 151: 
	Página 152: 
	Página 153: 
	Página 154: 
	Página 155: 
	Página 156: 
	Página 157: 
	Página 158: 
	Página 159: 
	Página 160: 
	Página 161: 

	Botão 6: 
	Página 44: 
	Página 45: 
	Página 46: 
	Página 47: 
	Página 48: 
	Página 49: 
	Página 50: 
	Página 51: 
	Página 52: 
	Página 53: 
	Página 54: 

	Botão 36: 
	Página 55: 
	Página 56: 
	Página 57: 
	Página 58: 
	Página 59: 
	Página 60: 
	Página 61: 

	Botão 37: 
	Página 55: 
	Página 56: 
	Página 57: 
	Página 58: 
	Página 59: 
	Página 60: 
	Página 61: 

	Botão 42: 
	Página 62: 
	Página 63: 
	Página 64: 
	Página 65: 
	Página 66: 
	Página 67: 
	Página 68: 
	Página 69: 
	Página 70: 
	Página 71: 
	Página 72: 
	Página 73: 
	Página 74: 
	Página 75: 
	Página 76: 
	Página 77: 
	Página 78: 
	Página 79: 
	Página 80: 
	Página 81: 
	Página 82: 
	Página 83: 
	Página 84: 
	Página 85: 

	Botão 43: 
	Página 62: 
	Página 63: 
	Página 64: 
	Página 65: 
	Página 66: 
	Página 67: 
	Página 68: 
	Página 69: 
	Página 70: 
	Página 71: 
	Página 72: 
	Página 73: 
	Página 74: 
	Página 75: 
	Página 76: 
	Página 77: 
	Página 78: 
	Página 79: 
	Página 80: 
	Página 81: 
	Página 82: 
	Página 83: 
	Página 84: 
	Página 85: 

	Botão 40: 
	Página 86: 
	Página 87: 
	Página 88: 
	Página 89: 
	Página 90: 
	Página 91: 
	Página 92: 
	Página 93: 
	Página 94: 
	Página 95: 
	Página 96: 
	Página 97: 
	Página 98: 
	Página 99: 
	Página 100: 
	Página 101: 
	Página 102: 
	Página 103: 
	Página 104: 
	Página 105: 
	Página 106: 
	Página 107: 
	Página 108: 
	Página 109: 
	Página 110: 
	Página 111: 
	Página 112: 
	Página 113: 
	Página 114: 
	Página 115: 
	Página 116: 
	Página 117: 
	Página 118: 
	Página 119: 
	Página 120: 
	Página 121: 

	Botão 41: 
	Página 86: 
	Página 87: 
	Página 88: 
	Página 89: 
	Página 90: 
	Página 91: 
	Página 92: 
	Página 93: 
	Página 94: 
	Página 95: 
	Página 96: 
	Página 97: 
	Página 98: 
	Página 99: 
	Página 100: 
	Página 101: 
	Página 102: 
	Página 103: 
	Página 104: 
	Página 105: 
	Página 106: 
	Página 107: 
	Página 108: 
	Página 109: 
	Página 110: 
	Página 111: 
	Página 112: 
	Página 113: 
	Página 114: 
	Página 115: 
	Página 116: 
	Página 117: 
	Página 118: 
	Página 119: 
	Página 120: 
	Página 121: 

	Botão 38: 
	Página 122: 
	Página 123: 
	Página 124: 
	Página 125: 
	Página 126: 
	Página 127: 
	Página 128: 
	Página 129: 
	Página 130: 
	Página 131: 
	Página 132: 
	Página 133: 
	Página 134: 
	Página 135: 

	Botão 39: 
	Página 122: 
	Página 123: 
	Página 124: 
	Página 125: 
	Página 126: 
	Página 127: 
	Página 128: 
	Página 129: 
	Página 130: 
	Página 131: 
	Página 132: 
	Página 133: 
	Página 134: 
	Página 135: 

	Botão 29: 
	Página 136: 
	Página 137: 
	Página 138: 
	Página 139: 

	Botão 30: 
	Página 136: 
	Página 137: 
	Página 138: 
	Página 139: 

	Botão 31: 
	Página 136: 
	Página 137: 
	Página 138: 
	Página 139: 

	Botão 32: 
	Página 136: 
	Página 137: 
	Página 138: 
	Página 139: 

	Botão 33: 
	Página 136: 
	Página 137: 
	Página 138: 
	Página 139: 

	Botão 34: 
	Página 136: 
	Página 137: 
	Página 138: 
	Página 139: 

	Botão 35: 
	Página 136: 
	Página 137: 
	Página 138: 
	Página 139: 

	Botão 27: 
	Página 136: 
	Página 137: 
	Página 138: 
	Página 139: 

	Botão 28: 
	Página 136: 
	Página 137: 
	Página 138: 
	Página 139: 

	Botão 4: 
	Página 140: 
	Página 141: 
	Página 142: 
	Página 143: 
	Página 144: 
	Página 145: 
	Página 146: 
	Página 147: 
	Página 148: 
	Página 149: 
	Página 150: 
	Página 151: 
	Página 152: 
	Página 153: 
	Página 154: 
	Página 155: 
	Página 156: 
	Página 157: 
	Página 158: 
	Página 159: 
	Página 160: 
	Página 161: