Snacking  
Made Right
2022 ESG REPORT 



Making 
Snacking 
Right foR 
eveRyone
From giving your parent their favorite 
chocolates to giving yourself a satisfying 
treat, from sharing biscuits with your 
buddies to halving pastries with your 
partner – around the world, in all kinds 
of ways, snacking is part of our daily lives. 
And at Mondelēz International, we love  
to make snacking right for everyone.  
This is what motivates us, day-in-day-out, 
all around the world. 

Cadbury Dairy Milk chocolate, OREO cookies, 7 Days croissants,  
and more – these are just some of the beloved chocolate,  
biscuits and baked snacks brands we provide that bring  
millions of people moments of enjoyment, satisfaction,  
and meaning – time and time again.

Guided by our purpose to empower people to snack right, and 
our ambition to build a more sustainable snacking company, 
we take a strategic long-term approach as we work to meet 
our environmental, social and governance (ESG) goals. We call 
this Snacking Made Right, offering the right snack, for the right 
moment, made the right way.

This is not only the right thing to do; it is core to our continued 
growth and success and integral to our long-term growth 
strategy. Successful companies create value for the world at 
large. To this end, as a global snacking leader, we work to reduce 
our impact on the environment, have a positive impact on our 
customers and communities, and conduct ourselves in an ethical, 
purposeful, and inclusive manner. 

As you’ll see in this report, in 2022 we took some big steps 
forward on our Snacking Made Right journey. For example, we 
launched the next phase of our signature Cocoa Life sourcing 
program, which will see an additional $600 million investment 
through 2030, bringing the total to $1 billion since the start  
of the program in 2012. 

Looking ahead, we aim to further sharpen, amplify and accelerate 
our Snacking Made Right impact across the key areas of 
sustainability; diversity, equity and inclusion (DE&I); and well-being, 
with a focus on more sustainable snacking, more empowered 
colleagues and communities, and more Mindful Snacking.

This is a great growth story, with sustainability, empowerment  
and well-being at its heart. For us, Snacking Made Right and 
growth go hand-in-hand. So much so that sustainabiity was 
elevated to one of the four core growth pillars of our Vision 2030 
strategy during 2022, alongside growth, execution, and culture.

We share the story so far in this Snacking Made Right annual 
report – summing up our strategic approach, our focus areas and 
goals, and our current progress as we continue to live our purpose 
to empower people to snack right.

We hope you enjoy the report. It aims to show how we bake more 
sustainable growth into our business, and how we continue  
to improve on the recipe to make it better and better.

Our Commitment To ESG Reporting

This annual Snacking Made Right Report is part of our wider 
goal to provide transparent and measurable information for our 
stakeholders on our goals, policies, initiatives, and programs 
through ESG reporting. To ensure we keep enhancing our reporting 
to meet evolving requirements around the world, in 2022 we 
enhanced our internal procedures and controls on ESG Reporting 
Standards. This process provides enhanced clarity for our reporting 
as we continue to focus on keeping our stakeholders informed of 
our ongoing journey to make snacking right. 

Snacking Made Right is the lens through 
which we determine our environmental, 
social and governance (ESG) priorities to 
deliver on our mission of leading the future 
of snacking by offering the right snack,  
for the right moment, made the right way.

We have a clear and distinctive approach to 
environmental and social matters aligned 
to our business strategy. Our approach 
is informed by our understanding of the 
issues that are significant to our business 
and to the communities we touch, and 
in turn by the priorities we have set for 
ourselves along our value chain.

ESG Progress Our regional ESG progress Going Further FasterESG PrioritiesPriority IssuesOur ApproachOur PurposeAbout UsChairman & CEO LetterTable of ContentsOverview

Snacking more mindfullymore SuStainable Snacking governancecolleague & community Well-beingStrategy & Performance

2M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT



Colleague & Community Well-being

Overview 50
Leadership & Growth Culture 51
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (DE&I) 52
Our Racial Equity Journey 53
Racial Equity Audit 55
Advancing Gender Equality 56
Economic Inclusion & Supplier Diversity 58
Colleagues 59
Workplace Safety 60
Impact Investing 61
Humanitarian Support 62
Community Impact & Employee Volunteering 63

Snacking More Mindfully

Overview 65
Our Approach 66
Evolving Our Portfolio 67
Championing Mindful Snacking 68
Marketing Responsibly 70
Making Our Snacks Mindfully 72

Governance 

Overview 73
Corporate Governance 74
Compliance 75
UN Sustainable Development Goals 76
Closing Letter 77

Strategy & Performance

Overview 2
Chairman & CEO Letter 4
About Us 5
Our Purpose 6
Our Approach 7
Priority Issues 8
ESG Priorities 9
Our ESG Progress 10
Highlights of Our Regional Progress  12
Going Further, Faster 13

More Sustainable Snacking

Overview 14
Climate & Environment
Resilient Communities  15
Climate Risks 16
Action Toward Net Zero  17
Our Carbon Footprint 18
Energy 20
Water 22
Waste 23
Social Sustainability & Human Rights 24
Sustainable Packaging 27
Sustainable Ingredients 
Ingredients 30
Cocoa 31
Wheat 40
Harmony wheat 41
North America Wheat  42
Dairy 43
Palm Oil 47
Hazelnuts 49

ESG Progress Our regional ESG progress Going Further FasterESG PrioritiesPriority IssuesOur ApproachOur PurposeAbout UsChairman & CEO LetterOverview Table of Contents

table of contentS

Snacking more mindfullymore SuStainable Snacking governancecolleague & community Well-beingStrategy & Performance

3M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT



I am proud to say that our chocolate, biscuits, 
and baked snacks brands continue to bring 
more and more moments of enjoyment, 
satisfaction and meaning to millions of people 
around the world. This is an ongoing good 
growth story. A story that has at its heart  
our enduring purpose to empower people  
to snack right, and our renewed strategic 
focus on achieving greater sustainable 
growth so that we deliver our vision: to  
be the global snacking leader, winning in 
chocolate, biscuits and baked snacks.
We are working together to achieve our vision at a time of 
considerable change and challenges – from the war in Ukraine 
to rising inflation and economic uncertainty around the world, 
from climate change to nature loss. It is an increasingly tough 
world in which to make snacking right. Yet at the same time,  
it is also a world where the demand for snacking right continues 
to grow. As our 2022 State of Snacking report shows, 71% of 
consumers said that they snack at least twice a day, and they  
are looking for ways to snack more mindfully.

So there are many challenges and many opportunities for us here 
at Mondelēz International, and indeed for all our stakeholders, and 
we remain resolutely focused on driving more sustainable growth 
– prioritizing and accelerating to achieve this growth.

As this report shows, our strategic commitment to Snacking Made 
Right is fundamental to our more sustainable growth. It is our way 
of determining our environmental, social and governance (ESG) 
priorities and delivering on our mission of leading the future of 
snacking by offering the right snack, for the right moment, made 
the right way.

Dirk Van de Put 
Chairman & CEO, Mondelēz International

chaiRMan & 
ceo letteR

As we continue confidently into our second decade as a 
responsible, high-growth, pure-play global snacking company,  
we are prioritizing key areas of Snacking Made Right, so we  
can help drive innovative, more sustainable growth the right  
way for people and the planet. With that in mind, sustainability 
now follows growth, execution, and culture as the fourth  
pillar in our long-term business strategy, Vision 2030.

We are focusing on more sustainable snacking – more sustainable 
sourcing of key ingredients, lowering climate impact, respecting 
human rights, and reducing packaging waste.

We are building our pool of deep and diverse talent, making 
strong progress in our global diversity, equity and inclusion 
ambitions for our colleagues, culture, and communities.

We are evolving our portfolio to meet a range of consumer 
nutrition and well-being choices, while promoting mindful 
portions and active lifestyles.

And as with every core aspect of our business, we remain 
focused on strong ESG governance, with oversight from the 
Board of Directors (Board) and leadership from the top. We are 
also committed to enhancing our transparency and reporting – 
to increase understanding, share in achievements, and encourage 
greater collaboration. 

Collaboration among stakeholders is critical. As this report 
highlights, beyond what we are doing as a company, we are 
partnering a great deal with others to together make snacking 
right – and we can continue to do a great deal more, too. I look 
forward to many more years of us making snacking right together, 
as we seek to have an ever-greater positive impact for people 
and the planet.

Dirk Van de Put 
Chairman & CEO,  
Mondelēz International

3

A MESSAGE 
FROM DIRK 
VAN DE PUT
Chairman & CEO, 
Mondelēz International

INTRODUCTION AT-HOME SNACKING HABITSGLOBAL SURGE OF SNACKING SNACK SHOPPING GOES DIGITAL  

As the global leader in snacking, we are 
continually obsessing over how, when and 
why people snack. Our insights guide our 
growth strategy, inform our purpose to 
empower people to snack right, and form 
the basis for the vast knowledge estate that 
we’ve amassed on the important and ever-
changing role snacking plays in our 
everyday lives.  

And in a year like 2020, our instinct to learn 
from people and to put our consumer at the 
heart of everything we do, has proven more 
important than ever. Our second annual 
State of Snacking Report underlines what 
we have long known to be true: even in the 
face of worldwide uncertainty with COVID-
19 reshaping our rituals and routines, 
snacking is a growing behavior with the 
potential to provide comfort, connection 
and community,  while also providing the 
moments of respite, reward and relief as 
consumers look to balance nutrition and 
emotional well-being.

Our proven expertise in the understanding 
of global trends and consumer behavior is 
complemented by this independent 
research, which uses direct consumer 
polling from 12 markets around the world to 
generate a rich, fascinating and entertaining 
picture of how we snack today. The insights 
gleaned from thousands of consumers once 
again confirm our strategy is the right one 
as we continue to take a bite from the $1.2 

trillion total snack industry and fulfil our 
mission to lead the future of snacking, 
with the right snack, for the right 
moment, made the right way. 

As the global snacking category continues 
to grow, and we all adjust to our new 
normal, it’s not surprising that almost 9 in 10 
adults worldwide say they are snacking 
more or the same during the pandemic than 
they were before. Digging deeper, 
millennials and those who are working from 
home right now are especially likely to say 
they prefer snacks over meals. It pleases me 
to know that more than half of global adults 
say snacking has been a “lifeline” for them 
during the pandemic, especially parents 
who are working from home, and for whom 
snacks have provided welcome nutrition for 
themselves and treats for their children. 
Taking time out for a snack, from a familiar 
and much-loved brand, can prove to be an 
antidote to our busy lives and an avenue for 
connection with others during these 
unpredictable times. 

At Mondelēz International, we have long 
known that emotional well-being plays an 
important role in why we snack, alongside 
health and nutrition. We’re committed to 
helping people around the world be more 
mindful in the way they enjoy our products, 
which range from wholesome bites to 
indulgent treats. Hearing our consumers 
continue to highlight the importance of 
snacks that enable them to lead healthier 

lifestyles or that provide a boost or comfort, 
reinforces to me that snacking will continue 
to thrive as part of our new normal, finding 
its place alongside a renewed focus on 
health and an ever-more holistic view of 
well-being.

With more snacking happening at home, 
consumers is have more opportunities to 
practice mindful snacking habits, with two 
thirds of respondents in our study noting 
they now have more control over their 
snack portion sizes and that they are now 
more aware of the snacks their bodies need. 
For over 6 in 10 people, snacks are also 
nourishing their “body, mind and soul 
during these strange times,” underscoring 
their important role in our lives.

Thinking about my own life, I know savoring 
a few squares of my favorite Cote d’Or 
chocolate or passing a box of Triscuits
between my family as we come back 
together at the end of the day, have been a 
source of comfort, connection and 
community that have, at times, been 
difficult to find in this year of isolation. I 
hope you feel the same.

I’ve barely scratched the surface of what 
snacking mean in our lives today: You’ll find 
more as you read through this year’s State 
of Snacking: 2020 Global Consumer 
Snacking Trends Study. Enjoy! 

SUSTAiNABiLiTY
• Ingredients
• Packaging

• Climate
• Social Impact

DiVERSiTY, EQUiTY 
& INCLUSiON

• Colleagues
• Culture

• Communities

NUTRiTiON & 
WELL-BEiNG

• Portfolio
• Mindful Portions
• Active Lifestyles

" As we continue confidently 
into our second decade as a 
responsible, high-growth, pure-
play global snacking company, 
we are prioritizing key areas 
of Snacking Made Right, so we 
can help drive innovative, more 
sustainable growth the right  
way for people and the planet."

ESG Progress Our regional ESG progress Going Further FasterESG PrioritiesPriority IssuesOur ApproachOur PurposeAbout UsTable of ContentsOverview Chairman & CEO Letter

Snacking more mindfullymore SuStainable Snacking governancecolleague & community Well-beingStrategy & Performance

4M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT



We aim to be the global leader in snacking and also 
have a strong local presence.

Our approximately 91,000 employees 
bring our brands to life every day by 
making and baking our delicious products.

Our products are enjoyed in over  
150 countries around the world, 
and we have operations in 
approximately 80 countries.

150+

We aim to deliver a broad range of delicious, high-
quality snacks that nourish life’s moments, made with 
more sustainably-sourced ingredients and delivered  
in packaging that more consumers can feel good 
about. Our portfolio includes snacking brands such as 
Milka, Lacta, Cadbury, Cote D'Or and Toblerone chocolate; 
OREO, 7 Days, Clif Bar, Kinh Do, LU, Ritz, Nabisco and  
Chips Ahoy! biscuits and baked snacks. 

Our brands span five product categories:

North America
31% 

AMEA
21% 

Latin  
America
12%

Europe
36%

about uS 
2022 highlightS

As one of the world’s largest 
snack companies, we live and 
breathe snacks – and we want  
to make that world right for 
people and the planet. 

Leading the Future of Snacking

• Biscuits & baked snacks (including cookies, crackers, 
salted snacks, snack bars and cakes & pastries)

• Chocolate

• Gum & candy

• Beverages

• Cheese & grocery

Cakes &
Pastries

Mondelēz 
Global Position & Share1

Biscuits
Sweet & Savory

Market Size1

$111B

$80B

#1 
(17.2%)

Chocolate $120B#2 
(12.7%)

Snack
Bars $17B#3

(10%)

#3 
(3.2%)

Strong Positions in Our Core Snacks Categories, 
Significant Room to Grow

Net Revenues by Region

Cheese & Grocery 
6%

Beverages 
3%

Chocolate 
30%

Gum 
& Candy 
11%

Biscuits & 
Baked Snacks 
50%

$31.5b 
2022 NET REVENUES

Net Revenues by Category Our BrandsOur Reach

39%
Emerging Markets

61%
Developed Markets

74%
Non-U.S.

~91k

1  Reported information includes acquisitions/ventures globally announced in 2021 or earlier.  
Source Euromonitor

ESG Progress Our regional ESG progress Going Further FasterESG PrioritiesPriority IssuesOur ApproachOur PurposeChairman & CEO LetterTable of ContentsOverview About Us

Snacking more mindfullymore SuStainable Snacking governancecolleague & community Well-beingStrategy & Performance

5M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT



ouR 
puRpoSe To live up to our purpose, fulfill our mission, and deliver on our long-term  

business growth strategy, we focus on four strategic priorities:

Building a Winning  
Growth Culture

Accelerating
Consumer-centric Growth

Scaling More  
Sustainable Snacking

SuStainabilitycultuRegRowth

• Investing in our global & local brands 

• Channel expansion 

• Meet diverse & evolving consumer 
snacking demands

• Marketing & sales excellence

Find out more on page 66.

• Local empowerment & accountability

• Invest in diverse and talented 
workforce

• Agile, digital, local consumer-centric

Find out more on page 51.

• More sustainably sourced 
key ingredients

• Reduce waste and promote recycling

• Reduce end-to-end 
 environmental impact

Find out more on page 30.

We are driven by our purpose,  
mission and values.

Our values guide how we make snacking 
right. Across Mondelēz International 
around the world, we all strive to:
• Love our consumers and our brands
• Grow every day
• Do what’s right

Our mission is to lead the future of 
snacking by offering the right snack, for 
the right moment, made the right way.

Our purpose is to empower people 
to snack right. 

Driving Operational 
Excellence

execution

• Consumer-centric supply chain

• Continuous cost improvement

• Boost digital commerce & accelerate 
digital transformation

Find out more on page 69.

ESG Progress Our regional ESG progress Going Further FasterESG PrioritiesPriority IssuesOur ApproachAbout UsChairman & CEO LetterTable of ContentsOverview Our Purpose

Snacking more mindfullymore SuStainable Snacking governancecolleague & community Well-beingStrategy & Performance

6M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT



ouR appRoach

To build a more sustainable snacking company,  
we focus on the following key areas where we believe 
we can make a bigger difference and deliver greater 
long-term positive impact.

Our strategy and goals in addressing our key focus 
areas are central to supporting our growth around 
the world and creating long-term value for both the 
business and our stakeholders. By focusing our efforts 
in these areas, we can help drive more sustainable 
business growth and deliver meaningful progress in 
achieving our ambition to reduce our environmental 
impact and empower people and communities.

Ensuring Strong Governance

We have a comprehensive governance structure that provides strong 
oversight of our ESG efforts. Our Board oversees our ESG-related 
risks, strategy, progress, alignment with purpose, stakeholder 
interests and strategic risks and opportunities, and reviews progress 
and challenges on evolving our growth culture and our diversity, 
equity and inclusion (DE&I) goals. Specific responsibilities are 
delegated to our Board committees, which are composed solely  
of independent directors. The Governance, Membership and 
Sustainability Committee oversees our ESG policies and programs.

Management is responsible for the day-to-day management and 
oversight of our critical sustainability programming and strategy 
development, in addition to regular progress reviews.

We take a disciplined approach to our sustainability initiatives and 
we aim to be transparent and proactive about our progress. We 
track, report on, and hold management accountable for achieving 
our goals, and we include ESG goals in our annual compensation plan 
for executives.

We have a clear and distinctive strategic 
approach to Snacking Made Right, which 
empowers us to help drive innovative,  
more sustainable business growth the  
right way for people and the planet.

Prioritizing For Greater Impact

We align our Snacking Made Right strategy to our business 
strategy. We focus where we believe we can make a bigger 
difference and deliver greater long-term positive impact.

Our strategy and goals in addressing our key focus areas are 
central to supporting our growth around the world and creating 
long-term value for both the business and our stakeholders.  
To this end, we are striving toward innovative, lasting solutions  
that tackle root causes and are both significant and scalable. 

And we are dedicated to measuring, reporting on and increasing 
our impact. 

We know we can’t tackle the challenges and achieve the impact 
we seek on our own, which is why we work in collaboration with 
partners, external advisors, regulators, shareholders, and other 
stakeholders as we focus on increasing our long-term positive 
impact and supporting the needs of the planet, our consumers, 
our colleagues, and our other stakeholders.

We develop signature sourcing 
programs across key raw materials, 
including cocoa, wheat, and palm oil,  
to help build greater end-to-end 
resilience in these supply chains.

IngRedIentSIncReaSIng ouR poSItIve IMpact
We aim for less and better packaging 
and improved systems to support our 
goal of a more circular pack economy.

packagIng
We promote human rights across 
our value chain and help to enable 
empowered and inclusive communities.

SocIal IMpact
We help combat climate change 
through science-based targets, using 
natural resources end-to-end more 
efficiently and renewably.

clIMate

We build a culture that focuses on the 
safety, physical, and mental well-being  
of our colleagues.

eMployee well-beIng
We empower consumers with 
contemporary well-being options 
and choices, Mindful Snacking 
habits, and portion control.

conSuMeR well-beIng

We champion diversity, equity and 
inclusion for our colleagues, culture, 
and communities.

dIveRSIty, eQuIty  
& IncluSIon

ESG Progress Our regional ESG progress Going Further FasterESG PrioritiesPriority IssuesOur PurposeAbout UsChairman & CEO LetterTable of ContentsOverview Our Approach

Snacking more mindfullymore SuStainable Snacking governancecolleague & community Well-beingStrategy & Performance

7M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT



Since 2012, we have worked with internal and external advisors  
to review the impact of major environmental and societal issues 
on our business and shape our strategic response and action 
plans. We consider the materiality of these issues to our business.

We validate our long-term targets and associated action plans with 
external advisors. We also consider perspectives from our ongoing 
engagement with shareholders and other stakeholders, and we 
actively engage with multiple ESG ratings organizations and indices 
as we advance our disclosure and promote transparency.

This two-way dialogue with key stakeholders informs our ESG 
approach, which defines our assessment of the environmental  
and social issues most significant to us.

Processes and materials that guide our ESG strategic planning 
and ongoing assessment include our Enterprise Risk Management 
(ERM) process that we use for identifying, assessing, prioritizing, 
mitigating, and monitoring risks; external analysis of stakeholder, 
and regulatory issues; the greenhouse gas (GHG), land and water 
footprint of our total company; consumer insights data; and 
publicly available data on societal issues, including statistics 
and reports from government authorities, non-governmental 
organizations (NGOs), and peer companies.

we focuS ouR effoRtS on the aReaS of higheSt pRioRity. 

Safety
Promote the safety of our people and products.

enviRonMental footpRint
Reduce environmental impact across our operations, 
supply and communities, including our primary 
ingredients, product packaging, and manufacturing. 

Supply SecuRity
Focus on key agricultural commodities and social 
challenges in the supply chain, including more sustainable 
agriculture and human rights management within our 
signature programs for cocoa and palm oil and operations.

conSuMeR well-being
Support well-being through portfolio enhancements, 
Mindful Snacking messaging, and community partnerships.

The social and environmental issues that we believe are 
among those that are material to building a successful 
sustainable snacking company include:

pRioRity 
ISSueS
We are committed to focusing where we 
believe we can make a bigger difference 
and deliver greater long-term positive 
impact. We go about this in a disciplined 
and determined way. 

ESG Progress Our regional ESG progress Going Further FasterESG PrioritiesOur ApproachOur PurposeAbout UsChairman & CEO LetterTable of ContentsOverview Priority Issues

Snacking more mindfullymore SuStainable Snacking governancecolleague & community Well-beingStrategy & Performance

8M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT



eSg pRioRitieS

Building on our 2025 goals, we have set clear 2030 goals on the 
path to pursue bold 2050 ambitions. It is our way of turning the 
volume up on our vision to lead the future of snacking and make 
the most of our potential to have a bigger positive impact as we 
continue to grow.

Our strategic focus areas, goals, and ambitions map to the areas  
of our business that account for greater opportunity to make a 
positive lasting impact on the environment and communities we 
touch. They are also aligned to what we believe is significant to 
our long-term business success. 

By focusing our efforts in these areas, we can help drive more 
sustainable business growth and deliver meaningful progress  
in pursuing our ambition to reduce our environmental impact  
and empower people and communities.

We want to make snacking right for everyone 
our business touches — from the farmers 
and communities we work with to source key 
ingredients through to the consumers who 
enjoy our snacks. To this end, we prioritize so 
we can have a bigger, better impact – faster.

Select eSg goalS1

By 2025, 100% of the cocoa volume for 
our chocolate brands sourced through 
Cocoa Life. By 2022, 100% wheat 
volume needed for Europe business 
biscuits production grown under 
Harmony charter.

By 2025, reduce end-to-end CO2e 
emissions by 10%, reduce absolute water 
usage in priority sites by 10%, and reduce 
food waste in internal manufacturing 
sites by 15%, over 2018 base.

By 2025, 100% of packaging designed 
to be recyclable. By 2025, 5% reduction 
in virgin plastic, and 25% reduction in 
virgin rigid plastic, over 2020 base.

By 2025, Child Labor Monitoring & 
Remediation Systems cover 100% of 
Cocoa Life communities in West Africa.

Ingredients Climate Packaging Social Impact

Double representation of women 
in executive leadership (defined as 
Mondelēz Leadership Team +1) roles  
by 2024 (2018 base of 18%). Double U.S. 
Black representation in management  
by 2024 (2020 base of 3.2%).

Up to 100% of our net revenue through 
Mindful Portion Snacks, those in either 
individually wrapped mindful portion 
serving sizes or with mindful portion 
labeling on pack.

Spend $1 billion with minority and 
women owned businesses by 2024.

Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Mindful Portions Supplier Diversity

100%

2x

100% 100%10%

100% $1b

1 You can find additional detail on our ESG goals under "Our ESG Progress" on pages 10 and 11 of this report. 

ESG Progress Our regional ESG progress Going Further FasterPriority IssuesOur ApproachOur PurposeAbout UsChairman & CEO LetterTable of ContentsOverview ESG Priorities

Snacking more mindfullymore SuStainable Snacking governancecolleague & community Well-beingStrategy & Performance

9M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT



2025 Goals 2022 Performance Progress

Snacking More 
Mindfully

Up to 100% of our net revenue through Mindful Portion Snacks, those in either individually wrapped mindful portion  
serving sizes or with mindful portion labeling on pack1

45% On track

More  
Sustainable  
Snacking

Ingredients: 100% cocoa volume for chocolate brands sourced through Cocoa Life by 20252 80% On track

Ingredients: Maintain 100% Palm Oil volume Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) certified3 100% On track

Ingredients: 100% cage free eggs globally by 2025 excluding Russia & Ukraine (Russia to be determined & Ukraine by 2027)4 43% In progress

Ingredients: Dairy supply sourced from suppliers with formal animal welfare standards5 73% On track

Ingredients: 100% wheat volume needed for Europe business biscuits production grown under the Harmony charter by 2022 98% Within Target

Environment: 10% end-to-end CO2e emissions reductions by 2025 (vs. 2018)6 In progress On track

Environment: 10% CO2e emissions reductions across our manufacturing operations by 2025 (vs. 2018) -25% On track

Environment: 10% absolute water usage reduction in priority sites by 2025 (vs. 2018)7 -14% On track

Environment: 15% food waste reduction in internal manufacturing sites by 2025 (vs. 2018) -25% On track

Environment: 50% food waste reduction from distribution by 2025 (vs. 2018) -58% On track

Packaging: 100% packaging designed to be recyclable by 20258 96% On track

Packaging: 5% reduction in virgin plastic by 2025 (vs. 2020)8 -1.5% On track

Packaging: 25% reduction in rigid virgin plastic by 2025 (vs. 2020)8 7% On track

Packaging: 5% recycled plastic content by 20258 1% On track

Colleague &  
Community  
Well-being

Social: 100% manufacturing sites completed SMETA audit within the past 3 years9 62% On track

Social: 100% prioritized supplier sites completed SMETA audit in past 3 years10 87% On track

Social: Child Labor Monitoring & Remediation Systems (CLMRS) cover 100% Cocoa Life communities in West Africa by 202511 74% On track

DE&I: Double U.S. Black representation in management percentage by 2024 (2020 base of 3.2%)12 5.5% On track

DE&I: Double representation of women in executive leadership (defined as MLT+1) roles by 2024 (2018 base of 18%)13 40% On track

DE&I: Spend $1 billion with minority and women owned businesses by 202414 $510M On track

Workplace Safety: Severity and Total Accident Rate (TAR): Continued focus to reduce severity 1 safety incidents to zero 3% In progress

We aim to regularly and transparently 
report our progress.

ouR eSg 
pRogReSS

You can find additional detail on our ESG goals under "Our ESG Progress" on the following page of this report. 

Our regional ESG progress Going Further FasterESG PrioritiesPriority IssuesOur ApproachOur PurposeAbout UsChairman & CEO LetterTable of ContentsOverview ESG Progress

Snacking more mindfullymore SuStainable Snacking governancecolleague & community Well-beingStrategy & Performance

1 0M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT



1  This goal is new and combines and replaces historical goals relating to Portion Control Snacks and snacks with Snack Mindfully portion icon on pack. This goal measures the percentage of net revenue that comes from products that are either individually wrapped mindful portion serving sizes (<200 calories) or have a mindful portion label/information on pack. This information includes biscuits and baked snacks, chocolate, and candy, and 
does not include Halls products, semi-final products not sold to consumers, bulk products for wholesale, beverages, meals, gums, seasonal or festive products, licensing/royalty revenue, private label products and products with small printable areas. 

2  Goal and reported information for cocoa volume sourced is based on a mass balance approach, which means that the equivalent volume of cocoa needed for the products sold under our chocolate brands is sourced from the Cocoa Life program.
3 Excludes palm oil procured by third-party external manufacturers & co-packers for use in manufacturing Mondelēz International finished goods.
4 Goal and reported information excludes Russia and Ukraine (Russia to be determined and Ukraine by 2027). Excludes eggs procured by third-party external manufacturers & co-packers for use in manufacturing Mondelēz International finished goods. The term "egg(s)" means egg(s) produced by hens (female chickens).
5 Excludes materials procured by third-party external manufacturers & co-packers for use in manufacturing Mondelēz International finished goods.
6  In the reporting year 2022, we have recalculated our base year, 2021 and 2022 inventory following the GHG Protocol Corporate Standards. For more details, please see the Carbon Accounting Manual In 2021, Mondelēz International announced its goal to reach net zero emissions by 2050 as part of the Business Ambition for 1.5°C campaign. In 2023, we plan on submitting our new emission reduction targets to the Science Based Targets 

initiative (SBTi) for independent validation. As part of the recent re-baseline event as well as new SBTi guidelines we are in the process of updating our goal boundaries.
7  Priority sites are defined as sites that are located in a high or extremely high water risk zone defined as of 2021. This metric is measured in accordance with our internal Water Supply Management Health Safety and Environment System for priority sites.
8 Reported information covers the period from November 1, 2021 through October 31, 2022.
9 Excludes closed manufacturing sites.
10  Prioritized supplier sites are defined as Tier-1 Direct material supplier sites, and excludes suppliers that are not registered on Sedex, have not yet received a risk score or received a risk score other than High Risk, or have not yet made audit results available to Mondelēz International.
11  Reported information for the period from January 1, 2022 to December 31, 2022 includes a community as covered by CLMRS if the work of identifying children, if any, in or at risk of child labor has been completed by the end of the year, even if any appropriate remediation and post-remediation follow-up occurs in the following year. CLMRS data is provided by third parties. Includes Ghana, Cote d'Ivoire and Nigeria.
12  Management is defined as Director and above. Reported information against our Black management representation goal in the U.S. includes acquisitions/ventures in the U.S., which were announced in 2021 or earlier, and is based on self-identification by employees for diversity and inclusion metrics. The Company’s representation goals are aspirational in nature; Mondelez International will continue to hire and promote the best qualified 

candidates through employment practices that are consistent with applicable laws.
13  Reported information includes acquisitions/ventures globally, which were announced in 2021 or earlier, and is based on self-identification by employees for diversity and inclusion metrics. The Company’s representation goals are aspirational in nature; Mondelēz International will continue to hire and promote the best qualified candidates through employment practices that are consistent with applicable laws.
14  Reported information for the period from January 1, 2022 to December 31, 2022 includes actual spend rather than spend attributed to invoices (as in prior years), and includes the following acquisitions: Chipita, Enjoy Life Foods, Give & Go, Perfect Foods, Tates, and EPTA America-7 Days (which were not included in prior years). The term "minority" in this year’s reporting includes individuals with disabilities, LGBTQ+, and veteran-owned 

businesses (which were not included in prior years).

ouR eSg 
pRogReSS

2025 Goals 2022 Performance Progress

Snacking More 
Mindfully

Up to 100% of our net revenue through Mindful Portion Snacks, those in either individually wrapped mindful portion  
serving sizes or with mindful portion labeling on pack1

45% On track

More  
Sustainable  
Snacking

Ingredients: 100% cocoa volume for chocolate brands sourced through Cocoa Life by 20252 80% On track

Ingredients: Maintain 100% Palm Oil volume Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) certified3 100% On track

Ingredients: 100% cage free eggs globally by 2025 excluding Russia & Ukraine (Russia to be determined & Ukraine by 2027)4 43% In progress

Ingredients: Dairy supply sourced from suppliers with formal animal welfare standards5 73% On track

Ingredients: 100% wheat volume needed for Europe business biscuits production grown under the Harmony charter by 2022 98% Within Target

Environment: 10% end-to-end CO2e emissions reductions by 2025 (vs. 2018)6 In progress On track

Environment: 10% CO2e emissions reductions across our manufacturing operations by 2025 (vs. 2018) -25% On track

Environment: 10% absolute water usage reduction in priority sites by 2025 (vs. 2018)7 -14% On track

Environment: 15% food waste reduction in internal manufacturing sites by 2025 (vs. 2018) -25% On track

Environment: 50% food waste reduction from distribution by 2025 (vs. 2018) -58% On track

Packaging: 100% packaging designed to be recyclable by 20258 96% On track

Packaging: 5% reduction in virgin plastic by 2025 (vs. 2020)8 -1.5% On track

Packaging: 25% reduction in rigid virgin plastic by 2025 (vs. 2020)8 7% On track

Packaging: 5% recycled plastic content by 20258 1% On track

Colleague &  
Community  
Well-being

Social: 100% manufacturing sites completed SMETA audit within the past 3 years9 62% On track

Social: 100% prioritized supplier sites completed SMETA audit in past 3 years10 87% On track

Social: Child Labor Monitoring & Remediation Systems (CLMRS) cover 100% Cocoa Life communities in West Africa by 202511 74% On track

DE&I: Double U.S. Black representation in management percentage by 2024 (2020 base of 3.2%)12 5.5% On track

DE&I: Double representation of women in executive leadership (defined as MLT+1) roles by 2024 (2018 base of 18%)13 40% On track

DE&I: Spend $1 billion with minority and women owned businesses by 202414 $510M On track

Workplace Safety: Severity and Total Accident Rate (TAR): Continued focus to reduce severity 1 safety incidents to zero 3% In progress

Our regional ESG progress Going Further FasterESG PrioritiesPriority IssuesOur ApproachOur PurposeAbout UsChairman & CEO LetterTable of ContentsOverview ESG Progress

Snacking more mindfullymore SuStainable Snacking governancecolleague & community Well-beingStrategy & Performance

1 1M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

https://www.mondelezinternational.com/Snacking-Made-Right/Climate-Action


Championing Gender Equity in Sport

Our recently acquired Clif Bar & Company (Clif Bar) is 
working with VOICEINSPORT Foundation to champion 
equal access to sport for women and girls across the 
U.S. Twice as many girls drop out of sport compared to 
boys by age 14 in the U.S., according to the Women's 
Sports Foundation (WSF) Teen Sport Report, 2018. And 
according to the National Federation of State High School 
Associations (NFHS) for 2018-2019, there are 1.13 million 
fewer opportunities in sport for high school girls than  
boys in the U.S.

Established in 2020, VOICEINSPORT Foundation is 
dedicated to closing the opportunity gap in sports as well 
as supporting women at all critical developmental moments 
of their sports journey such as breast development, 
menstruation, and psychological development.

Clif Bar is proud to support VOICEINSPORT Foundation 
in hosting in-person and virtual Title IX trainings across 
the U.S. to help girls and women understand their rights 
under the landmark law guaranteeing equal access to sport 
for girls. Additionally, Clif Bar will support establishing 
VOICEINSPORT Foundation chapters on state college 
campuses across the country for women and girl student 
athletes to access educational resources, gain leadership 
training, and network with women leaders in their area.

Collaborating to Preserve and Restore Landscapes  
in Brazil

At Cocoa Life Brazil, we are partnering with olam food 
ingredients (ofi), Partnerships for Forests (P4F) and The 
Nature Conservancy (TNC) Brazil to help restore landscapes 
and improve livelihoods through cocoa-based agroforestry 
systems in the Brazilian Amazon. Also, we are developing 
the project Sustainable Agroforestry Production of Cocoa 
in the Amazon and Atlantic Forest, a partnership with the 
Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit 
(GIZ) GmbH, funded through the develoPPP programme 
on behalf of the German Federal Ministry for Economic 
Cooperation and Development (BMZ).

Our innovative hub-based partnership includes using 
private capital for technical assistance to help increase 
smallholders’ cocoa production and unlocking rural credit 
for cocoa agroforestry. Farmers from municipalities in 
Pará State have adopted cocoa agroforestry on degraded 
areas and help restore one of the most critical tropical 
ecosystems to productivity.

The Agroforestry Hub provides training to farmers on how 
to restore degraded pasturelands into cocoa agroforestry 
systems, and how to align aspects of land preparation and 
management, seedling production, forest restoration and 
tree planting. The Restoration Hub works with farmers to 
align with the Brazilian Forest Code, by providing support 
to implement adequacy measures. The Rural Credit Hub 
aims to simplify rural credit application frameworks in 
partnership with banks, to fast-track credit approval for 
cocoa agroforestry cultivation and restoration. It also 
provides support in agreements with the bank and assists 
farmers with credit applications.

Building on learnings and insights from this pilot, we are 
working with partners to scale the approach to new areas.

Helping Increase Young People's Understanding 
of Mindful Snacking

In Romania, we are supporting an education project to help 
increase young people’s understanding of the importance of 
healthy eating habits (what and how we eat), being mindful  
and eating with intention and attention. The project is led  
by NGO Asociatia Suta la Suta Romanesc in partnership with  
ANPC (National Authority for Consumers Protection) and  
School Inspectorates. 

This project focuses on key issues, including: choosing the right 
snack by reading and understanding precisely the information 
provided on the label; the importance of developing lifelong 
healthy habits by understanding the key concepts and 
adopting a balanced nutrition through right choices; and 
developing skills that support the adoption of consistent 
healthy eating habits to help improve health and well-being.

To date, the project has involved more than 5,500 high 
school teenager participants and more than 170 coordinating 
teachers from approximately 55 high schools across Romania.

highlightS 
of ouR 
Regional 
pRogReSS

Turning Plastic Waste Into Construction Materials

In India, we have supported women led NGO, Hasiru Dala, 
for Project Wealth out of Waste Boards ( WoW) that aims 
to transform multi-layered plastic packaging waste into 
construction materials. Wealth out of Waste Boards (WoW 
Boards) uses technology from a female-led start-up, 
TrashCon, in India. Since 2021, we have been supporting a 
waste picker managed centre with a capacity for handling 
600 MT/year plastic waste. At the centre, the MLP waste is 
repurposed to make WOW Boards. In 2022, more than 100 
units of desk and benches made out of WOW Boards were 
provided to 4 schools. These WOW boards have also been 
demonstrated for two other use cases for making roof of 
worker shed and benches in parks. 

latIn aMeRIca 
SuStaInabIlIty

euRope 
nutRItIon & well-beIng

aMea 
SocIal IMpact

noRth aMeRIca 
dIveRSIty, eQuIty & IncluSIon

ESG Progress Going Further FasterESG PrioritiesPriority IssuesOur ApproachOur PurposeAbout UsChairman & CEO LetterTable of ContentsOverview Our regional ESG progress

Snacking more mindfullymore SuStainable Snacking governancecolleague & community Well-beingStrategy & Performance

1 2M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT



We are also putting a longer-term focus on working toward 
net zero carbon and reducing packaging waste by supporting 
a circular packaging economy. We’re capturing the carbon 
reductions Cocoa Life and Harmony provide as part of our net 
zero roadmap. On packaging, we moved to an innovative soft 
plastic using 30% recycled plastic in our Cadbury Dairy Milk 
wrappers in Australia and the UK.  

While we are driving change in our own business, we know 
the challenges are systemic and cannot be solved by any one 
company alone. Multi-stakeholder coalitions are critical to achieve 
the systems transformation that is needed. We are actively 
leading key coalitions and sharing our data and learnings to 
develop new solutions in collaboration with peer companies.  

We are also very aware of the criticality of good governance 
underpinning our ESG work, including the need for transparent 
disclosures and reporting. As the requirements in this area 
continue to evolve, we continue to enhance our systems  
and processes.

I hope you find the progress and learnings from this year’s 
Snacking Made Right report informative and inspiring. Above all 
else, what I am most proud of is the passion and perseverance of 
my Mondelēz International colleagues around the world who have 
worked tirelessly to deliver these strong results. Together, we are 
creating a world where people and the planet thrive.

Christine Montenegro McGrath 
SVP, Chief Impact & Sustainability Officer,  
Mondelēz International

At Mondelēz International, we believe our  
ESG agenda helps to drive growth, create 
value and make our business more resilient. 
It is why we have made sustainability the 
fourth pillar of our long-term business 
strategy, Vision 2030, alongside growth, 
execution, and culture.
As a global snacking leader, our ambition is to make snacking 
right in a world facing many different challenges, including 
climate change, nature-loss, worker welfare, and plastic waste, 
among others. To take on these challenges and deliver our 
sustainable growth ambition, we focus on the issues that are 
important to us, our consumers, and the world. This intensified 
and accelerated focus is at the heart of how we intend to achieve 
our sustainability vision of creating a future where together 
people and the planet thrive – by leading where we matter most 
and driving change where the world needs it most.

Building on our 2025 public goals, we have bold and targeted 
long-term ambitions that help us focus, accelerate, and scale our 
efforts. It is our way of turning the volume up on our aim to lead 
the future of snacking and make the most of our potential to have 
a bigger positive impact as we continue to grow. 

In particular, we are focused on more sustainably-sourced cocoa 
and wheat, two core ingredients at the heart of our much-loved 
snacks. Over the first 10 years as a company, we have scaled our 
signature programs, Cocoa Life and Harmony wheat, helping 
hundreds of thousands of farmers to build stronger farming 
businesses and more resilient communities and landscapes. We 
see reduced or near zero deforestation on or closely around Cocoa 
Life farms in West Africa and we’ve pioneered innovative financial 
incentives to help farmers restore forests. Harmony has cultivated 
biodiversity, specifically millions of bees and butterflies, alongside 
its wheat fields for many years long before it was on-trend. 
Looking ahead, we’re proud of the recent announcements we’ve 
made to further invest in our expanded 2030 ambition for Cocoa 
Life and Harmony wheat.

going  
fuRtheR, 
faSteR

Christine Montenegro McGrath 
SVP, Chief Impact & Sustainability Officer, 
Mondelēz International

long-teRM aMbItIonS
Creating a Future Where People and Planet Thrive

Ambition: 
Lead where it matters most 
and drive change where the 

world needs it most

Strategy: 
More sustainably-sourced 

cocoa and wheat by helping 
build resilient landscapes 

and communities 

Distinctive Approach:
Invest in innovative, lasting 
solutions that tackle root 
causes and are scalable 

" Building on our 2025 public 
goals, we have bold and targeted 
long-term ambitions that help  
us focus, accelerate, and scale 
our efforts."

ESG Progress Our regional ESG progressESG PrioritiesPriority IssuesOur ApproachOur PurposeAbout UsChairman & CEO LetterTable of ContentsOverview Going Further Faster

Snacking more mindfullymore SuStainable Snacking governancecolleague & community Well-beingStrategy & Performance

1 3M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT



1 4M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

MoRe  
SuStainable 
Snacking 

CO₂e emissions reductions across our manufacturing 
operations by in 2022 (vs. 2018)-25%

In 2022, 39% of the electricity used in  
our manufacturing sites was renewable,  
compared to 32% in 2021.

39%

In 2022, 96% of our packaging was designed to be 
recyclable, on track for our goal of 100% by 2025.96%

Understanding and improving our impact  
on the environment and its systems is 
important for the long-term growth and 
success of our business and for all our 
stakeholders. To make snacking more 
sustainable, we strive to understand risks  
and their potential impact, focus on 
opportunities to lead where we matter most, 
and drive change where the world needs 
it most. We set goals in these areas – and 
add new ones over time - to enhance our 
ambition, impact and delivery at scale.

Key focus areas include, among others, helping to build 
resilient landscapes; taking action on climate change by 
reducing our carbon emissions; managing our water and 
waste as effectively as possible; making our packing light 
and right so it is better for both people and the planet; 
and sourcing our key ingredients more sustainably, so 
that we can keep making the snacks people love and help 
to promote social sustainability and prosperity in the 
communities our business touches.

In short, more sustainable snacking is an immense and 
important task – one we are embracing holistically and 
wholeheartedly, to drive ever-greater long-term positive 
impact for people and the planet.

Social Sustainability & Human RightsClimate & Environmental Sustainable Packaging Sustainable IngredientsOverview

Strategy & Performance Snacking more mindfullymore SuStainable Snacking governancecolleague & community Well-being



1 5M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

For greater long-term positive impact 
on people and the planet, we focus  
on helping to create the resilient 
landscapes that are the bedrock  
of more sustainable snacking.

Taking Climate Action

For several years we have been on a path to reduce our carbon 
emissions, and in 2022, we continued to move forward in 
deepening our understanding of our carbon footprint and doing 
more to reduce it. We're taking an end-to-end approach – from 
field to shelf – to work towards our long-term net zero carbon 
emissions goal by focusing our efforts across key areas. 

Find out more on pages 17. 

Reducing Deforestation

We are working to reduce deforestation in our supply chain.  
We know this is important in order to address global climate  
change and protect the local ecosystems that farmers need  
to grow sustainable raw materials.

Our Lifecycle Assessment (LCA) helps to shape our priorities 
and goals. Insights indicated that deforestation within our 
supply chain represents the largest single contributor to our 
carbon footprint. Insights indicated that deforestation within 
our supply chain represents the single largest contributor to our 
carbon footprint. Data from our 2022 LCA show the contribution 
to Mondelēz International’s total CO₂e emissions from certain 
‘forest-risk’ commodities to be:

Cocoa: 5,900,000 metric tonnes

Oils: 2,107,000 metric tonnes 

Dairy: 6,427,000 metric tonnes

But we cannot win the fight against deforestation alone. Action 
by individual companies needs to be scaled up to cover whole 
sectors, landscapes and countries. So, we support and encourage 
the sector-wide approach the Consumer Goods Forum is 
pioneering for a #forestpositive future, one where suppliers 
adhere to consistent practices across their business models and 
land use is optimized across sectors with the support of producer 
governments. We are striving to make an impact at scale and 
transparency is at the core of our approach. 

We take a broad, interconnected view of resilience – one 
that includes and links our environmental goals to reduce 
carbon emissions, our leadership in sourcing ingredients more 
responsibly, and our commitment to social sustainability and 
human rights across our value chain. All the different elements 
can and must reinforce each other. Indeed, our ingredient 
sourcing programs are where most of the work of our carbon 
emissions reductions and social sustainability efforts live. So as 
part of our signature sourcing programs for our key ingredients 
such as cocoa and wheat, we work hard toward more resilient 
landscapes, communities, and robust human rights to provide 
lasting economic, environmental, and social benefits for the 
communities involved.

Increasing Regenerative Agriculture

To improve agricultural resilience, we are helping to transform 
agricultural production into regenerative systems while reducing 
carbon. We are focusing on agroforestry landscapes, biodiversity 
and regenerative practices across our key ingredients including 
cocoa and wheat. This involves participation in sector-wide 
initiatives and multi-stakeholder coalitions.

Find out more on pages 30. 

Enhancing Social Sustainability and Respecting  
Human Rights

We strive to make sure that the rights of people in our value  
chain are respected and promoted and that the communities 
where we matter most are more resilient. To this end, we focus  
on key areas for greater impact, including addressing human  
rights risks in sourcing key commodities, and focusing on living 
wage and due diligence across own operations.

Find out more on pages 24. 

Of the materials we source, cocoa and palm are the largest 
direct contributors to deforestation – we therefore advocate 
for systemic action that goes beyond our supply chain to drive 
change across the sector as a whole.

With respect to cocoa, deforestation is just one of a complex 
set of interrelated environmental, economic and social problems 
faced in cocoa communities, and we understand that ending 
deforestation is complex. As we develop solutions to help 
tackle deforestation, we also remain vigilant to avoid potential 
unintended, harmful consequences such as lost livelihoods or 
abuses of human rights. We have our corporate program in place, 
Cocoa Life, which aims to holistically help address the root causes 
of the social, economic and environmental challenges that cocoa 
farming faces. As a result, we see near to no deforestation on  
or closely around Cocoa Life farms in West Africa since 2018  
(approximately 0.7% in Ghana & 1.3% in Cote d'Ivoire).1 

Find out more on pages 37. 

With respect to palm oil, 100% of palm oil sourced from our 
suppliers is aligned to the Palm Oil Action Plan (POAP) and 100% 
of our palm oil volume is Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil 
(RSPO) certified. We publish our mill list on our corporate website. 

For our direct purchases of soy, where we have much less 
influence across the sector as a whole, we take a due diligence 
approach designed to achieve more sustainable sourcing in our 
supply, based on Consumer Goods Forum sourcing guidelines. 
For paper-based packaging we require the mills and printers that 
supply us to be Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certified.

In addition, we also track indirect land-use change emissions 
from dairy, including palm and soy, used in cattle feed. We buy 
the majority of our dairy ingredients from suppliers who buy 
from farmers who, in turn, make individual decisions about what 
to feed their cows. Despite these challenges, we are engaging 
our suppliers with the aim of supporting moves to help achieve 
deforestation-free supplies of cattle feed across the dairy sector. 

Find out more on pages 30. 

ReSilient 
coMMunitieS

1  Updates have been made to the metric's reporting methodology for the period from January 1, 2022 to December 31, 2022. Reported information for 2021 covering Côte d'Ivoire and Ghana has been revised for year-over-year comparison.

Overview Social Sustainability & Human Rights Sustainable Packaging Sustainable IngredientsClimate & Environmental

Strategy & Performance Snacking more mindfullymore SuStainable Snacking governancecolleague & community Well-being

https://www.mondelezinternational.com/Snacking-Made-Right/ESG-Topics/Palm-Oil


1 6M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

cliMate RiSkS
We know how important it is to identify 
and assess our climate risks. This informs 
our strategy and actions to support the 
resilience of the business.

Identifying and Assessing Climate Risk 

Climate risk management is driven by our Enterprise Risk 
Management (ERM) process for identifying, assessing, managing, 
and monitoring risks. We have a Risk and Compliance Committee 
(MRCC), co-led by our SVP & Chief Counsel, Chief Compliance 
Officer (Chief Compliance Officer) and SVP, Chief Audit & Controls 
Officer (Chief Audit & Controls Officer) and composed of leaders 
from the Finance, Accounting, Legal, Compliance, Internal Audit 
and People functions. The MRCC provides broad oversight of our 
enterprise risks and ERM process. The MRCC meets regularly and, 
through consultation with senior leaders and other managers 
with subject matter expertise, periodically assesses the key risks 
facing the Company, works with those risk owners responsible 
for managing each specific risk, and reviews mitigation actions 
and the status of the annual enterprise risk assessment. Our Chief 
Compliance Officer and Chief Audit & Controls Officer regularly 
report to the Audit Committee to provide updates on the status 
of the ERM process, which the Audit Committee Chair reports to 
the full Board. Similar risk and compliance committees exist on 
regional and local levels.

The identification of emerging climate risks is informed by 
external scans of megatrends, consultancy and industry reports, 
peer CDP disclosures, TCFD reports, annual reports and 10-Ks. For 
new and emerging climate risks, relevant internal stakeholders 
are engaged to review and rank the identified risks based on 
magnitude of potential impact and Mondelēz International 
strategic priorities. 

Annually, we use tools and third-party consultants to assess 
the potential financial impact of climate risk in the short-term, 
medium-term and long-term horizons. We also conduct frequent 
quantitative scenario analysis to understand the future-scenario 
based financial impact of climate risk. We supplement the analysis 
with ongoing site-level engineering assessments to consider 
plant-level exposures, taking into consideration risk mitigation 
measures already in place. 

The MRCC assigns ownership of specific risks to the Mondelēz 
Leadership Team. As owners of each specific risk, Mondelēz 
Leadership Team members are responsible for overseeing that 
appropriate mitigation controls, monitoring and response systems 
are in place. With support from the global ERM team, Mondelēz 
International develops a robust risk assessment, prioritization, and 
mitigation plan. This plan is based on our ERM risk rating criteria 
which includes risk impact, velocity, likelihood and management 
preparedness. The risks are then added to a global risk register, 
which is used to monitor all enterprise risks. 

Managing, Mitigating and Monitoring Risk

The management and monitoring of risks, including climate 
risks, is reviewed annually by the global ERM team, while the 
implementation of mitigation plans and the monitoring of risk 
KPIs are ongoing at the global, regional or business level, where 
required. Based on the specific risk drivers and prioritization, we 
develop and implement our risk response strategies, which can be 
either mitigation (action plans), transfer (insurance), avoidance, or 
acceptance. We monitor performance against our risk response 
strategies using risk KPIs that are tracked by the respective risk 
owner and reported to the global ERM team. 

The global ERM team is enhancing the integration of climate risk 
management into the overall ERM strategy and process.

We take a rigorous approach to identifying and managing our 
climate risks, in line with the Task Force on Climate-Related 
Financial Disclosure (TCFD). This enables us to expand and deepen 
our understanding of our impact on the planet, and to sharpen 
and enhance how we can mitigate climate risks.

TCFD provides voluntary climate-related financial disclosure 
recommendations designed to help companies support informed 
capital allocation decisions and provide better and consistent 
information to stakeholders. This includes a framework for 
companies to assess climate-related risks and opportunities 
through the use of climate scenario analysis and guidance on 
reporting strategies and actions to mitigate risks. The disclosure 
recommendations are structured around four thematic areas: 
Governance, Strategy, Risk Management, and Metrics and Targets. 

We strive to provide our stakeholders with relevant information 
on climate-related issues following the TCFD recommendations. 
See our TCFD index for references to our CDP response 
and portions of this report on how we address the eleven 
recommendations of TCFD. 

Overview Social Sustainability & Human Rights Sustainable Packaging Sustainable IngredientsClimate & Environmental

Strategy & Performance Snacking more mindfullymore SuStainable Snacking governancecolleague & community Well-being

https://www.mondelezinternational.com/-/media/Mondelez/Snacking-Made-Right/SMR-Report/2021/MDLZ-ESG-Datasheet-SASB-TCFD-2021.pdf


1 7M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

action 
towaRd  
net ZeRo
We are taking concerted, coordinated 
action to play our part in combating 
climate change – working toward our 
long-term ambition of net zero carbon 
and resilient landscapes. In doing so, we’re 
transforming how we do business across 
our supply chain – from farmer’s field  
to shop shelf.

Working Toward Net Zero

For the past few years we have been on a path to reduce 
our carbon emissions and in 2021 we took an important step 
forward – aiming toward a long-term goal of net zero GHG 
emissions across our full value chain by 2050.1

As part of the goal, we have signed the Science Based Targets 
initiative’s (SBTi’s) Business Ambition for 1.5°C, aligning our 
long-term emissions mitigation targets with the aim of limiting 
temperature rise in accordance with the Paris Agreement.  
We've also joined the United Nations Race to Zero Campaign  
to help build momentum towards a decarbonized economy.

1  In the reporting year 2022, we have recalculated our base year, 2021 and 2022 inventory following the GHG Protocol Corporate Standards. For more details, please see the Carbon Accounting Manual. In 2021, Mondelēz International announced its goal to reach net zero emissions by 2050 as part of the SBTi's Business Ambition for 1.5°C campaign. In 2023, we plan on submitting our new emission reduction targets to the SBTi for independent 
validation. As part of the recent re-baseline event as well as new SBTi guidelines, we are in the process of updating our goal boundaries.

OUR GOAL

We are in the process of adjusting our path 
towards our long-term goal of net zero, which is 
subject to verification by the SBTi (submission 
expected in 2023). In the meantime, we will 
continue to work towards our 2025 public goals, 
including reducing our absolute end-to-end GHG  
emissions by 10% by 2025 vs. a 2018 baseline.1

10% Reduction

a cleaR way foRwaRd
Achieving net zero is no easy task, and we are setting a path  
so we know what we have to do to steer toward our long-term goal.

Our principles for transition: 

1. Transform the way we do business

2.  Build on our existing efforts, scaling proven models for wider impact

3.  Collaborate across the industry & sector and engage suppliers

4.  Invest in bold innovation to drive technological evolution

5.  Be transparent in progress, setting interim targets and communicating regular updates

we’Re Ready. we’Re In.
Mondelēz International is joining the race to net zero and setting a goal of net zero emissions by 2050.

Curve is not scientific but rather for illustration purposes.

Em
is

si
on

s 
(t

CO
2E

)

Set foundation
for new ambition

2022-2025

Scale up & 
transform pathway

2025-2030

Drive & adopt
system change

2030-2050

Overview Social Sustainability & Human Rights Sustainable Packaging Sustainable IngredientsClimate & Environmental

Strategy & Performance Snacking more mindfullymore SuStainable Snacking governancecolleague & community Well-being

https://www.mondelezinternational.com/Snacking-Made-Right/Climate-Action


1 8M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

Our Carbon Footprint

Approximately 64% of Mondelēz International’s CO₂e emissions 
comes from our raw materials, concentrated in four key 
commodities. This informs and inspires our focus on reducing 
carbon emissions and increasing resilient landscapes.

Raw Materials CO₂e Emissions Against Our Total Carbon 
Footprint (CO₂e Metric Tonnes) 

ouR caRbon 
footpRint

Assessing Our Carbon Footprint

We take a thorough approach following the internationally 
recognized Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol) Standards to 
calculate, annually, our total carbon footprint across our end-to-
end supply chain, covering Scopes 1, 2, and 3.

We assess the following activities:1

Scope 1 emissions:

• Combustion of fuels in Mondelēz International-operated 
facilities

• Combustion of fuels in Mondelēz International-operated  
mobile sources

• Fugitive emissions from Mondelēz International-operated 
manufacturing sites

Scope 2 emissions:

• Indirect emissions associated with purchased electricity,  
heat and steam in Mondelēz International-operated facilities

Scope 3 emissions:

• Purchased goods and services  
(including effects of Direct Land Use Change)

• Capital goods

• Fuel and energy related activities

• Upstream transportation and distribution

• Waste generated in operations

• Business travel

• Employee commuting

• Downstream transportation and distribution

• Investments

• Use of sold products

• End of life treatment of sold products

Focusing End-to-End

We look at each individual step within our supply chain to 
understand the contributors to our carbon footprint and 
where we believe our focus can matter most.

Deepening our Understanding

During 2022, we confirmed our approach on carbon methodology 
through a review of our 2018 baseline as well as 2021 and 2022 
emissions as part of a planned re-baseline cycle.

This included:

• Revising boundaries such as inclusion of mergers & acquisitions1 

• Revising best practices in line with GHG Protocol Standards  
and guidelines across all scopes 

• Creating custom emission factors for our signature programs 
such as Cocoa Life and Harmony wheat and setting the 
foundation to be able to reflect interventions’ positive impact

In 2022, we continued to evolve our approach to reducing our 
carbon footprint. We believe that we are on the right path but  
are always looking to improve our approach in order to go  
further, faster.

1  Annual GHG emissions are accounted for following the GHG Protocol Corporate Standards and using the operational control approach. Reporting includes activities of all Mondelēz International subsidiaries across all regions, except those acquired after December 31, 2021. All acquisitions until 2021 are incorporated in our GHG emissions for 2018, 2021 and 2022. In the reporting year 2022, we have recalculated our base year, 2021 and 2022 
inventory following the GHG Protocol Corporate Standards. For more details, please see the Carbon Accounting Manual.

2 “Other” consists of 8% investments, 3% services, 3% end of life treatments, and the rest various other.

Cocoa 20%

21%

3%

7% 

4%

1% 

8%

Dairy 

Wheat 

Oils

Sugar 

Nuts 

All other ingredients:

Raw Materials 
64%

Manufacturing 
7%

Logistics 
7%

Packaging 
6%

Other2 
16%

Overview Social Sustainability & Human Rights Sustainable Packaging Sustainable IngredientsClimate & Environmental

Strategy & Performance Snacking more mindfullymore SuStainable Snacking governancecolleague & community Well-being

http://www.mondelezinternational.com/Snacking-Made-Right/Climate-Action


1 9M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

ouR caRbon 
footpRint
cont.

Our Scopes 1 and 2 emissions continue to decrease, reflecting 
our progress in renewable energy and energy efficiency. In 2022, 
we reduced our Scopes 1 and 2 (market-based) emissions by 
approximately 20% versus our 2018 baseline.1 We increased our 
emphasis on electrification and alternate fuels in our operations 
to continue the decarbonization journey of emission sources 
within our direct control. 

Our Scope 3 activities span across multiple work streams with  
the aim to be able to measure and reduce our indirect emissions 
by focusing on the biggest drivers initially. Key outcomes  
in 2022 include: 

Cocoa Life: Translating our deforestation free and agroforestry 
interventions into custom emission factors using farm level data 
resulted in lower emission intensity vs. generic emission factors 
when looking at major sourcing countries. Emission intensity 
is expressed in metric tonnes of CO₂e emissions per tonne  
of product sourced. 
 
Find out more on helping to protect and restore forests  
on page 37. 

Harmony Wheat: Translating the impact of regenerative 
agriculture across Harmony wheat volume for our European 
biscuits business resulted in lower emission intensity vs. generic 
emission factors when looking at major sourcing countries. 
Emission intensity is expressed in metric tonnes of CO₂e  
emissions per tonne of product sourced.  
 
Find out more on championing sustainable wheat  
on page 41. 

Dairy: We are leveraging our partnerships with dairy farmers in 
the UK and Ireland who supply milk for Cadbury Dairy Milk as well 
as dairy farmers in the Alpine region who supply milk for our Milka 
brand. Through tracking of GHG emissions and developing action 
plans to reduce emissions, both farming groups have completed 
their baseline and are in year-two of their reduction program. 
To date, the groups are achieving reduced carbon intensity, 
respectively, vs. initial baseline.  
 
Find out more on page 45.

Partnering for People & Planet supplier partnership program: 
We formed new partnerships in 2022 with EcoVadis and 
Guidehouse LoCT to track and support supplier capability building 
toward ambitious carbon reduction plans by 2030 across our top 
250 supplier network.

Partnering on innovative technologies: We are exploring a wide 
range of new ideas and disruptive technologies that can help 
accelerate progress against our sustainability goals. 

Changes in investment holdings in other companies: We are 
capturing the proportionate share of investments in our carbon 
footprint and as such reflect interactions including reduction of 
holdings in our analysis. 

These activities have helped us to maintain a relatively flat Scope 3 
since 2018. As we prepare for submission of our net zero ambition 
plan to the SBTi for validation this year, we are reflecting on what 
we’ve learned from these programs and the levers we can use  
to accelerate decarbonization. 

Next Steps 

Our continued focus lies on preparation for the net zero 
submission for validation with the SBTi. 

In 2022, we completed the re-baseline cycle for building a strong 
foundation. We are now in the process of adjusting our SBTi scope 
boundaries while considering the more recent launch of the SBTi’s 
guidance on Forest, Land and Agriculture (FLAG) emissions and 
finalizing our reduction pathway towards our net zero goal.

The above steps are essential and are building up towards  
the submission to the SBTi for validation. While we appreciate  
that the submission takes time, we want to be sure that  
our efforts are solid and founded. This does not mean  
that our progress on decarbonization stands still as we  
continue to execute our roadmaps in line with existing goals. 

1  Annual GHG emissions are accounted for following the GHG Protocol Corporate Standards and using the operational control approach. Reporting includes activities of all Mondelēz International subsidiaries across all regions, except those acquired after December 31, 2021. All acquisitions until 2021 are incorporated in our GHG emissions for 2018, 2021 and 2022. In the reporting year 2022, we have recalculated our base year, 2021 and 2022 
inventory following the GHG Protocol Corporate Standards. For more details, please see the Carbon Accounting Manual.

Accelerating New Products and Technologies  
to get Closer to Net Zero

We worked with a third-party consultant, PA Consulting, 
to explore a wide range of new ideas and disruptive 
technologies that could help accelerate progress against 
our sustainability goals. This included accelerated thinking 
to help inform our roadmap to achieve our long-term 
goal of net zero carbon; ideation workshops with a 
range of experts to identify opportunities and shortlist 
technologies that can help decarbonize global products; 
and recommendations that influenced our carbon plans.

With PA Consulting’s help, our R&D function was 
able to identify four pillars of potential, accelerated 
decarbonization activity: net zero manufacturing, next 
generation cocoa, regenerative farming, and ingredients  
of the future. Deep dives on each of these pillars 
considered specific challenges such as how the company 
could incentivize farmers to adopt more regenerative 
farming practices or how plant microbiomes could be 
enhanced to help drive crop yields. The output was a series 
of recommendations, setting out potential next steps for 
consideration of technologies with the highest emissions 
reduction potential.

OUR 2022 PROGRESS

2018 2019 2020 2021 2022

Scope 1 (direct) emissions  
(CO₂e Metric Tonnes), market-based1

930,689 - - 894,692 880,000

Scope 2 (energy indirect) emissions  
(CO₂e Metric Tonnes), market-based1

856,520 - - 606,885 545,000

Scope 3 (other indirect) GHG 
emissions (CO₂e Metric Tonnes)1

28,334,077 - - 27,888,809 28,500,000

Total emissions 30,121,285 29,390,386 29,925,000

Overview Social Sustainability & Human Rights Sustainable Packaging Sustainable IngredientsClimate & Environmental

Strategy & Performance Snacking more mindfullymore SuStainable Snacking governancecolleague & community Well-being

https://www.mondelezinternational.com/Snacking-Made-Right/Climate-Action


2 0M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

eneRgy Driving Down Energy-related Emissions

We are aiming to keep driving our energy-related carbon footprint 
down in two key ways - making less and better use of energy and 
increasingly getting our energy from renewable sources.

Improving Energy Efficiency

We continuously invest in energy management systems  
and energy efficient technologies in our factories.

Increasing Our Use of Renewable Electricity

Electricity is one of the largest contributors to our manufacturing 
footprint and so it is a major focus of our carbon reduction  
efforts. Indeed, we are aiming to use 100% renewable electricity 
across Mondelēz International manufacturing sites by 2030.  
This includes working with governments and suppliers to 
generate and purchase renewable electricity where we operate.

This transition integrated into the electrification roadmap  
also can deliver reductions on the consumption of fuels. 

In 2022, approximately 39% of the electricity used in our 
manufacturing sites was renewable, compared to approximately 
32% in 2021.

We are focusing on both increasing our 
energy efficiency and our use of renewable 
energy across Mondelēz International – so 
we can aim to go further in reducing our 
carbon emissions and reducing our costs.

Middle East, North Africa, and Pakistan (MENAP) 
Progress Against End-to-End CO2e Reduction Goal 
by 2025 - Renewables

We signed several agreements across Egypt, Bahrain 
and Pakistan during 2022 that aim at accelerating the 
installation of solar. In Pakistan, the hub confectionery 
plant will become the first MENAP site to commission 
solar-energy sources. The system is anticipated to be able to 
contribute to a CO₂e reduction of 79 metric tonnes annually. 
In Bahrain, we have an agreement to utilize over 4,200 
solar panels for both rooftop and carport applications. 
Once completed, the solar plant is expected to produce 
3,820 megawatt-hours of clean energy in the first year 
of operation, equivalent to reducing carbon emissions by 
2,400 metric tonnes, and potentially allowing us to convert 
24% of our energy usage into clean energy. In Egypt, we 
signed an agreement that will seek to convert 11% of the 
energy in Borg El Arab (BEA) to clean energy. 

Recovering Heat from our Biscuits Ovens

Our factories in La Haie-Fouassière (France) and East Suzhou 
(China) implemented heat recovery systems in their biscuits 
ovens. These initiatives are saving natural gas previously 
used in the same oven or in other equipment. The reduction 
in fossil fuel consumption from both initiatives is saving 
more than 6,000 CO₂e metric tonnes per year.

100% Renewable Energy in Brazil

The business unit reduced it’s CO₂e footprint while 
growing in volume.

In Brazil, volume increased, so we needed to review our 
energy strategy to enable sustainable growth. With the 
focus of contributing 2025 end-to-end carbon reduction 
goals, the market invested in a new source of energy 
in order to produce 100% snacks in its factories using 
renewable energy. This builds upon progress made by  
the Brazil business unit in 2021.

OUR ENERGY PROGRESS

2019 2020 2021 2022

Total energy consumed 18,089,730 17,967,884 18,051,643 17,900,000

Total renewable energy (%) 8% 23% 32% 39%

Manufacturing Scope 1 and 2 CO₂e 
emissions from energy 
(CO₂e market-based Metric Tonnes)1

1,336,793 1,189,684 1,132,844 1,060,000

CO₂e emissions reductions across 
our manufacturing operations by 2025 
(vs. 2018)

-5% -15% -19% -25%

1 For Scope 1 and 2 conversion factors applied, please see the Carbon Accounting Manual

Overview Social Sustainability & Human Rights Sustainable Packaging Sustainable IngredientsClimate & Environmental

Strategy & Performance Snacking more mindfullymore SuStainable Snacking governancecolleague & community Well-being

https://www.mondelezinternational.com/Snacking-Made-Right/Climate-Action


2 1M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

eneRgy
cont.

Signing a Renewable Power Agreement in Poland

We have signed a virtual power purchase agreement  
with Golden Peaks Capital for renewable energy in Poland.  
Some of the new solar plants are starting to generate 
energy in 2023, while full capacity is expected to be reached 
in 2024. This project is a major step forward in our footprint 
decarbonization, as our plants in Poland are substantial 
contributors to our Scope 2 emissions. At full capacity,  
we expect to be able to eliminate approximately  
85,000 metric tonnes of CO2e. 

Investing in Renewables Around the World

In 2022, two sites in India and all our plants in Argentina 
moved to securing 100% of their electricity from renewable 
sources. Several other operations also made important 
steps in this journey. Our sites in Malaysia, Indonesia, and 
Thailand, for example, are now consuming now consuming 
between 20% and 33% of their electricity their electricity 
from renewable sources. In addition, our Montornes factory 
in Spain installed solar panels on-site. Combined, these 
initiatives are delivering reductions of more than 25,500 
metric tonnes of CO₂e annually.

Converting from Fossil Fuels to Biogas

Our factory in China East Suzhou partnered with Huan Yan 
Environment and Towngas to generate biogas out of our 
food waste. The project is generating more than 5300GJ  
of biogas from renewable sources every year, turning  
waste into energy and reducing CO2e emissions.

Reducing Emissions in Logistics

On our journey to our net zero emissions goal in logistics,  
we focus our efforts across these key areas: 

• Improving the efficiency of distribution networks  
by optimizing routes, improving truck and container 
utilization, adopting intermodal solutions, and reducing 
traveled distances. 

• Investing in new mobility concepts, including electric  
and hydrogen trucks. 

• Reducing warehouse emissions at both owned and  
third-party facilities by converting to renewable  
energy sources.

Over the last months and in partnership with our carriers 
and third-party logistics suppliers, we have extended our 
pilots on electric trucks to a variety of markets, including 
China, Brazil, and India, with promising results and plans 
to expand and further explore. The pilot programs have 
been done on short shuttle lanes and outbound transport 
to customers nearby the distribution centers, with 
approximately 30-40% reduced CO2e emissions compared 
to diesel trucks. 

Overview Social Sustainability & Human Rights Sustainable Packaging Sustainable IngredientsClimate & Environmental

Strategy & Performance Snacking more mindfullymore SuStainable Snacking governancecolleague & community Well-being



2 2M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

wateR
We depend on water to make our much- 
loved snacks and aim to use this precious 
natural resource responsibly. To this end, 
we aim to reduce our water use as much as 
possible and support initiatives throughout 
the value chain to conserve water. 

OUR WATER PROGRESS

2019 2020 2021 2022

Total incoming water (m3)  
(without borrowed and rainwater,  
as per our current KPI definition)

10,362,594 10,326,848 10,276,279 9,540,000

Total incoming water to priority sites 
(m3) (without borrowed and rainwater, 
as per our current KPI definition)1

5,995,809 5,884,183 5,790,894 5,271,000

Absolute water usage reduction 
in priority sites (vs. 2018)

-3.1% -5.5% -6.4% -14%

Working Together at a Local Level

Responsible water use cannot be tackled at a remote, global 
level – it involves collective action on the ground, locally. So  
we are focusing on local and regional stakeholder engagements  
and community collaborations to broaden impact. 

Reducing our Water Use

Around the world, water is increasingly under pressure due to 
global population growth, industrialization, and climate change, 
and we are focusing on playing our part in looking after this 
precious resource by seeking to reduce water use as much  
as possible. 

In 2021, we updated our list of priority sites using the Aqueduct 
tool from World Resources Institute and changed our water 
scarcity threshold. This led to an increased number of priority 
sites: from 27 during the 2013-2020 cycle to 48 during  
the current 2018-2025 cycle.

In 2022, we reduced our absolute water use at priority sites  
by approximately 14% (vs. 2018).

1 Priority sites are defined as sites that are located in a high or extremely high water risk zone defined as of 2021. This metric is measured in accordance with our internal Water Supply Management Health Safety and Environment System for priority sites.

Widening our Water Stewardship

In 2022, as the world’s water stresses continued to increase,  
we sought to widen our positive impact by looking beyond our 
own facilities to assess wider water use along the value chain.  
We want to cover not just the use of water in our operations –  
for example to make our products and clean equipment – but  
also its use to irrigate the commodities that are important to 
our products.

We calculated our water footprint and identified that the majority 
of the water used in our value chain is in the production of raw 
materials. So after many years of our successful programs to 
reduce water consumption in our manufacturing operations, 
we are now expanding our approach and integrating our water 
stewardship methodology to key areas beyond our facilities. 

We can then apply these learnings to the development of an 
end-to-end 2030 water stewardship strategy.

Saving Water in India

In India, we succeeded in saving approximately 29,000m3  
of water in our manufacturing processes (vs. 2018).  
This was primarily achieved through technological 
advancement projects to improve water management, 
including permanent magnet technology, recovering up  
to 85% of condensation, and numerous other enhancements 
to reduce, recycle, and reuse water. We also harvested  
98,000m3 of rainwater.

Reducing Water Consumption in Peru

At our factory in Lima, Peru, we have reduced water 
consumption by 21% against the 2018 baseline by improving 
the treated water recovery systems. We installed reverse 
osmosis equipment, which reduces dissolved minerals in 
the local water. This reduces the amount of water purging 
required, thereby cutting down on water use.

In 2022, we achieved an approximately 14% 
reduction in water usage at priority sites in 
areas where water is most scarce. Our goal  
is to reduce absolute water usage in priority 
sites by 10% by 2025 (vs. 2018).1

OUR GOAL PROGRESS

14% Reduction
Improving Water Use Across Europe

In Europe, we have made a number of improvements  
in our water use. In Spain, for example, we have enhanced 
waste-water treatment, to reduce pollutants in the 
discharge. We have also reduced water consumption 
through dry cleaning and automatic floor cleaners. 

Reusing and Recycling More Water

Our factory in Fallingbostel, northern Germany, has 
increased its steam boiler condensate return ratio.  
This enables the factory to save 80,000m3 of water  
a year, reduce wastewater by 115,000m3, and save  
395 metric tonnes of CO2e. Our Besançon factory in  
Francehas implemented a recycling system, which  
is saving 6,800m3 of water every year.

Improving Cleaning Processes

Our Caramagna factory in Piedmont, Italy, has improved  
the Cleaning in Place (CIP) process. The water is recycled 
and the cleaning program optimized. This saves 35,000m3 
of water per year. Our Kaunas factory in Lithuania  
improved its starch tray cleaning process, reducing  
water consumption by 3,000m3 a year.

Overview Social Sustainability & Human Rights Sustainable Packaging Sustainable IngredientsClimate & Environmental

Strategy & Performance Snacking more mindfullymore SuStainable Snacking governancecolleague & community Well-being



2 3M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

waSte Striving to Eliminate Waste Once And For All

We see food waste as an opponent to be destroyed – it plays 
against all our sustainability efforts, adding to business and 
environmental costs, helping no one.

The initiatives to eliminate waste have to be robust and 
sustainable. At Mondelēz International, we have a clear 
governance of waste reduction globally. 

We repeat the following steps:

Focusing on Eliminating Food Waste

We have been historically measuring and tackling manufacturing 
waste generation and disposal. In 2021, we decided to increase 
our focus on food waste. We believe this makes sense for a food 
company like us, especially considering that nearly a third of all 
food produced for human consumption is lost or wasted.

Food waste increases the extraction of materials and growth 
of agriculture ingredients. This will ultimately not be put to 
good use as it increases the consumption of energy, water, and 
transportation. Indeed, food waste has an environmental impact 
that is 10x greater than packaging waste. 

We strive to reduce waste as much  
as we can, to help the climate and  
the environment and to increase  
our operational efficiency. Above all, 
we focus on food waste – striving  
to eliminate it.

Helping to Stop Good Food Going to Waste

The best-before date (BBD) is misleading for many 
consumers, creating confusion with the use-by date, and 
therefore leading to many edible foods being thrown away. 
To take a stand against food waste, our Philadelphia brand 
has partnered with Too Good To Go – an innovative app  
that lets you buy food right before it goes to waste,  
in Germany, Denmark, and Sweden.

By printing the "Often Good After" logo next to the  
BBD on our Philadelphia packaging and creating ad hoc 
informative social media videos, we are helping to educate 
our consumers to first LOOK, SMELL, and TASTE before 
throwing away anything still good. Too Good To Go –  
it’s a great idea we’re happy to be part of.

OUR WASTE PROGRESS

2019 2020 2021 2022

Total waste generated in 
internal manufacturing sites 
(metric tonnes)

325,955 284,554 275,203 280,000

Total food waste generated  
in internal manufacturing 
sites (metric tonnes)

206,934 183,576 174,083 180,000

Food waste reduction in 
internal manufacturing sites 
(vs. 2018)

-15% -25% -28% -25%

Food waste reduction from 
distribution (vs. 2018)

-33% -36% -68% -58%

Preventing, Reducing and Reusing Waste

Our VSA factory team in Brazil implemented a systematic 
approach to prevent, reduce, and reuse waste – reducing 
waste by 813 metric tonnes 2022 vs. 2021.

In China, our West Suzhou factory ran a process lost 
analysis on its wafer production line. The team increased 
process performance and reduced variability – significantly 
reducing waste on the line from 5.1% to 2.2%, contributing  
to 121 tons food waste reduction, which is equal to 
10,000,000 wafer sticks!

Across the globe, our waste community is dedicated to:

• Benchmarking and replicating Integrated Lean Six Sigma 
(IL6S) best practices to eliminate waste.   

• Leveraging the best engineering and digital solutions  
for process capability.

• In-line measurement for real time process intervention,  
it’s a key enabler for our vision.

• Focus group to coach opportunity sites to eliminate waste. 

OUR GOAL PROGRESS

In 2022, we reduced food waste  
in internal manufacturing sites  
by 25%, exceeding our goal of a  
15% reduction by 2025 (vs. 2018).

This early delivery proves our focus  
on eliminating waste from our sites. 

We also reduced food waste from 
distribution by 58%, exceeding  
our goal of a 50% reduction by  
2025 (vs. 2018).

25% 
Reduction

“ Too Good To Go is active in several 
countries, where the topic is becoming 
more and more sensitive for consumers. 
We aim to replicate the activity also in 
other markets to spread the word!”

  Vanessa Harrer 
Sr Director, Marketing  
Philadelphia

Focus on  
process capability  

improvement through  
the improvement of 

equipment, technology, 
system, people,  

and material.

-25% Food waste reduction in internal  
manufacturing sites (metric tonnes) (vs. 2018)

Food waste reduction in distribution  
(metric tonnes) (vs. 2018)-58%

1.

2.

3.

Identify hot spots.

Deep dive to sites 
and focus on top 

losses in main 
production lines. 

Overview Social Sustainability & Human Rights Sustainable Packaging Sustainable IngredientsClimate & Environmental

Strategy & Performance Snacking more mindfullymore SuStainable Snacking governancecolleague & community Well-being



2 4M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

Social 
SuStainability 
& huMan 
RightS
We are committed to enhancing social 
sustainability and respecting human  
rights across the whole value chain. 

We strive to make sure that the rights of people in our value 
chain are respected and promoted and that the communities 
where we matter most are resilient. To this end, we run 
pragmatic human rights due diligence across the value  
chain and focus on key areas where we believe we can  
make a greater impact, including tackling human rights  
risks in our sourcing of key commodities. 

The Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA) protocol 
is used to evaluate our internal manufacturing sites against 
a common set of corporate social responsibility standards, 
developed for the consumer goods industry.

HUMAN RIGHTS PROGRESS

2019 2020 2021 2022

Prioritized suppliers audited 195

Prioritized supplier sites completed 
SMETA audit in past 3 years3

87%

SMETA audit completed  
in our manufacturing sites within 
the past 3 years2

62%

Child Labor Monitoring & 
Remediation Systems (CLMRS) 
cover 100% Cocoa Life communities 
in West Africa by 20251

27% 28% 61% 74%

Strong Focus and Governance

We strive to ensure the rights of people along our value chain are 
respected and promoted. This includes our approximately 91,000 
employees around the world, people working for our suppliers, 
and people growing our ingredients. 

As set out in our Human Rights Policy, we follow the  
United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights  
as a framework to guide our approach to identify and address 
risks, and to disclose our progress. For more information,  
please see our annual Human Rights Due Diligence Report.

Our Human Rights Working Group defines our human rights due 
diligence strategy and drives its implementation throughout our 
organization. This working group reports regularly to functional 
and business leaders and annually to the Board's Governance, 
Membership and Sustainability Committee.

We collaborate with peers in the Consumer Goods Forum 
Human Rights Coalition (CGF HRC) to help make the approach 
mainstream, learn from each other, and show the way for the 
sector more broadly, including publishing a human rights due 
diligence (HRDD) roadmap. 

In 2022, we also worked with a range of external advisors, 
including TwentyFifty, Embode, and our Cocoa Life External 
Advisory Board, to help us assess and strengthen our approach.

Moreover, we support legislative efforts to make human rights 
due diligence mandatory for all companies along the value chain.

1 Reported information for the period from January 1, 2022 to December 31, 2022 includes a community as covered by CLMRS if the work of identifying children, if any, in or at risk of child labor has been completed by the end of the year, even if any appropriate remediation and post-remediation follow-up occurs in the following year. CLMRS data is provided by third parties. Includes Ghana, Cote d'Ivoire and Nigeria. 
2 Excludes closed manufacturing sites.
3 Prioritized supplier sites are defined as Tier-1 Direct material supplier sites, and excludes suppliers that are not registered on SEDEX, have not yet received a risk score or received a risk score other than High Risk, or have not yet made audit results available to Mondelēz International.

OUR GOALS AND AMBITION

Our 2025 ambition is to implement 
robust, risk-based human rights due 
diligence across our value chain, and  
we have the following 2025 goals:

•  100% of our manufacturing sites 
completed a SMETA audit within the 
past 3 years

•  100% of our prioritized supplier sites 
completed a SMETA audit within the  
past 3 years

•  100% of Cocoa Life communities in 
West Africa are covered by a Child 
Labor Monitoring & Remediation 
System (CLMRS)1

Overview Climate & Environmental Sustainable Packaging Sustainable IngredientsSocial Sustainability & Human Rights

Strategy & Performance Snacking more mindfullymore SuStainable Snacking governancecolleague & community Well-being



2 5M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

“ Training our employees across the world is 
a significant step forward in bringing our 
Human Rights Policy to life. We aim to help our 
employees better understand their rights and 
equip them to look out for one another, so that 
we can each play our role to Do What’s Right 
and respect and promote Human Rights."

  Amy Corona 
 VP, Global People Lead, Mondelēz Supply Chain 
Mondelēz International

Social 
SuStainability 
& huMan 
RightS
cont.

Conducting a New Value Chain Human Rights 
Assessment

In 2022, we conducted a new value chain human rights risk 
assessment. It confirmed key risks and areas we should prioritize. 
The first priority is to focus on helping to tackle human rights 
risks in key supply chains (cocoa, palm oil, and hazelnuts), 
including living wage and income, as well as forced, and  
child labor.

Supporting Living Wage

We continued to focus on living wage in own operations by 
starting to embed living wage benchmarking into our ongoing 
compensation process and extending our approach to better 
understand challenges with agency labor in our facilities.

Speaking Up and Investigating 

Our Speaking Up and Investigations Policy empowers our 
colleagues to ask questions and raise concerns confidentially 
and anonymously through a telephone HelpLine and an online 
WebLine. We monitor contacts and work diligently to address 
concerns raised in a timely fashion.

Continuing to Build our Internal Capabilities  
on Human Rights

We offer a Human Rights training program in close to thirty 
languages and encourage our office-based colleagues  
worldwide to participate. 

Ongoing Due Diligence Efforts 

We undertake practical, proactive, ongoing human rights due 
diligence to identify, mitigate, and reduce the likelihood of 
potential and actual human rights impacts within our own 
operations, and work with our business partners across our 
supply chain to achieve the same. We identify potential human 
rights issues and monitor compliance with our policies. We use 
the Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA) protocol to 
evaluate our internal manufacturing sites against a common 
set of corporate social responsibility standards developed for 
the consumer goods industry. We also require higher-risk direct 
suppliers to complete a SMETA audit. 

Despite delays in previous years related to the COVID-19 
pandemic, we were able to make strong progress towards 
our 100% audit targets for our own manufacturing sites and 
prioritized supplier sites over a 3-year cycle. As of the end of  
2022, approximately 62% of our own manufacturing sites1 and 
approximately 87% prioritized supplier sites have completed a 
SMETA audit within the past three years.2

Despite the continued effects related to the pandemic, we will 
continue our efforts to execute audits of our remaining global 
manufacturing sites and supply chain. 

Beyond our audit program, we continued to enhance our human 
rights due diligence systems by building internal capabilities, 
embedding good practices within our business, and prioritizing 
key focus areas. 

1 Excludes closed manufacturing sites.
2 Prioritized supplier sites are defined as Tier-1 Direct material supplier sites, and excludes suppliers that are not registered on SEDEX, have not yet received a risk score or received a risk score other than High Risk, or have not yet made audit results available to Mondelēz International.

“ We strive to work with suppliers and partners 
with comparably high standards of conduct 
when it comes to responsible sourcing.  
We expect them to follow our Human Rights 
Policy, and to communicate these expectations 
throughout their supply chain. We take a risk-
based approach and pragmatic steps to roll- 
out human rights due diligence and inform our 
sourcing practices from our direct suppliers  
to our key upstream ingredient supply chains. 
We are committed to making our human rights 
due diligence system better every day and 
wherever possible strive to join forces with 
industry peers to accelerate progress."

   Thomas Gaengler 
 Chief Procurement Officer 
Mondelēz International 

Overview Climate & Environmental Sustainable Packaging Sustainable IngredientsSocial Sustainability & Human Rights

Strategy & Performance Snacking more mindfullymore SuStainable Snacking governancecolleague & community Well-being



2 6M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

Social 
SuStainability 
& huMan 
RightS
cont.

Taking Action on Palm Oil 

Through our POAP, we require suppliers to respect the labor 
rights of all workers and embed the Consumer Goods Forum (CGF) 
Priority Industry Principles on Forced Labor within both their own 
operations and supply chains. The POAP requires suppliers to 
provide annual assurance of continuous improvement, verified by 
third-party labor rights experts. 

To support the mainstreaming of robust due diligence practices  
in the palm oil sector, we collaborated with peers in the CGF 
Human Rights Coalition, the Fair Labor Association, and the 
International Organization for Migration to deploy and test 
systems at each stage of the supply chain. We also complemented 
this support to palm oil suppliers with engagement of key actors 
of the Malaysian recruitment market, as well as joint advocacy 
towards the Malaysian government and the government of 
migrant workers’ country of origin. 

For more information on our sustainable palm oil sourcing,  
see pages 47.

“ Tackling the underlying drivers of human  
rights risks in global value chains takes 
a systemic collaborative approach. We 
collaborate with various peers and retailers 
under the Consumer Goods Forum Human 
Rights Coalition with an aim to make human 
rights due diligence mainstream and help  
put an end to forced labor and other salient 
issues common to the entire sector.”

 Virginie Mahin 
  Senior Director Global Social Sustainability  

& Stakeholder Engagement, and Co-chair  
of the CGF Human Rights Coalition

Going Further with Cocoa Life

We made key advances to enhance social sustainability and 
respect human rights in 2022, through Cocoa Life - our signature 
cocoa sourcing program. These included launching a new 
Strategy to Help Protect Children, which sets out our approach 
to help enhance child protection systems and improve access 
to quality education in Cocoa Life communities. We also scaled 
CLMRS in nearly 74%1 of Cocoa Life communities in West Africa 
and continue our work to further enhance the quality of the 
system.

For more information on Cocoa Life see pages 31.

Collaborating Across the Sector

To help achieve widespread change across whole supply chains, 
we collaborate with peer companies, expert organizations, and 
governments with an aim to work together to help tackle issues 
such as forced and child labor and to uphold human rights.

As a founding and board member of the International Cocoa 
Initiative (ICI), for example, we work collaboratively with our  
peers, suppliers, and civil society organizations to help combat  
the risks of child and forced labor in the cocoa supply chain,  
and to drive efforts to strengthen public-private partnership 
with the governments of Ghana and Côte d’Ivoire.

As a board member of CGF, we work collaboratively to help tackle 
the risks of forced labor. We support CGF’s Priority Industry 
Principles on Forced Labor. We also co-chair CGF’s Forest Positive 
Coalition of Action and the Palm Oil Working Group, are a member 
of the Human Rights Coalition of Action, and a signatory to the 
UN Women’s Empowerment Principles.

1  Prioritized supplier sites are defined as Tier-1 Direct material supplier sites, and excludes suppliers that are not registered on SEDEX, have not yet received a risk score or received a risk score other than High Risk, or have not yet made audit results available to Mondelēz International.

Overview Climate & Environmental Sustainable Packaging Sustainable IngredientsSocial Sustainability & Human Rights

Strategy & Performance Snacking more mindfullymore SuStainable Snacking governancecolleague & community Well-being



2 7M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

packaging
We strive to use more sustainable 
packaging that protects our products, 
delights our consumers, and does not harm 
the environment. We want to continuously 
improve our packaging, and deliver on 
our long-term aim of advancing a circular 
packaging economy that is good for  
people and the planet. 

OUR PACKAGING PROGRESS

2018 2019 2020 2021 2022

Packaging materials 
eliminated vs. 2013  
(metric tonnes)1

-59,600 -64,850 -68,000 -72,100 -72,600

Packaging designed  
to be recyclable

92.5% 93.3% 94% 95% 96%

Paper-based packaging 
sustainably sourced2

90% 100% 100% 98% 99%

Reduction in overall 
virgin plastic (vs. 2020) 

4% -1.5%

5% recycled plastic 
content by 2025

0.5% 1%

Increasing Awareness on the Need to  
Save our Seas

We are partnering with environmental NGO Save 
Philippine Seas (SPS) to produce a five-part YouTube 
series to increase awareness, particularly among young 
people, of the real causes of marine litter and how to 
avoid and/or mitigate this through practical solutions. 

Shown on the Miming and Friends YouTube channel 
aimed at a younger audience, the five episodes focus on 
various aspects of waste management, with animation 
and music to appeal to kids and their parents. Episode 1 
was launched in 2022, gaining 12.24 million impressions. 
Episodes 2 and 3 will be shown in 2023 and Episode 4 
and 5 in 2024.

This is the second year of our partnership with SPS. We 
are working with them to help people better understand 
the issue of plastic waste and marine litter – from the 
causes of plastic pollution in the sea to how people can 
help tackle the problem themselves at home.

We’re also working with industry groups across the 
Philippines and other Southeast Asian countries to  
form a roadmap to increase plastic collection and 
recycling rates.

1 Reported information covers the period from November 1, 2021 through October 31, 2022.
2 Reported information covers the period from November 1, 2021 through October 31, 2022 and is based on the number of paper mills that are third party (Forest Stewardship Council) certified that paper is sourced from.

Making it Light and Right

Our guiding principle is to make packaging light and right, with less packaging, better packaging, and improved 
systems all reinforcing each other for bigger impact. So we are reducing the amount of packaging we use while 
also innovating to simplify materials so they can be recycled and using recycled materials where we can. 

LESS PACKAGING Our focus on less packaging includes keeping 
our packaging light and safe with low environmental impact. It also 
involves reducing the overall footprint of our packaging, and designing 
packaging for consumer reuse and refill where feasible. We aim to 
reduce virgin plastic in rigid plastic packaging by at least 25% and  
in all plastic packaging by at least 5%, each by 2025 (vs. 2020).

BETTER PACKAGING By better packaging, we aim to design our 
packaging to be recyclable and remove challenging materials.  
We also mean substituting virgin (new) plastic packaging with 
alternatives, including recycled plastic content. This way, we’ll  
help support a circular pack economy.

A key goal for us on this front is to have all our packaging designed 
to be recyclable by 2025. We are getting closer and closer to this – 
achieving nearly 96% in 2022. We aim to have 5% recycled content  
in our plastic packaging by 2025.

All our paper and carton board, and some rigid plastics  
and flexible plastic films are already designed to be recycled.

IMPROVED SYSTEMS Through improved systems, we aim to collect  
as much plastic as we put into the environment, lead the development 
of capabilities to scale the necessary infrastructure; and advocate  
for extended producer responsibility (EPR) schemes to include plastic 
packaging, especially packaging made from flexible plastics.

Working Together for Bigger Impact

Collaboration is key. We have, for example, joined the Business Call for a UN Treaty on Plastic Pollution, and  
are members of the Ellen MacArthur Foundation (EMF) and World Wildlife Fund (WWF) policy working groups.  
Further, we are part of the Consumer Goods Forum working groups on Extended Producer Responsibility,  
Golden Design Rules and recent exploration into Flexible Packaging all targeting collective action on plastic waste.

IM
P

R
O

V
ED

 SYSTEMS BETTER P
ACKA

G
IN

G

LESS PACKAGING

Light  
& Right

Reuse

Substitute

Recycle

Reduce

EPR 
Advocacy

Collect + 
Recycle

•  Make 100% packaging designed  
to be recyclable by 2025

•  Reduce virgin plastic in rigid plastic 
packaging by at least 25% and in all 
plastic packaging by 5% by 2025

•  Have 5% recycled content in  
our plastic packaging by 2025

2025 
goalS

Overview Social Sustainability & Human RightsClimate & Environmental Sustainable IngredientsSustainable Packaging

Strategy & Performance Snacking more mindfullymore SuStainable Snacking governancecolleague & community Well-being



2 8M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

packaging
cont.

Leading the Way in India

In India, we are doing a great deal to improve our packaging 
and make advances on circularity. 2022 saw a massive 
drive to reduce our plastic footprint with a strong focus on 
recyclability. It involved taking ownership of the product 
to the end of its lifecycle by successfully executing 100% 
Extended Producers Responsibility for post-consumer plastics.

Our plastic recycling efforts in India in partnership with plastic 
waste management agencies and plastic waste processors 
have enabled us to recycle up to 75% of our post-consumer 
plastic in 2022. This is almost a 10% increase in recyclability 
compared to 2021. Initiatives included less packaging, for 
example with the elimination of single-use plastic, including 
with the overwrap film on Cadbury Celebrations Gift packs, 
better packaging, such as recycle-ready packs; and the 
introduction of post-consumer recycled PET for Cadbury 
Rich Dry Fruit Collection Celebrations packs and Cadbury 
Lickables spoons.

Our Packaging Mix

As the chart shows, the great majority of our packaging  
is non-plastic. There are relatively well-developed recycling  
markets around the world for this packaging.

Lightweight flexible packaging works well to protect our  
products for our consumers, keeping it safe and fresh for longer, 
and reduces food waste. It also reduces shipping costs and  
CO₂e emissions from transportation due to its relative  
light weight.

However, lightweight flexible packaging creates environmental 
challenges as collection and recycling are underdeveloped  
in most countries.

2022 PORTFOLIO1

Metric Tonnes

Corrugated 454,000

Paper 265,000

Flexible Plastics 135,000

Rigid Plastics 53,000

Glass 14,000

Other Flexibles 13,000

Metals 7,500

1  Reported information covers the period from November 1, 2021 through October 31, 2022. Packaging mix is reported in alignment with Ellen MacArthur Foundation plastic definition guide.

Creating Infrastructure  
Through Sustainable Futures

Through our Sustainable Futures impact investment 
platform, we have partnered with the Circulate Capital 
Ocean Fund (CCOF), a fund dedicated to addressing India 
and Southeast Asia’s plastics challenges. The investment 
will help CCOF support scalable business solutions to help 
develop infrastructure for the collecting, sorting, and 
recycling of plastic waste, including flexible films. We are 
working with Ricron Panel, who are part of the Circulate 
Capital Ocean Fund. We are using their innovative, strong, 
and durable recycled panels made from hard-to-recycle,  
multi-layered waste plastic in a number of ways,  
for example for furniture and pallets.

We have also invested in a project in India to transform 
multi-layered plastic food packaging waste into construction 
of plastic boards that can be used to manufacture various 
products. Wealth out of Waste Boards (WoW Boards) uses 
technology from a female-led start-up, TrashCon, in India. 
Since 2021, we have been supporting a waste picker-managed 
centre with a capacity for handling 600 MT/year of plastic 
waste. At the centre, the MLP waste is repurposed to make 
WoW Boards. These boards are then used to make desks / 
benches for schools, the roof of workers’ sheds, and  
benches in parks.

Overview Social Sustainability & Human RightsClimate & Environmental Sustainable IngredientsSustainable Packaging

Strategy & Performance Snacking more mindfullymore SuStainable Snacking governancecolleague & community Well-being



2 9M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

packaging
cont.

Encouraging Ideas to Make our Packaging Light  
and Right

Through our Packathon campaign, which we run across 
Europe for a few months, we have encouraged our colleagues 
to share their ideas on how to make our packaging ‘Light & 
Right’. The aim was to invite our colleagues everyone to have 
an end-to-end mindset in tackling the issue, from sourcing to 
manufacturing to selling, and to share their ideas.

The program was launched with a special focus on our 
supply chain colleagues and our factories across Europe, 
and within three months, more than 300 ideas were shared 
with our leaders. 

Most of the winning ideas have started be implemented 
across 2022, with some already up and running withing  
our EU plants. As we move forward, we aim to apply our 
‘Light & Right’ approach across major parts of our portfolio.

“ Driving out waste is an area of expertise 
for our factories and applying this 
mindset to our packaging is an exciting 
opportunity for us to protect the  
planet and “Do it the Right Way"

 Mark Dady 
 SVP, Mondelēz Supply Chain, Europe

Using 30% Recycled Packaging with Cadbury

As part of our broader initiative to reduce the use of virgin 
plastic material in our packaging portfolio by 5% by 2025, 
our iconic Cadbury Dairy Milk and Cadbury Mini Snow Balls 
110g sharing bars now come with 30% certified recycled 
plastic in their packaging. So Cadbury fans across the  
UK can continue enjoying their favorite sharing bars  
more sustainably.

Advanced recycling technology and a significant investment 
enabled us to develop the innovative new packaging.  
The necessary food-grade recycled plastic packaging  
isn’t widely available so securing the volume for this  
project was a challenge involving significant resources  
and collaboration with many external suppliers  
throughout the value chain.

Using the mass balance approach, the packaging is 
independently certified by International Sustainability  
and Carbon Certification (ISCC) and supplied in partnership 
with Amcor, a global leader in developing and producing 
responsible packaging for food and other industries.  
By the end of 2022, the new packaging had been used 
for over 10 million bar wrappers. 

We are also using 75% recycled plastic (RPET) content in 
our Dairylea Lunchables packaging in the UK and will expect 
to begin using certified plastic with recycled material using 
the mass balance approach in our Philadelphia tubs and 
lids from next year. And there is more to come as we keep 
striving to use less and less virgin plastic in our packaging.

World-first for Cadbury in Australia

In a first for Cadbury, we’re supporting emerging recycling 
technology to source soft plastic packaging that contains 
recycled content. Traditionally a single-use material for food 
packaging, the switch to sourcing soft plastics will see our 
Australian-made Cadbury Dairy Milk, Caramilk, and Old Gold 
blocks wrapped in 30% recycled content. The transition to 
using recycled material will divert 120 tonnes of soft plastic 
from landfill – that’s the weight of 206 fully-sized dairy 
cows – who supply the famous fresh milk in Cadbury Dairy 
Milk chocolate.

While the new packaging is more sustainable, it looks and 
feels the same, carrying Cadbury’s iconic purple colors and 
distinctive markers and preserving the chocolate's taste, 
texture, and shape. However, chocoholics will notice a new 
on-pack QR code, leading Cadbury fans to more information 
on the packaging innovation and how Cadbury is supporting 
a circular economy for packaging. 

Overview Social Sustainability & Human RightsClimate & Environmental Sustainable IngredientsSustainable Packaging

Strategy & Performance Snacking more mindfullymore SuStainable Snacking governancecolleague & community Well-being



3 0M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

MoRe 
SuStainable 
IngRedientS
A more sustainable supply of key raw 
materials such as cocoa, wheat, dairy, 
and palm oil is critical to the continued 
growth and success of our business, 
to the resilience and prosperity of the 
communities producing these raw 
materials, and to the protection of the 
landscapes the ingredients are grown in. 

More sustainable production of our key ingredients also 
contributes to our carbon footprint reduction goals while 
protecting biodiversity. As a global snacking leader dedicated  
to making snacking right, we are determined to lead in helping  
to drive sector-wide transformation for more sustainable  
sourcing at scale. 

Enhancing social sustainability and respecting human rights  
is key to this goal as is a larger focus on helping to promote and 
restore biodiversity across the landscapes our business touches. 
We focus where we believe we can make the greatest difference 
and help tackle the most important issues to help foster security 
of supply, care for the environment, and support the people  
and communities that grow the key ingredients for our  
well-loved snacks.

We have a distinctive approach to help drive long-term change 
for the better at scale. It has a number of key pillars: leading 
in more sustainably-sourced key ingredients, pioneering 
approaches that holistically help tackle root issues, helping  
to drive sector-wide transformation through collaboration,  
and sharing and learning from impact data assessing the 
positive progress made by our programs. 

1 Goal and reported information for cocoa volume sourced is based on a mass balance approach, which means that the equivalent volume of cocoa needed for the products sold under our chocolate brands is sourced from the Cocoa Life program.
2 Reported information for the period from January 1, 2022 to December 31, 2022 includes a community as covered by CLMRS if the work of identifying children, if any, in or at risk of child labor has been completed by the end of the year, even if any appropriate remediation and post-remediation follow-up occurs in the following year. CLMRS data is provided by third parties. Includes Ghana, Cote d'Ivoire and Nigeria. 
3 Regenerative Agriculture is a holistic approach to farming which aims to produce high-quality crops while also restoring the natural rhythm of our surrounding ecosystem.
4 Reported information covers Brazil, Côte d'Ivoire , Dominican Republic, Ghana, Indonesia, India, and Nigeria. This data is provided by third parties.

Our Progress

230,000 farmers participated in the 
Cocoa Life program in 2022, compared  
to 209,954 in 2021.4

230,000
Child Labor Monitoring & Remediation 
Systems (CLMRS) coverage in West 
African Cocoa Life farming communities 
vs. 61% in 2021.2

74%

Palm oil sourced from suppliers aligned 
to Palm Oil Action Plan (POAP).100%

“ Over the past 10 years through the 
implementation of our signature 
sustainable sourcing programs including 
Cocoa Life and Harmony wheat, we have 
gathered meaningful data confirming our 
approach is helping to deliver the type of 
change we’re aiming to scale for greater 
impact. We are determined to seize this 
opportunity to go further, faster."

 Cathy Pieters 
  Vice President Sustainable Ingredients 

Mondelēz International

Cocoa volume for chocolate brands 
sourced through Cocoa Life by 20251

100%

Wheat volume needed for Europe 
business biscuits production  
grown under the strengthened  
Harmony Regenerative charter  
by 20303

100%

OUR 2025 GOAL

Our ambition is to source our key 
ingredients – including cocoa and 
wheat – more sustainably and support 
economically and socially resilient 
communities. These two ambitions 
mutually support and reinforce each 
other, and are at the heart of our aim  
to create a future where together 
people and the planet thrive.

To this end, we have set the  
following goals:

Overview Social Sustainability & Human RightsClimate & Environmental Sustainable Packaging Sustainable Ingredients

Strategy & Performance Snacking more mindfullymore SuStainable Snacking governancecolleague & community Well-being



3 1M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

cocoa life
Cocoa is a key ingredient for our 
chocolate, and key to our business. 
We are proud to be one of the world’s 
leading chocolate makers, and are 
determined to continue leading in 
helping to make cocoa right through 
our global cocoa sustainability program: 
Cocoa Life.

Helping to Make Cocoa Sourcing More Sustainable

Cocoa Life’s purpose is to make cocoa right. Our program 
focuses on making cocoa sourcing more sustainable in key 
cocoa-producing countries. Cocoa Life aims to help lift the people 
and protect the landscapes it reaches and bring dynamic change 
to the communities and forests where the cocoa bean grows 
before it becomes the snacks consumers love.

Doubling Down on Cocoa Life

In 2022, we celebrated 10 years of Cocoa Life and announced the 
next chapter to increase our cocoa volume scale, work with nearly 
300,000 farmers by 2030, and accelerate our impact backed by 
an additional $600 million through 2030 for a total $1 billion 
investment since the start of the program.

Helping to Lift People and Protect Landscapes in Seven 
Cocoa-Producing Countries 

Through Cocoa Life, we aim to help tackle the root causes  
of the complex challenges cocoa farmers and their communities 
face, including climate change, deforestation, gender inequality, 
poverty, and child labor. In 2022, we worked with partner 
NGOs and cocoa suppliers to help support farmers and their 
communities in Brazil, Côte d'Ivoire, the Dominican Republic, 
Ghana, India, Indonesia, and Nigeria. We continue to help people 
and landscapes by supporting more profitable cocoa businesses, 
helping to lift cocoa communities; helping to protect children  
at risk of child labor; and helping to protect and restore forests. 

COCOA LIFE PROGRESS

2019 2020 2021 2022

Farmers in the Cocoa Life program1 175,017 188,043 209,954 230,000

Cocoa communities impacted2 2,012 2,169 2,597 2,900

Cocoa volume for chocolate brands 
sourced through Cocoa Life3

63% 68% 75% 80%

1 Reported information covers Brazil, Cote d’Ivoire, Dominican Republic, Ghana, Indonesia, India, and Nigeria. This data is provided by third parties. 
2 West Africa includes Ghana, Cote D'Ivoire and Nigeria.
3 Goal and reported information for cocoa volume sourced is based on a mass balance approach, which means that the equivalent volume of cocoa needed for the products sold under our chocolate brands is sourced from the Cocoa Life program.

Innovative, Collaborative, Transformational 

With ambitions to deliver a real long-term difference where it 
matters most, our Cocoa Life program uses smart innovation and 
collaboration to make transformational impact – aiming to move 
cocoa forward faster by helping lift the people and protect the 
landscapes where cocoa grows. 

“ With our $1 billion total investment between 
2012 and 2030, we are in a unique position 
to apply 10 years of progress and learnings, 
to lead smartinnovations, like Targeted 
Good Agricultural Practices, financial 
incentives for good practices e.g., Payment 
for Environmental Services, and Community 
Action Plans, Targeted Good Agricultural 
Practices incentivizing good practices e.g., 
through Payment for Environmental Services, 
to collaborate with our partners with an aim 
to bring dynamic change to communities and 
forests in cocoa-producing countries to help 
make transformational impact."

 Cedric van Cutsem 
  Senior Director Cocoa Life 

Mondelēz International

Overview Social Sustainability & Human RightsClimate & Environmental Sustainable Packaging Sustainable Ingredients

Strategy & Performance Snacking more mindfullymore SuStainable Snacking governancecolleague & community Well-being



3 2M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

“  We are excited that the Cocoa Life program 
has commenced in Nigeria. We are working 
with the relevant stakeholders in the 
cocoa value chain to ensure successful 
implementation of the program. We are 
confident that this initiative will scale up 
the capacity of local farmers, increase cocoa 
yields, boost net incomes, and contribute 
toward revitalizing the cocoa industry  
in Nigeria.”

 Oyeyimika Adeboye 
  Managing Director  

Mondelēz West Africa

Expanding to Nigeria

To help deliver on our more ambitious goals, we are growing 
Cocoa Life’s scale by introducing new producing countries.  
In 2022, we expanded into Nigeria. One of the world’s largest 
cocoa-producing countries, Nigeria faces similar challenges 
to other West African cocoa countries, such as poverty, 
child labor, and climate change. We began a number of 
Cocoa Life activities in Nigeria in 2022 with a focus on local 
needs assessment on priority needs to tailor the program. 
This also included collaborating with partners to start 
registering farmers, training them in Good Agricultural 
Practices (GAP) Audit, and setting up Child Labor Monitoring 
and Remediation Systems. Based on the community needs 
assessments, we will work with implementing partners 
to expand these activities, as well as introduce additional 
environmental and community initiatives to fully implement 
Cocoa Life in Nigerian cocoa communities.

cocoa life 
aRound  
the woRld

Cocoa Life runs across seven cocoa-growing countries:  
Ghana, Côte d’Ivoire, Indonesia, Dominican Republic, India, Brazil, and Nigeria.

cocoa lIfe countRIeS

Overview Social Sustainability & Human RightsClimate & Environmental Sustainable Packaging Sustainable Ingredients

Strategy & Performance Snacking more mindfullymore SuStainable Snacking governancecolleague & community Well-being



3 3M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

gRowing MoRe 
pRofitable 
cocoa 
buSineSSeS

Focusing on Farmer Livelihoods

Farmer poverty remains one of the most prominent and complex 
challenges faced by agricultural communities across the world. 
Developing approaches to help strengthen farmer net income has 
been a core focus for the Cocoa Life program since the beginning. 
Over the years, the concept of living income has become a central 
element in cocoa sustainability initiatives. A living income is an 
income that enables a decent standard of living for all members  
of a household and takes into account all essential needs, 
including provision for unexpected events. For cocoa farmers, 
earning a living income is a critical enabler to building a 
sustainable livelihood. Our aim is to help increase the number  
of farming households reaching a living income by 2030. 

Measured Progress 

Looking back at 2021, the income of Cocoa Life registered farming 
households developed well. This was driven by the joint efforts  
of different stakeholders. Along individual supply chains, 
programs such as Cocoa Life and its implementing partners took 
steps to help support farming businesses that we work with. 
The governments of Cote d'Ivoire and Ghana, countries that 
produce approximately 60% of global cocoa, initiated sector-wide 
initiatives to help raise and stabilize the price paid to farmers  
at scale. 

Unprecedented Challenges 

The global agricultural and commodities environment faced a 
number of unique and unanticipated pressures in 2022 that were 
particularly challenging within the cocoa sector. In addition to 
global economic challenges, major cocoa-producing countries 
struggled with high rates of inflation and an unusually larger 
number of cocoa farms suffered from higher rates of certain plant 
diseases that require more time and labor to remedy. Moreover, 
market pressures prevented the effective implementation of 
some government-led and multi-stakeholder backed initiatives, 
including the Living Income Differential which we fully support. 

Last year’s unique challenges impacted the previous trendline 
of consistent year-over-year household income improvement 
for Cocoa Life program farmers. Household incomes in Côte 
d’Ivoire, measured in international US$ equivalents, grew by 
approximately 7% compared to 2019. Household incomes in 
Ghana increased in 2022 vs. 2019 baseline in local currency but  
were down by approximately 20% in USD$ due in large part  
to currency devaluation and lower yields from crop diseases3.  
Cocoa Life continues to work with over 150,000 households in  
Ghana and Cote d’Ivoire to help enable them to reach  
a living income over time. 

To this end, Cocoa Life endeavors to make cocoa farmers 
more resilient to economic volatility by helping them to build 
household income from additional sources beyond cocoa. For 
example, in local currency, non-cocoa income among households 
in the Cocoa Life program increased by nearly 217% in Cote 
d'Ivoire (comparing 2019 to 2022) and nearly 51% in Ghana 
(comparing 2019 to 2022).1

Poverty and low incomes remain a root cause for many of the 
challenges faced by cocoa farming communities, and it will  
require greater sector-wide efforts than ever before to help 
counter systemic issues and make sustained progress despite 
macro pressures. 

We continue to engage with partners in producing countries 
through programs such as Cocoa Life to better understand the 
situation and potential risks to farming families. For approximately 
10 years, Cocoa Life has worked with independent partners to 
help measure, track and better understand farmers’ incomes 
from cocoa and other sources in our supply chain. This allows 
us to help mitigate the challenges and contribute to solutions. 

But the magnitude of the challenges requires an approach  
well beyond single supply chains to change the dynamics under 
which farmers sell their cocoa. Stabilizing and increasing incomes 
of farming families requires a structural approach through 
collaboration within and beyond the cocoa sector, working  
in partnership with NGOs, stakeholders, and governments. 

Our Progress

220,000 Farmers trained, coached or having 
a farm development plan on Good 
Agricultural Practices to increase  
yield and protect the environment.

We are focusing on growing more 
profitable cocoa businesses to help 
increase the number of farming 
households reaching a living income.

1  This information is based on a statistically representative sample of farming households followed between 2019 to 2022 as measured and calculated by our third-party evaluator, Ipsos.
2 West Africa includes Ghana and Cote D'Ivoire.
3 Reported information covers the period from October 1, 2021  - September 31, 2022 measured in per person per day vs 2021 baseline $USD.

Working Together To Help Create Solutions

We support the Côte d’Ivoire-Ghana-Cocoa-Initiative (CIGHCI)  
and share the governments' ambitions to increase farmer 
incomes. In 2022, we signed a statement of intent towards an 
economic pact for sustainable cocoa with the CIGHCI to work 
towards improving farmer incomesand finding a sustainable 
price mechanism (for the price paid to farmers). We are actively 
contributing to the working groups. To help build more sustainable 
livelihoods, we take concrete measures through Cocoa Life:

• We innovate by tailoring interventions with suppliers and NGOs 
to fit farmers' needs with the right mix of tools and techniques 
to help them get more from their cocoa trees, testing, and 
sharing as we go. We are helping to improve farm productivity 
and profitability from cocoa. For example, we are supporting 
cocoa tree nurseries and provided training for approximately 
220,000 farmers on Good Agricultural Practices by the end of 
2022. We also pay loyalty premiums to farmer organizations. 

• We believe it is important to increase farmers’ resilience by 
encouraging income diversification for men and women from 
additional non-cocoa businesses. For example, we are training 
community members on cocoa-related enterprises and business 
management as well as encouraging them to participate in 
Village Savings & Loan Associations (VSLAs) or additional 
income generating activities. This was particularly relevant in 
2022 and remains relevant in the current economic context in 
West Africa2, with sources of additional income compensating 
for reduced revenues from cocoa farming. 

• For many years Cocoa Life supports VSLAs to provide financial 
services to households in cocoa communities. To date, the 
program has established approximately 4,800 VSLAs which 
were joined by approximately 257,900 farmers and community 
members. Additional training on alternative jobs, outside 
of cocoa growing, were joined by approximately 228,000 
community members to date. Jointly, those measures contribute 
to household income from sources other than cocoa and buffer 
economic shocks and uncertainty like we currently observe. 
Cocoa Life is helping cocoa farmers to become more resilient to 
economic volatility by building income from additional sources 
beyond cocoa. 

We will continue to engage with the CIGHCI, sector organizations 
and our partners via the Cocoa Life program to help work toward 
a solution. 

Overview Social Sustainability & Human RightsClimate & Environmental Sustainable Packaging Sustainable Ingredients

Strategy & Performance Snacking more mindfullymore SuStainable Snacking governancecolleague & community Well-being



3 4M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

“ Cocoa Life taught us good agricultural practices 
like pruning, removal of mistletoes and chupons, 
and farm sanitation. We have also been to farmer 
business school to learn how to cost, make 
expenses, record daily activities, record annual 
expenditure, and do calculations to know your 
profit or loss. In women empowerment, the women 
in the community have also been trained to have 
skills such as soap making, baking, and many 
others. These trainings have been made possible 
by Cocoa Life implementing partners to help 
the women earn extra income to support their 
husbands and families.”

 Adu Essel Sampson 
  Cocoa Life Registered Farmer  

Ghana 

gRowing MoRe 
pRofitable 
cocoa 
buSineSSeS
cont.

“ Since the establishment of the Bia West Union in 
2015, we partnered with Cocoa Life to support 
registered farmers through premium payments, 
trainings, and community development initiatives 
such as Community Action Plans and Village Savings 
Loan Associations (VSLAs). Our capacities have 
also been enhanced through education on good 
agronomic practices which has resulted in higher 
production levels on our farms. This has helped 
improve our farmers’ capacity to become more 
financially independent and cope in the face of 
global challenges, including the COVID 19 pandemic. 
Our farmers were able to support themselves 
through savings they received from the financial 
trainings and VSLAs. The additional livelihood 
trainings received enabled us to produce nose masks 
and start local soap production in our communities, 
providing washing basins, liquid soap and hand 
sanitizers. Based on knowledge and skills learned 
through Cocoa Life, the Union recently established 
the Bia soap processing factory. The returns of this 
investment will be shared among the union members 
to help strengthen their financial resilience. We are 
grateful for the support Cocoa Life have been giving 
us and continue to offer us.”

 Adama Issah 
  President of Bia West  

Cooperative Union 
Ghana

Helping to Create Additional Income Generating 
Opportunities with the Bia West Farmer Union  
in Ghana 

Our longstanding partner in Ghana, the Bia West Farmer 
Cooperative Union, decided to use the premium payments 
received from Mondelēz International via our suppliers 
to finance the construction of a cocoa soap factory. This 
innovative idea was to transform cocoa pod husk, which  
is removed during the cocoa farming process, into the raw 
material potash to produce a natural cocoa-based soap  
–creating additional income for community members, 
especially women and youth. The factory is owned by the 
cooperative, so co-op members get dividends from the 
profits as payment. Moreover, it provides employment and 
income for the community’s youth, who often do not have 
land of their own to establish a cocoa farm and are usually 
reliant on eventually inheriting the family cocoa farm. 
Buying the cocoa husk-potash from small local enterprises, 
which are often female-owned, helps empower women 
in the communities by providing an additional income 
opportunity. As well as the economic benefit, there is an 
environmental benefit, too. By collecting the cocoa waste 
from the farms, the likelihood of rot occurring is reduced, 
which helps to improve the  
cocoa farm. 

Tailoring Farming Interventions in India

In India, we have distributed millions of saplings across the 
country over the last three years, and provide Cocoa Life 
farmers with planting materials, guidance and training. We 
are now innovating to improve digital access to farming 
expertise and collaborating to improve farm productivity. 
For instance, we have worked with partners to enable 
farmers with access to a Cocoa Digi-App, giving them easy 
up-to-date access to knowledge on good agricultural 
and environmental practices. Through the app, farmers 
can also access information on cocoa pest and diseases 
controls based on weather patterns, scientific knowledge 
and biodiversity protection. Another exampleis our 38-year 
partnership with the Kerala Agriculture University, which 
enables the application of world-class research to local 
cocoa farming productivity.

Helping to Increase the Productivity of Farms  
in Brazil 

In Bahia, Brazil, we have supported the turnaround of local 
cocoa production – helping farmers transform from very 
low productivity into high-end productive farms.

A scientifically-proven set of agronomic techniques were 
developed and implemented to enable the transformation. 
By engaging local farmers to support the implementation  
of these techniques on-farm, real-life conditions were 
created, giving even more credibility to the results  
achieved. Eventually farmers taking part in the project 
became advocates of the agricultural practices tested.  
Best practices were shared with local implementing 
partners and farmers in the surrounding areas, enabling  
the wider adoption of good farming practices. Moreover, 
farm demonstration units were created to show more 
farmers the benefits of best practice farming techniques.

Overview Social Sustainability & Human RightsClimate & Environmental Sustainable Packaging Sustainable Ingredients

Strategy & Performance Snacking more mindfullymore SuStainable Snacking governancecolleague & community Well-being



3 5M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

helping to 
lift cocoa 
coMMunitieS

Our Progress

1,800 Communities with Child Labor Monitoring  
& Remediation Systems (CLMRS) or equivalent 
in West Africa.1,2

Our aim is to lift cocoa communities by 
helping to enhance child protection systems 
and helping to improve access to quality 
education in Cocoa Life communities. 

Helping Communities to Shape Their Own Future

We facilitate investments for communities to help shape their 
future and help ensure that community decisions reflect the 
diverse and dynamic needs of the people involved. To this end, 
we encourage and help communities to create and implement 
Community Action Plans (CAPs). CAPs are key enablers for 
cocoa farming communities to help take ownership of their own 
development, advocate for what they need, secure funding to 
achieve their own priorities, and drive change for the better. The 
development of these plans is facilitated by expert NGO partners. 

Community Action Plans (CAPs) are based on needs assessments 
identifying community needs and development actions. Through 
CAPs, we’re helping to increase farming households’ net income, 
to empower women, improve access to quality education, and  
to integrate awareness in Cocoa Life communities. 

Another flagship activity to help empower cocoa communities 
are Village Savings and Loan Associations (VSLAs). As part of a 
VSLA, people can save money together and take small loans from 
those savings. In addition to strengthening community members’ 
savings culture, financial literacy and management skills, VSLAs 
are a key driver to help empower women economically; many VSLA 
participants are women who choose to invest in their own farms 
and additional businesses, as well as their children’s education. 

Launching our New Strategy to Help Protect Children

In 2022, we released our new Strategy to Help Protect Children. 
It sets out our approach to help enhance child protection 
systems and improve access to quality education in Cocoa 
Life communities. This, in turn, will help bring us closer to 
accomplishing our 2030 goals and ultimate vision to collaborate 
with others to help work toward a cocoa sector that is free  
of child labor. 

Our strategy takes a systems approach, working holistically with 
communities to help tackle the interconnected challenges causing 
child labor. To accomplish this, we focus on three primary areas 
of response, which mirror UNICEF’s international child protection 
system strengthening standards prevention efforts, monitoring 
and remediation, and helping enable systemic solutions. 

Prevention Efforts: 
With a focus on helping to prevent child labor and support 
children at risk of child labor. 

Our approach seeks to address the underlying causes  
of child labor, with a particular focus on empowering 
communities, such as:

• Encouraging Community Action Plans based on  
needs assessments identifying community needs  
and development actions.

• Helping to improve farmer net income from cocoa  
farming and other sources.

• Helping to improve access to quality education.

• Helping to empower women.

Monitoring and Remediation: 
With a focus on monitoring to help identify and remediate  
cases of child labor through the implementation of  
community-based CLMRS. This includes: 

• Awareness raising activities about issues related  
to child protection.

• Community Child Protection Committees (CCPCs) form  
an integral part of our CLMRS, building the capacity  
of communities to help identify, support, and protect  
vulnerable children.

• CLMRS cover farming families in Cocoa Life communities  
and focus on the support needed through (i) identification  
of children in or at risk of child labor, (ii) remediation for 
children identified as vulnerable and families identified  
as at risk of child labor, and (iii) follow-up and monitoring  
of children who have received support. 

• By 2025, we aim to have all Cocoa Life communities  
in West Africa covered by CLMRS.

Helping Enable Systemic Solutions: 
With a focus on collaboration with others to strengthen  
the systems that help combat the underlying root causes  
of child labor. 

Working to enable systemic solutions involves strategic 
partnerships with local and national governments. It also consists 
of working in collaboration with other industry partners to 
amplify funding and contributions to structural change, such  
as improving access to quality education. This includes:

• Supporting government policy and action.

• Advocacy for international, national, and local initiatives  
to help improve child protection.

• Engaging all levels of government through partnership,  
capacity building, and system support.

To learn more, see our report 
'Cocoa Life Strategy To Help Protect Children'.

OUR 2025 GOAL

100% communities in West Africa 
covered with CLMRS by 2025.

100%

74% In 2022, Child Labor Monitoring & 
Remediation Systems (CLMRS) covered 74% 
of Cocoa Life communities in West Africa1,2 
up 21% vs. 2021 (61%).

1 Reported information for the period from January 1, 2022 to December 31, 2022 includes a community as covered by CLMRS if the work of identifying children, if any, in or at risk of child labor has been completed by the end of the year, even if any appropriate remediation and post-remediation follow-up occurs in the following year. CLMRS data is provided by third parties. Includes Ghana, Cote d'Ivoire and Nigeria. 
2 West Africa includes Ghana, Cote D'Ivoire and Nigeria.

Overview Social Sustainability & Human RightsClimate & Environmental Sustainable Packaging Sustainable Ingredients

Strategy & Performance Snacking more mindfullymore SuStainable Snacking governancecolleague & community Well-being

https://www.unicef.org/media/110876/file/Child%20Protection%20Systems%20Strengthening%20.pdf
https://www.unicef.org/media/110876/file/Child%20Protection%20Systems%20Strengthening%20.pdf
https://www.cocoalife.org/~/media/CocoaLife/en/download/article/2022/cocoa-life-strategy-to-help-protect-children.pdf


3 6M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

Collaborating to Help Protect Children  
in Cocoa Communities

Underpinning our strategy is the reality that helping to combat 
child labor is a shared goal and requires a collaborative process 
of partnership with governments, suppliers, communities, NGO 
partners, peer companies, and multi-sector partners. That’s why 
we engage in multi-stakeholder engagement to help improve 
access to education. 

For example, we are a part of the Child Learning and Education 
Facility (CLEF), a collaboration between the Jacobs Foundation, 
the UBS Optimus Foundation, the Ivorian government, and 
the broader cocoa sector. The collaboration aims to reach 
approximately 5 million children in cocoa-growing areas and 
provide them with improved access to quality primary education. 
Lack of access to quality education is an underlying cause of 
child labor, and with a target investment of CHF110 million, 
this initiative, led by the Ivorian government, has the potential 
to provide a blueprint for public private partnership that can 
replicated by other countries in the future as a systemic solution.

We are also joining forces with peers, suppliers, and local  
child protection authorities to implement area-based landscape 
approaches, under the umbrella of the International Cocoa 
Initiative (ICI).

To learn more, see our video ‘Growing opportunities through 
education’. 

Helping to Lift the Agbakonanblekro Community 
in Côte d'Ivoire

The Agbakonanblekro community in Côte d’Ivoire faces 
a number of key challenges, including poverty, a lack of 
infrastructure, poor access to health services, a lack of 
capacity and facilities in schools, and limited potable water 
access. To help tackle these challenges, with support of 
Cocoa Life’s implementing partner CARE, the community 
developed a CAP, established a Community Development 
Committee, provided training to community members,  
and established VSLAs. 

The community’s discussions and action plans are focused 
on four goals: diversifying the sources of income of 
community members; constructing a local health center; 
constructing three classrooms with a director's office and 
teachers' accommodation, and installing a village hydraulic 
pump. The development process is also enabled through 
strong alignment and engagement from the traditional chief. 

Helping to Empower Women and Children in India

In 2022, the Cocoa Life team in India undertook an initiative 
to help empower women and children in nearby areas  
of cocoa-growing regions. Events were conducted in  
rural communities, focusing on education, health, hygiene, 
and women empowerment, covering topics ranging from 
financial literacy to safe working environments. 

In addition, the school infrastructure development project 
in the states of Andhra and Kerala benefited with provisions 
such as classrooms, dining halls, bathroom, toilets,  
and drinking water facilities across these schools.

helping to 
lift cocoa 
coMMunitieS 
cont.

“ At Cocoa Life in Côte d’Ivoire,  
we continue to collaborate with implementing 
partners and government bodies to help 
make cocoa farming more profitable, 
empower communities and protecting forests. 
Community Action Plans are key to help lift 
cocoa communities so they can advocate 
for their development needs and shape their 
own future. We see that they are prioritizing 
investments in additional businesses, school 
infrastructure, water, and health projects." 

 Ahmadou Cisse 
  Head of Cocoa Life Cote d’Ivoire 

Mondelēz International 

“ Since 2013, the CARE and Mondelez partnership 
implementing the Cocoa Life project enabled us 
to apply CARE's technical expertise in the field of 
community development. This largely consisted 
of CARE doing community diagnostics to identify 
community needs, coaching communities to develop 
community action plans and forming committees, 
making sure they were inclusive.

  For example, in the village of Agbakonanblekro, 
the Community Development Committee and 
village members, headed by the chieftaincy, have 
been involved in all community discussions, fully 
agreed to the plan and put it into action through the 
construction of a school, the mobilization of financial 
resources and the organization of meetings with the 
administrative authorities. The development  
of Agbakonanblekro is a successful example  
of the community development approach  
in the Cocoa Life program.”

 Mamadou Traore 
 Value Chains and Private Sector  
 Program Coordinator  
 CARE International

Overview Social Sustainability & Human RightsClimate & Environmental Sustainable Packaging Sustainable Ingredients

Strategy & Performance Snacking more mindfullymore SuStainable Snacking governancecolleague & community Well-being

https://jacobsfoundation.org/activity/clef-elan/
https://jacobsfoundation.org/activity/clef-elan/
https://youtu.be/ABLT2nTaJuI
https://youtu.be/ABLT2nTaJuI


3 7M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

helpIng  
to pRotect 
and ReStoRe 
foReStS
We are focusing our efforts on helping 
to protect and restore forests, with an 
ambition to seek no deforestation on 
Cocoa Life farms. 

Our Progress

246,000 Cocoa Life registered farms 
mapped and monitored

415,000 Community members and farmers 
trained on Good Environmental 
Practices.

6,720,000 Economic shade trees distributed1

By the end of 2022, we distributed over 6.7 million non-cocoa (or 
shade) trees. The distribution of non-cocoa trees is an important 
part of more sustainable cocoa farming: they help safeguard 
cocoa against too much sun and heat, help promote biodiversity, 
and can help provide additional income for farmers.

As Cocoa Life continues to scale up, farm mapping continues 
to be crucial. Unless we understand where, and under which 
conditions, cocoa is produced, we cannot identify areas to help 
stop deforestation. Farm mapping is vital to help identify problem 
areas and guide us where actions are most needed. As new farmers 
and cooperatives join the Cocoa Life program each year, mapping 
progresses, often requiring collaboration with agents across 
individual farms in hard-to-reach areas.

We have mapped more than 246,000 farms in an effort to gain a 
deeper understanding of the needs of farming communities and 
the boundaries of farms.

Understanding Our Impact On Forests 

We work with our partner Satelligence, a remote sensing 
company, to understand Cocoa Life’s impact on natural forests  
by applying satellite imagery to detect forest cover changes  
that can indicate likely deforestation events. 

Satellites continuously circle the earth collecting data, and  
every year there is more information available on global  
land use. More information means better models. 

This year, Satelligence introduced a new machine-learning  
method to measure deforestation rates and used an updated 
forest baseline providing a more comprehensive overview  
of the remaining extent of mature natural forest globally. 

This new model was applied to both Cocoa Life’s 2021 and 2022 
progress data, aiming to reiterate the results published in the 
2021 Snacking Made Right Report in May 2022 using the updated 
forest baseline. This allows us to compare how the scale-up of the 
Cocoa Life program influences our deforestation footprint. 

Helping to Protect Landscapes Where Cocoa Grows

We believe conserving the land and forests is a promise to future 
generations. Forests help stabilize the climate: they regulate 
ecosystems, protect biodiversity, drive more sustainable growth 
— and play an integral part in the carbon cycle. Climate change 
remains one of the biggest challenges facing our planet, its  
people – and businesses — and the cocoa sector has a key  
role in helping to tackle this issue. Developing a more sustainable, 
scaled and thriving cocoa supply chain will help us to reduce 
our total GHG footprint and in turn, achieve  
our long-term goal to realize net zero CO₂e emissions.

Our work in the area of forest protection and restoration is 
targeted to needs of farming communities and driven by the 
local external environment. The cocoa-producing regions in West 
Africa and Indonesia experience wide-spread deforestation, 
with cocoa farming being a key driver. In India, cocoa farming is 
seen as an additional source of income for farmers who practice 
intercropping with other crops such as coconut or areca nut.  
In Brazil, cocoa farming helps to restore degraded pastureland.

We focus on supporting farming communities with the right on 
and off-farm tree planting activities and applying farm mapping 
technologies and agroforestry techniques. 

To do that, we look at deforestation signals starting in 2018 until 
the latest available data (2022), in alignment with our Cocoa & 
Forest Initiative ambitions. 

By using an updated forest baseline, the results show a smaller 
share of forest disturbances in Ghana on Cocoa Life participating 
farms in 2022 compared to those farms participating in 2021. 
However, in Côte d’Ivoire, we detected a slightly higher rate of 
likely deforestation events on Cocoa Life participating farms in 
2022 compared to the farms participating in 2021.2 As a result, we 
see near to no deforestation on or closely around Cocoa Life farms 
in West Africa since 2018 (approximately 0.7% in Ghana & 1.3% in 
Cote d'Ivoire).

These rates show that only a small number of Cocoa Life 
participating farms have any likely deforestation events. However, 
where there are occurrences, we will prioritize our engagements 
with supply chain partners to help identify the potential high-risk 
areas, help prevent future deforestation, and help rehabilitate 
impacted areas as appropriate, as currently mentioned on page 15.

1 Reported information covers Brazil, Côte d'Ivoire , Dominican Republic, Ghana, Indonesia, India, and Nigeria.
2 Updates have been made to the metric's reporting methodology for the period from January 1, 2022 to December 31, 2022. Reported performance for 2021 covering Côte d'Ivoire and Ghana has been revised for year-over-year comparison.

“ Our collaboration on deforestation 
assessment based on Cocoa Life farm 
mapping data and Mondelēz International 
carbon footprint assessment exemplifies 
our joint commitment to sustainability. 
By working together, we are able to 
calculate emission factors specific to land 
use change, to help drive positive change 
for more sustainable cocoa production,  
and ultimately for our planet.”

 Niels Wielaard 
  CEO & Founder 

Satelligence 

Overview Social Sustainability & Human RightsClimate & Environmental Sustainable Packaging Sustainable Ingredients

Strategy & Performance Snacking more mindfullymore SuStainable Snacking governancecolleague & community Well-being



3 8M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

helpIng  
to pRotect  
and ReStoRe 
foReStS
cont. 

Innovative Financial Incentives To Restore Forests

We raise awareness with communities to help them understand 
the importance of forest protection and provide incentives to 
increase the likelihood that our programs will be adopted by 
them. For example, our innovative Payment for Ecosystem Services 
(PES) program, the first to be introduced in the cocoa sector, 
pays farmers a combination of financial and in-kind incentives 
to plant non-cocoa trees on their farms. Covering a variety of 
arrangements for environmental services, from forest conservation 
to carbon sequestration, PES schemes reward farmers financially 
for providing these services. The PES scheme helps to balance 
environmental priorities with economic realities, acknowledging 
that forest-friendly practices and innovations must be tailored 
to local needs and incentivize farmers to adopt the practices. 
Working with our partners, we have introduced the PES scheme 
to cocoa farmers in Côte d’Ivoire, Ghana and Indonesia.

Collaborating to Preserve and Restore Landscapes  
in Brazil

At Cocoa Life Brazil, we are partnering with olam food 
ingredients (ofi), Partnerships for Forests (P4F) and The 
Nature Conservancy (TNC) Brazil to help restore landscapes 
and improve livelihoods through cocoa-based agroforestry 
systems in the Brazilian Amazon. Also, we are developing 
the project Sustainable Agroforestry Production of Cocoa 
in the Amazon and Atlantic Forest, a partnership with the 
Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit 
(GIZ) GmbH, funded through the develoPPP programme 
on behalf of the German Federal Ministry for Economic 
Cooperation and Development (BMZ).

Our innovative hub-based partnership includes using 
private capital for technical assistance to help increase 
smallholders’ cocoa production and unlocking rural credit 
for cocoa agroforestry. Farmers from municipalities in 
Pará State have adopted cocoa agroforestry on degraded 
areas and help restore one of the most critical tropical 
ecosystems to productivity.

The Agroforestry Hub provides training to farmers on how 
to restore degraded pasturelands into cocoa agroforestry 
systems, and how to align aspects of land preparation and 
management, seedling production, forest restoration and 
tree planting. The Restoration Hub works with farmers to 
align with the Brazilian Forest Code, by providing support 
to implement adequacy measures. The Rural Credit Hub 
aims to simplify rural credit application frameworks in 
partnership with banks, to fast-track credit approval for 
cocoa agroforestry cultivation and restoration. It also 
provides support in agreements with the bank and assists 
farmers with credit applications.

Building on learnings and insights from this pilot, we are 
working with partners to scale the approach to new areas.

Collaborating with the Cocoa & Forests Initiative (CFI)

We are taking an integrated, collaborative approach to 
conservation and forest restoration by engaging in sector-wide 
initiatives to help create a positive impact on ecosystems.  
That’s why we are a founding member of the CFI, a public-private 
partnership that aims to end deforestation and restore forest 
areas. The CFI is a stakeholder collaboration with the potential  
to help drive this transformational impact. We continue to  
engage with our CFI partners on landscape-wide initiatives  
to help tackle deforestation. 

To learn more, see our video 'A Future for Forests'. 

“ In 2019, we supported Cocoa Life on an innovative 
three-year pilot on Payments for Ecosystem 
Services (PES) in the San Pedro region in the 
Ivory Coast that came to an end in December 
2022. In this pioneering project, we targeted 
600 cocoa farmers in two cooperatives in the 
Gabiadji sub-prefecture. We deployed a range 
of PES approaches to incentivize farmers with 
payments to do agroforestry, reforestation, and 
conservation activities. The project showed very 
promising results particularly on agroforestry 
that already allowed us to massively scale up  
PES across our agroforestry operations.”

 Nicolas Mounard 
  VP Sustainability & Farming 

Barry Callebaut 

“  We usually know about the money and economic 
potential of trees, therefore women hold the 
power to decide the species to be planted 
in our farm. I am happy to be involved in the 
program. I learned that fruit trees are not only 
good for harvest, but also for our farm and the 
environment too. It motivated me to join and 
take care of the trees. In this program, I chose 
the species that we want to plant. I helped  
my husband to plant all the trees and clean  
the weeds. I really hope it will grow well  
and produce abundant fruits in the future.”

 Hijerah 
  Cocoa Life community member from Indonesia 

Women driving change via PES in Indonesia 

Following our PES pilots in Côte d’Ivoire and Ghana, 
we expanded the initiative with our partners at Cocoa 
Life Indonesia. Women in cocoa communities are key 
participants in PES – these services help them to engage 
in environmental protection as well as to diversify their 
family’s income. Through a partnership with our local 
implementing partner PUR Projet, our suppliers, and 
registered farmers in Sulawesi, Indonesia, we are working 
to develop shaded agriculture systems – a sustainable 
practice, which helps create more shade on the farms  
for better productivity and additional incomes through 
multi-purpose trees. 

Women also participate in helping the trees to grow  
by clearing weeds and watering the seedlings regularly. 
After joining the program and attending training sessions, 
women recognize the importance of planting and looking 
after trees, including the benefits to soil quality  
and the surrounding environment. This newfound 
awareness helps to increase their motivation to take  
care of all the trees on their farm. 

To learn more, see our video ‘When Women Rise,  
Cocoa Thrives’.

Overview Social Sustainability & Human RightsClimate & Environmental Sustainable Packaging Sustainable Ingredients

Strategy & Performance Snacking more mindfullymore SuStainable Snacking governancecolleague & community Well-being

https://youtu.be/DOwFTUus9ac
https://youtu.be/B6532Xj7T1I
https://youtu.be/B6532Xj7T1I


3 9M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

Moving cocoa 
fuRtheR, 
faSteR 

We are drawing on key lessons learned, in order to achieve 
our bigger Cocoa Life ambitions, and in so doing help make 
transformational impact in cocoa. 

Towards Transformational Impact

Smart innovation and collaboration will be key to help make 
transformational impact for the people and landscapes in cocoa-
producing countries. We continue to measure and externally 
verify our impact on farmers and communities to learn and 
enhance our program. This includes working with independent 
third-party verification and learning partners FloCert and IPSOS. 
By evaluating our progress and impact, we are able to better 
understand the issues in cocoa-producing countries, continually 
assess our work as well as share insights with sector partners  
to help drive more sustainable change. 

Sector Collaboration 

Close wide-ranging partnerships with communities, farmer 
organizations, NGOs, suppliers, governments, and other key 
stakeholders remain central to Cocoa Life’s approach. By  
engaging with key partners within the cocoa sector and  
beyond, we endeavor to make a more positive impact, and  
help tackle systemic challenges. 

We work with over 50 partners. These include the following 
implementing partners: international NGOs such as Care, 
Solidaridad, Save The Children, and Wahana Visi Indonesia,  
as well as local NGOs such as Child Rights International; cocoa 
suppliers such as Barry Callebaut, Cargill, ECOM, OFI, and Touton; 
and experts including Embode, Impactum, PUR Projet, South Pole, 
Satelligence, Stag, Tree Global and UNDP. Collaborations with 
universities also help drive important cocoa research and apply  
in the program. We worked with Wageningen University  
& Research to help advance the living income debate,  
while Kerala Agricultural University is a key research partner  
to help implement the Cocoa Life program in India.

To learn more, see our videos ‘Going Further, Together’  
and ‘Transforming the World of Cocoa’.

Our strategic partners include external advisors, the Fairtrade 
Foundation, the Jacobs Foundation, sector platforms such as the 
International Cocoa Initiative (ICI) and the World Cocoa Foundation 
(WCF), and governments in cocoa-producing countries. 

Smart Innovation

Smart innovation involves a targeted, integrated approach suited 
to different farmers, communities, and landscapes. There is no one 
cocoa farmer and therefore no quick one-size-fits-all solution. 
So we will continue to focus on people-first innovation — putting 
the farmer, their family and their community at the heart of 
our efforts. In so doing, we aim to be able to help support their 
changing needs and deliver support that helps make a difference. 

Strategic Alignment

Above all, and as we set out to do at the start of our Cocoa Life 
journey 10 years ago, Cocoa Life continues to sit at the heart of 
our sustainability strategy and Vision 2030 – helping to empower 
people to snack right and create a future where together people 
and planet thrive, helping protect landscapes where cocoa grows.

Pilot to Improve Access to Tricycles  
for Communities in Ghana

In Ghana, we are pioneering a project to donate tricycles  
to communities where people have to travel long distances 
to reach local infrastructure. Children can use the tricycles 
to get to and from school, making the journey quicker and 
easier and thereby encouraging attendance. The tricycles 
can also be used to help farmers and traders distribute 
goods or sell them at the local market.

Our World-Travel-Retail Business has purchased 10 tricycles 
for Cocoa Life communities. The tricycles are designed with 
a bucket at the back for carrying books, goods and other 
materials – useful for local schoolchildren, farmers and 
traders alike. A carrier will also be mounted over the bucket 
of the tricycle to provide sunshade for passengers. Planks 
can also be introduced as passenger seats in the bucket.

We are encouraging awareness and participation in 
fundraising for the project by partnering with retailers  
and shoppers. A dedicated global in-store campaign at 
airports encourages consumers to support the cocoa 
communities. Exclusively designed tote bags with the 
tagline “The Bag That Gives Back” are available to purchase 
and all proceeds from these bags go to funding the project.

Building on the foundations and partnerships 
of the past decade of Cocoa Life and looking 
ahead, we aim to go further and faster to 
make cocoa more sustainable for people  
and the landscapes where cocoa grows.

Overview Social Sustainability & Human RightsClimate & Environmental Sustainable Packaging Sustainable Ingredients

Strategy & Performance Snacking more mindfullymore SuStainable Snacking governancecolleague & community Well-being

https://youtu.be/JdN-liuQN3M
https://youtu.be/UPt5MMbTkak


4 0M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

wheat Our goal for our European business is to have 100% of the 
wheat volume needed for our biscuit production grown under 
the strengthened Harmony Regenerative charter by 20301 
while we continue to learn from our North American wheat 
sustainability programs. 

Across Europe and North America, we focus on sourcing  
the wheat we need for our biscuits in more sustainable ways.  
We do this through sourcing programs that allow us to work 
with wheat farmers to help implement advanced agronomy 
practices that help conserve water, care for the soil, protect  
and promote biodiversity, and reduce GHG emissions. We 
also engage with governments and NGOs as part of our 
commitment to progress, transparency, and continuous 
improvement. 

As one of the world's leading biscuit 
manufacturers, we remain focused 
on sourcing wheat that is grown  
more sustainably. 

1 Regenerative Agriculture is a holistic approach to farming which aims to produce high-quality crops while also restoring the natural rhythm of our surrounding ecosystem.

WHEAT PROGRESS

2019 2020 2021 2022

Carbon Emissions  
from Wheat  
(metric tonnes CO₂e)

- - 906,407 967,000

Overview Social Sustainability & Human RightsClimate & Environmental Sustainable Packaging Sustainable Ingredients

Strategy & Performance Snacking more mindfullymore SuStainable Snacking governancecolleague & community Well-being



41M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

haRMony 
wheat

Championing More Sustainable Wheat in Europe  
Since 2008

We created the Harmony program 15 years ago with the ambition 
to change the way wheat is grown in Europe, help limit our impact 
on the environment, and deliver quality wheat for our biscuits. 

Created along the wheat supply chain with farmers, cooperatives, 
millers as well as agronomists, environment specialists, and NGOs, 
the Harmony program seeks the commitment of local farmers to 
follow more sustainable practices in wheat farming. Our Harmony 
charter champions farming practices that aim at improving soil 
health, reducing carbon emissions, protecting biodiversity, and 
preserving water. 

We are expanding our impact with Harmony, 
our signature European wheat sustainable 
sourcing program. Our goal for 2030 is to 
grow 100% of the wheat volume needed 
for our Europe business biscuits production 
under our strengthened Harmony 
Regenerative charter.1

1 Regenerative Agriculture is a holistic approach to farming which aims to produce high-quality crops while also restoring the natural rhythm of our surrounding ecosystem.

HARMONY WHEAT PROGRESS

2019 2020 2021 2022

Harmony Wheat  
surface (Ha) – est.

35,920 49,800 55,830 57,000 

Melliferous area  
surface (Ha) – est.

1,070 1,450 1,810 1,800

countRIeS wIth haRMony faRMeRS
We grow Harmony Wheat as close as possible to our biscuit factories in Europe, to keep 
ingredient miles to a minimum. The program includes over 1,300 farmers in seven countries.

OUR GOAL PROGRESS

At the end of 2022, approximately 98%  
of the volume of wheat needed to produce 
our biscuits across our Europe business  
was grown under the Harmony charter.

98%

2019 2020 2021 2022

65% 76% 91% 98%

Wheat volume needed for Europe business biscuits  
production grown under Harmony charter:

Created as the first program of its kind in 2008 with just a handful 
of farmers, Harmony now collaborates with over 1,300 farmers 
across seven European countries (Belgium, the Czech Republic, 
France, Hungary, Italy, Poland, and Spain), uniquely combining 
scale with a signature local partnership approach. Harmony has 
developed a strong and unique data reporting system on farming 
practices that enhances traceability from wheat storage to 
factory. Our aim is to calculate and monitor a set of economic  
and agro-environmental performance indicators, such as nitrogen 
use efficiency, GHG emissions, or pesticides use. Key results are 
shared with our wheat chain to fuel a continuous improvement 
approach and our charter is reworked to further reduce our 
environmental footprint. External audits are conducted by 
independent and certified organizations (SGS, Bureau Veritas) 
to confirm compliance with the Harmony charter. 100% of mills, 
100% of storage bodies, and 10% of partner farmers are audited 
every year – over 300 audits were performed in 2022.

Overview Social Sustainability & Human RightsClimate & Environmental Sustainable Packaging Sustainable Ingredients

Strategy & Performance Snacking more mindfullymore SuStainable Snacking governancecolleague & community Well-being



4 2M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

“ Harmony Ambition 2030 is a key part of  
our sustainability strategy. We are working 
with our local farmers and partners across 
Europe to help create an environment where 
the wheat for our well-loved biscuits is grown  
in thriving and biodiverse environments.  
All this is part of our long-term business 
growth ambition and mission to offer 
consumers the right snack, for the right 
moment, made the right way.”

 Peter Seymour 
  Senior Vice President Marketing & Strategy, Europe  

Mondelēz International

Observed in Harmony fallows  
at harvest 2022

17 Million beeS
30 butteRfly SpecieS

haRMony 
wheat
cont.

Expanding Our Impact in 2022

Approximately 98% of the wheat volume needed for our Europe 
business biscuits production was grown under the Harmony 
charter by the end of 2022. We had the aim to reach 100% by 
the end of 2022 but missed by less than two percentage points 
because of unfavorable climatic conditions in the last two years, 
including extreme wet conditions during the harvest in 2021  
and drought in 2022. To hedge potential climatic disruptions  
and evolving needs in our factories, we have started to book 
additional wheat volumes in the 2022-2023 wheat cycle to  
help to secure 100% wheat needs coverage in the future. 

As protecting local biodiversity, pollinators in particular, is one 
of the critical challenges in wheat farming, we have multiplied 
by four the surface of melliferous fallows over the last decade, 
reaching over 1,800 hectares throughout Europe in 2022.  
We estimated over 17 million bees and 30 butterfly species  
in our Harmony melliferous fallows at harvest 2022. 

We promote the importance of our Harmony program for  
the environment to consumers, through TV, digital, in-store,  
and PR campaigns.

To support Harmony Ambition 2030, the program will be 
guided by a newly-created Harmony Council. The Council will 
be an independent panel of scientific experts from external 
organizations such as Arvalis (a French technical institute run 
by farmers), INRAE (a world leading research organization in 
agriculture, food, and environment), and Noé (a biodiversity NGO), 
who will provide strategic recommendations designed to support 
our commitment to Regenerative Agriculture.

Accelerating Our Progress with Harmony Ambition 2030 

Harmony Ambition 2030 will accelerate the program’s  
progress through an across-the-board embrace of Regenerative 
Agriculture, a holistic approach to farming which aims to  
produce high-quality crops while also restoring the natural 
rhythm of our surrounding ecosystem. 

Harmony Ambition 2030 will focus on making a lasting impact 
across three key areas: environment, farmers, and consumers. 

1. Environment: 

Harmony Ambition 2030 aims to help mitigate climate change 
and reverse biodiversity losses by implementing a strengthened 
charter of regenerative farming practices. These practices will 
help reduce GHG emissions from Harmony wheat fields. For 
example, we will ask our participating farmers to diversify crop 
rotation by including legumes to help optimize fertilizer use, the 
main source of GHG emissions in wheat farming. We will also take 
an ambitious approach to biodiversity protection in European 
wheat farming by widening action from Harmony plot to whole 
farms, and from pollinators to overall wildlife. Harmony farmers 
will aim to eliminate the most damaging pesticides, including 
glyphosate and neonicotinoids.

2. Farmers: 

To support Harmony farmers in their transition to Regenerative 
Agriculture, we will create the Harmony Academy, which will 
provide farmers with a holistic package of digital and on the 
ground training. In addition, we will aim to equip farmers with 
digital tools to help them record farming practices, calculate 
environmental impact KPIs, and improve the efficiency of 
reporting. These tools will help empower farmers to measure  
their own environmental impact, informing and supporting  
future sustainable decision-making on farms.

3. Consumers: 

A new program, run by Mondelēz International’s own research 
team, will look to research more sustainable wheat and its 
impact on quality.

Overview Social Sustainability & Human RightsClimate & Environmental Sustainable Packaging Sustainable Ingredients

Strategy & Performance Snacking more mindfullymore SuStainable Snacking governancecolleague & community Well-being



4 3M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

haRMony 
wheat
cont.

Pioneering More Sustainable Wheat with Our Brands  
in 2023 

To continue our focus on enhancing biodiversity, we will involve 
our consumers in a pioneering initiative to help protect wild 
bees through our Local Heritage Brands. It all starts from a 
simple insight: wild bees are important (75% of global food 
crops producing fruits or seeds for human use as food depend, 
at least in part, on pollinators),1 but they are threatened (40% of 
pollinators species, especially bees and butterflies, are threatened 
with extinction),1 mainly due to a lack of food sources and 
destruction of their habitat. The Harmony program is already 
addressing the lack of food sources with its actions in favor of 
biodiversity. Indeed, the charter requires that each participating 
farmer sets up at least one action in favor of biodiversity,  
with a specific focus on pollinators, for example dedicating  
a minimum of 3% of Harmony wheat field to honey fallow  
flowers or implementing hedges or melliferous intercrops  
on Harmony fields right after harvest. 

As part of the initiative, we are creating bee hotels installed in 
Harmony melliferous fallows, starting from Spring 2023. These 
bee hotels have been designed specifically for wild bees, with the 
support of the NGO Noé, and have been handcrafted in France 
using natural materials. With approximately 6,000 holes made 
of different materials, the bee hotels will allow many potential 
insects to nest and reproduce. To date, we have installed 32 bee 
hotels in Europe, including 10 in Spain, 9 in France, 8 in Czech 
Republic, and 5 in Italy, which could in theory allow over half a 
million new bees to live after the first year. To engage consumers 
in the protection of biodiversity and the safeguarding of wild bees 
specifically, four biscuit brands – LU in France, Fontaneda in Spain, 
Opavia in Czech Republic, and Oro in Italy – have launched this 
initiative in Spring 2023.

Investing to Further Develop Knowledge on 
Climate Change Mitigation in Wheat Farming

In line with our continuous improvement mindset, we are aiming 
at identifying new levers for our farmers to support Harmony 
Ambition 2030, especially to help decrease GHG emissions from 
wheat production. In 2022, we kicked-off an on-field initiative, 
implemented in a selection of Harmony cooperatives in various 
regions of France, with the aim to modernize our biscuit wheat 
portfolio. We are screening the biscuit wheat varieties based on 
their optimal environmental, technological and farmer profitability 
performance in multiple sites. Learnings out of this pilot project 
will be shared with our wheat chain via the Harmony Academy 
before being deployed more widely on the field.

1 Source: Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, Why bees matter, May 2018.

“ We kickstarted Harmony Ambition 2030 
with a test and learn model in France in 2022, 
with participating farmers sowing Harmony 
wheat under our new Regenerative Charter 
for harvest in 2023. This strengthened charter 
of farming practices was built hand-in-hand 
with our wheat chain through a series of 
workshops, including 40 stakeholders and 
participants. We are excited to take the 
learnings from this pilot and apply them  
to a wider European roll-out over the next  
few years, starting with Belgium in 2023, 
Central Europe in 2024, followed by Spain 
and Italy in 2025.” 

   Marie Ellul-Karamanian 
Harmony Program Lead  
Mondelēz International

HARMONY AMBITION 2030 

HARMONY’S fOOTPRINT IN 2022 

98%
Of THE WHEAT vOlUME  
NEEdEd for our Europe  
biscuits production*  
was grown under the  
Harmony charter

80%

1,800

57,000 397,000
HECTARES  
of Harmony wheat 
GROWN 

TONS  
of Harmony wheat 
HARvESTEd

HECTARES of  
Harmony fallows 
dEdICATEd  
TO BIOdIvERSITY

observed in Harmony fallows

MIllION  
BEES and

BUTTERflY  
SPECIES30

17

Belgium

 France

Czech 
Republic

Hungary

Italy

Spain

Poland

7  
EUROPEAN 
COUNTRIES

1,360  
PARTNER  
fARMERS 

in

*  European Business Unit; excluding 
portfolio manufactured in newly  
acquired plants

carry the Harmony label on pack, 
equivalent to ~2B packs

Of EUROPEAN  
BISCUITS BRANdS

 

Expanding our impact with  
our pioneering European wheat 
sourcing sustainability program

“ As farmers, we have a large responsibility  
to feed the world and it is therefore critical  
we continue enhancing the health of our soil.  
The earlier we implement Regenerative 
Agriculture practices on the ground,  
the larger the benefits we will have.”

 Pawel Kaczmarek 
  Harmony Farmer,  

TopFarms, Poland

Overview Social Sustainability & Human RightsClimate & Environmental Sustainable Packaging Sustainable Ingredients

Strategy & Performance Snacking more mindfullymore SuStainable Snacking governancecolleague & community Well-being



4 4M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

noRth 
aMeRica 
wheat

Working Together

In North America, we have been actively working to gather 
on-farm data to improve measurement of environmental topics 
like water and GHG emissions, while identifying key impact areas 
for improvement in both precision agriculture and conservation 
agriculture. Some of the wheat farmers we are collecting data 
from have already adopted practices that help protect the soil  
and optimize fertilizer use, such as using cover crops, 
implementing crop rotation, and practicing reduced tilling.

Since 2015, we have collaborated with Michigan State University 
(MSU) and our supplier of soft white winter wheat, Cooperative 
Elevator Co., an agricultural cooperative based in the thumb of 
Michigan and established over 120 years ago. Together, we have 
engaged a group of over 100 family farmers to anonymously track 
their farming practices, use of inputs such as fertilizer, and their 
yields. Through this program, participating farmers can track 
their own year-over-year performance, as well as benchmark 
themselves versus peers to develop improved agricultural 
practices while optimizing yields. 

Learning Together

The study shows how these improvements are driven by better 
data, enabling better decision-making by farmers. Once the 
project report is ready after each harvest, the growers in the 
program receive their individual reports and attend an annual 
meeting where we go over the program’s aggregated data and 
environmental results. The meeting is hosted by the Cooperative 
Elevator Co. and the data is presented by their lead agronomist. 
The growers have the opportunity to ask questions about the 
data and learn best practices from each other. We also take 
the opportunity to share an update about our corporate goals, 
sustainability agenda, and ambition. 

Collectively, the program forms a group of common practices  
with a harmonized goal of producing the highest quality wheat 
mindful of the ecological footprint. Its success has encouraged 
the Cooperative Elevator Co.’s agronomy team to make 
the program’s learnings more widely accessible to all  
their growers including those outside the program. 

Adopting Science-based Tools

In 2020, after listening and incorporating feedback from 
growers in the program, we became a member of Field to  
Market: The Alliance for Sustainable Agriculture. We also  
adopted Field to Market’s Fieldprint Calculator, an industry 
standard science-based tool that allows us to gather  
information on-farm in a more efficient way.

We continue to be an active member, learning from peers in  
the market and contributing to the evolution of the alliance.  
In 2022, we deepened our understanding of the metrics gathered 
and the application of science-based metrics on wheat fields. 
The results allow us to solidify an on-the-ground baseline  
and help shape the program with the goal of improving  
the environmental footprint of the wheat we source.

SuppoRtIng the 4-RS
" We support our supplier Cooperative 
Elevator Co.’s 4-R fertilizer placement 
strategy, whereby trained, certified, 
and dedicated agronomists determine 
the Right Source, Right Rate, Right 
Time, and Right Place for a specific 
operation in order to allow fields to 
be farmable for years to come. The aim 
is to be the best stewards of the land, 
to make it possible to feed the world 
for years to come."

To learn more visit the Coop Elevator’s website.

Overview Social Sustainability & Human RightsClimate & Environmental Sustainable Packaging Sustainable Ingredients

Strategy & Performance Snacking more mindfullymore SuStainable Snacking governancecolleague & community Well-being

https://www.coopelev.com/


4 5M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

“ Working with Mondelēz International  
and our suppliers in Poland can allow for 
traceable improvements of the climate footprint 
from the dairy farms until the final product. 
We are collaborating on a sustainability 
program in Poland to assess, define and 
implement the interventions needed to reduce 
the GHG emissions on dairy farms to help meet 
our shared goals for climate-friendly dairy, 
paving the way for net-zero and regeneration 
of natural capital.”

 Andreas Zweifel 
  Head of Sustainability Dairy 

OFI

daiRy Driving Down Carbon Emissions from Dairy

Dairy accounts for approximately 21% of our overall carbon 
footprint, and we are focused on driving this down. By 2025, 
we aim to reduce end-to-end CO₂e emissions by 10%.1

We see animal welfare as inseparable from the climate impact  
of dairy farming – there is a clear link between healthy, productive 
animals and lower emissions. So we are working with farmers on 
both fronts – to decrease emissions and improve animal welfare. 
Typical elements for carbon improvement at a farm level include 
the selection of feed sources, fertilizer and slurry usage, herd 
health, and yield from forage. 

We have initially focused on our liquid milk supply, where we  
can work with our dairy suppliers. This is a key step towards 
working with our remaining supplier network to encourage  
them to monitor carbon emissions on farms, set reduction  
targets, and report on progress. 

Taking Action

We work closely with dairy suppliers to encourage and support 
them in measuring CO₂e and taking action to reduce, track, and 
report on carbon emissions yearly. Currently, suppliers providing 
86% of our dairy spend are committed to doing a baseline and 
starting actions on CO₂e reductions. In 2022, we started a system 
of grants to support members of cooperatives in the reduction of 
carbon emissions. Projects are both direct and indirect, including 
renewable energy, livestock management, and welfare and  
tree-planting.

Making Progress

Throughout the year, a number of farmers who we work with 
across Europe made commitments and progress in reducing 
carbon emissions.

In the UK and Ireland, 100% of farmers supplying milk for Cadbury 
Dairy Milk are tracking their GHG emissions on farms and working 
on action plans to reduce emissions. Approximately 70 farmers in 
the Selkley Vale group, for example, have completed their baseline 
and are in year two of their reduction program – to date, achieving 
an 8% reduction vs. baseline. This is equivalent to taking over 
6,000 cars off the road. 

85% of dairy farmers who supply Milka in the Alpine region 
(Lactallis-Ravensburg) have completed their baseline and are also 
in year two of their reduction program - to date, achieving a 4% 
reduction vs. baseline.

Moreover, FrieslandCampina Professional has signed a four-year 
agreement with us to reduce by 14% the carbon emissions  
of milk supplied by FrieslandCampina’s member dairy farmers.  
The broad set of on-farm initiatives to work towards achieving 
this goal range from optimizing water management to improving 
manure storage and biodiversity.

We continue to work closely with 
farmers and other partners to enhance 
the sustainability of our dairy sourcing. 

Testing New Techniques

Together with Olam Food Ingredients (OFI), we have started  
a pilot program in Poland with the support of Wageningen 
University to baseline a number of local farms and test new 
techniques aiming to reduce 10% of CO₂e by 2025.

With Molkerei Ammerland and Milchlieferunggenossenschaft 
(MLG), we committed to baseline a number of local farms  
in northern Germany with the aim to achieve an 8 to 10% 
reduction of CO2e by 2025.

In Spain, we have started discussions with our supplier  
Calidad Pascual to help drive baselining efforts and start  
a local reduction program.

1  Annual GHG emissions are accounted for following the GHG Protocol Corporate Standards and using the operational control approach. Reporting includes activities of all Mondelēz International subsidiaries across all regions, except those acquired after December 31, 2021. All acquisitions until 2021 are incorporated in our GHG emissions for 2018, 2021 and 2022. In the reporting year 2022, we have recalculated our base year, 2021 and 2022 
inventory following the GHG Protocol Corporate Standards. For more details, please see the Carbon Accounting Manual.

2 Excludes materials procured by third-party external manufacturers & co-packers for use in manufacturing Mondelēz International finished goods.

OUR GOAL PROGRESS

Dairy supply sourced from 
suppliers with formal animal  
welfare standards.2

73%

Overview Social Sustainability & Human RightsClimate & Environmental Sustainable Packaging Sustainable Ingredients

Strategy & Performance Snacking more mindfullymore SuStainable Snacking governancecolleague & community Well-being

https://www.mondelezinternational.com/Snacking-Made-Right/Climate-Action


4 6M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

daiRy
cont.

Providing Guidance 

We provide guidance to suppliers, which starts with asking  
them to know their on-farm GHG emissions footprint and  
share their plans for reduction by 2025. Suppliers can use  
any GHG calculation tool provided it follows the International  
Dairy Federation (IDF) methodology. 

The first action we ask suppliers to take is to examine their 
livestock feed sourcing and to ensure any soy is certified 
or sourced from a no-deforestation risk location. 

Working in Partnership Across Industry Platforms 

Partnerships are critical for achieving our goals. In 2021, we joined 
the Sustainable Agriculture Initiative (SAI) Platform, to work with 
industry, research institutes, and peers to advance sustainability in 
dairy and crops through shared standards and creating consensus 
to raise the bar. We are participating members in the Dairy 
working group and Dairy Sustainability Partnership. 

We are also supporting Danone’s Margarita program with 
smallholder dairy farmers in Mexico. Running since 2011, Margarita 
aims to strengthen dairy farming in Mexico by consolidating 
resilient business models and farming systems. As part of this 
program, we are helping to build successful farming businesses 
that can grow more sustainably with healthy livestock and 
extended environmental stewardship. 

As well as working directly with our suppliers, we recognize 
the benefits of sector collaboration. This is why we have joined 
with Field to Market, Cool Farm Alliance and SAI Platform to 
collaborate on best practices with an aim to advance more 
sustainable agriculture supply chains. 

Cage-free eggs 

We use eggs as ingredients in a few of our products. We are 
striving for virtually 100% of our egg supply globally to be 
cage-free by 2025 (excluding Ukraine and Russia), to have a 
positive impact on animal welfare while maintaining food safety 
and quality standards. 

At the end of 2022, approximately 43% of eggs supplied globally 
were cage-free, excluding Russia and Ukraine volume.1

We are part of a joint industry call to the EU Commission and 
Members of the EU Parliament, seeking a phase out of the use 
of cages in animal farming, and a revision of animal welfare 
legislation to ban the use of cages in animal farming across the 
EU. In other countries and regions where cage-free supplies are 
more challenged and consumer demand is lower, we engage in 
dialogue with suppliers, governments, and other stakeholders  
to encourage the availability of viable cage-free supplies.

Turning Waste into Food for Cage-Free Eggs Chickens 

In Vietnam, we have provided seed funding of $30,000 for Green 
Connect, a social enterprise to scale up and transform food waste 
and organic trash into feed to raise cage-free eggs chickens. In 
2022, Green Connect was able to collect about 5 tonnes of food 
waste per month from our factory in Vietnam. The aim is to collect 
20 tonnes of food waste per month in 2023 (18 tonnes of organic 
food waste and two tonnes of egg shells).

Improving Animal Welfare 

The Alpine Charter also requires farmers to work to continuously 
improve animal welfare and rewards them for improvements in 
key animal health indicators, such as somatic cell count and total 
animal losses. 

Our animal welfare programs involve setting clear expectations 
with our suppliers and taking feedback from external experts 
to drive continuous improvement. Our supplier expectations are 
reinforced through regular tracking and reviews via our supplier 
management process, ensuring that specific topics such as 
dehorning and antibiotic management procedures are kept  
high in priority. We also carry out an annual dairy supplier 
sustainability survey, which captures the percentage of their 
supply covered by formal animal welfare schemes, including 
whether farms are subject to third-party animal welfare audits, 
which welfare schemes and standards are applied, the average 
arithmetic somatic cell count as an indicator of general herd 
health, and their policy on the use of antibiotics on their farm. 
In 2022, approximately 73% of our dairy supply was sourced  
from suppliers following formal animal welfare standards. 

1 Goal and reported information excludes Russia and Ukraine (Russia to be determined and Ukraine by 2027). Excludes eggs procured by third-party external manufacturers & co-packers for use in manufacturing Mondelēz International finished goods. The term "egg(s)" means egg(s) produced by hens (female chickens).

Overview Social Sustainability & Human RightsClimate & Environmental Sustainable Packaging Sustainable Ingredients

Strategy & Performance Snacking more mindfullymore SuStainable Snacking governancecolleague & community Well-being



47M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

palM oil Working Together for Sustainable Palm Oil

Since we first published our Palm Oil Action Plan (POAP) in 2014, 
we have been working with our suppliers and across industry to 
help transition the sector to a more sustainable supply of palm oil.

We believe that when palm oil is produced and supplied 
responsibly, it has the potential to benefit people and nature 
thanks to its high efficiency and contribution to socioeconomic 
progress in the rural locations where it is grown. But we recognize 
more needs to continue to be done to help ensure the protection 
and promotion of nature, wildlife, people, and climate. To this end, 
we support legislation in the EU and elsewhere on the sourcing of 
deforestation-free palm oil and will work along our supply chain 
to ensure adherence to enhanced requirements.

Enhancing More Sustainable Sourcing

We are working with our suppliers with the aim to source palm 
oil that is free from deforestation, conversion of other natural 
ecosystems, and exploitation of people. All potential new suppliers 
of palm oil to our company must successfully complete a robust, 
third-party supported supplier qualification process. Only 
suppliers that demonstrate full alignment with our requirements 
and expectations as outlined in the POAP are approved to supply 
to us. POAP requirements and expectations are also embedded  
in our contracts with all existing suppliers of palm oil to  
our company.

As of the end of 2022, we continued to source 100% of our palm 
oil from suppliers aligned to the POAP. We also maintained  
100% palm oil RSPO Certified.

Assessing Alignment

We don’t just require suppliers to ensure sustainable and 
traceable supply to our company. Indeed, we were the first 
multinational consumer goods company to require suppliers to 
trace all the oil they sell, not just the oil they sell to us. We track 
supplier alignment to our POAP and continuous improvement 
toward more sustainable supply chains, via the Palm Oil 
Transparency Coalition (POTC) Trader & Supplier Assessment and 
our annual palm oil supplier questionnaire. The results of these 
assessments are aligned with our sourcing strategy, where we 
maintain business with suppliers aligned with our requirements 
and expectations, and exit those that are not. 

Enhancing our Supplier Management

Looking ahead, we will be working with our partners at Peterson 
Control Union (PCU) and ProForest to enhance our supplier 
management processes and verify supplier reported information. 
We are also adopting the No-Deforestation, No-Peat, and No-
Exploitation Implementation Reporting Framework (NDPE IRF). 
The NDPE IRF is a common reporting framework used across 
the sector to monitor adoption and successful implementation 
of NDPE upstream from the refinery. We will henceforth require 
our suppliers to submit NDPE IRF profiles of shared suppliers 
annually. These profiles will be verified by PCU. We will isolate 
underperforming suppliers and take action via our direct  
suppliers to ensure we move shared suppliers to “Progressing”  
or “Delivering” status.

Taking Accountability 

Our POAP aims to minimize the risk of deforestation, conversion, 
and exploitation occurring in our supply chain. However, we 
acknowledge that sometimes issues do still occur. We, therefore, 
operate a robust third party-supported grievance process to 
ensure issues are investigated and non-compliant suppliers  
are held to account.

When there is a significant breach of our requirements, we 
suspend that supplier from our supply chain and engage with 
them to ensure a time-bound action plan is fully implemented  
and the issues fully remediated. Before re-entering these suppliers 
into our supply chain, a re-entry assessment is completed and 
reviewed by a third party. Only suppliers that demonstrate 
alignment with our POAP are re-entered.

We remain fully focused on sourcing 
palm oil more sustainably – working 
with partners on all fronts, from tackling 
deforestation to helping to protect the 
rights of people along the supply chain.

1 Excludes palm oil procured by third-party external manufacturers & co-packers for use in manufacturing Mondelēz International finished goods.

OUR GOAL PROGRESS

In 2022, we again achieved our 2025 goal of 
sourcing 100% of our palm oil from suppliers 
aligned to our Palm Oil Action Plan (POAP).

Additionally, we continued to achieve 100% 
Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) 
certified palm oil sourcing in 2022.1

100%

Overview Social Sustainability & Human RightsClimate & Environmental Sustainable Packaging Sustainable Ingredients

Strategy & Performance Snacking more mindfullymore SuStainable Snacking governancecolleague & community Well-being



4 8M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

palM oil
cont.

Investing in Palm Oil Landscape Programs  
in Indonesia and Malaysia

As co-lead of the CGF FPC Production Landscapes group, we 
aspire to bring about large-scale change through investments 
in landscape programs in Indonesia and Malaysia. These 
programs are centered on responsible production and more 
sustainable supply of palm oil within the most sensitive 
locations we source from. In North Sumatera and Aceh, 
Indonesia, we have been a Coalition Sustainable Livelihood 
(CSL) initiator and member since 2018. 

In 2021, we began partnering with Conservation International 
to invest in an agroforestry project in North Sumatera. The 
aim is to advance social forestry programs, as well as provide 
guidance for future investments intended to promote the 
transition to more sustainable palm oil supply in the region. 
Approximately 120 stakeholders are involved in this project, 
with two landscapes prioritized for action.

In 2022, we established a new partnership with the Global 
Palm Oil team at WWF to promote sustainable production of 
palm oil and raise awareness about high conservation value 
areas. This project has a two-fold approach. Firstly, to build 
the capacity of key stakeholders in the palm oil value chain 
to conduct HCV assessments in Sabah, Malaysia. This will 
allow us to better manage and protect critical landscapes and 
promote responsible and sustainable production by plantation 
owners and operators. Secondly to raise awareness about 
traceability to plantation tools like WWF's Hamurni, which will 
facilitate greater supply chain transparency and accountability. 
By encouraging the adoption of sustainable practices among 
plantation owners and operators, we hope to promote greater 
environmental stewardship and contribute to the long-term 
viability of the palm oil industry. 

Ensuring Transparency 

By the end of 2022, our suppliers reported that approximately 
99% of the palm oil we source is traceable to mill, with 
approximately 88% traceable to the plantation.

Annually, we require our suppliers to share the list of mill 
crushers active in our shared supply chains. Supplier reported 
data is checked against public and proprietary information and is 
reviewed, deduplicated, and improved continuously via a process 
supported by our partners at ProForest, PCU, and Satelligence. 
Following this process, we publish our annual mill list on our 
company website to ensure transparency. 

Satelligence takes mill data and available concession maps to 
trace our extended supply chains in Malaysia and Indonesia back 
to production-level. This represents approximately 88% of the 
total volume of palm oil we source. Where concession maps don’t 
exist, we assume that a mill may be sourcing from all locations 
within a 50km radius of its location. Once our supply chain is 
mapped, Satelligence satellite monitoring is used to identify 
and alert us to potential deforestation events where we  
may need to act.

Additionally, we require our suppliers to deploy satellite 
monitoring along their upstream supply chains. 

In 2023, we are working with Satelligence and PCU to enhance 
supply chain transparency via more robust data verification  
and enhanced systems capabilities. 

Collaborating

In 2022, we accounted for less than 1% of total global demand for 
palm oil. As such, we recognize that we alone cannot transition the 
sector to a more sustainable supply. That’s why we lead or are active 
participants in leading global organizations focused on improving 
the palm oil supply chain, including the Consumer Goods Forum 
Forest Positive Coalition (CGF FPC), Consumer Goods Forum Human 
Rights Coalition (CGF HRC), POTC; Palm Oil Collaboration Group 
(POCG), and Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO).

Via our leadership and participation, we are working with peer 
companies to create common standards, tools, and programs  
of work designed to support the transition to sustainable  
palm oil supply and protect critical landscapes.

HCV Accessors Training Course in Tawau, thanks to support  
from the WWF Global Palm Oil Team and Mondelēz International. 

Overview Social Sustainability & Human RightsClimate & Environmental Sustainable Packaging Sustainable Ingredients

Strategy & Performance Snacking more mindfullymore SuStainable Snacking governancecolleague & community Well-being



4 9M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

haZelnutS Hazelnuts

Most of the world’s hazelnut production comes from Türkiye. 
Research, including studies conducted by the US Department 
of Labor and the Fair Labor Association, have noted the risk of 
child labor in the Turkish hazelnut sector, which relies on migrant 
workers during the harvest season, who often travel to the 
hazelnut-growing regions with their families.

To help address this risk, we have joined forces with peer 
companies, the International Labor Organization (ILO) and the 
Turkish government in a multi-stakeholder program coordinated 
by CAOBISCO. 

The Public Private Partnership, implemented by ILO,  
focuses on three pillars of action: direct intervention, capacity 
building, and awareness raising.

Direct intervention:  
Provide safe spaces and educational opportunities for workers’ 
children during the hazelnuts harvest and the appropriate  
support to children found in child labor. 

Capacity building:  
Enhance national and local government capacity to identify  
and support children who are at risk of child labor in seasonal 
hazelnut harvesting.

Awareness raising: 
Build broader awareness among seasonal workers and their 
families, hazelnut orchard owners, and people more broadly in 
hazelnut-growing regions on children’s rights and the dangers 
of child labor. This initiative, which we co-chair, delivered strong 
results in 2022 with children benefiting from directed intervention 
across five hazelnut producing provinces, and families who 
migrate for the harvest benefiting from counseling and awareness 
raising activities.

In addition, we have joined forces with one of our hazelnut 
suppliers, investing specifically into their hazelnut program to help 
effect change at the farm - and worker-level on good agricultural, 
social, and recruitment practices. These include promoting 
women’s empowerment, helping to address root causes of child 
labor, and capability building across responsible recruitment 
elements.

In 2022, the program made strong progress, including:

• Personal protective equipment (PPE) and hygiene kits were 
provided to workers

• Men and women were trained on factors and social practices 
such as workers’ rights in agriculture, child safety, first aid as 
well as occupational health and safety

• Health screenings were provided to women in the harvest and 
origin provinces

• Washing machines, mobile showers, and refrigerators were 
purchased for two villages where seasonal workers lived

• Children were reached by educational initiatives either through 
provision of education kits or summer schools

Overview Social Sustainability & Human RightsClimate & Environmental Sustainable Packaging Sustainable Ingredients

Strategy & Performance Snacking more mindfullymore SuStainable Snacking governancecolleague & community Well-being



5 0M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

Overview

colleague  
& coMMunity 
well-being
As part of our strategic commitment to 
Snacking Made Right, we aim to have a long-
term positive impact on our colleagues, who 
are at the heart of advancing our business, and 
on the communities in which we live, work and 
touch. This includes championing diversity, 
equity and inclusion (DE&I), and using our scale, 
investment and resources to support and 
advance communities around the world.

We highlight progress against these goals on pages 56.

We aim to double Black management representation 
percentage in the U.S. by 2024 (2020 base of 3.2%).  
At the end of 2022, Black employees held approximately 
5.5% of management roles (defined as Director and 
above) in the U.S., an increase of over 70%.1

5.5%

We are on track to double Women in Executive 
Leadership by 2024 (baseline 2018). At the end of 2022, 
women held nearly 40% of executive leadership roles 
(defined as the Mondelēz Leadership Team plus one 
level below), up from 18% in 2018.2 Additionally, women 
held approximately 41% of global management roles 
(defined as Director and above).

40%

1  Management is defined as Director and above. Reported information against our Black management representation goal in the U.S. includes acquisitions/
ventures in the U.S., which were announced in 2021 or earlier, and is based on self-identification by employees for diversity and inclusion metrics. The Company’s 
representation goals are aspirational in nature; Mondelēz International will continue to hire and promote the best qualified candidates through employment 
practices that are consistent with applicable laws.

2  Reported information includes acquisitions/ventures globally, which were announced in 2021 or earlier, and is based on self-identification by employees for 
diversity and inclusion metrics. The Company’s representation goals are aspirational in nature; Mondelēz International will continue to hire and promote the 
best qualified candidates through employment practices that are consistent with applicable laws.

Leadership & 
Growth Culture

Advancing 
Gender Equality

Diversity, Equity  
& Inclusion (DE&I)

Racial Equity  
Audit

Economic Inclusion  
& Supplier Diversity

Our Racial  
Equity Journey

Workplace 
Safety

Impact 
Investing 

Community Impact & 
Employee Volunteering

Humanitarian 
SupportColleagues Overview

GovernanceStrateGy & Performance SnackinG more mindfullymore SuStainable SnackinG colleaGue & community Well-beinG



5 1M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

Embedding Future Growth Capabilities

We’re significantly upgrading commercial growth capabilities 
within our current and future leaders – to firmly establish 
Mondelēz International as a leading digital and agile organization. 
Our approach includes creating integrated agile processes 
to drive simpler ways of working; launching a new General 
Manager Academy to advance commercial excellence; driving 
Revenue Growth Management capabilities and expertise in 
pricing; embedding digital learning and capability building across 
functions; and increasing local teams’ exposure and expertise  
in driving strategic acquisition and integration activities.

Thriving and Engaged Organization

We want to remain an organization known for investing and 
building top talent – continuously developing, empowering and 
protecting the well-being of our people, while ensuring inclusivity. 
So, we have established a Flexible Working Pledge, and we’re 
focusing on hybrid workplace solutions that encourage better 
work-life balance, attract a broader and more diverse workforce, 
reduce environmental impact, and improve productivity. In 
addition, our holistic employee well-being program is designed 
to address the changing needs of our colleagues across three  
key dimensions: Mind, Body and Connection. Through these and 
other initiatives, we aim to achieve top-tier engagement results 
on global benchmarks.

To support the acceleration of our growth, we are becoming more 
agile, digital, and local-consumer focused. We focus on attracting, 
developing and retaining deep and diverse talent, aim to build 
future growth capabilities and work to promote a thriving culture 
of engagement. We have given our local teams more autonomy 
to drive commercial and innovation plans as they are closer to 
the needs and desires of consumers. We will continue to leverage 
the efficiency and scale of our regional operating units while 
empowering our local and commercial operations to respond 
faster to changing consumer preferences and capitalize on 
growth opportunities. 

Deep and Diverse Talent

We’re continuing to invest in internal talent development – 
providing broad based and accelerated leadership development 
programs, early careers programming, mentoring, and on-the-job 
experiences and for colleagues across all levels. Our development 
programs equip our colleagues with future forward leadership 
competencies and capabilities with bespoke programs designed 
to accelerate high potential talents. Our early careers and new 
management trainee programs have provided next generation 
diverse talent with opportunities to gain experiences across 
functions. Further, mentoring programs continue to provide 
support to our top talent resulting in internal sufficiency and 
retention. All of these efforts continue to build a deep and 
diverse internal sustainable pipeline for the future.

leadeRShip 
& gRowth 
cultuRe
Building a winning culture across 
Mondelēz International is one of the 
four strategic priorities at the core of our 
long-term business growth strategy. Culture 
is fundamental to building capacity for more 
sustainable business growth and unlocking 
operational excellence – enabling our strategic 
commitment to Snacking Made Right. 

“  At Mondelēz, we recognize that work is a social 
determinant of health and appreciate further that 
employee well-being is influenced by the workplace, 
from the physical environment to leadership and 
relationships with coworkers. That’s why we 
are committed to cultivating a workplace that 
protects the health of our workforce and a culture 
that promotes overall well-being. We are laying a 
foundation to support our colleagues in their health 
journey and for them to thrive at work, at home 
and in the community. We aim to be inclusive and 
equitable in all our health-related endeavors. As 
a physician advocating for patients and workers, 
I understand that each individual’s experience is 
unique and complex. In caring for our colleagues 
around the globe, we are purposefully taking  
a holistic approach to bring to life the 3 pillars  
of The Right You - Mind, Body, and Connection.”

 Anh T. Tran, MD, MPH, FACOEM 
 Global Health Sr. Director – HSE 
 Mondelēz International

1 Person of color.

GENDER AND RACE PROGRESS

2019 2020 2021 2022

% of our board of directors who are 
women

25% 25% 25% 33%

% of our executive management 
(defined as Mondelēz Leadership Team 
plus one level below) team who are 
women

31% 34% 39% 40%

% of our management positions 
(defined as Director and above) 
globally who are women

37% 38% 39% 41%

% of U.S. Black management 
representation

NA 3.2% 5.1% 5.5%

U.S.-BASED EMPLOYEE DEMOGRAPHICS

Non POC1 POC

US-based Senior Executives (F+) 62% 39%

US-based Management (All Banded) 66% 34%

US-based New Hires – Management  
(All Banded)

64% 36%

US-based All Mondelēz 60% 40%

WOMEN IN LEADERSHIP

27% C-suite/MLT

Entry level44%

33% Senior Vice President/ Vice President+3pp

+2pp

41% Senior Director/Director+1pp

48% Manager

The 2022 EEO-1 report will be posted to mondelēzinternational.com 
as it becomes available in line with EEO-1 submission.

Advancing 
Gender Equality

Diversity, Equity  
& Inclusion (DE&I)

Racial Equity  
Audit

Economic Inclusion  
& Supplier Diversity

Our Racial  
Equity Journey

Workplace 
Safety

Impact 
Investing 

Community Impact & 
Employee Volunteering

Humanitarian 
SupportColleagues Overview Leadership & 

Growth Culture

GovernanceStrateGy & Performance SnackinG more mindfullymore SuStainable SnackinG colleaGue & community Well-beinG

http://mondelezinternational.com


5 2M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

Our DE&I Strategy

Active & Purposeful DE&I Community 
Building a global DE&I community will better inspire, connect,  
and recognize colleagues around the world, and reflect the 
diverse global needs and perspectives of our consumers 
and our colleagues.

Women in Leadership  
As part of our Vision 2030, we aspire to reach gender parity  
across our management team and within our business leadership 
teams. By 2024 we aim to double representation of women in 
executive leadership roles (2018 base of 18%).1

Inclusive Bias-Free Workplace 
We believe that a winning growth culture will help promote  
higher employee engagement and better business performance.

Leading From the Top

Our DE&I commitment is led from the top and driven throughout 
the organization by our Management Leadership Team, Board 
of Directors and Mondelēz Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Steering 
Committee. As an important step in our DE&I journey, we 
established a team, including C-suite officers, our Chief Global 
Diversity and Inclusion Officer, and other key senior leaders, 
charged with collectively setting the strategy and  
DE&I commitments across the organization. We also include 
talent, engagement, and DE&I aspirational goals as part of our  
ESG strategic progress indicators within our annual incentive  
plan for our CEO and other senior leaders.

diveRSity, 
eQuity & 
IncluSion 
(de&I)
Guided by our purpose, mission and values, 
we strive to champion diversity, inclusion, 
and economic empowerment for our 
colleagues, culture and communities.

ouR global de&I goalS
We have established long-term goals to guide our investments, and activities 
to advance DE&I across three key focus areas: colleagues, culture and community. 
We share progress against these goals in the following pages.

Colleagues

• Establish aspirational representation 
goals that reflect the diversity of the  
local marketplace.

• Appoint a Global DE&I Officer 
accountable to the Chief Human 
Resources Officer, CEO and  
the Board.

• Launch mentoring and leadership 
development programs focused  
on accelerating development.

• Aim to utilize diverse slates  
for open roles.

• Expand investment in early  
careers program.

Culture

• Implement DE&I performance 
scorecards for all business  
and functions.

• Invest in multi-year education to 
build cultural competence for all 
employees. 

• Mobilize brands and marketing 
partners to drive change, equity,  
and inclusion.

• Recognize, celebrate and advocate 
for inclusive cultures and 
communities.

Community

• Aim to spend $1 billion with minority 
and women owned businesses  
by 2024.

• Enable 100% of our business to 
have partnerships supporting 
locally-relevant underrepresented 
communities.

• Promote our diverse and inclusive 
culture through reporting, 
storytelling, and volunteering.

The 2022 EEO-1 report will be posted to mondelēzinternational.com as it becomes available in line with EEO-1 submission.

1  Reported information includes acquisitions/ventures globally, which were announced in 2021 or earlier, and is based on self-identification by employees for diversity and inclusion metrics. The Company’s representation goals are aspirational in nature; Mondelēz International will continue to hire and promote the best qualified candidates through employment practices that are consistent with applicable laws.

“ We strongly believe that greater 
diversity of perspectives, approaches, 
partners, and employees brings about 
better business outcomes, and benefits 
for everyone involved. That’s why we are 
dedicated to building a more diverse, 
inclusive and equitable world – socially 
and economically – for our colleagues, 
culture and communities.”

 Robert Perkins 
 Chief Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Officer 
 Mondelēz International

Leadership & 
Growth Culture

Advancing 
Gender Equality

Racial Equity  
Audit

Economic Inclusion  
& Supplier Diversity

Our Racial  
Equity Journey

Workplace 
Safety

Impact 
Investing 

Community Impact & 
Employee Volunteering

Humanitarian 
SupportColleagues Overview Diversity, Equity  

& Inclusion (DE&I)

GovernanceStrateGy & Performance SnackinG more mindfullymore SuStainable SnackinG colleaGue & community Well-beinG

http://mondelezinternational.com


5 3M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

ouR Racial  
eQuity 
JouRney
We are committed to realizing true change at 
Mondelēz International and to transparently 
reporting on our progress to help advance racial 
equity and work towards meeting our DE&I 
goals. We have established short and long-term 
goals against our three strategic DE&I pillars – 
colleagues, communities and culture – in each 
of our business, and specific DE&I aspirational 
metrics are part of our strategic scorecard 
within our annual incentive plan 
for the CEO and other senior leaders.

In 2022, we announced in the United States and Canada that 
Mondelēz International has commissioned a third-party racial 
equity audit as part of its ongoing commitment to advancing 
DE&I. The audit, conducted by law firm WilmerHale LLP, will 
assess, inform, and help further evolve Mondelēz International’s 
DEI strategy; and aligns with our efforts to be transparent and 
accountable as it works to build a globally diverse and  
inclusive community.

We are Committed to Equal Pay for Equal Work

We are committed to equal pay for equal work, regardless of gender, race, or ethnicity. 
To deliver on that commitment, we benchmark and set pay ranges based on market data 
and consider various factors such as an employee’s role and experience, job location and 
performance. We also regularly review our compensation practices to promote fair and 
equitable pay.

With the support of an independent third-party expert, we conduct global pay equity 
reviews comparing employees in the same pay grade within a country/area to help identify 
any unsupported distinctions in pay between employees of different genders and races  
(as permitted by local country law). We are then able to proactively address identified gaps. 

In 2022, our pay gap between male and female employees was less than 1%. 

Additionally, in the U.S., our 2022 independent pay equity analysis found no systemic 
issues and no negative pay gap between non-white and white employees performing 
substantially similar work.

Colleagues

KEY HIGHLIGHTS

2022 Engagement Survey Results

We achieved year-over-year gains on several DE&I-related items including reaching 
above benchmark on sense of belonging by 3 points.

Culture

$510M
In spend with minority and women owned 
businesses in 2022.3

$4.5M
Investment over three years, beginning in 
2021, as a Lead National Partner for Boys  
& Girls Clubs of America’s Youth of the 
Year program.

$4M
Combined investment in financial assistance, 
immersion/boot camps and professional 
development to the Thurgood Marshall 
College Fund over five years, beginning  
in 2021.

Community

57%

Diverse talent placement in our U.S. early 
career program in 2022, tripling our 
placements from Historically Black Colleges 
and Universities (HBCUs) since 20201

72%

Increase in U.S. Black management 
representation percentage from 3.2%  
in 2020 to 5.5% in 2022

22%

Increase in U.S. Hispanic management 
representation from 11% in 2021 to 13%  
in 20222

8%

Increase in U.S. Asian management 
representation from 12% in 2021 to 13% 
in 20222

1 Reported information for early career programs in the U.S. includes acquisitions/ventures in the U.S. announced in 2021 or earlier.
 2  Reported information for U.S. Hispanic and U.S. Asian management representation includes acquisitions/ventures in the U.S., which were announced in 2021 or earlier, and is based on self-identification by employees for diversity and inclusion metrics. The Company’s representation goals are aspirational in nature; Mondelēz International will continue to hire and promote the best qualified candidates through employment practices that are 

consistent with applicable laws.
3  Reported information for the period from January 1, 2022 to December 31, 2022 includes spend from women and minority owned businesses, and excludes spend from small businesses (which were included in prior years).

Leadership & 
Growth Culture

Advancing 
Gender Equality

Diversity, Equity  
& Inclusion (DE&I)

Racial Equity  
Audit

Economic Inclusion  
& Supplier Diversity

Workplace 
Safety

Impact 
Investing 

Community Impact & 
Employee Volunteering

Humanitarian 
SupportColleagues Overview Our Racial  

Equity Journey

GovernanceStrateGy & Performance SnackinG more mindfullymore SuStainable SnackinG colleaGue & community Well-beinG



5 4M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

Gaining Recognition for Building a Culture of Inclusivity

In 2022, we received the Garden State Equality Corporate 
Responsibility Award, in recognition of the work we have done 
to build a more inclusive organization. This includes a Corporate 
Equality Index Human Rights Campaign score of 100 in 2022, 
partnership with PFLAG to support parents of those in the 
LGBTQ community through our Oreo campaign, internal  
education and training, and our sponsorship of external  
LGBTQ community groups.

Providing DE&I Training Tailored to Manufacturing Sites

In the U.S. we partnered with a woman-owned DEI consulting 
firm – The NOVA Collective - to create a workshop to provide 
DE&I training to core teams in our manufacturing plants, including 
leadership and production teams. The Inclusion Starts with 
Me training aligned with our core values and focused on each 
individual’s role in building a greater understanding and creating 
an environment of inclusion. Training was completed at our three 
largest manufacturing plants in the U.S. throughout the year. 
Approximately 79% of respondents felt the facilitators created 
an environment in which it was okay to be uncomfortable and/or 
vulnerable, and nearly 89% felt that they learned information they 
could apply immediately at work.

Helping to Provide Scholarships to Underrepresented 
Youth in the U.S.

We are proud to partner with the Thurgood Marshall College Fund 
(TMCF), to provide a combined investment of $4 million in financial 
assistance, immersion/bootcamps and professional development 
to outstanding students attending one of TMCF’s member-schools 
including 47 publicly-supported Historically Black Colleges and 
Universities (HBCUs) and Predominantly Black Institutions, over 5 
years, beginning in 2021

ouR Racial  
eQuity 
JouRney
cont.

GOALS & PROGRESS

GOAL PROGRESS

Double Black management representation 
percentage in the U.S. by 2024  
(2020 base of 3.2%).1

At the end of 2022, Black employees held approximately 
5.5% of management roles (defined as Director and 
above) in the U.S., an increase of over 70%.

Double investment in early career programs 
including with Historically Black Colleges  
& Universities (HBCUs).

We achieved 57% diverse talent placement in our early 
career programs in 2022, tripling our placements from 
HBCUs since 2020.

Launch mentorship and leadership 
development programs focused on 
accelerating development.

Sponsored by our Mondelēz International African 
Ancestry Council, and Latino Employee Council, 
respectively, our mentorship programs in the U.S.  
have had a tremendous response with participants 
providing strong positive feedback.

Invest in multi-year education to build  
cultural competence for all employees.

To build inclusive leadership practices and greater 
cultural competency, we provided our signature 
inclusivity training for senior people managers.

Spend $1 billion with minority and women 
owned businesses by 2024.2

By the end of 2022, we had spent approximately  
$510 million with minority and women owned 
businesses globally, and we continue to develop, 
mentor, and bring on new diverse suppliers.

Mobilize brands and marketing partners  
to drive change, equity, and inclusion.

We believe in inclusive marketing – our company 
and many of our brands became partners with 
Unstereotyped Alliance in 2021, with the goal of  
helping to address harmful stereotypes in media  
and advertising content.

Enable 100% of our Business to have 
partnerships supporting underrepresented 
communities.

Our Business have community partnerships globally 
targeted to helping socio-economically disadvantaged 
communities and promoting racial equity and  
economic empowerment.

1  Management is defined as Director and above. Reported information against our Black management representation goal in the U.S. includes acquisitions/ventures in the U.S., which were announced in 2021 or earlier, and is based on self-identification by employees for diversity and inclusion metrics. The Company’s representation goals are aspirational in nature; Mondelēz International will continue to hire and promote the best qualified 
candidates through employment practices that are consistent with applicable laws.

2  Reported information for the period from January 1, 2022 to December 31, 2022 includes actual spend rather than spend attributed to invoices (as in prior years), and includes the following acquisitions: Chipita, Enjoy Life Foods, Give & Go, Perfect Foods, Tates, and EPTA America-7 Days (which were not included in prior years). The term "minority" in this year’s reporting includes individuals with disabilities, LGBTQ+, and veteran-owned 
businesses (which were not included in prior years).

Partnering to Help Close the Opportunity Gap 
for Youth in the U.S.

In the U.S., we are proud to be Lead National Partner for 
Youth of the Year, the signature leadership program for 
Boys & Girls Club youth. Starting in 2021, we are investing 
$4.5 million over three years, while engaging with local 
Clubs year-round to help foster a new generation of leaders 
prepared to live in and lead a diverse global economy.

Leadership & 
Growth Culture

Advancing 
Gender Equality

Diversity, Equity  
& Inclusion (DE&I)

Racial Equity  
Audit

Economic Inclusion  
& Supplier Diversity

Workplace 
Safety

Impact 
Investing 

Community Impact & 
Employee Volunteering

Humanitarian 
SupportColleagues Overview Our Commitment  

to Racial Equity

GovernanceStrateGy & Performance SnackinG more mindfullymore SuStainable SnackinG colleaGue & community Well-beinG

https://pflag.org/about-us/


5 5M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

Racial 
eQuity 
audit
We have strong oversight of our racial 
equality and DE&I efforts. Our Board  
conducts bi-annual reviews of our DE&I 
strategy, stakeholder interests, risks and 
progress with our SVP Chief Global Diversity 
Officer – both at the Board level and with  
the People & Compensation Committee. 

In 2022, we voluntarily commissioned a third party to conduct  
a racial equity audit, which will cover U.S. and Canadian aspects  
of our business. 

The focus areas of the audit include:

• DE&I goals and initiatives

• Marketing strategies

• Political contributions

• Environmental and sustainability programs

We have commissioned WilmerHale, a leading law firm with deep 
civil rights expertise and extensive experience conducting these 
audits across industries, to conduct the racial equity audit in the 
United States and Canada. The audit will incorporate input from 
a range of stakeholders to inform WilmerHale’s assessment  
of our programs and initiatives.

We will publish findings once the audit is complete, 
which is likely to be later in 2023.

“ We believe this audit will be an important 
step in our DE&I journey, helping us to 
gain a better understanding of how we 
can make a greater impact on both our 
business and the broader community.”

 Michael A. Todman 
 Mondelēz International Board Director;  
 liaison to the full Board for Racial Equity Audit

Leadership & 
Growth Culture

Advancing 
Gender Equality

Diversity, Equity  
& Inclusion (DE&I)

Economic Inclusion  
& Supplier Diversity

Our Racial  
Equity Journey

Workplace 
Safety

Impact 
Investing 

Community Impact & 
Employee Volunteering

Humanitarian 
SupportColleagues Overview Racial Equity  

Audit

GovernanceStrateGy & Performance SnackinG more mindfullymore SuStainable SnackinG colleaGue & community Well-beinG



5 6M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

Inspiring Girls to Get Into Sports in India

In India, through the Good Luck Girls Program, we work 
with parents and other community stakeholders to support 
adolescent girls to engage in sports, play in public spaces, 
and aspire to pursue sports as a career. We also encourage 
them to participate in different sports-related activities. 
Donating sports kits is a key component of the program, 
and our colleagues have participated enthusiastically 
in this through the year. The program has reached over 
50,000 girls across four locations through the activities 
implemented over the year 2022.

OUR PROGRESS

GOAL PROGRESS

Double representation of women in executive 
leadership (defined as Mondelēz Leadership 
Team +1) roles by 2024 (2018 base of 18%).1

Nearly 40%

advancing 
gendeR 
eQuality
As a core part of our deep commitment 
to diversity, equity and inclusion (DE&I) 
we are actively advancing gender equality 
throughout Mondelēz International – from 
frontline recruitment through to senior  
levels of leadership.

We are on track to double Women in Executive Leadership by 
2024 (baseline 2018). At the end of 2022, women held nearly 
40% of executive leadership roles (defined as the Management 
Leadership Team plus one level below), up from 18% in 2018. 
Additionally, women held approximately 41% of global 
management roles (defined as Director and above).

Advancing Equality

In April 2013, we signed the UN Women’s Empowerment Principles 
to express support for advancing equality between women  
and men. 

We have aspired to:

• Bring the broadest pool of talent to our endeavors.

• Further our companies' competitiveness.

• Meet our corporate responsibility and sustainability 
commitments.

• Model behavior within our companies that reflects the society 
we would like for our employees, fellow citizens and families.

• Encourage economic and social conditions that provide 
opportunities for women and men, girls and boys. 

• Foster more sustainable development.

We welcome the provisions of the Women’s Empowerment 
Principles – Equality Means Business, produced and disseminated 
by the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the 
Empowerment of Women (UN Women) and the UN Global 
Compact. The Principles present seven steps that business  
and other sectors can take to advance and empower women.

We're advocating for the full participation and equal treatment  
of women in our enterprises and in the larger community.  
A broad concept of sustainability and corporate responsibility 
that embraces women's empowerment is one of our key goals. 

We will strive to collect and tabulate data separately for women 
and men in our sustainability reporting in accordance with local 
law, to communicate our progress to our own stakeholders. We're 
committed to extending our reporting on gender rights in cocoa 
farming. To date, we've helped to empower women and advocated 
for equal rights through our Cocoa Life initiative. 

We encourage business leaders to join us and use the Principles 
as guidance for actions that we can take in the workplace, 
marketplace, and community to empower women and benefit  
our companies and societies.

In the UK, as required by law, we publish a gender pay gap report 
which helps us to be transparent in showing how we are making 
work fair for everyone, regardless of gender. Since the inception  
of the Sub-Sahara & Africa Business, there has been over 60% 
of female leaders, all from Africa, consistently on the SSA BU 
leadership team.

Promoting Equal Pay in Prague

In 2022 the Toblerone team in Europe partnered in the 
annual Equal Pay Day conference and mentoring program in 
Prague aimed at inspiring, sharing and supporting among 24 
presenters, 77 mentors and 1,000 female participants. In the 
keynote speech, Ivana Tůmová, CZ/SK/HU Managing Director,  
Mondelēz International, spoke about diversity in business,  
in particular the importance of diverse age, gender, and 
language for the innovation and growth of every company.

Speak My Mind in China

Mondelēz Greater China’s theme "Speak my mind"  
focuses on inclusive leadership, gender balance, and 
multi-generational collaboration. Greater China set up  
the DE&I council to determine the focuses based on 
growth need of business, organizations and talents. 
In 2022, an online panel discussion was held which 
involved external experts, top leaders and front-line 
young talent. The online panel discussion gained wide 
attention from the staff with more than 1,400 online  
views and over 200 comment messages. 

1  Reported information includes acquisitions/ventures globally, which were announced in 2021 or earlier, and is based on self-identification by employees for diversity and inclusion metrics. The Company’s representation goals are aspirational in nature; Mondelēz International will continue to hire and promote the best qualified candidates through employment practices that are consistent with applicable laws.

Leadership & 
Growth Culture

Diversity, Equity  
& Inclusion (DE&I)

Racial Equity  
Audit

Economic Inclusion  
& Supplier Diversity

Our Racial  
Equity Journey

Workplace 
Safety

Impact 
Investing 

Community Impact & 
Employee Volunteering

Humanitarian 
SupportColleagues Overview Advancing 

Gender Equality

GovernanceStrateGy & Performance SnackinG more mindfullymore SuStainable SnackinG colleaGue & community Well-beinG

https://www.weps.org/about
https://www.unwomen.org/en/digital-library/publications/2011/10/women-s-empowerment-principles-equality-means-business
https://www.unwomen.org/en/digital-library/publications/2011/10/women-s-empowerment-principles-equality-means-business
https://www.mondelezinternational.com/United-Kingdom/Gender-Pay-Gap-Reporting


5 7M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

advancing 
gendeR 
eQuality
cont.

Championing Gender Equity in Sport

Our recently acquired Clif Bar is working with 
VOICEINSPORT Foundation to champion equal access to 
sport for women and girls across the U.S. Twice as many 
girls drop out of sport compared to boys by age 14 in the 
U.S., according to the Women's Sports Foundation (WSF) 
Teen Sport Report, 2018. And according to the National 
Federation of State High School Associations (NFHS) for 
2018-2019, there are 1.13 million fewer opportunities in 
sport for high school girls than boys in the U.S.

Established in 2020, VOICEINSPORT Foundation is 
dedicated to closing the opportunity gap in sports as well 
as supporting women at all critical developmental moments 
of their sports journey such as breast development, 
menstruation, and psychological development.

Clif Bar is proud to support VOICEINSPORT Foundation 
in hosting in-person and virtual Title IX trainings across 
the U.S. to help girls and women understand their rights 
under the landmark law guaranteeing equal access to sport 
for girls. Additionally, Clif Bar will support establishing 
VOICEINSPORT Foundation chapters on state college 
campuses across the country for women and girl student 
athletes to access educational resources, gain leadership 
training, and network with women leaders in their area.

Cadbury and Marabou Partner with Women's 
Football Teams 

We are helping to close the football gender participation 
gap, through our Cadbury brand’s partnership with the 
Republic of Ireland Women's National Team and our 
Marabou brand’s partnership with the Swedish Football 
Association – supporting and encouraging more females 
into one of the world's most loved sports. 

In 2021, Cadbury announced that it would become an 
official snack partner of the Republic of Ireland Women's 
National Team to boost support for football in Ireland. This 
followed the announcement by the Football Association of 
Ireland (FAI), which established equal pay for the Men and 
Women's National Senior Teams, underlying the deserved 
support for the team in their quest to reach 2023 FIFA 
Women's World Cup and beyond. 

Building on this, in 2022, Cadbury brought in the 
Women's National Team captain, Katie McCabe, as the 
brand ambassador to launch a new campaign: 'Become 
a Supporter and a Half', dedicated to supporting Irish 
women's grassroots football. Katie is involved in raising 
awareness, breaking down barriers for women's teams and 
growing the game in Ireland through acts of generosity, 
synonymous with Cadbury. Through purchases of Cadbury 
Dairy Milk, the brand donates €50,000 to grassroots 
women's football clubs across Ireland to make upgrades  
to facilities as needed.

Meanwhile in Sweden, the Swedish Football Association 
and Marabou launched the ‘The Coach Initiative’ or 
'Tränarlyftet' Initiative, to draw attention and contribute to 
reducing the gender gap by encouraging more women to 
advance as football coaches. Arsenal's forward star Stina 
Blackstenius is one of the leading icons for Tränarlyftet 
which also supports training for female coaches according 
to UEFA B-level. "The Swedish Football Federation and 
Marabou agree that by training more female coaches we 
can create more female role models. Therefore, Marabou  
is financing 96 training facilities for female and non-binary 
coaches at UEFA level," says Helene Moland Daly,  
Nordic Consumer Experience Lead.

Unlocking Business Growth Through  
Gender Equity in Brazil

Over the past two years Mondelēz International Brazil 
developed a gender equity strategy to increase women 
representation and break bias to construct a great place 
for women to work. Women in leadership roles in Brazil 
rose from 41% in 2021 to 51% in 2022. Activities included:

Vulnerability areas mapped and a turnover plans 
constructed with leaders, including DE&I awareness  
and trainings

Mentoring Program – ‘Woman2Woman’: mentorship 
training program focused at Vulnerability areas in order 
to create leadership pipelines

Woman Refuge Policy – Created a safe and supportive 
environment for women in domestic violence situations 

Bronze Awards at WEPs Brazil for Large Industries – 
Initiative recognized by UN as companies engaged 
in promoting women's economic empowerment 
and leadership 

HeforShe – Men sensitized about equity importance  
and how they can support women through campaigns  
and a call for allies

Menstrual Dignity – Provide free menstrual supplies  
in all manufacture areas and offices

Maternity – Guidebook developed to support pregnant 
woman and their leaders before and after maternity  
leave with good practices

Leadership & 
Growth Culture

Diversity, Equity  
& Inclusion (DE&I)

Racial Equity  
Audit

Economic Inclusion  
& Supplier Diversity

Our Racial  
Equity Journey

Workplace 
Safety

Impact 
Investing 

Community Impact & 
Employee Volunteering

Humanitarian 
SupportColleagues Overview Advancing 

Gender Equality

GovernanceStrateGy & Performance SnackinG more mindfullymore SuStainable SnackinG colleaGue & community Well-beinG



5 8M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

econoMic 
IncluSion 
& SupplieR 
diveRSity
We are committed to enhancing DE&I 
throughout our supply chain. This includes 
being deliberate and intentional about 
creating equitable opportunities for 
diverse suppliers in the communities we 
live, work, and snack in across the globe. 
This also supports our efforts in working 
with diverse suppliers to help break down 
systemic barriers and drive a more  
inclusive economy.

In 2020, we set the goal to spend $1 billion with majority owned 
and controlled diverse (women, ethnic/minority, LGBTQ+, 
individuals with disabilities, and veteran) suppliers globally by 
2024. This goal highlights our efforts in building a global program 
focused on Economic Inclusion & Supplier Diversity (EISD). 

Partnering with Diverse Suppliers

Through our EISD program, we strive to create mutually beneficial 
business relationships with diverse suppliers that strengthen  
the communities in which we operate and that deliver value  
to our consumers and colleagues. This approach has helped  
us ensure our supply base mirrors the communities we serve  
in driving a more inclusive sourcing mindset.

The primary goal of our EISD program is to drive economic impact 
and provide equitable business opportunities to diverse suppliers 
that satisfy our procurement and contractual standards through 
our inclusive sourcing processes and practices.

To this end, we encourage our sourcing and procurement 
colleagues to identify and include diverse suppliers and service 
providers in the procurement process. As part of our Snacking 
Made Right initiatives, our goal is to increase our inclusive  
sourcing practices to integrate diverse suppliers globally  
more thoughtfully. We believe this is good for our business and 
for our supplier communities – helping to promote increased 
innovation and high-quality, cost-effective products and services.

In 2022, we continued to drive more spend with 
minority and women owned businesses, creating 
equitable opportunities in the communities we 
serve throughout the globe, building a more 
inclusive and diverse supply chain. This was 
grounded in our goal to Spend with Purpose,  
to increase diversity, equity and inclusion (DE&I) 
across our business and supply chain. Spend with 
Purpose enables our teams to think and source 
creatively and with the intention of driving 
sustainable change to our communities.

Building on Success

While we have made progress toward our $1B goal, we still have 
much more work to do. We are determined to continue to focus 
on our deeply rooted values of DE&I to create a more inclusive and 
diverse supply chain, ultimately driving more innovative products 
and solutions to empower our customers to snack right. By doing 
this important work, we will help reinforce our DE&I goal of 
enabling 100% of our businesss to have partnerships supporting 
locally relevant underrepresented communities.

ECONOMIC INCLUSION & SUPPLIER DIVERSITY (EISD) 
2022 PROGRESS1

2022

Total EISD minority and women owned spend1 $510M1

1  Reported performance for the period from January 1, 2022 to December 31, 2022 
includes spend from minority & women owned businesses, and excludes spend 
from small businesses (which were included in prior years' reporting). 

1  Reported information for the period from January 1, 2022 to December 31, 2022 includes actual spend rather than spend attributed to invoices (as in prior years), and includes the following acquisitions: Chipita, Enjoy Life Foods, Give & Go, Perfect Foods, 
Tates, and EPTA America-7 Days (which were not included in prior years). The term "minority" in this year’s reporting includes individuals with disabilities, LGBTQ+, and veteran-owned businesses (which were not included in prior years).

OUR GOAL

$1 billion with diverse suppliers  
(majority owned and controlled by women,  
racial/ethnic minorities, LGBTQ+  
individuals, individuals with disabilities,  
and veterans) globally by 2024.1

$1b

“ As a woman-owned business, we are incredibly 
proud to have partnered with this global fast-
moving consumer goods (FMCG) company 
for almost a decade as a promotional item  
and below the line integrator.  
 
Our collaborative efforts have driven impactful 
campaigns that not only achieved business 
objectives but also championed diversity and 
inclusion. We believe that diverse perspectives  
and experiences are essential for innovation and 
growth, and we are honored to have contributed 
to the company's commitment to creating a more 
inclusive culture. We look forward to continuing  
our partnership and furthering our shared goal  
of driving positive change in the world.”

 Christiana Panera 
  CEO 

Promidea

“  At Mondelēz International, creating an inclusive 
culture is a key pillar of who we are and what 
we stand for. This inclusivity extends through 
our Economic Inclusion and Supplier Diversity 
program driving inclusive sourcing by creating 
equitable opportunities for diverse suppliers in 
the communities we serve throughout 
the globe.” 

 Kate Goodman 
  President - Middle East,  

North Africa & Pakistan  
Mondelēz International

Leadership & 
Growth Culture

Advancing 
Gender Equality

Diversity, Equity  
& Inclusion (DE&I)

Racial Equity  
Audit

Our Racial  
Equity Journey

Workplace 
Safety

Impact 
Investing 

Community Impact & 
Employee Volunteering

Humanitarian 
SupportColleagues Overview Economic Inclusion  

& Supplier Diversity

GovernanceStrateGy & Performance SnackinG more mindfullymore SuStainable SnackinG colleaGue & community Well-beinG



5 9M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

colleagueS
We believe the strength of our workforce 
is one of the significant contributors to 
our success as a global company that leads 
with purpose. To maintain and enhance 
this strength, we are deeply committed 
to promoting the physical and emotional 
health and well-being of our colleagues 
around the world.

OUR GOAL

In 2022, we continued to focus on the 
mental and physical well-being of our 
colleagues. To this end, we maintained 
our goal of providing access to Employee 
Assistance Programs to 100% of our 
colleagues around the world.

Our people are the heart and soul of our 
business and the driving force behind our 
purpose and values. The Right You! is our  
unique brand created to empower our 
colleagues to thrive at work and home 
across three core pillars – Mind, Body,  
and Connection – whatever feels right 
for them to be their best selves. 

100%

Leadership & 
Growth Culture

Advancing 
Gender Equality

Diversity, Equity  
& Inclusion (DE&I)

Racial Equity  
Audit

Economic Inclusion  
& Supplier Diversity

Our Racial  
Equity Journey

Workplace 
Safety

Impact 
Investing 

Community Impact & 
Employee Volunteering

Humanitarian 
SupportOverview Colleagues 

GovernanceStrateGy & Performance SnackinG more mindfullymore SuStainable SnackinG colleaGue & community Well-beinG



6 0M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

woRkplace 
Safety
We prioritize keeping our colleagues, 
contractors and visitors safe. To live up to 
this critical commitment, we implement 
rigorous safety policies, standards, and 
practices throughout the organization and 
promote a strong safety culture. In addition, 
we strive to continuously improve our work 
processes, tools, and metrics to enhance 
safety and reduce workplace injuries.

World-Class Safety 

The global benchmark for a world-class Total Incident Rate (TIR) 
is 0.5. We compare our performance against this benchmark and 
continue to perform well below the 0.5 level, currently operating 
at 0.2, with nearly 46% of our facilities operating with a zero  
TIR in 2022.

Driving Down Incidents 

Through ongoing capability building, enhanced protocols, and 
safety measures, we’ve improved our safety performance year 
after year. TIR as a primary indicator has been helpful to drive this 
reduction in incidents. To also monitor and work to prevent high-
severity life-altering incidents, we revised our metrics in 2020 to 
include a new primary indicator of Severity. 

This allows us to focus on all potential and actual high-severity 
incidents. In 2022, we recorded approximately 19% reduction in 
severity incidents vs. our 2020 baseline year, compared to a 21% 
reduction in 2021. We continued to demonstrate improvements by 
achieving a nearly 10% increase in manufacturing plants operating 
with a zero severity vs. 2021 and ended the year with 58%  
of manufacturing plants operated with a zero severity. 

Providing a Safe, Modern and Flexible Working 
Environment

Post COVID-19, we remain committed to providing a modern  
and flexible approach to how and where we work. We have 
established a hybrid-model that embraces the benefits of 
flexibility and collaboration, and expect our office-based 
employees to engage with colleagues, customers, and  
suppliers in-person on a regular basis.

Striving to Ensure Workplace Safety

Workplace safety is a critical part of our comprehensive Health, 
Safety and Environment (HSE) framework. At Mondelēz, we aim 
to encourage people to think that all accidents are preventable 
and can be eliminated. We reinforce our HSE policies, standards, 
and non-negotiables such as workplace safety to improve culture 
and compliance; we look for ways to improve work processes, 
tools and metrics to reduce workplace injuries; and we regularly 
conduct HSE assessments to evaluate our progress while investing 
in training and communication to continuously improve our HSE 
capability and culture throughout Mondelēz International. 

Building a Strong Safety Culture 

We focus on building a strong safety culture that promotes  
our goal of zero harm and zero injuries by reducing risks  
across four key areas: 

Occupational Health 
To safeguard our colleagues against long-term health issues 
related to the workplace. 

Personal Safety  
To embed safe working tools and standards that promote 
the personal safety of every individual within our company. 

Process Safety  
To improve the design, implementation, management and control 
of any identified hazardous process within our operations. 

Vehicle Safety  
To improve driver safety and vehicle-related activities  
in all of our functions and operations.

Work, Play, and Live, Safe

Our safety principles guide our everyday actions: 

• Nothing we do is worth getting hurt.

• All injuries and occupational illnesses can,  
and must, be prevented.

• We will continually strive for zero incidents.

• Everyone is responsible for safety.

• Working safely is a condition of employment.

With our Work, Play, Live, Safe program, colleagues across the 
globe continue to promote safe practices, safe environments,  
and safe ways of working.

1 Total Recordable Accidents include first aid cases.

WORKPLACE SAFETY PROGRESS

2018 2019 2020 2021 2022

Total Recordable 
Incidents (year-on-year)

-18% -22% -10% +17% -5%

Total Incident Rate  
(TIR) (year-on-year)

- -20.8% -5% +17% -5%

Lost Time Incidents  
(LTI) (year-on-year)

-15% -14% -15% +30% -8%

Lost Time Injury 
Frequency Rate (LTIFR) 
(year-on-year)

- -15.4% -9.1% +30% -8%

Workplace related 
Severity

- - Baseline  
year for 
metric

-21% 3%

Total Recordable 
Accidents  
(year-on-year)1

- -26% -28% -25% -12%

Total Recordable 
Accidents for  
contractors  
(year-on-year)1

- -13% -33% -29% 19%

Leadership & 
Growth Culture

Advancing 
Gender Equality

Diversity, Equity  
& Inclusion (DE&I)

Racial Equity  
Audit

Economic Inclusion  
& Supplier Diversity

Our Racial  
Equity Journey

Impact 
Investing 

Community Impact & 
Employee Volunteering

Humanitarian 
SupportColleagues Overview Workplace 

Safety

GovernanceStrateGy & Performance SnackinG more mindfullymore SuStainable SnackinG colleaGue & community Well-beinG



6 1M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

Investing in The Circulate Capital Ocean Fund

In November 2021, we invested in the Circulate Capital 
Ocean Fund (CCOF), a fund dedicated to helping to 
address India and Southeast Asia’s plastics challenges. 
Our investment will help CCOF support scalable business 
solutions to help develop infrastructure for the collecting, 
sorting, and recycling of plastic waste, including flexible 
films, in India and Southeast Asia. It will enhance the focus 
on the physical collection of flexible films – lightweight, 
multi-layer plastics used by the snacking industry – that 
have traditionally been more difficult to collect, sort,  
recycle and ultimately reuse. 

Our investment in CCOF is  
also expected to help finance  
enterprises that support our goal  
to collect more plastic waste  
than we currently produce  
across India and Southeast Asia.

Empowering the Next Generation  
of South African Farmers

We are among the founding investors in the Aquaponics 
Social Enterprise (ASE) initiated and executed by INMED 
Partnership for Children. ASE is here to transition historically 
disadvantaged populations in South Africa from subsistence 
to commercial agricultural production using climate-
smart INMED Aquaponics® to become food-secure and 
economically self-sufficient. 

The initiative’s focus is to provide farming training and 
strengthen entrepreneurial skills among the emerging  
agro-entrepreneurs so that they learn not only how  
to grow healthier food for their communities but also  
how to market, package, sell and handle finances. 

Trainees are also taught how to access 
funding to make sure their businesses  
are sustainable and thrive. The initiative  
also aims to encourage consumption  
of healthy meals and thus contribute  
towards addressing childhood obesity.

Focusing on Sustainable Futures

We launched Sustainable Futures in 2020 to incubate, 
finance and invest in systemic solutions that drive positive 
social and environmental impact that lasts. Common 
themes are unlocking self-sustaining solutions that address 
climate change, packaging circularity, and build thriving 
communities where we live and work. We seek to create 
partnerships with like-minded investors, nurture innovative 
social entrepreneurs and amplify the positive impact 
Mondelēz International can have on the world. 

This includes, for instance, impact investments that 
tackle climate change and deforestation and support the 
development of infrastructure for collection, sorting and 
recycling of plastic waste. 

We aim to partner with social entrepreneurs to provide 
support in the form of seed funding or growth capital  
to help them incubate, nurture and scale their ideas  
to work towards a more sustainable and equitable future.  
Our financial and strategic support can help promote  
long-term environmental and social impact. 

In 2022, we continued to  
advance Sustainable Futures,  
now expanding its investments,  
both geographically into all  
our four regions (Asia, Middle  
East and Africa; Latin America;  
and Europe and North America)  
and across our Snacking Made  
Right pillars.

IMpact 
InveSting
Through our Sustainable Futures impact 
investment platform, we provide catalytic 
capital for innovative social ventures and 
build partnerships to create lasting positive 
impact on people and the planet.

Turning Plastic Waste Into Construction Materials

In India, we have supported women led NGO Hasiru Dala 
for Project Wealth out of Waste Boards ( WoW) that aims 
to transform multi-layered plastic packaging waste into 
construction materials. Wealth out of Waste Boards (WoW 
Boards) uses technology from a female-led start-up, 
TrashCon, in India. Since 2021, we have been supporting a 
waste picker managed centre with a capacity for handling 
600 MT/year plastic waste. At the centre, the MLP waste is 
repurposed to make WOW Boards. In 2022, more than 100 
units of desk and benches made out of WOW Boards were 
provided to 4 schools. These WOW boards have also been 
demonstrated for two other use cases for making roof of 
worker shed and benches in parks. 

Allocating the Proceeds of our Green Bond

In September 2021, Mondelēz International successfully priced  
its first ever green bond. Totaling €2 billion, it was the largest 
green bond issuance to date in the packaged foods and consumer 
goods industry.

We created the bond to help us fund further progress in our 
strategic commitment to sustainability, a pillar of our long-term 
growth strategy and core to our purpose to empower people 
to snack right. To help make a difference, we have and will 
continue to allocate the net proceeds to two key areas: investing 
in building a thriving ingredient supply chain and reducing our 
environmental impact.

As of December 31, 2022, we have allocated €908.2 million in 
proceeds from the issuance of our first green bond to eligible 
projects. This represents approximately 46% of our net proceeds 
and includes investments in two key programs at the heart of 
our goals for greater sustainability as we work to help empower 
people to snack right: Cocoa Life and Harmony wheat. 

Leadership & 
Growth Culture

Advancing 
Gender Equality

Diversity, Equity  
& Inclusion (DE&I)

Racial Equity  
Audit

Economic Inclusion  
& Supplier Diversity

Our Racial  
Equity Journey

Workplace 
Safety

Community Impact & 
Employee Volunteering

Humanitarian 
SupportColleagues Overview Impact 

Investing 

GovernanceStrateGy & Performance SnackinG more mindfullymore SuStainable SnackinG colleaGue & community Well-beinG



6 2M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

huManItaRIan 
SuppoRt

Supporting Ukraine

Since the start of the war in Ukraine in February 2022, we have 
established a $12 million commitment together with the Mondelēz 
International Foundation to support the country, Ukrainian 
citizens, and refugees with cash and in-kind contributions. We 
are also providing humanitarian aid in collaboration with the 
International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies 
(IFRC) as well as with Save the Children and other more local 
NGOs (Blagomay, CSR Ukraine).

Helping Colleagues and Ukrainian Citizens

As the war continues, supporting our colleagues and Ukrainian 
citizens remains a priority for us at Mondelēz International. We 
are providing all of our employees with compensation and with 
help in securing shelter in neighboring countries, where required 
and needed. We have also made cash and in-kind donations to 
several humanitarian aid organizations in the region.

Since March 2022, several Ukrainian employees have found 
temporary or permanent jobs within our company in other 
countries. Some others decided to leave Ukraine and take up 
residence in neighboring countries with their families. In both 
cases, we witnessed amazing support from the Mondelēz 
International family to assist our Ukrainian colleagues in both 
crossing the border and finding shelter, not only in Mondelēz 
International facilities but also welcoming them to their homes, 
demonstrating an incredible generosity and ‘One Family’ spirit.

We launched an internal app to connect Ukrainian employees 
seeking shelter with our colleagues across the globe who were 
able to offer a safe place for them to stay along with their families. 
We also invested in helping to repair and re-open both our local 
plants in Ukraine which sustained serious damages after shelling. 
We remain committed to our employees, suppliers, customers, 
and the local communities where we live and operate in Ukraine. 

Providing Humanitarian Support

Together with the Mondelēz International Foundation we are 
contributing to a donation of $12 million for humanitarian efforts 
to support Ukrainian communities. This includes donations to 
international and local non-government organizations focused 
not only in supporting the people in Ukraine but also with a 
specific focus on the communities affected by the war, especially 
in locations where we have manufacturing sites, such as 
Trostyanets and Vyshhorod.

We are also supporting impacted communities in a direct and 
targeted way. For example, we funded power generators and  
fuel to sustain critical infrastructure in the city of Trostyanets,  
in addition to donating a bus to restore public transportation.  
We also helped to repair a kindergarten in Novi Petrivtsi 
village, near our Vyshhorod plant, and donated heaters, power 
generators, warm clothes and equipment to 13 social institutions 
reaching over 1,000 children in our communities and  
throughout Ukraine. 

In addition, we are supporting Ukrainian hospitals, to help improve 
the access to health care services for thousands of Ukrainians 
during the war. As part of this initiative, we have donated 
$350,000 to provide medical equipment for the hospitals 
in Trostyanets and Sumy cities. 

Since the war began, we have donated 445 tonnes of in-kind 
products to food banks and NGOs in Ukraine and in neighboring 
countries to support refugees. This also includes sending trucks 
filled with Mondelēz International products directly to Ukrainian 
cities to support local communities and people in need. 

Our thoughts remain with the people of Ukraine and all those 
around the world with family, friends, and loved ones who have 
been impacted. The situation remains incredibly devastating,  
and we continue to condemn this senseless violence. 

Our Support to Türkiye and Syria

Since February 5th 2023, when a devastating earthquake 
struck Türkiye and Syria, we’ve come together as 
#TeamMDLZ to support the affected populations in both 
in-kind and cash donations. To date, we have donated +300 
tons of in-kind products worth over $1M. In addition to the 
$300,000 that we have donated to Save the Children for 
the immediate needs of children and their psychological 
rehabilitation, the Mondelēz International Foundation 
made a $28,000 donation to The International Federation 
of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies. During Bayram in 
Turkey, the local Marketing and Leadership Team organized 
a truck to visit four of the most affected cities. As part of 
the Ramadan tradition, they distributed candies from our 
local jewel Kent to more than 10,000 earthquake victims. We 
thank all our colleagues for their contributions as well as 
those who continue to work hard throughout this situation, 
ensuring support to local communities and the well-being 
of our people.

Mondelēz International Facilitates Over $100,000 
for Flood Rehabilitation in Pakistan

The unprecedented rains and floods in Pakistan caused 
large scale devastation in various parts of the country and 
affected more than 33 million families. With the entire 
country standing in unison to aid rehabilitation efforts in 
flood-affected regions, Mondelēz Pakistan Limited, being 
one of the country’s leading socially responsible corporate 
entities, played its part under its changemakers platform 
by contributing over $100,000 in cash along with in-kind 
donations to support families in building their homes and 
livelihoods once again. To ensure that our contribution have 
been given to the right impacted people, Mondelēz Pakistan 
Limited partnered with Akhuwat and Pakistan Red Crescent 
Society (PRCS), both leading institutions in the country 
working around the clock to facilitate affected people 
in Pakistan. Mondelēz Pakistan Limited disbursed cash 
donations as well as supplies including clothes, medical 
supplies, food, and a variety of other necessary items to 
continue facilitating people and their journey towards 
rehabilitation. The donations were channeled to assist 
not just in reconstruction of homes but also to provide 
sustainable avenues for families to rebuild what they’ve  
lost and to provide for their loved ones.  

Leadership & 
Growth Culture

Advancing 
Gender Equality

Diversity, Equity  
& Inclusion (DE&I)

Racial Equity  
Audit

Economic Inclusion  
& Supplier Diversity

Our Racial  
Equity Journey

Workplace 
Safety

Impact 
Investing 

Community Impact & 
Employee VolunteeringColleagues Overview Humanitarian 

Support

GovernanceStrateGy & Performance SnackinG more mindfullymore SuStainable SnackinG colleaGue & community Well-beinG



6 3M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

VOLUNTEERING PROGRESS

In 2022, 10,000 employee volunteers 
completed 19,000 hours of service to the 
communities where they live or work.

10,000

“ We are very grateful to Health for Life  
for their continued support and this  
generous grant. It has provided us an 
opportunity to make a real difference, 
improve our outdoor facilities, and enable 
us to continue to inspire pupils about the 
importance of living a healthier life.” 

 Head Teacher 
  Highfield Junior and Infants School

coMMunity 
IMpact & 
eMployee 
volunteeRing
Throughout Mondelēz International, we are 
dedicated to making a positive impact on 
the communities we live and work in.

Employee Volunteering and Charitable Giving

Through our Mondelēz International Changemakers program, 
our people give their time, talents, and treasure to help make a 
positive impact on their communities aligned with our Snacking 
Made Right priorities. The program is designed to enable our 
colleagues to play a direct and impactful role in supporting our 
goals and strategies to make snacking right, through individual 
and personal contributions that make a real difference in the 
communities where we all live and work. Contributions are 
organized and focused to align with our strategic Snacking  
Made Right priorities, including more sustainable sourcing  
of key ingredients, lowering climate impact, respecting human 
rights, reducing packaging waste, and advancing colleague  
and community well-being through a culture of DE&I.

COMMUNITY GIVING PROGRESS

2019 2020 2021 2022

Cash and in-kind 
donations (USD)

$70M $93M $50M $54M

Celebrating 10 Years of Encouraging Healthy  
Living Through UK Schools

For the past 10 years, we have been running the Health  
for Life® program in 211 schools across the UK, together  
with our delivery partners Services For Education and  
The Conservation Volunteers. To mark the 10-year 
anniversary of our Health for Life program, participating 
schools were given the opportunity to bid for a cash grant 
totaling £15,000 to develop the program further in their 
school. They were asked to base their bid on one of the 
three key program strands: food growing; healthy eating/
cookery; and physical activity. 

The aim was to enable schools to build on what they  
had already achieved and focus on a specific project  
which would make a significant and sustainable impact 
in promoting healthier lifestyles for pupils and the  
school community. From a range of submissions, three 
schools were awarded a grant of £5,000 each to implement 
their individual project. Elms Farm Primary School chose 
to create a brand-new outdoor fitness area for use by 
pupils, the wider community and holiday clubs. Highfield 
Junior and Infants School planned to develop a diverse 
outdoor classroom for lessons, break-times and for family 
involvement, enabling children to spend more enrichment 
time outdoors and learn how to grow their own food. 
Hillstone Primary School opted to extend their focus on 
cooking and healthy eating with the creation of a dedicated 
and fully-equipped cooking classroom for students and 
family cooking courses. The projects are now underway 
in all three schools and completion will be celebrated in 
summer 2023.

Health in Action Program

The number of children consuming vegetables on a daily 
basis in 342 schools in at-risk communities in Gauteng, 
Eastern Cape and Western Cape has increased by 494% 
between 2019 and 2022, thanks to the Health in Action (HIA) 
program by non-governmental organization, INMED South 
Africa, and the Mondelēz International Foundation.

While Mondelēz International is a leading producer of 
snacks, it is committed to inspiring consumers to snack 
mindfully, with the emphasis on savoring their snacks 
without overindulging. 

“ The Health in Action program is close to our hearts, because 
we understand how important nutrition education is for 
children. Our seven-year partnership with INMED has been 
highly rewarding and we salute the 227 Mondelēz volunteers, 
who put their hands up for the second phase of the project, 
contributing 669 hours of their time to make the initiative  
a success.”

“TRASH RIGHT” Waste & Recycling Education 
Program in Thailand

Echoing our mission of 'Snacking Made Right', Mondelēz 
International (Thailand) joined hands with Trash Lucky 
and the Bangkok Metropolitan Administration (BMA), to 
launch the 'Trash Right' program. This program aims to raise 
awareness about the right approach to managing recyclable 
waste and motivate our communities to trash it the right 
way. Schools were selected for the pilot project and students, 
teachers, parents, and the surrounding communities were 
encouraged to cultivate waste-sorting habits and play  
a role in creating more long-term sustainability values.  
The sorted waste was then collected, recycled, and upcycled  
in accordance with the circular economy concept.

Leadership & 
Growth Culture

Advancing 
Gender Equality

Diversity, Equity  
& Inclusion (DE&I)

Racial Equity  
Audit

Economic Inclusion  
& Supplier Diversity

Our Racial  
Equity Journey

Workplace 
Safety

Impact 
Investing 

Humanitarian 
SupportColleagues Overview Community Impact & 

Employee Volunteering

GovernanceStrateGy & Performance SnackinG more mindfullymore SuStainable SnackinG colleaGue & community Well-beinG



6 4M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

“  As a consumer, you support Save the Children 
and the Breakfast Club by buying Philadelphia, 
but we also want to encourage our consumers  
to contribute together with us and make it 
possible for Save the Children to open even  
more Breakfast Clubs around Sweden." 

 Emmy Sjöstrand  
  Senior Brand Manager Meals in the Nordics.

coMMunity 
IMpact & 
eMployee 
volunteeRing
cont.

Helping to Ensure Children Get a Good Start  
to the Day

In February 2022, Philadelphia partnered up with Save 
the Children and the campaign "Double the good - for 
every child's equal right to a good start to the day". As 
main partner to Save the Children Sweden, Philadelphia 
supports the Breakfast Club initiative, which aims to give 
more children in socio-economically vulnerable areas the 
opportunity to have a good start to the day. The Breakfast 
Club initiative was launched within Save the Children 
Sweden's "On Equal Terms" program. The initiative means 
that children in socio-economically vulnerable areas get 
breakfast and can participate in leisure activities before 
school starts. The club represents an important contribution 
to the children's right to well-being and health, which in 
turn creates better conditions for a good schooling and  
in practice it also means a financial relief for parents  
who have children at the Breakfast Club. 

Promoting Healthier Lifestyles Among  
Children in Mexico

This partnership between Mondelēz International and 
Save the Children aimed to improve children’s nutrition 
and physical fitness in Mexico through in-school and 
community-based programs. The program developed 
throughout a six-year period and had two phases,  
reaching nearly than 40,000 children in Mexico City,  
Puebla, and the State of Mexico.

To achieve our shared goal of improving knowledge, 
attitudes and practices in nutrition and healthy lifestyles 
among school-age children, we built on the foundation laid 
during Phase I where we dramatically increased knowledge 
and positive attitudes regarding healthy food and lifestyle 
choices in children through in-school workshops and 
participatory learning activities. Phase 2 of the project 
focused on the strengthening of community support 
and engagement of more teachers and parents. 

to help prepare meals and feed  
the homeless in partnership  
with Comunidade Vida e Paz.

In Lisbon, Portugal,  
21 volunteers devoted

126 houRS

to spending time with elderly 
people in eight residencies  
across the country.

In Spain, 
89 volunteers devoted

267 houRS

Tuskegee University received $1 million from Clif Bar as 
part of Clif’s longstanding program to invest in organic 
agriculture research at land-grant universities.

Back row: Tuskegee University Student, Tuskegee University 
Organic Program Outreach, and Production Associate

Investing in the Future of Organic Agriculture

Moreover, in 2022, Clif Bar announced two $1 million 
endowments to land grant universities as part of its  
$10 million commitment to support the advancement  
of organic agriculture. The final two endowments out 
of five went to Tuskegee University, the first Historically 
Black College or University (HBCU) to be awarded as part 
of the program, and the University of Wisconsin, which 
received a prior endowment from Clif in 2015. Today,  
more than 80% of all ingredients in CLIF products  
are organic or certified sustainable.

Leadership & 
Growth Culture

Advancing 
Gender Equality

Diversity, Equity  
& Inclusion (DE&I)

Racial Equity  
Audit

Economic Inclusion  
& Supplier Diversity

Our Racial  
Equity Journey

Workplace 
Safety

Impact 
Investing 

Humanitarian 
SupportColleagues Overview Community Impact & 

Employee Volunteering

GovernanceStrateGy & Performance SnackinG more mindfullymore SuStainable SnackinG colleaGue & community Well-beinG



6 5M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

Snacking MoRe 
Mindfully
Consumers around the world are increasingly 
looking for snacks and sustenance that fit 
into their often busy lifestyles. As we continue 
evolving our portfolio to accelerate growth, 
we’re finding new ways to help consumers 
enjoy any snack, for any snacking occasion, 
more mindfully.

In our 2022 State of Snacking report, 71% of consumers surveyed 
said that they snack at least twice a day. The report also confirms 
consumers are increasingly replacing meals with snacks – for 
example, 60% of respondents eat a snack for dinner, up from 46% 
in 2020. Additionally, consumers are increasingly looking for ways 
to snack more mindfully, while continuing to turn to the trusted 
brands they count on for great taste.

of survey respondents said they check nutrition 
labels on snacks before buying them 

said they take time to portion out  
snacks before eating them

said they take time to savor indulgent snacks

68%

61%

78%

According to our 2022 report:
As a snack company dedicated to empowering people 
to snack right, we wouldn’t have it any other way. To us, 
the concept of “mindfulness” extends far beyond the 
satisfaction and pleasure our consumers feel when they 
taste our delicious snacks. We’re intentional and mindful in 
the way we design, manufacture, and market our products, 
too. We’re mindful about choosing the right ingredients, 
blending them in just the right way, adhering to the high 
standards of quality and safety, and making it easy for 
consumers to select the appropriate portions to fit into 
their busy lifestyles. We’re mindful about helping families 
all over the world enjoy our snacks more fully.

Overview Marketing ResponsiblyChampioning Mindful Snacking Making Our Snacks MindfullyEvolving Our PortfolioOur ApproachOverview

GovernancecolleaGue & community Well-beinGStrateGy & Performance SnackinG more mindfullymore SuStainable SnackinG

https://www.mondelezinternational.com/-/media/Mondelez/stateofsnacking/2022/2022_MDLZ_stateofsnacking_report_GLOBAL_EN.pdf


6 6M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

ouR appRoach

chaMpioning Mindful Snacking 
For years, we have encouraged consumers to practice 
Mindful Snacking – the application of mindfulness to 
eating – to help them experience more satisfaction 

from snacking. We provide consumer-friendly online 
information explaining Mindful Snacking and how 
to practice it. To help consumers snack mindfully, 

we offer a range of portion control snacks, including 
products sized at <200 calories as well as individually 
wrapped options. We’re also expanding our portion 

education tools – both on-pack and online – to 
further illustrate the size of a standard portion and the 
number of calories consumed per portion. Additionally, 

we partner with organizations, including Portion 
Balance Coalition, British Nutrition Foundation, 

and Food Drink Europe and CAOBISCO 
to encourage mindful snacking.

MaRketing ReSponSibly 
We recognize that consumers need simple, 

straightforward information to help them make the 
best dietary decisions for themselves and their families. 
Accordingly, we deploy a mindful approach to the way 
we promote and advertise our products – taking great 
care to provide appropriate nutrition labeling across 
our global portfolio, aligned with all applicable local 
laws and regulations; providing as much information 

on key nutrients as space allows; and delivering 
meaningful information at a glance through front-

of-pack (FoP) and calorie labeling on all relevant 
products. We also work closely with industry peers, 

consumers, and health authorities to strive for greater 
harmonization and consistency in food labeling across 

markets. As a founding member of the International 
Food & Beverage Alliance (IFBA), we work with others 
across the industry to support responsible marketing.

evolving ouR poRtfolio 
We invite people to enjoy the snack that is right for 
them – and to rethink the experience of snacking 
– by continuously evolving our portfolio to satisfy 

consumers’ changing needs. We are constantly looking 
to innovate to deliver locally and culturally relevant 

ingredients and recipes – including new and emerging 
nutrition trends like gluten-free, vegan and low- or 

zero-sugar options. We also continue to explore 
potential acquisitions to expand the breadth and 

depth of our offerings in functional nutrition, fresh 
ingredients, and related areas that deliver great taste 

and better-for-you ingredient profiles.

Marketing ResponsiblyChampioning Mindful Snacking Making Our Snacks MindfullyEvolving Our PortfolioOverview Our Approach

GovernancecolleaGue & community Well-beinGStrateGy & Performance SnackinG more mindfullymore SuStainable SnackinG



6 7M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

evolving ouR 
poRtfolio
To keep meeting the changing needs  
of our consumers around the world,  
we continue to evolve our portfolio  
for a variety of snacking occasions  
and lifestyles.

We constantly strive to offer a broad range of snacks that not 
only taste good and help support sustenance, but also offer 
some functional benefits for consumers. We also offer a broad 
range of products designed to meet specific dietary needs, such 
as reduced-sugar options or alternative ingredients, as well  
as innovative, tasty snacks.

Some of our recent innovations and acquisitions include:

• Clif Bar – energy bars made with organic ingredients (U.S.)

• Grenade – high protein, low sugar snack bar (UK)

• Cadbury Plant Bar made with almonds (UK)

• OREO and Good Thins Gluten Free (U.S. and Canada)

• OREO Zero Sugar (China)

• Hu Products – premium vegan and paleo-friendly chocolate 
(U.S.)

• Philadelphia Plant Based (Europe)

• Olina’s Bakehouse Seeded Snackers – gluten free (Australia)

• Clif Kid Zbar – organic snack bars for kids (U.S.)

• Perfect Bar, The Original Refrigerated Protein Bar by Perfect 
Snacks (U.S.)

• OREO - reformulated with a sodium reduction (Argentina)

At the same time, we recognize and embrace consumers’ ongoing 
love for indulgent snacks that enable people to treat themselves 
and others. This is an international pursuit – people around the 
world enjoy indulgent snacking, with 80% of respondents to our 
2022 State of Snacking survey saying they are selective about 
the indulgent snacks they choose. The vast majority believe they 
regularly snack to pamper or reward themselves (78%) and for a 
sense of comfort (77%). Indeed, 72% agree that “in tough times, 
they rely on little luxuries like chocolate to get through the day.” 
Interestingly, less than half (46%) report they feel guilty when 
enjoying an indulgent snack or treat. Because we believe every 
snack can be enjoyed mindfully, we continuously innovate with 
new, better-for-you versions of our indulgent snacks.  
Examples include:

• Mini OREO 90 kcal/portion (UK)

• TUC Thins (China)

• OREO Thins (U.S. and China)

• Jacob's Baked Crisps - Baked Not Fried (Malaysia)

• Cadbury Mini Bars 80 Calorie per bar (Southeast Asia)

Striving for Leadership in Energy Bars

In 2022, we acquired Clif Bar & Company (Clif Bar), a leading 
U.S. maker of energy bars with organic ingredients, like 
rolled oats expanding our global bar business to more  
than $1 billion.

Clif Bar's widely loved brands, including CLIF®, CLIF Kid®, 
and LUNA®, complement our refrigerated business  
Perfect Snacks in the U.S. and performance nutrition 
business Grenade in the U.K. In 2021, Clif Bar released first-
of-its-kind Sustainable Nutrition Guidelines, a framework 
for incorporating nutrition, equity, and environmental 
considerations into the way snacks are made. We are 
pleased to be able to draw on these guidelines to inform 
how we make our snacks, and to share them more widely 
to help set an industry standard for snacks of the future.

“ We are delighted to welcome  
Clif Bar & Company into our 
Mondelēz International team.  
We’re excited about the opportunity 
to advance our shared passion  
for delivering great-tasting snacks  
that help fuel busy lifestyles,  
while helping to reduce our  
impact on the planet.”

 Dirk Van de Put 
  Chairman & CEO  

Mondelēz International
of respondents to our 2022  
State of Snacking survey say 
they look for different kinds  
of snacks to meet different 
needs in their lives.

71%
of respondents to our 2022  
State of Snacking survey say  
they are selective about the 
indulgent snacks they choose.

80%

Marketing ResponsiblyChampioning Mindful Snacking Making Our Snacks MindfullyOur ApproachOverview Evolving Our Portfolio

GovernancecolleaGue & community Well-beinGStrateGy & Performance SnackinG more mindfullymore SuStainable SnackinG



6 8M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

chaMpioning 
Mindful 
Snacking
We believe every snack can be enjoyed in  
a mindful way. That’s why we aim to make and 
market our snacks mindfully, and in turn help 
our consumers enjoy all our products more 
mindfully. We want to empower consumers to 
choose the right snack, for the right moment, 
made the right way – and to savor each bite – 
from enhanced portion labeling to promoting 
behaviors that can help people experience 
more satisfaction from snacking. 

For years we have encouraged consumers to practice  
Mindful Snacking – the application of mindfulness to eating 
behaviors – to help them experience more satisfaction  
from snacking.

Mindful Snacking is:

• Relevant: More and more people practice mindfulness  
to help achieve wellness and balance.

• Accessible: Mindful eating can be practiced by anyone, 
anywhere, and by all ages. 

• Effective: Research shows multiple benefits of  
mindful eating, and the evidence continues to build.

 Our partnerships on nutrition include:

• UK: We partnered with British Nutrition Foundation to provide 
an educational grant to create an informative video with the 
purpose of explaining the purpose of portion control, Mindful 
Snacking, and eating a variety of foods and that treats can be 
included within a balanced diet.

• AMEA: We presented our thought leadership of Mindful 
Snacking to over 900 professionals at the Thailand Congress  
of Nutrition and The Philippine Society of Nutritionist-Dietitians 
annual convention. In Thailand, the majority (88%) of survey 
respondents recognized the benefits of mindful eating.

Six Simple Steps

Snacking mindfully involves six simple steps that add up to real, 
all-around enjoyment: 

Helping People Snack Mindfully

Our approach to Mindful Snacking encompasses both portion 
control packs and on-pack consumer education. We’re 
continuously expanding our portfolio of portion control snack 
sizes and formats – that is, snacks that are 200 calories or less 
and individually wrapped – as well as our library of on-pack, 
online, and easily accessible education about the six simple 
steps consumers can take to snack more mindfully. These 
complementary approaches reach consumers in mutually 
reinforcing ways. Individually wrapped mindful portion serving 
sizes help consumers manage their calorie intake and enjoy 
treats in a more mindful way. On packs that are not individually 
wrapped, educating a consumer on the recommended portion  
can help them get more satisfaction out of each bite.

We help people snack mindfully in many ways – from on-pack 
cues and information to brand-inspired tips, digital resources 
and programs, and health and nutrition professional community 
partnerships. Our Snack Mindfully website provides resources, 
tips, and information on Mindful Snacking. We have also 
partnered with renowned mindful eating expert, Dr. Susan Albers, 
Psy.D., on consumer-friendly videos that explain Mindful Snacking 
and how to practice it, which are available on the website. We 
continuously partner with health and nutrition professionals 
and governments to help further awareness and understanding 
of the practice and benefits of Mindful Snacking. This includes 
attending and contributing to Mindful Snacking events, providing 
informational websites for professionals, and sharing additional 
knowledge and communication materials.

MINDFUL PORTIONS GOAL

By 2025, we aim to deliver up to 100% of 
our net revenue through Mindful Portion 
Snacks, those in either individually wrapped 
mindful portion serving sizes or with 
mindful portion labeling on pack.1

100%

1  This goal is new and combines and replaces historical goals relating to Portion Control Snacks and snacks with Snack Mindfully portion icon on pack. This goal measures the percentage of net revenue that comes from products that are either individually wrapped mindful portion serving sizes (<200 calories) or have a mindful 
portion label/information on pack. This information includes biscuits and baked snacks, chocolate, and candy, and does not include Halls products, semi-final products not sold to consumers, bulk products for wholesale, beverages, meals, gums, seasonal or festive products, licensing/royalty revenue, private label products and 
products with small printable areas.

SNACKING MORE MINDFULLY PROGRESS

2022

Net revenue through Mindful Portion Snacks, those 
in either individually wrapped mindful portion serving 
sizes or with mindful portion labeling on pack

45%

Marketing Responsibly Making Our Snacks MindfullyEvolving Our PortfolioOur ApproachOverview Championing Mindful Snacking

GovernancecolleaGue & community Well-beinGStrateGy & Performance SnackinG more mindfullymore SuStainable SnackinG



6 9M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

chaMpioning 
Mindful 
Snacking 
cont.

Campaigning for Healthy Lifestyles

With rising levels of obesity and non-communicable 
disease in China, sugar, salt, and fat levels in food have 
been a key focus of government measures, and we have 
been actively supporting these efforts. In 2022, the China 
Food Information Center (CFIC) launched a campaign to 
showcase industry efforts in leveraging food science in 
food reformulation and create public awareness  
of sugar use in foods. 

Giving Consumers On-Pack Access  
to Online Information

We have launched an exciting new pilot in the UK that,  
via a QR code on pack, provides consumers with online 
information on our sustainability initiatives, including 
packaging recycling and information to help them snack 
more mindfully.

By scanning the QR code on the pack, consumers can 
access ‘Snacking Right’ – a new online platform that 
provides a host of Snacking Made Right information on 
how to snack mindfully, recycle packaging, and learn more 
about our Cocoa Life signature cocoa sourcing program.

Putting Portion Labeling on our Packaging

In China, we have been inspiring mindful ways of snacking 
by providing individually wrapped portions or labeling. In 
2022, for example, we launched OREO air cake with mindful 
portion labeling. More than 90% of our product portfolio 
in China is either an individually wrapped mindful portion 
(<200 calories) or has mindful portion labeling on pack.

Helping Increase Young People's  
Understanding of Mindful Snacking

In Romania, we are supporting an education project to help 
increase young people’s understanding of the importance 
of healthy eating habits (what and how we eat), being 
mindful and eating with intention and attention. The 
project is led by NGO Asociatia Suta la Suta Romanesc in 
partnership with ANPC (National Authority for Consumers 
Protection) and School Inspectorates. 

This project focuses on key issues, including choosing 
the right snack by reading and understanding precisely 
the information provided on the label, the importance 
of developing lifelong healthy habits by understanding 
the key concepts and adopting a balanced nutrition 
through right choices, and developing skills that support 
the adoption of consistent healthy eating habits to help 
improve health and well-being.

To date, the project has involved more than 5,500 
high school teenager participants and more than 170 
coordinating teachers from approximately 35 high  
schools across Romania.

Encouraging Young Malaysians to Snack Mindfully

In Malaysia, we have been focusing on increasing Mindful 
Snacking relatability and awareness among younger 
Malaysians, who spend a lot of their time online. So in 
2022, we collaborated with up-and-coming musician Belle 
Sisoki on an original snacking tune and TikTok series, as 
well as custom tools designed to encourage sharing and 
interaction. Editorial content for Ramadan and the  
World Cup was created with social media assets,  
and the team also managed to secure interest 
from leading media titles to run social media  
contests around Mindful Snacking  
with zero ad spend.

Marketing Responsibly Making Our Snacks MindfullyEvolving Our PortfolioOur ApproachOverview Championing Mindful Snacking

GovernancecolleaGue & community Well-beinGStrateGy & Performance SnackinG more mindfullymore SuStainable SnackinG



7 0M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

MaRketing 
ReSponSibly

People need simple and straightforward 
information to make dietary decisions  
that are best for them and their families.  
So, we:

•  Provide nutrition labeling on all products  
across global markets, according to local 
laws and regulations

•  Where space permits, include information 
on eight key nutrients: energy, protein, 
carbohydrates, sugars, fat, saturated fat,  
fiber, and sodium

•  Deliver meaningful information at a glance 
through front-of-pack (FoP) and calorie  
labeling on relevant products

•  Call for a harmonized approach to food  
labeling and collaborating with peers  
in our industry, consumers, and health  
authorities

Mindful Labeling

Our nutrition labeling is in line with international standards, 
including Codex Alimentarius (Codex) and as prescribed by law 
and regulation. We provide nutrition labeling on all products, 
displaying the amount per serving and/or per 100 grams 
(depending upon local regulations) on key nutrients. Labels  
usually include the percentage that a nutrient provides  
of a person’s recommended daily intake, such as Daily Value  
or Dietary Reference Intake.

We also place calories on FoP on eligible products globally.  
Unless national laws and regulations require alternative elements,  
our FoP calorie labeling depicts calories (energy) per serving 
or per pack for single serve individually-wrapped snacks.

We believe a uniform, industry-wide approach to FoP labels  
can help consumers make informed choices and eat mindfully. 
We support a common approach that fits local market needs  
and regulations and gives consumers meaningful information  
at a glance. At the same time, we are working with industry  
peers and stakeholders to explore effective and pragmatic  
new labeling options for consumers.

We participate in voluntary nutrition information initiatives,  
such as Facts Up Front and SmartLabel in the U.S., and 
Be Treatwise® in the United Kingdom and Australia.

Nutrition and Health Claims

We base our nutrition and health claims on scientific evidence 
and comply with local laws and regulations. For countries where 
regulatory standards have not been established, we use standards 
set out by Codex, which serves as our baseline when making 
nutrition and health claims.

Responsible Marketing

Our global Marketing to Children Policy applies to every market 
where we do business. We do not advertise our products in any 
media primarily directed to children under age 13.

Our policy prohibits any advertising where 30% or more of the 
total viewing audience is under the age of 13. Our approach 
applies to advertising in TV, print, radio, internet (both our own 
websites and third-party websites), digital, advergaming, mobile, 
word of mouth, DVD/video, streaming media, and in cinemas.

Our communications on packaging and in-store materials are 
directed to adults, and we have guidelines on the use of premiums 
and on-pack promotions. We prohibit all in-school marketing in 
both primary and secondary schools (prior to university level) – 
which is an industry leading practice.

We have food marketing standards in place that provide 
additional guidance and are in line with the International 
Chamber of Commerce (ICC) Code of Advertising and Marketing 
Communication Practice and the ICC Framework for Responsible 
Food and Beverage Communications. Additionally, we participate 
in a number of global and local pledge programs that rigorously 
monitor and report on our processes. You can find out more in  
the Responsible Marketing to Children section of our website.

Working Together

We work with others across the industry to support responsible 
marketing. We were, for example, a founding member of the IFBA.

Along with other members, we made a global commitment to 
the World Health Organization (WHO) to either not advertise 
products to children under age 13 or only advertise products that 
meet specific nutrition criteria to children under age 13 and to 
monitor those efforts.

Promoting Digital Safety

We care about brand safety and have consistent principles 
across all digital platforms and media about the environments 
and contexts in which we advertise. That’s why we are active 
participants in the Global Alliance for Responsible Media (GARM), 
a unique partnership of agencies, advertisers, platforms, and 
trade organizations that works collaboratively to identify actions 
and standards that will better protect consumers online. We 
support and advance the work towards a media environment 
where hate speech, bullying, and disinformation are challenged, 
where personal data is protected and used responsibly, and where 
everyone, especially children, is better protected from harm.

Our labeling and marketing helps  
our consumers to snack right.

Tang Rinde Para - Mexico

"Tang... Rinde Para" is Tang´s latest campaign that speaks 
to real families, promotes the connection between parents 
and children, as well as family unity, and empowers the new 
generations to grow up without stereotypes or prejudices, 
confident that no one can judge you for who you are or 
how you look, to foster a better future for generations  
to come.

The campaign is made up of communication pieces that 
illustrate moments of diversity within diverse families. The 
ads and clips show many real situations, like a father that 
takes care of the home while the mother works, a daughter 
that dyes her hair and their parents being supportive, and 
diversity in families.

Championing Mindful Snacking Making Our Snacks MindfullyEvolving Our PortfolioOur ApproachOverview Marketing Responsibly

GovernancecolleaGue & community Well-beinGStrateGy & Performance SnackinG more mindfullymore SuStainable SnackinG

https://www.mondelezinternational.com/About-Us/Our-Way-of-Doing-Business/Marketing-Approach


7 1M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

MaRketing 
ReSponSibly 
cont.

Leading in Responsive and Inclusive Marketing

We support underrepresented communities not only through our 
focus on responsible food marketing, but also through a robust 
efforts to improve DE&I representation in commercial activities, 
both in front of and behind the camera. As a founding member 
of the IFBA, we have made global commitments to the WHO in 
the areas of nutrition and responsible food marketing. We also 
implement internal advertising review systems/processes to 
make sure our advertising gets within the World Federation of 
Advertisers. This organization focuses on creating more effective 
social ecosystems through cross-sector initiatives such as 
preventing the monetization of hate speech.

We offer training on our advertising and marketing policies and 
encourage our office-based colleagues worldwide to participate. 
Beyond our own organization, we stand up for DE&I by providing 
financial support to organizations such as Parents, Families, and 
Friends of Lesbians and Gays (PFlag), and by creating advertising 
campaigns that engage multicultural audiences and celebrate 
diversity and inclusion.

To improve DE&I within the broader marketing and advertising 
industries, we participate in the Unstereotype Alliance, which 
works to champion the end of bias in advertising through positive 
cultural change, as well as the FREE THE WORK initiative, a talent-
discovery platform connecting advertisers with underrepresented 
talent. Today, approximately one-third of our U.S. marketing 
content uses Black, Indigenous and People of Color (BIPOC)  
or female director talent. Please refer to the marketing section  
of our website for additional information.

Regular Training and Reviews

We offer employees training on our responsible and inclusive 
marketing policy and Marketing to Children Policy. In addition, 
training is provided at the local level.

We also implement internal advertising review systems/processes 
to make sure our advertising gets reviewed at the local level  
for compliance with our current policies and applicable laws  
and regulations.

Monitoring Our Responsible Marketing

We are committed to responsible marketing practices,  
and this includes monitoring our compliance across TV 
and digital advertising (third-party websites).

In 2022, the IFBA commissioned Ebiquity to monitor 
our compliance with the IFBA’s new Global Responsible 
Marketing Policy, which came into effect on January 
1, 2022. Ebiquity measured our compliance for TV and 
digital advertising in a globally representative sample 
of markets. This included measuring TV advertisements 
during Q1 2022 in Colombia, India, Japan, New Zealand, and 
South Africa, and assessing digital during April 2022 in 
Australia, Indonesia, Germany, Mexico, and Vietnam. We are 
pleased to say Ebiquity confirmed our high compliance – 
approximately 90% on average across TV and approximately 
99% on average across digital advertising.

Making the World a More Welcoming Place

Our Ritz brand has introduced Taste of Welcome:  
“Our holidays”, an extension of its “A Taste of Welcome” 
purpose platform, which aims to make the world a more 
welcoming place. The campaign includes a collaboration 
with chef Marcus Samuelsson and a showcase of holiday 
recipes from a number of immigrant families, as well as 
an ad spot featuring culturally diverse families welcoming 
others as they celebrate their holidays. Evoking a sense 
of warmth and joy, the spot captures the essence of 
each celebration and the convivial atmosphere, all while 
spotlighting foods and recipes representative of each 
family’s cultural celebrations and how they naturally  
pair with a Ritz snack.

Ritz is also participating in Walmart’s ‘Fight Hunger.  
Spark Change.’ Campaign. For every Ritz product  
purchased at Walmart, Ritz donated $10 (up to $1,000,000)  
to Feeding America.

Improving Food Access in Local Communities

Our Triscuit brand is on a mission to help improve access to 
nutritious food in food desert communities across America. 
To this end, Triscuit created the Missing Ingredients project 
in 2022 – committing $1 million over the next three years to 
fuel the innovative efforts of local changemakers who are 
improving food access in their communities. 

Lacta “Signs”, Real Stories of Intense 
and True Love (Brazil)

"Signs" campaign was inspired by a real love story  
between a man and a hearing impaired woman where 
communication was a challenge. Lacta Intense Nuts was 
offered as a reference of the brand's positioning: "Small 
squares say more than you think" - referring to how a 
simple gesture of sharing a chocolate can mean a lot 
in a true relationship.

The brand thought about all the details to make the 
campaign more inclusive bringing real stories that show 
how much our chocolates are part of many remarkable 
moments in the lives of our consumers. Lacta Intense is a 
brand that believes and encourages the power of intense 
and true relationships, our goal is to strengthen and create 
bonds between people.

Championing Mindful Snacking Making Our Snacks MindfullyEvolving Our PortfolioOur ApproachOverview Marketing Responsibly

GovernancecolleaGue & community Well-beinGStrateGy & Performance SnackinG more mindfullymore SuStainable SnackinG



7 2M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

Making  
ouR SnackS 
Mindfully
We make sure our snacks are made the 
right way: safely, responsibly – mindfully. 
So our consumers can enjoy safe, high-
quality snacks time after time.

Goal Progress

In 2022, we continued to make strong progress towards our goal 
of having all our manufacturers and suppliers certified to one of 
the Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI) benchmarked food safety 
schemes. For example, we increased the number for external 
manufacturing on GFSI certification. We continue to offer our 
consumers safe, high-quality snacks they can enjoy and feel  
good about. 

Maintaining High Standards

Safety begins with each of our recipes. We set high standards  
with a comprehensive quality management system to promote  
the integrity of our snacks and the ingredients in them.

We use our science-based risk identification and management 
processes to help us assess and control factors that could 
potentially compromise ingredients, packaging, manufacturing 
processes, or finished products.

We design consumer safety into all our products right from 
the outset. We have high-quality management standards 
covering our raw materials, product, and process design and 
manufacturing. Our food safety systems are based on the 
internationally recognized and recommended hazard analysis  
and critical control point (HACCP) system. We use leading science-
based systems and processes to help identify and manage risk  
so our consumers can continue to trust our products when 
they eat them.

Regular Training and Reviews

Providing ongoing training to our employees is an important 
part of embedding our standards in our business. In 2022, 
approximately 6,800 employees were trained on food quality 
and safety. Auditors of our manufacturers and suppliers review 
training records to confirm that all relevant training is carried  
out and records kept. Additionally, approximately 2,200 suppliers 
trained on food safety and quality.

We review all our product quality policies annually, based on 
benchmarking with our peers, and keep them up-to-date in terms 
of best practice. We make our own Supplier Quality Expectations 
publicly available.

Leading Food Safety Scientists

Our food safety scientists are world experts who are on the 
boards of leading global standard-setting organizations such as 
the International Commission on Microbiological Specifications 
for Foods (ICMSF), Food Allergy Research and Resource Program 
(FARRP), and the GFSI.

Championing Global Food Safety

We are proud to be part of the GFSI as it continues to benchmark 
and raise food safety standards around the world. Since joining 
the GFSI in 2006, we have implemented it at all our plants, expect 
our suppliers to follow it, and promote it more widely with our 
other stakeholders and the industry.

This commitment is supported at the highest levels of our 
organization, as our Chairman and CEO is co-chair of the CGF  
food safety coalition, stewarding the food safety agenda.

FOOD SAFETY & QUALITY PROGRESS

2018 2019 2020 2021 2022

Internal manufacturing certified GFSI 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%

External manufacturing certified GFSI 94% 91% 94 % 97% 99%

Raw material supplier certified GFSI 98% 99.8% 99.9% 99.9% 100%

Food contact packaging suppliers 
certified GFSI

57% 90% 97% 97.9% 97%

Marketing ResponsiblyChampioning Mindful SnackingEvolving Our PortfolioOur ApproachOverview Making Our Snacks Mindfully

GovernancecolleaGue & community Well-beinGStrateGy & Performance SnackinG more mindfullymore SuStainable SnackinG



7 3M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

goveRnance
Strong governance provides the 
essential foundation for our sustainable 
impact and continued good growth.

Overview Corporate Governance Closing LetterUN SDGsCompliance

GovernancecolleaGue & community Well-beinGStrateGy & Performance SnackinG more mindfullymore SuStainable SnackinG



74M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

Governance progress 

To ensure we keep enhancing our reporting to meet evolving 
requirements around the world, in 2022 we enhanced our internal 
procedures and controls on ESG Reporting Standards. 

Comprehensive Governance Structure

We have a comprehensive governance structure that provides 
strong oversight of our ESG efforts. 

Board Oversight
Our Board oversees our ESG-related risks, strategy, progress, 
alignment with purpose, stakeholder interests, and strategic  
risks and opportunities, and reviews progress and challenges  
on evolving our growth culture and our DE&I goals. 

Board Committee Responsibilities
Specific responsibilities are delegated to our Board committees, 
which are composed solely of independent directors.

•  Governance, Membership and Sustainability Committee: 
Oversees our ESG policies and programs related to significant 
corporate citizenship, social responsibility, and public policy 
issues. These include sustainability and environmental 
responsibility; food labeling, marketing, and packaging; 
philanthropic and political activities and contributions; 
and Board ESG education and capabilities. 

•  People and Compensation Committee: Oversees our DE&I 
priorities; workplace safety and employee wellness; pay equity; 
talent sourcing strategies; talent management and development 
programs; and ESG strategic performance indicators for 
incentive plans. 

•  Audit Committee: Oversees our safety priorities, goals, and 
performance, and our ESG-related disclosure and control 
processes in connection with filings with the U.S. Securities  
& Exchange Commission (SEC).

Management Responsibilities
Management is responsible for the day-day-day management and 
oversight of our critical sustainability programming and strategy 
development, in addition to regular progress reviews. 

•  SVP, Chief Impact & Sustainability Officer (Chief Impact Officer): 
Leads our sustainability strategy development and oversees  
our sustainability strategy through implementation, as well 
as our long-term sustainability vision. Our Chief Impact Officer 
and our EVP, Corporate & Legal Affairs and General Counsel  
regularly report on sustainability matters to the Board and  
the Governance, Membership and Sustainability Committee.

•  Sustainability Steering Committee: Chaired by our Chief Impact 
Officer and composed of leaders from our key global functions 
and businesses, this Committee focuses on our environmental 
and social sustainability-related strategies.

Focused on Transparency and Accountability

We take a disciplined approach to our sustainability initiatives and 
remain transparent and proactive about our progress. We track, 
report on, and hold management accountable for achieving our 
goals, and we include ESG goals in the annual compensation plan 
for executives.

To ensure we keep enhancing our reporting to meet evolving 
requirements around the world, in 2022 we enhanced our 
internal procedures and controls on ESG Reporting Standards. 
This process provides enhanced clarity for our reporting as we 
continue to focus on keeping our stakeholders informed of our 
ongoing journey to make snacking right.

Strength in Diversity 

The Board values diversity, equity and inclusion, and the Board’s 
diversity is an important aspect of the director recruitment and 
nomination process. The Board also embraces and encourages the 
company’s DE&I culture and is a signatory to the Board Diversity 
Action Alliance, which seeks to increase the representation of 
racially and ethnically diverse leaders on boards of corporations, 
beginning with Black directors. The Board’s directors bring a 
diversity of gender, race, national origin, thought, and global 
experiences that promotes informed decision-making. 

Working in Partnership

As part of our goal of promoting accountability, many of our 
long-term public goals and associated action plans are developed 
in partnership with external advisors. We consider perspectives 
from our ongoing engagement with shareholders and other 
stakeholders, and we actively engage with multiple ESG ratings 
organizations and indices as we advance our disclosure and 
promote transparency. This two-way dialogue informs our ESG 
approach, which defines our assessment of the environmental and 
social issues most significant to us. Materials and processes that 
guide our assessment include our Enterprise Risk Management 
(ERM) program for identifying, assessing, prioritizing, mitigating, 
and monitoring risks.

coRpoRate 
goveRnance
Led by our Board, we are committed 
to living our values and doing business 
the right way. Our strong governance 
underpins this commitment.

EXECUTIVE PAY ALIGNED TO SHAREHOLDER INTERESTS

2020 2021 2022

CEO

Base Salary 10% 10% 10%

Annual Incentive 18% 18% 20%

Equity 72% 72% 70%

Pay at Risk 90% 90% 90%

OTHER NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

Base Salary 20% 20% 17%

Annual Incentive 19% 18% 18%

Equity 61% 62% 65%

Pay at Risk 80% 80% 83%

Strategic Key Progress Indicators 20% 20% 20%

BOARD OF DIRECTORS DIVERSITY

2020 2021 2022

GENDER DIVERSITY

Male 9 9 6

Female 3 3 4

ETHNIC DIVERSITY

White 11 11 8

Black 1 1 2

AGE DIVERSITY

50's 3 1 1

60's 4 6 6

70's 5 5 3

TENURE DIVERSITY

0 – 3 4 2 3

4 – 6 2 4 3

7 – 9 3 3 3

10+ 3 3 1

Overview Corporate Governance Closing LetterUN SDGsCompliance

GovernancecolleaGue & community Well-beinGStrateGy & Performance SnackinG more mindfullymore SuStainable SnackinG



7 5M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

coMpliance
We are focused on ensuring compliance 
with our high standards and robust policies 
and processes throughout the company 
and our supply chain.

Leading From the Top

Our Chief Executive Officer and senior executives drive home the 
central message of our employee Code of Conduct – that business 
integrity and growth go hand-in-hand. To support the right 
behaviors throughout the company, we have a Compliance Team 
led by a Chief Compliance Officer. The Chief Compliance Officer 
provides an annual report to the Audit Committee on the overall 
implementation and effectiveness of Mondelēz International’s 
Compliance program, and provides quarterly updates to the Audit 
Committee on Code of Conduct compliance, investigation trends, 
and training activities. The Chief Compliance Officer also provides 
an annual report to the People and Compensation Committee on 
workplace compliance-related matters.

Working With Suppliers Who Share Our Approach 

We want to work with suppliers who share our values and 
collaborate for mutual growth and success. To this end, we  
expect our suppliers to work with us based on the following  
core principles: 

•  Abide by our Supplier Code of Conduct and the highest 
standards of ethics and integrity. 

•  Comply with all local, regional, and global regulatory 
requirements. 

• Bring innovation that delivers competitive advantages. 

•  Provide safe, high-quality goods and services on time,  
in full, at a most competitive price.

•  Support and contribute to our efforts in diversity, economic 
inclusion, and sustainability. 

For more comprehensive information about our approach to 
Governance, Human Capital Management, and our shareholder 
outreach and engagement program, please consult our 2023 
Proxy Statement. 

Respecting Human Rights 

At Mondelēz International, we are focused on making our snacks 
the right way, protecting the planet, and respecting the human 
rights of people in our value chain. As set out in our Human 
Rights Policy, we follow the United Nations Guiding Principles 
on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs) as a framework to guide 
our approach to identify and address risks, and to disclose our 
progress. Our Human Rights Policy is aligned with our Code of 
Conduct, and together with our Supplier Code of Conduct and 
other company policies, they set out human rights requirements 
and expectations applicable to our own operations, as well as 
to our suppliers and business partners. We have adopted the 
Consumer Goods Forum’s Priority Industry Principles on  
Forced Labor and the UN Women’s Empowerment Principles.  
In addition, we are a signatory of the CEO Action for  
Diversity & Inclusion pledge.

Empowering Our People 

We treat everyone with care and integrity, in line with our  
Do What’s Right value. This is underscored in our Code of Conduct 
and by our robust Compliance and Integrity Program to help us 
identify, monitor, and address any issues in this area. 

Our Speaking Up and Investigations Policy empowers our 
colleagues to ask questions and raise concerns confidentially 
and anonymously through a telephone HelpLine and an online 
WebLine. We monitor contacts and work diligently to address 
concerns raised in a timely fashion. 

COMPLIANCE PROGRESS

In 2022, we continued to provide 
compliance training to many colleagues 
across the business: 

Colleagues trained via web-based  
compliance trainings

Live & interactive compliance training sessions

Total contacts to the Compliance Team 
reporting channels

36,200

300
2,300

Overview Corporate Governance Closing LetterUN SDGsCompliance

GovernancecolleaGue & community Well-beinGStrateGy & Performance SnackinG more mindfullymore SuStainable SnackinG



7 6M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

un 
SuStainable 
developMent 
goalS
As we work together to make snacking  
right, we directly support several of the  
UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).

To live up to our purpose to empower people to snack right 
and deliver on our sustainability strategy, goals, and long-term 
ambitions, we focus where we believe we can make a bigger 
difference and deliver greater long-term positive impact. 

Through signature programs and close collaboration inside 
and outside Mondelēz International, we are focusing on more 
sustainable snacking – more sustainable sourcing of key 
ingredients, lowering climate impact, respecting human rights, 
and reducing packaging waste. We are building our pool of 
deep and diverse talent, making strong progress in our global 
DE&I ambitions for our colleagues, culture, and communities. 
We are evolving our portfolio to meet a range of consumer 
nutrition and well-being choices, while promoting mindful 
portions and active lifestyles. We are also supporting social 
sustainability and human rights.

In so doing, we directly impact a number of SDGs in particular. 
The infographic highlights the SDGs that we are most closely 
aligned with – the ones where we believe we can have the 
biggest impact. It also shows how our programs contribute to 
the other SDGs, reflecting our aim to positively impact all 17.

Additional Tier: We seek to positively impact all other SDGs

•  Ingredients (Cocoa Life)

• Community

•  Ingredients (Cocoa Life)
• Community

• Ingredients
• Packaging

• Ingredients
•  Diversity and Inclusion 

• Ingredients

• Environmental

• Social

• Environmental

• All

• SocialMONDELĒZ 
PROGRAM 
ALIGNMENT

MONDELĒZ 
PROGRAM 
ALIGNMENT

Top Tier: Priority SDGs where our impact is most closely linked

End hunger, achieve food 
security and improved 
nutrition and promote 
sustainable agriculture.

• Ingredients
• Community

• Mindful snacking
• Community

• Environmental • Safety
• Ingredients
• Social 

• Packaging
• Environmental
• ESG reporting

• Ingredients
• Environmental

MONDELĒZ 
PROGRAM 
ALIGNMENT

Ensure healthy lives and 
promote well-being for all 
at all ages.

Ensure availability and 
sustainable management 
of water and sanitation 
for all.

Promote sustained, 
inclusive and sustainable 
economic growth, full and 
productive employment 
and decent work for all.

Ensure sustainable 
consumption and 
production patterns.

Take urgent action 
to combat climate 
change and its 
impacts.

Overview Corporate Governance Closing LetterUN SDGsCompliance

GovernancecolleaGue & community Well-beinGStrateGy & Performance SnackinG more mindfullymore SuStainable SnackinG



7 7M O N D E L Ē Z  I N T E R N A T I O N A L  S N A C K I N G  M A D E  R I G H T 2022  E S G  R E P O RT

In these turbulent times, it is more 
important than ever for all of us at  
Mondelēz International to stay true to  
our purpose – so that we can fulfill our 
potential and honor our goals to make a 
bigger difference and deliver greater long-
term positive impact in the world. For all  
of us, in essence, to make snacking right.
From the unprecedented worldwide shock that was COVID-19  
to the ongoing tragic war in Ukraine, from volatile global markets  
to floods, droughts, and other natural disasters – events in recent 
years have underlined just how much we live in an increasingly 
uncertain and complex world. A world where we face both daily 
challenges, not least the pressures on cost of living due 
to persistently high inflation, and generational challenges, 
notably the mounting urgency surrounding climate change.

In times of turmoil, it pays to stay focused on what is truly 
important and where we believe we can make a bigger, better 
difference, and I am immensely proud of how our colleagues 
continue to strive to live our purpose to empower people  
to snack right.

Snacking Made Right is how we sum up our deep determination 
to build a more sustainable snacking company, by taking a 
strategically focused long-term approach to offering the right 
snack, for the right moment, made the right way.

Many great aims and actions are packed into those three phrases, 
and throughout this report we have endeavored to shine a light 
on some of the most important ones – from the additional $600 
million we have pledged to our signature Cocoa Life sourcing 
program to the advances we are making in encouraging our 
consumers to snack more mindfully, from our championing  
of DE&I to our focus on working with others to help create  
more resilient landscapes.

Laura Stein  
EVP, Corporate & Legal Affairs and General Counsel 
Mondelēz International 

cloSing 
letteR

Ultimately, Snacking Made Right inspires us all to work together 
to be a global snacking leader, to reduce our impact on the 
environment, have a positive impact on customers, consumers, 
colleagues, and communities, and conduct ourselves in an ethical, 
purposeful, and inclusive manner. 

While seeking to amplify and accelerate the positive impact of 
our programs, we have also focused on providing transparent 
and measurable information for our stakeholders on our goals, 
policies, initiatives, and programs through our reporting. 

Just as we aim to keep increasing our impact, so too do we aim  
to keep enhancing our reporting, so we can help people be better 
informed, build trust, and foster a broad and inclusive spirit of 
collaboration. For in these fast-changing and uncertain times, 
we must not only make sure that we stay the course set by our 
purpose but also encourage everyone to join us in this journey  
to make snacking right.

Laura Stein  
EVP, Corporate & Legal Affairs and General Counsel 
Mondelēz International 

" In times of turmoil, it pays to stay 
focused on what is truly important 
and where we believe we can make  
a bigger, better difference, and  
I am immensely proud of how our 
colleagues continue to strive to  
live our purpose to empower  
people to snack right.”

Overview Corporate Governance Closing LetterUN SDGsCompliance

GovernancecolleaGue & community Well-beinGStrateGy & Performance SnackinG more mindfullymore SuStainable SnackinG



Website references throughout this document are provided for convenience only.  
We assume no liability for any third-party content contained on the referenced websites.

About Our ESG Goals
Reported information against our quantitative ESG goals, unless otherwise stated, (i) covers the annual reporting period from January 
1 to December 31 of the stated year, (ii) includes manufacturing facilities under our direct and indirect control, (iii) excludes acquisitions 
since 2018, and (iv) excludes Venezuela. Where quantitative goals are linked to revenue, information is for Mondelez International 
revenue (excluding acquisitions since 2018 unless stated otherwise) except Venezuela, for which results are excluded from our 
consolidated financial statements. Where quantitative goals are linked to operations, information is for operations under the control 
of our integrated supply chain function (excluding acquisitions since 2018 unless stated otherwise); unless stated otherwise, data 
for external manufacturing includes estimates. Due to rounding, numbers presented in this report may not add up precisely to the 
totals provided and percentages may not reflect the absolute figures. Although the numbers presented in this report for this year’s 
performance are rounded, some of the prior years’ numbers were not rounded. Historical, current and forward-looking sustainability-
related information and statements may be based on standards for measuring progress that are still developing, internal controls and 
processes that continue to evolve, and assumptions that are subject to change in the future. We caution you that this information is 
approximate, that these statements and information are not guarantees of future performance, nor promises that our goals will be met, 
and are subject to numerous and evolving risks and uncertainties that we may not be able to predict or assess. In some cases, we may 
determine to adjust our commitments or goals or establish new ones to reflect changes in our business, operations or plans.  

Forward-Looking Statements 
This report contains forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical fact are “forward-looking 
statements” for purposes of federal and state securities laws, including any statements of the plans, strategies and objectives of 
management; any statements regarding our environmental, social and governance and sustainability strategies, goals, policies, initiatives 
and programs; any statements concerning proposed new products, services or developments; any statements regarding future 
economic conditions or performance; any statements of belief or expectation; and any statements of assumptions underlying any  
of the foregoing or other future events. Forward-looking statements may include, among others, the words, and variations of words, 
“will,” “may,” “expect,” “would,” “could,” “might,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “likely,” “estimate,” “anticipate,” “objective,” “predict,” “project,” 
“drive,” “seek,” “aim,” “target,” “potential,” “commitment,” “outlook,” “continue,” “strive,” “ambition” or any other similar words. Although 
we believe that the expectations reflected in any of our forward-looking statements are reasonable, actual results or outcomes could 
differ materially from those projected or assumed in any of our forward-looking statements. Our future financial condition and results 
of operations, as well as any forward-looking statements, are subject to change and to inherent risks and uncertainties, many of which 
are beyond our control. Please also see our risk factors, as they may be amended from time to time, set forth in our filings with the U.S. 
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including our most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent Quarterly 
Reports on Form 10-Q. There may be other factors not presently known to us or which we currently consider to be immaterial that 
could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements we make. We disclaim and do 
not undertake any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement in this report, except as required by applicable law or 
regulation. The information included in, and any issues identified as material for purposes of, this report may not be considered material 
for SEC reporting purposes. In the context of this disclosure, the term “material” is distinct from, and should not be confused with, such 
term as defined for SEC reporting purposes. 


	Button 90: 
	Page 2: 
	Page 3: 
	Page 4: 
	Page 5: 
	Page 6: 
	Page 7: 
	Page 8: 
	Page 9: 
	Page 10: 
	Page 11: 
	Page 12: 
	Page 13: 

	Button 91: 
	Page 2: 
	Page 3: 
	Page 4: 
	Page 5: 
	Page 6: 
	Page 7: 
	Page 8: 
	Page 9: 
	Page 10: 
	Page 11: 
	Page 12: 
	Page 13: 

	Button 92: 
	Page 2: 
	Page 3: 
	Page 4: 
	Page 5: 
	Page 6: 
	Page 7: 
	Page 8: 
	Page 9: 
	Page 10: 
	Page 11: 
	Page 12: 
	Page 13: 

	Button 93: 
	Page 2: 
	Page 3: 
	Page 4: 
	Page 5: 
	Page 6: 
	Page 7: 
	Page 8: 
	Page 9: 
	Page 10: 
	Page 11: 
	Page 12: 
	Page 13: 

	Button 110: 
	Page 14: 
	Page 15: 
	Page 16: 
	Page 17: 
	Page 18: 
	Page 19: 
	Page 20: 
	Page 21: 
	Page 22: 
	Page 23: 
	Page 24: 
	Page 25: 
	Page 26: 
	Page 27: 
	Page 28: 
	Page 29: 
	Page 30: 
	Page 31: 
	Page 32: 
	Page 33: 
	Page 34: 
	Page 35: 
	Page 36: 
	Page 37: 
	Page 38: 
	Page 39: 
	Page 40: 
	Page 41: 
	Page 42: 
	Page 43: 
	Page 44: 
	Page 45: 
	Page 46: 
	Page 47: 
	Page 48: 
	Page 49: 

	Button 111: 
	Page 14: 
	Page 15: 
	Page 16: 
	Page 17: 
	Page 18: 
	Page 19: 
	Page 20: 
	Page 21: 
	Page 22: 
	Page 23: 
	Page 24: 
	Page 25: 
	Page 26: 
	Page 27: 
	Page 28: 
	Page 29: 
	Page 30: 
	Page 31: 
	Page 32: 
	Page 33: 
	Page 34: 
	Page 35: 
	Page 36: 
	Page 37: 
	Page 38: 
	Page 39: 
	Page 40: 
	Page 41: 
	Page 42: 
	Page 43: 
	Page 44: 
	Page 45: 
	Page 46: 
	Page 47: 
	Page 48: 
	Page 49: 

	Button 112: 
	Page 14: 
	Page 15: 
	Page 16: 
	Page 17: 
	Page 18: 
	Page 19: 
	Page 20: 
	Page 21: 
	Page 22: 
	Page 23: 
	Page 24: 
	Page 25: 
	Page 26: 
	Page 27: 
	Page 28: 
	Page 29: 
	Page 30: 
	Page 31: 
	Page 32: 
	Page 33: 
	Page 34: 
	Page 35: 
	Page 36: 
	Page 37: 
	Page 38: 
	Page 39: 
	Page 40: 
	Page 41: 
	Page 42: 
	Page 43: 
	Page 44: 
	Page 45: 
	Page 46: 
	Page 47: 
	Page 48: 
	Page 49: 

	Button 113: 
	Page 14: 
	Page 15: 
	Page 16: 
	Page 17: 
	Page 18: 
	Page 19: 
	Page 20: 
	Page 21: 
	Page 22: 
	Page 23: 
	Page 24: 
	Page 25: 
	Page 26: 
	Page 27: 
	Page 28: 
	Page 29: 
	Page 30: 
	Page 31: 
	Page 32: 
	Page 33: 
	Page 34: 
	Page 35: 
	Page 36: 
	Page 37: 
	Page 38: 
	Page 39: 
	Page 40: 
	Page 41: 
	Page 42: 
	Page 43: 
	Page 44: 
	Page 45: 
	Page 46: 
	Page 47: 
	Page 48: 
	Page 49: 

	Button 114: 
	Page 50: 
	Page 51: 
	Page 52: 
	Page 53: 
	Page 54: 
	Page 55: 
	Page 56: 
	Page 57: 
	Page 58: 
	Page 59: 
	Page 60: 
	Page 61: 
	Page 62: 
	Page 63: 
	Page 64: 

	Button 115: 
	Page 50: 
	Page 51: 
	Page 52: 
	Page 53: 
	Page 54: 
	Page 55: 
	Page 56: 
	Page 57: 
	Page 58: 
	Page 59: 
	Page 60: 
	Page 61: 
	Page 62: 
	Page 63: 
	Page 64: 

	Button 116: 
	Page 50: 
	Page 51: 
	Page 52: 
	Page 53: 
	Page 54: 
	Page 55: 
	Page 56: 
	Page 57: 
	Page 58: 
	Page 59: 
	Page 60: 
	Page 61: 
	Page 62: 
	Page 63: 
	Page 64: 

	Button 118: 
	Page 50: 
	Page 51: 
	Page 52: 
	Page 53: 
	Page 54: 
	Page 55: 
	Page 56: 
	Page 57: 
	Page 58: 
	Page 59: 
	Page 60: 
	Page 61: 
	Page 62: 
	Page 63: 
	Page 64: 

	Button 119: 
	Page 65: 
	Page 66: 
	Page 67: 
	Page 68: 
	Page 69: 
	Page 70: 
	Page 71: 
	Page 72: 

	Button 120: 
	Page 65: 
	Page 66: 
	Page 67: 
	Page 68: 
	Page 69: 
	Page 70: 
	Page 71: 
	Page 72: 

	Button 121: 
	Page 65: 
	Page 66: 
	Page 67: 
	Page 68: 
	Page 69: 
	Page 70: 
	Page 71: 
	Page 72: 

	Button 122: 
	Page 65: 
	Page 66: 
	Page 67: 
	Page 68: 
	Page 69: 
	Page 70: 
	Page 71: 
	Page 72: 

	Button 123: 
	Page 73: 
	Page 74: 
	Page 75: 
	Page 76: 
	Page 77: 

	Button 124: 
	Page 73: 
	Page 74: 
	Page 75: 
	Page 76: 
	Page 77: 

	Button 125: 
	Page 73: 
	Page 74: 
	Page 75: 
	Page 76: 
	Page 77: 

	Button 126: 
	Page 73: 
	Page 74: 
	Page 75: 
	Page 76: 
	Page 77: