MTN Group Limited
Sustainability Report for the year  

ended 31 December 2022



Inside this report

Welcome
to our Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right
57 Safeguarding our people and customers
67 Embedding ethical and responsible business practices
72 Partnering for an ethical supply chain

Doing for growth
76 Enabling local economies
81 Empowering local enterprises 
88 Unlocking local ownership

Key performance indicators
90 Our ESG performance ratings and rankers
91 MTN Group ESG data 2017 – 2022

About this report
02 Reporting scope, boundaries and frameworks
03 Our sustainability governance
04 Material matters 2022

Our year at a glance
10 Driving positive outcomes
12 Our ESG performance
13 Responding to our stakeholders

Our sustainability context
05 Who we are
06 Message from our Group President and CEO
08 Our sustainability strategy

Doing for our planet
15 Moving towards zero emissions 
20 Developing a circular economy
22 Using natural resources responsibly

Doing for people
28 Accelerating digital inclusion 
29 Accelerating rural connectivity
36 Driving financial inclusion
40 Fostering a more diverse society

Achieving a Net Zero future
Prioritising innovative and greener technologies

16
Realising a safer 
internet for all
Ensuring children are 
safe online

63
Driving affordable data connectivity 
Affordability is key to ensuring no one is left behind

09
Creating shared value is a vital enabler of our 
Ambition 2025 strategy



Other icons:

www.mtn.com

IR  

Integrated Report
Our primary communication 
to stakeholders, aiming to 
enable them to make an 
informed assessment of our 
performance and prospects 
and the value we create 
through our activities.

AFS  

Annual Financial 
Statements
Detailed  
statements, analysis 
of the Group’s 
financial results and 
the full Audit 
Committee Report.

5Y

Five-Year Review
Comprehensive view over 
five years of the income 
statement; statements of 
financial position and cash 
flows; performance per 
share; as well as key 
non-financial information.

TAX  

Tax Report
MTN’s approach to 
tax and dealing 
with uncertain tax 
positions; views on 
specific tax risks; 
and our total tax 
contribution.

KIV

King IVTM^ 

Report
MTN’s 
application of 
the King IV 
principles.  

SR

Sustainability Report
Detailed reporting on how 
MTN is creating value for 
stakeholders and driving 
responsible 
environmental, social and 
governance practices.

TR

Transparency 
Report
Insight on how the 
policies and actions of 
governments and 
corporations affect 
privacy, security and 
access to information.

GRI

GRI Report
Structured disclosure 
on the impacts of the 
Group’s activities using 
the Global Reporting 
Initiative (GRI) 
standards.

CDP

CDP Report
Global environmental 
disclosure, reporting 
on risks and 
opportunities in 
climate change, water 
security and broader 
environmental 
management.

Our purpose is to enable the benefits  
of a modern connected life for everyone

Navigating this report:  Throughout our Integrated Report, the following icons are used to show the connectivity  
between our Ambition 2025 strategic priorities, the capitals, material matters and value creation for our stakeholders.

2025 strategic priorities:

 

Build the largest and most 
valuable platforms

Drive industry-leading  
connectivity operations

Create shared 
value

Accelerate portfolio  
transformation

The UNSDGs set a long-term agenda to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure prosperity for all by 
2030. MTN is committed to playing its role in attaining these goals through our business activities and 
investments for our stakeholders. We identified the following Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 
where our business activities can have the most meaningful impact and improve lives. 

For details on how we determine the SDGs on which we have the greatest impact, see page 10.

MTN focus SDGs SDGs on which we have an indirect impact

 

These reports are available online at 
www.mtn.com or on request from 
investor.relations@mtn.com, where 
we also welcome feedback from 
readers on our reports.

Our reporting suite

^Copyright and trademarks owned by the Institute of Directors South Africa NPC and all of its rights are reserved.

 

Our material stakeholders:

Government  
and regulators

Civil  
society

Investment  
community

Subscribers/ 
customers

MTNers

Our capitals:

Natural Financial Intellectual

Human Manufactured Social

Material matters:

1
Geopolitical and 
macroeconomic 
conditions

2 Regulatory environment 3 Network and platform 
performance 4 Greater focus on ESG

5 Cybersecurity and digital 
safety 6 Financial resilience 7 Future-fit skills and 

culture 8 De-layering of the 
telecoms business model

01Sustainability Report 2022 01Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Reporting scope, boundaries and frameworks

Welcome to the MTN Group’s sustainability report, encompassing a balanced, accurate and 
accessible overview of our performance with regard to our sustainability approach for the 
period from 1 January to 31 December 2022. 
Our stakeholders expect us to report transparently about our operations. Meeting these expectations while inspiring the 
public to take an interest in our sustainability practices and solutions is of utmost importance to us. We therefore provide our 
stakeholders with the information needed to assess our sustainability progress through a suite of complementary reports.

Reporting standards IR AFS SR KIV TR CDP

IIRC The IIRC’s <IR> Framework  

CA Companies Act, No 71 of 2008 (as amended)  

JSE JSE Listings Requirements  

FTSE FTSE/JSE Responsible Investment Index  

KING IV King IV™* Principles  

IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)  

GRI United Nations (UN) Global Reporting Initiative  

JSE JSE’s sustainability disclosure guidelines  

GSMA GSMA ESG metrics  

SASB SASB Sustainability Accounting Standards  

UNSDG UN Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDGs)  

UNGC UN Global Compact (UNGC)  

UNGP UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights  

CDP Carbon Disclosure Project  

*  Copyright and trademarks are owned by the Institute of Directors in South Africa NPC and all rights are reserved.

Our suite of reports complies with the following reporting standards.

Scope and boundaries
In alignment with MTN’s Integrated Report, this report adopts the 
financial reporting entity model of control and significant influence. 

Owing to MTN’s indirect minority ownership holding in Irancell and 
Mascom Botswana, select information is included. Some MTN Group 
head office services are undertaken in respect of these entities in 
the United Arab Emirates (Dubai) in leased offices and are 
incorporated into environmental reporting.

Data collection
Information sourced from various executive interviews, departmental 
questionnaires, information management systems, management 
reports and Board committee reports has been used to compile this 
report. Additional data, based on feedback from investor and 
stakeholder engagements, surveys, research and benchmarking 
was included. Where relevant, quantitative data for multiple years is 
provided to allow for trend analysis over time.

Exchange rate
All financial data is reported in South African rand (R), using the 
average exchange rate from January to December 2022 of R16.36 to 
US$1 (2021: R14.82 to US$1).

Combined assurance
Select indicators in this report have undergone internal or external 
assurance. These are indicated within the report using the indicated 
icons. Refer to the Group's Independent Assurance Report on 
selected sustainability information in our 2022 Integrated Report for 
more information.

Feedback
We welcome feedback on this report and are committed to engaging 
with our stakeholders about our performance and sustainability 
efforts. Please address all feedback to Group Sustainability: 
sustainability@mtn.com

Financial reporting entity (control and significant influence)

MTN Group Limited

Read more within Integrated Annual Report

Subsidiaries Joint  
ventures

Other  
investments

02Sustainability Report 2022

About this report

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Read more about MTN’s corporate governance in our 
2022 Integrated Report.

Our sustainability governance

We are committed to creating and 
protecting  value for our stakeholders,  thus 
maintaining superior corporate governance, 
transparency and accountability is essential 
for the long-term sustainable performance 
and growth of our business. 
Our governance framework is integral in supporting our 
business and helping us deliver on our sustainability 
strategy. It provides the structure through which we set our 
objectives, monitor our performance and manage the risks 
we face. It includes a clear framework for decision making 
and accountability across our business and provides 
guidance on the standards of behaviour we expect of each 
other. 

The Board delegates its authority to committees with the 
mandate to deal with relevant governance issues and 
report on them quarterly to the Board. Each committee 
operates under terms of reference setting out roles and 
responsibilities, composition and scope of authority. 

The Social, Ethics and Sustainability Committee (SESCO) 
specifically oversees sustainability strategic ambitions, 
progress and milestones covering various environmental,  
social and governance matters.

The Executive Committee is ultimately accountable for the 
execution of the sustainability strategy and actions, with 
accountabilities assigned to relevant executives led by the 
Group President and CEO. 

We further extended our sustainability governance 
framework to include a Sustainability Steering Committee, 
which reports to the Executive Committee twice a year to 
deep dive into sustainability topics. The Sustainability 
Steering Committee is supported by the Road to Zero 
council and various management-led working groups.

Our committees are structured to promote cross-market 
and functional collaboration, which is essential to ensure 
sustainability is embedded throughout the organisation.

Group Executive Committee

Sustainability Steering Committee
	• Drives execution of sustainability programmes and partnerships to 

ensure delivery of ESG metrics. 
	• Resolves escalated issues and makes project decisions.

Road to Zero Council
	• Provides direction and decisions on major deviations or course 

corrections to achieve Net Zero.
	• Works with suppliers to provide guidance and steer overall programme. 
	• Tracks progress against Group-wide emission reduction targets.

Board

Audit Committee
	• Assesses the reliability of 

sustainability data and disclosures.
	• Oversees fraud and corruption 

policies.
	• Oversees the financial performance 

and financial reporting practices of 
the Group.

Social, Ethics and Sustainability 
Committee
	• Approves sustainability strategy and 

associated policies. 
	• Oversees overall ESG performance 

and ensures implementation against 
key sustainability-related 
frameworks. 

	• Sets the ESG metrics that are 
material value drivers for the 
business.

Risk Management and 
Compliance Committee
	• Oversees the sustainability risk 

register and ensures risk mitigation 
is adequate.

	• Reviews compliance with 
sustainability-related policies.

Human Capital and 
Remuneration Committee
	• Approves sustainability policies 

related to labour and employment, 
sets employment targets and 
monitors employment equity.

	• Reviews, approves and assigns 
executive key performance 
indicators (KPIs) in respect of ESG 
targets.

Directors’ Affairs and 
Governance Committee
	• Oversight on the ’governance’ 

tenant on sustainability. 
	• Monitors effectiveness of the 

governance structures, processes 
and policies.

The Board and committees’ responsibilities across sustainability are defined below.

03Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Material matters 2022
MTN identifies, evaluates and prioritises material matters annually as part of our planning process to support the delivery of our 
purpose and strategy. In 2022, in line with global best practices, we adopted a double materiality process that references our 
internal and external environments. The concept of double materiality acknowledges that a company should report simultaneously 
on matters that are financially material in influencing business value and material to the market, environment and society. 

Matters that meet the criteria of double materiality are described in our Integrated Report, while detail regarding matters that are 
material from an impact perspective are provided in our Sustainability Report.

Read more about our materiality determination process 
detail regarding each material matter in our Integrated 
Report.

Here we provide a snapshot of the material matters identified in 2022. We considered materiality from both an impact materiality and financial 
materiality perspective and plotted each material matter on a graph accordingly. The numbers assigned to each material matter do not necessarily 
reflect their relative importance; MTN considers each matter as important. In the pages that follow, we give details of each of the material matters. 
We show the implications for value, the strategic response, the outlook and the opportunity of each. We also show the links to the SDGs, the relevant 
capitals, our strategic priorities and the related risks of each material matter.

Material matters 

2022 2021

1 Geopolitical and macroeconomic conditions  2  3

2 Regulatory environment 4

3 Network and platform performance New

4 Greater focus on ESG 7

5 Cybersecurity and digital safety 8

6 Financial resilience 6

7 Future-fit skills and culture 9

8 De-layering of the telecoms business model New

Im
p

a
ct

 m
a

te
ri

a
lit

y

Financial materiality

1

2

3

4

5

7

6

8

Geopolitical and macroeconomic 
conditions

De-layering of telecoms 
business model

Greater focus on ESG

Network and platform 
performance

Cybersecurity and digital safety

Future-fit skills and culture

Financial resilience

Regulatory environment
H

ig
he

r

Higher

Lo
w

er

Lower

04Sustainability Report 2022

About this report continued

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Who we are
Our purpose is to enable 
the benefits of a modern 
connected life for everyone.

MTN is a pan-African mobile operator with the strategic intent of ’Leading digital 
solutions for Africa’s progress’. 

Driven by a pioneering spirit, MTN has played a bold role in accelerating Africa’s 
development in the past two and half decades. When we started our journey in 
1994, our ambition was to brighten lives through the power of connectivity. 

Today, extending digital and financial inclusion is more critical than ever. We want 
the opportunities that the digital world offers to be universal, contributing as  
a positive force for the transformation of individuals, companies and society. 

To support this, we are harnessing the power of MTN – our brand, footprint, 
connectivity infrastructure and technology platforms  – to provide leading 
solutions that fuel Africa’s progress. We offer a diverse range of voice, data, 
fintech, digital, enterprise, wholesale and API services to more than 289 million 
customers in 19 markets across Africa and the Middle East.

Read more about MTN’s strategy and performance in 
our 2022 Integrated Report. 

(MTN Group effective 
shareholding)

Our portfolio 
at 31 December 2022

How we performed in 2022

EBITDA^ contribution

MTN South Africa 100.0%

MTN Nigeria  ▲ 75.7%

SEA 

MTN Uganda ▲ 83.1%

MTN Rwanda ▲ 80.0%

MTN Zambia ▲ 89.8%

MTN South Sudan 100.0%

Mascom BotswanaΔ 53.1%

MTN eSwatiniΔ 30.0%

WECA 

MTN Ghana ▲# 84.3%

MTN Cameroon 80.0%

MTN Côte d’Ivoire 66.8%

MTN Benin 75.0%

MTN Guinea-Conakry 75.0%

MTN Congo-Brazzaville 100.0%

LonestarCell (MTN Liberia) 60.0%

MTN Guinea-Bissau 100.0%

MENA 

MTN Sudan 85.0%

MTN Afghanistan ■ 100.0%

MTN IrancellΔ 49.0%

Associates, JVs and other investments 

aYo 50.0%

IHS Group 25.7%

Iran Internet GroupΔ 29.5%

Middle East Internet HoldingΔ 50.0%

▲ Localisations.
■  Exiting in an orderly manner over the medium term .
Δ Equity accounted.
# Legal ownership is 79.3%.

Our geographic footprint is wide, stretching over 19 markets on two continents. This makes robust operational oversight critical. We  secure this 
through a management structure that reflects the contributions to Group earnings of each of our operations in South Africa and Nigeria and that of 
our regions – SEA, WECA and MENA – combined.

By geography %

 South Africa 21.1
 Nigeria 39.7
 SEA 9.8
 WECA 24.8
 MENA 3.2
● Head offices including 
 MTN GC 1.4

 

 
 
 

   
 

By services (%)

 Voice 41.6
 Data 35.4
 Digital 1.6
 Fintech 8.4
 SMS 2.5
 Wholesale 3.4
 Other  7.1

 

 
 
 

   
 

By geography (%)

 South Africa 21.7
 Nigeria 45.7
 SEA 9.9
 WECA 21.3
 MENA 3.0

 

 
 
 

  
 

Service revenue contribution

^Excluding hyperinflation -1.6%

17 462 
employees

 +15.3%* to R196.5bn
service revenue

+32.2%* to R73.7bn
data revenue

+14.3%* to R17.3bn  
fintech revenue

+14.3%* to R90.8bn
EBITDA

-0.2pp* to 44%
EBITDA margin

+17.0% to R38.2bn
capex#

+16.7m to 289.1m
subscribers

+15.0m to 137.0m  
data users

+12.2m to 69.1m  
active MoMo users

# IAS 17
 South Africa    Nigeria    SEA    WECA    MENA

05Sustainability Report 2022

Our sustainability context

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



As I reflect on the past year, I want to express my profound appreciation to 
our stakeholders for their support as we navigate ongoing environmental, 
geopolitical and economic challenges. In 2022, we came face-to-face with 
several challenges, including the protracted effects of the COVID-19 
pandemic, the first war in Europe in 80 years, rapidly increasing inflation, 
disruptions in global supply chains and the escalating climate crisis, which 
threatens the sustainable future of humanity. 

In the same year, the demand on corporations to do more to address pressing 
environmental and social concerns grew significantly. The world is raising the  
bar on sustainability and lifting expectations on all organisations to operate 
responsibly, with integrity, and with a focus on the wellbeing of our communities 
and planet. ESG has become a significant indicator of corporate success, aligning  
value creation with not just shareholder value, but stakeholder value, including 
employees, customers and partners.

ESG-related reporting standards continued to evolve in 2022, with global standard-
setting bodies such as the International Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB) 
helping to develop a common baseline for disclosures across industries and 
countries. Ultimately, by merging Task Force on Climate-Related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD) and Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) 
disclosures, the ISSB standard will offer more informative, transparent and 
comparable industry-based performance measures. Our adoption of the SASB 
Standards in this year’s report will serve as excellent preparation for the application 
of the IFRS Sustainability Disclosure Standards, when they become available 
in 2023.

Recognising the critical need for more effective and consistent approaches to 
measuring and communicating ESG performance, the Global System for Mobile 
Communications Association (GSMA) also developed an industry-specific set of 
ESG KPIs and metrics for mobile operators in 2022. By incorporating the GSMA’s 
ESG metrics for mobile disclosures into this report, MTN intends to provide our 
stakeholders with material insight into how we generate value for society from a 
sectoral perspective.

While we welcome the global convergence of sustainability reporting standards,  
we recognise Africa presents unique sustainability-related challenges and 
opportunities. As the world transitions to a green economy emphasising low-carbon 
or carbon-neutral status, Africa is grappling with high poverty levels and gaps in 
infrastructure, education, healthcare and energy security. 

More so than in any other region of the world, meaningful economic growth and 
rising incomes can have a powerful trickle-down effect in Africa. Nonetheless, 
Africa has witnessed areas of robust economic growth in recent years, driven by 
factors such as increasing urbanisation, technological advancement and a growing 
middle class. The overwhelming majority of Africans today have access to mobile 
phone services, but less than two-thirds have access to piped water. The continent 
needs nuanced sustainability solutions and practices to establish a balance 
between long-term dignity and to stimulate growth, which is sustainability goals 
and the urgent need for employment, poverty reduction and eradication, and 
growth and development in the short to medium term. Therefore, we are positioning 
MTN at the centre of Africa’s transformation to improve African people’s quality of 
life and economically empowering and environmentally sustainable.

Group President 
and CEO 
Ralph Mupita

Looking to 
the future

06Sustainability Report 2022

Message from our Group President and CEO

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



MTN’s Ambition 2025 strategy is premised on our belief that 
we have a genuine opportunity to play a positive and meaningful 
role in creating a sustainable and inclusive world. We are at the 
cusp of a new era of connectivity that significantly supports 
our purpose: enabling the benefits of modern connected life 
for everyone. By combining our core connectivity and mobility 
strengths with emerging technologies such as 5G, AI, cloud 
computing and machine learning, we are laying the groundwork 
for a thriving digital economy and helping to solve many of the 
challenges facing our customers and communities today. As 
we continue to invest in developing African infrastructure for 
African society, we see MTN making a substantial contribution 
to the new digital technologies that will promote social progress 
and facilitate decarbonisation. We intend to play an essential 
role in bridging the digital divide and giving Africa the 
technological edge required to stand out internationally.

As we do, we continually focus on doing the right thing for our 
customers, people and the communities in which we operate. 
We are committed to moving forward with our climate change 
strategy, strengthening our information security practices, 
treating our customers fairly, developing a responsible value 
chain and reinforcing our zero tolerance for corruption and 
human rights along with our ethical and compliant culture, all 
of which led us to become one of the leading telecom operators 
across our markets.

In this context, we continue to systematically examine and 
update  our policies and processes to ensure sustainability is 
integrated into our operations. Our sustainability governance 
frameworks act as a catalyst for identifying new drivers for 
sustainable growth, strengthening our future competitiveness, 
and fulfilling our corporate responsibility. 

We are tremendously pleased with the progress we made this 
year in establishing MTN as a responsible, transparent and 
sustainable organisation. This includes building on our prior 
climate disclosures to prepare and publish our first climate 
change report, aligned with the recommendations of the 
TCFD. The work we are doing to cut GHG emissions, strengthen 
data privacy and security, minimise the gender pay gap and 
uphold digital human rights (DHR) is once again reflected in 
the continued improvement in the ESG ratings accorded to 
MTN by key raters and rankers.

Right now, the globe is confronted with several formidable 
political, economic and social issues. Nonetheless, I am 
certain that the unique role MTN can play as societies and 
economies reconnect and rebound post the pandemic years 
goes hand in hand with sustainable growth. I invite you to read 
about our sustainability strategy and how we are doing more 
for tomorrow, today. 

07Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



We deliver on our vision of driving holistic socioeconomic 
benefits to society through our four-pillar sustainability 
strategy framework, complemented by  bold commitments for 
each pillar. By centring our sustainability strategy on ESG 
principles, we ensure it is flexible enough to withstand 
macroeconomic headwinds and prioritise material issues as 
these emerge. Our most material focus areas are linked to 
clear targets and measurable performance indicators, while 
we continue to manage and measure our remaining ESG 
matters.

Our integrated sustainability strategy is being steadily 
embedded across the Group. Each pillar is complemented by 
policies and procedures to reinforce our commitment and 
facilitate implementation by our operating companies and 
platform businesses.

MTN’s ESG performance is closely monitored by the Board, 
through the Social, Ethics and Sustainability Committee. 

This ’ESG at the core’ framework brings responsible business 
to life for our people and stakeholders and enables us to 
maintain Group-wide oversight of key sustainability issues, 
risks and opportunities. It guides how we interact with our 
customers and stakeholders, the role we play in increasing the 
number of people who benefit from the digital economy, and 
how we manage and minimise our impact on our planet. 
Through our sustainability strategy, we are demonstrating we 
understand the expectations and are working to contribute 
towards solutions to environmental and societal challenges 
while building a connected future.

We recognise that there has never been a more critical time for businesses to think deeply about 
the role they play in society. MTN is committed to harnessing Africa’s potential and supporting 
her progress by unlocking the full benefits and potential of the digital world. Our refreshed 
business strategy – Ambition 2025: Leading digital solutions for Africa’s progress – aims to 
accelerate growth by building the largest and most valuable platform businesses and driving 
industry-leading connectivity operations. 

As part of Ambition 2025, we centred our sustainability brand 
positioning on asking: What are we doing today? We 
understand true progress can be realised only by ‘doing’, and 
are therefore challenging, celebrating and providing tools for 
doers because when individuals, communities and countries 
progress, so too does Africa. This positioning emphasises our 
commitment to taking proactive measures to address 
environmental and social issues in the present, rather than 
waiting until the future to take action. 

Creating shared value is one of the key pillars of our Ambition 
2025 strategy. It underpins our belief that MTN has an 
authentic responsibility to play a positive and meaningful role 
in creating a more sustainable and inclusive world. 

ESG at the core
For us, doing for tomorrow, today 
challenges our team to think and do 
for the future. Our sustainability vision 
is evident: to create shared value for 
our stakeholders through responsible 
environmental, social and governance 
practices and solutions. In addition to 
ESG, our framework includes creating 
broad economic value across our 
footprint. 

08Sustainability Report 2022

Our sustainability strategy

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Strategic intent

Ambition 2025: Leading digital solutions for Africa's progress
Belief

Everybody deserves the benefits of a modern connected life

Commitments

Eco-responsibility Sustainable societies Sound governance Economic value added
We are committed to protecting  

our planet and achieving Net Zero 
emissions by 2040

We are committed to driving digital 
financial inclusion and diverse 

society

We are committed to partners  
and stakeholders to create  

and protect value

We are committed to boosting 
inclusive economic growth on 

the continent

Metrics and actions

•  Project Zero 
Reduce greenhouse gas emissions

•  Efficiency 
Improve energy efficiency

•  Water and waste management 
Reduce our impact

•  Generational equality 
Increase women representation

• Increase access 

• Reduce cost to communicate 

•  Increase financial inclusion

•    Contribution through information 
and communication technologies 
(ICT) 
Digital education, skills and jobs

•  Responsible policies and practices 
business ethics, enterprise-wide 
risk management, Board 
effectiveness and diversity

•  Responsible reputation and trust 
with stakeholders

•  Digital Human Rights (DHR)

•  Responsible procurement and 
supply chain

•  Tax contribution across markets

•  Network infrastructure investment

•  Localisation

•  Support to local enterprises

UNSDGs

09Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Sustainability
pillar

Sustainability
pillar

	• Women comprise 40% of our 
workforce.

	• 29% of our Board members is made 
up of women.

	• 1 041 women and girls participating 
in science, technology, engineering 
and mathematics (STEM) programme 
internships. 

	• 101 women graduated from MTN’s 
Rising Leaders programme.

	• Rural broadband coverage 87.79%.
	• Providing access to mobile financial 

services to 69 million active MoMo users. 
	• Improving affordability with a 23% 

reduction in the blended cost of data in 
underprivileged communities.

	• Level 1 broad-based black economic 
empowerment (B-BBEE) status (for MTN 
South Africa)

	• 17 462 total employee headcount.
	• Paid R11.7bn in staff costs.
	• Supported 1 250 small and 

medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) 
through MTN’s enterprise business 
division, which provides ICT solutions 
and services to help these 
businesses grow and create jobs.

	• Economic value of ~R149bn added 
across our markets.

	• 13.9% reduction in emissions against 
annual target.**

	• Increased focus on leveraging 
renewable energy.

	• Africa’s largest fixed and mobile 
network: invested capex of R38.2bn.

	• 122m active data users.
	• 1 570 5G sites to support innovation and 

improve the quality and accessibility of 
communication services.

	• R221.3bn Fintech transactions 
processed.

	• Our partnerships with various start-ups 
and technology companies help to 
improve access to education, 
healthcare and financial services in 
underprivileged communities.

Our contribution 
to the goal

Our contribution 
to the goal

	• Scored above industry average in 
Digital Human Rights Corporate 
Accountability Index score.

Our UNSDGs focus areas for shared value creation

Six years ago, the mobile industry became the first industry to commit to the 17 UNSDGs. MTN is playing its part to contribute towards the SDGs, recognising its direct and indirect  impact.

Doing for people

Doing for growth

Doing for people

Doing for growth

Doing for people

Doing for planet

Doing it right

**  Excluding South Africa, which was impacted by loadshedding. 
Data subject to audit verification.

To read more on the sector’s contribution, see the GSMA’s 2022 better future report.

10Sustainability Report 2022

Driving positive outcomes 

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Sustainability
pillar

Sustainability
pillar

	• Providing economic opportunities by 
supporting small and medium-sized 
enterprises and increasing access to 
financial services in underserved 
areas and reducing poverty.

	• Installed 2 674 renewable energy 
(solar, hydro, wind) base transceiver 
station (BTS) sites, up 86% from 2021. 

	• Upgraded seven data centre facilities 
with renewable energy solutions.# 

	• Installed renewable energy at one 
major building across our portfolio.

	• Introducing smarter, greener 
infrastructure technologies including 
batteries, DC power systems and 
UPS through Project Zero.

	• Supporting community-based 
agricultural projects that provide 
training to farmers, particularly women 
and youth, on sustainable farming 
practices.

	• Using internet of things (IoT), 5G 
technology and digital platforms to 
improve agriculture and food security.

	• Connected over 10 million home and 
office broadband users.

	• Driving regional and local development 
through localisation policies. 

	• Developing smarter cities through IoT 
technology.	• Promoting healthy living, physical 

activity and good nutrition through 
our ’MTN MOVE’ wellness app.

	• Incorporating biodiversity safe 
practices in site planning.

	• Safeguarding against the removal, 
damage or disturbance of flora and 
fauna during site construction.

	• Invested in water management and 
conservation projects to promote the 
sustainable use of water resources.

	• Providing access to clean water and 
sanitation through our Community 
Water Programmes.

Our contribution 
to the goal

Our contribution 
to the goal

	• Invested R280m in training and 
upskilling MTNers.

	• 1 946 educational scholarships 
awarded to youth in our communities.

	• 2 268 units of network equipment 
repaired or reused in our circular 
economy initiative.

	• Reduced paper use by 928 000kg.

Our indirect impacts

Doing for people

Doing for people

Doing for people

Doing for planet

Doing for planet

Doing for people

Doing for planet

Doing for planet

Doing for planet
Doing for people

#  Based on data from our top seven highest emitting operations (South Africa, Nigeria, Cameroon, Ghana, 
Uganda, Liberia and Sudan).

11Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



As shown in our sustainability strategy on page 07, we 
developed a holistic set of ESG metrics that reflect our 
targets for improved ESG performance across four 
sustainability pillars. The KPIs  arising from our sustainability 
strategy framework are embedded in business planning and 
reporting structures. 

To ensure our leaders are held accountable and demonstrate 
to employees and customers the importance of sustainability, 
aspects of ESG performance are linked to executive pay.  

In 2021, we set ESG-related long-term incentives (LTI) and 
short-term incentives (STI) targets for our executives.  These 
targets are well articulated and fully entrenched across 
our markets.

The ESG KPIs cascade from our Group President and CEO to 
all management and were included in the STI scheme 
allocations in 2022, which were based on incremental progress 
towards our targets. We are on track with all KPIs in the 2022 
ESG index, including our reduction target for Project Zero 

despite the excessive loadshedding experienced in 
South Africa, which necessitated the use of diesel generators 
to provide continuity of service. This was mitigated by 
responsible procurement of renewable energy certificates 
from the SA-REC marketplace to offset Scope 2 emissions 
across the SA asset portfolio.

The LTI targets are three-year cycles and will be allocated in 
2023. Most of our long-term targets are tracking well and are 
likely to be achieved. 

Monitoring and measuring ESG performance

Sustainable
societies

Eco
responsibility

Sound
governance

Economic 
value

Sustainable
societies

Eco
responsibility

Sound
governance

Economic 
value

Eco- 
responsibility
We are committed to protecting our planet 
and  achieving Net Zero emissions by 2040

Sustainable  
societies 
We are committed to driving digital and 
financial inclusion and diverse society

Sustainable
societies

Eco
responsibility

Sound
governance

Economic 
value

Sound  
governance 
We are committed partners to stakeholders 
to create and protect value

•  Project Zero: Achieve Net Zero 
by 2040^

•  Water and waste management 
– Baseline assessment 

•  Cost to communicate: Reduce 
entry bundle to 1GB bundle price 
ratio

•  Broadband coverage: Achieve 
95% by 2025^

•  Diversity and inclusion (D&I): 
50% women in overall workforce 
by 2030^

•  Reputation Index Survey: 
Achieve 75% score

•  DHR: Exceed Ranking Digital 
Rights Corporate Accountability 
Index Score 

* Excluding South Africa, which was impacted by loadshedding.
◊ Women representation in overall workforce.
^ Linked to executive LTIs.

Economic 
value added
“We are committed to boosting 
inclusive economic growth on 

the continent”

Sustainable
societies

Eco
responsibility

Sound
governance

Economic 
value

8.5%

9.4% 0.2%

21.6%
60.3%

~R149bn

Network and  
IT investment

Salaries and wages

Income taxes paid

CSI

Commercial 
procurement

Creating shared value

3424

Achieved

13.9%*3.5%

Target

70%50% of Opcos

1414 Opcos

87.8%85.6% 

40%40% 

79.6%75%

12Sustainability Report 2022

Our ESG performance 

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Responding to our stakeholders

We strive to be the partner of choice to our   
nation-state hosts, communities, suppliers 
and stakeholders in the countries where 
we  operate. Informed consultation and 
stakeholder participation are vital enablers 
for MTN’s value-creation efforts. 

Our Stakeholder Management Policy, developed as part of the 
MTN Group stakeholder and reputation management 
framework,  governs how the Group relates to and engages 
with our stakeholders. It enables MTN to manage relationships 
and reputation with stakeholders, while proactively responding 
to stakeholder needs and expectations through identified 
goals and objectives.

Within the strategy and policy framework, operating 
companies identify and map key stakeholders in their 
markets, plan their engagement proactively, and keep record 
of official engagements. The policy ensures good governance, 
adherence to the King IV principles for stakeholder 

management, sets minimum standards for effective 
stakeholder engagement, and guides management efforts in 
all our markets. 

The effectiveness of our efforts to drive a strong reputation, 
build relationships and practise quality engagement is 
measured and tracked through feedback in our everyday 
engagement, our Reputation Index Survey, NPS tracking (for 
customers) and our Sentimeter Survey (for employees). 

Our operating companies monitor their stakeholder 
engagement performance against an improvement plan 
based on their survey results on an ongoing basis. 

Doing for planet Doing for people Doing it right Doing for growth

75 84 83 84

+ 4 YoY + 1 YoY + 2 YoY + 1 YoY

MTN Reputation 
Index Survey 2022

Survey results show that at overall level, year-on-year, most 
indicators stayed flat (movements of less than 0.5 on an 
overall level), suggesting that stakeholder views have 
stabilised, following the post-pandemic upswing registered 
in 2021.

Seen through the lens of our sustainability framework, our 
stakeholders prioritise and see year-on-year improvements 
for doing for society, doing for growth and doing it right. Doing 
for planet shows significant improvement but requires 
continued focus.

The quality of our relationships with priority stakeholders is pivotal to actioning our belief that everyone deserves the 
benefits of a modern connected life. Knowing our stakeholders, understanding their expectations of MTN, and their views 
of our business impacts form the basis for quality engagement, which is characterised by transparency, easy access to 
relevant information.

During 2022, we updated our Group stakeholder and reputation management strategy to better reflect alignment with 
Ambition 2025. 

13Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Responding to our stakeholders continued

Network  
performance

Business 
performance  
and financial 
results

Impact on 
socio-
economic 
development

Customer  
service

#1 #2 #3 #4

Top four drivers

Stakeholders across MTN’s footprint identified four material issues to them that help inform their views of our reputation. Together, these issues explain 57% of overall reputation score, making these 
clear areas of focus in our engagement and collaboration with stakeholders going forward. However, it is pleasing to report high-performance scores (above 75) in each of the material issues. 

Contribution to 
mobile industry

Compliance with 
legislation and 
regulations

Fair and 
transparent  
billing

Good corporate 
governance

Localisation Environmental 
performance

#5 #6 #7 #8 #9 #10

Other material stakeholder issues

14Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for planet Doing for peopleDoing for tomorrow, today



We are committed to protecting our planet by 
achieving Net Zero emissions by 2040.
In an African context, managing our impact on the environment 
is critical to addressing the unique sustainability challenges 
facing the continent. Our host communities are particularly 
vulnerable to the effects of climate change, desertification, 
drought and flooding, which can have a significant impact on 
the lives and livelihoods of our people. Climate action is 
therefore vital to secure future socioeconomic development in 
Africa.

The increased global demand for energy has an undeniable 
negative impact on the climate, yet complexities exist around 
driving progress on the continent, while reducing negative 
environmental impacts. One of the main challenges in Africa 
is the limited access to clean energy. Many communities in 
Africa still rely on traditional sources of energy, such as wood 
and charcoal, which are not only harmful to the environment 
but also contribute to deforestation and air pollution. 
Investments in renewable energy, such as solar and wind 
power, remain prohibitively costly for many African 
communities.

We recognise the importance of balancing the reduction of 
Africa’s carbon footprint with the need to connect more 
people. As economies and populations grow, every additional 
connected person, device or data transmitted represents a 
potential increase in energy used. However, our digital 
networks and technologies can play a key role in mitigating 
climate change while uplifting and empowering societies. 
Digitisation enables initiatives that promote sustainable living 
among our customers, using mobile money to reduce the need 
for cash transactions, which can help to limit deforestation 
and promote sustainable land use.

Additionally, protecting the planet is important for MTN’s 
long-term business success. The effects of climate change 
and environmental degradation can have a significant impact 
on our operations and supply chain. By taking steps to reduce 
our environmental impact, MTN can mitigate risks, build trust 
and positive relationships with customers and stakeholders, 
and ensure our long-term sustainability.

2

We are doing for the planet by:

Moving towards zero 
emissions and cleaner 
energy supply  
•  Reducing Scope 1 and Scope 2 

emissions and greening our 
energy supply through Project 
Zero.

•  Working with our suppliers to 
reduce Scope 3 emissions.

Developing a circular economy
•  Refurbishing, reusing and reselling network 

equipment. 

•  Responsible e-waste management.

Using natural 
resources responsibly
•  Optimising water consumption.

•  Managing our waste.

1 3

15Sustainability Report 2022

Doing for our planet

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Ensuring connectivity for more than 200 million people 
requires a substantial investment in network infrastructure, 
buildings and data centres, all of which require energy in the 
form of diesel, electricity, gas and refrigerant.

As a responsible corporate citizen, we acknowledge urgent 
action is needed to address climate change and we are intent 
on playing our role in lessening our environmental impact. 
MTN manages the need for urgent action on climate change 
through Project Zero, which concentrates our efforts on 
decreasing GHG emissions across our footprint and, in so 
doing, enhancing operational efficiencies, extending the 
lifecycle of network equipment, reducing energy use, and 
investing in renewable energy sources.

Our commitments
In line with the Paris Agreement scenario of limiting the global 
temperature rise to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels, MTN has 
set out to achieve Net Zero GHG emissions by 2040, 10 years 
earlier than the objective set by the GSMA global telecoms 
industry body.

As part of ensuing alignment with Science Based Targets 
initiative (SBTi) verification requirements, MTN adjusted its 
baseline year to 2021 and updated our datasets accordingly. 
This resulted in slight change to medium-term target from 
47% to 50% reduction by 2030 and maintaining long-term 
target of Net Zero by 2040 as we push more aggressively for 
excellence.

As part of this effort, in 2021, we signed a pledge with the SBTi, 
which formally commits the MTN Group to achieve Net Zero 
emissions by 2040. We also formally submitted our targets to 
SBTi for validation in late 2022 and are within the formal 
validation and verification process. 

To build on this milestone, in 2021, MTN pledged its support 
for the recommendations of the TCFD and in 2022, we issued 
our first TCFD fully-aligned climate report.

Emissions breakdown 

● Scope 1 (2022: 6%)
 Scope 2 (2022: 11%)
 Scope 3 (2022: 83%)

 

 
 
 

   
 

 Diesel (2022: 54%)
 Petrol (2022: 1%)
 Electricity (2022: 43%)
 Natural gas (2022: 2%)

 

 
 
 

   
 

Energy consumption
breakdown (GJ)

 Nigeria (2022: 6%)
 MENA (2022: 8%)
 WECA (2022: 14%)
 SEA (2022: 37%)
 South Africa (2022: 35%)

 

 
 
 

   
 

Scope 1 and 2 emissions per region 
(tCo2e)

 BTS sites (2022: 70%)
 Data centres

and switches (2022: 23%)
 Buildings (2022: 5%)
 Vehicles (2022: 2%)

 

 
 
 

   
 

Emissions breakdown
per area 

Data excludes Iran, which is outside of MTN’s operational control. 
 South African emissions increased steeply owing to severe loadshedding 
throughout 2022, outside of MTN’s control. Our South Africa operations required 
unprecedented levels of diesel-generated power to continue operations. 
Scope 1 and 2 data is still subject to H2 audit processes.
Scope 3 TowerCo data based on spend estimates and will be updated on actuals.
Waste emissions data not included at present.
Data centres are under audit and also subject to adjustment post audit findings.

As part of our commitment to protect the planet, we achieved 
a 13.9%# reduction in absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions 
(tCO

2
e) in 2022, excluding MTN SA, against a 2022 reduction 

target of 3.5%. reductions. Including South Africa, the Group 
achieved 9.85% reduction in Scope 1 and 2 due to the 
challenges associated with loadshedding in MTN SA.

MTN SA worked to mitigate the impact of loadshedding through 
its network resilience plan, included in its move to a ’power-
asa-service’ (PaaS) arrangement being implemented following 
the sale of its towers. We thus expect MTN SA’s emissions 
profile to change in the years ahead as the Opco becomes a 
TowerCo market. This will carve out the majority of related BTS 
sites and result in a significant portion of MTN SA’s emissions 
transferring from Scope 1 and 2, to Scope 3.  

The decrease in our Group-wide emissions was delivered by  
a combination of energy efficiency, energy supply and 
renewable energy certificate procurement for localised 
projects, predominantly in markets such as, Congo-Brazzaville, 
Côte d’Ivoire, eSwatini, Ghana, Guinea-Conakry, Kenya, 
Nigeria, Rwanda, Sudan and Uganda.

Key projects contributing to reduction of emissions
Energy efficiency: 
	• More efficient AC deployment, cable clean up under DC 

floors, deployment of hybrid gensets, data centre server 
virtualisation, server eco mode, DC lighting efficiency and 
BTS auto shutdowns.

Energy supply: 
	• Solar energy integration in large DC facility, gas 

independent power producers (IPP) procurement and 
other small-scale renewable initiatives.

Based on year-on-year comparisons between 2021 to 2022, 
BTS sites continued to be the largest source of MTN’s scope 1 
and 2 emissions, contributing 65% of all Scope 1 and 2 
emissions in 2022. This is due to the asset class heavy reliance 
on diesel and electricity. This picture is expected to shift in 
light of BTS sales to TowerCo in the coming year.

From an energy perspective, BTS accounted for 66.8% of total 
energy usage, followed by data centres (22.5%), buildings and 
switches (5.2%), and vehicles (1.7%). Overall, electricity (43%) 
and diesel (54%) account for the bulk of MTN’s total scope 1 
and 2 emissions.

#  Based on latest data post H1 data review by auditors, H2 review underway 
and dataset may be adjusted slightly basis this in outer years.

16Sustainability Report 2022

Moving towards zero emissions and cleaner energy supply 

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Read our 2022 Climate Report CDP  for more on our climate change response.

Total GHG emissions  
(Scope 1, 2 and 3):  

5 296.351 tCO2e  
(2021: 5 021.071 tCO

2
e)

GHG emissions per 
subscriber  

(Scope 1 and 2):  
0.0183201 tCO2e/

subscriber  
(2021: 0.0192240)

2022 energy and emissions

Climate change mitigation

GHG emissions per  
revenue  

(Scope 1 and 2):  
0.0000256 tCO2e/

revenue  
(2021: 0.0000288)

GHG emissions per 
1GB data 

(Scope 1 and 2):  
0.000071 tCO2e/1GB

In 2023, MTN has set aside 

R700m capex 
for Project Zero 

initiatives 
that will mitigate climate change  

across our 10 key operations

Renewable energy 
installations  

• BTS sites: 2 674 renewable energy 
sites, including solar, hydro and wind 

solutions, up 86% from 2021. 

• Data centres: Upgraded seven data 
centre facilities with renewable energy 

solutions.

• Buildings: Installed renewable energy 
at one major building.

17Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Reducing our Scope 1 and 2 
emissions and greening our energy 
supply through Project Zero

ROAD
TO
ZERO

Project Zero
To realise our Net Zero targets, MTN launched its Project Zero, 
which concentrates our efforts on decreasing GHG emissions 
across our footprint and in so doing, enhance operational 
efficiencies, extend the lifecycle of network equipment, reduce 
energy use and invest in renewable energy sources. The 
initiative focuses on GHG emission reduction and includes 
energy management solutions, monitoring and measurements.

MTN’s Net Zero strategy is based on three climate 
actions 

Developing tailored Project Zero strategies for 
each market
As each of our operating companies faces unique energy 
challenges and opportunities, we are currently developing 
individualised Project Zero strategies, which enable us to 
achieve reductions in Scope 1 and 2 emissions. 

During 2022, Net Zero strategies were developed for five of our 
biggest markets, namely South Africa, Ghana, Sudan, Nigeria 
and Cameroon. These strategies are currently underpinned by 
energy efficiency and the greening of energy supply. 

Reducing scope 1 and 2

Reduce energy usage by improving 
energy efficiency through the rollout of 
initiatives such as swapping energy intense 
infrastructure for more efficient options.

Substitute non-green energy sources 
by replacing fossil fuel-based energy with 
renewable energy as offerings mature in each 
market.

Invest in certified climate protection 
projects with high environmental and social 
standards to offset the emissions that cannot be 
avoided. This lever will be implemented post-2030 
once we exhaust all other substitute activities.

Utilising IPPs to improve energy management in Nigeria
According to the World Bank, Nigeria has long suffered from the issue of 
inadequate power supply, with about 47% of its population lacking access to 
electricity, and regular power cuts for those who do have access. This has 
been a major drawback for the private sector, hindering economic development.

To contribute to alleviating the energy crisis, MTN Nigeria has partnered with 
IPPs. In 2022, MTN deployed a compressed natural gas (CNG) IPP power plant 
to supply MTN Plaza and Ikoyi Data Centre with an alternative energy supply. 
By implementing an 11kV ring main unit (RMU) at the IPP vendor premises and 
using a 2km 11kV underground cable, power supply is ensured for MTN Plaza 
and Ikoyi Data Centre. With a two-input option, the IPP and grid power can be 
combined for changeover before going out to feed the data centre transformer.

This innovative solution, utilising three 1.1MW gas generators, running on 
3x 12 000 scm CNG skids, significantly reduced greenhouse gas emissions and 
lowered energy costs. The CNG cost per kWh is 60% lower than diesel, leading 
to a significant reduction of 110 914 litres of diesel in 2022 compared to 2021. 
Finance analysis for MTN Plaza and Ikoyi Data Centre shows a savings of 
NGN572 017 782 in overall energy cost, thanks to the implementation of IPP.

Through this project, MTN is striving to achieve zero emissions by 2050, and is 
making progress towards creating a sustainable future for all.

The following initiatives were implemented:
	• Performed a granular emission review and audit per asset 

class for Scope 1 and 2.
	• Conducted a market-specific regulatory and policy 

assessment to understand the renewable energy 
landscape and policy parameters. 

	• Developed a customised Scope 1 and 2 strategy per asset 
class, which included initiatives to increase energy 
efficiency, green energy supply and outline investment 
considerations for climate projects.

	• Detailed a decarbonisation implementation plan leveraging 
the initiatives identified and team capacities. 

	• Defined the financing requirement and approach to enable 
the plan. 

	• Drove several central technology requests for proposal 
(RFPs) to enable technology innovation in each country. 

In addition, a proof-of-concept energy management and 
emission measurement tool was deployed by MTN Ghana with 
completion expected during 2023. 

Each operating company’s progress is measured through 
KPIs bi-annually and forms part of the Group’s  ESG KPI index.

Case study: Nigeria

18Sustainability Report 2022

Moving towards zero emissions and cleaner energy supply continued

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Case study: South Africa

Partnering to reduce emissions throughout the 
value chain
In 2021, we undertook a Scope 3 materiality assessment to 
better understand the emissions across our value chain and 
improve our Scope 3 emissions reporting and understanding. 
We strengthened our commitment to reducing our total 
impact, by including Scope 3 emissions targets in Project Zero.  
We also set a near-term Scope 3 supplier engagement target, 
which aims to see 80% of suppliers (by spend) committed to 
setting emission reduction targets by 2026.

To achieve this, MTN is engaging with our suppliers and key 
TowerCo and other partners to educate and encourage them 
to set their own emission reduction targets in line with  
SBTi guidance. 

This education layer is pivotal, as in starting supplier dialogues 
and encouraging supplier commitment to climate science, we 
indirectly drive Scope 3 emission reductions as suppliers 
improve their knowledge and start deploying emission 
reduction strategies and projects.

We are encouraging our suppliers to sign a pledge to join 
MTN’s road to Net Zero to reduce Scope 3 emissions and are 
asking them to work beside us to: 
	• Set a science-based carbon-reduction target and publicly 

communicate this commitment.
	• Report progress on reducing carbon emissions using the 

CDP system. 
	• Embed GHG emission reductions at both a product 

development and service delivery level.
	• Ensure downstream suppliers are aware of this call to 

action, so that it can cascade through the supply chain, 
actively building the capacity of local suppliers in the 
process.

	• Provide life cycle product services to customers, including 
trade-ins and recycling options.

Reducing Scope 3

Accelerating a greener future through 
Project Zero and Ambition 2025
At MTN, ESG is far more than an acronym for 
environmental, social and governance. It is an integral 
element of all our business activities now and going 
forward. Through Project Zero and Ambition 2025, we 
are actively working towards minimising and reducing 
GHG emissions, our energy footprint and reliance on 
the national grid while driving growth and network 
excellence so more people can enjoy the benefits of  
a modern, connected life.

As network towers are highly energy-intensive, we 
believe MTN has a responsibility to be part of the 
solution. That is why we are accelerating our move to 
greening our entire business. 

We have already launched a major project to make our 
MTN 14th Avenue head office a completely green 
office. Phase 1 involves procuring providers for 
alternative energy rooftops and solar car parks. Our 
short-term Project Zero goal is to reduce reliance on 
grid power to below 3% within 18 months.

Our energy strategy includes multiple fronts, such as 
solar, batteries, gas, tri-generation, natural IPP 
partnerships, self-generation, crowdsourcing of 
generators for backup, and notably, an extensive 
network modernisation programme that will lead to 
more efficiencies and less electricity usage. We are also 
testing hybrid systems based on tower-mounted low-
speed wind turbines combined with batteries or solar to 
provide power to rural base stations. To further reduce 
our energy consumption and carbon footprint, we are 
rolling out high-tech solutions such as diesel supplies 
as a backup, inverter air-cons and radio power-saving 
features. We are also in collaboration discussions with 
Eskom regarding purchasing energy for approximately 
2 300 base stations directly supplied by Eskom so that 
they can be supplied from renewable sources.

As South Africa’s best network, based on performance, 
we are committed to continuing to lead digital solutions 
that support progress and make our planet safer. We 
are proud to prioritise customers, communities, the 
environment and good governance in our business 
operations.

19Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Committing to recovering and reusing materials 
responsibly
During 2022, we developed a playbook and training materials 
to guide operating companies in implementing Project Infinity, 
our circular economy programme. 

The core principle of Project Infinity is the reuse and 
redeployment of refurbished equipment to extend product 
lifecycles. As our circular economy practices mature, we 
intend to extend Project Infinity to include handsets and 
consumer devices.

We are working with other operators through the  
GSMA and Joint Audit Cooperation (JAC) to work on  
specific recommendations to improve circularity in the 
telecommunications sector. These recommendations resulted 
in a joint strategy paper with the GSMA.

Partnering to recover and resell network technology
We established a partnership with a reputable third party to 
deliver expertise and mitigate reselling risk associated with 
quality control, original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) 
support, cross-border trade compliance and transfer pricing.  
Our third-party partners provide:
	• Screening, testing, refurbishment and warehousing of 

used network equipment.
	• A marketplace platform that delivers visibility, access and 

intelligence/analytics on supply/demand matching.
	• Shipping and handling: packaging, logistics and acting as 

the exporter of record.

Traditional economic activity and equipment design did not 
integrate reuse and recycling potential, which has a 
considerable impact on the environment and society. 
Therefore, MTN is adopting better lifecycle management 
practices and ensuring key circular economy principles are 
embedded in our strategy, processes and business lines. 

By extending the life of our equipment through repair, 
refurbishment and recycling solutions, we are reducing the 
use of resources needed for making new products and limiting 
the amount of waste entering landfills.

Project Infinity
As technology advances and telecommunications 
needs change at a rapid pace, the equipment required 
to operate our network also changes. As we upgrade 
our network, we are identifying reuse opportunities 
for legacy technology, working with suppliers to 
extend the life of network technology, and exploring 
opportunities to recycle industry-specific equipment.

To increase our network waste recycling rate, we are 
working with industry partners and customers to 
recover technology for reuse and recycling. 

3 MTN + recyclers
Benefits through increased recovery of natural 
resources and responsible waste management.

1 MTN + enablers
Benefits through testing, refurbishment, 
inventory audits, brokerage and logistics enable 
reuse of resources.

Responsible consumption

2 MTN + manufacturers/ suppliers
Benefits through co-operation with 
manufacturers, suppliers, regulators and other 
operators.

Responsible production

Responsible disposal

Project Infinity in action
During 2022, MTN implemented successful reselling 
transactions from South Africa to Liberia and Afghanistan, 
with active opportunities ongoing in Rwanda, Guinea-Conakry 
and Cameroon. Each operating company realised financial 
benefits, with the seller gaining income from decommissioned 
equipment and the buyer saving considerably on the full costs 
of new equipment.

Financial
Savings compared to buying new from OEMs

Resilience
In-house alternative source for supply  

chain disruptions

Environmental
Conserve natural resources, 
reduce waste and emissions

Operational
Reduce obsolete, idle inventory and lead times

The benefits

20Sustainability Report 2022

Developing a circular economy

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Improving lifecycle management

Managing e-waste
Our primary source of waste generation includes electronic and electrical waste included in 
our upstream and downstream supply chain (e.g. radio transmission equipment, batteries, 
lighting, computers, consumer devices, cellular handsets and SIM cards). 

Replacing plastic with 
e-SIMs
MTN is committed to 
reducing plastic waste and 
has initiated a move to 
recyclable plastic SIM cards 
and packaging optimisation 
that will result in a 50% 
reduction in SIM card size 
with biodegradable and 
recyclable plastic being 
used. This initiative will save 
310 tonnes of plastic.

During 2022, we launched 
e-SIMs in South Arica and 
Nigeria.

REDUCE the use of existing 
resources and procurement of new 
resources

1

REUSE where 
feasible and safe2

REFURBISH 
existing resources3

RECYCLE 
resources4

We manage our 
waste impacts by 

applying the hierarchy 
of principles.

Employee awareness and support are critical to ensuring individual actions to conserve these 
resources and result in meaningful outcomes. 

Network waste materials recovered or recycled

Performance summary

US$953 805 
saved  

in 2022 through 
refurbishing, reusing and 

reselling network equipment  
(capex avoided or saved) 

817.2kg  
network waste diverted 

from landfills

23.4 tonnes reused
293.6 tonnes of serialised 

e-waste recycled
499.9 tonnes of bulk e-waste 

recycled

2 268 units  
of network equipment  

repaired or reused

2 363 tCO2e  
emissions avoided

Material Volume (kg)
Aluminium 269 047.11
Lead 61 076.80
Iron 51 880.60
Zinc 39 482.27
Other elements 35 652.06
Copper 29 117.73
Polypropylene 10 177.90
Other metals 1 057.16
Antimony 1 017.79
Silicon 343.71
Phosphorus 310.02
Cobalt 181.26
Plastics 149.28
Trace elements and impurities 146.88
Sulphur 92.11
Carbon 73.44
Chromium 22.46
Tin 18.80
Nickel 9.40
Manganese 8.09

499 864.86
Total

21Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Our operations span a significant geographic footprint across 
Africa and the Middle East. Many operating companies face 
challenges of land degradation, deforestation, biodiversity 
loss and extreme vulnerability as a result of climate change, 
yet enormous potential exists to contribute to sustainable 
development within these countries. We believe growth and 
success of any business should not come at the expense of 
the future of our planet. As a result, we are committed to 
leading by example and using our scale and voice to drive 
better environmental outcomes. 

MTN manages environmental impacts through our Group 
environmental principles and various environmental 
management systems, which align with the ISO 14001 
standard across our footprint. 

During 2022, we undertook development of a comprehensive 
and integrated Group Environmental Policy. As we operate 
across a multitude of diverse environments, the policy serves 
as a guiding light to enable broad Group adherence to 
international best-practice standards and Group-wide 
commitments. 

Read more:
Environmental resources position statement
Water management position statement
Networks and environment position statement
MTN’s TCFD Report 2022
Supplier code of conduct

We are committed to environmental 
protection and management. 

Water management
Water scarcity and droughts increasingly affect many regions 
of Africa, with climate change and population growth predicted 
to continue aggravating the issue. On the contrary, there are 
regions or countries that have excess water, but this is not 
always available as safe for human consumption. MTN 
operates in many African countries that face similar 
challenges.

Together with the National Cleaner Production Centre, MTN 
undertook an assessment to determine a more comprehensive 
baseline for water and waste for its offices and facilities in  
14 markets across Africa. 

Most common uses of water across MTN’s operations are 
ablution facilities and kitchen taps. A benchmark water use 
intensity of 32 litres per day is selected for the MTN markets, 
which is an average observed in regions in the Association of 
Southeast Asian Nations regions. 

Generally, sufficient water is available for use requirements in 
all buildings assessed at MTN’s various premises. Where 
supply issues are known, large capacity storage reservoirs 
are installed to mitigate supply shortfall. The recommendations 
of the baselines will be unpacked during the course of 2023 to 
implement a more proactive approach to water management. 
Some recommendations include keeping accurate tracing and 
monitoring of usage patterns, building awareness and 
education on responsible water management in the face of 
water scarcity and climate change. 

Fixture
Estimated usage 
(litres per unit)

Number of uses 
(/day) Notes and assumptions

Toilet (single flush) 9 3 Women flush on average three times/day while men use 
the toilets only 1.6 times for serious convenience breaks. 

Toilet (dual flush) 3.5:5.0 3

Urinals 2.0 2.4 Men flush on average three times/day but this was split 
between toilets (40%) and urinals (60%).

Taps – kitchenette 4.5 78% Water used for washing and cleaning food containers. 
This ranges between 3.5 and 5.0 litres per person per day, 
from a 9.0 litres per minute (LPM) tap, was assumed.

Basin taps 3.0 3 Various tap fittings were noted, ranging from mixers and 
individual taps to push button (high water use).

22Sustainability Report 2022

Using natural resources responsibly 

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Increasingly, different countries across the world are 
facing water scarcity because of climate change, which 
poses a threat to the future of human and animal life in 
those countries. Out of its population of 45 million people 
in Uganda, 38 million (83% of the population) lack access 
to a reliable, safely managed source of water, and 
seven  million people (17%) lack access to improved 
sanitation solutions.  

To bridge this gap, there is need for collaboration between 
both non-profit and profit organisations geared towards 
increasing access to clean water in the country. 
Companies such as MTN are making progress in this 
initiative. Over the years, the telecom company dedicated 
proceeds from MTN Kampala Marathon towards 
construction of boreholes in water-scarce areas of 
Northern Uganda including Amuria and Nakapiripirit.

The MTN Foundation in Uganda, working together with 
the National Water and Sewerage Corporation (NWSC), 
launched the community water supply scheme during the 

COVID-19 pandemic to provide 23 bulk water points to 
water-stressed areas of Kampala to mitigate the spread 
of the virus owing to of lack of water.

There is a community-appointed liaison officer who has 
access to the padlock keys for the tank. Each tank is 
fitted with a meter for billing purposes. Each container is 
filled at a discounted cost of 500 UGX (about R2.5/kL) 
versus the nominal charge of 4 000 UGX/kL (~R20/kL). 
The scheme visited is still functional after three years of 
operation and NWSC representatives see this as an 
opportunity to expand the programme.

Through the deliberate water programme, the objective is 
to increase access to water to the most needy 
communities and potentially contribute to increased 
hygiene, which is a contribution to the UNSDGs and 
UNICEF’s Water, Sanitation and Hygiene programme. 
This initiative has been piloted in 18 communities. The 
boreholes have extended access to clean water to more 
than 4 000 people, including refugees in the country.

Case study: Uganda 

23Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Increased population growth and rapid urbanisation 
resulted in the generation of large quantities of solid 
waste across major urban cities in Ghana, placing strain 
on the local authorities. In Ghana, on average, 
approximately 13 000 tonnes of solid waste are generated 
daily, with 10% collected and disposed of at designated 
dumping sites. 

At MTN in Ghana, the waste streams generated are  
a mixture of general office waste, which includes paper, 
packaging waste, plastics, cardboard, food waste,  
cans, construction and demolition waste, and electronic 
waste (e-waste). Waste is collected by the Accra State 
Waste Management Authority in collaboration with 
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). EPA has 
transitioned to being the complete regulator in the  
waste-management sector in Ghana and its primary 
responsibility is to manage refuse collection and disposal. 
EPA regulates, manages and provides the following:
	• Disposal sites. 
	• Resource, recovery and recycling.
	• Education and awareness.
	• Operations. 
	• Achievements and awards. 
	• An educational platform for waste management – the 

EPA Academy – which focuses on literacy 
improvement and career development.

In terms of the optimisation and integration of waste 
collection (leveraging mechanisms), it is important to first 
separate waste. Ghana is demonstrating good waste 
management practices for separation of waste at source, 
as depicted in the image. This allows for greater efficiency 
of waste management and recycling initiatives. It is also 
important to weigh the separated waste streams to 
understand the volumes of waste generated. Separation 
and weighing presents a clearer picture of how feasible 
identified leveraging mechanisms may be and how the 
segregated and weighed waste can be optimised. In 
addition to this, MTN Ghana is implementing the plastic 
synergy programme with a local toy manufacturer to  
reuse all the plastic to make toys.

Waste management
To ensure the objectives of MTN Group waste management 
practices were met, MTN undertook an assessment together 
with the National Cleaner Production Centre South Africa 
(NCPC-SA), to determine a more comprehensive baseline for 
waste for its offices and facilities in 14 markets across Africa.  
The assessment consisted of an investigation of the types of 
waste streams generated and the relative waste-management 
practices. In addition, the facilities’ perceived level of 
environmental performance was also assessed. In this 
baseline assessment, material waste management practices 
were observed and opportunities for industrial symbiosis, as 
well as savings opportunities, were investigated. 

The outcome of this assessment concluded that overall the 
MTN offices do not generate a substantial amount of waste. 
Although MTN provides a diverse range of services, the majority 
of direct waste is office-based, such as general waste,  
co-mingle recycling paper, used electronic gadgets, food waste, 
organics and network waste from different markets.

Much of MTN’s service delivery activity relates to customer 
services. However, waste is generated daily, and improved 
measures are required continuously in line with the road to 
Net Zero.

Water use 
(per activity per day in LPU)

● Toilet (single flush) 49%
 Urinals 11%
 Kitchen taps 24%
 Basin taps 16% 

 

 
 
 

   
 

Water sources 
(distribution across markets)

● Municipal water 58%
 Borehole 25% 
 Borehole browser 8%
 Borehole greywater 8% 

 

 
 
 

   
 

Case study: Ghana 

24Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Total waste 
recycled

176
tonnes

Total waste generated
across all markets

588
tonnes

0.99
tonnes

Metals
recycled

0.2
tonnes

Glass
recycled

7
tonnes

Food waste
recycled

7
tonnes

Plastic
recycled

99.2
tonnes

E-waste
recycled

20
tonnes

Paper
recycled

25Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Case study: PachiPanda Innovation Challenge 

With a view to attract new ideas from young Zambians 
and SMEs that address current challenges with increasing 
conservation awareness and creating a more sustainable 
Zambia, MTN Zambia Foundation – in partnership with 
the World Wide Fund Zambia – piloted the PachiPanda 
Innovation Challenge in 2022. It aimed to explore the 
gaps and opportunities in developing robust and 
impactful solutions, which may solve some of the 
challenges experienced in the sustainability and 
conservation sector.

The PachiPanda Innovation Challenge invited young 
Zambians and SMEs (and encouraged university and 
college students) to enter their solutions to the challenge 
statements presented. 

These are:
	• How might we leverage technology to ensure the 

benefits of conservation and sustainability practices 
are communicated to people of different ages, 
backgrounds and locations?

	• How do we use technology to address conservation 
challenges?

	• In what way can we develop environmentally friendly 
alternatives to existing unsustainable practices?

	• How might we develop and encourage the use of 
sustainable energy alternatives?

A convention was hosted in August 2022 where the young 
innovators were called to pitch their solutions to an 
esteemed panel and the Minister of Green Economy and 
Environment. Their ideas were judged on whether their 
solution is innovative (is it unique or does it improve what 
already exists?), feasible (can it be done?) and sustainable 
(can you make money from it?). In total, 1 060 teams 
applied for the challenge and 12 teams of three people 
were selected from across Zambia. First place went to 
Billy Munyembe, who developed Portable Biogas, which 
produces biogas from fertiliser from waste, and  Ahmad 
Hamwi, who developed Ignitos Space, aimed at using 
space to save life on earth. 

26Sustainability Report 2022

Using natural resources responsibly continued

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Doing for people

We believe everyone deserves the benefits of a modern 
connected life.

The pandemic has shifted the way people work, learn and live in a fundamental 
way, and those who are not digitally connected are at risk of being excluded from 
life-enhancing online services. The 2022 State of Broadband report estimates 
2.7 billion people are presently without broadband and not able to access public 
services or learn from home. The situation is particularly dire in sub-Saharan 
Africa where less than a quarter of households have access to the internet.

Over 30% of people, within range of a mobile broadband network and could 
therefore connect, remain offline. Understanding why people and households do 
not use the internet is critical for designing effective, targeted interventions. The 
main reasons cited by people for not using the internet are the lack of affordability, 
awareness, relevance and digital literacy skills. 

Specific categories of people show the greatest delays in adopting digital 
technologies. These groups include women, people with disabilities, children and 
youth, older persons, those with low incomes and people living in remote areas. 
Gender gaps also exist in women’s access to and use of mobile money services, 
which can increase their economic independence. 

Over the last decade, saw the transformative power of mobile money in providing 
a pathway to financial inclusion. To ensure no one is left unbanked, MTN has 
launched several mobile money services through our MoMo platform, which 
allows customers to transfer money, pay bills and access other financial services 
via their mobile phones. This is particularly important in Africa, where many 
people do not have access to traditional banking services.

The mobile economy in Africa is growing rapidly and MTN is focused on driving 
digital and financial inclusion. This includes building and upgrading infrastructure, 
as well as offering our customers affordable handsets and data plans. Additionally, 
MTN is partnering with governments and organisations to promote digital literacy 
and skills training.

To  ensure everyone is included on our growth journey, we want to make certain 
our services are accessible to people of all backgrounds and abilities and are 
committed to promoting gender and ethnic diversity within our workforce. 

2

We are doing for society by:

Accelerating digital 
inclusion
• Affordability.

• Digital adoption.

• Rural connectivity.

Fostering a more 
diverse and inclusive 
society
• In our operations.

• In our communities.

• In our retail outlets.

Driving financial 
inclusion
• Our MoMo Fintech platform.

1 3

27Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Voice  
connectivity

Voice services continue to provide a lifeline to customers where coverage gaps hinder the adoption of data-
enabled services, even though demand for voice services is dropping quickly as industry dynamics change 
towards data. We implemented a comprehensive USME voice strategy to strengthen the sustainability of 
voice services by focusing on voice user growth, voice revenue substitution for data, mobile termination 
rates regime impact, and price elasticity of usage.

Data  
connectivity

MTN’s industry-renowned CHASE framework addresses the five key barriers to mobile internet adoption by 
providing affordable solutions and tailored products and services to enable digital inclusion. Our USME 
strategy supports our data-centric CHASE framework. The development and implementation of both 
methods demonstrate our dedication to providing reasonably priced data and phone services.

Digital  
inclusion

Leveraging our established customer base, local knowledge, presence and customer insight, MTN has built 
a digital ecosystem spanning OTT services in messaging, media and advertising that aims to bring more 
people into the digital world. Our ayoba-specific ecosystem comprises channels, micro-apps and payment 
options. The super-app also enables MoMo financial services and innovation from third parties. Through 
ayoba, MTN provides greater value to the larger ecosystem of enterprises, users and local developers and 
optimises local community experiences.

Coverage Significantly increase the number of partnerships with which we engage to accelerate 
rural rollout.

Handsets Accelerate device accessibility through device financing partnerships. 

Affordability Implement a data-pricing governance framework to provide formal guidance to all 
operating companies to stay within the UN’s internet affordability target.

Service bundling Provide different customer groups with relevant value propositions to targeting 
individual needs while driving down the cost of communicating.

Education Increasing the availability of digital literacy content.

Our strategy for driving inclusive connectivity 
Our strategic ambition is to reach 200 million active data subscribers by 2025, doubling our data subscriber base.Affordable connectivity and digital access can 

transform lives and bridge divides, yet  
sub-Saharan Africa still has broad coverage 
and usage gaps, with only 22% of people 
across this region connected to mobile 
internet.

Digital inclusion is an area where MTN  
can take a leadership role in creating change  
to deliver social and economic impact. 
Therefore, we focus on bringing internet 
access to underserved communities, 
increasing affordability for the most vulnerable 
groups of society and helping these groups to 
capitalise on all the benefits of connectivity by 
offering digital education and accessible 
experiences to enhance their development.

Connectivity is the gateway to the digital 
world, which creates numerous opportunities. 
We want these opportunities to be universal, 
contributing as a positive force transforming 
individuals, companies and society. To achieve 
this, MTN works to expand access to voice and 
data services, reduce costs and increase 
digital inclusion.

Mobile internet connectivity 
in sub-Saharan Africa

Source: GSMA

20222014

17%Coverage gap

61%Usage gap

22%Connected

50%

39%

11%

Digital inclusion
• Our Ayoba app

Data connectivity
• Our CHASE framework

Voice connectivity
• Our USME strategy

5G
enables exponential 
benefits such as IoT 

capabilities


4G


3G


2G

Connectivity has become  
a baseline requirement for 
accessing the opportunities, 
resources and information 
needed to thrive in our 
hyper-connected world.

28Sustainability Report 2022

Accelerating digital inclusion 

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Accelerating rural connectivity
With a significant portion of Africa’s population living in rural 
areas, we are committed to expanding our network to 
underserved communities. 

Through our Rapid Rural Rollout (R3) programme, we now 
have rural coverage of 87.8% and rolled out 1 669 additional 
sites, expanding rural coverage to 30.8 million people in 2022. 
The programme is closing coverage gaps in rural areas 
through collaboration with several partners and OpenRAN 
technology. 

MTN network and coverage growth through the R3 
programme and new technology deployment through 
OpenRAN

2020 2021 2022

R3 additional 
remote sites

684 new
 sites

912 new
 sites

1 669 new
 sites

Rural coverage
8.5 million

people
23 million

 people
30.8 million

 people

OpenRAN 
commercial

1 000 base
 stations

712 base
 stations

1 130 base
 stations

MTN Group aims to achieve 95% rural broadband coverage by 
2025. To accomplish our goal, we are expanding the number of 
collaborations and the types of partnership models that are  
in place. This year, we onboarded seven additional rollout 
partners and are working with 12 partners to accelerate 
connectivity.

Using new technologies to find coverage 
solutions
OpenRAN enables the development and installation of 2G to 
5G networks in previously unconnected areas. Operators can 
use this technology to supplement or replace existing radio 
access network (RAN) providers. An OpenRAN environment 
widens the ecosystem, lowering costs and accelerating 
innovation.

To complement our terrestrial network connectivity, we plan 
to conduct pilot projects with different partners for low earth 
orbit satellite connectivity. LEO satellite connectivity is an 
additional coverage solution that will connect the unconnected 
and increase our rural coverage.

Increasing broadband coverage
Read more: Our position on digital inclusion and 
connecting the unconnected.

95% broadband coverage by 2025

Our commitments

29Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Our platforms – networks, stations and digital ecosystems – 
are the core foundation of our business, facilitating inclusive, 
sustainable economic development and innovation to 
transform lives. People and communities that are connected 
are ultimately empowered.

Extensive infrastructure is required across the globe to meet 
ever-increasing connectivity demands, but physical 
infrastructure in the telecommunication industry is costly and 
resource-intensive to develop. Therefore, MTN has shifted 
infrastructure sharing to reduce costs, optimise connectivity 
and create shared value. GlobalConnect, MTN’s wholesale and 
infrastructure operating company, was established in 2017 to 
unlock value from existing fixed infrastructure across all 
operating countries. The company is structurally separate 
from MTN and now extends wholesale and infrastructure 
services to other carriers, internet service providers and digital 
players. The shift in how we think about connectivity is 
delivering improved quality and lower costs owing to scalability.

While mobile has been driving digital inclusion, there remain 
significant connectivity gaps in areas not yet covered by  
a mobile broadband network. These uncovered communities 
– predominantly rural, poor and sparsely populated – are the 
most challenging to reach in a financially sustainable manner.

Performance summary

Broadband coverage

87.8% 
(2021: 83%)

Rolled out 1 669  
additional rural sites, expanding 

coverage to total of 

30.8 million
people to date

(2021: 912 additional rural sites, 
covering 23m people)

Closing the usage gap
Increasing affordability is essential to driving internet 
adoption and usage in Africa as the cost of access can be a 
significant barrier for many people in the region. The cost of 
handsets and devices can be prohibitively high for many 
individuals, making it difficult for them to access the internet. 
Additionally, the cost of data can be high, which limits the 
amount of time that people spend online. These challenges 
highlight the digital vulnerability of poorer communities, 
where people face a choice between having connectivity and 
meeting other basic needs.

Affordable devices
Owning a mobile phone impacts positively on people’s lives by 
providing access to information, financial services, 
connectivity, economic opportunities and emergency 
response. This is especially empowering in Africa, where 
access to these resources can be limited.

Entry-level 2G devices are more affordable and accessible to 
a wider range of people due to their lower production costs 
and limited features. In contrast, smartphones offer advanced 
capabilities and processing power but are more expensive. To 
fully benefit from the digital economy, individuals ideally need 
to use smartphones. However, the strong correlation between 
smartphone users and higher data usage can create 
challenges for those with limited budgets.

Over half of the MTN user base connects to services through 
2G devices, which means they are limited in their ability to 
access the full power of the internet. Since launching our 
smartphone acceleration programme, we steadily encouraged 
people to use smartphones and, in 2022, had over 166.5 
million (2021: 160 million) smartphones registered on the MTN 
network across our various markets.

MTN is working to make smart devices more affordable by 
collaborating with manufacturers to produce more affordable 
devices by providing subsidies for data plans. Additionally, 
financing options such as device instalment plans can help to 
make devices more affordable by spreading the cost  
over time.

Partnering for low-cost devices 
Price is the primary obstacle that blocks moving 2G subscribers 
to a fully connected and digitally empowered 3G or 4G 
smartphone experience. The average entry-level, internet-
enabled handset costs more than 120% of the monthly 
earnings of the poorest 20% in sub-Saharan Africa, according 
to GSMA.

In recent years, global component demand has grown while 
supply has come under pressure, which has increased the 
price distance between a 2G phone and a smartphone. In 
addition, smartphone vendors are focused on developing 
high-end devices, which cost significantly more and are 
generally excessive for entry-level digital access.

To ensure our customers can access low-cost smartphones, 
we are developing specifications for the minimal viable 
product, which would be optimal for a new user. With a deep 
understanding of what our customers need, we are requesting 
device partners to provide quotes for developing and 
producing devices to meet a specific price point. 

To continue offering MTN customers a range of affordable 
devices, we increased the number of vendors from which we 
procure handsets and have agreements in place to ensure our 
customers can access after-sales services from vendors in 
our markets. Through these partnerships, we also provide 
onboarding data bundles for three to six months to encourage 
customers to explore the functionality of their new 
smartphones, thereby reducing the overall cost of ownership 
of a new smartphone. Ultimately, our Group-approved devices 
are, on average, 20% cheaper than comparable devices.

Partnering for smartphone financing 
Device financing helps customers to obtain 4G smartphones 
at instalment payment terms as a way of making them 
accessible to people who may not be able to pay for 
smartphones upfront. Our finance value proposition is gaining 
traction across several of our markets, and we are exploring 
ways to scale up the offering with financing partners. 

30Sustainability Report 2022

Accelerating digital inclusion continued

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



For example, we achieved significant growth through our 
continued partnership with M-KOPA, an established 
micropayments supplier that sources devices directly from 
the manufacturer, so users are guaranteed a high level of 
quality for the purchased devices. M-KOPA also operates  
a robust repair centre and offers world-class after-sales 
services for customers whose gadgets may require after-
sales care. Through this co-operation, our clients can access 
an affordable smart device and free data for a limited period, 
enabling them to enjoy the benefits of a modern connected 
lifestyle.

This partnership is one of the various customer-centric 
partnerships that MTN has undertaken with a vision to drive 
digital inclusion through affordable payment solutions for our 
customers, who ordinarily find it difficult to access credit or 
save large deposits.  

Our M-KOPA partnership currently benefits customers in 
Uganda, Nigeria and Ghana. In Nigeria, we further diversified 
our financing partners to include Intelligra and PayJoy, 
opening opportunities to extend device financing to even 
more markets across our footprint. 

We are committed to bridging the digital divide in Rwanda 
by enabling more people to access the power of the 
internet. One of the biggest barriers to internet access is 
the cost of smartphones. To address this challenge,  
MTN Rwanda has partnered with Bank of Kigali to launch 
Macye Macye, a device financing programme that allows 
MTN customers to purchase smartphones and tablets on 
credit from any MTN service centre, franchisee shop or 
other retail distribution point.

Through this device financing programme, customers can 
own a smartphone of their choice for as low as Rwf200 per 
day following a simple approval and onboarding process. 
Using a credit score based on an individual’s purchases of 
various telecommunications services over the last 
12 months, Bank of Kigali will offer smartphone financing 
to customers who match their credit qualification criteria. 
The Bank of Kigali was recently awarded ’Best Bank in 
Rwanda 2022’ by Global Finance.

Each device purchased under the Macye Macye deal will be 
bundled with free data, talk time and SMSes from MTN. 
Customers can choose to pay for their devices in daily, 
weekly or monthly payments, with all payments made via 
Mobile Money. MTN Rwanda was awarded the GSMA 
Chairman’s Award for our Device Financing initiative to 
further digital transformation and inclusion in Rwanda.  
CEO of MTN Rwanda received the award alongside 
International Telecommunication Union Secretary General 
Minister of ICT Rwanda and Bank of Kigali CEO on the  
sidelines of the Mobile World Congress Barcelona.

With Macye Macye, MTN is committed to enabling more 
people to access the power of the internet and bridge the 
digital divide in the country, where approximately 75% of 
the population does not own a smartphone. This is yet 
another milestone that will allow MTN to enrich the lives of 
our customers, as well as accelerate Rwanda into an 
innovative digital economy with accessible and affordable 
internet services.

Partnering to increase smartphone affordability in Rwanda

Case study: Rwanda

Read more: Our position on digital inclusion and 
connecting the unconnected

Performance summary

Distributed  

2.57 million  
smartphones (3G and 4G) from MTN’s 

portfolio to operating companies 
(2021: 3.1 million)

31Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Performance summary

22.7%  
reduction in the blended cost of data 

(2021: 15.3%)

Average cost of 1GB of data: 

US$0.71/R12.11

Affordable data connectivity
An affordable handset is not enough, one must also have 
affordable data to connect. After years of improvement, 
affordability of broadband services deteriorated in 2021. This 
is largely owing to a sharp drop in incomes as a result of 
COVID-19, rather than an increase in service charges, which 
continued to drop. The fact that demand for broadband 
services increased in the past two years, even as it became 
less affordable, shows internet access is not a luxury but  
a necessity. The risk is that a significant portion of the world’s 
population will be left behind; those who face a trade-off 
between purchasing data and meeting other basic needs.  
We therefore monitor our pricing specifically from a dual voice 
and data pricing perspective, tailoring our data programmes 
to ensure affordability for the bottom 50% of our user base. 

Improving data pricing to support those who need it most
According to the UN’s affordable internet target, the price of 
1GB of mobile broadband data should cost 2% or less of gross 
national income per capita. For this purpose, the MTN Group 
developed a score based on price, income and elasticity (PIE 
score) to determine if data pricing across our operation meets 
affordability requirements, with operating companies 
assessing data affordability quarterly. Although many of our 
markets face competitive and regulatory pressure, most have 
improved on data pricing since implementing our PIE 
framework in 2019. Overall, between 2018 and 2022, pricing 
decreased by over 50% while usage increased by 200%. 

In addition, we developed and implemented a data pricing 
governance framework that provides formal affordability 
guidance to all operating companies where there are  
137 million data users in 2022. 

Following this, 16 markets remained within the affordability 
range advised by the UN for the reporting period. In the 
remaining two markets, which are experiencing hyperinflation, 
pricing measures were applied.  

The ongoing affordability assessments allowed us to pinpoint 
opportunities, such as segmenting price increases in specific 
markets, rather than implementing a blanket price increase 
across the base.

Reducing the cost to communicate

Maintain or reduce entry bundle  
to 1G bundle price ratio.

Our commitments

P

I

E

Price: Assess the ratio of the 
operating company entry-level 
bundle against 1GB bundle to avoid 
anti-poor pricing structures.

Income: Assess the effective rate per 
1GB against income levels of the 
bottom 50% in the country to drive 
data affordability on the base.

Elasticity: Determine the elasticity of 
demand by new data users in the 
bottom 50% to identify data adoption 
weaknesses and opportunities.

PIE guidelines

Advancing youth connectivity – Youth Pulse
The number of unemployed youngsters aged 15 to 34 in 
South Africa increased by 2% to 4.8 million in the second 
quarter of this year. Reversing this trend is critical.  
MTN Pulse’s low-price plans and youth empowerment 
activities are strong examples of how we intend to close 
this gap by fostering inclusivity, affordability and increased 
access to skills.

Pulse data costs 50% to 70% less than other bundles, 
attracting more young people. These young people also 
join a wider community where they can network and find 
new ways to benefit, work and grow.

We are proud to see South Africa’s youngsters use  
MTN Pulse to turn their hobbies into earnings by learning 
to build and exhibit their skill, monetise it, and sell it. Youth 
Pulse has reached two  million active members in South 
Africa in three years, with a presence in all regions. This 
fast growth – from 150 000 in 2019 to two million in July 
2022 – illustrates that South Africa’s youth wants to be 
part of the digital world and future marketplaces.  
MTN Pulse South Africa is one of 16 youth offerings in 
MTN’s African markets. 

Health

Education

Family and 
friends

Business and 
finding work

Entertainment 
and

relaxation

94

58

49

52

68

17.53

13.56

14.18

17.25

14.95

6 hours

18 hours

5 hours

17 hours

5 hours

% of CHASE 
customers 
who used 

these 
services 

Average 
cost 

savings 
(USD per 
month)

Average 
time 

savings 
(per 

month)

Feedback received from customers during True Value primary research.

32Sustainability Report 2022

Accelerating digital inclusion  continued

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Digital technologies and online platforms are becoming fundamental to everyday life. In emerging markets, digital skills are also 
increasingly essential to accelerate development and further equality. At MTN, we recognise our incredible responsibility to ensure 
inclusive growth and progress: no one should be left behind in this profound evolution to a digital future.

Digital literacy

Performance summary

Educated more than  

20 million  
people on digital literacy 

(2021: 24 million) 

Increasing the availability of digital literacy content
MTN’s flagship educational programme, MTN Data-Smart,  
is a digital literacy programme based on the Mobile Internet 
Skills Training Toolkit of the GSMA, meant to improve  
people’s awareness of mobile internet and applications.  
MTN Data-Smart is now accessible in Ghana, eSwatini, 
Afghanistan, Zambia, South Africa, Nigeria, Kenya, Cameroon, 
Uganda, Rwanda, Côte d’Ivoire, Benin and Sudan.

In 2022, we trained approximately 20 million customers to use 
internet services and accessing content primarily through 
digital channels. As one of our largest markets, MTN Nigeria 
represented 15 million of those trained. All training given 
incurs zero data cost to consumers since Data-Smart content 
is zero rated. Customers are further incentivised to complete 
the training by the provision of free data upon completion of 
the programme.

Partnering with the GSMA to reduce barriers to digital 
adoption
Through persistent engagement and collaboration with the 
GSMA, we not only remain abreast of industry advancements, 
but maintain a channel for knowledge-sharing that can boost 
digital literacy, skills and opportunities. In 2022, we participated 
in several research projects with the GSMA to drive digital 
adoption across various segments in Africa.

In Ghana, we partnered with the GSMA to conduct digital skills’ 
research that identified the specific digital needs of urban 
youth. The research resulted in the creation of eight videos – 
reviewed by both the GSMA and MTN Ghana – which are used 
to train over 80 000 users on mobile internet skills and 
business development. In further research in Uganda, we 
focused on understanding the multiplicative effect of teaching 
one individual on data utilisation. Study results are used to 
drive better digital literacy outcomes across our markets.

CHASE respondents in their own words

Friends and family
“Communication is so 

much easier now. We even 
travel less, before we used 
to travel to see the person 
but now you just use your 
internet bundle and make 
a video call. This way you 
even talk more because if 

it was a normal call, it 
would be more costly.”

Entertainment  
and relaxation

“Before I had MTN, if you 
decided to go out to a 

cinema house, you were 
forced to spent about  

15 000frs to watch a movie 
but now in your room you 

can watch movie online and 
then later on you can sleep 
quietly without stress. Even 

the transport you would 
have spent is saved.”

Business
“I do my business easily. 
Like me now, I can simply 

post house vacancy on the 
social media. Also, instead 

of going for physical 
assessment of properties, 
I just search online. It has 

really helped my 
business.”

Personal safety
“I think you feel more 

secure because if you do 
not have a phone there 
are so many things you 

will miss out on, but when 
you have your phone, the 
information gets to you 

easily and you can reach 
family during an 

emergency.”

Health
“MTN saved me money and 
time when I had my second 
baby. Though I had my first 

baby through normal  
delivery, I was told that my 
second delivery will be by 

emergency caesarean section. 
I just used my phone and did a 

video call to my husband. 
Crying with swollen eyes, I 

informed him of the update, 
and he was able to bring my 

baby things to me in the 
hospital straight away.”

Education
“After COVID started,  

I came to do my officers’ 
licence course… we were 

not allowed to get into 
contact to learn in person, 

so I had to use my data 
connection to attend 

classes.”

33Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



MISTT is a set of free 
resources to teach 
people the basic skills 
they need to access 
and use mobile 
internet. It uses  
a train-the-trainer 
approach and consists 
of short lessons in 
PDF format that can 
be easily adapted to 
local needs and 
languages.

We also partnered with the GSMA on a women’s tokenisation 
initiative to protect women’s identities and improve their 
digital safety. MTN Mobile Money is currently running several 
initiatives aimed at stimulating the adoption and usage of 
mobile money to facilitate payments among female merchants. 
The GSMA continues to share relevant insight to help guide 
MTN’s efforts, such as research data on the use of core and 
non-core mobile money services in Ghana, and barriers for 
women’s access and use of mobile money. As part of the 
GSMA’s Connected Women Commitment Initiative, MTN Mobile 
Money has committed to increase the proportion of women in 
our MoMoPay customer base to 40% by 2023.

In addition, we signed a letter of intent to partner with the 
GSMA on a three-year project to empower female micro-
entrepreneurs through mobile. We are also participating in  
a gender analysis and identification toolkit pilot in Ghana and 
Uganda to help mobile operators close the gender gap in their 
customer base. 

Finally, MTN Uganda collaborated with the GSMA to source 
innovative solutions for rural connectivity, resulting in five 
sites launched in Northern Uganda, providing connectivity to 
almost 30 000 people. Through these initiatives, we continue 
to strive to bridge the digital divide and empower individuals 
and communities through technology. MTN also participated 
in the GSMA-facilitated round table on handset affordability 
during 2022.

Driving local relevance 
Africa has a high degree of linguistic diversity and a significant 
proportion of the population does not speak one of the 
European-based languages that dominate the internet. In 
these countries, it is challenging for content providers to 
develop sufficient scale, making it difficult to target 
underserved populations with relevant content.

The availability of online content and services that are 
accessible and relevant to the local population is a key enabler 
of mobile internet adoption and usage. Localising services 
provide a compelling reason for our customers to invest time 
and financial resources in online applications. 

We believe our customers in Africa and the Middle East 
deserve a communication platform to express their unique 
voice through local languages. Ayoba – MTN’s advanced 
communications application localised for our customers’ 
needs – supports many local languages across the MTN 
markets, including isiZulu, isiXhosa, Pidgin, Yoruba, Swahili, 
Hausa, French and English.

Ayoba introduced 45 new channels in 2022 in five different 
languages. 

We also meet the diverse need of our customers through 
segmented offers compatible with 2G, 3G and 4G devices.

Feedback received from customers during True Value primary research

Top 3 reasons 
for joining  

MTN

Top 3  
positive 
impacts

Top 3  
negative 
impacts

Reliable  
signal

Improved 
connection  
with family  
and friends

Poorer  
in-person 

interactions

Affordability
Better  

business 
opportunities

Fake news

Family and 
friends on  

MTN

Improved 
access to 

health and 
education

Increased  
risk of theft  
and fraud

34Sustainability Report 2022

Accelerating digital inclusion  continued

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



The ayoba platform brings accessible digital services to over 21.7 million active subscribers across 
five verticals: chat, channels, music, games and MicroApps.

In 2022, ayoba expanded its upliftment and empowerment theme through several new channels 
including: 
	• Zanga Talks: female empowerment channel featuring inspirational speakers and trusted coaches.
	• Syked: wellness company that provides content on mental health and other topics issues.
	• Pineapple TV Nigeria: localised education cartoons for children.
	• Akoobooks: audiobook channel contributing to the spread of literacy and the love of reading.  
	• Africa Global Radio: education on topical issues, including COVID-19.

During the year, we also brought a renewed focus to  the ayoba music offering to focus more strongly 
on African artists and hits.

Ayoba receives strong support in terms of content localisation and business development across our 
African markets. Our Digital Trade Tool programme enables ayoba agents to earn a commission for 
new signups to the app, providing a customer acquisition drive while also enabling education of the 
app and its functionality. 

Connectivity Ayoba provides a platform for communication and connectivity, leveraging 
MTN’s communication and telco strengths to help build communities.

Access to 
information

The app offers access to a wide range of localised information and services, 
including news, entertainment and financial services, making it easier for 
people to access the information they need.

Economic 
empowerment

Ayoba provides opportunities for financial inclusion, with services like mobile 
money and e-commerce, helping people participate in the formal economy 
and improve their financial wellbeing. The platform is scaling up to offer 
managed services over a micro-app marketplace.

Job creation By enabling businesses to reach new customers and access new markets, 
ayoba has the potential to drive economic growth and create new job 
opportunities.

Education The app offers educational content and services, supporting lifelong learning 
and helping to build a more knowledgeable and skilled population.

Driving local relevance continued 
Ayoba - MTN’s super app - provides a wide range of services and information that supports people’s 
wellbeing and improves their quality of life. From connecting with friends and family to accessing 
financial services and educational content, ayoba is designed to bring the benefits of a modern 
connected life to everyone. 

Monthly 
active 
users

Average 
monthly 

active users 
music

Average 
monthly 

music 
plays

Average 
monthly 

cards
viewed for 
channels

Average 
monthly 

active users 
channels

Average 
monthly 

active users 
games

Average 
monthly 
games 
played

Average 
monthly 

active users 
micro apps

■ 2021 ■ 2022■ 2020

5
 5

0
0

 0
0

0
1

1
 6

0
0

 0
0

0
2

1
 7

0
0

 0
0

0

4
3

8
 0

0
0

1
 3

5
5

 0
0

0

8
5

 1
9

0
 5

6
8

2
4

3
 3

3
8

 5
1

1

9
5

0
 0

0
0

1
2

4
 1

6
4

 7
5

1
2

8
8

 0
6

5
 6

1
0

1
 3

1
2

 0
0

0

6
4

 0
0

0

1
6

0
 0

0
0

6
0

5
 0

0
0

1
8

 8
4

1
 8

2
3

9
1

 9
0

0
 5

1
7

2
2

0
 0

0
0

Ayoba 

Ayoba highlights

Launched a new home page for 
games, together with premium 
ad-free games

Ghana Accelerator run with MTN 
Ghana rewarding five winning 
MicroApps with 18 going live on 
ayoba

Ayoba introduced 45 new 
channels.

Empowered 250+ entrepreneurs 
across Africa via sponsored 
development programmes 

35Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Across our footprint, mobile financial services are regulated 
by the respective central bank in each country of operation, 
with substantial compliance requirements to which we adhere 
strictly. We have applied for mobile money licences wherever 
these are available. 

We pioneered the industry certification 
(https://gsmamobilemoneycertification.com) and most of our 
operations have obtained the certification.

Read more:
Our position on financial inclusion

Our strategy for driving financial inclusion
As part of Ambition 2025, we are transforming and evolving our technology, structuring our business, growing our organisation 
and strengthening our compliance and risk management framework. We are performing through growing our wallet, payment, 
banktech, remittance and insurtech services. 

Two billion people remain unbanked in 2022, 
without access to safe, secure and affordable 
financial services. Mobile Money connects millions 
of users to the formal financial system, providing  
a significant pathway to financial inclusion across 
developing economies.

In Africa, financial services and e-commerce penetration are 
marginal. We want to be Africa’s leading digital platform, 
unlocking economic growth through financial and digital 
solutions for consumers and businesses of all sizes. We see an 
opportunity to accelerate digital disruption within financial 
services, insurance, lending, remittances, payments and 
e-commerce. 

Our Fintech platform is focused on enabling consumers and 
businesses to access a full range of financial services 
including money transfer, payment, remittance, lending and 
insurance. Our platform already serves as a gateway for 
thousands of innovative businesses to interact and transact 
with millions of customers in our markets.

Our targets
MTN has set a target of reaching 100 million active consumer 
wallets and supporting five million businesses through our 
Fintech business by 2025.

At the end of 2022, 69 million consumers and 69.1 million 
businesses actively use MoMo every month across 
16  countries. Our MoMo platform facilitates more than 
US$221.3 billion in transactions every month.

36Sustainability Report 2022

Driving financial inclusion continued

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Case study: Rwanda

Performance summary

Agents
Active

1.3 million
(2021: 1.0 million)

Merchants
Active

1.5 million
(2021: 0.78 million)

Accounts
Active 30-day
69.1 million
(2021: 56.9 million)

Transactions
Volume

13.4 billion
(2021: 10.0 billion)

Value
US$221.3 billion

(2021: US$191.2 billion)

In Rwanda, MTN is designing a digital input credit product for farmers in partnership 
with NCBA Bank, a financial services provider, with support from the GSMA AgriTech 
Innovation Fund. Building on the experience of MoMoKash – a digital savings and 
instant loan product for the mass market launched in 2017 – MTN and NCBA aim to 
become relevant to farmers by offering bundled digital financial services, including 
savings, short-term loans and insurance. With a large customer base and as a 
trusted and recognised brand, MTN Rwanda is responsible for Know Your Customer 
verification, marketing and distribution, customer engagement and data collection. 
NCBA, meanwhile, has developed an in-house credit scoring model for digital lending 
based on more than 160 mobile money variables, including the frequency and 
monetary value of mobile money transactions.

37Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Driving financial inclusion
Our MoMo Fintech platform
We started our MoMo mobile wallet app to empower financially 
excluded consumers across MTN’s markets. MoMo also 
created opportunities for entrepreneurs in emerging markets 
to become agents who provide vital, in-person access to 
mobile money services by helping customers to cash in or out 
of their MoMo accounts. These agents can also profit when 
customers use MoMo to buy airtime, data and prepaid 
electricity at their stores. 

As the number of customers using their MoMo wallets for 
payments and transactions grew, the opportunity to further 
empower Africa’s financially excluded small businesses 
became evident. We launched MoMoBusiness as a service, 
which enables a business of any size to receive payment using 
MoMo. With MoMoBusiness, small businesses can accept 
payments, get a loan and manage their business finance. In 
addition, MoMoAPI supports larger businesses, innovators 
and developers to leverage MoMo as a platform and facilitate 
transactions between consumers and businesses.

To accelerate the development of MoMo financial solutions 
and services, we are collaborating with developers and service 
providers to leverage the scale of our platform. Our MoMo 
Application Programming Interface (API) platform allows 
partners and vendors to seamlessly integrate the MoMo 
platform into their applications. In 2022, we facilitated  
more than 338 million open API transactions from over  
1 600 partners and concluded the first pan-African  
MoMo Hackathon, which was a great success. We are 
continuing our efforts in developing solutions for high-

Performance summary

16
of our markets offer Fintech services.

This year, we launched additional 
mobile financial services in

Sudan, South Sudan and Nigeria.

Increased number of businesses of all 
sizes that use MoMo to digitise their 

payment merchants to

1.5 million 
(2021: 785 000)

Launched first ever overdraft service 
in Uganda 

Facilitated a total of

US$2.2 billion 
in remittances 

(2021: US$2.0 billion)

aYo micro-insurance claims 
11 252 

(2021: 16 572 claims)

potential industry verticals such as government, e-commerce, 
transport and agriculture. 

Providing access to capital and mobilising 
savings for the future
In 2022, we continuously supported our customers in meeting 
their financial demands through MoMoKash loans and our 
savings facility. 

2020 2021 2022

MoMoKash

Markets served 7 7 16

Average 
disbursements per 
month (US$) 77m 100m 117m

Loans per day 58 000 76 994 75 117

As part of our banktech offering, we are launching 
MoMoAdvance across our markets. Through the service, 
qualifying MTN Mobile Money customers can complete their 
transactions when they have insufficient funds in their MTN 
MoMo wallet through a revolving credit model.

MoMoAdvance is currently available in Uganda, with more 
than  3.7 million customers opting into the service. 

Protecting against risks by providing affordable 
insurance
Micro-insurance can have a transformative impact, as it can 
shield millions of people from economic shocks that would 
otherwise keep them locked in poverty.  

aYo, our micro-insurance subsidiary, offers low-cost, 
mobile-enabled hospital and life insurance to low and middle-
income MTN subscribers via two products. The first is 
Recharge with Care (airtime and mobile money collected), 
which allows customers to purchase insurance every time 
they, for example, recharge their airtime. The second is  
Pay with Care or Send with Care in some markets (mobile 
money collected), which allows customers to buy insurance 
cover when they remit via mobile money. Both products offer 
a hospital cash insurance benefit and a life cover benefit.

The products are real-time, paperless, simple, 
transaction-driven insurance with low cover amounts and 
premiums, providing flexible term policies. Customers can 
access their insurance via Unstructured Supplementary 
Service Data (USSD) and an app (usually zero rated), submit 
claims via WhatsApp and receive claims payments into their 
mobile money wallet. aYo is available in Uganda, Ghana, 

38Sustainability Report 2022

Driving financial inclusion continued

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Zambia and, most recently, in Côte d’Ivoire. Over 20.5 
million unique customers enrolled in 2022 (2021: 
16  million), of which 4.3 million are active (2021: 6.6 
million).

Insurtech products are integrated into our mobile 
money platforms to ensure safe and convenient 
payment of premiums and claims. We recently 
expanded insurtech into Nigeria and Cameroon. By 
driving financial inclusion to deepen insurance 
penetration across Africa through our strategic 
alliance, insurtech will expand into further markets 
with offerings beyond life insurance to non-life 
insurance in the rest of Africa. In South Africa,  
MTN Insurtech offers a range of device insurance 
products, as well as comprehensive life and funeral 
insurance. 

Supporting remittances
MTN recognises the transformative impact that 
remittances have across Africa, on poverty reduction 
and access to basic services at the household level in 
rural areas and for the diaspora population. 

MTN has increasingly become an African continental 
leader in remittance with its remittance service called 
MTN MoMoRemittance. It is a digital Fintech service 
that enables all registered MTN MoMo customers to 
send and receive funds globally. It is the fastest, most 
cost-effective and secure way for our customers to 
receive funds from abroad or send money across 
borders. In 2022, through the active development of 
new partnerships, we increased our countries of 
operation from eight countries to 11 and expanded our 
footprint from 144 remittance corridors to 446.  

We are committed to continuously finding innovative 
pricing models that translate into lower fees to 
senders and hence more funds to send home. In some 
regions, we demonstrated that the cost to a remittance 
sender can be as low as the cost of performing a 
domestic P2P transaction.  

This has enabled us to achieve strong growth over last 
year:
	• Number of active countries of remittance 

operation: 11 (+38% YoY).
	• Number of inbound corridors: 446 (+42% YoY).
	• Number of outbound corridors: 98 (+109% YoY).
	• Total remittance transaction volume: 23m (+55% 

YoY).
	• Total remittance value: US$2.2bn (+20% YoY).

Main reasons why customers use MTN MoMo

Main reasons for becoming an MTN MoMo agent

Main reasons for becoming an MTN MoMo merchant

Save time

Flexible working hours

Convenience

Save money

Funding for expansion

Cash management

Experience less fraud

Income supplementation 
and employment

Affordable

Experiencing less fraud on MTN 
MoMo was another major reason 
why customers opted to use the 
mobile money app.

Agents across all markets noted 
they became MTN MoMo agents to 
supplement their income and 
better their livelihoods, while some 
became agents for employment 
purposes.

Across all markets, merchants 
highlighted that there are  
no charges associated with 
customers sending them money.

An average of 80% customers 
across all markets saved time 
sending money to friends and 
family and other contacts 
compared to when they did not 
have MTN Mobile Money. 

Agents noted that the job allows 
them work flexibility and to make 
money, especially when they  
are working in busy locations. 
However, it tends to get boring 
when there is minimal foot traffic, 
which often results in little to no 
money made for the day.

Across all markets, merchants 
noted that the majority of their 
customers prefer mobile money 
services such as MTN MoMo 
because of its convenience. This 
trend saw merchants who 
previously did not have a merchant 
code acquire one for customers to 
send them money. 

Cost savings was a significant 
driver in MTN MoMo uptake 
among users with 73% of 
customers across all markets 
mentioning that sending money 
with the app cost them overall 
less compared to when they did 
not have the app.

“I also save around 70 000 per 
week by subscribing to weekly 
savings on MoMo.” – MoMo 
customer, Uganda

Some agents work with MTN MoMo 
to raise funds to expand their 
businesses and open other 
branches to increase their profits 
and employ people.

Merchants noted that MTN MoMo 
minimises the risk of losing money 
in the business and this is because 
the cashiers have no access to the 
MoMoPay platform. It is also easy 
to transfer the money from the 
MoMoPay account to the bank. 
Moreover, it allows them to monitor 
and analyse the amount of money 
each branch brings in and the 
number of transactions made.

Feedback received from customers, agents and merchants during True Value primary research.

39Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



We recognise the value of diverse and inclusive teams where 
people can bring their uniqueness. Diversity of thought, skills 
and experience drives innovation, which is essential to 
achieving our business strategy and supports our purpose to 
build a connected future so everyone can thrive. We are 
passionate about creating an inclusive, accessible and 
supportive environment, a place where everyone can be 
themselves and feel a sense of belonging.

Our journey towards our deliberate diversity and inclusion 
vision has been core to MTN’s people strategy. 

	• We committed to achieving workforce gender equality by 
2030.

	• We committed to gender pay parity as a key strategic 
measure to enhance the quality of diversity, equity and 
inclusion.

	• We committed to attaining deliberate gender 
representation in our strategic programmes across the 
business. We aim to achieve a minimum target of 30% 
women representation in business transformations, 
upskilling programmes and specialised initiatives that form 
part of Ambition 2025.

Empowering, enabling and supporting our workforce requires 
agility and flexibility to ensure employees adapt and thrive in 
the rapidly changing environment. The COVID-19 pandemic 
accelerated the future of work trends, catalysing a significant 
shift in how people engage, connect and work. Our people 
strategy, Live Inspired, is therefore aligned with the new 
normal and our Ambition 2025 goals.

We believe this strategic shift will not only enable MTN to keep 
pace with the new normal, but will uplift the lives of our people 
and contribute to achieving our ambitions.

our approach to the EVP in the new 
normal

	• Future for future learning
	• Career flexibility
	• Ownership culture
	• Sustainability

	• Secure, rewarded and 
recognised

	• Balanced work and life
	• Anywhere workplace
	• Inclusive and diverse

	• Outcomes for goals
	• Invested leadership
	• Coach to manage
	• Agile performance

	• Empowered to work
	• Small and swift teams
	• Work fit for capability
	• Anytime work

Live Inspired

Our employee value proposition
We crafted our employee value proposition (EVP) with an 
emphasis on the future to inspire our people to think 
differently, innovate and actively engage in building the future 
of our business and market. The EVP seeks to drive  
a transformative and self-driven culture in the workplace, 
powered by genuine inclusion, respect for diversity, fair 
rewards, true recognition and personal flexibility to enable 
MTNers to lead happy, healthy and productive lives at work 
and beyond. 

Our EVP is defined by our four ’Pillars of Inspiration’, capturing 
the essence and our people mission for the future of MTN.

Read more:
Our position on diversity and inclusion
Labour practices

Talent highlights 

17 462
total headcount
(2021: 16 390)

Our workforce includes
63 

nationalities

Women are

40%  
of our workforce

(2021: 39% – targeting 50% by 2030)

Differently abled staff represent

0.7%  
of our workforce

(2021: 0.5%)

Youth represent

1.6%  
of our global workforce

(per UN definition of ages 15 to 24)

Our workforce

40Sustainability Report 2022

Fostering a more diverse and inclusive society

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



The MTN MOVE app is our revolution for a happier and 
healthier Y’ello community. We are the first company in Africa 
to launch our own wellbeing app, which is specially curated 
for MTNers and free for our employees to download.  
MTN MOVE is all about a personalised wellbeing experience 
and unlocking a healthier, balanced and inspired life.

Work with meaning 
At MTN, we are committed to empowering, enabling and 
inspiring our employees to shape our future and achieve our 
goals. We strive to implement people-focused strategies that 
cultivate a sense of purpose in the way MTN and its employees 
operate within our ecosystem. Our ultimate objective is to 
establish a holistic work environment that imbues our 
Company mission with meaning and provides our employees 
with the tools they need to perform at their best every day.

In 2022, we focused our efforts on driving shared purpose, 
embedding practical agile team models, rethinking 
service-delivery models and driving innovative digital 
products to enhance work-life experiences.

Transforming for agility
As MTN grows and evolves its multi-faceted business strategy 
through Ambition 2025, we prioritised our agile transformation 
efforts on critical internal value chains responsible to deliver 
seamless, expedient and on-demand services. 

During 2022, we undertook two transformative programmes 
with the aim of piloting our agile operating model and 
operations.

Global supply chain transformation
MTN’s Global Sourcing Company and Group HR embarked on 
a transformative mission to build a ‘One Global Procurement 
Organisation’. Moving from a traditional pyramid-based 
structure to a flat agile organisation, we aimed to adapt and 
embed agile ways of work. In applying a customer-led 
principle, the new model aimed to eliminate process 
redundancies, enhance collaboration and enable seamless 
service delivery. We also invested in upskilling over 
45  members of the Group shared services centre (GSSC) 
leadership and team members with agile capabilities, including 
Scrum certification, process and policy efficiency training, 
design-thinking and critical problem-solving. With the 
successful implementation of the transformative agile model, 
we continue our journey to expand and verticalise supply 
chain across 12 markets in 2023. 

Group Fintech agile recruitment hub transformation
Our Fintech platform business is pivotal to our Ambition 2025 
strategy. To support this vision, we designed a future-ready 

Group Fintech company organisation model. To further 
amplify its impact, we established an agile recruitment hub 
aimed at acquiring and placing the right-fit talent from across 
the continent and global industry. We reconstructed our 
recruitment value chain and delivery model to comprise of 
recruitment squads and pods, resulting in faster turnaround 
times, better hiring experiences, inclusive hiring practices, 
innovative virtual commuter talent contracts and curated 
reward propositions. 

This resulted in the following:
	• 65% internal development and opportunity sourcing 
	• 50% women representation (gender-equal hiring) 
	• 30% placement of women in leadership roles
	• 67% local placements 
	• 5x times recruitment efficiency

Workplace digitisation
We continuously explore our work environment to identify 
new ways to enhance digital experiences as a means to 
simplify work, improve accessibility, drive meaningful 
collaboration and engagement across the footprint. 

In 2022, we digitised our service channels through a singular 
EX Workplace platform. To improve HR services, we digitised 
our core HR service delivery journeys such as hybrid work 
management and workplace service requests. In doing so, we 
aim to reduce our time-to-service metrics, eliminate manual 
workflow activities, improve traceability and transparency 
and enhance self-service capabilities for employees in several 
of our markets.

Connect to develop 
We believe in fostering and strengthening human relationships 
to make the lives of our customers and communities better. 
In 2022, we focused on affirming and embedding our shared 
purpose and goals. In line with our Ambition 2025 priorities, 
we shifted towards a team-based performance model and 
aligned our efforts, ways of work, and rewards to a shared 
collective purpose. We also redefined our performance 
incentives to reflect our commitment and purpose beyond 
business and profit.

Ambition 2025 firmly endorses sustainability and inclusion 
within and beyond the workplace. We therefore introduced 
ESG goals and gender equality targets as critical measures in 
our incentivisation model. This action reinforced our collective 
responsibility for our shared purpose across all levels of the 
Group. Our progress in sustainability and inclusion has been 
evidenced in our performance throughout the year.

In addition, we continued to build on our refreshed 
agile  performance framework, Game Plan, through active 
team-based goal cascades, engagements and frequent 
conversations. 

In March 2023, 91% of our employees participated in the 
performance review cycle for the period of January to 
December 2022. All our businesses, markets and employees 
celebrated Global Bonus Payday on the same day as our 
annual results announcement, in line with MTN tradition.

More information about how we safeguard the health, safety and wellbeing of our people is described on page 65 of this report.  

Empowering our employees to Live Inspired

41Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Fostering a more diverse and inclusive society continued

Thrive in positivity 
The pandemic has underscored the significance of holistic 
health and wellness for everyone. We made it our mission to 
ensure MTNers truly Live Inspired by prioritising their 
wellbeing. Vigorous health and overall wellbeing not only 
positively impact work experience, but also enable our 
employees to thrive in their daily lives with a positive outlook.

Taking care of our people 
In 2022, we launched an Africa-first employee wellbeing app, 
MTN MOVE, focused on equitable access to information on 
holistic wellbeing. More than 8 000 employees, representing 
over 60% of our employees across 20 countries have activated 
MTN MOVE since its inception. We launched several local and 
global fitness challenges, in addition to over 230 employee-led 
challenges to improve our holistic commitment to wellbeing. 
Some of our cross-continent fitness drives experienced 
participation of over 2 000 employees.

Anytime, anywhere hybrid workplace
We recognise that the needs of our diverse workforce differ 
and ensuring employees have the power of choice is the 
cornerstone of our Live Inspired EVP. For that reason,  
we launched our Anytime, Anywhere Hybrid Workplace 
Flexibility Policy. Our hybrid work model recognises the need 
for flexibility while still taking the importance of physical work 
interactions into account. Our policy is structured to be 
inclusive, fair and balanced, allowing employees to focus on 
their personal wellbeing and priorities while still delivering on 
organisational needs.

Celebrating our people
At MTN, celebrating and recognising the efforts of our people 
and teams is fundamental to our culture. We enable our 
gratitude culture with our digital recognition platform,  
MTN Shine. The platform has been a cornerstone of our 
recognition initiatives with over 95% of MTNers celebrating 
each other daily. 

Apart from our everyday gratitude philosophy, we also 
dedicate time to celebrate each other through our Global 
Appreciation Week and monthly Appreci8 initiative, serving as 
a reminder for MTNers to continue to express their gratitude 
to colleagues who add value to their lives. In 2022, over 
260  000 recognition messages were exchanged across our 
markets, while our annual Global Appreciation Week garnered 
tremendous participation improving by 11% since 2021 in  
a single week.

Awareness, sensitisation and learning
Structured D&I learning programmes are delivered to staff 
and leadership teams across markets to influence everyday 
inclusive actions and behaviours. These programmes include 
self-learning training content, workshop sessions and 
sensitisation learning programmes. 

Inspired Culture Series 
Recognising, celebrating and learning from each other’s 
experiences is foundational to building empathy and a culture 
of inclusion. Our digital storytelling #InspiredSeries features 
diverse MTNers from across our markets who share their life 
experiences, challenges and the impact they created through 
their lives. The Inspired Culture Series is among the highest 
engaged and viewed content on our internal digital platforms.

42Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Building on our diverse and inclusive culture
At MTN, diversity, equity and inclusion are always at the heart 
of everything we do. Our strategy for D&I has championed 
women’s equality and has a stringent focus on people with 
disabilities and different abilities. These are imperative for our 
progress as a company and across the African continent. 

Inclusive leadership talent development 
We strengthened our commitment to D&I by taking significant 
steps to embed inclusivity throughout the business. Our 
approach is led by the Company's leaders, who are accountable 
for increasing the number of women in leadership, succession 
planning and important roles.

We focused on three priorities. Firstly, to achieve gender 
equity by no later than 2030, with a target of 50% women in 
the workforce, from a 2021 base of 39%. Our efforts on gender 
equity extend to the executive leadership groups and the 
boards within our governance structures. Secondly, higher 
representation of women within technology roles, with a goal 
of at least 30% by 2030, off an existing base of 17%. Thirdly, to 
close the gender pay gaps we have across our businesses.

Leader-led accountability 
In order to prioritise D&I, we linked our ESG performance  and 
rewards to our D&I agenda. We also included targets for 
women’s inclusion in our short-term and long-term incentive 
programmes. We are encouraged by the improvements made 
to achieving gender equality:
	• Women in workforce – 40% (up 1% since 2021).
	• Women in management – 33%  (up 2% since 2021).
	• Women in succession – 31% (up 3% since 2021).
	• Women in technology – 20%  (up 2% since 2021).

There is an improvement in women representation in the 
C-Suite with the placement of three women CEOs in our 
markets in 2022. The MTN Group Board comprises 29% 
women and 33% of our Group Executive Committee are 
women.

Achieving gender equity requires intentional effort. To support 
our commitment to gender equality and meet our targets, we 
are implementing diverse interview panels across all our 
locations. We also strengthened our global inclusion mandates 
for hiring, placement and exit processes to ensure fair decision 
making. By taking these deliberate actions, we strive to make 
a positive impact and promote equity and equality in our 
practices.

Strengthening our women leadership talent pool
We continue our focus on building a strong pipeline of women 
in leadership and executive succession. In 2020, we launched 
our flagship women leadership programme, Rising Leaders. In 
2022, we expanded our Rising Leaders programme to achieve 
our highest-ever reach of women for leadership development. 
We introduced six new cohorts, comprising of 294 women 
across 20 countries from staff to executive levels to create  
a holistic and inclusive leadership pipeline. 

In-depth leadership and technical capabilities across our core 
and enabling business were embedded into the learning 
journey for participants through various online learning, 
masterclass sessions and action learning programmes. Since 
inception, the programme has grown leaps and bounds, with 
over 400 women graduating from the Rising Leaders 
programme.

Inclusive Communication Policy
Continuing on our active efforts to create an inclusive culture 
and work environment, we developed and implemented our 
Inclusive Communication Policy. Our rich and diverse workforce 
requires an environment that is respectful, considerate, 
empathetic and inclusive of every individual. With 
communication at the centre of how we engage, we believe 
being conscientious of the way we communicate is one of the 
single most critical drivers towards an inclusive culture. Our 
policy aims to guide all our corporate internal communication 
channels, mediums and platforms to ensure we are mindful of 
diverse needs, respectful in our tone, language, sounds and 
visual representation, and are responsible for creating  a sense 
genuine belonging for our people.

43Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Eradicating harassment and discrimination
Acting on our inclusive culture priorities, we drove our  ’Speak-
up’ framework to systemically embed a culture of safety, 
openness and honesty in our work environment. It aims to 
strengthen our commitment towards an inclusive global 
organisation, which proactively detects, prevents and acts 
upon any form of discrimination and harassment. MTN adopts 
a zero-tolerance approach to all forms of harassment and 
discrimination and has taken decisive steps to foster an 
inclusive and safe culture for our employees and extended 
ecosystem at MTN.

We updated our Anti-Harassment and Discrimination Policy 
to broaden the scope of harassment and align with new 
legislative amendments. It prohibits all forms of harassment 
– be it sexual, psychological or cyber-bullying – as well as 
threats, shaming, hostile teasing, insults, constant negative 
judgement and language that is racist or sexist. The policy 
also compels MTN to act when employees report harassment 
cases. In addition, we adhere to a principle of zero tolerance 
towards such conduct by anyone who has engagements with 
MTN, whether this is employees, customers, vendors or 
visitors.

Employees have been made aware of the policy updates, with 
mandatory training initiated regarding various aspects of 
harassment. New employees are made aware of the policy 
and where to access it. Our e-learning platform is another 
essential tool in educating MTNers, providing animated, 
consumable, creative training on policies, including those that 
cover the employer-employee relationship. Through the 
platform, we provide mandatory training that touches on 
several human resource-related policies, including our 
Grievance Policy and our disciplinary code and policy. 

We recognise harassment and discrimination are global 
issues and that an organisation such as ours also faces 
similar challenges. During the year under review, 24 alleged 
incidents of workplace harassment or discrimination were 
reported, including bullying, intimidation, racism, victimisation 
and sexual harassment. 

We thoroughly investigated all reported incidents, addressed 
them promptly, and implemented appropriate remedial 
measures. We took remedial steps in response to the 

Visit  for an overview of our position on diversity and inclusion. 

Women in the  
workforce

Women in  
technology

Women in  
platform

Women in  
leadership

Women in  
succession

Our ambition

41%
40%

50%

21%
20%

30%
45%

44%

50%

30%

28%

35%
35%

31%

40%

 2022    2025    2030

above mentioned alleged incidents: verbal warnings, final 
written warnings, suspensions and dismissals. We ensure 
complaints are treated with respect, sensitivity and 
confidentiality. Through our employee wellness programmes, 
we provide support structures for all victims. 

As part of this, all employees are offered counselling from  
a professional healthcare provider should they elect to do so. 
Providing a safe and harassment-free work environment is an 
important part of our commitment to our employees.

We create awareness of harassment and discrimination as 
social ills and our Zero-Tolerance Policy through team 
engagements and knowledge-sharing forums. From the top, 
leadership drives our culture and models inclusive behaviours.

We continually recognise the importance of D&I, and even 
bring in external stakeholders to speak on harassment.

Women in technology
MTN’s approach to gender equality is about the women in the 
business, and the girls and women across our ecosystem. 
Digital skills command higher pay owing to global skills 
shortages. We are partnering with UN Women and the 
HeForShe alliance in a drive to enhance our gender equality 
efforts and upskill women and girls to ensure they can actively 
participate in the digital economy. 

Women in STEM programme
Our D&I commitment not only focuses on developing and 
retaining our current talent, we are also passionate about 
building our future women-talent pipeline.

Our women in the STEM programme, which targets women 
and graduate students at campuses and universities, is  
a workplace integration programme that offers fully paid 
internships sponsored by MTN. The programme culminates in 
either an offer of employment or placement in our global 
graduate programme.

We are partnering with seven STEM specialist universities 
from five  markets targeting third-year women graduates. 
Thirty-five participants are part of the specially curated 
40-hour pilot programme over a period of three months with 
on-the-ground learning from MTN and possible placement 
once the programme concludes.

44Sustainability Report 2022

Fostering a more diverse and inclusive society continued

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Gender pay gap examines the difference between the 
mean average and median pay of all women of the 
organisation to that of their male colleagues, regardless 
of level, specialisation, role and nature of work. Our 
gender pay gap computations adopt the principle tenets 
from the UK Gender Pay Gap Methodology*, in the 
context of our markets.

Equal pay refers to women and men earning the same 
value for the same body of work, considering the job, level 
and outputs associated with the work. 

At MTN, our pay philosophy is built on equal pay principles 
and adopts the globally recognised Hay-Reward levels. 
Reward levels are determined by the level of work, nature 
of the job and degree of specialisation.

parity. Our foundation for remuneration is built on an ‘equal 
pay for equal work’ philosophy. With this in mind, we developed 
our own comprehensive and universally applicable pay 
adjustment model to further strengthen our pay mechanism 
to support and promote pay parity mission. The adjustment 
model continues to keep ‘equal pay for equal work’ at the 
centre, while also identifying opportunities to improve parity. 
We piloted the model in two high-concentration operating 
units which positively impacted over 50% of the women in 
these markets by the end of 2022. With the success achieved, 
in 2022, we further cascaded the adjustment model in six of 
our large operating units with actions underway in 2023.  

For 2022, we reperformed our gender pay gap assessment 
across 18 of our markets. Our mean gap on total pay stands at 
28.2% while our median pay gap is at 22.6%. Our pay gap has 
increased by 2.7% and 0.6% respectively since the previous 
year. We recognise the incremental increase in pay gap since 
the previous year. Our analysis indicates that this is 
predominately attributed to the long-term incentive payouts in 
2021 to tenured employees at middle and senior management 
levels. Our assessment is affirmed by improvements in parity 
on fixed cash pay (referred herein as ‘salary’ which excludes 
incentive payments). Our mean ‘salary’ gap stands at 22.5%, 
which has improved by 2.5% since the previous year, while our 
median ‘salary’ remains at 24%. We recognise and continue to 
improve managerial and leadership placement of women in 
the organisation, the benefits of which will reflect our overall 
pay parity in the years to come.

International Women’s Day

In alignment with the UN Women’s International Women’s Day 
theme of 2022, ‘Gender equality today for a sustainable 
tomorrow’, MTN CEO Ralph Mupita saluted and celebrated all 
the women working to make the world a more equal, diverse 
and inclusive place. His address highlighted the ongoing 
commitment MTN has towards gender equality and gave 
further voice to the commitment made to the empowerment 
and equality of women and men, along with active participation 
from men, in the workplace and society at large.  Various local 
celebrations ensued throughout the year to celebrate the 
equality of women, including joining the HeForShe alliance 

with global leaders to enforce change. 

HeForShe partnership 

In April of 2022, MTN Group formalised our partnership with  
UN Women and formally joined the HeForShe alliance as part 
of our commitment to drive gender equality. The alliance seeks 
to develop the largest set of scalable and shareable solutions 
for gender equality’s most pressing challenges. Convening 
global trailblazers from across sectors, these members 
spearhead transformative change across countries, 

Case study: Nigeria 

Ms Ude Enebeli, General 
Manager for Information 
Technology Service 
Management and Governance 
at MTN Nigeria, captures some 
of the key elements related to 
our gender equality journey in 
her quote: "Gender equality in 
STEM is a necessity for 
organisations operating in any 
sector. The impact and value 
that women and girls can bring 
to modernising and 
humanising technology is 
tremendous. I believe all of us 
play a big role in shaping the 
next generation of women 
talent in STEM.” 

Gender parity
In 2022, we focused our efforts to determine the causative 
reasons for gender pay gap and established strategic and 
tactical plans to reduce the gap over the short and medium 
term.

We observed that representation of women in senior roles and 
critical-niche skills domains was a key driver for the gap. To 
address this, we instituted several measures across our markets 
to consciously improve such representation, including women 
hiring targets, panel diversity mandates, specialised sourcing 
channel arrangement to seek and attract women talent in Africa 
and also establishing our Women@Work Platform to create 
visibility, proactive development and first-access opportunities 
for women within our organisation. We firmly believe that 
institutionalising of these measures will be crucial to our medium 
and long-term reduction of gender pay gap.

The gender pay gap identified in 2021 resulted in action plans 
undertaken by each of our markets, in the context of their 
environment and laws. Several markets adopted various 
approaches to drive parity exercises during the year. In 
addition to this, we also conducted extensive studies to assess 
and evaluate pay across our various business in the context of 

*  https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/gender-pay-gap-reporting-
guidance-for-employers.

45Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



companies, campuses and communities, inspiring many 
others to follow suit and demonstrating the value of allyship 
in accelerating progress. CEOs and executive leaders 
across the MTN footprint pledged their commitment to 
becoming an ally to women and a champion for HeForShe 
through personal pledges. As a proud champion of the 
HeForShe alliance, we accelerated our efforts to create an 
environment where women thrive and have a deep sense of 
belonging within MTN. 

MTN was proud to attend the HeForShe summit event in 
September 2022. This event served as a further rallying 
call to all men to act now to drive action on gender equality. 
To entrench this alliance within the work we do, MTN is 
involved in monthly meetings and working groups. These 
engagements allow us to deliberately focus on enhancing 

women in leadership, reducing gender-based violence, 
creating awareness around gender equality and the 
importance of allyship. It provides us with an ongoing 
opportunity to share best practices from global partners, 
engage in joint projects, and strengthen our point of impact. 
We were also proud to share our stories of impact in the 
HeForShe Alliance Impact Report, which featured Ms Mapula 
Bodibe, the CEO from Rwanda.

People with disabilities 
MTN is committed to giving equal employment opportunities 
to persons with disabilities (PWD) across our markets. 

At MTN, we believe in providing equal employment 
opportunities to all individuals, including those with disabilities. 

To put this belief into action, MTN eSwatini through its  
‘Sisonkhe’ initiative, partners with individuals living with 
different abilities to better understand their communication 
needs and find ways to support them. 

One of the steps we took was to train our frontline staff in 
sign language, and we also set up a virtual contact centre to 
better serve our differently abled customers via video call. 

In the next phase, we plan to train our executive leaders 
and non-customer-facing staff in sign language, so we 
can provide an inclusive approach across the entire 
organisation. We are committed to ensuring all our 
customers and employees are treated equally and receive 
the same high-quality service. Our goal is to create a more 
accessible and inclusive environment where everyone can 
feel valued and supported.

Global Diversity Awareness Month (#DoBetter)
We celebrate Global Diversity Awareness Month annually 
in November as a channel to raise awareness of the 
everyday challenges experienced by women and 
differently abled communities in the workplace. This 
year’s campaign theme, under the umbrella of #DoBetter, 
was focused on inclusivity and raising awareness around 
the behaviours and responsibility we have to ensure we 
create an inclusive work environment. MTN employees 
across our footprint joined in to share what makes them 
feel included and how we all play our part in making 
inclusion a reality for all. During the same month, we 
launched the ’Disabilities and Different Abilities’ Yammer 
community where employees share their everyday 
experiences and tips to learn, listen and celebrate one 
another for who we are.

We are proud of the progress we have made in building 
our inclusive culture. However, we believe that to be truly 
diverse, equitable and inclusive at the workplace, our 
actions must be continuous, innovative and sustainable. 
We remain committed to achieving our ambition for  
a gender-equal world by 2030, with particular focus on 
steadily bridging our gender pay gap, ensuring higher 
representation of women in critical roles as well as 
creating an inclusive environment for people with 
disabilities and who are differently abled. We are learning, 
listening and playing our part for a better tomorrow for 
everyone.

46Sustainability Report 2022

Fostering a more diverse and inclusive society continued

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Grow with purpose
MTN Learn platform 
We offer all our employees learning opportunities in the 
language of their choice with access to our online learning 
platform. This unlimited learning access offers employees an 
opportunity to reskill, multi-skill and upskill in any field of 
interest. In 2022, we improved our learning platform to make it 
easier for employees to find relevant content and invested in 
customised learning journeys to target specific learners with 
relevant content. 

We also partnered with global vendors to create high-impact 
learning programmes, including in-person and virtual 
classrooms. Our focus was on shorter, more social learning 
experiences, which enriched the programmes with diverse 
perspectives. This approach fostered collaboration and a 
shared best-practice mindset across our organisation. 

learning journey includes a live business project, which allows 
participating employees to apply their practical experiences in 
a Fintech product development programme from ideation 
to production.

The Talent Convergence programme comprised over 370 
employees from 18 operations in 2022. The programme 
exposes them to official certified learning journeys and 
masterclasses.

Cloud capability upskilling 
In 2022, we created our first cloud Centre of Excellence (CoE). 
We did this by providing cloud training to our employees using 
the Nephos programme. This programme focused on 
foundational cloud skills, the role of cloud CoEs, and resources 
to maintain and advance cloud knowledge. The Nephos 
programme is a multi-disciplinary curriculum that combines 
technical training with business knowledge, giving employees 
a personalised and collaborative learning pathway.

Through this programme, over 110 employees earned  
cloud-related certifications. Additionally, 375 employees 
completed over 900 cloud-related courses as part of their 
self-development. These efforts ensure our employees are 
future-ready and equipped to deploy and adopt cloud 
technology.

Global Career Week
We hosted an employee Career Week event, which engaged 
employees around future tech company career development 
options and all the high-value learning options available to 
help them boost their career capital. In total, 97% of learners 
completed one or more digital learning programmes, with 
more than 181 000 learning hours spent.

Global Leadership Gathering
Our annual MTN Global Leadership Gathering was hosted 
virtually by the MTN Group President and CEO and the Exco 
team in 2022. The two-day conference aimed to develop and 
align over 300 global leaders with Ambition 2025’s strategic 
agenda. The conference focused on inspiring MTN leadership 
teams to deliver on their mission and addressed critical 
strategic aspirations, including digital and financial inclusion, 
true social value, platform and business transformation. 
Global speakers shared their views on strategy execution and 
the leadership priorities and behaviours required for success.

As a result, 99% of our registered learners engaged with the 
platform and completed 85% of the courses, averaging 36 
courses and 10 hours per learner. 

Future-fit talent
To further support our Ambition 2025 strategy, stringent 
focus was placed on critical skills such as Fintech, emerging 
tech, artificial intelligence, machine learning and commercial 
skills. In all, 10 critical skills-blended learning programmes 
were completed, which resulted in professional upskilling in 
critical skills niche areas for learners across our footprint, 
building Group-wide critical capability. In addition, 45% of 
these completions were women, further improving our female 
pipeline to be future fit for a tech company. 

Talent Convergence programme
Our global Talent Convergence programme aims to integrate 
agility and value chain skills in the Fintech business. The 

47Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



MTNers are not only our employees, but they are also our 
customers. One of the most important ways that we measure 
the health of our culture is through two types of ’voice of 
customer’ surveys conducted throughout the year. These 
surveys help us to gauge how employees feel about our 
Company, and the trends that will help us to evolve and grow.

Sentimeter surveys
A series of anonymous internal rapid surveys were conducted 
on our engagement platform to understand the experiences 
of MTNers across various dimensions, including leadership, 
D&I, learning and development, HR services, internal 
communication and strategy adoption. Key outcomes in 2022 

indicate a positive and consistently engaging experience 
across our footprint:
	• Employee sustainable engagement score improved to 83% 

in 2022 surveys, indicating increased confidence and 
improvement in our rapid feedback strategy.

	• Leadership satisfaction improved by 3% through the year 
at a steady satisfaction rate of 80%, while divisional 
leadership capability stood at 77%. 

	• Learning, growth and career opportunities experiences 
improved by 1%, with a year-end result of 76% satisfaction 
rate.

	• Rewards and recognition practice sentiments improved by 
1% since the previous year, with an average of 74% 
satisfaction.

	• Digital workplace enablement experiences improved by 2% 
from the previous year, with an average of 80% satisfaction.

Listening to the voices of our people

Inclusion sentiments
Inclusion sentiments expressed in our Sentimeter 
surveys are closely monitored and evaluated to 
understand the experience of connection, inclusion, 
openness and genuine belongingness to our Group and 
the work environment. In 2022, we noted improvements 
across our inclusion indicators:
	• D&I is the top-rated sentiment across the Group, with 

the strongest sentiments experienced by 
management and leadership. 

	• Women’s sentiment on D&I improved by 4% since 
2021.

	• There was a 3% improvement in D&I sentiments 
between H1 and H2 of 2022.

	• Altogether, 17 of 23 countries improved on D&I 
sentiments between H1 and H2 in 2022.

Group culture audit
We conduct an annual independent survey to assess levels of 
engagement across various culture levers. The survey is 
conducted by an international third party and is benchmarked 
against global organisations. 

In 2022, MTN achieved its highest-ever Group Culture Audit 
results, with a 95% participation rate that exceeds average 
global industry norms.

	• Sustainable engagement ratings increased by 3% to 83%, 
matching global telco norms, with 70% of our operating 
companies surpassing those norms.

	• Leadership confidence rose 2% to 76%, with 65% of our 
operating companies surpassing global telco norms.

	• Our employee net promoter score increased 1% to +52, 
with ‘great place to work’ maintaining at +49, and 
supervisor recommendation up 4% to +41.

	• The WECA and SEA markets increased 4% in sustainable 
engagement and leadership dimensions. 

	• Gender perspectives improved significantly for sustainable 
engagement and leadership dimensions by an average of 
3% for both men and women.

48Sustainability Report 2022

Fostering a more diverse and inclusive society continued

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



MTN can flourish only when the communities and ecosystems 
in which we operate are healthy. Driven by this belief, we strive 
to reach the most vulnerable, marginalised, underserved 
communities and members of society without leaving anyone 
behind. We believe all our activities, including corporate social 
investment (CSI), should align with MTN’s Ambition  2025 
strategy and Africa’s digital transformation strategy to 
leverage the power of technology. 

Our approach to CSI systematically addresses job creation, 
enhances competitiveness and drives inclusive growth 
through our Digital Skills for Digital Jobs strategic focus. It is 
anchored on multi-stakeholder partnerships with global and 
African-based organisations. This philosophy is underpinned 
by the MTN Foundation flagship programme, the MTN Skills 
Academy, which is being launched in-country across operating 
markets in 2023.

The MTN Skills Academy provides access to digital and 
financial skills training across Africa. By bridging the gap 
between high demand and low supply, we aim to increase 
digital skills among young Africans and increase employment 
opportunities. We do so while ensuring we address national 
priority areas aligned with the national development plans of 
each of our markets.

This cohesive approach will increase impact across Africa as 
all countries work towards a common outcomes-focused goal 
that dovetails with Ambition 2025’s strategic intent of  
’Leading Africa’s digital progress’. 

We also take a socially responsible approach to tax, not only as 
the right thing to do for society, but also as a driver for 
sustainable growth.  As one of the biggest taxpayers in many of 
our markets, MTN meaningfully contributes towards local 
economies.

Our CSI strategy
In 2022, a newly formulated CSI strategy was implemented 
within MTN to better align with Ambition 2025. This strategy 
sees all markets make a concerted shift towards more ICT-
enabled programmes. Although there still remains scope to 
complete national priority area or disaster relief efforts, MTN is 
striving to achieve 75% CSI spend focused on ICT ecosystem 
programmes within the next three years. Within this ecosystem, 
MTN will continue on the mission to increase gender equality 
and youth development. As markets strive to reach this new 
strategic goal, their programmes and projects will now fall 
between ICT or non-ICT categories, and will be measured 
against gender and youth development factors. 

Our country-based MTN foundations are the conduit between 
the Group and the communities that benefit from our CSI 
activities, with the Group setting parameters and countries 
having flexibility regarding implementing partners and choice 
of programmes. 

	• CSI programmes are beneficiary focused, targeting youth 
and women empowerment. 

	• All partners undergo a stringent vetting process to ensure 
initiatives are relevant and deliver measurable outcomes. 

	• Operating countries are required to spend a minimum of 
1% of their net profit after tax on CSI initiatives.

Read more:
Our position statement on corporate social investment
MTN tax report  

Performance summary

R149 billion 
contributed towards society

(2021: R115 billion)

CSI investment 

R251 million 
(2021: R159 million)

Total beneficiaries

5.36 million 
(2021: 9.9 million)

More than 4.8 million
youth beneficiaries (2021: 7.5 million)

2.5 million
women and young girls empowered

(2021: 3.2 million)

4 057 employee
volunteers
(2021: 587)

Driving digital inclusion in our communities

49Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Fostering a more diverse and inclusive society continued

Our communities

Enabling digital skills
Of sub-Saharan Africa’s 200 million young people, around 38 million are not in any form of education, employment or training. This 
number is rising, and young women are more than twice as likely to be affected as young men, according to the International 
Labour Organisation. The Broadband Commission for Sustainable Development says that 60% of youth and adults must have at 
least a minimum level of proficiency in sustainable digital skills by 2025 so that they can benefit from online services and resources.

In Uganda, MTN launched a digital skills initiative known 
as MTN Ace Tech. The programme is aimed at skilling 
work-ready talent for software engineering and related 
disciplines, providing training for both entry-level and 
experienced digital innovators. The programme targets 
80 Ugandans with innovative ideas to solve real-life 
problems across all sectors, with a specific focus on 
Uganda’s Vision2040 National Development Priorities. 

MTN Sudan sponsors a programme that teaches the 
Scratch programming language to school students in 
partnership with the East Nile Youth Organisation. This 
programme offers young beneficiaries with coding skills 
a gateway to limitless possibilities, while enhancing their 
ICT skills and boosting their creativity, problem-solving 
and imagination. 

In Nigeria, ongoing initiatives to develop the ICT capacities 
and business skills of young people aged between 18 and 
35 continued apace. The fifth phase of this project 
started in 2022, during which 3 000 young individuals 
were enrolled for the training. Of these, 984 successfully 
completed the training, bringing the total number of 
youth trained under this project to 4 034. 

MTN in Benin has launched an ambitious programme 
called the TITA project. The goal of this project is to 
provide short training at certification centres for students 
and young graduates to help strengthen their digital and 
professional skills. The first phase of the project, which 
had 100 beneficiaries, was completed in November 2022. 

MTN Skills Academy
We launched the MTN Skills Academy in 2022 to develop 
people across the continent as producers, consumers and 
innovators of digital technologies. The rollout across the 
operating markets will take place gradually throughout 2023, 
ensuring existing ICT programmes and the Skills Academy are 
integrated to better serve the communities in which 
MTN operates.

Together with various public and private sector partners, the 
MTN Skills Academy focuses on solutions to digital challenges 
facing our youth in the wake of the Fourth Industrial 
Revolution. Young people can obtain career guidance 
counselling, receive free online training in digital and financial 
skills, build work readiness to boost employment prospects, 
and be exposed to public and private sector-wide job 
opportunities to enhance job placement possibilities 
throughout the continent thanks to digital solutions.

Designed to be inclusive, its features include low-data use; 
zero rating in select markets; country-specific and language 
functionality; and features that enable its use by differently 
abled persons. It leverages the strengths of strategic partners, 
including PACE Career Centre and online learning provider 
Coursera.

21 Days of Y’ello Care
As the restrictions on COVID-19 have been lifted, the numbers 
of beneficiaries reached has decreased as most Opcos moved 
back to face-to-face interventions. This has resulted in more 
focused engagements with beneficiaries, and a greater lasting 
impact on their lives.  

2022 brought back the Y’ello Care initiatives, providing  
a mechanism for employees to once again engage with 
community projects in a more hands-on manner. Overall 
employee engagement also increased with the reduction in 
COVID-19 protocols, meaning our MTNers had more 
opportunities to work closely within the communities in which 
they operate. 

50Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Bridging the data analytics skills gap
To address Africa’s digital skills gap, MTN Group is partnering 
with SAS® training, courses and classes to train up to  
100 young people in data analytics. This is part of the MTN 
Skills Academy’s work to promote digital skills for digital jobs, 
supporting MTN Group’s strategic intent of providing digital 
solutions for Africa’s progress.

The training initiative consists of a six-week programme, the 
first part of which is self-paced, and the second contains live 
instructor-led courses. After the initial six-week programme, 
half the participants will undergo further training with MTN’s 
in-house data analytics academy.

Eight MTN operating companies have assigned learners to 
participate in the training the Group provided through its 
partnership with SAS.

Women empowerment
To guarantee the benefits of a modern connected life for 
everyone, we ensure men and women benefit equally from 
ICT. This assists in reducing inequalities that exist in society. 
We actively strive to ensure girls and women have the 

necessary skills and knowledge to understand, develop 
content, participate in and benefit fully from ICTs and their 
applications.

As part of this focus, MTN has partnered with UN Women 
across three strategic contribution areas, including MTN’s 
gender equality agenda, contributing to society, and advancing 
the generation equality agenda. Within each area, specific 
initiatives have been outlined that will increase the contribution 
efforts and encourage both internal and external buy-in to the 
gender equality journey. 

In Uganda, the MTN Foundation engaged in a programme 
called MTN Girls with Tools, where they set up a new facility 
with the capacity to train 400 young women annually in 
collaboration with the Smart Girls Foundation. The training is 
within traditionally male-dominated vocational skills, and saw 
103 young women complete the programme during the year. 
With a focus on developing skillsets such as mechanics, 
computer application, electrical installation, welding, 
carpentry, tailoring and house painting skills, this female-
focused economic empowerment programme puts the 
wellbeing of young women at the forefront, giving them the 
chance to gain control over their own lives. Congo-Brazzaville 

Graduation of the first Cohort of the MTN Girls with Tools programme, 
with MTN CEO – Sylvia Mulinge, Acting Executive Director of Uganda 
Communications Commission Eng. Irene Kaggwa Sewankambo and 
Smart Girls Foundation CEO Jamila Mayanja. Upskilled women from the Kafue River area of Zambia.

continued on its ever-successful ‘One Woman = One Training 
in ICT’ programme. The selected women within this programme 
strengthened their skills and learnt techniques in the digital 
field with modules such as automation, computer graphics 
and community management. The project aims to offer these 
women access to connectivity, inclusion and skills development 
and has impacted 100 women since 2020. 

MTN Zambia partnered with Impact Hub to train 120 women in 
camps found along the banks of the Kafue River. The women 
were trained in entrepreneurial skills including financial 
literacy, mobile money services, risk management and digital 
marketing. In addition, the women learnt how to make Ankara 
crafts, smoked chicken and fish and were taught how to 
professionally package their products. Following this training, 
the women were linked to local supermarkets, becoming 
providers within local supply chains to increase their success.

Young women in Congo-Brazzaville receive support in the One Woman 
= One Training in ICT in Brazzaville

51Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Investing in national priority areas

Fostering a more diverse and inclusive society continued

Our CSI strategy emphasises addressing national priority areas aligned with the national 
development plan of each of our markets. Our approach is underpinned primarily by  
UN Sustainable Development Goals.

For the Foundation in Benin, a priority area related to back to 
school programmes. In a partnership agreement with UNICEF, 
MTN Benin contributed to the lives of over 5 300 children. 
These distribution campaigns focused on border areas, which 
are considered challenging environments where children 
often suffer in their schooling. Through the distribution 
of  school kits, these communities were supported and 
empowered. 

MTN Rwandacell PLC (MTN Rwanda) joined Rwanda 
Development Bank’s (BRD) Cana Challenge campaign by 
donating RWF2.5 million, which will connect 700 underserved 
families to green energy in Nyamiyaga sector in Gicumbi, 
Gicumbi District. The #CanaChallenge campaign, which 
commenced in December 2021 on social media, invites 
individuals and organisations to voluntarily contribute to 
‘Light up a Rwandan family’. Thereafter, contributions are 
utilised to purchase and install home solar systems for families 
in Ubudehe Category 1.

T
o

ta
l 

b
e

n
e

fi
ci

a
ri

e
s

Y
o

u
th

F
e

m
a

le
s

D
if

fe
re

n
tl

y 
a

b
le

d

5 367 070
4 788 454

2 532 840

10 649

Breakdown of beneficiaries

Total national priority area
spend breakdown

● Health 51%
 Education 15%
 Environment 9%
 Economic empowerment 11%
 Other (CSI spend) 14%

 

 
 
 

   
 

Total ICT spend breakdown

● Digital infrastructure 24%
 Digital literacy 2%
 Digital training 72%
 Digital innovation 2%

 

 
 
 

   
 

52Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



We are deliberate in ensuring 
our customers experience our 
inclusive culture at various 
touchpoints like retail outlets 
and service centres.

Leave no one behind is the central, 
transformative promise of the 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development 
and its Sustainable Development Goals. It 
represents the unequivocal commitment 
of all UN Member States to eradicate 
poverty in all its forms, end discrimination 
and exclusion, and reduce the inequalities 
and vulnerabilities that leave people 
behind and undermine the potential of 
individuals and of humanity as a whole. 

Driven by our core belief that everyone 
deserves the benefits of a modern 
connected life, we believe in ensuring the 
inclusion of all persons especially those 
who are vulnerable and marginalised 
within our society. This includes women, 
children, youth, persons with disabilities 
and other relevant groups.

Mobile devices and services offer life-
changing benefits to persons with 
disabilities, enabling more independent 
living. However, GSMA research shows 
that despite this potential, many persons 
with disabilities remain unconnected and 
digitally excluded. MTN has been working 
across its markets to ensure we create 
a more inclusive society not only within 
our workplace, but also our service 
centres and broader society.

53Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Case study: Rwanda 

As part of MTN’s commitment under its ‘Twese’ (All of us) 
initiative – to leave no one behind – in 2022, MTN Rwanda 
hosted a ’Dinner in the Dark’ in partnership with the 
Rwanda Union of the Blind in a bid to raise awareness 
and celebrate the designated international week for the 
blind, as well as raise funds for white canes, which are key 
for the blind community.

The Company’s Twese programme was first introduced in 
2021 in partnership with National Union of Disability 
Organisations of Rwanda with the aim of recognising 

more could be done in making MTN’s service and products 
more accessible to persons living with disabilities and to 
find ways to raise awareness and support the initiatives 
of the different organisations.

Through this initiative, MTN Rwanda included sign 
language communication in all its television 
advertisements, as well as interpreters in its call centre to 
aid persons with disabilities via video calls. During 2022, 
selected service centre staff completed a three-month 
sign language training course. We made certain our 

service centres catered for physically accessibility and 
are inclusive for persons with disabilities by lowering 
counters for customers with wheelchairs.

Noting that unemployment rates are reported to be 
higher among people with disabilities, MTN Rwanda 
committed to reserving 60 MTN agent positions across 
the country for people with disabilities. MTN provided 
capital to two agents with disabilities in each district of 
the country to allow them to start and grow their business 
and reserved spots in our global graduate programme 
for a person living with disabilities.

54Sustainability Report 2022

Fostering a more diverse and inclusive society continued

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Innovating to help the deaf make and receive phone calls

MTN South Africa is piloting an innovative national relay service (NRS) to serve the people of South Africa who are 
visually and hearing impaired. The system harnesses the power of technology to enable users to make and receive 
phone calls. 

The pilot project, in partnership with Convo South Africa – a deaf-owned company – aims to expand communication 
access for those who otherwise would not be able to communicate via voice call, audio or video. Depending on the type 
of call, an operator speaks, types or uses sign language when facilitating calls for or between deaf, hard-of-hearing, or 
deafblind South Africans. 

The NRS user connects with a communications assistant, registered and trained by Convo, who facilitates the call in 
real-time.  As a result, users will be able to make calls to friends and family, business services and other organisations 
without having to rely on someone else to place calls for them. 

Contacting critical emergency, fire and medical services will be more efficient and far quicker than before for over 
2.8 million South Africans living with hearing disabilities or speech impairment. 

MTN South Africa and Convo will test the effectiveness of the service with 100 members of the deaf and hard-of-hearing 
community during the first half of 2023. 

Case study: South Africa

MTN eSwatini launched the Sisonkhe Project, our commitment to improve the customer experience of all our valued 
customers including our differently abled customers.

MTN is committed to engaging with the deaf and speech-impaired community to develop products and services to meet 
their communication needs. MTN eSwatini, through Lulwimi Lwetandla, trained frontline and contact centre staff on sign 
language from MTN outlets across the country. The newly trained sign language MTN eSwatini staff members received 
certificates upon course completion.

MTN eSwatini is supporting the government’s agenda of embracing people living with disability. MTN Sisonkhe has  
a dedicated visual contact centre line to cater for the deaf and speech-impaired customers. Customers may contact MTN 
on a direct line 76 061 954. MTN eSwatini's differently abled customers can access MTN Sisonkhe bundles on *525#. 
Customers can choose 1 for text bundles and 3 to check their balance. These offers have been whitelisted for the 
differently abled subscriber base.

Frontline staff are now serving customers through sign language, video calling and in-person interaction. MTN has 
experienced a 62% growth in contact centre video-calling interaction within the second half of 2022 alone.

Case study: eSwathini

55Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



We are committed partners to stakeholders  
to create and protect value

As a leading telecommunication company with operations in 
multiple countries, MTN has a responsibility to ensure the 
safety and wellbeing of our customers, communities and 
employees, both at our business premises and when using our 
digital services. 

Sound governance practices are a key aspect of this effort, as 
these ensure we conduct our business in an ethical and socially 
responsible manner. This is essential for building trust with 
customers and other stakeholders, and making certain our 
business is contributing to the wider community in a positive 
way.

One of the key ways in which MTN is able to minimise potential 
for harm to individuals and societies is through robust risk 
management practices. Our comprehensive risk management 
framework is designed to identify, assess and mitigate risks 
across all our operations. 

Another important aspect of MTN’s governance practices is 
its commitment to compliance with relevant laws and 
regulations. We are committed to adhering to all relevant laws 
and regulations in the countries in which we operate, including 
those related to data privacy, anti-bribery and anti-corruption, 
5G frequencies and consumer protection. 

Our code of conduct outlines the ethical standards that all 
employees are expected to adhere to and includes guidance 
related to issues such as bribery and corruption and 
discrimination.

MTN is also committed to responsible procurement practices 
that drive sustainability across its supply chain. This includes 
working with suppliers to ensure that they are also committed 
to responsible and sustainable practices.

2

We are doing it right by:
Protecting customer 
privacy and data  
security
	• Enhancing information and 

cybersecurity.

	• Increasing the safety of mobile 
services.

	• Respecting digital human rights.

	• Promoting health, safety and 
wellbeing.

	• Ensuring EMF and 5G safety.

Embedding ethical  
and responsible business 
practices
	• Promoting ethical conduct. 

	•  Entrenching fair competitive practices.

	•  Managing and reducing risks.

	•  Committing to compliance.

Partnering  
for an ethical  
supply chain
	• Responsible and inclusive 

procurement.

	• Embedding sustainability 
across our supply chain.

1 3

56Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Safeguarding our people and customers

MTN is committed to maintaining our trusted position and the 
integrity of our brand. We strive to conduct all our business 
activities with respect and a sense of responsibility to our 
customers, employees and the public. People are at the centre 
of everything we do, and their safety and security – both 
physical and digital – are paramount to our long-term 
sustainability.

As technology and innovation transform the world around us, 
concerns about online safety and security continue to grow. 
Society’s demands for better privacy have resulted in strict 
regulations for processing personal information to guarantee 
confidentiality and the right of each person to decide on the 
use of their personal data. We always strive to conduct our 
business in accordance with the letter and spirit of the 
applicable regulatory and legislative requirements in our 
markets and drive a culture of protecting the personal 
information for which we are responsible. 

Technology alone, however, is not a sufficient response to 
myriad digital threats and challenges. We also strive to ensure 
our customers are protected from illicit behaviour such as 
online abuse or fraud and that children can use the internet 
safely. In such instances, a holistic response is essential, 
involving governments, other agencies and non-profit support 
bodies. We pledge to work, within our area of influence, to 
prevent any abuse of human rights.

We endorse internet access as a human right, collectively with 
freedom of expression and opinion, the privacy of information, 
and communication and information security.

With a clear commitment to safety, privacy and the security of 
mobile communications services, MTN aims to ensure the 
benefit of a modern connected life enriches lives and benefits 
societies. 

Our safety, security, privacy and protection universe

Read more: Our position statements on data privacy and protection, information security, digital human rights, responsible 
marketing, health and safety, mobiles and health  

Performance summary

24  
complaints concerning 
breaches of customer 
privacy and losses of 

customer data for 2022 
(2021: 0). 100%  

compliance with 
international EMF 
recommendations

(2021: 100%).

For the second year in 
a row, MTN was rated 

the most improved 
company according to 

the Ranking Digital 
Rights Index.

Monitored and  
scanned more than  

3.5 billion  
URLs suspected of 
hosting child sexual 

abuse material

(2021: 3.5 billion%).

7 operating 
companies are GSMA 

mobile money certified 
to enhance safety of 

mobile financial 
services.

Protecting privacy  
and securing  

customer data

Protecting networks  
and devices to keep 

communications secure

Protecting consumers  
from illegal activity and 

anti-social behaviour

Protecting public  
health and safety and 

meeting legal obligations

57Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Protecting customer privacy and data security

This last decade has witnessed a considerable increase in the 
depth and scale of communication services. The very nature 
of these services means the companies providing them gain 
access to important information about their users, including 
their identity, with whom they communicate and their location, 
and insight into their personal interests via the sites and 
services they access. Data privacy and protection is at the 
heart of business success in an age when personal data is the 
key to honing a competitive edge.

We take proactive steps to protect and respect our customers' 
privacy interests and enable them to make informed choices 
about what data is collected and how their data is used. Our 
key objective in protecting customer privacy is to build trust 
and confidence that their personal data is being adequately 
protected according to applicable privacy regulations and 
requirements. MTN has adopted leading digital governance 
practices, which are aligned with local market regulations 
where appropriate. The MTN Group’s Data Privacy and 
Protection Policy guides our employees in complying with 
privacy principles and regulations to the letter and in the spirit 
of data protection.

Openness, transparency and notice
Responsible persons shall be open and honest with users and will ensure users are provided with clear, 
prominent and timely information regarding their identity and data privacy practices. Users shall be 
provided with information about persons collecting personal information about them, the purposes of 
an application or service, and about the access, collection, sharing and further use of users’ personal 
information, including to whom their personal information may be disclosed, enabling users to make 
informed decisions about whether to use an application or service.

Security
Personal information must be protected, 
using reasonable safeguards appropriate 
to the sensitivity of the information.

Accountability and enforcement
Responsible persons shall ensure 
compliance with applicable data protection 
laws and internal policies and procedures.

Purpose and use
The access, collection, sharing, disclosure 
and further use of users’ personal 
information shall be limited to meeting 
legitimate business purposes, such as 
providing applications or services as 
requested by users, or to otherwise 
meeting legal obligations.

Children and adolescents
An application or service directed at 
children and adolescents shall ensure the 
collection, access and use of personal 
information are appropriate in all given 
circumstances and compatible with 
national law.

Data minimisation and retention
Only the minimum personal information necessary to meet legitimate business purposes and to deliver, 
provision, maintain or develop applications and services shall be collected and otherwise accessed and 
used. Personal information must not be kept for longer than necessary for those legitimate business 
purposes or to meet legal obligations and should subsequently be deleted or rendered anonymous.

Respect user rights
Users shall be provided with information 
about and an easy means to exercise, their 
rights over the use of their personal 
information.

User choice and control
Users shall be given opportunities to 
exercise meaningful choice and control 
over their personal information.

Education
Users shall be provided with information about privacy and security issues and ways to manage and 
protect their privacy.

MTN’s data protection and privacy approach and principles

Safeguarding our people and customers continued

58Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Customer data is further protected through a robust 
framework to enhance the overall control environment aligned 
with ISO 27001 and the NIST cybersecurity.

Our Data Protection and Privacy Policy provides detailed 
information regarding how we manage customer privacy and 
data security. This includes information on the following: 
	• The type of personal information we collect and use.
	• How we store and process personal data.
	• The circumstances in which we may transfer or disclose 

personal information.
	• Our security practices and procedures.
	• How we dispose of personal information.
	• Data subject rights and contacts for our customers to 

enforce their rights.

MTN received no substantiated complaints concerning 
breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data for 
2022. There are currently 11 markets with privacy regulations 
within MTN’s operating footprint (2021: seven). 

Enhancing privacy management
MTN continuously responds to changing privacy regulations, 
customer expectations and the increasing sophistication of 
fraudsters and cyber threats. To protect our customer data, 
we regularly improve our governance privacy layers, privacy 
frameworks and data protection processes. 

In 2022, we reviewed and updated our Group Data Privacy and 
Protection Policy. The policy was simplified in line with current 
best practices and enhanced with procedures, controls and 
accountability statements. We also set up a privacy office to 
support policy applications and provide oversight on data 
privacy across all our markets.

Project Guardian
Project Guardian, officially launched in July 2022, aims to 
develop minimum data privacy and data protection controls to 
be implemented by across the MTN Group. The programme 
comprises of 12 workstreams, such as governance and 
operating model, third-party risk management, privacy 
notices and policies, security for privacy, and change 
management to name a few. The programme provides  
a blueprint for privacy management and guides compliance 
across all jurisdictions. This is especially pertinent in countries 
that do not yet have any privacy legislation.  

The programme is being implemented in phases. We are 
currently in the development phase, which focuses on policies, 
procedures and other relevant templates, with rollout and 
implementation to follow in 2023. 

Rapid technological innovation in the last decade has 
introduced promising new technologies but also increased 
malicious attacks on IT systems and infrastructure worldwide. 
MTN continuously focuses on improving our information 
security resilience through the implementation of security 
capabilities and controls to protect the integrity, confidentiality 
and availability of sensitive customer data and business 
information. 

Enhancing information and 
cybersecurity

MTN Uganda receives ISO 27001 
Information Security Management System 
certification 
 
ISO 27001 is the international standard that sets out 
stringent requirements for an information security 
management system. 

The certification, issued by the Luxembourg-based 
firm, Certi-Trust Group, in January 2023, demonstrates 
MTN’s commitment to prioritising data confidentiality, 
integrity and availability of services to the customers.

59Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Safeguarding our people and customers continued

Information and security governance, 
frameworks and standards 
MTN deploys a defence in-depth approach to protecting its 
platforms and data. This includes the implementation of 
security controls relating to access control, encryption, 
baseline configurations and perimeter security, among 
others. Our established internal control framework is aligned 
with our policies and standards and has been benchmarked 
against the NIST cybersecurity framework. We also align with 
ISO 27001 to ensure full coverage. 

For technical security standards in the IT domain, we align 
with the Centre for Internet Security benchmarks, with minor 
deviations to ensure alignment with our overall policies and 
standards. Within the network domain, we align with the 
International Telecommunication Union (ITU) and GMSA.

Strengthening our security programmes
Having largely concluded the Marshall Plan and with the 
ASPiRE strategic implementation programme nearing 
completion, during 2022, Group information security initiated 
an exercise to refresh our information security strategy and 
align it more closely with Ambition 2025. The resulting updated 
security road map, ASPiRE+, is aligned and integrated with the 
new Group Technology PACE strategy. Both were approved by 
the Board and cascaded to key stakeholders during 2022.

The PACE strategy measures execution via a maturity index to 
monitor progress on multi-year targets, which include IT, 
network, cloud and digital security. 

As a key component of PACE, the ASPiRE+ roadmap builds on 
the foundations of the Marshall plan and ASPiRE, extending 
control coverage to improve MTN’s information security 
capability. The key goals of the strategy are:
	Improving cybersecurity posture and governance. 
	Improving cybersecurity capabilities. 
	Reducing platform cybersecurity exposure. 
	Building a cybersecurity threat response culture. 
	Establishing continuous improvement.

Capabilities enhanced and deployed by the ASPiRE 
programme include anti-money laundering, fraud 
management, network inventory management, segregation of 
duties monitoring, cloud access security brokers, customer 
identity and access management, encryption key management, 
indicator of compromise enhancements, security 
orchestration, automation and response (SOAR), and security 
operations centre (SOC) managed services. ASPiRE+ includes 
threat analysis and capability maturity assessments.

Approximately R254 million was invested into ASPiRE to drive 
the enhancement of existing programmes and implement new 
security initiatives to enable an integrated, multi-functional 
information security strategy.

Reducing third-party security risk
As part of our refreshed security strategy, we enhanced the 
security annexures included in all vendor contracts. As part of 
the security annexure, vendors are required to provide a self-
assessment of their compliance with agreed requirements, at 
least on an annual basis. Vendor compliance is also validated 
through annual independent compliance audits on a selection 
of vendors. A breach notification process is followed where 
vendors are identified as non-compliant.

Leveraging new technology for stronger data 
management
We continuously strengthen our data management ecosystem 
and capabilities through the adoption of new technologies. 
MTN has embarked on an exciting journey of artificial 
intelligence and machine learning within the operations 
domain to develop zero-wait, zero-touch and zero-trouble 
platforms, while also delivering self-serving, self-fulfilling and 
self-assuring networks as a service. By means of continuous 
improvement and automation, we can better detect anomalous 
behaviour on our network.

Cybersecurity awareness
Embedding cybersecurity across every level of our operations 
incudes driving awareness of how we expect all employees to 
behave when it comes to best practice in cybersecurity. Every 
employee is familiarised with MTN’s Group Information 
Security Policy and associated procedures, standards and 
guidelines. All personnel involved with storing and processing 
information have a responsibility to report cyber-related 
security incidents and any identified weaknesses. 

60Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Increasing the safety of mobile services
MTN strives to deliver safe and secure technologies, services 
and apps that inspire trust and confidence. As the Group’s 
financial service offerings grow, we must ensure our 
customers are aware of any transactions associated with 
their identity and can notify MTN swiftly in the event of any 
concerns regarding possible fraudulent activity. At the same 
time, consumers need to be educated about potential risks 
and be aware of the steps they can take to avoid those risks. 

Treating customers fairly (TCF)
As the number of services offered to our customers by MTN or 
our partners continues to increase, our customers must 
remain aware of the costs they incur, the services they use 
and how to control and remove access to these services.

Our TCF Policy was approved in 2017 and covers price 
awareness, subscription double opt-in flows and customer 
notifications regarding the services they are subscribed to. It 
is enforced via the contracts we implement with our partners 
and ensures all parties adhere to the TCF policy across all 
their services. 

To facilitate transparency and customer control, we developed 
a TCF framework, which sets the mandatory requirements for 
implementing key customer service processes in all MTN 
operations. 

Responsible marketing 
Maintaining fair sales practices and ensuring we provide 
products and information to customers responsibly is 
important. MTN requires that advertising is clear, showing the 
customer subscription costs per service per day and how to 
unsubscribe from the service. More information regarding 
how we ensure fairness for those interacting with our products 
and services is available in our TCF Policy.

TCF is being embedded throughout our operating footprint, 
and we ensure all services are configured and tested for 
compliance with TCF before they are commercially launched.  

We are also implementing digital marketing fraud management, 
with several operating companies already integrated into the 
platform. Our digital fraud solution will be extended to cover 
all operating countries during the year ahead. 

Fighting financial crime
MTN remains aware of the risks associated with mobile 
financial services and continues to pursue an integrated 
approach to anti-money laundering, counter-terrorist 
financing and fraud. As a result, we focus on detection, 
prevention, education, partner collaboration and certification.

GSMA mobile money certification 
The GSMA mobile money certification is a global initiative to 
bring safer, more transparent and more resilient financial 
services to millions of mobile money users worldwide. The 
certification is based on independent assessments of MTN’s 

ability to deliver secure and reliable services, protect 
consumers’ rights, combat money laundering and the 
financing of terrorism. These efforts are measured against 
global industry best practice. 

In 2022, we added two operating companies to our list of 
GSMA mobile money certified operating companies, which 
already included Zambia (2021), Rwanda (2020), Côte d’Ivoire 
(2018), Uganda, Ghana, Cameroon (2019) and eSwatini (2022), 
bringing our total number of certified countries to seven.  
The Côte d’Ivoire and eSwatini certifications were renewed 
during the year under review. 

61Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Respecting digital human rights

Respecting human rights is a vital part of how MTN does 
business fairly and responsibly. MTN endeavours to avoid 
adverse human rights impacts where it identifies a risk. We 
take mitigation steps where we are unable to avoid these 
risks. Since 2012, we have been a signatory to the UNGC, 
which commits companies to 10 guiding principles on human 
rights, labour rights, environmental protection and measures 
to fight corruption. 

Human rights apply online just as they do offline. Digital 
technologies provide new means to exercise human rights but 
can also be used to violate them. Data protection and privacy 
issues, surveillance technologies, online violence and 
harassment are of particular concern.

MTN strives to ensure technology is used to enhance freedom 
rather than to facilitate repression or other nefarious 
objectives. Our commitment to respect and support digital 
human rights aligns with the UN Guiding Principles on 
Business and Human Rights. It is outlined in our Digital Human 
Rights Policy. 

Detailed information regarding how we manage human 
rights risk is contained in our 2022 transparency report, 
available on our report website. MTN’s digital human rights due diligence framework 

Risk

Continuous risk 
assessments 

are conducted 
prior to any 

request

Receive

Request 
validation from 

legally 
authorised 

body to confirm 
the request is 

official and 
determine the 
urgency and 
impact of the 

request

Assess

Request 
assessment
to confirm 

compliance 
with laws and 
licence terms, 

implications on 
rights, human 
lives and other 

factors

Action

Explore and
act upon all 

possible 
options

(seek request 
amendment, 
reject where 

possible, 
partially comply 

and as a last 
resort, comply 
with request)

Close

Provide 
remedies where 

relevant, 
monitor request 

to ensure 
compliance
and provide 
updates to 

relevant 
stakeholders

Before:
Proactive

During:
Incident

After:
Post

62Sustainability Report 2022

We embrace ethics, risks and compliance management

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



MTN enhanced its journey to protect digital human rights 
more than a decade ago. As we started on this journey, we 
focused on putting good governance structures in place to 
ensure we achieve our objectives of protecting these rights. 
We developed strategies, policies and due diligence processes. 
We developed capacity by employing experts that could assist 
us in this journey. Now, that we have laid the right foundation 
to protect digital human rights, we continue to go beyond 
embedding our policies and processes into our business 
model on every level and in all our operating markets.

Enhancing digital human rights risk management 
In 2022, MTN joined the Global Network Initiative, which 
regularly discusses best practices with fellow members to 
meet governmental demands in the telecommunications 
sector. We also participated in ongoing partnerships, such as 
the JAC, an initiative around embedding human rights ethos in 
the supply chain. We participated in GSMA’s ESG metrics and 
digital integrity pilot projects. 

Other achievements concerning our digital human rights 
strategy include the following:
	• Revising our Digital Human Rights (DHR) Policy and 

playbook, which includes operating procedures, scenarios, 
risk management and a decision matrix.

	• Completing a DHR impact assessment, providing 
country-level insight.

	• Finalising DHR due diligence assessments for market entry 
and exit, partnerships and product development.

MTN’s ranking digital rights
performance (2018–2022) (%)

Overall 
ranking

Governance Freedom of 
expression

Privacy

■ 2022■ 2018 ■ 2019 ■ 2020

*RDR did not rank Telco Giants in 2021.

16 16
23

34
38 39 42

59

12
9 11

24

11 12

20

33

Progress in ranking digital rights
For the second year in a row, MTN was rated the most 
improved company according to the Ranking Digital Rights 
Index, which was renamed the Telco Giants Scorecard in 2022. 
MTN outperformed all telcos outside the US and Europe in 
three categories: governance, freedom of expression and 
privacy. This demonstrates MTN’s dedication to respecting 
and protecting the rights of our customers and stakeholders.

Child online safety
We are committed to working with industry partners and 
stakeholders to preserve children’s rights to freedom of 
expression and to help safeguard them from online predators 
or exploitation, as illustrated by the case studies on page 64.  

MTN has implemented a Group-wide child online protection 
programme and has blocked child sexual abuse material 
(CSAM). This URL blocking list fights malicious traffic on our 
networks and eradicates online images of child sexual abuse 
as quickly and efficiently as possible.

Building strategic partnerships
Our partnerships with the Internet Watch Foundation (IWF), 
Meta, the International Centre for Missing and Exploited 
Children and Child Helpline International reflect our 
commitment to safeguarding the rights of children.  
We partnered with the IWF to develop the Online Child Safety 
Africa Portal, a reporting mechanism for online child sexual 
abuse imagery, which launched in April 2022. 

63Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Help Children Be Children campaign 
To increase public awareness of the impact of CSAM and 
help prevent its spread, we continued to drive our Help 
Children Be Children campaign. In addition to raising 
awareness, the campaign helps to train law enforcement 
and child helplines on the continent, positively impacting 
policy through roundtables and encouraging critical actors, 
including the industry, to join the global fight against CSAM. 
In 2022, we rolled out the campaign across various markets 
beyond the initial pilot markets of Zambia and Uganda.

Protecting students from cyber-attacks
Safer Internet Day is an important annual event for 
schools and other educational institutions across the 
world. It is a chance to promote the safe and 
responsible use of technology and to encourage 
students, teachers and administrators to think 
critically about the digital world and their online 
activities.

MTN Ghana marked Safer Internet Day on 
7  February  2023 as part of ongoing efforts to raise 
awareness of cyber-attacks and corresponding 

strategies to protect personal information. The event, 
held at Osu Presbyterian Senior High School in Accra, 
was aimed at educating youth on the importance of 
keeping their identities private, exercising caution 
when interacting with strangers online, avoiding links 
in unsolicited emails and maintaining strong 
passwords.

The school commended MTN for embarking on such  
a laudable campaign, stressing it will go a long way in 
mitigating cyber-bullying and attacks that students 
may fall victim to as a result of their naivety.

Top five countries

● South Africa 76%
 Nigeria 19%
 Guinea-Conakry 1%
 Cameroon 2%
 Uganda 2%

 23.0%

 
 
 

   
 

Top five Opcos – 80% of blocked traffic

2022 traffic
	• 145 million URLs 

inspected
	• 663 000 URLs 

blocked
	• Blocking rate 

0.46%
	• 1 800 URLs 

blocked/day

2021 traffic
	• 174 million URLs 

inspected
	• 258 000 URLs 

blocked
	• Blocking rate 

0.15%
	• 700 URLs 

blocked/day

MTN’s adaptive mobile blocking activities

64Sustainability Report 2022

We embrace ethics, risks and compliance management continued

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Promoting health, safety and 
wellbeing

MTN is committed to guaranteeing a working environment 
that is risk-free and injury-free for all persons who come to 
our premises. We are fully aware of most of the hazards and 
risks facing our employees in the work environment and have 
a zero-tolerance attitude towards unsafe work practices. Our 
approach to health, safety and wellbeing are guided by our 
environmental, health and safety risk framework. 

During 2022, we worked closely with external partners to 
update our Health and Safety Policy and procedures to better 
align with applicable local and international regulations and 
requirements, including ISO 45001 and ILO standards. The 
revised policy categorically states the duties of employees 
and management concerning health and safety. 

COVID-19 and the new normal
The pandemic and related lockdown restrictions spurred  
a considerable transition with the shift to work-from-home. 
This new way of work required infrastructure, enablement and 
differentiated engagement so that our workforce remains 
productive, connected, and supported through these difficult 
times. We continue to conduct health monitor surveys, provide 
personal protective equipment and practice safety protocols 
for office spaces and stores.   

MTN staff COVID-19-related cases 2022
	• Infections 191 (2021: 1 404).
	• Deaths 0 (2021: 10).

Safety training and awareness 
In 2022, we improved our training regarding new ways of 
managing safety as we reinduct the staff into the new ways of 
working. This includes considerations such as ergonomic 
chairs when working at home. 

We continued to provide regular health and safety training 
programmes for employees and our contractors, covering 
areas like first aid, firefighting, compensation for occupational 
injuries and diseases, fall arrest, to name a few.

Health and safety performance and programmes are 
measured, monitored and reported on an ongoing basis.

Most injuries are reported among our contractor base, and the root cause is usually human behaviour. Our engineers are not 
allowed to climb towers during inclement weather and we maintain a diligent safety culture. MTN continuously conducts internal or 
external health and safety audits. 

Each month, we focus on one pillar, sharing 
ideas, initiatives and information to help our 
employees adapt to the new normal. We also 
communicate details about wellness events and 
resources with employees via WhatsApp 
messages. 

Other 2022 wellness initiatives include:
	• Encouraging ’no meeting’ days to facilitate 

uninterrupted focus time, which cascades 
down from executive level. 

	• No minimum at-office requirements to assist 
with macroeconomic stress as employees 
return to work during increased fuel costs.

	• A wellness drive that focused on educating 
staff in terms of what the overwork symptoms 
are. The campaign was bolstered by 
a message from our Group President and 
CEO stating that overworking is a thing of the 
past and it is time to be selfish and work 
smart. 

	• Releasing an app that notifies employees 
when they have been sitting for a long time 
and need to move. 

	• On a bi-weekly basis, we run financial health 
programmes.

	• Creating awareness around alcohol abuse 
and the channels available for employees in 
need of support. 

Our 24-hour Life employee health services 
helpline ensures all employees always have 
access to professional advice.

Health and wellness initiatives 
We continue to invest in holistic initiatives to manage the emotional 
wellbeing of MTNers. Addressing challenges such as remote working, 
managing multiple priorities, dealing with stress and digital fatigue are 
essential to creating a sustainable environment. 

We are committed to helping our employees find their unique work and 
life balance by focusing on our five wellbeing pillars.

Emotional  
and mental1

Physical2
Financial3

Career 4
Social 5

Health and safety performance

0
 (2021: 0) 

Workplace-related  
deaths

1
 (2021: 1) 

Workplace-related  
serious injuries

1.2
 (2021: 0.0019) 

Lost-time  
incident rate

0.23
 (2021: 0.2) 

Total recordable  
injury rate

65Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



MTN maintains operations within frequencies that meet minimum  
ICNIRP-specified EMF exposure thresholds

Static 
electric and 

magnetic 
fields

Alternating 
electric and 

magnetic 
fields

TV and 
radio 

broadcasts
Mobile 
phones

Microwave 
and satellite

Visible 
sunlight Ultraviolet X-rays

Radioactive 
sources

0Hz 50Hz 3KHz       Radio frequency       300GHz 3000THz 30EHz

NON-IONISING IONISING

Ensuring EMF and 5G safety 
Regardless of their underlying technology, such as 2G, 3G, 4G 
or 5G, wireless networks by their very nature produce 
radio-frequency electromagnetic fields (EMF), which are used 
to transmit information between communication equipment 
such as  base stations, Wi-Fi routers, mobile phones or smart 
gadgets. Consequently, MTN constantly emits EMFs through 
our mobile network infrastructure. 

Although there are currently no known adverse health effects 
from exposure to EMF emissions within the International 
Commission on Non-Ionising Radiation's prescribed power 
limits, we want to make our mobile communications 
infrastructure and products as safe for health as possible, 
both now and in the future. 

We continue to follow international developments around EMF 
safety. Consequently, we attended the annual GSMA EMF 
conference during 2022, with ongoing participation in 
international EMF and health industry working groups, 
including the Global GSMA and Health Group, GSMA EMF 
forum, GSMA Europe and health meetings.

EMF is not regulated in almost all our markets. However, our 
intention is to comply voluntarily with international guidelines 
in all our markets. This is entrenched in our Group policy. In 
those markets where EMF is regulated, the local regulations 
will take precedence over the MTN EMF policy.

We continuously monitor and evaluate our mobile 
networks and test our products to ensure we meet all 
regulations and comply with international EMF safety 
guidelines: 
	• ICNIRP.
	• ITU.
	• World Health Organization.
	• Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers.
	• European Union standards.

Ensuring safe deployment of 5G
Short for ’fifth-generation’, 5G is the next evolution of wireless 
networks that allows for faster and more responsive data 
transfer. 

The MTN Group has started deploying 5G networks in places 
such as economic hubs with significant capacity and 
throughput needs and at risk of network saturation. 

One of the reasons people are concerned about 5G is because 
the new network technology is theoretically also able to use 
mmWave frequency bands. Our 5G services are currently being 
deployed on spectrum bands that were previously used for 
legacy technologies such as 4G or WiMAX. Therefore, we have 
no commercial deployments using mmWave bands. However, 
we note that the exposure to mmWave spectrum range is also 
covered in the ICNIRP guidelines.

Understanding and responding to societal 
concerns 
While MTN strives to communicate the diverse opportunities 
for society and consumers offered by 5G, we recognise people 
have many questions regarding mobile communications and 
health. However, public awareness regarding EMF safety is  
a task that requires a multistakeholder approach to ensure 
independence and objectivity in the dissemination of 
information. Notwithstanding, we utilise a common industry 
strategy and approach to provide clarity and rebut 
misinformation and disinformation regarding the EMF safety.  

In addition, we willingly test base stations and consumer 
devices to verify EMFs if individuals or communities raise 
concerns. 

In the past year, we experienced no damage to masts and 
base stations incited by theories alleging links between 5G 
and public health.

More information regarding our approach to EMFs is available 
in our mobiles and health position statement. 

66Sustainability Report 2022

We embrace ethics, risks and compliance management continued

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Performance summary

Achieved 79% positive 
response from our 
employees in ethical 
culture maturity survey

5 669 permanent 
employees completed 
mandatory ethics-
related e-learning

121 calls to tip-offs 
anonymous 
whistle-blowing 
hotline  

We consider sound corporate governance, ethical conduct, 
robust risk management and regulatory compliance 
fundamental to our commercial sustainability.

We conduct our business with high ethical standards not just 
in compliance with the law, but also to deliver the results our 
customers, stakeholders and employees expect and deserve. 
Based on this idea, we place significant importance on being a 
business where each employee has a high regard for ethics in 
their daily work and the ability to always act with integrity. We 
work beyond our business to drive behavioural change 
throughout our supply chain. 

We have a zero-tolerance approach towards non-compliance. 
With operations spanning the Middle East and Africa, we 
respect our local and international obligations and make sure 
we comply with these expectations, including compliance with 
laws barring corruption and bribery, conducting ourselves 
fairly and honestly in all business dealings, and abiding by 
antitrust rules and regulations. 

Our focused adherence to governance and ethics also 
underpins our risk management. We conduct regular reviews 
of the most significant risks affecting our business and 
develop strategies and policies to detect, prevent and respond 
to them. Given the unique impacts and dependencies of 
sustainability-related risks, enterprise risk management 
(ERM) structures and processes are in place to identify, 
assess, manage, monitor and communicate these risks.

Our commitments
Our code of ethics provides clear expectations on how we do 
it correctly at MTN. It outlines the workplace conduct 
standards and legal guidelines we follow, including the 
following commitments: 
	• We conduct our business affairs with honesty, integrity, 

diligence and professionalism.
	• We do business in full compliance with the laws of each 

country in which we operate, including:
 › International trade laws and regulations.
 › Embargoes and sanctions.
 › Competition laws.
 › Fraud.
 › Anti-bribery and corruption laws.
 › Anti-money laundering laws.
 › Intellectual property laws.
 › Human rights and equal opportunity obligations.

Read more:
Our code of ethics
Supplier code of conduct
Our position statements on anti-bribery
gifts, hospitality and entertainment
Whistle-blowing
Conflict of interest
Fraud
Treating Customers Fairly

We maintain transparent, ethical relationships with 
governments, their agencies, officials and personnel. We take 
our responsibilities and obligations seriously, and the Group 
has processes in place to help identify and manage any 
potential conflicts of interest.

67Sustainability Report 2022

Embedding ethical and responsible business practices

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Promoting ethical conduct

Ethics training and awareness
Doing everything ethically every day
We create a working environment where all employees 
understand the depth and breadth of ethical behaviour and 
have the tools to act appropriately in the face of ethical 
challenges and opportunities. 

We take a continuous learning approach so that MTN’s code 
of ethics is integrated into our everyday business. Training 
takes place multiple times throughout the year and is required 
of all employees, managers, executives and Board members. 
Training topics are widespread and enable everyone to 
understand our code standards and commitment to ethical 
business practices. 

In 2022, 5 669 permanent employees completed mandatory 
ethics-related e-learning (2021: 7 015), including 4 925 
concluding the MTN ethics training and 2 100 completing the 
MTN conflict of interest training.

Alongside our code of ethics, we launched our Conduct 
Passport, which details the behaviours required to live out the 
code of ethics. The passport provides a link to the detailed 
policy, as well as contact details for the relevant departments 
should employees require additional guidance available in 
four languages.

The Group ethics strategy includes interventions to ensure 
standardised and improved ethics governance and 
management practice. During the year, we bought in the 
Ethics Institute to host an in-house engagement with all our 
ethics officers, as well as a representative for the Company 
Secretary to discuss managing conflicts of interest. We 
constantly review our practices to check they are still relevant 
and enter into a dialogue where change is required to improve.

Ethics-related policies:
	• Anti-bribery and corruption.
	• Data privacy and protection.
	• Anti-harassment and discrimination.
	• Grievance.
	• Disciplinary.
	• Political contributions.
	• MTN Group code of conduct.

Ethics awareness campaigns are run throughout the year to 
further entrench an ethical culture across the Group. Our 
ethics officers were highly creative this year and launched 
innovative campaigns across their respective operating 
companies: 
	• MTN Cameroon focused on bullying or discrimination and 

invited departments to submit videos depicting each 
aspect. The whole company voted for the best videos. We 
have increased the ethical culture quotient across 
Cameroon, showing the campaign was effective. 

	• MTN Sudan facilitated wanasa interventions, a Sudanese 
social custom where elders and people sit together to 
discuss issues. These wanasa discussions covered topics 
such as sexual harassment and professional speakers and 
experts were invited to talk. This initiative was recognised 
by the Ethics Institute, with MTN Sudan a runner-up at the 
annual awards.

The institutionalisation of ethics through regular 
communication campaigns is part of MTN’s efforts to make 
ethics real for employees. This includes joining global 
initiatives that focus on creating a more ethical working 
environment, such as celebrating global Ethics Day across the 
Group.

We regularly survey employees to help identify opportunities 
to strengthen our ethics culture and have a centralised 
process for disclosing and addressing potential conflicts 
of interest. 

68Sustainability Report 2022

Embedding ethical and responsible business practices continued

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Developing our ethics officers
At MTN, the formal development of ethics management 
capability is pivotal for an adequate ethics strategy design 
and implementation. Formal ethics officer capability is, 
therefore, among the criteria used in measuring an operating 
company’s ethics management maturity in MTN. The 
appointed ethics officer at each operating company is 
required to be certified through the University of Stellenbosch 
Business School’s Ethics Officer Certification Programme 
(EOCP). Participants in the EOCP attend a series of online 
lectures, followed by a 90-day period to complete a practicum 
for formal assessment. 

In 2022, six candidates completed the EOCP and were 
registered on the searchable database of the Ethics Institute. 
We strive to give our ethics officers pride in their professional 
occupation and a satisfying career with portable qualifications.  

Measuring the maturity of our ethical culture
In 2022, MTN commissioned an ethical culture maturity survey 
conducted through Ethisphere, a world leader in ethical 
maturity surveys.

In prior years, we conducted ethical risk and maturity surveys 
undertaken by the Ethics Institute, which saw MTN 
benchmarked against 52 organisations in Southern Africa. 
The Ethisphere survey benchmarked the Group against  
14 international ICT companies, 10 of which are multinational, 
with four concentrated in the USA. 

MTN’s overall ethical culture quotient result was 79, which is 
eight points higher than the result in 2020. The current overall 
benchmark is 85. MTN’s global ethics programme is 
continuously adjusted to address gaps to achieve continuous 
improvement in ethical behaviour across the organisation.

Our highest-scoring ethics dimension is awareness of 
available programmes and its resources, with 89% positive 
responses from employees.

Encouraging employees to speak up against fraud 
and financial crime
Our sustainability depends on each employee accepting 
personal responsibility and doing the right thing. MTNers and 
associated parties may be in an advantageous position to 
identify concerns regarding misconduct or breaches of any 
laws, policies or procedures.

MTN adopts zero tolerance to retaliation through strict 
application of our policies. MTN further creates safe spaces 
for whistle-blowers through the confidential handling of 
reports and independent and confidential handling 
of investigations of reported misconduct. We have  
a whistle-blowing channel managed by an external service 
provider, which operates at Group level and across all 
operating countries. All concerns are handled promptly and 
appropriately. 

To what extent are 
employees aware of 
the efforts and 
assets of the ethics 
function?

What are employees’ 
perceptions of the 
assets and efforts of 
the ethics function?

How comfortable are 
employees to report 
misconduct, what 
are their reasons for 
doing so, and what 
are the potential 
barriers to them 
reporting 
misconduct?

What is the strength 
and source of 
pressure that 
employees 
experience to 
compromise ethical 
standards in order to 
hit performance 
targets?

Does the company 
hold wrongdoers 
accountable, and 
how strong is 
awareness 
discipline?

What are employees’ 
perceptions of 
supervisors conduct 
and communication, 
and how 
comfortable are 
employees to 
approach their 
supervisors with 
ethical concerns?

What are employees’ 
perceptions of the 
conduct, values and 
communications of 
senior leadership?

Pillar 1
Awareness  
of ethics function, 
programme  
and services

Pillar 2
Perceptions  
of the function

Pillar 3
Observing  
and reporting 
misconduct

Pillar 4
Pressure

Pillar 5
Organisational 
justice

Pillar 6
Perceptions  
about  
supervisors

Pillar 7
Perceptions of 
leadership

Pillar 8
Perceptions of 
peers and 
environment

Do employees’ and 
their peers feel 
personally 
responsible for the 
company’s ethics?

Ethisphere’s eight pillars of ethical culture

69Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Increasing confidence in our whistle-blowing 
facilities
Our employees are now familiar with the tip-offs anonymous 
whistle-blowing hotline number, use of email facilities and 
walk-ins to the Internal Audit and Forensic Services teams as 
they have grown more comfortable in utilising these facilities.  
The fact that an independent and external third party operates 
the hotlines has been instrumental in helping us build 
confidence in the system. 

We have also seen improved correspondence with 
whistle-blowers. As a result, more whistle-blowers providing 
them with progress on investigations and outcomes as they 
may require are responding through our service provider or 
engaging with us directly, anonymously and confidentially. We 
continued with our quarterly testing of the whistle-blowing 
hotline in 2022 to ensure its optimal operation. 

Last year, we enhanced the hotline in Nigeria by providing 
service in three local languages, as well as pidgin. Since the 
introduction of that line for this big market, we have seen 
increased reporting, showing the value of localising 
whistle-blowing facilities.

Trends in issues raised through the 
whistle-blowing facility
The whistle-blowing facility asks for incidents to be 
reported under a range of listed categories, which helps 
narrow down the issue. Incident categories include fraud 
(airtime, commercial, general, etc.) theft, human resources, 
procurement irregularities, governance and enquiry.

The key categories of allegations received for 2022 include 
human resource-related concerns, customer-related 
incidents and MTN internal fraud. We also had several  
whistle-blowing reports relating to unethical behaviour by 
staff members and external individuals (vendors, service 
providers, customer, anonymous individual), which provides 
for subcategories such as harassment, conflict of interest, 
and nepotism. These are resolved through investigation, with 
well-documented conclusions. 

We established escalation criteria regarding what matters are 
resolved at the Group level and which matters are allocated to 
the local operating company’s forensic services function. 

More data regarding MTN’s ethics and fraud disciplinary 
sanctions is available in the ESG indicators performance 
section of this report.

Training and stakeholder engagement to combat 
corruption
Group fraud forum awareness sessions were conducted 
quarterly during 2022. At these forums, external speakers are 
invited to speak on emerging trends and topical issues. Fraud 
forum awareness sessions include debates around 
controversial issues such as fraud amnesty. We also 
collaborated with Group information security on fraud 
awareness linked to information security issues. 

Fraud awareness sessions were initiated by our operating 
companies throughout the year. We released two training 
packs in 2022, one on whistle-blowing and another on 
conflicts of interest, which were shared across our footprint. 
In addition, we utilise WhatsApp groups to raise awareness, 
especially about activities planned to engage MTNers during 
Fraud Awareness Week in November.

Entrenching fair competitive 
practices

Anti-competitive behaviour
An anti-competitive practice is a viable attempt to prevent or 
reduce competition in a market. The term suggests the use of 
significant power and typically applies only to a dominant 
competitor. With the emergence of new digital technologies 
and the blurring of boundaries between the once-distinct 
sectors of telecoms and internet services, competition has 
increased. 

MTN is a market leader in many of our operating countries. To 
this end, local authorities may impose pro-competitive 
measures to level the playing field and allow other operators 
to gain strength. 

MTN Group has internal processes in place to support an 
operating country that has been declared a significant market 
player (SMP) or is on the verge of being declared as such. To 
safeguard local operations and ensure fair competitive 
practices, our legal and regulatory division updated the 
Group’s SMP playbook during the year to take key emerging 
developments into account. The division further monitors 
anti-competitive developments regularly, proactively 
manages risks through responses to market surveys or 
determination studies conducted by regulatory authorities 
and reviews any remedies imposed by regulatory authorities. 

Regulators constantly monitor and review the regulatory 
space on SMP. 

70Sustainability Report 2022

Embedding ethical and responsible business practices continued

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Robust risk management systems
Managing risks is a key part of doing business and we strive to 
continuously manage risks across our markets. Our risk 
management system ensures we deliver on our purpose so all 
our stakeholders continue trusting us. 

Our ERM framework is an MTN-specific framework that 
combines principles from ISO 31000, a standard for managing 
risks, the COSO ERM, the Control Objectives for Information 
and Related Technologies framework for corporate 
governance, information security and business continuity. 
Procedures, systems and structures are in place to identify 
and assess risks, with targeted measures implemented to 
prevent and mitigate them.

Our ERM framework is cross-disciplinary and collaborative 
following the principles of the three lines of defence. This 
structure provides stability while adapting to changing global 
trends, including geopolitical, economic and social aspects. 

Managing and reducing risks

Our approach to compliance
Our approach to compliance is embedded in our Group-wide 
governance framework underpinned by sound policies, 
principles and practices consistent with internationally 
recognised frameworks. Our compliance programme is 
constantly maturing as we evolve as an organisation. As our 
product and service offerings develop and external trends 
shift, we bolstered our approach to compliance. We continue 
to enhance our compliance programme in the sustainability 
space, in line with Ambition 2025, with ESG at the core as a 
vital enabler. 

To ensure we effectively manage our ESG compliance risks we 
established a comprehensive compliance universe that 
encompasses all relevant ESG laws and regulations across 
our markets. This compliance universe covers a range of 
areas, including data privacy, anti-bribery and corruption, 
human rights and more. As part of our commitment, we  
re-prioritised most environmental, governance laws and 
regulations within our compliance universe, as core, to give 
greater emphasis to the growing importance of ESG.

To ensure compliance with these core ESG laws and 
regulations, we also developed comprehensive compliance 
risk management plans that delineate the specific ESG 
obligations that must be met and define the necessary 
controls to achieve compliance. 

In addition, we verify our level of compliance through a robust 
process of monitoring and testing, which involves assessing 
the adequacy and effectiveness of our control environment. 
We aim to test our entire compliance universe over a period of 
three years to ensure adherence to our compliance 
requirements.

Committing to compliance
The nature of identified risks and the effectiveness of the 
system and practices involved are assessed on an ongoing 
basis.

MTN faces an evolving landscape of sustainability-related 
risks that can impact our profitability, success and viability. 
Given sustainability-related risks’ unique impacts and 
dependencies, ERM structures and processes are in place to 
identify, assess, manage, monitor and communicate these 
risks. 

We established an ESG risk framework based on various ISO 
standards, with risk owners, operating structures, reporting 
lines, end-to-end ERM and strategic drivers identified to 
improve oversight and collaboration. The ESG risk framework 
includes a curated sustainability risk register with mitigating 
factors. Monthly operational tracking and quarterly reviews 
are undertaken to manage ESG risks effectively.

1 Published in Government Gazette 46155 dated 31 March 2022

71Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Partnering for an ethical supply chain
Recent years continued to underscore the importance of 
responsible supply chain management. Following COVID-19 
and the outbreak of the Russia-Ukraine conflict, supply chain 
disruptions became an increasing risk for most businesses. 
The global shortage of semiconductors, chips and SIM cards 
continued into 2022 while inflation, fuel and freight  costs 
escalated. Supply chain diversification and close collaboration 
with suppliers underpin the ongoing sustainability of our 
operations.

Supply chains built on robust, transparent and trusted 
partnerships are critical to ensuring quality, availability and 
affordability for our customers. These partnerships are vital 
to improving our business competitiveness and lowering 
business risks. They also help us transform as we work 
together to find solutions for common industry challenges.  

As with any successful relationship, a strong supply chain is 
built on integrity and accountability, and MTN strives to ensure 
our suppliers uphold these principles. MTN is a member of the 
Joint Audit Cooperation (JAC). Through these memberships, 
MTN is supported in ensuring the appointment of ethical, 
sustainable and environmentally responsible supply chain 
partners.

Supporting local enterprises is vital for socioeconomic 
development as SMEs tend to create new employment 
opportunities and utilise other local businesses. As a result, 
more profits from their economic activity return to the 
community and spark economic development. Our 
procurement and local content strategies aim to create shared 
value in our operating markets and provide tangible, local 
benefits for the societies we serve.

Managing our supply chain
Our global sourcing and supply chain (GSSC) function 
procures products and services within four broad categories: 
network, IT, commercial and indirect services. Our suppliers 
are spread globally, while our local supplier base spans across 
Africa and the Middle East. Owing to the varied geographies 
and regulatory environments, each of our operating 
companies has its procurement and supply chain teams that 
manage local purchasing and supplier development in line 
with our Group’s Local Content Policy. 

To ensure continuity of supply, we proactively manage 
different legal, social, ethical and environmental risks. As part 
of our responsible sourcing strategy, GSSC supports Net Zero 
initiatives to reduce emissions and has introduced elements 
of a circular economy to our operations. We require all our 
suppliers to have sustainable business practices and embrace 
our supplier code of conduct.

Read more:
Our position statement on responsible supply chain
Supplier code of conduct
Position statement on enterprise development 

Performance summary

Local spend Nigeria  
US$1 530 

million  
(2021: US$1 109 million)

5  
MTN suppliers  

audited through JAC  
(2021: 12)

Local spend
South Africa  

US$994 million  
(2021: US$1 025 million)

MTN Group  
Level 1  

B-BBEE  
contributor status  

(2021: Level 2)

New suppliers 
acknowledge code of 

conduct:

1 102 
(2021: 1 185).

MTN South Africa 
Level 1  

B-BBEE  
contributor status 

maintained

72Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Responsible and inclusive 
procurement
We are committed to developing a supplier base that reflects 
our core values, demonstrates strong ethical business, and 
represents the diverse customers and communities we serve. 
We are continuing to diversify our suppliers to ensure a more 
representative, resilient and economically inclusive supply 
chain that spurs positive change in industries beyond our own.

Supplier training and code of conduct
MTN believes it is essential for our supply chains not only to 
comply with laws, but also to conduct business based on high 
ethical standards. All suppliers must acknowledge our supplier 
code of conduct as a prerequisite for conducting business 
with MTN. 

With over 22 000 vendors in our supply chain, we partnered 
with the Ethics Institute to provide ethics training. The Ethically 
Aware Supplier Induction programme (EASI) is now available 
in three languages and is being rolled out across all operating 
companies. The training also covers the MTN Group supplier 
code of conduct. We progressed with supplier ethics training 
this year and are actively considering making the EASI 
programme a prerequisite for doing business with MTN.

During the year, 285 supplier participants participated in the 
EASI training programme (2021:  147 participants from  
seven countries).

Over 1 000 suppliers were addressed regarding ethical issues 
at MTN SA’s 2022 supplier conference.

 

Our supplier code of conduct sets out our approach to 
driving sustainable business practices and aims for the 
highest ethical conduct.

It outlines our commitment to respect and promote human 
rights and fair labour practices, including equal 
opportunities, environmentally sustainable business, and  
a zero tolerance for bribery and corruption. 

73Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



We partner for a sustainable supply chain continued

Embedding sustainability across our supply chain

We are continuously digitising our supply chain by 
incorporating cloud technologies, AI, machine learning and 
robotic process automation. A digitised supply chain allows 
MTN to gather and analyse massive amounts of data to inform 
our decision making, build strategies and plan for any 
scenario.

Maintaining end-to-end oversight of our supply chain helps to 
identify environmental and social risks within our supplier 
base. These issues can lead to significant reputational and 
operational damage if not identified and mitigated. We further 
verify our supplier’s ESG performance through regular third-
party assessments and audits.

Optimising sourcing decisions by digitising our 
supply chain
We implemented a cloud-based sourcing and supply chain 
application across all markets to bring transparency and 
efficiency into our operations for our internal stakeholders 
and suppliers. Supplier bid proposals are analysed through 
our decision support application (DSA) which enables fact-
based decision making. The application optimises our supplier 
selection mix and negotiation scenarios. 

GeSSiCA, our AI-driven procurement assistant, delivers the 
automated recommendations generated by our DSA tool and 
automates manual sourcing tasks at an enterprise scale with 
high accuracy. It leverages solutions that can learn and 
improve over time, helping MTN to uncover patterns and 
achieve operational efficiency with added levels of control. 

Our supply chain control tower provides insight into every part 
of the supply chain through vertical integration with our key 
vendors. The tower enables us to anticipate delays and 
mitigate risks at Group and operating company levels. 
Through the control tower, we can also conduct vendor 
assessments in the supply chain.

Supplier ESG audits 
MTN is a proud member of the Joint Alliance for CSR, an 
association of telecom operators dedicated to ensuring 
sustainability in the ICT industry’s multinational supplier 
manufacturing centres.

As part of MTN’s commitment to sustainability, JAC has 
conducted a total of 910 on-site operations from 2010 to 2022. 
The on-site operations include 652 JAC audits carried out by  
a third-party audit company, 99 Validated Assessment 

Program (VAP) and Fair Labour Association (FLA) audits, 100 
worker surveys, 45 JAC audits by JAC qualified supplier 
auditors  
(JAC QSA) via the JAC academy, and 14 remote audits. Of the 
audited sites, 34% are tier 1, 51% are tier 2, and 15% are tier 3 
suppliers, meaning 66% of the audits are deeper in the supply 
chain. More than 590 factories were audited in 45 countries, 
involving 1.56 million workers. A total of 5 718 corrective 
action plans (CAPs) were raised and 5 363 (94%) have been 
successfully closed to date.

Out of the JAC on-site operations, tier 1 suppliers were 43%, 
tier  2 suppliers were 48% and tier 3 suppliers were 8%. This 
means that 56% of audits conducted are deeper in the supply 
chain. 

MTN is dedicated to promoting ESG awareness and capacity 
building among our suppliers, educating them on our ESG 
policies and mechanisms that support responsible business 
practices. We remain committed to maintaining high ethical 
standards and promoting ESG practices throughout our 
supply chain. 

2010-2022

JAC supplier audits

Number of JAC on-site operations 98

Audits executed by third-party audit company 68

VAP audits 11

Workers’ surveys 15

Remote audits 4

Number of workers impacted as part of on-site 
operations

133 118

2022

CAPs raised

Total number of CAPs 549

CAPs closed 224

74Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Doing for growth

We are committed to boosting inclusive economic 
growth on the continent.

Economic growth is vital for Africa’s long-term sustainability as it 
can lead to increased job opportunities, higher living standards and 
improved social services. A growing economy can also attract 
investment, which often leads to further economic development. 
Lifting people out of poverty and increasing incomes are essential 
for sustainability in Africa. When people are struggling to afford 
basic needs such as food and healthcare, access to education and 
job opportunities tend to be limited. However, with higher incomes, 
they can afford more sustainable products and services, as well as 
the education and training that helps to grow their communities, 
businesses and the economies.

Access to connectivity is essential for economic growth and 
development. By investing in infrastructure and networks, MTN is 
helping to improve connectivity in rural areas and other underserved 
regions. This enables previously excluded individuals and businesses 
to participate in the digital economy, which can lead to increased 
economic opportunities and growth.

MTN is also working to unlock digital opportunities for entrepreneurs. 
We launched various initiatives to support the growth of the digital 
economy, such as providing training and resources for entrepreneurs, 
and partnering with local businesses and organisations to support 
the growth of the digital economy. This is creating new economic 
opportunities and promotes the growth of SMEs, which are key 
drivers of economic growth and development.

To bring the benefits of a modern connected life to everyone, we are 
investing in new technologies that can drive economic growth. For 
example, our 5G networks can enable faster internet speeds, lower 
latency and more reliable connections, which can help to support the 
growth of new digital industries and create new opportunities for 
entrepreneurs and businesses. 

In addition to providing access to connectivity and digital 
opportunities, MTN empowers communities by investing in  
ICT-focused education and other social services to improve the lives 
of people in our host nations. These initiatives can help to reduce 
poverty and create new economic opportunities for individuals 
and  communities.

Finally, MTN is also contributing to national economies through 
taxes, which can be used to fund public services and infrastructure 
development. This can help to support economic growth and 
development by improving access to essential services and 
infrastructure, such as roads, hospitals and schools.

2

We are doing for growth by:
Enabling local 
economies
	• Contributing to economies 

through tax.

	• Investing in network and IT 
infrastructure to unlock growth.

	• Innovation to benefit local 
governments (e-gov). 

Empowering local 
enterprises
	• Enterprise and supplier development.

	• Enabling local supply chains.

	• Developing IoT solutions and API 
marketplace for developers.

Unlocking local 
ownership
	• Driving localisation.

	• Contributing towards job 
creation.

1 3

75Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Contributing to economies through tax 
Committed to inclusive economic 
growth on the African continent, we 
embrace our duty of being a responsible 
and transparent taxpayer. Our 
commitment to paying our fair share of 
taxes fosters a positive relationship 
with governments and communities, 
promoting stability and predictability 
in the business environment. In turn, 
this can attract foreign investment and 
create new job opportunities, further 
stimulating economic growth across 
the continent.

We recognise the meaningful impact that our 
tax contributions make to uplifting communities 
across our footprint. Conscientious management 
of our tax affairs is therefore paramount.

Besides contributing to local economies through 
responsible tax payments, MTN further indirectly 
contributes to economic growth by enabling its 
clients, suppliers, staff and investors to be 
economically active. Details of these initiatives 
are provided throughout the remainder of this 
report.

TAX CONTRIBUTIONS

Corporate tax 
2022: 

R13.1bn
(25%)

(2021: R9.6bn)
(24%) 

Education tax 
2022: 

R0.7bn
(1%)

(2021: R0.4bn)
(0%)

Indirect taxes 2022: 
R22.6bn

(44%)
(2021: R18.7bn)

(47%) 

Payroll taxes 2022: 
R3.2bn

(6%)
(2021: R2.5bn) 

 (1%)

Operating licence 
fees and levies 

2022: 
R7.8bn
(15%)

(2021: R6.7bn)
(16%) 

Other 2022: 
R0.2bn

(1%)
(2021: R4.1bn)

(10%)

Dividend tax 2022: 
R1.3bn

(3%)
(2021: R0.7bn)

(1%)

Withholdings 
tax 2022: 
R2.6bn

(5%)
(2021: R1.7bn)

(1%)

Enabling local economies

76Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Embedding sound tax governance
The MTN Group Board takes responsibility for all potential 
risks that could affect our strategic objectives. Derived from 
an assurance methodology, MTN has implemented robust 
risk-management frameworks, consisting of proactively 
identifying and understanding the factors and events that 
may impact our strategic priorities, then managing them 
through effective mitigation plans, internal controls and 
monitoring and reporting processes.

Owing to complex tax legislation, regulatory requirements and 
increased focus from revenue authorities on protecting their 
tax revenues, MTN has developed a systematic approach to 
manage tax obligations and mitigate tax risk. This involves 
managing and monitoring tax obligations and risks across 
various personnel, business functions, systems and processes 
within the Group. MTN has a transparent tax strategy that is 
communicated effectively, including governance of business 
activities to comply with local and global requirements.

Principles governing MTN’s approach to tax:

	• Commits to acting responsibly and in an accurate, 
transparent and timely manner in respect of its tax affairs 
by fulfilling all compliance, disclosure and reporting 
obligations, in accordance with the prevailing tax laws in all 
jurisdictions in which we operate.

	• Practises legitimate and responsible tax planning within 
the tax laws and regulations of the countries in which MTN 
operates in a proactive and forward-looking manner. 

	• Fosters transparent and constructive relationships with 
revenue authorities based on open and honest 
communication. 

	• Ensures the necessary resource capacity and capability is 
in place to manage its tax affairs in an efficient and 
effective manner, including investing in tax knowledge and 
training of tax resources to ensure they have the requisite 
skills and knowledge. 

	• Implements adequate and robust controls, clear lines of 
communication, defined roles and responsibilities and 
financial systems that are adequately configured for 
specific tax requirements and controls. 

Case study: Rwanda

In November 2022, MTN Rwanda was honoured to 
receive the Best Large Taxpayer 2021 award from the 
Rwanda Revenue Authority during the 20th Taxpayer 
Appreciation Day. The award, which we have now won 
over 15 times in a row, is a result of our commitment 
to make a difference by supporting the economy 
through job creation, duties and taxes and meaningful 
partnerships. During the 2021 financial year, MTN 
Rwanda paid Rwf67.9 billion in duties and taxes, 
sustained more than 60 000 jobs directly and 
indirectly, and spent more than Rwf300 billion on 
local suppliers. The Company’s cumulative taxes over 
the past five years amounted to more than 
Rwf239 billion. 

77Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Investing in network and IT 
infrastructure to unlock growth

Our platforms – networks, stations, and digital ecosystems – 
are the core foundation of our business, facilitating inclusive, 
sustainable economic development and innovation to 
transform lives. People and communities that are connected 
are ultimately empowered.

Extensive infrastructure is required across the globe to meet 
ever-increasing connectivity demands, but physical 
infrastructure in the telecommunication industry is costly and 
resource-intensive to develop. We therefore shifted towards 
infrastructure sharing to reduce costs, optimise connectivity 
and creating shared value. GlobalConnect, MTN’s wholesale 
and infrastructure operating company, was established in 
2017 to unlock value from existing fixed infrastructure across 
all operating countries. The company is structurally separate 
from MTN and now extends wholesale and infrastructure 
services to other carriers, ISPs and digital players. The shift in 
how we think about connectivity is delivering improved quality 
and lower costs due to scalability.

While mobile has been driving digital inclusion, there remain 
significant connectivity gaps in areas that are not yet  
covered by a mobile broadband network. These uncovered 
communities – predominantly rural, poor and sparsely 
populated – are the most challenging to reach in a financially 
sustainable manner.

Read more about our position on:
Digital inclusion 
Connecting the unconnected

Network innovation

MTN GlobalConnect is the main driver for consolidating our 
international and national major wholesale and fixed 
connectivity activities. The fixed connectivity business offers 
access to 15 submarine cables and operates African fibre 
networks. Wholesale mobility includes signalling, voice and 
messaging Y’ello Connect hubs, roaming and value-added 
services such as cloud numbering, detection and 
authentication.

During 2022, MTN GlobalConnect continued to scale its fixed 
connectivity and wholesale mobility services by:
	• Rolling out terrestrial fibre in markets including 

South Africa, Nigeria, Ghana, Uganda, Kenya, Zambia, 
Rwanda, Benin, Congo-Brazzaville and Guinea-Conakry. 

	• Concluding 16 new cross-border links across Africa 
(2021: 15).

	• Laying down over 5 000km of terrestrial fibre 
(2021: 15 000km), bringing our total inventory to 
approximately 105 000km of proprietary fibre.

	• Launching new customer success centres in Ghana and 
Kenya to manage support requests efficiently and enhance 
customer experience globally.

	• Increasing our subsea fibre capabilities by landing  
a 45 000km cable in Yzerfontein and Duynefontein 
(South Africa) in partnership with the 2Africa consortium.

Investing in infrastructure

At MTN our core belief is that everyone deserves the benefits 
of a modern connected life and see it as our responsibility as 
a key player in the industry to continuously seek out innovative 
solutions that will increase the usage and penetration of 
connectivity solutions across the country. Over the years, 
MTN has invested significantly in quality network assets, 
including international subsea cables, terrestrial and metro 
fibre, data centres, cable landing stations, FTTx, towers and 
RAN assets. Our second-to-none networks reach 89.53% of 
the population of our markets.

Enabling local economies continued

This cable landing is the first in a series of six across five 
countries: South Africa (two), Sudan, Côte D’Ivoire, Nigeria 
and Ghana and will allow MTN GlobalConnect to showcase, in 
a tangible manner, the importance of connectivity and 
creating the cross-border networks that connect Africa to the 
rest of the world. The 2Africa cable connection, part of which 
is planned to go live in 2023’, is bringing seamless international 
connectivity to three billion people across three continents, 
representing 36% of the global population.

78Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



In 2022, CAMTEL and MTN Cameroon launched local 
roaming. This follows the signing of a partnership 
agreement between the two operators earlier in the year. 
The partnership agreement enables CAMTEL, the national 
telecommunications and internet service provider in 
Cameroon, to extend its mobile network in areas where it is 
not present, through MTN Cameroon.

Speaking at the launch event, held in Nkoteng in the central 
region, the Director General of CAMTEL, Judith Yah Sunday 
Achidi said: “We are extremely pleased with the launch of 
local roaming on MTN Cameroon’s network. This service will 
allow CAMTEL customers to access network service in 
areas already covered by MTN Cameroon where CAMTEL is 
not currently present. As CAMTEL, we have the ambition to 
continue to grow our mobile telephony service and footprint 
and selected MTN Cameroon as a partner in this regard. We 
look forward to more of our customers enjoying voice and 
data services across various regions.”

Gracing the event was the Governor of Centre Region 
Naseri Paul Bea, who was pleased with this development. 

“This initiative highlights the willingness of operators to 
work together to improve the quality of service provided to 
their customers. It is also a good example of a public-private 
partnership, which contributes to achieve the vision of the 
Cameroonian government in terms of digital economy and 
development in general,” he said.

Within the framework of this partnership, the local roaming 
service has been enabled in a first phase across more than 
200 sites, the scope of which will be progressively expanded 
as agreed between the operators.

Commenting as a provider of this service to CAMTEL, the 
Chief Executive Officer of MTN Cameroon, Mitwa Ng’ambi 
said, “At MTN our core belief is that everyone deserves the 
benefits of a modern connected life and see it as our 
responsibility as a key player in the industry to continuously 
seek out innovative solutions that will increase the usage 
and penetration of connectivity solutions across the 
country. Local roaming is one such solution which we are 
happy to launch with CAMTEL today.”

Case study: Cameroon

By offering Network as a Service (NaaS), we see an opportunity 
to share our well-invested networks with other industry 
players. NaaS is a cloud model that enables users to easily 
operate the network and achieve the outcomes they expect 
from it without owning, building or maintaining their own 
infrastructure. This can help to increase internet usage and 
penetration of connectivity solutions by making it easier for 
businesses to access and utilise these services.

Roaming agreements
Roaming agreements with other network operators allow 
MTN’s customers to use their mobile devices and services 
when they travel outside of their home country or network 
coverage area.

MTN strives to continuously expand our global network of 
roaming partners to provide our customers with the widest 
possible coverage and best user experience, while encouraging 
passive infrastructure sharing between operators. Essentially, 
roaming agreements allow all parties to do more, with 
fewer costs. 

Our approach to roaming agreements is to ensure they offer 
competitive and transparent pricing to customers, while also 
ensuring the agreements are mutually beneficial to all parties 
involved. This includes negotiating fair rates for inbound and 
outbound roaming traffic, ensuring reliable network 
connections, and adhering to local regulations and industry 
standards.

79Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Enabling local economies continued

Innovation to benefit local 
governments

Technology has become an important facilitator for businesses 
in today’s world. It has a highly insightful role in driving 
optimisation and efficiency across all sectors today, including 
the public. CIOs from government have implemented niche 
technologies to drive innovation and transformation within 
the country. Tech adoption is observed as an investment in 
keeping the country competitive in an ever-changing global 
economy. This persistent strive through automation, and the 
digitalisation of services, is leading to significant social, 
economic, technological and environmental outcomes. 

MTN recognises the importance of technological innovation 
for economic and social development as seen in our MTN 
Rwanda case study. We integrated our MoMo platform in 
delivering and accessing the following services primarily in 
collection and disbursement services.  

Case study: Rwanda

General government services: In partnership with Irembo, 
which oversees digitising all government services, citizens 
can access and pay for the different services with MoMo 
on both USSD and web. Key services are in different 
categories like land, family, identification, police, health, 
transport and others.

Tax collections: Rwanda revenue authority collects a wide 
range of services and uses only digital channels for 
payments and MoMo is the highest contributor.

Ministry of Health and Education: All public health 
centres and schools are required to collect their fees 
through digital channels and all are using MoMoPay and 
online payment collections. School fees collection for all 
public schools is through School Data Management 
System and settled in Umwalimu Saving and Credit 
Cooperative Society (Teachers SACCO).

Collection services

Local government (LODA):  LODA oversees local 
governance and support of vulnerable people in the lower 
economic category through bulk payments directly to 
them via their community SACCO into the MoMo wallets.

Education: University student bursaries are paid in via 
MoMo through a bulk payment integrated platform 
managed by the government through BRD. 

Salary disbursements: The government pays out salaries 
of teachers directly to their MoMo wallets through 
Umwalimu SACCO government.

Other government institutions: Ministry in charge of 
emergency management for refugees, the electoral 
commission, the ministry of defence and others.

Disbursement services

80Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Enterprises of all sizes are increasingly adopting technologies 
such as 5G, cloud, edge, security, AI and IoT to advance their 
digital transformation, a trend accelerated by COVID-19. 
Beyond the shock of the pandemic, many businesses are 
facing new external pressures, such as disruption to supply 
chains, rising energy costs and new work patterns. Digital 
technologies are helping address such challenges.

By combining transformative ICT solutions enabled by 
connectivity, businesses across the continent can be 
empowered to grow. These solutions provide substantial 
customer benefits, such as increased productivity, reduced 
costs, innovative new products and services and new lines 
of business.

Read more:
Our enterprise business
Our position on enterprise development

Enabling SMEs for digital readiness
The SME sector spans various industries ranging in size from 
a one-person shop to a 199-strong business, is Africa’s 
current and future economic growth engine. MTN supports 
SMEs by creating a digitally inclusive environment that helps 
them overcome day-to-day operations challenges and enable 
them to go beyond traditional business models. We also 
prioritise the training of SMEs as part of our supply chain 
initiatives, driving inclusive economic growth that ultimately 
enables job creation.

Beyond supporting SMEs, we continue to focus on the 
solutions that will underpin a digitally empowered world and 
work tirelessly to close the digital divide. As the business 
enabler of choice in Africa, continuous investment is 
paramount to ensure MTN Business can meet the 
communication and ICT demands of businesses in Africa.  

We have a critical role as the world strives towards 
hyper-connectivity and support ongoing digital innovation 
through our CoE, which drives our ICT enterprise strategy and 
our industry partnerships that enable IoT application 
development. In addition, we facilitate digital innovation 
through Chenosis, our cross-industry sector API marketplace 
for developers, start-ups and businesses. 

Performance summary

Over 1 250 SMEs 
gained digital skills through MTN’s 
enterprise development initiatives 

during 2022

Worked with over

 30 partners  
in the mining, logistics and retail 

industries on IoT proof of 
concept projects

Provided agri-technology 
skills training for

150 farmers

Empowering local enterprises

81Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Enterprise and supplier development 

Ensuring SMEs are financial included
There are more than 40 million SMEs on the African continent. 
As a pan-African company, we must serve these entrepreneurs 
and support their growth. SMEs represent 50% of our revenue 
across all the markets and present a significant opportunity 
to create shared value. SMEs are entrepreneurial and agile by 
nature and are often at the forefront of digital innovation. 
Following COVID-19, these SMEs are acutely aware of the 
need to go digital, and we aim to develop the services and 
solutions to support them in this strategy. 

Our Fintech strategy is to design appropriate value 
propositions and solutions for SMEs built on financial 
solutions, connectivity and ICT solutions. We support small 
businesses to improve their digital readiness by providing 
tailored platforms, solutions, products and services, training 
and support, advice and best-practice information.

MTN develops solutions internally where feasible, or we work 
in partnerships where the agility and expertise of an external 
organisation enables MTN to provide faster. To this end, our 
partnerships with Microsoft, Avanade and Accenture provide 
leading-edge platforms, products and services to small and 
large companies across Africa. 

Developing SMEs through digitally inclusive 
initiatives 
During 2022, we continued to develop SMEs through various 
initiatives.

Mobile money platform to better manage cash flows
MoMoBusiness, our mobile money platform, enables SMEs to 
access banking and enterprise development services. The 
platform supports SMEs by providing access to banking 
facilities with reduced transaction fees as well as tools to help  
overcome their everyday operational challenges. 

Through MoMoPay, we offer small businesses a secure, 
convenient and efficient payment method that can be tailored 
to meet their unique needs. Our MoMo API platform allows 
partners and vendors to seamlessly integrate the MoMo 
platform into their applications. MoMo open API is live in 12 
countries, with new capabilities, including knowing your 
customer standards, authentication processes, notification 
functionality and channel services rolled out across our 
footprint during 2022.  We also enabled QR-based payments 
in the MoMo app, which were well received by customers and 
merchants.

	• 1.5 million merchants were served through MoMoPay 
during 2022 (2021: 785 000).

	• 12 markets served through MoMo open API (2021: 11).
	• 10.4 million MoMoPay unique users (2021: 6.4 million).

Opportunities to access new markets
Through our Fusion partner programme, Partners, who are 
SMEs in this case, have access to a broad range of capabilities 
that leverage technology and local knowledge, allowing them 
to resell MTN products, reach their customers, and create 
awareness of their brand, products and services through 
digital marketing. The programme also enables local and 
global partners to become part of the MTN Business solutions 
offering. Capability partners offer complementary value-
chain competencies, while channel partners expand channels 
or market access.

During 2022, we onboarded 70 new Partner SMEs to our 
Fusion partner programme (2021: 10 SMEs across five 
operating companies).

As we grow our service offering, we aim to create a digital 
marketplace that supports cashless and digital economies 

Empowering local enterprises continued

through affordable, inclusive, understandable and 
comprehensive financial services in Africa. Through our 
marketplace, we will provide access to complete SME solutions 
such as accounting, enterprise resource planning and sector-
specific business plans. 

Providing skills development, services and general 
business advice through online masterclasses
We provide skills development to SMEs to pivot from traditional 
to more digitally-savvy business models able to use various 
digital business solutions and marketing. The insight gained 
from these classes informs our understanding of their customer 
service, channel interaction, service delivery, marketing and 
operational needs. 

We are also helping to develop a community of SMEs across our 
markets through which we frequently share relevant learnings. 
MTN stands to benefit by learning what the common needs are 
in each forum and then developing appropriate solutions for 
each segment.

82Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



In all, 10 ventures went on to complete phase 2. The second 
cohort, made up of 15 ventures, commenced with phase 2 of 
the programme late in 2021 and will conclude early in 2022.

Philippi developer programme
We provide an opportunity for young people with basic 
computer literacy and an interest in software development to 
develop their skills as part of the Philippi developer 
programme, which is funded by ayoba. The programme is 
delivered by the Digital Academy in partnership with the UCT 
GSB Solution Space.  Training is provided in basic programming 
with a focus on modern web and application development as 
well as design, UI/UX development, API and cloud services. By 
the end of the programme, participants have the ability to 
design, develop and host a basic single-page application. 

The 2021 programme pilot project was a phenomenal success 
and ayoba elected to run the programme with two cohorts of 
15 participants each in 2022. 

In 2022, the programme consisted of cohort 5 and 6 with  
a total of 251 participants representing 25 countries around 
the world.

Supporting young entrepreneurs 
E-Track programme 
The Solution Space-ayoba E-Track programme is  
a three-phase early-stage venture acceleration and 
capacity-building programme for high-impact entrepreneurs 
in South Africa and beyond. Taking a high-touch scale-up 
approach, the programme is designed to support teams 
building scalable businesses with international potential. 
Individual participants can either explore their business idea 
or join an existing venture. The programme is offered in 
partnership between ayoba and the University of Cape Town 
Graduate School of Business.

	• Phase one is the five-week Venture Launch course which 
focuses on validating the venture concept.

	• Phase two is the 12-week Venture Exploitation course 
aimed at accelerating the development of the validated 
venture.

	• Phase three is the 12-week Venture Scaling course where 
ecosystem partners and investors support ventures to 
expand and thrive within their markets.

In 2021, the programme consisted of two cohorts with a total 
of 285 participants from 152 ventures, representing  
13 different African countries in phase 1 of the programme.

83Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Revolutionising corporate procurement in Africa
MTN Group is committed to unlocking digital opportunities 
for entrepreneurs across Africa, and our recent partnership 
with Dooka represents a significant step towards achieving 
this goal. Through this innovative business-to-business 
(B2B) marketplace, MTN’s suppliers will have equitable 
access, digital transparency and greater efficiency, leading 
to transformative benefits for the entire supply chain.

Dooka’s B2B marketplace is specifically designed for 
Africa and creates new opportunities for local suppliers 
who may previously have been excluded from supplying 
larger businesses because of the high barriers to entry and 
challenges of digital connectivity. By providing easier 
access to sell more goods and services to MTN and other 
leading multinationals across the continent, Dooka is 
levelling the playing field for businesses of all sizes. 

As a proudly African business built on the Tradeshift cloud-
based business commerce platform, Dooka is transforming 
the way B2B buyers and sellers connect and transact 
across a single, open network. With over 1.5 million user 
connections to its platform, and more than US$1 trillion in 
B2B transactions processed since its inception, Tradeshift 
is the most dynamic trade network of its kind.

Dooka will boost MTN’s local supplier development 
initiatives, giving local suppliers – including women-owned 
businesses – the opportunity to sell to other customers on 
the platform, while providing MTN and other businesses 
with transparency in pricing and greater efficiencies.

We are excited to be part of this digital revolution in 
corporate procurement, which demonstrates how the right 
tools can enable corporations to create jobs, development 
and growth through good procurement strategy.

MTN’s Group Local Content Policy, approved in 2022, reflects 
the MTN Group’s aspirations in shaping the local character in 
our jurisdictions. We contribute meaningfully to the growth of 
our host nations by ensuring regional or pan-African 
procurement, recruitment, skills development, community 
development, small to medium enterprise supplier 
development and ownership transactions reflect a local, 
regional, or pan-African profile to the fullest extent possible.  

Our local content strategy is founded on skills development 
practices that empower local employees and community 
youth with critical and future skills, supply chain practices that 
drive procurement from local suppliers, recruitment practices 
that prioritise local citizens, and capability development 
opportunities to build and strengthen local SMEs.

Over and above our local content strategy, MTN ensures 
compliance with all national policies, laws and regulations that 
drive local content, empowerment or economic development.

Facilitating growth through B-BBEE
In South Africa, the B-BBEE framework drives economic 
participation and transformation.

MTN SA’s commitment to transformation and improving access 
to mobile technology across South Africa has resulted in the 
Company today achieving the significant milestone of Level 1 
B-BBEE Contributor status.

Since the inception of our approved B-BBEE strategy in 2019, 
which identifies enterprise and supplier development (ESD) as 
one of the key focus areas. MTN has made notable progress in 
the ESD element of its B-BBEE scorecard, specifically  
preferential procurement spend. 

We aim to ramp up our ESD efforts through the newly 
approved ESD programme that is primarily driven by the need 
to meet the Ambition 2025 strategic objective of creating 
shared value by driving sustainable local economic 
development while minimising supply chain risks. Thus, it is 
anchored on the MTN Group Local Content Policy. The 
programme will provide training, development and financial 
support through recoverable funding facilities.

The key pillars of this programme are the following:
	• Enable the attainment of Ambition 2025 objectives that 

have ESG at the core in the form of localisation, shared 
value creation and economic empowerment.

	• Enhance supply chain resilience by increasing supplier 
diversity and strength, collaboration, and ability to adapt 
to the ever-changing operating environment and the 
challenging economic conditions.

	• Improving value chain efficiency by fostering 
responsiveness, flexibility, innovation and 
cost-effectiveness. 

The programme cements ESG as the lens through which we at 
MTN are now approaching ESD for the future, supported by 
the MTN Group Local Content Policy. The programme seeks to 
translate the global objectives of ESG into an MTN-specific 
programme intended to:
	• Mitigate global supplier risks, costs and inflation through 

accelerated localisation of the goods and services we 
procure.

	• Create shared value by upscaling economic and financial 
inclusion and development utilising MTN’s scale and 
sizeable procurement spend.

	• Meaningfully transform the Company's whole value chain 
for the benefit of shareholders, communities and the 
country’s economy. 

	• Elevate business skills and technical knowhow in the 
economy through the inclusion of digital skills.

	• Curb youth and women unemployment through deliberate 
programmes to drive sustainable entrepreneurship.

	• Spur the emergence and growth of black industrialists.
	• Go beyond compliance with current legislation and create 

the ability to rapidly address new B-BBEE and regulatory 
conditions from future mergers and acquisitions  
and policy activity.

Empowering local enterprises continued

Building local supply chain capacity

84Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Pamela Siphika
Whizz ICT Skills and Services Centre

	• Opened a second skills lab and purchased 
20 additional computers. 

	• The company received MICT SETA 
Provisional Accreditation.

	• Established a partnership with UCT. 
	• Selected Entrepreneur of the Year.

	• Developed a real-time train location 
platform that provides the location of Prasa 
trains and allows users to upload and 
live-stream from inside the trains and 
stations. 

	• Users can notify each other of threats on 
the train or stations, train delays and 
cancellations.

	• Received funding worth R400 000 from  
The Small Enterprise Development Agency  
post the Entrepreneurship and Business 
Literacy programme. 

	• The organisation underwent renovations 
and there was an improvement in the 
production company. 

Ntumi Mokhasipe
Anumi Visuals

Estelle Olifant
Swifstar Technology

SMME development
Existing small, medium and micro-enterprises (SMME) are 
supported to scale up their businesses through MTN’s various 
initiatives in the organisation. In the 2022 financial year, we 
exceeded our supplier development  contributions (per the 
amended ICT Sector Code) of 2% profit after tax, capacitating 
small businesses and entrepreneurs.

Enterprise development beneficiaries are supported in their 
growth through the MTN Foundation’s incubator programmes 
and other organisational initiatives. These include supporting 
several learnership programmes, which are critical during 
rising unemployment. Qualifying enterprise development 
programme graduates are afforded the opportunity to 
compete fairly for procurement opportunities in our supply 
chain, creating an environment where beneficiaries graduate 
to become suppliers.

The MTN Foundation has also exceeded the required spend of 
1.5% of net profit after tax. 

Specialised in ICT skills hub, 
internet café and ICT skills training

Specialised in digital marketing, graphic 
design, merchandising and brand 
promotion

Specialised in software development, 
hosting and digital marketing

MTN South Africa Foundation Incubation Programme case studies

85Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Transformation of stores 
MTN initiated the transformative Branded Retail Channel (BRC) programme in 2019 to sell a majority stake in some 
of our retail stores to black female entrepreneurs. We support these new dealers by contributing towards operating 
costs during their first year of ownership and afford them 90-day payment terms. The programme has allowed 
motivated MTN employees to become B-BBEE owner-operators.

BRC transformation of  
stores programme case studies

Sibongile worked for the MTN Group for several years and 
retired at the end of 2019. She was onboarded as a dealer in 
2021 and successfully runs five MTN stores across 
Johannesburg today. Bongi’s daughter, who has a solid 
financial background, has partnered with her mother in 
this business.

Mandisa was a previous, long-service MTN SA employee who 
resigned in 2018 to join the banking industry. 

She was onboarded as a MTN dealer in 2021, and owns seven 
Gauteng stores.

Shirley is a new dealer who was onboarded in 2021. She has 
held several senior positions across the banking and motor 
industries. She owns three stores in the Eastern Cape and 
will soon be acquiring a further two stores from another 
dealer. She is performing exceptionally well.  

Sibongile Mtshali – Tashako Mobile

Mandisa Mavuya – Remant Mobile

Shirley Koaho – Afrikan Adage

Empowering local enterprises continued

86Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



IoT technology facilitates the connectedness of things, such 
as vehicles or appliances, to the internet via sensors and 
actuators that collect information about the state and 
condition of those things and transmits that data to software 
platforms, which can help make sense of the information and 
take appropriate action. 

As a future-oriented telecommunications business, we are 
positioned to develop services that rely on connection, 
communication and data collection. Our IoT developmental 
focus is efficiency and savings through the digital 
transformation of processes and customer experiences. 

Developing IoT solutions

Narrow Band Internet of Things (NBIoT)
NBIoT technology supports 2G to 4G devices and can cover  
a vast area network from a single site, using very little power. 
For example, MTN vehicle asset tracking uses the wide-
reaching MTN network and advanced GPS technology to 
provide vehicle and driver tracking, real-time reports on 
deliveries, optimal navigation to destinations and allows tasks 
to be uploaded via the mobile network.

We also developed NBIoT solutions with farmers to offer 
animal tracking and intelligent agriculture solutions. Our 
animal tracking app will also be able to monitor the health of 
livestock. From a farming perspective, we are developing 
smart irrigation systems, crop management systems and soil 
monitoring. Our end-to-end solution is intended to enhance 
farming from seedlings to markets. 

5G private networks
5G adds the capacity to massively connect many devices at 
high speeds, ultra-low latency, and greater reliability and 
availability. In the industrial context, 5G will lead in supporting 
a world of applications and the requirements necessary for 
its execution. 

Private 5G networks assist us in providing connectivity in 
unconnected areas, such as underground mining operations. 
The use of 5G will significantly boost operation precision, 
stability, efficiency and safety. Swift transfer of information in 
an accident situation could result in optimal decision making 
within a minute, including the safest escape routes. It also 
reduces operational costs and saves fuel, as decisions and 
actions can be very quick. 

During 2022, MTN worked on 5G proof of concept projects 
with over 20 partners in the mining, logistics and retail 
industries. 

We are focused on developing IoT value propositions across five industry verticals.

Building 
management

Manufacturing Mining
Fleet and  

cargo
Agriculture

87Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Unlocking local ownership

Driving localisation

Entrenching ourselves as the fabric of local 
markets
As part of our efforts to lead digital solutions for Africa’s 
progress, MTN is committed to the continent and its people. 
We seek to promote local ownership and economic 
participation in the Company's business across our markets. 

We are committed to enabling suitable local equity ownership, 
including but not limited to broad-based local ownership, such 
as investment by local retirement and investment funds with 
multiple beneficiaries and/or contributors and local employee 
ownership, for each of its markets and platform businesses. 

Local equity participation in each of our operations includes 
careful consideration of overall market conditions and the 
nature, structure and capabilities of the equity capital market 
of the relevant operating country and the related regulatory 
imperatives.

Localisation remains a key pillar of our approach to create 
shared value, broaden local participation and deepen the 
capital markets in which we operate. During 2022, the Group 
received gross proceeds of R4.2 billion from the Series 1 MTN 
Nigeria public offer. We made progress in the further 
localisation of MTN Ghana, with an increase in local 
shareholding to 23.7% against our stated target of 30%.

Performance summary

Total number of local shareholders 

>200 000

Group-wide average of shareholding 

held by local investors

18% to 25%

Case study: Uganda

In December 2022, MTN Uganda marked its first 
anniversary as a publicly listed company on the 
Uganda Securities Exchange.

MTN Uganda’s m-IPO initiative was the country’s first 
paper-free IPO platform aimed at retail investors, in 
partnership with the USE, and will help position 
Uganda at the forefront of digitising the capital 
markets for Africa. More than 21 000 investors 
participated in the MTN Uganda’s IPO.

More than 80 000 customers have since opened their 
Securities Central Depository (SCD) accounts using 
the MTN USSD and MoMo App platform, enabling 
them to apply for shares seamlessly, check for their 
balances for all listed companies, access a  
mini-statement to monitor transactions and know 
their brokers. Prior to MTN Uganda’s IPO, 
approximately 20 000 SCD accounts were in 
existence. 

MTN Uganda’s listing on the USE saw the  
MTN Group’s shareholding in the telecom company 
reduce from 96% to 83.05% in line with the Group’s 
strategic priority to create shared value, which 
includes ensuring broad-based ownership in all 
operating subsidiaries.

Case study: Nigeria

MTN Group, which owned 75.6% of MTN Nigeria at the 
time of the 2019 listing, undertook to increase the 
free float to 65% over the medium term, subject to 
conductive market conditions.

We completed the first phase of a series of offers 
(Series 1 offer) that increased the free float (public 
shareholding versus Nigerian only) and broader 
Nigerian ownership in MTN Nigeria by 31 January 
2022. We are delighted to have welcomed 127 000 
new, (mostly but not all, Nigerian) investors, including 
Nigerian pension funds representing approximately 
6.5 million Nigerian contributors, many of whom were 
first-time investors. MTN Nigeria currently has a total 
of approximately 130 000 shareholders. In March 
2023, MTN awarded incentive shares to about 
120 000 Series 1 offer retail investors who had held 
their shares for more than 12 months. 

Case study: Ghana

In the past year, MTN maintained its focus on further 
localisation of Scancom PLC and MobileMoney 
Limited. We achieved additional 6.8% localisation 
during the period bringing the localisation of Scancom 
PLC to 23.7%. MTN Ghana is committed to completing 
the localisation of Scancom PLC and MobileMoney 
Limited to 30% each in the shortest possible time.

88Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Contributing towards job creation

Importance of creation in our local markets
Job creation is a critical lever to drive and maintain healthy 
economic growth. Countries with low unemployment rates will 
always be more economically viable than those with high 
unemployment rates. By 2050, Africa will add approximately 
595 million people to the global workforce and be home to the 
largest and youngest population globally (UN world population 
prospects forecast, 2022), thus the creation of jobs on local 
markets is increasingly becoming important, not only for 
economic development, but for retaining critical skills that will 
enable the continent’s global competitiveness.

Our outlook and performance
MTN continues to prioritise the employment of local citizens 
(naturalised in the respective country) and living up to the 
pan-African objective by providing opportunities for African 
citizens, while adhering to applicable national labour laws and 
regulations. The Company employs qualified local citizens at 
all levels of its organisation. In 2022, 88% of our workforce 
was made up of local citizens as per definition above.

We recognise that our direct employment contribution is only 
a small percentage of the population size of our operating 
markets; therefore, we make a concerted effort to take 
deliberate efforts to promote indirect jobs through our capital 
projects, merchant and agent model in respect of our Fintech 
business. MTN creates approximately 700 000 indirect jobs 
from its 17 operating countries (excluding Afghanistan).

Consciousness of intersectionalities: women, youth, 
and marginalised groups
MTN understands the intersectionalities that serve as barriers 
to accessing employment in Africa. This is why we paid 
particular attention to vulnerable groups such as women, 
people with disabilities (PWD) and young people. We took 
steps to address the specific barriers that prevent them from 
entering the job market. Our sustainability strategy places a 
significant focus on inclusion across various pillars of our 
strategy. The same principles apply when approaching job 
creation at local markets. We are driving the inclusion of 
women, youth and PWD, particularly through direct 
employment. 

89Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



We continuously engage with rating agencies to measure our 
ESG performance. Based on the outcome, we develop action 
plans to maintain positive momentum to better our ESG 
performance and ensure continued alignment with our 
sustainability strategy and commitments.

We remain committed to analysing these ratings and 
improving our performance through transparency, 
management approach and engagement opportunities. 

Our 2022 ESG ratings
We continued to improve our accomplishments across all ESG 
ratings and outperform peer and industry averages in the 
year under review, reflecting our dedication to ESG at the core.

Ratings agency Changes on prior year

Sustainalytics

Improved from 27.7 to 26.2 ‘Medium risk’ band – a 1.5-point improvement. Our goal for the year was to 
move towards the lower end of medium with a target of 26.5, which has been achieved and is a step in the 
right direction.

	• MTN has experienced an improvement across six out of the eight key areas, with the greatest 
improvement in the areas of data privacy and security and carbon management.

	• Human rights and bribery and corruption are the two areas that are impacting MTN’s rating and 
continue to impact MTN’s overall score especially due to the significant weighting.

S&P Global ESG 
rating

Improved by three points with a score of 47 in 2022, compared to the 44 in 2021 and 30 in 2020. The 
industry average is 34 and MTN exceeds industry average by 14 points*.

	• MTN has improved its risk management plans such as reducing operations in sanctioned countries, 
increased gender diversity within the Executive Committee, plus a remuneration disclosure plan that 
links pay incentives to employee ESG performance.

MSCI

Upgraded to AA from A

	• MSCI notes an improvement on data privacy disclosure, notably system security audits and security 
awareness programmes for all employees; this drives the rating upgrade.

	• MTN leads most global peers in corporate governance. Its Board features an independent majority 
and split roles for CEO and Chair.

* Industry average includes global telecommunications companies.

Our ESG performance ratings and rankers

Summary of rating agencies’ view of MTN ESG performance
100

40 40

49.7

Peer 
average 

e 40

40

5

0

2.9
(58%)

2.9

3.7
(74%)

(58%)
2.9

4.3

(58%)

(86%)

AAA

0

100

0

34 34

44

34

47

100

0

2020 2021 2022 2020 2021 2022 2020 2021 2022 2020 2021 2022 2020 2021 2022

Bloomberg FTSE 4 GOOD Index ** MSCI 
S&P: DOW Jones 

corporate sustainability 
assessment

Sustainalytics

KEY: MTN
Industry average/Peer 
scores*

Increase in year-on-year 
performance

Decrease in year-on-year 
performance

No change in 
year-on-year performance

* Note: Peer average excludes MTN’s performance.
** FTSE rescheduled MTN assessment to 2023. 

S
e

ve
re

 risk
N

e
g

lig
ib

le
 risk

MTN
BBB

AA
AA

MTN
A

AA

AA

24

26.2

24

27.7

24

29.2

90Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



MTN ESG data 2017 – 2022

Doing for planet Unit 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017

Energy consumption – Total (Scope 1 and Scope 2) GJ 6 446 323 7 042 639 8 974 540
	• Energy consumption – Electricity GJ 2 773 817 3 137 099 5 525 569
	• Energy consumption – Petrol GJ 34 215 28 358 165 573
	• Energy consumption – Natural gas GJ 155 265 217 902 165 573
	• Energy consumption – Diesel GJ 3 483 026 3 659 279 3 283 398

GHG emissions - Total (Scope 1, 2 and 3) tCO
2
e 5 296 351 5 021 071 2 138 527 2 281 348 2 131 042 2 006 248

	• GHG emissions – Scope 1: direct emissions tCO
2
e 293 867 308 810 272 695 466 163 270 721 324 101

	• GHG emissions – Scope 2: indirect emissions tCO
2
e 584 591 658 345 953 3614 895 748 973 465 806 339

	• GHG emissions – Scope 3: indirect emissions tCO
2
e 4 417 894 4 053 915 912 471 919 437 886 857 875 808

	• Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions per 1GB data tCO
2
e 0.000071

Scope 3 emissions breakdown
	• Purchased goods and services tCO

2
e 2 663 484 2 648 685

	• Capital goods tCO
2
e 143 188 703 518

	• Fuel and energy-related activities tCO
2
e 179 459 215 206

	• Upstream transportation and distribution tCO
2
e 10 855 10 480

	• Waste generated in operations tCO
2
e 25 760 25 760

	• Business travel tCO
2
e 2 474 2 563

	• Employee commuting tCO
2
e 24 903 25 245

	• Use of sold products tCO
2
e 1 348 118 452 606

	• End-of-life treatment of sold products tCO
2
e 15 724 5 098

	• Investments tCO
2
e 3 929 13 878

	• GHG emissions (Scope 1 and 2) per subscriber
tCO

2
e/Number

of subscribers 0.0183201 0.0192240 0.0076376
	• GHG emissions (Scope 1 and 2) per revenue tCO

2
e/revenue (Rm) 0.0000256 0.0000288 0.0000119

	• Scope 3 emissions per 1GB data tCO
2
e/revenue (Rm) 0.000360

Total alternative energy sites Number 14 794 10 485 8 396
	• Total solar only alternative energy sites Number 3 002 3 005 2 435
	• Total rural alternative energy sites Number 8 840 4 831 3 937
	• Total solar only rural alternative energy sites Number 2 952 2 861 2 276
	• MTN Group management services CDP score Rating C  B-  C C C C

Water and waste
	• E-waste Tonnes 99.20  16.04 31 784 272 216
	• Paper use avoided kg 928 000 30 084 18 353 2 477 225 1 617 685
	• Electricity savings: non-technical operations kWh 1 392 253 139 000 49 492 1 059 129 477 723 807 181
	• Potable water savings kl 65  Not reported 2 112 Not reported 86 144 000
	• Total waste generated per 1GB data 0.000000048
	• Network waste per 1GB data 0.00000000007

1  Scope 3 only includes all currently relevant and applicable scope 3 categories. MTN Underwent a full Scope 3 Screening in FY2021.
2  Total energy includes Scope 1 and Scope 2.
3  MTN Group Internal Audit and Forensic Services performed an audit over the carbon footprint data inputs for data completeness and accuracy of a sample of the most representative MTN operations. This included Scope 1 areas (Stationary 

Combustion, Mobile Combustion and Fugitive Emissions) and Scope 2 (Electricity). All process and control deficiencies identified will form part of a remediation plan that management will address to improve the control environment.
4   Emissions for Scope 2 were restated from 953 351 tCO

2
e previously reported to 953 361 tCO

2
e.

Sustainable
societies

Eco
responsibility

Sound
governance

Economic 
value

GRI

JSE

GMSA

GMSA

GMSA

GMSA

GMSA

GMSA

SASB

JSE

GRI

SASB

JSE

GMSA

GRI

SASBJSE

GMSA

GRI

SASBJSE

GMSA

GMSA

GMSA

91Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Doing for people Unit 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017

Total employees Number 17 462 16 390 19 295 19 288 18 835 18 931
Contractors and temporary employees % of total employees 15 15 16 16
Employees retrenched Number 99 139 22 100 151 337

Female representation % 40 39 38 37 37 37
	• Females at Group Board level Number 4 4 2 3 4 3
	• Females at Group Executive Committee level % 25 27 23 18 10 10
	• Female management level 3 and up % 33 31 29 28 27 27
	• Females in succession pool % 29 28 24 21 16
	• Female senior management 3H and up % 32 29 27 26 24 24
	• Females in middle management % 34 31 30 29 29 29

Gender pay gap overall5

Mean salary pay gap % 22.5 25 29 – – –
Median salary pay gap % 24 24 25 – – –
Mean bonus gap % 40.8 28 36 – – –
Median bonus gap % 16.9 13 21 – – –
Gender pay gap breakdown*
Females at Group Executive Committee level
Total pay mean gap % 61.3 20 39 – – –
Total pay median gap % 54 3 33 – – –
Female leadership segment
Total pay mean gap % 6.7 12 21 – – –
Total pay median gap % 8.1 12 18 – – –
Female management segment
Total pay mean gap % 8.6 7 6 – – –
Total pay median gap % 8.6 6 7 – – –
Female staff segment
Total pay mean gap % 12 10 12 – – –
Total pay median gap % 10.3 8 10 – – –
Differently abled staff % 0.7 0.5 0.6 0.4

Collective bargaining: Unionised employees
	• Employees unionised (South Africa) % 21 6 5 10 – –
	• Employees unionised (Group) % 15 10 – – – –
	• Employees not unionised (Group) % 75 40 – – – –
	• Employees with unknown status of union membership 

(Group)
% 10 44 – – – –

Incidents of discrimination Number 24 9 1

Learning and development
	• Spend Rm 280 190 136 282 270 252
	• Time spent on employee development Total hours 216 415 252 127 898 300 571 445
	• Hours per employee Hours per employee 10.4 21 45 30 18 22

Employee culture survey results (Global Culture Audit)^ % 83 80 81 80 78 75
Permanent employees receiving performance review % 91 89 97 99 96 95

5*Key notes to gender pay computations:
•  The 2021 reported gender pay gap percentages pending final independent validation by an external party. The independent validated results will be published in a separate detailed report later in 2022.
•  Gender pay is based on actual gross pay received by eligible employees (active on payroll as at December) during the period 1 January to 31 December of 2021 and 2020 respectively.
•  Computations may be subject to a 1% to 2% minor margin of error.
•  The 2021 Group consolidated pay gap comprises all eligible employees across 18 markets and is computed using South African rand (ZAR) as the common base currency.
•  Excludes Irancell, Yemen, Afghanistan and three ISP operations.
•   ’Mean’ and ’median’ are two different calculations. To calculate the mean, the values (e.g. monthly pay or bonus pay) are added together and divided by the number of employees. The median is the number in the middle of all values, when 

arranged from lowest to highest.
^ Refer to independent assurance report on selected sustainability information included within our 2022 Integrated Report.

Sustainable
societies

Eco
responsibility

Sound
governance

Economic 
value

GRI

JSE

GRI JSE

JSE

GRI

JSE

SASB

GRI

JSE

SASB

GRI JSE

MTN ESG data 2017 – 2022 continued

92Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Doing for people continued
All employees per region Unit 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017

Total 17 462 16 390 19 295 19 288 18 823

SEA 6 547 5 889 6 624 6 782 6 696

WECA 6 231 6 255 6 286 6052 5 790

MENA 3 137 3 076 4 928 5 040 5 141

Head office 1 458 1 103 1 326 1 281 1 062

Business solutions 89 67 131 135 134

Employee breakdown per age

Centennials (1996 to present) % 4 2 2 2 2

Millennials (1976 to 1995) % 78 80 79 81 81

Generation X (1966 to 1975) % 16 16 18 15 15

Baby Boomers (before 1966) % 1 2 2 2 2

New external hires breakdown by gender

Total new employees % 1 313 1 023 524 1 229

Male % 55 55.1 65.6 64.4 63.0

Female % 45 44.9 34.4 35.6 37.0

Employee turnover breakdown

Total % 8.16 9.9 5.6 5.3 6.1

Voluntary % 6.42 6.5 3.1 4.0 4.5

Involuntary % 1.74 3.3 2.4 1.3 1.5

Male % 57 54.7 60.0 56.3 64.9

Female % 43 40.0 43.7 35.1

Health and safety

	• Workplace-related deaths Number 0 0 – – 1 1

	• Workplace-related serious injuries Number 1 1 4 23 14 34

	• Lost-time incident rate Rate 1.2 0.0019

	• Total recordable injury rate Rate 0.23 0.24

Sustainable
societies

Eco
responsibility

Sound
governance

Economic 
value

GRI

JSE

GRI

SASB

GRI

JSE

GRI

JSE

GRI

JSE

93Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



MTN ESG data 2017 – 2022 continued

Doing it right Unit 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018

Ethics-related queries and concerns Number 53# 116 188 132 94 119

Additional certified ethics officers Number 6 5  – 7 11 27

Ethics e-learning course completion by staff Number 5 669 7 105 10 284

Calls to tip-offs anonymous whistle-blowing hotline: Fraud~ Number 121 137

Conflict of interest declarations % of employees 58.4†  83.2 69 55 Not available  Not available

Ethics: Disciplinary sanctions outcomes total Number of individuals 347 369 355 232 157 400

	• Not guilty Number of individuals 28 28 14 7 9 4

	• Counselling Number of individuals 4 3 4 8 4 8

	• Verbal warning Number of individuals 32 38 39 63 35 76

	• Written warning Number of individuals 116 93 96 44 61 87

	• Final written warning Number of individuals 68 33 47 38 16 131

	• Suspension Number of individuals 21 14 14 17 10 52

	• Dismissal Number of individuals 72 70 75 41 20 42

	• Pending Number of individuals 4 89 66 14 2  –

Instances of employees acknowledging colleague ethics/integrity  
(recognition system introduced in 2017) Number 66 496 14 959 113 010 121 480 100 401  Not available

Fraud: Disciplinary sanctions outcomes total Number of charges 221 284     

	• Not guilty Number of charges 31 48

	• Counselling Number of charges 9 11

	• Verbal warnings Number of charges 9 6

	• Written warnings Number of charges 29 16

	• Final written warnings Number of charges 36 27

	• Suspension Number of charges 0  –

	• Dismissal Number of charges 95 133

	• Pending Number of charges 12 41

	• Employee resigned Number of charges 0 2

Supply chain management      

Supplier endorsement of supplier code of conduct Number 1 102 1 185 1 076 1 670 1 197 175

Suppliers prequalified following due diligence (total suppliers 
assessed)

Number 966 1 185 1 076 1 670

Suppliers monitored Number 22 507 1 237 847 1 273

Suppliers trained on ethics and fraud management Number 285 670 453 293

Suppliers approved for sourcing activities Number 1 093 1 175 835  –  –  – 

Suppliers not approved* for sourcing activities Number 50 62 12  –  –  – 
* Due to compliance and financial risks.
# Number excludes the following countries: Nigeria Global Connect, Guinea Bissau and South Sudan.
† Figure is based on number of declarations made excluding MTN Nigeria.
~ Refer to the independent assurance report on selected sustainability information included within our 2022 Integrated Report.

Sustainable
societies

Eco
responsibility

Sound
governance

Economic 
value

GRI

GSMA

JSE

GRI

JSE

GRI

JSE

GRI

JSE

94Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Doing for growth Unit 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017

CSI (MTN Foundation) Rm 251 159 168 189.5 185 172

Total number of beneficiaries Number (million) 5.4 9.8 23.8 1.9 – –

Number of youth beneficiaries Number 4 791 404 7 515 594 10 497 712 345 232 – –

Number of girls/women beneficiaries Number 2 538 140 3 181 182 589 855 458 623 – –

Number of differently abled persons supported Number 11 296 11 665 23 360 11 143 – –

Number of projects implemented Number 163 157 134 150 – –

Number of scholarships awarded Number 1 946 1 629 1 240 2 585 – –

Number of digital learning/computer laboratories established Number 85 21 18 36 – –

Employee volunteers Number 2 452 2 812 1 416 11 007 10 003 11 027

Y’ello Care overall beneficiaries (direct and indirect) Number 14 536 – – 71 831 – –

Number of beneficiaries upskilled and trained Number 144 855 130 674 – 46 806 – –

Number of beneficiaries placed in employment opportunities Number 10 497 2 446 – 46 806 – –

B-BBEE results for MTN Group6 Target points

Achieved 
points 

2021

Achieved 
points 

2020

Achieved 
points 

2019

Achieved 
points 

2018

B-BBEE elements

Ownership  25.00 25  24.06 25

Management control  23.00 18.76  14.26  13.68

Skills development  20.00 18.43  19.11  17.12

Enterprise and supplier development  50.00 46.06  49.15  42.98

Socioeconomic development  12.00 12 12 12

Total  130.00 120.25  118.58  110.78

Priority elements achieved Yes  Yes  Yes

Empowering supplier status Yes  Yes  Yes

Final B-BBEE status level  Level 1  Level 2  Level 3

6 Note: MTN Group is currently in the process of conducting its 2022 annual verification.
^ 2022 Data verification in progress for 2022. This data may be provided only in the following reporting year.

Sustainable
societies

Eco
responsibility

Sound
governance

Economic 
value

JSE

GSMA

95Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



ESG indicators performance continued

B-BBEE results for MTN SA Target points

Achieved 
points 

2021

Achieved 
points 

2020

Achieved 
points 

2019

Achieved 
points
 2018

B-BBEE elements

Ownership 25.00 25  24.06  25.00  24.80

Management control 23.00 17.55  17.97  16.63  16.23

Skills development 20.00 20.51  20.22  18.71  16.77

Enterprise and supplier development 50.00 46.78  48.17  42.89  46.87

Preferential procurement 25.00 19.63  20.17  17.04  19.25

Enterprise development 15.00 17.15 18  17.00  17.62

Supplier development 10.00 10 10  8.85  10.00

Socioeconomic development 12.00 12 12  12.00  12.00

Total 130.00 121.84  122.42  115.23  116.67

YES4Youth 1 level uplift  No  No  Yes  No

Overall ranking  Level 1  Level 1  Level 1  Level 2

MTN SA procurement statistics preferential procurement spend – criteria 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017

Black-owned vendors >51% R8.2bn  R8.4bn  R7.1bn  R6.4bn  R4.2bn 

Black women-owned  vendors >30% R15.0bn  R17.5bn  R10.5bn  R11.9bn  R9.8bn 

Exempted micro-enterprises < R10m R2.0bn  R1.0bn  R931m  R443m  R216m 

Qualifying small enterprises < R50m R2.1bn  R2.9bn  R2.9bn  R3.2bn  R1.6bn 

Designated groups R1.1bn  R1.5bn  R1.0bn  R727m  R52.7m 

Note: 2022 data is under verification and will only be available in the next reporting cycle.

96Sustainability Report 2022

Doing it right Doing for growth ESG indicators performanceDoing for tomorrow, today Doing for planet Doing for people



Administration
MTN GROUP LIMITED
Incorporated in the Republic of South Africa

Company registration number: 
1994/009584/06
ISIN: ZAE000042164
Share code: MTN

Board of directors
MH Jonas^ 
KDK Mokhele^ 
RT Mupita1 
TBL Molefe1 
NP Gosa^ 
PB Hanratty2^ 
S Kheradpir3^ 
SN Mabaso-Koyana^ 
SP Miller4^ 
CWN Molope^ 
N Newton-King^ (appointed 1 January 2023) 
T Pennington5^ (appointed 1 August 2022) 
NL Sowazi^ 
SLA Sanusi6^ 
VM Rague7^

1 Executive 
2 Irish 
3 American 
4 Belgian 
5 British 
6 Nigerian 
7 Kenyan 

^ Independent non-executive director 
# Non-executive director 

Group Company Secretary
PT Sishuba-Bonoyi
Private Bag X9955, Cresta, 2118

Registered office
216 14th Avenue
Fairland
Gauteng, 2195

American depository receipt (ADR) 
programme
Cusip No. 62474M108 
ADR to ordinary share 1:1

Depository: The Bank of New York 
Mellon
101 Barclay Street, New York NY, 10286, USA

Forward-looking information 
Opinions and forward-looking statements expressed in this report represent those of the 
Company at the time. Undue reliance should not be placed on such statements and opinions 
because by nature, they are subjective to known and unknown risk and uncertainties and can 
be affected by other factors that could cause actual results and company plans and objectives 
to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements.

Neither the Company nor any of its respective affiliates, advisers or representatives shall 
have any liability whatsoever (based on negligence or otherwise) for any loss howsoever 
arising from any use of this report or its contents or otherwise arising in connection with 
this presentation and do not undertake to publicly update or revise any of its opinions or 
forward-looking statements whether to reflect new information or future events or 
circumstances otherwise.

Mapping our SDG impact
In 2021, MTN Group implemented an SDG prioritisation tool to determine the SDGs and  
SDG Ambition Benchmarks on which we could deliver the biggest impact, while creating 
business value. It considers three dimensions – impact potential, strategic alignment and 
risk management potential – for which scores are attributed against defined qualitative 
criteria. The tool considers various internal and external assessments such as our risk 
register and industry research.  It also incorporates stakeholder views collected through 
surveys, workshops and materially assessments. The results are then refined to ensure 
alignment with our strategy.

MTN Group sharecare line
Toll free: 0800 202 360 or +27 11 870 8206 
if phoning from outside South Africa

Transfer secretaries
Computershare Investor Services 
Proprietary Limited
Registration number 2004/003647/070
Rosebank Towers, 15 Biermann Avenue
Rosebank, 2196
PO Box 61051, Marshalltown, 2107

Joint auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers Inc.
4 Lisbon Lane, Waterfall City, Jukskei View, 
Johannesburg, South Africa, 2090

Ernst & Young Inc.
102 Rivonia Road, Sandton, Johannesburg, 
South Africa, 2146

Lead sponsor
J.P. Morgan Equities (SA) Proprietary Limited
1 Fricker Road, cnr Hurlingham Road,  
Illovo, 2196

Joint sponsor
Tamela Holdings Proprietary Limited
Ground Floor, Golden Oak House,
35 Ballyclare Drive, Bryanston, 2021

Attorneys
Webber Wentzel
90 Rivonia Road, Sandton, 2196
PO Box 61771, Marshalltown, 2107

Contact details
Telephone: International +27 11 912 3000
Facsimile:  National 011 912 4093 

International +27 11 912 4093
E-mail: investor.relations@mtn.com
Website: http://www.mtn.com
Date of release: 25 April 2022

Enhancements in our report in 2022
We work to improve our Integrated Report every year, enhancing its usefulness to readers. 
The report has a clear strategic focus, an emphasis on value creation and a high level of 
connectivity between the various elements, providing a coherent value creation and 
preservation narrative. For the 2022 report, we made numerous enhancements, some of 
which are:
	• Greater disclosure of our strategic priorities, including details on our progress, plans 

and targets, with an emphasis on the MTN of tomorrow and how we are going to get 
there.

	• Clear articulation of the step change in our approach to ESG and what this entails, 
including progress, plans and targets and how we map our impact on the SDGs. Adding 
’Committed to create share value’ to our investment case.

	• Simpler design and improved connectivity and flow, as well as links to relevant strategic 
priorities, capitals, material matters, risks, stakeholders and SDGs.

	• Greater use of market-relevant images and advertising collateral from our Opcos.
	• Clearly defining what value means to us and articulating our purpose.
	• Evolution of our market context disclosure, providing country-specific issues rather 

than a thematic view. We give this in terms of how we manage our business – by the 
geography of the biggest contributors to MTN’s activities.



www.mtn.com

Tel: +27 83 869 3000/+27 11 912 3000 
Innovation Centre 
216 14th Avenue 
Fairland, 2195
South Africa