Sustainability Report 2022

KEEP CITIES
MOVING SUSTAINABLY



Sustainability Report 2022

2

CONTENTS

Chairman’s Message 03

CEO’s Message 04

About This Report 05

About MTR 11

MTR’s Environmental and  
Social Objectives

18

Promoting Social Inclusion 26

Fostering Advancement and 
Opportunities

48

Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions 57

Climate-related Financial Disclosures 69



Sustainability Report 2022

3

medications to infected staff with emergency needs and a wide range of health talks and programmes to 
promote a healthy lifestyle and provide useful tips to prevent infectious diseases.

To foster innovation, we have signed several agreements and Memoranda of Understanding (“MoU”) 
with local universities and business partners who can help us further improve our world-class services. 
For example, we signed an agreement with Hong Kong Science and Technology Parks Corporation 
(“HKSTP”) to set up a three-year collaboration framework focusing on the application of innovative 
technologies, data collaboration and co-investment in tech ventures. We also signed an MoU with Hong 
Kong Cyberport Management Limited to set up a two-year collaboration framework for joint investment 
in digital technology startups. In addition, we collaborate with the Hong Kong University of Science 
and Technology and the Hong Kong Polytechnic University to promote the application of innovative 
technology in railway and other services with the aim of encouraging local scientific research and building 
a smart and low-carbon community. We have committed to invest more than HK$300 million in startups 
between 2022 and 2025 to foster future skills and innovation.

We strive to “Keep Cities Moving” with safe, reliable, accessible and sustainable rail transport services. We 
are very concerned about the two train incidents in late 2022 and have carried out detailed investigations 
into each of them. It is always the Corporation’s top priority to provide safe and reliable railway services for 
the people of Hong Kong. We will learn lessons from these incidents and are in the process of reviewing 
our asset management and maintenance regime, making every effort to eliminate the potential risk of 
similar incidents. 

ESG is a core part of our Corporate Strategy. I am confident that our three environmental and social 
objectives will support the sustainable growth of the Corporation and Hong Kong. With the staunch 
commitment and support from the MTR Board, the Executive, and our dedicated colleagues, we shall 
continue to demonstrate our leadership in ESG by embedding sustainability considerations into all aspects 
of our business and operations to create long-term and sustainable value for all the communities we serve.

Dr Rex Auyeung Pak-kuen 
Chairman 
Hong Kong

In our Corporate Strategy, “Transforming the Future”, which we launched in 2020, we outlined a strong 
commitment to embedding environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) considerations in all aspects 
of our business. Since then, we have clearly defined our long term ESG strategy, with three objectives, 
ten commitments and 35 key performance indicators (“KPIs”). From an ESG governance perspective, we 
revamped our Board Committee structure in early 2022, enabling our Board level Environmental & Social 
Responsibility Committee to provide strategic oversight of our ESG strategy, as well as track performance 
against our KPIs and our Board approved an ESG investment framework with specific funding allocated to 
support the achievement of our ESG goals. We also updated our Board Diversity Policy to include a specific 
gender diversity target for the Board to have no less than 25% female members by 2025, showing top level 
commitment to one of our ESG objectives, social inclusion. From a broader governance perspective, we 
have strengthened management accountability through the introduction of a new matrix organisation 
structure and enhanced our risk management capability through the establishment of a new assurance 
management function, which is gradually expanding its scope across key risk areas of the Corporation. 

As a global leader providing environmentally friendly mass transit services, we strive to lead by example 
in the fight against climate change. To this end, we are committed to setting science-based carbon 
reduction targets for the year 2030 for our railway and property businesses in Hong Kong, with the 
longer-term goal of achieving carbon neutrality by 2050. These 2030 targets have been submitted to the 
Science Based Targets initiative for validation. In addition, we seek to use our position in the community to 
influence others to commit to a greener lifestyle and have collaborated with schools, non-governmental 
organisations and government departments to implement the “Legacy Train Revitalisation Programme” to 
revitalise and upcycle our retired trains and their components to give them a second life.

Playing a pivotal role in connecting communities across the territory, we strive to provide universal 
accessible mobility and ensure that our services are available to people from all walks of life. Over the past 
years, we have been undertaking a number of improvement measures to provide fit-for-purpose and easy-
access facilities in our stations, trains and properties for the elderly, passengers with disabilities and those 
in need. In November 2022, we launched a brand-new “MTR • Care” app which provides smart functions 
to facilitate the travel needs of the elderly and passengers with special needs. We will further enhance 
the app with the expansion of functions for the visually impaired in the near future. During the year, we 
also continued to offer approximately HK$2.1 billion in on-going fare concessions to customers including 
general commuters, the elderly, children, eligible students and persons with disabilities.

In support of equal opportunities for all, we leverage our resources and expertise to help excluded and 
underserved populations access their fair share of opportunity. For instance, we supported charitable 
organisations to provide food vouchers for 1,500 underprivileged families, as well as providing emergency 
shelter services and food vouchers helping 530 homeless people during the pandemic. Our volunteers 
also took part in various events to deliver anti-pandemic supplies to those in need. Our staff were a key 
partner in the fight against the pandemic and so we rolled out various initiatives to ensure their well-being 
during these difficult times. These included a 24-hour dedicated medical hotline for those infected with 
COVID-19, a “Pandemic Caring Team” with over 300 staff volunteers to deliver anti-pandemic supplies and 

CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE



Sustainability Report 2022

4

Following the stabilisation of the epidemic situation in Hong Kong, the HKSAR Government has been 
lifting progressively various anti-epidemic measures in late 2022 and early 2023. We have also seen a 
gradual recovery of our businesses. 2022 was a difficult year. The fifth wave of COVID-19 adversely affected 
our railway operations, station commercial and property rental businesses. With the continued closure of 
the boundary, the patronage of our Hong Kong railway services in February and March 2022 was reduced 
to the lowest level since the outbreak of the pandemic. 

The last two months of 2022 also saw a couple of incidents that warranted thorough investigations and 
follow-up actions. The two investigation reports were completed in early 2023 and we are implementing 
the improvement actions recommended in the reports. In addition, we set up an Expert Panel in 
December 2022 to conduct a comprehensive review of our asset management and maintenance regime 
with the aim to complete the review and report to the Board in six months. 

Despite the internal and external challenges experienced, we achieved several significant milestones 
across the various cities we serve. In Hong Kong, our heavy rail network maintained a world-class level 
of 99.9% train service delivery and passenger on-time journeys. Opened in May 2022, the East Rail Line 
extended its service to Hong Kong Island, increasing both options and convenience for our passengers 
commuting between Hong Kong Island and the New Territories. We also introduced the first batch of 
new eight-car Q-trains for service on the Kwun Tong Line since November 2022, providing passengers 
with an enhanced travelling experience. In the United Kingdom, the Central Operating Section of the 
Elizabeth line commenced service in May, transforming travel across London and the South East of the 
United Kingdom. The Southern Section of Beijing Metro Line 16 also began operations at the end of 
2022. In terms of property development, the tender for the Pak Shing Kok Ventilation Building Property 
Development and Tung Chung Traction Substation Property Development projects in Hong Kong were 
awarded. We also accepted the Land Exchange Offer for Siu Ho Wan Depot to transform the depot into a 
new property development named “Oyster Bay”.

In 2022, the Corporation strengthened its commitment to embedding environmental, social and governance 
(“ESG”) considerations in our businesses by defining ten commitments and a set of 35 key performance 
indicators (“KPI”) across our three environmental and social objectives: Social Inclusion, Advancement 
& Opportunities, and Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction. To enable allocation of sufficient financial 
resources to suitable ESG initiatives effectively, we have formulated an ESG investment framework and 
allocated a designated ESG Fund for eligible ESG-focused projects that help achieve our KPIs.

During the year, we continued to implement various green initiatives to reduce our carbon emissions. Our 
large-scale chiller replacement project is getting close to completion. We will roll out the second phase to 
replace over 30 chillers in our stations by 2026, with an expected chiller energy saving of at least 20% after 
completion. In April 2022, we completed the installation of solar power facilities at Hin Keng Station and 
the installation works at Pat Heung Depot are underway. Upon completion, the solar power system at Pat 
Heung Depot will be the largest flexible solar power system on a single building in Hong Kong. Our short-
term target is to generate 1 million kWh of renewable energy from our solar power systems by 2023. We 
also plan to introduce at least 30 e-buses by 2026 to reduce the carbon footprint of our feeder bus fleet. 

CEO’S MESSAGE During the year, we attained BEAM Plus Provisional Gold accreditation for our proposed Tung Chung East 
and Tung Chung West stations. We are currently working with The Hong Kong University of Science and 
Technology (“HKUST”) under the HKUST-MTR Joint Research Laboratory to develop a quantification tool to 
calculate the embodied carbon of our new railway development projects. 

In terms of our social objectives, in addition to our on-going efforts to safeguard our employees’ health 
and well-being, we further strengthened the safety culture across MTR by expanding our traditional 
safety month to a year-long Corporate Safety Campaign to reinforce our safety-first culture. In addition, 
we launched our first-ever Social Inclusion Week for our Hong Kong colleagues in September 2022, with 
the aim of raising the awareness of social inclusion among our staff, enabling them to embrace diversity, 
inclusion and equal opportunities in their daily life, and to strengthen our bonds with different non-
governmental organisations in order to build a more inclusive community. 

Our overall efforts to achieve our environmental and social objectives have been recognised in different 
leading performance indices. Once again, MTR has been selected as a constituent of the Dow Jones 
Sustainability Asia Pacific Index, FTSE4Good Index Series and the Hang Seng Corporate Sustainability 
Index. We are also included in S&P Global’s “The Sustainability Yearbook” for the fourth consecutive year, 
which covers the top 15% of companies in each industry. In addition, we are commended as one of 
the top 100 Chinese listed companies in the New York Stock Exchange, Nasdaq, and Hong Kong Stock 
Exchange, with the highest ranking on ESG and low carbon emissions, in the research paper “2022 Carbon 
Rating Report of China’s 100 Overseas Listed Companies”.

I would like to express my heartfelt thanks to the MTR Board for its staunch support and to all of our 
colleagues for their unwavering dedication and hard work, contributing to our business achievements, 
pursuing our environmental and social objectives, and keeping our cities moving sustainably. As the world 
gradually gets back to normal in 2023, with a notable number of new extension projects on the horizon, I 
am confident that we will continue to achieve greater successes together.

Dr Jacob Kam Chak-pui  
Chief Executive Officer  
Hong Kong



Sustainability Report 2022

5

ABOUT THIS REPORT

In This Chapter:

GRI: 2-2, 2-3, 2-5, 3-1, 3-2

HKEX: MDR-Reporting Principles, MDR-Reporting Boundary

On MTR Sustainability Website
Read our Management Approach

 › Reporting Framework

 › Engaging with stakeholders

 › Materiality Assessment

On MTR Corporate Website

 › MTR Financial Highlights and Annual Reports

Since 2000, we have published sustainability reports to disclose our approach, strategy and performance 
regarding our material sustainability issues. We adopt a combined approach to communicate our 
sustainability management approach and performance with our stakeholders. While long standing 
information such as our management approach to the identified material sustainability issues is available 
on the Sustainability Website (the “Website”), annual updates on sustainability-related initiatives, 
performance and achievements, together with our climate-related disclosures, are communicated 
through our annual Sustainability Report (the “Report”). The Website and the Report, complementing 
information available from other publicly accessible information such as our Annual Report, explain how 
sustainability is considered and integrated into our business strategies and decision-making processes. 

We value your feedback on our sustainability initiatives, performance and disclosures. Please send us your 
views and comments to sdmngr@mtr.com.hk or via MTR website.

https://www.mtr.com.hk/sustainability/en/reporting-framework.html
https://www.mtr.com.hk/sustainability/en/stakeholder-engagement.html
https://www.mtr.com.hk/sustainability/en/materiality-assessment.html
https://www.mtr.com.hk/en/corporate/investor/financialinfo.html#02
https://www.mtr.com.hk/sustainability/en/home.html
https://www.mtr.com.hk/en/corporate/investor/financialinfo.html#02
https://www.mtr.com.hk/en/customer/main/index.html


About This Report

Sustainability Report 2022

6

Megatrends Report Sections 

System Resilience for 
Climate Change

• Reducing Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions

• Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures

Ageing Population • Promoting Social Inclusion

Digital Transformation

• Promoting Social Inclusion

• Fostering Advancement and 
Opportunities

As a publicly-listed company, MTR abides by the listing rules of the 
Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited (“HKEX”) including 
Appendix 27 Environmental, Social and Governance Reporting 
Guide (“ESG Guide”). We also disclose our material sustainability 
issues in accordance with the Global Repor ting Init iat ive 
Sustainability Reporting Standards (“GRI Standards”) and aligns 
with internationally recognised guidelines and frameworks such as 
the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (“SDGs”), the 
International Association of Public Transport (“UITP”) Sustainability 
Reporting Guide, ISO 26000 Guidance on Social Responsibility, World 
Economic Forum’s (“WEF”) Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics, and the 
framework recommended by the Task Force on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures (“TCFD”). We also prepare our report with 
reference to the International Sustainability Standards Board’s (“ISSB”) 
new exposure drafts on the General Requirements for Disclosure 
of Sustainability-related Financial Information and Climate-related 
Disclosures released in March 2022.

As a global citizen, our approach to sustainability should align with 
the global agenda. MTR has been actively supporting the United 
Nations SDGs. In particular, we have identified and notified the SDG 
Secretariat of our overall support for Goal 8 – Decent Work and 
Economic Growth, Goal 9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure 
and Goal 11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities that are 
considered most relevant to our operations. We also support several 
other SDGs through our diverse nature of business and operations 
and our efforts to support different SDGs are shown in this Report. 

This Report also presents our response to the three megatrends that 
bring along both opportunities and challenges to our operations:

Please refer to our Website for more details on these three 
megatrends.

Reporting Framework
A Content Index for Sustainability Reporting Guidelines has 
been prepared to list out the information reported against the 
recommended disclosures of the above-mentioned guidelines and 
frameworks.

The Report discloses details on issues identified as material to the 
Corporation covering the period from 1 January to 31 December 
2022. Headquartered in Hong Kong, MTR has expanded railway-
related projects and operations internationally with a presence 
in the United Kingdom, Australia, Sweden, Macao and Mainland 
China. Our property development and management services are 
based in Hong Kong and Mainland China. The scope of this Report 
incorporates data from all operations, including wholly or majority-
owned subsidiaries where the Corporation exercises management 
control. However, quantitative data from Macao is not disclosed 
in this Report as the Corporation is not the sole owner of the data 
under the operations and maintenance (“O&M”) service contract 
with the client in Macao. Key quantitative data disclosed in this 
Report has been independently assured by KPMG. Please refer to the 
following for further information:

• Performance Metrics for our performance data;

• Independent assurance report for the assurance scope and 
methodology; 

• MTR’s Annual Report for details on our operations in Hong 
Kong and worldwide; and

• Sustainability reports of our overseas subsidiaries, MTR Nordic 
and Metro Trains Melbourne ,  for more details on their 
performance and latest initiatives.

Reporting Scope

We proactively engage with a wide range of stakeholders along our 
value chain to better understand and respond to their views, identify 
existing and emerging risks and opportunities, balance different 
interests, make informed decisions, and gain valuable feedback on 
our initiatives in pursuit of operational excellence. For details on 
our stakeholder engagement, including the list of stakeholders, our 
engagement approach and engagement channels, please refer to 
our Website.

Stakeholder Engagement

https://www.fsb-tcfd.org/publications/?utm_medium=Adwords_SEM&utm_source=pdsrch&utm_content=MKTG_APAC_TCFD_2023&utm_campaign=727674&tactic=727674&gclid=EAIaIQobChMIzvC75PKj_gIV1NxMAh3QegEJEAAYAiAAEgIqyPD_BwE
https://www.fsb-tcfd.org/publications/?utm_medium=Adwords_SEM&utm_source=pdsrch&utm_content=MKTG_APAC_TCFD_2023&utm_campaign=727674&tactic=727674&gclid=EAIaIQobChMIzvC75PKj_gIV1NxMAh3QegEJEAAYAiAAEgIqyPD_BwE
https://www.mtr.com.hk/sustainability/en/home.html
https://www.mtr.com.hk/sustainability/assets/pdf/en/2022/Content-Index.pdf
https://www.mtr.com.hk/sustainability/assets/pdf/en/2022/Performance_Metrics.pdf
https://www.mtr.com.hk/sustainability/assets/pdf/en/2022/Performance_Metrics.pdf#page=2
https://www.mtr.com.hk/en/corporate/investor/financialinfo.html#02
https://www.mtrnordic.se/om-oss/hallbarhet/
https://www.metrotrains.com.au/sustainability/
https://www.mtr.com.hk/sustainability/en/stakeholder-engagement.html


About This Report

Sustainability Report 2022

7

This year, we continue to convene an external review panel to gather 
independent advice on our reporting approach and sustainability 
priorities, and to review the content of our Report. Their valuable 
feedback enables us to continue enhancing the quality and 
transparency of our sustainability disclosures. Members of this year’s 
External Review Panel include:

External Review Panel
Peter Lee 

General Manager, Sustainability, 

Airport Authority Hong Kong

Robert Gibson 

Fellow, Civic Exchange and 

Adjunct Professor, Hong Kong University of 

Science and Technology

Calvin Lee Kwan 

Director of Sustainability & 

Risk Governance, Link Asset 

Management Limited

Agnes K Y Tai

Director,  

Great Glory Investment 

Corporation

SK Wu 

Head of ESG,  

Alliance Construction 

Materials Limited

1 2 3 4

Our materiality 
assessment 
process

Identi�cation of 
Sustainability 

Reporting Issues

Importance and have Impact 
on the Corporation Based on 

the Enterprise Risk 
Management System

Endorsement by the 
Environmental & Social 
Responsibility Steering 
Committee (“E&SRSC”) 

Importance and have Impact 
on Stakeholders Based on 
Stakeholder Engagement

Our materiality assessment was conducted with reference to the 
double materiality approach to identify material sustainability issues 
with reference to the GRI Standards and the principles of materiality 
from the ISSB’s newly published exposure drafts on General 
Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial 
Information.

We conduct a stakeholder-driven materiality assessment to identify 
impact material issues that are important to our stakeholders and have 

significant impacts on people, the environment and the economy. 
Financially material issues are evaluated according to their capacity to 
create or erode MTR’s enterprise value. We have taken into account 
our Enterprise Risk Management approach during the assessment. Our 
approach to and disclosures of the impact material issues are covered 
in this Report, whereas financial information, including those relevant 
to the high material issues where appropriate, is covered in our 
Annual Report. For more information on our materiality assessment 
methodology, please refer to our Website. 

While the materiality assessment process mainly focuses on our 
operations and businesses in Hong Kong, the identified material 
issues also provide the overall direction of the sustainability priorities 
for our overseas operations. Please refer to the sustainability 
reports of our overseas subsidiaries, MTR Nordic and Metro Trains 
Melbourne, for more details on their sustainability focus. 

Materiality

https://www.mtr.com.hk/sustainability/en/materiality-assessment.html
https://www.mtrnordic.se/om-oss/hallbarhet/
https://www.metrotrains.com.au/sustainability/
https://www.metrotrains.com.au/sustainability/


About This Report

Sustainability Report 2022

8

I. Governance

Organisational governance structure 
and process

Fair operating practices (ethical dealings with 
other organisations)

Anti-corruption

Responsible political involvement

Fair competition

II. Customers

Fair marketing (factual and unbiased 
information and fair contractual practices)

Customer education

Customers’ health and safety

Sustainable products and services

Customer service, support, and  
complaint handling

Customer data protection and privacy

Access to essential services 
(incl avoidance of service disruption)

III. Employees 

Human rights risks assessment

Human rights risk issues

Human rights grievances mechanism

Diversity and equal opportunity 

Fundamental principles and rights at work

Protection of civil and political rights of staff

Employment practices 

The top right quadrant lists out highly material issues, while the least material issues are shown at the bottom 
left. The results for this year’s assessment are similar to last year, with the major changes summarised below:

Conditions of work and social protection

Staff consultation and engagement 
(incl freedom of association and collective 
bargaining)

Employee and contractor health and safety 

Employee development and training 

IV. Environment

Prevention of pollution (air, water and waste)

Sustainable resource use (resource efficiency 
and water use)

Climate change

Biodiversity

V. Supply Chain

Supply chain human rights risk

Promoting social responsibility in the 
value chain

VI. Community 

Payment from government / tax payment 

Community involvement and development 
(engagement)

Education and culture

Employment creation and skills development

Technology development and access

Wealth and income creation

Community health

Community investment

Materiality Matrix

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

29

30

31

32

33

34

35

36

37

H
IG

H

HIGH

LO
W

M
ed

iu
m

LOW

Ex
te

rn
al

 in
te

re
st

s

Internal assessment on importance to business

1

2

34

5

6
7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14
15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22
23

24

25

26

27

28

29

31

33

34

35

30

36

37

32

Issues Change in materiality level 
compared to last year Remarks 

Biodiversity From high to medium Level of importance and impact 
on economy, environment and 
society decrease as indicated in the 
stakeholder engagement results 

Technology development and 
access

From medium to low

Supply chain human rights risk From low to medium Level of importance to MTR 
increase due to the rise in the 
enterprise risk levelWealth and income creation From medium to high

27

28

34

35

Our materiality assessment results, which were reviewed by the External Review Panel, are presented in 
the following matrix.



About This Report

Sustainability Report 2022

9

SDGs, Highly Material Issues Relevant to MTR’s Environmental and Social Objectives and Our Responses

Highly Material Issues

Sections of the Report Covering Our Highly Material Issues and Relevant SDGs

Promoting Social Inclusion
Fostering Advancement and 

Opportunities
Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions

Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures

Customers

Customer education

Customer health and safety

Sustainable products and services

Customer service, support and 
complaint handling

Access to essential services

Employees

Diversity and equal opportunity

Conditions of work and social protection

Employee and contractor health and 
safety

Employee development and training

7

8

9

10

12

16

20

22

23



About This Report

Sustainability Report 2022

10

Highly Material Issues

Sections of the Report Covering Our Highly Material Issues and Relevant SDGs

Promoting Social Inclusion
Fostering Advancement and 

Opportunities
Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions

Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures

Environment

Prevention of pollution

Sustainable resource use

Climate change

Community

Community involvement and 
development

Employment creation and skills 
development

Wealth and income creation

24

25

26

31

33

35



Sustainability Report 2022

11

ABOUT MTR

HK$60,506 Million
economic value 

generated in 2022

Over HK$32 Billion
raised through sustainable 

finance arrangements 
since 2016

Member of The 
Sustainability 
Yearbook 2023 

for the fourth 
consecutive year

In This Chapter:

GRI: 2-1, 2-6, 2-8, 2-9, 2-12, 2-13, 2-14, 2-16, 2-23, 2-24, 2-25, 2-26, 2-29, 205-1, 205-2

HKEX: MDR-Governance Structure, GD-B7, KPI B7.2, KPI B7.3

On MTR Sustainability Website:
Read our Management Approach

 › Corporate Governance

 › Financial Sustainability

 › Sustainable Investment

Our Policies and Standards

 › Board Diversity Policy

 › Code of Conduct

 › Corporate Responsibility Policy

 › Green Procurement Policy

 › MTR Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking 
Statement

 › Sustainable Finance Framework

 › Whistle-blowing Policy

https://www.mtr.com.hk/sustainability/en/corporate-governance.html
https://www.mtr.com.hk/sustainability/en/financial-sustainability.html
https://www.mtr.com.hk/sustainability/en/sustainable-investment.html
https://www.mtr.com.hk/archive/corporate/en/investor/e_Board_Diversity_Policy.pdf
https://www.mtr.com.hk/archive/corporate/en/publications/images/codeofconduct.pdf
https://www.mtr.com.hk/archive/corporate/en/mtr_corporation_corporate_responsibility_policy_eng.pdf
https://www.mtr.com.hk/sustainability/assets/pdf/en/green-procurement-policy.pdf
https://www.mtr.com.hk/archive/corporate/en/SHQ2311C17120710330.pdf
https://www.mtr.com.hk/archive/corporate/en/SHQ2311C17120710330.pdf
https://www.mtr.com.hk/sustainability/assets/pdf/en/Sustainable_Finance_Framework.pdf
https://www.mtr.com.hk/archive/corporate/en/investor/e_Whistle-blowing_Policy.pdf


About MTR

Sustainability Report 2022

12

Headquartered in Hong Kong, MTR is a world-class operator 
of sustainable rail transport services and is listed on the Hong 
Kong Stock Exchange (SEHK: 66). MTR has extensive end-to-end 
railway expertise with more than 40 years of railway projects 
experience from design to planning and construction through to 
commissioning, maintenance and operations. Going beyond railway 
delivery and operation, MTR also creates and manages dynamic 
communities around its network through seamless integration of 
rail, commercial and property development. With more than 50,000 

dedicated staff*, MTR carries over 11.5 million passenger journeys 
worldwide every weekday in Hong Kong, the United Kingdom, 
Sweden, Australia and Mainland China. 

In Hong Kong and Mainland China, our business portfolio also 
includes station commercial businesses, development and sale of 
residential and commercial properties in partnership with property 
developers and provision of property management services. 

We have also established the MTR Academy, a wholly owned 
subsidiary of the Corporation, which provides railway-related 
education and training with the aim of developing railway 
professionals and executives and advancing service and operational 
excellence of the railway industry worldwide. 

For details on our businesses, rail networks and future extensions, 
please refer to our Annual Report.

Our Business at a Glance

Planning Construction

• Suppliers of goods & services
• Consultancy services
• Contractors & developers

MTR

Services for
• Station retailers
• Advertisers
• Tenants in shopping malls
• Other service providers

Services for
• Customers

(incl. passengers & shoppers)
• Tenants in managed properties

Operations

MTR’s Value Chain

* includes our subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures in Hong Kong and worldwide

https://www.mtracademy.com/en/index.html
https://www.mtr.com.hk/en/corporate/investor/financialinfo.html#02


About MTR

Sustainability Report 2022

13

Performance in Sustainability Indices and Ratings

Every year, our sustainability performance is assessed by different global and local leading independent investor rating agencies. With a robust governance structure, well established strategies and policies and sound 
performance, MTR has been a constituent in various major international and local sustainability indices. 

• 7th Hong Kong Business Sustainability Index (“HKBSI” ) –  
Organised by the Chinese University of Hong Kong (“CUHK”),  
MTR ranked #6 in the index in 2022.    

• 3rd Greater Bay Area Business Sustainability Index (“GBABSI”) – 
The GBABSI covers Hong Kong listed companies with operations 
in the Greater Bay Area eligible for southbound trading under 
the Stock Connect scheme. MTR ranked #6 in the index in 2022. 

• 2nd Greater China Business Sustainability Index (“GCBSI”) –  
The GCBSI covers 200 constituent companies of the Hang Seng 
Index, FTSE TWSE Taiwan 50 Index, Shanghai Stock Exchange SSE 
50, and Shenzhen Stock Exchange SZSE 100 Index. MTR ranked #8 
in the index in 2022. 

• CDP – MTR has once again received a B 
score in the climate change assessment in 
2022, on a scale of A-D-. 

• Hang Seng ESG Indexes – MTR has been selected as a constituent 
company of the following indices: 

 - Hang Seng Corporate Sustainability Index

 - Hang Seng Corporate Sustainability Benchmark Index

 - Hang Seng (Mainland and HK) Corporate Sustainability Index

 - Hang Seng ESG 50 Index

 - Hang Seng Index (“HSI”) ESG Index

 - HSI ESG Enhanced Index

 - Hang Seng Climate Change 1.5˚C Target Index

 - HSI Low Carbon Index

 - HSI ESG Enhanced Select Index

MTR has been selected as the top 100 Chinese listed companies 
in the New York Stock Exchange, Nasdaq, and Hong Kong Stock 
Exchange, with the highest ranking on ESG and low carbon 
emissions, in the research paper “2022 Carbon Rating Report of 
China’s 100 Overseas Listed Companies” jointly published by The 
Chinese University of Hong Kong (Shenzhen), Shenzhen Institute 
of Data Economy, Shenzhen Institute of Artificial Intelligence and 
Robotics for Society, and ESG Future Foundation in June 2022.

• Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (“DJSI”) – MTR has been a 
constituent of the DJSI Asia Pacific since 2013 and was once 
again included in S&P Global's The Sustainability Yearbook 2023 
for the fourth consecutive year, which includes the top 15% of 
companies for each industry that achieved a score within 30% of 
the industry’s top performing company. 

• MSCI ESG Leaders Indexes – On a scale of AAA-CCC, MTR has 
consistently achieved a AAA rating in the MSCI ESG Ratings 
assessment since 2015.

• FTSE4Good Index Series – MTR has been a 
constituent of this index since 2002. 
 
 
Note 

• ISS ESG Corporate Rating – MTR achieved 
a “Prime Status” indicating that our ESG 
performance fulfils ISS’ demanding ESG 
requirements in our sector.

Disclaimer Disclaimer

https://www.mtr.com.hk/sustainability/assets/pdf/en/2022/FTSE4Good_Note.pdf
https://www.mtr.com.hk/sustainability/assets/pdf/en/2022/MSCI_Disclaimer.pdf
https://www.mtr.com.hk/sustainability/assets/pdf/en/2022/MSCI_ESG_Disclaimer.pdf


About MTR

Sustainability Report 2022

14

A robust and sound governance framework is a cornerstone to 
ensure the Corporation is managed properly and safeguards the 
interests of our shareholders and stakeholders while attaining long 
term sustainable growth. The Board of Directors is the highest 
governing body in the Corporation. Led by the Chairman of the 
Corporation, the Board is responsible for overseeing the overall 
management of the Corporation’s business. In February 2022, we 
further strengthened our governance efforts by implementing a 
new Board Committee structure designed to optimise the decision-
making processes of the Board and help achieve the governance 
goals set out in our Corporate Strategy. Under the new structure, 
the Board comprises six Board Committees and an Advisory Panel to 
oversee and provide advice on different aspects of the Corporation’s 
affairs, including:

• Audit & Risk Committee;

• Capital Works Committee;

• Environmental & Social Responsibility Committee;

• Nominations Committee;

• Remuneration Committee;

• Finance & Investment Committee; and

• Technology Advisory Panel. 

Please refer to our Annual Report for more details on our corporate 
governance.

Our corporate governance framework supports our environmental, 
social and governance (“ESG”) initiatives while ensuring ethical 
and transparent business operations. The Board has the overall 
responsibility for ensuring that the Corporation’s governance 
framework enables it to oversee and address environmental and 
social issues that are material to the operations and businesses of the 
Corporation. The Board-level Environmental & Social Responsibility 
Commit tee (“E&SRC” )  provides s trategic oversight of  the 
Corporation’s environmental and social strategy and investments. 
The Committee is also responsible for tracking performance against 
the Corporation’s environmental and social key performance 
indicators (“KPIs”) and reporting to the Board on these issues. Led 
by the Chairman of the Corporation, the Committee meets twice 
annually to monitor and oversee the Corporation’s sustainability 
performance, the related frameworks and initiatives, and the 
progress of relevant KPIs. 

At the management level, the Environmental & Social Responsibility 
Steering Committee (“E&SRSC”) focuses on driving and reviewing the 
implementation of sustainability initiatives across all MTR business 
units and corporate functions. Chaired by the Legal and Governance 
Director, the E&SRSC meets four times every year and is attended 
by Executive Directors and senior managers representing all major 
business units and corporate functions. Details of the board-level 
E&SRC and E&SRSC including their compositions are available on our 
Website.

We identify, evaluate and prioritise issues which ref lect the 
Corporation’s significant economic, environmental and social 
impacts through the annual stakeholder-driven materiality 
assessment process. 

The Corporation’s Enterprise Risk Management (“ERM”) framework 
provides an effective management process to identify and review 
risks, including sustainability-related risks, across all business units 
and corporate functions as well as prioritising resources to manage 
any emerging risks on a systematic manner. The Enterprise Risk 
Committee, the Executive Committee and the board-level Audit & 
Risk Committee regularly review the Corporation’s enterprise risk 
profile and brainstorm key emerging risks to ensure that key risks 
and those cutting across different areas of the business are captured 
and properly addressed.

Sustainability Governance

Approach to the Prioritisation and Risk Management of 
Sustainability-related Issues

Corporate Governance Board’s Statement Regarding Sustainability 
Matters

https://www.mtr.com.hk/en/corporate/investor/financialinfo.html#02
https://www.mtr.com.hk/sustainability/en/corporate-governance.html
https://www.mtr.com.hk/sustainability/en/materiality-assessment.html
https://www.mtr.com.hk/sustainability/en/materiality-assessment.html


About MTR

Sustainability Report 2022

15

The Corporation is committed to the highest standards of openness, 
probity and accountability. Our Code of Conduct clearly sets 
out the expectations of ethical behaviour along with cautionary 
warnings relating to open and fair competition. In all works involving 
the bidding for work and partnering with suppliers or customers, 
we follow the applicable laws concerning competition in each 
jurisdiction we operate. The Code of Conduct is reviewed and 
updated periodically to ensure its appropriateness and compliance 
with the corporate and regulatory requirements. To foster a more 
inclusive workforce, we have reviewed the diversity, equity and 
inclusion (“DEI”) clauses in the Code of Conduct and the revised 
version was released in February 2022.

All employees are required to complete mandatory online training 
programmes to ensure thorough understanding of the Code of 
Conduct and relevant legislations. New recruits are briefed on the 
Code of Conduct as part of the corporate induction workshop, 
and are required to complete the same mandatory online training 
programmes within three months of joining the Corporation. In 
addition to the mandatory online training programmes, we organise 

regular staff awareness programmes and ethical seminars featuring 
speakers from the Hong Kong Independent Commission Against 
Corruption ("ICAC”) to clarify key sections of the Prevention of Bribery 
Ordinance and explain the most current anti-corruption measures. 
In 2022, our staff has attended around 700 hours anti-corruption 
training through corporate induction workshops and webinars.

This year, our Learning and Development Department (“L&DD”) 
organised various webinars related to ethics and integrity to 
reinforce awareness and refresh knowledge of staff, including:

• Preventing and Handling Sexual  Harassment by Equal 
Opportunities Commission (“EOC”);

• Understanding Anti-discrimination Ordinances in Hong Kong by 
EOC;

• Understanding Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance by The Office 
of the Privacy Commissioner for Personal Data Hong Kong; and

• Understanding Prevention of Bribery Ordinance by ICAC.

The Corporation has a Whistle-blowing Policy in place to provide 
a confidential channel to receive complaints to fraudulent acts, 
unethical acts or actual or potential non-compliances with laws 
and/or the Corporation’s policies without fear of victimisation, 
discrimination or disadvantage. The Policy is posted on the 
Corporation’s website and applies to all internal and external 
stakeholders. In 2022, the Whistle-blowing Panel evaluated 186 
cases. Of those cases, 149 did not meet the definition of “whistle-
blowing”. Investigations of 32 instances were completed resulting 
in 12 substantiated cases, 2 partially substantiated cases and 18 
unsubstantiated cases. As at 31 December 2022, 5 incidents are 
still under investigation. Appropriate follow-up actions have been 
taken by management in response to the substantiated and partially 
substantiated cases.

Ethics and Integrity

https://www.mtr.com.hk/archive/corporate/en/publications/images/codeofconduct.pdf
https://www.mtr.com.hk/archive/corporate/en/investor/e_Whistle-blowing_Policy.pdf
https://www.mtr.com.hk/archive/corporate/en/investor/e_Whistle-blowing_Policy.pdf


About MTR

Sustainability Report 2022

16

Economic Value Generated and Distributed

MTR’s income is primarily generated from fares, and we follow 
a transparent Fare Adjustment Mechanism for fair and objective 
annual-fare adjustments which ensure affordable services for 
all passengers. Supplementing our fare revenue is the capital 
generated from our “Rail plus Property” (“R+P”) model which brings 
significant benefits in optimising the integration between our 
property development and rail expansion. Funds generated from 
property development are used to support railway operations and 
help bridge the funding gaps when building new railway lines. 

The economic value we create is shared with our diverse 
stakeholders including employees, suppliers and business partners, 
lenders, governments, other shareholders, and the community. 

Notes
1. Includes share of profit of associates and joint ventures. 
2. Before taking into account staff costs of HK$10 million.
3. Excludes staff costs related to Hong Kong railway system maintenance of HK$2,477 million, capitalised for asset creation of HK$2,168 million and recoverable of HK$606 million.
4. For simplicity reason, other operating costs include interest income, netted with non-controlling interests. Excludes operating costs related to Hong Kong railway system 

maintenance of HK$2,511 million.
5. Excludes interest expenses capitalised for asset creation of HK$356 million.
6. Represents current tax and excludes deferred tax for the year.
7. Includes donations, sponsorships and other community engagement contributions, and excludes in-kind donations of HK$29 million given. In addition, there were (i) ongoing fare 

concessions of approximately HK$2.1 billion, (ii) other fare promotions, and (iii) rental concessions granted to station and mall tenants that have not been accounted for in this amount.
8. Economic value retained for reinvestment to generate future economic values. This represents underlying business profit attributable to shareholders of the Company (before 

depreciation, amortisation, impairment loss and deferred tax) for the year retained, after the amounts distributed to our stakeholders and invested in maintenance, upgrade and 
renewal of our Hong Kong railway system.

Financial Sustainability Value Added and Distribution Statement in 2022 (HK$ Million) 

Community Investment 7 Community

25

Staff Costs 3

Capital and Operating Expenditures 
in Maintaining, Upgrading and 
Renewing the Existing Hong Kong 
Railway System

Interest and Finance Costs 5

Economic Value Retained for Reinvestment 8

Ordinary Dividends

Other Operating Costs 4

Fixed and Variable 
Annual Payments

Employees 

15,683

Existing Hong Kong 
Railway System 

12,358

KCRC 

1,073

Lenders

699

HKSAR Government

6,673 
Other Shareholders

2,248

Suppliers & Business 
Partners

19,062

Total: 60,506Total: 60,506

Economic Value Distributed 

1,283 

Taxes 6
Governments 

1,402

59,223

Economic Value Generated

Revenue from Hong Kong 
Transport Operations 

13,404

Revenue from Hong Kong 
Station Commercial Businesses 

3,077

Revenue from  
Hong Kong Property Rental and 
Management Businesses 

4,779

Revenue from Mainland China 
and International Subsidiaries 

26,189

Revenue from Other Businesses 1

1,458

Hong Kong Property 
Development Profit from Share 
of Surplus and Interest in Unsold 
Properties 2

11,599

Sustainable Finance
Since 2016, MTR has raised sustainable finance of more than HK$ 32 
billion, which was a key part of our financing strategy for funding 
railway asset replacement, energy efficiency improvement and 
railway service enhancement projects. 

In 2022 sustainable finance totalling HK$ 2.8 billion was arranged to 
fund projects for energy conservation, environmental protection, as 
well as enhancement and expansion of low-carbon railway services. 

For details of our Sustainable Finance Framework, the eligible 
projects and their respective emission reduction impact estimation, 
please refer to our Website. 

https://www.mtr.com.hk/sustainability/en/sustainable-investment.html


About MTR

Sustainability Report 2022

17

ESG Fund
To support the three Environmental and Social Objectives (“E&SO”) 
and the achievement of the associated KPIs, we have formulated an 
ESG Investment Framework to institutionalise environmental and 
social principles into the Corporation’s investment decision making 
process and to provide funding for business units and corporate 
functions for eligible ESG projects. The Framework enables us to 
make ESG a key consideration in our overall financial investment 
decision making process and to allocate financial resources to 
suitable ESG initiatives effectively. The E&SRSC is responsible for the 
oversight and implementation of the ESG Investment Framework.

A designated ESG Fund will be allocated annually by the MTR 
Board to support eligible ESG projects. This Fund will be separated 
to the annual operational and capital expenditure budget (which 
includes funding for many larger scale projects with environmental 
benefits, such as our asset replacement projects or our network 
enhancements) and will be used to finance unbudgeted ESG 
projects which may not have a viable financial business case or 
to fund the incremental cost of a budgeted item that requires 
additional investment to enhance its ESG performance. All eligible 
projects will be evaluated and assessed using environmental and 
social scorecards by the E&SRSC. The criteria in the scorecards will 
be reviewed periodically to ensure that they are fit-for-purpose. The 

first round of ESG Funding applications (including projects such as 
purchasing e-buses and installing the charging facilities, installing 
a rainwater harvesting system in an existing mall, developing the 
Social Inclusion App, organising the Social Inclusion Week and 
supporting the Legacy Train Revitalisation Programme) were 
approved in October 2022. The progress and outcomes of the 
approved ESG projects will be reported to the E&SRSC and the 
board-level E&SRC regularly.



Sustainability Report 2022

18

MTR’S ENVIRONMENTAL AND 
SOCIAL OBJECTIVES

3
Environmental and 
Social Objectives

21
key performance indicators 

achieved in 2022

44
key performance 

indicators developed 
for 2023 and beyond

In This Chapter:

GRI: 102-1, 102-2, 102-3, 102-4, 102-5, 102-6, 102-7, 102-11, 102-16, 102-18, 102-20, 201-1

HKEX: MDR-Governance Structure, GD-B7, KPI B7.2, KPI B7.3

On MTR Sustainability Website:
Read our Management Approach

 › Corporate Governance

 › Risk Management

 › Financial Sustainability

 › Sustainable Investment

Our Policies and Standards

 › Board Diversity Policy

 › Code of Conduct

 › Corporate Responsibility Policy

 › MTR Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking 
Statement

 › Sustainable Finance Framework

 › Whistle-blowing Policy

https://www.mtr.com.hk/sustainability/en/corporate-governance.html
https://www.mtr.com.hk/sustainability/en/corporate-governance.html
https://www.mtr.com.hk/sustainability/en/financial-sustainability.html
https://www.mtr.com.hk/sustainability/en/sustainable-investment.html
https://www.mtr.com.hk/archive/corporate/en/investor/e_Board_Diversity_Policy.pdf
https://www.mtr.com.hk/archive/corporate/en/publications/images/codeofconduct.pdf
https://www.mtr.com.hk/archive/corporate/en/mtr_corporation_corporate_responsibility_policy_eng.pdf
https://www.mtr.com.hk/archive/corporate/en/SHQ2311C17120710330.pdf
https://www.mtr.com.hk/archive/corporate/en/SHQ2311C17120710330.pdf
https://www.mtr.com.hk/sustainability/assets/pdf/en/Sustainable_Finance_Framework.pdf
https://www.mtr.com.hk/archive/corporate/en/investor/e_Whistle-blowing_Policy.pdf


Mtr’s Environmental and Social Objectives

Sustainability Report 2022

19

With our corporate purpose being to “Keep Cities Moving”, we strive to connect and grow communities 
with inclusive, innovative and sustainable services and have set forth three environmental and social 
objectives (“E&SO”) which are both material to our business and to society: (1) fostering social inclusion, 
(2) providing opportunities to empower people and communities, and (3) reducing greenhouse gas 
emissions. Under these three E&SO, we have clearly defined 10 focus areas and a set of key performance 

indicators (“KPIs”) that will concentrate our efforts in the areas in which we can create a greater impact 
for society. They illustrate our approach to further embedding environmental and social principles within 
the Corporation to ensure that we deliver value for all of our stakeholders. We will continue to implement 
relevant initiatives to advance our E&SO and will regularly review our progress and performance and 
communicate with stakeholders through our annual sustainability report.

We commit to helping employees grow 
personally and professionally through 
learning and opportunities for career 
advancement, and to fostering their well-
being.

W e  c o m m i t  t o  e n h a n c i n g  a n d 
rewarding the environmental, social and 
governance (“ESG”) performance of our 
supply chain and increasing our spend 
on green procurement.

We commit to collaborating with local 
schools and universit ies ,  as well  as 
startups and the technology ecosystem 
to foster innovation.

Employees Business Partners Future Skills & 
Innovation

As a provider of public transport services for all, 
social inclusion lies at the very heart of who we are 
and what we do.

Social Inclusion
Environmental and Social Objective 1:

As we fulfil our vision to connect and grow 
communities, we create opportunities for others to 
develop themselves and grow alongside us. 

Advancement & 
Opportunities

Environmental and Social Objective 2:

As a low-carbon transpor t provider, we are 
commit ted to managing our environmental 
footprint and achieving carbon neutrality.

Greenhouse Gas Emissions 
Reduction

Environmental and Social Objective 3:

We commit to providing access to a safe, 
af fordable, accessible and sustainable 
transport system for all and ensuring our 
fare and other concessions target those 
who need them the most.

We commit to eliminating discrimination 
in our practices and policies and to 
increasing the diversity of our workforce.

We commit to helping excluded and 
underserved populations access their fair 
share of opportunity.

Universal Basic 
Mobility

Diversity & 
Inclusion

Equal 
Opportunities

We commit to integrating low-carbon measures into our 
policies, strategies and planning as well as strengthening our 
resilience and adaptation to climate-related risks

We commit to adopting suitable energy efficiency measures 
in our operations and increasing the generation of renewable 
energy

Carbon Emissions Clean Energy & 
Energy Efficiency

We commit to reducing waste at source, increasing our 
recycling rates and upcycling our waste

We commit to developing sustainable infrastructure with 
increased resource-use efficiency and greater adoption of clean 
and environmentally sound technologies

Waste Management Green and Low-carbon 
Designs



Mtr’s Environmental and Social Objectives

Sustainability Report 2022

20

In 2022, we developed a set of 35 KPIs, consisting of short-, medium- and long-term initiatives, to gauge and drive our performance under the three E&SO. Most of the KPIs have either been achieved or are on track to 
being achieved and only one KPI failed to be met. Our performance against these KPIs is detailed below.

KPIs Status Remarks

Objective 1: Social Inclusion

Universal Basic Mobility

A Social Inclusion App to better serve the needs of elderly and Persons with Disabilities (“PwD”) will 
be launched in 2022

Achieved The “MTR．Care” app was launched in November 2022.

10 key initiatives to improve age- and PwD-friendly facilities in our existing stations will be 
implemented in 2022

Achieved Ten initiatives were implemented such as charging spot for powered wheelchair at Kowloon 
Tong Station, new vertical lifting platform for wheelchair users at Tin Hau Station, new 
washroom at Tsim Sha Tsui Station, and new seats added to 19 bus shelters for MTR Bus.

No less than 750,000 average daily passenger trips will benefit from fare concessions in 2022 Achieved About 993,000 average daily passenger trips benefited.

Injuries requiring hospitalisation per 100 million passenger journeys in 2022
• Heavy Rail: 5.67
• Light Rail: 8.38
• Bus: 6.85

Fell short  
(Heavy Rail Injury rate)

Achieved  
(Light Rail and Bus)

The injury rate for heavy rail was 6.50 in 2022. Most of the injuries were related to escalator 
accidents and slips, trips and falls that involved elderly. Actions taken such as conducted 
trial of reducing escalator speed, posted giant wall stickers on escalator safety, and 
broadcast safety messages through PA systems at stations.

100% of our new stations will be accessible (including barrier free entrances, wide gates, accessible 
toilet and baby care room)

On track Our new Exhibition Centre Station has installed all the accessibility facilities. 

Diversity & Inclusion

25% of our Board of Directors will be women by 2025 On track 21% female Board of Directors as at end-2022.

3 initiatives aimed at enhancing workforce diversity will be carried out in collaboration with NGOs  
in 2022

Achieved Three internship or traineeship programmes in collaboration with The Hong Kong Council 
of Social Service and The Zubin Foundation were carried out. A total of 12 candidates either 
with special educational needs or ethnically diverse background joined the programmes. 

70 diversity, equity and inclusion (“DEI”) training events for staff will be held in 2022 Achieved Over 230 DEI training events were held.

8% of our summer interns will be ethnic minorities or PwD in 2022 Achieved 9% of summer interns were ethnic minorities or PwD.

Workplace inclusiveness will be enhanced in 2022 Achieved A women’s network was established in September 2022 – subsequently renamed to a 
Gender Equity Network in March 2023. 
The language requirements for over 10 job advertisements were reviewed. 
The accessibility facilities in office buildings were reviewed through a consultancy study. 

DEI clauses in our Code of Conduct and Equal Opportunities Policy will be reviewed in 2022 Achieved The revised Code of Conduct was released in February 2022.

Equal Opportunities

HK$100 million will be spent on direct local community investment and donations from 2022 to 2025 On track Around HK$25 million were spent in 2022.

200,000 people will benefit from our community programmes and volunteering projects from 2022 to 2025 On track Over 59,000 people benefited in 2022.



Mtr’s Environmental and Social Objectives

Sustainability Report 2022

21

KPIs Status Remarks

Objective 2: Advancement & Opportunities

Employees

At least 5 learning days will be provided to employees on average every year Achieved Over 5 learning days were provided for employees on average in 2022.

200+ employment and pre-employment opportunities will be provided for young talents in 2022 Achieved Around 360 employment and pre-employment opportunities were provided.

Business Partners

HK$250 million will be spent on green procurement in 2025, rising to HK$350 million in 2030 On track Over HK$110 million were spent in 2022.

50+ key suppliers will attend training sessions on ESG best practices in 2022 Achieved A webinar was held in October 2022 attended by representatives from 57 key suppliers. 
Positive feedback on enhancing understanding of ESG was received.

Major contracts for New Railway Projects – an incentive scheme to measure and reward 
environmental and safety performance will be established by 2022

Achieved An incentive scheme encouraging the achievement of safety and environmental targets 
has been incorporated in the Tender Documents for major new railway contracts. 

A system to track spend with small and medium sized enterprises will be established in 2022 Achieved A system was established to identify the number of local SMEs in our database and review 
the current expenditure with them so as to explore ways to increase opportunities to local 
SMEs. 

Future Skills & Innovation

50,000+ people will benefit from our future skills and innovation programmes (including those by 
MTR Academy) from 2022 to 2025

On track Over 5,000 people benefited in 2022.

HK$300 million+ will be invested in startups from 2022 to 2025 On track Invested around HK$100 million in startups focusing on smart city technologies in 2022.



Mtr’s Environmental and Social Objectives

Sustainability Report 2022

22

KPIs Status Remarks

Objective 3: Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction

Carbon Emissions

Set 2030 science-based targets for our railway and property businesses in Hong Kong Achieved Targets have been submitted to and are being validated by the SBTi.

200+ additional EV charging stations will be installed across office buildings, malls and station 
carparks by 2025

On track Installed 40 EV charging stations in 2022.

50,000+ people will actively participate in our low-carbon initiatives in 2022 Achieved Over 50,000 people participated in our waste reduction, recycling and water saving 
initiatives as well as installing Carbon Wallet to adopt a low-carbon lifestyle.

Strive to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050 On track Our first step towards carbon neutrality will be to achieve our 2030 science-based targets.

Clean Energy & Energy Efficiency

1 million kWh of renewable energy will be generated by 2023 On track Around 160,000 kWh generated in 2022. Installation works at Pat Heung Depot, Chai Wan 
Depot, Sunny Bay Station and Siu Hong Station are underway.

100% shopping malls will engage tenants in energy-saving initiatives in 2022 Achieved All shopping malls have engaged tenants in energy-saving initiatives such as reduced 
shopfront lighting hours in Elements and encouraged tenants to join “Earth Hour”. 

A building energy management system will be piloted in our stations/ shopping malls in 2022 Achieved The pilot project is being conducted at Elements to develop an integrated AI solution 
combining system energy efficiency and occupancy monitoring. 

Waste Management

60% of our staff canteens will send food waste to O•PARK for treatment in 2022 Achieved All staff canteens are sending food waste to O•PARK.

25% of our shopping mall food & beverage tenants will join our food waste reduction programme in 
2022

Achieved 25% of our shopping mall F&B tenants joined our programme.

5 additional water dispensers will be installed in our stations in 2022 Achieved 6 additional water dispensers were installed at Tsing Yi, Diamond Hill, Chai Wan, Hang Hau, 
Austin and Tai Shui Hang stations. 

Green and Low-carbon Designs

1,400+ more bike parking spaces will be provided around properties managed by MTR by 2025 
(compared with 2020)

On track 720 additional bike parking spaces were provided in 2021 and 2022.

2.5% water will be saved in depots in 2022 with 2021 level as baseline Achieved Over 2.5% of water was saved.

2% water will be saved in 2022 with 2018 level as baseline for our shopping malls; rising to 5% 
reduction in 2025

On track Over 2% of water was saved in 2022.

100% future new stations & new residential development projects aim to attain BEAM Plus Gold or 
above certification

On track Tung Chung East and Tung Chung West stations have achieved BEAM Plus Provisional 
Gold certifications.



Mtr’s Environmental and Social Objectives

Sustainability Report 2022

23

This year, we have identified a new set of KPIs to continue our efforts to drive the three E&SO. Both new and on-going KPIs are listed below. 

Social Inclusion
Environmental and Social Objective 1:

Universal Basic Mobility Diversity & Inclusion

Short- and Mid-term KPIs:

• Launch of Social Inclusion App Phase 2 
with the expansion of Visually Impaired function in 

2023 and complete by 2025

• Continuous enhancements (1-2) in each 
identified area (accessibility / mobility / visibility) for 

passenger groups with special needs in 2023

• No less than 1 million average daily 
passenger trips will  benef it  f rom fare 
concessions in 2023

• Injuries requiring hospitalisation per 
100 million passenger journeys in 2023

Long-term KPI:

• 100% of our new stations will be accessible 
(including barr ier f ree entrances,  wide gates, 
accessible toilet and baby care room)

Heavy Rail
≤ 5.65

Light Rail
≤ 7.31

Bus
≤ 5.83

Short- and Mid-term KPIs:

• 25% of our Board of Directors will be women by 
2025

• 8 secondary schools with diverse 
student bodies will be reached out for career 
sharing/job shadowing in 2023

• A diversity, equity and inclusion 
(“DEI”) workshop for all Executives will be 
conducted in 2023

• 150 DEI training events for staff will be 
held in 2023

• An internship programme for 10 students 

who are Persons with Disabilities (PwD) 

or ethnically diverse will be launched in 2023

• 10% of our interns will be PwD or ethnically 
diverse in 2023

• Workplace inclusiveness will be enhanced 
in 2023 through:  
(1) Conducting a corporate-wide survey on DEI, and   
(2) Reviewing recruitment requirement

Equal Opportunities

Short- and Mid-term KPIs:

• HK$100 million  will  be spent on direct 

local community investment and 
donations from 2022 to 2025

• 200,000 people  will benefit  from our 
community programmes and volunteering projects 
from 2022 to 2025



Mtr’s Environmental and Social Objectives

Sustainability Report 2022

24

Advancement & Opportunities

Employees Business Partners

Short- and Mid-term KPIs:

• At least 5 learning days will be provided to 
employee on average every year

• 2 0 0 +  e m p l o y m e n t  a n d  p r e -
employment opportunities will be 
provided for young talents in 2023

• At least 10 wellness related activities/
events will be organised for employees in 2023

• Over 75% of our managed residential 
properties will sign the Heart Caring 
Charter and organise wellness activities 
to promote healthy lifestyles for employees by 2024

Short- and Mid-term KPIs:

• HK$250 million will be spent on green 
procurement in 2025; rising to HK$350 
million in 2030

• 60+ suppliers will attend training sessions on 
ESG best practices in 2023

• 15 supplier review audits  wi l l  be 
completed in 2023

• At least 15 supplier review meetings will 
cover ESG in 2023 

• Up to 55% increase in number of registered 
SMEs in the supplier database in 2023

Future Skills & Innovation

Short- and Mid-term KPIs:

• 50,000+ people will benefit from our future 
skills and innovation programmes 
(including those by MTR Academy) from 2022 to 2025

• HK$300 million+ will be invested in 
startups from 2022 to 2025

Environmental and Social Objective 2:



Mtr’s Environmental and Social Objectives

Sustainability Report 2022

25

Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction

Carbon Emissions

Waste Management Green and Low-carbon Designs

Clean Energy & Energy Efficiency

• Science-based Targets for 
2030

• 200+ additional EV charging 
stations will be installed across office 
buildings, malls and station carparks by 
2025

• At least 30 e-buses will be introduced 
by 2026

• 50% of executive private vehicles will be 

replaced by EV or be cancelled by 2024

• Develop a pilot battery energy 
storage system  for our diesel 
engineering wagons by 2024

Long-term KPI:

• Strive to achieve carbon neutrality 

by 2050

• Over 75% of our managed 
residential properties will collect 

glass containers for recycling in 
2023

• 100% shopping malls will collect 

glass containers for recycling in 
2023

• 8 additional water dispensers 
will be installed across stations in 2023-2024

Short- and Mid-term KPIs:

• 1,400+ more bike parking 
spaces will be provided around stations 
and properties managed by MTR by 2025

• 2.5% water will be saved in depots 
in 2023 with 2022 level as baseline

• 5% water will be saved in 2025 with 

2018 level as baseline for our shopping 
malls 

Long-term KPI:

• 100% future new stations & 
new residential development 
projects will aim to attain BEAM 
Plus Gold or above certification

• 1 million kWh of renewable 
energy will be generated by 2023

• 20% chiller energy saving 

expected after completing Batch 2 
chiller replacement project 
in our stations by 2026 

• Around 20% chiller energy 
saving  expected after completing 

c h i l l e r  r e p l a c e m e n t 
programme in Headquarters in 2024 
as compared with 2019

• Over 70% of our managed 
residential properties  will 

conduct energy audit  for the 
common areas and develop energy 
saving plan by 2025

• 100% existing shopping 
malls  (with full operation in 2022) 

will complete energy audit  for 
the common areas and develop energy 
saving plan by 2025

• Conduct a pilot programme 
in  a  shopping mal l  to engage and 

assist tenants in identifying energy 
saving measures in 2023

Short- and Mid-term KPIs:

Short- and Mid-term KPIs:

Short- and Mid-term KPIs:

Environmental and Social Objective 3:



Sustainability Report 2022

26

PROMOTING 
SOCIAL INCLUSION

In This Chapter:

GRI: 2-7, 203-1, 203-2, 403-1, 403-2, 403-3, 
403-5, 403-6, 403-7, 403-8, 403-9, 403-10, 405-1, 
413-1, 413-2, 416-1, 416-2 

HKEX: GD-B1, GD-B2, GD-B6, GD-B8, KPI B1.1, 
KPI B2.1, KPI B2.2, KPI B2.3, KPI B8.1, KPI B8.2 

On MTR Sustainability Website:
Read our Management Approach

 › Customer Services

 › Social Inclusion

 › Advancement & Opportunities

Our Policies and Standards

 › Corporate Safety Policy

 › Customer Service Pledge

 › Caring for our Customers with Special Needs 
Booklet

 › Board Diversity Policy

 › Code of Conduct

 › Corporate Responsibility Policy

SDGs:

MTR · Care app 
 launched

Over 3,000 staff 
participated in the 

Social Inclusion Week

HK$25 Million
community investment 

spent in 2022

https://www.mtr.com.hk/sustainability/en/customer-services.html
https://www.mtr.com.hk/sustainability/en/social-inclusion.html
https://www.mtr.com.hk/sustainability/en/advancement-opportunities.html
https://www.mtr.com.hk/sustainability/assets/pdf/en/corporate-safety-policy.pdf
https://www.mtr.com.hk/en/customer/main/more_our_service_performance.html
https://www.mtr.com.hk/archive/ch/services/caring_for_our_customer_booklet.pdf
https://www.mtr.com.hk/archive/ch/services/caring_for_our_customer_booklet.pdf
https://www.mtr.com.hk/archive/corporate/en/investor/e_Board_Diversity_Policy.pdf
https://www.mtr.com.hk/archive/corporate/en/publications/images/codeofconduct.pdf
https://www.mtr.com.hk/archive/corporate/en/mtr_corporation_corporate_responsibility_policy_eng.pdf


Promoting Social Inclusion

Sustainability Report 2022

27

As a provider of public transport services for all, social inclusion lies 
at the very heart of who we are and what we do.

We are committed to providing access to a safe, af fordable, 
accessible and sustainable transport system for all and ensuring our 
fare and other concessions target those who need them the most.

Universal Basic Mobility

Safety of our employees, passengers, customers, tenants, contractors 
and business par tners is an uncompromising pre-requisite 
underlying all aspects of our business. It is the responsibility and 
duty of all of our staff and should be always foremost in everything 
we do. We are committed to complying with all applicable statutory 
requirements, upholding a safety-first culture, and adopting 
management systems to achieve the Corporation’s safety goals to 
continuously improving our safety performance. 

Safety First

Our Corporate Safety Policy, together with the Corporate Safety 
Governance Management, outline our safety management approach 
and objectives. In addition, the Corporate Safety Management 
Model lays down appropriate safety management processes and 
systems across eight core elements, constituting an effective and 
robust system bespoke to our operations, which can further support 
our approach to ensuring safety in all of our operations. We review 
and formulate a Corporate Strategic Safety Plan every four years to 
ensure our safety strategy is up-to-date and aligns with the latest 
global trends and best industry practices. Launched in 2021, the 
latest 4-year Corporate Strategic Safety Plan (“the Plan”) sets out 
our path in safety under the “Transforming the Future” Corporate 
Strategy and promotes the aspiration of “Everyone is a safety leader” 
with an aim to achieve zero harm to all stakeholders. Stressing on 
safety is everyone’s responsibility with the importance of teamwork, 
the Plan lists out the Strategic Focus Areas to guide our safety 
practices and drive safety improvement across all our businesses in 
Hong Kong, Mainland China and abroad. 

Managing Safety

Corporate Strategic Safety Plan 2021-2024

are our desired states in the long run

Safety Aspirations

A1 Everyone is a safety leader

A2 The Corporation is a global  
 model in safety management

Safety Goals

G1 Zero fatalities every year

G2 Zero major safety system  
 incidents every year

G3 Reduction in injuries on our  
 journey to zero injury

G4 Zero convictions for safety offences 

G5 Targets of all safety performance
 leading indicators achieved
 

are objective, measurable, and tangible targets to achieve over the next four years, 
guiding us towards our Safety Aspirations 

Strategic Focus Areas
direct our efforts over the next four years to where we should give higher priority in order to achieve the defined Safety Goals

S1 Cultivate a safety-first mindset

S2 Develop competency and training 

S3 Foster an open safety reporting   
 culture and a "Just Culture" 

S4 Enhance physical and mental health  
 and well-being of the workforce 

People

S5 Improve efficiency and effectiveness  
 in safety management

S6 Apply innovation and technology to  
 drive performance

Management Systems

S7 Identify hazards and control risks 
 proactively and persistently 

S8 Strengthen three lines of defence 
 in safety 

Resilience

https://www.mtr.com.hk/sustainability/assets/pdf/en/corporate-safety-policy.pdf


Promoting Social Inclusion

Sustainability Report 2022

28

In 2022, we expanded our traditional “Safety Month” to a year-
long “Corporate Safety Campaign” to further strengthen the safety 
culture across the Corporation on an ongoing basis. The “Corporate 
Safety Campaign Launch Ceremony 2022” was held in June in a 
hybrid format to enable local and overseas staff to participate. The 
Campaign included a series of activities such as a Safety and Health 
Online Quiz, a Global Safety Hackathon, a drawing and colouring 
competition and a Safety Hero Award Scheme, together with a 
Global Safety & Health Conference to conclude the Campaign.

Global Safety Hackathon 2022

As part of the Corporate Safety Campaign, a three-day 
Global Safety Hackathon 2022 was organised to engage 
creative minds across the Corporation to think of solutions 
to enhance safety performance, as well as fostering the 
exchange of knowledge and ideas on safety among our 
operations globally. With over 700 on-site and online 
attendees, the Hackathon focuses on addressing three main 
safety challenges: fatality reduction, human factors and well-
being at work. 

A total of nine teams from different business units globally 
participated in the Hackathon to bring up innovative 
solutions to further enhance the Corporation’s safety 
performance in the three focus areas. A judging panel 
with members including our Chief Executive Officer was 
formed to select the winning team. With the suggestion of 
an innovative approach to human factors safety training, 
Shenzhen MTR was selected as the champion team. They 
have created an educational system map containing past 
human factor incident information. Staff can learn about 
what human factors incidents had been occurred in each 
station by reading the texts, watching the videos and 
pictures, and listening to the voiceover from the map, 
making the training more interactive and interesting.

We are committed to providing a safe and hygienic railway service 
to keep our city moving.

Throughout the COVID-19 outbreak, we have implemented a wide 
range of preventive measures to ensure the sanitary conditions 
of our trains, stations and facilities. To keep our stations safe and 
hygienic, we have deployed 95 “Little Whale” and “Big Whale” 
cleaning robots to conduct deep cleaning and decontamination in 
stations. In virtue of the adoption of robotic cleaning technologies, 
social distancing could be maintained and the risk of exposure of our 
passengers and cleansing staff to the virus could be greatly reduced.

In addition, we set up a Community Vaccination Centre in Tsing Yi 
Station in March 2022, providing convenience to the public in the 
vicinity to make a booking for vaccination. Aiming at supporting 
the Government’s plan to boost the vaccination rate in Hong Kong, 
the Community Vaccination Centre was located in the unpaid 
area of Tsing Yi Station and could be easily accessed by MTR and 
other modes of transport. To facilitate the operations of the centre, 
additional cleaning and disinfection have been carried out while 
routine cleaning and disinfection works were also strengthened. 

Apart from safeguarding the health of our customers from the 
COVID-19 pandemic, we continue to emphasise the importance 
of operational safety throughout all levels of the Corporation. We 
work to instil an uncompromising safety-first culture within MTR and 
provide our staff with proper training and hardware to ensure that 
they have the knowledge and skills to perform their daily duties with 
passenger safety in mind.

To strengthen the protection of passengers who may experience 
cardiac arrest, we have installed around 300 Automated External 
Defibrillators (AEDs) at concourses and platforms of all heavy 
rail stations and Hong Kong West Kowloon Station of the High-
Speed Rail (Hong Kong Section). This allows our staff and members 
of public to provide timely response with accessible devices in 
emergencies. With the aim to better prepare our staff to assist 
passengers in need during unexpected incidents, we have arranged 
station staff to learn or refresh their knowledge to use AED.

Customer Safety

The Community Vaccination Centre in Tsing Yi Station



Promoting Social Inclusion

Sustainability Report 2022

29

In 2022, MTR recorded 87 injuries requiring hospitalisation, leading to our target of injury rate for heavy rail 
not met. Most of the injuries were related to escalator accidents and slip, trip and fall that involved elderly. 
We have stepped up our efforts to enhance and promote passenger safety at stations, such as:

Our Escalator Safety Task Force continued to promote the importance of riding escalators safely to prevent 
accidents, including opening promotional information booths at stations and launching awareness 
campaigns. We have also organised staff awareness programmes including a 60-day zero escalator 
accident award scheme and enhanced local briefing on escalator safety for our station staff. An Elderly 
Caring Programme will be established to focus on the prevention of elderly accidents. 

We benchmark our heavy rail network in Hong Kong with overseas counterparts through the COMET 
Benchmarking platform against 30 top-level indicators, including Safety and Security. Please refer to 
Performance Benchmarking in our Performance Metrics for further information. 

Road and Track Safety

Number of Customer and Public Injuries 
Requiring Hospitalisation in Hong Kong

Customer and Public Safety –  
Fatalities in Hong Kong

Heavy 
Rail

Light Rail Bus

2020 29 2 2

2021 25 3 3

2022 87 4 1

Heavy 
Rail

Light Rail Bus

2020 1 1 0

2021 0 0 0

2022 1 0 0

Enhancing and promoting escalator safety:

• Conducted trial of reducing escalator speed at 
black spot stations

• Posted giant wall stickers promoting escalator 
safety beside the selected escalators

• Developed newsfeed to promote safet y 
message at black spot stations through MTR 
Mobile

Raising awareness to prevent slip, trip and fall 
at stations:

• Broadcast safety messages through PA systems 
at stations

• Affixed “Mind your step” label on the black spot 
staircases 

• Affixed staircase Nose Tile Yellow Warning label 
at the black spot staircases

Number of Injuries Requiring Hospitalisation per 100 Million Passenger Journeys in Hong Kong

2020 2021 2022

Heavy Rail

Target 7.60 6.64 5.67

Performance 2.51 1.76 6.50

Light Rail

Target 11.67 9.89 8.38

Performance 1.79 2.12 3.04

Bus

Target 6.85 6.85 6.85

Performance 3.99 4.99 1.74

Customer and Public Safety – Fatalities for Operating Locations Other Than Hong Kong

Shenzhen 
Metro 
Line 4

Melbourne’s 
Metropolitan 
Rail Service

Sydney 
Metro 
North 

West Line

Stockholm 
Metro

MTRX
Stockholms 
Pendeltåg

 Mälartåg
Elizabeth 

line

Target 0  0 0 0 0 0 0 0 

Performance 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 

Number of Injuries per Million Passenger Journeys for Operating Locations Other Than  
Hong Kong

Shenzhen 
Metro 
Line 4

Melbourne’s 
Metropolitan 
Rail Service

Sydney 
Metro 
North 

West Line

Stockholm 
Metro

MTRX
Stockholms 
Pendeltåg

 Mälartåg
Elizabeth 

line

Target 1.41 1.66 4.10 1.00 19.00 0.75 0.80 4.17

Performance 0.78 1.54 3.21 1.12 25.73 0.53 0.68 2.04

https://www.mtr.com.hk/sustainability/assets/pdf/en/2022/Performance_Metrics.pdf#page=33


Promoting Social Inclusion

Sustainability Report 2022

30

Two train incidents occurred in the last two months of 2022. 
On 13 November 2022, a Tsuen Wan Line train from Mong Kok 
Station hit a permanent fixed metallic protection barrier on the 
trackside which had dislodged, as it was entering a platform of 
Yau Ma Tei Station. This led to the front wheel axle of the train’s 
first car moving off the rail and two pairs of train doors being 
disengaged. Another incident occurred on 5 December 2022, in 
which a Tseung Kwan O Line train approaching Tseung Kwan O 
Station was brought to a stop by the fault-protection mechanism 
because an abnormal extension of a gangway between two 
train cars was detected. 

The Corporat ion takes these t wo incidents  ser iously. 
Investigation Panels with external experts were set up for the 
two incidents to identify their respective root causes and make 
recommendations for improvement and to avoid recurrence. 
The findings of these investigations were reported to the 
Government.

In relation to the incident at Yau Ma Tei Station, the investigation 
report was made public on 12 January 2023 and the Corporation 
is making every effort to implement the identified improvement 
actions, including the upgrading or replacing of all metallic 
protection barriers of a similar nature, the implementation of 
periodic inspections of all metallic protection barriers, as well 
as the exploration of the use of technology to provide real time 
monitoring and alerts for railway envelope intrusions. Train 
modifications will also be made to ensure effective handling 
of incidents with trains sending direct alert to the Operations 
Control Centre when a detrainment ramp on train is operated.

Regarding the Tseung Kwan O Line incident, the Corporation is 
implementing the recommendations set out in the investigation 
report made public on 3 February 2023. The improvement 
actions include adding extra security to collars of the same  

type for holding energy absorption device within the coupler 
assembly for train fleet, requiring the coupler assembly supplier 
to progressively replace the incident type energy absorption 
device with an enhanced design, and exploring the adoption of 
technology to monitor the operation of these devices between 
overhauls for appropriate preventive maintenance.

In addition, as announced in December 2022 the Corporation 
has committed to undertaking a comprehensive review of its 
overall asset management and maintenance regime, which is 
scheduled to be completed in 2023.

The provision of a safe, reliable and efficient railway service 
for passengers is always our top priority. The Corporation 
will continue to learn from any incidents and to continuously 
enhance our systems, procedures and culture to ensure railway 
safety and eliminate the potential risk of similar incidents.

For details on the investigation of the two incidents and 
improvement actions, please refer to the relevant press releases:

• MTR Fully Implementing Recommendations about Enhanced 
Maintenance Regime and Contingency Arrangement 
following Train Incident at Yau Ma Tei Station

• MTR Fully Implementing Improvement Actions following 
Train Incident on Tseung Kwan O Line

We strive to promote the importance of railway safety to the public 
through different platforms. In July 2022, we hosted the “MTR Safety 
Experience Zone” exhibition booth at the Hong Kong Book Fair. In 
collaboration with People On Board Social Enterprise Limited, the 
booth offered interactive games for visitors to learn more about 
railway safety and courteous behaviour.

Building Safety Awareness in the Community

Mr. Law Ka-Ying acted as a safety ambassador to promote escalator safety in the 
promotional social media video

Train Incidents at Yau Ma Tei Station and on Tseung Kwan O Line

"MTR Safety Experience Zone” exhibition booth at the Hong Kong Book Fair 
in July 2022

During the year, we continued to step up our efforts to promote 
escalator safety messages, including launching related social media 
video to promote escalator safety and enhance public awareness 
while travelling on escalators. 

We also organised various commuter safety programmes for our 
Light Rail operations, including the No Trespassing Education 
Programme and Cyclist Safety Promotion in 2022 to raise road safety 
awareness for commuters and pedestrian.

https://www.mtr.com.hk/archive/corporate/en/press_release/PR-23-004-E.pdf
https://www.mtr.com.hk/archive/corporate/en/press_release/PR-23-004-E.pdf
https://www.mtr.com.hk/archive/corporate/en/press_release/PR-23-004-E.pdf
https://www.mtr.com.hk/archive/corporate/en/press_release/PR-23-007-E.pdf
https://www.mtr.com.hk/archive/corporate/en/press_release/PR-23-007-E.pdf


Promoting Social Inclusion

Sustainability Report 2022

31

To foster a safety-first culture, we actively share safety best practices 
across the Corporation and reinforced the principle with our 
contractors and subcontractors. We strive to minimise or eliminate 
the risk before the commencement of works, where practicable, 
by identifying high risk activities and mitigating them with proper 
method statements as well as implementing risk assessments and 
safety control measures. 

In 2022, 10 Corporate Safety Management Training (“CSMT”) classes 
were held for around 200 newly promoted/ recruited managers 
of different business units in Hong Kong. This training was also 
rolled out to our subsidiaries and associates in Mainland China, 
Macau and overseas. The objectives of the CSMT are to standardise 
the competence training for managers and to promote shared 
safety values and culture across our business units, subsidiaries 
and associates. In addition, two classes of five-day ISO 45001 
Occupational Health and Safety Management System Lead Auditor 
training were held for 20 colleagues to refresh and enhance their 
safety auditing skills. 

In the interest of personal and public health, the Corporation has 
updated the Evolved Measures against COVID-19 with a risk-based 
and phased approach. To protect our staff and passengers, we have 
made MTR a vaccinated workplace by requiring all MTR staff to 
receive two COVID-19 vaccines by the 1st quarter of 2022. We had 
extended the same requirements to the contractors working for our 
railway services and at our investment properties. In addition to an 
extra day of well-being leave, the Corporation also introduced a new 
half-day Childcare Vaccination Leave for employees who need to 
accompany their children aged under 3 to receive the vaccination.

Staff and Contractor Safety

OVERSEAS HIGHLIGHTS

MTR Elizabeth line

To provide a safe and secure environment for passengers and colleagues, MTR Elizabeth line has 
installed enhanced anti-trespass features at its stations including signage in various community 
languages and improved boundary fencing to mitigate the risk of trespass and fatalities on 
the railway. In addition, MTR Elizabeth line has revived security training for staff and enhanced 
the station security inspections. MTR Elizabeth line also works closely with station agency staff 
management team to ensure alignment with MTR security standards. 

Besides, MTR Elizabeth line has run several security, safety and safeguarding campaigns including: 

• Five joint engagements with The Samaritans (a suicide prevention charity) providing 
information on suicide prevention and mental health at stations, such as Ealing Broadway. 
Samaritans staff were able to talk to passengers and provide necessary support;

• Twenty-four customer confidence engagement sessions were conducted to discuss hate crime, 
sexual harassment and safe travel. These sessions were delivered jointly by staff and local 
partners of MTR Elizabeth line, British Transport Police, the Metropolitan Police’s Safer Transport 
Team, the Havering Borough Council Enforcement team, the Greenwich Safer Communities 
Enforcement and ‘Walk it Out’ a women's safety organisation; and 

• Two “Violence Against Women and Girls” engagements were organised with the British 
Transport Police. The engagement included a ‘Walk and Talk’ in the local area promoting 
women’s safety and improved awareness around “Violence Against Women and Girls” with our 
passengers. 

Samaritans staf f provided tips 
on mental health and vulnerable 
customers



Promoting Social Inclusion

Sustainability Report 2022

32

Awards & Recognition Organisers

Gold Award in the 2021/2022 Construction Industry Safety Award (Tin Wing Stop) Labour Department 

9th Best Property Safety Management Award
• Gold Award in Residents’ RMAA Works Safety Enhancement (Ocean Walk)
• Silver Award in the Best Property Contractor in Occupational Safety and Health (World-Wide House)
• Bronze Award in Best Safety Enhancement Programme (ELEMENTS)
• Bronze Award in Safety Culture Award (Maritime Square)

Occupational Safety and Health Council

17th Occupational Health Award 2021-22
• Grand Award in the category of Joyful@Healthy Workplace Best Practices Award (Enterprise/ Organisation Category) (Tung Chung Crescent)
• Merit Award in the category of Joyful@Healthy Workplace Best Practices Award (Enterprise/ Organisation Category) (Seaview Crescent) 
• Outstanding Award in the category of Joyful@Healthy Workplace Best Practices Award (Branch/ Small and Medium Enterprise) (Caribbean Cost)
• Merit Award in the category of Hearing Conservation Best Practices Award (Citylink Plaza)

14th Hong Kong Outstanding OSH Employee Award
• Merit Award (Ms. Amy Wong, Shopping Centre Officer (Ocean Walk))

23rd Construction Safety Award
• Gold Award of Best Method Statement (Ho Man Tin Station Package Two Property Development)
• Silver Award of Best Safety Enhancement Program for Lifting Operation (Ho Man Tin Station Package Two Property Development)
• Silver Award of Best Refurbishment and Maintenance Contractor in Occupational Safety and Health (Maintenance Services for ECS/PRC System)
• Bronze Award of Best Method Statement (Tin Wing Stop Property Development)
• Merit Ward of Outstanding Operating Team (Tin Wing Stop Property Development)
• Merit Award of Best Safety Enhancement Program for Working at Height (The Southside Package 2 Property Development)

28th Considerate Contractor Site Award 
• Silver Award in Consideration Construction Site Awards (Yau Tong Ventilation Building Property Development)
• Silver Award in Consideration Construction Site Awards (Tin Wing Stop Property Development)
• Bronze Award in Innovation Awards for Safety and Environmental Excellence (Yau Tong Ventilation Building Property Development)
• Bronze Award in the Innovation Award for Safety and Environmental Excellence (Replacement of Air-Cooled Chillers at MTR Stations and Depots)
• Bronze Award in the Considerate Contractors Safety Award (Replacement of Air-Cooled Chillers at MTR Stations and Depots)
• Merit Award in Innovation Awards for Safety and Environmental Excellence (Yau Tong Ventilation Building Property Development)
• Merit Award in Innovation Awards for Safety and Environmental Excellence (The Southside P1 Property Development)
• Merit Award in Outstanding Environmental Management Performance Awards (Yau Tong Ventilation Building Property Development)
• Merit Award in Outstanding Environmental Management Performance Awards (Tin Wing Stop Property Development) 
• Merit Award in Consideration Construction Site Awards (The Southside P1 Property Development)
• Merit Award in Outstanding Environmental Management Performance Awards (The Southside P1 Property Development)

Development Bureau and Construction 
Industry Council



Promoting Social Inclusion

Sustainability Report 2022

33

We continue to monitor staff injuries across our operations and implement suitable measures to eliminate 
potential hazards as much as practicable. 

In 2022, we continued to achieve zero fatalities in our construction projects in Hong Kong. Different safety 
initiatives have been implemented in Hong Kong to protect the safety and health of our contractors. 
These include the provision of welfare facilities and proper care for construction site workers to prevent 
site accidents, direct engagements with workers through training, workplace campaigns, mentoring and a 
variety of communication initiatives. 

Lost Time Injuries1 per 100,000 man-hours in Hong Kong

2020 2021 2022

Corporate Support Functions 0.04 0.08 0.17

Hong Kong Transport Services Business Unit 0.43 0.46 0.33

Capital Works Business Unit 0.04 0.07 0.00

Hong Kong Property Business Unit 0.16 0.20 0.16

Hong Kong Project Construction Fatalities

2020 2021 2022

Staff Fatalities 0 0 0

Contractor Fatalities 0 0 0

1. Lost time injury means a work-related injury results in medical sick leave for 1 day or more.

Lost Time Injuries1 per 100,000 man-hours for Contractors in Hong Kong

2020 2021 2022

Corporate Support Functions 0.32 0.20 0.34

Operations Railway 0.24 0.27 0.28

Project Construction – Railway Extension Projects 0.49 0.26 0.22

Project Construction – Network Improvement Projects 0.00 0.15 0.00

Property Development and Investment Projects 0.03 0.03 0.01

Investment Property 0.21 0.13 0.20

Management Property 0.19 0.17 0.15

1. Lost time injury means a work-related injury results in medical sick leave for 1 day or more.

At MTR, we make every effort to create a seamless and inclusive transportation network. Over the past few 
years, we have undertaken a number of improvement works to provide fit-for-purpose and easy-access 
facilities in our stations, trains and properties for the elderly, passengers with disabilities and those in need. In 
May 2022, the first vertical lifting platform was put into service at Tin Hau Station, facilitating wheelchair users 
and passengers with disability to travel easily. Other facilities include:

• Provision of additional escalators, external lifts, stair lifts, wide gates, wheelchair aids, portable electric 
wheelchair, socket for powered wheelchair, portable ramps, accessible toilets for mobility impaired 
passengers;

• “Information Card” for communicating with passengers with either vocal or hearing difficulties;

• Braille signs, tactile station layout maps, guide paths and dynamic route maps, escalator destination 
announcement and indoor navigation at selected stations for visually impaired passengers; and

• Multi-purpose spaces designated within train compartments for the convenience of wheelchair users 
and persons with special needs. 

In November 2022, we launched a brand-new “MTR · Care” app which provides smart functions to facilitate 
the travel needs of the elderly and passengers in special need. The app offers two inaugural functions, 
including a simplified and elderly-friendly version of “Trip Planner” and the “In-station Navigation” function 
at Exhibition Centre Station for visually impaired passengers. Additional functions will be launched in 
the “MTR · Care” app, including a portable ramp booking service for mobility impaired passengers, “call 
for assistance” function for the hearing impaired, as well as the provision of real-time operation status of 
station lifts. It is expected that phase 2 of the app with the expansion of Visually Impaired function will be 
launched in 2023 and complete by 2025.

Enhancing and Enabling Accessibility

The “MTR．Care” app is specially designed for the elderly and 
passengers in need with a simple and easy-to-use interface



Promoting Social Inclusion

Sustainability Report 2022

34

“Caring for Dementia” Programme

Recently, we launched the “Caring for Dementia” programme 
to assist the police in locating missing persons through the 
automatic fare collection system of the MTR network.

Under this programme, we have added new functions to 
the automatic fare collection systems of the heavy rail, Light 
Rail and MTR Bus and enhanced facility including entry/ 
exit gates at MTR Stations, Octopus processors and the 
backend systems. After registering the Octopus numbers 
of the missing persons with dementia or elderly persons in 
our system, alerts will be sent to our staff when they enter 
the MTR network with the registered Octopus. Our staff will 
inform the police of their locations immediately, and the 
missing person cannot pass through the exit gate at MTR 
station using the registered Octopus.

Apart from the police, we have also worked with other 
organisations in this programme. For example, we have 
worked with the Jockey Club Centre for Positive Ageing 
to install the “Dementia’s Secret Angel” app in mobile 
tablets at 95 Customer Service Centres at MTR stations and 
the Light Rail to assist caretakers in locating their missing 
family members with dementia. The Jockey Club Centre 
has also provided training for over 3,000 MTR frontline staff 
to enhance their communication skills with persons with 
dementia and elderly passengers.

OVERSEAS HIGHLIGHTS

MTR (Macau)

MTR (Macau) endeavours to enhance and maintain various 
facilities to provide safe and barrier-free transportation for the 
elderly, passengers with disabilities and those in need. Some of 
the easy-access facilities include lifts at all Macao Light Rapid 
Transit (“MLRT”) stations and portable ramps for boarding and 
alighting of wheelchair passengers to MLRT train.

Metro Trains Melbourne

In 2022, Metro Trains Melbourne launched a three-year 

Accessibility Action Plan which sets out the accessibility and 

inclusion vision for the network and the workplace. The plan 

details the actions to be taken by Metro Trains Melbourne 

to reach its accessibility goals such as extensive internal and 

external consultation, including with Metro’s Accessibility 

Reference Group, to develop the strategic priority areas. 

Metro Trains Melbourne also joined the Sunflower Hidden 

Disabilities scheme in 2022, and developed a bespoke training 

module to educate frontline staf f on the meaning of the 

lanyards and wristbands that passengers with hidden disabilities 

may choose to wear.

 

MTR Elizabeth line

MTR Elizabeth line strives to run a railway accessible for all, 
including those with mobility or visual impairments. The 
Elizabeth line is an entirely step free railway network, meaning 
all customers to its 41 stations can access the route with 
ease. This greatly enhances the accessibility for all members 
of the community. All station staf f are trained to provide 
Iconic Customer Service, part of this involves accessible travel. 
Station staff can advise customers on step free access routes 
throughout London, accompany customers who need help 
boarding the train, arrange boarding ramps where needed, 
arrange for staff to meet customers who need assistance at their 
final destination, accompany customers to the lift if required and 
give customers confidence in using the railway by arranging 
specific customer confidence sessions if requested. 

In May 2022 MTR Elizabeth line opened 9 new stations in central 
London, to service the new railway that connects east and the 
west of London. The new state of the art stations have been 
built with accessibility in mind and include features such as 
signage in braille for those with visual impairments and step free 
access from train to platform. Before the stations were opened, 
MTR Elizabeth line hosted a number of engagement sessions 
with local disability groups to ensure they were satisfied with 
the service from staff, and getting around the station. The 
feedback was very positive. Since opening MTR Elizabeth line 
has been a popular means of travel for these members of the 
community.

Easy-access facilities in MLRT stations

Various signage in braille for 
visually impaired customers



Promoting Social Inclusion

Sustainability Report 2022

35

OVERSEAS HIGHLIGHTS

MTR Elizabeth line

To support local people with employment and ensure social 
mobility, along with other London transport operators, MTR 
Elizabeth line has allowed free travel on the Elizabeth line for 
Londoners aged 60+, those with a Veterans Oyster photocard, 
those with a Freedom pass (disabled, visually or hearing-
impaired Londoners) and children under 10 (excluding between 
West Drayton and Reading). MTR Elizabeth line has also offered 

discounted services for children over 10, students, apprentices 
and the unemployed. MTR Elizabeth line has also collaborated 
with other British transport companies to provide free travel 
rides for Ukrainian Refugees upon entering the UK, enabling 
them to get to their destinations safely and for free. 

We have been supporting the Government’s “Public Transport 
Fare Concession Scheme for the Elderly and Eligible Persons with 
Disabilities” to offer concessionary fares to senior citizens and eligible 
individuals with disabilities since 2012. The Scheme extends to aged 
60 to 64 using JoyYou Card with effect from 27 February 2022. In 
2022/23, we made no adjustment of MTR fares, making it the third 
consecutive time the Fare Adjustment Mechanism results in no fare 
increase, including the 1.85% fare reduction. We have also further 
extended the special 3.8% fare rebate till 31 January 2023 to ride 
together with the public under the pandemic. Furthermore, we have 
offered HK$600 million-worth of fare promotions, including:

• Top-up the committed 3% rebate for every trip under FAM to 
3.8%;

• No price adjustment for “Monthly Pass Extras”, “MTR City Saver” 
and “Tuen Mun – Nam Cheong Day Pass”;

• Extension of the 35%-off “Early Bird Discount Promotion” for 
another year until 31 May 2023; and

• Interchange discount (HK$0.3 or above) with Green Minibuses, 
covering over 500 designated routes.

At the same time, we offered approximately HK$2.1 billion-worth of 
on-going fare concessions in 2022 to customers from different walks 
of life, including commuters, the elderly, children, eligible students 
and persons with disabilities. It is our target to benefit no less than 
1 million average daily passenger trips from our fare concessions in 
2023.

Fare Concessions



Promoting Social Inclusion

Sustainability Report 2022

36

We commit to eliminating discrimination in our practices and 
policies and to increasing the diversity of our workforce.

MTR is an equal opportunity employer and abides by relevant 
legislative requirements to ensure our workplace is free from 
discrimination on the grounds of gender, sexual orientation, 
disability, age, race, skin colour, national or ethnic origin, family 
status, religion, political beliefs or other characteristics. All employees 
are required to complete a set of mandatory online training 
programmes which help them understand relevant legislations. 
Within the Corporation, the Code of Conduct is reviewed and 
updated periodically to ensure appropriateness and compliance 
with corporate and regulatory requirements. The review of diversity, 
equity and inclusion (DEI) clauses in the Code of Conduct and 
Equal Opportunity Policy was completed and the revised Code was 
released to all staff in February 2022. To signify our commitment to 
fostering social inclusion and equal opportunities, we signed the 
Racial Diversity & Inclusion Charter for Employers initiated by the 
Equal Opportunities Commission in July 2022.

Recognising and embracing the benefits of diversity in the 
boardroom, we have established the Board Diversity Policy to 
demonstrate our commitment to ensure that the Board has the 
appropriate balance of skills, experience and diversity of perspectives 
that are required to support the execution of the Corporation’s 
business strategy and in order for the Board to be effective. Our 
target is to achieve a 25% of female Members on the Board by 2025 
and the current composition is 21%.

We have set high expectations for all staff members to treat all their 
colleagues with respect and dignity. All employees are encouraged 
to raise any issues, concerns or grievances without fear of reprisal 
through designated whistle-blowing communication channels. As 
part of our commitment to equal opportunities, MTR’s recruitment, 
reward and promotion decisions are based solely on occupational 
requirements, qualifications, work experience and job performance. 

Diversity and Inclusion
Breakdown of Full-time Employees by Location 

2022 2021

Gender Distribution of Workforce by Location (Full-time Employees) 

Male Female Male Female

4%
(1,132)

6%
(1,925)

55%
(16,863)

2021
Total: 30,66715% 

(4,497)

1%
(245)

20%
(6,005)

4%
(1,259)

6%
(1,925)

53%
(16,804 )

2022
Total: 31,48016% 

(5,072)

1%
(292)

19%
(6,128) Hong Kong

Shenzhen

London

Stockholm

Sydney

Melbourne

Hong Kong

22%

78%

Shenzhen

24%

76%

London

22%

78%

Stockholm

26%

74%

Sydney

33%

67%

27%

73%

Melbourne

Hong Kong

22%

78%

Shenzhen

24%

76%

London

23%

77%

Stockholm

28%

72%

Sydney

30%

70%

29%

71%

Melbourne

https://www.mtr.com.hk/archive/corporate/en/investor/e_Board_Diversity_Policy.pdf


Promoting Social Inclusion

Sustainability Report 2022

37

2022 2022

2021

Breakdown of Total Workforce by Employment Type by Gender in Hong Kong Breakdown of Full-time Employees by Employment Contract by Gender in Hong Kong

Persons with Disabilities Employed in Hong Kong

2022202120202019201820172016

1.7%
2.0%

2.4%
2.7%

3.4%
3.7%

4.1%

Part time

71%
(997)

29%
(405)

Full time

22%
(3,694)

78%
(13,110)

Part time

72%
(1,135)

28%
(440)

Full time

22%
(3,659)

78%
(13,204)

(21)(3,046) (627)

Continuous
contracts

79%

Renewable
contracts

74%

26%

Temporary
contracts

73%

27%

(11,253) (1,799) (58)

21%

2021

(26)(3,069) (564)

Continuous
contracts

79%

Renewable
contracts

75%

25%

Temporary
contracts

66%

34%

(11,253) (1,688) (51)

21%

Male FemaleMale Female



Promoting Social Inclusion

Sustainability Report 2022

38

In support of our diversity and inclusion commitment, we 
have conducted over 230 DEI training events for staff, such as 
communication biases, cross-generational coaching and inclusive 
workplace for dif ferent groups of staff in 2022 to foster social 
inclusion and promote equality in MTR, well exceeding our targets. 
DEI elements have also been added to a number of Corporate 
Development Programmes. Learning and Development Department 
(“L&DD”) was licensed to facilitate “Think In and Out of the Box” for 
Corporate Development Ladder Programme which is a diversity and 
inclusion tool helps participants to bring awareness and empathy 
for others. We also developed the “Eldpathy” programme, an 
experiential learning designed for Integrated Staff Development 
Programme (“ISDP”) alumni which helps participants recognising 
the value of a diverse and inclusive workforce, especially amongst 
people in different age groups and abilities. In addition, we offered 
more than 100 customer service training sessions to our Hong Kong 
Transport Services colleagues covering topics on how to handle 
passengers with special needs.

Externally, we promoted apprenticeship scheme and Technician 
Associate programme to more than 120 secondary-level students 
and students from Vocational Training Council of ethnically diverse 
backgrounds to encourage them to consider their career in the 
Corporation. We also offered internship opportunities to tertiary-
level students and support diversity and inclusion. The Corporation 
has recruited 110 summer interns in 2022. Among them, 8 students 
with special educational needs and 2 ethnically diverse students 
were recruited under the Talent-Wise Employment Charter and 
Inclusive Organisations Recognition Scheme, accounting for 9% of 
our summer interns. They have been assigned to various business 
units or corporate functions to acquire practical work experience. 
To equip colleagues with appropriate skills in interacting with the 
students, speakers from NGOs were invited to conduct a training 
workshop in June.

Eldpathy x ISDP Experiential Learning Workshop 

“Think In and out of the box” during Corporate Development Ladder 
Programme

Lunch seminar “Live Your Own Story: Sheroes at Work” 

To promote gender equity in workplace, a series of events were held 
throughout the year. A lunch talk “Live Your Own Story: Sheroes at 
Work” was held in May, featuring young females in the traditionally 
male-dominated industries such as aviation, technology, engineering 
and railway industries. Colleagues were inspired to pursue their 
personal and professional growth and embrace authenticity of 
themselves.

A focus group session “Equality for Women” was also held in August 
to understand the views and needs of female colleagues and male 
allies on various gender-related topics in workplace in preparation of 
the setup of Women’s Network.

We target to implement more DEI initiatives next year such as 
conducting a corporate-wide survey on DEI to understand our 
demographic, arranging 150 DEI training events for staff including 
a DEI workshop for all executives, and launching an internship 
programme for Persons with Disabilities or from ethnically diverse 
background.



Promoting Social Inclusion

Sustainability Report 2022

39

MTR’s First Social Inclusion Week

In collaboration with over 30 NGOs and social enterprises, the 
Corporation launched its first-ever Social Inclusion Week (“SIW”) 
in September 2022. The SIW aims to raise staff awareness of social 
inclusion, one of the Corporation’s Environmental and Social 
Objectives, enabling them to embrace diversity, inclusion and 
equal opportunities in their daily life, and to strengthen the bond 
with NGOs and social enterprises with the aim of building a more 
inclusive and caring community together. 

A series of activities were held in the SIW including:

• Inclusive Concerts by the True Colours Symphony;

• “Dialogue in the Dark” Experiential Learning;

• Diversity and Inclusion Fun Challenge;

• Cross-Industry Cultural Diversity Webinar;

• Cross-hubs exchange on gender equity;

• Pop-up Cinema on mental health related topics; 

• Massage Service by visually impaired persons; and

• Marketplace from Social Enterprise supporting underserved 
groups like elderly, ethnically diverse, People with Disability 
and women.

The Opening Ceremony cum Inclusive Concert kicked off the Social 
Inclusion Week

Henna drawing workshop to appreciate cultural difference 
Pop-up Cinema encouraged colleagues to discuss and care about mental 
health inclusion

The Nunchaku work shop welcomed people of al l  ages, building 
intergenerational harmony through sports

The Corporation also launched a Women’s Network during 
the SIW to support female colleagues in the workplace. It was 
subsequently renamed to a Gender Equity Network to further 
enhance workplace diversity and inclusion through providing 
an aspirational platform and supporting network. Activities 
will be organised to raise awareness on gender equity and to 
support personal growth, well-being, equal opportunities and 
psychological safety of colleagues.

The SIW was widely supported by over 3,000 staff with active 
participation and positive feedback in which 95% of the 
participants agreed the SIW has strengthened their understanding 
of the Corporation’s Environmental and Social Objectives, and 
86% of participants agreed that the Corporation’s commitment to 
social inclusion would enhance their sense of belonging.

In conjunction with the SIW, we organised a Nunchuku Workshop 
together with InspiringHK Sports Foundation in Paradise Mall 
to promote gender equality, social inclusion and healthy living 
through bringing an unconventional sport into the community. 
More than 100 people of different races and ages participated in 
the workshop. 



Promoting Social Inclusion

Sustainability Report 2022

40

OVERSEAS HIGHLIGHTS

MTR Nordic

MTR Nordic has partnered with the Global Village, the foundation 
that founded Järvaveckan which is a local initiative that aims to 
tackle unemployment problem in Järva area through engaging 
citizens, politicians, authorities and business sector. This initiative 
targets individuals that are not already politically involved or has 
an interest of societal issues. In 2022, MTR Nordic has conducted 
sharing sessions for local citizens and hired over 100 new 
employees for work at MTR Nordic under the initiative since 2018.

Metro Trains Melbourne

In April 2022, Metro Trains Melbourne commenced a 12-month 
partnership programme with Work180, an NGO promoting 
organisational standards that raise the bar for women in the 
workplace. Metro Trains Melbourne is one of the 240 employers 
endorsed by Work180 that are committed to making real 
progress so that women can expect better. The partnership 
and endorsement enable Metro Trains to receive the Work180 
branding as an employer of choice and post job opportunities 
on Work180’s website that has a reach of 5 million women per 
month. Metro has been recognised by Work180 as an employer in 
the top 101 organisations in Australia that support women.

M etro  Tr a ins  M elb our n e launch e d i t s  se cond Ref le c t 
Reconciliation Action Plan (“RAP”) in 2022 in support of Aboriginal 
and Torres Strait Islander Peoples. The RAP has been developed 
with support from Aboriginal employees and advisors, and other 
stakeholders across Metro Trains Melbourne and the community. 
Metro Trains Melbourne led a community forum on career 
development with members from its RAP community partner, 
discussing employment opportunities at Metro Trains Melbourne 
and other transport-affiliated employers.

 

MTR Elizabeth line 

MTR Elizabeth line is committed to creating a diverse workforce 
similar to the communities it serves. During the year, MTR 
Elizabeth line continued to reduce the gender gap. 24% of staff 
are now female, an increase of 4% since established in 2015. 
We have also made improvements in the ethnic diversity of 
our business, 42% of staff are from non-white backgrounds, an 
increase of 13% since 2015. MTR Elizabeth line focuses on inclusion 
of all employees and has celebrated various religious festivals 
over the year such as Holi, Ramadan, Passover, Easter, Eid, Diwali, 
Hanukkah and Christmas. 

MTR Elizabeth line has made efforts to encourage female entering 
into the railway industry, around 12.5% of its train drivers are 
female (over double the industry average). MTR Elizabeth line 
also celebrated its female drivers’ achievements with the first two 
trains running on the central operating section launch day, 24th 
May, driven by female drivers. 

MTR Elizabeth line also partnered with a number of railway 
companies to support the production of a new children’s book, 
‘My Mummy Is a Train Driver’. Three MTR Elizabeth line female 
train drivers participated in the development of the book. This 
initiative aims to inspire children to consider a future career in 
railway industry and to showcase the welcoming and inclusive 
work environment the industry continues to foster. 



Promoting Social Inclusion

Sustainability Report 2022

41

We commit to helping excluded and underserved populations 
access their fair share of opportunity.

Equal Opportunities

With the mission to connect and growth the community, we strive 
to contribute to the sustainable development of the cities we serve. 
Our employees regularly contribute their own time to organise 
and participate in community services and activities. In view of the 
pandemic, the number of volunteering projects has greatly reduced 
as we have shifted our community outreach strategies to ensure 
the safety of our staff volunteers and members of the community 
by conducting online or socially distanced charity activities. We 
continue to offer free advertising space to 68 NGOs to promote their 
services and rent NGOs certain station shops along Tuen Ma Line at 
nominal rate to support their services for the community. In 2022, 
a total of 10 station shops were leased on this basis. We have also 
sponsored venues at MTR Malls for 20 events organised by NGOs.

In 2022, our Hong Kong employees contributed over 9,500 
volunteer hours in 111 projects, while the Corporation offered in-
kind donations valued at HK$29 million and invested HK$25 million 
in various community programmes. We target to spend HK$100 
million on direct local community investment and donations from 
2022 to 2025 and 200,000 people will benefit from our community 
programmes and volunteering projects from 2022 to 2025.

Investing in Communities

Since 2021, the Corporation has been working closely with social 
partners to give retired trains and relevant parts a second life 
under the “Legacy Train Revitalisation Programme” (“LTRP”). One 
of the projects was using train parts to set up a train-themed 
classroom at Fortress Hill Methodist Secondary School, one of 
the very few secondary schools in Hong Kong serving 100% 
students with special educational needs (SEN). With the train-
themed classroom, the academic study of the SEN students can 
be enhanced. It also created an amicable environment to train up 
the social skills of the students so that they can travel to school 

independently. The classroom is open to various underserved 
groups including elderly, kindergarten students and other NGOs 
serving the SEN community. Over 20 students have volunteered 
to help take care of the classroom and to serve as the railway 
classroom ambassadors to introduce the classroom facilities and 
share railway information with visitors. 

For details on the LTRP, please refer to the Waste Management 
section in this Report.

A train-themed classroom at Fortress Hill Methodist Secondary School 

Building a Train-themed Classroom to Support Students with Special Educational Needs



Promoting Social Inclusion

Sustainability Report 2022

42

Awards & Recognition Organisers Awards & Recognition Organisers

Hong Kong Sustainability Award 2022  
(Large Organisation Category)
• Distinction Award
• Special Award – Excellence in Economic Sustainability 

Initiative
• Special Award – Excellence in Pandemic Resilience

The Hong Kong Management 
Association

Top Fundraising Company Award of Dress Pink Day 2021 The Hong Kong Cancer Fund

GBA Corporate Sustainability Award 2022
• Excellence in Green Sustainability (Climate Action)
• Excellence in Social Sustainability (Sustainable Cities & 

Communities)
• Excellence in Corporate Governance

Metro Finance 15 Years Plus Caring Company Logo The Hong Kong Council of Social Service

TVB ESG Awards 2022
• Best in ESG Practices
• Best in ESG Report
• ESG Project Innovation Award
• Innovative Climate Technology Award

Television Broadcasts Limited HR Excellence Awards 2021/22
• Merit Employee Engagement Award 
• Special Award for COVID-19 Response

Hong Kong Institute of Human Resource 
Management

Social Capital Builder Awards 2022
• Social Capital and Sustainability Sectoral Awards

Community Investment and Inclusion 
Fund under the Home and Youth 
Affairs Bureau

The Investor and Financial Education Award 2022 
(Corporation)

Investor and Financial Education Council

Good MPF Employer Award 2021-22 Mandatory Provident Fund Schemes 
Authority

The Most Promising Corporate Partnering Award Tung Wah Group of Hospitals

Hong Kong Volunteer Award 2022:  
Individual Excellence Gold Award  
(500 hours or above volunteer hours)

The Agency for Volunteer Service Breastfeed Friendly Workplace
• Certificate of Appreciation – Most Responsive Partners of 

SayYesToBreastfeeding 2022/2023 

UNICEF Hong Kong

Award of Excellence 2021/2022
• Diamond Award Corporate and Employee Contribution 

Programme 
• 3rd Top Fund-raiser Award, Employee Contribution 

Programme
• 2nd Highest Donation Award for CARE Scheme  

(Companies & Organisations Category)
• 3rd Highest Donation Award for Love Teeth Day

The Community Chest Social Enterprise Supporter Award Scheme 2021
• Social Enterprise Supporter Plus Award

Fullness Social Enterprises Society



Promoting Social Inclusion

Sustainability Report 2022

43

Supporting Underserved Businesses 

We have offered a nominal rate to support their services for the 
community under the station shops rental programme.

Dignity Mama Bookstore
In November 2022, we supported Dignity Mama Hong Kong to 
open the Dignity Mama Bookstore at Tsing Yi Station. The aim of the 
collaboration is to provide job opportunities with dignity to families 
with special needs while offering low-income families with quality 
books at an affordable price as well as promoting waste reduction.

Art in MTR

The “Art in MTR” cultivates an appreciation of art in our communities 
whilst enriching passengers’ minds and enhancing their travelling 
experience along our extensive networks. Since its inception in 
1998, we have introduced a wide spectrum of art pieces in station 
concourses and platforms, from photos, paintings, drawings, 
architectural fixtures and sculptures to roof hangings and mosaics. 
In 2022, upon the commissioning of the East Rail Line Cross-Harbour 
Extension, new station artworks “Mapping Our Way” and “Water 
Memory” are placed at Admiralty Station and the new Exhibition 
Centre Station respectively. The “Water Memory” is composed of 
about 1,200 photographs capturing the seascape right in front of the 
Exhibition Centre Station at different moments, as if submerging the 
station in variations of waves, hues and reflections. Over 90 artworks 
from established local and international talent have been showcased 
in more than 50 stations under this initiative, as we hope to continue 
fostering an appreciation for artistic talent whilst building a vibrant 
city for all to enjoy.

Currently, we have over 60 Community Art Galleries throughout our 
railway network, presenting homegrown talent to the community.

Community Investment Programmes

“Water Memory” artwork on an extensive wall facing the direction of the sea 
at Exhibition Centre Station

“Exploring the MTR” School Talk Programme

As part of our community outreach effort, we conduct a one-hour 
talk to primary schools in Hong Kong to deliver messages including 
MTR’s history, service performance, courtesy and safety messages, 
our Rail plus Property development model, community engagement 
and new projects. In 2022, over 10,100 students attended these talks 
with positive feedback.

HKTB x MTR ARTour of West Kowloon

From 24 June to 14 July 2022, we joined hand with the Hong Kong 
Tourism Board (“HKTB”) to organise the “HKTB x MTR ARTour of West 
Kowloon” exhibition in MTR Hong Kong Station. The exhibition 
displayed artworks created by students from the Education 
University of Hong Kong, so that passengers could appreciate the 
cultural and artistic features of the new and old areas of the West 
Kowloon neighbourhood.

The “HKTB x MTR ARTour of West Kowloon” exhibition in MTR Hong Kong Station

Dignity Mama Bookstore at Tsing Yi Station aims at fostering a reading 
culture amongst low-income families 

The Zubin's Family Centre
We also supported The Zubin Foundation to open the Zubin’s 
Family Centre, serving special needs of ethnically diverse women 
and children. We have provided the centre with a convenient shop 
location at a nominal rate in Austin Station, close to Hong Kong’s 
largest ethnically diverse community in Yau Tsim Mong District. The 
centre provides an accessible location for children and families in the 
neighbourhood as well as those living in the New Territories.

The Zubin’s Family Centre offers counselling and workshops for children from 
ethnically diverse groups with special educational needs



Promoting Social Inclusion

Sustainability Report 2022

44

MTR x M+: Yayoi Kusama Train launch

In collaboration with M+, the first ever Yayoi Kusama thematic train 
which was wrapped with her signature design of polka dots and 
pumpkins in yellow background, was in service in Tuen Ma Line 
during 9 November to 27 December 2022. Passengers taking the 
specially decorated train could immerse themselves into the world 
of Kusama through her exquisite artworks, her inspiring quotes 
showcasing her art vision and connection with pumpkins. An audio 
guide to know more about the story of the artist’s life and the 
pumpkin work can be accessed via a QR code.

“East Rail Line．Fun Fun Art”

In collaboration with the Hong Kong Youth Arts Foundation, we 
launched the “East Rail Line．Fun Fun Art” train in August 2022 to 
create large-scale artworks filled with East Rail Line elements and 
local cultural characteristics along the Line, together with two local 
artists, some primary and secondary students studying in the schools 
along the East Rail Line. In addition to the launching ceremony held 
at Racecourse Station, we specially arranged a showcase of the  
“East Rail Line．Fun Fun Art” train at Sha Tin Station on 3 September 
2022 to allow more members of the public and railway fans to 
appreciate the illustrations of the art train. More than 50 participants 
from 24 NGOs and representatives from the Development Bureau 
joined this exclusive visit. Besides, over 30 parents and children from 
the Heep Hong Society joined a specially arranged art workshop 
on the art train with the assistance from the “More Time Reaching 
Community” volunteers.

To spread the festive joy to passengers, the art train with Christmas 
decoration was displayed at Sha Tin Station on 17 December as a 
Christmas Delight event to engage with passengers and celebrate 
the festive season. More than 60 participants from the Hong Kong 
Society for the Aged and the SALEM Family Net Social Service Centre 
visited the art train together with the volunteers.

M+ Yayoi Kusama-themed MTR train

Over 30 parents and children from the Heep Hong Society joined an art workshop on the “East Rail Line．Fun Fun Art” train



Promoting Social Inclusion

Sustainability Report 2022

45

MTR Volunteering Month 2022 “Go Green Grow Love” promotes social 
inclusion, advancement & opportunities and greenhouse gas emissions 
reduction

MTR Volunteers packed and delivered anti-pandemic supplies to those in need

Distributing Anti-pandemic Supplies to the Community

To support the community under the pandemic, 140 MTR Volunteers 
participated in a series of events organised by the HK Community 
Anti-Coronavirus Link in March and April 2022 to pack and deliver 
anti-pandemic supplies to Hong Kong citizens. These events help 
extended our support to the general public in fighting against the 
pandemic, keeping Hong Kong moving. 

“More Time Reaching Community” Scheme 

In 2005, we established the “More Time Reaching Community” 
(“MTRC”) Scheme to provide funding support and organise various 
projects to serve the community. To support the International 
Volunteer Day on 5 December, the MTRC Scheme participated 
in the “Do Good · Feel Good · Help with Kindness” organised by 
the Agency for Volunteer Service. Our colleagues were invited to 
submit a caring photo and share it with a short text on social media 
platforms to inspire others to do good for those in need. In addition, 
we invited colleagues to join the “Inter-company International 
Volunteer Week” between 3 and 12 December 2022 to participate 
in cross-companies volunteer activities to contribute and exchange 
volunteering experience. 

MTR Volunteering Month (MVM) 2022

We launched the MTR Volunteering Month (MVM) under the theme 
of “Go Green Grow Love” in June and July 2022, including a series 
of volunteering activities to promote our three Environmental and 
Social Objectives: Social Inclusion, Advancement & Opportunities, 
and Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction. Partnering with various 
NGOs, a total of 5 volunteering activities were organised with over 
130 staff volunteers, enablers and project leaders participated. 
The MVM activities were specially designed to serve people with 
intellectual disabilities, visual impairment, underprivileged and 
ethnically diverse children as well as youngsters with special 
educational needs.

Highlights of Our Volunteering Initiatives and Projects

MTR Volunteers prepared over 6,000 meal boxes for people in need

MTR Volunteers participated in the “Meal Packing Event” which was 
one of the activities under “SERVE-A-THON Hong Kong” organised by 
HandsOn Hong Kong. Our volunteers gathered at “Food Angel” to 
pack meal boxes for those in need and over 6,000 meal boxes were 
prepared.



Promoting Social Inclusion

Sustainability Report 2022

46

We partnered with Ebenezer School and Home for the Visually 
Impaired in organising the “Evergreen” event. MTR Volunteers 
upcycled unused wood from our Rolling Stock Maintenance 
Department to make cash drawers for visually impaired students.

Supporting Low-income Families and the Homeless During the 
Pandemic

During the pandemic, we have partnered with two charitable 
organisations, Food Angel and ImpactHK, to provide assistance 
for low-income families and the homeless to ease their burden. 
We donated food vouchers to over 1,500 eligible underprivileged 
families through Food Angel and offered designated areas at Tai 
Wo Hau Station, Ocean Walk and Luk Yeung Galleria for installing an 
Automated Food Dispenser to provide food assistance for eligible 
families. We also supported ImpactHK to purchase food vouchers 
and provide emergency shelter service to give a helping hand to 530 
homeless people. 

During the pandemic, the Corporation supported its social 
enterprise partner Gingko House to pilot a home disinfection service 
to the elderly and families living in sub-divided flats and public 
housing estates, benefitting around 300 families. The programme 
also provided job opportunities for people af fected by the 
pandemic. Our volunteers visited some of the families and assisted 
in disinfecting their homes and conveyed our care to the families.

The Corporation also collaborated with the Hong Kong Family 
Welfare Society (“HKFWS”) to provide a STEM Education Programme 
for 500 primary school students from low-income families during 
the pandemic.

Three lessons were conducted online from June to July, teaching 
STEM knowledge on railway and sustainability with interesting 
experiments and IT literacy with interactive activities. MTR volunteers 
helped deliver the STEM teaching materials to HKFWS’ centre and 
the participating primary schools. 

We also supported the HKFWS’ “Pla-mily” project which aims to 
promote family well-being through playing and toy recycling. A total 
of 1,500 families with 300 families from under-represented groups 
benefitted from the project. 

Automated Food Dispenser provides food assistance for underprivileged 
families 

MTR Volunteers visited the Boys’ and Girls’ Clubs Association of Hong 
Kong to introduce green infrastructure and facilities of Hin Keng 
Station and Hong Kong West Kowloon Station to local and ethnically 
diverse students.

Virtual STEM Education Programme for primary school students



Promoting Social Inclusion

Sustainability Report 2022

47

OVERSEAS HIGHLIGHTS

Metro Trains Melbourne

In 2022, Metro Trains Melbourne positively impacted over 17,000 people through community 
investment and education activities and provided around AUD$280,000 of direct financial support for 
the community. Key initiatives included:

• Supporting Mental Health – Metro Trains Melbourne’s “Back on Track Community Grants” 
programme provided AUD$100,000 for eight not-for-profit organisations, delivering mental health 
wellness and education services to the community. Metro Trains Melbourne also continued its 
longstanding partnership with Lifeline to support the delivery of vital crisis support services. 
Together with its employees, Metro Trains Melbourne contributed AUD$53,000 through donations 
and money raised during the Hope Cycle initiative, a charity ride to raise critical funds for Lifeline 
which provides Australians experiencing emotional distress with access to 24 hour crisis support 
and suicide prevention services. These donations funded the answering of around 1,360 potentially 
life-saving calls.

• Charity Promotion – Metro Trains Melbourne supported Melbourne City Mission’s Christmas and 
Winter Appeals with free advertising space in City loop stations (valued at AUD$96,000). Funds 
raised by the campaigns were used to provide support for young people in crisis, helping those 
with immediate needs, providing intensive individual support and finding longer-term stable 
accommodation. 

MTR Elizabeth line

In 2022, the community ambassador team of MTR Elizabeth line once again supported MyLondon/
Café Art initiative and sold calendars for 2023. The calendar contains amazing photos provided by a 
wide selection of talented photographers who suffer or have suffered from homelessness. A total of 
100 cameras were given to participants to take photos, and 12 photos were selected for each month 
of the calendar. All the profits from selling the calendars were given to the photographers. The 
initiative aims to get people experiencing homelessness confidence and empowerment, benefiting 
their mental health and supporting them in their future. A total of £18,900 was raised by staff and 
customers of MTR Elizabeth line through the sale of the calendars. 

The teams also continued their work with St Ann’s School in Hanwell, a special needs school for 11 to 
19-year-old students. As part of this collaboration, our colleagues arranged a tour on the Elizabeth line 
to these students, visiting Hanwell to Paddington. 

Executive members of the MTR Elizabeth line and community ambassadors’ team took part in a 
sponsored walk for Rail Aid, a UK Rail fundraising initiative on behalf of the Railway Children – an 
international children’s charity working with street children in the UK, India and East Africa. The route 
covers the new Elizabeth line central operating section from Woolwich to Paddington and the team 
raised a total of £43,500 to help street children. 



Sustainability Report 2022

48

FOSTERING ADVANCEMENT 
AND OPPORTUNITIES

In This Chapter:

GRI: 2-6, 203-1, 203-2, 205-1, 404-1, 404-2, 404-
3, 413-1, 413-2 

HKEX: GD-B1, GD-B3, GD-B4, GD-B5, KPI B3.2, 
KPI B4.1, KPI B5.2, KPI B5.3, KPI B5.4, KPI B8.1, 
KPI B8.2

On MTR Sustainability Website:
Read our Management Approach

 › Social Inclusion

 › Advancement & Opportunities

Our Policies and Guidelines

 › Board Diversity Policy

 › Code of Conduct

 › Supplier Code of Practice

 › Green Procurement Policy

 › MTR Corporation Modern Slavery and Human 
Trafficking Statement

 › Corporate Responsibility Policy

SDGs:

Over 50,000
staff globally

290 
green products and 
services in our Green 

Procurement List

Signed collaboration 
agreements with 4 

key local players
to foster future skills 

and innovation

https://www.mtr.com.hk/sustainability/en/social-inclusion.html
https://www.mtr.com.hk/sustainability/en/advancement-opportunities.html
https://www.mtr.com.hk/archive/corporate/en/investor/e_Board_Diversity_Policy.pdf
https://www.mtr.com.hk/archive/corporate/en/publications/images/codeofconduct.pdf
https://www.mtr.com.hk/archive/corporate/en/tenders/SCoP_Rev_2020_(final).pdf
https://www.mtr.com.hk/sustainability/assets/pdf/en/green-procurement-policy.pdf
https://www.mtr.com.hk/archive/corporate/en/SHQ2311C17120710330.pdf
https://www.mtr.com.hk/archive/corporate/en/SHQ2311C17120710330.pdf
https://www.mtr.com.hk/archive/corporate/en/mtr_corporation_corporate_responsibility_policy_eng.pdf


Fostering Advancement and Opportunities

Sustainability Report 2022

49

As we fulfil our vision to connect and grow communities, we create 
opportunities for others to develop themselves and grow alongside us.

We commit to helping employees grow personally and professionally 
through learning and opportunities for career advancement, and to 
fostering their well-being.

Employee Development and Wellness

We foster a culture of continuous learning to drive the growth and 
success of our employees. We are committed to offering a wide 
range of learning resources, training programmes and schemes to 
support the personal growth and professional development of our 
operating and technical staff as well as our management staff. 

Our Learning & Development Department (“L&DD”) of fers a 
comprehensive learning and development curriculum on topics 
ranging from leadership, corporate effectiveness to customer 
services. In addition to skill-based workshops, this curriculum is 
delivered in virtual classroom webinar, experiential learning and 
other learning platforms.

Our Operations Training Department (“OTD”) offers a training 
curriculum covering operations and safety training, technical training 
and IT training to assist staff and contractors in performing their 
duties efficiently while meeting the operational, safety, technical and 
maintenance requirements of the Corporation. 

To strengthen corporate learning culture, our Learning Management 
System (“LMS”) enables learning to be easily accessible to staff 
anytime and anywhere. In 2022, we have continued to provide 
curriculum programme covering ESG and DEI and work ethics 
topics through the LMS. Moreover, we continued to make use of 
technology, such as virtual reality (VR) and mixed reality (MR), in 
enhancing the diversity and effectiveness of training. 

We also strive to develop and maintain a robust talent pipeline 
through various apprenticeship schemes and graduate development 
programmes. In 2022, around 140 young people joined various 
development schemes in pursuit of a career in the railway industry 

Learning and Development

and we recruited 73 high potential talents as Graduate In-takes to 
be developed as fast-track general management and professional 
talents for the Corporation. We also conducted 2 high potential 
programmes, covering 45 junior managers and senior supervisors, 
to assess their potential and develop them as future general 
management leaders. During the year, we have provided over 350 
employment and pre-employment opportunities for young talents.

Average Training Days per Employee 

Locations/Lines
Days

2020 2021 2022

Hong Kong 4.8 5.2 6.1

Shenzhen Metro Line 4 18.9 8.8 8.7

Melbourne’s Metropolitan 
Rail Service

7.0 7.3 9.4

Sydney Metro North West 
Line

3.5 5.9 3.6

Stockholm Metro 3.4 2.7 3.1

Stockholms Pendeltåg 1.1 1.2 2.6

MTRX 2.8 2.2 3.9

Mälartåg n/a n/a 2.8

Elizabeth line 6.5 9.5 1.9

Total Staff Training in Hong Kong (man-day) 

OVERSEAS HIGHLIGHTS

MTR Nordic

MTR Nordic has launched di f ferent schemes and 
programmes to grow its talent pipeline. For example:

• Talent Management Scheme – a process to unleash the 
potential of employees at all levels within the organisation 
and to a build effective and sustainable talent pipeline. 
This also helps achieve long-term talent acquisition and 
secure the succession to critical positions.

• Internal Apprenticeship – an opportunity for staff who 
has completed higher education and possesses a degree 
to take up a new role through a 6-month apprenticeship 
within MTR Nordic. Participants’ performance and the 
potential to have a permanent employment will be 
evaluated after the apprenticeship.

• “Växa” (grow in Swedish) – a 6-month programme for 
operative staff who has the potential to groom for a 
managerial position. The content of this programme 
includes leadership training and work tasks that enable 
participants to gain leadership experience.

• Summer Internship – an 8-10 weeks programme for 
university students pursuing a bachelors’ or masters’ 
degree. The programme aims at providing opportunities 
for students to try a potential future occupation that 
matches with their study curriculum, as well as engaging 
with potential future employees and spreading the 
knowledge about the MTR brand.

• Graduate Programme – a programme for university 
students who have recently completed a masters’ degree. 
The purpose of the programme is to attract high calibre 
individuals and give them a broad MTR base to prepare 
for an advanced specialist or managerial position. The 
two-year programme is individually tailored based on the 
educational background and interests of the Graduate 
Trainees and offered them the opportunity to work 
within different departments. 

2020

10,926

10,753

75,189

7,674 74,195

89,664

2021

2022

0 20,000 40,000 60,000 80,000 100,000 120,000

Management training Operation Training



Fostering Advancement and Opportunities

Sustainability Report 2022

50

We are honoured to be an employer of choice with over 50,000 
dedicated staff globally. We begin with a market competitive 
remuneration package and comprehensive benefits for employees 
as well as family-friendly practices to support their work-life balance. 
In 2022, our voluntary staff turnover rate in Hong Kong was 7.5%, 
which is much lower than the average turnover rate of 10.5% in 
Hong Kong as of mid-2022. During the year, the average length 
of service of our employees was 13.6 years in Hong Kong, which 
reflects our ability to attract and retain skilled and experienced 
talent. 

Our staff is a key partner in the fight against the pandemic. Since 
March 2022, we have set up a 24-hour dedicated medical hotline and 
provided virtual medical consultation for our staff and their eligible 
family members who have been infected with COVID-19. We have 
also set up a “Pandemic Caring Team” with over 300 staff volunteers 
to deliver anti-pandemic supplies and medications to infected staff 
with emergency needs. 

To support the total well-being of our staff, we provided a wide 
range of health talks and programmes to promote healthy lifestyle 
and raise their awareness of preventing communicable and non-
communicable diseases. The health talks covered nine topics 
addressing various staff’s health needs such as COVID-19 Vaccines 
vs Pregnancy vs Fertility, Know More and Protect Yourselves 
Against Monkeypox, Melioidosis, Malaria, Beyond COVID-19: Health 
and hygiene practices. Besides, two health programmes, “Flex 
and Stretch” and “10,000 Steps a Day Campaign”, were organised 
to encourage staff to do more physical exercise. Over 5,000 staff 
participated in these talks and programmes. We plan to arrange at 
least 10 wellness related activities or events for our colleagues in the 
coming year.

Celebrating the 45th Anniversary of Metro Recreation Club, a series 
of ESG activities under the theme of “Go Green．Go Health．Go 
Fun” were organised between September and December 2022 for 
staff and their families and friends. New initiatives, such as organic 
farming, Green Virtual Run and health seminars were held with 
overwhelming responses from club members.

We maintain a close dialogue with our staff through different 
channels to build a sense of MTR Community. Two Management 
Communication Meeting (“MCM”) were held in June and November 
2022 respectively. With the theme “Shaping our Future Together”, 
over 1,400 managers from Hong Kong, Mainland China, Macau, 
Australia, the UK and Sweden joined each of the meetings, where 
CEO and other Executives of the Corporation shared the latest 
business highlights and other business updates, in Hong Kong and 
overseas.

Sense of MTR Community

Voluntary Turnover Rate by Location 

Locations / Lines %

Hong Kong 7.5

Shenzhen Metro Line 4 9.2

Melbourne’s Metropolitan Rail Services 12

Sydney Metro North West Line 19.7

Stockholm Metro 5.2

Stockholms Pendeltåg 7.3

MTRX 12.5

Mälartåg 23.8

Elizabeth line 10.3

OVERSEAS HIGHLIGHTS

MTR Elizabeth line

In 2022, MTR Elizabeth line has upskilled key personnel 
on mental health, and possessed over 30 qualified Mental 
Health First aiders, including Driver Team Managers. This 
enables trained staff to help colleagues experiencing 
mental health struggles, improving employee wellness. 
In June 2022, MTR Elizabeth line held the Wellness Week 
featuring various activities and seminars for colleagues. 
Specialist information was added to the employee 
‘Wellbeing Station’ on the intranet to further promote 
wellness. 

MTR Elizabeth line has also par ticipated in Mental 
Health Awareness week, International Women’s Day and 
International Men’s Day. The International Men’s Day 
Campaign was focussed on breaking down the stigma 
associated with men’s physical and mental health. The 
Campaign highlighted different messages such as ‘Men 
DO Cry’, ‘Men can be sensitive’, ‘It’s okay to show emotion’ 
and ‘Asking for help DOES NOT make you weak’, which 
men and boys are bought up with and adapted them to 
support men’s wellbeing.



Fostering Advancement and Opportunities

Sustainability Report 2022

51

We commit to supporting small and medium sized enterprises 
with increased spending and setting environmental and social key 
performance indicators for business partners. 

We identify and assess our supply chain-related risks through our 
Enterprise Risk Management System. A study to assess our supply 
chain risk management framework was completed in 2022. Based 
on the findings of the study, a detailed roadmap to develop a new 
comprehensive framework to manage all types of supply chain 
risks systematically was recommended. To enhance risk monitoring 
across our supplier network, we will adopt a new supply chain 
risk management digital solution in 2023, providing real time risk 
monitoring and alerting functions and risk analytics to aid decision-
making and recommend follow-up action where appropriate. 

As part of our management approach, we have established a Green 
Procurement Policy by making reference to the ISO 20400:2017 
Sustainable Procurement Guidelines to provide our employees with 
the key guiding principles when carrying out procurement practices. 
All of our suppliers are mandated to comply with our Supplier 
Code of Practice to ensure high standards in relation to human and 
labour rights, environmental protection, supply chain management 
and ethical business practices are met.

We have been monitoring our spending on green procurement 
and are committed to spend HK$250 million on green procurement 
in 2025, rising to HK$350 million in 2030. We have completed an 
analysis to define the green procurement items and established a 
MTR Green Procurement List in 2022 with reference to government 
guidelines and eco-labelling schemes. A total of 290 green products 
and services relevant to MTR procurement activities have been 
incorporated in the Green Procurement List. Our annual green 
procurement spending for 2021 and 2022 is around HK$ 307 million 
and HK$ 114.1 million respectively. 

During the year, we completed a study to identify the number 
of local small and medium sized enterprises (“SMEs”) that we are 
using and our current expenses on local suppliers. The Study results 
provide us with the existing status, enabling us to explore possible 
ways to increase procurement opportunities for local SMEs to 
support our future operations. 

Enabling Development of Our Business 
Partners

We diligently track our procurement-related expenditure as part of 
the analytics within our comprehensive supply chain assessment 
procedures. Our suppliers are categorised under three separate 
groups based on the operation they serve – transport operations, 
property management and railway extension projects.

Note: Proportional spend data of railway extension projects is not shown due to 
the cyclical nature of spending. 

Managing our Supply Chain

Percentage of Spending by Major Categories in 2022 

Works & Maintenance Services

General Goods & Services

Goods, Services & Spares

Works & Maintenance Services

Cleaning, Security & 
Clubhouse Service

Other Goods & Services

Supporting Local Designers,  
Young and Women Entrepreneurs

To promote the creative industry in Hong Kong, we launched a 
new retail business, namely LOUDER in 2022. With the mission 
to provide an integrated Online-to-Offline retail platform for 
local designers and young entrepreneurs, LOUDER enables 
local artists to showcase their products in MTR Malls and to 
promote local brands to different communities. In addition to 
our retail shops at Maritime Square and The LOHAS, LOUDER’s 
e-Shop was open in December 2022. We have recruited over 
a hundred merchants who are SMEs and sole proprietors, and 
have accumulated over 5,000 number of products for the 
retail platform. 

 LOUDER retail shop at The LOHAS

In December 2022, we supported the Women In Work to 
open its first Gift Shop by offering a nominal rate under the 
station shops rental programme. Located at Tsim Sha Tsui 
East Station, the Gift Shop aims to empower female founders 
and startups by providing a platform to showcase and 
promote their products.

 First Women In Work Gift Shop opened in Tsim Sha Tsui East Station

41.4%

31.4%

27.2%

Transport 
Operations

31.2%

17.7%

51.1%

Property 
Management

https://www.mtr.com.hk/archive/corporate/en/tenders/SCoP_Rev_2020_(final).pdf
https://www.mtr.com.hk/archive/corporate/en/tenders/SCoP_Rev_2020_(final).pdf


Fostering Advancement and Opportunities

Sustainability Report 2022

52

OVERSEAS HIGHLIGHTS

Metro Trains Melbourne 

In 2022, Metro Trains Melbourne established its first Social 
Procurement Framework and Strategy with a focus on 
supplier diversity with Indigenous businesses and target 
outcomes including diversity, equality, environment, 
under-represented workers and workplace practices. Metro 
Trains Melbourne also became a member of Supply Nation, 
a supplier diversity organisation focused on Indigenous 
businesses, entitled to join membership activities to raise 
awareness of Indigenous procurement within Metro 
Trains Melbourne and explore opportunities to work with 
Indigenous suppliers. 

During the year, Metro Trains Melbourne completed and 
published its third Modern Slavery Statement which 
outlines the actions Metro Trains Melbourne has taken to 
reduce the risk of modern slavery activity within Metro 
Trains Melbourne and along its supply chain. 

MTR Elizabeth line

MTR Elizabeth line has been working with local small 
and medium enterprises (SMEs), with an aim to provide 
indirect employment for local people. For example, in 2022 
the MTR Elizabeth Line’s Procurement and Property and 
Projects Team held a Property and Projects Supplier Day to 
introduce the future pipeline of works and invite existing 
SMEs and others who expressed interests in working 
with MTR Elizabeth line to bid for the works. During the 
engagement sessions, MTR Elizabeth line listened to 
suppliers views on blockers to win the bid and possible 
process enhancement to support qualified SMEs to bid for 
the works.

We actively engage our business partners along our supply chain 
and support them to adopt and implement best sustainable 
practices beyond compliance to cultivate a sustainable value chain.

As a founding member of the Sustainable Procurement Charter 
launched by the Green Council, we have established a sustainable 
procurement programme to guide our ef forts in mitigating 
underlying risks in our supply chain. Under the programme, we have 
completed a review of our approach and policies to sustainable 
procurement and performed a supplier segmentation analysis. A 
data-driven approach was adopted for our supplier segmentation 
analysis to evaluate our business partners along the supply chain 
based on the inherent risks and company specific leverage. The 
findings of the analysis helped categorise more than 2,600 suppliers 
across over 100 product categories into four groups. The top two 
highest risk categories comprise approximately 6% suppliers, whilst 
the rest of our suppliers fall into the two lower risk levels. 

In October 2022, we organised a training session to promote and 
raise awareness on ESG along our supply chain. The session was 
attended by over 110 participants including representatives from 57 
key suppliers. External experts were invited to share their insights on 
ESG-related topics such as climate change, carbon reduction and 
setting of ESG KPIs. The Corporation also introduced our current ESG 
initiatives and KPIs to suppliers during the training session to solicit 
their support to achieve our three Environmental & Social Objectives. 
The Corporation plans to conduct another training session to 
enhance awareness and share best practices of relevant ESG topics 
with at least 60 suppliers next year as well as covering ESG in at least 
15 Supplier Review Meetings in 2023.

Supplier Engagement

We commit to collaborating with local schools and universities, as 
well as startups and the technology ecosystem to foster innovation.

Future Skills and Innovation

We actively invest in community programmes benefiting different 
social segments and adopt a multi-faceted approach to support 
youth development and to unlock their potential.

Empowering the Youth

To promote good sustainability performance of our main contractors 
and subcontractors, we continued to carry out the Environmental 
Improvement Incentive Scheme to recognise high quality, safety, 
environmental and stakeholder engagement performance from 
them. 

In 2022, we have conducted 5 supplier audits to review the 
operations, quality, safety and ESG performance of our suppliers. We 
will continue to conduct audit for more suppliers, with a target of 
completing 15 supplier review audits in 2023.

https://ds12k1658w1f2.cloudfront.net/wp-content/uploads/2023/02/Modern-Slavery-Statement-2022-Final.pdf


Fostering Advancement and Opportunities

Sustainability Report 2022

53

‘Train’ for Life’s Journeys 2022

In 2022, our summer youth programme ‘Train’ for Life’s 
Journeys resumed face-to-face activities and attracted over 
300 enrollments with 66 students selected participants, 
including ethnically diverse students. Entering the 14th year, the 
programme aims to support secondary school students in their 
career and life planning as well as whole-person development. 
With the theme of “Achievement, Inclusion, Dream”, the 2022 
programme consisted of a wide-range of activities such as 
career-and-life planning workshops, a day camp, community  

sharing and visits, job tasting with visits to MTR stations and 
depots, and experienced virtual reality and augmented reality 
simulations of our behind-the-scenes operations, enabling 
students embracing diversity and inclusion and offering them a 
holistic career and life planning experience to set goals for future 
development. 

Students participated in a neighbourhood tour with a twin-track focus on community and poverty. They also engaged in a 
cultural experience with traditional clothes.

Students visited fascinating art pieces in MTR stations as well as participating in an elderly travelling experience workshop

Moreover,  we col laborated with var ious inst i tut ions and 
organisations to support different programmes and initiatives 
which align with one of our Environmental and Social Objectives 
“Advancement and Opportunities”. These programmes and 
initiatives include:

• Sponsorship of scholarship for 8 Vocational Training Council 
Higher Diploma engineering students.

• With a view to engaging secondary school students through 
virtual Career Expo for S.K.H. St. Benedict’s School organised 
by the Rotary Club of Kings Park Hong Kong on 15 January 
2022. Our sharing covered the Corporation’s information, future 
development and career opportunities with positive feedback 
from students.

• Career talk for MTR Academy students on 30 May 2022, 
attended by 18 students from engineering stream. The talk 
covered an introduction of career opportunities and sharing 
of career development and personal growth stories within 
the Corporation. Positive feedback was received with some 
participants expressing interests in exploring career opportunities 
in MTR. 

A career talk was organised for MTR Academy students 



Fostering Advancement and Opportunities

Sustainability Report 2022

54

• Participation in the Pitch Perfect Programme organised by the 
Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce together with the 
Home and Youth Affairs Bureau. The Corporation joined the 
pitching competition on 30 May 2022 to provide interested 
university students with group interview and job pitching 
experience and sharing.

OVERSEAS HIGHLIGHTS

MTR (Shenzhen)

MTR (Shenzhen) developed a total of 7 new computer fault simulation scenarios in 2022. The comprehensive computer fault 
simulation scenarios cover topics from train incident handling to station operations procedural training, enhancing the diversity and 
effectiveness of training to relevant staff.

MTR Nordic

In 2017, MTR Nordic founded a Higher Vocational Education 
programme for train drivers and established an additional 
programme for train technicians in 2019. The train driver 
programme lasts for one year and about 45% of the training 
consists of work placements with various train operators. In 
2022, a total of 55 students graduated from the train driver 
programme and the train technician programme. Among the 
graduates, 37 students have been recruited by MTR Nordic. 

MTR Nordic has been working with Luleå Technical University 
to review some of the training plans offered by the Higher 
Vocational Education programme to enhance the contents and 
to ensure that the training plans are up to date according to 
recent research. 

Graduates from the Train Driver Programme

The Pitch Perfect Programme helped improve the competitive edge of 
university students 

• We sponsored two young delegates of Hong Kong to take part 
in the 2041 ClimateForce Antarctica Expedition 2022 which was 
a 12-day ‘carbon-negative’ expedition conducted in March 2022. 
Through the expedition, we aim to inspire, develop, and train the 
next generation of leaders to create a more sustainable future. A 
lunch talk was organised in July 2022, inviting the young delegates 
to share their learning from the expedition and insights on carbon 
emissions reduction and ecological conservation with our staff.

A sharing session conducted by two Hong Kong young delegates of the 2041 
ClimateForce Antarctica Expedition 2022 

MTR Elizabeth line

MTR Elizabeth line has supported 'Women into Transport and 
Engineering' (“WiTnE”) prgramme organised by the Supplier 
Skills Team of Transport for London (“TfL”). This was a four-
week pre-employment programme opened to women of all 
ages, through TfL’s network of organisations to support women 
entering into transport and engineering work or returning from 
a career break. The successful candidates undertook a two-
week pre-employment training at CONEL College and met with 
Smart Works, a charity that provides clothing and coaching for 
unemployed women, helping them build confident and prepare 
for the job. In November 2022, 5 candidates joined MTR Elizabeth 
line on a two-week work placement, where they attended 
company induction, played the Equally Yours game, shadowed 
Customer Experience Assistants at Woolwich and Canary Wharf  

stations, and joined the Community Ambassador team to 
support the Santa Express event.

Under MTR Elizabeth line’s on-going apprenticeship programme, 
7 Customer Experience Assistants joined the Passenger Transport 
Operative (Level 2) Apprenticeship and 2 colleagues from Control 
have started an apprenticeship with the Chartered Institute 
of Railway Operators in 2022. MTR Elizabeth line also offered 2 
internships to the London Interdisciplinary School (“LIS”). The 
scheme received very positive feedback and plans are in place to 
offer more internships to LIS students in 2023.



Fostering Advancement and Opportunities

Sustainability Report 2022

55

Innovation and technology are key enablers to help the Corporation 
realise its vision and create new growth opportunities.

Internally, we run a workshop under the theme of Low Carbon 
Smart Community, with The Hong Kong University of Science and 
Technology (“HKUST”) in March 2022. Attended by over 60 staff 
from different business units and corporate functions, the workshop 
aimed to identify specific areas of collaboration, leading to the 
development of research and development project proposals to 
help reinforce our research capability and core business especially 
on smart mobility and community. We also provided robotic 
and artificial intelligence (“AI”) training to equip apprentices and 
Technician Associates with the basic knowledge and skills aligning 
with the smart city trend in Hong Kong. In 2022, we also launched 
the Technology 101 Learning Series and organised a series of 
webinars on innovation and digitalisation to equip staff with 
technological and digital skills and to build the internal innovation 
ecosystem synergy. We have also been actively developing strategic 
partnerships, sponsoring and participating in tech conferences, and 
using our own innovation fund managed by the Technology and 
Innovation Steering Committee to enable pilot projects across the 
company.

Externally, we have marked a milestone by signing collaboration 
agreements with various key players in the innovation and 
technology sector. For instance, in August 2022, we signed an 
agreement with Hong Kong Science and Technology Parks 
Corporation (“HKSTP”) to set up a three-year collaboration 
framework focusing on the application of innovative technologies, 
data collaboration and co-investment on tech ventures. A core 
component of this agreement is to work with HKSTP to explore the 
establishment of a Living Lab within MTR’s operational environment 
to validate solutions provided by tech ventures. The Lab will first be 
set up in Hong Kong, such as an MTR station, mall or property, and 
may be extended to our footprints outside Hong Kong in the future.

To expedite innovative technology development in the city, we have 
signed a Memorandum of Understanding (“MoU”) with Hong Kong 
Cyberport Management Limited to set up a two-year collaboration 
framework for joint investment in digital technology startups. 
The collaboration aims to bring smarter services to customers 
through the strategic alliance with startups and contribute to the 
development of Hong Kong into a smart city. 

We will continue to work with different partners and our mid-term 
target is to invest over HK$300 million in startups from 2022 to 2025 
to foster future skills and innovation.

Fostering Innovation

A Collaboration Agreement with HKSTP to explore setting up a Living Lab 
and promote an open innovation and technology ecosystem 

MTR Corporation and Cyberport signed an MOU to join hands in investing in 
start-ups 



Fostering Advancement and Opportunities

Sustainability Report 2022

56

In 2016, the MTR Academy (the “Academy”) was established, with 
the aim of building a talent pool in railway industry and acting as 
a global training and research hub for railway management and 
operations. Drawing on MTR’s world-class experience in the railway 
industry, the Academy develops its tailor-made training curricula to 
cultivate future railway professionals and leaders of the industry in 
Hong Kong and around the world. 

The Academy now runs three accredited Diploma and Advanced 
Diploma programmes under the Hong Kong Qualif ication 
Framework with around 140 full-time and part-time students, 
nurturing 75 graduates in 2022. The Academy has also supported 
the provision of an Applied Learning subject under the Education 
Bureau since 2018 and the subject has been popular among the DSE 
candidates, with a total of 164 HKDSE students on the enrolment list 
in 2022.

In June 2022, the Corporation, in tandem with the Academy 
has signed an MOU with Hong Kong University of Science and 
Technology (“HKUST”) on the establishment of the “HKUST-MTR 
Joint Research Laboratory”, which is the first-ever research laboratory 
we have set up with an institution of higher education. Combining 
the strengths of HKUST and MTR, this collaboration is set to further 
enhance Hong Kong’s research and development capacity in smart 
city and sustainable development, and contribute to the city’s 
carbon neutrality goal. In the same month, the Corporation and 
the Academy signed an MoU with The Hong Kong Polytechnic 
University on a three-year collaboration to establish a partnership 
to explore advanced and innovative railway technologies and to 
facilitate smart railway asset and operations management, as well as 
intelligent maintenance. 

The Corporation supported the “She Loves Tech 2022 Global Startup 
Competition” for female entrepreneurs, by sponsoring its Hong Kong 
and Macau SAR Round and the Global Final Round. The competition 
attracted thousands of registrations from start-ups around the world, 
and 28 regional competition rounds were held across 70 countries. 

The Corporation also sponsored the She Loves Tech 2022 Global 
Conference themed “Daring to Be” held in Singapore in November 
covering a range of topics such as incorporating gender differences 
in designing smarter cities, femtech, purpose-driven tech, climate 
change, the future of work and early-stage investing. We supported 
the events as speakers and judges and shared our views and 
experience on diversity and inclusion, innovation, and sustainable 
design with the participants. 

Throughout the year the Corporation also supported various 
case competition for youth including AIESEC Outlier Challenge, 
Hong Kong Shared Good Value Competition and HKMA Business 
Simulation Competition. 

MTR Academy

Establishment of the “HKUST-MTR Joint Research Laboratory” 

"She Loves Tech 2022” aims to accelerate entrepreneurs and technology for 
transformative impact

Tripartite collaboration between MTR Corporation, MTR Academy and The 
Hong Kong Polytechnic University

https://www.mtracademy.com/en/index.html


Sustainability Report 2022

57

REDUCING 
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS

SDGs:

On MTR Sustainability Website:
Read our Management Approach

 › Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction

 › Sustainable Investment

Our Policies and Standards

 › Corporate Responsibility Policy

 › Climate Change Strategy

 › Practice Note for Managing Air Quality in 
Air-conditioned Public Transport Facilities: 
Railways

In This Chapter:

GRI: 302-1, 302-2, 302-4, 303-1, 305-1, 305-2, 
305-3, 305-4, 305-5, 306-1, 306-2, 413-2 

HKEX: GD-A1, GD-A2, GD-A3, KPI A1.2, KPI A1.4, 
KPI A1.5, KPI A1.6, KPI A2.1, KPI A2.3, KPI A2.4, 
KPI A3.1

Over 2,100 
flexible solar panels 

installed at Pat 
Heung Depot

Recorded 470 
tonnes CO2e 

saved through the 
green actions captured 

in Carbon Wallet

18
Water dispensers 

installed at 
stations

Two ifc
accredited with 
LEED Platinum 

Certification

https://www.mtr.com.hk/sustainability/en/greenhouse-gas-emissions-reduction.html
https://www.mtr.com.hk/sustainability/en/sustainable-investment.html
https://www.mtr.com.hk/archive/corporate/en/mtr_corporation_corporate_responsibility_policy_eng.pdf
https://www.mtr.com.hk/sustainability/assets/pdf/en/Climate_Change_Strategy.pdf
https://www.epd.gov.hk/epd/sites/default/files/epd/english/resources_pub/publications/files/pn03_2.pdf
https://www.epd.gov.hk/epd/sites/default/files/epd/english/resources_pub/publications/files/pn03_2.pdf
https://www.epd.gov.hk/epd/sites/default/files/epd/english/resources_pub/publications/files/pn03_2.pdf


Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions

Sustainability Report 2022

58

MTR offers a low-carbon solution connecting communities we serve. 
As an operator of a reliable, efficient and environmentally friendly 
transportation system, we are playing our part in transiting Hong 
Kong to a carbon neutral city by 2050. Apart from implementing 
climate mitigation and adaptation measures, we will continue to 
incorporate green features and energy efficiency measures in the 
planning, design, construction and operation of our railway network 
and properties.

We are committed to integrating low-carbon measures into our 
policies, strategies, planning and operations as well as strengthening 
our resilience and adaptation to climate-related risks. Moreover, we 
are committed to improving our energy efficiency and increasing 
the generation of renewable energy in our operations. 

Reducing Carbon Emissions, Adopting Clean 
Energy and Enhancing Energy Efficiency

Purchased energy is the largest source of our carbon emissions. 
In 2022, we consumed 3,330.65 GWh of electricity worldwide.  
In Hong Kong, our railway operations and property business 
accounted for 79% and 21% of our electricity consumption 
respectively. We continue to benchmark the electricity intensity 
and carbon intensity of our heavy rail network in Hong Kong with 
overseas counterparts through the COMET Benchmarking platform. 
Please refer to Performance Benchmarking in our Performance 
Metrics for further information.

1. Electricity consumption from our operation in Macao is not disclosed in this Report as the Corporation is not the sole owner of the data under the O&M service contract with the 
client in Macao. 

2. Electricity consumption has increased since the opening of Central Operating Section of the Elizabeth line in May 2022, more train services have been offered to passengers.

Energy Reduction and Efficiency

Electricity Consumption of Heavy Rail Operations by Location (GWh)1

Locations / Lines 2020 2021 2022

Hong Kong Hong Kong Operating Network 1,484.03 1,503.68 1,495.53

Mainland of China Shenzhen Metro Line 4 101.66 143.77 124.22

United Kingdom Elizabeth line 112.13 108.29 248.42 2

Sweden

Stockholm Metro 168.53 172.05 168.68

MTRX 14.56 15.33 19.28

Stockholms Pendeltåg 201.29 204.28 193.00

Mälartåg n/a n/a 94.43

Australia
Melbourne’s Metropolitan Rail Service 445.75 465.64 439.35

Sydney Metro North West Line 87.74 84.62 82.10

Total 2,615.69 2,697.66 2,865.01

3. This accounts for energy use from revenue generating activities only. 
4. This accounts for energy use that we control in owned and managed properties (i.e. it does not reflect energy consumed by our residents and tenants).

Electricity Consumption in Hong Kong (MWh)

Locations / Lines 2020 2021 2022

Railway Operations3

Heavy Rail 1,484,030 1,503,677 1,495,525

Light Rail 50,461 51,534 49,821

Sub-total 1,534,491 1,555,211 1,545,346

Properties4 376,220 411,914 415,819

Total 1,910,711 1,967,125 1,961,166

https://www.mtr.com.hk/sustainability/assets/pdf/en/2022/Performance_Metrics.pdf#page=33
https://www.mtr.com.hk/sustainability/assets/pdf/en/2022/Performance_Metrics.pdf#page=33


Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions

Sustainability Report 2022

59

Total GHG Emissions in Hong Kong (in Tonnes CO2e)

Breakdown of Scope 1 Emissions in Hong Kong (in Tonnes CO2e) 

Breakdown of Scope 2 Emissions in Hong Kong (in Tonnes CO2e) 

Breakdown of Scope 3 Emissions in Hong Kong (in Tonnes CO2e) Scope 1 emissions are direct GHG emissions from sources that are owned or controlled by the Corporation, such as emissions 
from fossil fuels burned on site.

Scope 2 emissions are indirect GHG emissions resulting from the generation of electricity, heating and cooling, or steam 
generated off site but purchased by the Corporation.

Scope 3 emissions include selected indirect GHG emissions from sources not owned or directly controlled by the Corporation 
but related to our activities. Coverage of our Scope 3 emissions includes water consumption and sewage treatment, paper 
consumption, staff business travel, and general waste disposed to landfill. 

Details of our GHG inventory, including the scope and boundary, are provided in Performance Metrics. 

 

 

 

Corporate Support Functions and 
Main Office Buildings

Corporate Support Functions and 
Main Office Buildings

Corporate Support Functions and 
Main Office Buildings

Transport Operations

Transport Operations

Transport Operations

Network Expansion

Network Expansion

Network Expansion

Properties and Other Business

Properties and Other Business

Properties and Other Business

Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3

40,949 7,290

3,13740,611

42,188 3,003

200,0000 400,000 600,000 800,000 1,000,000 1,200,000

2020

2021

2022

976,574

1,035,654

1,012,456

68.2%
(28,782)

0.4%
(158)

20.4%  
(8,590)

2022
Total: 42,188

11%
(4,658)

75.8%
(30,775)

0.4%
(161)

15.3% 
(6,201)

2021
Total: 40,611

8.2%
(3,375)

73%
(29,878)

0.3%
(126)

18.5% 
(7,571)

2020
Total: 40,949

8.6%
(3,474)

1.0%
(10,163)

81.8%
(798,564)

0.1%
(750)

17.1% 
(167,097)

2020
Total: 976,574

1.0%
(10,787)

80.9%
(837,531)

0.1%
(646)

18% 
(186,689)

2021
Total: 1,035,654

1.0%
(10,515)

80.6%
(816,355)

0.1%
(695)

18.3% 
(184,890)

2022
Total: 1,012,456

18.1%  
(545) 26.1%

(783)

29.4% 
(881)

26.4%
(793)

16.2%  
(509)

5.4% 
(397)

78.6% 
(5,732)

8.9%  
(649)

2020
Total: 7,290

7.0%  
(512)

10.1% 
(318)

50% 
(1,570)

23.6%  
(740)

2021
Total: 3,137

2022
Total: 3,003

https://www.mtr.com.hk/sustainability/assets/pdf/en/2022/Performance_Metrics.pdf#page=7


Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions

Sustainability Report 2022

60

In 2020/21, we completed a carbon reduction study to develop 
a long-term decarbonisation roadmap for the operation and 
development of our railway and property businesses in Hong 
Kong through analysing our carbon footprint, reviewing feasible 
technical solutions and industry best practices around the world, 
and assessing their applicability to our operation. The study has 
considered a comprehensive range of factors including the latest 
climate science, technology trends, Hong Kong’s Climate Action 
Plan 2050, the risks and opportunities for our business, and the 
views of key internal and external stakeholders. Following the 
endorsement of the decarbonisation roadmap by the Board in early 
2022, we have made an announcement of setting 2030 science-
based targets (“SBTs”) for our railway and property businesses in 
Hong Kong, with a longer term goal of achieving carbon neutrality 
by 2050. We submitted our commitment letter to the Science Based 
Targets Initiative (“SBTi”) in July 2022 and MTR’s commitment has 
been recognised on the SBTi website. We have submitted technical 
documents detailing our 2030 carbon reduction targets and they are 

pending for SBTi’s validation. We will publish our 2030 SBTs together 
with the decarbonisation roadmap upon endorsement by SBTi.

Under the recently established HKUST-MTR Joint Research 
Laboratory, we are working with HKUST to measure the embodied 
carbon emissions arising from our new railway development 
projects. Commenced in November 2022, this 2-year project aims 
to develop a quantification tool to track and benchmark embodied 
carbon of our new railway development projects and to explore 
the use of blockchain technology for carbon footprint reporting in 
our new railway construction projects. This project enables us to 
gauge our embodied carbon and identify potential areas for further 
reduction, which helps us achieve our 2030 carbon reduction targets 
and carbon neutrality goal by 2050. 

To support the use of electric vehicles (EVs), we are committed to 
installing over 200 additional EV charging stations across our office 
buildings, shopping malls and station carparks by 2025.

Chillers account for up to 40% of our total energy consumption 
in MTR stations in Hong Kong. We have continued our large-scale 
chiller replacement project at stations and depots. In 2022, we 
completed the first phase of our programme to replace 154 chillers 
with 133 new chillers of more energy efficient models. The second 
phase including replacement of 31 chillers in our stations will be 
completed by 2026, with an expected chiller energy saving of at 
least 20% after replacement.

In Hong Kong, we have adopted regenerative braking technology 
to convert kinetic energy produced during train braking to electrical 
energy which is then fed back into the traction power supply 
network for use by other trains through the overhead system. 
Super-capacitor energy storage devices were also installed on the 
South Island Line (East) to make better use of the surplus energy 
produced from regenerative braking. To further expand our usage 
of regenerative braking energy, we have completed the installation 
works of two Station Energy Saving Inverter systems at Lai King 
Traction Substation at Airport Express and Tung Chung Line and 
at HKU Station on the Island Line in 2022. The systems can capture 
total estimated average of 1,700 kWh of regenerative energy per day, 
which is converted to low-voltage AC electricity to power station 
facilities such as lighting, escalators and lifts.

In March 2021, we successfully applied for the funding of acquiring 
one double-decker electric bus from the New Energy Transport 
Fund. Tendering process of the electric bus was completed and 
contract was awarded in April 2022. The electric bus is scheduled to 
be delivered in 2024. Meanwhile, the tendering for the procurement 
of the charger and the associated installation electrical and civil 
works is underway. It is our target to introduce at least 30 e-buses by 
2026. We will also develop a pilot battery energy storage system for 
our diesel engineering wagons by 2024 to electrify our engineering 
vehicles.

Our Railway Operations



Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions

Sustainability Report 2022

61

OVERSEAS HIGHLIGHTS

MTR (Shenzhen)

MTR (Shenzhen) has adopted a range of energy saving measures 
in stations, including:

• Setting up of energy saving timetable with daily monitoring 
for all stations, e.g. switching off standby escalators and 
lighting for station advertisement during non-peak hours;

• Switching off Automatic Fare Collection System during non-
peak hours; and

• Switching off chillers of facility area at selected stations during 
cooler months when outdoor temperature is below 22°C. 

MTR Nordic

MTR Nordic is the first Nordic traffic operator that committed to 
setting a science-based target (“SBT”). Endorsed by the Science 
Based Targets Initiative (“SBTi”), MTR Nordic’s SBT is to decrease 
its carbon emissions in scope 1, 2 and scope 3 purchased goods 
and services, fuel- and energy-related activities, and upstream 
transportation and distribution GHG emissions 25.2% by 2025 
from a 2019 base year. 

Examples of initiatives implemented within MTR Nordic to 
achieve the goals include:

• 100% renewable energy for railway operations since 2019;

• Installation of sensors for demand controlled ventilation in 
one of the train depots;

• Installation of LED in the service pit in two depots;

• Further energy optimisation of the ventilation in the big 
central station and several depots;

• 100% renewable fuel in replacement buses since 2021;

• Phased out fossil fuels and increased share of renewable fuels 
in own cars to 94.2%;

• Target set to have 100% renewable fuel in cars by 2023 and 
50% electric cars by 2025;

• Requesting suppliers to set their own emission reduction 
targets and providing emission reports; and

• Conducted a travel habits survey among employees to 
understand the travel patterns so as to identify improvement 
opportunities.

Other than setting a SBTi-approved target, the calculation of MTR 
Nordic’s carbon emissions has been reviewed and validated by 
an independent third party to confirm that its carbon neutrality 
status is in line with PAS2060. This covers its entire carbon footprint 
(including Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3), and demonstrates that 
MTR Nordic has reduction plans in place and has compensated 
100% of its carbon footprint through Clean Development 
Mechanism “CDM” certified projects in renewable energy.

Escalators in stations 
are switched off during 
non-peak hours

Our Property Operations

We have adopted a wide range of energy saving measures in our 
invested and managed properties, including:

• Replacement of traditional lights with LED lights;

• Installation of high energy efficient air conditioning systems for plant 
rooms, common areas and main lobbies, and installation of variable 
speed drive (“VSD”) at the ventilation fans of air handling units;

• Installation of motion and optical sensor-controlled lighting with 
a dimming function for rear staircases and mechanical floors;

• Upgrade of lighting controls for our building management 
systems;

• Modernisation of lifts and escalators; 

• Proactive replacement with high efficiency equipment; 

• Upgrade of Building Management System; and

• Installation of Sun Control Window Films at Clubhouse.

During the year, we have engaged tenants in various energy-saving 
initiatives in all our shopping malls such as supporting WWF’s Earth 
Hour, participating in the HKSAR Government Energy Saving Charter 
and No Air Con Night, and liaise with tenants in Elements to reduce 
shopfront lighting hours. We also continue to closely monitor air-
conditioning usage and adjust temperatures in the main lobbies and 
club houses of our managed properties to reduce energy use. Going 
forward, we will conduct energy audit for our managed residential 
properties for the common areas and existing shopping malls with 
full operation in 2022 and develop the associated energy saving plan 
progressively. We will also conduct a pilot programme in one of our 

shopping malls to engage and assist tenants in identifying energy 
saving measures next year.

In our Headquarters, we continued our plan to gradually replace 
approximately 10,000 fluorescent light tubes with LED tubes, which 
consume 50% less energy. As at the end of 2022, around 75% of 
fluorescent light tubes at our Headquarters have been replaced with 
LED lights. In 2022, we have also installed an additional 40 electric 
vehicle (“EV”) charging stations across office buildings and malls 
carparks. To further reduce our carbon emission, we will complete our 
chiller plant replacement programme in Headquarters in 2024, with an 
expected energy saving of around 20% chiller energy consumption as 
compared with 2019. In addition, 50% of our executive private vehicles 
will be replaced with EV or be cancelled by 2024.



Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions

Sustainability Report 2022

62

We continued to make progress in supporting the generation of 
renewable energy in 2022. Hardware installation of solar facilities 
in Hin Keng Station, including flexible solar panel, conventional 
solar panel and solar glass, and grid connection were completed. 
Following the contract award in December 2021, the solar panel 
installation works at Pat Heung Depot, Chai Wan Depot, Sunny Bay 
Station and Siu Hong Station are underway. Separately, the tender 
for the installation of solar panel systems for Tai Wai Depot and Tuen 
Mun Depot was awarded in October 2022 and the design is currently 
in progress. Among all, the solar panel system at Pat Heung Depot 
comprises over 2,100 panels, which is the largest flexible system in a 
single building in Hong Kong. 

We have joined the Fit-in-Tarif f Scheme for some of our solar 
PV systems, and part of the rebates, including those from our 
Headquarters Building and Hung Hom Building, have been 
used to purchase Renewable Energy Certificates to support the 
development of renewable energy in Hong Kong. 

Apart from our stations and depots, we will also install solar panels at 
Luk Yeung Galleria and Paradise Mall to support the building facilities 
of the two shopping malls. It is our short-term target to generate 1 
million kWh of renewable energy by 2023. 

We always identif y and explore new technologies to help 
decarbonise our operations. For example, we have conducted a 
trial project to apply a fully automated AI system to control a chiller 
plant at station in order to optimise energy performance in real 
time while maintaining a level of passenger comfort that suits each 
station’s environment. The AI system is expected to achieve better 
energy efficiency with annual energy savings of approximately 8.7%. 
In our properties, we have implemented a cloud-based big data 
analytic software platform at Two ifc and saved 12% annual energy 
consumption of the central chiller plant in 2022. Besides, we have 
commenced a pilot project to develop an integrated AI solution 
combining system energy efficiency and occupancy monitoring 
to achieve energy savings at Elements. It is expected to reduce 
electricity consumption of the chiller plant upon completion in 2024.

Clean Energy and Innovation

OVERSEAS HIGHLIGHTS

MTR (Shenzhen)

In 2022, MTR (Shenzhen) signed a cooperation agreement on 
the distributed solar demonstration project in Longhua District 
with CLPe Solutions, a wholly owned subsidiary of CLP Holdings. 
More than 2,000 solar panels with a capacity of 1.24GW will 
be installed on the roof of Longhua Depot. The project is the 
first collaboration project between MTR (Shenzhen) and CLPe 
Solutions for building a distributed solar power system, while 
it is also a model project for Hong Kong-Shenzhen energy 
cooperation to reduce carbon emissions. The project is estimated 
to be able to generate 1.3 MWh of renewable energy annually and 
reduce carbon emissions by 16,000 tons during the contracting 
period.

Metro Trains Sydney

Metro Trains Sydney has offset its operational electricity use for 
the entire network through purchasing large-scale generation 
certificates under the Green Products Purchase Agreement with 
the Beryl Solar Farm at Gulgong New South Wales. The solar 
farm will be expanded together with the network to support 
the operations of Metro Trains Sydney in the long run. This 
arrangement not only helps secure the low-carbon operation of 
Metro Trains Sydney’s network, but also brings significant social 
and economic benefits to the local community of Gulgong 
with the creation of 150 local jobs during construction as well as 
ongoing full-time positions for the operation and maintenance of 
the solar farm. Since signing the agreement, Metro Trains Sydney 
has offset over 83,000 tons CO2e from its operations.The renewable energy initiative is a model project for Hong Kong-

Shenzhen energy cooperation to reduce carbon emissions

Solar panel systems at Pat Heung Depot



Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions

Sustainability Report 2022

63

Engaging the Community

Carbon Wallet, a one-stop green lifestyle reward app, was 
introduced in March 2021 to encourage the public to adopt a low 
carbon lifestyle. The app promotes carbon reduction actions across 
four lifestyle categories: recycling, dining, shopping and mobility. 
Through practising carbon-conscious behaviour, users can earn 
points based on the carbon emissions saved, which may in turn be 
redeemed for green products and services from our participating 
partners. The app also provides an interactive map which allows 
users to find the nearest recycling point, drinking water stations 
and vegetarian restaurants. The number of downloads has reached 
over 80,000 since its launch. In 2022, Carbon Wallet partnered with 
more than 28 sustainable businesses, vegetarian restaurants, cafés 
and green groups to promote carbon reduction actions. Overall, 
users have submitted more than 250,000 recycling records in total. 
Combining all green actions captured in the app, our community 
saved 470,000 kg CO2e, which is equivalent to the amount of 
carbon dioxide emitted by around 1,728 households’ electricity 
consumption in a month in Hong Kong. Carbon Wallet will continue 
to expand its ecosystem and co-organise campaigns with partners 
to engage our staff and the public to practice low-carbon lifestyle in 
their daily lives. 

Carbon Wallet 

Carbon Wallet - Hong Kong’s one-stop green lifestyle reward app

The Corporation has supported the ReThink HK, one of the leading 
events on sustainable development in Hong Kong, for the second 
consecutive year as a headline theatre sponsor. The two-day 
event enabled connection and engagement with various industry 
practitioners to exchange views, share best practices and foster 
collaboration in multiple sustainability aspects. To encourage using 
low-carbon transportation and practising green lifestyle, we have 
worked with Carbon Wallet to offer a free MTR ride for each visitor 
who travelled to the event venue by MTR.

ReThink HK 2022

Exhibition booth and discussion panel session at ReThink HK 2022



Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions

Sustainability Report 2022

64

MTR continued to sponsor and support WWF’s “Earth Hour” 
campaign which was held on 26 March 2022. We have invited our 
business units and corporate functions to switch off external and 
façade lights of some of our managed buildings, and lightings of 
external logos on our office buildings and depot entrances for  
1 hour on the event day.

WWF’s “Earth Hour”

We have also supported the Charter on External Lighting to switch 
off lighting installations of decorative, promotional or advertising 
purposes which affect the outdoor environment during the pre-
set time to minimise nuisance to the surrounding environment. A 
total of 18 properties including 3 of our office buildings joined the 
Diamond level of the Charter, switching off external lighting from 10 
pm to 7am on the following day. 

Environment and Ecology Bureau’s Charter on External 
Lighting

To further promote environmental protection to the public in 
a fun and friendly way, we introduced our Green Ambassador 
“Green T Baby” recently. “Green T Baby” is friendly, passionate and 
knowledgeable about protecting the environment while sharing 
lots of creative ideas, environmental tips as well as MTR's green and 
low-carbon initiatives. Green T Baby will serve as an ambassador 
promoting MTR’s commitments and efforts to achieve carbon 
neutrality by 2050. Please watch the video to view the birth of  
Green T Baby.

Green T Baby

MTR green ambassador - Green T Baby, with a heart-shaped nose and a bag 
of magic tricks

Green T Baby promoting our green initiatives at stations and trains

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w1y37-8QFOs


Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions

Sustainability Report 2022

65

Waste contributes to about 7% of carbon emissions in Hong Kong, 
with the bulk of them being the greenhouse gas generated from 
decomposition of waste in landfills. Waste reduction and resources 
circulation can help reduce carbon emissions and foster a low-
carbon and sustainable lifestyle.

With millions of passengers and customers travelling along our 
extensive railway networks and through our integrated properties, 
we recognise the importance of waste management and commit 
to reducing waste generation through prevention, reduction and 
recycling.

To minimise the amount of waste generated from our operations 
and ultimately disposed at landfill, we have put in place a variety 
of initiatives to encourage waste reduction and recycling at our 
stations, shopping malls and managed properties. Internally, we 
focus our efforts on driving staff behaviour change and promoting 
proper waste handling and recycling. 

Waste Management

In addition to the three-colour recycling bins placed in the 
concourse of all MTR stations, we have been installing drinking water 
dispensers and water vending machines at different MTR stations 
since 2018. As of December 2022, a total of 18 water dispensers 
have been installed at various MTR stations, especially interchange 
stations or stations close to gathering points of hikers, to encourage 
passengers to use refillable drinking bottles and hence reducing the 
use of single-use plastic beverage containers, saving over 1 million 
pieces of bottles. Our plan is to install 8 more dispensers in 2023-
2024. 

Since the launch of a trial on upcycling of spoil ballast generated 
from East Rail Line ballast replacement project in February 2021, 
approximately 8,300 tons of waste ballast have been upcycled for 
making about 4.4 million pieces of eco-paver. Some of them were 
used as eco-brick planters in Hin Keng Station. 

Our Railway Operations

Serving Hong Kong for over four decades, MTR train has a 
great sentimental value to all Hong Kong people. Since 2021, 
we have been working closely with dif ferent partners to 
give our retired trains and relevant parts a second life under 
our “Legacy Train Revitalisation Programme” (“LTRP”). This 
programme aims to revitalise and upcycle valuable resources 
for the betterment of the society through preserving the whole 
train cars, and recycling or upcycling train compartments and 
components. Retired trains are upcycled to divert operational 
waste from landfill while raising awareness of waste reduction 
and upcycling, and benefiting the community. Up to now, we 
have collaborated with more than 20 NGOs, social partners and 
government departments, jointly turning over 400 pieces of 
decommissioned train parts into different uses. For instance, 

passenger seats have been donated to senior centres, schools 
and the public community as recreational facilities. Some train 
parts were transformed into arm-stretching equipment, which 
was installed by our MTR Volunteer team in the elderly homes.

Recently, we have donated a train compartment of a retired Mid-
life Refurbishment train of the East Rail Line and a retired “Phase 
2” Light Rail Vehicle to Ying Wa College and Ying Wa Primary 
School, passing on precious stories of Hong Kong railway 
development to students.

Watch the videos (LTRP and the Ying Wa project) to learn more 
about the LTRP.

A train compartment of a retired Mid-life Refurbishment train and a 
retired “Phase 2” Light Rail Vehicle were donated to schools 

Donation of train components to elderly centres, schools and NGOs

Train-themed classrooms with an integration of arts and technology 
elements to inspire students’ learning interest 

Our “Legacy Train Revitalisation Programme” – Giving a Second Life to Retired Train Parts

Eco-brick planters in Hin Keng Station

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aqPPl1P4Ajk
https://www.facebook.com/mtrhk/videos/721431986058630/


Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions

Sustainability Report 2022

66

OVERSEAS HIGHLIGHTS

Metro Trains Melbourne

Metro Trains Melbourne has developed an environmentally 
responsible solution for the decommissioning of the oldest 
Comeng trains to maximise reuse and recycling so as to reduce 
the amount of waste disposal to landfill. For example, train parts 
such as seats,cushions, pneumatic valves, gauges and other 
components were collected for reuse in other trains, where 
feasible.. After removing the reusable and recyclable parts, trains 
are then transported to a metal recycling facility to break down 
the segments into pieces, and ferrous metals are loaded directly 
from the recycle facility into the steel foundry where they are 
repurposed into various steel products. 

To work towards a circular economy, Metro Trains Melbourne 
rolled out a recyclable corflute program, implementing a new 
working model for ordering, installing, removing and recycling 
corflute signage used to communicate temporary service 
changes at stations and guide passengers to take alternative 
transport when needed. 

Since July 2021, Metro Trains Melbourne has worked with a 
corflute supplier on the solution that involved a new printing 
process to meet recycling specifications, the bulk storage 
and transport of used corflutes to the recycling contractor for 
pelletising for material reuse in the production of new corflutes. 
The program achieves a circular model that reduces single-use 
plastic material going to landfill. In 2022, Metro Trains Melbourne 
has recycled approximately 6,000 kilograms of corflute signage. 

Improved corflute signage with insert 
pocket or brochure holder which can 
be reused

We work closely with the Owners’ Committees and Incorporated 
Owners to identify opportunities to promote dif ferent source 
separation of waste programmes to residents. Different types of 
recyclables such as used papers, used clothes and glass bottles 
are being collected through recycling facilities in our managed 
properties. For instance, 52 estates of our managed properties have 
participated in “Green Collect”, a one-stop recycling service launched 
by the Environmental Protection Department (“EPD”) to enhance 
the recyclable collection services at housing estates. We also joined 
the Umbrella bags Reduction Accreditation Program organised by 
Greeners Action at our main office buildings and shopping malls to 
reduce the use of disposable umbrella bags on rainy days.

During the year, we continue to participate in the “Reverse Vending 
Machine (“RVM”) Pilot Scheme” rolled out by the EPD. All our 12 
shopping malls have installed the RVMs, collecting over 3.6 million 
plastic beverage bottles for recycling as of December 2022.

In 2022, we supported the first-ever closed loop reusable food 
packaging pilot programme in Hong Kong funded by the 
Environment and Conservation Fund. Co-organised by WWF-
Hong Kong and foodpanda Hong Kong, the pilot programme was 
launched in October 2022 to encourage users to choose reusable 
containers from participating restaurants when ordering take aways, 
and return them after use through the smart collection machines 
at nine different collection points including two of our premises – 
World-wide House and Admiralty Centre. Users will be rewarded 
with foodpanda vouchers and Carbon Wallet points when returning 
the food containers.

Our Property Operations

Reverse Vending Machine at our shopping malls to encourage residents, 
tenants and customers to recycle plastic bottles

Smart collection machines at Admiralty Centre 
and World-wide House

We continue the two-year waste separation and food waste 
recycling trial in Heng Fa Chuen, where residents are encouraged 
to practice clean sorting and recycling through earning electronic 
points to redeem gifts. Food waste collected is transported to the 
O·PARK1 for further processing to turn food waste to renewable 
energy and re-usable compost. Besides, Elements, Maritime Square 
and Admiralty Centre have joined the Food Waste Recycling Pilot 
Scheme organised by the EPD to engage our food and beverage 
tenants in collecting and sending food waste to the O·PARK1. 

Internally, all of our 14 staff canteens have been collecting and 
sending our food waste to the O·PARK1 since December 2022. 



Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions

Sustainability Report 2022

67

Buildings account for about 90% of Hong Kong’s total electricity 
consumption, and over 60% of our carbon emissions is attributable 
to generating electricity for buildings. In order to achieve carbon 
neutrality, we need to step up efforts to improve energy efficiency 
performance of buildings by integrating energy efficient facilities 
and adopting green and low-carbon designs in new development 
projects. 

We recognise the importance of adopting green and low-carbon 
designs to achieve carbon neutrality and commit to developing 
sustainable infrastructure with increased resource-use efficiency, 
greater adoption of clean and environmentally sound technologies, 
and enhanced ecological value of the surrounding environment.

Green and Low-carbon Designs

* MTR act as agent for West Rail Developments.

List of property in MTR’s property portfolio achieved Gold or 
Platinum rating under the Hong Kong Green Building Council’s 
BEAM Plus scheme is provided below:

We strive to integrate environmentally conscious features into our 
projects and the surrounding areas as far as practicable during the 
design, planning, construction and operation of new lines, buildings 
and properties. We are aiming to achieve a minimum of BEAM Plus 
Gold accreditation for all our future new stations and new residential 
development projects. In 2022, we attained BEAM Plus Provisional 
Gold accreditation for our proposed Tung Chung East and Tung 
Chung West stations. We will also add over 1,400 bike parking spaces 
around our stations and managed properties by 2025 to encourage 
low-carbon living. 

Hin Keng Station is the first railway station in Asia to achieve BREEAM 
certification, achieving a ‘Very Good’ rating under BREEAM In-Use 
(BIU). BREEAM is the world’s first sustainability assessment method 
for the built environment and the most widely used rating scheme 
worldwide. Station improvement works are in progress aiming to 
upgrade the existing “Very Good” rating to “Excellent” rating under 
the latest version of BIU. We target to obtain the new certificate by 
2023.

Green and Low-carbon Design

Two ifc Accredited with LEED Platinum Certification

Two International Finance Centre (Two ifc) has received 
Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) 
Platinum certification for Operations and Maintenance: 
Existing Buildings v4.1, becoming the first project in Hong 
Kong obtained the highest standard in this certification 
programme.

Established by U.S. Green Building Council, LEED is the most 
widely used green building rating system in the world. It 
provides a framework for creating a healthy, efficient and 
cost-saving green building. 

To provide owners, tenants and visitors with a better quality 
of life as well as lowering carbon emissions, reducing 
electricity and water usage and building a healthier 
environment, we have implemented practical enhancement 
measures in areas including water savings, energy efficiency 
and indoor environment quality.

Year Property
BEAM Plus 
Standard 
Awarded

2022

LOHAS Park Package 9 (Marini, Grand 
Marini and Ocean Marini)

Final Gold

LOHAS Park Package 8 (Sea to Sky) Final Gold

LOHAS Park Package 7 (Montara and 
Grand Montara)

Final Gold

2021

Long Ping Station (South) Residential 
Development (Sol City)* Final Gold

LOHAS Park Package 6 (LP6) Final Gold

LOHAS Park Package 5 (MALIBU) Final Platinum

LOHAS Park Package 4 (Wings at Sea) Final Gold

Tsuen Wan West Station (Bayside) 
Residential Development (Ocean 
Pride and Ocean Supreme)*

Final Gold

2020
Nam Cheong Station (Residential) 
(Cullinan West, Cullinan West II, and 
Cullinan West III)*

Final Gold

2019

Tsuen Wan West Station (Cityside) 
Residential Development (PARC CITY)* Final Gold

Tsuen Wan West Station (Tsuen Wan 
6) Residential Development (THE 
PAVILIA BAY*

Final Gold

2018
Long Ping Station (North) Residential 
Development (The Spectra)* Final Gold

2017
Austin Station Residential 
Development (The Austin and Grand 
Austin)

Final Gold

Two ifc has achieved LEED 
Platinum cer tif ication for 
Operations and Maintenance: 
Existing Buildings v4.1



Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions

Sustainability Report 2022

68

We use water primarily to clean our trains, railway infrastructure, 
stations and premises in our operations. To manage and reduce our 
water usage, we have introduced water recycling systems and water 
saving devices across our railway and property operations. Water 
used to clean trains is collected and recycled for another round 
of train washing or as toilet flushing water in the depots. A grey 
water recycling system has been installed at LOHAS Park to recycle 
wastewater for landscaping and cleaning of outdoor public spaces. 
We also install sensor in water taps, flow restrictors and dual flush 
toilets in our office premises and MTR Malls. 

A self-innovated “walking tank” has been developed and applied to 
our residential properties to conserve water during regular cleaning 
of water fountain. Water is purified and reused in the fountain to 
avoid draining out large amount of water whenever cleaning the 
water fountain.

Besides, all MTR office buildings, depots and shopping malls as well 
as management offices of our residential property have pledged 
to support the Enterprise Cherish Water Campaign (“ECH2O”) 
initiated by Water Supplies Department (“WSD”) to cherish water 
through implementing water saving measures and setting water 
conservation targets. WSD awarded one of our colleagues with 
the Bronze Award in Outstanding ECH2O Manager in 2022. Our 
targets are to reduce 2.5% of water consumption in depots in 2023 
with 2022 level as baseline as well as saving 5% of water use in our 
shopping malls in 2025 with 2018 level as baseline.

Water Conservation Biodiversity 

We are committed to protecting the natural habitats and maintaining 
the diversity of plants and animals within the areas in which we 
operate, adhering to the relevant environmental legislations 
and requirements, and avoiding and minimising, where feasible, 
our adverse impacts on ecology and biodiversity relating to our 
operations and new development projects. 

Our commitment to protecting the natural habitat is well 
demonstrated from our management and conservation work at Lok 
Ma Chau wetland which included 32 hectares enhanced wetland 
habitats consisting of 3 main sections: Reedbeds, Marshlands and 
Fishponds, as well as ongoing ecological monitoring. Over 280 bird 
species have been observed, including the endangered Black-faced 
Spoonbill. During the 2022 breeding season, over 110 pairs of birds 
representing 9 different species were spotted. The wetland also 
hosts dragonflies, reptiles, mammals and amphibians including those 
classified as endangered, vulnerable and near-threatened. More details 
about our work at the Lok Ma Chau wetland could be found in the 
Lok Ma Chau Wetland Website.

To continuously enhance our tree management initiatives, we have 
developed a Tree Intrusion Detection System (“TrIDS”) to monitor tree 
conditions more effectively. With the use of 3D mapping technology, 
Light Detection And Ranging (LiDAR) and AI platform, the new system 
can be installed in Light Rail Vehicles (“LRV”) to capture tree data 
such as detection of tilting trees. This System enables us to identify 
potential risk of fallen trees and tree intrusion during LRV operations 
so as to plan for and carry out suitable mitigation measures. During 
the year, our Tree Management Team has started to use the TrIDS 
system on a trial basis. The system is able to enhance our ongoing tree 
management regime, including regular monitoring and maintenance 
for around 25,000 trees along the railway lines.

During the year, we also supported the Hong Kong Bird Watching 
Society (“HKBWS”), a local NGO aiming at appreciating, studying and 
conserving Hong Kong birds and natural environment, by donating 
its Field Guide to the Birds of Hong Kong and South China to all local 
primary schools. The Field Guide is a good reference for all birdwatchers, 
especially beginners, to appreciate the beauty and variety of bird 
species in Hong Kong and South China area. Through this collaboration, 
we aim to build bird protection concept at young age. 

Enhancing Bird Protection at Mei Foo Station

In view of the occurrence of bird strike outside Mei Foo 
Station, we have taken the initiative to make Mei Foo a 
bird-friendly station. With the advice from HKBWS, the bird 
strikes might have been caused by window facades at the 
station reflecting trees in the park nearby and birds hitting 
the glass panels by mistake. In response to the issue, we 
conducted a trial with anti-bird collision window films at the 
station and once it was proved feasible, applied the films 
on over 100 window facades in Mei Foo Station to provide 
better protection for birds. Bird strike outside the station 
significantly reduced after the films were applied. We also 
plan to decorate windows along the interchange walkway in 
the station with graphics resembling birds to raise awareness 
on bird protection amongst our commuters. 

Installation of anti-bird collision window films on over 100 window 
facades in Mei Foo Station

Self-innovated water-saving “walking tank” 

https://www.mtr.com.hk/en/corporate/sustainability/environmental_reporting_lmc.html


Sustainability Report 2022

69

CLIMATE-RELATED 
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES

On MTR Sustainability Website:
Read our Management Approach

 › Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction

 › Sustainable Investment

Our Policies and Standards

 › Corporate Responsibility Policy

 › Climate Change Strategy

SDGs:In This Chapter:

GRI: 302-4 

HKEX: GD-A1, GD-A2, GD-A4, KPI A1.5, KPI A2.3, 
KPI A4.1

Strategic oversight
by the board-level 
Environmental and 

Social Responsibility 
Committee

Following a
3-pronged 

Climate 
Change 

Strategy

Completed
a high-level 

climate 
diagnostic study

Setting
2030 science-
based targets

https://www.mtr.com.hk/sustainability/en/greenhouse-gas-emissions-reduction.html
https://www.mtr.com.hk/sustainability/en/sustainable-investment.html
https://www.mtr.com.hk/archive/corporate/en/mtr_corporation_corporate_responsibility_policy_eng.pdf
https://www.mtr.com.hk/sustainability/assets/pdf/en/Climate_Change_Strategy.pdf


Climate-related Financial Disclosures

Sustainability Report 2022

70

As climate change is a material issue which poses both risks 
and opportunities to our existing operations as well as future 
development, we have been publishing climate-related financial 
disclosures with reference to the recommendations of the Task Force 
on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (“TCFD”) since 2020. 

We have formulated a three-pronged approach Climate Change 
Strategy, focusing our efforts to provide a low-carbon transport 
network, improve energy ef ficiency and strengthen climate 
adaptation and resilience measures in our operations. 

Three-pronged Approach Climate Change Strategy

1. Serving as a Low-carbon Public Transport Network  
In Hong Kong, MTR strives to support the HKSAR Government 
to utilise railway operations as the backbone of Hong Kong’s 
low-carbon public transport network. We have been working 
closely with the HKSAR Government in taking forward the 
railway expansion plans stipulated in the Railway Development 
Strategy 2014 to develop a safe, efficient, economically viable 
and environmentally friendly transport system in Hong Kong. We 
are committed to continuously looking for new opportunities in 
network expansion to secure a significant step towards the low 
carbon future and apply the Rail plus Property model, where 
appropriate, to enhance the walkability and connectivity of the 
city as well as promoting low carbon urban mobility.  
 
Apar t f rom Hong Kong, MTR will  also continue to seek 
opportunities to grow strategically into overseas and regional 
markets and leverage our experience to connect more 
communities with a low-carbon public transport system.  
 
Details of our network expansion are available in our Annual 
Report.

2. Implementing Carbon Reduction Measures  
Apart from complying with applicable regulatory requirements, 
MTR is committed to taking a proactive approach in adopting 
more str ingent energy ef f icienc y requirement beyond 
compliance. We will continue to adopt the latest green building 
standards, such as BEAM Plus for our new residential building 
development and new stations to reduce associated climate-
related impacts arising from energy and waste and increase 

resilience. We will also work closely with our project partners in 
planning and constructing new rail and property development 
projects to ensuring the incorporation of low carbon (including 
reduction of embodied carbon), energy efficient and climate 
resilient design in such long-standing infrastructure.   
 
In the meantime, we will explore the possibility of generating 
more renewable energy, where feasible, and participate in 
communication with government and energy suppliers in Hong 
Kong to encourage and promote decarbonisation of energy 
supply and improving the access to low carbon energy. We will 
also actively review the suitability and practicality of opportunities 
that can offset or remove our carbon emissions.   
 
Details of our carbon reduction measures are available in 
Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions section.

3. Climate Adaptation and Resilience  
MTR will continue to improve our infrastructures’ resilience to the 
changing climate and take measures to adapt to different climate 
conditions. For example, the entrance/exits of most MTR stations 
are by design at least 450mm above street level and equipped 
with 1.2m high flood boards, waterproof doors are installed at the 
underground entrances/exist connecting MTR stations and other 
facilities as needed, floodgates are also installed at the immersed 
tube tunnel of railway tunnels where necessary to prevent ingress 
of flood water. We will constantly review our design manuals and 
incorporate appropriate measures to strengthen climate resilience 
of our railway and property infrastructures. In addition, we will 
conduct climate-related scenario analysis as recommended by 
TCFD to better understand the potential implications of climate-
related risks and opportunities on the Corporation.  
 
Examples of our flood prevention measures at MTR stations and 
preparedness for typhoon at MTR properties can be found on 
our Sustainability Website.

Our board-level Environmental & Social Responsibility Committee 
(“E&SRC”), led by the Chairman of the Corporation, is responsible 
for providing strategic guidance and review our environmental 
and social practices and performance, including matters related to 
climate change. The responsibilities of the E&SRC and details on its 
work during the year are available in the Corporate Governance 
Report of the Annual Report. 

Within the Corporation, the Executive Committee chaired by the 
Chief Executive Officer is tasked with the day-to-day management. 
The Environmental & Social Responsibility Steering Committee 
(“E&SRSC”), led by the Legal and Governance Director, focuses on 
driving and reviewing the implementation of environmental and 
social initiatives, including climate change, across all MTR business 
units and corporate functions. Members of the E&SRSC include 
members of the Executive Directorate and colleagues representing 
MTR’s major business units and corporate functions. 

Significant environmental & social issues, including climate change, 
will be reported to and sought advice from the Board. For example, 
the Corporation’s long-term decarbonisation roadmap including 
commitment to set 2030 science-based targets for our railway 
and property businesses in Hong Kong, with a longer term goal of 
achieving carbon neutrality by 2050 has been thoroughly discussed 
and endorsed by the Board in 2022. 

Governance

Strategy

https://www.mtr.com.hk/sustainability/assets/pdf/en/Climate_Change_Strategy.pdf
https://www.mtr.com.hk/sustainability/assets/pdf/en/Climate_Change_Strategy.pdf
https://www.mtr.com.hk/en/corporate/investor/financialinfo.html#02
https://www.mtr.com.hk/en/corporate/investor/financialinfo.html#02
https://www.mtr.com.hk/sustainability/en/sustainable-investment.html?tab=1&s=crfd
https://www.mtr.com.hk/en/corporate/investor/financialinfo.html#02
https://www.mtr.com.hk/en/corporate/investor/financialinfo.html#02


Climate-related Financial Disclosures

Sustainability Report 2022

71

Climate-related risks are monitored, reviewed and updated annually 
through our Enterprise Risk Management (“ERM”) Framework. 
Representatives from business units and corporate functions report 
climate-related risks to the Enterprise Risk Committee (“ERC”) who 
is responsible for reviewing the Corporation’s top risks and key 
emerging risks on an annual basis, including those related to or 
associated with climate change. The Chairman of the ERC will report 
the top risks to the Executive Committee and the board-level Audit 
& Risk Committee quarterly and to the Board on a six-monthly basis. 
The corporate-level climate-related risks map is reported to the ERC 
and the Executive Committee annually by the Head of Sustainability 
and the Chairman of the ERC respectively.

The Corporation has already identified several climate-related 
risks that may potentially impact our business. These include the 
increased likelihood of extreme weather, changes in rainfall patterns 
leading to f looding and higher ambient temperature in Hong 
Kong. The impacts of these risks may severely damage our assets, 
increase maintenance and operating costs, delay construction 
activities, and negatively affect passenger and staff safety leading 
to service disruptions. To keep our facilities well maintained and 
regularly updated, we have allocated budget for facility upkeep and 
enhancement works to ensure reliable service delivery. Conversely, 
through our assessment exercises, we have also identif ied 
opportunities to improve resource efficiency at our operations, 
which we plan to develop better sustainability and business 
performance.

In addition to physical risks, we are aware of the transition risks and 
opportunities posed by climate change, including those associated 
with policy and legislation change, and market and technology shifts 
as well as the potential reputational damage resulting from failing 
to respond to climate change. Please refer to our CDP response for 
more details on our climate-related risks and opportunities, and how 
we have incorporated them in our strategy and financial planning. 

Risk Management Examples of Climate-related Risks & Opportunities Related to Our Operations 

Risks & Opportunities Timeframe Impacts Responses

Physical Risks

Extreme weather
Long-term 
(>10 years)

Increased occurrence of extreme weather events 
may increase the chance of damaging power lines, 
obstructing railway tracks, damaging assets, and 
accelerating outdoor infrastructure deterioration, 
and hence affecting railway operations. 

Handling procedures for extreme weather in 
place.

Changes in rainfall 
patterns

Long-term 
(>10 years)

Excessive or heavy rain may expose our stations 
and facilities to flood risk, which is especially 
significant for our underground stations, resulting 
in potential service disruptions.

Flood handling procedures in place as well 
as regular maintenance, regular review of 
flood protection measures and on-going 
improvement works for at-grade stations 
and critical equipment.

Rising ambient 
temperature

Medium-term 
(6-10 years)

Higher temperature and/or heatwaves may 
increase the strain on our cooling systems and 
induce deformation and defects leading to 
service disruptions.

Replacement of chillers with better 
Coefficient of Performance and monitoring 
of the outdoor equipment health conditions 
regularly.

Transition Risks

Unforeseen 
regulatory pressure in 
responding to climate 
change

Medium-term 
(6-10 years)

More stringent requirements on energy 
reduction and resilience of new infrastructures to 
climate change, leading to increase in capex and 
programme delay.

Monitoring power consumption and driving 
energy saving measures as well as reviewing 
design manuals and project programme/
budget when regulations are updated.

Reputational impact
Medium-term 
(6-10 years)

Increased public concerns about climate change 
may lead to dissatisfaction and criticism from 
green groups on our carbon reduction efforts 
against their expectations.

Enhancing publicity on our actions and 
achievements in improving carbon reduction 
and energy efficiency as well as commitment 
to carbon and energy reduction.

Opportunities

Supporting low-
carbon transport

Long-term 
(>10 years)

MTR’s railway network has been commended as 
the backbone of Hong Kong’s low-carbon public 
transport network and will be encouraged to 
grow continuously.

Support the government to continue 
serving as a low-carbon railway network and 
expanding our network as planned.

Resource efficiency
Medium-term 
(6-10 years)

Increasing market trends for energy efficient 
products (e.g., LED lighting), renewable energy 
and advancement of their development would 
lead to lower prices for better products, resulting 
in a wider adoption across our portfolios.

Adoption of more energy efficient products, 
where appropriate. 

https://www.mtr.com.hk/sustainability/assets/pdf/en/2022/MTR_CDP_Response.pdf


Climate-related Financial Disclosures

Sustainability Report 2022

72

In 2022, we have completed a high-level climate diagnostic study 
on our railway and property assets in Hong Kong to assess their 
exposures to climate-related physical risks under different time 
horizons and climate scenarios based on the Representative 
Concentration Pathways (RCP) designed by the Intergovernmental 
Panel on Climate Change. The Study reviewed the risk profiles of our 
assets at 320 locations and derived risk scores for current state and 
future state based on different climate scenarios (RCP 2.6, RCP4.5, 
and RCP8.5) in Year 2030, 2050, and 2100. The Study helped us 
identify critical exposed assets at risk, enabling us to plan for a more 
in-depth scenario analysis for our relatively high risk assets. 

For further details on our governance structure and risk management 
process, please refer to the Corporate Governance section on our 
sustainability website and the Corporate Governance Report in 
our Annual Report.

In 2022, we completed a study to set long-term carbon reduction 
targets for both of our railway and property businesses in Hong 
Kong and develop a practical roadmap to decarbonise our 
operations. The study involved comprehensive review on our 
planned carbon reduction initiatives, extensive engagement with 
relevant business units and corporate functions, as well as exploring 
new and emerging carbon reduction measures that may be 
applicable to our operations, with an aim to set reduction targets 
which are in line with the climate science. Following the study, we 
have already committed ourselves to:

• Setting 2030 science-based targets (“SBTs) for our railway network 
and property portfolio in Hong Kong; and 

• Achieving carbon neutrality by 2050.

Metrics and Targets
We have submitted our commitment letter to the Science Based 
Targets initiative (“SBTi”) in July 2022 and MTR’s commitment has 
been recognised on the SBTi website. We have submitted technical 
documents detailing our 2030 carbon reduction targets and they are 
pending for SBTi’s validation. We will publish our 2030 SBTs together 
with the decarbonisation roadmap upon endorsement by SBTi.  

https://www.mtr.com.hk/sustainability/en/corporate-governance.html
https://www.mtr.com.hk/en/corporate/investor/financialinfo.html#02
https://sciencebasedtargets.org/companies-taking-action


MTR Corporation Limited
MTR Headquarters Building,
Telford Plaza, Kowloon Bay,
Hong Kong.

Tel: (852) 2993 2111
Fax: (852) 2798 8822
www.mtr.com.hk

http://www.mtr.com.hk