www.naspers.com

40 Heerengracht
Cape Town
8001
South Africa

Improving 
everyday life 
for billions of 
people through 
technology

Integrated 
annual report

20
23

Supporting documents that inform our reporting suite for 2023

• Boundaries and scope of our greenhouse gas accounting
• Independent auditor’s limited assurance report on the selected sustainability

information in the Naspers Limited integrated annual report
• King IVTM application report

To access these supporting documents, refer to www.naspers.com.



Naspers is a global 
consumer internet group and 
one of the largest technology 
investors in the world.

Contents
2 Group overview

4 Snapshot FY23
6 Group overview
10 Segment overview
12 Chair’s review
14 Our board
16 Chief executive’s review
20 Chief financial officer’s review
26 Engaging with our stakeholders
32 Our strategy 
34 How we create value – our business 

model
36 The world in which we operate
40 Choosing the right opportunities and 

balancing risks
44 Path to profitability

46 Performance review

47 Operational performance
48   Food Delivery
52   Classifieds
54   Payments and Fintech
58   Edtech
62   Etail
68   Other ecommerce: Ventures
70   Social and internet platforms
72   Media24

114 Governance

116 Group structure
118 Overview of governance
122 The board and its committees
129 Audit committee
132 Risk committee
133 Social, ethics and sustainability committee
134 Nominations committee
135 Human resources and remuneration 

committee
136 Remuneration report

138   Background and policy
146    Implementation of 

remuneration policy
165   Additional information

167 About this report

Forward-looking statements
This report contains forward-looking statements as defined in the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act 
of 1995 concerning our financial condition, results of operations and businesses. These forward-looking statements 
are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control and all of which are based 
on our current beliefs and expectations about future events. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by the 
use of forward-looking terminology such as ‘believes’, ‘expects’, ‘may’, ‘will’, ‘could’, ‘should’, ‘intends’, ‘estimates’, 
‘plans’, ‘assumes’ or ‘anticipates’, or associated negative, or other variations or comparable terminology, or by 
discussions of strategy that involve risks and uncertainties. These forward-looking statements and other statements 
contained in this report on matters that are not historical facts involve predictions.

No assurance can be given that such future results will be achieved. Actual events or results may differ materially as 
a result of risks and uncertainties implied in such forward-looking statements.

A number of factors could affect our future operations and could cause those results to differ materially from those 
expressed in the forward-looking statements, including (without limitation): (a) changes to IFRS and associated 
interpretations, applications and practices as they apply to past, present and future periods; (b) ongoing and future 
acquisitions, changes to domestic and international business and market conditions such as exchange rate and 
interest rate movements; (c) changes in domestic and international regulatory and legislative environments; 
(d) changes to domestic and international operational, social, economic and political conditions; (e) labour
disruptions and industrial action; and (f) the effects of both current and future litigation. The forward-looking
statements contained in this report apply only as of the date of the report. We are not under any obligation to
(and expressly disclaim any such obligation to) revise or update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or
circumstances after the date of the report or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. We cannot give any
assurance that forward-looking statements will prove correct and investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance
on any forward-looking statements.

170 Summary financial statements

174 Independent auditor’s report
175 Summary consolidated financial statements
181 Notes to the summary consolidated financial 

statements
206 Other information to the summary 

consolidated financial statements
212 Report on the assurance engagement 

on the compilation of pro forma financial 
information

214 Other information

216 Administration and corporate information
217 Analysis of shareholders and 

shareholders’ diary
218 Glossary

74 Sustainability review

76 Our approach
78 People
82 Digital inclusion
82 Innovation
86 Artificial intelligence
89 Cyber-resilience
92 Data privacy
95 Business culture, ethics and integrity
97 Upholding human rights
98 Community investment
100 Managing our environmental impact
110 Tax

Navigation icons

   For more information 
in this report

  For more information 
available online

   Financial 
performance

   Responsible 
investments

   People

   Digital

   Innovation

   Business culture, 
ethics and integrity

   Community 
investment

   AI

   Cyber-resilience

   Data privacy

   Climate action

Material matters

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 1NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



»  AI is core to what we do and how we do it, and
we are determined to use it as widely and as
well as possible – making better and better
use of AI, to improve everyday life for billions of
people around the world.

»  We ensure we develop and deploy AI as
quickly as possible to support business growth,
and innovate and improve our competitive
ability. And we seek to always do this in the
right way – by design, ethically and responsibly.

»  Robust principles on how we develop and
deploy AI:
–  Deploy AI everywhere it makes business

sense.
–  Develop AI-by-design for innovation in

products and services.
–  Develop and deploy AI ethically and

responsibly.

»  Ahead of increased regulatory scrutiny, we have
formal policies on responsible and ethical use
of AI, data privacy and sharing, cybersecurity
and more.

»  Across the group, we apply data science and AI
in numerous ways to add value for customers,
partners and the business, and to fulfil our
purpose: better product recommendation,
fraud prevention, content moderation, logistics
optimisation and more. We also use AI to
develop new products and concepts across our
segments, such as content creation and search
in Edtech.

»  We engage with several data-science-for-social-
good initiatives, dedicated to adopting AI in
projects with a positive social impact.

Naspers offersArtificial 
intelligence    AI adoption globally is 

  2.5 times higher
in 2022 than in 2017

   AI market size expected to reach 

US$407bn
by 2027 (2022*: US$87m)

Highlights

   Projected annual growth 
rate of

37.3%
from 2023 to 2030

   Over

75%
 of consumers are concerned 
about companies using 
AI – addressing these 
apprehensions will be crucial

   But

65%
 of consumers say they’ll still 
trust businesses that use AI – 
companies using AI responsibly 
and transparently can maintain 
consumer confidence and 
harness AI’s potential to improve 
customer experiences

Artificial intelligence and machine learning (AI and ML) are 
rapidly becoming ubiquitous features of modern life. 

* Estimated.

2023 

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 32 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Snapshot FY23

Strong financial performance

Revenue2 (US$’m)

33 237

29 586

2021 2022 2023

35 056

Trading profit2 (US$’m)

2 Presented on an economic-
interest basis from continuing 
operations.

2021 2022 2023

5 576

4 904

3 348

1 NAV per-share accretion includes all per-share enhancing actions: the Prosus repurchase programme and Naspers purchase programme initiated in FY21, the 
voluntary share exchange programme executed in FY22, the Prosus share repurchase initiated in FY22 and open-ended share repurchase programme initiated 
in FY23.

A reduction in the holding 
company discount

17 percentage points

Revenue2 from continuing 
operations

US$33.2bn

Total taxes paid 

US$1.2bn

 » Repurchased US$2.5bn shares since 
September 2022

 » 16 320 371 N ordinary shares repurchased
 » NAV per share accretion1 of 4.5%

 » 20% growth on revenue from our 
consolidated Ecommerce business

 » Trading loss from our consolidated 
Ecommerce business widened by US$111m

 » Direct taxes levied: US$820m and indirect 
taxes collected: US$415m

 » Naspers’ approach to tax centres around 
paying taxes in the countries where we 
operate

Support to those 
impacted by the war in 
Ukraine

Commitment to 

profitability
Naspers Labs, in 
collaboration with extensive 
networks, has placed 

3 920 young people in 
tech and tech-enabled jobs

 » Renounced the group’s interest in VK 
 » Disposed of Avito on 14 October 2022 
for RUB151bn (US$2.4bn) to Kismet 
Capital Group

 » We allocated US$4.5m to Tvoya Opora and 
US$2.5m to the Kolo Charitable Foundation 
to procure medical supplies and equipment

 » Commitment to deliver consolidated 
Ecommerce trading profit during the first half 
of FY25

 » Human rights statement reinforced with all 
our group companies

We developed our climate 
targets by applying the 

Science-based 
Targets 
initiative’s (SBTi) 
guidance

Diversity and 

inclusion training 
cascaded to all group 
companies

Cost-saving 
initiatives

 » Reduction in corporate workforce by 30% 
and broader action to reduce other 
significant costs

 » Implemented actions towards absolute 
reductions of scope 1 and 2 emissions to 
zero (for Prosus and Naspers corporate 
entities). Improved GHG reporting by 
including scope 3

 » We developed group principles and 
approaches to help our subsidiaries and 
associates develop impactful packaging 
strategies 

 » Employee inclusivity is core to our success as 
a business

>500 data scientists 
now part of the Naspers 
AI community

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 54 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Group overview

Who we are

We are a global consumer internet group operating across 
platforms and geographies, and one of the largest technology 
investors in the world.
As a group, we build useful products for over two billion customers and help their communities thrive. We empower our 
teams to develop their skills and build meaningful careers. We create long-term value for our shareholders and our many 
other stakeholders.

Proven core 
businesses

Our core businesses in 
Food Delivery, Payments 
and Fintech, Classifieds 

and Media recorded profits 
of US$144m in FY23, 

improving from US$112m 
in FY22

Catalysts for 
value creation

Accelerate Ecommerce 
profitability; continue 
open-ended share 

repurchase; expect strong 
recovery from Tencent; 
simplify group structure; 

build a repeatable process 
of investing towards 

crystallisation and return

Solid 
financial position
Net cash and excellent 
liquidity are strategic 

advantages in the current 
environment

Strong position

Our purpose

Improving everyday life for billions of people through technology

What we do

We build leading companies that empower people and enrich 
communities

We bring food 
and more to 
people’s doors
and more 
customers to 
restaurants’ 
kitchens.

We put the power 
to make fast, 
secure payments 
in people’s hands
and give them 
credit options too, 
often for the first 
time.

We enable people 
and businesses  
to buy and  
sell quickly, 
conveniently  
and safely
and boost the 
circular economy  
by giving items 
multiple lives.

We open up  
a world of 
learning,
helping millions  
of people learn 
where, when and 
how they want.

Our values
Our values underpin our culture, which guides our actions

We build

At heart, we’re entrepreneurs.
We back local entrepreneurs and teams and we operate and invest in businesses in many of the most exciting 
markets in the world. Our focus on sustainable long-term value creation means our group is a great place for 
people to build their careers. We work hard to connect, learn and grow to be the best we can be.

We deliver

We push for excellence in everything we do.
We move fast, adapting quickly to seize opportunities. We agree on clear and ambitious goals, and regularly 
discuss how to beat them. Our reward is hardwired to performance, and depends on what we deliver and how 
we deliver it. 

We’re responsible

We matter to our customers and communities.
We strive to maximise our positive impact on society and the planet. Wherever we operate, we hold ourselves 
to the highest standards, set out in our code of business ethics and conduct. We’re all responsible for the 
impact we deliver.

We value each other

We believe diversity in our teams and in our thinking delivers better outcomes for all.
We create supportive and flexible environments so we can perform at our best. We’re empowered to make 
decisions about our work because we’re trusted to do a great job.

We estimate that around one fifth of the world’s 
population uses products and services of businesses that 
we have built, acquired or invested in. Many use the products 
and services of more than one.

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 76 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Group overview continued

What sets us apart

We think global and act local Track record

» Focus on emerging large consumer trends linked to disruptive innovation – we identify changes 
early, invest in and adapt proven business models for the high-growth markets we focus on.

Food Delivery

» Leverage our skills, local knowledge and position to build businesses that are scalable and benefit 
from local network effects.

PayU

 » By operating locally, we benefit from the insights of our local operations and their markets. We gain 
early views on emerging models and are therefore better positioned to drive organic and inorganic 
growth and support entrepreneurial, seasoned business leaders.

Edtech

 » We believe our platforms offer customers fast, intuitive and secure environments for communicating 
and conducting transactions.

PayU

 » Focus on markets that we believe present above-average growth opportunities given their economic 
growth prospects, scalability and fast-growing, mobile internet penetration levels.

India

 » We believe building strong global and local brands is an important way for our businesses to 
differentiate themselves, driving organic growth through word of mouth while complying with the laws 
and regulations of jurisdictions in these markets.

OLX

We are both an operator and an investor Track record

 » As operator, we are able to make smarter investment decisions. Food Delivery

 » As investor, we support our businesses with the right combination of capital, market knowledge and 
know-how to succeed. We benefit from access to attractive opportunities globally. We have long-
standing and successful relationships with prominent internet businesses in our largest markets. 

Food Delivery

 » Concentrating on customers, thinking about their lives and how best to meet their needs is central to 
what we do. Across our portfolio, we are building ecosystems with multiple customer touchpoints to 
improve their experience and retain their loyalty. We align technology and data with key customer 
needs such as convenience, ease of use, reliability and safety.

Food Delivery

Payments and 
Fintech

Edtech

 » Ours is a long-term business. It takes continued investment to build the end-to-end capabilities 
supporting closer, stronger relationships with customers across the ecosystems of our core segments. 
But, it delivers long-term gain – not least, customer loyalty and more lasting value creation.

Ecommerce 

 » The leaders of our businesses are compensated directly on the performance of their divisions, 
fostering a strong culture of entrepreneurship in our group. 

Ecommerce

 » We are disciplined, but not tied to a rigid investment regime, which enables us to take a long-term 
view. This means we can support our businesses at every stage of their life cycle and focus on 
creating value over the long term.

Ecommerce

Risks to growth opportunities

 » Slowing economic growth with record inflation and rising interest rates. Interest rates increased sharply in the 2022 
calendar year and continued to increase in 2023 as central banks reacted to high inflation rates, resulting in 
deteriorating consumer sentiment and slowing economic growth.

 » While macroeconomic drivers are the same across the world, there is wide variation in how significant economies have 
been performing.

 » Regulation is increasing. Broad technological advancements pose significant challenges for regulators who strive to 
maintain a balance between fostering innovation, protecting consumers, and addressing the unintended consequences 
of digital disruption at scale.

 » Global ventures investment plummeted in 2022 to the levels of 2017. However, in contrast to panic-selling at the onset of 
the pandemic in 2020, the sell-off in 2022 was orderly, with relatively lower volatility. Further downside is possible.

 » Escalating geopolitical tensions could seriously impact markets. Geopolitical tension has caused stress on the global 
economy and capital markets, significantly increasing the cost of capital.

 » Climate change and its consequences have a significant impact on people’s lives. Rising occurrence of extreme weather 
conditions, drought and flooding may impact on our customers, employees and our business.

 » We have reduced cost and headcount. The impact of these necessary actions weighs on our staff. While we find new 
ways of working and organising ourselves to be as efficient as we can be, the risk of unexpected operational issues and 
reduced morale is currently heightened.

Growth opportunities

 » Our consumer internet businesses have significant potential for growth. 

 » They offer opportunities for an enhanced range of internet transactions and services in our 
markets, as well as possible expansions into new markets. 

 » We believe demand for our products and services will be driven by several trends, including 
growth in:

–  gross domestic 
product (GDP)

–  population growth 
in the younger 
demographics 
and middle class

–  continued growth in 
mobile and high-
speed internet 
penetration

–  increasing adoption of new 
internet-based business models 
that are disrupting existing 
traditional business models 
across a range of industries.

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 98 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Segment overview

We focus on high-growth markets and business models that 
we know well.

Classifieds2

OLX serves hundreds of millions of people every 
month across five continents, helping people buy 
and sell cars, find housing, get jobs and buy and 
sell household goods.

  Read more on page 52.

Revenue1

US$1.6bn
up 19% (42%)

Trading loss1

US$156m
up >100%  
(>100%)

Employees

4 500

43.10% 16.36%

Food Delivery

Our portfolio of food-delivery businesses allows 
customers to order their favourite food online and 
via apps to be conveniently delivered wherever 
they are.

  Read more on page 48.

Revenue1

US$4.2bn
up 40% (44%)

Trading loss1

US$649m
down 10% (12%)

Employees

5 210

41.82% 12.99%

14.29%

Payments and Fintech

PayU is an online payment services platform 
that has processed more than US$78bn payment 
volumes globally and is a payment gateway for 
merchants in high-growth markets as well as large 
international companies.

PayU operates on four continents, in 17 high-growth 
markets and offers over 300 payment options.

  Read more on page 54.

Revenue1

US$1.1bn 
up 32% (51%)

Trading loss1

US$116m 
up 93% (72%)

Employees

3 447

43.54% 39.68%

43.54% 9.33%

37.1% 42.02%

43.54%

Etail

eMAG is an ecommerce leader in Central and 
Eastern Europe.

  Read more on page 62.

Revenue1

US$2.8bn  
down 11% 
(0%)

Trading loss1

US$85m  
up >100% 
(>100%)

Employees

10 366

34.87% 100%

Social and internet platforms

Prosus holds an investment in Tencent, China’s 
largest and most-used internet services platform.

  Read more on page 70.

Revenue1

US$22.3bn   
down 12% (1%)

Trading profit1

US$5.1bn   
down 19% (9%)

11.39%

Other ecommerce: Ventures

Includes our Ventures arm that partners with 
entrepreneurs to build prominent technology 
companies, aiming to fuel the next wave of growth 
for the group.

  Read more on page 68.

Revenue1

US$618m   
up 62% (66%)

Trading loss1

US$270m   
down 34% 
(21%)

Employees

750

9.90% 4.70%

6.02% 9.85%

4.01% 4.90%

3.50%

Media24

Media24 is one of Africa’s leading print and digital 
media groups with interests in digital media and 
services, newspapers, magazines, ecommerce, 
book publishing and media logistics.

  Read more on page 72.

Revenue1

US$217m   
down 16% (0%)

Trading profit1

US$7m   
down 59% (53%)

Employees

2 167

100%

Edtech

We reach 90% of Fortune 100 companies across 
our corporate learning platforms. We also have a 
strong presence in K–12 (kindergarten to grade 12) 
in key markets.

  Read more on page 58.

Revenue1

US$545m 
up 28% (18%)

Trading loss1

US$258m
up >100% (54%)

Employees

859

16.22% 27.10%

43.54%
1 Presented on an economic-interest basis from continuing operations.
2 From 1 March 2023, following the group’s decision to exit the OLX Autos 

business unit, its operations are classified as held for sale and those that 
have been closed by 31 March 2023 were presented as a discontinued 
operation. In May 2022, as a result of the continued conflict in the region, 
the group announced its decision to exit its Russian business. Accordingly, 
Avito was presented as a discontinued operation.

Our group includes some of 
the best-loved local consumer 
internet companies in around 
100 countries, spanning the 
Americas to Asia, Europe to 
South Africa.

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 1110 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Chair’s review

We create long-term value for 
our shareholders by improving 
the everyday lives of billions of 
people through technology.

Koos Bekker
Chair

Creating real value in a world of 
change

As digitisation advances, a large part of our 
lives is now lived online. New technological 
breakthroughs are accelerating this transition, 
which plays out against a backdrop of 
geopolitical tensions, inflation and supply-
chain disruptions.

In the face of uncertainty, we tried to 
maintain our focus and our purpose. 
As a consumer internet group and one 
of the largest technology investors, we 
are helping to bring the benefits of a 
digital world to our customers. We do 
this in the core segments of Food 
Delivery, Classifieds, Payments and 
Fintech, and Edtech, where we aim 
to build useful ecosystems.

Creating value for shareholders

In June 2022, the board approved an 
open-ended repurchase programme of Prosus 
and Naspers shares. The aim was to unlock 
value for shareholders and increase net asset 
value (NAV) per share over time. This implies 
a programmatic trimming of Tencent shares 
and will remain active while the discount to 
NAV is at elevated levels. At the same time, 
Tencent remains our most important asset and 
we are convinced that it will grow further in 
future.

Investors responded positively, acknowledging 
the repurchase programme as a signal of 
long-term commitment to unlocking value, 
although some cautioned that this was not 
the only solution to remedy discounts. Our 
intention is to do more, including improving 
profitability of Ecommerce. A major ambition 
is to reach consolidated profitability in our 
Ecommerce business during the first half of 
FY25. We also wish to address some 
complexities around the cross-holding 
structure, if possible.

By year-end, the group NAV discount had 
reduced by 17 percentage points, creating 
over US$25bn of value for shareholders. 
To fund the process, we realised US$10.7bn 
from the sale of 3% of Tencent’s issued share 
capital, reducing our stake to 26.16%.

Discount to net asset value progression since 
implementing the repurchase programme

(%)
80

70

60

50

40
Apr 2022 Jun 2022 Sept 2022 Dec 2022 Mar 2023

Discount●

In March 2023, we announced our exit of OLX Autos, an 
adjacent operation to our successful core OLX classifieds 
business. This strategic development is detailed by our 
chief executive.

Focus on sustainability 

As outlined extensively in this report, our aim is to be 
a sustainable business. We do this by investing in tech-driven 
ventures in many countries, building them into enterprises that 
support local job creation and prosperity. Sometimes these 
services create more environmentally friendly alternatives to 
traditional solutions. Many are also socially transformative.

Doing the right things in the right way

Our values are reflected in our code of business ethics and 
conduct. Our directors promote a culture of strong business 
ethics aimed at long-term value creation. This underpins 
the group’s activities as a responsible corporate citizen. 
Governance of information and technology – particularly 
data privacy and cybersecurity – remained focus areas. 
We updated multiple key group policies, including the 
sanctions and export controls policy.

In October 2022, Sharmistha Dubey, independent 
non-executive director, was appointed as a member of the 
audit committee, enhancing its composition.

Dividend 

The Prosus board has recommended that, in total, its 
shareholders receive a distribution of a gross amount of 
approximately €175m which represents an increase of 
approximately 7% for free-float shareholders. Subject to the 
requisite approval by Prosus shareholders being obtained, a 
dividend will be paid by Naspers in relation to the Naspers N 
ordinary shares and A ordinary shares from the amount that 
Naspers receives from Prosus, in accordance with the rights 
attaching to the shares as set out in the Naspers 
memorandum of incorporation. The Naspers dividends will be 
paid in South African rand. Given the weakening of the rand 
against the euro, the expected year-on-year increase in the 
dividends is higher than in the recent past. More information 
regarding the dividend will be published in due course.

Looking ahead

During the new financial year we will undoubtedly face 
challenges again. We will navigate these as best we can. 
Hopefully, new opportunities may also appear along the way.

On behalf of the board, I thank everyone who contributed to 
our results for the year. We look forward to continued growth 
as a global consumer internet company dedicated to 
improving people’s lives around the world.

Koos Bekker
Chair

26 June 2023

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 1312 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Our board

Koos Bekker
70, male, South African and Dutch
Non-executive chair
P* H N

Date of first appointment: 17 April 2015
Date of last appointment: 25 August 2022
Area of expertise and contribution: M&A, 
corporate finance, strategy, entrepreneur

Manisha Girotra
53, female, Indian
Independent non-executive director
A

Date of first appointment: 1 October 2019
Date of last appointment: 25 August 2022
Area of expertise and contribution: 
Investment banking, economics, corporate 
finance, insight into Indian businesses

Sharmistha Dubey
52, female, American
Independent non-executive director
A

Date of first appointment: 1 April 2022
Date of last appointment: 25 August 2022
Area of expertise and contribution: 
Engineering, insights into tech businesses

Nolo Letele
73, male, South African
Non-executive director
S

Date of first appointment: 22 November 2013
Date of last appointment: 25 August 2021
Area of expertise and contribution: 
Engineering, media

Steve Pacak
68, male, South African
Non-executive director
P A* R*

Date of first appointment: 15 January 2015
Date of last appointment: 25 August 2022
Area of expertise and contribution: M&A, 
finance, risk, strategy

Key
A Audit committee

R  Risk committee

S   Social, ethics and  

sustainability committee

P  Projects committee

N  Nominations committee

H   Human resources  

and remuneration committee

Mark Sorour
61, male, South African
Non-executive director
P

Date of first appointment: 15 January 2015
Date of last appointment: 21 August 2020
Area of expertise and contribution: M&A, 
corporate finance, strategy

Bob van Dijk
50, male, Dutch
Chief executive and executive 
director
P R S

Date of first appointment: 1 April 2014
Date of last appointment: 29 August 2014
Area of expertise and contribution: M&A, 
tech expertise, entrepreneur

Rachel Jafta
62, female, South African
Independent non-executive director
P N* S R

Date of first appointment: 23 October 2003
Date of last appointment: 21 August 2020
Area of expertise and contribution: 
Economics, sustainability, corporate 
governance and education

Hendrik du Toit
61, male, South African and British
Non-executive director and lead 
independent director
N

Date of first appointment: 1 April 2016
Date of last appointment: 25 August 2021
Area of expertise and contribution: 
Investment management, sustainability 
and economics

Debra Meyer
56, female, South African
Independent non-executive director
S*

Date of first appointment: 25 November 2009
Date of last appointment: 25 August 2022
Area of expertise and contribution: 
Sustainability, strategy

Ying Xu
59, female, Chinese
Independent non-executive director
Date of first appointment: 26 June 2020
Date of last appointment: 21 August 2020
Area of expertise and contribution: 
Corporate finance, retail, insights into online 
businesses in China

Basil Sgourdos
53, male, South African
Chief financial officer and executive 
director
P R S 

Date of first appointment: 1 July 2014
Date of last appointment: 29 August 2014
Area of expertise and contribution: Corporate 
finance, capital raising, debt management, 
capital allocation, statutory and public 
reporting, risk management, systems of 
internal control

Angelien Kemna
65, female, Dutch
Independent non-executive director
A R 

Date of first appointment: 15 April 2021
Date of last appointment: 25 August 2021
Area of expertise and contribution: M&A, 
finance, risk, corporate governance

Craig Enenstein
54, male, American
Independent non-executive director
H* N

Date of first appointment: 16 October 2013
Date of last appointment: 25 August 2021
Area of expertise and contribution: M&A, 
corporate finance, economics, valuations

Roberto Oliveira de Lima
72, male, Brazilian
Independent non-executive director
H N 

Date of first appointment: 16 October 2013
Date of last appointment: 25 August 2021
Area of expertise and contribution: 
Insights into Brazilian businesses, business 
management, information technology

Cobus Stofberg
72, male, South African
Non-executive director
S

Date of first appointment: 16 October 2013
Date of last appointment: 25 August 2022
Area of expertise and contribution: M&A, 
corporate finance, strategy

Chair

For more detailed biographies, including relevant outside positions on each director, refer to our 
website at www.naspers.com.

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 1514 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Chief executive’s review

However, it also requires a disciplined approach to capital 
allocation, grounded in future returns. Typically, we 
progressively grow our capital commitments as we learn and 
scale. But we are disciplined about divesting from assets that 
no longer meet our rigorous return expectations. A clear 
example is our decision to exit the OLX Autos business prior to 
year-end, as discussed below.

Since we are focused on capturing the value of future 
technological change, AI is integral to our growth, innovation, 
and competitiveness. AI is employed ethically and responsibly 
across the organisation for improving customer experience 
and operational efficiency. We have fully embraced the 
potential of generative AI (GenAI), both as a technology to 
make all our businesses better, and as a key factor in our 
investment decisions. Our central AI team, which we started 
about five years ago, is instrumental to be a leader in 
developing and responsibly deploying GenAI.

Progress on strategy this year

Our businesses continued to deliver strong growth while 
navigating a challenging and fast-changing environment. 
Despite widespread uncertainty throughout the review period, 
we have made good progress on our strategy to build 
valuable businesses across the group.

In 2022, growth expectations and valuations were under 
pressure as consumers adapted to higher inflation and 
interest rates. To address these challenges, we are reducing 
our cost base and we are taking further action to deliver 
long-term value to our shareholders.

In March 2023, we announced our exit from OLX Autos. This 
adjacency to our core classifieds business of OLX Group 
faced ongoing macroeconomic and market challenges. 
Higher cost of capital, high inflation and the reversal of 
pandemic trends resulted in a significant and persistent 
slowdown in the second-hand car market. While OLX Autos 
had built leading positions across many of its key markets 
given its strong technology platforms and local focus, pursuing 
a global growth strategy was no longer the right approach 
for our shareholders. We are exploring all options for this 
business, acknowledging that significant value exists in 
local markets.

The exit of OLX Autos will significantly improve the 
profitability profile of our Classifieds segment as a whole 
and supports our stated first half of FY25 ambition of a 
profitable Ecommerce segment.

That said, this turbulent environment has reduced the risk 
appetite for many investors and depressed market valuations, 
particularly in the tech and internet sectors. By mid-year, this 
had led to a very substantial widening in our discount to the 
sum of the group’s asset value. To take advantage of this 
dislocation and generate substantial shareholder value, in 
June 2022, the group launched an open-ended multiyear 
share repurchase programme, funded by the daily sales of 
a limited number of Tencent shares and the concurrent 
repurchase of Prosus shares. This transaction locks in value 
immediately, while at the same time increasing the group’s 
exposure to Tencent and its ecommerce portfolio on a 
per-share basis.

The recent groupwide initiative at corporate and in the 
segments to reduce headcount introduces risks. We rely on 
the expertise and knowledge of our people in the markets 
in which we operate but the reductions create capacity 
constraints that impact people’s morale. We are working 
hard to adapt our operations to enhance their sustainability. 
We are focusing on core tasks so that our people have a 
sustainable workload. We are also changing our processes 
to ensure we manage our risks in this evolving legislative 
landscape. We remain committed to improving the 
engagement of our people and will maintain that focus 
in the coming financial year.

Performance

We detail our performance on pages 46 to 73, with a detailed 
financial review from page 22.

In summary, on an economic-interest basis, group revenue 
from continuing operations grew 7% in local currency, 
excluding disposals and acquisitions to US$33.2bn. This was 
driven by a healthy 19% (29%)1 increase in Ecommerce 
revenues. Trading profit declined to US$3.3bn, reflecting 
a lower share of profits from Tencent and increased organic 
investment to scale ecommerce extensions. As such, core 
headline earnings decreased to US$1.1bn.

1 Percentages in brackets represent growth in local currency, excluding mergers 
and acquisitions (M&A).

Improving everyday life

We use technology to improve daily life for 
billions of people. This creates sustainable 
value for our customers and communities, our 
many stakeholders and our group as we build 
companies that today serve over two billion 
customers. We believe there is much more 
to come.

Our approach is founded on a 
multigenerational record of innovation, 
adaptation and reinvention. We 
understand the opportunity and 
importance of solving everyday 
problems for customers. Equally, we 
understand that local entrepreneurs 
are often best placed to do this.

As such, we continually identify and back 
innovative, ambitious local entrepreneurs. We 
nurture and support the companies we invest 
in, because our experience proves this is the 
best way to build sustainable businesses. 
Entrepreneurs find this long-term approach 
attractive, along with access to our operating 
experience and global scale. These are 
important criteria in a fast-moving and 
competitive world where available funding 
has almost halved since peaking in 
September 2021.

By aligning technology and data with 
key customer needs, we are able to 
increase convenience, frequency of 
use, reliability and safety. This is a 
long-term game. It takes ongoing 
investment to build the end-to-end 
capabilities that enable closer and 
stronger relationships with customers 
across the ecosystems of our core 
segments.

The power of technology is driving 
change in the world and Naspers is 
at the heart of this change.

Bob van Dijk
Chief executive

Group revenue from 
continuing operations grew

7% to US$33.2bn

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 1716 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Chief executive’s review continued

We are cutting costs as we expect the operating environment 
to remain challenging for the foreseeable future. We are 
accelerating various paths to profitability, with direct 
incremental investment in areas where we identified the best 
opportunities to create future value, profitability and cash flow 
generation. We closed operations where we believe profitable 
growth cannot be achieved. This will improve both operating 
leverage and profitability for the group in the medium term 
while creating a more efficient operating structure in the long 
term. We also continued cost-saving initiatives, reducing our 
corporate footprint.

To summarise our results, beginning with the four components 
of our Ecommerce segment:

 » Food Delivery’s performance remained robust, driven by 
growth in quick commerce, which leverages the scale 
achieved in the restaurant delivery business. iFood grew in 
scale and improved its consolidated trading margins in both 
core food delivery and quick commerce. Given this strength, 
we acquired the remaining 33.3% stake of iFood from Just 
Eat Takeaway for €1.5bn, plus a contingent consideration of 
up to €300m.

 » Classifieds’ revenue grew strongly and the core Classifieds 
sustained growth and improved profitability, despite the 
impacts of a tough global economy and Russia’s invasion of 
Ukraine, which significantly affected OLX Europe.

 » In Payments and Fintech, the business continued to show 
growth in the core payment service provider (PSP) business 
and in credit in India. India’s payments business grew on 
the back of increased wallet share in existing merchants 
and further diversification of the revenue base, both of 
which contributed to the improved trading profit margin. 
Global Payments Operations (GPO) showed robust revenue 
growth but was impacted by currency translation, while a 
once-off loss provision due to a merchant that went 
bankrupt and higher merchant acquisition costs drove GPO 
into a trading loss. Credit continued to scale while 
improving its trading margin through operating leverage. 

 » Edtech recorded 28% (18%) revenue growth. Our enterprise 
platforms, Stack Overflow and GoodHabitz, invested in 
product enhancement and footprint expansion, which drove 
a higher trading loss. Such investments were necessary to 
scale the platforms and improve product offerings as these 
businesses are positioned to benefit from companies 
upskilling and reskilling their workforce in a fast-changing, 
technology-driven world.

 » In our Etail segment, eMAG had a challenging year as 
online demand subsided in the face of a resurgent 
post-pandemic offline economy. In addition, the war in 
Ukraine resulted in a broader macroeconomic slowdown 
across Central and Eastern Europe. 

 » Our Ventures arm adopted a prudent approach. While 
investing less capital during the year, the team continues 
to build a healthy pipeline of prospects for coming years. 
Ventures remains our engine for growing into new segments 
and markets.

Responsible operator and investor

As a global consumer internet group and a leading long-term 
technology investor, we recognise the power of technology to 
create solutions for some of the world’s most pressing needs. 
We view technology as the cornerstone of a successful 
transition to a green economy that is inclusive and leaves no 
one behind.

As such, we are creating sustainable value through strategies 
that improve material efficiency, driving a systemic transition 
to a circular economy and low-carbon growth.

We are embedding our groupwide climate transition plan by 
setting and achieving absolute reduction targets on our 
net-zero journey.

In line with our decarbonisation strategy, we are setting 
groupwide, multiyear, science-based greenhouse gas 
emissions reduction targets that will drive our climate 
transition plan.

The war in Ukraine

Russia’s protracted war on Ukraine remains a human tragedy, 
with significant global, social and economic repercussions.

While our OLX business in Ukraine has proven its resilience, 
we continue to support our people in several ways, and with 
financial support for humanitarian initiatives in the country.

In our last report, we announced our exit from the Russian 
classifieds business, Avito. We completed this disposal and 
received proceeds of RUB151bn (US$2.4bn) in October 2022. 
Avito is now treated as a discontinued operation in the 
financial results and thus excluded from continuing operations. 
We also renounced our entire stake in VK, a social and 
internet platform in Russia. 

Looking forward

We adapted our strategy to an uncertain macroeconomic 
environment to drive continued development of valuable, 
global, consumer internet businesses. The fundamentals 
of these businesses remain sound. We continue to have 
conviction in our platforms and are excited about 
opportunities ahead.

We are long-term investors and have invested 
through a number of economic downturns in volatile 
internet markets. We remain disciplined in our 
capital allocation, as investments now face a higher 
bar. We will continue to drive profitability, build scale 
and take action to manage expenses and free cash 
flow, even as we invest for growth. In the current 
environment, we maintain our preference for organic 
investment – focused on credit, and food and 
grocery delivery. We are building capabilities, 
expanding ecosystems and improving 
competitiveness to accelerate growth and deliver 
returns across our portfolio. This will expand the 
profit potential of our ecosystems over the 
medium term.

A healthy liquidity profile is helpful in uncertain times. Our 
ambition remains to manage the balance sheet within our 
investment-grade rating.

Finally, we remain committed to structural actions that unlock 
value for our shareholders over time. As part of this 
commitment, we will continue our open-ended repurchase 
programme as long as the discount remains elevated to 
structurally improve returns on investment.

Bob van Dijk
Chief executive

26 June 2023

As a global consumer internet group and a leading long-term 
technology investor, we recognise the power of technology to create 
solutions for some of the world’s most pressing needs.

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 1918 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Chief financial officer’s review

Please note that the growth rates discussed below represent a 
comparison between FY23 and FY22, unless otherwise stated. 
The percentages in brackets represent local currency growth, 
excluding mergers and acquisitions (M&A), and a clearer view 
of the underlying operating performance.

Operating review

Our Ecommerce businesses maintained topline momentum. 
Consolidated revenue from continuing operations grew 8% 
(20%) to US$6.8bn, with the biggest contributions from Food 
Delivery, and Payments and Fintech. Given a sharp rise in the 
cost of capital, M&A investment of US$2.5bn was considerably 
lower than in recent years. We continue to explore 
opportunities, but are cautious as private market valuations 
remain high.

Increased consolidated trading losses from continuing 
operations of US$844 reflect our focused approach to 
incremental investment in our Ecommerce growth extensions. 
Our businesses are focused on accelerating their paths to 
aggregate profitability while continuing to invest in high-
conviction growth areas. We drove efficiencies and cut back 
aggressively on costs, including at a corporate level. This 
supported an improvement in trading loss from US$376m 
in the first half of the year to US$263m in the second half in 
our Ecommerce segment. For the year, growth extensions 
accounted for US$492m of the trading losses. With the 
decision on OLX Autos, cost focus and focused investment on 
opportunities with high conviction on future profitability, we 
expected a continued significant reduction in trading losses 
in each reporting period and are committed to delivering 
consolidated Ecommerce trading profit during the first half 
of the 2025 financial year.

The core Classifieds business delivered sustained growth and 
improved profitability through stable operating metrics and 
strong performance in Europe. The autos and real-estate 
verticals and pay-and-ship initiatives contributed to revenue 
growth. Like listed peers, the OLX Autos business faced 
significant challenges and the group announced its intention 
to exit this business. This decision was driven by a major 
deterioration of market conditions in this industry towards the 
end of the second half of the year. The exit of OLX Autos 
will lead to a sizeable improvement in Classifieds and 
Ecommerce profitability.

Food Delivery’s performance remained strong, with revenue 
growing well ahead of peers and profitability improving 
meaningfully. iFood continued to benefit from sustained 
momentum in the core restaurant food-delivery businesses and 
improved extensions, with targeted and disciplined investment 
in quick commerce and grocery marketplace. Given the 
group’s conviction in iFood, we acquired the remaining 33.3% 
stake of iFood from Just Eat Takeaway in November 2022 for 
€1.5bn, plus a contingent consideration of up to €300m.

Payments and Fintech continued to see meaningful growth in 
the core payment service provider (PSP) business and in its 
burgeoning Indian credit business. India’s payments business 
grew on the back of increased wallet share in existing 
merchants and further diversification of the revenue base, both 
of which contributed to improved trading profit margin. The 
credit business in India continued to scale and improved its 
trading loss margin, now approaching breakeven, by 
diversifying funding sources and enhancing cost discipline and 
risk management. The Global Payments Operations (GPO) 
showed strong revenue growth, but profitability was impacted 
by a once-off loss provision. Excluding this provision, the GPO 
business remains profitable.

In Edtech, our majority-owned enterprise platforms, Stack 
Overflow and GoodHabitz, continued to grow but investments 
weighed on profitability. We invested in sales, product 
enhancements and global footprint expansion to better 
position the businesses, improving their overall product 
offerings and bringing scale to the platforms as corporations 
look for alternative ways to upskill and reskill their workforces. 
The current focus of investment is to leverage our strong 
generative AI (artificial intelligence) in-house capabilities to 
deliver significant value to customers.

Our robust balance sheet continues to provide liquidity and 
optionality with which to navigate a volatile environment. 
During the year, the balance sheet benefited from Tencent’s 
distribution of JD.com and Meituan shares. The group exited 
the JD.com stake mid-year and received US$3.7bn. The 
Meituan shares were received on 24 March 2023. In April 
2023, Tencent announced a 50% increase in its dividend, 
which resulted in a dividend of around US$758m received 
in June 2023.

In October 2022, the group completed the disposal of its 
Russian classifieds business, Avito, and received the proceeds 
of RUB151bn (US$2.4bn). Avito is treated as a discontinued 
operation in the financial results and thus excluded from 
continuing operations. For OLX Autos, the operations that are 
classified as held for sale and the operations that are closed 
down by 31 March 2023 have been presented as discontinued 
operations and are reviewed separately by the CODM. OLX 
Autos operations whose exit process has not been finalised as 
at 31 March 2023 are presented as continuing operations.

In all, the group ended the year in a strong position with 
US$16.6bn in gross cash and cash equivalents and US$16.0bn 
in debt.

In presenting and discussing our performance, 
we use certain alternative performance 
measures not defined by IFRS, referred to 
as non-IFRS-EU financial measures, alternative 
performance measures or APMs. Such 
measures include economic-interest-basis 
information; trading profit; adjusted EBITDA; 
headline earnings; core headline earnings; 
and growth in local currency, excluding 
acquisitions and disposals. Segmental reviews 
in this report are prepared showing revenue 
on an economic-interest basis (which includes 
consolidated subsidiaries and a proportionate 
share of associated companies and joint 
ventures), unless otherwise stated.

Numbers included in brackets represent the 
equivalent measure on the basis of growth 
in local currency, excluding acquisitions and 
disposals. For further explanation of the use 
of APMs, refer to about this report in the 
governance section.

A reconciliation of the alternative performance 
measures to the equivalent IFRS metrics is 
provided in ‘Other information – Non-IFRS 
financial measures and alternative 
performance measures’ of these consolidated 
annual financial statements.

The operating environment in the fiscal 
year ended 31 March 2023 remained 
difficult and continued to be 
characterised by geopolitical and 
macroeconomic uncertainty. Amid that 
uncertainty, the group leveraged its 
strong financial footing and remained 
focused on building long-term 
sustainable value in local 
marketplaces across its main 
segments. After years of investment 
and growth, these segments have 
scaled meaningfully, creating clear 
paths to profitability for each. The 
group is committed to achieving 
consolidated Ecommerce profitability 
in the first half of FY25 while 
maintaining industry-leading levels of 
growth. We believe this will form a 
strong basis to continue delivering 
long-term value to our shareholders.

Decisive management actions in the 
review period support our purpose 
and strategy to create value for 
shareholders and all stakeholders.

Basil Sgourdos
Chief financial officer

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 2120 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Chief financial officer’s review continued

We are pleased with the group’s resilient performance and 
financial footing in a particularly difficult macroeconomic 
environment. As noted by the chair, in FY23, we initiated an 
open-ended repurchase programme of Prosus and Naspers 
shares to preserve value for shareholders and increase our 
net asset value (NAV) per share over time. As announced, this 
is being funded by the regular on-market sale of Tencent 
shares. In the review period, we sold 3% of our shareholding 
in Tencent (being 9.7% of the issued share capital), generating 
proceeds of US$10.7bn and reducing our holding to 26.16%. 
At the closing price of HK$385.8 on 31 March 2023, this stake 
is valued at US$123bn. We have been investors in Tencent for 
over 20 years, and remain confident in the future of the China 
tech industry and Tencent in particular. By 31 March 2023, 
Prosus had repurchased 152 797 117 Prosus shares and 
4 152 285 Naspers shares, with a total value of US$10.5bn. 
Naspers bought 16 320 371 for an additional US$2.5bn, 
leading to a 4.5% accretion in the NAV per share. As long as 
the discount remains elevated, the group will continue to take 
advantage of this market aberration to create value for 
shareholders on a daily basis.

As part of this programme, Naspers received approval 
from the South African Reserve Bank to continue funding its 
buyback with regular sales of Prosus shares. By 31 March 2023, 
Naspers had sold 43 356 695 Prosus shares and bought back 
16 320 371 of its own shares to the value of US$2.5bn. Over 
time, the group intends to execute the programme in a manner 
that will keep the respective Prosus and Naspers free-float 
shareholder groups’ relative economic interest in the 
underlying assets aligned with their position at the start of the 
programme.

In the fiscal year ended 31 March 2023, and in coming years, 
the group remains committed to: bringing its consolidated 
Ecommerce portfolio to profitability; continuing the open-
ended share repurchase programme while its shares remain 
at elevated discount levels; pursuing simplification of the 
overall corporate structure; and crystallising value for investors 
in our portfolio of assets. We believe that these drivers acting 
in concert will result in meaningful value creation and 
shareholder return.

Given the wide geographical span of our operations and 
significant M&A activity in ecommerce, reported earnings were 
materially impacted by foreign exchange movements and the 
effects of acquisitions and disposals.

Financial review

Revenue

Our total revenue increased by US$484m, or 8%, 
from US$6 294m in the year ended 31 March 2022 
to US$6 778m in the year ended 31 March 2023, 
primarily due to the biggest contributions to growth 
from Food Delivery, and Payments and Fintech.

We operate in countries and markets across the world, 
resulting in significant exposure to foreign exchange volatility. 
This can have an impact on reported revenues and costs 
as they are generally denominated in the local currency. The 
financial performance of our businesses is accounted for 
in the group in their respective functional currencies and 
translated to US dollar. The weakening of certain currencies 
against the US dollar in the year ended 31 March 2023 
negatively affected our year-on-year performance by 
US$2 721m, or 43%, through the translation impact, specifically 
in the Classifieds, and Payments and Fintech businesses. 
Revenue growth expressed in local currency, excluding 
acquisitions and disposals, of 7% was achieved in the year 
ended 31 March 2023.

 

Total revenue (%)

50

32
2

20

6

15

1

1

US$’m %

Online sale of goods revenue 3 358 50
Classifieds listings revenue 436 6
Payment transaction 
commissions and fees 987 15
Mobile and other content 
revenue 52 1
Food-delivery revenue 1 366 20
Advertising revenue 99 1
Printing, distribution, circulation, 
publishing and subscription 
revenue 120 2
Edtech 134 2
Other revenue 226 3

Total 6 778 100

Online sales of goods revenue represented 50% and 56% of 
our total revenue in the year ended 31 March 2023 and the 
year ended 31 March 2022 respectively.

Revenue by geographic market (US$’m)

Africa Asia Central
Europe

Eastern
Europe

Western
Europe

Latin 
America

North
America

Other

2 500

2 000

1 500

1 000

500

0

2022●2023●

2023 2022

Africa 1 077 1 135
Asia 528 358
Central Europe 641 736
Eastern Europe 2 131 2 124
Western Europe 62 99
Latin America 2 252 1 776
North America 87 65
Other 0 1

Total 6 778 6 294

Group revenue, measured on an economic-interest basis, was 
US$33.2bn, grew 7% in local currency, excluding acquisitions 
and disposals, driven by a healthy 19% (29%) increase in 
Ecommerce segment revenues.

Costs of providing services and sale of goods

The costs of providing services and sale of goods increased 
by US$221m, or 5%, from US$4 662m for the year ended 
31 March 2022 to US$4 883m for the year ended 
31 March 2023.

Platform/website hosting, warehousing costs and costs 
of goods sold on those platforms decreased by US$22m, from 
US$3 151m in the year ended 31 March 2022 to US$3 129m 
in the year ended 31 March 2023.

Delivery service costs increased from US$611m in the 
year ended 31 March 2022 to US$738m in the year ended 
31 March 2023. This increase primarily related to logistics 
costs in the Food Delivery business on the back of increased 
gross merchandise value (GMV) of 27%.

Payment facilitation transaction costs increased by US$98m 
from US$605m in the year ended 31 March 2022 to US$703m 
in the year ended 31 March 2023. The increase primarily 
related to the Payments and Fintech business, particularly in 
India, where the increased transaction volumes with merchants 
resulted in increased transaction processing costs. In addition, 
following the growth in the Food Delivery business, payments 
facilitation costs increased accordingly.

Selling, general and administrative costs

Selling, general and administrative costs increased by 
US$78m, or 3%, from US$2 454m in the year ended 31 March 
2022 to US$2 532m in the year ended 31 March 2023.

General business administrative cost increased by US$64m 
from US$477m in the year ended 31 March 2022 to US$541m 
in the year ended 31 March 2023, primarily due to cost 
increases across all the segments as they scale.

Staff costs1 decreased by US$73m, or 5%, from US$1 532m 
in the year ended 31 March 2022 to US$1 459m in the year 
ended 31 March 2023, primarily due to a decrease in 
share-based compensation costs. This was partially offset 
by increased salaries, wages and bonuses resulting from 
annual increases.

 

Total number of employees (%)

12
38

13
8

19

16

3

Number of
employees %

Etail 10 366 38

Food Delivery 5 210 19

Classifieds 4 500 16

Payments and Fintech 3 447 12

Print 2 167 8

Edtech 859 3

Other 750 3

Corporate 274 1

Total 27 573 100

1 Adjusted and restated to account for OLX Autos.

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 2322 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Total permanent staff decreased from 28 300 at 31 March 
2022 to 27 573 at 31 March 2023. Staff decreased particularly 
in the Classifieds and Etail segments. For further information 
regarding headcount, refer to the section on our people on 
page 79.

Cash share-based compensation costs decreased by 
US$344m due to changes in valuation assumptions, including 
share prices and volatility, as well as the impacts of 
allocations made and vesting of options.

Depreciation and amortisation

Depreciation and amortisation in selling, general and 
administration expenses increased by US$27m, or 14%, from 
US$197m in the year ended 31 March 2022 to US$224m in 
the year ended 31 March 2023. The increase in depreciation 
expenses primarily related to the acquisitions of property, 
plant and equipment, notably computer and office equipment, 
following growth in our Food Delivery businesses. Amortisation 
increased on the back of acquired intangible assets related 
to business combinations.

Finance income/(costs) – net

Net finance cost decreased by US$261m from US$349m in the 
year ended 31 March 2022 to US$88m in the year ended 
31 March 2023.

Interest expense increased by US$164m, or 40%, from 
US$407m in the year ended 31 March 2022 to US$571m in 
the year ended 31 March 2023, as a result of full-year interest 
paid on the publicly traded bonds.

Interest income increased by US$425m, or 733%, from US$58m 
in the year ended 31 March 2022 to US$483m in the year 
ended 31 March 2023, due to increased cash balances 
on hand.

Interest expense relates primarily to interest on the publicly 
traded bonds. Interest income includes interest earned on 
bank accounts and short-term investments.

Other finance income increased from a finance loss of 
US$91m for the year ended 31 March 2022 to an income 
of US$19m for the year ended 31 March 2023. This relates 
primarily to a gain on foreign exchange differences related to 
the foreign exchange impacts on the translation of assets and 
liabilities offset by fair value losses of derivative instruments, 
which include options exercised, forward exchange contracts, 
derivatives embedded in lease agreements and the cross-
currency interest rate swap.

Share of equity-accounted results

Our equity-accounted results in equity-accounted companies 
decreased by US$4 080m, or 44%, from US$9 256m in the 
year ended 31 March 2022 to US$5 176m in the year ended 
31 March 2023. This is driven primarily by a decrease in our 
share of fair value gains on financial instruments of US$1.7bn, 
reduced gains on acquisitions and disposals of US$396m and 
additional impairment losses of US$827m. This was in addition 
to reduced profitability in Tencent of US$1.2bn and a 
decrease in Tencent’s contribution to equity-accounted 
earnings as a result of the sale of this investment to fund the 
open-ended share repurchase programme.

Impairments

Impairment on goodwill increased from US$246m recognised 
in the year ended 31 March 2022 to US$684m in the year 
ended 31 March 2023. This relates to an impairment of 
US$560m recognised on Stack Overflow and US$116m 
recognised on the OLX Autos business unit.

Impairment on equity-accounted investments increased from 
US$588 recognised in the year ended 31 March 2022 to 
US$1 745 in the year ended 31 March 2023. This relates to an 
impairment of US$997m (recognised in the first half of the 
financial year related to Delivery Hero), US$301m related to 
Skillsoft and US$448m related primarily to unlisted equity-
accounted investments.

Net gains on acquisitions and disposals

Gains on acquisitions and disposals of US$50m were 
recognised in the year ended 31 March 2023, compared to 
a loss of US$1 128m in the year ended 31 March 2022.

In March 2022 a loss of significant influence of US$1 137m 
was recognised on VK as a result of our resignation from the 
board of directors. This relates primarily to the reclassification 
of a portion of the group’s foreign currency translation 
reserves related to VK from other comprehensive income to 
the income statement.

Taxation

Our tax expenses decreased by US$16m, or 25%, from 
US$64m in the year ended 31 March 2022 to US$48m in the 
year ended 31 March 2023.

Chief financial officer’s review continued

Profit from discontinued operations

Discontinued operations consist of the group’s Russian 
business and the autos business unit. In May 2022, as a result 
of the continued conflict in the region, the group announced its 
decision to exit its Russian business. Accordingly, Avito was 
presented as a discontinued operation. The transaction was 
completed in October 2022. The group recognised a gain on 
disposal of the subsidiary of US$568m. Discontinued 
operations for the OLX Autos business include the operations 
classified as held for sale and the operations closed down by 
31 March 2023. Refer to note 36 for details of this business 
unit’s disposal group.

Core headline earnings

Core headline earnings for the year were US$1.1bn, a 
decrease of -48% (-14% in local currency) or US$1.0bn, 
primarily due to lower contributions from our associates 
(US$1.3bn) of which US$1.1bn relates to Tencent. Refer to 
‘Other information – Non-IFRS financial measures and 
alternative performance indicators’ of this report for a 
reconciliation of non-IFRS financial measures.

Cash and debt position

At year-end the group had a net cash position of US$0.6bn, 
comprising US$16.6bn in cash (including short-term 
investments) net of US$16.0bn of interest-bearing debt 
(excluding capitalised lease liabilities).

The group’s free cash outflow (excluding Avito) was US$518m, 
a sizeable year-on-year improvement. This was due to 
improved working capital management and lower tax paid, 
specifically withholding tax due to fewer Avito dividends being 
received. Excluding OLX Autos, the free cash outflow was 
limited to US$138m. Tencent remains a meaningful contributor 
to our cash flow via a stable dividend of US$565m.

Basil Sgourdos
Chief financial officer

26 June 2023

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 2524 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Engaging with our stakeholders

To create sustainable value for our stakeholders, we actively engage 
with them to elicit their feedback to further inform our direction and 
strategic choices. We value their input and build constructive, long-
term relationships to enable ongoing dialogue.
To support the board in fulfilling its governance role, the social, ethics and sustainability committee retains oversight of 
stakeholder management across the group. To balance the needs, interests and expectations of a diverse group of stakeholders, 
we take an inclusive approach.

Our key stakeholder groups:

We want to help customers and users improve their 
everyday lives. Customers are indirectly represented 
through our portfolio of companies across various 
geographies that deliver services to their customer base.

1 Customers and users

We are a for-profit organisation committed to delivering 
value to shareholders and investors.

3 Investors

We aim to be an industry leader in both the digital 
technology and investing sectors, playing an active part 
in our shared progress.

5 Industry bodies

We report transparently and aim to communicate to our 
broad stakeholder community through constructive 
relationships with the media.

7 Media

Our employees are at the heart of our success. Their 
commitment and entrepreneurial drive make all the 
difference.

2 Employees

We work closely with our business partners, including 
suppliers and consultants.

4 Business partners

We are committed to making a lasting positive impact for 
society and the world we live in.

6 Our planet and society

We recognise how important it is to work with 
governments and regulators as our portfolio of 
companies have a big impact on people’s lives across 
diverse jurisdictions.

8 Government and regulators

Identifying material matters

Last year, we conducted a materiality assessment. This helped us identify material matters that are high priority for our 
stakeholders and with a significant potential impact on our business and society. We focus on these material matters and 
proactively communicate our position and performance on each, with three overarching objectives: to mitigate risk, manage 
performance and create sustainable value.

Based on feedback from our stakeholders, we identified 11 material matters. Predictably, for a technology group, these include 
data privacy, cyber-resilience, digital inclusion and artificial intelligence. Sustainability issues – from climate action to responsible 
investment – are high on that list. Stakeholders affected and our responses are summarised by stakeholder group on the 
following pages.

Materiality results

Impact of the company on economic, environmental and social matters

Im
p

or
ta

nc
e 

fo
r 

st
a

ke
ho

ld
er

s Financial  
performance

Data privacy

Cyber-
resilience

Community 
investment

Digital inclusion

AI

Responsible 
investments

People

Business culture, 
ethics and 
integrity

Climate action

Innovation

With a view on the upcoming Corporate Sustainability 
Reporting Directive (CSRD) regulation, we have started the 
process to update our materiality assessment to align with the 
double-materiality approach. This means looking at material 
matters that represent relevant impacts of our business on the 
economy (environment, people and their human rights) as well 
as those that have or could have financial effects on Naspers. 
Building on our existing material matters, we created a long 
list of topics informed by the latest World Economic Forum 
(WEF) global risks report, referenced to the standards of 
European Sustainability Reporting Standards (ESRS) and the 
Sustainability Accounting Standard Board (SASB). This list was 

contextualised to Naspers and referenced to our internal risk 
register. This list formed the basis of an online survey that 
asked stakeholders/experts to prioritise material matters and 
rank them based on: severity of impact on the economy, 
environment and people; and magnitude of potential financial 
effect on Naspers in the short, medium and long term.

We will continue to engage with stakeholders and experts to 
complete this assessment in coming months as interpretations 
of CSRD (and the underlying European Sustainability Reporting 
Standards) become clearer. We will disclose results in the 
next year.

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 2726 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Engaging with our stakeholders continued

Stakeholders

Customers and users Material matters Our response and impact
 » We are continuously improving our 
product ranges and the customer 
experience.

 » We ensure our offerings are 
competitively priced.

 » Our customer-focused initiatives 
include investing in and 
developing AI and ML to improve 
convenience and safety, to 
developing new services such as 
home delivery of groceries.

What matters to them
 » Positive experience – safety, fast 
delivery, return and feedback

 » Competitive pricing and range of 
products

 » Content preference
 » Trust
 » Data privacy

How we engage
 » Call centres, showrooms and client 
relationship managers

 » Electronic communication (email, 
SMS, apps, web and social media 
platforms)

 » Workshops and events
 » Surveys and market research

Employees Material matters Our response and impact
 » We continually invest in 
developing our people, including 
creating and supporting 
professional development 
opportunities.

 » We recognise great work through 
fair and competitive rewards.

 » We focus on building an inclusive, 
empowered and supportive 
culture.

 » We care for our people through 
various health and wellbeing 
initiatives.

 » On our path to profitability, 
cost-saving initiatives were 
necessary, including staff 
reductions.

What matters to them
 » Providing jobs with meaning and a 
sense of purpose

 » Recruitment, retention and 
development of talent

 » Culture, including diversity and 
inclusion, employee wellbeing and 
engagement

 » Job security

How we engage
 » Ongoing dialogue with our people 
is embedded in our work practices

 » Formal and informal channels to 
engage and encourage open 
communication, from leadership 
and CEO updates by email and 
video to face-to-face gatherings, 
online collaboration and content-
sharing

 » Continuous learning and 
development through our online 
learning platform MyAcademy, and 
through live education programmes

 » Support given to retrenched 
employees

Society Material matters Our response and impact
 » Our businesses focus on 
maximising positive impact in 
local communities.

 » Our group aim is to develop 
products and services that meet 
societal needs.

 » We contribute to enabling and 
encouraging conscious 
consumerism.

 » We focus on hiring local 
employees and growing local 
talent, including investing in local 
businesses.

 » Safety of our employees is 
paramount, for example our 
initiatives in Ukraine.

 » Our group legal compliance 
programme is tailored to unique 
risks and local laws for each 
business.

 » We adopt a responsible approach 
to tax.

What matters to them
 » Social investment to support 
meaningful impact

 » Minimising our environmental 
impact

 » Local employment and value 
creation, including supporting local 
businesses

 » Adhering to local laws and paying 
taxes due

How we engage
 » Community investment programmes
 » Employment offering and service 
providers

 » Website content and public 
announcements on material 
matters

Our material matters

Financial performance
We create value by growing our revenues and 
market shares, increasing our exposure to 
financial revenue from sustainable business 
models and driving profitability and cash 
generation. Our understanding of sustainable 
value creation applies strict discipline to 
capital allocation and performance 
management.

 See page 22.

Material matter

   Financial 
performance

Stakeholders affected
 » Investors and 

shareholders

Responsible investments
We are a responsible investor. We apply ESG 
factors in selecting and assessing new 
prospects and apply these criteria in managing 
the performance of businesses and investments 
across our portfolio.

 See page 77.

Material matter
   Responsible 
investments

Stakeholders affected
 » All

People
We help people achieve their potential and be 
their best. We work to realise this aspiration for 
our employees and across the value chain of 
our businesses, including for the many 
thousands of people who work on our 
platforms around the world.

 See pages 78 to 82.

Material matter
   
People

Stakeholders affected
 » Employees

Digital inclusion
Digital inclusion underpins our business 
strategies. We extend access to digital 
products and services, promote digital literacy 
and support information technology 
infrastructure.

 See page 82.

Material matter
   Digital 
inclusion

Stakeholders affected
 » Employees
 » Customers and users

Innovation
We find, nurture and scale innovative 
technology to create new ways of doing 
business. Our investments in sustainable value 
creation contribute to positive and systemic 
change by developing solutions to societal 
needs.

 See pages 82 and 85.

Material matter

    Innovation

Stakeholders affected
 » All

Stable ChallengingPositive

Quality of relationship

Artificial intelligence
We invest in pioneering technologies, guided 
by our group principles for the responsible 
application of AI. In building software-led 
business models, we aim to create value, and 
to engage in external advocacy for the ethical 
development of AI.

 See pages 86 to 88.

Material matter

    AI

Stakeholders affected
 » Society
 » Customers and users
 » Business partners
 » Investors and 

shareholders
 » Government and 

regulators

Cyber-resilience
We take cybersecurity seriously. Across our 
group, we protect the information technology 
infrastructure of businesses, governments and 
households against increasingly disruptive, 
frequent and sophisticated cybercrimes that 
could result in economic damage, financial 
loss, geopolitical tensions and social instability.

 See pages 89 to 91.

Material matter

 
   Cyber-
resilience

Stakeholders affected
 » Society
 » Customers and users
 » Business partners
 » Investors and 

shareholders
 » Government and 

regulators

Data privacy
We create and adhere to the right policies and 
frameworks to control and secure the data of 
our business, customers and employees.

 See pages 92 to 94.

Material matter

    Data  
privacy

Stakeholders affected
 » Society
 » Customers and users
 » Business partners
 » Investors and 

shareholders
 » Government and 

regulators

Business culture, ethics and integrity
We embed our group goals, purpose and 
values in all business activities and operations. 
Although our influence on investees varies 
across our portfolio and supply chain, we are 
committed to effective communication and 
engagement with all our stakeholders.

 See pages 95 and 96.

Material matter
   Business culture, 
ethics and integrity

Stakeholders affected
 » Customers and users
 » Business partners
 » Employees

Community investment
We invest for real and sustainable impact in 
the communities where we live and work, 
applying the principle that local actors know 
best how to deliver meaningful change in local 
contexts.

 See pages 98 and 99.

Material matter
   Community 
investment

Stakeholders affected
 » Society

Climate action
Reducing GHG emissions and energy 
consumption is a priority for all our operations 
and investments.

 See pages 100 to 109.

Material matter
   Climate 
action

Stakeholders affected
 » All

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 2928 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Engaging with our stakeholders continued

Media Material matters Our response and impact
 » We regularly engage with key 
journalists and editors to build 
relationships and understanding.

 » We proactively schedule media 
interviews to brief them on 
strategic updates and significant 
news.

 » We build announcement plans to 
maximise coverage.

 » We respond to requests for 
comment in line with 
communications and investor 
relations policies.

 » We are quick to correct inaccurate 
commentary or articles, as 
appropriate.

What matters to them
 » Our investment strategy and 
performance

 » Requests for comment on rumour 
and speculation, notably on 
potential acquisitions and 
divestitures

 » Requests for comment on 
reputational risk issues, such as 
cybersecurity and privacy

 » Our focus on geographies and our 
view on key industry segments

 » How we work across our group 
companies

How we engage
 » Press releases, editorials and 
articles

 » Interviews and reactive comment
 » Reporting through company 
website

 » Events

Investors Material matters Our response and impact
 » Management engages regularly 
with investors.

 » Our engagement and reporting 
includes focused messaging on 
the path to profitability, value 
crystallisation, open-ended 
repurchase programme and 
simplifying the group structure.

 » We provide biannual updates on 
our internal rate of return for the 
total portfolio and Ecommerce.

 » We are concentrating on reducing 
the holding-company discount.

 » We improved our ESG 
communications and disclosures.

What matters to them
 » Holding-company discount
 » Path to profitability and cash flow 
generation

 » Developing the optimal structure for 
the group

 » Capital allocation: Further 
buybacks, investment in core 
assets, and responsible M&A

 » Crystallising value at the right time
 » Internal rates of return
 » Remuneration policy and disclosure
 » ESG strategy, performance and 
disclosures

 » Strategy for core segments, and 
how we are investing for growth

 » Competition in various markets
 » Our approach to managing 
geopolitical and macroeconomic 
risks

How we engage
 » Investor meetings and 
teleconferences

 » Conference participation
 » Interim and annual reports
 » Financial results presentations and 
investor days

 » Business deep-dives
 » Press and stock exchange releases
 » Reporting via corporate website
 » Dedicated email address for 
inbound queries and distributing 
announcements

 » Instructive videos

Governments and regulators Material matters Our response and impact
 » We are transparent and have 
implemented a programme to 
ensure compliance with all 
applicable laws and regulations.

 » We make formal representations 
and written submissions to express 
views.

 » We provide information to 
policy-makers in the form of expert 
advice, based on our global 
experience as well as technology 
and sector expertise.

What matters to them
 » Sustainable development
 » Innovation and entrepreneurship
 » Competition policy
 » Taxation
 » Investments and international trade
 » Data protection and privacy
 » AI
 » Cyber-resilience
 » Private-public partnerships, 
international and other 
collaborations

 » Intermediary liability
 » Financial services legislation
 » Copyright and intellectual property 
(IP)

 » Tech policy, including ecommerce
 » Societal contribution, including 
employment and social policy

How we engage
 » Direct participation in advisory 
committees, meetings and public 
consultations

 » Formal one-on-one meetings and 
round-table discussions

 » Response to sector and company-
specific enquiries

 » Indirectly through sector and 
industry associations

 » Participation in international events, 
such as BRICS (Brazil, Russia, India, 
China and South Africa) summits 
and membership of the World 
Economic Forum in Davos

 » Site visits, including hosting official 
delegations

 » Annual report

Business partners Material matters Our response and impact
 » Strong relationship management 
systems ensure regular 
communication between key 
management and business 
representatives.

 » Structured grievance processes 
ensure that, in any dispute, we 
take timely action to find a 
resolution.

 » Through active negotiations, we 
ensure mandates clearly lay out 
the relationship and agreement 
terms and requirements.

 » Business approaches are reviewed 
regularly to ensure they align with 
international norms.

What matters to them
 » Continued supply of products and 
services

 » Awareness of relevant 
developments in the business

 » Understanding and recognising our 
partners’ rights, specifically on 
changing procurement processes, 
pricing, content, platform use, 
privacy and security

How we engage
 » Structured meetings, calls and 
electronic communication

 » Informal day-to-day communication

Industry bodies Material matters Our response and impact
 » We take the lead in responding to 
industry consultations on proposed 
regulations and legislation.

 » To build understanding and 
engagement across the industry, 
we share our approach and 
examples of action on specific 
material matters, such as how we 
align to changing legislation.

 » We produce thought leadership 
and position papers.

What matters to them
 » Clear communication of material 
matters

 » Engagement around increasing 
meaningful and positive impact

 » How to ensure a positive sector 
experience, for example through 
regulation and culture of the 
sectors

How we engage
 » Membership of selected and 
appropriate bodies

 » Co-operating with selected 
partners on projects addressing 
legislative initiatives

Stable ChallengingPositive

Quality of relationship

   Financial 
performance

   
People

   Responsible 
investments

    Innovation

   Digital 
inclusion

   Climate 
action

    Data  
privacy

    AI

 
   Cyber-
resilience

   Business culture, 
ethics and integrity

   Community 
investment

Material matters

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 3130 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Our strategy for building sustainable long-term value remains 
relevant and differentiated – we pursue growth by building 
leading companies that empower people and enrich 
communities.

Underpinned by a rigorous process:  
Invest, scale, crystallise

Active: We see funding as 
the baseline. We like to play 
an active role in the growth 
of the companies we back. 

Long-term view: We are 
patient and disciplined, 
and we build companies 
sustainably over time. 

Focused: We make targeted 
investments across our core 
segments. 

Responsible: We matter 
to the customers and 
communities that we serve. 
We strive to maximise our 
positive impact on society 
and the planet. 

Robust operating model

Our core and sustainable approach

Food Delivery EdtechPayments and FintechClassifieds

Building four core segments

Global outlook

Investor

Local entrepreneurs

Operator

… in high-
growth 

markets …

… where we  
can build 

sustainable 
leading  

positions.

… address 
big societal 

needs …

Build global 
technology 

leaders to …

1  Drive organic growth in our 
core businesses

2  Expand local ecosystems 3  Be a force for good for our 
stakeholders

Three strategic priorities
Flowing from our core strategy and the implications of key trends in the world around us

Strategic 
priority 1:

Drive organic 
growth in our 
core 
businesses

We have 
identified 
significant 
opportunity in 
technology 
globally, knowing 
that certain 
markets will 
thrive more than 
others.

Backing winning segments

We will continue to focus on our core segments and drive their organic growth. While tech has done 
well across the board, we have invested in segments where we believe there is markedly more 
growth potential.

Targeting high-growth markets around the world

 » While regulatory change has recently curbed investor enthusiasm in China, we believe it remains 
one of the most attractive internet markets, and Tencent is well positioned there. We also believe 
regulation is ultimately healthy for any industry or market – in time, businesses will adjust and 
investor appetite will return.

 » India is a priority, and we are strengthening our teams and investments there. We will focus on 
backing local entrepreneurs to ensure we align well with India’s domestic priorities.

 » We are investing more in south-east Asia. We see opportunity there – growth is strong and 
smartphone adoption is rising rapidly.

 » In Brazil, we see strong opportunity for iFood. Again, we are focused on organic growth, particularly 
with respect to strengthening iFood’s local ecosystem. That ecosystem is centered around a strong 
food-delivery core that is supplemented by offerings in grocery, convenience retail, and fintech. 

 » We will continue to monitor markets for opportunities and be selective in our approach, prioritising 
the biggest opportunities.

Strategic 
priority 2:

Expand local 
ecosystems

Our businesses 
are building 
ecosystems with 
a strong local 
presence.

 » Our Food Delivery businesses are building on their sizeable delivery operations to extend into 
adjacent delivery verticals, such as convenience and grocery. This creates more value for customers 
and more value for our businesses.

 » We are expanding our Payments and Fintech platform in India to create a broader ecosystem.
 » We are building valuable local ecosystems around local market heroes, such as eMAG in 
Central and Eastern Europe. eMAG is building Romania’s largest last-mile delivery platform, growing 
food delivery rapidly, and expanding into grocery delivery.

Strategic 
priority 3:

Be a force for 
good for our 
stakeholders

Shareholders, regulators and many other stakeholders are increasingly interested in how seriously we 
take our responsibilities as a global technology group: how well we look after our people and our 
customers; the kind of role we play in society; and the impact of our businesses on the planet.

We have a strong heritage of acting responsibly as a group. But much of this good work has been 
implicit – a natural consequence of fundamentals such as being disciplined about long-term value 
creation, backing entrepreneurs who share our values, and focusing on improving people’s everyday 
lives through technology.

We believe it has now become essential that we do business with the stated goal of being a positive 
force for the world around us. We will therefore ensure we are all clear on our role in the world, and 
on our expectations of each other. Through our Ventures arm, we are increasing our focus on 
sustainable investment themes, such as agtech (agriculture technology) and healthtech.

We have also formalised our approach to responsible investing.

 You can find more details on page 77.

We are all united by our shared purpose – to improve everyday life for billions of people through 
technology – and our shared values.

Our strategy

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 3332 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



How we create value – 
our business model

Our business model is directly linked to our strategy (page 32)  
and supports our purpose (page 6). 

Business activities OutcomesMaterial matters How we measure value SDGs

Our strategy is focused on creating value in  

four core segments:

2 Employees in group-level functions.
3 Based on actual Naspers CORE in local currency, excluding M&A, based on budget.
4 Based on actual Naspers FCF, excluding approved adjustments.

Food Delivery

Classifieds

Payments and Fintech

Edtech

... address big 
societal needs ...

Build global tech 
leaders to ...

... in high-growth 
markets ...

... where we can 
build sustainable 

positions.

Financial funds and assets used to 
invest and develop our operations

Financial performance1

1 Presented on an economic-interest basis.

We proactively limit exposure 
to revenues from a defined set 
of controversial activities and 
increase our exposure to revenues 
from sustainability-native business 
models

Responsible investments

Skills of our employees

People

All investments in facilities and 
technologies across the group

Innovation 

Ideas, source codes, domains, know-
how and knowledge we create, own 
and protect

AI 

Trust we build in communities where we 
operate

Community investment

Reducing GHG emissions and energy 
consumption is a priority for all our 
operations and investments

Climate action

Digital inclusion

Digital products and services, digital 
literacy and support for information 
technology infrastructure

Cyber-resilience 

Protection of information technology 
infrastructure

Data privacy 

Data protection, data strategy, AI ethics 
and other key issues relevant to digital 
platforms

Business culture, ethics 
and integrity

Value creation Value preservation Value erosion

   We continue to deliver robust financial performance

 »  Achieve revenue at target
 »  Achieve core headline earnings of US$564m, including Tencent
 »  Achieve free cash outflow of US$1.22bn

  Consolidated group revenue from continuing 
operations: US$6 778m
  Core headline earnings, including Tencent3: 
US$1 056m
  Free cash outflow4: US$138m, excluding Avito and 
OLX Autos

   We deliver long-term shareholder value through disciplined capital allocation

 »  Meaningful internal rate of return (IRR) ahead of cost of capital

  Total consolidated trading losses from continuing 
operations of -US$844m

   We create workplaces with a fair and inclusive culture

 »  Diversity and inclusion is a business strategic priority and is measured
 »  Achieve 87% favourable response to the question ’I feel respected at my company’ 

in the annual engagement survey
 »  MyAcademy is also a critical element in our AI and ML transformation plan. We 

use it to train people who are not in engineering roles in AI and ML, through our 
AI for everyone course

  In the employee engagement survey, we achieved 
a global score of 83% favourable responses to our 
gender diversity question
  We achieved a score of 86% favourable responses 
to our inclusion question, ‘I feel respected at my 
company’
  MyAcademy has enabled 105 technology colleagues 
to earn AI nanodegrees and initiate a new career 
path in the field

   We are committed to investing in and scaling digital services and 
technologies to address global challenges at a local level

    We provide innovative platforms and services to customers globally

 »  Continue to build our AI capabilities by increasing the number of ML modules in 
production

 »  Apply strict discipline to capital allocation, and act with integrity to promote ethical 
business principles

 Maintained high standards of product quality
  We offer highly specialised training on several AI 
themes for engineers and product managers, including 
model deployment, ML pipelines, ML operations and 
natural language processing. A new addition is a 
series of tutorials and practical education modules on 
GenAI, such as prompting or training language models
  By year-end, the group NAV discount had reduced by 
17 percentage points from 58% to 42%, creating over 
US$25bn of value for shareholders.
  Impairment on goodwill increased from US$246m 
recognised in the year ended 31 March 2022 to 
US$684m in the year ended 31 March 2023, relating to 
Stack Overflow and OLX Autos

    Through our intellectual property, we drive change and innovation in the 
industry

 »  Throughout the investment life cycle, we strive to ensure that scientific and technical 
standards informing design and research in AI products and services are robust, 
and of high quality. We assess this continually

 500 data scientists on the team
  >4 000 software engineers and technical staff who 
work with PlusOne AI assistant
  Technology and process innovations across our 
portfolio

    We implement and maintain strong cybersecurity and enhance the resilience 
of our platforms and systems

 »  Ensure cybersecurity and technology risks are managed by our businesses
 »  Focus on ransomware prevention and response preparation

  49 advisory and assurance projects to ensure 
cybersecurity risk management
  Updated cybersecurity policy with a ransomware 
addendum; creating a group playbook on how we 
would respond to a ransomware attack. Completed 
ransomware simulations to further refine our resilience 
to this growing threat

    We recognise that privacy is an important value and an essential element of 
public trust. We expect each of our businesses to adhere to our group policy 
on data privacy governance

 »  Seven key elements of a data privacy programme to ensure our core data privacy 
commitment and approach are followed in ways that really work for our businesses

 Strong brands and solid reputation
  All subsidiaries completed two cycles of assessments 
across 17 data privacy domains set out in the group’s 
privacy maturity model. Each company has selected 
at least two specific goals to improve maturity over 
the year

   We are committed to conducting business in compliance with the law and 
behaving ethically

 »  Human rights statement adopted across the group and its subsidiaries
 »  Enhanced ethics and compliance training

 Human rights assessments across our value chain
  100% of group2 employees completed ethics and 
compliance e-learning
  Risk assessments and annual plans completed for 
each segment, identifying key risks and initiatives for 
the year ahead

   We treat our partners fairly and drive high social value in our operations

 »  As part of our purpose to use technology to improve the everyday lives of billions 
of people, we place great emphasis on promoting inclusive, economically secure 
communities by doing what we do best – supporting promising entrepreneurs to 
make a lasting impact on the communities around them

 »  Beneficiaries supported through community investment programmes

  The Prosus Social Impact Challenge for Accessibility 
(SICA) and FLIGHT programmes support sectors 
employing underserved populations
  Humanitarian relief in Ukraine
  In FY23, the Potencia Tech (tech power) platform was 
recognised by Notable CNN, and won a prize in the 
tech category. This online platform offers free courses, 
scholarships and job openings in tech roles, specifically 
for people underrepresented in traditional learning 
pathways. In FY23, over 30 000 learners signed up and 
around 1 500 found employment, 69 at iFood

   The group is committed to achieving net-zero emissions which is embedded 
in key performance indicators

 »  Reduce scope 1 and 2 emissions to zero at group level by year-end FY23
 »  Enhance ESG performance and implement a climate transition plan

  Reduced scope 1 and 2 emissions to zero at a 
corporate level by FY23
 Strategy in place to meet our portfolio coverage target

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 3534 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



The world in which we operate

We have identified key trends relevant to our business across 
the macroeconomic environment, technology and society, and 
investor landscape. Their implications have been distilled into 
three strategic priorities for the group (covered in our strategy 
on page 32).

Macroeconomic environment

Major health, economic and geopolitical events have 
impacted the macroeconomic environment greatly in recent 
years, and significant uncertainty remains.

India recorded the fastest real GDP growth globally in 2022, 
while China has reopened its borders after ending its 
zero-Covid policy and is stabilising the environment for 
tech regulation. As the world’s two largest internet audiences, 
these are both markets in which we have good exposure.

Real GDP growth1 (%)

China India US Europe

8

6

4

2

0

3.0

4.3

6.9 6.6

1.9

0.5

3.3

0.0

December 2023 (estimated)December 2022

Updated on 19 January 2023.
1 Respectively: S&P 500, Euro Stoxx 50, China A50, FTSE India.
Source: World Bank, Fred, Eurostat, Capital IQ, investing.com.

Slowing economic growth with record inflation 
and rising interest rates

The state of the world today was largely caused by the 
exogenous shock of the pandemic early in the 2020 calendar 
year. While the decade-long bull run, fuelled by low interest 
rates and quantitative easing, may have ended for other 
reasons eventually, the pandemic forced lockdowns and a 
significant economic reversal, both in the real economy and in 
markets. Governments responded with massive stimuli, and 
some parts of the economy boomed. Inflation jumped and 
was fuelled by the spike in energy prices when Russia invaded 
Ukraine. Interest rates increased sharply in the 2022 calendar 
year and continued to increase in 2023 as central banks 
reacted to high inflation rates, resulting in deteriorating 
consumer sentiment and slowing economic growth.

Global real GDP growth (%)

20
05

20
06

20
07

20
08

20
09

20
10

20
11

20
12

20
13

20
14

20
15

20
16

20
17

20
18

20
19

20
20

20
21

20
22

20
23

20
24

6

4

2

0

-2

-4

Source: World Bank, OECD.

Unsurprisingly, the 2022 calendar year was also a bear 
market. Rising rates and slowing economic growth were only 
part of the reason, as investor sentiment shifted massively 
from growth to profit. The significant market correction, with a 
sharp decline in the prices of public equities around the world, 
has been particularly pronounced in the technology sector.

The expectation for the 2023 calendar year is a further 
significant slowdown driven by high inflation, monetary 
tightening, and low consumer and business confidence.

Slowing economic growth compounds global inequality, which 
has worsened since the pandemic – undermining social 
cohesion, happiness and stability. Companies that address 
societal needs, like Naspers, have an important role in 
reducing inequality.

Diverging prospects across countries – China and 
India remain strong

While macroeconomic drivers are the same across the world, 
there is wide variation in how significant economies have 
been performing.

China’s GDP growth in the 2022 calendar year was 3.0%. 
While high compared with most Western markets, this is a 
significant deceleration from pre-Covid-19 years. This has 
been caused by the economic cost of the zero-Covid policy, 
the government’s stricter policy stance on tech companies, 
and lower demand globally for Chinese exports. With the end 
of zero-Covid and a stable environment for tech regulation, 
China tech forecasts an improved outlook, although much 
uncertainty remains.

India’s economy has demonstrated resilience, despite 
a challenging external environment, and it remains one 
of the fastest-growing major economies in the world.

Tech and society

The pandemic changed people’s lives forever by accelerating 
the use of technology. However, the consequent growth of tech 
titans produced a countertrend of anti-tech sentiment and 
rising regulation. As a responsible tech operator and investor, 
we are well positioned to navigate and contribute to our 
changing world – creating value for our stakeholders.

Pandemic patterns persist: We are changed forever

Since the 2020 calendar year, people have redefined how 
they work, interact, shop and play, with much of this everyday 
activity moving online. As pandemic restrictions have lifted, a 
new balance between online and offline is being established, 
but the shift to online is now entrenched. At the same time, 
sustainability has become a pressing concern given the 
mounting evidence of a climate crisis. In tandem with moving 
online, people are going green and they increasingly expect 
companies to play their part.

Despite significant global uncertainty, we believe technology 
can transform how people live their lives in every corner of the 
world, creating significant value for all.

Our world is changing rapidly and we have a role 
to play

Our footprint is in high-growth markets.

Eight billion people and rising

The shared global challenges of climate change and rising 
inequalities demand action from all sections of society.

Global developments

High-growth markets have the largest vulnerable populations 
and resource disparities.

Increased pressure on natural resources

Growing public demand for corporates to demonstrate value 
beyond financials – growth and profit are no longer enough.

Future of business

As a digital technology investor and operator, we have both 
an opportunity and a responsibility.

Rapid digitalisation

ESG investing is no longer the exception but the norm as 
investors demand and integrate environmental and social 
data into their decisions.

Changes in capital markets

We systematically explore emerging technologies and 
accelerate them across the group. Refer to our section on 
artificial intelligence on page 86.

Generative AI

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 3736 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



The rise of a tech-enabled world

Technology is at the heart of transformation and tech titans, 
such as Amazon, Google and Microsoft, surged in value 
during the pandemic. The recent experience of mega-cap tech 
companies echoes the experience of many across the tech 
landscape. All have confronted slowing growth and reduced 
profits as the economic environment put pressure on their 
businesses. Many announced layoffs (albeit small compared 
with their overall workforce). However, the changes evident in 
recent years are foundational and expected to endure. 
The way we live our lives, the way companies operate and 
market their products – people and businesses are relying 
more on technology.

A worldwide crackdown on big-tech

While the technology sector has significant growth potential, 
challenges remain given the world’s increasingly critical and 
political view of the sector. Accordingly, regulation is growing. 
This is normal – historically, all new sectors have faced greater 
oversight as they grew. Broad technological advancements 
pose significant challenges for regulators who strive to 
maintain a balance between fostering innovation, protecting 
consumers, and addressing the unintended consequences of 
digital disruption at scale. Globally, regulators must balance 
their responsibility to protect citizens with encouraging 
innovation in new technologies and businesses while avoiding 
the risk of overregulation.

Private funding rounds* (US$'bn)
100

80

60

40

20

0

1 500

1 000

500

0

Ja
n-

17
Fe

b
-1

7
M

a
r-1

7
A
p
r-1

7
M

a
y-

17
Ju

n-
17

A
ug

-1
7

Ju
l-1

7

Se
p
-1

7
O

ct
-1

7
N

ov
-1

7
D

ec
-1

7
Ja

n-
18

Fe
b
-1

8
M

a
r-1

8
A
p
r-1

8
M

a
y-

18
Ju

n-
18

A
ug

-1
8

Ju
l-1

8

Se
p
-1

8
O

ct
-1

8
N

ov
-1

8
D

ec
-1

8
Ja

n-
19

Fe
b
-1

9
M

a
r-1

9
A
p
r-1

9
M

a
y-

19
Ju

n-
19

A
ug

-1
9

Ju
l-1

9

Se
p
-1

9
O

ct
-1

9
N

ov
-1

9
D

ec
-1

9
Ja

n-
20

Fe
b
-2

0
M

a
r-2

0
A
p
r-2

0
M

a
y-

20
Ju

n-
20

A
ug

-2
0

Ju
l-2

0

Se
p
-2

0
O

ct
-2

0
N

ov
-2

0
D

ec
-2

0
Ja

n-
21

Fe
b
-2

1
M

a
r-2

1
A
p
r-2

1
M

a
y-

21
Ju

n-
21

A
ug

-2
1

Ju
l-2

1

Se
p
-2

1
O

ct
-2

1
N

ov
-2

1
D

ec
-2

1
Ja

n-
22

Fe
b
-2

2
M

a
r-2

2
A
p
r-2

2
M

a
y-

22
Ju

n-
22

A
ug

-2
2

Ju
l-2

2

Se
p
-2

2
O

ct
-2

2
N

ov
-2

2
D

ec
-2

2
Ja

n-
23

Fe
b
-2

3

A
m

ou
nt

N
um

b
er

* Tech companies, excluding China, only including funding rounds with announced amount; excluding debt, secondary, unspecified rounds and companies out 
of business.

Source: Naspers tech company database, PitchBook, CB Insights.

The world in which we operate continued

Investor landscape

Tech investment activity and valuations peaked in the 2021 
calendar year when significant global capital was committed 
quickly on a broad range of investments. While private deal 
flow slowed significantly in the 2022 calendar year, we believe 
our focus remains true – we are confident that disciplined 
investment in exceptional entrepreneurs with outstanding 
tech-led businesses positions us to create long-term value.

Significant downturn in tech investing

According to PitchBook and based on calendar years, global 
venture investment plummeted in 2022 to the levels of 2017. 
Public market valuations also fell significantly. However, in 
contrast to panic selling at the onset of the pandemic in 2020, 
the sell-off in 2022 was orderly, with relatively lower volatility. 
Further downside is possible – particularly as the effects of 
the economic slowdown are felt, and companies revise 
earnings estimates down. Importantly, although an all-out 
global war is unlikely, escalating geopolitical tensions could 
disastrously impact markets.

Against this background, we will remain a disciplined 
technology investor, creating sustainable value in our own 
distinctive way.

Responding to the trends

In the past year, the world has been shaped by powerful 
macro, geopolitical, technology, regulatory and investor forces 
that have been challenging for all. 

Despite the challenges, we remain focused on improving lives 
through technology and well positioned to capitalise on 
opportunities in this time of dislocation. We are prudent, 
focused and have an operator’s advantage in assessing and 
optimising investments. Our global network is strong and our 
differentiation as patient, company-building capital is 
distinctive. We have well-established businesses in our 
portfolio as well as assets that can provide meaningful capital 
as we need it.

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 3938 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Choosing the right opportunities  
and balancing risks

 » Internal operational risks – that would cause avoidable 
(opportunity) cost or threats to the value of our reputation and 
brands, including failures to comply with laws and regulation, 
and unethical behaviour (including fraud) – we reduce and 
control to acceptable levels by:

 – Upholding our code of business ethics and conduct.
 – Implementing organisational structures with clear roles and 
responsibilities.

 – Maintaining policies and standard operating procedures.
 – Implementing the right support systems.
 – Effective operational, financial and IT (cyber) controls.
 – Applying suitable reporting and processes that allow 
us to monitor risks and respond swiftly.

 – Relying on our people to behave responsibly and deliver 
what is expected from them. In managing and developing 
our diverse talent pool, we keep that front of mind. We 
promote a healthy culture that encourages (and rewards) 
good performance and in which people feel safe and are 
encouraged to speak up.

 » External risks – that may cause harm and damage by events 
beyond our control, including natural or manmade disasters, 
pandemics, social unrest, and (cyber) crime, as well as 
counterparty and capital markets risks – we reduce and 
mitigate by:

 – Implementing protective measures (eg restricting physical 
and logistical access).

 – Transferring and reducing risk through contractual 
arrangements.

 – Managing our balance sheet well.
 – As far as economically sensible, procuring financial 
products that provide loss protection (eg forward contracts 
and insurance).

 – Managing credit and counterparty risk closely to be able to 
accept the right level of risk for our business. The latter is 
accomplished by strict policies on risk acceptance and 
budgetary controls, due-diligence processes in onboarding 
customers and suppliers, risk spreading, and close 
monitoring.

Key topical risks and opportunities

Geopolitical tension has caused stress on the global 
economy and capital markets, significantly increasing the cost 
of capital.  We expect the business environment to remain 
challenged for the foreseeable future and further escalations 
cannot be ruled out, demanding a prudent stance to investing. 
We cannot control these risks but we monitor developments and 
focus on further growing the value potential of our portfolio while 
operating at leanest cost. At the same time, we continue our 
mission to reduce the discount to net asset value, partly through 
our open-ended repurchase programme. Our strong balance 
sheet and cash position positions us well and we may be able 
to identify attractive investment opportunities as valuations have 
generally come down.

Natural disasters, extreme weather events and failure to mitigate 
climate change are among the world’s top 10 risks, according 
to the latest Global Risks Report 2023 from the World Economic 
Forum. Climate considerations are therefore becoming a core 
part of investment decisions across capital markets and affect 
our access to capital.

As we develop our businesses and grow value sustainably, we understand the importance 
of effective risk management and therefore continue to foster our governance processes. 
These support us in setting the right objectives while identifying and managing related 
risks, as well as any additional opportunities to exceed our plans.

The risks we assume, how we respond to those, and how 
combined assurance is applied to our desired risk profile 
are discussed regularly at the board. This is done in line 
with generally accepted frameworks and good practice, 
including King IV.

No business can be conducted without accepting risk. As such, 
our strategies may present both familiar and new exposures that 
could affect our success. In the spirit of good entrepreneurship, 
we accept risks responsibly, balancing risk for reward. We aim to 
reduce undesirable risk exposures by implementing and 
operating cost-effective risk treatment plans and/or controls.

We believe that doing so intelligently will deliver sustainable 
value growth and protect against avoidable loss. Depending on 
the type of risk (strategic, internal operational and external), our 
philosophy is broadly outlined as follows: strategic risks we seek 
to understand and accept responsibly to realise a balanced 
return; internal operational risks we aim to control to the extent 
that we optimise our risk profile benefiting our tolerance; and 
external, non-controllable risks we aim to reduce and mitigate as 
far as economically sensible.

 » Strategic risks – that stand in the way of successfully 
delivering on our strategic priorities and realising the desired 
return on allocated capital – we may accept as we are 
confident that we understand and stay close to our markets, 
changes in the regulatory environment and the global 
economic and geopolitical landscape. This allows us to react 
rapidly should circumstances dictate. Our primary focus 
remains on anticipating and serving the needs of our 
customers in chosen markets as well as we can, and keeping 
our services relevant for them in their daily lives. In addition, 
we pay close attention to our stakeholders’ needs and 
expectations by, among others, incorporating sustainability 
considerations in our decision-making and engaging in open 
conversations with shareholders, regulators and other internal 
and external stakeholders. We have structured our 
organisation to be agile and responsive to unexpected 
developments, emerging risks and opportunities, and to 
promote the same in our businesses. We have large stakes in 
businesses and listed entities that, due to their size, are major 
contributors to our results and net assets, but which we do not 
control. However, we stay close to these assets, enabling our 
continued belief in their potential and management. We are 
confident that our combined team is strong and well 
equipped to deliver and deal with challenges on the way. 
Lastly, our diversified portfolio of assets and businesses 
reduces our vulnerability to strategic risks.

Continuous evaluation process: Our governance 
processes and operating procedures ensure a structured 
and systematic approach to assess and prioritise 
identified opportunities and risks, decide on an 
appropriate risk treatment response, operationalise our 
decisions, and then monitor and re-evaluate risks and 
opportunities continuously. This iterative process enables 
us to make informed decisions to allocate resources 
effectively, continuously evaluate ongoing appropriateness 
of decisions, and ensures we are well prepared to 
navigate the evolving business landscape.

Experienced, diverse leadership: Our board, 
committees and management team have extensive 
experience and expertise in various industries, enabling 
them to make well-informed decisions and effectively 
manage risks. Their diverse backgrounds and perspectives 
contribute to a comprehensive understanding of the risks 
and opportunities we face, ensuring we remain agile and 
responsive to the changing business environment.

Adaptability and resilience: We pride ourselves on our 
ability to adapt to changing circumstances and capitalise 
on emerging opportunities. Our organisational structures 
enable a proactive approach to risk management, 
allowing local businesses to respond quickly to 
unexpected opportunities as well as risks, ensuring we 
remain resilient and well positioned for growth.

Mitigate Control

AcceptAvoid Optimise

Monitor

AssessAction

Decide

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 4140 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Climate-related physical risks that arise from operating in 
increasingly unpredictable and extreme weather conditions are 
specific to locations where we have an extended physical 
footprint of our operations. As a group of digital platform 
businesses, our exposure to the physical risks (our physical 
footprint) is limited as we are asset-light and do not have 
dependencies on natural resources for the manufacturing or 
delivery of our core products and services.

Out of our entire span of businesses, it is largely our Food 
Delivery and Etail segments that have physical infrastructure as 
part of their business models. As weather conditions like extreme 
heat become normative in communities where there is 
inadequate infrastructure to deal with the impact of the extreme 
weather our operations could be impacted. However, our 
location-based assessment of the exposure to physical risks 
presented by changing climate and weather conditions across 
our businesses remains low. Please refer to our environmental 
programme for an overview of climate-related physical risk 
assessment across our majority-owned companies and our 
mitigation actions.

Climate-related transition risks such as emerging regulations 
and changing consumer preferences can have an impact on a 
company’s commercial performance. The digital nature of our 
businesses with a correlating low carbon footprint limits the risk 
of financial impact from climate regulations that tax greenhouse 
gas emissions. We further mitigate this risk through our efforts on 
the decarbonisation of our operations.

We do have an exposure to reputational risks related to the 
environmental impact of our Etail and Food Delivery segments 
due to the use of fossil fuel-based delivery vehicles and 
packaging. We are currently working with our companies to 
deploy programmatic solutions to transition to electric vehicles 
and sustainable packaging to solve these emission hotspots.

Sustainability reporting requirements like CSRD are increasing 
significantly and pose additional compliance challenges. 
Specifically, in context of our group of companies that largely 
operate outside of the European Union where there can be 
lower maturity and lower expectations on ESG reporting, we 
believe that there is a risk that our companies are penalised for 
not having already achieved the results on ESG performance of 
European companies. The current reporting frameworks reward 
results, not transition and intent. Our companies that are mostly 
private are at a disadvantage as they have yet to build out their 
ESG disclosures to the level of mature European ESG 
counterparties which is expected by the upcoming disclosure 
regulations. There will be a need for internal dialogue on 
prioritisation of resources, towards ESG disclosures, versus the 
path to profitability.

We have a strong commitment to transparency and to raising 
awareness about this deep divide between companies that 
have mature ESG disclosures to those that are starting on that 
journey.

Like many of our peers, we have reduced cost and headcount. 
The impact of these necessary actions weighs on our staff. While 
we find new ways of working and organising ourselves to be as 
efficient as we can be, the risk of unexpected operational issues 
and reduced morale from strained resources is currently 
heightened. This is amplified by a global shortage of talent, 
especially in technology. We are strongly committed to the 
wellbeing of our staff. By creating the right inclusive environment 
for them to thrive and feel recognised, and by offering 
competitive compensation, we aim to grow a stronger workforce 
and gear up for success.

Globally, we observe technology developments continuing to 
happen rapidly. We stay on top of these, such as in data and 
generative AI, to early identify any emerging risks and ensure 
responsible use of data and related technologies to keep our 
customers safe. Equally, we stay focused on opportunities to 
further develop and adopt tech advances to improve our 
products and services. Cyber and information security remain 
key aspects and focus areas.

Choosing the right opportunities and balancing risks continued

Financial 
performance

We accept risks responsibly, balancing risk for reward. Strategic risks we seek to understand and accept responsibly to realise 
a balanced return; internal operational risks we aim to control to the extent that we optimise our risk profile benefiting our 
tolerance; and external, non-controllable risks we aim to reduce and mitigate as far as economically sensible.

Responsible 
investments

In recent years, investors’ awareness of ESG issues, such as climate change, pushes them to invest in funds that benefit society 
and generate returns. The continued focus on ESG performance scores will mean businesses that do not meet certain 
ESG-based criteria will not attract investment.

Our capital-allocation disciplines underlying our investment strategy may not deliver the (above-average) sustainable return 
our investors seek for the risk they perceive. We may not find investment opportunities that fit our strategy and deliver an 
expected return above our cost of capital. Portfolio risk may prove higher than we assumed to accept, which could negatively 
impact the internal rate of return and lead to a decline in the valuation of Naspers.

Refer to the sustainability review to understand how we manage our performance on this material matter.

People Global shortage of high-calibre (digital) talent.

Employees are actively seeking employers that reflect a higher sense of purpose and they choose to be part of a company 
that contributes positively to society.

Non-compliance with applicable occupational health and safety, as well as labour and economic empowerment laws.

Refer to the people section to understand how we manage our performance on this material matter.

Digital 
inclusion

Digital inclusion is a global risk and prevalent in the countries in which we operate. As a global technology investor and 
operator, we are exposed to markets where information and communications technology (ICT) is slow to develop, and uptake 
as well, due to specific in-country constraints.

Refer to the digital inclusion section to understand how we manage our performance on this material matter.

 
Innovation Our strategy for digital services places particular focus on software-led innovation. Failure to properly protect and enforce our 

businesses’ IP rights against any unauthorised use or infringement by third parties may lead to loss of market share, revenue 
opportunities and reputation.

Refer to the innovation section to understand how we manage our performance on this material matter.

Business 
culture, ethics 
and integrity

Unethical behaviour in breach of our code of business ethics and conduct.

Loss of consumer trust, for example failing to deliver on our service promise, data security breaches, non-compliance and 
inferior product offerings.

A listed company is expected to demonstrate responsible business conduct in line with stakeholder expectations of its ability 
to impact and be impacted by material issues. Lack of transparency and information in the public domain on topics important 
to stakeholders can cause reputational damage.

Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the countries where we operate, specifically company law, data privacy, 
anti-bribery and anti-corruption, taxes and duties, licence conditions, consumer protection, anti-money-laundering and 
international sanctions.

Refer to the business culture, ethics and integrity section to understand how we manage our performance on this material 
matter.

Infringement of human rights contrary to the group’s human rights statement.

Refer to the upholding human rights section to understand how we manage our performance on this material matter.

Community 
investment

Perception of inaction on community investments for social impact can lead to reputational damage.

Refer to the community investment section to understand how we manage our performance on this material matter.

 
AI We are increasing our investments in online service platforms and data-driven technologies, which results in heightened risk of 

technology obsolescence or falling short in building AI/ML solutions for our service and product offering.

Refer to the artificial intelligence section to understand how we manage our performance on this material matter.

 
Cyber-
resilience

Our systems and the data they store are subject to various IT security threats, which target sensitive information, integrity and 
continuity of our services and the reputation of our businesses.

Ineffective response, including insufficient innovation, to meet our customers’ changing demands and consumption patterns.

Refer to the cyber-resilience section to understand how we manage our performance on this material matter.

 
Data privacy A failure in or breach of our operational or security systems or those of third parties with which we do business could disrupt 

our businesses, result in the disclosure or misuse of personal, confidential, or proprietary information, damage our reputation, 
increase our costs and cause losses.

Refer to the data privacy section to understand how we manage our performance on this material matter.

Climate 
action

Climate-related physical risks from operating in increasingly unpredictable and extreme weather conditions are specific to 
locations where we have an extended physical footprint of operations.

Climate-related transition risks such as emerging regulations and changing consumer preferences can have an impact on a 
company’s commercial performance.

Refer to the climate action section to understand how we manage our performance on this material matter.

Associated riskMaterial matters

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 4342 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



It is in our DNA to look for new opportunities, see the potential 
others are not seeing and then to do the hard work of 
building, bringing businesses to scale and profitability. This is 
the case for our Ecommerce portfolio, which houses our core 
growth segments: Food Delivery, Classifieds, Payments and 
Fintech, and Edtech.

As expected, FY23 marked the peak of our investment in 
ecommerce, with profitability and cash flow generation 
improving from this point. We are well on track to deliver our 
goal for aggregate profitability (illustrated below) during the 
first half of FY25. Our strong balance sheet and significant 
liquidity are key advantages in the current climate, 
underpinned by our disciplined approach to M&A and 
commitment to maintain our investment-grade rating.

Path to profitability

We have a long history of investing and building businesses, 
then crystallising value. 

With more to come

We have grown our business over the past three years.

Revenue (US$’000)1

Ecommerce Classifieds, excluding 
OLX Autos and Ukraine

Food Delivery Payments and Fintech B2C Edtech

0%
CAGR

33%
CAGR

16%
CAGR

64%
CAGR

23%
CAGR

New 
segment

March 2020● March 2023●

3.1

5.7

0.5

1.4

0.3
0.4

1.8

0.1

2.7

0.9

0.5

6

5

4

3

2

1

0

3.0

2.5

2.0

1.5

1.0

0.5

0.0

1 Results of majority-owned and managed businesses. This excludes results from associates and joint ventures. The segmental view excludes Movile, which is included 
in Ecommerce. Growth percentages represent three-year revenue compound annual growth rate (CAGR).

Significant progress since listing Prosus in 2019

Ecommerce scaling fast
Consolidated revenue CAGR loss of US$156m

Structural improvement
Doubled Prosus’ free float

Built valuable growth extensions
Continued investment of US$492m in high 
conviction growth areas in groceries, credit 
and Edtech

Enhanced disclosure
Financial and remuneration reports

Scaled core profitability
Core Classifieds, Food Delivery and Media are 
profitable, core Payments and Fintech is almost 
at breakeven

Strengthened shareholder engagement
Value creation, structural action, compensation, 
sustainability

Strengthened balance sheet
Issued US$10bn bonds at attractive rates, net 
cash position

Unlocked value for shareholders
US$20.6bn shares repurchased since 2020

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 4544 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



 »  PayU: Secure, tech-based banking services 
nationwide – convenience, personalisation, 
transparency, accessibility and ease of 
use.

 »  PayU aim: Holistic financial services 
provider for India. Vision: Market-leading 
digital financial ecosystem in India with 
a strong value proposition to merchants, 
consumers and banks.

Naspers offersIndia

Highlights
2023

   Population 

1.4 billion

   Unemployment rate 

7.8%
   GDP 

7%
   Inflation 

6.8%

 »  PayU connects consumers, merchants 
and banks: 

 »  PayU first to launch BNPL product  
with LazyPay.

 »  Compliant with new regulations: 
Customer protection and conduct, 
disclosure of key fact statement, 
customer education, product structuring, 
disclosures and processes.

India forecast to 
be the fastest-
growing economy 
in 2023

Merchants
Integrated payments platform for 
merchants across categories

Processed >two billion transactions 
in FY22

1

Consumers
Digital banking and credit for the 
Indian mass market

In India, we have built an ecosystem 
around merchants with the PayU 
payments solution, around consumers 
with LazyPay and PaySense, and 
around banks with Wibmo

2

Banks
Offering payment infrastructure for 
financial institutions 

Partnership with ~200 banks in India 
and expanding internationally

3Fintech market 

US$5tn to US$6tn

BNPL (buy-now/pay-later) 

35% >US$80bn

 Retail digital transactions 

28% CAGR
Smartphone penetration 

81%

2026* 

* Estimated.

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 4746 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Revenue2  

US$4.2bn 
(2022: US$3.0bn)

Trading loss2  

US$649m 
(2022: US$724m)

Operational performance

Food Delivery1

As economies of scale unfold, our Food Delivery portfolio 
companies delivered strong growth. Total gross merchandise 
value (GMV) grew 18% (27%) YoY, translating into US$4.2bn or 
40% (44%) growth in revenue2. This is over fivefold higher than 
revenue generated in FY20.

Given the growing importance of convenience in people’s 
daily lives, the food-delivery opportunity is proving broader 
than envisaged. Grocery delivery offers an appealing 
consumer experience and is a natural adjacency to core 
restaurant food delivery. The group is currently exploring 
various 1p and 3p models to enhance the unit economics 
of these businesses. The segment’s grocery-delivery and 
quick-commerce businesses grew GMV by 18% (14%). Our 
three main food-delivery portfolio companies, iFood, Delivery 
Hero and Swiggy, continue to capitalise on these trends by 
building grocery-delivery businesses on their existing 
platforms.

Two of our portfolio companies now run profitable core 
restaurant food-delivery businesses (iFood) or positive adjusted 
EBITDA (Delivery Hero, excluding Glovo). With an increased 
focus on profitability and scaling adjacencies, the segment’s 
trading losses improved from US$724m in FY22 to US$649m 
in FY23. We are confident that our food-delivery businesses 
will be significantly profitable and continue to offer long-term 
growth. Underscoring this confidence, we recently took full 
control of iFood for €1.5bn (about US$1.6bn) plus a contingent 
consideration of up to a maximum of €300m at a future date. 

The opportunity

We identified food delivery early as an attractive long-term 
investment for the group. Four key factors underpinned our 
confidence:

 » Large total addressable market (TAM): The revenue TAM 
for online food delivery is expected to double by 2026 
(US$95bn in 2021), while the category ‘global restaurant 
and grocery’ is projected to generate almost US$320bn in 
revenue by 2026. The online food-delivery portion 
will continue expanding on the back of secular tailwinds, 
including rising smartphone penetration, urbanisation, 
growing disposable incomes, and the shift to outsourcing 
everyday services. In addition, establishing our presence 
in ‘global restaurant and grocery’ gives us a competitive 
advantage (consumers, data and logistics) that unlocks 
adjacencies (eg logistics services, fintech, etail and more).

 » Low online penetration with room for growth: A tech-
enabled paradigm shift is underway in dining habits, as 
more and more meals are delivered rather than home-
cooked or consumed in restaurants.

 » Compelling user behaviour: Given high-frequency use 
patterns and the growing importance of convenience in 
daily lives, we have built strong relationships with 
consumers, knowing that the same consumer who orders 
restaurant delivery likely wants grocery delivery as well. 
At the same time, we have built great relationships with 
restaurants and merchants, enabling us to convert more 
consumers to online food and grocery delivery while serving 
the needs of restaurants and merchants more holistically 
through supply, fintech and logistics services.

 » Hyperlocal operations: While the online food-delivery 
market presents a massive opportunity globally, its form and 
pace of growth differ considerably across geographies. 
Regional markets develop at a locally dictated pace 
depending on cultural and structural differences as well as 
urbanisation dynamics that influence consumer demand. 
The impact and effects are hyperlocal and this fits Naspers’ 
philosophy of partnering with local entrepreneurs who 
deeply understand their markets. Our exposure to growth 
markets also gives us underlying tailwinds, as population 
growth and economic momentum drive the sector.

Expanding the food opportunity

Building a global leader in food delivery

A leading position in

57 markets

Covering

>70 countries

>US$10bn invested

Source: Company information – based on direct investments: Delivery Hero 
(56 markets), iFood (Brazil).

We are building a global leader in on-demand food delivery. 
We are present in more than 70 markets through three core 
platforms – iFood, Swiggy and Delivery Hero and several 
smaller investments in earlier-stage opportunities.

In November 2022, we bought out minority shareholders in 
iFood to make it a wholly owned subsidiary.

1 In presenting and discussing our performance, we use certain alternative performance measures not defined by IFRS, referred to as non-IFRS-EU financial measures, 
alternative performance measures or APMs. Such measures include economic-interest-basis information; trading profit; adjusted EBITDA; headline earnings; core 
headline earnings; and growth in local currency, excluding acquisitions and disposals. Segmental reviews in this report are prepared showing revenue on an 
economic-interest basis (which includes consolidated subsidiaries and a proportionate share of associated companies and joint ventures), unless otherwise stated.

 Numbers included in brackets represent the equivalent measure on the basis of growth in local currency, excluding acquisitions and disposals. For further explanation of 
the use of APMs, refer to about this report in the governance section. 

2 Presented on an economic-interest basis.

Key statistics
Free cash flow Number of employees

-US$141m
(FY22: -US$277m)

5 210  

Capital expenditure

-US$9m 
(FY22: -US$7m)

Stakeholder material matters
Employees: Career development, business 
performance 

Drivers:
Job opportunities
 » Looking after our drivers

Skills development
 » Education

Customers (restaurants):
Converting consumers to online food delivery
 » Economic growth

Consumers:
Additional and affordable convenience,  
eg grocery delivery
 » The opportunity – user experience

Strategic focus
Expand the total addressable market while 
increasing profitability. We are applying the 
successful full-service (1p) model to other verticals:
 » Unlock addressable market by developing 
capabilities for adjacencies

 » Drive higher engagement
 » Ability to reinvest profits
 » Improve unit economics

Risks
 » Differing pace of growth across geographies
 » Regulatory changes
 » Cyber-resilience

Value drivers
 » Increase order frequency through loyalty
 » Expansion to mass market
 » Organically grow monthly unique buyers
 » Additional adjacencies (quick commerce, logistics 
services, fintech and etail)

 » AI and data science
 » Managing costs and delivering efficiencies

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 4948 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Food Delivery continued

iFood

In FY23, Brazil’s rising inflation and unemployment rates 
created a challenging macroeconomic environment for iFood, 
affecting consumer confidence and reducing discretionary 
spending on dining out and food delivery. iFood grew revenue 
39% (35%) to BRL7.1bn (US$1.4bn), driven largely by shifting 
consumers to larger average basket sizes, an increase in 
monthly unique buyers, changes in pricing and the growth of 
the quick-commerce/grocery-delivery business. iFood’s orders 
increased 10% (7%) to over 832 million and GMV grew 27% 
(20%) to BRL48bn (US$9.4bn). Trading loss reduced by 
US$127m to US$79m (on an economic-interest basis), as 
increased scale led to improved margins in the core 
restaurant food-delivery business that is now profitable, which 
were partially offset by investment in the grocery marketplace, 
quick-commerce and fintech extensions. During the year, 
iFood’s trading loss margin improved by 15 percentage points.

Three-year snapshot of growth: 2020 to 2023

Trading loss reduced 68% to 

US$79m
Total number of orders for Brazil 

>832 million
Average order value as of March up 44% to 

BRL59

The significant overlap between customers of restaurant 
delivery and grocery delivery, coupled with operational 
synergies across these businesses, make grocery delivery 
a natural fit for the iFood ecosystem. The iFood grocery 
business has quickly become an important participant in 
Brazil’s significant US$55bn grocery industry (2022 Euromonitor 
estimate). In FY23, iFood’s grocery and quick-commerce 
businesses delivered over 43 million orders (+2% YoY) and 
BRL4.5bn (US$0.9bn) of GMV, +18% (+14%) YoY. Investment to 
realise this opportunity recognises the broader context and 
higher cost of capital, and is disciplined with a focus for a 
clear path to profitability. 

As the most-loved brand in Brazil, iFood also keenly understands 
the importance of earning its so-called licence to operate in 
the local social context. Aligned to its purpose to feed the 
future of the world, key initiatives underpinning the iFood 
approach are summarised alongside.

Playing an essential part in Brazilians’ 
everyday lives

iFood wants to play an increasingly essential part in 
Brazilians’ daily lives. To do so, in FY23, it focused on 
strengthening its ecosystem and increasing sustainability 
in education and the environment. Specific initiatives are 
summarised in the sustainability review.

More than

1 500 Brazilian cities covered

Around

75 million orders in March 2023, including 
restaurant and grocery

36% own-delivery orders

>330 000 merchant partners

10% iFood order growth

27 million 1p (logistics) business orders in 
March 2023 

Strengthening the iFood ecosystem

iFood continued adding new solutions and strengthening 
its ecosystem throughout FY23. Leveraging its existing and 
valuable assets, and layered in technology, it is possible to 
shorten the path to profitability of new businesses. Beyond 
scaling and consolidating its grocery-delivery and quick-
commerce businesses, iFood is building a fintech environment 
around its platform to expand its ecosystem, including meal 
vouchers and credit for restaurant partners.

 » Scaling grocery delivery and quick commerce: By year-end, 
iFood Brazil delivered over 43 million grocery orders from 
over 29 000 stores across nearly 900 cities, representing 
order growth of 2% YoY.

 » New financial service offerings gained traction:
 – iFood processed BRL872m of online payment revenue, 
while MovilePay processed 27% of iFood’s payouts.

 – Bank for restaurants (loans, credit card, insurance): Over 
BRL355m in assets under management, and more than 
3 700 loans issued.

 – Meal vouchers and multibenefit cards: Over 630 000 
cards issued covering more than 4 000 companies.

Swiggy3

Following a complete recovery post the initial impact of Covid-19 
in 2020, Swiggy’s core restaurant food-delivery business grew 
26% in GMV4 YoY in FY23. Its quick-commerce business, 
Instamart, continued to expand fast, generating GMV growth of 
459% YoY. In FY23, Swiggy also focused on its profitability 
journey, which is reflected in its financial performance.

In the past two reporting periods, Swiggy has concentrated 
on reactivating users, increasing monthly frequency and 
improving user conversion. The benefits are evident in its 
results for FY23, with over 272 000 enabled restaurants on its 
platform, 155% of pre-Covid-19 levels, and GMV of US$2.6bn.

Our share of Swiggy’s revenue was US$297m (FY22: US$212m), 
up 40% (73%) from the prior year, driven by higher average 
order values and higher revenues from delivery fees and 
advertising sales. Swiggy is expanding its Instamart business, 
which doubled the number of enabled stores on its platform 
in 2022. This resulted in accelerated growth in the groceries 
business, coupled with continued growth in the restaurant 
food-delivery business.

Swiggy is currently engaged in restaurant food-delivery, 
quick-commerce, concierge services (Genie) and other 
convenience offerings, serviced through its network of around 
374 000 delivery partners. In FY23, the company expanded 
into the dining-out space by acquiring Dineout, a leading 
dining and restaurant tech solutions platform in India, 
enhancing its portfolio of consumer convenience offerings. 
Swiggy has also launched an innovative subscription 
programme, Swiggy One, a multicategory loyalty programme 
across its restaurant food-delivery, quick-commerce, Dineout 
and concierge services.

Swiggy is well funded to capitalise on recent momentum and 
well positioned to improve its platform’s competitiveness by 
investing in product and technology.

Delivery Hero
As anticipated, Delivery Hero’s platform business (excluding 
Glovo) generated positive adjusted EBITDA in 2022. This 
continues the trend of strong YoY growth, organic investment 
in quick commerce and pursuing value-accretive M&A 
opportunities. For the year to 31 December 2022, Delivery 
Hero reported GMV of €44.6bn with 18% YoY growth.

Our share of Delivery Hero’s revenues and trading losses was 
US$2.4bn (2022: US$1.8bn) and US$267m (2022: US$343m) 
respectively.

3 All metrics to 31 December 2022, with a three-month lag in reporting basis.
4 GMV includes delivery fees.

By end-December 2022, Delivery Hero operated over 
1 137 Dmart stores (small Delivery Hero-owned warehouses in 
strategically relevant locations for quick-commerce delivery), 
catering to evolving customer needs with an increased focus 
on convenience and speed of delivery. The success of the 
Dmart concept among customers is reflected in seven 
best-in-class countries already being at breakeven at the 
beginning of 2022.

Looking forward

iFood, Swiggy and Delivery Hero – our core food-delivery 
assets – are leading businesses in their regions with 
plenty of room to grow, both in scale and in the breadth 
and depth of their ecosystems. We will continue to invest 
organically, while remaining focused on profitability, to 
improve the core restaurant food-delivery offering and 
expand the total opportunity by building scaled 
capabilities in quick commerce and grocery, and 
additional adjacencies in the food-delivery ecosystem.

We aim to play an ever-increasing part in leading the 
food-delivery revolution for consumers, restaurants and 
delivery partners around the world.

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 5150 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Operational performance

Classifieds1

Intensifying strategic focus
The OLX vision is to build leading marketplace ecosystems, 
enabled by tech, powered by trust, and loved by customers. 
By going beyond the traditional classifieds-ads model, OLX is 
supporting end-to-end-user journeys, and scaling businesses that 
leverage each other’s assets and strengths.

Operating metrics across our core Classifieds business3 remained 
stable, with 73 million active listings (FY22: 73 million), 45 million 
monthly active app users (FY22: 44 million) and 1.8 million paying 
listers (FY22: 1.8 million), despite a challenging year given the war 
in Ukraine, a shift in financial markets and a pronounced 
slowdown of the used-car market. OLX responded fast by 
intensifying its focus on customers and executing key projects for 
long-term value creation, while investing to improve efficiencies. 
The core classifieds business in OLX is profitable, cash flow 
positive and fast-growing.

Naspers divested its Russian online marketplace, Avito in 
October 2022 for proceeds of US$2.4bn.

More recently, OLX Autos, our adjacent autos transaction business, 
was affected by ongoing macroeconomic and market challenges, 
similar to listed peers. Higher cost of capital, high inflation and the 
reversal of pandemic trends led to a significant and persistent 
slowdown in the second-hand car market.

Accordingly, in March 2023, we announced the decision to exit the 
autos transaction business. We continue to explore strategic 
options, such as selling all or parts of the portfolio.

The operations of this business classified as held for sale and those 
that have been closed down by 31 March 2023 are presented as 
discontinued operations. The OLX Autos operations still included in 
continuing operations are those whose exit process has not been 
finalised by 31 March 2023. These are expected to be discontinued 
in FY24 as the group works through the process quickly and 
efficiently in the interests of all stakeholders.

While OLX Autos has built leading positions across many of its key 
markets, given its strong technology platforms and local focus, 
pursuing a global growth strategy is no longer the right approach 
for our shareholders.

Our core Classifieds business
The core classifieds business of OLX Group continued to deliver a 
strong performance in the financial year, with sustained growth 
and improved profitability. It is well placed for further growth and 
margin expansion.

Excluding the impact of the war in Ukraine, OLX Europe continued 
to deliver strong progress in FY23, recording 22% revenue growth 
on an economic-interest basis, and in local currency, excluding 
M&A. Trading profit grew by US$38m to US$83m on an economic-
interest basis, representing a margin improvement of 3% 
compared with last year. 

In the goods category, enhanced competitiveness improved 
performance, and our pay-and-ship service increased buyer 
adoption significantly while improving monetisation and the 
trading profit margin. In the jobs category, the launch of a 
candidate section and applicant-tracking system increased 
user engagement and monetisation in Poland.

In European autos, we increased revenue per insertion and 
number of monthly listers. We are also improving the car-parts 
user experience, leading to growth in insertions and listings 
on our dedicated autos platform in Poland.

In real estate, our redesigned commercial offering encouraged 
more professional sellers to select our bundled and value-added 
services. The teams also developed an innovative data-as-a-
service product – a suite of ML-enabled analytical tools for 
professional sellers. Average revenues per insertion grew, 
reflecting the appeal of the new commercial offering and 
new product features.

Trust and safety remain critical. A series of product improvements 
led to 835 000 fewer malicious views, and a reduction of around 
9% bad ads per month. We have also made significant progress 
in becoming compliant with the Digital Services Act that will 
become effective in Europe in February 2024. The aim of this act 
is to create a safer digital space where the fundamental rights of 
users are protected and to establish a level playing field for 
businesses.

Given prevailing macroeconomic conditions, we reduced our 
workforce by 15% in January 2023, creating a leaner organisation 
that can better compete in the global tech market. These measures 
stabilise our positioning for the future while accelerating our 
path to profitability as OLX Group.

Continuing to rebuild our Ukrainian business
The ongoing war in Ukraine is having a massive impact on 
its society and economy, including high inflation, currency 
devaluation, and a contraction of the economy. Despite this, our 
Ukrainian platforms and teams have demonstrated exceptional 

resilience. After an initial drop in all metrics in the early months 
of the war, the platform is recovering, with daily active users 
back to 94% of pre-war levels. 

Profitable growth and scaling new capabilities

1 In presenting and discussing our performance, we use certain alternative performance measures not defined by IFRS, referred to as non-IFRS-EU financial measures, 
alternative performance measures or APMs. Such measures include economic-interest-basis information; trading profit; adjusted EBITDA; headline earnings; core 
headline earnings; and growth in local currency, excluding acquisitions and disposals. Segmental reviews in this report are prepared showing revenue on an 
economic-interest basis (which includes consolidated subsidiaries and a proportionate share of associated companies and joint ventures), unless otherwise stated.

 Numbers included in brackets represent the equivalent measure on the basis of growth in local currency, excluding acquisitions and disposals. For further explanation of 
the use of APMs, refer to about this report in the governance section. 

2 Presented on an economic-interest basis.
3 Excluding OLX Autos markets.

Revenue2  

US$1.6bn 
(2022: US$1.3bn)

Trading loss2  

US$156m 
(2022: US$70m)

Key statistics
Free cash flow Number of employees

-US$314m
(FY22: -US$360m)

4 500

Capital expenditure

-US$24m
(FY22: -US$25m)

Stakeholder material matters
Employees: Job security, career development, 
and competitive benefits

Customers: Trust, safety and convenience

Strategic focus
 » Accelerate profitability to reach best-in-class 
industry margins

 » Leveraging services to capture monetisation 
upsides

 » Scaling pay-and-ship capabilities to enhance and 
expand goods category

 » Differentiating through category-specific user 
experience and services

 » Enabling faster innovation through technology 
and data

Risks
 » Macroeconomic trends in key markets
 » Rising inflation, higher interest rates affecting 
consumers’ disposable income – these 
particularly affect real estate and cars, but 
present an opportunity for used goods

Value drivers
 » Faster execution due to improvements in 
platforms and added services

 » Growing monetisation of pay-and-ship

Looking forward
Our focus for FY24 and beyond is to continue evolving 
as a leading classifieds player, enabling platform 
transactions and category-specific shopping experiences 
by executing a well-defined strategy:

 » Accelerating profitability to reach best-in-class industry 
margins: We have streamlined our portfolio to focus on 
core Classifieds, restructured our workforce and grew 
advertising revenue to drive higher margins.

 » Leveraging our services to capture monetisation upsides: 
We have invested in building and enhancing the 
products and services we offer to our customers in our 
key markets and categories. We will continue to 
monetise the increasing value we are delivering to our 
customers. 

 » Scaling pay-and-ship capabilities to defend and 
expand goods category: We continue to transform from 
a traditional classifieds model into a transactional 
marketplace, with best-in-class experiences focused on 
safety and convenience. In FY23, we scaled pay-and-
ship across our key markets and we are improving its 
economics.

 » Differentiating through category-specific user 
experience and services: Jobs and services have 
organically become sizable categories. We are adding 
value for our users by building more category-specific 
user experiences and services.

 » Enabling faster innovation through technology and data 
In coming years, we will continue to unify our products 
across categories to accelerate time to market, 
compete effectively and reduce the cost of technology.

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 5352 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Operational performance

Payments and Fintech1

The Payments and Fintech segment continued to benefit from 
the shift to digital payments. On a consolidated basis, the 
core PSP business and credit drove PayU’s revenue growth of 
32% (52%) to US$903m. The trading loss, on an economic-
interest basis, was US$83m (FY22: US$46m), at a negative 
margin of 9% (FY22: -7%) due to a once-off loss provision of 
US$23m. Excluding this provision, the PSP business remained 
profitable.

The core PSP business delivered revenue growth of 23% (43%) 
to US$790m, driven by transactions and total payments 
volume (TPV) growing 19% and 24% (39%) to 2.7 billion and 
US$98bn respectively. While both India and Global Payments 
Operations (GPO) grew revenue solidly, the core PSP business 
reported a trading loss of US$2m, mainly due to GPO’s 
once-off loss provision. Excluding this loss provision, the core 
PSP business generated a 3% trading margin, down from 4% in 
FY22, as GPO incurred higher merchant acquisition costs and 
invested in building new products.

India’s TPV grew 33% (44%) to US$58bn, driven by transactions 
growth of 25% to 1.4 billion. India is the largest market in our 
payments business and contributed 51% of the core PSP 
business’ revenues, up from 47% in FY22. India generated 
US$399m of revenue, which grew 31% (42%), driven by 
continued growth in enterprise and small and medium-sized 
businesses, and diversification into newer segments, including 
government merchants, omnichannel, and other non-MDR 
(merchant discount rate) products. Revenue growth and 
cost-saving initiatives led to a 78 basis point improvement in 
trading profit margin to 3%.

Currency translation impacted the GPO business, especially 
Turkey where hyperinflation continued. The GPO business grew 
transactions and TPV by 12% and 13% (32%) to 1.2 billion and 
US$39bn respectively, which drove revenue growth of 15% 
(44%) to US$393m. Growth of global merchants, especially in 
Turkey, was the main driver. Turkey, one of the largest markets 
in GPO, contributed 22% of GPO’s revenues, and grew 52% in 
US$ terms (154%). Increases in instalment sales and customer 
mix led to an improvement in take rate in Turkey. Higher 
merchant acquisition costs drove GPO’s gross profit margin 
lower. GPO has taken efforts to offset this increase through 
cost-optimisation efforts, including headcount rationalisation, 
the benefits of which will come through in the next financial 
year. PayU’s Indian credit business continued to scale, issuing 

Scaling credit in India

Key statistics
Free cash flow Number of employees

US$29m
(FY22: -US$66m)

3 447

Capital expenditure

-US$7m
(FY22: -US$10m)

Stakeholder material matters
Employees: Job security, career development and 
competitive benefits

Consumers: Trust and security

Strategic focus
 » Supporting India’s growth: Building a financial 
ecosystem around merchants, consumers and 
banks by accelerating the payments and 
credit offering

 » Focus on profitable growth in core payments and 
credit

Risks
 » Macroeconomic pressure, with rising inflation 
and interest rates

 » Increasing volume and complexity of regulatory 
requirement

 » Cybersecurity
 » Counterparty risks (increased credit portfolio)
 » Fraud over the platforms

Value drivers
 » Presence in high-growth payments markets
 » Diversifying revenue base in payments
 » Scaling consumer credit with a strong 
governance and risk management

 » Managing costs

US$742m in loans, which grew 47% and led to a loan book of 
US$256m at 31 March 2023. The core credit business grew 
revenue three times (three times) to US$83m, driven largely by 
growth in personal loans. The trading loss of US$10m 
represents a 63 percentage point improvement in margin to 
-12%, reflecting an improved loss rate of 2.5% from 3% in FY22. 
As a result of its closure, the India credit metrics exclude 
LazyCard. 

The largest Payments and Fintech investment in our associate 
portfolio, Remitly, grew its send volumes 40% to US$29bn in 
the year ended 31 December 2022. Our share of Remitly’s 
revenue and trading loss reported was US$147m, up 35% 
(43%), and US$27m, representing a negative margin of 18%.

The opportunity

Payments and Fintech is one of the fastest-growing segments 
worldwide, accelerated by the move online due to the 
pandemic. 

We identified three key trends in Payments and Fintech, which 
all play to our strengths:

 » Continued acceleration of digital payments, especially in 
India and Turkey.

 » Continued strong demand for credit in India.
 » Slowing funding for start-up ecosystems.

India is our largest market and the country recorded an increase 
of 58% YoY3 in total number of retail digital transactions in FY23, 
while payment volume rose 28%. The digital payments industry is 
forecast to grow at 28% between 2021 and 20264.

The credit growth outlook remains positive, with consumer 
credit poised to grow at 13%5 CAGR to FY26, partially due 
to growth in fintech lending, which is expected to account for 
6% of total consumer credit by FY26 (estimated) (growth at 
>50% CAGR).

Revenue2  

US$1.1bn 
(2022: US$796m)

Trading loss2  

US$116m 
(2022: US$60m)

1 In presenting and discussing our performance, we use certain alternative performance measures not defined by IFRS, referred to as non-IFRS-EU financial measures, 
alternative performance measures or APMs. Such measures include economic-interest-basis information; trading profit; adjusted EBITDA; headline earnings; core 
headline earnings; and growth in local currency, excluding acquisitions and disposals. Segmental reviews in this report are prepared showing revenue on an 
economic-interest basis (which includes consolidated subsidiaries and a proportionate share of associated companies and joint ventures), unless otherwise stated.

 Numbers included in brackets represent the equivalent measure on the basis of growth in local currency, excluding acquisitions and disposals. For further explanation of 
the use of APMs, refer to about this report in the governance section. 

2 Presented on an economic-interest basis.

3 Source: RBI Payment system indicators. Retail transactions, excluding cheque-based. As of March 2023.
4 Source: RBI and NPCI data, BCG and PhonePe analysis.
5 Sources: RBI; Ministry of MSME India; Accord; CRIF; Market participant interviews; Bain analysis.

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 5554 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Payments and Fintech continued

Strategic priorities

Supporting India’s growth

In India, we have built an ecosystem around merchants with 
the PayU payments solution, around consumers with LazyPay 
and PaySense, and around banks with Wibmo.

For merchants, PayU has built a diversified product suite 
offering value-added services beyond core payments for the 
different merchant segments. In FY23, we processed over 
US$58bn in total payments volume, up 33% (44%) on last year. 
Revenue from value-added services increased from 32% last 
year to 36% this year. PayU has been scaling partnerships with 

banks and other financial institutions through Wibmo. Wibmo 
was acquired in 2019 and has strengthened the PayU 
platform for both banks and merchants by providing payment 
authentication, merchant acquiring and risk management 
services. 

For consumers, PayU offers solutions for transactional credit to 
facilitate online commerce and cross-sells personal loans, 
successfully scaling the loan book. In FY23, originations 
expanded 47% and assets under management increased by 
112% over last year. This scale has been achieved on the back 
of effective capital and risk management.

Transaction credit drives cross-sell of other credit products and services

Discovery at a 
trusted merchant 

partner

Adoption through 
high-frequency 
transactional 

credit

Offering longer 
credit duration 
products like 

personal loans

Cross-sell other 
financial services

  In progress

Improvement in  
profitability driven by:

 »  Increasing scale

 » Diversification of sources of funds

 »  Leveraging data for optimising 
loss rate

 » Cost discipline

Revenue growth1

3x

Annualised loss rate of 
personal loans

6%

2.5%

Pre-Covid-19 FY23

1 Presented on an economic-interest basis.

India remains a highly attractive strategic market for PayU, 
given that it is expected to become the third-largest economy 
by nominal GDP within the next decade.

Focus on profitable growth in core payments 
and credit

In the past five years, total payment volume has increased 
approximately four times (five times), growing at a CAGR of 
31% (39%). The business processed US$98bn in payments 
volume in FY23. It has continued investing and building new 
opportunities such as credit in India. The credit business 
revenue has grown nine times since FY21, translating into a 
revenue CAGR of over 200%. This growth has been coupled 
with cost reductions, ensuring that the trading-loss margin 
continued to improve YoY and will deliver profitability in 
the coming year. 

Removing financial borders and enabling 
broader access

As one of the world’s top investors and a leader in payments 
and fintech in high-growth markets, we contribute to a more 
inclusive future for finance. By building customer-centric 
products and services, we enable sustainable prosperity in 
our markets and communities and broaden access to finance. 
This includes equipping merchants and their customers with 
the latest payments solutions.

Looking forward

We will continue to scale our fintech ecosystem across 
merchants, consumers and banks.

We are present in high-growth markets and we will 
continue to double down on India. India is forecast 
to record strong growth in both payments and credit, 
and PayU is well placed to benefit from this growth by 
maintaining its market position and improving profitability.

Sustainability is a key element of our positioning 
as a fintech leader in high-growth markets. Our ESG 
transformation roadmap is guided by our aspirational 
target to enable expanding circles of positive impact 
around PayU. While we have focused on the inner impact 
circles in FY23, we are building momentum to drive 
broader societal impact in the new year and beyond.

The future for Payments and Fintech is to become 
ever-more empowering, inclusive and sustainable, to build 
a world without financial borders where everybody can 
prosper.

We build an ecosystem around our platform

Merchants BanksConsumers
South Africa

Argentina
Chile

Brazil
Peru

Panama
Colombia

Singapore

India

Kenya

Nigeria

Poland

Czech Republic

Israel

Turkey

Romania

PayU: Giving access to two billion consumers

4  continents 

17  high-growth 
counties

US$98bn
processed payment 
volume, around 60% 
contributed by India

>300  payment 
methods

>130 banks

>15 licences

US$742m loan issuances in FY23

2.7 billion 
transactions 
(excluding Wibmo)

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 5756 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Operational performance

Edtech1

At the same time, the skills gap is growing, with the greatest 
talent shortage in technology. As digital disrupts traditional 
industries, the impetus for reskilling has never been higher. On 
the positive side, digital career paths open opportunities, and 
online learning is a truly effective way to level playing fields.

In response to these demands, the sector has to change. 
Technology has the potential to address these issues by 
democratising, digitising, curating and personalising 
education. We are still in the early days of an offline-to-online 
shift. Global online penetration for education was only around 
3% in 2019, but had doubled to 6% by 20227.

The broader education sector is projected to be a US$7.4tn 
global opportunity by 2025. Within that, the global edtech 
market is forecast to grow at 16% per year to some US$404bn 
by 2025. We have identified much room for further growth as 
the sector is transformed by technology.

Taking another big step forward
In FY22, Naspers invested more in edtech than in all previous 
years combined. To date, we have invested over US$3.8bn 
in 12 businesses to become one of the leading edtech 
investors globally.

In FY23, we continued to focus on workplace/higher education 
models as the different sectors have developed, and as we 
identified key competitive advantages in their economic models. 
Companies can play a massive role in creating a global culture 
of upskilling to address the talent shortage and demand for 
increased skills. This sector is therefore attractive for several 
reasons, including strong demand as companies reskill/upskill, 
high margins and predictability due to multiyear contracts.

 » Across workplace edtech, an evolution is also underway. 
From the early days of transactional once-off purchases, 
new learning platforms are forcing a tipping point of 
recurring learning and subscription-based monetisation 
as companies understand the importance of continuous/
lifelong development to improve performance and meet 
employees’ expectations.

We have built a significant presence in enterprise 
education, focused on the future of workplace learning. We 
reach more than 90% of Fortune 100 companies across our 
workplace-learning companies, including Stack Overflow, 
Skillsoft, GoodHabitz, Udemy, Platzi and eduMe. People 
look for lifelong learning and their job satisfaction depends 
on the skills, experiences and knowledge they gain. So, 
workplace learning is growing in importance and value, with 
revenue opportunities to match.

 » Our second priority is K–12 (kindergarten to grade 12) 
education. With the increasing accessibility and affordability 
of technology, edtech is playing a larger role – inside and 
outside the classroom. Edtech tools, such as learning 
management systems and educational software, are 
providing personalised and interactive learning experiences 
for students, leading to increased engagement and 
improved academic outcomes. Additionally, edtech is 
helping to bridge the digital divide by giving students 
access to resources and learning opportunities that may 
not otherwise have been available. Another trend evident 
across our K–12 portfolio is integration of the online and 
offline environments to improve students’ learning 
experiences.

Transforming education through technology

Edtech is a more nascent opportunity that is still building 
products and services to deliver an increasing need. 

The segment grew revenue (on an economic-interest basis) by 
28% (18%) to US$545m in FY234. Trading losses increased to 
US$258m from US$117m in the prior year.

Our portfolio was affected by the macroeconomic downturn 
which culminated in an environment where customers are 
focused on reducing costs. Portfolio companies reacted fast to 
changing market conditions and began to optimise cost structures 
and postpone accelerated investments.

Education remains a significant and high-potential sector, with 
compelling secular tailwinds such as emerging-market population 
growth, improving education levels worldwide, and workforce 
reskilling/upskilling on the back of digital economy 
transformation trends.

We identified the potential of edtech seven years ago (before 
the sector started gaining widespread popularity), investing in 
consumer-facing platforms like Udemy and Brainly that mirrored 
marketplace and social businesses we knew well. This enabled 
us to learn more about different business models and edtech 
platform economics to capitalise on the sector once companies 
started to scale.

Over the years, we have increased our conviction in the sector, 
acquiring Stack Overflow, and investing in Skillsoft, 
GoodHabitz, GoStudent, Eruditus and others (with a focus on 
workplace and higher education).

The opportunity
The education opportunity remains massive post pandemic, 
due to increasing demand for continuous learning and higher 
levels of education that traditional systems will not be able to 
fulfil as the global population grows. Between 2020 and 2050, 
there are expected to be 1.6 billion5 new learners due to 
population growth, increased education levels worldwide and 
the need for ever-faster upskilling.

Traditional brick-and-mortar education systems face several 
challenges, including spiralling costs, geographic constraints 
that hamper access to education, uneven quality of education 
staff and content, and rigid systems that cannot be 
personalised and customised.

These issues are especially pronounced in developing countries. 
Across Asia and Africa6, an additional 1.4 billion learners are 
projected by 2050. Economics and demographics alone mean 
the physical institutions and education products from the West 
cannot reasonably be scaled to serve global needs.

Workforce/higher education:

K–12 education:

1 In presenting and discussing our performance, we use certain alternative performance measures not defined by IFRS, referred to as non-IFRS-EU financial measures, 
alternative performance measures or APMs. Such measures include economic-interest-basis information; trading profit; adjusted EBITDA; headline earnings; core 
headline earnings; and growth in local currency, excluding acquisitions and disposals. Segmental reviews in this report are prepared showing revenue on an 
economic-interest basis (which includes consolidated subsidiaries and a proportionate share of associated companies and joint ventures), unless otherwise stated.

 Numbers included in brackets represent the equivalent measure on the basis of growth in local currency, excluding acquisitions and disposals. For further explanation of 
the use of APMs, refer to about this report in the governance section. 

2 Presented on an economic-interest basis.
3 Associates: Naspers or Prosus holds 10% to 50% with a board seat, meaning it has significant influence.
4 Excluding BYJU’S and Udemy for which we stopped equity accounting in September 2022.
5 Source: Global Projection, Medium SSP2 – IIASA.
6 Source: Wittgenstein Centre for Demography and Global Human Capital (2018).

Revenue2  

US$545m 
(2022: US$425m)

Trading loss2  

US$258m 
(2022: US$117m)

Key statistics
Free cash flow Number of employees

-US$132m
(FY22: -US$28m)

859

Capital expenditure

-US$24m
(FY22: -US$3m)

Stakeholder material matters
Employees: Talent retention. Employee wellbeing. 
Company culture

Regulators: Timeous reporting 

Investee/portfolio companies and associates3: 
ESG. Business performance. Efficient growth

Workers, learners, educators: Data privacy. 
Community development

Strategic focus
 » Workforce/higher education models
 » K–12 education

Risks
 » Macroeconomic downturn and higher 
interest rates

 » New forms of competition for existing edtech 
providers

 » Disruption from enhancements and increased 
availability of GenAI

 » Limitations in software development, research 
and product capabilities

Value drivers
 » Demand for continuous learning and higher 
levels of education

 » Demand for faster upskilling
 » Constraints facing traditional brick-and-mortar 
education systems 

7  Source: HolonIQ.

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 5958 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Edtech continued

We have built a strong presence in K–12, with Brainly now 
reaching around 250 million users a month, GoStudent 
serving customers in 23 countries, and BYJU’S quickly 
expanding its offerings. Our aim is clear – we want to be 
part of the foundational edtech of future generations.

 » While generative AI (GenAI) platforms may present 
competitive risk for some edtech companies, we believe the 
technology is a massive opportunity for transforming 
education and could be a real step-change for the sector. 
There are several opportunities for edtech platforms to 
leverage GenAI technology, including: highly personalised 
learning: customised content based on individual needs by 
analysing data and learning patterns to generate lessons, 
tests and materials that adapt to each learner’s level, style 
and pace.

 » Content creation: Automated generation of multimedia 
materials, including video, written or voice lessons, 
infographics, testing materials and more.

 » Assessment and feedback: Automated evaluation of a 
learner’s work and the ability to provide instant feedback, 
expediting the learning process.

 » Virtual mentors: Simulated virtual mentors that interact with 
learners, answering questions, providing explanations, and 
guiding learners through materials, creating a more 
personalised and immersive learning experience.

Many of our edtech companies, some in partnership with the 
Naspers AI team, have already launched or are soon 
deploying GenAI technologies on their platforms to enhance 
the learning experience for their users. For Stack Overflow 
specifically, we believe GenAI will be an important evolution 
in how developers will work and learn in the future, enabling 
them to be more efficient and better able to maintain their 
flow state. The developer community can play a crucial role in 
how AI accelerates, ultimately helping with the quality emerging 
from GenAI offerings. Stack Overflow’s role is harnessing the 
power of the developer community to the technological power 
of AI, all to generate highly trusted solutions to technology 
problems. Stack Overflow has devoted around 10% of the 
company’s workforce to catalyse around the development of 
its AI initiatives. It plans to officially announce its data 
monetisation plans and specific GenAI initiatives in the coming 
months.

In terms of cyber-resilience, our controlled assets are 
strengthening their capabilities by implementing new technology 
(such as a ransomware-resilience solution) and adding talent 
to their IT teams. The Naspers group support team assisted 
portfolio companies with IT risk assessments, ethical hacking 
projects, and business continuity initiatives.

Focusing on workplace learning

 

Stack Overflow
Naspers, through Prosus acquired Stack Overflow in FY22 for 
US$1.7bn. Since then, it has grown total bookings by 37% and 
annual recurring revenue nearly threefold.

Stack Overflow, one of the top 200 websites in the world, has 
built a global, highly engaged developer and technologist 
community over the past 14 years and now registers around 
680 million page views monthly.

Since acquisition, the business has contributed revenue and 
trading losses of US$94m and US$84m respectively, driven by 
growth in Stack Overflow for Teams, which enables 
organisations to build their own communities on top of the 
open platform. By March 2023, Stack Overflow for Teams had 
over 950 paying teams, generating annual recurring revenue 
of US$55m, and representing growth of 29% YoY.

Trading losses for the year increased, reflecting higher 
investment in engineering and product development initiatives, 
sales headcount and marketing programme expenses, and 
general and administrative costs associated with growing 
the business.

As at 31 March 2023, an impairment of US$560m was 
recognised on Stack Overflow. The prior-year impairment 
related to Stack Overflow as a result of increased discount 
rates in the value in use calculation for this investment.

GoodHabitz
In FY22, we invested US$258m for a 62% interest in 
GoodHabitz, a fast-growing European provider of online 
training for corporates and small and medium-sized 
enterprises.

GoodHabitz offers over 1 750 courses in over 13 languages to 
more than 2 650 enterprise customers. It continues to expand 
beyond its home market of the Netherlands, and is now 
operational in 13 European countries.

For the year, GoodHabitz contributed revenue of US$40m and 
a trading loss of US$16m to segment results, reflecting its 

investment to scale. GoodHabitz is focused on strengthening 
its European position via existing and new countries. In 
addition, there are investments in new countries outside 
Europe, focusing on Latin America, India and Australia. The 
business is now concentrating on revenue growth and 
operational scalability to become profitable.

Skillsoft
In FY22, we invested US$500m for 38% of Skillsoft, a global 
leader in digital workplace learning that listed on the New York 
Stock Exchange in mid-2021 (SKIL.N). In April 2022, Skillsoft 
acquired Codecademy, already an investment in our Edtech 
portfolio, to accelerate growth for both companies and 
strengthen technology and product development to drive 
incremental topline growth and value creation.

For the year to 31 January 2023, Skillsoft declined bookings 
6% and revenue by 4%. Its larger core content segment grew 
pro forma bookings by 5% and pro forma revenue by 5%. Its 
client base is centred on large, blue-chip enterprises, 
representing over 70% of Fortune 1000 companies and its 
services are used by almost 45 million learners globally 
across more than 160 countries.

As at 31 March 2023, Skillsoft was impaired to its market value 
due to the significant decline in share price over time.

More information on Skillsoft is available at 
https://investor.skillsoft.com.

Udemy
We first invested in Udemy in 2016. It listed on the Nasdaq 
Stock Market (UDMY) in October 2021.

Udemy is a global education marketplace for lifelong learners 
that gives over 59 million learners access to more than 
200 000 courses in 75 languages. The platform offers courses 
that can be accessed through the direct-to-consumer or 
Udemy Business offering, which had over 14 000 enterprise 
customers at 31 December 2022.

For its year ended 31 December 2022, Udemy reported strong 
revenue growth of 22% to US$629m with consumer revenue 
totalling US$315m, down 4%, and Udemy Business revenue 
reaching US$314m, up 68% on the prior year. Udemy Business 
contributed 50% to total revenue in the past 12 months compared 
with 36% a year ago. Following the loss of significant influence, 
the group stopped equity accounting for Udemy from 
September 2022.

More information on Udemy is available at  
https://investors.udemy.com.

Eruditus
Eruditus provides executive education and short, private, online 
courses globally, partnering with the world’s leading 
universities. The company makes high-quality education more 
accessible by offering over 800 programmes in partnership 
with 79 universities to a global audience covering the US, Latin 
America, Asia, the MENA region and Europe. We have 
invested US$187m in Eruditus since October 2020, with 
a current stake of 13%.

Platzi
Platzi is a coding platform for training (in Spanish and 
Portuguese) in tech skills, interpersonal skills and language 

training. It also hosts a vibrant community where learners 
network with peers who help them secure their next job or 
build a business with their new skills. Platzi has a content 
library of over 1 500 courses ranging from coding, web design 
and marketing to English. We invested US$50m in Platzi in late 
2021 and our current stake is 19%.

eduMe
eduMe is a mobile-based training platform for the deskless 
workforce, used by companies in over 60 countries worldwide 
to give their workforces seamless access to relevant knowledge. 
We invested US$12m in eduMe and our current stake is 13%.

SoloLearn
SoloLearn is an online learning platform for coding where 
over 60 million coders learn, create and share programming 
content with their peers. We have invested US$8m since 2018, 
with a current stake of 18%.

Focusing on K–12
Brainly
Brainly is one of the world’s leading social-learning platforms, 
serving around 350 million students, parents and teachers 
across the world. Students use Brainly to strengthen their skills 
in core subjects such as maths, history, science and social 
studies. The platform allows them to connect with their peers, 
subject-matter experts and professional educators to discuss 
subjects and seek answers to tricky questions. We first 
invested in Brainly in April 2016 and, to date, we have 
invested US$77m with a current stake of 42%.

GoStudent
GoStudent is an online tutoring provider. Founded in 2016, 
GoStudent serves customers in more than 20 countries, 
providing paid, one-on-one, video-based tutoring to primary, 
secondary and college-aged students in over 30 subjects. 
In March 2022, we invested US$226m in GoStudent for an 
8% stake.

BYJU’S
BYJU’S is a leader in personalised learning programmes for 
students in India and beyond, targeting students from kindergarten 
to grade 12 as well as those taking competitive exams.

We have invested US$536m in BYJU’S since 2018 and hold 
less than a 10% stake. The group lost significant influence in 
BYJU’S and stopped equity accounting for BYJU’S from 
September 2022.

Looking forward
We will continue to play an active role in helping our 
portfolio businesses grow and innovate so that more 
people around the world can enjoy the benefits of 
tech-enabled learning. We will also look for additional 
opportunities to expand and strengthen our Edtech 
segment.

In Edtech, as in all our core segments, we are interested 
in real improvement for people’s everyday lives, long-term 
impact, and sustainable value creation – fundamentally 
changing the world of learning for the better.

100 million monthly visits  
across the world

Around 680 million  
page views monthly

>14 000  
enterprise customers

Around 86 million learners  
across the world

>14 000  
enterprise customers

>62 million learners  
across the world

>2 650  
enterprise customers

800 programmes in partnership with  
79 universities

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 6160 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Operational performance

Etail – eMAG1

of the easybox delivery feature. Genius subscriptions reached 
517 000 (up 54%) and now accounts for nearly one third of 
eMAG’s sales in Romania (ie 35% of eMAG Romania’s GMV, 
and 37% of group GMV). eMAG Group’s easybox locker 
network has expanded to 3 805 lockers in Romania, 685 in 
Hungary and 241 in Bulgaria, increasing customers’ options 
for pickup and reducing delivery costs.

Tazz, eMAG’s food-delivery service, continues to scale and is 
now among the top participants in the highly competitive 
Romanian market. Freshful, which was launched in 2021, 
serves the underpenetrated and high-growth online grocery 
sector and is a natural extension of eMAG’s core etail 
business. By leveraging eMAG’s brand, purchasing scale and 
delivery capabilities, Freshful is well positioned to become 
a leading company in the grocery-delivery segment. In 2022, 
eMAG and PayU launched HeyBlu, which offers financial 
services to eMAG customers and allows a customer to defer 
payment for a purchase by 30 days or to pay in four 
instalments.

The opportunity

Total retail spending (offline and online) for Romania, Hungary 
and Bulgaria is projected to grow at a CAGR of 6% from 2022 
to 2026. Online penetration remains relatively low in these 
countries, ranging from 8% in Bulgaria to 11% in Romania in 
2022. As a result, ecommerce growth is expected to outpace 

retail’s total 6% growth rate and average 12% for Romania, 
15% for Hungary and 17% for Bulgaria from 2022 to 2026 (as 
per April 2023 Euromonitor report). These favourable macro 
trends will provide momentum for eMAG’s businesses over the 
long term3.

1 2
eMAG Genius
Loyalty programme

eMAG easybox
Automated lockers

3 4
Sameday

Inhouse courier service
Fulfilment by eMAG

Fulfilment for 3p merchants

5 6
Tazz by eMAG

Food and  
multivertical delivery

Fintech solutions
Consumer  

credit solutions

7 8
Advertising solutions

Sponsored  
merchant listings

Freshful by eMAG
Large-basket  

grocery delivery

eMAG offering

Building a leading ecommerce ecosystem for 
customers across Central and Eastern Europe

eMAG Group is our leading ecommerce platform in Central 
and Eastern Europe. Over the years, it has built an ecosystem 
of complementary businesses on top of its vibrant eMAG 
Romania platform. From this 1p/3p (first-party/third-party) 
business-to-consumer or B2C core, eMAG extended into other 
categories:

 » Fashion through Fashion Days.
 » Food delivery through Tazz.
 » Grocery delivery through Freshful.
 » Logistics infrastructure across the group through Sameday.
 » eMAG’s Genius loyalty programme that unites the customer 
experiences of these businesses.

The Etail business recorded explosive growth in the pandemic’s 
early stages as consumers stayed at home with limited offline 
options. Post the pandemic in 2022, growth slowed due to 
geopolitical and economic uncertainty sparked by Russia’s 
invasion of Ukraine, and a post-pandemic partial return of 
consumers to their offline shopping habits. At a macro level, 
rising inflation, increasing energy prices, higher interest rates 
and recessionary fears weighed on consumer confidence. For 
etail businesses, these headwinds were compounded by 
aggressive competition from offline competitors, as well as 
over and understocking positions on the back of supply-chain 
disruptions. As a result, GMV is -13% YoY (computed on 
US$ translated amounts, and flat when computed in local 
currency) and revenue is down by -14% (-4% in local currency) 
to US$2.0bn. eMAG’s core etail business delivered a trading 
loss of US$15m for the period (FY22: profit of US$13m).

eMAG continues to react to changed market conditions – scaling 
back investments, focusing on profitability and maintaining a 
compelling value proposition for its customers. The company 
has reduced capacity to meet lower growth expectations and 
slowed investment in new adjacencies. A key element of 
eMAG’s response to changes in the market was its shift in 
focus from 1p to 3p.

eMAG further adapted to the new context by becoming an 
affordable alternative to offline stores through its wide range 
of products, promotions/discounts, free delivery and flexible 
payments.

Over recent years, eMAG has made strategic investments in 
productivity and efficiency in the core business: Genius, the 
loyalty programme, continues to build a strong base of 
customers, and marketplace has recorded excellent growth 
due to broader product selection and increasing availability 

1 In presenting and discussing our performance, we use certain alternative performance measures not defined by IFRS, referred to as non-IFRS-EU financial measures, 
alternative performance measures or APMs. Such measures include economic-interest-basis information; trading profit; adjusted EBITDA; headline earnings; core 
headline earnings; and growth in local currency, excluding acquisitions and disposals. Segmental reviews in this report are prepared showing revenue on an 
economic-interest basis (which includes consolidated subsidiaries and a proportionate share of associated companies and joint ventures), unless otherwise stated.

 Numbers included in brackets represent the equivalent measure on the basis of growth in local currency, excluding acquisitions and disposals. For further explanation of 
the use of APMs, refer to about this report in the governance section. 

2 Presented on an economic-interest basis.

Revenue2  

US$2.0bn 
(2022: US$2.3bn)

Trading loss2  

US$63m 
(2022: US$35m)

Key statistics
Free cash flow Number of employees

-US$170m
(FY22: -US$184m)

7 698

Capital expenditure

-US$142m
(FY22: -US$147m)

Stakeholder material matters
Employees: Job opportunities. Skills development. 
Company culture

Regulators: Compliance across all regulatory 
areas (fiscal, financial, environment and 
competition)

Merchants: Growth and cross-border initiatives 

Consumers: User experience. Range of products. 
Quality, efficiency and reliable service at the right 
price

Strategic focus
 » Growth by focusing on categories that align with 
3p market potential 

 » Improvements in time in stock, selling tools, 
pricing and selection gap

 » Accelerating core etail services: Genius and 
Wallet 

 » Focus on profitability through improved margins 

Risks
 » Macroeconomic downturn and higher interest 
rates 

 » Competition from specialists in verticals  
 » Geopolitical and economic uncertainty sparked 
by the Russia–Ukraine conflict

Value drivers
 » Enhanced value, convenience and pricing with 
Genius loyalty programme for frequent users

 » Affordability through HeyBlu wallet 
 » Wider selection from growth in marketplace 
offering

 » Convenience/delivery experience through 
showrooms and locker network

3 Source: Euromonitor, E-commerce (goods) as % retailing, YoY exchange rates.

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 6362 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Etail – eMAG continued

eMAG is focused on maintaining its status as a Central and 
Eastern European preferred one-stop ecommerce platform. In 
addition to its established ecosystem, it operates PC Garage 
(specialised online retailer focused on gamers); Depanero 
(repairs appliances and electronic devices); Conversion 
Marketing (performance marketing); and Flip (refurbishes 
and sells second-hand mobile phones).

Giving customers the best etail experience

To fulfil its mission of giving customers the best etail 
experience, eMAG focuses on four key pillars: enhancing 
convenience; helping customers make the right decisions; 
delivering on its promise; and making the difference in society 
while engaging customers on this journey.

Integral to reaching its goals is increasing customer 
engagement. The largest business, eMAG Romania, increased 
orders 4% YoY. While purchases of higher-priced items were 
lower in the face of economic uncertainty, engagement on the 
platform continued to increase. This is a key positive long-term 
trend for eMAG, given its commitment to play an ever-bigger 
role in meeting people’s everyday needs across Central and 
Eastern Europe.

Key strategic initiatives supporting this commitment are 
summarised below:

Growing Genius

The Genius premium subscription service has proved its 
appeal with customers, growing to 517 000 subscriptions from 
197 000 at September 2021. Genius subscribers double their 
business with eMAG after joining and buying more broadly. 
This aligns well with eMAG’s long-term ambitions. After 
launching as ‘a subscription for free delivery’, Genius has 
evolved into ‘an end-to-end effortless shopping experience’. 
Genius members enjoy free home delivery for orders above 
RON100, free delivery via lockers for orders above RON30, 
free returns and exclusive Genius deals on eMAG, Fashion 
Days, Tazz and Freshful.

Growing Sameday

eMAG Group continued to strengthen its Sameday courier 
business, which aims for a 99% on-time delivery rate. In FY23, 
Sameday grew revenue 19%, meeting increased demand for 
deliveries from eMAG and other businesses in Romania and 
Hungary. Sameday has grown rapidly to consolidate its 
important presence in Romania, strengthened its operations in 
Hungary and launched in Bulgaria.

Expanding the easybox network

The popularity of Sameday’s automated easybox lockers 
continues to grow – 81% of Genius orders are delivered 
via easybox, for example. These lockers give customers 
24/7 service, pickup flexibility and over 99% on-time delivery 
rates. They are also cost-effective to operate and more 
environmentally friendly as they reduce the need to deliver 
to multiple individual addresses.

Sameday continued to expand the easybox network in 
Romania, from 2 500 to 3 805 lockers by the end of FY23, with 
over 60% of eMAG orders in Romania delivered via easybox. 
The easybox network in Hungary grew to 685 lockers and the 
first 241 lockers were installed in Bulgaria.

The easybox service has also been enhanced for added 
customer convenience. For example, customers can return 
items when it suits them via the lockers, with an instant 
electronic refund once they close the door. Called ‘magic 
return’, this method is quicker, safer and greener – and a 
good example of improving everyday life.

In addition, 37 lockers now have their own solar panels – 
making the service even more environmentally friendly. The 
plan is to roll out more solar-powered lockers.

Fulfilling orders for third-party partners

The company continues to invest in and grow its Fulfilment 
by eMAG programme, where it manages delivery logistics for 
3p partners. This enables eMAG to ensure delivery quality 
for customers and deepen relationships with merchants.

Added convenience from food delivery

eMAG’s Tazz food-delivery service has quickly become one 
of the top participants in the highly competitive Romanian 
market, growing orders 15% from a year ago. Capitalising on 
significant investments to build the brand and customer base, 
Tazz is now focused on expanding to new cities and 
integrating into eMAG’s Genius programme. GMV generated 
from Genius represents 43% of Tazz’s total GMV and Genius 
customers are becoming more relevant, with higher frequency 
of orders and larger baskets. eMAG plans to extend this 
service further in FY24.

Added value from grocery delivery

Freshful, operating for over a year, enjoyed rapid adoption 
due to a generous line-up of items, including small local 
producers and distinctive delivery service. It now offers 
a comprehensive range of 16 700 items, focused on local 
produce for truly fresh food. Setting it apart in the market, 
Freshful has a dedicated warehouse and refrigerated delivery 
fleet to ensure customers get exactly what they want, quickly 
and conveniently.

From 33 000 orders per month by end-FY22, Freshful grew to 
75 600 monthly orders delivered in March FY23. High 
customer satisfaction reflects the range and quality of 
groceries on offer, coupled with the reliable ordering and 
delivery service. Available initially in Bucharest, and now in 
one more city, eMAG plans to expand Freshful city by city, 
leveraging the eMAG brand, purchasing scale and delivery 
capabilities.

Expanding to financial services

eMAG’s partnership with PayU via HeyBlu offers customers 
convenient and flexible financial services, available for all 
categories of eMAG products or those from sellers active 
on eMAG marketplace. Options include:

 » Buy-now/pay-later (BNPL), where the shopper postpones 
payment for 30 days without any costs.

 » Payment in equal monthly instalments, with the first paid at 
transaction date and the balance over ensuing calendar 
months.

These services are being piloted in Romania and reflect 
eMAG’s commitment to developing ecommerce infrastructure 
services to offer customers a high-quality, reliable experience 
across the ecosystem – one that truly delivers value and 
improves their everyday lives.

Promoting a circular economy

eMAG’s mission to bring complementary businesses into 
the ecosystem and promote a circular-economy model is 
illustrated by its investments. Flip, the Romanian start-up that 
refurbishes and resells second-hand mobile phones, also 
prevents significant quantities of electronic devices from 
ending up in landfills. In FY23, Flip expanded into Bulgaria 
and Hungary, and increased sales significantly to US$39.5m 
GMV (full P&L, of which US$20m relates to eMAG Group).

Additionally, eMAG encourages its customers to select 
returned and resealed ‘second-chance’ products, it offers a 
buyback programme for used home appliances in exchange 
for a voucher towards buying a new appliance (and eMAG 
collects the old appliance for free), and Depanero offers 
repair services for appliances and electronic devices.

In FY23, Depanero repaired 317 000 products across 
Romania, Bulgaria and Hungary; and sales of resealed 
products on eMAG’s platform increased by 48%. These 
examples illustrate how eMAG acts for the benefit of 
customers and the environment by extending the life cycle 
of products offered on its platforms.

Looking forward

eMAG will continue to grow by extending the Genius 
loyalty programme, expanding financial services, rolling 
out more easybox lockers, repairing more products, 
increasing the delivery of food and groceries, and doing 
more to support the circular economy. Building on its 
mission to give customers across Central and Eastern 
Europe the best retail experience, the group is set to 
broaden and deepen this experience and provide it in 
ever-more sustainable ways.

Maintained scale, representing revenue of 

US$1.95bn

517 000 Genius subscribers

>4 700 lockers throughout  
Romania, Bulgaria and Hungary

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 6564 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Operational performance

Etail – Takealot group

fuel costs, higher levels of inflation, staged loadshedding, 
supply-chain disruptions and rising interest rates. Higher prices 
have produced a cost-of-living squeeze for customers with 
lower customer confidence.

The pandemic accelerated the longer-term momentum behind 
ecommerce in South Africa and there is still room for further 
growth. Despite a reversion in consumer behaviour towards 
malls and stores from 2022, and poor overall consumer 
demand, the underlying shift from offline to online retail is 
expected to continue. The total ecommerce market in South 
Africa is projected to grow from R49bn in 2023 to some R73bn 
in 2025, which will represent a 4.8% penetration of total retail. 
This is well below many other countries – from China to Brazil 
– and highlights the vast potential for South Africa and the 
Takealot group.

Contributing to the country
Over the past 12 years, Takealot has become part of 
the everyday lives of many people across South Africa as 
the preferred source for quick, easy, reliable ways to buy 
items, order food, and more. Takealot stands out for having 
made these services as widely available as possible – 
notably by offering them in informal settlements from the start. 
Equitable access and availability have always been a core 
Takealot principle.

Importantly, Takealot has contributed to job creation and 
economic prosperity. Over 70% of employees are under the 
age of 35. This makes Takealot a significant contributor to 
creating job opportunities for young people in South Africa, 
where the youth unemployment rate is currently over 45%.

In addition, Takealot.com has focused on encouraging 
as many sellers as possible onto its platform and helped 
them make the most of the platform. In FY23, there were 

9 866 active sellers, up from 310 nine years ago. Many of 
these are small to medium local businesses, which in turn are 
creating more jobs and generating more economic activity. 
If we consider the multiplier effect of these jobs created – for 
example, if every seller on average has three or four people 
working for them – the resultant job creation is significant. 
Another example is the growth in drivers over the years, from 
around 400 in 2011 to close to 16 000 in FY23. The pool of 
franchisees has grown too.

Through Takealot’s ecosystem, more people and more 
businesses benefit; as Takealot grows, so does the positive 
impact on South Africa’s economy and society.

Looking forward
Takealot is investigating opportunities and new ways to 
expand the platform and services and increase 
investment in its logistics and supply-chain infrastructure, 
so everyone involved can gain.

The group has embarked on a major programme to 
upgrade much of its platform, to ensure the business can 
easily handle continued growth and expanding services. 
The objective is to produce a business that is more 
resilient and more flexible – one that can scale quickly 
and effectively, and in new ways, to meet the needs of 
customers and partners.

The group will also continue to look for more ways 
to support all the participants in its ecosystem. This 
includes exploring ways to help more new businesses 
participate and succeed. The aim, as ever, is to enable 
as many people and businesses as possible across South 
Africa to benefit from Takealot.

Saving customers time and money, enabling 
businesses and creating opportunities across 
South Africa

The Takealot group grew GMV 13% (FY22: 34%) and revenue 
12% (FY22: 27%), both on a local-currency basis, excluding 
M&A, despite tough market conditions. Trading losses, 
however, increased to US$22m.

Takealot.com successfully navigated the challenges of global 
supply-chain constraints across multiple categories, especially 
consumer electronics. It delivered revenue growth of 11% (in 
local currency) for the year.

Despite increased competitive pressure from offline retailers, 
Superbalist delivered strong revenue growth of 11% (in local 
currency), but aggressive pricing from brick-and-mortar 
retailers and discounts to clear ageing stock squeezed 
margins and resulted in higher trading losses.

In FY23, Mr D faced softening demand for delivered meals 
as consumers were impacted by high food price inflation and 
a return to pre-Covid-19 behaviour patterns for in-person 
dining at restaurants. In addition, the supply of delivered 
meals contracted as electricity loadshedding restricted 
restaurant hours of operation. Competition intensified as well, 
with more restaurants starting to make their own deliveries. 
Despite this, the business grew orders and grew GMV by 8% 
(11% including groceries).

The return to pre-Covid-19 shopping behaviours and a 
challenging macro environment put some strain on the financial 
performance of the Takealot group in FY23. Rising inflation, 
increasing energy cost, lower consumer confidence and 
increased operational costs from staged loadshedding across 
South Africa created an unfavourable business context. On the 
positive side, all businesses continue to deliver growth versus 
the previous financial year, and the Takealot group increased its 
share of transactions among retailers in South Africa.

To deal with the prevailing challenges, the Takealot group 
scaled back investments and hiring to focus on maintaining 
its customer value proposition while optimising the capital 
and operating expense base. New customer value 
propositions were implemented, including the rollout 
of same and next-day delivery, as well as new offerings, 
such as the grocery-delivery service. The company expects 
further growth of its marketplace segment, offering sellers 
a compelling platform while extending and deepening the 
product selection for customers. Takealot also supports new 
sellers through its onboarding process, coaching them on how 
to grow their business.

The opportunity
The South African economy continues to recover from the 
effects of the pandemic, albeit more slowly than expected, 
with GDP growth forecast by National Treasury at 0.9% 
in 2023. Employment growth picked up in the second half 
of the 2022 calendar year, but the labour market remains 
challenging. In parallel, the trading environment faced rising 

Revenue1  

US$808m 
(2022: US$827m)

Trading loss1  

US$22m 
(2022: US$7m)

The Takealot group is a leading ecommerce company in 
South Africa, with three major businesses:

 » Takealot.com: A general online retail and marketplace platform.
 » Superbalist: Leading online apparel and footwear retailer, 
focused primarily on young consumers (18 to 30 years)

 » Mr D: A first-party (1p) food-delivery marketplace. In FY23, 
Mr D entered the online grocery market in collaboration with 
Pick n Pay, one of the country’s biggest offline grocery chains.

Key statistics
Free cash flow Number of employees

-US$51m 
(FY22: -US$64m)

2 668 

Capital expenditure

-US$31m
(FY22: -US$24m) 

Stakeholder material matters
Employees: Job opportunities and skills development, 
increased diversity across workforce 

Regulators: Changing regulatory environment. Building 
relationships and transparency with regulatory bodies 
within trading environment

Merchants: Adoption of merchants onto the platform

Consumers: Providing value, affordability, selection and 
convenience 

Strategic focus
 » Increasing profitability while continuing GMV growth
 » Advanced supply chain and logistics capabilities
 » Sustainable retail provider

Risks
 » Macroeconomic downturn and high interest rates 
leading to decreased consumer disposable income

 » High inflation, particularly fuel and energy costs, as 
well as nationwide staged electricity loadshedding 
increasing the cost of doing business

 » Online penetration of ecommerce compared to total 
retail market

Value drivers
 » Expanding of delivery options
 » Entry to new verticals, such as grocery delivery
 » Dedicated coaching and support for marketplace 
sellers

1 Presented on an economic-interest basis.

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 6766 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Operational performance

Other ecommerce: Ventures1

In FY23, we invested and committed over US$200m in more 
than 30 closed transactions. We will continue to invest in 
market disruptors, the next generation of tech-enabled industry 
titans, those being founded and funded now. In line with our 
momentum over recent years, we will expand investments 
across ecommerce, AI, fintech, mobility and logistics, agtech 
and sustainability, B2B and blockchain, in addition to software 
as a service (SaaS) and other frontier tech.

Our geographic focus will remain consistent with previous 
years as we have grown our investments and leadership in 
India, as well as our presence in south-east Asia, Europe and 
the Americas.

We will continue to invest in the new year, as we expect more 
opportunities ahead. Despite market conditions, it is an 
exciting time for new frontier technology, and we look forward 
to uncovering the next wave of entrepreneurs with high 
potential and the ambition to scale.

What we look for

Ventures follows the group approach by investing in a 
disciplined, focused way. We look for three key criteria:

 » We back businesses with large total addressable markets 
(TAMs) that meet big societal needs in high-growth regions, 
and where we can really make an impact as an investor.

 » We focus on sectors of the economy where technology can 
lead to meaningful change in consumer behaviour and 
economics.

 » We invest in world-class entrepreneurs who want to build 
leading technology companies.

Geographic focus

India

India remains a high-focus area, given the vast opportunity for 
growth in the market across a number of sectors, and the 
competitive edge we have built as an investor over the years. 
India is one of the few countries where the demographic 
dividend is still to play out. In the next decade, there will be 
more people of earning age than those who need to be 
supported. In addition, this large workforce is skilled in 
technology and has global exposure. India has a large and 
vibrant local economy that has emerged as the fastest-
growing major economy in the world, as well as the most 
populous. With a large domestic market that is relatively 
less-exposed to international trade flows, India’s economy is 
well positioned to weather global spillovers compared to most 
other emerging markets. Several of our companies have 
joined the ranks of Indian unicorns.

New markets

In the past three years, we have invested in a number of new 
markets where we have identified strong growth opportunities. 
We have significantly expanded our presence in areas such 
as south-east Asia, Europe and the Americas.

Sectoral focus

Mobility and logistics

The logistics industry is growing in tandem with growth in 
ecommerce as rapidly changing consumer expectations and 
trends during the pandemic become entrenched behaviours. 
This includes a surge in last-mile and same-day deliveries.

AI

Start-ups using AI are making better data-driven decisions, 
automating tasks and more to unlock new competitive 
advantages. In line with our focus to invest in frontier tech, we 
expect more innovation in this space, and it will remain to be 
a growing focus area in future.

Agtech and sustainability

Agtech and sustainability are increasingly important areas. 
As climate regulation remains top of the global agenda and 
consumers become more climate conscious, we expect more 
growth, innovation and adoption in this field. We have several 
investments in the alternative proteins sector that prioritise 
reduced environmental impact, as well as companies bringing 
efficiency to farming, and crop production and the fisheries 
sector.

Deep-tech

Deep-tech innovation is solving some of the world’s most 
significant problems, while advancing humankind. These are 
companies that focus on novel breakthroughs and deep 
intellectual property or IP. Recently, we made our first 
investment in this category. Oxford Ionics is a high-
performance quantum computing company delivering unique 
innovations to create powerful, accurate and reliable quantum 
computers to solve the world’s most critical problems.

Looking forward

We expect the 2023 calendar year to be a key period for 
many of our portfolio companies and we will continue to 
support our exceptional founders and companies while 
remaining an active investor. As we are flexible investors 
per our investment thesis and invest when we see an 
opportunity, this enables us to invest in ideas and 
companies that will be part of the next wave of growth 
for Naspers and high-growth sectors all over the world. 

Identifying and investing in the next wave of 
group growth

Evolving market

Recent years have been transformational for Naspers Ventures 
in many respects. While the world has become increasingly 
volatile, we are confident about our operating structure. The 
key is that, like the wider group, we invest in businesses that 
are solving big societal needs with technology, in a uniquely 
local way.

As a long-term investor, we expect fluctuations in the market. 
We have experienced this before, as Naspers has invested 
over decades across a number of high-growth sectors and 
geographies. Equally, as both operator and investor, we have 
weathered the impact of previous periods of economic 
instability.

We believe there are still opportunities to invest in quality 
companies and many will emerge from the downturn as 
stronger, more sustainable businesses.

When evaluating new investments, the bar was indeed higher 
this year given the level of uncertainty in the market. While this 
may result in a lower quantum of dollars deployed, we 
continue to prioritise our earlier-stage investing, and, as a 
business, we are hyper-focused on our criteria across 
industries and geographies.

Additionally, we have an even greater focus on our existing 
portfolio and will prioritise investments in these companies, 
helping our founders and their teams to weather 
macroeconomic impacts. Several of our founders are facing 
adverse market conditions for the first time, and we continue 
to advise them based on what makes sense for their stage 
of development.

Naspers is a truly global investor, operating in over 100 
countries. This deep understanding of international markets 
enables us to offer a global perspective on macroeconomic 
conditions, backed by a level of local expertise, which 
becomes an added layer of support for our founders and 
companies.

Nurturing the next wave of growth

Naspers Ventures partners with innovative entrepreneurs 
around the world to build leading technology companies in 
high-growth markets. We act as the group’s incubator for new 
investment areas. This will remain unchanged as we continue 
to believe in our underlying thesis, zeroing in on sectors of the 
economy where technology can lead to meaningful change in 
consumer and business behaviour and economics.

Ventures

Covers
>80 000 villages across  

26 states in India

>400 brands on the platform 
receive access to +250 000 

kirana shops

60 markets across Mexico, 
Colombia, Chile and Peru

Handles >15 million packages per 
year

>35 000 SMEs

>1 000 enterprise clients

>320 000m2 warehouse 
space across 35 cities

Delivers to
>100 cities

>200t fruit processed daily

>25 000 farmers in supplier network

>250 production pockets across the 
country

India’s third-largest 
online marketplace by GMV

3 million average 
daily orders

>100 million 
product listings

140 million 
annual transactors

85% repeat users

275 million downloads 
in 2022, making it the 

most-downloaded shopping 
app globally for two 

consecutive years

>1.1 million sellers on the 
platform in seven years

60% of 500 000 suppliers 
onboarded in 2022 were new 

to ecommerce

Serves
>1.8 million farmers providing 

access to >4 000 agricultural inputs

Vast network of 11 000 DeHaat 
centres across  

11 Indian states

Robust last-mile supply chain in 
>110 000 villages across  

>150 districts of India

Onboarded >2 000 agribusiness 
institutions (input manufacturers, FMCG 

companies, banks, output exporters 
and insurance partners) on its platform 

for direct access to farmers

>10 000 connected  
data sources

>800TB data processed  
per month

>700 000 actionable 
insights served to improve 

safety and productivity

Deployments in 13 countries

Deployment support extended 
to 25 geographical regions

40 000 registered fisherfolk

Operates in 177 locations in 
31 provinces in Indonesia  

(90% of the country)

7 000 job opportunities in rural  
areas of Indonesia

1 In presenting and discussing our performance, we use certain alternative performance measures not defined by IFRS, referred to as non-IFRS-EU financial measures, 
alternative performance measures or APMs. Such measures include economic-interest-basis information; trading profit; adjusted EBITDA; headline earnings; core 
headline earnings; and growth in local currency, excluding acquisitions and disposals. Segmental reviews in this report are prepared showing revenue on an 
economic-interest basis (which includes consolidated subsidiaries and a proportionate share of associated companies and joint ventures), unless otherwise stated.

 Numbers included in brackets represent the equivalent measure on the basis of growth in local currency, excluding acquisitions and disposals. For further explanation of 
the use of APMs, refer to about this report in the governance section. 

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 6968 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Operational performance

Social and internet platforms1

Tencent
Tencent weathered a challenging 2022 with resilience, 
supported by its diversified portfolio of products, businesses 
and investments. For the year ended 31 December 2022, 
revenue declined 1% to RMB555bn. Non-IFRS profit attributable 
to shareholders (Tencent’s measure of normalised 
performance) declined 7% to RMB116bn.

The opportunity

China recorded 3% annual GDP growth in 2022 amid Covid-19 
lockdowns, global concerns about prolonged inflation and 
increased geopolitical tensions. The Chinese government 
relaxed pandemic restrictions at the end of 2022 and 
reopened borders in January 2023. The World Bank forecasts 
that China’s economy will grow by 4.3% in 2023, and 5% in 
2024. China is the world’s largest consumer internet market 
and continues to grow ahead of many other large internet 
markets. There were 1.067 billion internet users in China in 
December 2022 (1.032 billion in December 2021), 99.8% of 
whom were mobile users. With a highly mobile-penetrated 
population, growing middle class and increased investment 
in the digital transformation of industries, the opportunity in 
China’s internet industry remains vast.

Continuing to lead

Tencent is a global internet and technology company that 
develops innovative products and services to enrich the lives 
of users. Its communication and social services connect more 
than one billion people worldwide, enabling them to stay in 
touch with friends and family, shop online, pay for daily 
necessities and be entertained.

Tencent publishes some of the world’s most popular games 
and other high-quality digital content, enriching interactive 
entertainment experiences for people around the globe. 
It also offers a range of business services such as cloud, 
enterprise services, fintech and advertising to support its 
clients’ digital transformation and business growth.

Monthly active users of Weixin and WeChat reached 1.3 billion, 
up 3.5% YoY. User time spent on Weixin continued to grow 
as it expanded its content, service offerings and short-form 
video capability. Time spent on Mini Programs and Video 
Accounts doubled and tripled YoY respectively, in the fourth 
quarter of 2022. Mini Programs has become a leading 

Looking forward

The regulatory environment of China’s internet industry 
continues to evolve, reflecting its expanding economic 
and social importance. In 2022, Tencent increased its 
business efficiency, sharpened its focus on core activities, 
and developed new services and revenue lines, 
successfully repositioning the company for sustainable 
and high-quality growth. It is investing in AI capabilities 
and cloud infrastructure to embrace foundation models, 
which it believes will enhance the experience of its 
existing products and services, and allow it to explore the 
introduction of new products.

Tencent is committed to enacting its vision of ‘value for 
users, tech for good’ by continuing to develop advanced 
technologies and innovative products and services that 
create shared value and promote the sustainable 
development of society. Tencent sees ample opportunities 
in both the consumer and industrial internet as technology 
advances. 

transaction platform in China, contributing to the growth 
of the real economy. Video Accounts has become a major 
short-form video and live-streaming platform in China.

Tencent enlivened the video chat experience for QQ by 
adding Super QQ Show avatars using enhanced motion-
capture technology to mirror users’ facial expressions and 
gestures in real time. It enriched the content of anime, comics 
and games for QQ’s short-video service, Mini World, and 
launched AI-powered video-creation tools, significantly 
increasing daily active users and time spent per user.

It continued to lead in the China online game market, with 
Honour of Kings resuming YoY growth in daily active users in 
the fourth quarter of 2022. Internationally, Tencent elevated 
Valorant as a top global franchise and published two of the 
top three new mobile games of the year.

In online media, Tencent Video’s subscriptions moderated 
slightly to 119 million due to content-scheduling delays, while 
subscription revenue increased YoY in the fourth quarter 
of 2022 in line with average revenue per user growth.

In advertising, Tencent improved its long-term position by 
launching Video Accounts in-feed ads, enhancing transaction-
driven capability and machine-learning infrastructure in 2022. 
In the fourth quarter of 2022, advertising returned to YoY 
revenue growth. Click-to-message and click-to-purchase ads 
accounted for over one third of Weixin’s advertising revenue.

In fintech, Tencent’s commercial payment business was 
temporarily impacted by Covid-19 outbreaks, which 
significantly slowed volume growth. It is expanding its wealth 
management and exploring opportunities in consumer loans 
and online insurance services.

In business services, Tencent further reduced loss-making 
activities and optimised costs while focusing on healthier-
margin, self-developed platform-as-a-service solutions such 
as video cloud and database.

It made significant progress in its drive to create sustainable 
social value and announced its commitment to carbon-
neutrality by 2030. Tencent’s digital philanthropy platform 
raised donations for over 25 000 projects and engaged more 
than 100 million users. In 2022, Tencent increased its return of 
capital to shareholders through distribution in kind, share 
repurchase and cash dividend.

Revenue2  

US$22.3bn 
(2022: US$25.3bn)

Trading profit2  

US$5.1bn 
(2022: US$6.3bn)

1 In presenting and discussing our performance, we use certain alternative performance measures not defined by IFRS, referred to as non-IFRS-EU financial measures, 
alternative performance measures or APMs. Such measures include economic-interest-basis information; trading profit; adjusted EBITDA; headline earnings; core 
headline earnings; and growth in local currency, excluding acquisitions and disposals. Segmental reviews in this report are prepared showing revenue on an 
economic-interest basis (which includes consolidated subsidiaries and a proportionate share of associated companies and joint ventures), unless otherwise stated.

 Numbers included in brackets represent the equivalent measure on the basis of growth in local currency, excluding acquisitions and disposals. For further explanation of 
the use of APMs, refer to about this report in the governance section. 

2 Presented on an economic-interest basis.

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 7170 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Operational performance

Media24

Quick read
In recent years, Media24 has been building a 

leaner, profitable, digital-first South African media 

business with a significant investment in 

ecommerce. In FY23, the streamlined but still 

diverse business portfolio, combined with stringent 

cost management, contributed greatly to its ability 

to remain profitable despite a trading landscape 

under severe pressure.

Quality journalism and publishing

Media24 has a proud history as the home of quality 
journalism and publishing. The long list of local and 
international industry awards include: News24 named by the 
Reuters Institute as most trusted news brand in the country for 
the fourth year in a row; a second consecutive One World 
Media Award (News24); three INMA Global Media Awards 
and eight honourable mentions; six IAB Bookmark Awards, 
including the Black Pixel Award as best online publisher for 
the sixth consecutive year; four MOST Advertising Awards, 
including Lifestyle named as Media Owner of the Year; New 
Media received three awards and four honourable mentions 
at the Eddie & Ozzie Awards (New York) and a gold award 
from the International Content Marketing Institute; 22 winners 
in top three positions in the Forum of Community Journalists 
Excellence Awards; three Standard Bank Sikuvile Journalism 
Awards and three commendations; two WAN-IFRA African 
Digital Media Awards; eight regional winners in the Vodacom 
Journalist of the Year Awards; and a slew of national literary 
awards for authors at NB Publishing.

Looking forward

We maintain our strategy to build a smaller, profitable 
media business with a significant interest in ecommerce, 
while transforming and cementing business sustainability 
for a digital-driven future.

Delivering an outstanding performance across the business – from digital and print media 
to ecommerce

Leading in media

Media24 is one of the leading print and digital media groups 
in South Africa, with interests in digital media and services, 
newspapers, magazines, ecommerce, book publishing and 
media logistics. Through its magazines and newspapers, it 
reaches 1.4 million average daily unique browsers, generating 
10.9 million average daily page views across its digital 
platforms.

Weathering the economic storm

Despite an already slow start to the financial year and an 
economic downturn that intensified from the second quarter, 
Media24’s trading results for the period outperformed 
expectations, but were much lower YoY.

Over the past two years, favourable trade conditions 
supported exceptional results from strong revenue growth, 
boosted by the leaner cost base established in 2020. 
However, as expected and forecast, the level and scope of 
the recovery recorded in 2021 were not sustainable in the face 
of harsher domestic and international economic realities in 
a post-pandemic world, hampered by the fallout from 
global events.

Despite these challenges, total consolidated revenue of 
US$207m for FY23 was -16% (-1%) YoY. This, coupled with 
stringent cost management, sustained trading profit to US$7m, 
a -69% (-56%) decline against the prior year. This was achieved 
on the back of mixed results, marked by the following 
operational factors:
 » A considerable pullback on digital advertising, in line with 
global trends, with print advertising following suit from the 
second quarter.

 » Lagging and/or fluctuating print circulations, but sustained 
strong digital subscriber growth at both News24 and 
Netwerk24.

 » Cost-saving initiatives at the print-publishing businesses 
hampered by the sharp increase in paper prices and 
record fuel prices.

 » Improved income from reigniting diverse revenue projects 
at Lifestyle.

 » Continued growth in external media logistics revenue at 
On the Dot.

 » M24 Logistics countered declining ecommerce volumes – in 
line with international trends – by curtailing costs.

 » Media24 TV reaping the benefit of unbudgeted television 
commissions.

 » Excellent school textbook orders in South Africa.
 » Sustained strong trade sales at Jonathan Ball Publishers.
 » Costs tightly managed.

Media24 implemented several cost-saving initiatives in the 
second half to offset contractions in the market, but without 
compromising its value offering or areas of growth.

Maintaining media ethics and independence

Editorial independence and ethical reporting are cornerstones 
of our business. This is reflected in our core values – respect, 
integrity, courage, and accountability – which are embedded 
in our employment contracts and policies. Our publications 
subscribe to the South African Press Code, which prescribes 
news that is fair, accurate, truthful and balanced, as well as 
the code of the Advertising Standards Association, which 
promotes responsible and truthful advertising devoid of false 
claims. The internal ombudsman monitors ethical reporting in 
our publications. Complaints on media ethics and 
independence may also be referred to the South African Press 
Council. Staff is required to complete training on our code of 
ethics, as well as other related topics, including whistleblowing 
and privacy.

Revenue1  

US$217m 
(2022: US$257m)

Trading profit1  

US$7m 
(2022: US$17m)

1 Presented on an economic-interest basis.

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 7372 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Effective solution to unique 
challenge, creating immense 
value for shareholders

Returning value 
to shareholders

We are committed 
to building a ‘cycle of 
value creation’

September 2022

Launched multiyear share 
buyback funded by sale of

Prosus shares

Year-end

Repurchased 

16.3 million 

Naspers shares

with a total value of

>US$2.5bn
Increase in NAV per share for 

shareholders

4.5%

Tencent dividends remain 
a meaningful and stable 
contributor to our cash flow

We have great confidence in Tencent’s 
long-term prospects and the execution 
of the buyback programme will result 
in the group increasing net asset value 
per share.

History of dividend to free-float 
shareholders of Naspers 
and Prosus (R)

20
14

20
15

20
16

20
17

20
18

20
19

20
20

20
21

20
22

10.00
8.00
6.00
4.00
2.00

0

 

Naspers Prosus

Reducing the discount

Prosus Naspers

80

60

40

20

0

 

June 2022 March 2023

NAV per share accretion 
compounds over time (%)

Year one Year two Year three

25
20
15
10
5
0

 

Assuming buyback continues based on annualised value

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 7574 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Sustainability review

Creating sustainable value

Lead 
sustainable 
transitions

Do good 
by investing in 
communities

Mitigate harm
linked to 
business and 
operations

We are living in an increasingly turbulent and unpredictable 
world where technology is rapidly transforming the way we 
live and interact with each other. In this post-Covid-19 reality, 
with geopolitical instability contributing to already-stressed 
resources, on 15 November 2022, the eight-billionth human 
being was born.

We have no choice but to transition to a more sustainable way 
of being able to meet the needs of this generation and the 
generations to come. And critically, every person in society 

rooted in their local communities, building virtual businesses 
with a lower carbon footprint than their old-economy offline 
counterparts. Our portfolio of digital services is driving a 
systemic transition, from a linear economy of take-make-waste 
towards a circular economy and improving material efficiency 
and use of sustainable resources.

Every investment we make has the potential to reduce 
inequalities and drive innovation. By investing in local 
entrepreneurs who are solving for local needs, we support 
local economic growth in those communities – in the long run, 
this is the most sustainable way of driving economic parity 
and equitable access to opportunity in a society. Digital 
financial services, for example, reach people previously 
underserved by businesses using brick-and-mortar 
infrastructure. Our portfolio of edtech platforms is enabling 
businesses using an increasingly diverse user group to access 
online learning anytime, anywhere without the carbon footprint 
of a physical learning institution. Similarly, etail allows for 
selling and buying products without the accompanying 
physical footprint while our best-in-class food-delivery 
businesses are creating livelihood opportunities in countries 
where there is high youth unemployment.

Sustainable value creation

The criteria for our investment decisions are clearly defined 
and exclude or limit our exposure to revenue from business 
models that conflict with our sustainability-driven approach.

Our approach is characterised by the overarching objectives 
to mitigate risk, manage performance, and create sustainable 
value. It is founded on our three pillars of responsible 
investing:

 » We proactively aim to avoid exposure to revenues from a 
defined set of controversial activities such as carbon-intense 
business models, pornography, tobacco, weapons, and 
others.

 » Once an investment decision is made, we continue to apply 
an ESG lens to track performance and gauge the progress 
of companies in which we acquire a controlling interest. 
While the nature and definition of material impacts may 
vary between companies, we apply consistent ESG 
principles and systemically cascade our sustainability 
agenda to our subsidiaries. These include data privacy and 
cybersecurity, human rights, business ethics and compliance, 
and climate action.

 » We will continue to increase our exposure to revenues from 
sustainability-native business models. Our Ventures team 
is exploring potential new segments from carbon reduction 
to smart mobility. For example, we invested in companies 
such as DeHaat, Aruna, Biome Makers and Vegrow that 
apply sustainable digital solutions in agtech by using soil 
biology analytics and AI-based tools to determine the most 
sustainable solutions for crops and address specific climate 
and societal challenges.

Responsible business

Our family of companies is well diversified by sector and 
geography, which is our strength and differentiator. While 
the experience of doing business in difficult contexts is our 
competitive advantage, it also presents challenges. Our assets 
span an array of political and social contexts, along with vast 
variances in maturity of these companies in addressing ESG 
topics. Most of the companies are privately held, building 
technology-based commercial strategies in tough markets. 
However, we believe that by securing leading positions in 
fast-growing markets, our businesses can create the 
opportunities and connectivity that are preconditions for 
societal development and environmental protection.

While the principles we bring to our portfolio companies are 
consistent as set out in our sustainability policy and 
environmental programme, we apply a differentiated 
approach to engaging with them defined by our level of 
interest in the company, in turn an indicator of our ability to 
influence. In our corporate operations, we control 
our sustainability strategy. Where we have controlling interests, 
we work closely with the companies to ensure management 
embeds our principles for all material issues, adapted for 
factors such as business model, operations, employees and 
geography, resources, and the complexity of their activities. 
Where we have significant minority investments, we leverage 
our board seat, where we have one, to share our sustainability 
agenda and ESG principles. The demographics of the 
companies where we hold minority investments are vastly 
different, ranging from very mature listed entities to companies 
in their early growth stages. The resource allocation for 
engagement and monitoring of their ESG performance will 
remain nuanced, based on the type of company and their 
materiality on our balance sheet. Across all these companies, 
however, if we have a non-controlling interest, we remain 
relatively limited in our ability to influence the companies’ 
strategy and activities. 

Our engagement considers the position and role of the private 
sector in the larger country-level operating context of each 
group company. This includes requirements of local 
regulations, making a one-size-fits-all approach highly 
impractical. In the rare situation that national law conflicts with 
international standards, we expect compliance with national 
law and seek ways to respect the principles of internationally 
recognised standards and best practice.

Our sustainability accelerators network (SAN) is an 
engagement opportunity that we offer to all Naspers 
companies, regardless of control and ownership levels. This is 
a forum where sustainability leaders and experts across the 
group come together each quarter to share updates and 
exchange best practices. This network has led to further 
thematic offshoots like the packaging and waste working 
group that catalysed reports to support the companies in 
mapping their own pathway.

needs to be part of this transition. We believe we can harness 
the power of technology to drive this transition, which is why 
being a force for good underpins our sustainability purpose.

Our capital allocation strategy reflects this opportunity as we 
continue to increase our exposure to revenues from a 
well-diversified portfolio of asset-light and low-carbon digital 
services. As one of the world’s largest technology investors, 
creating sustainable value lies at the core of everything we 
do. The companies we invest in are visionary entrepreneurs, 

We create sustainable value for key stakeholders through our business model and in line with the United 
Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs). Below is an overview of the nine SDGs that our 
business, companies and people contribute to in a significant and material sense. Please see our website 
for more details.

Our approach

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 7776 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Sustainability review continued

People
Our people are the heart of our business – they underpin our success. We are dedicated to helping our 
people develop their full potential by creating a diverse, inclusive and learning organisation.

Employee value proposition

Employee  
wellness

Interesting
work

Opportunity to
learn and grow

Great
leadership
and culture

Competitive
pay and
benefits

Our employee value proposition

Our people seek meaningful jobs with line-of-sight to business 
outcomes and the opportunity to learn and grow 
professionally. We enjoy working in a purpose-driven 
environment, where we are recognised for a job well done 
and are fairly paid in line with personal and company 
performance. We care for and connect with our people, 
particularly in times of need.

Interesting work for our people

We are dedicated to helping our people be their best by 
enabling a culture built on diversity, inclusion and learning.

We face the global shortage of digital talent every day. The 
best people have many choices about how and where they 
work, and who they work for, so our employee value 
proposition is critical to attract talent that ensures the 
continued growth and success of our business. As such, we 
focus on:

 » Offering meaningful jobs with a sense of purpose in a 
company committed to deploying technology to address big 
societal needs and to enriching the communities in which it 
operates.

 » Delivering career-enhancing professional development and 
ongoing opportunities to network, learn and collaborate 
internally and externally.

Limitless learning

We care deeply about providing equal learning opportunities 
to our people, especially in geographies where access to 
learning is hampered by the lack of local infrastructure and 
resources.

To illustrate the flexibility of our digital learning platform, 
we supported the group focus on cybersecurity by launching 
programmes that equip people with an understanding of 
associated threats. 

We also explored learning formats that more closely resemble 
face-to-face training sessions by expanding our live digital 
training offering. In 2023, we organised four My Academy 
‘unplugged’ live sessions inviting external speakers to talk 
about sustainability and inclusion. This new format allows us 
to simultaneously connect hundreds of employees with 
recognised external experts on some top group priorities.

Strengthening our capabilities on topics critical 
for growth

Technology training is one of the most popular development 
areas on MyAcademy. We also use the platform to accelerate 
and strengthen our capabilities on other topics critical to our 
growth – from leadership and management skills to personal 
development and cross-cultural training.

Our live education programmes focus on leadership, 
management, business development, artificial intelligence (AI) 
and machine learning (ML). These sessions bring people 
together from across the group, enabling them to learn from 
each other, share best practice and interact with the best 
trainers and facilitators in their field. We will continue to 
introduce our leaders to the latest innovations so they can 
translate them into practical business initiatives.

MyAcademy is also a critical element in our AI and ML 
transformation plan. We use it to train people who are not in 
engineering roles in AI and ML, through our AI for everyone 
course. MyAcademy has enabled 105 technology colleagues 
to earn AI nanodegrees and initiate a new career path in the 
field. In addition, our AI for growth programme equips 
business leaders with the skills and knowledge they need to 
build AI-centric businesses. 

For more information on AI and ML, see page 86.

27 573 (2022: 28 300) permanent employees in some 
80 countries and markets.

Headcount by region (%)

2

28

61

8
1

Asia Pacific 2 280 8%

Europe, Middle East and Africa 16 955 61%

Latin America 7 788 28%

United Kingdom 100 1%

United States of America 450 2%

Total 27 573 100%

 

Headcount by segment (%)

12
38

13
8

19

16

3

Etail 10 366 38%

Food Delivery 5 210 19%

Classifieds 4 500 16%

Payments and Fintech 3 447 12%

Print 2 167 8%

Edtech 859 3%

Other 750 3%

Corporate 274 1%

Total 27 573 100%

 » Recognising excellent work with fair and competitive 
rewards, enabling us to compete for talent with global, 
regional and local consumer internet companies.

 » Putting positive, engaging and inclusive culture and 
leadership at the heart of everything we do, in an 
environment where many different types of people feel 
happy and are able to do their best work.

Opportunity to learn and grow

We make learning accessible everywhere, at any time. 
MyAcademy – our online hub connecting our people to 
learning materials – is available on demand to everyone in the 
group.

Our people development programmes focus on four key areas:

 » Reinforcing the leadership pipeline and accelerating the 
growth of top talent.

 » Driving a performance culture.
 » Supporting the ongoing development and growth of our 
businesses by equipping our people with core consumer 
internet and digital media skills.

 » Accelerating major transformation plans requiring large 
population upskilling such as artificial intelligence, 
diversity and inclusion, and sustainability.

We have curated the very best learning experiences from 
providers around the world, including our own education 
partners. The flexibility of the MyAcademy web-based technology 
allows rapid and efficient deployment across the group.

Monthly active learners

A
p
r

M
a
y

Ju
n

Ju
l

A
ug Se
p

O
ct

N
ov

D
ec Ja
n

Fe
b

M
a
r

14 000

12 000

10 000

8 000

6 000

4 000

2 000

0

12
 4

75

2022● 2023●

7 
36

3

6 
75

7

9 
84

5

8 
85

5

9 
05

9

8 
29

5 9 
82

4

8 
34

9

10
 0

06

8 
87

1

7 
67

9

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 7978 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Employee demographics (%)

MaleFemale

60

50

40

30

20

10

0

45.2

54.8

Great leadership and culture

Cultivating a strong groupwide culture

We are a diverse group of global companies, but our values 
(see page 7) are consistent for our people wherever we 
operate.

Building a diverse and inclusive workplace

Building a diverse and inclusive workplace is a key element 
of our business growth and success strategy.

Given the scarcity of talent in the consumer internet industry 
and our focus on growth markets, attracting and retaining 
talented and qualified candidates is an ongoing challenge. 
We are addressing this with talent sourcing and acquisition 
strategies designed to attract a diverse range of people who, 
in turn, represent the full diversity of our customer base.

Our approach is based on three interdependent pillars:

 » Top leadership support: Our leadership team champions 
these initiatives. Diversity and inclusion is a business 
strategic priority, and a measurable goal for management 
teams. For more information, see pages 80 to 82.

 » Employee experience: All the different experiences 
individuals can have during their journey with our group.

 » Shared responsibility: To ensure we create a truly inclusive 
workplace, and that we have the right impact on society, 
we all have a responsibility to encourage diversity 
and inclusion.

Global group demographics (%)

Females globally

50

40

30

20

10

0

43.7 45.3

2022● 2023●

Employee experience

Focusing on gender diversity

We face the same challenge as our consumer internet 
competitors in attracting and retaining female talent, 
especially for product and technology roles. Our initiatives 
to address gender diversity specifically span the employee 
journey and all levels of the organisation.

We track gender representation at every stage in our 
recruitment process, and use data to ensure our recruitment 
pipeline is more balanced. We review our job descriptions 
and our communications with candidates to ensure the 
language we use is inclusive, and there is a diverse 
interview panel.

From board to senior management and the general employee 
population, there is an upward trend in hiring women, as 
reflected in the last four additions to the board. In addition, 
more women are being recruited into management roles 
across the group. 

To ensure the gender balance of our board members, we are 
committed to a minimum of one third of board members who 
are female. 

See page 124 for our board diversity policy.

Involving our employees

We assess our progress in building an inclusive workplace by 
asking all our people for their feedback in our annual 
engagement survey. Monitoring the results enables us to 
understand if we are making the positive impact we want, and 
the results this year show great progress. We also include the 
topic of building an inclusive workplace in our leadership 
development programmes to reinforce its importance. 

We are committed to creating working environments that are 
free from harassment of any kind. We have provided training 
and education to all our employees on our zero-tolerance 
approach to harassment, and guidance on how to raise any 
concerns.

In our March 2023 employee engagement survey, we reached 
a global score of 83% favourable responses to our gender 
diversity question. We achieved a score of 86% favourable 
responses to our inclusion question, stated as: ‘I feel respected 
at my company’. We see no significant difference in results 
between genders for these questions. We believe employee 
feedback is a good indicator of our impact and progress 
towards greater diversity and inclusion in the workplace. We 
recorded a 3 percentage point reduction in our global 
engagement result in FY23. Employee sentiment was impacted 
by workforce restructuring during the period. We remain 
committed to improving employee engagement and will 
continue to focus on that in the new financial year.

Competitive pay and benefits

Fair pay

Equality and consistency are embedded in our pay practices 
across the group as we build diverse and inclusive 
workplaces. We operate in high-growth economies where 
socioeconomic disparity can be large, and societal fairness 
is very important to us. We ensure our pay practices around 
the world are fair, competitive and above minimum-wage 
standards.

Our commitment to pay for performance and alignment with 
shareholder value creation drives all our reward activities and 
supports the ownership mentality and spirit of 
entrepreneurship in our teams around the world.

Our fair remuneration systems are:

 » Equitable: Free from discrimination.
 » Relevant: Linked to personal and company performance.
 » Rational: Easy to explain.

We strive to pay fairly and responsibly. As far as possible, 
the structure of our pay is consistent, regardless of seniority, 
ensuring equality of pay across our businesses.

We are committed to ensuring that the companies we invest 
in have fair pay and working conditions for delivery partners, 
irrespective of the classification of their engagement, which 
varies across the globe.

Full-time active drivers for iFood, Tazz (an eMAG 
group company) and Mr D (a Takealot group 
company) on average earn more than the 
prescribed minimum wage in the countries where 
they operate.

Our companies provide a range of benefits to 
drivers, which varies by country, such as: health 
insurance/life insurance benefits, and access to 
driver education, as well as low-cost access 
to safety equipment (such as helmets and 
protective clothing).

Ensuring pay equality

We believe in equitable pay for performance – rewarding 
people fairly for performance aligned to shareholder 
outcomes. As such, reward is designed to incentivise achieving 
strategic, operational and financial objectives, in the short and 
long term. In addition, we design our reward system to attract 
and retain the best diverse talent around the world, fairly 
and responsibly.

Sustainability review continued

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 8180 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



To ensure equality, we offer similar pay, bonus and long-term 
incentives for similar jobs and performance levels, make fair 
and consistent pay decisions and apply objective and 
measurable pay differentiation. We do this regardless of race, 
gender, sexual orientation, religion, colour, nationality or 
disability. We ensure equality at every step, from hiring to 
placement to progression.

Maintaining pay equality is embedded in our ways of working:

 » We run regular pay-equality analyses, for example for new 
hires, to identify any unintended or possibly biased 
differentiation in pay.

 » We perform calibration exercises across the group as a 
standard process before we make reward decisions so that 
we can proactively redirect if needed.

Employee wellbeing

We believe happy and engaged employees create satisfying 
customer experiences. It is important in a competitive global 
market that we give our people a compelling reason to work 
for Naspers. We regularly measure employee engagement 
across the group and ask our people for feedback on their 
experience of working at our group companies. Our 
businesses actively encourage participation in our employee 
engagement survey, address issues raised and share best 
practices.

In our last engagement survey in March 2023, we 
maintained our participation rate of 83% and had an 
engagement score of 71%. Although these results are lower 
than last year, they are still in line with external benchmarks 
and we continue to focus on positive employee engagement 
across the group.

Throughout this last survey, we noted an increase in our 
wellbeing and hybrid work factors versus the last survey done 
in FY22. The most significant increase is focused on the teams’ 
feeling of spending enough quality time with others, showing 
the direct impact of our blended work approach.

Statistics

Engagement survey 
participation rate of 83%

Engagement score of 71%

Digital inclusion
The digital divide remains a fact in many countries where we 
operate. We are committed to investing in and scaling digital 
services and technologies to address global challenges at a 
local level.

As a global consumer internet group, we advocate for the 
benefits of widespread digital access. Our family of digital 
services companies is removing physical barriers to 
ecommerce, food delivery, financial services and education.

We build companies with a strong market presence that use 
digital technology to improve the daily lives of billions of 
people. Businesses across the group offer access to online 
services that enable financial transactions, buying and selling 
goods, food delivery and education.

Our companies also support targeted inclusion of underserved 
individuals in the community through community investment 
initiatives.

Innovation
Our core segments include global leaders in the delivery of 
virtual essential services, with an improved environmental 
footprint and lower emissions than brick-and-mortar 
businesses. We are deepening our understanding and 
quantifying how digitalisation helps the world transition to a 
low-carbon society. In FY23, we initiated life-cycle analysis 
projects to help us quantify the impact of digital services 
compared to offline, analogue and physical services.

Our strategy for digital services places particular focus on 
software-led innovation. We are rigorous in our capital-
allocation process while actively searching for exceptional 
entrepreneurs to develop scalable, sustainable technologies 
with breakthrough potential to address serial global 
challenges.

Product innovation is a critical priority. With the support 
of a dedicated product and growth operations team, our 
companies build solutions based on proven agile software 
development principles, quantitative and qualitative user 
research, iterative usability design, and extensive A/B testing 
and experimentation. 

Our development teams measure the results of their innovation 
via increased consumer engagement (eg time spent, long-
term retention) and improved customer satisfaction (eg net 
promoter score).

Innovating through artificial intelligence

AI is at the heart of much of our innovation. Across the group, 
we focus on finding new ways to innovate our business 
platforms, processes, products and services.

Innovation for a circular economy

We recognise the role of innovators in tackling social and 
environmental issues, both within our group and in 
partnerships. Across the group, we encourage investees to 
forge partnerships that foster innovation and tackle shared 
societal challenges.

Packaging innovation supports sustainable 
business. In line with our circular-economy 
ambitions, iFood is pioneering new forms of 
sustainable and biodegradable packaging for 
meal deliveries. In partnership with GrowPack, 
iFood is injecting thousands of compostable 
packaging from waste materials into the market, 
to help restaurants and customers adapt to new 
sustainable materials.

Our OLX platforms already built a more 
sustainable world through trade by selling second-
hand goods, a pillar of the circular economy. Each 
year, OLX quantifies its positive impact through an 
impact report, which details the prevented 
environmental impact of seven categories (cars, 
motorcycles, car parts, mobile phones, laptops, 
TVs and tablets). OLX teams have piloted new 
ways to fuel circular consumption and inspire the 
large base of customers to reuse, refurbish and 
recycle what they have through trade.

Sustainability review continued

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 8382 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Sustainability review continued

PayU: Using data, AI and ML 
in the right way

We are committed to using 
data, AI and ML in a 
responsible and ethical way. 
This objective is being 
supported by our defined 
governance model and 
responsible AI frameworks.

 » In the payments business, the rapid acceleration of 
digital payments due to Covid-19 has increased online 
fraud as well. Data and AI are used to control fraud losses 
incurred by PayU and its customers (online merchants and 
banks). In FY23, we deployed AI models to detect 
anomalies in transactional patterns for potential fraud 
alerts. We also supervised ML models to predict fraud 
conducted by online merchants and others. In India, faced 
with the rise of unified payments interface as a payment 
instrument, fraudsters have devised new ways to conduct 
digital online fraud.

 » PayU also uses data and AI to provide a frictionless 
online payment process for end users. In FY23, we 
enabled a one-click checkout for non-risky transactions in 
regions where local regulations do not mandate two-
factor authentication.

Given the increased use of data and AI, PayU further 
improved data governance in FY23. Centralised data 
warehouses that store, maintain and enable permissible use 
were created, adhering to data governance regulations and 
practices (eg localisation). While AI governance regulations 
and best practices are still evolving across the globe, PayU 
took further steps in FY23 via limited implementation of the 
EU’s independent high-level expert group on artificial 
intelligence (EU AI-HLEG) framework in selected AI models 
incorporating learnings from the internal audit of the 
framework in FY22. Data and AI governance will remain a 
foremost priority in coming years.

PayU’s global personal-data governance policy focuses on 
accountability and responsible use. Backed by appropriate 
global training and awareness raising, we have created 
PayU’s privacy and security-by-design policy and toolkit to 
embed robust privacy and security requirements across the 
business. The team also developed a benchmarking and 
privacy control engine and worked closely with the Wibmo 
team to obtain the ISO 27001 and 27701 (privacy) 
certifications.

In FY23, PayU accelerated the adoption of data and AI 
across its credit and payments businesses. This is core to 
running each business, delivering on growth targets and 
controlling risks:

 » In the credit business, PayU (much like other credit 
companies) relies on data and AI to assess consumers’ 
credit risk before making a lending decision. This includes 
the permissible use of data provided by third parties, such 
as credit bureaus, depending on the region.

 » Data and AI are also crucial in other facets of PayU’s 
lending products and customer experience. Examples 
include simplifying customer onboarding when applying 
for a loan; enhancing customer retention and reducing 
churn; and determining the need for different lending 
products and increasing cross-sell of products.

Looking ahead

As the pace of innovation accelerates, we will remain 
focused on finding, developing and applying new ways 
to achieve our purpose.

Building the evidence base to demonstrate how our 
technology investments can generate net benefits for 
the planet and its people is a central strategic 
objective. Accordingly, we are ramping up our initiatives 
to communicate this impact to all stakeholders, and to 
capitalise on opportunities to advocate effectively on 
the basis of our experience.

In tandem with our sustainability policy and our 
environmental programme, we will embed processes for 
supplier selection and screening according to ESG 
factors. In FY23, our emphasis shifted from risk 
assessment to embedding ESG criteria in our 
procurement.

Enhanced environmental disclosure is a key element of 
our commitment to net zero, and a demonstration of the 
importance of climate stewardship across the group. 
The group’s commitment to achieve net-zero emissions 
is embedded in the key performance indicators for our 
group chief executive and the segment CEOs who 
report directly to him.

We will continue to make meaningful investments 
in local communities where our businesses operate, in 
ways that improve lives by nurturing systemic and 
sustainable change.

The group is working continuously to increase exposure 
to financial revenues from sustainable business models 
while enhancing disclosure and reporting standards 
across our portfolio. Understanding the environmental 
and societal impact of our businesses is fundamental to 
guide investment and decision-making at all levels.

We anticipate that our data-driven sustainability strategy 
and transparent approach will bring new opportunities 
for investment, driving innovation and the discovery of 
breakthrough technologies in years ahead.

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 8584 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Artificial intelligence
As a global tech business, AI is essential for us. We ensure we 
develop and deploy it as quickly as possible across the group 
to support business growth, to innovate, and to improve our 
competitive ability. And we seek to always do this in the right 
way – by design, ethically and responsibly.

Applying AI to improve everyday life

Across the group, we apply data science and AI in numerous 
ways to add value for customers, partners and the business 
and to fulfil our purpose. This includes better product 
recommendation, fraud prevention, content moderation, 
logistics optimisation and more. We also use AI to develop 
new products and concepts across our segments, such as 
content creation and search in Edtech.

Our guiding principles

The following principles guide how we develop and deploy AI:

 » Deploy AI everywhere where it makes business sense.
 » Develop AI-by-design for innovation in products and services.
 » Develop and deploy AI ethically and responsibly.

Embedding AI across the group

Led by the Naspers AI team, we are embedding AI across the 
group. The central team works closely with company AI teams 
on multiple initiatives. These include organisational changes 
to support the adoption of AI and data science at scale; talent 
and leadership development programmes; actively engaging 
with the global research and development community; 
adopting machine-learning platforms in engineering; 
developing deliberate data strategies; and investing in 
AI-first companies.

Across the group, AI has become part of the fabric of our 
operations, how we innovate and keep improving. At the scale 
we currently operate across our core segments, AI is essential. 
OLX, for example, has developed AI to calculate return on 
investment (ROI) for marketing costs, a large cost item for 
Classifieds. AI models are used to attribute ROI to single 
campaigns, and optimise spending and trade-offs between 
campaigns. On aggregate, they achieved a 15% reduction of 
marketing costs for the same marketing effectiveness. iFood 
has developed similar initiatives to reduce marketing and 
acquisition costs without impacting effectiveness. Across our 
segments, companies are mature in their use of AI and 
increasingly apply deep-tech at scale for business success.

Developing AI-by-design

We are increasingly focused on AI-by-design – using our 
technologies and expertise to make operational improvements 
and to radically change the way we do business. This is about 
future-proofing and innovating – building AI into the earliest 
stages and making it core to the process of exploring, 
designing, developing, deploying and improving platforms, 
products and services.

Allied to this, we systematically explore emerging technologies 
and accelerate them across the group, but within the 
parameters of our risk management processes. The aim 
is to push these technologies forward through the group 
while de-risking them – to get more value, faster.

A major recent development in the field is generative AI 
(GenAI) or systems that can generate new content – or 
manipulate existing content – based on text instructions. 
GenAI is relatively new (the first usable models date to 2019) 
but current capabilities are already of practical use at scale 
and exceed average human performance at many tasks. We 
have developed PlusOne, an AI assistant based on GenAI, 
and made it available across the group companies. With 
PlusOne, companies can explore and understand the 
capabilities and limitations of GenAI first-hand. It is particularly 
valuable for testing use cases and discovering new 
applications.

The range of possible use cases is vast and includes several 
workflow automations that increase efficiency and reduce 
costs. Examples include: to create education content, answer 
knowledge questions, automate transcriptions and meeting 
notes, create document summaries, generate and correct 
code, and generate images for communication. The first set of 
use cases of GenAI is already in production across our Edtech 
companies.

Sustainability review continued

Using AI responsibly

Our models must be robust, so that they operate predictably 
within known boundaries of reliability. They must be unbiased, 
so that they do not discriminate, for example on gender. They 
must be transparent, so that their outputs, for example an 
AI-based credit decision, can be clearly explained and 
understood.

We have a framework that proactively includes the social and 
ethical dimensions of AI in the development process, based 
on key principles:

 » Govern: Anchor AI to core values, ethical guidelines and 
regulatory constraints, for example specifying principles 
in developing fair and responsible AI.

 » Design: Design for privacy, security, transparency, bias, 
robustness. For example, engineering training on how to 
make models more robust and explainable.

 » Monitor: Auditing for accountability, bias and cybersecurity, 
such as adopting tools for bias check as part of model-
development practices.

 » Train: Prepare and equip our people to take full advantage 
of AI and new workstyles. This includes upskilling 
engineering teams on robustness validation as part of the 
testing process.

We are deploying this framework across the group.

Programme statistics

>500 data scientists now 
part of the Naspers AI 

community

>4 000 software engineers 
and technical staff who work 
with the PlusOne AI assistant

Operationalising ethical and responsible AI

We take an operational approach to ethical and responsible 
AI, focused on adopting best practices across our data 
science community. We develop or adopt tools and practices 
designed to check the quality and representativeness of data, 
to detect bias in decisions based on the models, and to trace 
back the cause of bias, among others. We have adopted 
specific tools for this purpose.

By using PlusOne, we have also identified guardrails and 
practices that help GenAI models produce helpful and honest 
responses that are not harmful. These guardrails are 
continuously evolving and integrated in our technology stack.

We also focus on raising awareness through demonstrations 
and technical education to ensure these tools are adopted 
and used effectively.

In FY23, we articulated our statement on ethical AI at Naspers, 
which describes our approach to using AI across the 
businesses we invest in. We will also continue associated 
training for our leaders and technical teams, as summarised 
below:

 » Educating leadership on ethical and responsible AI
Since 2021, a rolling programme is educating leadership 
across the group on ethical and responsible AI. Throughout 
the programme, leaders can see the potential of AI to 
implement their company’s ambitions while developing fair, 
robust and transparent AI. In this way, ethical and 
responsible AI becomes an opportunity for positive impact, 
not just an element of managing risks.

 » GenAI deep dives for leaders
We have designed and introduced a new rolling 
programme of deep dives into GenAI. They map the 
evolution of the field, educate and create awareness 
of the potential and limitations of Large Language Models. 
We regularly offer deep dives into senior staff of group 
companies.

 » Training engineers in AI
We offer highly specialised training on several AI themes 
for engineers and product managers, including model 
deployment, ML pipelines, ML operations and natural 
language processing. A new addition is a series of tutorials 
and practical education modules on GenAI, such as 
prompting or training language models.

Providing guidelines and sharing best practice

We have established internal privacy guidelines for our AI 
teams to ensure compliance with the requirements of the EU’s 
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). In addition, our AI 
ethics working group meets monthly to manage workstreams 
designed to advance ethical and responsible AI across the 
group and help integrate ethics best practices into projects. 

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 8786 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Advancing our AI knowledge and capabilities

Throughout the year, we continued to develop our community 
of data scientists across the group. The Naspers AI community 
now includes over 500 data science and AI engineers. This is 
a valuable platform for growing and sharing knowledge and 
capabilities across the group. We organise technical and 
scientific workshops for this community, connect data scientists 
working on similar initiatives, share practices, tools and 
lessons learnt across businesses. In November 2022, 
we organised the third global Prosus AI Marketplace For 
Knowledge. This three-day event for the AI community enabled 
us to identify and share areas of excellence and best practice. 
The focus of this edition was on GenAI applications for 
the group.

Investing in seed-stage AI companies

We continue to monitor seed-stage AI companies pioneering 
AI-first innovations in areas such as robotics, language and 
vision. We collaborate with the Creative Destruction Lab, a 
global network of universities that are accelerators for these 
early-stage companies. We have invested in four AI-native 
businesses so far. By taking small stakes in companies 
exploring these and other advances, we are able to buy into 
early-stage innovation, extend our network of expertise, 
advance our knowledge, and see the business potential for 
our group that much sooner. Getting in early enables us to 
both accelerate and de-risk our AI innovation.

Partnering for positive impact

We partnered with Amsterdam Data Science, a network of 
academia and industry that has established a strong data 
science and AI ecosystem in Amsterdam. Aside from 
supporting the organisation, our contribution includes 
organising knowledge-sharing events such as workshops 
and meet-ups.

We engage with several data-science-for-social-good 
initiatives, dedicated to adopting AI in projects with a positive 
social impact. We contributed to academic institutions and 
non-profit organisations for developing data-science-for-social-
good education schools, such as Deep Learning Indaba – the 
African ML and AI community – and Data Science for Social 
Good (DSSG) – the summer school at Carnegie Mellon 
University. DSSG is designed to train promising young 
scientists to apply their skills to problems for a positive 
social impact, for example reducing unemployment, increasing 
access to education and improving environmental quality 
in urban areas.

Looking forward

We will continue to develop and deploy AI to drive 
improvements throughout the group. The opportunities are 
endless, not least because of the focused improvement 
at the heart of AI and ML, and new options offered by 
GenAI. As models are deployed more widely as they 
progressively learn and evolve, they tend to get better in 
their understanding and decisions, with the critical proviso 
that they are designed and developed ethically and 
responsibly for positive impact.

This remains our focus. AI is core to what we do and how 
we do it, and we are determined to use it as widely and 
as well as possible – making better and better use of AI, 
to improve everyday life for billions of people around 
the world.

Sustainability review continued

Cyber-resilience

We are committed to ensuring our businesses are sustainable 
and resilient, so that they can keep operating long term and 
recover fast if disrupted. This is vital for our customers, 
shareholders, for the group, and for the businesses 
themselves.

Accordingly, we focus on two key areas of cyber-resilience:

 » We implement and maintain strong cybersecurity, so attacks 
are thwarted and any breaches quickly tackled with the 
minimum impact.

 » We enhance the resilience of our platforms and systems, so 
they are available 24/7, provide consistent levels of service 
and give businesses the scope to scale and innovate as 
they like.

Platforms

Platforms are our consumer products – without them, none 
of our businesses can operate. These platforms are often 
complex, handle millions of transactions and grow rapidly 
with our businesses.

Our businesses operate in fiercely competitive industries 
and markets, changing regulatory requirements, and 
adaptive attackers requiring continuous innovation to thrive. 
Technology sits at the heart of their growth.

Risk 
management 

Asset
management 

Identity  
and access 

management

Security
awareness

Security
development

Incident  
and crisis 

management 

Backup 
management

Threat 
intelligent 

Continuous 
monitoring

Log
management

Cybersecurity

Business IT

Our businesses use technology to run their internal processes. 
This technology is often not customer-facing and the primary 
users are our employees. Output from these business IT 
systems is used for operational and strategic decision-making, 
monitoring performance, managing risks, and preparing 
information for external stakeholders. We work with internal 
departments to ensure these systems are secure and reliable.

We focus on four key areas to build and maintain sustainable 
and resilient platforms and systems:

 » Availability of the platforms.
 » Quality and innovation of the platforms.
 » Security and safety of the platforms.
 » Security and reliability of business IT.

We encourage all subsidiaries to assess and report on their 
risks across these four areas, so we can gain a clear, coherent 
view and in turn analyse, respond and advise effectively.

At group level, we now report against these areas as part of 
our ongoing risk management.

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 8988 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Our cybersecurity policy

The board sets our group cybersecurity policy, which has four 
key parts: good governance; good protection; good detection; 
and good response. This is the backbone of our robust 
approach. In line with the governance framework, we cascade 
the policy through the segments to the underlying businesses, 
giving them ultimate responsibility for ensuring they implement 
strong cybersecurity in line with their own operations and 
challenges. For example, we expect each business to have 
the right level of incident management and crisis 
management to ensure a good response to any security 
incident.

Supporting from the centre

Our central cybersecurity team provides expert help and 
support to the segments and businesses. As part of our risk 
and audit function, the team’s approach is to help develop a 
competent, agile community of cyber and risk professionals, 
based on guiding principles:

 » Cyber is an enabler, not a blocker.
 » Help manage risk, not spread fear, uncertainty and doubt.
 » Every employee is a cyber-warrior.

Every month, the head of cyber hosts a round-table discussion 
with the security heads of the subsidiary companies. It is an 
opportunity to share updates at a group level and for the 
business leads to discuss key initiatives and issues, such as 
the nature of the latest cyberthreats or developments on the 
dark web.

Creating a strong cybercommunity

As a decentralised group, it is important that we cultivate a 
strong cybercommunity. Accordingly, we have established an 
online workspace for security professionals to stay in touch, 
discuss trends and risks, and co-ordinate responses to 
incidents. Other initiatives include an online cyber-academy 
where the community gets together and shares insights and 
best practice. We also host regional cyberlabs, which are 
two-day events where security teams from subsidiaries in the 
region gather to discuss emerging risks and common 
response strategies. In FY23, we had two cyberlabs, in Brazil 
and India.

Assessing cyber-resilience

The cybersecurity team undertook 49 advisory and assurance 
projects in FY23 to ensure cybersecurity and technology risks 
are managed by our businesses.

Our advisory projects for group companies include hiring 
hackers to break in (ethical hacks), forensic work to investigate 
breaches, and cloud assessments to improve cloud set-up and 
solutions.

We also conduct formal internal audits – independent 
assessments of a company’s security and resilience for 
assurance.

Governance and reporting

The cybersecurity team reports to the risk and audit 
committees four times per year, sharing updates across the 
five technology risk categories. On two occasions, it presents 
an in-depth report on how well the businesses are doing 
against the policy.

Reports to the risk committee include a comprehensive 
overview, with key risks, greatest challenges and any major 
incidents. This is also where any major issues are escalated. 
Formal audit reports are provided to the audit committee.

In addition, every quarter, the head of cyber meets with the 
head of risk and audit and group CFO to discuss the most 
important cybersecurity and technology issues, where to focus 
in months ahead and any notable incidents.

Last year, we introduced risk dashboards. They enable the 
group to monitor how quickly and effectively businesses are 
addressing and resolving risks identified by the central team. 
This in turn forms part of the report provided to the risk and 
audit committees, per segment and per business.

Key cyber-resilience services

Our central cybersecurity team provides a range of services 
to subsidiaries. These include risk-driven process reviews; 
data-driven deep dives; security testing; resilience exercises; 
and managed services.

Focusing on critical issues

Throughout the year, the team helped the business focus 
on two critical issues:

 » Secure remote working. As people continue to work from 
home post pandemic, making sure they can do so securely 
remains a priority. As such, end-point security remains a key 
part of the cyber-resilience agenda, and we work with 
businesses to check that this is in place and robust.

 » Ransomware prevention and response preparation. This 
included updating our cybersecurity policy with a ransomware 
addendum; creating a group playbook on how we would 
respond to a ransomware attack; and undertaking 
ransomware simulations, so we could further refine our 
resilience to this growing threat.

In FY23, we performed internal audits at multiple subsidiaries 
to ensure they have sufficient resilience against a ransomware 
attack.

Sustainability review continued

Key performance indicators

At group level, we focus on two cyber-resilience key 
performance indicators (KPIs):

 » Breaches: Our procedure requires subsidiaries to notify 
us about numerous categories of notable incidents 
(cyber-attack or other operational failures of the platforms). 
We report to our risk committee about these when they are 
material, in particular noting the nature of incidents, risk of 
financial losses, and whether notifications to regulators or 
investigative bodies have been made. We make 
recommendations for corrective actions where appropriate. 
Similar to FY22, we had no breaches of subsidiaries that 
had a material operational or financial impact above 
US$10m in FY23.

 » Awareness: Every new group function employee now has 
security awareness as part of their induction, and we do a 
periodic phishing simulation at corporate. We saw good 
results from the last rounds of phishing simulations.

Looking forward

We will continue ensuring the availability, quality, security 
and safety of the platforms and systems our businesses 
rely on. Ransomware remains a significant threat and we 
will increase our focus on that risk.

We are also closely monitoring and researching new risks 
coming from GenAI, both its use in launching new types 
of cyber-attacks, and in helping us to quickly identify and 
respond to an attack.

We will continue investing in the cybercommunity and 
create opportunities for subsidiaries to collaborate.

Programme statistics

Cybersecurity team 
undertakes around 

49 advisory and assurance 
projects each year

We executed 2 advanced 
persistent threats (APTs)

We executed  
7 red team exercises

We did  
4 pentests

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 9190 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Data privacy
Our commitment

We recognise that privacy is an important value and an 
essential element of public trust. At Naspers, we strive to be a 
trusted company and, as a responsible investor, we expect 
each of our businesses to adhere to our group policy on data 
privacy governance.

Public trust is a precondition to achieving our purpose 
to improve everyday life for billions of people through 
technology. Data privacy is also a material domain for 
our group in support of our sustainability initiatives.

Data privacy principles at Naspers

We offer appropriate notice about our data privacy 
practices.

1 Notice

We honour data subjects’ choices about their personal 
data within the bounds of technical feasibility and 
reasonability.

2 Individual control

We recognise that data subjects’ expectations about fair 
and ethical use of their personal data are informed by 
the context in which their data was first collected.

3 Respect for context

We limit unnecessary personal data sharing with 
third parties.

4 Limited sharing

We retain personal data only for as long as we need it.

5 Retention

We ensure appropriate security.

6 Security

We engage with governments responsibly.

7 Governments

Groupwide policy

Our policy on data privacy governance sets out responsibilities, 
principles and our programmatic approach to ensuring data 
privacy is implemented in each company of the group. It is 
designed to define and document how data privacy is 
managed; promote best practice; accommodate the different 
business models, resources, culture and legal requirements 
across the group; and support trust in our businesses’ products 
and services. We review this policy each year.

For more information refer to our website at  
www.naspers.com/privacy.

Clear accountability

We give clear accountability to individual businesses. Each 
business is directly responsible for managing its data privacy 
programme. This responsibility rests ultimately with the CEO of 
each business – they lead in implementing the group’s policy 
and are directly accountable for data protection programmes 
and privacy standards in their organisations. This approach to 
data privacy aligns with our model of decentralised 
governance and broader belief in encouraging great leaders 
and businesses to excel. We strive to foster a culture of data 
privacy and look to businesses to ensure privacy by design – 
where privacy becomes part of the fabric of day-to-day work 
rather than an add-on.

The key inputs for ensuring robust data privacy across the 
group are summarised below:

Data privacy principles

Widely recognised internationally and benchmarked to 
fair information privacy principles, the seven data privacy 
principles are guidelines for the responsible use of data. 
Critically, they are both universal and able to be applied to 
the different businesses in the group – from established global 
players to start-ups in jurisdictions that may not yet have data 
privacy laws.

Key elements of data privacy programme

To help businesses put the principles into practice, our 
group policy sets out seven key elements of a data privacy 
programme and ensures our core data privacy commitment 
and approach are followed in ways that really work for our 
businesses, benefiting each company and the group as a 
whole. It also ensures that businesses comply with applicable 
data protection laws, such as General Data Protection 
Regulation (GDPR) in Europe, General Personal Data 
Protection Law (LGPD) in Brazil, and Protection of Personal 
Information Act (POPIA) in South Africa, and lays the 
groundwork for strong technical competencies to comply with 
anticipated requirements of future digital laws, such as those 
in India.

This is our programmatic approach to ensuring robust data 
privacy across the group.

Sustainability review continued

Supporting and monitoring

The group’s data privacy office supports and monitors the 
businesses. This includes guidance on implementing the data 
privacy programme; training programmes that develop future 
privacy leaders; and advice on any data privacy implications 
of mergers and acquisitions. In turn, each quarter, companies 
report to the group privacy office on progress in developing 
their privacy programmes as well as incidents and interactions 
with government authorities, customers and their partners. In 
addition, we have implemented a bespoke Naspers privacy 
maturity model that allows each company to monitor the 
maturity of their privacy programmes across 17 domains, 
focus on key areas for improvements, and report results 
in a consistent manner.

Our intra-group data transfer agreement is designed to 
streamline how our companies navigate the complexities and 
risks involved in international data transfers among affiliated 
companies, to ensure they comply with the latest regulations 
in this area.

Advocacy on privacy and related digital legislation

We closely follow developments in data protection, data 
strategy, AI ethics and other key issues relevant to digital 
platforms. We ensure our companies stay at the forefront of 
discussions that impact the use of data in their businesses. 
This includes advocacy and thought-leadership work in 
support of relevant legislation in diverse jurisdictions.

Governance and reporting

The board has direct oversight of data privacy, including 
subsidiaries. The group encourages associates and investees 
to participate in the data privacy programme.

Twice a year, the group data privacy office submits a detailed 
report to the risk and audit committees. It aggregates the 
group risk assessment together with recommendations for 
focus areas in the segments, and includes detailed segment-
level reporting, based on the Naspers privacy maturity model. 
In addition, our group chief executive directly reviews the data 
privacy programme outputs each year.

Three KPIs

To monitor the data privacy outputs that flow from our 
companies in line with the inputs we provide as a group, we 
have set three KPIs, specifically around privacy workforce; 
auditing; and maturity measurement.

Investing in expertise

We require that companies appoint their own privacy leads. 
We track the level of investment in data protection officers, 
deputies, regional privacy leads, privacy managers and other 
experts. The growth of this privacy network drives the strength 
of privacy programmes in our subsidiaries. This enables our 
businesses to address the increased requirements stemming 
from digital regulation and pending data protection legislation 
(for instance, in India). In our subsidiaries, we have a diverse 
team of 34 (FY22: 33) data privacy roles in nine jurisdictions 
across the globe.

We also invest in data privacy skills by enabling our experts 
to gain globally recognised privacy certifications offered by 
the International Association of Privacy Professionals (IAPP), 
as part of our group membership (56 certified privacy 
professionals in the group).

India gets privacy-ready with the Naspers privacy 
governance academy – this year we inaugurated 
a training curriculum for our India investees, 
including an intensive privacy management training 
programme over seven weeks, with more than 
40 participants.

We invest in automation by maintaining a group-level licence 
for industry-leading privacy management software that allows 
companies to automate many of the privacy reviews 
undertaken across the group. We also offer multiple privacy 
training opportunities and forums for engagement. In 
MyAcademy, we host over 30 modules of diversified privacy 
training content in different languages in a dedicated privacy 
learning hub.

Auditing companies

As a group, we require that our companies are periodically 
audited for data-related matters. We routinely conduct internal 
audits that focus on aspects of data governance as part of 
our overall risk management. Guided by the privacy team, our 
internal audit team schedules and performs various types of 
privacy controls, verifications and audits on subsidiaries. These 
audits are a valuable way to provide both assurance and 
guidance.

During the year, we conducted 38 (FY22: 35) internal audits 
with data governance components, assessing issues specific 
to privacy, software development life cycle, security, data 
management and broader risk management.

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 9392 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Assessment of maturity and goal setting – Naspers 
privacy maturity model

This year, all our subsidiaries completed two cycles of 
assessment across 17 data privacy domains set out in a 
bespoke Naspers privacy maturity model. Each company has 
selected at least two specific goals to improve maturity over 
the year, based on what was most pertinent to its business 
model, size, culture and jurisdiction. All subsidiaries reported 
to the group privacy office on levels of maturity across these 
domains and progress of selected focus areas by the end of 
the review period.

Following a reassessment process, new baselines were set for 
the coming year and the board has been briefed about results 
for this period. It is notable that, after our first review in FY23, 
developments in the macro economy, which resulted in 
changes to workforce levels and deployment of financial 
resources, have on occasion impacted the ability of diverse 
businesses to achieve their goals in digital governance. 
However, many of the companies advanced their programmes 
and improved maturity accordingly in targeted domains.

This review has enabled us to complete internal benchmarking 
and set company-specific goals, as well as identify broader 
trends. As a result, we can see where the challenges lie and 
adapt our support and guidance accordingly, to keep 
improving as a group.

Is data minimisation the new green? One of our 
companies, OLX Group, has actively sought to 
identify, assess and delete duplicative or 
unnecessary data sets to advance its sustainability 
goals, reduce costs and minimise privacy and 
security risks.

Looking forward

We will continue to deploy and strengthen the Naspers 
maturity model. This is a valuable tool that helps our 
subsidiaries focus their resources on material privacy 
governance domains that impact key stakeholders, 
particularly consumers and employees. It also enables 
more streamlined risk assessment, monitoring and 
reporting.

Data privacy risks remain a key focus area for the group, 
due to increased enforcement, new regulations and 
security risks. We are working closely with the Naspers AI 
team to ensure we build and deploy AI in an ethical, 
responsible and compliant way, aligned with the Naspers 
formal approach to AI and ethics.

While challenges remain, we are committed to a strong 
groupwide data privacy programme that ultimately 
benefits the billions of users of our companies’ services 
and improves their everyday lives.

Sustainability review continued

Business culture,  
ethics and integrity
Creating long-term value
The board ensures a culture of sound business ethics and 
conduct, aimed at long-term value creation that underpins the 
group’s activities as a responsible corporate citizen. This 
includes adopting values and a code of business ethics and 
conduct (the code), leading by example and monitoring 
implementation.

Sharing a strong culture
Our group values guide our culture:

 » We build
 » We deliver
 » We’re responsible
 » We value each other.

These values, and the code, are the guiding principles for our 
actions as an organisation.

Our commitment to ethics and compliance
We are committed to conducting business in compliance with 
the law and behaving ethically.

Failing to comply with laws and regulations, or the codes and 
standards we have adopted, could expose the group to legal 
liability and affect our impact, reputation, business, financial 
condition and the communities in which we operate. We strive 
to apply laws and rules, codes and standards with integrity 
and regard for ethical business practices in a way that 
supports good corporate citizenship.

Honesty and integrity are the foundations of our reputation 
and for the trust of our stakeholders: it is crucial for us to 
guard that reputation and preserve that trust.

Roles and responsibilities
The board sets the tone at the top, guiding business values 
and promoting the culture of sound ethics and compliance. 
The board’s risk, audit, human resources and remuneration, 
and social, ethics and sustainability committees exercise 
oversight of ethics and compliance and the management of 
related risks across the group.

The board has approved all our ethics and compliance 
policies, including the code and the speak up policy. The code 
sets out what we as a group expect from all employees and 
stakeholders and the speak up policy encourages and 
provides channels for individuals to report actual, or potential, 
breaches of the code, other group policies or laws and 
regulations.

Senior management is responsible for creating a culture 
aimed at long-term sustainable value creation and ensuring 
ethical business standards are integrated into strategies and 
operations.

Group ethics and compliance is responsible for executing 
effective and demonstrable ethics and compliance risk 
management, specifically relating to the code, anti-bribery 
and anti-corruption, competition/antitrust, sanctions and export 
controls, and anti-money-laundering and counter-terrorism 
financing.

In addition, group ethics and compliance is responsible for 
designing and overseeing the speak up programme across 
the group, including the group policy, monitoring use of speak 
up services and ensuring reports are dealt with appropriately.

Approach
Group ethics and compliance has developed and 
communicated an ethics and compliance framework of 
minimum standards required for subsidiary businesses. 
Subsidiaries are required to implement an ethics and 
compliance programme that is fit-for-purpose and takes 
account of ethics and compliance risks specific to 
their business.

To ensure proper design and implementation of these 
programmes at subsidiary level, ethics and compliance 
officers have been appointed across the group. At year-end, 
there were four ethics and compliance officers at corporate 
level and 97 at subsidiary level (including dedicated staff and 
those with combined roles).

Ethics and compliance officers at subsidiary level report 
to group ethics and compliance on the design and 
implementation of their programmes. Group ethics and 
compliance monitors the design and implementation of these 
programmes through the reporting process as well as regular 
touchpoints with the subsidiaries. Group ethics and 
compliance reports to the group’s board committees 
biannually.

As part of our ethics and compliance culture, we encourage 
employees and third parties to speak up if they have 
concerns, using various available options. Concerns can be 
raised locally via line managers, human resources and ethics 
and compliance officers or through dedicated speak up 
services available online, via a telephone hotline or by email, 
24/7 in multiple languages. Speak up services allow for 
confidential and, if legally permitted, anonymous reporting. 
Retaliation for speaking up is not tolerated and will be treated 
as a violation of our code.

The code and speak up policy are available in multiple 
languages and posted on our website.

Key elements of our data privacy programme

Senior management should emphasise the importance of 
data privacy and its relationship to trust, brand, growth, 
risk and compliance to their teams. The chief executive 
should designate a data protection lead or team 
responsible for data protection.

1 Executive buy-in

The business should know what personal data it holds 
and for what purposes it processes that data.

2 Know your data

3 Policy setting

Privacy training that informs employees about company 
policies, the principles, and how their roles are impacted 
by data privacy requirements, should be part of 
onboarding and/or annual training.

4 Training employees

Where personal data sharing is permitted, third parties 
should be appropriately scrutinised.

We require confidentiality and/or data-processing 
agreements to ensure an adequate level of protection for 
any data shared. We audit vendors on risk-based criteria.

5 Vendor and third-party management

Legal advisers should support the business by helping to 
ensure that applicable laws and their specific 
requirements are met.

6 Legal compliance

Each business should be able to demonstrate compliance 
with the principles, data privacy programme elements, 
and applicable data protection laws.

7 Reporting

Certain policy documents should be adopted to support 
implementation of privacy principles at a minimum:

 » Consumer privacy policy
 » HR privacy policy
 » Security policy
 » Data breach/incident response plan

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 9594 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Progress in FY23
In FY23, we updated and enhanced a number of key group 
policies, including the group’s sanctions and export controls 
policy. We also issued policy-related guidance for our 
segments and businesses. We continued implementing the 
code and speak up programme across the group, with 
training and awareness campaigns.

We refreshed and rolled out our core ethics and compliance 
training to all group employees, with a 100% completion rate.

Risk assessments and annual plans were completed for each 
segment, identifying key risks and initiatives for the year 
ahead, informed by the risk assessment.

In FY23, 598 speak up cases were logged across the group 
(including whistleblowing cases). Of these:

 » 253 were substantiated (fully or partially) and remediated, 
as required

 » 273 were not substantiated, and
 » 72 are still under investigation.

Our subsidiaries continued to make good progress in 
implementing and adapting the ethics and compliance 
framework in their businesses.

Sustainability review continued

Upholding human rights
Human rights give us the freedom to choose how we live, how 
we express ourselves, and the freedom of political affiliation. 
They are fundamental to our ability to meet our basic needs, 
such as food, housing and education. Conflict, poverty, climate 
change, inadequate access to education and inequitable 
access to resources are among the underlying issues that 
contribute to a world where human rights continue to be 
challenged in both mature and emerging economies. The 
global scale of the issue has been highlighted by growing 
discussion on systemic racism and violence following the rise of 
the Black Lives Matter movement. In turn, public dialogue has 
increased on broader topics of diversity, equity and inclusion.

Our commitment

As an employer, investor and operator, our actions touch 
the lives of millions of people around the world. By setting 
appropriate standards at group level, we can create far-
reaching positive impact. Therefore, our approach to human 
rights begins with our own operations and extends through our 
value chain.

We operate in diverse geographies, each with its own historical 
legacies, social demographic configurations and populations. As 
a signatory to the UN Global Compact, our approach to human 
rights sets out standards and principles that can be applied to 
the specific issues and challenges relevant to the business 
models and operating contexts of our companies.

Human rights in our operations

Our approach to human rights begins with the area where we 
have the most influence: our own operations. As an employer, 
we respect the fundamental dignity of our workforce and are 
committed to providing a respectful, safe and secure 
workplace that is free from any form of human rights abuse. 
This commitment extends to the board and everyone who 
works in the group.

Our human rights statement is available on our website 
and is communicated to internal and external stakeholders. 
It describes our approach to topics, including remuneration, 
dignity at work, privacy and employee confidentiality, forced 
labour, and health and safety. It also details the reporting and 
governance framework in place to uphold these standards. 
The human rights statement is overseen by the board, with 
the assistance of the social, ethics and sustainability 
committee and the human resources and remuneration 
committee. Following publication of the group human rights 
statement, 100% of subsidiaries have now adopted and/or 
published their own human rights statement.

Companies we invest in

During our capital-allocation and investment process, we 
incorporate ESG criteria, including human rights, into our 
decision-making. ESG screening is built into our pre-investment 
due diligence process and we vet all new investments for 
potential human rights violations.

Once onboarded into our portfolio, we manage for 
performance and expect our subsidiaries to apply high 
standards on ESG. Since 2021, all subsidiaries have adopted 
our human rights statement and are required to uphold this 
standard, along with applicable laws and regulations. We 
track this performance as part of our third-party ESG 
performance assessment, which maps how each company 
addresses ESG topics, including human rights. We are 
committed to complying with applicable laws and to 
respecting internationally recognised human rights, wherever 
we operate. Guided by the UN Global Compact, in the rare 
situation that national law conflicts with international 
standards, we expect compliance with national law as the 
bare minimum and seek ways to engage with the company to 
promote principles of internationally recognised human rights.

We invest in diverse business segments, each with its own 
human capital value chain. As part of the pre-investment 
process, our investment teams include ‘potential human rights 
violations’ in their broader due diligence of the non-financial 
qualifiers for a company. Businesses such as the Payments 
and Fintech, and Edtech companies have a small group of 
employees who are mostly highly skilled technology or finance 
specialists. Other segments such as Etail and Food Delivery 
have a more extended footprint of on-demand platform 
workers in their value chain. As a result, each company’s 
approach to human rights is influenced by its operating 
context and business model, while maintaining the underlying 
principles. For example, food-delivery businesses work with a 
large pool of drivers who are, in many cases, also external 
contractors. In this case, we have introduced a groupwide 
on-demand platform worker statement for subsidiaries, which 
outlines principles on pay, social protection, fair working 
conditions and flexibility.

Human rights in our supply chain
We recognise our opportunity to influence our supply-chain 
partners through our supplier and purchase decisions. As 
such, we require a commitment to minimum human rights 
standards that are compatible with our own commitments from 
companies seeking to qualify as Naspers suppliers.

For the past three years, we have used a third-party supplier 
assessment tool. This provides a broad view of our supply-
chain risk across four risk areas identified by the UN Global 
Compact, including human rights. This screening system helps 
identify individual risks and allows us to continuously assess 
and improve the profile of our vendor ecosystem.

Looking forward

We continue to develop our ethics and compliance 
strategy to incorporate observations from our monitoring 
activities, emerging risks, regulatory changes and best 
practices. We recognise the importance of ensuring that a 
strong ethics and compliance base is embedded in our 
subsidiaries, while allowing for growth and change.

Over the next year, we will continue to drive 
implementation of the ethics and compliance framework 
in subsidiaries. We will review and enhance core policies 
to meet the evolving risks and regulatory landscape 
applicable to our businesses. We will monitor progress 
against subsidiary annual plans and measure the 
maturity of business programmes. Our subsidiary plans 
cover enhanced governance and risk mapping, policy 
improvements, training and awareness, monitoring and 
testing and other risk and business-specific measures.

We will continue to improve oversight of ethics and 
compliance, and ensure that, as a group, we address the 
relevant ethical issues by taking the right actions and 
developing mitigation and prevention strategies.

Programme statistics

101 ethics and 
compliance 

officers appointed 
across the group

100% of 
corporate 
employees  

completed our 
ethics and 
compliance 
e-learning

598 speak up 
cases logged 

across the group

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 9796 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Community investment
Naspers has a deep-rooted history in South Africa. We are 
proud of our home country and committed to improving 
everyday life for its people, as we do for billions of people 
around the world, through technology.

In its 2021 annual report on South Africa, The United Nations 
Development Programme placed ‘youth unemployment and 
the digital divide’ at the top of a list of the country’s greatest 
development challenges. At Naspers, we aim to promote 
increased digital inclusion for South Africans, particularly 
historically disadvantaged communities, women, and people 
living with disabilities. This focus feeds naturally into 
addressing youth unemployment.

Our purpose of leveraging technology to transform daily life 
informs our strategy of investing in programmes that promote 
greater access to higher education and skills development, 
enabling increased participation in the South African economy. 
Recognising that skills development and training are not 
enough, we also support job-placement programmes and 
micro-enterprise acceleration to improve the livelihoods of 
talented South African job seekers and entrepreneurs.

Naspers bursaries

Education is a key tenet of South Africa’s constitution and its 
national development plan. Concerningly, a large proportion 
of the population who do reach higher education drop out 
primarily due to the associated costs and numerous social 
challenges.

It is an unfortunate reality that poverty and inequality, together 
with gender and disabilities, continue to hamper access to 
higher education or skills training, leaving far too many young 
people condemned to unemployment. Naspers aims to 
contribute to redressing this societal challenge.

We launched our Naspers bursaries programme in 2021 to 
help students obtain degrees in high-demand fields such as 
STEM (science, technology, engineering and mathematics), 
commerce and business science. Our bursary recruitment 
platform reaches beyond urban centres to find academically 
and financially deserving students in disadvantaged 
communities across the country who lack the means to fund 
their studies.

At the end of FY22, we had granted 82 bursaries to qualifying 
candidates from first year to honours level to study at our 
partner universities. In addition to tuition fees, the bursaries 
fund accommodation, meals, prescribed textbooks, a living 
allowance for the duration of the degree, as well as a laptop 
computer (for first-year students only).

Adjusting to university life can be challenging, especially for 
students from disadvantaged backgrounds. This is reflected in 
high drop-out rates among these students. To help students 
reach graduation and because we believe that each 
individual has different needs, we partner with Tomorrow Trust. 
This non-profit organisation has a long record of supporting 
students’ psychosocial health through individual counselling, 
mentorship, and monthly workshops on various topics to 
enable their success. Tomorrow Trust also provides career 
guidance, work-readiness training and a mentorship 
programme for the duration of each bursary.

In the 2022 academic year, 24 bursars graduated with 
honours degrees – 11 in science, 11 in commerce, one in 
engineering and one in information technology.

We contribute to SDG 4 through the Naspers bursaries programme.

Naspers Labs

We established Naspers Labs to provide training for in-
demand digital skills among young South Africans (aged 18 
to 34) who have relevant post-matric qualifications but are 
unable to find employment. As part of our commitment to 
advancing digital inclusion, Naspers Labs particularly focuses 
on recruiting marginalised groups. As a result, 65% of the 
beneficiaries of these programmes are young women and 
4% are young people living with disabilities.

We believe that communities benefit when local businesses 
bloom. Equally, although conditions may vary, we are 
convinced that local action by local companies is key to 
addressing societal challenges. Naspers Labs is run in 
collaboration with local implementing partners, harnessing 
their expertise to deliver in-demand digital skills capabilities, 
work-experience exposure, work-readiness training, job-
placement support and entrepreneurship acceleration. 
Naspers Labs programmes are conducted virtually and, where 
necessary, we provide young people with laptops, tablets and 
data to access online training content.

Sustainability review continued

Building supplier sustainability

We are committed to building a more sustainable supply 
chain through our purchase decisions.

At corporate level, we have implemented an integrated 
vendor-screening tool. We have screened all our vendors 
across a range of material issues to identify any areas of 
concern. The tool will be continuously deployed to assess 
our current and future portfolio of vendors. Our board has set 
the guiding business values and the ethical climate in our 
code of business ethics and conduct which sets out what we 
expect from all our employees, stakeholders and potential 
investment opportunities. Building on this code, our supplier 
code of conduct outlines the principles and guidelines we 
expect our suppliers to follow, to remain a trusted business 
partner. It asks our vendors to live up to the highest standards 
on social themes and take action to reduce their 
environmental impact. The supplier code governs our 
commercial engagements with suppliers and is made part 
of our contractual relationships. It is expected that this will 
be published in FY24.

Supplier screening
Before we engage with a supplier, we screen the organisation 
for its historical conduct on several elements like financial 
conduct, and incidents related to human rights and 
environmental management. Once this screening proves 
satisfactory and all red flags are addressed sufficiently, we 
can onboard or continue working with the supplier. 

To date, Naspers Labs has prepared 3 956 youth to become 
software developers, cloud engineers, cybersecurity 
technicians, data analysts, desktop technicians, data scientists, 
web developers and robotics specialists, among others. 
Thanks to our extensive partner networks – including Afrika 
Tikkun Services, GirlCode, and Esinam – Naspers Labs has 
to date placed 3 920 young people in tech and tech-
enabled jobs.

Naspers Labs is also a strong proponent of enterprise 
acceleration. As part of our total R235m investment in this 
programme, we have provided business support (incubation, 
acceleration and market access) to 33 young entrepreneurs, 
enabling them to improve their businesses to become 
self-sustaining, leverage technology and grow.

We believe that through our social impact initiatives, Naspers 
is contributing to South Africa’s long-term growth and success 
by accelerating digital inclusion, educating tomorrow’s tech 
talents, facilitating employment for historically underserved 
members of society and supporting new tech-led and 
tech-enabled start-ups.

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 9998 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Managing our environmental 
impact
Our environmental impact can affect our reputation, regulatory 
compliance, and operational efficiency, which in turn can 
impact our financial performance. As such, measuring, 
managing and reporting environmental impact is crucial for us 
to make informed decisions and to ensure our performance is 
aligned with our values and goals. 

Our environmental sustainability programme sets out our 
approach to defining, measuring, and managing our 
environmental impacts of our group. We have created this 
document for all our stakeholders to provide a comprehensive 
view of our material impact on the planet and to outline how 
we address risks and capitalise on opportunities. 

Climate action is listed as a key priority by stakeholders in our 
materiality survey. As an investor, we are ideally positioned to 
play an active role in the transition to a low-carbon economy. 
We focus our climate action on three areas: 

 » Our own corporate operations
 » Our corporate supply chain
 » Our investment portfolio.

Our dedication to climate action is reflected in our ambitious 
reduction and portfolio engagement targets, and we believe 
our climate and environment programmes serve the long-term 
interests of communities where we operate.

Our science-based commitments

In FY23, we worked on building a real-world climate transition 
plan that was both relevant and practical in the context of our 
diversified holdings and group structure. We developed our 
targets by applying the Science-based Targets Initiative’s (SBTi) 
guidance for investors, which best matches our diverse and 
dynamic portfolio of investments. We are committed to a 
climate journey aligned with the Paris Agreement to limit 
global warming to 1.5°C.

The targets we have developed shape our absolute reduction 
pathway for corporate emissions (scope 1, 2 and 3) as well as 
multiyear engagement with our portfolio companies to put their 
businesses on a net-zero pathway by developing their own 
science-based targets, a so-called portfolio coverage target. 
Applying a portfolio coverage metric of at least 50% of invested 
capital, we expect and encourage the majority of our 
subsidiaries to set science-based targets by FY30.

Our science-based targets

Corporate emissions 

100%

30%

Scope 1 + scope 2 
emissions by FY28

Air business travel 
emissions by FY30

Portfolio emissions

Majority* of our portfolio 
companies set a science-
based reduction target 
by FY30

Majority

* This is measured by invested capital.

Decarbonisation pathway for our corporate operations 

In FY23, we implemented all necessary measures to ensure we 
reach our target to reduce scope 1 and 2 emissions from our 
operations (which include Naspers and Prosus corporate 
offices) to zero. This target was a key metric in our chief 
executive and CFO’s short-term incentives, as detailed in the 
remuneration report. For our scope 1 reductions, we 
implemented a programme to dispose all internal combustion 
engine vehicles from our corporate office’s asset register. For 
our scope 2 reductions, we implemented three core actions, 
depending on the operating context of the office space. 
(1) Where possible, we engaged with our leasing agency to 
install on-site solar panels; (2) where available on the grid, we 
procured green energy; and (3) for all remaining energy 
consumption, we procured equivalent renewable-energy 
certificates. Going forward, it is our intention to continue making 
further progress on this pathway and increasing the ratio of 
green-energy procurement to renewable-energy certificates.

Emissions from business travel are also a priority (scope 3, 
category 6). Our target is to reduce emissions from flight-based 
business travel by 30% by FY30. In FY23, we onboarded a new 
travel agent and began using a travel management tool that 
includes GHG emission calculations, giving employees valuable 
information to make sustainable travel choices. In addition to 
reducing emissions from business travel, we continue to invest in 
sustainable aviation fuel. This short-term solution for 
decarbonising air travel supports the long-term goal of 
developing a low-carbon pathway for air travel. 

Being a force for good
Distributed renewable-energy credits (D-RECs)
Naspers, through Prosus, has committed to buying 3GWh of D-RECs from South Pole between 2022 and 2025, 
delivering 1GWh per year. This transaction – one of the first of its kind – will provide much-needed capital to 
help establish transformative renewable-energy projects that displace carbon-intensive energy and give rural 
communities access to energy. The deal was announced at the United Nations Climate Change Conference 
COP27 in Sharm el-Sheikh, Egypt. 

By purchasing D-RECs, Prosus is providing climate finance for renewable-energy projects that displace 
polluting off-grid energy generation, such as diesel generators and energy from some of the most carbon-
intensive grids in the world. 

D-RECs extend the impact of renewable-energy certificates (RECs) – a widely used market instrument – to 
smaller projects with limited connection to the grid and/or cannot easily access financing. Renewable-energy 
solutions made viable by D-RECs, like solar mini-grids, deliver clean energy to irrigation systems, healthcare 
facilities, schools and homes. By improving critical services for communities, the tremendous development 
potential of D-RECs contribute to UN SDGs on health, food security, education and helping to fight climate 
change. 

Naspers and portfolio companies’ scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions1

Naspers corporate office:

tCO
2
e*

Scope 1  Emissions from direct operations (use of fossil fuels and refrigerants) 6

Scope 2  Emissions from purchased electricity (market-based) 500

Scope 3  Emissions from indirect sources (purchased goods and services) 6 929

Scope 3  Emissions from indirect sources (air travel) 422

Portfolio companies: 

Media24

Scope 1 Emissions from use of fossil fuel 1 485

Emissions from use of refrigerants 0

Total scope 1 1 485

Scope 2 Emissions from purchased electricity (market-based) 6 125

Takealot

Scope 1 Emissions from use of fossil fuel 16 163

Emissions from use of refrigerants 0

Total scope 1 16 163

Scope 2 Emissions from purchased electricity (market-based) 8 401

Sustainability review continued

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 101100 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Prosus corporate offices2:

tCO
2
e*

Scope 1  Emissions from direct operations (use of fossil fuels and refrigerants) 16

Scope 2  Emissions from purchased electricity (market-based) 67

Scope 3  Emissions from indirect sources (purchased goods and services) 3 848

Scope 3  Emissions from indirect sources (air travel) 2 134

OLX

Scope 1 Emissions from use of fossil fuel 688

Emissions from use of refrigerants 0

Total scope 1 688

Scope 2 Emissions from purchased electricity (market-based) 3 249

Movile 

Scope 1 Emissions from use of fossil fuel 0

Emissions from use of refrigerants 0

Total scope 1 0

Scope 2 Emissions from purchased electricity (market-based) 55

iFood

Scope 1 Emissions from use of fossil fuel 1

Emissions from use of refrigerants 0

Total scope 1 1

Scope 2 Emissions from purchased electricity (market-based) 524

eMAG

Scope 1 Emissions from use of fossil fuel 12 236

Emissions from use of refrigerants 366

Total scope 1 12 602

Scope 2 Emissions from purchased electricity (market-based) 2 686

PayU

Scope 1 Emissions from use of fossil fuel 301

Emissions from use of refrigerants 63

Total scope 1 364

Scope 2 Emissions from purchased electricity (market-based) 1 278

GoodHabitz

tCO
2
e*

Scope 1 Emissions from use of fossil fuel 135

Emissions from use of refrigerants 0

Total scope 1 135

Scope 2 Emissions from purchased electricity (market-based) 21

Stack Overflow

Scope 1 Emissions from use of fossil fuel 0

Emissions from use of refrigerants 0

Total scope 1 0

Scope 2 Emissions from purchased electricity (market-based) 51

Scope 1 emissions:

tCO
2
e

Naspers corporate 6

Prosus corporate 16

Portfolio companies 31 437

Total 31 459LA 

Scope 2 emissions:

Naspers corporate 500

Prosus corporate 67

Portfolio companies 22 389

Total 22 956LA

Scope 3 emissions (category 1 – purchased goods and services):

Naspers corporate 6 929

Prosus corporate 3 848

Total 10 777LA

Scope 3 emissions (category 6 – air travel):

Naspers corporate 422

Prosus corporate 2 134

Total 2 556LA

*  tCO
2
e: tonnes of CO

2
 equivalent.

1 Scope 3 includes only Naspers and Prosus corporate.
2 Corporate offices include the Netherlands, Unites States, India, United Kingdom and Hong Kong offices.
LA Limited assurance obtained.

The full assurance report can be accessed on our website at:
www.naspers.com/investors/results-reports-events/latest-annual-report.

The carbon emissions data was prepared using criteria for scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions which may be accessed on our 
website at:
www.naspers.com/investors/results-reports-events/latest-annual-report.

Sustainability review continued

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 103102 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Sustainability review continued

Decarbonising our portfolio of companies

We will deliver on our portfolio coverage target by firstly 
engaging our controlled portfolio companies, where we have 
the highest level of influence and strong established 
collaborative relationship. Our strategy is to guide and support 
at least one controlled portfolio company per year to 
complete the target-setting journey and submit it to SBTi for 
verification. The anticipated impact of our multiyear 
commitment is substantial; by FY30, we expect to help a group 
of companies with an aggregate US$5.7bn in revenues, 
advance on their net-zero pathway.

The development of a portfolio coverage target reflects our 
evolving ‘portfolio view’, where climate actions are supported 
at group level across our portfolio. This extends our 
commitments well beyond majority-owned or controlled 
companies to include listed and minority holdings. 

The GHG emissions footprint of our portfolio of digital tech 
companies is low relative to most industrial sectors. 
Nonetheless, pockets of carbon-intense activities exist in some 
of our segments’ value chains. Our businesses are exploring 
scalable strategies to reduce emissions, for example in the 
Food Delivery and Etail segments where all our companies 
are implementing projects to extend the reach and use of 
zero-emission electric vehicles in their delivery fleets. 

We apply a three-step process to transition our portfolio to 
align with a net-zero economy:

 » We begin by mapping the environmental impact of a 
company’s operations and extended value chain. Within 
24 months of onboarding, each subsidiary is required to 
calculate and disclose data for scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions 
via our group carbon data reporting tool. This year, our 
subsidiaries increased the quality and scope of their carbon 
accounting. Most have now included material scope 3 
categories in this process, essential for identifying 
opportunities to decarbonise their businesses. 

 » Secondly, we help subsidiaries and associates employ 
best practice and science-based frameworks to develop 
net-zero pathways with multiyear targets. We have begun 
a project of intense collaboration with iFood to develop 
its science-based targets. The iFood team has started a 
detailed analysis of SBTi guidance, and is scoping the GHG 
footprint calculation for the company. iFood has already 
made considerable progress on a method to measure GHG 
emissions from packaging used by its restaurants. This 
complex and resource-intense process is necessary for 
setting the company on a net-zero pathway.

PayU

The PayU business model supports the transition to a 
lower-carbon financial services infrastructure. Despite a 
relatively small carbon footprint, PayU measures and 
manages carbon emissions in its operations and value 
chain, and is defining a clear emissions-reduction pathway. 
One example is its investment to purchase distributed 
renewable-energy credits from renewable-energy projects in 
rural India, thereby reducing its scope 2 emissions.

Over the past year, PayU matured its carbon-accounting 
practices for scope 1 and 2, and continued to work on 
completing an assurance readiness review on at least one 
material scope 3 category. PayU’s highest priority is the 
purchased goods and services category, with cloud and 
data-related services being the main drivers.

In line with global good practice, it will set science-based 
net-zero targets to be implemented and achieved over 
three years and submit this to SBTi before the end of FY25.

eMAG 

eMAG has rigorous carbon accounting already in place 
for scope 1 and 2 emissions, and in FY23, eMAG 
improved its scope 3 assessments for product-related 
categories. For example, it calculates carbon intensity, a 
measurement that defines carbon emissions relative to 
the organisation’s turnover and number of employees. 

By using its easybox network, eMAG reduces its direct 
carbon footprint generated through fuel consumption 
significantly (an easybox order generates up to 95% less 
CO

2
 than one delivered to a customer’s home). 

eMAG’s logistics centre in Romania is both state-of-the-art 
and sustainable. It received an excellent rating under the 
BREEAM standard for design and construction stages 
certification programme, and the new warehouse under 
construction in Hungary received the same rating for its 
design stage.

The Romania warehouse is powered by green energy from a 
rooftop photovoltaic panel grid. In FY23, further capacity was 
added to this installation, totalling 2MW power via a network 
of nearly 4 400 photovoltaic panels. eMAG has also instituted 
a full green-energy contract for its other warehouses to 
reduce carbon emissions from purchased electricity. 

Takealot

Takealot is committed to environmental sustainability, both 
in its operational practices and in the products offered. 
The business strives to minimise its environmental footprint 
by using certified sustainable materials and packaging 
(and phasing out suppliers that do not comply), reducing 
energy and water consumption, and creating ecofriendly 
delivery practices. Takealot is maturing on its carbon-
accounting journey and conducted a readiness review for 
material scope 3 categories. In the new year, it will define 

the steps towards more comprehensive scope 3 disclosure 
that will underpin long-term target setting.

In FY23, Takealot partnered with AEVERSA, a company that 
aims to electrify South Africa’s commercial fleets. Since 
November 2022, it is piloting a fully electric truck to 
operate between its Johannesburg distribution centre and 
proximity hubs. Based on an initial analysis, the electric 
trucks also provide meaningful financial benefit, given 
current fuel prices. Takealot will evaluate the pilot in FY24 
and decide on further adoption of electric vehicles. 

The e-bike programme for delivery drivers gained 
momentum, with over 100 bikes on the road at year-end. 
To protect drivers, new hires undergo extensive e-bike 
safety training and travel is limited to daylight hours within 
dedicated e-bike delivery zones. Customer response has 
been overwhelmingly positive, and Takealot aims to 
expand the programme to 500 e-bikes in FY24.

Edtech 

In terms of environmental stewardship for our Edtech 
segment, in FY23, Stack Overflow and GoodHabitz began 
to inventory their carbon footprints by mapping scope 1, 2 
and 3 emissions data. Given their online nature, these 
businesses generate low levels of carbon emissions, while 
they offer their customers less carbon-intense learning and 
training, when compared to more traditional ways of 
brick-and-mortar, offline schooling systems and education. 

Engaging our supply chain to take climate action

In FY23, we began to engage with top suppliers of the 
Naspers and Prosus corporate entities, requesting them to 
share the GHG emissions related to services they provide to 
our corporate headquarters operations and details of their 
emissions reduction targets. We learnt that 82% of our top 
suppliers have GHG reduction targets and 64% have science-
based reduction targets. We will continue this engagement 
with all our suppliers, to better understand how to use 
environmental metrics in future supplier selection. The primary 
GHG data from our suppliers will deliver a reduction of 
emissions from our procured goods and services and 
education.

For information on the results of our supplier engagement, 
refer to our environmental impact report.

Fair and just transition

The concept of a just transition emerged as a key pillar of the 
global climate strategy at the 2022 COP27 climate summit. 
This is particularly relevant given that a majority of our 
businesses are located in the global south and often operate 
in communities that are most vulnerable to climate change.

 » Thirdly, across our portfolio, we support the capital 
expenditure and operating expenditure (capex and 
opex) investments our businesses are making to ramp up 
decarbonisation of their operations. For example, this year, 
PayU invested in distributed renewable-energy credits to 
fund the renewable-energy capacity of rural businesses 
across India. In our Etail segment, substantial investments 
have been made to accelerate the use of solar energy in 
distribution centres and our food-delivery companies iFood 
and Swiggy are scaling the electrification of delivery fleets. 

Decoupling growth from emissions 

iFood

iFood was carbon-neutral for FY23 and aims to use clean 
transportation methods for 50% of its deliveries by 2025. In 
the first quarter of the 2023 calendar year, 21% of its own 
deliveries were made using non-polluting modes (bicycles, 
e-bikes or e-motorcycles). To do so, it is developing solutions 
that allow more deliveries to be carried out by bicycles and 
creating financial products that encourage the use of 
around 2 500 e-bikes in its iFood Pedal programme, which 
has delivered 11 million orders since inception. For FY24, 
the challenge will be to maintain the constant growth of 
deliveries using traditional bicycles and e-bikes (iFood 
Pedal) and to offer a robust programme for the sale or hire 
of e-motorcycles for drivers.

By year-end, iFood had delivered 37 million zero-emissions 
orders by bike, e-bike, e-motorcycles and drones.

OLX

OLX Group has focused on measuring its scope 1, 2 and 
material scope 3 categories (purchased goods and 
services and business travel). Seventeen employee-led 
green teams have found ways to reduce the office 
environmental footprint through recycling initiatives, 
clean-ups, switching to green energy contracts and 
investing in solar energy for OLX’s biggest warehouse in 
Mexico. In total, over 30 initiatives were started globally 
by employees, through a companywide hackathon. 

OLX data privacy and tech teams have significantly 
reduced its carbon footprint through data storage. By 
following best practices in deleting unnecessary and old 
image files in the OLX content management system, the 
team saved more than 1 petabyte (1 000 terabytes) of 
storage – reducing the level of server storage required 
from a third-party provider.

In FY24, OLX will invest further in crystallising its ESG approach 
to benefit all stakeholders: customers, communities, 
employees, government regulators, and investors. It will 
establish a preliminary path for reaching net-zero emissions, 
using the SBTi framework, including an operational roadmap 
for publicly disclosing targets by end-FY25.

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 105104 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



While countries of the industrialised north are overwhelmingly 
responsible for climate change, impacts are felt most strongly 
in parts of the world with limited resources to tackle the 
problem. For example, a company seeking to decarbonise its 
fleet of delivery vehicles in Germany benefits from lower costs 
of capital and more enabling policies, incentives and 
infrastructure than comparable businesses in Brazil, India or 
South Africa.

This reality is core to any concept of climate justice – and 
recognised in article 2.2 of the Paris Climate Agreement 
by an explicit commitment to ‘the principle of common but 
differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities’. 
Deploying available technologies to curb emissions is often 
more difficult, disruptive and expensive in those economies 
least responsible for global warming.

Climate goals are global, but operating environments and the 
costs of transition are influenced by the available energy mix, 
local economy, governments’ varying net-zero commitments, 
policies and regulation. Each company’s operating country 
context is critical to its decarbonisation pathway.

For example, Brazil has set a goal of achieving its net-zero 
target by 2050. In contrast, India has set a date of 2070 to 
achieve the same target. For example, our food-delivery 
subsidiary iFood benefits more from Brazil’s enabling 
ecosystem than its peer Swiggy in India or Mr D in 
South Africa.

Digital services reduce or eliminate dependence on physical 
materials in delivery and consumption. For example, our 
Payments and Fintech, and Edtech platforms enable online 
education and digital payments, which require fewer materials 
and consequently have lower impacts than their physical 
counterparts. In online shopping, our investee Oda, a leading 
online grocery-delivery company in the Nordic region, 
commissioned a comparative study that showed online 
grocery shopping can have a carbon footprint up to 60% 
smaller than offline shopping.

Water use and waste generation are both of limited relevance 
to the businesses of our controlled and non-controlled portfolio 
companies. In our physical climate-related risk assessment 
(refer to our TCFD report), we have looked at water risks 
(flooding, drought, etc) with the potential to impact our 
employees and supply chains. However, given that our 
business models are online and minimally reliant on physical 
assets and infrastructure, we have concluded that water stress 
does not require a separate management programme as it is 
not an important risk factor.

Sustainable packaging

The supply of high-quality packaging plays a critical role 
in the success of food delivery and etail, not only for our 
companies’ operations but also for their business partners. 
Our food-delivery and etail subsidiaries are implementing 
sustainable packaging strategies to reduce waste and 
optimise resource use.

Food-delivery and etail platforms are powerful aggregators of 
supply and demand for businesses and consumers. With their 
scale and digital innovations, they can play an important role 
in improving the sustainability of packaging by catalysing 
innovation and rapidly scaling solutions.

In the absence of a global framework for sustainable 
packaging, we have developed group principles and 
approaches to help our portfolio companies develop effective 
strategies. We have determined 10 golden rules to help 
digital delivery platforms scale sustainable packaging across 
their operations and value chains.

Sustainability review continued

Our commitment to a fair and just transition underpins our 
approach to creating sustainable value. Most of our 
businesses operate in communities that are particularly 
vulnerable to the impacts of climate change. We believe that 
a commercial strategy anchored in the climate agenda will 
contribute to reducing systemic risk, enhancing human capital, 
and securing our societal licence to operate.

Our governance and management framework is in place, 
ready to support all our businesses, operations and 
subsidiaries and associates to meet global climate targets 
aligned to the Paris Agreement goal of net-zero emissions.

Resource use

The business models of companies in our group are asset-
light, leading to a limited need for natural resources in their 
value chains, beyond office space and equipment. There are 
a few resource and carbon-intense activities in our Etail and 
Food Delivery platforms. Curbing the environmental impact 
of delivery services and packaging of food and goods is 
a priority across our businesses in these segments.

Circular economy, packaging and biodiversity are focus 
themes for our group. We take an active role in enabling 
positive transitions and are committed to increasing our 
understanding of mitigating measures and allocating capital 
to solutions.

10 golden rules  

for scaling sustainable packaging

Reduce 
packaging 

through design 
and logistics

Remove 
problematic and 

unnecessary 
elements

Reduce virgin 
material and 

increase recycled 
content

Replace 
petrochemical-
based plastics 

with low-impact 
and regenerative 

materials

Adopt and scale 
reuse modelsPromote 

sustainable 
options with 
partners and 
consumers

Calculate 
packaging 
footprint

Raise awareness 
to improve 

recycling and 
composting

Invest in building 
infrastructure 
that captures 
materials and 

prevents waste

Create scale 
through 

collaboration

1
2

3

4
5

6
7

8

9

10

Golden rules for 
delivery platforms 

to scale sustainable 
packaging

Materiality assessment of environmental impact

* Waste not from packaging use.

We also strive to create impact by supporting innovation. 
Our Classifieds business enables resource optimisation by 
promoting the recycling and reuse of goods. Additionally, our 

Food Delivery and Etail portfolio companies are creating 
opportunities to scale adoption of sustainable packaging, such 
as reusable food containers or new biodegradable materials.

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 107106 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



In FY23, the packaging and waste working group, comprising all companies with a material packaging footprint, published two 
impactful reports: the 10 golden rules for digital delivery platforms to scale sustainable packaging; and landscape studies on 
packaging to identify solutions for new materials and strategies for reduction.

We will continue to map and optimise the material packaging footprint in our Food Delivery and Etail segments – finding ways to 
do more with less.

iFood, the first food-tech company in Brazil to sign the 
UN Global Compact, is using its presence in Brazil to 
support the acceleration to greener economies. The 
company estimates that Brazil produces over 
11 million tons of disposable plastics annually, 
including plates, cups, cutlery, plastic bags and 
non-recyclable disposable straws. Without a national 
or public-sector recycling plan for these items, they 
end up in landfill or in the environment. Given its role 
in the food ecosystem, iFood believes it can contribute 
to improving Brazil’s waste management.

Last year, iFood committed to the #DeLivreDePlástico 
initiative, driven by the United Nations Environment 
Programme (UNEP), to eliminate plastic pollution from 
deliveries off its platform by 2025. It has enabled the 
‘no cutlery, straws, or napkins’ option in its app, and 
encourages restaurants not to send these items 
by default (only when requested). iFood has a 
restaurant participation target of 90% by 
December 2023, and aims to ship 80% of orders 
without these disposable items by 2025.

iFood’s goal is to reduce plastics in deliveries by 50%, 
with the remaining material being 100% recyclable by 
2025. To better understand which deliveries and 
meals cause the most packaging waste, iFood 
leveraged its internal data, showing which meal types 
are prime candidates for packaging reform. Based on 
this data, it has focused on developing partnerships in 
the paper industry, such as Suzano and Klabin, and 
with start-ups producing sustainable packaging, such 
as GrowPack, a biodegradable packaging factory 
(using corn husk-based source material) to test this 
packaging at scale. In addition, it has encouraged 

large restaurant partners to go plastic-free. The 
objective for FY24 is a launch of a portfolio of 
affordable sustainable iFood packaging and 
encouraging large restaurant partners to go plastic-
free.

eMAG is also improving its order-consolidation 
process, combining multiple products for the same 
client in a single package. The goal is to improve 
its consolidation rate of 80% last year to 88% in FY24, 
reducing packaging volume and shipping bulk. 
Compared with FY22, eMAG reduced its packaging 
consumption by over 20% and plastic packaging 
by 35%, by eliminating or replacing with 100% 
recyclable cardboard packaging. 

Last year, South African subsidiaries, Takealot and 
Media24, joined the SA Plastics Pact, confirming their 
commitment to reduce impact from plastic packaging 
and support the transition from a linear model of 
take-make-waste to a circular economy for packaging.

To reduce waste, Takealot introduced recycling bins at 
its pickup points in FY23, enabling customers to return 
cardboard boxes for recycling. A second set of bins 
allows customers to drop off used clothing that is then 
supplied to the homeless.

In addition, Takealot will map its packaging 
footprint by identifying and measuring volumes in the 
extended value chain and determining what happens 
with packaging after use. It will then create a 
transition plan for sustainable packaging by applying 
strategies of reduce, reuse, recycle/compost.

Circular economy

We live in a world of limited natural resources, where the mining of raw materials and manufacturing of products have negative 
environmental impacts. The solution is to transition from a take-make-waste system to a circular economy.

A circular economy goes beyond simply recycling and enables consumers to live the lives they want, with limited environmental 
impact. Extending a product’s life is a key part of the circular economy. By facilitating the trade of second-hand products, our 
classifieds platforms extend life cycles for items that would otherwise have short life cycles. As a result, our need for new products 
is lessened and our production of waste decreases.

Sustainability review continued

OLX
Our classifieds platform OLX has modelled the 
positive impact of its circular model by calculating 
how reusing consumer products, including 
smartphones, televisions, laptops, and cars, leads to 
substantial material savings and avoided GHG 
emissions. The annual impact reports of OLX 
quantifies this positive impact: it calculates the volume 
of emissions that are avoided by enabling its 
customers to extend the life of consumer goods like 
televisions, phones, laptops, cars, motors and car 
parts. For instance, in 2022 OLX helped, through the 
trade of 26 million products, prevent the GHG 
emissions of 5.2 million tonnes, equal to 31 million 
trees that would need to be planted. The annual 
impact report can be found on https://www.olxgroup.
com/impact. The power of digital platforms to 
contribute exponentially to a low-impact society is 
shown when we compare these avoided emissions to 
the direct operational emissions of OLX and OLX 
Autos, which were 40 000t CO

2
eq, or only 0.7% of this 

total benefit. 

eMAG – contributing to circular economy
eMAG’s Flip developed its in-house expertise to repair 
any type of mobile phone, irrespective of apparent or 
underlying defects. The environmental impact of a 
refurbished phone is up to 80% lower than a new one. 
Flip promotes the idea that refurbished phones are 
a smarter acquisition for both customers and the 
environment: consumers can save up to 40% on the 
cost of a device that presents and functions like a 
new one, benefit from a 12-month warranty and do 
so all while making a positive impact on the 
environment.

Similarly, eMAG’s Freshful grocery business has 
incorporated sustainability principles into its operating 
model since inception. For example, Freshful paper 
bags are 100% recyclable, and the company offers to 
recycle bags used in deliveries. In addition to 
minimising food waste through efficient planning and 
cold-chain management, Freshful’s ‘save me’ 
promotions enable customers to buy items close to 
their expiry date. To date, this has prevented the 
disposal of over 70 000 products. Next steps include 
optimising order consolidations to further reduce the 
use of paperbags, and plans to reduce, reuse, recycle 
and compost packaging, while increasing the use of 
sustainable packaging and reducing waste.

Biodiversity

Biodiversity risks and impacts are rapidly growing global 
concerns. Biodiversity is a complex issue with multiple facets, 
and businesses, investors, regulators and others are trying to 
come to grips with the speed and scale of changes in our 
natural world, from oceans to land and air.

We welcome the Taskforce on Nature-related Financial 
Disclosures (TNFD) framework to guide our understanding of 
the impacts of biodiversity loss, and to support our thinking 
about how to reduce further negative impacts. We are 
committed to mapping the full biodiversity impact of our 
portfolio companies and developing effective mitigation 
and adaptation measures.

Our initial assessment last year, based on business models 
in our portfolio, indicated that biodiversity impact is minimal 
compared to other business sectors. This is due to the digital 
nature of our businesses and the fact that operations of our 
portfolio companies mainly involve offices in urban areas with 
supply chains comprising mostly service providers.

As we continue to assess our exposure, we will develop and 
implement a no-deforestation commitment across our 
businesses:

 » We commit to prohibiting the clearing or converting of any 
forest areas to develop new sites for our businesses.

 » We are committed, where possible and feasible, to 
procuring FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) paper and 
cardboard products for all our Etail businesses and will 
increase the share of FSC-certified products purchased.

In line with its commitment to sustainability and the objectives 
of the Romanian environmental pledge, eMAG has partnered 
with Foundation Conservation Carpathia (FCC). FCC created a 
wilderness reserve in the Romanian Carpathian mountains by 
purchasing land and hunting rights to protect the area from 
deforestation and promote biodiversity. Its plan is to return the 
land to the public domain and promote sustainable tourism in 
the area. Forest conservation projects such as these play a 
crucial role in combating global warming.

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 109108 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Tax

As a technology investor that backs local entrepreneurs, there 
is typically no traditional value chain in which value is added 
in multiple layers. Paying taxes in the markets where we 
operate is important to contribute to those societies. This 
ensures we provide a return to those communities and 
countries for the benefit and privilege of doing business with 
and in them.

Paying taxes locally is an extension of our commitment to 
improving our customers’ lives through technology. Our 
investees’ businesses directly improve people’s lives. Indirectly, 
through taxes paid locally, people’s lives are further improved. 
Locally paid taxes assist governments to fund the needs of the 
populations in their countries.

We support the establishment of a harmonised international 
tax system where there is a level playing field and where all 
players pay their taxes in the jurisdictions where they operate.

To understand our approach to paying taxes and interpret the 
taxes paid information, it is important to understand our 
operating model. As a global technology investor, our portfolio 
of businesses is well diversified by sector and geography. We 
operate on a decentralised basis in numerous countries. The 
businesses are based in the countries where their operations, 
users and consumers are. All our investees pay taxes locally, 
in the jurisdictions where they operate and their products and 
services are consumed. Overall, our aim is to improve the lives 
of people who live in the countries where we operate – 
paying taxes is an integral part of that aim and our business 
operations.

Being a responsible global corporate citizen is at the core of 
everything we do. We consider paying taxes as an important 
economic contribution to the societies in which we operate, and 
a normal consequence of doing business.

Taxes paid in FY23

In FY23, Naspers paid and collected US$1.2bn (FY22: US$1.4bn) in direct and indirect taxes globally. Details of taxes per country 
are set out below:1

Region/Country

Corporate
income 

and
withholding

taxes

Payroll taxes 
and social 

security 
contributions 

paid  

Payroll taxes 
and social 

security 
contributions 

collected  

Other
direct
taxes

Total
direct
taxes

VAT, 
service

and
consumption

taxes

Other
indirect

taxes

Total
indirect

taxes

Total 
tax

contribution
FY23

Total 
tax

contribution
FY222

Brazil 66.8 14.9   10.9   8.0 100.6 123.3 0.3 123.6 224.4 240.2

Romania 1.9  6.5    59.8   2.4 70.6 132.8 0.5 133.3 203.9 189.3

South Africa 35.4  2.8    52.4   0.9 91.5 24.8 4.8 29.6 121.1 190.9

The Netherlands 51.5  4.0    67.8   – 123.3 (10.1) – (10.1) 113.2 187.1

Poland 20.8  11.5   22.5   0.9 55.8 48.0 0.0 48.0 103.8 93.8

Argentina 47.7  2.3    1.1   42.3 93.5 3.1 – 3.1 96.6 112.9

India 25.8  3.2    30.7   0.0 59.7 23.2 0.8 24.0 83.6 48.1

United States of America 0.4  6.2    57.7   2.0 66.3 – – – 66.3 119.5

Hungary 0.8  11.8    5.4   5.0 23.1 9.6 – 9.6 32.7 22.5

Bulgaria 0.0  0.9    0.7   0.0 1.7 26.9 – 26.9 28.6 30.1

Colombia 16.1  2.5    1.8   3.0 23.4 1.9 – 1.9 25.2 27.3

Other 18.2  31.2  59.7   1.7 110.9 24.8 0.2 25.1 136.0 134.1

Total 285.4 97.9  370.5   66.2 820.1 408.3 6.7 415.0 1 235.1 1 395.7

1 The table lists all the taxes paid on a country-by-country basis in the 11 jurisdictions with the largest tax contributions. These 11 jurisdictions contributed 
approximately 89% of the total taxes paid in FY23. Taxes paid in 36 countries add up to the amounts under ‘Other’. 

2 To have a direct comparison with the taxes paid in FY23, the taxes paid in FY22 exclude the taxes paid in countries where the operations have been discontinued.

Naspers shows a meaningful normalised effective tax rate of 
26.8% for FY23 (FY22: 23.6%).

The group accounts for its share of results of its equity-
accounted investments net of taxation recognised by those 
investments. To provide a more comparable and meaningful 
effective tax rate, the tax recognised as part of the group’s 
share of results from equity-accounted investments is included, 
for purposes of calculating the normalised effective tax rate.

Compliance

As a family of essentially local businesses, the principles 
we apply across our portfolio are consistent. We take tax 
compliance seriously. Naspers has zero tolerance for non-
compliance with tax laws in all jurisdictions where our 
businesses operate. This principle is embedded in the culture 
of our group and is an element of the KPIs of finance and tax 
teams.

Our tax team comprises experienced and effectively equipped 
tax specialists. Regular training ensures all team members 
maintain their optimal tax skill sets. Investees are accountable 
for managing tax and adhering to our group tax policy, 
including zero tolerance for non-compliance.

Compliance with laws and regulations in the countries where 
we do business is essential to the integrity of our businesses 
and all our actions. Ensuring we are compliant with tax 
legislation in territories where we operate is non-negotiable. 
We have to be – and we want to be – fully compliant: no 
exceptions. This is how we do business and why our 
stakeholders can have confidence in the integrity of our 
actions.

Of course, we ensure we manage our tax costs, as with any 
other business costs, as efficiently as possible. This is part of 
our responsibility to our shareholders and our businesses. But 
we do not abuse opportunities to unreasonably reduce the tax 
cost of the business. All tax planning, whether driven by 
acquisitions, rationalisations, disposals or disinvestments, 
operational restructuring or legislative changes, is carried out 
in line with our tax policy and our approach to tax. We will 
take into account the intention and objective of tax legislation 
or policy in how we apply the legislation. Our appetite for tax 
risk is low. All tax planning is decided and effected in the 
context of the business: tax consequences flow from business 
operations. Business structures and operational models dictate 
our tax strategy, not vice versa.

We do not engage with tax authorities to obtain special 
dispensations. When obtaining advance tax rulings, we do this 
via standard, transparent processes available to all taxpayers. 
Our aim is to create certainty on the application and tax 
consequences of business transactions. In line with our 
commitment to tax transparency, we support making any 
rulings publicly available.

Operating a decentralised local business model means that 
transfer pricing is not the most significant factor in our tax 
management. To the extent that it does apply, we ensure there 
is always adherence to the arm’s length principle.

Naspers has grown organically and by acquisition. In the 
course of these acquisitions, we inherited a number of legacy 
structures, including some companies located in low-tax 
jurisdictions. These structures are under constant review and 
most have been eliminated. In FY22, four companies in low 
or no-tax jurisdictions (two in British Virgin Islands, two in 
Mauritius) were liquidated. In FY23, this was continued with the 
liquidation of three entities: two in Mauritius and one British 
Virgin Islands company. Additional legacy companies are 
either being liquidated or identified for liquidation. Low or 
no-tax jurisdictions are internally defined as countries with no 
corporate income tax and countries listed on the EU blacklist 
of non-co-operative jurisdictions for tax purposes. Presence in 
such jurisdictions is retained only in cases where business 
reasons dictate such a presence. We do not attempt to 
engineer tax advantages by creating business entities in low 
or no-tax jurisdictions in which Naspers does not operate or 
have business substance.

Further guidance on how we manage taxes is publicly 
available in our group tax policy.

Governance

We attach the highest priority to fairness, integrity and 
transparency – in short, doing the right thing, no exceptions.

This approach is built on the following elements:

 » Board accountability for tax through the group CFO and 
audit and risk committees.

 » A clear tax risk register and heatmap.
 » A tax control framework with robust controls.
 » Experienced tax professionals with the right skills.
 » Training for and regular communication and engagement 
between everyone with responsibility for tax.

 » Using technology to automate tax processes.

Ultimate responsibility for tax vests with our group CFO who 
is accountable to the Naspers board, with oversight from the 
audit and risk committees. Our group tax policy is reviewed 
annually by these committees, approved by the board and 
published on our website.

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 111110 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Maintaining a risk register and heatmap assists us to follow a 
structured approach to assess, prioritise, respond to, and 
monitor potential high-impact tax risks. The risk register details 
our top tax risks and how we manage each one. We use our 
heatmap to rank our tax risks by impact and vulnerability and 
track their movement over time. This guides our decision-
making, by focusing our activity on actions required to 
effectively manage and mitigate tax risks.

The main tax risk for our business lies in legislative or 
regulatory changes. This is especially true in our industry 
where global tax developments (BEPS (base erosion and 
profit shifting), pillar 1 and 2) and digital services taxes are 
designed to apply to consumer internet and tech companies. 
Monitoring legislative changes is a key priority, primarily to 
ensure that our businesses are always compliant. In addition, 
the impact of changes in regulations is timeously evaluated 
via impact assessments. An example of this is the global 
minimum tax rules of pillar 2. The tax impact of these rules is 
expected to be fairly minimal based on how our business 
operates: our local businesses pay their taxes locally, are 
predominantly based in high-tax jurisdictions and permanent 
book-to-tax differences are exceptional. Getting to grips with 
the compliance elements of pillar 2 rules is one of our 
priorities to ensure the group will be compliant once these 
rules are enforced.

Besides monitoring (potential) changes in legislation, Naspers 
also regularly contributes to (public) consultations. In our 
engagements, we aim to contribute constructively and act 
as a sparring partner, taking into account the objects and 
purposes of legislative changes and their impact on our 
decentralised business model.

Tax risks, tax challenges, interactions with revenue authorities 
and other issues are under constant review and reported 
regularly to our group CFO and the audit and risk committees. 
We aspire to a ‘no surprises’ approach in managing taxes: 
there should be no tax surprises at any level – whether in 
relation to tax costs to a business, reporting to revenue 
authorities or supplying relevant information to stakeholders.

Our tax control framework sets out the operational details for 
managing tax risk in accordance with the criteria established 
in our tax policy. We implement this framework consistently 
across our controlled portfolio and operations, to ensure tax 
compliance in all the jurisdictions where we operate. Our tax 
control framework is also shared with relevant tax authorities.

All tax professionals are appropriately skilled for their role and 
receive ongoing training. The tax team members are assisted 
by reputable external advisers with specialist tax expertise 
who provide input for all significant and many other tax 
matters, advise on the tax consequences of transactions, 
review tax filings and support the tax teams where necessary.

The process for disclosing any improper conduct or concerns 
of wrongdoing is outlined in the group’s speak up policy and 
available to all on any matter, including tax behaviours.

Technology

Efficient tax management is enhanced by the use of 
technology. Given the growing requirement by tax authorities 
and other regulators to report substantive data, it is essential 
to harness technology for data extraction, gathering and 
collation. Technology is also paramount to eliminate any 
human errors in collating relevant data and the tax compliance 
process. Where possible, we have automated tax processes 
such as the controlled foreign company compliance and 
country-by-country reporting. Automation contributes to 
enhanced data integrity and reduces the working hours 
involved in these processes.

We will continue to expand the reach of automation and 
technology in our tax management processes, where we are 
confident of increased efficiency and integrity of information. 
This focus is included in the KPIs of our tax team members.

At the same time, we recognise there are, and always will 
be, many areas in tax that require ongoing attention and input 
by skilled tax professionals. Where technology can be 
implemented to enhance data collection and collation, and to 
share relevant information with tax authorities, we believe a 
reduction in working hours required for these tasks can enable 
our group tax specialists to spend their time more effectively.

We will continue to invest time in assessing how technology 
can assist in streamlining processes to effectively manage 
our taxes and tax compliance.

Transparency

It is one of our KPIs to, at all times, constructively and 
transparently engage with all our stakeholders, both external 
and internal. These stakeholders include investors, customers, 
employees, regulatory authorities, governments and policy-
makers, and tax authorities.

In 2022, the Dutch Confederation of Netherlands Industry and 
Employers (VNO-NCW) published its Tax Governance Code. 
Naspers, through Prosus, supports this code which provides for 
tax principles aiming to improve transparency. Prosus also 
endorsed the VNO-NCW Tax Governance Code, and our tax 
principles are in line with those set out in the code. We 
believe that our commitment to tax transparency and 
associated governance principles are key to provide a better 
public understanding of our rather unique approach to tax 
and our tax contributions.

Disclosure of taxes paid is an important step in tax 
transparency. We support this initiative to demystify and 
reduce the stigma that may be attached to tax contributions 
by companies, particularly multinationals. In our view, 
disclosure demonstrates responsible corporate citizenship 
and facilitates meaningful engagement with stakeholders in 
the countries where we operate. Also public country-by-country 
reporting is an important step in tax transparency. At the 
same time, we recognise the risk that the information 
disclosed under public country-by-country reporting and taxes 
paid is interpreted wrongly or misunderstood. These rules do 
not require providing any relevant context to the numbers 
disclosed. Public data under the country-by-country rules 
and the taxes paid only provides valuable information if there 
is a deep understanding on the business activities in these 
countries, including the life cycle of local business operations.

We regard tax authorities as significant stakeholders. As with 
all other stakeholders, it is important for us and our investee 
companies to engage proactively and transparently with tax 
authorities. Our approach, where possible, is to follow the 
principle of co-operative compliance. We engage regularly 
with tax authorities to explain our business model and 
proactively share information with them. While recognising that 
at times our views and those of the tax authorities may differ 
in applying specific tax rules and legislation, we aspire to a 
relationship of mutual trust. This sometimes creates dilemmas. 
But our aim remains for stakeholders, including revenue 
authorities, to have confidence in the integrity of our actions, 
the way we do business and the information we provide. As 
such, we will continue to take proactive steps to enhance the 
scope of tax information relevant to our stakeholders.

Naspers is an active supporter and contributor of the 
Capabuild project; a public-private partnership co-building tax 
capacity for developing countries by way of tax training for tax 
authorities, policy-makers and other government officials in the 
global south. Capabuild strives to improve the understanding 
of global taxation as this can help governments improve the 
effectiveness and efficiency of the tax system in their 
jurisdiction. As taxation is a significant factor in every nation 
and every citizen’s life, it is important that it is understood. 
It needs to be demystified. Through our contribution to the 
training platforms offered by Capabuild, we are able to 
share our knowledge and emphasise the need for dialogue, 
building trust and true transparency on taxes paid, collected 
and applied to improve the lives of citizens, those people 
the governments serve. We proudly support initiatives such as 
those of Capabuild. These contribute to having sustainable, 
fair and transparent tax systems that enable governments to 
provide for their citizens.

Regulatory risk

Managing tax efficiently means effectively managing risk. 
This important area is another KPI for our tax teams. As we 
operate in many jurisdictions, tax policy and legislative 
changes are an ongoing risk. We need to be aware of 
impending policy or legislative changes and be ready to 
implement these when they arise. But this also means that 
we need to constructively engage with policy-makers and 
legislators to ensure our messages are heard when policies 
or legislation are changed. Our reputation as a responsible 
corporate citizen contributes to us being heard by these 
bodies. Where we are able to build relationships of trust, 
we do so. We believe this gives us credibility and will further 
enhance our reputation as a taxpayer with integrity.

Naspers continues to provide constructive and reliable 
feedback to tax policy-makers and other stakeholders through 
submissions to public consultations or direct engagement 
at national and international levels.

Level playing field

As a global investor, we subscribe to certain tax policy 
fundamentals: we believe it is in everyone’s best interests to 
establish a level playing field in which local, regional and 
global companies are subject to the same taxes in the 
countries where they operate.

In our view, taxes should be fair, balanced and uniform. 
To create the level playing field, we believe that taxation 
of profits and local tax systems should be governed by 
a harmonised international framework. We actively support 
international initiatives led by the OECD/G20 inclusive 
framework on base erosion and profit shifting to develop a 
global policy to modernise and remove imbalances from the 
international tax system. These align with our approach to 
taxes and where we believe taxes should be paid.

The level playing field will ensure that each business is subject 
to the same taxes, irrespective of whether it operates globally, 
regionally or locally. We engage in discussions where we 
believe we can contribute to ensuring this harmonised global 
tax system with a level tax playing field is created.

Certainty, transparency, fairness, integrity and doing the right 
thing, no exception – these are fundamentals in our approach 
to tax management at Naspers. We want to ensure that, 
at all times and in all jurisdictions, we pay the correct and 
appropriate amount of tax, commensurate with the business 
operations in that geography, and that we can openly 
demonstrate this to our stakeholders.

Tax continued

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 113112 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Brazil

Online grocery sector 

20% CAGR*

Smartphone penetration 

85%

2026* 

Food Delivery 

750 million orders

2023 

   Population 

218.7 million

   Unemployment rate 

7.9%
   GDP 

2.9%
   Inflation 

7.8%*

2022 

Highlights
2021

Smartphone users 

173 million

81%* of population 
is internet users

 »  Building a global leader in on-demand 
food delivery. 

 »  iFood is the most-loved delivery company 
in Brazil, engaging with society through 
meaningful actions.

 » Around 1 500 Brazilian cities covered.

 »  Financial service offering gained traction.

 » Innovation driving growth for iFood.

 » ESG:

•  For 2025: We aim for no plastic 
pollution in iFood’s food deliveries; 
to remain carbon-neutral; and to 
have non-polluting delivery methods 
for 50% of deliveries.

•  Todos a Mesa (all at the table) 
programme aims to end food 
insecurity (15% of the population faces 
this issue). Besides food donations, 
iFood users can donate money through 
its app – iFood is now the largest 
donation platform in Brazil, with over 
BRL25m donated since 2021.

•  5 000 people have completed iFood’s 
basic education courses for its driver 
community. For FY24, iFood aims to 
have 30 000 drivers complete the 
basic education programme.

Naspers offers

* Estimated.

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 115114 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Governance

Group structure

Introduction

Established in 1915, Naspers has transformed into a global 
consumer internet company and one of the largest technology 
investors in the world. Through Prosus, the group operates and 
invests globally in markets with long-term growth potential, 
building leading consumer internet companies that empower 
people and enrich communities. Prosus has its primary listing 
on Euronext Amsterdam and a secondary listing on the JSE 
Limited (JSE), Johannesburg’s stock exchange, and A2X 
Markets in South Africa. Naspers is the majority owner 
of Prosus.

In South Africa, Naspers is one of the foremost investors in 
the technology sector and is committed to building its internet 
and ecommerce companies in the country. These include 
Takealot.com, Mr D Food, Superbalist, AutoTrader, Property24 
and PayU, in addition to Media24, South Africa’s leading print 
and digital media business.

Listing and regulatory environment

Naspers has its primary listing on the JSE’s stock exchange 
(NPN.SJ) and a secondary listing on A2X Markets (NPN.AJ) 
in South Africa. It is the largest South African company on the 
JSE. It also has a level 1 American Depository Receipt (ADR) 
programme which trades on an over-the-counter (OTC) basis 
in the US. Investors are therefore able to buy and sell Naspers 
securities on several markets. Naspers’ subsidiary, Prosus N.V. 
(Prosus), is listed on Euronext Amsterdam with secondary 
listings on the JSE Limited’s stock exchange (XJSE:PRX) and 
A2X Markets (PRX.AJ). It also has bonds listed on Euronext 
Dublin, and ADRs that trade on an OTC basis in the US.

Right to hold and transfer shares

Naspers’ memorandum of incorporation places no limitations 
on the right to hold or transfer N ordinary shares (listed). 
There are no limitations on the right to hold or exercise voting 
rights on these shares imposed by South African law.

Naspers voting control structure

The aim of the Naspers voting control structure is to ensure the 
continued independence of the group. When entering foreign 
countries in the broad media or communications spheres, and 
when dealing with regulators, it is critical that we give an 
assurance of our continuity of identity: in other words, that we 
will not, after we have entered a territory or secured a licence, 
be taken over by unknown entities with whom the country 
or regulator may be uncomfortable. We believe that this 
assurance of independence and continuity is critical for 
our entry into, and operation in, many markets.

International

Differentiated voting rights and control structures are 
commonly used in the media and internet sectors to secure 
independence and deter raids or efforts to seize control. 
Many international media and technology companies have 
differentiated rights or control structures. Some more well-
known examples include: Schibsted and Tele2 in Norway; 
MTG in Sweden; Daily Mail and General Trust in the UK; 
JD.com and Alibaba in China; and Alphabet (Google), Meta, 
LinkedIn, 21st Century Fox, News Corporation, Discovery, 
Liberty Global, Snap Inc., Zillow and Zynga in the US.

In recent times, many internet and tech companies in 
particular have implemented similar structures.

Structure

The issued share capital of Naspers comprises two classes 
of shares:

 » N class ordinary shares that have one vote per share 
and are listed on the JSE. As at 31 March 2023, there are 
435 511 058 N ordinary shares in issue.

 » Unlisted A class ordinary shares that have 1 000 votes per 
share, but have relatively insignificant economic 
participation (the dividends declared to A ordinary 
shareholders are equal to one fifth of the dividends per 
share to which N ordinary shareholders are entitled). As at 
31 March 2023, there are 961 193 A shares in issue.

A majority of A class ordinary shares are held by two 
companies that together comprise the control structure 
of Naspers.

Keeromstraat 30 Beleggings (RF) Limited (Keerom) and 
Naspers Beleggings (RF) Limited (Nasbel) hold such A class 
ordinary shares that together they control more than 50% 
(currently 55%) of the voting rights in Naspers. These two 
companies exercise such rights in consultation with one 
another. No other entities are part of the control structure.

Keerom has 2 821 shareholders as at 31 March 2023 and 
its constitutional documents provide that no shareholder 
is entitled to exercise more than 50 votes regardless of 
shareholding which represents 0.39% control.

Nasbel has 2 588 shareholders as at 31 March 2023, 
one of which is Heemstede Beleggings Proprietary Limited 
(Heemstede) (a wholly owned subsidiary of Naspers) that 
holds 49% of the shares in Nasbel.

The boards of directors of Keerom and Nasbel operate 
independently.

Cross-holding agreement

Naspers and Prosus entered into a cross-holding agreement 
to regulate their relationship following Prosus’ acquisition of 
around 52.46% economic interest in Naspers’ listed shares 
to give shareholders certainty that the full extent of Prosus’ 
free-float shareholders’ effective economic interest in the 
underlying Prosus portfolio in distributions will be paid directly 
and efficiently at the Prosus level.

In terms of this cross-holding agreement, Prosus’ free-float 
shareholders’ effective economic interest in the underlying 
Prosus portfolio (the Prosus free-float’s effective economic 
interest) is 56.43% (larger than the 35.64% Prosus free-float 
direct holding of Prosus ordinary shares N). Naspers’ free-float 
shareholders’ effective economic interest in the underlying 
Prosus portfolio (the Naspers free-float’s effective economic 
interest) is 43.54%.

To ensure effective and ongoing interaction between Prosus 
and Naspers, distributions are made on a ‘terminal economic 
value’ basis. This gives shareholders certainty that the full 
extent of the Prosus free-float’s effective economic interest in 
distributions is paid directly and efficiently at the Prosus level. 
The term ‘terminal economic value’ refers to a terminal 
(ie effective) economic value distribution that requires that 
both Naspers and Prosus’ free-float shareholders receive 
distributions based on their ultimate underlying interests in 
the group as if a distribution had been made continuously 
a number of times through the crossholding.

A terminal economic value distribution requires that both 
Naspers and Prosus’ free-float shareholders receive their 
ultimate underlying interests. This means Naspers will 
automatically distribute any distribution it receives from 
Prosus under the cross-holding agreement to its free-float 
shareholders and Prosus waives in advance any entitlement 
to the onward distribution declared by Naspers.

0.07%
(0.01%)

Naspers
Beleggings (RF) 

Limited

Keeromstraat
30 Beleggings 
(RF) Limited

Free float of 
unlisted shares

Free float of 
listed shares

Free float of 
listed shares

Prosus N.V.

Naspers 
Limited1

Heemstede
Beleggings 
Proprietary 

Limited

0.04%
(0.01%)

21.20%
(0.01%)

33.82%
(0.02%)

0.03%
(0.01%)

0.39%

6.11%

49%

13.80%
(0.01%)

14.32%
(47.49%)

23.94%
(56.43%)

15.81%
(52.46%)

75.92%2

(43.54%)

100%

Shareholding structure

1 Economic interest shown in brackets where different from voting interest. Voting interest 
calculated in accordance with the South African Companies Act, 2008.

2 This includes the ordinary shares B held by Naspers.

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 117116 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Governance structure

The governance structures of Naspers and Prosus substantially 
mirror each other. Naspers and Prosus have an identical 
one-tier board structure of executive and non-executive 
directors. Executive directors are responsible for the group’s 
day-to-day management, which includes formulating its 
strategies and policies and setting and achieving its 
objectives. Non-executive directors supervise and advise 
executive directors. Each director has a duty to the company 
to properly perform their assigned responsibilities and to act 
in its corporate interest.

The audit and risk committees of the board monitor 
compliance with the JSE and Euronext Dublin requirements 
applicable to the Prosus bonds listed on that exchange.

The board’s projects, audit, risk, human resources and 
remuneration, nominations, and social, ethics and 
sustainability committees fulfil key roles in ensuring good 
corporate governance.

The group uses independent external advisers to monitor 
regulatory developments, locally and internationally, to enable 
management to make recommendations to the board on 
matters of corporate governance.

How we integrate governance into our business

We recognise the value of an integrated approach to 
assurance and compliance. The adopted governance, risk 
and compliance framework is the basis for how we 
manage governance.

This framework illustrates how we achieve a sustainable 
business integrated with governance, assurance, risk 
management and compliance, in line with legislated 
requirements and King IV recommendations and reported 
through the relevant structures.

Our subsidiaries, associates and investees are required to 
comply with applicable laws and regulations. A risk-based 
legal compliance programme (including anti-bribery and 
anti-corruption) has been implemented as per this framework 
in all subsidiaries.

In applying our capital allocation strategy, we look very 
carefully at risks relating to the countries and sectors in which 
we invest. We review potential investees and their founders 
and/or major shareholders; it is important for us to know with 
whom we are doing business. Our traditional due diligence 
looks at the commercial and financial position of the 
investees, but also covers legal (including IP, privacy 
and litigation) and tax aspects of their business. This is 
supplemented by contact between our team and the 
founder(s) and their management teams to understand the 
culture of the investees. More recently, for acquisitions of 
majority-ownership stakes in larger businesses, we formally 
assess the investee’s ethics and legal compliance framework 
and HR policies against our own framework and policies to 
see what actions (if any) will need to be taken for the investee 
to meet our minimum requirements. The governance 
frameworks of investees differ depending on their scale and 
maturity: some are simply too small or early-stage to have a 
fully built and mature governance and compliance framework. 
In each case, however, we believe that our contact with the 
founders and management teams and our additional due 
diligence help us to understand the purpose and culture of 
each company. For a discussion of our approach to 
responsible investments, please see page 77.

Our largest investees, many of which are of significant size, 
have adopted their own appropriate governance standards. 
A number of these companies have listings on leading stock 
exchanges and therefore need to comply with both local law 
and the requirements of the relevant exchange and this is 
reflected in the standards that they adopt. If members of our 
team serve on the boards of investees, they are sometimes 
able to help shape the investee’s governance standards. They 
do this by sharing the governance standards that we have 
adopted on relevant topics, offering support to associates 
through training or workshops, and generally sharing our 
knowledge and expertise. Periodically, teams of the company 
and associates meet to discuss governance standards and 
share their experiences.

Overview of governance

Group governance framework

The board is the focal point for, and custodian of, the group’s 
corporate governance systems.

It conducts the group’s business with integrity and applies 
appropriate corporate governance policies and practices in 
the group.

The board, its committees, and the boards and committees 
of subsidiaries, are responsible for ensuring the appropriate 
principles and practices of King IV are applied and 
embedded in the governance practices of group companies.

A disciplined reporting structure ensures the board is fully 
apprised of subsidiary activities, risks and opportunities. 
All subsidiaries in the group are required to subscribe to the 
principles of King IV. Business and governance structures have 
clear approval frameworks.

The group’s governance committee comprises the segment 
chief financial officers, chief financial officers of Naspers 
and Prosus, Takealot.com and Media24, as well as the group 
company secretary and global head of governance, group 
general counsel, group head of risk and audit, global head 
of sustainability and global ethics and compliance lead. The 
committee was tasked to ensure the group’s governance 
structures and framework are employed across the 
consolidated entities in the group during the financial year.

Governance and progress are monitored by the audit and 
risk committees and reported to the board.

As the companies in our group are diverse and at different 
maturity stages, a one-size-fits-all approach cannot be 
followed in implementing governance practices. All good 
governance principles apply to all types and sizes of 
companies, but the practices implemented by different 
companies to achieve the principles may be different. 
Practices must be implemented as appropriate for each 
company, in line with the overarching good governance 
principles.

Details of choosing the right opportunities and balancing risks 
(including principal risks) appear on pages 40 to 43. The 
board’s responsibility statement on risk management is on 
page 173.

Our approach to applying King IV and 
statement by the board

Naspers is required, in terms of the JSE Listings Requirements, 
to report its application of the principles of King IV. In line with 
the overriding principle in King IV of ‘apply and explain’, the 
board, to the best of its knowledge, believes the group has 
satisfactorily applied the principles of King IV. For a more 
detailed review of Naspers’ application of King IV, refer 
to the King IV application report 2023.

All board and board committee charters and policies 
are aligned with the South African Companies Act, 2008 
(Companies Act) requirements, the principles in King IV and 
the JSE Listings Requirements. King IV advocates a qualitative 
approach to implementing recommended practices to realise 
the intended governance outcomes.

In line with King IV recommendations, we consider 
proportionality when we apply corporate governance in 
the group. This means we apply the practices needed to 
demonstrate the group’s governance in terms of King IV 
as appropriate across the group.

Long-term value creation and strategy

The board ensures that a culture of business ethics and 
conduct aimed at long-term value creation is promoted to 
underpin the group’s activities as a responsible corporate 
citizen. This includes adopting values and a code, leading by 
example, and monitoring implementation to make the required 
disclosures on incorporation, compliance and effectiveness. In 
this regard, the board is responsible for group performance 
by steering and providing strategic direction to the company, 
taking responsibility for adopting a view on long-term value 
creation and aligned strategy and plans (which originate 
from management). The board must approve the annual 
business plan and budget compiled by management, for 
implementation by management, taking cognisance of 
sustainability aspects in long-term planning.

For more information on the group’s strategic approach, 
please refer to page 32.

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 119118 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Overview of governance continued

Internal controls, risk and audit

Internal control systems

Our system of internal controls aims to prevent or detect 
material risks and to mitigate material adverse consequences. 
The system provides reasonable assurance on achieving 
company objectives. This includes the integrity and reliability 
of the financial statements; safeguarding and maintaining 
accountability of its assets; and to detect fraud, potential 
liability, loss and material misstatements while complying 
with regulations. The directors representing Naspers on 
boards of entities where it does not have a controlling 
interest, seek assurance that significant risks are managed 
and systems of internal control are effective.

Management, with assistance from risk and audit, regularly 
reviews risks and the design and operating effectiveness of 
internal controls, seeking opportunities for improvement. The 
external auditor considers elements of the internal controls 
system and communicates deficiencies when identified.

The board reviewed the effectiveness of controls on key risks 
for the year ended 31 March 2023. This assurance was 
obtained principally through a process of management 
self-assessment, including formal confirmation via 
representation letters by executive management. 
Consideration was also given to other input, including reports 
from risk and audit, compliance and the risk management 
process. Where necessary, programmes for corrective actions 
have been initiated and progress is monitored.

While we work on continuously improving our processes on 
financial reporting, no major failings have occurred to the 
knowledge of the directors and therefore the directors are of 
the opinion that these systems provide reasonable assurance 
that financial reporting does not contain material inaccuracies.

Risk and audit

A central risk and audit function for the group provides 
independent, objective assurance and risk support services 
to the system of risk management and internal control to help 
management preserve and create sustainable value. The head 
of risk and audit reports to the chair of the audit committee, 
with administrative reporting to the chief financial officer.

The function’s core competency lies in risk-based technology 
and business process assurance work. Through its specialised 
cybersecurity team, risk and audit also supports our 
businesses to continuously enhance their technology and 
cyber-capabilities to ensure resilient and secure platforms in 
the face of evolving cyber-risks.

The risk and audit function operates in conformance with the 
International Professional Practice Framework of the Institute of 
Internal Auditors and, in line with these, submits itself regularly 
to an external quality review.

Among other aspects, risk and audit is responsible for 
providing a statement annually on the effectiveness of the 
group’s governance, risk management and control processes 
to the board of directors and, to the audit committee 
specifically, of the results of its review of financial controls.

Non-audit services
The group’s policy on non-audit services provides guidelines 
on dealing with audit, audit-related, tax and other non-audit 
services that may be provided by the independent auditor to 
group entities. It also sets out services that may not be 
performed by the independent auditor.

The audit committee preapproves audit and non-audit services 
to ensure these do not impair the auditor’s independence and 
comply with legislation. Under our guiding principles, the 
auditor’s independence will be deemed impaired if it provides 
a service where it:

 » functions in the role of management of the company, or
 » audits its own work, or
 » provides services that are prohibited under applicable 
independence standards, or

 » serves in an advocacy role for the company.

Relations with shareholders and investors
Investor relations
Naspers’ investor relations policy (refer to our website at 
www.naspers.com) describes the principles and practices 
applied in interacting with shareholders and investors. 
Naspers is committed to providing timely and transparent 
information on corporate strategies and financial data to the 
investing public. In addition, we consider the demand for 
transparency and accountability in our non-financial (or 
sustainability) performance. We recognise that this 
performance is based on the group’s risk profile and strategy, 
which includes non-financial risks and opportunities.

The company manages communications with its key financial 
audiences, including institutional shareholders and financial 
(debt and equity) analysts, through a dedicated investor 
relations unit. Presentations and conference calls take place 
after publishing interim and full-year results.

A range of public communication channels (including stock 
exchange news services, corporate websites, press agencies, 
news wires and news distribution service providers) is used to 
disseminate news releases. These channels are supplemented 
by direct communication via email, conference calls, group 
presentations and one-on-one meetings. Our policy is not to 
provide forward-looking information. Naspers also complies 
with legislation and stock exchange rules on forward-looking 
statements.

Closed periods
Naspers would typically be in a closed period on the day 
after the end of a reporting period (30 September or 
31 March) until releasing results.

General investor interaction during this time is limited to 
discussions on strategy and/or historical, publicly available 
information.

Analyst reports
To enhance the quantity and quality of research, Naspers 
maintains working relationships with stockbrokers, investment 
banks and credit-rating agencies – irrespective of their views 
or recommendations on the group.

Naspers may review an analyst’s report or earnings model 
for factual accuracy of information in the public domain but, 
in line with regulations and group policy, we do not provide 
guidance or forecasts.

The board encourages shareholders to attend the annual 
general meeting, notice of which appears in this integrated 
annual report, where shareholders have the opportunity to 
put questions to the board, management and chairs of 
the various committees.

The company’s website provides the latest and historical 
financial and other information, including financial reports.

Annual general meeting
Naspers held its 108th annual general meeting in August 
2022. Shareholders were encouraged to attend this meeting 
and to ask questions at or in advance of the meeting.

In 2023, Naspers will again hold an annual general meeting. 
The external auditor is welcomed to this meeting and is 
entitled to address the audience. As questions asked at the 
Naspers annual general meeting tend to focus on business-
related matters, governance and the remit of board 
committees, the chief executive, chief financial officer and 
chairs of our board committees attend this meeting.

The annual general meeting for Naspers will be held in 
accordance with the notice of virtual annual general meeting.

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 121120 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Tenure as a director

0

2

4

6

8

10

Up to
two years

Three to 
four years

Five to 
six years

Seven to 
nine years

More than 
nine years

10

2

3

1 0

Director classification (%)

Non-independent 
non-executive director

●

Independent 
non-executive director

●

Chair●

Executive director●

25

13

6

56

Country of residence

South African●

Dutch●

American●

Brazilian●

Indian●

Chinese●

2

2

9

1

1
1

The board and its committees

Attendance at meetings

Directors1 
Board 
(fixed)

Board
(ad hoc 

meetings)
Audit 

committee
Risk 

committee

Social, ethics 
and 

sustainability 
committee

Nominations 
committee

Human resources 
and remuneration 

committee

JP Bekker 5 (100%)* 6 (100%)* 3 (100%) 4 (100%)

B van Dijk 5 (100%) 6 (100%) 3 (100%) 2 (100%)

V Sgourdos 5 (100%) 6 (100%) 3 (100%) 2 (100%)

S Dubey2 5 (100%) 6 (100%) 1 (100%)

HJ du Toit 5 (100%) 5 (83%) 3 (100%)

CL Enenstein 5 (100%) 6 (100%) 3 (100%) 4 (100%)*

M Girotra 5 (100%) 6 (100%) 2 (67%)

RCC Jafta 5 (100%) 6 (100%) 3 (100%) 2 (100%) 3 (100%)*

AGZ Kemna 4 (80%) 6 (100%) 3 (100%) 3 (100%)

FLN Letele 5 (100%) 5 (83%) 0 (0%)4

D Meyer 5 (100%) 6 (100%) 2 (100%)*

R Oliveira de Lima 5 (100%) 6 (100%) 2 (67%) 4 (100%)

SJZ Pacak 5 (100%) 5 (83%) 3 (100%)* 3 (100%)*

MR Sorour 5 (100%) 6 (100%)

JDT Stofberg 5 (100%) 6 (100%) 2 (100%)

BJ van der Ross3 –

Y Xu 5 (100%) 6 (100%)

MI Davidson 2 (100%)

Total meeting participation 99% 97% 92% 100% 83% 93% 100%

* Chair
1 The projects committee did not hold any meetings in FY23.
2 Appointed as a director from 1 April 2022 and to the audit committee from 1 October 2022.
3 Retired as a director from 1 April 2022.
4 Unable to attend meetings due to long-standing commitments and urgent family matters. However, Mr Letele provided input on matters to be addressed ahead of 

the meeting.

Racial diversity (%)

Black people●

Other● International●

Local●

44

37

19

81

Gender diversity

0

2

4

6

8

10

12

14

2021 2022 2023

Female● Male●

5

12

6

11

6

10

56%  
independence of  
the board

98%  
board meeting 
attendance

Naspers: Broad-based black economic empowerment (BBBEE) generic scorecard1

Element
Target 
score

Bonus 
points

available

Bonus 
points

achieved
Score achieved 

FY23

Equity ownership 25   20
Management control 9   2.25
Employment equity 10   4.39
Skills development 20 5 0.26 15.88 (includes the 0.24 bonus points)
Preferential procurement 27 2 2 16.36 (includes the 2 bonus points)
Enterprise and supplier development 15 2 2 17 (includes the 2 bonus points)
Socioeconomic development 5   5

Total score 111 9 4.24 80.88 (includes the total 4.24 bonus points)

Performance (%)    72.86%
BBBEE rating    Level 4
Priority elements achieved    Yes

1 BBBEE is a form of economic empowerment legislated in South Africa.

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 123122 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Composition

Details of directors at 31 March 2023 are set out on 
pages 14 and 15.

Naspers has a unitary board, which provides oversight 
and control. The board charter sets out the division 
of responsibilities.

The majority of board members are independent non-
executive directors and are independent of management. 
To ensure that no one individual has unfettered powers of 
decision-making and authority, the roles of chair and 
chief executive are separate.

The independence of each director was evaluated. The board 
determined that although some directors had served as 
members for nine years or longer, they all demonstrated they 
were independent in character and judgement, and there 
were no relationships or circumstances that were likely to 
affect or could appear to affect their independence.

The board diversity policy addresses the requirements in the 
JSE Listings Requirements for all listed companies to have a 
policy on how they address gender and race diversity at 
board level. The board is satisfied that its composition reflects 
the appropriate mix of knowledge, skills, experience, diversity 
and independence.

As set out in the board diversity policy, the board aims to 
achieve a one third female (and male) representation. Over 
the past three years, all new appointments to the board have 
been women. Subsequent to year-end, at the time of writing 
this report, one third of non-executive directors are women. 
This demonstrates the board’s ongoing commitment 
to transformation in line with its board diversity policy.   

The group recognises and embraces the benefits of having 
a diverse board and sees diversity at board level as an 
essential element in maintaining a competitive advantage. 
A diverse board will include and make good use of 
differences in the skills, geographical and industry 
experience, background, race, gender, and other 
distinctions between its members.

These differences will be considered in determining the 
optimum composition of the board and, when possible, 
will be balanced appropriately. All board appointments are 
made on merit, in the context of skills, experience, diversity, 
independence and knowledge, that the board as a whole 
requires to be effective.

The nominations committee reviews and assesses board 
composition on behalf of the board and recommends the 
appointment of new directors. This committee also oversees 
the annual review of board effectiveness.

Roles and responsibilities

The board

The board is responsible for the continuity of the company and 
its affiliated enterprises. The board focuses on long-term value 
creation of the company and subsidiaries, and considers the 
stakeholder interests that are relevant in this context.

The board serves as the focal point and custodian of 
corporate governance and is responsible for the corporate 
governance of the company, including: determining what 
business we are building, what we offer users and key 
objectives; and ensuring and monitoring that a culture of 
business ethics and conduct aimed at long-term value creation 
is promoted to underpin the group’s activities as a responsible 
corporate citizen. This includes adopting values and a code, 
leading by example, and monitoring implementation to make 
the required disclosures on incorporation, compliance and 
effectiveness.

The board acknowledges that the group’s core purpose, its 
risks and opportunities, strategy, business model, performance 
and sustainable development are all inseparable elements 
of the value-creation process. In this regard, the board is 
responsible for group performance by steering and providing 
strategic direction to the company and ongoing oversight of 
the implementation of the strategy and business plan.

A charter setting out the board’s responsibilities can be 
found on our website at www.naspers.com/about/policies.

The chair

The chair, Koos Bekker, is a non-executive director. The 
responsibilities of the chair are set out in the board charter 
and include:

 » Providing overall leadership to the board without limiting the 
principle of collective responsibility for board decisions, 
while being aware of individual duties of board members.

 » Ensuring a culture of openness and accountability within 
the board.

 » In conjunction with the chief executive, representing 
the board in communicating with shareholders, other 
stakeholders and, indirectly, the public.

 » Monitoring how the board works together and how 
individual directors perform and interact at meetings. 
The chair meets with directors annually to evaluate their 
performance.

The chief executive

The chief executive reports to the board and is responsible 
for the day-to-day business of the group and implementing 
policies and strategies approved by the board. Chief 
executive officers of the various businesses assist him in this 
task. Board authority conferred on management is delegated 
through the chief executive, against approved authority levels. 
The board is satisfied that the delegation-of-authority 
framework contributes to role clarity and the effective exercise 
of authority and responsibilities.

Bob van Dijk is the appointed chief executive. He has no other 
professional commitments outside the group.

Succession planning for the chief executive is considered 
annually.

The functions and responsibilities of the chief executive are set 
out in the board charter and include:

 » Developing the company’s strategy for consideration, 
determination and approval by the board.

 » Developing and recommending to the board yearly 
business plans and budgets that support the company’s 
long-term strategy.

 » Monitoring and reporting to the board on the performance 
of the company.

Lead independent director

Hendrik du Toit was appointed to act as lead independent 
director in all matters where there may be an actual or 
perceived conflict.

The responsibilities of the lead independent director are set 
out in the board charter and include:

 » Dealing with shareholders’ concerns that contact through 
normal channels has failed to resolve, or where such 
contact is inappropriate.

 » Strengthening independence of the board if the chair is not 
an independent non-executive member.

 » Chairing discussions and decision-making by the board on 
matters where the chair has a conflict of interest.

Independent advice

Individual directors may, after consulting with the chair or 
chief executive, seek independent professional advice, at the 
expense of the company, on any matter connected with 
discharging their responsibilities as directors.

Company secretary

The group company secretary, Lynelle Bagwandeen, and 
David Tudor, group general counsel (and legal compliance 
officer), are responsible for guiding the board in discharging 
its regulatory responsibilities.

Directors have unlimited access to the advice and services of 
the persons noted above whose functions and responsibilities 
include (as appropriate):

 » Playing a pivotal role in the company’s corporate 
governance and ensuring that, in line with pertinent laws, 
the proceedings and affairs of the board, the company and, 
where appropriate, shareholders are properly administered.

 » Acting as the company’s compliance officer as defined in the 
Companies Act and as the delegated information officer.

 » Monitoring directors’ dealings in securities and ensuring 
adherence to closed periods.

 » Attending all board and committee meetings.

The performance and independence of the company 
secretary are evaluated annually.

As required by JSE Listings Requirement 3.84(h), the board has 
determined that the company secretary, an admitted attorney 
with over 10 years of JSE-listed-company experience, has the 
requisite competence, knowledge and experience to carry out 
the duties of a secretary of a public company and has an 
arm’s length relationship with the board. The board is satisfied 
that arrangements for providing corporate governance 
services are effective.

The board and its committees continued

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 125124 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Board meetings and attendance

The board meets at least four times per year or more as 
required.

The projects committee attends to matters that cannot wait for 
the next scheduled meeting. Non-executive directors meet at 
least once annually without the chief executive, chief financial 
officer and chair present, to discuss the performance of these 
individuals.

The company secretary acts as secretary to the board and its 
committees and attends all meetings.

Indemnification

While the whole board remains accountable for the 
performance and affairs of the company, it delegates certain 
functions to committees and management to assist in 
discharging its duties.

Appropriate structures for those delegations are in place, 
accompanied by monitoring and reporting systems to ensure 
integrated thinking. As contemplated in the memorandum of 
incorporation and our insurance programme, indemnities have 
been issued by Naspers to its directors.

Key focus areas for the year

Through advice and supervision of management, the non-
executive members of the board ensure that a culture of 
strong business ethics and conduct aimed at long-term value 
creation is promoted to underpin the group’s activities as a 
responsible corporate citizen (see the sustainability review on 
page 76).

Focus areas for the board in FY23 included enhancing reporting 
to our board committees and board on how we implement good 
corporate governance in the group in light of King IV. We have 
also focused on improved disclosures in the annual report.

Governance of information and technology, particularly data 
privacy and cybersecurity, remained focus areas along with 
sustainability.

We updated and enhanced multiple key group policies, including 
the sanctions and export controls policy.

Board committees

The board has constituted six committees from among the 
directors to assist in discharging its duties: audit; risk; social, 
ethics and sustainability; nominations; human resources and 
remuneration; and projects.

Each committee acts within agreed, written terms of reference. 
The chair of each committee reports at each scheduled 
board meeting.

The chairs of all committees (except projects) are non-
executive directors and required to attend annual general 
meetings to answer questions.

The established board committees in operation during the 
financial year are set out below and the names of members 
in office during the financial year, as well as details of 
committee meetings attended by each member, appear in the 
table on page 122.

Audit committee

The audit committee seeks to support the board in assessing 
the integrity of the group’s financial reporting and by 
providing constructive challenges and oversight of the group’s 
activities and of its audit functions. It comprises a majority 
of independent non-executive directors and is chaired by 
Steve Pacak, a non-executive director. The board considers 
Steve to be independent of mind and judgement in his 
conduct as chair of the committee.

Risk committee

The purpose of the risk committee is to assist the board 
to discharge its responsibilities for the governance of risk 
through formal processes, including an enterprise-wide risk 
management process and system. The committee comprises 
two independent non-executive directors, as well as the chief 
executive and chief financial officer and is chaired by Steve 
Pacak, a non-executive director.

The board and its committees continued

Social, ethics and sustainability committee

The primary objective of the social, ethics and sustainability 
committee is to assist the board in ensuring the company 
meets its statutory obligations in terms of section 72 and 
regulation 43 of the Companies Act. The committee is 
responsible for overseeing and reporting on organisational 
ethics, responsible corporate citizenship, sustainable 
development and stakeholder relationships for the group, 
taking into account specific disclosures and best practice 
as recommended by King IV.

The committee comprises a majority of non-executive directors, 
the chief executive, chief financial officer (alternate member) 
and chief executive of Media24. It is chaired by Debra Meyer.

Nominations committee

The nominations committee assists the board to determine 
and regularly review the size, structure, composition and 
effectiveness of the board and its committees, in the context 
of the company’s strategy.

The committee comprises a minimum of three non-executive 
directors, the majority of whom are independent. It is chaired 
by Rachel Jafta.

Human resources and remuneration committee

The main objective of this committee is to fulfil the board’s 
responsibility for the strategic human resources issues of the 
group, particularly focusing on the appointment, remuneration 
and succession of the most senior executives. The committee 
comprises a minimum of three non-executive directors. It is 
chaired by Craig Enenstein.

Projects committee

The projects committee is an ad hoc entity acting on behalf of 
the board in managing urgent issues when the board is not in 
session, subject to statutory limits and the board’s limitations 
on delegation. It comprises two non-executive directors, one 
independent non-executive director plus two executive 
directors. It is chaired by Koos Bekker.

Evaluation

The nominations committee carries out the evaluation process, 
which is not externally facilitated, annually.

As part of the review, the performance of the board and its 
committees, as well as the performance of the chair of the 
board, is considered against their respective mandates in the 
board charter and charters of its committees. The committees 
perform self-evaluations against their charters for 
consideration by the nominations committee and the board.

For the FY23 annual formal inhouse self-assessment, the 
performance of each director was evaluated by the other 
board members, using an evaluation questionnaire. The chair 
of the board discussed results with each director and agreed 
on any training needs or areas requiring attention by that 
director. Where a director’s performance is not considered 
satisfactory, the board will not recommend their re-election.

A consolidated summary of the evaluation was reported to 
and discussed by the board, including any actions required. 
The lead independent director leads the discussion on the 
performance of the chair, with reference to the results of the 
evaluation questionnaire, and provides feedback to the chair.

The board is satisfied that the evaluation process improves its 
performance and effectiveness.

The formal annual evaluation process showed that the board 
and its committees had functioned well and discharged their 
duties as per the mandates in their charters. The results of the 
board evaluation indicated that board members, collectively 
and individually, effectively discharged their governance roles. 
There were no remedial actions identified.

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 127126 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Members Capacity Attendance at meetings

SJZ Pacak (chair) Non-executive 3/3 (100%)

M Girotra Independent non-executive 2/3 (67%)

AGZ Kemna Independent non-executive 3/3 (100%)

S Dubey Independent non-executive 1/1 (100%)

Mandate

The committee primarily oversees the integrity of the 
company’s financial reporting, monitors the quality and 
integrity of the company’s financial statements, reviews the 
company’s internal controls and risk management.

Key focus areas during the year 

During the financial year, the committee focused on:

 » Considering the appointment of external auditors and 
monitoring the transition for rotating external audit firms.

 » Continuously evaluating internal financial reporting controls.
 » Considering group tax matters.
 » Evaluating the integrity and effectiveness of financial and 
non-financial reporting.

 » Considering the group’s impairment assessments.
 » Reviewing going-concern assumptions, solvency and liquidity 
testing and the proposed dividend consideration.

 » Assessing the impact of changes to accounting standards.
 » Assessing the suitability of the finance function, internal 
auditors and external auditors.

Audit committee

Key focus areas going forward

The committee’s key focus for the 2024 financial year includes:

 » Ensuring a smooth transition of auditors from PwC to 
Deloitte.

 » Assessing the impact of changes to accounting standards.
 » Ensuring group reporting is in accordance with JSE Listings 
Requirements and any other requirements which arise due 
to Naspers’ listings.

 » Ongoing compliance with King IV.
 » Focusing regularly on the group’s working capital 
requirements and ensuring the group and its subsidiaries 
continue to operate as going concerns.

 » Reviewing and monitoring accounting for potential 
mergers, acquisitions and disposals and the conduct 
of impairment tests.

Details of key audit matters and actions taken or conclusions 
reached appear on page 130.

Steve Pacak
Chair: Audit committee

26 June 2023

The board and its committees continued

Induction and development

An induction programme is held for new members of the 
board and key committees, tailored to the needs of individual 
appointees. This involves industry and company-specific 
orientation, such as meetings with senior management to 
facilitate an understanding of operations. Board members are 
exposed to the main markets in which the group operates as 
well as relevant evolving trends in technology and business 
models.

The company secretary assists the chair with the induction 
and orientation of directors and arranges specific training 
if required.

The company will continue with directors’ development and 
training to build on expertise and develop an understanding 
of the businesses and main markets in which the group 
operates.

Conflicts of interest

Potential conflicts are appropriately managed to ensure 
candidates and existing directors have no conflicting interests 
between their obligations to the company and their personal 
interests. All directors are required to declare personal 
interests annually. Declaration of directors’ interests is a 
standing item on the board’s agenda. Directors who believe 
there may be a conflict of interest on a matter must advise the 
company secretary and are recused from deliberation and the 
decision-making process, and the Companies Act process is 
applied accordingly. Directors must also adhere to a policy on 
trading in securities of the company.

Refer to note 44 ‘Related party transactions and balances’ on 
page 172 of the consolidated financial statements, which sets 
out the details of all related party transactions and balances.

Discharge of responsibilities

The board is satisfied that the committees properly discharged 
their responsibilities over the past year.

Furthermore, the board complies, to the best of its knowledge, 
with the Companies Act and its memorandum of incorporation 
and monitors such compliance continually.

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 129128 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Audit committee continued

Significant reporting matter Conclusions reached/actions taken

The announcement of the group’s decision to exit the OLX 
Autos business due to ongoing macroeconomic and market 
challenges in March 2023 resulted in the need to update the 
goodwill impairment assessment performed at 
31 December 2022. 

Investment in associates
Impairment assessments for the group’s listed equity-
accounted investments related to Delivery Hero and Skillsoft 
as a result of a decline in the market capitalisation and the 
increase in country risk premiums for these investments. 
Impairment assessments for the group’s unlisted equity-
accounted investments related primarily as a result of the 
increase in market interest rates and the overall business 
performance.

Share-based payments
The group has several share-based compensation schemes 
(refer to note 38). The share-based payments arising 
therefrom involve complex valuations and the use of critical 
management judgement regarding assumptions, the 
classification of the schemes and estimates.

The impairment assessments for equity-accounted associates 
and joint ventures considered the financial performance of 
the investments during the period and determined whether 
there were any significant indicators, such as a decline in the 
market capitalisation for listed investments, significant market 
movements or any material financial losses for unlisted 
investments, that would result in an impairment loss.

The group used its budgets and forecasts to perform 
discounted cash flow valuations or market prices where 
relevant, in order to determine the recoverable amount (the 
higher of its value in use and listed market prices) of its 
equity-accounted associates and joint ventures to identify 
whether any impairments should be recognised.

Of all listed equity-accounted investments, impairment 
indicators were identified for Delivery Hero and Skillsoft due 
to the decline in their respective market capitalisations in 
respect to their carrying values. Impairment losses were 
therefore recognised for these investments as a result the 
impairment assessment.

For all unlisted equity-accounted investments impairment 
losses were recognised due to the financial performance 
falling below expectations during the current year.

The committee received a report detailing the impairment 
considerations as well as the reasons the impairment losses 
were recognised for equity-accounted investments.

Based on the above impairment assessments, the committee 
was satisfied with the appropriateness of the analysis 
performed by management and the impairment-related 
disclosures in the consolidated annual financial statements.

Valuation of share-based compensation schemes and 
share-based payments

The group has several share-based compensation schemes 
(refer to note 38). The share-based payments arising 
therefrom involve complex valuations and the use of critical 
management judgement regarding assumptions, the 
classification of the schemes and estimates.

The committee acknowledged that the human resources and 
remuneration committee reviews the valuations, including 
assumptions and allocations, of the share-based 
compensation schemes as well as the various scheme rules. 

The committee noted the report of the human resources and 
remuneration committee will be tabled at the Naspers board 
meeting in August and will detail the results of these reviews 
as per the normal process. The committee noted that these 
valuations and the underlying assumptions are used for the 
accounting of share-based payments.

The committee also reviewed the accounting and disclosure 
of share-based payments in the annual financial statements.

As a result, the committee concluded that accounting and 
disclosure of share-based payments in the consolidated 
annual financial statements is appropriate.

Significant reporting matter Conclusions reached/actions taken

Applicable to the consolidated financial statements
Accounting for the equity-accounted investments in Tencent 
Holdings Limited (Tencent)

Equity-accounted investments (refer to notes 10 and 11) are 
significant to the consolidated annual financial statements 
and the group is required to make certain adjustments to the 
underlying results of investees in respect of any significant 
transactions that occur between the investees’ year-ends and 
31 March.

These adjustments require the exercise of critical 
management judgement and are significant in terms of 
magnitude.

Accounting for the group’s investment in Tencent was a 
significant matter due to the magnitude of the carrying 
amount, the significant contribution of the entity to the 
consolidated results of the group and the fact that Tencent 
has a year-end that is not coterminous with that of the group. 

In June 2022, the group began executing an open-ended 
share repurchase programme aimed at increasing the 
Naspers and Prosus net asset value per share. The 
repurchase programme is funded by an orderly on-market 
sale of Tencent shares held by the group. 

During the course of the financial year, the group sold 2.65% 
of Tencent’s issued share capital resulting in a gain on 
partial disposal of US$7.6bn. Management calculated the 
gain on partial disposal as the excess of the proceeds 
received on the disposal over the proportion of the carrying 
value of the investment disposed.

In November 2022, Tencent declared a special interim 
dividend in the form of shares in Meituan Inc. which was 
distributed on 24 March 2023. Management accounted for 
the dividend received from Tencent relating to Meituan Inc. 
as a reduction of the carrying value of the investment in 
associate and the recognition of a fair value through other 
comprehensive income investment at the fair value on the 
date of distribution, amounting to US$4.5bn

For further information refer to note 2 and 10.

The committee received feedback from the group’s 
representatives on the committees of Tencent and other 
significant equity-accounted investments. The committee 
reviewed the reporting of the contribution of equity-accounted 
investments to the group’s results and financial position as 
part of their review of the consolidated annual financial 
statements. In addition, the committee received reporting 
from management on significant transactions related to 
equity accounted investments (ie dividends and disposals), 
the significant lag-period adjustments and/or adjustments 
made to the underlying results of investees to align the 
investees’ accounting policies to those of the group. 

The committee was satisfied with the adjustments made 
and the critical judgements applied by management.

Impairment assessment of goodwill and intangible assets 
arising from business combinations and investments in 
associates

Goodwill and intangible assets
The group’s net asset value includes significant amounts of 
goodwill and intangible assets (refer to notes 7 and 34).

These balances are tested at least annually for impairment 
at the level of individual cash-generating units (CGUs). The 
recoverable amounts of the CGUs were based on either the 
fair value estimates by reference to recent funding rounds or 
market transactions (where applicable) or value in use 
estimates using discounted cash flow models. This process 
involves complex calculations and the exercise of critical 
management judgement regarding assumptions 
and estimates.

The committee received impairment reporting from 
management including the results of the group’s annual 
impairment testing of goodwill and those assets where 
indicators of impairment existed. The committee reviewed this 
reporting in terms of the consistent application of 
management’s testing methodology, the achievability of 
business plans and forecasts based on current and past 
performance, the Naspers board approval thereof and the 
critical assumptions applied.

In addition, as impairment testing remains a key area of 
focus for the group’s external auditor, the committee reviewed 
the external auditor’s reporting on impairment testing and 
the valuations used for this purpose. The committee also 
received detailed written feedback from management on 
how valuation principles, areas of judgement and forecasts 
have been impacted by current economic conditions.

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 131130 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Members Capacity Attendance at meetings

D Meyer (chair) Independent non-executive 2/2 (100%)

RCC Jafta Independent non-executive 2/2 (100%)

FLN Letele Non-executive 0/2 (100%)1

V Sgourdos (alternate) Executive 2/2 (100%)

JDT Stofberg Non-executive 2/2 (100%)

B van Dijk Executive 2/2 (100%)

MI Davidson Executive 2/2 (100%)

1 Unable to attend meetings due to long-standing commitments and urgent family matters. However, Mr Letele provided input on matters to be addressed 
ahead of the meeting.

Mandate

The committee fulfils statutory duties set out in regulation 43 
of the Companies Act, has oversight of and reports on 
organisational ethics, responsible corporate citizenship, 
sustainable development and stakeholder relationships. 
It assists the board in developing and supervising the 
implementation of a long-term value-creation strategy, 
by bringing to the board’s attention relevant sustainability 
matters, matters relating to business ethics and culture, 
and speaking up and other relevant stakeholder interests.

Key focus areas during the year

 » Stakeholder interests and relevant sustainability aspects and 
matters relating to business ethics and culture and the 
speak up policy.

 » Skills and other programmes aimed at the educational 
development of employees.

 » Employment philosophy founded on promoting equality and 
preventing unfair discrimination.

 » Labour practices and policies, and how these compare to 
the International Labour Organization on decent working 
conditions.

 » Corporate social investment programmes, including details 
of donations and charitable giving.

 » The progress of addressing the principles of the UN Global 
Compact and OECD guidelines.

 » Consumer relationships, including the company’s 
advertising, public relations and compliance with consumer 
protection laws.

Key focus areas going forward

The committee recognises that areas in its mandate are 
evolving and that management’s responses will also adapt to 
changes in the ESG agenda.

Legislation on ESG matters is rapidly developing. Particular 
attention will be paid to the group’s journey to compliance 
with the evolving ESG legislative landscape.

Management will continue to improve techniques in how it 
reports to the committee on responsible corporate citizenship 
and sustainability, using ever-evolving legislation and the 
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs). 
Accordingly, the group will continue to enhance the way it 
reports on corporate citizenship and sustainability to its 
stakeholders in the annual report.

Debra Meyer
Chair: Social, ethics and sustainability committee

26 June 2023

Social, ethics and  
sustainability committee

Members Capacity Attendance at meetings

SJZ Pacak (chair) Non-executive 3/3 (100%)

RCC Jafta Independent non-executive 3/3 (100%)

AGZ Kemna Independent non-executive 3/3 (100%)

V Sgourdos Executive 3/3 (100%)

B van Dijk Executive 3/3 (100%)

Mandate

The committee assists the board in its oversight of 
the management of risk and risk governance in the group. 
Furthermore, the PayU risk advisory committee reports to the 
risk committee to ensure PayU management receives external 
independent advice and acts as an independent guardian 
to the risk committee on PayU-related matters.

Key focus areas during the year

 » Recognising material risks to which the group is exposed 
and ensuring that the culture, policies and systems are 
implemented and functioning effectively.

 » Implementing and monitoring the processes of risk 
management and for integrating this into day-to-day 
activities.

 » Ensuring risks are adequately identified, evaluated and 
managed at the appropriate level in each business, 
and that their individual and joint impact on the group 
is considered via the enterprise-wide risk management 
process.

 » Monitoring the business insurance profile and insurance 
claims in progress.

 » Particularly focusing on data privacy, cybersecurity, 
sustainability, tax and IP.

Details of how we manage, govern and monitor information 
and technology, and compliance appear on pages 89 to 91. 

Details of how risk, compliance, and information and 
technology are managed to result in the objectives 
recommended by King IV are contained in the King IV 
application report.

Key focus areas going forward

An ongoing focus on managing changes in the 
risk environment, particularly for legal compliance, tax, 
sustainability and information, and technology-related risks 
such as cybersecurity, data privacy (specifically the 
implementation of the EU’s General Data Protection 
Regulation) and the use of data-driven technologies.

Steve Pacak
Chair: Risk committee

26 June 2023

Risk committee

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 133132 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Members Capacity Attendance at meetings

RCC Jafta (chair) Independent non-executive 3/3 (100%)

JP Bekker Non-executive 3/3 (100%)

HJ du Toit Independent non-executive 3/3 (100%)

CL Enenstein Independent non-executive 3/3 (100%)

R Oliveira de Lima Independent non-executive 2/3 (67%)

Nominations committee

Mandate

The committee assists the board in ensuring performance 
of the board, its committees and directors. It reviews the 
composition of the board and its committees and 
recommends suitable candidates to fill vacancies in these 
governance structures and reviews continuous development 
programmes for directors.

Key focus areas during the year

 » Evaluating the board composition to ensure it appropriately 
reflects the required skill set and diversity.

 » Assessing the composition of the board to execute its duties 
effectively.

 » Assessing the effectiveness of the board, its members and 
committees through a board-evaluation process.

 » Evaluating the performance and independence of the 
company secretary.

Key areas of focus going forward

Focus areas for the committee going forward will include:

 » Assessing the composition of the board to execute its duties 
effectively.

 » Evaluating the board, including structure, size, composition, 
balance of skills, experience and diversity of the board and 
its committees.

 » Ensuring there is a succession plan in place for the role of 
chair of the board.

Rachel Jafta
Chair: Nominations committee

26 June 2023

Members Capacity Attendance at meetings

CL Enenstein (chair) Independent non-executive 4/4 (100%)

JP Bekker Non-executive 4/4 (100%)

R Oliveira de Lima Independent non-executive 4/4 (100%)

Mandate

The committee assists the board in ensuring remuneration 
policies and practices are aligned to the company’s objectives 
for value creation and benchmarked to ensure fairness and 
competitiveness in remunerating employees to attract and 
retain key talent and critical skills required to deliver business 
goals and results.

Key focus areas during the year

Please refer to the remuneration report.

Key focus areas going forward

Key focus areas for the year ahead, include:

 » Continued engagement with shareholders on remuneration 
topics.

 » Ongoing monitoring of market developments to ensure our 
remuneration structure allows us to compete globally for 
talent and that our offering is compelling, fair and 
responsible.

 » Achieving an appropriate mix of longer-term incentives, 
including those to which explicit performance conditions 
are attached.

Remuneration report

Having achieved its objectives for the financial year, 
the committee sets out remuneration disclosure in the 
remuneration report, comprising our overarching remuneration 
policy for executive directors and non-executive directors, and 
commentary on how it has been implemented during the year. 
The remuneration report is prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of King IV. It is divided into three sections 
(background statement, remuneration policy and 
implementation) and is detailed on pages 136 to 166.

Craig Enenstein
Chair: Human resources and remuneration committee

26 June 2023

Human resources and  
remuneration committee

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 135134 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Remuneration report

 We aim to attract, 
motivate and retain 
the best people to 
create sustainable 
shareholder value.

Craig Enenstein 

Chair: Human resources and 
remuneration committee

Members of the committee
 » CL Enenstein (chair)

 » JP Bekker

 » R Oliveira de Lima

1 In presenting and discussing our performance, we use certain alternative performance measures not defined by IFRS, referred to as non-IFRS-EU financial measures, 
alternative performance measures or APMs. Such measures include economic-interest-basis information; trading profit; adjusted EBITDA; headline earnings; core 
headline earnings; and growth in local currency, excluding acquisitions and disposals. Numbers included in brackets represent the equivalent measure on the basis 
of growth in local currency, excluding acquisitions and disposals.

Dear shareholder

On behalf of the board, I am pleased to present our 
remuneration report for the 2023 financial year (FY23).

Despite continued global turmoil and uncertainty, the group 
has recorded a solid operational performance. In line with our 
strategy, we have concentrated on building strong momentum 
in our Ecommerce portfolio, driving for profitability.

Business performance1

On a consolidated basis, total revenue from continuing 
operations increased by US$500m, or 8% (20%), from US$6.3bn in 
the prior period to US$6.8bn. This was primarily due to strong 
revenue growth in iFood, and Payments and Fintech. 

Trading losses increased to US$844m from US$686m, 
representing increased organic investments to scale ecommerce 
extensions. However, trading losses in the second half of the year 
improved by 21% compared to the first half, demonstrating the 
group’s commitment to achieve consolidated ecommerce 
profitability on a monthly basis in the first half of FY25.

The group’s free cash outflow (excluding Avito) was US$518m, a 
sizeable year-on-year improvement. This was due to improved 
working capital and lower withholding tax due to fewer Avito 
dividends being received. Excluding OLX Autos, free cash 
outflow was limited to just US$138m. Tencent remains a 
meaningful contributor to the group’s cash flow via a stable 
dividend of US$565m.     

Core headline earnings were US$1.1bn – a decrease of 48% 
(14%) or US$1.0bn, primarily due to lower contributions from the 
group’s associates (US$1.3bn), of which US$1.1bn relates to 
Tencent. 

Discount to net asset value

For FY23, in response to shareholder feedback, we introduced 
a discount-related, short-term incentive for the CEO and CFO. 
The board approved an open-ended repurchase programme 
of Prosus and Naspers shares, designed to efficiently unlock 
immediate value for shareholders and increase NAV per 
share over time. Funded by the regular sale of Tencent shares, 
the programme will remain active while the discount to NAV is 
at elevated levels.

We did not award longer-term incentives to the CEO and CFO 
for FY23. 

During FY23, the discount, measured over the period of the 
programme through to the end of the fiscal year, saw a 
reduction in the discount from 58% to 42%, the discount 
reduction representing value creation of approximately 
US$25bn, which represents a material improvement in the 
discount. The above-mentioned special incentive will be held 
in reserve until 31 March 2024 and remeasured against a 
clawback provision.

The committee has not awarded a similar incentive for FY24.

Details of FY23 remuneration for executive directors appear 
on page 148 of this report.

Executive director remuneration

For FY24, to incentivise long-term value creation, growth and 
shareholder alignment, we have returned to a more typical 
mix of incentives within the executive directors’ remuneration 
packages and have once again awarded longer-term 
incentives, with a similar mix to the prior years.

Rotation of independent valuations firm

FY23 marks the first financial year for which KPMG has been 
responsible for performing the valuation work on our 
ecommerce assets, with Deloitte having stepped down at the 
end of FY22. We thank Deloitte for the work carried out.

Disclosures

We continue to focus on improving our disclosure on executive 
remuneration, in line with shareholder feedback and our bid 
for greater transparency. In addition to disclosing STI goals 
and achievements for FY23, we now disclose related targets 
retrospectively; this enhanced disclosure will enable an 
informed assessment of management’s performance linked to 
incentive awards.

Our stakeholder engagement

We engage frequently and take extensive input from our 
investors to clearly demonstrate the link between Naspers’ 
strategy, business performance and remuneration philosophy. 

Each year, feedback from investor meetings is considered and 
debated by the remuneration committee as we continue to 
refine remuneration design and disclosure.

Recently, the inclusion of a discount-related incentive in the 
FY23 executive director remuneration packages and our 
enhanced disclosure around the KPIs associated with 
short-term incentives are examples of this input in action.

We strive for a higher level of N shareholder support for 
remuneration resolutions. In that spirit, we will continue to 
make appropriate changes to our remuneration design and 

Key focus areas during the year

 » Reflecting the business performance in the FY23 
remuneration decisions.

 » Ensuring correct pay-for-performance mix is applied.
 » Setting regular short-term incentive (STI) targets, including 
environmental, social and sustainability (ESG) goals that 
are measurable, sufficiently stretched and linked to the 
group’s strategy.

 » Improving disclosure on executive remuneration in the 
annual report, in a bid for greater transparency.

 » Continuing engagement with shareholders on 
remuneration topics and making design adjustments in 
response, where appropriate.

 » Ongoing monitoring of market developments to ensure 
our remuneration structure allows us to compete globally 
for talent, and that our offering is compelling, fair and 
responsible.

disclosures. We will also continue to engage with our 
shareholders frequently.

I thank you for your feedback and support, and look forward 
to our future interactions.

Craig Enenstein
Chair: Human resources and remuneration committee

26 June 2023

Structure of report

In compliance with King IV, this report is split into the 
following sections:

1 Background and policy: Provides a detailed view of 
our approach to remuneration and information on the 
components of our executive pay packages.

    Read more on page 138.

2 Implementation of the remuneration policy:  
Sets out information on how we implemented  
our policy for FY23.

    Read more on page 146.

We conclude with an additional information section on 
page 165

Note: All remuneration is presented at 100%, including the 
cost apportioned to Naspers.

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 137136 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023



Our philosophy

Our remuneration philosophy underpins our group’s strategy 
and enables us to achieve our business objectives. Our 
commitment to pay for performance and alignment with 
shareholder value creation drives all our remuneration 
activities and supports the ownership mentality and spirit of 
entrepreneurship in our teams around the world. We believe 

in a level playing field for our people. We strive to pay fairly 
and responsibly. As much as possible, the structure of our pay 
is consistent, regardless of the seniority of the employee, 
ensuring equality of pay structures across all employees.  
In the committee’s view, the remuneration policy achieved  
its stated objectives in the year under review.

Five key principles to guide our remuneration approach

Paying for  
performance

 » We believe in pay 
for performance: 
We are comfortable 
with bigger 
rewards for those 
that make the 
highest contribution.

Shareholder 
alignment

 » Remuneration must 
be aligned with 
shareholder 
outcomes.

Achieving the 
business plan

 » Remuneration must 
incentivise the 
achievement of 
strategic, operational, 
sustainability and 
financial objectives, in 
both the short and 
longer term.

Consistency 

 » We are consistent: 
Our reward package 
elements are broadly 
the same, regardless 
of seniority1.

Attracting and 
retaining talent

 » Our reward systems 
must help us attract 
and retain the best 
talent around the 
world in a fair and 
responsible way.

Fair

Equitable:  
Equal pay for work of equal value

Relevant:  
Linked to personal and company performance

Rational:  
Easy to explain

Responsible

Independent:  
With oversight, top-down via the board

Managed:  
All employee pay decisions are properly overseen

Considered:  
Judgement is applied – we shy away from  

solely formulaic appraisals that could lead to unacceptable 
outcomes

Sustainable:  
Remuneration designed with sustainability in mind

1 Long-term incentives (LTIs) are an important element of compensation for key employees, but in general are not broadly granted, in line with market practice.

We strive to deliver fair and consistent remuneration 
across all our business operations. 

Maintaining pay equality is embedded in our ways of 
working. Through regular analyses we compare 
compensation levels of groups of people, for example, 

women versus men performing in similar jobs. We 
conduct calibrations across the group as a standard 
process before (annual) reward decisions are taken, 
working towards closing unjustified pay gaps, should  
they exist.

Background and policy

Making executive pay decisions

Pay for  
performance

Achieve the business plan

Attracting and retaining talent

Fair, responsible and consistent

   
Market situation – benchmarking

Individual 
performance 
as per STI

Business 
performance

Willis 
Towers 
Watson 

(WTW) data 
high-tech 

sector and 
general 
industry

AON 
Radford 

data 
high-tech 

sector

Peer group Scenario analysis

When making executive pay 
decisions, we consider the 
individual’s performance and 
the performance of the 
business.

We partner with local data 
providers in the countries in 
which we operate and with 
these two global providers 
of benchmarking 
information. Survey 
coverage is specifically 
strong in the US, Western 
Europe and in high-growth 
markets. We access its 
general industry and 
high-tech surveys, including 
media and technology.

Where appropriate and 
available, we look at 
publicly disclosed data that 
are more or less 
comparable in the 
ecommerce, consumer 
internet, food-delivery and 
social media sector. 

The committee undertakes 
a thorough assessment to 
ensure that targets on 
variable incentives are 
sufficiently stretched in the 
context of potential 
remuneration delivered, 
and applies judgement so 
that the remuneration 
policy continues to 
achieve its objectives of 
aligning pay with the long-
term performance of 
Naspers and shareholder 
outcomes.

   
Committee deliberation


Pay decision

O
U

R
 P

A
Y 

PR
IN

C
IP

LE
S

IN
PU

TS
O

U
TP

U
TS

Attracting and retaining talent 

Fair, responsible,  
consistent

Shareholder 
alignment

Longer term

Pay for performance

Achieve the business 
plan

Our competitive environment for talent

A global market for talent

We are a global rather than a South African company, operating in a highly competitive international environment. Most of our 
competitors are not listed in Johannesburg. Our remuneration practices are aligned within a global technology landscape and 
may differ from what is customary in the South African context. Executive talent comes from other international, often leading 
US-listed companies in the consumer internet sector, which forms the basis of our executive remuneration benchmarking.

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 139138 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023



Background and policy continued

Our remuneration structure: Pay for performance

Remuneration for our executive directors (CEO and CFO) consists of base salary, STI, LTI, pension and other benefits. The 
approach is similar for the CEO’s other direct reports.

Our pay design links to our pay principles

Pay for  
performance

Shareholder  
alignment

Achieving the 
business plan Consistency

Attracting and 
retaining talent

Fixed 
remuneration

 » Base salary reflects the contribution of the individual and market value of the role.
 » Paid monthly in cash.
 » May be reviewed annually; any increase is typically effective from 1 April each year.
 » Benefits typically include pension, medical insurance, and life and disability insurance.

STI –
Annual
performance-
related
incentive

 » Discretionary annual performance-related incentive with performance measures tailored to the executives’  
roles and responsibilities.

 » At least 50% of the bonus opportunity is based on delivering financial performance ahead of the board-approved 
business plan.

 » Sustainability goals are set for the short and longer term.
 » Target and maximum bonus opportunities are the same (no payout for over-performance against target), and the 

standard STI is set at 100% of base salary for both the CEO and CFO.
 » The committee undertakes a thorough assessment to ensure targets are rigorous and sufficiently stretched.  

STI payout is typically below the maximum 100% opportunity.
 » Any STI payout is made in cash.
 » The committee may apply judgement with discretion to make appropriate adjustments to the annual bonus.
 » The committee may consider an additional cash short-term incentive, aligned to specific shareholder interests,  

of no more than five times the annual fixed gross salary.

LTI –
Performance
share units
(PSUs)

 » PSUs are designed to incentivise the increase in the value of internet businesses (excluding Tencent) and delivery 
of superior returns to shareholders.

 » Three-year cliff-vesting, subject to achieving the performance condition.
 » Performance condition is the three-year compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of the Global Ecommerce SAR 

scheme, relative to a group of industry peers.
 » Vested PSUs are settled in shares.

 » Further details on  page 141.

LTI – Share
appreciation
rights (SARs)

 » SARs incentivise the growth in value of the business units or an aggregation of underlying assets.  

See  page 142 for details on the valuations process and the valuation performance of the Ecommerce  
portfolio linked to the SARs plan.

 » Any value upside delivered by individual businesses is offset by any value downside delivered by other businesses. 
This ensures that senior executives’ remuneration is negatively affected if individual businesses do not perform.

 » The change in value is measured over a four-year period to ensure focus on the longer-term delivery of  
shareholder value.

 » Any gains are settled in cash.

LTI – Share 
options (SOs)

 » SOs: Any gains are based on the growth in share price over a four-year period.
 » Performance hurdle: Value is only delivered to participants if there is an increase in the share price.
 » Any gains are settled in shares.

Malus and clawback provisions apply to STI and LTI.

Executive director participation in LTI plans

The committee reviews three key elements before conducting 
the scenario analysis, to determine the size of any award  
of PSUs, SARs or SOs:

 » Strong short-term (annual) personal performance leading  
to a decision to grant an LTI.

 » Superior business performance over the executive’s tenure, 
leading to value creation in the scheme and for the 
shareholder.

 » Industry benchmarking of executive compensation in 
consultation with external advisers Willis Towers Watson  
and FW Cook.

LTI awards represent a significant portion of total 
compensation. They are designed to incentivise the delivery of 
sustainable longer-term growth and provide alignment with 
our shareholders.

The entirety of our executive directors’ LTI is determined by  
the performance of the company and growth in the valuation 
of the underlying assets and, as such, is deemed ‘at risk’.  
LTI is only delivered to executive directors, providing the  
PSU performance conditions are met and the share price of 
SARs or SOs has increased in value, ensuring strict alignment 
with our wider stakeholder interests.

Detailed scheme rules provide for the operation and 
governance by trustees of each scheme.

A blend of LTI

Our executive pay is heavily weighted towards longer-term 
performance, typically delivered via PSUs, SARs, and SOs. 
Each element of the LTI programme plays a distinct part in 
implementing a remuneration approach that drives business 
performance for the longer term and is fair, responsible, 
consistent, aligned with shareholder outcomes and relevant to 
the talented executives we need to attract and retain  
(see table on page 138).

In recent years, we focused on compensating executive 
management on the performance of the global Ecommerce 
portfolio, excluding Tencent. In FY22 (when LTI was most 
recently granted), the PSU plan and SARs plan together made 
up 92.5% of the LTI allocation:

 » PSUs – measures the three-year CAGR valuation of the 
Ecommerce portfolio against a basket of global peers1.

 » SARs – measures the value creation of directly controllable 
factors in the global Ecommerce portfolio.

PSUs

Achievement of the performance condition will be assessed 
by the human resources and remuneration committee,  
based on the share price of the Global Ecommerce SAR Plan 
(in absolute and relative terms), validated by the valuations 
subcommittee as per the valuations process described on  
page 144.

The level of achievement relative to the performance condition 
at the end of the three-year performance period drives the 
number of shares that ultimately will vest:

 » At threshold performance: 50% of allocated shares would 
be awarded if performance is at the 25th percentile of the 
peer group.

 » At target performance: 100% of allocated shares would be 
awarded if performance is at the median of the peer group.

 » At maximum performance: 200% of allocated shares 
would be awarded if performance is at the 75th percentile 
of the peer group.

The PSU threshold level of achievement is deliberately set at 
the 25th percentile, as it is positioned against a highly 
competitive set of comparator companies, as referenced 
below1. 

If the threshold level of performance is not achieved,  
no shares will be awarded to the participant. If more than 
maximum performance is achieved, no more than 200%  
of allocated shares would be awarded.

The board remains committed and incentivised to continue on 
the journey for long-term value creation of the group. To 
emphasise that intent, FY24 remuneration will be adjusted 
accordingly. Further details can be found on page 149.

1 The 31 March 2023 peer group consists of Adevinta, Adyen, Alphabet, Amazon, Auto Trader Group plc, Booking Holdings, Deliveroo, DoorDash, eBay, Expedia 
Group Inc., IAC/InterActiveCorp, Just Eat Takeaway.com, Mercado Libre, Meta, Netflix, Ocado Group, PayPal Holdings, Sea Limited, Snap, Square, Wayfair Inc., 
Zalando SE and Zillow Group. Twitter was removed following its delisting in November 2022.

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 141140 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023



Blend of LTI PSU Global Ecommerce SAR SOs

Plan characteristics A performance share award 
that is transferred to 
participants after time 
restrictions have passed, 
subject to the performance 
condition being met.

PSUs typically vest in full on 
the third anniversary of the 
grant, subject to the 
performance condition 
being met.

A right to benefit from any 
increase in value of the 
business unit over which  
an award is made.

Vests over four years.

A right to buy a company 
share at a pre-agreed price.

Vests over four years.

Performance Performance is determined 
based on verifiable financial 
results and metrics.

Embedded with a 
performance hurdle as there 
is no value to be gained 
unless there is an increase in 
share value in the underlying, 
unlisted consumer internet 
businesses (excluding 
Tencent) between grant and 
vesting/exercise.

Embedded with a 
performance hurdle as there 
is no value to be gained 
unless there is an increase in 
share value between grant 
and vesting/exercise.

Settlement Depending on achievement 
against performance 
condition, between 0% and 
200% of awarded PSUs may 
vest and Prosus or Naspers1 
shares are delivered2 on 
vesting.

Gains, if any, are settled  
in cash.

Upon exercise, SOs are 
settled in Naspers or  
Prosus shares1, 2.

Focus on longer-term value 
creation

Value driven by longer-term 
outcomes.

Valuation (by third party) 
driven by longer-term 
projections3.

Market cap represents  
longer-term value.

Alignment with shareholder 
interests

PSUs align the business 
strategy and objectives with 
executive compensation and 
shareholder returns.

Incentivises value creation in 
underlying ecommerce 
businesses (excluding 
Tencent).

Aligned with shareholders 
incentivising executive 
management to reduce  
the discount to NAV.

1 The issue of PSU and SO awards, if any, will gradually be rebalanced between Prosus and Naspers shares, aligned with the free-float ownership in Prosus and 
Naspers.

2 Shares are purchased on the market for cash to avoid shareholder dilution as a result of the company settling its LTI award obligations.
3 Please see page 144 for further details on the valuation process.

Background and policy continued

Valuations

The Global Ecommerce portfolio

The performance of SARs and PSUs are determined by 
year-on-year changes in the per-share valuation of the group’s 
Global Ecommerce portfolio. The Global Ecommerce scheme 
excludes the performance of Tencent.

Methodology

The valuation is an amalgamation of a number of individual 
schemes and assets which are valued annually, or in the 
interim if required, by an independent external valuer. In 
determining the company value and the scheme share value, 
the valuer shall use the appropriate application of reasonable 
valuation methods, including, without limitation, the use of 
comparable peer multiples, precedent transactions and 
discounted cash flow (DCF) valuations. Importantly, the 
methodology deployed in valuing the ecommerce schemes 
has remained consistent since inception, which is essential 
both for the legitimacy of the valuation and for transparency 
for the scheme participants.

Where predominantly employing a DCF methodology, the 
valuer is using assumptions for future cash generation, 
discount rates and long-term growth. These valuations assess 
the pathway to value creation and should serve as a critical 
component of a comprehensive compensation vehicle 
designed to align management performance and 
compensation, excluding Tencent, with shareholder outcomes. 
It is also important to note that funding is initially dilutive to 
value, and many of our companies are early-stage or 
loss-making, meaning that the schemes are diluted by 
short-term investment and acquisitions. The Global Ecommerce 
portfolio scheme is made up of underlying schemes, each of 
which has a different set of assumptions.

2023 valuation outcome

The group’s assets are on track for consolidated profitability 
as communicated to investors, while our businesses continue 
to identify additional investment areas to expand their overall 
opportunity sets. Despite this, a decline in the value of the 
portfolio will reflect the re-rating of all our listed assets, 
including Delivery Hero in particular, and to a lesser extent a 
decline in the value of our unlisted assets where the market 
inputs, like risk-free rates, increased compared to 2022 and 
will drive lower valuations. We continue to see declines in the 
private market valuations, closing the gap to the declines 
experienced in the public company valuations. 

These declines in the market were noted at 30 September 
2022 and, given the meaningful downward market movements 
and rising inflation resulted in higher interest rates, the 
decision was taken to perform an interim valuation at 
30 September 2022. 

For the financial year, the group’s assets continued to perform 
to their plans with a commitment to deliver consolidated 
Ecommerce trading profit during the first half of FY25. The 
updated valuations at 31 March 2023 reflect the performance 
of our businesses in the context of the continued difficult 
macroeconomic environment. 

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 143142 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023



Background and policy continued

Governance of our valuation process

Valuation process

Underlying business submits 
10-year business plan and 
annual budget.

Naspers reviews the 10-year 
business plans for each 
underlying business and 
provides them to the  
external valuer.

Independently from 
management, the valuer 
values the underlying assets 
at 31 March annually and 
additionally, whenever a 
significant change occurs.

The valuer issues a report 
detailing the valuation for 
each of the underlying 
operations.

   
Segment schemes and the ecommerce schemes are a ‘basket of assets’  

representing the valuation of the underlying operations

Governance

➊ Report issues ➋ Review ➌ Submission ➍ Approval 

The external valuer1 issues 
a report with the respective 
share scheme valuations.

The valuations subcommittee 
of the human resources and 
remuneration committee 
reviews the valuations before 
recommending the values for 
approval to the human 
resources and remuneration 
committee. The subcommittee 
consists of members of the 
board: Craig Enenstein 
(chair) and Steve Pacak.

Reports from the valuer and 
the valuations subcommittee 
are submitted to the human 
resources and remuneration 
committee as part of their 
approval process.

Once the human resources 
and remuneration 
committee approves the 
valuations and resultant 
share prices, the share 
prices will be updated and 
participants can exercise 
their SARs or SOs at these 
updated prices in 
accordance with the 
trading-in-securities policy.

1 The group has appointed KPMG as the new external valuer, conducting the valuations for the group’s unlisted assets from FY23 onwards.

Ecommerce portfolio and SARs performance 2021 to 2023

2021 20221 2023

Ecommerce valuation (US$’m) 39 109 35 780 28 049

Ecommerce valuation growth 76.6% (8.5%) (22%)

SAR share price (US$’m) 64.28 49.91 38.11

Notional shares 15 210 390 17 923 495 18 401 174

1 Adjusted to account for the disposal of Avito. As reported last year, vesting of the first PSU awards was delayed by our announced intention to decouple Avito 
operationally from the group.

Governance

Recruitment policy

On appointing a new executive director, their package will 
typically be in line with our remuneration policy. To facilitate 
recruitment, it may be necessary to ‘buy out’ remuneration 
forfeited on joining the company. This will be considered on  
a case-by-case basis and cash or LTI may be used.

Termination policy 

Payments in lieu of notice may be made to executive directors, 
comprising salary for the unexpired portion of the notice 
period. Such payments may be phased. On termination, there 
is no entitlement to an annual performance-related incentive 
(STI). However, the committee retains the discretion to award a 
bonus to a leaver during the financial year, taking into account 
the circumstances of their departure, considering pro-rating for 
time and actual performance achieved. 

There is no entitlement to a particular severance package  
in executive directors’ contracts.

Malus and clawback

Malus and clawback provisions apply to STIs and LTIs 
awarded to executive directors and the CEO’s direct reports 
(in line with article 135(6) and (8) of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil 
Code and the remuneration Policy). All or part of the unpaid 
STI may be modified or cancelled and all or part of the 
unvested LTI may be modified or cancelled. In addition, all or 
part of the vested LTI may be claimed back. Malus and 
clawback provisions may be invoked for certain material 
events, including cases of material financial misstatement or 
gross misconduct on the part of the executive director or 
direct reports of the CEO.

Service contracts

Executive directors’ contracts comply with terms and conditions in the relevant local jurisdiction.

Bob van Dijk Basil Sgourdos

Date of appointment at the group 1 August 2013 1 August 1995

Date of appointment to current position 1 April 2014 1 July 2014

Employer notice period Six months Three months

Other non-executive roles

Bob van Dijk stepped down as non-executive director of 
Booking Holdings Inc. on 9 June 2022. 

Neither Bob nor Basil Sgourdos holds any board positions 
outside the Prosus and Naspers groups.

Shareholding requirement for the CEO

To reflect the balance of the underlying value of economic 
interests between Naspers and Prosus, the CEO is required to 
maintain a Naspers shareholding of four times his annual salary 
and a Naspers shareholding of six times his annual salary.

Non-executive directors’ remuneration policy

The fee structure for non-executive directors has been 
designed to ensure we attract, retain and appropriately 
compensate a diverse and internationally experienced board 
of non-executive directors, given the highly competitive markets 
in which we operate, and the global competition we face.

Non-executive directors receive an annual fee as opposed to 
a fee per meeting, which recognises their ongoing 
responsibility for effective control of the company. They may 
also receive an additional fee for group board committees 
and subsidiary boards, to reflect the additional responsibilities 
and associated time commitment. Remuneration is reviewed 
regularly and is not linked to the company’s share price or 
performance. Non-executive directors do not qualify for share 
allocations under the group’s incentive schemes.

The remuneration of non-executive directors is determined after 
regular benchmarking that primarily considers international 
comparators in the consumer internet and media sectors, as 
well as the top 10 AEX-listed and JSE-listed companies.

Dual responsibilities

Non-executive directors receive no additional compensation 
for their dual responsibilities to Naspers and Prosus. However, 
the aggregate cost of their compensation is currently allocated 
70% to Prosus and 30% to Naspers. The split was determined 
based on the underlying assets and the amount of time 
required to sufficiently assume the dual responsibilities.

Non-executive directors’ terms of appointment

The board has procedures for appointing and orienting 
directors. The nominations committee periodically assesses 
the skills represented on the board and determines whether 
these meet the company’s needs. Annual self-evaluations are 
done by the board and its committees. Directors are invited to 
give input in identifying potential candidates and we 
frequently engage the services of a reputable search firm. 
Members of the nominations committee propose suitable 
candidates for consideration by the board. A fit and proper 
evaluation is performed for each candidate.

Retirement and re-election of non-executive directors 

The governance structures of Prosus and Naspers substantially 
mirror each other. Prosus and Naspers have an identical  
one-tier board structure of executive and non-executive 
directors.

All non-executive directors are subject to retirement and 
re-election by shareholders every three years. The names of 
non-executive directors submitted for election or re-election 
are accompanied by brief biographical details to enable 
shareholders to make an informed decision on their election. 
The reappointment of non-executive directors is not automatic.

Shareholder engagement

In FY23, we engaged with our shareholders through regular 
in-person and online meetings, including the topic of 
remuneration.

We have outlined the committee’s decision process  
on remuneration on page 139. A remuneration section  
is included on our investor pages on our website at  
www.naspers.com.

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 145144 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023



Implementation of  
remuneration policy

Aligning remuneration to our strategy and performance

In this section, we outline how our remuneration policy for executive directors has been implemented in FY23 and how we intend 
to operate it in FY24. All decisions on executive remuneration have been made in line with our remuneration policy for this 
financial year and reflect our business performance.

Our strategy  » We partner with local entrepreneurs to build global technology leaders.
 » We operate at the intersection of high-growth markets and technology to address major societal needs  

at scale.
 » We build sustainable leadership positions in high-growth markets.
 » We build businesses with big potential to address societal needs.

Our business 
priorities

 » Food Delivery
 » Classifieds
 » Payments and Fintech

 » Edtech
 » Etail
 » Other: Ventures

 » Social and internet platforms.

Our financial 
highlights1

 » Revenue US$33.2bn, -5% (7%), driven by a healthy 19% (29%) increase in Ecommerce segment revenues. 
 » Trading profit declined to US$3.3bn, reflecting a lower share of profits from Tencent and continued investment in our 

Ecommerce growth extensions, which include: credit, quick commerce and grocery delivery. 
 » Core headline earnings decreasing to US$1.1bn. 

Our operating 
highlights1, 2

 » Ecommerce businesses consolidated revenue grew 8% (20%) to US$6.8bn, with the biggest contributions to growth from Food 
Delivery, and Payments and Fintech. Consolidated trading losses from continuing operations of US$639m reflected our focused 
approach to incremental investment in our Ecommerce growth extensions. Going forward, we expect a continued reduction in 
trading losses in each reporting period as a result of continued efficiencies and cutting back aggressively on costs. 

 » Food Delivery continued to deliver robust growth in the core restaurant food-delivery business as well as in grocery 
marketplace and quick commerce, while improving its overall profitability. Profit improvement was driven by increased scale 
and margin improvement in the core restaurant food-delivery businesses, as well as a more targeted investment in growth 
extensions such as grocery and quick commerce. Total gross merchandise value (GMV) grew 18% (27%), while revenue, on an 
economic-interest basis, increased 40% (44%) to US$4.2bn. 

 » Core Classifieds businesses delivered sustained growth and improved profitability, driven by stable operating metrics and a 
strong performance in Europe. However, core Classifieds was negatively impacted by currency movements. On an economic-
interest basis, revenue decreased in nominal terms but grew 15% to US$722m in local currency, excluding M&A, and reported a 
trading profit of US$60m. 

 » Payments and Fintech continued to see meaningful growth in the core PSP (payment service provider) business and in its 
burgeoning Indian credit business. The segment grew its economic-interest revenue 32% (51%) to US$1.1bn. On a consolidated 
basis, the core PSP business and credit drove PayU’s revenue growth of 32% (52%) to US$903m. The trading loss was US$83m 
(FY22: US$46m), at a negative margin of 9% (FY22: -7%) due to a once-off loss provision of US$23m. Excluding this provision, 
the PSP business remained profitable. 

 » Edtech segment revenues grew by 28% (18%) to US$545m and trading losses increased to US$258m. Growth was affected by 
decreased demand given the macroeconomic downturn. Our portfolio companies have reacted quickly to changing market 
conditions and have begun to rationalise their cost structures and investments. Our majority-owned enterprise platforms, Stack 
Overflow and GoodHabitz, continued to grow, driven by investments in sales headcount, product enhancements and global 
footprint expansion, which weighed on profitability. 

 » Etail: eMAG had a mixed performance due to decreased consumer demand in a deteriorating macroeconomic environment, 
the war in neighbouring Ukraine, and a needed restructuring of its Hungarian business. eMAG’s revenue declined by 14% (4%) 
to US$2.0bn, reflecting a 17% (7%) local currency decline in its core Etail business, which was partially offset by strong growth 
from its restaurant (Tazz) and grocery-delivery (Freshful) services. While overall GMV decreased 13% (4%), third-party (3p) 
ecommerce business grew GMV 3% (14%) which was offset by a first-party (1p) decline of 20% (11%). These changes were 
driven by changes in category mix, which is ultimately more supportive of margins. In total, the business reported a trading 
loss of US$53m, compared to a US$34m trading loss last year.

Remuneration  
outcome FY23

 » We have focused on the path to profitability this year and met our COHE and FCF goals, but missed our organic 
revenue growth target. The next page contains information on the annual charge of CEO compensation linked to the 
performance of the company, as well as the FY23 remuneration for the CEO and CFO as shown in the single-figure 
table. The outcomes of STI linked to all group financial goals and strategic, operational and sustainability goals are 
disclosed on pages 150 and 151.

Aligning remuneration to our strategy

Compensation is substantially ‘at risk’ and longer term

In FY23, the remuneration committee emphasised the importance of reducing the discount to net asset value in the short term by 
materially increasing the CEO and CFO’s short-term variable compensation exposure to this goal. The discount-linked incentive for 
FY23 will only be paid out if the improvement is sustained or improved on, as at 31 March 2024. This was a unique event and a 
further discount-related incentive is not part of the remuneration of the executive directors in the coming year (FY24).

The committee is focused on delivering executive incentives that are predominantly focused on longer-term value creation.

Remuneration mix awarded in FY23

Business performance and remuneration outcomes

Executive directors’ remuneration versus company performance 

FY236 
(%)

FY22 
(%)

FY21 
(%)

FY204 

(%)
CAGR5

(%)

CEO remuneration

Cash1 year-on-year change 145 (13) 5 9 25

LTI2 year-on-year change (100) (2) 3 28 (100)

CFO remuneration

Cash1 year-on-year change 98 (9) 5 13 21

LTI2 year-on-year change (100) (2) 17 26 (100)

Company performance

Organic revenue growth3 7 24 33 23 20

Organic revenue growth4 (excluding Tencent) 31 50 51 32 35

Ecommerce share price growth (24) (22) 55 15 1

1 Base salary + benefits + actual bonus payout, using the currency in which the CEO (in €) and CFO (in US$) are paid. The primary reason for the FY23 increase is the 
inclusion of the discount-linked STI.

2 Fair value at grant, using the currency (US$) in which we grant LTIs. 
3 Metric, excluding impact of foreign exchange (FX) and M&A. 
4 FY20 growth measured from date of listing. It is noted that all remuneration is presented on a full-year basis and at 100%, including the cost that is apportioned to 

Naspers. 
5 Period CAGR is between FY20 and FY23. 
6 Includes continuing operations (excluding a portion of OLX Autos).

Bob van Dijk (%)

23

23

54

27

27

46

Basil Sgourdos (%)

Annual fixed pay 23%

Annual STI (target) 23%

Annual fair value LTI 0%

Discount-linked STI (target) 54%

Annual fixed pay 27%

Annual STI (target) 27%

Annual fair value LTI 0%

Discount-linked STI (target) 46%

1 All figures from continuing operations.
2 In presenting and discussing our performance, we use certain alternative performance measures not defined by IFRS, referred to as non-IFRS-EU financial measures, 

alternative performance measures or APMs. Such measures include economic-interest-basis information; trading profit; adjusted EBITDA; headline earnings; core 
headline earnings; and growth in local currency, excluding acquisitions and disposals. Numbers included in brackets represent the equivalent measure on the basis 
of growth in local currency, excluding acquisitions and disposals.

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 147146 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023



Implementation of remuneration policy continued

Single-figure table FY23 remuneration

The tables below show a single figure for the remuneration and the implementation of the remuneration policy in FY23 for the 
executive directors. Salary increases were not awarded to the executive directors in FY23.

FY23 single-figure table

€’000 Variable remuneration

Pension
Other 

benefits4
Total 

remuneration5

Proportion 
of fixed and 

variable 
remunerationExecutive director

Base 
salary

Standard
STI1

Discount-
linked 

STI2 LTI3

Bob van Dijk, CEO 1 296 895 3 150 0 85 46 5 472 24%/76%

Basil Sgourdos, CFO 1 107 923 1 845 0 87 10 3 972 28%/72%

FY23 single-figure table

US$’000 Variable remuneration

Pension
Other 

benefits4
Total 

remuneration5

Proportion 
of fixed and 

variable 
remunerationExecutive director

Base 
salary

Standard
STI1

Discount-
linked 

STI2 LTI3

Bob van Dijk, CEO 1 405 970 3 414 0 92 49 5 930 24%/76%

Basil Sgourdos, CFO 1 200 1 000 2 000 0 94 16 4 310 28%/72%

1 Actual payout against FY23 performance; achievement of STI goals is shown on pages 150 and 151.
2 The discount-linked STI will be held and paid out after 31 March 2024 should the assessed discount be sustained or improved.
3 No LTIs were granted in FY23 to executive directors. The IFRS 2 expense recognised for unvested and vested but unexercised LTI awards at 31 March 2023 

is -US$97.6m (-€93.6m) (2022: -US$27m (-€23.3m)) for the -US$4.1m (-€4.0m) (2022: US$4.3m (€3.7m)) for the CFO and does not reflect the impact of the non-
adjusting  subsequent event on the intended sale of Avito. The total IFRS 2 expense is shown in note 44 – Related party transactions and balances (executive 
directors’ remuneration) of the consolidated financial statements.

4 Medical insurance, life and disability insurance.
5 Executive directors are executive directors of both Naspers and Prosus. The costs of their remuneration as executive directors of these entities are split 10/90 

between Naspers and Prosus. The remuneration paid to executive directors above reconciles with executive directors’ remuneration disclosed in note 44 of the 
consolidated financial statements. In note 44, we show base pay, STI, pension and benefits at 10% of the aggregate cost as set out in this remuneration report, plus 
the full IFRS 2 expense of the LTI per this footnote 3, minus the FY23 LTI awards in fair value at grant, as shown in this single-figure table.

Pay equality

Maintaining pay equality is embedded in our ways of working, 
where we compare compensation of groups of people, for 
example, women versus men performing in similar jobs. We 
conduct calibrations across the group as a standard process 
before (annual) reward decisions are taken, working towards 
closing unjustified pay gaps, should they exist.

STI – FY23 goals, targets and achievements

Short-term incentives (STIs) are based on financial, strategic, 
operational and sustainability performance targets tailored for 
each role, including financial objectives on the underlying 
business performance.

The minimum STI payout was 0% of base salary. The target 
and maximum STI opportunity are the same at 100% of base 
salary, ie there is no opportunity to overachieve on bonus 
payout.

Measurements for bonus achievement were based on the 
business plan for FY23.

We disclose STI goals and achievements for FY23, as well as 
FY23 targets retrospectively, from this financial year. 

In the annual report, we have highlighted metrics or 
developments for FY23 that were included in the STI of 
executive directors as indicated on pages 150 and 151.

Investing for sustainable long-term value 
creation 

Naspers competes with tech companies of every size in 
the consumer internet industry worldwide. To compete 
effectively, our assets need to reach scale – in user 
numbers and markets served – relatively quickly. For 
Naspers, this translates to significant investment and 
support through their early loss-making years: our 
diverse portfolio allows us to sustain this investment 
phase or divest from assets that no longer meet our 
stringent criteria. This is a strategic choice as we search 
for entrepreneurs who can build global tech leaders 
addressing societal needs in high-growth markets. At 
the same time, we have an obligation to shareholders 
who entrust their capital to Naspers to create 
sustainable long-term value through disciplined capital 
allocation and robust financial performance. Against our 
stated goal of profitability across our core Ecommerce 
segment by the first half of FY25, it is appropriate to 
incentivise management to find the correct balance 
between investing for growth and competing effectively.

When reviewing the CEO’s remuneration, the human resources 
and remuneration committee considers employee 
remuneration globally across the group.

As a consumer internet company, we have a wide 
geographical footprint. Most of our activities and employees 
are based in high-growth countries, including India, Brazil, 
Central and Eastern Europe, and South Africa. On a global 
level, the CEO pay ratio versus employees (including LTI) 
would be 253:1 (FY22: 347:1, FY21: 316:1, FY20: 311:1). 
However, we do not consider the pay ratio to be an 
appropriate measure of fairness given the widely different pay 
levels observed in the countries where we operate. 
If we compare CEO pay versus employees in the Netherlands 
it shows a ratio of 30:1 (FY22: 40:1, FY21: 19:1, FY20: 22:1). 
The decrease from FY22 to FY23 is due to the CEO not 
receiving an LTI. 

Also, as shown on page 147, the pay-at-risk portion for the 
CEO and, within that, more specifically LTI as a result of 
historical allocations, weighs heavily in our total executive 
remuneration mix. This approach is typical within the consumer 
internet and technology sector where we compete for talent. 
For completeness, we have also reviewed pay ratios excluding  
LTI, showing a ratio of 118:1 (FY22: 71:1, FY21: 75:1, 
FY20: 72:1) globally and 22:1 (FY22: 14:1, FY21: 6:1, FY20: 8:1) 
for the Netherlands.

The ratios are obtained by dividing the FY23 total 
remuneration for the CEO by the FY23 average total 
remuneration of all other employees (which includes salaries, 
wages, on-target bonus, pension and benefits for employees, 
excluding contractors). It excludes training and development 
that we offer to our employees. Details of staff costs appear in 
note 15 on page 80 of the consolidated financial statements.

Competitive pay – knowledge workers

We review the pay levels of our staff at least annually: relative 
to pay in the markets and countries where we operate, our 
reward levels are competitive. We see the effectiveness of our 
reward philosophy and practices confirmed via our formal 
employee engagement surveys. In recent years, most 
employees find that they are paid fairly, relative to similar jobs 
in other companies, reporting a high satisfaction level that is 
above external benchmarks.

Fairness

We strive to deliver fair and consistent remuneration across all 
our business operations. At all levels, we ensure our pay 
practices around the world are fair, competitive and above 
local minimum-wage standards. We ensure critical benefits 
and protection for our entire workforce are in line with the 
markets in which we operate.

Special discount-related short-term incentive

Discount-linked STI

A special one-year cash incentive related to reducing the 
discount to net asset value was introduced in FY23. This 
discount-linked STI will only be paid on successful discount 
reduction at the discretion of the human resources and 
remuneration committee.

During the financial year, a new initiative was developed 
whereby the group sold Tencent shares and purchased Prosus 
and Naspers shares with the associated proceeds. 

The new initiative resulted in the sale of Tencent shares with a 
market value of US$10.7bn and the purchase of a 
commensurate amount of Prosus and Naspers shares.

During FY23, the discount, measured over the period 
of the programme through to the end of the fiscal year, 
saw a reduction in the discount from 58% to 42%, the discount 
reduction representing value creation of approximately 
US$25bn, which represents a material improvement in the 
discount. 

The reduction of the discount and value created during the 
period represents a material improvement in the discount and 
the committee has deemed that the incentive should be paid, 

subject to the one-year holding period which was 
communicated at the outset.

The incentive will only vest, if at 31 March 2024 the discount 
improvement is sustained or improved. To be clear, so long as 
the discount at 31 March 2024 remains no greater than the 
42% level indicated at 31 March 2023, the discount-linked 
incentive will be deemed vested and then paid.

As of the end of the fiscal year, the Tencent sale and share 
purchase programme remained active. No further discount-
related incentive is proposed for FY24.

CEO’s remuneration compared to average  
employee remuneration

As we operate in high-growth economies where socio-
economic disparity can be large, societal fairness is very 
important to us. As such, we ensure that our pay practices 
around the world are fair and competitive and well above 
minimum-wage standards. Pay is an important aspect, but not 
the only consideration. In general, our people join us because 
of the opportunity to do meaningful work where they can 
make a difference and can learn and grow.

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 149148 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023



FY23 goals and achievements

Basil Sgourdos

Maximum STI opportunity: 100% base salary. 

Group  
financial goals1

Weighting 
(%) Target Actual results Outcome2

Actual
payout

Core headline
earnings
(including Tencent)

19.05 US$564m  US$1 056m US$228 665

Free cash flow 19.05 -US$1.2bn  -US$518m US$228 665

38.1 US$457 330

Strategic, 
operational 
and 
sustainability 
goals

Weighting 
(%) Target Actual results Outcome

Actual
payout

Taxation 9.52 Execute plans to navigate the 
changing global tax landscape

 Details can be found on 
page 110

US$114 272

Governance, 
internal audit 
and risk 
management

9.52 Ensure effective systems of 
internal control are operated 
throughout the group’s 
controlled entities

 Details can be found on 
page 40

US$114 272

Balance sheet 9.52 Take action to support our debt 
ratings responding to macro 
impacts on the balance sheet

 Details can be found on 
page 44

US$114 272

Sustainability: 
Diversity and 
inclusion

16.67 87% favourable response within 
the finance function to the 
question ’I feel respected at my 
company‘ in the annual 
engagement survey

 72%; details can be found on 
page 82

X US$0

Sustainability: 
Climate 
sustainability

16.67 Reduce scope 1 and 2 
emissions to zero at group 
level3 by year-end FY23

 Scope 1 and 2 emissions are 
reduced to zero at group level3; 
details can be found on page 100

US$200 097

61.90 US$542 913

Outcomes of STIs

The outcomes of the annual STI as shown below and on page 151 resulted in annual bonus payout levels of €895 168 or 69% of 
base salary for Bob van Dijk (CEO) and US$1 000 243 or 83.3% of base salary for Basil Sgourdos (CFO).

All financial, strategic, operational and sustainability goals are measurable and validated.

FY23 goals and achievements

Bob van Dijk

Maximum STI opportunity: 100% base salary. 

Group  
financial goals1

Weighting 
(%) Target Actual results Outcome2

Actual
payout

Core headline 
earnings  
(including Tencent)

19.05 US$564m  US$1 056m €246 965

Free cash flow 19.05 -US$1.2bn  -US$518m €246 965

38.10 €493 930

Strategic, 
operational and 
sustainability 
goals

Weighting 
(%) Target Actual results Outcome

Actual
payout

Ecommerce 
financials1

14.28 Organic revenue growth of 35%  29% X
2

€0

14.28 Trading loss of -US$1.85bn  -US$1.50bn
2 €185 127

Sustainability: 
Diversity and 
inclusion

16.67 89% favourable response to the 
question ‘I feel respected at my 
company’ in the annual 
engagement survey

 86%; details can be found on 
page 82

X €0

Sustainability: 
Climate 
sustainability

16.67 Reduce scope 1 and 2 
emissions to zero at group 
level3 by year-end FY23

 Scope 1 and 2 emissions are 
reduced to zero at group level3; 
details can be found on page 100

€216 111

61.90 €401 238

Implementation of remuneration policy continued

1 Financial goals, actual results and outcomes based on Naspers economic interest results.
2 Outcome assessed after adjustments for M&A, foreign exchange/constant currency and other approved items.
3 As determined by the board. As part of our climate mitigation effort in FY23, our corporate offices located in London and Amsterdam procured green 

electricity. For the other corporate offices in the scope of reporting and as part of our climate change mitigation, we have procured renewable-energy 
certifications for our scope 2 emissions.

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 151150 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023



Overview of LTI awards for Bob van Dijk

Main conditions of share plans Number of unvested awards1 Value in US$

Bob van 
Dijk

Perfor-
mance
metric Award date

Vesting 
date(s) Expiry date

Strike
price of
option/

SAR

Opening 
balance 

1 April 
2022

(unvested)

Awarded 
during 

the year

Vested 
during

the year

Closing 
balance 

31 March 
2023 

(unvested)

Potential
gain of 
awards
vested 

during the
 year at 
vesting 

date2

Fair value 
of 

unvested 
awards 

31 March
 20233

Naspers
Perfor-
mance
Share Units
(PSUs)

Three-
year
cliff – TSR

09/09/2019 07/12/2022 n/a –  24 527  –  (24 527)  –  6 898 864  – 

21/09/2020 21/09/2023 n/a –  48 302  –  –  48 302  – 17 875 339

21/06/2021 21/06/2024 n/a –  27 796  –  –  27 796  –  5 143 296 

Subtotal  100 625  –  (24 527)  76 098  6 898 864 23 018 635

Prosus 
Perfor-
mance
Share Units
(PSUs)

Three-
year 
cliff – TSR

26/08/2021 26/08/2024 n/a –  26 993  –  –  26 993  –  2 104 787 

Subtotal  26 993  –  –  26 993  –  2 104 787 

Naspers 
Global
Ecommerce
Share
Apprecia-
tion
Rights 
(SARs) 

Four-year 
measure-
ment of 
value 
growth of 
ecom-
merce 
business 
units

15/08/2017 15/08/2022 15/08/2027  27.25  146 789  –  (146 789)  –  3 928 074  – 

08/09/2017 08/09/2022 08/09/2027  27.60  35 055  –  (35 055)  –  895 305  – 

25/06/2018 25/06/2022 25/06/2028  33.57  104 610  –  (104 610)  –  2 149 736  – 

16/07/2019 16/07/2022 16/07/2029  36.70  109 208  –  (109 208)  –  1 842 339  – 

16/07/2019 16/07/2023 16/07/2029  36.70  109 208  –  –  109 208  – 153 787

21/09/2020 21/09/2022 21/09/2030  41.98  62 571  –  (62 571)  –  451 763  – 

21/09/2020 21/09/2023 21/09/2030  41.98  62 571  –  –  62 571  –  – 

21/09/2020 21/09/2024 21/09/2030  41.98  62 572  –  –  62 572  –  – 

21/06/2021 21/06/2022 21/06/2031  63.89  39 092  –  (39 092)  –  –  – 

21/06/2021 21/06/2023 21/06/2031  63.89  39 092  –  –  39 092  –  – 

21/06/2021 21/06/2024 21/06/2031  63.89  39 092  –  –  39 092  –  – 

21/06/2021 21/06/2025 21/06/2031  63.89  39 092 –  –  39 092  –  – 

Subtotal  848 952  –  (497 325)  351 627  9 267 217 153 787

LTI over FY23

No LTI awards were made in FY23. Instead, as described above, a short-term incentive for reducing the discount to net asset 
value was introduced. 

LTI awards continue to represent a significant portion of total compensation and are designed to incentivise the delivery of 
sustainable longer-term growth and provide alignment with our shareholders. 

In the table below which continues onto page 155, we have set out information on unvested LTIs, including awards that have 
vested in FY23. Details of the group’s LTI schemes settlement are disclosed in note 38 on pages 135 and 136 of the consolidated 
financial statements.

Overview of LTI awards for Bob van Dijk continued

Main conditions of share plans Number of unvested awards1 Value in US$

Bob van 
Dijk

Perfor-
mance
metric Award date

Vesting 
date(s) Expiry date

Strike
price of
option/

SAR

Opening 
balance 

1 April 
2022

(unvested)

Awarded 
during 

the year

Vested 
during

the year

Closing 
balance 

31 March 
2023 

(unvested)

Potential
gain of 
awards
vested 

during the
 year at 
vesting 

date2

Fair value 
of 

unvested 
awards 

31 March
 20233

Naspers N 
Share 
Options 
(SOs)

Four-year 
share-
price 
growth

25/06/2018 25/06/2022 25/06/2028 3 100 99  15 287  –  (15 287)  –  29 797 313  – 

16/07/2019 16/07/2022 16/07/2029 3 494.00  3 958  –  (3 958)  –  9 612 820  – 

16/07/2019 16/07/2023 16/07/2029 3 494.00  3 961  –  –  3 961  –  14 137 670 

21/09/2020 21/09/2022 21/09/2030 2 827.88  3 552  –  (3 552)  –  –  – 

21/09/2020 21/09/2023 21/09/2030 2 827.88  3 552  –  –  3 552  –  92 827 

21/09/2020 21/09/2024 21/09/2030 2 827.88  3 552  –  –  3 552  –  92 827 

13/07/2021 13/07/2022 13/07/2031 2 819.37  2 316 –  (2 316)  –  –  – 

13/07/2021 13/07/2023 13/07/2031 2 819.37  2 316  –  –  2 316  –  61 633 

13/07/2021 13/07/2024 13/07/2031 2 819.37  2 316  –  –  2 316  –  61 633 

13/07/2021 13/07/2025 13/07/2031 2 819.37  2 316  –  –  2 316  –  61 633 

Subtotal  43 126  –  (25 113)  18 013  39 410 133  14 508 223 

Prosus N 
Share 
Options 
(SOs)

Four-year 
share-
price 
growth

26/08/2021 26/08/2022 26/08/2031 71.61 2 295 – (2 295) – – –

26/08/2021 26/08/2023 26/08/2031 71.61 2 295 – – 2 295 – 821 

26/08/2021 26/08/2024 26/08/2031 71.61 2 295 – – 2 295 – 821 

26/08/2021 26/08/2025 26/08/2031 71.61 2 298 – – 2 298 – 822 

Subtotal 9 183 – (2 295) 6 888 – 2 464 

Total 1 028 879 – (549 260) 479 619 55 576 214 39 787 896

1 The aggregate number of vested but unexercised SARs and SOs for Bob is 6 299 177 (2022: 5 801 852) and 284 365  (2022: 1 088 957) respectively. The aggregate 
cash-settled share-based payment liabilities of vested but unexercised SARs is included in note 38 of the consolidated financial statements on page 139. The 
share-based payment reserve of vested but unexercised SOs is included in the aggregate retained earnings balance shown in note 38 of the consolidated financial 
statements on page 141. 

2 The potential gain vested in FY23 is calculated by taking the difference between the closing share price on vesting date and the offer price and multiplying that 
difference by the number of SOs/SARs that vested in FY23. The value does not necessarily accrue to the individual. It is available to them should they have chosen 
to exercise (buy and/or sell shares) on or after the date the SOs or SARs vested. The potential gain of the PSU award vested in FY23 reflects the actual pre-tax gain. 
As part of the Prosus listing and capitalisation issue, the MIH Internet Holdings B.V. and Naspers Restricted Stock Plan trusts elected to receive Prosus shares. In line 
with the capitalisation issue one (1) Prosus share is linked to each SO/PSU. The value of the Prosus share is included where relevant.

3 The fair value of unvested awards on 31 March 2023 is calculated by taking the difference between the closing share price on 31 March 2023 and the offer price 
(if applicable) and multiplying that difference by the number of unvested SOs/SARs/PSUs as at 31 March 2023 and assuming 100% vesting for the PSU awards. 
As part of the Prosus listing and capitalisation issue, the MIH Internet Holdings B.V. and Naspers Restricted Stock Plan trusts elected to receive Prosus shares. In line 
with the capitalisation issue one (1) Prosus share is linked to each SO/PSU. The value of the Prosus share is included where relevant. The actual value accruing to 
the executive will depend on the real value created over the time of the award.

Implementation of remuneration policy continued
G

roup
 overview

Perform
a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 153152 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023



Overview of LTI awards for Basil Sgourdos

Main conditions of share plans Number of unvested awards1 Value in US$

Basil 
Sgourdos

Perfor-
mance
metric

Award 
date

Vesting 
date(s)

Expiry 
date

Strike
price of
option/

SAR

Opening 
balance 

1 April 
2022

(unvested)

Awarded 
during 

the year

Vested 
during

the year

Closing 
balance 

31 March 
2023

(unvested)

Potential
gain of 
awards
vested 

during the
 year at 
vesting 

date2

Fair value 
of 

unvested 
awards 

31 March
 20233

Naspers
Perfor-
mance
Share Units
(PSUs)

Three-
year
cliff 
– TSR

09/09/2019 07/12/2022 – –  12 718  –  (12 718)  –  3 577 212  – 

21/09/2020 21/09/2023 – –  28 623  –  –  28 623  – 10 592 643

21/06/2021 21/06/2024 – –  16 472  –  –  16 472  –  3 047 934 

Subtotal  57 813  –  (12 718)  45 095 3 577 212 13 640 576

Prosus 
Perfor-
mance 
Share Units 
(PSUs)

Three-
year
cliff 
– TSR

26/08/2021 26/08/2024 – –  15 995  –  –  15 995  –  1 247 215 

Subtotal  15 995  –  –  15 995  – 1 247 215 

Naspers 
Global
Ecommerce
Share
Apprecia-
tion
Rights 
(SARs) 

Four-
year 
measure-
ment of 
value 
growth 
of 
ecom-
merce 
business 
units

15/08/2017 15/08/2022 15/08/2027  27.25  25 354  –  (25 354)  –  678 473  – 

08/09/2017 08/09/2022 08/09/2027  27.60  21 020  –  (21 020)  –  536 851  – 

25/06/2018 25/06/2022 25/06/2028  33.57  53 692  –  (53 692)  –  1 103 371  – 

16/07/2019 16/07/2022 16/07/2029  36.70  56 626  –  (56 626)  –  955 281  – 

16/07/2019 16/07/2023 16/07/2029  36.70  56 627  –  –  56 627  – 79 742

21/09/2020 21/09/2022 21/09/2030  41.98  37 079  –  (37 079)  –  267 710  – 

21/09/2020 21/09/2023 21/09/2030  41.98  37 079  –  –  37 079  –  – 

21/09/2020 21/09/2024 21/09/2030  41.98  37 080  –  –  37 080  –  – 

21/06/2021 21/06/2022 21/06/2031  63.89  23 165  –  (23 165)  –  –  – 

21/06/2021 21/06/2023 21/06/2031  63.89  23 165  –  –  23 165  –  – 

21/06/2021 21/06/2024 21/06/2031  63.89  23 165  –  –  23 165  –  – 

21/06/2021 21/06/2025 21/06/2031  63.89  23 166  –  –  23 166  –  – 

Subtotal  417 218  –  (216 936)  200 282 3 541 686 79 742

Overview of LTI awards for Basil Sgourdos (continued)

Main conditions of share plans Number of unvested awards1 Value in US$

Basil 
Sgourdos 

Perfor-
mance
metric

Award 
date

Vesting 
date(s)

Expiry 
date

Strike
price of
option/

SAR

Opening 
balance 

1 April 
2022

(unvested)

Awarded 
during the 

year

Vested 
during

the year

Closing 
balance 

31 March 
2023 

(unvested)

Potential
gain of 
awards
vested 

during the
 year at 
vesting 

date2

Fair value 
of 

unvested 
awards 

31 March
 20233

Naspers N 
Share 
Options 
(SOs)

Four-year 
share-
price 
growth

25/06/2018 25/06/2022 25/06/2028  3 100.99  8 277  –  (8 277)  –  16 133 470  – 

16/07/2019 16/07/2022 16/07/2029  3 494.00  2 052  –  (2 052)  –  4 983 706  – 

16/07/2019 16/07/2023 16/07/2029  3 494.00  2 055  –  –  2 055  –  7 334 742 

21/09/2020 21/09/2022 21/09/2030  2 827.88  2 105  –  (2 105)  –  –  – 

21/09/2020 21/09/2023 21/09/2030  2 827.88  2 105  –  –  2 105  –  55 011 

21/09/2020 21/09/2024 21/09/2030  2 827.88  2 105  –  –  2 105  –  55 011 

13/07/2021 13/07/2022 13/07/2031  2 819.37  1 372  –  (1 372)  –  –  – 

13/07/2021 13/07/2023 13/07/2031  2 819.37  1 372  –  –  1 372  –  36 511 

13/07/2021 13/07/2024 13/07/2031  2 819.37  1 372  –  –  1 372  –  36 511 

13/07/2021 13/07/2025 13/07/2031  2 819.37  1 373  –  –  1 373  –  36 538 

Subtotal  24 188  –  (13 806)  10 382 21 117 176 7 554 324

Prosus 
Share 
Options 
(SOs)

Four-year 
share-
price 
growth

26/08/2021 26/08/2022 26/08/2031  71.61  1 360  –  (1 360)  –  –  – 

26/08/2021 26/08/2023 26/08/2031  71.61  1 360  –  –  1 360  –  486 

26/08/2021 26/08/2024 26/08/2031  71.61  1 360  –  –  1 360  –  486 

26/08/2021 26/08/2025 26/08/2031  71.61  1 362  –  –  1 362  –  487 

Subtotal 5 442 – (1 360) 4 082 – 1 459

Total  520 656  –  (244 820)  275 836 28 236 074 22 523 316

1 The aggregate number of vested but unexercised SARs and SOs for Basil is 759 259 (2022: 542 323) and 92 201 (2022: 104 395) respectively. The aggregate 
cash-settled share-based payment liabilities of vested but unexercised SARs is included in note 38 of the consolidated financial statements on page 139. 
The share-based payment reserve of vested but unexercised SOs is included in the aggregate retained earnings balance shown in note 38 of the consolidated 
financial statements on page 141. 

2 The potential gain vested in FY23 is calculated by taking the difference between the closing share price on vesting date and the offer price and multiplying that 
difference by the number of SOs/SARs that vested in FY23. The potential gain of the PSU award vested in FY23 reflects the actual pre-tax gain. The value does not 
necessarily accrue to the individual. It is available to them should they have chosen to exercise (buy and/or sell shares) on or after the date the SOs or SARs vested. 
As part of the Prosus listing and capitalisation issue, the MIH Internet Holdings B.V. and Naspers Restricted Stock Plan trusts elected to receive Prosus shares. In line 
with the capitalisation issue one (1) Prosus share is linked to each SO/PSU. The value of the Prosus share is included where relevant.

3 The fair value of unvested awards on 31 March 2023 is calculated by taking the difference between the closing share price on 31 March 2023 and the offer price 
(if applicable) and multiplying that difference by the number of unvested SOs/SARs/PSUs as at 31 March 2023 and assuming 100% vesting for the PSU awards. As 
part of the Prosus listing and capitalisation issue, the MIH Internet Holdings B.V. and Naspers Restricted Stock Plan trusts elected to receive Prosus shares. In line 
with the capitalisation issue one (1) Prosus share is linked to each SO/PSU. The value of the Prosus share is included where relevant. The actual value accruing to 
the executive will depend on the real value created over the time of the award.

Implementation of remuneration policy continued
G

roup
 overview

Perform
a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 155154 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023



The balance of the executive directors’ unvested LTIs as at 31 March 2023 (based on potential profit using 
share prices on 31 March 2023)

Shares purchased in the market
Since 1 April 2018, to avoid shareholder dilution as a result of 
employee LTIs, the group has been purchasing Naspers and 
Prosus shares on JSE/Euronext for the purpose of issuing new 
Naspers SOs, Naspers PSUs, Naspers RSUs, Prosus SOs, Prosus 
PSUs and Prosus RSUs to employees and settling gains made 
on all share-based incentive schemes (prior to 31 March 2020). 

The table below sets out the details around Prosus shares purchased in the market through the Prosus N.V. Share Award and 
Option Plan Trust during FY23 and FY22 in respect of grants made in the Prosus N.V. Share Award Plan and Prosus N.V. Share 
Option Plan1:

2023 2022

Number of
shares

Purchase 
price
(US$)2

Average 
market price 

range
Number of

shares

Purchase 
price
(US$)2

Average 
purchase

 price
range

Prosus N.V. Share Award and  
Option Plan Trust1

3 174 063 210 373 660 €58.21 and
 €71.71

R1 007.90 and
 R1 330.68

2 064 211 182 002 007  €42.44 and 
€84.58

R1 220.09 and 
R1 434.74

In FY23, the group purchased Naspers ordinary shares to the 
value of US$14m (FY22: US$38m) and Prosus ordinary shares N 
to the value of US$210m (FY22: US$182m) in the market, totalling 
US$224m (FY22: US$220m). 

Naspers PSUs 58%

Prosus PSUs 5%

Naspers SOs 37%

Prosus SOs 0%

Ecommerce SARs 0%

Naspers PSUs 61%

Prosus PSUs 5%

Naspers SOs 34%

Prosus SOs 0%

Ecommerce SARs 0%

1 The Prosus N.V. Share Award Plan is used to grant Prosus RSUs to employees of the group (executive directors are not eligible to receive RSUs) and PSUs to 
executive directors and eligible senior management. The Prosus N.V. Share Option Plan is used to grant Prosus Options to executive directors and eligible senior 
management. Shares are purchased on Euronext and Johannesburg Stock Exchange for non-South African and South African employees respectively.

2 Purchase price in euro converted to US dollar by using the exchange rate on date of purchase.

Executive directors’ LTI vested and exercised in FY23

PSUs vested

In FY20, Bob van Dijk and Basil Sgourdos were awarded 
24 527 and 12 718 Naspers PSUs respectively.

The level of achievement relative to the performance 
condition, at the end of the three-year performance period, 
was determined above median, at the 57th percentile; this 
resulted in a 128% vesting. The total number of Naspers PSU 
that vested was 31 395 for Bob and 16 279 for Basil.

The achievement of the performance condition was assessed 
by the human resources and remuneration committee and 
validated by the valuations subcommittee, as per the 
valuations process described on page 144. 

SOs exercised

Bob van Dijk and Basil Sgourdos exercised Naspers SOs in 
the MIH Internet Holdings B.V. Share Trust; Basil disposed of 
the entirety of the award and Bob disposed of 675 415 
Naspers N ordinary shares and the remaining shares were 
transferred into his own name.

Details of the above transactions have been summarised below:

Bob van Dijk – 
PSUs

Date 
vested

Number 
of 

PSUs

Gross gain 
(pre-tax)

US$1

Naspers PSUs 2022/12/07  31 395 6 898 864

Bob van Dijk – 
SOs

Date 
exercised

Number 
of 

SOs

Gross gain 
(pre-tax)

US$1

Naspers N SOs 2022/09/02  832 000 119 362 285

Bob van Dijk – total 126 261 149

Basil Sgourdos – 
PSUs

Date 
vested

Number 
of 

PSUs

Gross gain 
(pre-tax)

US$1

Naspers PSUs 2022/12/07  16 279 3 577 212

Basil Sgourdos – 
SOs

Date 
exercised

Number 
of 

SOs

Gross gain 
(pre-tax)

US$1

Naspers N SOs 2023/01/25  27 360 6 590 054

Basil Sgourdos – total   10 167 266

Dilutive impact of group LTI schemes

The board has determined that no more than 5% of the current 
N ordinary share capital may be used for share-based 
incentive schemes.

LTI costs

LTIs across the group account for -2.9% of total staff costs, and 
-0.6% of overall group costs, for example, the cost of providing 
services and sale of goods, selling, general and 
administration expenses. The LTI costs decreased due to 
changes in valuation assumptions, including share prices and 
volatility, as well as the impact of allocations made and 
vesting of options. Further details can be found in note 38 on 
page 137 of the consolidated financial statements on our 
website at www.naspers.com.

Statement of compliance

Termination payments

No termination payments were made to executive and 
non-executive directors on termination of employment or office 
in FY23.

Malus and clawbacks

Malus and clawback provisions apply to the STI and LTI 
awarded to executive directors and direct reports of the CEO. 
In FY23, no malus or clawback was applied to any 
remuneration of executive directors and direct reports of  
the CEO.

CEO shareholding requirement

The CEO met his shareholding requirement of rebalancing his 
current holding of 10 times annual salary in Naspers shares 
by the end of FY23 while maintaining an overall combined 
direct and indirect holding in Naspers and Prosus shares of 
10 times annual salary.

Implementation of remuneration policy continued

Bob van Dijk (%)

58

37

5 5

61

34

Basil Sgourdos (%)

1 As part of the Prosus listing, one Prosus ordinary share N is linked to each SO/PSU. The gain on the linked Prosus ordinary share N is included above.

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 157156 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023



FY24 single-figure table

€’000 Variable remuneration

Pension
Other 

benefits5
Total 

remuneration6

Proportion 
of fixed and 

variable 
remunerationExecutive director

Fixed 
remunerations1

Standard
STI2

LTI4

PSUs3 SARs SOs

Bob van Dijk, CEO 1 361 1 361 8 025 4 013 1 338 89 47 16 235 8%/92%

Basil Sgourdos, CFO 1 162 1 162 4 428 2 214 738 91 18 9 814 12%/88%

US$’000 Variable remuneration

Pension
Other 

benefits5
Total 

remuneration6

Proportion 
of fixed and 

variable 
remunerationExecutive director

Fixed 
remunerations1

Standard
STI2

LTI4

PSUs3 SARs SOs

Bob van Dijk, CEO 1 476 1 476 8 700 4 350 1 450 97 51 17 600 8%/92%

Basil Sgourdos, CFO 1 260 1 260 4 800 2 400 800 99 20 10 639 12%/88%

1 The executive directors received a 5% increase in base salary, effective from 1 April 2023.
2 This is the at-target and also maximum STI as a percentage to base salary. FY24 STI goals are shown on page 159 of the remuneration report.
3 Represents the grant date fair value of awards to be made during FY24 assuming on-target vesting for PSUs. The actual value accruing to the executive will depend 

on the real value created over the time of the award. The figure is based on indicative values and may therefore differ from the final fair value granted.
4 The grant of the FY24 PSU and SO awards will be partly settled in Naspers shares (43%) and partly in Prosus shares (57%), aligned with the free-float ownership in 

Naspers and Prosus.
5 Medical insurance, life and disability insurance.
6 Executive directors are executive directors of both Naspers and Prosus. Their remuneration as executive directors of these entities is split 10/90 between Naspers 

and Prosus. 

Discount-linked STI
The discount-linked STI awarded in FY23 has been deemed to be achieved, see page 148. A similar award will not be made in 
FY24.

FY24 STI goals

In the table below, we disclose FY24 STI goals for Bob van Dijk and Basil Sgourdos. 

All financial, strategic, operational and sustainability goals are measurable and validated.

The committee undertakes a thorough assessment to ensure targets are sufficiently stretched in the context of potential 
remuneration delivered. Targets will be disclosed in the FY24 remuneration report.

Bob van Dijk

Target and maximum STI opportunity: 100% base salary

Group financial goals Weighting 
(%)

Description Maximum payout

Core headline earnings 
(including Tencent)

20 Achieve core headline earnings at target, including Tencent €272 245

Free cash flow to equity 20 Achieve free cash to equity inflow at target €272 245

Ecommerce financials 10 Deliver organic topline growth at target, excluding Tencent €136 123

40 Manage trading loss at target €544 491

Strategic, operational and 
sustainability goals

Weighting 
(%) Description Maximum payout

Sustainability: People 5 Improve employee engagement €68 061

Sustainability: Climate 5 Majority-owned businesses to measure and document material 
scope 3 emissions

€68 061

Basil Sgourdos
Target and maximum STI opportunity: 100% of base salary

Group financial goals Weighting 
(%)

Description Maximum payout

Core headline earnings  
(including Tencent)

30 Achieve core headline earnings at target, including Tencent US$378 107

Free cash flow to equity 10 Achieve free cash to equity inflow at target US$126 036

Strategic, operational and  
sustainability goals

Weighting 
(%) Description Maximum payout

Taxation 5 Execute plans to navigate the changing global tax landscape US$63 018

Governance, internal audit and 
risk management

5 Ensure that effective systems of internal control are operated 
throughout the group’s controlled entities

US$63 018

Balance sheet 10 Maintain our debt ratings and deliver appropriate funding structures 
for M&A transactions the group considers 

US$126 036

Holding company discount 30 Sustain the open-ended buyback and identify ways to simplify group 
structure

US$378 107

Sustainability: People 5 Improve employee engagement US$63 018

Sustainability: Climate 5 Majority-owned businesses to measure and document material 
scope 3 emissions

US$63 018

Implementation of remuneration policy continued

Looking forward to FY24
Having not awarded salary increases in FY21 and FY23, the committee has decided to award a 5% salary increase to the CEO 
and CFO. LTI awards will be made at similar levels to FY22 (the CEO and CFO did not receive LTI awards in FY23) to incentivise 
long-term value creation, growth and shareholder alignment.

Bob van Dijk (%)

15

47
28

2 8

15

49
26

2 8

Basil Sgourdos (%)

Naspers PSUs 47%

Prosus PSUs 15%

Naspers SOs 28%

Prosus SOs 2%

Ecommerce SARs 8%

Naspers PSUs 49%

Prosus PSUs 15%

Naspers SOs 26%

Prosus SOs 2%

Ecommerce SARs 8%

LTI awards to be made in FY24 
LTI awards comprise a significant portion of total executive compensation and are designed to incentivise the delivery of 
sustainable longer-term growth and provide alignment with our shareholders. The entirety of our executives’ LTI is determined by 
the performance of the company and growth in the valuation of the underlying assets and, as such, is deemed ‘at risk’. We 
continue to assess and adjust the relevance in terms of size, scale and sector of the peer group for prospective PSU awards. For 
the FY24 PSU award we have removed Qurate and added Mercado Libre and Sea Limited. The FY24 peer group is: Adevinta, 
Adyen, Alphabet, Amazon, Auto Trader, Booking Holdings, Deliveroo, DoorDash, eBay, Expedia, IAC, Just Eat Takeaway.com, 
Mercado Libre, Meta, Netflix, Ocado Group, PayPal, Sea Limited, Snap, Square Inc., Wayfair, Zalando, Zillow Group.

Approximate balance of the unvested LTIs, post the FY24 allocation

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 159158 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023



Non-executive directors
Non-executive directors’ fees
Given the global scale and complexity of the businesses we operate and in which we have interests, it is important that we can 
attract and retain the best globally orientated board members. The committee conducts a regular benchmarking exercise to 
ascertain whether fees for non-executive directors are competitive, fair and reasonable. The committee is informed by the external 
market when reviewing the fee structure and levels for our non-executive directors. This includes primarily market fee levels for the 
Naspers and Prosus industry peers internationally, as well as fee levels observed in the top 10 AEX and JSE companies.

At the August 2022 annual general meeting, shareholders approved a deferral of the FY23 fee increase to FY24, based on a 
recent review, the board is proposing a 5% fee increase for FY25.

Non-executive directors’ fee development

2020
(%)

2021
(%)

2022
(%)

2023
(%)

(deferred
to 2024)

2024
(%)

2025 
(proposed)

Board 5 0 5 0 5 5
Committees 5 0 5 0 5 5
Trustees of group share schemes/other personnel funds 5 0 5 0 5 5
All members: Daily fees when travelling to and 
attending meetings outside home country

0 0 0 0 0 0

Note: Following the listing of Prosus N.V. on Euronext Amsterdam in September 2019, Naspers non-executive directors serve on the boards of both companies. Given 
these dual responsibilities, fees are split between Naspers and Prosus on a 30/70 basis. Non-executive directors do not receive variable remuneration.

No additional fees are paid to board members serving on the projects committee or on the valuations subcommittee of the 
human resources and remuneration committee. Non-executive directors do not receive any short or long-term incentives or 
equity-based compensation.

Non-executive directors serve on the boards of both Naspers and Prosus and receive no additional compensation for their dual 
responsibilities to Naspers and Prosus. Fees are split between Naspers and Prosus on a 30/70 basis, pro-rated from the date of 
listing of Prosus. The split was determined based on the underlying assets and the amount of time required to ensure that 
sufficient time is allocated to assume the dual responsibilities.

The non-executive chair does not receive additional remuneration for attending meetings or being a member of or chairing any 
committee of the board or attending Tencent board and committee meetings.

Non-executive directors’ fees as approved at the annual general meetings1

In US$ (unless otherwise stated)

FY22
(total proposed fee

 payable by Naspers
 and Prosus)

FY23
(total proposed fee 

payable by Naspers 
and Prosus)

FY23
(amount payable 

by Prosus)

FY23 
(amount payable 

by Naspers
Chair2 523 243 523 243 366 270 156 973
Member 209 297 209 297 146 508 62 789
All members: Daily fees  
when travelling to and 
attending meetings outside 
home country

3 500 3 500 2 450 1 050

Committees 
Audit committee: Chair 128 915 128 915 90 241 38 675

Member 51 566 51 566 36 096 15 470
Risk committee: Chair 76 573 76 573 53 601 22 972

Member 30 629 30 629 21 440 9 189
Human resources and 
remuneration committee: 

Chair 90 590 90 590 63 413 27 177

Member 36 236 36 236 25 365 10 871
Nominations committee: Chair 48 825 48 825 34 178 14 648

Member 19 530 19 530 13 671 5 859
Sustainability committee: Chair 67 013 67 013 46 909 20 104

Member 26 805 26 805 18 764 8 042
Other (ZAR)
Trustee of group  
share schemes/other 
personnel funds

56 448 56 448 39 514 16 934

Non-executive directors’ fees

2023 

US$’000 Directors’ fees1 Committees and trusts Other fees2 Total

Non-executives Paid by
 company

Paid by 
subsidiary

Paid by
 company

Paid by
 subsidiary

Paid by 
company

Paid by
 subsidiary

JP Bekker3 576  22  –  7  –  –  605 

HJ du Toit4  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 

S Dubey5  174  –  26  –  –  –  200 

CL Enenstein  269  –  110  –  –  50  429 

M Girotra  251  –  52  –  –  –  303 

RCC Jafta  265  65  106  37  –  –  473 

AGZ Kemna6  258  –  82  –  –  –  340 

FLN Letele  262  –  27  –  –  –  289 

D Meyer  265  –  67  –  –  –  332 

R Oliveira de Lima  272  –  56  –  –  50  378 

SJZ Pacak  258  –  205  –  –  –  463 

MR Sorour7  258  –  –  –  –  120  378 

JDT Stofberg  262  –  27  –  –  –  289 

Y Xu  255  –  –  –  –  –  255 

Total  3 625  87  758  44  –  220  4 734 

2022 

 US$’000 Directors’ fees1 Committees and trusts Other fees2 Total

Non-executives Paid by
 company

Paid by 
subsidiary

Paid by
 company

Paid by
 subsidiary

Paid by 
company

Paid by
 subsidiary

JP Bekker3 558 24 –  8 – – 590 

EM Choi8 109 – 27 – – – 136

HJ du Toit4 – – – – – – –

S Dubey5 – – – – – – –

CL Enenstein 244 –  110 – – 50 404 

M Girotra 234 – 52 – – – 286 

RCC Jafta 244 72  127 42 – – 485 

AGZ Kemna6 160  – 54 – – – 214 

FLN Letele 244  – 27 – – – 271 

D Meyer 241 – 67 – – – 308 

R Oliveira de Lima 244 –  56 – – 50 350 

SJZ Pacak 244 –  205 – – – 449 

MR Sorour7 244 139 – – – 120 503 

JDT Stofberg 244 – 27 – – – 271 

BJ van der Ross9 244  – 27 – – – 271 

Y Xu 244 – – – – –  244 

Total  3 498 235  779 50 – 220  4 782 

1 Following the listing of Prosus, non-executive directors serve on the boards of both Naspers and Prosus. As a result of these dual responsibilities,  
fees were split between Naspers and Prosus on a 30/70 basis.

2 Compensation for assignments.
3 Koos Bekker elected to donate the after-tax rand equivalent of all his directors’ fees to education. This year the recipients will be two schools in Cape Town, the 

Jan van Riebeeck Primary and Secondary schools.
4 Hendrik du Toit elected not to receive directors’ fees.
5 Appointed as a director of Prosus on 24 August 2022 and Naspers on 1 April 2022.
6 Appointed with effect from 24 August 2021.
7 Mark Sorour received US$12 425 (2022: 14 227.13) from MIH Holdings Proprietary Limited for the period 1 April 2022 to 31 March 2023. This payment relates to 

the increased cost of medical aid for retired members of the MMED medical aid scheme after the unbundling of MultiChoice Group Limited. Originally, it was 
noted that the company will provide an annual allowance to cover the difference in cost for retired scheme members. This is not disclosed in the above table.

8 Emilie Choi resigned with effect from 26 August 2021.
9 Retired with effect from 1 April 2022.

Implementation of remuneration policy continued

1 Following the listing of Prosus on Euronext Amsterdam, Naspers non-executive directors serve on the boards of both Naspers and Prosus. As a result of these dual 
responsibilities, proposed fees will be split between Naspers and Prosus on a 30/70 basis.

2 The chair of Naspers does not receive additional remuneration for attending meetings or being a member of or chairing any committee of the board. He receives 
no compensation for serving on the board of Tencent.

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 161160 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023



General notes

Directors’ fees include fees for services as directors, where 
appropriate, of Naspers and Media24 Proprietary Limited. An 
additional fee may be paid to directors for work done as 
directors with specific expertise. Committee fees include fees 
for attending meetings of the audit committee, risk committee, 
human resources and remuneration committee, nominations 
committee and the sustainability committee. Non-executive 
directors are subject to regulations on appointment and 
rotation in terms of Naspers’ memorandum of incorporation, 
Prosus’ articles of association, Dutch legal requirements and 
the South African Companies Act.

The group arranges for, and pays, directors and officers 
liability insurance for the directors and officers of the group.

Executive and non-executive directors’ interest in Naspers shares

The non-executive directors of Naspers had the following interests in Naspers A1 ordinary shares on 31 March 2023 and 
31 March 2022:

Directors

31 March 2023

Naspers A1 ordinary shares

Beneficial 

Direct Indirect Total

JDT Stofberg – 175 175

SJZ Pacak – 105 105

Total – 280 280

Directors

31 March 20221

Naspers A1 ordinary shares

Beneficial 

Direct Indirect Total

JDT Stofberg – 175 175

SJZ Pacak – 105 105

Total – 280 280

1 As part of implementing the share exchange offer approved by shareholders on 9 July 2021, additional ordinary shares A1 were issued to  
holders of ordinary shares A1 on a pro rata basis on 16 August 2021.

1 Naspers SOs that have been released (vested), but not yet been exercised, are included in the indirect column: Bob van Dijk: 282 070 (2022: 1 088 957). 
Basil Sgourdos: 90 841 (2022: 104 395). Steve Pacak: 0 (2022: 54 000). Mark Sorour: 159 428 (2022: 166 194).

2 Appointed as a director of Prosus on 24 August 2022 and Naspers on 1 April 2022.
3 On 8 July 2022, Steve Pacak exercised 54 000 share options and the linked Prosus N.V. and MultiChoice Group Limited share options. These share options relate to 

54 000 Naspers N ordinary share options, awarded on 7 September 2012.
4 On 25 January 2023, Basil Sgourdos exercised 27 360 share options and the linked Prosus N.V. share options. These share options related to 27 360 Naspers share 

options awarded on 11 July 2013.
5 On 7 December 2022, Basil Sgourdos exercised 16 279 Naspers PSUs and the linked Prosus PSUs awarded to him on 9 September 2019. He disposed of 

2 451 Naspers N ordinary shares to cover taxes and other related costs on market and took delivery of the remaining 13 828 Naspers N ordinary shares. 
6 On 29 June 2022, Mark Sorour exercised 6 766 share options. These share options relate to 1 827 share options linked to the listing of Prosus and 4 939 share 

options awarded on 2 July 2012. 
7 On 7 December 2022, Bob van Dijk exercised 31 395 Naspers PSUs and the linked Prosus PSUs awarded to him on 9 September 2019. He disposed of the entirety 

of the award on market.
8 On 29 August, 30 August and 31 August 2022, Bob van Dijk exercised 832 000 Naspers share options and the linked Prosus share options. The share options were 

awarded on 28 March 2014. 675 415 Naspers N ordinary shares were disposed of to cover taxes and other related costs. The remaining 156 585 Naspers N 
ordinary shares were transferred to his name.

9 Resigned as a director of Prosus and Naspers on 1 April 2022.

As at the date of this report, the group has not provided any 
personal loans, advances or guarantees to the executive and 
non-executive directors.

Koos Bekker and Cobus Stofberg each have an indirect 25% 
interest in Wheatfields 221 Proprietary Limited, which controls 
168 605 Naspers Beleggings (RF) Limited ordinary shares, 
16 860 500 Keeromstraat 30 Beleggings (RF) Limited ordinary 
shares, 179 988 (2022: 179 988) Naspers A shares and 
834 540 (2022: 834 540) Prosus A1 shares.

Compliance

There were no deviations from the executive and non-executive 
directors’ remuneration policy in FY23. 

The executive and non-executive directors had the following interests in Naspers N ordinary shares on 31 March 2023 and 
31 March 2022:

  31 March 2023
  Naspers N ordinary shares
  Beneficial

Directors Direct Indirect1 Total

JP Bekker – 1 687 887 1 687 887

HJ du Toit 1 265 – 1 265

S Dubey2 – – –

CL Enenstein – 415 415

M Girotra – – –

RCC Jafta – – –

AGZ Kemna – – –

FLN Letele 2 604 – 2 604

D Meyer – – –

R Oliveira de Lima – – –

SJZ Pacak3 113 986 28 800 142 786

V Sgourdos4, 5 25 522 90 841 116 363

MR Sorour6 1 349 159 870 161 219

JDT Stofberg 81 028 291 888 372 916

B van Dijk7, 8 175 236 282 070 457 306

BJ van der Ross9 – – –

Y Xu – – –

Total 400 990 2 541 771 2 942 761

Implementation of remuneration policy continued
G

roup
 overview

Perform
a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 163162 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023



  31 March 2022
  Naspers N ordinary shares
  Beneficial

Directors Direct Indirect1 Total

JP Bekker2 – 1 687 887 1 687 887

HJ du Toit2 1 265 – 1 265

S Dubey3 – – –

CL Enenstein – 415 415 

M Girotra – – – 

RCC Jafta – – – 

AGZ Kemna4 – – –

FLN Letele 2 604 – 2 604 

D Meyer – – – 

R Oliveira de Lima – – – 

SJZ Pacak2 113 986 28 800 196 786

V Sgourdos2, 5 11 694 104 395 116 089

MR Sorour2 1 349 166 636 167 985

JDT Stofberg2 81 028 291 888 372 916

BJ van der Ross2, 6 918 295 1 213

B van Dijk2 18 651 1 088 957 1 107 608

Y Xu – – – 

Total 231 495 3 423 273 3 654 768

PSU How does a performance share unit (PSU) work?

Award made:
Performance
conditions and 
vesting period 
specified at 
grant

According to
number of
shares 
released
to participant 
(0% to 200% of 
awarded 
PSUs)

3rd
anniversary
of grant
(year three)

Continued
employment

Achievement of
performance condition

If yesDate

Graphic overview of our LTI plans

The vesting of a PSU is determined not just by time. In order for an award to vest, certain business performance conditions must also be met.  
If the threshold level of performance is not achieved, no shares will be awarded to the participant.

SAR How does a share appreciation right (SAR) work?

After two years the employee, assuming they didn’t exercise their first 2 500 after year one, may exercise 5 000 of their 10 000 SARs. If the value of an 
SAR at this point has increased to US$14, the employee made a gain of US$4 per SAR, giving the employee a total gain of US$20 000 (5 000 SARs x 
US$4 gain per SAR). So, if exercised, the employee would be awarded a value of US$20 000. If there is no increase in share value there is no gain 
to the participant.

Award:
10 000 SARs  
at a value of 
US$10 per  
SAR

4th
anniversary
of grant
(year four)

1st
anniversary
of grant
(year one)

2nd
anniversary
of grant
(year two)

3rd
anniversary
of grant
(year three)

Percentage
of SARs vesting

Total number  
of SARs vested

Date

25% 25% 25% 25%

2 500 5 000 7 500 10 000

SO How does a stock option (SO) work?

Let’s say that two years after the grant date, the employee chooses to exercise and pay for 200 scheme shares, ie US$100 x 200 = US$20 000. If the 
market price of a scheme share has increased to say US$120, and the employee decides to sell them, that is a gain of US$20 per share. This means  
the employee shares in the success of the group by earning a benefit of US$4 000, ie US$20 x 200 scheme shares. If there is no increase in share value 
there is no gain to the participant.

Offered:
400 SOs, and 
the closing 
price on the 
grant date is 
US$100 per 
scheme share

4th
anniversary
of grant
(year four)

1st
anniversary
of grant
(year one)

2nd
anniversary
of grant
(year two)

3rd
anniversary
of grant
(year three)

Share option 
vestings

Total number  
of SOs vested

Date

25% 25% 25% 25%

100 200 300 400

RSU How does a restricted share unit (RSU) work?

Employee is awarded 200 RSUs on grant date. On each of the vesting dates they will automatically receive 50 shares. Let’s assume that on the first  
vesting date the price is US$100 per share, the employee would then receive a benefit, at that point, to the value of US$5 000, ie 50 shares times  
an assumed US$100 per share.

Note: RSUs are not available to the CEO, CFO, or other senior executives across the group.

Awarded:
200 RSUs

4th
anniversary
of grant
(year four)

1st
anniversary
of grant
(year one)

2nd
anniversary
of grant
(year two)

3rd
anniversary
of grant
(year three)

RSU
vestings

Total number
of RSUs vested

Date

25% 25% 25% 25%

50 100 150 200

Additional informationImplementation of remuneration policy continued

1  Naspers SOs that have been released (vested), but have not yet been exercised, are included in the indirect column:  
Bob van Dijk: 1 088 957 (2021: 1 003 928). Basil Sgourdos: 104 395 (2021: 98 410). Mark Sorour: 166 194 (2021: 158 853). Steve Pacak: 54 000 (2021: 54 000).

2 Each of these directors participated in the share exchange which was approved by Prosus shareholders on 9 July 2021 and concluded on 16 August 2021. As part 
of this transaction, the directors traded a portion of their Naspers N ordinary shares in exchange for Prosus ordinary shares N.

3 Appointed as a director on 1 April 2022.
4 Appointed as a director on 15 April 2021.
5 On 31 January 2022, Basil Sgourdos had exercised 11 124 Naspers and Prosus options and decided to dispose of the Naspers N ordinary shares he received and 

to retain the Prosus ordinary shares N. The full net gain after tax on disposal of these shares was reinvested back into the group in the form of Prosus ordinary 
shares N when, on 1 March 2022, he purchased 20 000 Prosus ordinary shares N at a volume-weighted average value per share of €56.3933.

6 Resigned as a director on 1 April 2022.

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 165164 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023



LTI policies

Date and price of SARs, SOs and PSUs/RSUs

Our LTI policy does not allow for backdating LTI awards, or for 
the offer price to be adjusted to bring underwater SARs or 
SOs ‘into the money’. There is no strike price for a PSU or an 
RSU; these are full-value shares and PSUs vest only if the 
performance conditions determined at grant are achieved.

Offer prices may be adjusted under the rules of the scheme to 
take account of material structural changes to the group, for 
example, when Prosus was listed in 2019, Naspers 
shareholders and employees holding Naspers SOs received 
Prosus capitalisation/Naspers N capitalisation shares 
(depending on which share trust they participated in),  
linked to each option.

LTI dividend policy

Employees of the Naspers group holding unvested PSUs,  
RSUs or SOs do not receive ordinary dividends. On vesting, 
these participants are treated like all other shareholders  
with respect to ordinary dividends.

Prudent approach

Vesting periods are conservative relative to the companies 
with which we compete for talent. Our LTI plans typically vest 
over four years, with equal tranches vesting annually. The PSU 
plan has a three-year cliff-vesting. Across the consumer 
internet sector, a three or four-year vesting period is common, 
with grants often vesting monthly after the first year.

In FY23 we continued to broaden the use of RSUs as an 
effective LTI for many of our employees. RSUs are a common 
and widely spread LTI vehicle across the competitive consumer 
technology sector. For our senior roles (excluding senior 
executives), RSUs will continue to be complemented with  
SAR allocations on our unlisted assets, aligning the incentive  
to the performance delivery and value creation in the 
underlying business segments. With that, RSUs do not come in 
addition to SARs, but are part of the blend of LTIs offered.

Note that RSUs are not available to the CEO, CFO, or other 
senior executives across the group. In an exceptional case, 
RSUs may be applied for a new hire, when necessary to  
‘buy out’ remuneration forfeited on joining the company.

Our SO plans typically have a 10-year expiry term. This is a 
common term length across the consumer internet sector 
where early-stage businesses take longer to reach maturity 
and create shareholder value. Since 1 April 2022, we have 
limited the expiry period of our SARs plans to six years.

LTI scheme limits

We place limits on how much of the capitalisation (cap) table 
is available for employee compensation. In general, no more 
than 5% of the Naspers cap table can be used for unvested 
employee compensation. For SARs plans that relate to our 
unlisted assets, no more than 15% of the cap table can be 
used for unvested employee compensation. Depending on the 
life stage of the business, the scheme limit can be lower. 
When the business takes funding from Naspers, the SAR 
scheme is diluted as additional shares are issued.

Offer price

Also called grant price, strike price or purchase price. The 
price of the share on the date the SAR or SO was granted,  
at which the participant can buy the share at a later date  
(or in the case of a SAR, used to calculate a gain).

Exercise price

The price of the share at the time the participant chooses to 
exercise their SARs or SOs. The value gain to the participant is 
calculated by subtracting offer price from exercise price.

Offer date

Also called grant date. The date on which an LTI is offered to 
the participant, giving that participant the right to buy or 
receive shares at a future date.

Performance management

Pay for performance is one of the pillars of our reward 
philosophy. Personal performance and business performance 
are the determining factors in whether an individual receives a 
base salary increase, an annual performance-related incentive 
payout and/or an LTI in the form of SARs, PSUs (for executives 
only), RSUs (not for executives) or SOs.

Personal goals are determined as an outcome of the annual 
business-planning process. As budgets and operating plans 
are designed prior to the end of the financial year, so too are 
personal performance goals. These goals, if achieved, drive 
the accomplishment of the financial and operating plan of  
the business.

Managers engage continuously with their teams throughout 
the financial year to ensure their plans are on track. At the 
end of the financial year, both the overall performance of the 
business and the individual’s achievement of their personal 
goals are considered, and this may translate into paying an 
annual performance-related STI. While we do not force-rank 
performance scores, we do expect that any performance-
related incentive payments reflect overall performance where 
appropriate. Individuals who have performed well against 
their performance-related incentive goals are eligible to be 
considered for an LTI grant and pay increase. Only strong 
performers are considered for LTI awards.

Additional information continued About this report

Reporting

We measure our performance by evaluating how we 
create value for our key stakeholders. We also report on the 
11 material matters identified by our stakeholders in our first 
materiality assessment as well as progress made against our 
strategy. We regularly measure returns on invested capital. We 
understand the risks we take and manage these to minimise 
their impact on our business and results.

This way of telling a comprehensive, connected story fits well 
with our holistic view of value and our focus on creating 
sustainable value for long-term good.

Scope and boundary of reporting

Financial and non-financial reporting

This report extends beyond financial reporting. It reflects on 
non-financial performance, opportunities, risks and outcomes 
attributable to or associated with key stakeholders who have 
a significant influence on our ability to create value.

Our subsidiaries, associates and investees are required to 
comply with applicable law and regulation. The group also 
encourages its associates and investees to adopt appropriate 
governance standards (for example, codes of business ethics 
and conduct, and policies relating to anti-bribery and 
anti-corruption, competition compliance, privacy and sanctions 
and export controls).

It includes the strategy and financial performance of Naspers 
and its subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates (the group). 
The scope of reporting on non-financial data (GHG emissions), 
is included as an appendix ‘Boundaries and scope of our 
GHG accounting’ to this report. Group reporting standards are 
continually being developed to make disclosure meaningful 
and measurable for stakeholders. Given the highly competitive 
environment in which we operate, this report mostly excludes 
financial targets or forward-looking statements other than as 
explained on page 1.

References to appendices and links to the website are not 
considered part of this integrated annual report but are 
included for additional information.

Non-IFRS financial measures and alternative 
performance measures

In presenting and discussing our performance, we use certain 
alternative performance measures not defined by IFRS 
referred to as non-IFRS financial measures, alternative 
performance measures or APMs. Such measures include 
economic-interest-basis information; trading profit; adjusted 
EBITDA; headline earnings; core headline earnings; and 
growth in local currency, excluding acquisitions and disposals.

This integrated annual report assesses our performance for 
the financial year ended 31 March 2023. We aim to provide 
a view of our progress and impact on society.

Material matters

   Financial 
performance

   People

   Responsible 
investments

    Innovation

   Digital 
inclusion

   Climate 
action     Data  

privacy

    AI

 
   Cyber-
resilience

   Business culture, 
ethics and integrity

   Community 
investment

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 167166 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023



Segmental reviews in this report are prepared showing 
revenue on an economic-interest basis (which includes 
consolidated subsidiaries and a proportionate share of 
associated companies and joint ventures), unless otherwise 
stated. Numbers included in brackets represent the equivalent 
measure on the basis of growth in local currency, excluding 
acquisitions and disposals.

The group provides APMs because the board believes these 
provide investors with additional information to measure its 
operating performance. These APMs should not be viewed in 
isolation as alternatives to the equivalent IFRS measures and 
should be used as supplementary information in conjunction 
with the most directly comparable IFRS measures. APMs do 
not have a standardised meaning under IFRS and therefore 
may not be comparable to similar measures presented by 
other companies. Their usefulness is therefore subject to 
limitations.

Refer to:

 » Note 22 ‘Segment information’ of the consolidated financial 
statements for a reconciliation to the nearest IFRS measure 
of the following APMs used in the segment information: 
revenue on an economic-interest basis; adjusted EBITDA; 
and trading profit or loss.

 » Note 23 ‘Earnings per share’ of the consolidated financial 
statements for a reconciliation to the nearest IFRS measure 
of headline earnings.

Legislation and frameworks that inform 
our reporting

We are guided by the following standards in preparing this 
integrated annual report:

 » 2013 Framework of the International Integrated Reporting 
Council (IIRC) (now part of the IFRS Foundation, which 
includes Value Reporting Foundation/SASB): this principles-
based approach promotes the concept of the six capitals1, 
which considers material inputs and resources required to 
create and sustain value in the long term. We describe key 
components of the Naspers value chain (business model) 
that creates and sustains value for our stakeholders.

 » We have aligned our climate change approach and our 
integrated reporting to the framework of the Task Force on 
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).

 » To meet the needs of investors and analysts and provide 
financially material information for all our stakeholders, we 
base our disclosures where possible with the industry 
standards of the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board 
(SASB).

 » We support the United Nations Sustainable Development 
Goals (UN SDGs) and, like many other businesses, have 
identified which goals closely align with our business.

 » South African Companies Act 71 of 2008, as amended 
(Companies Act).

 » King IV Report on Corporate Governance for South Africa 
(King IVTM)2.

 » IFRS.

1 As identified in the framework of the International Integrated Reporting Council: financial, human, intellectual, manufactured, social and natural capitals.
2 The Institute of Directors in South Africa NPC (IoDSA) owns all copyright and trademarks for King IVTM.

Materiality and material matters

We apply the principle of materiality in assessing what 
information to include in our integrated annual report. This 
report focuses particularly on those issues, opportunities and 
challenges that impact materially on the group and its ability 
to be a sustainable business that delivers value to key 
stakeholders, including our shareholders.

Assurance

Financial information in this report extracted from the audited 
Naspers Limited consolidated annual financial statements for 
the year ended 31 March 2023 was audited by 
PricewaterhouseCoopers Inc. (PwC) (refer to page 212 for its 
report). In addition, PwC performed limited assurance on our 
scope 1 and 2 carbon footprint (refer to pages 101 to 103). 
South African broad-based black economic empowerment 
(BBBEE) information (for Naspers and Media24) was assured 
by EmpowerLogic.

The group has a combined assurance model for internal use. 
This model is designed to cover key risks through a 
combination of assurance service providers and functions as 
appropriate for Naspers.

An overview of combined assurance per key risk is reported 
for consideration by the audit and risk committees.

The scope for our group internal audit and risk support 
function includes all controlled assets. The head of internal 
audit and risk support reports to the audit committee and 
presents for its approval an objective-driven, risk-based 
internal audit plan. Where required, external parties, such as 
forensic specialists or data analytics experts, support the 
internal audit function. Other external assurance providers are 
enlisted as needed. In our more regulated businesses (like 
PayU), regulatory inspectors visit periodically.

The audit committee recommends the appointment of the 
external auditor to shareholders, reviews the auditor’s 
independence annually and oversees the external audit. The 
audit committee makes recommendations to the board and 
assists the board in ensuring the integrity of external reports.

Statement of the board of directors on the 
integrated annual report

This report is primarily intended to address the 
information requirements of long-term investors (our equity 
shareholders, bondholders and prospective investors). We 
also present information relevant to the way we create 
value for other key stakeholders, including our employees, 
clients, customers, regulators and society.

After being reviewed by the audit committee and board, 
the board approved the integrated annual report. The 
summary consolidated annual financial statements for the 
year ended 31 March 2023 were prepared in accordance 
with IFRS and the Companies Act, while the integrated 
annual report was prepared using the IIRC framework 
and recommendations of King IV. In our opinion, the 
integrated annual report and annual financial statements 
fairly reflect the financial position of the group and its 
operations at 31 March 2023.

On behalf of the board

Koos Bekker Bob van Dijk
Chair Chief executive

Cape Town
26 June 2023

About this report continued
G

roup
 overview

Perform
a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 169168 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023



 »  Investing in digital transformation – to grow 
South Africa’s tech ecosystem and economy; 
create opportunities for SME owners and 
independent workers.

 »  Invest in local entrepreneurs to find local 
solutions to change people’s lives for the better. 
We partner founders and their teams, providing 
advice and expert resources to assist them to 
scale their businesses successfully for long-term 
growth.

Naspers offersSouth Africa 

   Population 

80% internet users

   Unemployment rate 

32.7%

Highlights
2022 

   GDP 

2%
   Inflation 

6.9%

Over a century in South Africa, evolving from the largest print 
and TV media business into a 100% global consumer internet 
group in the upper middle-income southern African economy; 
hard hit by Covid-19; poor utilities management; high-income  
inequality; hosts Africa’s largest stock exchange; rising 
unemployment, especially youth.

   Population 

60 million*

2023 

 »  Naspers Labs – youth development programme 
to increase economic participation of 
disadvantaged communities, and address youth 
unemployment. As part of our total R235m 
investment in this programme, we have provided 
business support (incubation, acceleration and 
market access) to 33 young entrepreneurs, 
enabling them to improve their businesses to 
become self-sustaining, leverage technology 
and grow. 

To date, about 
3 956 young 
South Africans 
have been empowered 
by Naspers Labs.

 »  South African employer, investor, and made 
substantial contributions to the development of 
the country’s society.

 » Significant tax contributor.

 »  As a group, our tax contribution assists 
government in addressing some of the 
country’s most pressing societal needs.

 » ESG:

•  100 Takealot e-bike delivery drivers and 
our aim for FY24 is 500.

* Estimated.

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 171170 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Statement of responsibility by the board of directors
for the year ended 31 March 2023

Chief executive and chief financial officer  
responsibility statement

In discharging this responsibility, the board of directors of Naspers Limited rely on the management of the group to prepare the 
consolidated annual financial statements, separately available at www.naspers.com, in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRS) and the Companies Act 71 of 2008. The summary consolidated annual financial statements include 
amounts based on judgements and estimates made by management. The information given is comprehensive and presented in 
a responsible manner.

The directors accept responsibility for the preparation, integrity and fair presentation of the summary consolidated annual 
financial statements and are satisfied that the systems and internal financial controls implemented by management are effective.

The directors believe that the company and group have adequate resources to continue operations as a going concern in the 
foreseeable future, based on forecasts and available cash resources. The summary consolidated annual financial statements 
support the viability of the company and the group. The preparation of the summary consolidated annual financial statements 
was supervised by the chief financial officer, Basil Sgourdos CA(SA).

The independent auditing firm PricewaterhouseCoopers Inc., which was given unrestricted access to all financial records and 
related data, including minutes of all meetings of shareholders, the board of directors and committees of the board, has audited 
the consolidated annual financial statements from which the summary consolidated annual financial statements were derived. 

The directors believe that representations made to the independent auditor during the audit were valid and appropriate. 
PricewaterhouseCoopers Inc.’s audit report is presented on page 174.

The summary consolidated annual financial statements were approved by the board of directors on 26 June 2023 and are signed 
on its behalf by:

Koos Bekker Bob van Dijk 
Chair Chief executive

26 June 2023

Each of the directors, whose names are stated below, hereby confirms that:
a. the annual financial statements set out on pages 175 to 211, fairly present in all material respects the financial position, financial 

performance and cash flows of the issuer in terms of IFRS;
b. to the best of our knowledge and belief, no facts have been omitted or untrue statements made that would make the annual financial 

statements false or misleading;
c. internal financial controls have been put in place to ensure that material information relating to the issuer and its consolidated subsidiaries 

have been provided to effectively prepare the financial statements of the issuer; 
d. the internal financial controls are adequate and effective and can be relied upon in compiling the annual financial statements, having fulfilled 

our role and function as executive directors with primary responsibility for implementation and execution of controls;
e. where we are not satisfied, we have disclosed to the audit committee and the auditors any deficiencies in design and operational 

effectiveness of the internal financial controls and have taken steps to remedy the deficiencies; and
f. we are not aware of any fraud involving directors.

Bob van Dijk Basil Sgourdos 
Chief executive Chief financial officer

26 June 2023

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 173172 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Summary consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31 March 2023

31 March

Notes
2023

US$’m
2022

US$’m

Continuing operations
Revenue 7 6 778 6 294
Cost of providing services and sale of goods (4 883) (4 662)
Selling, general and administration expenses (2 532) (2 454)
Other (losses)/gains – net 9 (747) (163)

Operating loss (1 384) (985)
Interest income 8 483 58
Interest expense 8 (571) (407)
Other finance income/(cost) – net 8 19 (91)
Dividend income 62 —
Share of equity-accounted results1 11 5 176 9 256
Impairment of equity-accounted investments 11 (1 745) (588)
Dilution (losses)/gains on equity-accounted investments 11 (252) 95
Gains on partial disposal of equity-accounted investments 11 7 622 12 339
Net gains/(losses) on acquisitions and disposals 9 50 (1 128)

Profit before taxation 9 460 18 549
Taxation (48) (64)

Profit from continuing operations 9 412 18 485
Profit from discontinued operations 5 542 53

Profit for the year 9 954 18 538

Attributable to:
Equity holders of the group 4 331 12 223
Non-controlling interests 5 623 6 315

9 954 18 538

Per share information related to total operations2 6
Earnings per ordinary share (US cents) 2 078 4 218
Diluted earnings per ordinary share (US cents) 1 998 4 127

Per share information related to continuing operations2

Earnings per ordinary share (US cents) 1 968 4 207
Diluted earnings per ordinary share (US cents) 1 888 4 116

1 Includes equity-accounted results from associates. Refer to note 11.
2 Earnings per share information is significantly impacted by a lower share in equity-accounted results and a lower gain on partial disposal of equity-accounted investments. Refer 

to note 11.

To the shareholders of Naspers Limited

Opinion

The summary consolidated financial statements of Naspers Limited, set out on pages 175 to 205 of the Integrated Annual Report, which comprise 
the summary consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 March 2023, the summary consolidated income statement, the summary 
consolidated statements of comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows for the year then ended, and related notes, are derived 
from the audited consolidated financial statements of Naspers Limited for the year ended 31 March 2023. 

In our opinion, the accompanying summary consolidated financial statements are consistent, in all material respects, with the audited 
consolidated financial statements, in accordance with the requirements of the JSE Limited Listings Requirements for summary financial statements, 
as set out in note 2 to the summary consolidated financial statements, and the requirements of the Companies Act of South Africa as applicable 
to summary financial statements.

Summary consolidated financial statements

The summary consolidated financial statements do not contain all the disclosures required by International Financial Reporting Standards and 
the requirements of the Companies Act of South Africa as applicable to annual financial statements. Reading the summary consolidated financial 
statements and the auditor’s report thereon, therefore, is not a substitute for reading the audited consolidated financial statements and the 
auditor’s report thereon. 

The audited consolidated financial statements and our report thereon

We expressed an unmodified audit opinion on the audited consolidated financial statements in our report dated 26 June 2023. That report also 
includes communication of key audit matters. Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in 
our audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period.

Director’s responsibility for the summary consolidated financial statements

The directors are responsible for the preparation of the summary consolidated financial statements in accordance with the requirements of the 
JSE Limited Listings Requirements for summary financial statements, set out in note 2 to the summary consolidated financial statements, and the 
requirements of the Companies Act of South Africa as applicable to summary financial statements. 

Auditor’s responsibility

Our responsibility is to express an opinion on whether the summary consolidated financial statements are consistent, in all material respects, 
with the audited consolidated financial statements based on our procedures, which were conducted in accordance with International Standard 
on Auditing (ISA) 810 (Revised), Engagements to Report on Summary Financial Statements.

PricewaterhouseCoopers Inc.
Director: Vicki Myburgh
Registered Auditor 
Johannesburg, South Africa
26 June 2023

Independent auditor’s report on the  
summary consolidated financial statements
 

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 175174 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Summary consolidated statement  
of comprehensive income
for the year ended 31 March 2023

Summary consolidated statement  
of financial position
as at 31 March 2023

31 March

Notes
2023

US$’m
2022

US$’m

Profit for the year 9 954 18 538
Total other comprehensive loss for the year – net of tax (3 350) (2 391)
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss

Foreign exchange (losses)/gains arising on translation of foreign operations1, 2 (2 421) 1 611
Recognition of cash flow hedge — (99)
Derecognition of cash flow hedge — 119
Share of equity-accounted investments' movement in OCI3 797 (814)

Items that may not be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss
Fair value gains/(losses) on financial assets through OCI 21 (509)
Share of equity-accounted investments' movement in OCI and NAV4 11 (1 747) (2 699)

Total comprehensive income for the year 6 604 16 147

Attributable to:
Equity holders of the group 3 069 11 980
Non-controlling interests 3 535 4 167

6 604 16 147

1 31 March 2023 includes the reclassification to the summary consolidated income statement of US$202m relating to the disposal of Avito (2022: US$1.1bn relating to the loss of 
significant influence of VK Company Limited (VK)).

2 The significant movement relates to the translation effects from equity-accounted investments (refer to note 11). The current year also includes a net monetary gain of US$102m 
relating to hyperinflation accounting for the group’s subsidiaries in Turkey. Refer to note 2.

3 This relates to movements in equity-accounted investmentsʼ foreign currency translation reserve.
4 This relates mainly to (losses)/gains from the changes in share prices of Tencent’s listed investments carried at fair value through other comprehensive income and the group’s 

share in the share-based compensation reserve of equity-accounted investments.

31 March

Notes
2023

US$’m
2022

US$’m

Assets
Non-current assets 41 667 55 793

Property, plant and equipment 786 736
Goodwill 10 1 483 3 458
Other intangible assets 391 964
Investments in associates 11 35 930 44 461
Investments in joint ventures 70 146
Other investments and loans1 12 2 807 5 862
Trade and financing receivables2 133 91
Other receivables2 46 44
Deferred taxation 21 31

Current assets 23 831 15 524
Inventory 415 571
Trade and financing receivables2 559 412
Other receivables and loans2 920 818
Derivative financial instruments 5 27
Other investments 4 707 —
Short-term investments 6 727 3 924
Cash and cash equivalents 9 849 9 733

23 182 15 485
Assets classified as held for sale 14 649 39

Total assets 65 498 71 317

Equity and liabilities
Capital and reserves attributable to the group’s equity holders 18 960 20 581

Share capital and premium 4 611 4 611
Treasury shares (46 825) (43 753)
Other reserves 12 211 14 803
Retained earnings 48 963 44 920

Non-controlling interests 25 645 29 547

Total equity 44 605 50 128

Non-current liabilities 16 281 16 550
Capitalised lease liabilities 232 272
Liabilities – interest bearing 15 685 15 611
 – non-interest bearing 22 50
Other non-current liabilities1 140 168
Post-employment medical liability 16 21
Cash-settled share-based payment liability 15 73 184
Deferred taxation 113 244

Current liabilities 4 612 4 639
Current portion of long-term liabilities3 487 322
Trade payables 406 609
Accrued expenses3 1 938 1 664
Provisions 47 9
Other current liabilities 775 1 032
Cash-settled share-based payment liability 15 655 985
Bank overdrafts 28 18

4 336 4 639
Liabilities classified as held for sale 14 276 —

Total equity and liabilities 65 498 71 317

1 Non-current derivative assets have been aggregated with other investments and loans, and non-current derivative liabilities with other non-current liabilities as a result of them 
being immaterial. Current derivative liabilities have been aggregated with other non-current liabilities as a result of them being immaterial.

2 Financing receivables of US$185m previously aggregated into ‘Other receivables’ are now presented in ‘Trade and financing receivables’ due to the group’s growing credit 
business.

3 Accrued interest expense of US$124m previously aggregated into ‘Accrued expenses’ is now presented in ‘Current portion of long-term liabilities’ to present the interest 
component with the interest-bearing liabilities.

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 177176 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Summary consolidated statement  
of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 March 2023

Share 
capital

and
premium

US$’m

Treasury
shares
US$’m

Foreign
currency

translation
reserve
US$’m

Valuation
reserve
US$’m

Existing
control

business
combination

reserve
US$’m

Share-
based

compen-
sation

reserve
US$’m

Retained
earnings

US$’m

Share-
holders’

funds
US$’m

Non-
controlling

interest
US$’m

Total
US$’m

Balance at 1 April 2022 4 611 (43 753) (1 430) 3 002 10 420 2 811 44 920 20 581 29 547 50 128
Total comprehensive income for the year — — (652) (1 085) — 475 4 331 3 069 3 535 6 604

Profit for the year — — — — — — 4 331 4 331 5 623 9 954
Total other comprehensive loss for the year — — (652) (1 085) — 475 — (1 262) (2 088) (3 350)

Employee share movements — 102 — — — — — 102 — 102
Repurchase of own shares1 — (3 174) — — — — — (3 174) — (3 174)
Share-based compensation movements — — — — — 20 10 30 63 93

Share-based compensation expense — — — — — 67 — 67 81 148
Transfers to retained earnings — — — — — — — — — —
Modification of share-based compensation benefits — — — — — (6) 4 (2) (4) (6)
Other share-based compensation movements — — — — — (41) 6 (35) (14) (49)

Direct equity movements — — — 433 (46) (158) (229) — — —
Direct movements from associates — — — 144 — — (144) — — —
Transfer of reserves as a result of partial disposals of associates — — — 120 — (158) 38 — — —
Transfer of reserves as a result of disposals — — — 169 (72) — (97) — — —
Other direct equity movements — — — — 26 — (26) — — —

Cancellation of written put option liabilities — — — — 18 — — 18 23 41
Remeasurement of written put option liabilities — — — — 72 — — 72 96 168
Other movements — — — — — — 9 9 (6) 3
Dividends paid2 — — — — — — (78) (78) (113) (191)
Change due to repurchase programme — — — — (741) — — (741) (6 550) (7 291)

Repurchase of Prosus shares1 — — — — (10 043) — — (10 043) — (10 043)
Disposal of Prosus shares1 — — — — 2 752 — — 2 752 — 2 752
Change in Prosus shareholding — — — — 6 550 — — 6 550 (6 550) —

Other transactions with non-controlling shareholders3 — — 5 — (933) — — (928) (950) (1 878)

Balance at 31 March 2023 4 611 (46 825) (2 077) 2 350 8 790 3 148 48 963 18 960 25 645 44 605

1 Relates to the share repurchase programme. Refer to note 3.
2 The dividend was approved on 25 August 2022 (2022: 25 August 2021) and was paid on 10 October 2022 (2022: 6 December 2021).
3 The current year relates mainly to the transaction with the non-controlling shareholders of iFood. Refer to note 17.

Share 
capital

and
premium

US$’m

Treasury
shares
US$’m

Foreign
currency

translation
reserve
US$’m

Valuation
reserve
US$’m

Existing
control

business
combination

reserve
US$’m

Share-
based

compen-
sation

reserve
US$’m

Retained
earnings

US$’m

Share-
holders’

funds
US$’m

Non-
controlling

interest
US$’m

Total
US$’m

Balance at 1 April 2021 4 611 (3 679) (1 841) 5 044 (9 346) 2 390 32 015 29 194 11 667 40 861
Total comprehensive income for the year — — 381 (1 155) — 531 12 223 11 980 4 167 16 147

Profit for the year — — — — — — 12 223 12 223 6 315 18 538
Total other comprehensive loss for the year — — 381 (1 155) — 531 — (243) (2 148) (2 391)

Movement due to share exchange1 — (38 762) 21 812 (16 950) 16 828 (122)
Treasury share movements — (1 312) — — — — — (1 312) — (1 312)
Share-based compensation movements — — — — — 3 (125) (122) (108) (230)

Share-based compensation expense — — — — — 50 — 50 75 125
Other share-based compensation movements — — — — — (45) 45 — — —
Modification of share-based compensation benefits2 — — — — — (2) (170) (172) (183) (355)

Direct equity movements — — 30 (887) 7 (117) 967 — — —
Direct movements from associates — — — (507) — — 507 — — —
Transfer of reserves as a result of partial disposals of associates — — — (332) — (117) 449 — — —
Transfer of reserves as a result of disposals — — 30 (48) 7 — 11 — — —

Cancellation of written put option liabilities 94 — 8 102 24 126
Remeasurement of written put option liabilities — — — — 100 — — 100 137 237
Other movements — — — — — 4 8 12 — 12
Dividends paid3 — — — — — — (176) (176) (62) (238)
Transactions with non-controlling shareholders — — — — (2 247) — — (2 247) (3 106) (5 353)

Balance at 31 March 2022 4 611 (43 753) (1 430) 3 002 10 420 2 811 44 920 20 581 29 547 50 128

1 Refer to note 3 for details of the share exchange transaction.
2 The decrease in retained earnings includes a decrease of US$479.5m related to the modification of equity-settled schemes.
3 The dividend was approved on 25 August 2021 and was paid on 6 December 2021.

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 179178 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Summary consolidated statement of cash flows
for the year ended 31 March 2023

Notes to the summary  
consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2023

1. General information
Naspers Limited (Naspers or the group) is a global consumer internet group and one of the largest technology investors in the world. 
Naspers has its primary listing on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE) in South Africa. Through Prosus N.V. (Prosus) the group 
operates and invests in countries and markets with long-term growth potential, building leading consumer internet companies that 
empower people and enrich communities. Prosus has its primary listing on Euronext Amsterdam and a secondary listing on the JSE 
and A2X Markets. Naspers is the majority shareholder of Prosus based on the voting rights and control structure of the Prosus group.

The summary consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 have been authorised for issue by the board of 
directors on 26 June 2023.

2. Basis of presentation and accounting policies
Information on the summary consolidated financial statements
The summary consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 have been prepared in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS), the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants (SAICA) Financial Reporting Guides as issued 
by the Accounting Practices Committee, and Financial Pronouncements as issued by the Financial Reporting Standards Council as well 
as the requirements of the Companies Act of South Africa and the JSE Listings Requirements. These summary consolidated financial 
statements contain the information required by IAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting (IAS 34) with the exception of IAS 34.20(b) and, 
accordingly, the financial information for the second half of the current year is not presented separately.

The summary consolidated financial statements do not include all the disclosures required for complete annual financial statements 
prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). The accounting policies in these 
summary consolidated financial statements are consistent with those applied in the previous consolidated annual financial statements for 
the year ended 31 March 2022, except for the impact of hyperinflation detailed below.

There were no new or amended accounting pronouncements effective from 1 April 2022 that have a significant impact on the group’s 
summary consolidated financial statements.

The summary consolidated financial statements presented here report earnings per share, diluted earnings per share, headline earnings 
per share and diluted headline earnings per share (collectively referred to as earnings per share) per class of ordinary shares. These 
are calculated as the relationship of the number of ordinary shares (or dilutive ordinary shares where relevant) of Naspers issued at 
31 March 2023 (net of treasury shares), to the relevant net profit measure attributable to the shareholders of Naspers.

The earnings per share information presented takes into account the impact of the share repurchase programme.

All amounts disclosed are in millions of US dollars (US$’m) unless otherwise stated.

31 March

Notes
2023

US$’m
2022

US$’m

Cash flows from operating activities

Cash utilised in operations (376) (734)

Interest income received 324 46

Dividends received from equity-accounted investments 575 572

Interest costs paid (567) (389)

Taxation paid (133) (197)

Net cash utilised in operating activities (177) (702)

Cash flows from investing activities

Acquisitions and disposals of tangible and intangible assets (290) (258)

Acquisitions of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, net of cash 16 (324) (4 580)

Disposals of subsidiaries, businesses, associates and joint ventures, net of cash 16 12 668 14 641

Acquisition of short-term investments1 (6 606) (3 966)

Maturity of short-term investments1 3 924 1 486

Cash paid for other investments2 16 (559) (1 480)

Cash received from other investments3 16 3 764 85

Cash movement in other investing activities (22) (22)

Net cash generated from investing activities 12 555 5 906

Cash flows from financing activities

Proceeds from sale of subsidiary shares 3 2 745 —

Payments for the repurchase of own shares 3 (3 150) (1 286)

Proceeds from long and short-term loans raised 196 9 564

Repayments of long and short-term loans (56) (1 619)

Acquisition of group shares for equity-settled share-based compensation plans (125) (218)

Additional investment in existing subsidiaries4 (11 509) (5 269)

Dividends paid by the holding company (191) (238)

Repayments of capitalised lease liabilities (63) (60)

Additional investment from non-controlling shareholders 67 140

Cash movements in other financing activities (10) (120)

Net cash (utilised in)/generated from financing activities (12 096) 894

Net movement in cash and cash equivalents 282 6 098

Foreign exchange translation adjustments on cash and cash equivalents (82) (132)

Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 9 715 3 749

Cash and cash equivalents classified as held for sale (94) —

Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 9 821 9 715

1 Relates to short-term cash investments with maturities of more than three months from date of acquisition.
2 Relates to payments for the group’s fair value through other comprehensive income investments.
3 Relates mainly to the group’s investments measured at fair value. Cash received from other investments includes US$54m dividends received from the JD.com investment.
4 Relates to transactions with non-controlling interests resulting in changes in effective interest of existing subsidiaries. Includes the repurchase of Prosus shares on the market of US$9.9bn 

(2022: US$5.0bn). Refer to note 3.

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 181180 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



2. Basis of presentation and accounting policies continued
Information on the summary consolidated financial statements continued

Operating segments
The group’s operating segments reflect the components of the group that are regularly reviewed by the chief operating decision-maker 
(CODM) as defined in note 22 ‘Segment Information’ in the consolidated financial statements as included in the annual financial 
statements for the year ended 31 March 2023. The group proportionately consolidates its share of the results of its associates and joint 
ventures in its disclosure of segment results in note 4.

From 1 April 2022, following the operational separation from the OLX Group, the CODM reviewed the financial results of Avito separately 
from the Classifieds Ecommerce segment. The financial results of Avito are presented separately as a discontinued operation in the 
operating segment information up until the date of disposal as a result of the group’s decision to exit the Russian business.

In March 2023, the group announced its decision to exit the OLX Autos business unit. The exit process is being executed for each 
operation within the business unit in its local market. The business unit as a whole represents a separate major line of business, both 
in terms of the distinct nature of the business and its contribution to the operational performance of the group. As such, the operations 
that are classified as held for sale and the operations that are closed down by 31 March 2023 have been presented as discontinued 
operations and are reviewed separately by the CODM. OLX Autos operations whose exit process has not been finalised as at 
31 March 2023 are presented as continuing operations. These operations will be classified as discontinued operations in the financial 
year that the exit process is completed.

The comparative financial results of Avito and the relevant operations in the OLX Autos business described above, previously presented in 
the Classifieds Ecommerce segment, have been reclassified and presented in discontinued operations to allow the current performance 
of the business to be compared with prior periods. The change has no impact on the total group revenue, adjusted EBITDA and trading 
(loss)/profit in prior periods.

Lag periods applied when reporting results of equity-accounted investments
Where the reporting periods of associates and joint ventures (equity-accounted investments) are not coterminous with that of the group and/
or it is impracticable for the relevant equity-accounted investee to prepare financial statements as of 31 March (for instance due to the 
availability of the results of the equity-accounted investee relative to the group’s reporting period), the group applies an appropriate lag 
period of not more than three months in reporting the results of the equity-accounted investees. Significant transactions and events that occur 
between the non-coterminous reporting periods are adjusted for. The group exercises significant judgement when determining the transactions 
and events for which adjustments are made.

2. Basis of presentation and accounting policies continued
Information on the summary consolidated financial statements continued

Going concern
The summary consolidated financial statements are prepared on the going-concern basis. Based on forecasts and available cash 
resources, the group has adequate resources to continue operations as a going concern in the foreseeable future. As at 31 March 2023, 
the group recorded US$16.6bn in cash, comprising US$9.9bn of cash and cash equivalents and US$6.7bn in short-term cash investments. 
The group had US$16bn of interest-bearing debt (excluding capitalised lease liabilities) and an undrawn US$2.6bn revolving credit 
facility.

In assessing going concern, the impact of internal and external economic factors on the group’s operations and liquidity was considered 
in preparing the forecasts and in assessing the group’s actual performance against budget. The board is of the opinion that the group 
has sufficient financial flexibility to continue as a going concern in the year subsequent to the date of these summary consolidated 
financial statements.

Hyperinflation
In June 2022, the International Monetary Fund declared Turkey as a hyperinflationary economy. Accordingly, the group applied the 
hyperinflationary accounting requirements of IAS 29 Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies for the group’s subsidiaries in 
Turkey. As the presentation currency of the group is that of a non-hyperinflationary economy, comparative amounts are not adjusted for 
changes in the price level or exchange rates in the current year.

On initial application of hyperinflationary accounting, opening equity for the group’s subsidiaries is restated by applying a general 
price index from the date transactions arose. These restatements are recognised directly in equity. Subsequent to initial application, all 
components of equity are restated by applying a general price index from the beginning of the period or the date of contribution, if later. 
The restatement of opening equity on initial application is not material.

The results, cash flows and financial position for the group’s subsidiaries in Turkey are adjusted using a general price index to reflect the 
current purchasing power at the end of the reporting period. The carrying amounts of non-monetary assets and liabilities are adjusted 
to reflect the change in the general price index from the date of acquisition of these subsidiaries to the end of the reporting period. The 
gain or loss on the net monetary position from translation of the financial information is recognised in the summary consolidated income 
statement, except for goodwill, other intangible assets and deferred tax liabilities arising at acquisition of these subsidiaries. The impact 
of the gain on the net monetary position in the summary consolidated income statement is not material.

Goodwill, other intangible assets and deferred tax liabilities arising at acquisition of these subsidiaries are restated using the general 
price index at the end of the reporting period. The gain or loss on the net monetary position from the adjustment of these assets and 
liabilities is recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the foreign currency translation reserve in equity.

The general price index as published by the Turkish Statistical Institute was used in adjusting the results, cash flows and financial position 
for the group’s subsidiaries in Turkey up to 31 March 2023. The general price inflation factor up to 31 March 2023 was 275.99%.

Notes to the summary consolidated financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 March 2023

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 183182 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



3. Significant changes in financial position and performance during the reporting period
Share repurchase programme 
On 27 June 2022, the group announced the beginning of an open-ended repurchase programme of Prosus ordinary shares N and 
Naspers N ordinary shares.

The Prosus repurchase programme of its ordinary shares N is funded by an orderly on-market sale of Tencent Holdings Limited (Tencent) 
shares. Until 12 August 2022, Prosus also purchased Naspers N ordinary shares. 

In September 2022, Naspers began to dispose of some of the Prosus shares that it holds in order to provide further funding for the 
repurchase of Naspers shares pursuant to the repurchase programme.

The group has appointed agents to execute the repurchase programme and sale of Tencent shares within parameters set by the 
group and subject to applicable laws and regulations. As part of the repurchase programme, for the period between 28 June 2022 
and 31 March 2023, Prosus purchased 4 152 285 Naspers N ordinary shares for a total consideration of US$626m and repurchased 
152 797 117 Prosus ordinary shares N for a total consideration of US$10.0bn, of which US$9.9bn was settled in cash by 31 March 2023.

These transactions were mainly funded by the sale of 267 664 800 Tencent shares yielding proceeds of US$10.7bn. Furthermore, for 
the year ended 31 March 2023, Naspers, through its subsidiary MIH Treasury Services (Pty) Limited, purchased 16 320 371 Naspers 
N ordinary shares on the market for a total consideration of US$2.5bn. This transaction was funded by Naspers’ disposal of 43 356 695 
Prosus ordinary shares N on the market, yielding proceeds of US$2.8bn.

Subsequent to the above transactions, Prosus now holds a 52.5%1 (2022: 49.5%) fully diluted interest, representing a 52.7%2 (2022: 49.9%) 
economic interest in Naspers. Prosus’ legal ownership in Naspers remains less than 50% as at 31 March 2023.

The accounting for the share repurchase programme takes into consideration the cross-holding agreement between Prosus and Naspers 
and is implemented in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations as well as the authority granted by shareholders. The 
repurchase programme has no impact on the control structure of the group. Prosus’ interest in Naspers does not represent control or 
significant influence. Naspers therefore continues to hold the majority of the shareholder voting rights of Prosus.

The cross-holding agreement between Naspers and Prosus became effective at the time of closing of the voluntary share exchange in 
August 2021. The cross-holding agreement takes into account Prosus’ indirect interest in itself from holding Naspers shares and deals 
with how distributions between the two groups will be managed. It eliminates the need for flows back and forth between the two groups 
as a result of the cross-shareholding, through a waiver by Prosus of its entitlement to distributions on the Naspers shares that it holds, 
and provides clarity to both Prosus and Naspers’ free-float shareholders of their economic interest in distributions made by Prosus. The 
cross-holding agreement relates to Prosus’ fully diluted interest in Naspers and Naspers’ legal ownership of Prosus ordinary shares N. At 
31 March 2023, subject to this agreement and subsequent to the repurchase transactions above Prosus’ free-float shareholders’ economic 
interest in the Prosus group is 56.5% (2022: 57.7%).

Disposal of Prosus shares and Prosus repurchase of own shares
The group’s sale and repurchase of Prosus ordinary shares N impacted the Prosus free-float economic interest in the group. The 
transactions were accounted for as equity transactions as the change in economic interest had no impact on the control structure of the 
group. The consideration paid for the Prosus share repurchase and the consideration received for the disposal of Prosus shares resulted 
in a US$6.6bn decrease in the non-controlling interest in equity. The excess of the net consideration for Prosus shares over the decrease 
in non-controlling interest was recognised in ‘Existing control business combination reserve’ in equity, amounting to US$741m.

Naspers repurchase of own shares and Prosus acquisition of Naspers shares
The Naspers N ordinary shares acquired by Prosus and repurchased by Naspers are classified as treasury shares. These are recognised 
in ‘Treasury shares’ on the summary consolidated statement of financial position. The treasury shares were recognised at a cost 
of US$3.2bn.

Disposal of shares in Tencent
The group reduced its ownership interest in Tencent from 28.81% to 26.16%, yielding US$10.7bn in proceeds. This is a partial disposal of 
an associate that does not result in a loss of significant influence. The group recognised a gain on partial disposal of US$7.6bn in the 
summary consolidated income statement. The group reclassified a loss of US$155m from the foreign currency translation reserve to the 
summary consolidated income statement related to this partial disposal.

Other transactions with non-controlling shareholders
In August 2022, the group entered into an agreement through its subsidiary MIH Movile Holdings B.V. (Movile) to acquire the remaining 
33.3% stake in iFood Holdings B.V. (iFood) and IF-JE Holdings B.V., from non-controlling shareholder Just Eat Holding Limited (Just Eat). The 
transaction was completed in November 2022. Refer to note 17.

1 Interest in Naspers based on the cross-holding agreement formula, which was approved in the shareholder resolution.
2 Interest based on distribution rights to each class of shareholders.

3. Significant changes in financial position and performance during the reporting period continued
Exit of the OLX Autos business unit 
In March 2023, the group announced the decision to exit the OLX Autos business unit. The OLX Autos business unit is a second-hand 
car-sale ecommerce marketplace which operates through a single technological platform located in various regions. The group 
believes that significant value exists in the business within its various local markets. Based on this and the ongoing exit process, 
options for the business are being considered, resulting in the decision to sell or close down each operation in its local market. 
The business unit as a whole represents a separate major line of business, both in terms of the distinct nature of the business and its 
contribution to the operational performance of the group. The operations of this business classified as held for sale and those that 
have been closed down by 31 March 2023 are presented as discontinued operations. 

The OLX Autos operations whose exit process has not been finalised as at 31 March 2023 are presented as continuing operations given 
the phased exit process for this business. These operations will be classified as discontinued operations in the financial year that the exit 
process is completed.

OLX Autos revenue and trading loss for the year were US$1.8bn (2022: US$1.6bn) and US$418m (2022: US$230m) respectively, of which 
US$853m (2022: US$601m) of revenue and US$216m (2022: US$107m) of trading losses are included in continuing operations.

The group recognised total impairment losses of US$164m of which US$19m is included in discontinued operations. The impairment 
losses relate to US$116m of goodwill and US$48m of other assets. The other assets impaired are property, plant and equipment and 
other intangible assets that will not be recovered through the sale of the business. 

Profit from discontinued operations
Discontinued operations consist of the group’s Russian business and the OLX Autos business unit. Refer to note 5 for financial information 
related to the group’s discontinued operations.

4. Segmental review
Reconciliation of consolidated adjusted EBITDA and trading loss to consolidated operating loss from continuing operations

Year ended 
31 March

2023
US$’m

2022
US$’m

Consolidated adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations1 (685) (557)
Depreciation (129) (108)
Amortisation of software (15) (8)
Interest on capitalised lease liabilities (15) (11)

Consolidated trading loss from continuing operations2 (844) (684)
Interest on capitalised lease liabilities 15 11
Amortisation of other intangible assets (80) (81)
Other (losses)/gains – net (747) (163)
Other 3 6
Retention option expense (20) (19)
Remeasurement of cash-settled share-based incentive expenses 304 (27)
Share-based incentives for share options settled in Naspers Limited shares (15) (28)

Consolidated operating loss from continuing operations (1 384) (985)

1 Adjusted EBITDA represents operating profit/loss, as adjusted, to exclude depreciation; amortisation; retention option expenses linked to business combinations; other losses/
gains – net, which includes dividends received from investments, profits and losses on sale of assets, fair value adjustments of financial instruments, impairment losses, 
cash-settled share-based compensation expenses deemed to arise from shareholder transactions by virtue of employment; and subsequent fair value remeasurement of 
cash-settled share-based compensation expenses, equity-settled share-based compensation expenses for group share option schemes as well as those deemed to arise 
on shareholder transactions (but not excluding share-based payment expenses for which we have a cash cost on settlement with participants). It is considered a useful 
measure to analyse operational profitability.

2 Trading profit/(loss) refers to adjusted EBITDA adjusted for depreciation, amortisation of software and interest on capitalised lease liabilities. It is considered a useful 
measure to analyse operational profitability.

Notes to the summary consolidated financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 March 2023

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 185184 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



4. Segmental review continued

Revenue
Year ended 31 March

2023
US$’m

2022
US$’m

%
change

Continuing operations
Ecommerce 10 754 9 005 19

Classifieds1, 2 1 575 1 324 19
Food Delivery 4 203 2 992 40
Payments and Fintech 1 052 796 32
Edtech 545 425 28
Etail 2 761 3 086 (11)
Other 618 382 62

Social and internet platforms 22 269 25 794 (14)
Tencent 22 269 25 261 (12)
VK3 — 533 (100)

Media 217 257 (16)
Corporate segment — — —
Intersegmental (3) — (100)

Total economic interest from continuing operations 33 237 35 056 (5)
Less: Equity-accounted investments (26 459) (28 762) (8)

Total consolidated from continuing operations 6 778 6 294 8

Total from discontinued operations1, 2 1 626 1 646 (1)

Total consolidated 8 404 7 940 6

1 From 1 April 2022, following the separation from OLX Group, the CODM reviewed the financial results of Avito separately. Subsequent to the group’s decision to exit this 
Russian business, Avito was presented as a discontinued operation up until the date of disposal. The comparative financial results of Avito, previously presented in the 
Classifieds Ecommerce segment, have been reclassified and presented in discontinued operations. Refer to note 5.

2 From 1 March 2023, following the group’s decision to exit the OLX Autos business unit, its operations classified as held for sale and those that have been closed by 
31 March 2023 were presented as a discontinued operation. The OLX Autos business unit is a separate major line of business, both in terms of the distinct nature of the 
business and its contribution to the operational performance of the group. The comparative financial results of these operations previously presented in the Classifieds 
Ecommerce segment, have been reclassified and presented in discontinued operations. Refer to note 5.

3 During the year ended 31 March 2022, the group lost significant influence in VK Company Limited (VK). In November 2022, the group signed an agreement with VK to 
renounce all VK shares and shareholder rights for no consideration.

4. Segmental review continued

Adjusted EBITDA
Year ended 31 March

2023
US$’m

2022
US$’m

%
change

Continuing operations
Ecommerce (1 263) (1 009) (25)

Classifieds1, 2 (113) (37) >(100)
Food Delivery (545) (651) 16
Payments and Fintech (108) (52) >(100)
Edtech (239) (100) >(100)
Etail (2) 27 >(100)
Other (256) (196) (31)

Social and internet platforms 6 295 7 623 (17)
Tencent 6 295 7 502 (16)
VK3 — 121 (100)

Media 13 23 (43)
Corporate segment (201) (209) 4
Intersegmental — — —

Total economic interest from continuing operations 4 844 6 428 (25)
Less: Equity-accounted investments (5 529) (6 985) 21

Total consolidated from continuing operations (685) (557) (23)

Total from discontinued operations1, 2 46 133 (65)

Total consolidated (639) (424) (51)

1 From 1 April 2022, following the separation from OLX Group, the CODM reviewed the financial results of Avito separately. Subsequent to the group’s decision to exit this 
Russian business, Avito was presented as a discontinued operation up until the date of disposal. The comparative financial results of Avito, previously presented in the 
Classifieds Ecommerce segment, have been reclassified and presented in discontinued operations. Refer to note 5.

2 From 1 March 2023, following the group’s decision to exit the OLX Autos business unit, its operations classified as held for sale and those that have been closed by 
31 March 2023 were presented as a discontinued operation. The OLX Autos business unit is a separate major line of business, both in terms of the distinct nature of the 
business and its contribution to the operational performance of the group. The comparative financial results of these operations previously presented in the Classifieds 
Ecommerce segment, have been reclassified and presented in discontinued operations. Refer to note 5.

3 During the year ended 31 March 2022, the group lost significant influence in VK Company Limited (VK). In November 2022, the group signed an agreement with VK to 
renounce all VK shares and shareholder rights for no consideration.

Notes to the summary consolidated financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 March 2023

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 187186 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



4. Segmental review continued

Trading (loss)/profit
Year ended 31 March

2023
US$’m

2022
US$’m

%
change

Continuing operations
Ecommerce (1 534) (1 215) (26)

Classifieds1, 2 (156) (70) >(100)
Food Delivery (649) (724) 10
Payments and Fintech (116) (60) (93)
Edtech (258) (117) >(100)
Etail (85) (42) >(100)
Other (270) (202) (34)

Social and internet platforms 5 085 6 319 (20)
Tencent 5 085 6 273 (19)
VK3 — 46 (100)

Media 7 17 (59)
Corporate segment (210) (217) 3
Intersegmental — — —

Total economic interest from continuing operations 3 348 4 904 (32)
Less: Equity-accounted investments (4 192) (5 588) 25

Total consolidated from continuing operations (844) (684) (23)

Total from discontinued operations1, 2 26 97 (73)

Total consolidated (818) (587) (39)

1 From 1 April 2022, following the separation from OLX Group, the CODM reviewed the financial results of Avito separately. Subsequent to the group’s decision to exit this 
Russian business, Avito was presented as a discontinued operation up until the date of disposal. The comparative financial results of Avito, previously presented in the 
Classifieds Ecommerce segment, have been reclassified and presented in discontinued operations. Refer to note 5.

2 From 1 March 2023, following the group’s decision to exit the OLX Autos business unit, its operations classified as held for sale and those that have been closed by 
31 March 2023 were presented as a discontinued operation. The OLX Autos business unit is a separate major line of business, both in terms of the distinct nature of the 
business and its contribution to the operational performance of the group. The comparative financial results of these operations previously presented in the Classifieds 
Ecommerce segment, have been reclassified and presented in discontinued operations. Refer to note 5.

3 During the year ended 31 March 2022, the group lost significant influence in VK Company Limited (VK). In November 2022, the group signed an agreement with VK to 
renounce all VK shares and shareholder rights for no consideration.

5. Profit from discontinued operations
Discontinued operations consist of the group’s Russian business and the OLX Autos business unit. 

In May 2022, as a result of the continued conflict in the region, the group announced its decision to exit its Russian business. Accordingly, 
Avito was presented as a discontinued operation. The group entered into an agreement to sell its shareholding in Avito to Kismet 
Capital Group (Kismet) for a total cash consideration of US$2.4bn. Kismet is a private investment group with a track record of investing in 
technology and telecommunications businesses in Russia. The transaction was completed in October 2022. The group recognised a gain 
on disposal of the subsidiary of US$568m, including a reclassification of the accumulated foreign currency translation gain of US$202m.

Discontinued operations for the OLX Autos business include the operations classified as held for sale and the operations closed down by 
31 March 2023. Refer to note 14 for details of this business unit’s disposal group. 

The financial information relating to the group’s discontinued operations is set out below:

Income statement information of discontinued operations
31 March

2023
US$’m

2022
US$’m

Revenue 1 626 1 646
Online sale of goods revenue 944 980
Classifieds listings revenue 601 582
Advertising revenue 50 50
Other revenue 31 34

Expenses (1 606) (1 550)
Impairment of goodwill and other assets1 (19) —
Other expenses (1 587) (1 550)

Profit before tax 20 96
Taxation (46) (43)

(Loss)/profit for the year (26) 53
Gain on disposal of discontinued operation 568 —

Profit from discontinued operations 542 53

Profit from discontinued operations attributable to:
Equity holders of the group 229 32
Non-controlling interest 313 21

542 53

1 Relates to impairment losses of goodwill and other assets in the OLX Autos business unit.

Cash flow statement information of discontinued operations
31 March

2023
US$’m

2022
US$’m

Net cash generated from operating activities 145 153
Net cash generated from/(utilised in) investing activities1 1 985 (22)
Net cash generated from/(utilised in) financing activities 130 (86)

Cash generated by discontinued operations 2 260 45

1 Includes the net cash inflow from the disposal of Avito. Refer to note 16.

Per share information from discontinued operations1

31 March

2023
US cents

2022
US cents

Earnings per N ordinary share 110 11
Diluted earnings per N ordinary share 110 11
Headline earnings per N ordinary share — 12
Diluted headline earnings per N ordinary share — 12

1 Refer to note 6 for further details on the earnings per share from discontinued operations.

Notes to the summary consolidated financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 March 2023

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 189188 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



6. Earnings per share
Calculation of headline earnings

Year ended
31 March

2023
US$’m

2022
US$’m

Earnings from continuing operations
Basic earnings attributable to shareholders 4 102 12 191
Impact of dilutive instruments of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures (166) (230)

Diluted earnings attributable to shareholders 3 936 11 961

Headline adjustments for continuing operations

Adjusted for: (8 835) (15 659)

Impairment of other assets 33 —
Impairment of goodwill, PPE and other intangible assets 720 246
Loss/(gain) on sale of assets 3 (4)
Gain recognised on loss of control (23) —
(Gains)/losses recognised on loss of significant influence (30) 1 112
Net gains on acquisitions and disposals of investments (27) (33)
Gain on partial disposal of equity-accounted investments (7 622) (12 339)
Dilution losses/(gains) on equity-accounted investments 252 (95)
Remeasurements included in equity-accounted earnings2 (3 886) (5 134)
Impairment of equity-accounted investments 1 745 588

(4 733) (3 468)

Total tax effects of adjustments — —
Total adjustment for non-controlling interest 4 982 5 054

Basic headline earnings from continuing operations1 249 1 586

Diluted headline earnings from continuing operations 83 1 356

Earnings from discontinued operations
Basic earnings attributable to shareholders 229 32
Impact of dilutive instruments of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures — —

Diluted earnings attributable to shareholders 229 32

Headline adjustments for discontinued operations

Adjustments for: (544) 3

Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 5 —
Impairment of goodwill, intangible assets and other assets 19 —
Net (gains)/loss on acquisitions and disposals of investments (568) 3

(315) 35
Total tax effects of adjustments — —
Total adjustment for non-controlling interest 315 —

Basic headline earnings from discontinued operations1 — 35
Diluted headline earnings from discontinued operations — 35

1 Headline earnings represent net profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the group, excluding certain defined separately identifiable remeasurements. The 
headline earnings measure is pursuant of the JSE Listings Requirements.

2 Remeasurements included in equity-accounted earnings include US$5.9bn (2022: US$6.3bn) relating to gains arising on acquisitions and disposals by associates and 
US$1.9bn (2022: impairment of US$1.1bn) relating to net impairments of assets recognised by associates.

6. Earnings per share continued
Year ended
31 March

2023 
Number of

shares

2022 
Number of

shares

Number of ordinary shares in issue at year-end (net of treasury shares) 196 320 624 215 454 129
Weighted adjustment for movement in shares held by share trusts and share repurchase 
programme 12 083 718 74 322 479

Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year 208 404 342 289 776 608
Adjusted for effect of future share-based payment transactions 88 097 805 932

Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year 208 492 439 290 582 540

Per share information related to continuing operations
Earnings per ordinary share (US cents) for the year 

Basic 1 968 4 207
Diluted 1 888 4 116

Headline earnings per ordinary share (US cents) for the year
Basic 119 547
Diluted 40 467

Earnings per share information
The earnings per share information presented takes into account the impact of the cross-holding agreement with Naspers as a result of 
the Prosus share exchange and the group’s repurchase of the Naspers shares.

The group has in issue 435 511 058 N ordinary shares and 961 193 A ordinary shares as at 31 March 2023. The group recognised 
240 151 627 N ordinary shares as treasury shares, which are the N ordinary shares held by the Naspers group share trusts and other 
group companies.

The A ordinary shareholders are entitled to one voting right per share but carries one fifth of the economic rights of Naspers N ordinary 
shareholders.

The number of shares in issue used in the earnings per share information is weighted for the period that the shares were in issue and 
not recognised as treasury shares. As a result, the N ordinary shares held by Prosus and Naspers group subsidiaries, are weighted for the 
period they were in issue and not recognised as treasury shares. Refer to note 3 for the impact of the share repurchase programme.

Notes to the summary consolidated financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 March 2023

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 191190 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



7. Revenue
Year ended 
31 March

Reportable 
segment(s) 
where revenue 
is included

2023
US$’m

2022
US$’m

Online sale of goods revenue Etail and Classifieds 3 358 3 511

Classifieds listings revenue Classifieds 436 426

Payment transaction commissions and fees1 Various 987 703

Mobile and other content revenue Other Ecommerce 52 71

Food-delivery revenue Food Delivery 1 366 986

Advertising revenue Various 99 125

Educational technology revenue Edtech 134 83

Printing, distribution, circulation, publishing and subscription revenue Media 120 138

Other revenue Various 226 251

6 778 6 294

1 This revenue is generated primarily from the Payments and Fintech segment and includes interest income revenue relating to the group’s credit business across various 
segments.

Revenue in the table above relates to revenue from contracts with customers except for interest income revenue of US$91m 
(2022: US$14m) relating to the group’s credit business in various segments.

Revenue is presented on an economic-interest basis (ie including the proportionate consolidation of the revenue of associates and joint 
ventures) in the group’s segmental review and is, accordingly, not directly comparable to the above consolidated revenue figures. Below 
is the group’s revenue by geographic area:

Year ended 
31 March

Geographical area
2023

US$’m
2022

US$’m

Africa 1 077 1 135
South Africa 1 071 1 129
Rest of Africa 6 6

Asia 528 358
Europe 2 834 2 959

Central Europe 641 736
Eastern Europe 2 131 2 124
Western Europe 62 99

Latin America 2 252 1 776
North America 87 65
Other — 1

Total revenue from continuing operations 6 778 6 294

8. Finance (costs)/income
Year ended 
31 March

2023
US$’m

2022
US$’m

Interest income 483 58
Loans and bank accounts1 454 42
Other 29 16

Interest expense (571) (407)
Loans and overdrafts (520) (385)
Capitalised lease liabilities (15) (11)
Other (36) (11)

Other finance income/(cost) – net 19 (91)
Gain on translation of assets and liabilities 101 135
(Losses)/gains on derivative and other financial instruments2 (82) (226)

1 The increase in the current year relates primarily to increased cash and short-term investments.
2 The prior year includes a cost of US$217m related to the early settlement of portions of the 2025 and 2027 bonds.

9. Profit before taxation
In addition to the items already detailed, profit before taxation has been determined after taking into account, inter alia, the following:

Year ended 
31 March

2023
US$’m

2022
US$’m

Depreciation 129 108
Amortisation 95 89

Other intangible assets 80 81
Software 15 8

Impairment losses on financial assets measured at amortised cost 36 11
Net realisable value adjustments on inventory, net of reversals1 23 13
Other (losses)/gains – net (747) (163)

(Loss)/profit on sale of assets (3) 4
Impairment of goodwill, PPE and other intangible assets (720) (246)
Impairment of other assets (33) —
Dividends received from investments — 45
Income on business support services 8 34
Other 1 —

Net gains/(losses) on acquisitions and disposals 50 (1 128)
Gains on disposal of investments net 26 33
Gains on loss of control transactions 23 —
Gains on sale of business 1 —
Gains/(losses) on loss of significant influence2 30 (1 112)
Remeasurement of contingent consideration 1 (6)
Transaction-related costs (31) (43)

1 Net realisable value writedowns relate primarily to the Classifieds and Etail segments.
2 In the prior year the group reclassified a portion of the foreign currency translation reserves related to VK from ‘Other comprehensive incomeʼ to the summary consolidated 

income statement, amounting to a loss of US$1.1bn as a result of the loss of significant influence.

Notes to the summary consolidated financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 March 2023

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 193192 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



10. Goodwill
Movements in the group’s goodwill for the year are detailed below:

Year ended 
31 March

2023
US$’m

2022
US$’m

Goodwill
Cost 3 818 2 350
Accumulated impairment (360) (164)

Opening balance 3 458 2 186
Foreign currency translation effects1 356 (167)
Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses 11 1 692
Disposals of subsidiaries and businesses (9) (7)
Transferred to assets classified as held for sale2, 3 (1 649) —
Impairment (684) (246)

Closing balance 1 483 3 458

Cost 2 448 3 818
Accumulated impairment (965) (360)

1 The current period includes a net monetary gain of US$95m relating to hyperinflation accounting for the group’s subsidiaries in Turkey. 
2 Includes US$15m foreign currency translation gains related primarily to Avito that was classified as held for sale prior to its disposal in October 2022.
3 This relates primarily to Avito which was classified as held for sale in May 2022 prior to its disposal in October 2022 as well as the OLX Autos disposal group classified as 

held for sale in March 2023. Refer to note 5.

Goodwill is tested annually as at 31 December or more frequently if there is a change in circumstances that indicates that it might be 
impaired. The group has allocated goodwill to various cash-generating units (CGUs). The recoverable amounts of these CGUs have been 
determined based on the higher of the value in use calculations and the fair value less costs of disposal. During the current year and prior 
financial year, the recoverable amounts for CGUs were determined by predominantly using value in use calculations. Value in use is based 
on discounted cash flow calculations. These cash flow calculations are based on 10-year forecast information as many businesses have 
monetisation timelines longer than five years.

For the year ended 31 March 2023, the impairment assessment took into consideration the increase in market interest rates and country 
risk premiums and the overall business performance. The overall performance of the CGUs during the year was compared against 
budgets and forecasts. The group based its cash flow calculations on 10-year budgeted and forecast information approved by senior 
management and/or the various boards of directors of group companies. The 10-year budgets and forecasts consisted of cash flow 
projections including macroeconomic factors and trends.

The group recognised impairment losses on goodwill of US$684m (2022: US$246m) in the current year of which US$560m relate to Stack 
Overflow in the Edtech segment and US$116m relates to the OLX Autos business unit. The impairment loss of the OLX Autos business 
unit is as a result of the group’s decision to exit the business and the assessment of the value that cannot be realised. The remainder 
of the goodwill related to this business is transferred to the disposal group classified as held for sale. The goodwill was allocated to 
the disposal group based on the relative fair values of the operations within the business (refer to note 14). Stack Overflow is a recent 
acquisition; however, the increase in risk-free rates resulted in an increase in the discount rate used in the value in use calculation for this 
investment. In addition, the business has not performed as expected in the current year due to challenging macroeconomic conditions. 
The recoverable amount was therefore below the carrying amount and resulted in the impairment loss. The prior year impairment related 
to Stack Overflow as a result of increased discount rates used in the value in use calculation for this investment.

11. Investments in associates
The movements in the carrying value of the group’s investments in associates for the year are detailed in the table below:

Year ended 
31 March

2023
US$’m

2022
US$’m

Opening balance 44 461 40 566
Associates acquired – gross consideration 769 4 824
Associates disposed of (1) (10)
Transferred to held for sale (5) (38)
Loss of significant influence (743) —
Share of current year changes in OCI and net asset value (1 747) (2 699)
Share of equity-accounted results 5 323 9 304
Impairment (1 728) (588)
Dividends received1 (5 089) (4 426)
Foreign currency translation effects (2 119) (249)
Partial disposal of interest in associate2 (2 930) (2 316)
Dilution (losses)/gains3 (261) 93

Closing balance 35 930 44 461

1 In the current year, the dividend received from Tencent amounted to US$565m cash and dividend in specie of US$4.5bn in Meituan shares (2022: US$570m cash 
dividend and dividend in specie of US$3.9bn in JD.com shares).

2 Relates to partial disposal of Tencent. During the current year the group recognised a gain on partial disposal of US$7.6bn (2022: US$12.3bn).
3 The total dilution gains presented in the summary consolidated income statement relate to the group’s diluted effective interest in associates and the reclassification of 

a portion of the group’s foreign currency translation reserves from the summary consolidated statement of other comprehensive income to the summary consolidated 
income statement following the shareholding dilutions.

Impairment of equity-accounted investments
The group assesses whether there is an indication that its equity-accounted investments are impaired. For the year ended 31 March 2023, 
the group assessment took into consideration the market capitalisation of the listed equity-accounted investments, the increase in market 
interest rates and country risk premiums, and the overall business performance.

Impairment assessments for the group’s listed equity-accounted investments related to Delivery Hero and Skillsoft as a result of a decline 
in the market capitalisation and the increase in country risk premiums for these investments. Impairment assessments for the group’s 
unlisted equity-accounted investments related primarily to an investment in the Classifieds segment as a result of the increase in market 
interest rates and the overall business performance.

The recoverable amounts of equity-accounted investments have been determined based on the higher of the value in use calculations 
and the fair value less costs of disposal. During the current year and prior financial year, the recoverable amounts were determined using 
value in use calculations except for Skillsoft which was determined using fair value less costs of disposal (market price) as at 31 March 
2023. The recoverable amount for Skillsoft was, however, based on a value in use calculation as at 30 September 2022. As at 31 March 
2023, Skillsoft was impaired to its market value due to the significant decline in the share price over time. Accordingly, the market price 
is considered the supportable representation of the recoverable amount for the investment. The value in use calculation was determined 
using the discounted cash flow method. The market price of Skillsoft is level 1 on the fair value hierarchy. The group used 10-year 
projected cash flow models as many businesses have monetisation timelines of longer than five years.

For Delivery Hero, the value in use calculations were higher than the market price for this investment because market prices include 
current market sentiment, while value in use calculations considers a longer-term horizon. The increase of the market price following 
the release of the December 2022 and first quarter 2023 financial results, supports the recoverable amount determined by the value 
in use calculations.

The value in use calculations for the listed equity-accounted investments were determined using the sum-of-the-parts approach. Delivery 
Hero’s 10-year projected cash flow models incorporated market views and publicly available analyst projections. Skillsoft’s 10-year 
projected cash flow models as at September 2022 incorporated forecast cash flow information based on the company’s latest guidance. 

For the unlisted equity-accounted investments, the 10-year projected cash flow models incorporated forecast cash flow information based 
on the latest management guidance provided. 

Notes to the summary consolidated financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 March 2023

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 195194 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



11. Investments in associates continued
Impairment of equity-accounted investments continued
The value in use calculations determined the equity values for the investments which took into consideration the following key 
assumptions: 

Revenue and expenses
Revenue and expenses in the cash flow models were based on past experience, management’s future expectations of business 
performance and the latest guidance announced by Delivery Hero and Skillsoft.

Growth rates
The growth rates were consistent with publicly available information relating to long-term average growth rates for the markets in which 
the equity-accounted investments operate. The annual growth rate used for revenue and expenses over the 10-year forecast period 
ranged between 5% to 41% (2022: 2% to 47%) for equity-accounted investments.

Discount rates
The discount rates used reflect specific risks relating to the relevant operations and the regions in which they operate, while for certain 
operations, risk adjustments are made to discount rates used when calculating the value in use. Discount rates take into account country 
risk premiums and inflation differentials, as appropriate. Post-tax discount rates used ranged between 11% to 29% (2022: 10% to 20%). 
Pre-tax discount rates used ranged between 13% to 35% (2022: 11% to 25%) for equity-accounted investments.

Terminal growth rates
The terminal growth rates considered the steady growth rates that would appropriately extrapolate cash flows beyond the forecast 
periods once the business segment is assumed to have reached maturity. The terminal growth rates ranged between 2% to 8% (2022: 
2% to 5%) for equity-accounted investments. The terminal growth rate was based on the expected growth in perpetuity in the markets 
where these businesses operate.

The recoverable amounts for the above investments were lower than the respective carrying amounts. Accordingly, for the year ended 
31 March 2023, an impairment loss of US$1.7bn (2022: US$584m) was recognised for equity-accounted investments of which US$997m 
(recognised in the first half of the financial year) related to Delivery Hero (2022: US$nil), US$301m related to Skillsoft (2022: US$111m) 
and US$431m related primarily to unlisted equity-accounted investments (2022: US$nil). For the Skillsoft impairment loss the group 
recognised US$204m at September 2022 and a further US$97m as at 31 March 2023. The impairment loss for unlisted equity-accounted 
investments includes US$326m related to an investment in the Classifieds segment.

At 31 March 2023, the carrying value for Delivery Hero and Skillsoft was US$3.4bn and US$123m (2022: US$4.9bn and US$383m) 
respectively, while the group share in the market capitalisation of these investments was US$2.7bn and US$123m (2022: US$3.0bn and 
US$302m) respectively. 

Sensitivity to changes in assumptions 
An adverse adjustment to any of the above key assumptions used in the value in use calculations would result in additional impairment 
losses being recognised.

12. Other investments and loans
Year ended 
31 March

2023
US$’m

2022
US$’m

Investments at fair value through other comprehensive income (OCI) 7 329 5 540
Investments at fair value through profit or loss 34 64
Investments at amortised cost 8 —
Related party loans 143 258

Total investments and loans 7 514 5 862
Current portion of other investments (4 707) —

Investments at fair value through other comprehensive income (OCI) (4 707) —

Non-current portion of other investments 2 807 5 862

Reconciliation of investments at fair value through other comprehensive income

Opening balance 5 540 1 608
Fair value adjustments recognised in OCI 21 (509)
Purchases/additional contributions1 4 724 4 423
Loss of significant influence of investments in associates 830 26
Disposals2 (3 775) (51)
Foreign currency translation effects (11) 43

Closing balance 7 329 5 540

1 Significant movement in the current year relates to the Meituan dividend in specie received from Tencent. The prior year related to the JD.com dividend in specie received 
from Tencent. Refer to note 16. 

2 The significant movement in the current year relates to the disposal of the JD.com investment. Refer to note 16. 

13. Commitments and contingent liabilities
Commitments relate to amounts for which the group has contracted, but that have not yet been recognised as obligations in the 
statement of financial position.

Year ended 
31 March

2023
US$’m

2022
US$’m

Commitments 407 254
Capital expenditure 93 96
Other service commitments 307 134
Lease commitments1 7 24

1 Lease commitments include the group’s short-term lease arrangements as well as other contractual lease agreements whose commencement date is after 31 March 2023. 
Short-term lease commitments relate to leasing arrangements with lease terms of 12 months or less that are not recognised in the summary consolidated statement of 
financial position.

As a global technology investor, the group’s portfolio of businesses is well diversified by sector and geography. The group operates on a 
decentralised basis in numerous countries. Businesses are based in the countries where their operations, their users and consumers are. 
As a result, the group’s businesses pay taxes locally, in the jurisdictions where they operate and where the group’s products and services 
are consumed. Where relevant and appropriate, the group seeks advice and works with its advisers to identify and quantify contingent 
tax exposures. Our current assessment of possible tax exposures, including interest and potential penalties, amounts to approximately 
US$191m (2022: US$18m).

14. Disposal groups classified as held for sale 
In September 2022, the assets and liabilities of the group’s subsidiary Zoop Tecnologia e Meios de Pagamento S.A. (Zoop) were 
classified as held for sale following the decision to sell the investment. The group is in negotiations with potential buyers.

In March 2023, the group announced the decision to exit the OLX Autos business unit. The disposal group that is classified as held for 
sale consists of assets and liabilities of the operations that management has committed to a plan to sell. Efforts to sell the disposal group 
are in progress and is expected in the 2024 financial year.

The assets and liabilities of the businesses classified as held for sale are detailed below:

31 March

2023
US$’m

2022
US$’m

Assets
Property, plant and equipment 26 1
Goodwill 302 —
Other intangible assets 29 —
Investments in associates — 38
Inventory 32 —
Deferred taxation assets 2 —
Trade and other receivables 164 —
Cash and cash equivalents1 94 —

649 39

Liabilities
Derivative financial instruments 1 —
Deferred taxation liabilities 13 —
Long-term liabilities 29 —
Provisions 2 —
Trade payables 165 —
Accrued expenses and other current liabilities 66 —

276 —

1 Included in cash and cash equivalents is US$45m relating to restricted cash from Zoop.

Notes to the summary consolidated financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 March 2023

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 197196 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



15. Equity compensation benefits
Liabilities arising from cash-settled share-based payment transactions
Reconciliation of the cash-settled share-based payment liability is as follows:

Year ended 
31 March

2023
US$’m

2022
US$’m

Opening balance 1 169 1 127
SAR scheme charge per the income statement1 (196) 148
Employment-linked put option charge per the income statement 14 23
Additions — 5
Settlements (176) (510)
Modification2 4 355
Transferred to liabilities classified as held for sale3 (37) —
Foreign currency translation effects (50) 21

Closing balance 728 1 169
Less: Current portion of cash-settled share-based payment liability (655) (985)

Non-current portion of cash-settled share-based payment liability 73 184

1 The decrease in the expense is as a result of the decline in the fair values of the underlying businesses that decreased the estimated cash settlement for the schemes.
2 Some of the group’s equity-settled compensation plans were prospectively modified to cash-settled due to the change in settlement policy of the share option schemes. In 

the 31 March 2022 financial year, the modification relates primarily to the iFood share option scheme to cash-settled.
3 Relates primarily to Avito which was classified as held for sale in May 2022 prior to its disposal in October 2022 as well as the OLX Autos disposal group classified as held 

for sale in March 2023. 

16. Business combinations, other acquisitions and disposals
The following sets out the group’s significant transactions related to business combinations and equity-accounted investments for the year 
ended 31 March 2023:

Amount invested US$’m

Company Classification

Net
cash

paid/
(received)

Non-cash
consi-

deration

Cash in 
entity

acquired/
(disposed)

Total
consi-

deration

Acquisition of subsidiaries

Other1 Subsidiary 18 — 1 19

18 — 1 19

Acquisition of equity-accounted 
investments

Other1 Associate 12 — — 12

12 — — 12

Additional investment in existing equity-
accounted investments

a Delivery Hero SE (Delivery Hero) Associate 194 288 — 482

Other1 Associate 99 — — 99

293 288 — 581

Other investments

b DoorDash Inc. (DoorDash) FVOCI — 58 — 58

e Think & Learn Private Limited (BYJU’S) FVOCI — 578 — 578

f Udemy Inc. (Udemy) FVOCI — 207 — 207

h Oda Norway AS (Oda) FVOCI — 45 — 45

g Meituan FVOCI — 4 523 — 4 523

Other1, 2 FVOCI/FVPL 559 — — 559

559 5 411 — 5 970

Disposal/partial disposal of investments

b Wolt Enterprises OY (Wolt) FVOCI — (58) — (58)

c JD.com FVOCI (3 666) — — (3 666)

d Tencent Holdings Limited (Tencent) Associate (10 613) (103) — (10 716)

e Think & Learn Private Limited (BYJU’S) Associate — (578) — (578)

f Udemy Inc. (Udemy) Associate — (207) — (207)

h Oda Norway AS (Oda) Associate — (45) — (45)

Other1 (44) — — (44)

(14 323) (991) — (15 314)

Disposal of subsidiaries

i Avito Subsidiary (2 039) — (326) (2 365)

Other1 Subsidiary (14) (21) (14) (49)

(2 053) (21) (340) (2 414)

1 ‘Other’ includes various acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries, associates and other investments that are not individually material.
2 Includes the call options acquired for Delivery Hero shares prior to them being exercised.

Notes to the summary consolidated financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 March 2023

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 199198 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



16. Business combinations, other acquisitions and disposals continued
Additional investment in existing equity-accounted investments
a. During the current year the group acquired an additional investment in Delivery Hero between December 2022 and March 2023, 

which increased its shareholding by approximately 4% to 29.95%. The additional interest was acquired by the purchase of shares on 
the market for US$194m and the purchase of a call option to acquire additional shares which was exercised in March 2023.

Other investments
b. In June 2022, in exchange for the group’s entire interest in Wolt (a food and grocery-delivery marketplace), the group received shares 

in DoorDash to the value of US$58m. DoorDash is a predominantly US-focused food, grocery and retail delivery marketplace listed 
on the NYSE. The investment is not held for trading, therefore, the group accounts for this as an investment at fair value through other 
comprehensive income.

Disposal/Partial disposal of investments
c. In March 2022, the group received a special interim dividend from Tencent in the form of a distribution in specie of 131 873 028 

JD.com shares. The group completed the sale of the 131 873 028 JD.com shares in June 2022, for total proceeds of US$3.7bn. 
Accumulated fair value losses related to these shares of US$189m were reclassified from the valuation reserve to retained earnings 
within equity as a result of this disposal.

d. From June 2022 to the end of March 2023, the group sold approximately 3% of Tencent’s issued share capital. The group reduced its 
stake in Tencent from 29% to 26%, for total proceeds of US$10.7bn of which US$103m was receivable at 31 March 2023. The group 
recognised a gain on partial disposal of US$7.6bn, including a reclassification of accumulated foreign currency translation losses of 
US$155m. Proceeds from this disposal are used to fund the group’s share repurchase programme.

e. In September 2022, the group lost significant influence in BYJU’S as it no longer exerts significant influence over the financial and 
operating policies of the entity. The group recognised a gain on loss of significant influence of the associate of US$22m, including 
a reclassification of the accumulated foreign currency translation losses of US$55m. The group accounted for its 9.60% effective 
interest in BYJU’S at fair value through other comprehensive income. The fair value of the BYJU’S investment, subsequent to the loss 
of significant influence, is US$578m.

f. In September 2022, the group lost its board representation in Udemy. The group recognised a gain on loss of significant influence 
of the associate of US$77m. The group accounts for its 11.78% effective interest in Udemy at fair value through other comprehensive 
income. The fair value of the Udemy investment, subsequent to the loss of significant influence, is US$207m.

g. In November 2022, Tencent declared a special interim dividend in the form of a distribution in specie of 958 121 562 class B ordinary 
shares of Meituan to its shareholders on the basis of one (1) class B ordinary share of Meituan for every 10 shares held. As a result 
of this distribution the group obtained a 4% effective interest (257 460 450 class B ordinary shares) in Meituan. Meituan is a Chinese 
shopping platform for locally found consumer products and retail services including entertainment, dining, delivery, travel and other 
services. The investment is not held for trading; however, the group expects to sell the shares in due course. The group accounts for 
this as an investment at fair value through other comprehensive income.

The group recognised a dividend receivable up until the distribution date of 24 March 2023. The dividend in specie distribution of 
the investment in Meituan has reduced the investment in Tencent by US$4.5bn, representing the fair value of the investment on the 
distribution date.

h. In December 2022, the group lost its significant influence in Oda due to the loss of its board representation. The group recognised 
a loss of US$68m on loss of significant influence of the associate, including a reclassification of the accumulated foreign currency 
translation losses of US$14m. The group accounts for its 12.87% effective interest in Oda at fair value through other comprehensive 
income. The fair value of the Oda investment subsequent to the loss of significant influence is US$45m.

Disposal of subsidiaries
i. In October 2022, the group entered into an agreement to sell its shareholding in Avito to Kismet Capital Group (Kismet) for a 

total cash consideration of US$2.4bn. Kismet is a private investment group with a track record of investing in technology and 
telecommunications businesses in Russia. The group recognised a gain on disposal of the subsidiary of US$568m, including 
a reclassification of the accumulated foreign currency translation gain of US$202m.

17. Changes in non-controlling interest
The Prosus group represents a significant portion of Naspers’ NAV as it comprises the international ecommerce and internet assets, 
including the investment in Tencent. 

From June 2022, Prosus and Naspers began an open-ended share repurchase programme. Prosus repurchased 152 797 117 Prosus 
ordinary shares N and 4 152 285 Naspers N ordinary shares. Naspers repurchased 16 320 371 Naspers N ordinary shares and sold 
43 356 695 Prosus ordinary shares N. Following these transactions, and as a result of the cross-holding arrangement between Naspers 
and Prosus, the group’s economic interest in Prosus is 43.54% (2022: 42.29%). Accordingly, the 56.46% (2022: 57.71%) interest in Prosus 
held by free-float shareholders represents a significant non-controlling interest of the group.

The group’s sale and repurchase of Prosus ordinary shares N impacted the Prosus free-float economic interest in the group. The 
transactions were accounted for as equity transactions because the change in economic interest had no impact on the control structure 
of the group. The change in the Prosus free-float economic interest resulted in a US$6.6bn decrease in non-controlling interest and a 
US$741m decrease in the ‘Existing control business combination reserve’ in equity.

The Prosus group prepares its own consolidated financial results, which are reported to its shareholders in accordance with its listing 
obligations on Euronext Amsterdam. More information on Prosus’ results is available at https://www.prosus.com.

In August 2022, the group entered into an agreement through its subsidiary MIH Movile Holdings B.V. (Movile) to acquire the remaining 
33.3% stake in iFood Holdings B.V. (iFood) and IF-JE Holdings B.V., from non-controlling shareholder Just Eat Holding Limited (Just Eat) for 
€1.5bn in cash, plus a contingent consideration of up to a maximum of €300m at a future date. The transaction was approved by Just 
Eat shareholders in November 2022. This agreement represents a contractual obligation to acquire shares from non-controlling interest. 
The group recognised US$1.6bn in ‘Other current liabilities’ at inception of this agreement consisting of the cash and the fair value of the 
contingent consideration. The liability was raised from the ‘Existing control business combination reserve’ in equity prior to the transfer of 
the risks and rewards of ownership of these shares.

In November 2022, the shares were acquired from the non-controlling shareholders for the cash consideration of US$1.5bn resulting 
in part settlement of the liability raised. At 31 March 2023, the fair value of the contingent consideration to be settled at a future date 
amounted to US$88m. The group derecognised US$68m of non-controlling interest.

The summarised financial information contained below relates to subsidiaries of the group that are considered to have significant  
non-controlling interests:

Prosus N.V.

March
2023 

US$’m

March
2022 

US$’m

Summarised consolidated statement of financial position
Non-current assets 41 707 56 073
Current assets 23 371 15 265

Total assets 65 078 71 338

Non-current liabilities 16 048 16 402
Current liabilities 4 405 4 413

Total liabilities 20 453 20 815

Accumulated non-controlling interests 25 613 29 516
Summarised consolidated income statement
Revenue from continuing operations 5 765 5 220
Net profit for the year attributable to equity holders 10 112 18 733
Other comprehensive loss attributable to equity holders (3 542) (3 167)

Total comprehensive income attributable to equity holders 6 570 15 566

Total comprehensive loss attributable to non-controlling interests (98) (83)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (102) (134)
Dividends declared by subsidiaries 191 238
Summarised consolidated statement of cash flows
Cash flows utilised in operating activities (120) (605)
Cash flows generated from investing activities 12 643 4 392
Cash flows (utilised in)/generated from financing activities (12 451) 2 403

Notes to the summary consolidated financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 March 2023

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 201200 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



18. Financial instruments
The group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks such as market risk (including currency risk, fair value interest rate risk, cash 
flow interest rate risk and price risk), credit risk and liquidity risk.

The summary consolidated financial statements do not include all financial risk management information and disclosures required in the 
annual consolidated financial statements and should be read in conjunction with the group’s risk management information disclosed in note 
42 of the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023. There have been no material changes in the group’s credit, 
liquidity, market risks or key inputs used in measuring fair value since 31 March 2022.

The fair values of the group’s financial instruments that are measured at fair value at each financial year end presented, are categorised 
as follows:

Fair value measurements at 31 March 2023 using:

Carrying
value 

US$’m

Quoted
prices in

active
markets 

for
identical
assets or
liabilities

(level 1)
US$’m

Significant
other

observable
inputs

(level 2)
US$’m

Significant
unobservable

inputs
(level 3) 
US$’m

Assets
Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 7 329 6 044 — 1 285
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 34 4 — 30
Forward exchange contracts 5 — 5 —
Cash and cash equivalents1 447 — 447 —
Liabilities
Forward exchange contracts 2 — 2 —
Earn-out obligations 109 — — 109

1 Relates to short-term bank deposits which are money market funds held with major banking groups and high-quality institutions that have AAA money market fund credit 
ratings from internationally recognised ratings agencies. 

Fair value measurements at 31 March 2022 using:

Carrying
value 

US$’m

Quoted
prices in

active
markets 

for
identical
assets or
liabilities

(level 1)
US$’m

Significant
other

observable
inputs

(level 2)
US$’m

Significant
unobservable

inputs
(level 3) 
US$’m

Assets
Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 5 540 4 767 — 773
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 64 19 — 45
Cash and cash equivalents1 928 — 928 —
Forward exchange contracts 27 — 27 — 
Derivatives contained in lease agreements 11 — — 11
Cross-currency interest rate swap 2 — 2 — 
Liabilities
Forward exchange contracts 18 — 18 —
Derivatives contained in lease agreements 2 — — 2
Earn-out obligations 20 — — 20

1 Relates to short-term bank deposits which are money market investments held with major banking groups and high-quality institutions that have AAA money market fund 
credit ratings from internationally recognised ratings agencies. 

There was a transfer of US$nil (2022: US$4m) from level 2 to level 1 and a transfer of US$1m (2022: US$10m) from level 3 to level 1. 
There was another transfer of US$622m (2022: US$nil) to level 3 due to investments in associates that lost significant influence during the 
current year. There were no significant changes to the valuation techniques and inputs used in measuring fair value.

18. Financial instruments continued
Valuation techniques and key inputs used to measure significant level 2 and level 3 fair values
Level 2 fair value measurements
Forward exchange contracts – in measuring the fair value of forward exchange contracts, the group makes use of market observable 
quotes of forward foreign exchange rates on instruments that have a maturity similar to the maturity profile of the group’s forward 
exchange contracts. Key inputs used in measuring the fair value of forward exchange contracts include: current spot exchange rates, 
market forward exchange rates and the term of the group’s forward exchange contracts.

Cross-currency interest rate swap – the fair value of the group’s interest rate and cross-currency swaps is determined through the use of 
discounted cash flow techniques using only market observable information. Key inputs used in measuring the fair value of interest rate 
and cross-currency swaps include: spot market interest rates, contractually fixed interest rates, foreign exchange rates, counterparty credit 
spreads, notional amounts on which interest rate swaps are based, payment intervals, risk-free interest rates as well as the duration of 
the relevant interest rate and cross-currency swap arrangement.

Cash and cash equivalents – relate to short-term bank deposits which are money market funds held with major banking groups and high-
quality institutions that have AAA money market fund credit ratings from internationally recognised rating agencies. The fair value of these 
deposits is determined by the amounts deposited and the gains or losses generated by the funds as detailed in the statements provided 
by these institutions. The gains/losses are recognised in the income statement.

Financial assets at fair value – relate to a contractual right to receive shares or cash. The fair value is based on a listed share price on 
the date the transaction was entered into. 

Level 3 fair value measurements
Financial assets at fair value – relate predominantly to unlisted equity investments. The fair value of unlisted equity investments is based 
on the most recent funding transactions for these investments, a discounted cash flow calculation (DCF), or a weighted-income and 
market approach using a discounted cash flow calculation and market multiples. The unlisted equity investments based on a DCF or 
weighted-income and market approach relate to investments in the Edtech segment. The fair value of these unlisted equity investments 
is based on the following unobservable inputs:

Revenue growth rates and EBITDA margins
Revenue growth rates and EBITDA margins are based on past experience and management’s future expectations of business 
performance.

Long-term growth rate
The long-term growth rate is based on expectations for inflation in the regions in which the business operates – the data is sourced 
from publicly available information. The long-term growth rate is spread over a 10-year forecast period. The annual growth rate used for 
revenue and expenses over the 10-year forecast period ranged between 2% to 6%.

Discount rate
The discount rate used is a weighted average cost of capital. The weighted average cost of capital takes into account the cost of equity 
and cost of debt. The cost of equity is based on a risk-free rate adjusted for specific risks such as a country risk and equity risk premium. 
The cost of debt is based on the pre-tax cost of debt adjusted with a sovereign spread premium net of tax. Discount rates used ranged 
between 12% to 15%.

Terminal growth rate
The terminal growth rate considered the steady growth rates that would appropriately extrapolate cash flows beyond the forecast periods 
once the business segment has assumed to reach maturity. The terminal value assumes that free cash flow in the terminal period grows 
at the long-term growth rate and is then calculated using the Gordon Growth Model. Terminal growth rates used ranged between 
1% to 5%.

For our largest investment in the Edtech segment, a 1% increase in the discount rates would result in a decrease in the valuation of this 
investment by US$53m and a 1% decrease in the discount rates would result in an increase in the valuation of this investment by US$60m.

Derivatives contained in lease agreements – relate to foreign currency forwards embedded in lease contracts. The fair value of the 
derivatives is based on forward foreign exchange rates that have a maturity similar to the lease contracts and the contractually specified 
lease payments.

Earn-out obligations – relate to amounts that are payable to the former owners of businesses now controlled by the group, provided that 
contractually stipulated post-combination performance criteria are met. These are remeasured to fair value at the end of each reporting 
period. Key inputs used in measuring fair value include: current forecasts of the extent to which management believes performance 
criteria will be met, discount rates reflecting the time value of money and contractually specified earn-out payments.

Instruments not measured at fair value for which fair value is disclosed
Level 2 – the fair values of the publicly traded bonds have been determined with reference to the listed prices of the instruments at the 
reporting date. As the instruments are not actively traded, this is a level 2 disclosure.

Notes to the summary consolidated financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 March 2023

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 203202 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



18. Financial instruments continued
The following table shows a reconciliation of the group’s level 3 financial instruments:

31 March 2023

Financial 
assets at 

FVOCI1

US$’m

Financial
assets at

FVPL2

US$’m

Earn-out
obli-

gations
US$’m

Derivatives
embedded

in leases
US$’m

Balance at 1 April 2022 773 45 (20) 9
Additions 38 41 (96) —
Total (losses)/gains recognised in the income statement — (12) 7 —
Total losses recognised in other comprehensive income (80) — — —
Settlements/disposals (65) (35) — (9)
Transfers from investments in associates 622 — — —
Transfer to held for sale — (9) — —
Foreign currency translation effects (3) — — —

Balance at 31 March 2023 1 285 30 (109) —

31 March 2022

Financial 
assets at 

FVOCI1

US$’m

Financial
assets at

FVPL2

US$’m

Earn-out
obli-

gations
US$’m

Derivatives
embedded

in leases
US$’m

Balance at 1 April 2021 139 16 (13) 7
Additions 582 23 — —
Total gains/(losses) recognised in the income statement — 6 (9) 2
Total gains recognised in other comprehensive income 107 — — —
Settlements/disposals (46) — 1 —
Transfers (10) — — —
Foreign currency translation effects 1 — 1 —

Balance at 31 March 2022 773 45 (20) 9

1 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income.
2 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.

The carrying value of financial instruments are a reasonable approximation of their fair values, except for the publicly traded bonds 
detailed below:

31 March 2023 31 March 2022

Financial liabilities

Carrying
value 

US$’m

Fair
value 

US$’m

Carrying
value 

US$’m

Fair
value 

US$’m

Publicly traded bonds 15 377 12 009 15 492 13 056

The fair values of the publicly traded bonds have been determined with reference to the listed prices of the instruments as at the end of 
the reporting period. The fair values of the publicly traded bonds are level 2 financial instruments. The publicly traded bonds are listed 
on the Irish Stock Exchange (Euronext Dublin).

19. Related party transactions and balances
The group entered into various related party transactions in the ordinary course of business with a number of related parties, including 
equity-accounted investments. Transactions that are eliminated on consolidation as well as gains or losses eliminated through the 
application of the equity method are not included. The transactions and balances with related parties are summarised below:

Year ended 
31 March

2023
US$’m

2022
US$’m

Sale of goods and services to related parties1

Skillsoft Corp. 8 34
EMPG Holdings Limited — 12
Bom Negocio Atividades de Internet Ltda (OLX Brasil) 28 14
Various other related parties 2 —

38 60

1 The group receives revenue from a number of its related parties in connection with service agreements. The nature of these related party relationships are that of equity-
accounted investments.

The balances of advances, deposits, receivables and payables between the group and related parties are as follows:
Year ended 
31 March

2023
US$’m

2022
US$’m

Loans and receivables1

Bom Negocio Atividades de Internet Ltda (OLX Brasil)2 150 219
Inversiones CMR S.A.S. 1 21
GoodGuyz Investments B.V. 6 6
Silvergate Capital Corporation 2 4
Various other related parties 17 6
Less: Allowance for impairment of loans and receivables3 — —

Total related party receivables 176 256
Less: Non-current portion of related party receivables (143) (243)

Current portion of related party receivables 33 13

1 The group provides services and loan funding to a number of its related parties. The nature of these related party relationships is that of equity-accounted investments.
2 During the current year a portion of the loan was capitalised to the investment in joint venture. The loan is repayable by October 2035 and is interest-free until April 2022. 

Subsequently, interest is charged annually at SELIC+2%.
3 Impairment allowance for related parties is based on a 12-month expected credit loss model and was not material.

Purchases of goods and services from related parties amounted to US$3m (2022: US$2m) and amounts payable to related parties 
amounted to US$6m (2022: US$6m). These amounts are not considered significant and relate to various related parties, most of which 
are equity-accounted investments of the group.

20. Events after the reporting period
As part of the share repurchase programme announced in June 2022, Prosus acquired 27 741 167 Prosus ordinary shares N for 
US$2.02bn and Naspers acquired 5 480 549 Naspers N ordinary shares for US$940m between April and 22 June 2023. Furthermore, 
Naspers disposed of 10 591 976 Prosus ordinary shares N for US$766m between April and 22 June 2023. The group will account for 
this transaction in the same manner that it was accounted for in the year ended 31 March 2023.

The group sold 46 789 700 shares of Tencent Holdings Limited (Tencent) between April and 22 June 2023 yielding US$2.05bn in 
proceeds. An accurate estimate for the gain on disposal of these shares cannot be made until the corresponding equity-accounted results 
for the period have been finalised.

In June 2023, the group received the requisite approval from the South African Reserve Bank for a proposed transaction in terms of 
which the crossholding between Naspers and Prosus will be removed. The implementation of the proposed transaction will enable 
the continuation of the share repurchase programme at the Naspers level. The proposed transaction is also intended to remove 
the complexity created by the crossholding between Naspers and Prosus while keeping the Naspers and Prosus free-float effective 
economic interests the same as they were prior to its implementation. This will be achieved through aligning the legal ownership in 
Prosus with the current respective free-float effective economic interests. The implementation of the proposed transaction is subject to 
the requisite regulatory and Naspers and Prosus shareholder and final board approvals being obtained. 

Notes to the summary consolidated financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 March 2023

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 205204 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Other information to the summary  
consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2023

A. Non-IFRS financial measures and alternative performance measures
A.1 Core headline earnings

Core headline earnings, a non-IFRS performance measure, represent headline earnings for the period, excluding certain non-operating 
items. Specifically, headline earnings are adjusted for the following items to derive core headline earnings: (i) equity-settled share-based 
payment expenses on transactions where there is no cash cost to the group. These include those relating to share-based incentive 
awards settled by issuing treasury shares as well as certain share-based payment expenses that are deemed to arise on shareholder 
transactions; (ii) subsequent fair value remeasurement of cash-settled share-based incentive expenses; (iii) cash-settled share-based 
compensation expenses deemed to arise from shareholder transactions by virtue of employment; (iv) deferred taxation income 
recognised on the first-time recognition of deferred tax assets as this generally relates to multiple prior periods and distorts current 
period performance; (v) fair value adjustments on financial and unrealised currency translation differences, as these items obscure 
our underlying operating performance; (vi) once-off gains and losses (including acquisition-related costs) resulting from acquisitions 
and disposals of businesses as these items relate to changes in our composition and are not reflective of our underlying operating 
performance; and (vii) the amortisation of intangible assets recognised in business combinations and acquisitions. These adjustments 
are made to the earnings of businesses controlled by the group as well as our share of earnings of associates and joint ventures, to the 
extent that the information is available. 

Reconciliation of core headline earnings
Year ended 
31 March

2023
US$’m

2022
US$’m

Headline earnings from continuing operations (refer to note 6) 249 1 586
Adjusted for:
Equity-settled share-based payment expenses 629 777
Remeasurement of cash-settled share-based incentive expenses (130) 24
Tax adjustment 6 —
Amortisation of other intangible assets 290 363
Fair value adjustments and currency translation differences (37) (737)
Retention option expense 10 —
Transaction-related costs 39 25

Core headline earnings from continuing operations 1 056 2 038

Per share information for the year
Core headline earnings per ordinary share (US cents) 507 703
Diluted core headline earnings per ordinary share (US cents)1 427 622
Net number of ordinary shares issued (’000)
Weighted average for the year 208 404 289 777
Diluted weighted average 208 492 290 583

1 The diluted core headline earnings per share include a decrease of US$166.0m (2022: US$230.0m) relating to the future dilutive impact of potential ordinary shares 
issued by equity-accounted investees.

A. Non-IFRS financial measures and alternative performance measures continued
A.1 Core headline earnings continued

Reconciliation of core headline earnings continued
Year ended 
31 March

2023
US$’m

2022
US$’m

Headline earnings from discontinued operations (refer to note 6) — 35
Adjusted for:
Remeasurement of cash-settled share-based incentive expenses (17) (8)
Amortisation of other intangible assets 4 28
Fair value adjustments and currency translation differences 6 (6)
Retention option expense — (6)

Core headline earnings from discontinued operations (7) 43

Per share information for the year
Core headline earnings per ordinary share (US cents) (3) 15
Diluted core headline earnings per ordinary share (US cents)1 (3) 15
Net number of ordinary shares issued (’000)
Weighted average for the year 208 404 289 777
Diluted weighted average 208 492 290 583

1 The diluted core headline earnings per share include a decrease of nil (2022: nil) relating to the future dilutive impact of potential ordinary shares issued by equity-
accounted investees.

Equity-accounted results
The group’s equity-accounted investments contributed to the summary consolidated report as follows:

Year ended 
31 March

2023
US$’m

2022
US$’m

Share of equity-accounted results from continuing operations 5 176 9 255
Sale of assets 5 —
Gains on acquisitions and disposals (5 875) (6 269)
Impairment of investments 1 919 1 092

Contribution to headline earnings from continuing operations 1 225 4 078
Amortisation of other intangible assets 641 680
Equity-settled share-based payment expenses 1 440 1 512
Fair value adjustments and currency translation differences (75) (1 760)
Acquisition-related costs 62 42

Contribution to core headline earnings from continuing operations 3 293 4 552

Tencent 4 326 5 413
VK — (51)
Delivery Hero (374) (409)
Other (659) (401)

Attributable to:
Equity holders of the group 1 418 2 515
Non-controlling interest 1 875 2 037

The group applies an appropriate lag period of not more than three months in reporting the results of equity-accounted investments.

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 207206 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



A. Non-IFRS financial measures and alternative performance measures continued
A.2 Growth in local currency, excluding acquisitions and disposals 

The group applies certain adjustments to segmental revenue and trading profit reported in the summary consolidated financial 
statements to present the growth in such metrics in local currency and excluding the effects of changes in the composition of the group. 
Such underlying adjustments provide a view of the company’s underlying financial performance that management believes is more 
comparable between periods by removing the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates, hyperinflation adjustments and changes in 
the composition of the group on its results. Such adjustments are referred to herein as ‘growth in local currency, excluding acquisitions 
and disposals’. The group applies the following methodology in calculating growth in local currency, excluding acquisitions and disposals: 

 » Foreign exchange/constant currency adjustments have been calculated by adjusting the current period’s results to the prior period’s 
average foreign exchange rates, determined as the average of the monthly exchange rates for that period. The local currency financial 
information quoted is calculated as the constant currency results, arrived at using the methodology outlined above, compared to the 
prior period’s actual IFRS results. The relevant average exchange rates (relative to the US dollar) used for the group’s most significant 
functional currencies, were: 

Year ended 
31 March

Currency (1FC = US$) 2023 2022

South African rand (ZAR) 0.0583 0.0670
Euro (EUR) 1.0415 1.1586
Chinese yuan renminbi (RMB) 0.1453 0.1562
Brazilian real (BRL) 0.1943 0.1891
Indian rupee (INR) 0.0124 0.0134
Polish zloty (PLN) 0.2213 0.2525
British pound sterling (GBP) 1.2036 1.3620
Turkish lira (YTL) 0.0557 0.0927
Romanian lei (RON) 0.2114 0.2346
Hungarian forint (HUF) 0.0026 0.0032

 » Adjustments made for changes in the composition of the group relate to acquisitions, mergers and disposals of subsidiaries and 
equity-accounted investments, as well as to changes in the group’s shareholding in its equity-accounted investments. For acquisitions, 
adjustments are made to remove the revenue and trading profit/(loss) of the acquired entity from the current reporting period and, in 
subsequent reporting periods, to ensure that the current reporting period and the comparative reporting period contain revenue and 
trading profit/(loss) information relating to the same number of months. For mergers, adjustments are made to include a portion of 
the prior period’s revenue and trading profit/(loss) of the entity acquired as a result of a merger. For disposals, adjustments are made 
to remove the revenue and trading profit/(loss) of the disposed entity from the previous reporting period to the extent that there is no 
comparable revenue or trading profit/(loss) information in the current period and, in subsequent reporting periods, to ensure that the 
previous reporting period does not contain revenue and trading profit/(loss) information relating to the disposed business. 

A. Non-IFRS financial measures and alternative performance measures continued
A.2 Growth in local currency, excluding acquisitions and disposals continued

The following significant changes in the composition of the group during the respective reporting periods have been adjusted for in 
arriving at the pro forma financial information:

For the year ended 31 March 2023

Transaction
Basis of 
accounting

Reportable 
segment

Acquisition/
Disposal

Dilution of the group’s interest in Tencent Associate Social and internet 
platforms

Disposal

Loss of control of the group’s interest in VK Associate Social and internet 
platforms

Disposal

Disposal of the group’s interest in AasaanJobs Subsidiary Ecommerce Disposal

Dilution and subsequent step down of the group’s interest in Selency Subsidiary/ 
Associate

Ecommerce Disposal

Acquisition of the group’s interest in Oda Associate Ecommerce Acquisition

Acquisition of the group’s interest in Flink Associate Ecommerce Acquisition

Acquisition of the group’s interest in Flip Associate Ecommerce Acquisition

Acquisition of the group’s interest in Delivery Solutions Subsidiary Ecommerce Acquisition

Increase in the group’s interest in Delivery Hero Associate Ecommerce Acquisition

Acquisition of the group’s interest in Eruditus together with the impact of change in revenue recognition Associate Ecommerce Acquisition

Acquisition of the group’s interest in GoodHabitz Subsidiary Ecommerce Acquisition

Acquisition of the group’s interest in Platzi Associate Ecommerce Acquisition

Acquisition of the group’s interest in Stack Overflow Subsidiary Ecommerce Acquisition

Acquisition of the group’s interest in Skillsoft Associate Ecommerce Acquisition

Dilution of the group’s interest in Udemy together with the impact of change in revenue recognition Associate Ecommerce Disposal 

Increase in the group’s interest in ElasticRun together with the impact of change in revenue recognition Associate Ecommerce Acquisition

Increase in the group’s interest in Meesho Associate Ecommerce Acquisition

Increase in the group’s interest in DeHaat Associate Ecommerce Acquisition

Acquisition of the group’s interest in PharmEasy Associate Ecommerce Acquisition

Acquisition of the group’s interest in Aruna Associate Ecommerce Acquisition

Acquisition of the group’s interest in 99 Minutos Associate Ecommerce Acquisition

Acquisition of the group’s interest in Alwans Associate Ecommerce Acquisition

Acquisition of the group’s interest in Facily Associate Ecommerce Acquisition

Acquisition of the group’s interest in Captain Fresh Associate Ecommerce Acquisition

Acquisition of the group’s interest in Sangvhi Beauty Associate Ecommerce Acquisition

Acquisition of the group’s interest in Bux Associate Ecommerce Acquisition

Other information to the summary  
consolidated financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 March 2023

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 209208 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



A. Non-IFRS financial measures and alternative performance measures continued

A.2 Growth in local currency, excluding acquisitions and disposals continued
For the year ended 31 March 2023

Transaction
Basis of 
accounting

Reportable 
segment

Acquisition/
Disposal

Dilution of the group’s interest in Swiggy Associate Ecommerce Disposal

Dilution of the group’s interest in Remitly Associate Ecommerce Disposal

Dilution and lag period catch-up adjustment following the subsequent loss of significant influence of the 
group’s interest in BYJU’S

Associate Ecommerce Disposal/Acquisition

Disposal of the group’s interest in PlayKids Subsidiary Ecommerce Disposal

Disposal of the group’s interest in Codecademy Associate Ecommerce Disposal

Acquisition of the group’s interest in ShareBite Associate Ecommerce Acquisition

Acquisition of the group’s interest in A55 Associate Ecommerce Acquisition

Acquisition of the group’s interest in Frexco Associate Ecommerce Acquisition

Acquisition of the group’s interest in Anota Subsidiary Ecommerce Acquisition

Acquisition of the impact of the fair value adjustment on cash-settled schemes in Eruditus Associate Ecommerce Acquisition

Acquisition of the impact of the hyper-inflation adjustment in Classifieds Autos Subsidiary Ecommerce Foreign currency 
adjustment

The net adjustment made for all acquisitions and disposals on continuing operations that took place during the year ended 
31 March 2023 amounted to a negative adjustment of US$1 393m on revenue and a negative adjustment of US$482m on trading profit.

The adjustments to the amounts, reported in terms of IFRS, that have been made in arriving at the pro forma financial information are 
presented in the table below:

Year ended 31 March
2022 2023 2023 2023 2023 2023 2023 2023

A B C D E F2 G3 H4

IFRS 81

US$’m 

Group
composition

disposal
adjustment

US$’m

Group
composition
acquisition
adjustment

US$’m

Foreign 
currency

adjustment
US$’m

Local
currency

growth
US$’m

IFRS 81

US$’m

Local 
currency 

growth
% change

IFRS 8
% change

Continuing operations
Revenue
Ecommerce 9 005 (197) 449 (1 039) 2 536 10 754 29 19

Classifieds5, 6 1 324 (18) 1 (276) 544 1 575 42 19
Food Delivery 2 992 (58) 208 (238) 1 299 4 203 44 40
 Payments and Fintech 796 (6) 2 (144) 404 1 052 51 32
Edtech 425 (72) 135 (6) 63 545 18 28
Etail 3 086 (1) 21 (347) 2 2 761 — (11)
Other 382 (42) 82 (28) 224 618 66 62

Social and internet platforms 25 794 (1 638) — (1 649) (238) 22 269 (1) (14)
Tencent 25 261 (1 105) — (1 649) (238) 22 269 (1) (12)
VK7 533 (533) — — — — — (100)

Media 257 (7) — (32) (1) 217 — (16)
Corporate segment — — — — — — — —
Intersegmental — — — (1) (2) (3) <(100) <(100)

Economic interest from continuing operations 35 056 (1 842) 449 (2 721) 2 295 33 237 7 (5)

Discontinued operations5, 6 1 651 (279) 1 48 205 1 626 15 (2)

Group economic interest 36 707 (2 121) 450 (2 673) 2 500 34 863 7 (5)

1 Figures presented on an economic-interest basis as per the segmental review.
2  A + B + C + D + E. 
3 [E/(A + B)] x 100. 
4 [(F/A) – 1] x 100.
5 From 1 April 2022, following the separation from OLX Group, the CODM reviewed the financial results of Avito separately. Subsequent to the group’s decision to exit 

this Russian business, Avito was presented as a discontinued operation up until the date of disposal.
6 From 1 March 2023, following the group’s decision to exit the OLX Autos business unit, its operations classified as held for sale and those that have been closed by 

31 March 2023 were presented as a discontinued operation. The OLX Autos business unit is a separate major line of business both in terms of the distinct nature of 
the business and its contribution to the operational performance of the group.

7 During the year ended 31 March 2022, the group lost significant influence in VK and the group accounted for its investment at fair value through other comprehensive 
income. In November 2022, the group signed an agreement with VK to renounce all VK shares and shareholder rights for no consideration. 

A. Non-IFRS financial measures and alternative performance measures continued
A.2 Growth in local currency, excluding acquisitions and disposals continued

The adjustments to the amounts, reported in terms of IFRS, that have been made in arriving at the pro forma financial information are 
presented in the table below:

Year ended 31 March
2022 2023 2023 2023 2023 2023 2023 2023

A B C D E F2 G3 H4

IFRS 81

US$’m 

Group
composition

disposal
adjustment

US$’m

Group
composition
acquisition
adjustment

US$’m

Foreign 
currency

adjustment
US$’m

Local
currency

growth
US$’m

IFRS 81

US$’m

Local 
currency 

growth
% change

IFRS 8
% change

Continuing operations
Trading profit
Ecommerce (1 215) 41 (231) 52 (181) (1 534) (15) (26)

Classifieds5, 6 (70) (4) — (5) (77) (156) <(100) <(100)
Food Delivery (724) 23 (78) 48 82 (649) 12 10
 Payments and Fintech (60) — (2) (11) (43) (116) (72) (93)
Edtech (117) 16 (106) 4 (55) (258) (54) <(100)
Etail (42) — (5) 8 (46) (85) <(100) <(100)
Other (202) 6 (40) 8 (42) (270) (21) (34)

Social and internet platforms 6 319 (292) — (381) (561) 5 085 (9) (20)
Tencent 6 273 (246) — (381) (561) 5 085 (9) (19)
VK7 46 (46) — — — — — (100)

Media 17 — — (1) (9) 7 (53) (59)
Corporate segment (217) — — 7 — (210) — 3

Economic interest from continuing operations 4 904 (251) (231) (323) (751) 3 348 (16) (32)

Discontinued operations5, 6 95 (42) 24 40 (91) 26 <(100) (73)

Group economic interest 4 999 (293) (207) (283) (842) 3 374 (18) (33)

1 Figures presented on an economic-interest basis as per the segmental review.
2  A + B + C + D + E. 
3 [E/(A + B)] x 100. 
4 [(F/A) – 1] x 100.
5 From 1 April 2022, following the separation from OLX Group, the CODM reviewed the financial results of Avito separately. Subsequent to the group’s decision to exit 

this Russian business, Avito was presented as a discontinued operation up until the date of disposal.
6 From 1 March 2023, following the group’s decision to exit the OLX Autos business unit, its operations classified as held for sale and those that have been closed by 

31 March 2023 were presented as a discontinued operation. The OLX Autos business unit is a separate major line of business both in terms of the distinct nature of 
the business and its contribution to the operational performance of the group.

7 During the year ended 31 March 2022, the group lost significant influence in VK and the group accounted for its investment at fair value through other comprehensive 
income. In November 2022, the group signed an agreement with VK to renounce all VK shares and shareholder rights for no consideration. 

Other information to the summary  
consolidated financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 March 2023

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 211210 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Report on the assurance engagement on the 
compilation of pro forma financial information
 

Report on the Assurance Engagement on the Compilation of Pro Forma Financial Information 
included in the Naspers summary consolidated financial statements for the year ended 
31 March 2023

We have completed our assurance engagement to report on the compilation of the pro forma financial information of Naspers 
Limited (the “Company”) by the directors. The pro forma financial information, as set out in notes A.1 and A.2 of the Naspers 
summary consolidated financial statements, consists of Pro Forma information for the year ending 31 March 2023 in order to 
separately present a measure of Core headline earnings, a reconciliation between Headline earnings and Core headline 
earnings and the contribution of equity accounted investments to Core headline earnings (Core headline earnings measures) as 
at 31 March 2023 and to present the impact of foreign currency, excluding current period acquisitions and disposals, to reflect the 
constant currency with the prior period (Organic growth figures) on certain earnings measures as at 31 March 2023. The 
applicable criteria on the basis of which the directors have compiled the pro forma financial information are specified in the JSE 
Limited (JSE) Listings Requirements and described in notes A.1 and A.2 of the Naspers summary consolidated financial 
statements as at 31 March 2023.

The pro forma financial information has been compiled by the directors in order to separately present a measure of Core 
headline earnings, a reconciliation between Headline earnings and Core headline earnings and the contribution of equity 
accounted investments to Core headline earnings (Core headline earnings measures) as at 31 March 2023 and to present the 
impact of foreign currency, excluding current period acquisitions and disposals, to reflect the constant currency with the prior 
period (Organic growth figures) on certain earnings measures as at 31 March 2023. As part of this process, information about the 
Company’s financial performance has been extracted by the directors from the summary consolidated financial statements for 
the year ended 31 March 2023, on which an audit report has been published. 

Directors’ responsibility

The directors of the Company are responsible for compiling the pro forma financial information on the basis of the applicable 
criteria specified in the JSE Listings Requirements and described in notes A.1. and A.2 of the Naspers summary consolidated 
financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023. 

Our independence and quality management 

We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the Code of Professional Conduct for Registered 
Auditors, issued by the Independent Regulatory Board for Auditors’ (IRBA Code), which is founded on fundamental principles of 
integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour. The IRBA Code is 
consistent with the corresponding sections of the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants’ International Code of Ethics 
for Professional Accountants (including International Independence Standards).

The firm applies International Standard on Quality Management 1, Quality Management for Firms that Perform Audits or Reviews 
of Financial Statements, or Other Assurance or Related Services Engagements, which requires the firm to design, implement and 
operate a system of quality management, including policies or procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, 
professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. 

Reporting accountant’s responsibility

Our responsibility is to express an opinion about whether the pro forma financial information has been compiled, in all material 
respects, by the directors on the basis of the applicable criteria specified in the JSE Listings Requirements and described in 
notes A.1 and A.2 of the Naspers summary consolidated financial statements as at 31 March 2023 based on our 
procedures performed. 

We conducted our engagement in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3420, Assurance 
Engagements to Report on the Compilation of Pro Forma Financial Information Included in a Prospectus issued by the 
International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. This standard requires that we plan and perform our procedures to obtain 
reasonable assurance about whether the pro forma financial information has been compiled, in all material respects, on the 
basis specified in the JSE Listings Requirements. 

For purposes of this engagement, we are not responsible for updating or reissuing any reports or opinions on any historical 
financial information used in compiling the pro forma financial information, nor have we, in the course of this engagement, 
performed an audit or review of the financial information used in compiling the pro forma financial information. 

The purpose of pro forma financial information is solely to separately present a measure of Core headline earnings, a 
reconciliation between Headline earnings and Core headline earnings and the contribution of equity accounted investments to 
Core headline earnings (Core headline earnings measures) as at 31 March 2023 and to present the impact of foreign currency, 
excluding current period acquisitions and disposals, to reflect the constant currency with the prior period (Organic growth figures) 
on certain earnings measures as at 31 March 2023. Accordingly, we do not provide any assurance that the actual financial 
outcome of the event or transaction would have been as presented.

A reasonable assurance engagement to report on whether the pro forma financial information has been compiled, in all material 
respects, on the basis of the applicable criteria involves performing procedures to assess whether the applicable criteria used by 
the directors in the compilation of the pro forma financial information provide a reasonable basis for presenting the significant 
effects directly attributable to the event or transaction, and to obtain sufficient appropriate evidence about whether: 

 » The related pro forma adjustments give appropriate effect to those criteria; and 
 » The pro forma financial information reflects the proper application of those adjustments to the unadjusted financial information.

The procedures selected depend on our judgement, having regard to our understanding of the nature of the Company, the 
event or transaction in respect of which the pro forma financial information has been compiled, and other relevant 
engagement circumstances.

Our engagement also involves evaluating the overall presentation of the pro forma financial information.

We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Opinion

In our opinion, the pro forma financial information has been compiled, in all material respects, on the basis of the applicable 
criteria specified by the JSE Listings Requirements and described in notes A.1 and A.2 of the Naspers summary consolidated 
financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023.

PricewaterhouseCoopers Inc.  
Director: Vicki Myburgh 
Registered Auditor 
Johannesburg, South Africa 
26 June 2023

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 213212 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Romania
 »  Ecosystem of complementary businesses 
on top of vibrant eMAG Romania 
platform: From etail core, extended into 
fashion (Fashion Days); food delivery 
(Tazz); grocery (Freshful); and financial 
services (HeyBlu). Overarching Genius 
loyalty programme, underpinning 
Sameday delivery service. 

Naspers offers

   Population 

>20 million

2023 

   Unemployment rate 

5.5%
   GDP 

4.7%
   Inflation 

12%

2022 

Highlights
2021

Mobile subscriptions 

23 million*
Internet users 

78%*

 » ESG:

•  An easybox order generates up to 95% 
less CO

2
  than delivery to a customer’s 

home – over 50% of orders through 
easybox.

•  Promoting circular economy: Buy 
‘second-chance’ products, buyback 
voucher programme for used home 
appliances with free pick-up, repair 
service, sale of refurbished second-
hand mobile phones destined for 
landfill.

•  42 companies have signed eMAG’s 
environmental pledge (angajament 
pentru mediu) – the first initiative 
to unite the Romanian business 
community behind the common goal of 
limiting the rise in global temperatures.

* Estimated.

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 215214 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Administration and corporate information Analysis of shareholders and shareholders’ diary

Shareholders

Number of 
share-

holders
Number of 

shares

1 – 100 shares  59 956  1 617 708 

101 – 1 000 shares  16 081  4 829 919 

1 001 – 5 000 shares  2 568  5 646 139 

5 001 – 10 000 shares  546  3 866 021 

More than 10 000 shares  1 115  419 551 271 

Total  80 266  435 511 058 

Name

% of N 
ordinary 

shares

Number of 
N ordinary 

shares owned

Prosus N.V. 49.95% 217 552 704

Public Investment 
Corporation 7.60% 33 100 894

Naspers share price and volume of trades
4 000

3 500

3 000

2 500

2 000

1 500

1 000

500

0

Volume of trades● Share price in rand●

01
/0

4/
20

22

01
/0

5/
20

22

01
/0

6/
20

22

01
/0

7/
20

22

01
/0

8/
20

22

01
/0

9/
20

22

01
/1

0/
20

22

01
/1

1/
20

22

01
/1

2/
20

22

01
/0

1/
20

23

01
/0

2/
20

23

01
/0

3/
20

23

01
/0

4/
20

23

40 000 000

35 000 000

30 000 000

25 000 000

20 000 000

15 000 000

10 000 000

5 000 000

0

Public shareholder spread  
(N ordinary shares)

To the best knowledge of the directors, the spread of public 
shareholders under section 4.25 of the JSE Listings 
Requirements at 31 March 2023 was 44.18%, represented by 
80 254 shareholders holding 192 430 498 N ordinary shares 
in the company. The non-public shareholders of the company 
comprising 12 shareholders representing 243 080 560 N 
ordinary shares are analysed as follows:

Category

Number of 
N ordinary 

shares

% of N ordinary 
issued share 

capital

Naspers share-based
incentive schemes 1 576 746 0.36%

Directors 2 942 761 0.68%

Group companies 238 574 881 54.78%

Shareholders’ diary

Annual general meeting August

Reports
Interim for half-year to September November
Announcement of annual reports June
Annual financial statements June

Dividend
Declaration August
Payment December

Financial year-end March

Company secretary 
L Bagwandeen
Suite 15, Third Floor
Oxford & Glenhove
116 Oxford Road
Houghton Estate
Johannesburg 2196
South Africa
cosec@naspers.com

Registered office
40 Heerengracht
Cape Town 8001
South Africa
PO Box 2271
Cape Town 8000
South Africa
Tel: +27 (0)21 406 2121
Fax: +27 (0)21 406 3753
Website: www.naspers.com

Registration number
1925/001431/06
Incorporated in the Republic of South Africa
JSE share code: NPN ISIN: ZAE000015889

Independent auditor
PricewaterhouseCoopers Inc.

Transfer secretaries
JSE Investor Services Proprietary Limited
(Registration number: 2000/007239/07)
One Exchange Square
2 Gwen Lane
Sandown, Sandton 2196
PO Box 4844
Johannesburg 2000, South Africa
Tel: +27 (0)86 140 0110/+27 (0)11 713 0800

ADR programme
Bank of New York Mellon maintains a
GlobalBuyDIRECTSM plan for Naspers Limited
For additional information, please visit
Bank of New York Mellon’s website at
www.globalbuydirect.com or call Shareholder
Relations at 1-888-BNY-ADRS or
1-800-345-1612 or write to:
Bank of New York Mellon, Shareholder Relations
Department – GlobalBuyDIRECTSM
Church Street Station
PO Box 11258 
New York
NY 10286-1258
USA 

Sponsor
Investec Bank Limited
(Registration number: 1969/004763/06)
PO Box 785700
Sandton 2146
South Africa
Tel: +27 (0)11 286 7326/+27 (0)11 286 9986

Attorneys
Webber Wentzel (in alliance with Linklaters)
PO Box 61771
Marshalltown 2107
South Africa

Werksmans Inc.
PO Box 1474
Cape Town 8000
South Africa

Investor relations
Eoin Ryan
InvestorRelations@naspers.com
Tel: +1 347-210-4305

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 217216 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Glossary

Term/Acronym Description

ADR American Depository Receipt

Advanced 
persistent 
threats

An exercise where a prolonged and targeted cyber-attack is carried out to gain access to a network and 
remain undetected for an extended period of time to identify and remediate existing weaknesses.

Advisory and 
assurance 
projects

Projects taken by the cyber-resilience team to advise and provide internal assurance to portfolio 
companies to enhance cyber-resilience in the group.

AFM Netherlands Authority for the Financial Markets (Stichting Autoriteit Financiële Markten)

AGM Annual general meeting

Agtech Agriculture technology

AI Artificial intelligence

AI engineers An employee that focuses on developing the tools, systems, and processes that enable artificial 
intelligence to be applied in the real world.

AI model 
production

A process of implementing an AI model into software in the group. This is measured by the number of 
models placed into production in the group.

Alternative 
performance 
measures 
(APMs)

In presenting and discussing our performance, we use certain alternative performance measures not 
defined by IFRS, referred to as non-IFRS-EU financial measures, alternative performance measures or 
APMs. Such measures include economic-interest-basis information; trading profit; adjusted EBITDA; headline 
earnings; core headline earnings; and growth in local currency, excluding acquisitions and disposals. 
Segmental reviews in this report are prepared showing revenue on an economic-interest basis (which 
includes consolidated subsidiaries and a proportionate share of associated companies and joint ventures), 
unless otherwise stated.

Associate An entity over which we have significant influence, being the power to participate in the financial and 
operating policy decisions of the entity. Generally, an entity in which we have an interest of 20% to 50%.

Average 
monthly paying 
listers

A measure of the number of monthly users on a platform who yield one or more revenue-generating 
transactions, such as listing fees or advertising.

B2C Business-to-consumer (direct-to-consumer)

bn Billion

BNPL Buy-now/pay-later

BRICS Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa

BRL Brazilian real

C2C Consumer-to-consumer

CAGR Compound annual growth rate

Capex Capital expenditure

CEE Central and Eastern Europe

CEO Chief executive officer

CFO Chief financial officer

CODM Chief operating decision-maker

Core headline 
earnings

Core headline earnings represent headline earnings, excluding certain non-operating items. Specifically, 
headline earnings are adjusted for the following items to derive core headline earnings: (i) equity-settled 
share-based payment expenses on transactions where there is no cash cost to the group. These include 
those relating to share-based incentive awards settled by issuing treasury shares as well as certain 
share-based payment expenses that are deemed to arise on shareholder transactions; (ii) subsequent fair 
value remeasurement of cash-settled share-based incentive expenses; (iii) cash-settled share-based 
compensation expenses deemed to arise from shareholder transactions by virtue of employment; (iv) 
deferred taxation income recognised on the first-time recognition of deferred tax assets as this generally 
relates to multiple prior periods and distorts current-period performance; (v) fair value adjustments on 
financial instruments and unrealised currency translation differences, as these items obscure the group’s 
underlying operating performance; (vi) once-off gains and losses (including acquisition-related costs) 
resulting from acquisitions and disposals of businesses as these items relate to changes in the group’s 
composition and are not reflective of the group’s underlying operating performance; (vii) the amortisation 
of intangible assets recognised in business combinations and acquisitions; and (viii) the donations due to 
Covid-19, as these expenses are not considered operational in nature. These adjustments are made to the 
earnings of businesses controlled by the group as well as the group’s share of earnings of associates and 
joint ventures, to the extent that the information is available.

Term/Acronym Description

Corporate Corporate entities which have offices include the Netherlands, Unites States (Ventures), India, United 
Kingdom and Hong Kong offices, and corporate employees shall mean people employed at these offices 
who are employed by the corporate entities.

Covid-19 Coronavirus disease

CSRD Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (Europe)

Data privacy 
roles

Employees in the group who champion data privacy throughout the group.

Data scientist Employees who are responsible for collecting, analysing and interpreting data to help drive decision-
making in an organisation.

DAU Daily active users

Deep-tech Technology that is based on tangible engineering innovation or scientific advances and discoveries.

Dmart Small Delivery Hero-owned warehouse

D-RECs Renewable-energy credits (electronic records that verify the source of electricity used).

EBIT Earnings before interest and tax

EBITDA Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation

Adjusted 
EBITDA

Adjusted EBITDA represents operating profit/loss, as adjusted to exclude: (i) depreciation; (ii) amortisation; 
(iii) retention option expenses linked to business combinations; (iv) other losses/gains – net, which includes 
dividends received from investments, profits and losses on sale of assets, fair value adjustments of 
financial instruments, impairment losses, compensation received from third parties for property, plant and 
equipment impaired, lost or stolen, and gains or losses on settlement of liabilities; (v) cash-settled 
share-based compensation expenses deemed to arise from shareholder transactions by virtue of 
employment; and (vi) subsequent fair value remeasurement of cash-settled share-based compensation 
expenses, equity-settled share-based compensation expenses for group share option schemes as well as 
those deemed to arise on shareholder transactions (but not excluding share-based payment expenses for 
which the group has a cash cost on settlement with participants).

Ecommerce Electronic commerce

Economic 
interest

Investments in associated companies and joint ventures have been accounted for under the equity method 
for all periods, unless otherwise indicated. Associated companies are those companies over which we 
exercise significant influence, but which we do not control or jointly control. Joint ventures are 
arrangements in which we contractually share control over an activity with others and in which the parties 
have rights to the net assets of the arrangement. This approach is consistent with the application of the 
equity method of accounting required by IFRS-EU in the financial statements. References to ‘revenue from 
the group’ or ‘trading profit from the group’, as applicable, therefore exclude our share of revenue or 
trading profit from investments in associated companies and joint ventures. We have, however, also 
included certain information based on the proportionate consolidation of associated companies and joint 
ventures in that section, as indicated therein and as further explained below.
IFRS 8 Operating Segments aligns the reporting of operating segments with internal management 
reporting. As the CODM analyses segment results in accordance with the investments in associated 
companies and joint ventures on a proportionately consolidated basis for segmental reporting purposes, 
this method is also applied for segment reporting in the financial statements. Proportionate consolidation 
is a method of accounting whereby our share of each of the income and expenses of associated 
companies and joint ventures is combined line by line with similar items in our operating segments. We 
refer to revenue and trading profit measures that include its share of revenue or trading profit from 
investments in associated companies and joint ventures as ‘proportionately consolidated’ or on an 
‘economic-interest’ basis.

Edtech Marrying learning with technology, enabling new and exciting ways for more people to add to their skills 
and knowledge.

EMEA Europe, Middle East and Africa

Employee Persons employed by the group on a permanent or part-time basis, specifically excluding contract workers, 
as at 31 March 2023 determined in accordance with IFRS.

Employee 
engagement 
survey

The engagement survey responded to by corporate employees .

Energy 
consumption

The total amount of energy consumed for a given process and measured in kWh.

ESG Environmental, social and governance

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 219218 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Glossary continued

Term/Acronym Description

Ethics and 
compliance 
officers

Employees in the group with responsibility for ethics and compliance, in a dedicated ethics and 
compliance role or alongside other responsibilities.

EU European Union

EU AI-HLEG EU’s independent high-level expert group on artificial intelligence.

Fintech Financial technology is an economic industry that introduces new solutions demonstrating an incremental 
or radical/disruptive innovation development of applications, processes, products or business models in 
the financial services industry.

FLIGHT Funding and Learning Initiative for Girls in Higher Education and Skills Training (Prosus initiative)

FMCG Fast-moving consumer goods

Free cash flow Free cash flow represents cash generated from operations, plus dividends received, minus: (i) net capital 
expenditure; (ii) capital leases repaid (gross); and (iii) cash taxation paid. Free cash flow reflects an 
additional way of viewing our liquidity that the board believes is useful to investors because it represents 
cash flows that could be used for distribution of dividends, repayment of debt (including interest thereon) 
or to fund our strategic initiatives, including acquisitions, if any.

FY Financial year

GAAP Generally accepted accounting policies

GDP Gross domestic product

GDPR General Data Protection Regulation (Europe)

Generative AI 
(GenAI)

Systems that can generate new content – or manipulate existing content – based on text instructions.

GHG Greenhouse gas

GMV Gross merchandise value

GPO Global Payments Operations

GRI Formerly Global Reporting Initiative

Gross 
merchandise 
value (GMV)

A measure of the growth of a business determined by the total value of merchandise sold over a given 
time period through a consumer-to-consumer (C2C) or business-to-consumer (B2C) platform.

Group Naspers, Prosus and their subsidiaries.

Growth in 
local currency, 
excluding 
acquisitions and 
disposals

We apply certain adjustments to the segmental revenue and trading profit reported in the financial 
statements to present the growth in such metrics in local currency and excluding the effects of changes 
in our composition. Such underlying adjustments provide a view of our underlying financial performance 
that management believes is more comparable between periods by removing the impact of changes 
in foreign exchange rates and changes in our composition on our results. Such adjustments are referred 
to herein as ‘growth in local currency, excluding acquisitions and disposals’. We apply the following 
methodology in calculating growth in local currency, excluding acquisitions and disposals:

 » Foreign exchange/constant currency adjustments have been calculated by adjusting the current period’s 
results to the prior period’s average foreign exchange rates, determined as the average of the monthly 
exchange rates for that period. The local currency financial information quoted is calculated as the 
constant currency results, arrived at using the methodology outlined above, compared to the prior 
period’s actual IFRS-EU results.

 » Adjustments made for changes in our composition relate to acquisitions, mergers and disposals of 
subsidiaries and equity-accounted investments, as well as to changes in our shareholding in our 
equity-accounted investments. For acquisitions, adjustments are made to remove the revenue and 
trading profit/(loss) of the acquired entity from the current reporting period and, in subsequent reporting 
periods, to ensure that the current reporting period and the comparative reporting period contain 
revenue and trading profit/(loss) information relating to the same number of months. For mergers, 
adjustments are made to include a portion of the prior period’s revenue and trading profit/(loss) of the 
entity acquired as a result of a merger. For disposals, adjustments are made to remove the revenue 
and trading profit/(loss) of the disposed entity from the previous reporting period to the extent that 
there is no comparable revenue or trading profit/(loss) information in the current period and, in 
subsequent reporting periods, to ensure that the previous reporting period does not contain revenue 
and trading profit/(loss) information relating to the disposed business.

Term/Acronym Description

Headline 
earnings

Headline earnings represent net profit for the year attributable to the group’s equity holders, excluding certain 
defined separately identifiable remeasurements relating to, among others, impairments of tangible assets, 
intangible assets (including goodwill) and equity-accounted investments, gains and losses on acquisitions 
and disposals of investments as well as assets, dilution gains and losses on equity-accounted investments, 
remeasurement gains and losses on disposal groups classified as held for sale and remeasurements included 
in equity-accounted earnings, net of related taxes (both current and deferred) and the related non-controlling 
interests. These remeasurements are determined in accordance with Circular 1/2021, headline earnings, as 
issued by the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants, at the request of the JSE Limited in relation to 
the calculation of headline earnings and disclosure of a detailed reconciliation of headline earnings to the 
earnings numbers used in the calculation of basic earnings per share in accordance with the requirements of 
IAS 33 Earnings per Share, under the JSE Listings Requirements.

Headcount The number of employees, specifically excluding contract workers, in service as at 31 March 2023.

Healthtech Health technology involves the design, development, creation, use and maintenance of information 
systems and the internet for the healthcare industry. Automated and interoperable healthcare information 
systems are expected to lower costs, improve efficiency and reduce error while providing better consumer 
care and service.

HEPS Headline earnings per share

HR Human resources

IAPP International Association of Privacy Professionals

IAS International Accounting Standards

IASB International Accounting Standards Board

IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards

IIRC International Integrated Reporting Council

IMF International Monetary Fund

Internal rate of 
return (IRR)

IRR is presented in this report for illustrative purposes only and is calculated based on the estimated 
valuations of our internet investments. The estimated valuations are calculated as of 31 March 2022 using 
a combination of: (i) prevailing share prices for stakes in listed assets; (ii) valuation estimates derived from 
the average of sell-side analysts currently covering Naspers for stakes in unlisted assets; and (iii) post-
money valuations on transactions of these assets or from similar recent transactions for stakes in unlisted 
assets where analyst consensus is not available. In respect of (ii) above, we do not endorse, and did not 
participate in, or provide any information for purposes of the preparation of the market valuations 
calculated by third-party analysts. These valuation estimates have not been confirmed by an independent 
third-party expert, such as an accounting firm or an investment bank. Accordingly, these valuation 
estimates may not reflect past, present or future fair values, or any potentially achievable fair value in the 
future and no reliance can be placed on these valuation estimates.

Investment or 
investee

An entity over which we don’t have significant influence, being the power to participate in the financial 
and operating policy decisions of the entity. Generally an entity in which we have an interest of less than 
20%.

IP Intellectual property

IPO Initial public offering

IR Investor relations

IRR Internal rate of return

ISE Irish Stock Exchange

ISP Internet service provider

JSE JSE Limited (Johannesburg stock exchange)

JV Joint venture

K–12 Kindergarten to grade 12

KPI Key performance indicator

kWh Kilowatt per hour

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 221220 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Glossary continued

Term/Acronym Description

LatAm Latin America

LGPD General Personal Data Protection Law (Brazil)

LIFE Leadership in the food-delivery ecosystem

LTI Long-term incentive

m Million

M&A Mergers and acquisitions

MAU Monthly active users

MCSI index Morgan Stanley Capital International index

MENA Middle East and North Africa region

MIH B.V. Myriad International Holdings B.V.

ML Machine learning

Monthly active 
learners

Total number of employees who participated in a learning module on MyAcademy.

MyAcademy MyAcademy is the learning platform offered to employees.

N Naira – Nigerian currency

NASDAQ American stock market

Naspers Naspers Limited

Naspers AI 
community

The community of persons interested in and exploring AI in the portfolio companies.

NGO Non-governmental organisation

NPS Net promoter score

OECD Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (Brazil)

Omnichannel A cross-channel content strategy that organisations use to improve their user experience.

Opex Operating expenditure

OTT Over-the-top

1p First party – in the context of food delivery, a capital-intensive own-delivery model.

3p Third party – in the context of food delivery, a capital-light marketplace model where meals are delivered 
by restaurants.

P2P Peer-to-peer

Pentests A simulated cyber-attack against systems used in the portfolio companies to check for exploitable 
vulnerabilities.

PLN Polish zloty

PlusOne A digital assistant chatbot that runs in the groupwide Slack channels.

POPIA Protection of Personal Information Act (South Africa)

Portfolio 
companies

Subsidiaries, excluding corporate.

Prosus Prosus N.V.

Prosus FLIGHT Funding and Learning Initiative for Girls in Higher Education and Skills Training

PSP Payment service provider

PwC PricewaterhouseCoopers Inc.

Term/Acronym Description

RCF Revolving credit facility

Red team 
exercises

An exercise, reflecting real-world conditions, to compromise organisational missions and/or business 
processes to provide an assessment of the security capability of the system used by the portfolio 
company.

RMB Chinese renminbi

ROI Return on investment

RSU Restricted stock unit

RUB Russian rouble

R (or ZAR) South African rand

SA South Africa

SaaS Software as a Service

SAR(s) Share appreciation right(s)

SASB Sustainability Accounting Standards Board

SAST South African standard time

SBTi Science-based Targets initiative

Scope 1 
emissions

Scope 1 emissions are direct GHG emissions that arise from sources which organisations own or control. 
In order to determine control, the group will recognise emissions from owned and controlled assets as 
direct emissions.

Scope 2 
emissions

Scope 2 emissions are indirect GHG emissions that organisations report from the generation of purchased 
electricity that is consumed for operations owned or controlled. The group will account for electricity 
purchased for both owned and rented buildings under scope 2.

Scope 3 
emissions

Category 1
This category includes all upstream emissions from production of products purchased or acquired by the 
reporting company in the reporting year. Products include both goods (tangible products) and services 
(intangible products).

Category 6
This category includes GHG emissions from the transportation of employees for business-related activities
through air travel. Business travel includes only corporate office data and excludes all subsidiaries.

SDG United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goal

SICA Prosus Social Impact Challenge for Accessibility

SME Small and medium-sized enterprise

SMME(s) Small, medium and macroenterprise(s)

SO(s) Share option(s)

Speak up policy Policy that encourages and provides channels for individuals to report actual, or potential, breaches of the 
code of ethics, and other group policies or laws and regulations.

STI Short-term incentive

Subsidiary An entity that we control evidenced by:
1. owning more than one half of the voting rights;
2. the right to govern the financial and operating policies of the entity under a statute or an agreement;
3. the right to appoint or remove the majority of the members of the board of directors; or
4. the right to cast the majority of votes at a meeting of the board of directors.

Supply chain The network of all the individuals, organisations, resources, activities and technology involved in the 
creation and sale of products and services.

NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023 223222 NASPERS

Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion



Glossary continued

Term/Acronym Description

TAM Total addressable market

TCFD Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures

tCO
2
e Tonnes of CO

2
 equivalent

Total payments 
in value

A measure of payments, net of payment reversals, successfully completed through a payments platform 
(PayU), excluding transactions processed through gateway products (ie those that link a merchant’s 
website to its processing network and enable merchants to accept credit or debit card online payments).

TPV Total payment value

Trading 
profit/ loss

Trading profit/loss represents operating profit/loss, as adjusted to exclude: (i) amortisation of intangible 
assets recognised in business combinations and acquisitions, as these expenses are not considered 
operational in nature; (ii) retention option expenses linked to business combinations; (iii) other losses/gains 
— net, which includes dividends received from investments, profits and losses on sale of assets, fair value 
adjustments of financial instruments, impairment losses, compensation received from third parties for 
property, plant and equipment impaired, lost or stolen, and gains or losses on settlement of liabilities; 
(iv) cash-settled share-based compensation expenses deemed to arise from shareholder transactions by
virtue of employment; and (v) subsequent fair value remeasurement of cash-settled share-based
compensation expenses, equity-settled share-based compensation expenses for group share option
schemes as well as those deemed to arise on shareholder transactions (but not excluding share-based
payment expenses for which the group has a cash cost on settlement with participants).

TSR Total shareholder return

UAE United Arab Emirates

UK United Kingdom

UN United Nations

UNEP United Nations Environment Programme

Unicorns Start-up companies rapidly reaching a valuation of US$1bn.

US United States of America

US$ US dollar

US$c US dollar cent

VAS Value-added services

VC Venture capital

WHO World Health Organization

YoY Year on year

ZAR (or R) South African rand

224 NASPERS
Integrated annual report 2023

G
roup

 overview
Perform

a
nce review

Susta
ina

b
ility review

G
overna

nce
Fina

ncia
l sta

tem
ents

O
ther inform

a
tion