Annual Report 
2022

CHANGE RUNS ON 
RENEWABLES

This pdf report has been published voluntarily and is not an xHTML document compliant with ESEF (European Single Electronic Format) regulation.



2

2022 in brief   3

CEO’s review   4

Strategy    7

Innovation   10

Our businesses   12

Key events 2022   17

Key figures 2022 and financial targets   20

Information for investors   22

Sustainability   24

Sustainability highlights    25 

Sustainability at Neste    26

 Material sustainability topics    29

 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)    31 

 Material sustainability KPIs    35   

 Stakeholder engagement    40 

 Value creation    47 

 Sustainability governance     48

 Compliance    50

 Our people    51

 Safety    55 

Content
Climate    58

 Our climate commitments   58 

 Carbon handprint    61 

 Carbon footprint    66

Biodiversity    74

 Building a foundation for our biodiversity work    76

 Environmental monitoring    81

Human Rights    81

 Embedding human rights due diligence    82

Supply chain and raw materials    86 

 Supply chain    87

 Renewable raw materials    91

 Recycled raw materials    95

 Future raw materials    96

Performance and reporting    98

 Performance in figures    100

 GRI Content Index and UN Global Compact    104

 TCFD Index    111

 SASB Index    112

 UNGP Reporting Framework Index    114

 Principles for calculating the key indicators    115

 Independent Assurance Report    117

Governance   119

Corporate Governance Statement   120

Risk management   136

Remuneration report   140

Review by the Board of Directors   147

Review by the Board of Directors   148

Key figures   172

Calculation of key figures   174

Financial statements   177

Consolidated financial statements   178

Parent company financial statements   240

Proposal for the distribution of earnings and 
signing of the Review by the Board of Directors 
and the Financial Statements   257

Auditor’s Report   258



3

Revenue 

25,707 MEUR
 
Comparable EBITDA

3,537 MEUR 
 
Our maximum total dividend 
proposal for 2023
per share 

1.52 EUR
 
Comparable return on average 
capital employed 
after tax (ROACE) 

30.1% 
 
Leverage ratio 

13.9%

Neste creates solutions for combating climate change 
and accelerating a shift to a circular economy. We refine 
waste, residues and innovative raw materials into renew-
able fuels and more sustainable feedstock for polymers 
and chemicals.

The world has seen a volatile business environment 
throughout 2022. Neste’s strategy reflects an under-
standing and mindset that we can be in charge of the 
changes to serve our purpose: to create a healthier 
planet for our children.

   Read more about key events in 2022 on page 17
   and sustainability highlights on page 25.

   Watch this video to discover 
   the highlights of the year.

Investments 

2,218 MEUR
 
Our renewable products 
helped reduce greenhouse 
gas emissions

11.1 Mt CO2e
 
The share of waste and residues 
of Neste’s total renewable raw 
material inputs globally 

95%
 
Safe days 

314
 
Average number 
of personnel 

5,244

in brief

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Year 2022 in brief

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rTyRba-cBBg&list=PLO06R1n8VjHWab6N4VWcFWRKvuGJVsqci


4

The geopolitical and macroeconomic events that 
occurred in 2022 created challenges for many people, 
businesses and communities around the world. In a 
turbulent environment, we at Neste have continued to 
work diligently on our renewables growth strategy and 
transformation, creating solutions that aim at combat-
ing climate change to build a better future. In the pro-
cess, Neste’s people have demonstrated resilience, 
once again proving their ability to adapt to changes in 
the environment as well as to navigate volatile market 
dynamics. Thanks to this resilience, the year brought 
many significant advances for Neste. We celebrated a 
number of accomplishments, including new partner-
ships and acquisitions, the widening of our feedstock 
sourcing platform and good progress in the execution 
of our strategic initiatives.

Progress in investments and 
acquisitions
Growing in renewable and circular solutions is the 
core element of our strategy. In 2022, we continued 
to grow our production capacity and to strengthen 
and expand our renewable feedstock supply. We exe-
cuted on three landmark initiatives that will see our 
global renewables production capacity – 3.3 million 
tons annually in 2022 – more than double by the end 
of 2026. 

Taking charge of change 
Our joint operation with Marathon Petroleum for 

the production of renewable diesel in Martinez, Cal-
ifornia was closed in 2022 and is set to commence 
operations in early 2023. The joint operation, Martinez 
Renewables, will boost Neste’s renewable products 
capacity by over 1 million tons annually after a phased  
startup during 2023. 

The expansion of Neste’s Singapore refinery, mean-
while, is on track to begin commercial operations in 
2023. The expansion, which is the result of a EUR 
1.65 billion investment, will also add more than 1 mil-
lion tons per annum to Neste’s global renewables pro-
duction capacity.

An additional investment decision was finalized in 
2022 for the expansion of Neste’s renewable refin-
ery in Rotterdam. The approximately EUR 1.9 billion 
investment will see the refinery’s capacity increase by 
1.3 million tons annually and growing its total produc-
tion capacity to 2.7 million tons per year, of which 1.2 
million tons can be produced as  sustainable aviation 
fuel (SAF). 

Neste Annual Report 2022 | CEO’s review



5

We developed new partnerships to add new volumes 
of oil and fat wastes and residues supply, supported also 
through inorganic growth transactions. The acquisitions 
included Walco Foods, a leading animal fat and by-prod-
ucts trading company in Ireland, and a US-based used 
cooking oil (UCO) collection and aggregation business 
acquired from Crimson Renewable Energy Holdings. 

With great excitement, Neste also launched a strate-
gic study in 2022 regarding the long-term transition of 
our Porvoo refinery to a leading renewable and circular 
solutions site, with the ultimate target of replacing fully 
crude oil with renewable feedstocks.

All of these investments and transactions significantly 
strengthen Neste’s position as a global leader in renew-
able and circular solutions, helping to ensure future com-
petitiveness and execution of the company’s growth 
strategy. 

Growth in new and  
existing partnerships
We continued to develop new partnerships in our Renew-
able Road Transportation business. Since January 2022, 
Neste MY Renewable Diesel has been used by Coca-
Cola Europacific Partners Netherlands on up to 50,000 
transport routes. We also partnered with Bosch, which 
has committed to using Neste MY Renewable Diesel 
on internal logistics routes between German produc-
tion plants in the company’s Powertrain Solutions divi-
sion. Neste and Rolls-Royce Power Systems agreed to 
embark on a strategic partnership to promote the use of 
renewable diesel, and Neste signed an additional part-
nership contract with MAN and Altens to promote biofu-
els in France. 

In the Renewable Polymers and Chemicals busi-
ness, we also announced several important partner-
ships. These included a collaboration with coffee-maker 

Tchibo and its partner Berry Global to provide Neste 
RE, a renewable feedstock for chemicals and polymers, 
for Tchibo’s Qbo line of products. A similar partnership 
involving Neste, MAM Baby and Borealis brought a new 
infant pacifier to market, made with renewably sourced 
feedstock. Forming partnerships like these with brand 
owners who share our agenda of creating more sus-
tainable solutions remains a foundational element of our 
strategy. 

Neste also celebrated numerous key accomplish-
ments in the aviation business during 2022, announcing 
several concurrent partnerships and making substan-
tial inroads into the supply networks of major airports. 
These include:

• A purchase agreement with Air France-KLM 
Group to supply more than 1,000,000 tons of SAF 
beginning in 2023 – the largest such agreement so 
far in the aviation industry;

• A collaboration with ITOCHU and Fuji Oil Company 
on a project to demonstrate local blending of SAF in 
Japan;

• A delivery of SAF to Los Angeles International Airport 
(LAX) in cooperation with LAXFUEL;

• A partnership with CIM, part of NOVEN Group 
in France, to enable the supply of Neste MY 
Sustainable Aviation Fuel in France; and

• A partnership between Neste and Airbus to drive 
the development and uptake of SAF, stimulating 
the creation of a commercially viable market for 
renewable aviation fuels.

We continue to work tirelessly on ramping up produc-
tion of Neste MY Sustainable Aviation Fuel because we 
firmly believe that renewable fuels are one of the most 
important near-term decarbonization solutions for the 
aviation industry. 

Neste Annual Report 2022 | CEO’s review



6

Safety and values  
at the core of our culture
As we do every year, in 2022 we focused on safety, which 
requires constant focus and improvements. We want to 
lead the way in creating a more sustainable future, and 
we can only do that if we put the safety of our peo-
ple first. Simultaneously, we worked on maturing busi-
ness processes and further driving their digitalization to 
enhance efficiency. 

Reflecting on the year’s activities and accomplish-
ments, it is clear to see how commitment to our val-
ues – we care, we have courage, and we cooperate – 
has supported our transformation towards a truly global 
company. Our investments and partnerships represent 
bold optimism for the future of both Neste and the world, 
as they seek to identify and capitalize on opportunities to 
drive business in more innovative and sustainable ways. 

Sustainability guides our path forward
Our sustainability vision continues to guide us on our 
journey of growth and transformation. We are leading 
the transformation towards a carbon neutral value chain, 
and we have set ourselves aspirational targets for bio-
diversity, human rights and our supply chain and raw 
materials. 

Reaching carbon neutral production by 2035 (scope 
1 & 2) and reducing our customers’ GHG emissions 
by at least 20 million tons CO2e annually by 2030 are 
among our ambitious goals. We have concrete tar-
gets to reducing the use phase emission intensity of 
sold products and work with our suppliers and partners 
to reduce the indirect GHG emissions from our entire 
value chain (scope 3) and are aiming for a carbon neu-
tral and nature positive value chain by 2040. Thanks to 
a continued focus on cooperation and innovation, we 
remained on track to reach these targets during 2022. 

We are extremely proud to have been recognized in 
2022 for the 16th consecutive year as a global sustain-
ability leader in both the Dow Jones Sustainability World 
and Europe Indices, while in the beginning of 2023, Cor-
porate Knights Global 100 Index named Neste the 29th 
most sustainable company in the world, and first among 
industry peers. Our climate actions achieved Leadership 
level recognition for the sixth consecutive year by the 
CDP and were recognized by the CDP’s Forests and 
Water Security assessments. 

I would like to thank our employees and partners for 
their dedication to our goal of becoming a global leader 
in renewable and circular solutions. As we celebrate the 
momentous achievements of 2022, we look forward to 
the years to come. In 2023, we celebrate Neste’s 75th 
anniversary and a great story of successful transforma-
tion. I am confident that Neste will continue to serve its 
stakeholders passionately while working towards its pur-
pose to create a healthier planet for our children. 

Neste Annual Report 2022 | CEO’s review

We celebrated a number of 
significant accomplishments, 

including new partnerships 
and acquisitions.



7

Strategy   8

Innovation  10

Our businesses 12

Key events 2022 17

Key figures 2022 and financial targets 20

Information for investors  22

Our growth and 
transformation are 
rooted in innovation 
and technology.

Strategy

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Strategy



8

We are continuing our growth and 
transformation as the world’s leading 
producer of sustainable aviation fuel and 
renewable diesel and a forerunner as a 
producer of more sustainable raw material 
solutions for the polymers and chemicals 
industry. Our aim is to be a global leader  
in renewable and circular solutions.  
Our strategy and four core themes  
define our focus in the rapidly  
changing business environment. 

Strategy 

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Strategy



9Neste Annual Report 2022 | Strategy

We help our customers improve their sustainability. To 
achieve this, we are developing and providing solu-
tions to combat climate change and accelerate circular 
economy. 

We are seeing increasing demand for renewable and 
circular solutions, with a strong long-term demand out-
look both from businesses and consumers in different 
market segments. With our strategy, we are responding 
and adapting to the volatile business environment and 
increasing competition.

Neste’s strategy reflects an understanding and mind-
set that we can be in charge of these changes to serve 
our purpose: to create a healthier planet for our children. 
Our strategy is built around four core themes: 
• Grow renewable and circular solutions;
• Create new markets to drive long-term growth;
• Drive sustainable differentiation and value creation; 

and
• Strengthening the foundation. 

With our strategy, values-led culture and talented employ-
ees, we will not only navigate through the changes but 
lead the way. 

Grow renewable  
and circular solutions
We continue to serve existing and new custom-
ers in the road transport, aviation and polymers 
and chemicals markets on our journey to create 
a healthier planet for our children. We will further 
grow our production capacity and continue to pro-
actively develop and pilot new sustainable solu-
tions. We will strengthen and expand our renew-
able and recycled raw material supply.

Create new markets  
to drive long-term growth
We innovate and commercialize new scalable 
renewable and circular solutions for the next 
phases of growth. We tap into new raw material 
sources and open up new avenues of growth for 
Neste. We continue having a strong presence in 
our key markets globally, while creating opportu-
nities also in new markets, to serve our customers. 

Drive differentiation 
and value creation
We continue to drive differentiation by develop-
ing our ability to source and process a wide vari-
ety of raw materials. We will develop next-gener-
ation technologies and solutions according to our 
vision of leading the way towards a sustainable 
future together. We will also develop our custom-
er-facing activities for creating superior value for 
our customers. 

Strengthen our foundation
We will further drive long-term competitiveness 
by ensuring scalability of our processes and effi-
ciency of our operations. We will intensify efforts 
to ensure consistently safe operations, and we 
will drive our digital capabilities. We continue 
to ensure high standards in sustainability and 
strive towards our sustainability vision. Safety 
remains at the heart of our operations – every 
day, everywhere.

Our growth strategy drives 
value for our customers, 

shareholders and the planet.
Core themes of Neste strategy



10Neste Annual Report 2022 | Innovation

Our core approach is to convert low quality raw materials into 
high-quality solutions. We are continuously working towards increas-
ing the availability of renewable and recycled raw materials, while 
also developing technologies to diversify our current raw material 
portfolio. Our long-term business development and innovation take 
place on several fronts: 

• Lignocellulose – Forestry and agricultural waste and residues;
• Algae – Cultivation of carbon dioxide absorbing microalgae;
• Municipal solid waste – Various fractions of municipal  

solid waste that currently cannot be or are not recycled;
• Renewable hydrogen – Renewable (green) hydrogen  

from electrolysis, which reduces refinery GHG emissions; and
• Power-to-X – PtX technology combines renewable  

electricity and captured carbon dioxide to produce  
sustainable fuels and materials.

Innovation is in Neste’s DNA. Innovation has enabled our 
transformation towards global leadership in renewable 
and circular solutions, and it is the driving force of our 
strategy to ensure the future success of Neste.

Innovation



11

We are targeting industrial-scale operations in at least 
one platform by 2030. These globally scalable raw mate-
rial pools, together with related technologies, will play an 
important role in further reducing dependence on crude 
oil and tackling climate change. Read more about future 
raw materials.

In addition to exploring new growth opportunities, we 
constantly develop, test and analyze our existing renew-
able and circular solutions. Approximately 25% of our per-
sonnel work with topics related to innovation, research, 
product development and engineering. We have ded-
icated teams exploring and developing our Innovation 
business platforms towards commercialization.

We invest the majority of our annual R&D expendi-
ture in innovation, research and development, and test-
ing raw materials and the technologies that could enable 
their use. In 2022, our R&D expenditure was EUR 85 
million.

Strengthening innovation 
to create new business 
We are focusing on scalable, sustainable raw materials 
and required technologies for their conversion to fuels, 
polymers and chemicals. Our twofold aim is to ensure 
the growth of our current businesses and to build new 
growth platforms for renewable and circular solutions. 

To further strengthen our R&D and innovation capabil-
ities globally, we established an Innovation Center in Sin-
gapore. Operational since early 2023, the center drives 
collaboration with partners in the Asia-Pacific region, 
especially in Singapore. Neste’s Technology Center in 
Porvoo, Finland continues to serve as an R&D facility 
focusing both on existing and future raw materials. 

Our engineering arm, Engineering Solutions plays a 
key role in enabling Neste’s strategy implementation by 
participating in research and development programs 
with technology development, modeling and simulation, 
and scaling up process engineering expertise. Through 
the merger in 2022, all Engineering Solutions personnel 
in Finland transferred to the Neste Corporation. 

Demonstrating renewable hydrogen production at 
our Rotterdam refinery in the Netherlands within the 

MultiPLHY project is one of the initiatives enabling us 
to further drive the development of new sustainable 
technologies. Another renewable hydrogen project of 
the company, SHARC, focuses on investing in produc-
tion capacity of renewable hydrogen and reducing GHG 
emissions from hydrogen production at the Porvoo refin-
ery in Finland. 

In July 2022, Neste became the first Finnish company 
to receive IPCEI (Important Project of Common Euro-
pean Interest) status from the European Commission for 
its hydrogen projects. In December 2022, Business Fin-
land awarded Neste EUR 27.7 million of public fund-
ing for its renewable hydrogen projects at the Porvoo 
refinery.

We also received a positive grant decision from the EU 
Innovation Fund for the company’s project to build chem-
ical recycling capacities at the Porvoo refinery in Finland 
within project PULSE (Pretreatment and Upgrading of 
Liquefied waste plastic to Scale up circular Economy).

Extensive collaboration network
Innovation requires partnering and cooperation. Neste is 
already collaborating with a network of 25 leading univer-
sities and research institutes and we continue to expand 
and intensify our cooperation with them. We work with 
technology companies, startups and value chain part-
ners to introduce innovations in renewable and circu-
lar solutions to global-scale businesses. We have also 
established corporate venture activities to invest in tech-
nology startups.

In 2022, Neste made an equity investment into Neth-
erlands-based Circularise, a supply chain traceability 
and transparency startup. We also continued to collabo-
rate with technology companies we have made minority 
investments in: technology company Alterra Energy 
related to developing chemical recycling, as well as Sun-
fire GmbH related to renewable hydrogen demonstra-
tion (project MultiPLHY).

In Neste Veturi program, we aim to develop sustainable, 
globally scalable raw materials and technology solutions 
for transportation, and the production of chemicals and 
polymers. The Veturi ecosystem gathers over 90 Finnish 
companies, startups, universities and research institutes 
to jointly build the future capabilities needed to establish 
new technologies and value chains in renewable and cir-
cular solutions. The development work is supported by 
Business Finland. 

The ecosystem was strengthened further during 2022. 
One example of a successful joint Veturi project is the 
E-fuel research project developing high temperature 
electrolysis, CO2 capture and hydrocarbon synthesis 
technologies. In 2022, VTT and Neste agreed to build a 
technology demonstration facility at VTT Bioruukki Pilot 
Centre, Espoo, Finland. We also celebrated the achieve-
ments of joint development and built new initiatives in 
the Neste Veturi event with a large number of partners.

Lignocellulose,  
algae, municipal  
solid waste,  
renewable hydrogen  
and Power-to-X  
are our promising  
growth platforms  
for new business.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Innovation



12

We are the world’s leading producer of sustainable avia-
tion fuel, renewable diesel and renewable feedstock solu-
tions for various polymers and chemicals industry uses. 
We are also developing chemical recycling technologies 
and capacity to combat plastic waste challenge. 

Neste refines waste, residues and 
innovative raw materials into renewable
fuels and renewable and recycled 
feedstock for polymers and chemicals.

Our businesses

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Our businesses



13

We produce renewable products at our refineries in 
Finland, the Netherlands and Singapore entirely from 
renewable raw materials with a current annual name-
plate capacity of approximately 3.3 million tons. Neste’s 
Singapore refinery expansion and our joint operation, 
Martinez Renewables, with Marathon Petroleum in Mar-
tinez, California, will increase Neste’s total production 
capacity of renewable products to 5.5 million tons by 
the end of 2023. When completed, Neste’s Rotterdam 
refinery capacity expansion project will further increase 
the company’s total production capacity of renewable 
products to 6.8 million tons by the end of 2026. This 
will help us meet the increasing global demand for low-
er-emission products. 

We are also a technologically advanced refiner of 
high-quality oil products with a commitment to reach 
carbon neutral production by 2035. We are introducing 
renewable and recycled raw materials such as liquefied 
waste plastic into our oil refinery in Porvoo, Finland. We 
have launched a strategic study on transforming Porvoo 
refinery to a renewable and circular site with 2-4 million 
tons annual capacity and ending of crude oil refining by 
the middle of 2030’s. 

Our own fueling station network of nearly 1,000 sta-
tions covers four countries in the Baltic Sea region:  
Finland, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. 

Neste MY Renewable Diesel™ is also sold at more 
than 500 stations via channel partners in Sweden, Bel-
gium, the Netherlands and the US.

We invest heavily in researching, testing and deploy-
ing new raw materials and technologies. Our engineering 
arm, Engineering Solutions delivers high-quality technol-
ogy and engineering services for the group and its exter-
nal customers. 

Neste’s businesses are grouped into four reporting segments: 

Oil Products Marketing & Services Others

Renewables Platform

Renewable
Road Transportation

Renewable Polymers
and Chemicals

Renewable Products

Renewable
Aviation

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Our businesses



14

Renewable Products 

Renewable Aviation offers Neste MY Sustainable 
Aviation Fuel™, which in its neat form reduces green-
house gas (GHG) emissions by up to 80% over the fuel’s 
life cycle, compared to using fossil jet fuel (calculation 
method: CORSIA). The fuel provides an immediate solu-
tion for reducing the GHG emissions of air travel. We are 
actively working with partners through the aviation sup-
ply chain to grow the availability of Sustainable Aviation 
Fuel (SAF) for the aviation industry globally. 

Renewable Polymers and Chemicals offers Neste 
RE™, a drop-in solution made entirely out of renewable 
and recycled raw materials to replace fossil feedstock 
in the production of polymers and chemicals. Neste RE 
produced from 100% renewable raw materials has a 
more than 85% smaller carbon footprint over its life cycle 
compared with conventional fossil raw materials for poly-
mers and chemicals production (Life cycle assessment 
of environmental impacts of Neste RE, June 2021). The 
business unit is also developing chemical recycling tech-
nologies and capacity together with value chain part-
ners to combat plastic waste pollution and enable higher 
recycling rates. 

Renewable Road Transportation offers Neste MY 
Renewable Diesel™, enabling its customers to reduce 
their GHG emissions by as much as 75–95% compared 
to fossil diesel over the fuel’s life cycle. The GHG emis-
sion reduction varies depending on the region-specific 
legislation that provides the methodology for the calcu-
lations (e.g. EU RED II 2018/2001/EU for Europe and 
US California LCFS for the US), and the raw material 
mix used to manufacture the product for each market. 
Neste MY Renewable Diesel is a drop-in solution, which 
means that it can be used in the existing diesel vehicles 
and fuel infrastructures as such or in a fuel blend. 

Renewables Platform enables Neste’s global renew-
ables production, renewable raw material sourcing and 
transporting of our renewable products to our global 
customer base. We currently use a wide variety of glob-
ally-sourced renewable raw materials, and waste and 
residues account for over 90% of our global renewable 
raw material inputs. The capacity expansion in Singa-
pore and our joint operation, Martinez Renewables, with 
Marathon Petroleum in Martinez, California, will increase 
the total production capacity of renewable products to 
5.5 million tons by the end of 2023.

Market position: 
Neste is the world’s leading producer of sustainable 
aviation fuel, renewable diesel and renewable feed-
stock solutions for various polymers and chemicals 
industry uses. We are also developing chemical 
recycling to combat plastic waste pollution. 

Main competitors: 
Other renewable diesel and sustainable aviation 
fuel producers, as well as producers of conven-
tional biodiesel. Other providers of renewable and 
circular solutions for the polymers and chemicals 
sectors.

Nameplate capacity: 
Ca. 3.3 million tons of renewable products annually, 
increasing to 6.8 million tons by the end of 2026. 

Main market areas: 
Europe and North America, expanding in the 
Asia-Pacific region.

Customers: 
Retailers, wholesale customers such as transport 
service companies, municipalities and other fleet 
owners or operators, airports, airlines, aviation fuel 
suppliers and corporate business travelers, as well 
as polymers and chemicals producers.

Main demand factors: 
• Governments are increasingly introducing 

renewable energy requirements - or emission 
reduction targets – for the transport sector.  
This is especially the case in the European Union, 
where SAF will be mandated;

• Leading companies and brands want 
to reduce their own emissions and provide 
customers with more sustainable products based 
on renewable and circular solutions; and

• There is increasing societal pressure from 
consumers who want to see a reduction in 
fossil fuels and use products made of recycled 
materials. This is particularly related to the global 
plastic waste challenge.

Strengths: 
• High-quality renewable diesel, sustainable 

aviation fuel, renewable feedstock for the 
polymers and chemicals industry, as well as other 
renewable products as solutions to significantly 
reduce greenhouse gas emissions through 
reducing reliance on fossil-based alternatives;

• An extensive global supply network for a wide 
variety of renewable raw materials, waste and 
residues accounting for 95% (92%) of Neste’s 
renewable raw materials inputs globally in 2022;

• Capability to pretreat low-quality waste and 
residue raw materials to enable their use in the 
production of high-quality products;

• Global customer base extending over multiple 
sectors; and

• Capability to establish value chain partnerships 
to develop chemical recycling of hard-to-recycle 
plastic and to enable production of new high-
quality polymers and chemicals from waste 
plastic.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Our businesses



15

Oil Products 
Our offering includes high-quality oil products and related 
services for the road transportation, non-road uses, avi-
ation and marine sectors, as well as products for the oil 
and petrochemical industries. 

Neste has an ambition to make Porvoo the most sus-
tainable refinery in Europe aiming to reach carbon neu-
tral production by 2035. We have launched a strategic 
study on transforming Porvoo refinery to a renewable 
and circular site with 2–4 million tons annual capacity 
and ending of crude oil refining by the middle of 2030s.

Market position: 
Strong position in the Baltic Sea area wholesale 
markets. 

Main competitors: 
Refineries in Northwest Europe and market partici-
pants importing oil products to Northwest Europe.

Refining capacity: 
Crude oil refining capacity ca. 10 million tons 
annually, total refining capacity ca. 12 million tons 
annually.

Main market areas: 
Baltic Sea area, Europe and North America. 

Customers: 
Retailers and distributors, oil majors and trading 
companies, petrochemicals companies and com-
panies marketing lubricants and solvents.

Main demand factors: 
• Increasing demand for solutions containing both 

fossil and renewable products;
• Customers’ requirements for flexibility in the 

supply chain; and
• Supply security in turbulent market conditions. 

Strengths: 
• Extensive selection of high-quality fossil and 

renewable solutions;
• Technologically advanced refinery enabling high 

value product yield; and
• Capability to pilot and scale-up the use of new 

technologies and innovative raw materials, such 
as liquefied waste plastic, in refining.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Our businesses



16

Marketing & Services 
Marketing & Services offers sustainable, low-emission 
and digital solutions for the needs of consumers, com-
panies and partners in Finland and in the Baltic countries. 
We seek to develop a diverse range of services aiming 
to provide the most convenient customer experience.

Market position: 
Leading market position in Finland. Among the 
leading operators in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. 

Main competitors: 
Other large retailers in Finland and in 
the Baltic countries.

Main market areas: 
Finland, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. Station net-
work consists of 720 stations in Finland and 222 
stations in the Baltic countries. In Finland, Neste 
MY Renewable Diesel™ is available at 184 stations 
and in the Baltics at 30 stations.

Customers: 
Consumers, transport service, customers in the avi-
ation, shipping, industrial and agricultural sectors, 
municipalities, heating customers and distributors.

Main demand factors: 
• Developments in traffic and transportation 

volumes;
• Customers’ growing expectations of services and 

more sustainable solutions; and
• Requirements by municipalities, cities, and 

industry for more sustainable energy solutions. 

Strengths: 
• Best customer experience with digitalization and 

new innovations;
• High-quality and sustainable solutions: Neste 

MY Renewable Diesel™, Neste MY Non-Road 
Diesel™ and Neste MY Sustainable Aviation 
Fuel™ as customers’ preferred choices;

• Extensive electric vehicle charging solutions 
in Finland; B2B electric vehicles charging, a 
workplace charging solution and a public high 
power charging solution for light and medium-duty 
electric vehicles;

• Strong brand and extensive station network in 
Finland and in the Baltic countries; and

• Solutions like Neste Charge and Neste MY Carbon 
Footprint service that create additional value for 
B2B customers. 

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Our businesses



17

Key events 2022

Reducing transport emissions with our partners 
We continued and started partnerships with several global compa-
nies, like Rolls-Royce, Bolloré, Coca-Cola Europacific Partners, 
Liebherr, Marr Contracting and LCL, to help them and their cus-
tomers reduce their greenhouse gas emissions by replacing fossil 
fuels with Neste MY Renewable Diesel™. 

We enabled the first-ever transport of renewable diesel by pipe-
line in France, marking the first of such transports in Europe. 

We additionally gained two new partners, EDi Energie-Direkt 
Hohenlohe GmbH and TOOL-FUEL Services GmbH, to sell Neste 
MY Renewable Diesel in Germany.

Partnering actively for a more sustainable aviation industry
Our Neste MY Sustainable Aviation Fuel™ (SAF) business continued to grow globally through numer-
ous partnerships and collaborations with leading airlines, like Air France-KLM, Malaysia Airlines, Eti-
had Airways, United Airlines, Viva Aerobus and Air New Zealand, as well as other partners such as 
Airbus, DHL Express, ITOCHU, World Fuel Services, HELLENIC PETROLEUM, CIM, Victor, Cargo 
Ai, Sunweb and Nippon Cargo Airlines. We delivered the aviation industry’s first ever CORSIA-certi-
fied SAF to American Airlines and piloted the delivery of SAF using existing petroleum pipelines from 
Texas to New York. In addition, we enabled the first-ever flight with 100% SAF on a regional commer-
cial aircraft and the first helicopter flights using SAF in Southeast Asia and Finland.

Expanded Neste RE™ 
supply to new partners
Neste started several collaborations aimed at 
replacing fossil feedstocks with more sustain-
able ones in the production of polymers and 
chemicals. 

We started cooperating with Covestro 
and SK geo centric to create a value chain 
for renewable MDI in APAC. Neste, Idemitsu 
Kosan, CHIMEI and Mitsubishi Corporation 
agreed to build a renewable plastics supply 
chain utilizing Neste RE.

MAM launched MAM Original Pure soother 
and its packaging which are composed of 
renewable polyolefins, manufactured with our 
Neste RE produced entirely from renewable 
raw materials.

Bugaboo’s, DSM Engineering Materials’, 
Fibrant’s and Neste’s partnership enabled the 
launch of an entire Bugaboo stroller portfolio 
with plastic made with bio-based materials.

Enabling traceability 
along polymers and 
chemicals value chains
We started a partnership with 
Netherlands-based startup Circu-
larise to bring its blockchain-based 
traceability software into polymers 
and chemicals supply chains. The 
aim is to increase traceability of 
renewable and recycled mate-
rial flows to provide transparency 
along the value chain. We also 
invested a combined EUR 11 mil-
lion investment into Circularise 
with three other investors.

Introducing new type 
of co-processed marine fuel
We started piloting a new Neste Marine™ 0.1 Co-processed 
marine fuel together with Nordic Marine Oil to help the mar-
itime sector reduce greenhouse gas emissions. ESL Ship-
ping became the world’s first shipping company to start uti-
lizing this new marine fuel. 

Launching electric charging 
In Finland, we introduced our first ded-
icated charging service for logistics 
companies to charge their fleet, as well 
as the vehicles of their subcontractors, 
at their own depot. We also introduced 
public high power charging (HPC) at our 
service stations in Finland for light and  
medium-duty electric vehicles.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Key events 2022

Photo: Circularise

Photo: Bugaboo

https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-and-rolls-royce-building-strategic-partnership-accelerate-shift-fossil-renewable-fuels
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-help-lk-kunegel-switch-renewable-diesel-fuel-distributor-bollore-energy
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/coca-cola-europacific-partners-netherlands-logistics-partners-switch-neste-my-renewable-diesel
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/liebherr-expands-its-use-neste-my-renewable-diesel
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/marr-contracting-switches-renewable-diesel-neste-australia
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-helps-data-center-company-lcl-become-industry-first-belgium-use-neste-my-renewable-diesel
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-enabled-first-ever-transport-renewable-diesel-pipeline-europe-help-reduce-emissions-fuel
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-enabled-first-ever-transport-renewable-diesel-pipeline-europe-help-reduce-emissions-fuel
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-welcomes-two-new-partners-edi-energie-direkt-hohenlohe-gmbh-and-tool-fuel-services-gmbh-sell
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-welcomes-two-new-partners-edi-energie-direkt-hohenlohe-gmbh-and-tool-fuel-services-gmbh-sell
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-supply-air-france-klm-group-more-1-million-tons-sustainable-aviation-fuel
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/malaysia-airlines-flies-its-first-passenger-flight-neste-my-sustainable-aviation-fuel-supplied
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-and-itochu-celebrate-first-sustainable-aviation-fuel-delivery-etihad-airways-japan
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-and-itochu-celebrate-first-sustainable-aviation-fuel-delivery-etihad-airways-japan
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-and-united-sign-sustainable-aviation-fuel-purchase-agreement-flights-out-amsterdam-airport
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-and-avfuel-supply-saf-viva-aerobus
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/air-new-zealand-welcomes-first-shipment-neste-my-sustainable-aviation-fuel-new-zealand
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-and-airbus-join-forces-advance-use-100-sustainable-aviation-fuel-key-solution-helping-reduce
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-and-dhl-express-announce-one-largest-ever-sustainable-aviation-fuel-deals
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/aviation/neste-and-itochu-expand-partnership-grow-availability-sustainable-aviation-fuel-japan
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/world-fuel-services-now-authorized-branded-distributor-neste-my-sustainable-aviation-fuel-first
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-and-hellenic-petroleum-group-supply-sustainable-aviation-fuel-greece-and-aegean-airlines
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-and-cim-enable-supply-sustainable-aviation-fuel-france-support-meeting-local-saf-blending
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/victor-and-neste-announce-industry-leading-partnership-reducing-private-jet-charter-emissions-80
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-and-cargoai-launch-partnership-offering-freight-forwarders-and-their-clients-option-reduce
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-and-cargoai-launch-partnership-offering-freight-forwarders-and-their-clients-option-reduce
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-and-travel-organization-sunweb-group-announce-partnership-reduce-sunweb-customers-flight
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/nippon-cargo-airlines-use-neste-my-sustainable-aviation-fuel-their-cargo-flights-reducing-emissions
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-delivers-aviation-industrys-first-ever-corsia-certified-sustainable-aviation-fuel-american
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-delivers-aviation-industrys-first-ever-corsia-certified-sustainable-aviation-fuel-american
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/first-time-sustainable-aviation-fuel-has-been-delivered-new-york-using-existing-petroleum-pipelines
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/first-flight-history-100-sustainable-aviation-fuel-regional-commercial-aircraft
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/southeast-asias-first-helicopter-flight-using-sustainable-aviation-fuel-takes-seletar-airport
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-covestro-and-sk-geo-centric-cooperate-create-value-chain-renewable-attributed-mdi-apac
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-covestro-and-sk-geo-centric-cooperate-create-value-chain-renewable-attributed-mdi-apac
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-idemitsu-kosan-chimei-corporation-and-mitsubishi-corporation-join-forces-create-renewable
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-idemitsu-kosan-chimei-corporation-and-mitsubishi-corporation-join-forces-create-renewable
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/collaboration-between-neste-borealis-and-mam-brings-new-soother-made-renewably-sourced-feedstock
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/collaboration-between-neste-borealis-and-mam-brings-new-soother-made-renewably-sourced-feedstock
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-bugaboo-dsm-engineering-materials-and-fibrant-partner-enable-industry-first-stroller-portfolio
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/circular-economy/transparent-and-traceable-neste-teams-circularise-increase-visibility-along-circular-polymers-and
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/circular-economy/transparent-and-traceable-neste-teams-circularise-increase-visibility-along-circular-polymers-and
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/circular-economy/neste-brightlands-venture-partners-4-impact-vc-and-asahi-kasei-invests-combined-eur-11-million
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/circular-economy/neste-brightlands-venture-partners-4-impact-vc-and-asahi-kasei-invests-combined-eur-11-million
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-introduces-co-processed-marine-fuel-partnership-nordic-marine-oil-new-solution-maritime-sector
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-introduces-co-processed-marine-fuel-partnership-nordic-marine-oil-new-solution-maritime-sector
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-introduces-co-processed-marine-fuel-partnership-nordic-marine-oil-new-solution-maritime-sector
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/esl-shipping-becomes-first-shipping-company-world-utilize-nestes-co-processed-marine-fuel-ghg
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/esl-shipping-becomes-first-shipping-company-world-utilize-nestes-co-processed-marine-fuel-ghg
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-introduces-electric-charging-service-logistics-companies-finland-plans-workplace-charging
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-introduces-electric-charging-service-logistics-companies-finland-plans-workplace-charging
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-offer-public-electric-vehicles-charging-service-its-stations-finland-complement-its-portfolio


18

Key events 2022

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Key events 2022

Projects on chemical recycling of 
waste plastic proceeding successfully
Our work on commercializing chemical recycling of 
waste plastic in Porvoo, Finland continued. The goal 
is to scale up capabilities to process liquefied waste 
plastic by implementing proprietary pretreatment and 
upgrading technologies and integrating the technol-
ogies into the refinery operations. Neste’s project 
PULSE received a positive grant decision for up to 
EUR 135 million from the EU Innovation Fund in July. 
In addition, Neste acquired European rights to Alterra  
Energy’s thermochemical liquefaction technology.

IPCEI status for Porvoo refinery hydrogen 
projects from European Commission
Neste was the first Finnish company to be granted IPCEI (Import-
ant Project of Common European Interest) status by the European 
Commission, enabling national public funding for our renewable 
hydrogen projects at Porvoo refinery. The projects develop solu-
tions for the production and utilization of renewable hydrogen in 
our refinery processes. 

In December 2022, Business Finland awarded Neste with a pub-
lic funding of EUR 27.7 million for its green hydrogen projects at the  
Porvoo refinery.

Strategic study 
on ending crude oil 
refining in the mid-
2030s in Porvoo
We launched a strategic study 
on transitioning our refinery in 
Porvoo, Finland to non-crude oil 
refining and into a globally lead-
ing renewable and circular solu-
tions site. The transformation 
under study of both renewable 
and circular raw materials could 
continue with retrofits of exist-
ing units at a later stage, with a 
long-term capacity potential of  
2 to 4 million tons per year.

Building an integrated Power-to-Liquids (e-fuels) 
demonstration facility together with VTT
Neste agreed with VTT to build a technology demonstration facility at 
VTT Bioruukki Pilot Centre in Espoo, Finland. This is a continuation of 
the Business Finland funded Veturi E-fuel research project developing 
high temperature electrolysis, CO2 capture, and hydrocarbon synthesis 
technologies.

Replaced Russian crude oil 
with other qualities 
At the start of the war, Neste decided to stop using Russian 
crude oil entirely and started replacing it with other qualities. 
The last of the crude oil cargoes from Russian origin arrived 
at the Porvoo refinery in July 2022 and the supply contracts 
ended. Supply contracts for other fossil feedstocks from Rus-
sia ended at the end of 2022. Neste condemns Russia’s inva-
sion of Ukraine, and we have witnessed strong support for 
Ukraine among Neste employees, our customers and the 
international community. 

https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/innovation/neste-receive-funding-eu-innovation-fund-chemical-recycling-project-porvoo
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/circular-economy/chemical-recycling-plastic-neste-acquires-european-rights-alterra-energys-thermochemical
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/circular-economy/chemical-recycling-plastic-neste-acquires-european-rights-alterra-energys-thermochemical
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-contributes-eu-green-hydrogen-value-chain-european-commission-grants-ipcei-status-porvoo
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/sustainability/ipcei-grant-awarded-neste-boosts-porvoo-refinerys-green-hydrogen-projects
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/sustainability/ipcei-grant-awarded-neste-boosts-porvoo-refinerys-green-hydrogen-projects
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-launches-strategic-study-transitioning-its-porvoo-refinery-renewable-and-circular-site-and
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-launches-strategic-study-transitioning-its-porvoo-refinery-renewable-and-circular-site-and
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/innovation/vtt-and-neste-agreed-building-integrated-power-liquids-e-fuels-demonstration-facility-vtt-bioruukki
https://www.neste.com/nestes-response-to-the-war-in-ukraine
https://www.neste.com/nestes-response-to-the-war-in-ukraine


19

Key events 2022

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Key events 2022

Matti Lehmus became Neste’s new President and CEO
Matti Lehmus started as President and CEO as of 1 May 2022. He holds a M. Sc. in chemical 
engineering and an eMBA. He joined Neste in 1998, and has held several key leadership posi-
tions during his career in both the oil products and renewables businesses.

Neste’s first credit rating
Moody’s Investors Service assigned an A3 long-
term issuer rating and a baseline credit assess-
ment (bca) of baa1 with stable outlook to Neste.

Published our very first 
Green Finance Report
We published our inaugural Green Finance 
Report following the establishment of our Green 
Finance Framework in 2021 to further integrate 
the company’s sustainability ambitions into our 
financing. We also signed a EUR 500 million 
green term loan agreement to finance Eligi-
ble Assets and Projects in accordance with the 
framework.

Major investments to increase our 
renewables production capacity
While our ongoing Singapore refinery expansion stayed on track to completion by the 
end of the first quarter in 2023, we made the final investment decision to also expand 
renewables production capacity in Rotterdam by 1.3 million tons. The investment 
of approximately EUR 1.9 billion will bring the total renewable product capacity at 
our Rotterdam refinery to 2.7 million tons annually. Our target is to start up the new 
production unit during the first half of 2026.

We established a 50/50 joint operation, Martinez Renewables, for production of renew-
able fuels with Marathon Petroleum in the US. By the end of 2023, it is expected to increase 
our renewables production capacity by slightly over 1 million tons annually. 

Strengthening our global raw materials sourcing
We agreed to acquire used cooking oil collection and aggregation business from Crimson 
Renewable Energy Holdings, LLC in the US. The acquisition was closed in January 2023. We 
also acquired Walco Foods, an Irish trader of animal fats, renamed as Neste Walco Limited.

https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/investors/matti-lehmus-appointed-president-and-ceo-neste-1-may-2022#f1558afc
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/investors/neste-assigned-a3-issuer-rating-moodys#f1558afc
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/investors/neste-assigned-a3-issuer-rating-moodys#f1558afc
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/sustainability/neste-has-published-its-inaugural-green-finance-report
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/sustainability/neste-has-published-its-inaugural-green-finance-report
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/investors/neste-signs-green-term-loan-agreement#f1558afc
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/investors/neste-signs-green-term-loan-agreement#f1558afc
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-invests-its-world-scale-renewable-products-refinery-rotterdam
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-invests-its-world-scale-renewable-products-refinery-rotterdam
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-finalizes-transaction-establish-joint-venture-production-renewable-fuels-marathon-petroleum
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/circular-economy/neste-acquire-used-cooking-oil-collection-and-aggregation-business-crimson-renewable-energy-united
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/circular-economy/neste-acquire-used-cooking-oil-collection-and-aggregation-business-crimson-renewable-energy-united
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/investors/nestes-acquisition-irish-walco-foods-closed#f1558afc


20

Key figures 2022
Revenue, EUR million EBITDA, EUR million

Comparable EBITDA, 
EUR million

GHG reduction achieved with 
Neste’s renewable products, 
million tons CO2e 1)

1) Compared to crude oil-based fuel.

Personnel, on average

Financial targets

Leverage ratio, %

Dividend per share, €

Financial 
target: 
50% of 
comparable 
net profit

1) Board’s proposal the AGM. Consists of an ordinary dividend of EUR 1.02 per share, an extraordinary 
 dividend of EUR 0.25 per share, and a discretionary second extraordinary dividend of EUR 0.25 per share.

1) The Comparable ROACE calculation 
 formula has been adjusted in 2022 by 
 excluding assets under construction  
 average from the capital employed 
 average. Comparison numbers have  
 been restated accordingly.

202120202019

10

8

6

4

2

0

10.9

9.6
10.0

2022

11.1

6,000

5,000

4,000

3,000

2,000

1,000

0

2021

4,872

2019

5,474

2020

4,833

2022

5,244

Comparable return on 
average capital employed 
after tax (ROACE), % 1)

Financial target: ROACE 
of at least 15% annually

15

202120202019

30

25

20

10

5

0

18.3

28.2

19.8

2022

30.1

Financial target: A leverage 
ratio of below 40%

2021

40

15

10

5

0

–5

20202019

0.6

–3.3
-4.7

2022

13.9

1.0

1.5

2.5

2.0

3.0

0.5

0

2019 2020 2021

2.04

1.60 1.54

1.02
0.80 0.82

2022

3.04

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Key figures 2022

Our dividend policy is to 
distribute at least 50% of 
our comparable net 
profit as dividend

20202019 2021

2,500

2,000

1,500

1,000

500

0

2,607
2,731

1,508

2022

3,048
3,000

2021

20,000

15,000

10,000

5,000

0

20202019

15,14815,840

11,751

2022

25,707
25,000

1.521)

20202019 2021

2,000

3,000

3,500

1,500

2,500

1,000

500

0

1,920

2,452

1,929

2022

3,537



21

2022 2021 Change,%

Income statement

Revenue, MEUR 25,707 15,148 70%

EBITDA, MEUR 3,048 2,607 17%

Operating profit, MEUR 2,410 2,023 19%

Profit before income taxes, MEUR 2,279 1,962 16%

Profit for the period, MEUR 1,891 1,774 7%

Comparable EBITDA, MEUR 3,537 1,920 84%

Comparable net profit, MEUR 2,336 1,179 98%

Profitability,%

Return on equity (ROE),% 25.1 28.5 -12%

Comparable return on average capital employed after tax 
(ROACE),% 1)

30.1 18.3 64%

Financing and financial position

Total equity, MEUR 8,327 6,985 19%

Interest-bearing net debt, MEUR 1,344 41 -

Leverage ratio,% 13.9 0.6 -

Equity-to-assets ratio,% 56.3 56.6 -1%

Net debt to EBITDA,% 0.4 0 -

Net cash generated from operating activities, MEUR 1,197 1,994 -40%

Other indicators

Capital employed, MEUR 10,942 8,742 25%

Net working capital in days outstanding 35.4 33.3 6%

Capital expenditure and investment in shares, MEUR 2,218 1,535 45%

Research and development expenditure, MEUR 85 67 27%

Average number of personnel 5,244 4,872 8%

Total refining margin, USD/bbl 23.42 8.99 161%

Total Recordable Injury Frequency  
per million hours worked (TRIF) 2.0 1.4 43%

Process Safety Events Rate (PSER) 1.4 1.4 0%

1) The Comparable ROACE calculation formula has been adjusted in 2022 by excluding assets under construction average 
 from the capital employed average. 2021 comparison numbers have been restated accordingly.
2) Board of Directors proposal to the Annual General Meeting. 2022 key figures include an ordinary dividend of 
 EUR 1.02 per share, an extraordinary dividend of EUR 0.25 per share, and a discretionary second extraordinary dividend of 
 EUR 0.25 per share. 

Share-related indicators

Earnings per share (EPS), EUR 2.46 2.31 6%

Comparable earnings per share, EUR 3.04 1.54 98%

Equity per share, EUR 10.83 9.09 19%

Cash flow per share, EUR 1.56 2.60 -40%

Price / earnings ratio (P/E) 17.50 18.79 -7%

Dividend per share, EUR 1.52 2) 0.82 85%

Dividend payout ratio,% 61.8 2) 35.5 74%

Dividend yield,% 3.5 2) 1.9 87%

Dividend per comparable earnings per share,% 50.00 53.4 -6%

Share price at the end of the period, EUR 43.02 43.36 -1%

Average share price, EUR 42.26 50.99 -17%

Lowest share price, EUR 30.81 41.17 -25%

Highest share price, EUR 52.18 64.74 -19%

Market capitalization at the end of the period, MEUR 33,063 33,353 -1%

2022 2021 Change,%

Key figures 2022

1) Annual greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction achieved with Neste’s renewable products compared to 100% crude oil based fuel. 
 Calculation method complies with the EU Renewable Energy Directive II (EU) 2018/2001 and the California LCFS methodology, 
 which has been applied in the GHG reporting for volumes sold in the US since the beginning of 2022.
2) Market-based emissions for scope 2
3) Use phase emission intensity of sold fuel products is calculated by dividing the GHG emissions from the use of fuel products produced 
 and sold by Neste with the total amount of energy released upon the use of those fuel products (gCO2e/MJ)

2022 2021 Change,%

GHG indicators

Avoided GHG emissions by Neste customers  
with Neste's products (compared to fossil fuel) in MtCO2e 1) 11.1 10.9 2%

Neste’s absolute GHG emissions in scope 1 and 2
(production)  (tCO2e) 2) 2.5 2.3 6%

Use phase emission intensity of sold fuel products  
(gCO2e/MJ) 3) 57 55 4%

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Key figures 2022



22

Capital Markets Day
Neste is hosting a Capital Markets Day on 20 June 
2023 in London. The event can be followed also online 
as a webcast at neste.com/investors.

Annual General meeting 
Neste Corporation’s Annual General Meeting will be 
held on Tuesday, 28 March 2023 at 10 a.m. EET at 
Messukeskus at Messuaukio 1, Helsinki. Registration 
and the distribution of voting papers will begin at 9 
a.m. Shareholders wishing to participate in the Annual 
General Meeting should inform the company by 4 p.m. 
EET on 20 March 2023 at the latest by:

• visiting neste.com and following the instructions 
given there.

• calling by phone +358 (0)20 770 6862 
(Monday–Friday, 9 a.m.–4 p.m. EET).

• writing to Neste Corporation, Annual General 
Meeting, P.O. Box 95, FI-00095 Neste.

Holders of proxies are requested to forward them 
when stating their wish to participate, ensuring that 
they reach the company by 4 p.m. EET on 20 March 
2023 at the latest.

The AGM can also be followed via live webcast. 

Neste shares are listed on NASDAQ Helsinki under the trading code NESTE. 
The company had 118,906 (107,087) shareholders at the end of 2022.

Information for investors

The Board of Directors proposes to the AGM that an 
ordinary dividend of EUR 1.02 per share be paid on 
the basis of the approved balance sheet for 2022 plus 
an extraordinary dividend of EUR 0.25 per share, i.e., 
EUR 1.27 per share in total. The ordinary dividend 
shall be paid in two installments. The Board further-
more proposes that the AGM would authorize the 
Board to decide, in its discretion, on the payment of a 
second extraordinary dividend of EUR 0.25 per share, 
by 31 October 2023. The Board expects that this dis-
cretionary second extraordinary dividend will be paid, 
unless there is a significant deterioration in the busi-
ness environment during 2023.

Dividend payment in 2023 
• 16 March 2023: AGM record date. 
• 30 March 2023: Dividend payment record date for 

the first instalment. 
• 6 April 2023: Dividend payable for the first 

instalment. 
• 29 September 2023: Dividend payment record 

date for the second instalment. 
• 6 October 2023: Dividend payable for the second 

instalment.

Interim reports in 2023 
Neste Corporation will publish financial reports 
in 2023 as follows: 
• Interim Report January–March 2023:  

28 April 2023 
• Half Year Financial Report January–June 2023:  

27 July 2023 
• Interim Report January–September 2023:  

26 October 2023 

The Interim Reports are published in Finnish 
and English and can be downloaded at 
neste.com/investors. 

Contact information 

Investor Relations: 
Martti Ala-Härkönen, CFO 
Tel. +358 40 737 6633
martti.ala-harkonen@neste.com 

Anssi Tammilehto, Vice President, 
Investor Relations 
Tel. +358 50 458 8436
anssi.tammilehto@neste.com 

Debt Investor and  
Banking Relations: 
Katariina Perkkiö, Vice President,  
Group Treasury
Tel. +358 50 458 1492
katariina.perkkio@neste.com

Neste’s general e-mail 
address for investors: 
investors@neste.com

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Information for investors

https://www.neste.com/investors
https://www.neste.com/investors
mailto:investors%40neste.com?subject=


23

67+30+0+0+3+I
Neste share’s trading volumes in 2022, %

Total shareholder return, %

Non-Finnish shareholders 39.7% (39.6%)

Finnish State 35.9% (35.9%)

Finnish institutions 16.8% (17.0%)

Households 7.6% (7.5%)40+36+16+8+I
Shareholder structure on 31 December 2022, %

NASDAQ Helsinki 66.8% (71.3%)

CBOE Europe 29.3% (24.0%)

Chi-X Europe 0.0% (0.1%)

BATS Europe 0.1% (0.2%)

Turquoise 3.8% (4.4%)

Earnings per share and 
dividend per share, EUR

Earnings per share

Comparable earnings per share

Dividend per share

1) 2022: Board’s proposal to Annual General Meeting

20202019 2021

2.5

3.5

2.0

3.0

1.5

1.0

0.5

0

2
.3

3
2

.0
4

1
.0

2

0
.9

3
1

.6
0

0
.8

0

2
.3

1
1

.5
4

0
.8

2

2022

2
.4

6
3

.0
4

1
.5

2
 1)

50

100

40

90

30

-30

80

20

-20

70

10

-10

60

0

-25.4

41.5

94.0

20202019 2021

1.1

2022

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Information for investors

Neste’s share performance 2018–2022, EUR

70

30

50

10

60

20

40

0

2020 2021 202220192018

Shareholders’ total return, indexed

300

100

200

400

0

2020 2021 202220192018

Neste Stoxx Nordic



24

Sustainability highlights   25
Sustainability at Neste   26
 Material sustainability topics   29
 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)   31
 Material sustainability KPIs   35
 Stakeholder engagement   40
 Value creation   47
 Sustainability governance   48
 Compliance   50 
 Our people   51
 Safety    55
Climate     58
 Our climate commitments   58
 Carbon handprint   61
 Carbon footprint   66
Biodiversity    74
 Building a foundation for our biodiversity work    76
 Environmental impact    77
Human Rights    81
 Embedding human rights due diligence    82
Supply chain and raw materials    86
 Supply chain    87
 Renewable raw materials    91
 Recycled raw materials    95
 Future raw materials   96
Performance and reporting    98
 Performance in figures    100
 GRI Content Index and UN Global Compact    104
 TCFD Index   111
 SASB Index   112
 UNGP Reporting Framework Index    114
 Principles for calculating the key indicators    115
 Independent Assurance Report    117

Sustainability

Our guiding principle: 
9+ billion people living 
well, within planetary 
boundaries, by 2050.



25

Sustainability highlights 2022

of our renewable raw 
material suppliers have 
committed to Neste 
Supplier Code of Conduct.

99%

The scope and methodology 
for net positive biodiversity 
impact for direct operations 
defined in 2022.

1,390
hours used for training employees 
on human rights policies and topics 
relevant to Neste’s business.

Biodiversity baseline defined for 

1,270
hectares of our operational 
sites, covering Porvoo and 
Naantali refinery areas.

The first time in aviation history a CORSIA 
certified batch of sustainable aviation fuel (SAF)  
was delivered to a commercial airline. 

safe days
(2021: 306)

of our employees understand 
how their work contributes to 
Neste's success.

314

80%
external recruitments 
(2021: 955)1,409

0%
Plan to reduce the share of 
conventional palm oil to 

of our global renewable 
raw material inputs by 
the end of 2023.

1) Source: World Bank

2020 10.0Mt

2022 11.1Mt

2021 10.9Mt

Target 2030 20Mt

2019 9.6Mt

Equaling the 
annual emissions 
from 4.0 million 
passenger cars

or the annual 
carbon footprint of 
1.8 million average 
EU citizens1)

11.1Mt

The amount of greenhouse 
gas emissions our customers 
reduced with our renewable 
products in 2022: 

5.5Mt expected annual 
renewables production 
capacity by the end of 2023.

Supply chain 
and raw materialsBiodiversityClimate Human rights

OUR SUSTAINABILITY VISION 

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Sustainability at Neste



26

We create solutions for combating climate change and 
accelerating a shift to a circular economy. We refine 
waste, residues and other innovative raw materials into 
renewable fuels and more sustainable feedstocks for 
plastics and other materials. We are the world’s lead-
ing producer of sustainable aviation fuel and renewable 
diesel and develop chemical recycling technologies and 
capacity to combat the plastic waste challenge.

Setting high standards for sustainability enables our growth and purpose: 
Creating a healthier planet for our children. It continues to be the 
cornerstone of our strategy.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Sustainability at Neste

Today, we are operating in a complex business envi-
ronment. In addition to the growing sustainability expec-
tations of our stakeholders and demand for concrete 
actions, climate change and biodiversity loss are accel-
erating and the market situation is volatile around the 
world.

Sustainability at Neste



27

Our success is built on 
collaboration and innovation
Together with our partners, we are scaling up our 
renewable and circular solutions, increasing innovation 
through extensive research and value chain partners, 
and establishing mutually beneficial partnerships com-
mitted to sustainability. While acting against the global 
climate challenge, we also acknowledge our social and 
economic role regionally and locally. We have an impact 
on people and environment within our own operations, 
but also throughout our value chain. We care for our 
own employees’ health, safety and wellbeing, while also 
paying close attention to diversity, equity and inclusion, 
and to the welfare of the most vulnerable groups of indi-
viduals in our supply chain. 

Economic responsibility; ethics, compliance and cor-
porate governance; as well as supply chain and raw 
material sustainability are the cornerstones of everything 
we do. We have identified several environmental, social 
and governance topics as relevant for our business and 
our everyday sustainability work, relating also to the UN 
Sustainable Development Goals. 

Neste sustainability vision
Our sustainability vision, with four key focus areas, 
pushes our strategic actions forward. It is crucial espe-
cially in a world where issues are increasingly interlinked. 
Since the launch of our broadened sustainability vision in 
2021, we have made progress on many fronts, and we 
continue to take concrete actions persistently. 

We continue to pay attention to the increasing sus-
tainability expectations from our stakeholders and strive 
to ensure that our performance meets and exceeds 
expectations. 

We are committed to
• reduce our customers’ greenhouse 

gas emissions by at least 20 million 
tons annually by 2030 with our 
renewable and circular solutions.

• reduce emissions in our own 
production (scope 1 & 2) by 50% by 
2030 compared to 2019 level, and 
reach carbon neutral production by 
2035.

• reduce the use phase emission 
intensity of sold products by 50% by 
2040 compared to 2020 levels.

• work with our suppliers and partners 
to reduce emissions across the entire 
value chain (scope 3).

We 
• aim at creating net positive impacts 

(NPI) for biodiversity from new own 
activities from 2025 onwards.

• target no net loss (NNL) of biodiversity 
from all ongoing own activities  
by 2035.

We
• commit to paying all of our employees 

at least a living wage, take action 
to promote living wages in Neste’s 
supply chains, and require strategic 
contractors and suppliers to pay their 
employees a living wage by 2030.

• commit to and promote the Employer 
Pays Principle, with implementation 
in high-risk areas by 2030, to ensure 
that no worker pays for a job and the 
costs of recruitment are paid for by 
the employer, not the worker. 

• work together with our stakeholders 
to increase children’s access to 
education by 2030, and promote 
respect for children’s rights by actively 
supporting and participating in 
initiatives aimed at keeping children  
in school.

• reduce inequalities across the value 
chain and address the root causes  
of systemic human rights issues  
by 2030.

We 
• require 100% of suppliers and other 

business partners to be committed 
to Neste Supplier Code of Conduct 
and have the best-in-class grievance 
processes.

• include human rights, biodiversity 
and climate targets as key criteria for 
suppliers as we drive diversification 
and increased availability of 
sustainable raw materials.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Sustainability at Neste

Neste sustainability vision

Supply chain & raw materials

Neste drives safe and healthy  
workplace, fair labor practices and 
increased sustainability commitment 
across the supply chain.

Biodiversity

Our vision is to drive a positive impact 
on biodiversity and achieve a nature 
positive 1) value chain by 2040. 

Climate

Neste leads transformation 
towards a carbon neutral 
value chain by 2040.

Human rights

Neste strives to create a more  
equitable and inclusive value chain  
by 2030 in which everyone  
works with dignity.

1) Nature positive aims at halting and 
reversing nature loss, positive impacts 
outweighing the adverse impacts.



28Neste Annual Report 2022 | Sustainability at Neste

In 2022, 
we conducted 
a total of 118 
sustainability audits on 
our raw material suppliers, 
terminals 
and contractors.

Sustainability milestones in 2022

We reached our target of 100% renewable 
electricity in Porvoo in January 2022.

We continued the biodiversity 
methodology development and conducted 
materiality analysis on biodiversity for our 
own operations.

In September 2022, we 
launched a strategic study 
on transitioning our refinery in 
Porvoo, Finland to a renewable 
and circular site and ending 
crude oil refining in the 
mid-2030s. 

We conducted a major review and 
update of the Neste Human Rights 
Principle, following extensive 
consultation with both internal and 
external stakeholders. 

We developed our donation 
management process throughout 
the organization, and allocated 
donations according to three themes: 
Innovation and education, Climate 
and environment and Diversity and 
inclusion. 

We conducted sustainability materiality 
assessment, following the ‘double materiality’ 
approach, which combines impact materiality 
and financial materiality.

https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/sustainability/nestes-aim-100-renewable-electricity-use-be-achieved-ahead-schedule-finland-new-hydropower-agreement
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/sustainability/nestes-aim-100-renewable-electricity-use-be-achieved-ahead-schedule-finland-new-hydropower-agreement


29

The 2022 materiality assessment was conducted fol-
lowing the ‘double materiality’ approach, which com-
bines impact materiality and financial materiality. The 
most material topics identified for Neste are based 
on their business and stakeholder influence, outward 
impact on economy, environment and people, as well 
as the estimated magnitude of their impacts. Our 
materiality assessment process is built on four stages: 
identification, evaluation, prioritization and integration 
of the most material sustainability topics.

Identify
the sustainability 
issues significant  
to Neste’s business 
and stakeholders

Evaluate
the potential 
sustainability impacts, 
as well as key risks 
and opportunities

Prioritize
the sustainability topics 
based on the importance 
to stakeholders and also 
Neste’s business

Integrate
the material 
sustainability 
topics into Neste’s 
sustainability work

Understanding the views and expectations of our 
stakeholders is crucial to the success of our company and 
the acceptability of our operations. In order to identify what 
topics we should particularly focus on in our sustainability 
efforts, we conduct a materiality assessment once every two 
years and engage our key stakeholders in the process. 

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Material sustainability topics

Material sustainability topics



30

sustainability report provide further descriptions for topic 
specific material risks and opportunities, impacts, poli-
cies and commitments.

The material topics reflect Neste’s business opera-
tions, as well as strategic ambitions in combating cli-
mate change and creating a healthier planet for our 
children. The material topics represent different sus-
tainability aspects, and they are relevant throughout our 
value chain. Supply chain sustainability and raw mate-
rials, economic responsibility, as well as ethics, compli-
ance and corporate governance are not seen as individ-
ual material topics but as underlying themes that need 

to be taken into account when considering each of the 
eleven topics. These themes are the cornerstones of our 
sustainability agenda.

The materiality assessment results were presented to 
the Neste Advisory Council on Sustainability and New 
Markets in order to gain an objective round of external 
expert views for final evaluation. The renewed materiality 
topics and matrix were approved by the Neste Execu-
tive Committee.

A key element for the integration of the ESG factors 
throughout our value chain is by defining material indica-
tors, which guide our operations and business decisions. 

Neste is committed to measuring its performance on 
ESG issues in order to refine objectives underlying our 
strategy. 

In addition to the materiality assessment, we conduct 
an annual Neste Brand Health Research study into the 
key trends and perceptions of the main global players 
in renewable and circular solutions, as well as on our 
sustainability topics, across Asia, Europe and the Ameri-
cas representing a wide range of organizations. Findings 
from the research support the views stated in the mate-
riality assessment and provide insight on our progress 
against our goals.

Materiality Matrix 2022

S
ig

n
ifi

ca
n

ce
 o

f 
N

es
te

’s
 im

p
ac

ts
 o

n 
en

vi
ro

n
m

en
t,

 e
co

n
o

m
y 

an
d

 p
eo

p
le

S
ig

n
ifi

ca
n

t
C

ru
ci

al

Significant CrucialSignificance of impacts on environment, economy and people to Neste business

Carbon handprint

Carbon footprint

Protecting biodiversity, air, water and soil
Stakeholder engagement, 

communication and transparency

Innovation

Partnerships

Sustainable products 
and services

Safety, health and wellbeing

Modern slavery
Diversity, equity and inclusion

Engaged and talented workforce

Supply chain and
raw material sustainability

 Economic 
responsibility

Ethics, compliance and 
corporate governance

The cornerstones for everything we do 

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Material sustainability topics

Materiality assessment 2022
In the 2022 assessment, we reviewed and updated our 
material topics to account for impacts of immediate and 
future challenges arising from emerging trends, which 
influence the environmental, social and corporate gov-
ernance (ESG) dimensions of sustainable development. 
The assessment used industry-specific aspects, exter-
nal trends, stakeholder interviews, sustainability frame-
works and standards, regulatory requirements as well as 
Neste’s strategy and sustainability vision to review the 
identified material topics from the 2020 assessment.

Material topics were refined by identifying ESG aspects 
that are relevant to our business, as well as to our stake-
holders. The topics were then evaluated based on actual 
and potential sustainability impacts and business-related 
key risks and opportunities. Topic owners were involved 
to sharpen the topics to fit for Neste’s own operations.

Stakeholders involved in the materiality assessment 
process were grouped into categories (listed on page 
41) and represent a large variety of key interest groups. 
Several people from different Neste departments are 
involved in the biannual process to update and identify 
key stakeholders. Both internal and external stakehold-
ers were involved through interviews and surveys. The 
identified material topics were validated through an eval-
uation of stakeholder expectations with an online sur-
vey. The survey was also open for public input via our 
web channels. More in-depth interviews with several of 
our key stakeholders were conducted by our external 
partner.

Input both from the interviews and the survey enabled 
the evaluation of main current and future ESG risks and 
opportunities in order to obtain understanding of impact 
materiality and financial materiality. Based on the results, 
topic owners and subject matter experts participated in 
a workshop to provide final input to the results.

Based on the results from the assessment process, 
eleven material topics were prioritized. They are pre-
sented in the materiality matrix on this page. The hor-
izontal axis represents the significance of financial 
materiality and the vertical axis displays the signifi-
cance of impact materiality. Topic disclosures of Neste’s 



31

Our priority SDGs 
are linked to our material 

sustainability topics

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Material sustainability topics

Sustainable Development Goals 
The UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are 
a collection of 17 interconnected global goals to help 
achieve a better and more sustainable future for all. They 
represent an action plan for the planet and society to 
thrive by 2030, and explicitly call on businesses to help 
lead this transformation. We recognize the strategic 
importance of the SDGs to our business and the world 
and are committed to helping achieve them.

We have identified nine priority (highlighted on the 
right) SDGs as the goals we most significantly contribute 
to and have used the SDG Compass to determine them. 
To understand and prioritize the most relevant SDGs for 
Neste, we have worked with external experts to assess 
both the positive and negative impacts our business has 
on the SDGs throughout our value chains. Our prioriti-
zation process is based on our sustainability materiality 
assessment, impact evaluation study, an external review 
as well as an internal expert analysis.

Our most relevant SDGs form a strong basis for our 
sustainability work. By identifying material sustainabil-
ity topics and the relevant SDGs, we position Neste as 
part of society as well as part of the global sustainabil-
ity framework. Based on the identified material topics, 
we have formed relevant sustainability KPIs. This helps 
us integrate the renewed materiality assessment in our 
sustainability vision and to continue our sustainability 
work in a consistent and forward-looking way. We mon-
itor, measure and follow up how our actions affect the 
broader context.

The sustainability KPIs can be found in the table on 
pages 35–39.



32

How Neste contributes to the SDGs?

Decent work and 
economic growth
• We actively take steps to protect labor rights 

and promote safe and secure working 
environments for all workers,  
with special attention to vulnerable groups.

• The implementation of the new Safety 
Leadership Principle and updating the team 
safety commitments were key focuses in 
Neste’s safety leadership and culture in 
2022. 

• Neste followed the Covid-19 pandemic  
situation globally by the Crisis Management 
team closely until summer 2022. The 
number of Covid-19 cases among Neste 
personnel and the effect on the operations 
were low.

• In 2022, more than 750 employees 
participated in company-wide development 
programs, such as the Neste leadership 
program, the Neste Reverse Mentoring 
Program and the Mission Possible program

• Neste is committed to implementing effective 
measures to eradicate forced labor, modern 
slavery, and child labor. 

• Neste respects and supports children’s 
rights and provides good-quality 
employment, education and training for 
young people. In 2022, we hired 405 
summer trainees to work across different 
functions at Neste.

Industry, innovation  
and infrastructure
• Neste’s growth and transformation is 

rooted in innovation and technology. 
We invest the majority of our annual 
R&D expenditure in research and 
testing future raw materials and 
technologies.

• Neste and the Climate, Infrastructure 
and Environment Executive Agency 
(CINEA) of the European Commission 
signed the EU Innovation Fund’s grant 
agreement for the green hydrogen 
project ‘SHARC’ in Porvoo.

• Neste received a positive grant 
decision from the EU Innovation Fund 
for the PULSE project focusing on 
chemical recycling of waste plastic in 
Porvoo.

• Neste was awarded with public 
funding for Porvoo refinery hydrogen 
projects by Business Finland. The 
funding was made possible by the 
IPCEI status granted to Neste earlier 
the same year by the European 
Commission.

• VTT and Neste agreed on building 
an integrated Power-to-Liquids 
(e-fuels) demonstration facility at 
VTT Bioruukki Pilot Centre for CO2 
capture, green hydrogen and e-fuels 
production.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Material sustainability topics

Clean energy
• Neste increases the share of renewable energy 

in the global energy mix by producing and selling 
low-emission renewable fuels for example for road 
transportation and aviation. 
 » Starting in 2023, Neste will supply the Air France-

KLM Group with more than 1 million tons of Neste 
MY Sustainable Aviation Fuel™ over a period of  
8 years.

 » Neste’s partnership with Fly Victor allows Victor’s 
customers to replace fossil fuel by purchasing Neste 
MY Sustainable Aviation Fuel for every private jet 
booking globally.

 » In the next five years, Neste will supply DHL 
with approximately 320,000 tons of Neste MY 
Sustainable Aviation Fuel.

 » Neste and Rolls-Royce agreed to build a strategic 
partnership on accelerating the use of renewable 
diesel as a lower-emission solution for diesel 
engines.

 » Neste partnered with EDi Energie-Direkt Hohenlohe 
GmbH and TOOL-FUEL Services GmbH to sell 
Neste MY Renewable Diesel in Germany.

 » Neste introduced co-processed marine fuel in 
partnership with Nordic Marine Oil – a new solution 
for the maritime sector enabling up to 80% GHG 
emission reduction.

• Neste aims for 100% renewable electricity use globally 
by 2023. This target was achieved ahead of schedule 
in Finland with the new hydropower agreement with 
Vattenfall. Neste has wind power agreements in place 
with Fortum, Ilmatar and Statkraft.

https://www.neste.com/sustainability/modern-slavery-statement#43116a54
https://www.neste.com/sustainability/modern-slavery-statement#43116a54
https://www.neste.com/sustainability/people/human-rights/rights-children-youth#f1558afc
https://www.neste.com/sustainability/people/human-rights/rights-children-youth#f1558afc
https://www.neste.com/sustainability/sustainability-neste/innovation-drives-our-sustainability#f1558afc
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/innovation/neste-and-climate-infrastructure-and-environment-executive-agency-cinea-european-commission-sign-eu
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/innovation/neste-receive-funding-eu-innovation-fund-chemical-recycling-project-porvoo
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/sustainability/ipcei-grant-awarded-neste-boosts-porvoo-refinerys-green-hydrogen-projects
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/sustainability/ipcei-grant-awarded-neste-boosts-porvoo-refinerys-green-hydrogen-projects
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/sustainability/ipcei-grant-awarded-neste-boosts-porvoo-refinerys-green-hydrogen-projects
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/innovation/vtt-and-neste-agreed-building-integrated-power-liquids-e-fuels-demonstration-facility-vtt-bioruukki
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/innovation/vtt-and-neste-agreed-building-integrated-power-liquids-e-fuels-demonstration-facility-vtt-bioruukki
https://www.neste.com/products/all-products/renewable-road-transport/neste-my-renewable-diesel#f1558afc
https://www.neste.com/products/all-products/renewable-road-transport/neste-my-renewable-diesel#f1558afc
https://www.neste.com/products/all-products/saf#f1558afc
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-supply-air-france-klm-group-more-1-million-tons-sustainable-aviation-fuel
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-supply-air-france-klm-group-more-1-million-tons-sustainable-aviation-fuel
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/victor-and-neste-announce-industry-leading-partnership-reducing-private-jet-charter-emissions-80
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-and-dhl-express-announce-one-largest-ever-sustainable-aviation-fuel-deals
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-and-rolls-royce-building-strategic-partnership-accelerate-shift-fossil-renewable-fuels
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-welcomes-two-new-partners-edi-energie-direkt-hohenlohe-gmbh-and-tool-fuel-services-gmbh-sell
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-welcomes-two-new-partners-edi-energie-direkt-hohenlohe-gmbh-and-tool-fuel-services-gmbh-sell
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-introduces-co-processed-marine-fuel-partnership-nordic-marine-oil-new-solution-maritime-sector
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/sustainability/nestes-aim-100-renewable-electricity-use-be-achieved-ahead-schedule-finland-new-hydropower-agreement
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/climate-change/neste-start-using-wind-power-its-production-sites-finland
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/climate-change/neste-aiming-100-renewable-electricity-use-globally-2023-use-wind-power-will-be-increased-porvoo
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/climate-change/neste-increases-use-renewable-electricity-its-porvoo-refinery-finland-new-wind-power-agreement


33

Responsible consumption 
and production
• Neste creates solutions for combating 

climate change and accelerating a shift to a 
circular economy. We refine waste, residues 
and innovative raw materials into renewable 
fuels and more sustainable feedstock for 
polymers and chemicals.

• Neste is conducting a feasibility study to 
examine technologies to pretreat and 
upgrade liquefied waste plastic at its 
refinery in Porvoo, Finland.

• The Rotterdam refinery expansion 
investment of approximately EUR 1.9 billion 
will expand Neste’s overall renewable 
product capacity by 1.3 million tons per 
annum.

• Neste finalized a transaction to establish a 
joint operation for production of renewable 
fuels with Marathon Petroleum in the United 
States.

• Neste teamed up with Circularise to 
increase visibility along circular polymer and 
chemical value chains.

• Neste acquired European rights to Alterra 
Energy’s thermochemical liquefaction 
technology.

Sustainable cities and communities
• Neste creates value for the society and 

helps customers to reduce greenhouse 
gas emissions by offering lower-emission 
renewable fuels to aviation and road 
transportation. Neste’s renewable products 
may also help reducing transportation-
related local emissions and improving local 
air quality in urban areas.
 » Neste’s renewable diesel is used to 

power the fleets of major Californian 
cities, e.g. Twin Rivers Unified School 
District. 

• Neste's sustainable aviation fuel was 
introduced at two of the largest Japanese 
international airports; Tokyo Haneda and 
Narita. 

• Neste introduces public high power 
charging (HPC) at its service stations in 
Finland for light and medium-duty electric 
vehicles.

• Neste participated in the nationwide energy 
saving campaign ‘Down a Degree’ in 
Finland by reducing energy consumption at 
its facilities.

• The Finnish Ham Trick encourages 
households in Finland to recycle Christmas 
waste fats into renewable diesel.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Material sustainability topics

Reducing inequalities
• Neste views inequality as a systemic risk that requires urgent action 

from business, and is taking actions to address inequality by creating a 
diverse, equitable and inclusive workplace and value chain, preparing our 
employees for the future of work, providing safe and secure employment, 
and paying and promoting living wages.

• Neste is an active member of the WBCSD Business Commission to 
Tackle Inequality (BCTI), a multi-stakeholder coalition of organizations 
who put addressing inequality at the heart of the business agenda for 
sustainable growth.

• Neste’s human rights ambition for 2030 is to create a more equitable and 
inclusive value chain, in which everyone works with dignity. This includes 
reducing inequalities across the value chain, paying a living wage to our 
own employees and requiring strategic contractors and suppliers to do 
the same, advancing responsible recruitment practices to ensure that no 
worker pays for a job, and increasing children’s access to education.

• In 2022, Neste completed a living wage gap assessment for its own 
employees in Finland, using data provided by the Fair Wage Network.  
The results of this assessment enabled Neste to verify that all its 
employees working in Finland receive compensation above the local living 
wage benchmark. Neste also started using living wage data in sustainability 
audits for raw materials suppliers. 

• In 2022, Neste partnered with Work Ahead to launch the use of a worker 
voice tool in Neste’s supply chains. The worker voice tool is an audio-visual 
survey that enables direct and anonymous engagement with workers using 
mobile devices. 

• Neste completed a major update of its Human Rights Principle in 2022, 
which covers a number of topics critical to addressing inequality. 

• Neste is a signatory to the UN Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs) 
and conducts an annual WEPs gender gap analysis. 

• Neste has signed two Unilever Partner Promises – the Supplier Equity, 
Diversity and Inclusion Promise and the Living Wage/Living  
Income Promise.

https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/circular-economy/new-pretreatment-and-upgrading-capabilities-neste-works-next-step-towards-commercializing-chemical
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/circular-economy/new-pretreatment-and-upgrading-capabilities-neste-works-next-step-towards-commercializing-chemical
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-invests-its-world-scale-renewable-products-refinery-rotterdam
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-finalizes-transaction-establish-joint-venture-production-renewable-fuels-marathon-petroleum
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-finalizes-transaction-establish-joint-venture-production-renewable-fuels-marathon-petroleum
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-finalizes-transaction-establish-joint-venture-production-renewable-fuels-marathon-petroleum
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/circular-economy/transparent-and-traceable-neste-teams-circularise-increase-visibility-along-circular-polymers-and
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/circular-economy/chemical-recycling-plastic-neste-acquires-european-rights-alterra-energys-thermochemical
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/circular-economy/chemical-recycling-plastic-neste-acquires-european-rights-alterra-energys-thermochemical
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-renewable-diesel-power-fleet-yet-another-major-californian-city-city-san-diego-switched
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-renewable-diesel-power-fleet-yet-another-major-californian-city-city-san-diego-switched
https://journeytozerostories.neste.com/renewable-solutions/neste-twin-rivers-unified-school-districts-transforms-school-buses-fossil-fuel#711ca977
https://journeytozerostories.neste.com/renewable-solutions/neste-twin-rivers-unified-school-districts-transforms-school-buses-fossil-fuel#711ca977
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/aviation/neste-and-itochu-expand-partnership-grow-availability-sustainable-aviation-fuel-japan
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/aviation/neste-and-itochu-expand-partnership-grow-availability-sustainable-aviation-fuel-japan
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-offer-public-electric-vehicles-charging-service-its-stations-finland-complement-its-portfolio
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-offer-public-electric-vehicles-charging-service-its-stations-finland-complement-its-portfolio
https://tacklinginequality.org/
https://tacklinginequality.org/
https://www.neste.com/sustainability/people/respecting-human-rights/2030-human-rights-ambition#f1558afc


34

Climate action 
• Neste's climate vision is to lead 

transformation towards carbon neutral 
value chain by 2040. Our climate 
commitments cover the entire value 
chain (scopes 1, 2 & 3). Read more 
about our commitments.

• In 2022, Neste launched a strategic 
study on transitioning its Porvoo 
refinery to a renewable and circular 
site and ending crude oil refining in the 
mid-2030s.

• Neste includes its climate commitments 
into long-term incentives for Neste’s key 
personnel and its climate impact into the 
investment criteria.

• Neste uses internal carbon price as 
a strategic tool to support its climate 
commitments. 

• Neste and Ajotunti.fi challenge driving 
schools to make climate-conscious 
driving a larger part of their instruction.

• Neste collaborated with Coldplay 
to support the band achieve a 50% 
emission reduction during their 2022 
world tour. 

Life on land 
• Neste is committed to protecting biodiversity with 

a vision to drive a positive impact on biodiversity 
and achieve a nature positive 1) value chain by 
2040. We aim to create net positive impacts for 
biodiversity from new activities from 2025 onwards. 

• Neste is committed to preventing deforestation 
and requires the same from its suppliers.

• In 2022, Neste joined the Consumer Goods Forum 
(CGF) Forest Positive Coalition to strengthen our 
collaboration on preventing deforestation. We also 
initiated a project that focuses on deforestation 
prevention in the animal fat waste supply chain.  

• Biodiversity and climate topics are key when 
assessing potential raw materials. Neste’s raw 
material sourcing for renewable fuels is regulated 
by strict biodiversity criteria as outlined in the EU 
RED II ((EU) 2018/2001). 

• Neste engages in ongoing local activities to protect 
biodiversity, e.g. continuous environmental 
monitoring in the vicinity of the Porvoo refinery and 
Naantali terminal.

• Neste works closely with NGOs and research 
partners who have a strong understanding on 
biodiversity, e.g. with Fauna & Flora International. 

• Neste joined the Science Based Targets Network's 
(SBTN) Corporate Engagement Program to 
develop and set science-based targets for nature.

1) Nature positive: aims at halting and reversing nature loss,  
positive impacts outweighing the adverse impacts 

Partnerships for the goals 
• Partnerships are at the core of the SDGs and we see 

them as the key to advancing sustainable business. 
Recent examples of our partnerships, in addition to 
the aforementioned include: 
 » Neste made the aviation industry’s first ever 

CORSIA certified sustainable aviation fuel 
delivery to American Airlines.

 » Neste collaborated with ATR and Braathens 
to enable the first flight in history with 100% 
sustainable aviation fuel on a regional commercial 
aircraft.

 » ISCC and Circularise piloted blockchain 
technology with 10 companies including Neste, to 
complement mass balance certification.

 » Neste to support research on the Baltic Sea and 
climate change at the CoastClim research center.

 » Neste, Bugaboo, DSM Engineering Materials, 
and Fibrant partnered up to enable industry-
first stroller portfolio with plastics made from bio-
based materials.

 » Collaboration between Neste, Borealis and MAM 
to bring new soother made with renewably-
sourced feedstock to market.

 » Neste, Idemitsu Kosan, CHIMEI Corporation and 
Mitsubishi Corporation joined forces to create a 
renewable plastics supply chain.

 » Neste, Covestro and SK geo centric launched 
cooperation to create a value chain for renewable 
attributed MDI in APAC.

• Read more about our engagement and 
commitments as well as the work we do with our 
stakeholders on pages 40–46.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Material sustainability topics

https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-launches-strategic-study-transitioning-its-porvoo-refinery-renewable-and-circular-site-and
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-launches-strategic-study-transitioning-its-porvoo-refinery-renewable-and-circular-site-and
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-launches-strategic-study-transitioning-its-porvoo-refinery-renewable-and-circular-site-and
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/transportation/15-minute-driving-lesson-can-help-reduce-driving-emissions-15-neste-and-ajotuntifi-challenge-driving
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/nestes-renewable-fuels-take-coldplay-around-world-collaboration-helps-band-towards-50-reduction-its
https://www.neste.com/sustainability/sustainable-supply-chain/preventing-deforestation#f1558afc
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-delivers-aviation-industrys-first-ever-corsia-certified-sustainable-aviation-fuel-american
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-delivers-aviation-industrys-first-ever-corsia-certified-sustainable-aviation-fuel-american
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/first-flight-history-100-sustainable-aviation-fuel-regional-commercial-aircraft
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/circular-economy/iscc-and-circularise-pilot-blockchain-technology-10-companies-including-neste-complement-mass
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/climate-change/neste-support-research-baltic-sea-and-climate-change-coastclim-research-center
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-bugaboo-dsm-engineering-materials-and-fibrant-partner-enable-industry-first-stroller-portfolio
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-bugaboo-dsm-engineering-materials-and-fibrant-partner-enable-industry-first-stroller-portfolio
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/collaboration-between-neste-borealis-and-mam-brings-new-soother-made-renewably-sourced-feedstock
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-idemitsu-kosan-chimei-corporation-and-mitsubishi-corporation-join-forces-create-renewable
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-idemitsu-kosan-chimei-corporation-and-mitsubishi-corporation-join-forces-create-renewable
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-covestro-and-sk-geo-centric-cooperate-create-value-chain-renewable-attributed-mdi-apac
https://www.neste.com/sustainability/society/commitments-and-engagements#f1558afc
https://www.neste.com/sustainability/society/commitments-and-engagements#f1558afc


35

Carbon handprint Helping our customers to reduce 
their GHG emissions

Avoided GHG emissions by Neste customers with 
Neste's products (compared to fossil diesel) in 
MtCO2e 1)

20 MtCO2e annually by 2030 11.1 MtCO2e (10.9 MtCO2e)

Carbon footprint Leading transformation towards 
carbon neutral value chain and 
reaching carbon neutral production

Absolute GHG emissions in our own production 
(scopes 1 & 2) 

50% reduction by 2030 in comparison to 
2019 baseline 3.4 MtCO2

2.5 MtCO2e (2.3 MtCO2) 
28% reduction compared to baseline

Indirect value chain emissions (scope 3): Use phase 
emission intensity of sold fuel products (gCO2e/MJ)

50% reduction by 2040 in comparison to 
2020 baseline of 58 gCO2e/MJ

57 gCO2e/MJ (55 gCO2e/MJ) 
2% reduction compared to baseline

Energy consumption savings achieved during 
reporting year (GWh) and cumulative energy 
consumption savings during 2017–2025 compared to 
500 GWh target (%)

2017–2025 target: 500 GWh Energy consumption savings during reporting year 42.6 GWh 
(95.8 GWh) Cumulative savings 2017–2022 compared to target: 
49% (41%) achieved

Share of renewable electricity of total purchased 
electricity (%) 
- scope 2 (market-based) measures (%) 
- additional measures 2) (%)

Aiming for 100% renewable electricity by 2023 93.8% (36.5%) scope 2 (market-based) measures 
5.9% additional measures 2)

Protecting  
biodiversity, air,  
water and soil

Driving a positive impact on 
biodiversity and achieve a nature 
positive value chain by 2040 

Management of biodiversity impacts Creating net positive impacts (NPI) for 
biodiversity from own direct new activities 
from 2025 onwards, and no net loss (NNL) 
of biodiversity from all own direct ongoing 
activities by 2035

Net positive and net loss impact methodology developed; 
Baseline evaluation in two of Neste largest sites in Porvoo and 
Naantali completed

Direct driver for biodiversity change:  
Freshwater use and effluents

Introducing own direct water impacts into the 
nature positive roadmap

Freshwater use and effluents defined as main pressures on nature 
from own direct operations within scope studied 

Availability of pollution prevention technology 100% availability of pollution prevention 
technology at refineries and terminals

Availability of pollution prevention technology on average 98% 
(94%) at refineries and terminals

Number of permit violations Zero permit violations for Oil Products (OP) 
and Renewable Products (RP)

Permit violations: 3 (2), of which 2 (2) in OP and 1 (0) in RP

Material topic Objective Key performance indicator Target Performance in 2022 SDG link

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Material sustainability topics

Material sustainability KPIs

SDG10: Reducing inequalities

SDG15: Life on land

SDG7: Clean energy

SDG11: Sustainable cities and communities SDG13: Climate action

SDG9: Industry, innovation and infrastructureSDG8: Decent work and economic growth

SDG12: Responsible consumption and production SDG17: Partnerships for the goals

9

9

9

12

12

17

17

17

11

11

15

7

7

13

13

13

1) Annual greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction achieved with Neste’s renewable products compared to 100% crude oil based fuel. Calculation method complies with the EU Renewable Energy Directive II (EU) 2018/2001 and the California LCFS methodology, 
 which has been applied in the GHG reporting for volumes sold in the US since the beginning of 2022.
2) Additional measures include available market-based renewable electricity instruments, e.g. i-RECs in APAC/Singapore, which are not currently eligible for scope 2 market-based accounting



36Neste Annual Report 2022 | Material sustainability topics

Safety, health 
and wellbeing 

Ensuring the health and safety of 
employees and contractors in all 
Neste locations and supply chain 

Total Recordable Incident Frequency (TRIF) 3) 1.5 for 2022, long-term target: Zero accidents TRIF 2.0 (1.4)

Process Safety Event Rate (PSER) 4) 1.5 for 2022, long-term target: Zero accidents PSER 1.4 (1.4)

Safe days (including environmental permit violations) 318 for 2022, long-term target: Continuously 
increasing the number of Safe Days

314 (306) Safe Days

Strengthening Neste culture that 
supports the physical and mental 
wellbeing of our employees 

Wellbeing index from employee engagement survey 
(Forward Survey) consisting of elements and scores in 
engagement, wellbeing, change adaptation

Baseline 2021 results: Engagement 66, 
wellbeing 59, change adaptation 60  
Target is to maintain results on a good level

Engagement 66 (66), wellbeing 61 (59), change adaptation 62 
(60) 5)

Modern slavery Managing modern slavery risks 
in Neste operations and supply 
chains

Number of Neste employees who have received 
training on modern slavery

To increase the number of employees who 
have received training on modern slavery, 
prioritizing those involved in supply chains and 
procurement

Training on forced labor and vulnerable groups carried out for 
2,689 (3,381) employees as part of Neste's Code of Conduct 
e-learning

Human Rights Due Diligence (HRDD) 6) carried out for 
key business areas/functions

To strengthen Neste’s capacity to identify, 
assess, and address human rights risks in our 
operations and supply chains

Four major assessments/initiatives undertaken in 2022: 
1) Company-wide assessment to review Neste’s salient issues  
 and their mitigation 
2) Human Rights Risk Assessments completed for  
 Neste indirect procurement  
3) Living wage gap assessment completed for Neste’s  
 own employees in Finland  
4) CGF human rights due diligence assessments completed  
 for production (Singapore) and shipping

Improve HRDD maturity level for Neste own opera-
tions using the Consumer Goods Forum HRC assess-
ment framework and KPIs.7)

Achieve CGF Leadership Level for 100% of 
own operations by 2025

75% of the "launched" maturity level achieved in 2022

Material topic Objective Key performance indicator Target Performance in 2022 SDG link

SDG10: Reducing inequalities

SDG15: Life on land

SDG7: Clean energy

SDG11: Sustainable cities and communities SDG13: Climate action

SDG9: Industry, innovation and infrastructureSDG8: Decent work and economic growth

SDG12: Responsible consumption and production SDG17: Partnerships for the goals

9

17

8

8 10

3) Number of cases per million hours worked. Includes both Neste’s and contractors’ personnel, except for Mahoney operations and Singapore expansion which have been internally reported and followed-up separately in 2022.
4) Number of cases per million hours worked.
5) Demeter and Mahoney not included.
6) HRDD refers to any activities carried out to identify, assess, address, prevent or mitigate forced labor risks, such as developing internal processes, carrying out impact assessments, risk mapping, gap assessments, etc
7) The Consumer Goods Forum HRDD maturity assessments for own operations have three achievement levels: Launched, Established, and Leadership.



37Neste Annual Report 2022 | Material sustainability topics

Diversity,  
equity 
and inclusion

Fostering a diverse and an 
inclusive workplace that ensures 
fair treatment and development 
of the skills base and innovation 
power needed for the company 
growth 

Multi-country teams (%) Increasing trend 15% (16%) are multi-country teams 5)

Women in staff (%), female representation in line 
manager positions (%) and senior management (%)

To increase women's representation in line 
manager positions and senior management 
close to the representation of females in staff 
(%)

Women in staff 32.2% (31.5%) 
30.7% (29.8%) women in line manager positions 
27.4% (25.8%) women in senior management

Response rate to employee engagement survey (%) Maintain a high response rate of 80% or 
above

80% (81%) 5)

Engaged  
and talented  
workforce

Ensuring engaged, well led 
and competent employees 
Strengthening Neste culture 
that supports strong sense of 
belonging and versatile growth 
opportunities 

Employee engagement score from employee 
engagement survey (Forward Survey) 

Maintain a good level of employee 
engagement 

Employee engagement score 5) 66 (66), which was in line with 
global benchmark result. Majority of employees thought favorably 
of working at Neste and would recommend Neste as a workplace. 
66% (65%) felt happy working at Neste, 80% (78%) understood 
how own work contributes to company’s success, 75% (70%) 
thought Neste acts in a responsible way, 76% (79%) saw safety 
as a priority for Neste.

Leadership score from employee engagement survey 
(Forward Survey) indicating the support received from 
the line manager  

To maintain or exceed previous year’s level Manager support score 74 (75) 5)

Training hours per employee To maintain or exceed previous year’s level 20.8 hours (17.8)

The external turnover for the year To retain employees. Target is to keep the 
exits lower than the external benchmark level 

Leaving rate of permanent employees 10.2% (13.0%)  
Hiring rate of permanent employees 18.3% (12.1%)

Material topic Objective Key performance indicator Target Performance in 2022 SDG link

SDG10: Reducing inequalities

SDG15: Life on land

SDG7: Clean energy

SDG11: Sustainable cities and communities SDG13: Climate action

SDG9: Industry, innovation and infrastructureSDG8: Decent work and economic growth

SDG12: Responsible consumption and production SDG17: Partnerships for the goals

8

8

10

10

5) Demeter and Mahoney not included.



38Neste Annual Report 2022 | Material sustainability topics

Stakeholder  
engagement,  
communication  
and transparency 

Ensuring the appropriate scope 
and quality of information 
disclosure related to own 
operations and business practices 
in the supply chain and ensuring 
an ongoing, meaningful process of 
interaction and dialogue with our 
stakeholders

Monthly supply chain grievance log updates To roll out 12x yearly updated supply chain 
grievance logs 

12 (12) monthly logs

Regular Supply Chain Transparency via Traceability 
Dashboard (Palm & PFAD) 

To publish information twice yearly 2 (2) publications

Innovation Fostering innovative solutions for 
sustainable development

Research and development expenditure Fostering innovative solutions for sustainable 
development

85 EUR million (67 EUR million)

Number of granted patents   
Number of pending patent applications

An increasing trend 2,073 granted patents   
683 pending patent applications 

Partnerships Initiating and fostering partnerships 
between Neste and its partners 
to address the challenges of and 
innovate solutions for sustainable 
development

Collaborations with research institutions and 
universities 

Initiating and fostering partnerships between 
Neste and its partners 

35 collaboration partnerships 

Sustainable  
products  
and services

Ensuring that sustainability is 
integrated into Neste’s product 
and service portfolio  

Volume of liquefied waste plastic processed (t/a) To process more than 1 Mt of liquefied waste 
plastics from 2030 onwards to increase 
circularity of plastics and to reduce crude oil 
dependence in refining and petrochemical 
processes 

1,400 (400) tons of liquefied waste plastic  

Production of Neste Renewable Diesel and SAF, 
1,000 ton

Increasing trend 2,988 (3,043) tons

Share of Clean Revenue from Group revenue, %; and 
Share of investments consisting of Clean CAPEX, 
Clean R&D and Clean M&A (Clean Investments), % 

To maintain the annual share compared to 
previous year

Clean Revenue 38.9% (39.3%)
Clean Investments 88.3% (68.5%) 

Material topic Objective Key performance indicator Target Performance in 2022 SDG link

SDG10: Reducing inequalities

SDG15: Life on land

SDG7: Clean energy

SDG11: Sustainable cities and communities SDG13: Climate action

SDG9: Industry, innovation and infrastructureSDG8: Decent work and economic growth

SDG12: Responsible consumption and production SDG17: Partnerships for the goals

9

9

12

12

12

12

17

17

17

17

8

8

11

11

15

15

15

7

7

7

10

10

10

13

13

13



39Neste Annual Report 2022 | Material sustainability topics

Supply chain  
and raw material  
sustainability

Ensuring sustainability of Neste 
suppliers and business partners 
and raw materials' sustainability

Percentage of business partners who have committed 
to Neste’s minimum sustainability requirements in the 
Supplier Code of Conduct (%) 

100% of business partners committed 99% 8) (99%) of the renewable raw material volumes, 84% (88%) 
of the crude oil and fossil raw materials volumes, and 73% of 
overall indirect contracted spend (87% of all indirect procurement 
supplier contracts commencing in 2022) were covered by Neste 
Supplier Code of Conduct or equivalent

The number of renewable raw material supplier’s 
sustainability assessments and their outcome 

To assess all new renewable raw material 
suppliers against sustainability criteria

Total: 325 (223), New approved suppliers: 223 (171), All 
approved: 236 (186), Pending: 74 (33), Rejected: 15 (4) 9)

The percentage of new Oil Products suppliers 
undergone Sustainability Desktop Review 

To assess all new Oil Products suppliers 
against sustainability criteria

100% (100%) of the new OP suppliers assessed

A total of sustainability audits conducted To increase the number of sustainability audits 
conducted, prioritizing through a risk-based 
approach

118 (27) sustainability audits 

Share of waste and residues of global renewable raw 
material inputs (%)

Growing the sourcing of waste and residue 
raw materials globally 10)

95% (92%)

Ethics,  
compliance  
and corporate  
governance

Ensuring good corporate 
governance practices in 
accordance with the laws and 
regulations applicable as well as 
to operate in an ethical way in the 
society

A total of suspected misconducts reported in person 
or via the whistleblowing line to the Investigations 
Group

To further encourage employees and external 
stakeholders to report observed or suspected 
misconduct

A total of 14 (18) suspected misconducts were reported in 
person or via the whistleblowing line to the Investigations Group 
in the following categories: HR 2 (4) reports, discrimination and 
harassment 2 (2), conflict of interest 0 (3), bribery, corruption 
and facilitation payment 1 (2) fraud 4 (0), theft, asset misuse 
& embezzlement 3 (0), supplier/business partner misconduct/
unethical behavior 1 (0) and 1 (7) reports which fell outside of 
these categories in Other

Code of Conduct training rate All Neste employees completed the training 95% have completed the Neste Code of Conduct e-learning.11)

Corporate governance reporting in the Corporate 
Governance Statement

Economic 
responsibility

Reporting in the Financial Statements

Material topic Objective Key performance indicator Target Performance in 2022 SDG link

8) Agri Trading excluded.
9) Figures include existing suppliers, which undergo a sustainability assessment process every 3-5 years. Supplier data includes only main contractual parties, excluding sub-suppliers.
10) The share of waste and residue raw materials of Neste’s renewable raw material inputs globally is expected to stay above 90% in the coming years, while in the longer term, the growth in novel vegetable oils’ availability may increase the share of sustainably produced vegetable oils
11) 2021 and 2022 completions included as the training was launched in 2021 to office workers and in 2022 to blue-collars

SDG10: Reducing inequalities

SDG15: Life on land

SDG7: Clean energy

SDG11: Sustainable cities and communities SDG13: Climate action

SDG9: Industry, innovation and infrastructureSDG8: Decent work and economic growth

SDG12: Responsible consumption and production SDG17: Partnerships for the goals

9

12

17

8

11 15

10

9

12

12

8

8

10

10



40

Our key stakeholders are
• Corporate customers and consumers 
• Analysts and shareholders 
• Policymakers, authorities and legislators 
• Suppliers of goods, raw materials and services 
• Non-governmental organizations, industry 

associations and cooperation bodies 

We aim for continuous, active and open dialogue with our 
stakeholders and regularly seek external views on our operations. 

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Stakeholder engagement

• Universities, think tanks  
and research organizations 

• Local communities 
• Media 
• Our own employees  

and management

We follow the business environment actively and engage with relevant stakeholder 
groups. We also involve our stakeholders in our materiality assessment process to 
seek their views on sustainability topics. Active engagement is essential through-
out our value chain and in the collaboration with suppliers and non-governmental 
organizations.

Stakeholder engagement



41

B2B customers • Engaging through face-to-face and online meetings, newsletters and technical, 
marketing and sustainability-related training sessions 

• Engaging at leadership level to drive sustainable actions across organizations
• Arranging and participating in webinars and events
• Gathering insight and managing satisfaction through surveys
• Developing joint communications and co-branding
• Arranging refinery site visits 

• Accelerating greenhouse gas emissions 
reduction with the use of renewable and 
circular solutions, vision and solutions for zero 
emission future, circular economy, waste plastic 
recycling, sustainability vision and climate 
commitments, sustainable and high-quality 
products and services, supply reliability, safety, 
timely distribution, customer relationships and 
cooperation, innovation and R&D, local operations 
e.g. at Neste refinery sites

• Forming partnerships which reduce customers' carbon footprints 
through renewable and circular solutions

• Co-creating new services, building brand value and interacting with our 
customers and their stakeholders

• Ongoing dialogue
• Arranging site visits for customers
• Supplying our renewable and circular solutions

Consumers • Gathering insight through consumer surveys
• Providing fact sheets, press releases and news to our consumers regularly to best 

serve them with their needs
• Working together with local distributors to provide information to customers
• Doing advertising campaigns to create awareness
• Responding to questions via customer service or via social media

• Product, service and operations sustainability and 
quality, customer relationships and cooperation, 
innovation and R&D

• General information about products, pricing, raw 
materials and the value the products provide

• Communicating proactively
• Responding promptly to questions and concerns via phone, email, 

social media and Neste website

Investors and equity 
analysts 

• Regular engagement through regulatory financial communications (financial reporting, 
stock exchange releases), conference calls, roadshows, individual or group meetings, 
and annual Capital Markets Day

• Climate change mitigation as business opportunity 
and challenge, sustainability of raw materials 
and supply chain, availability of raw materials for 
renewables growth strategy

• Communicating about climate commitments, sustainability vision, 
sourcing and raw materials

• Transparent and regular reporting and disclosure
• Responding to questionnaires by rating companies and investors

Governmental 
organizations

• Sharing views on policies, laws and regulations with officials and legislators through 
public consultations, meetings, as well as part of a larger stakeholder dialogue with 
policymakers

• Arranging site visits

• Climate and emission reduction targets, 
renewable fuels in transport, renewable and 
recycled materials, plastics recycling, circular 
economy, sustainable finance

• Replying to public consultations and providing insights and analysis to 
government officials and politicians

• Participating in the work of industry associations
• Arranging site visits

Key stakeholder How we engage Key topics of interest How we respond

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Stakeholder engagement



42

Suppliers and 
contractors

• Counterparty compliance screening focused on economic sanctions and similar 
compliance issues alongside an extensive sustainability assessment

• Collecting information on our climate change impact annually
• Conducting both external and internal audits. Helping partners to perform corrective 

actions in cases of non-compliances
• Arranging annual supplier sustainability workshops, trainings and seminars to share 

information and support capacity building of the suppliers
• Collaborating closely with our contractors and suppliers to ensure high level of safety, 

efficiency and quality
• Regular meetings with our suppliers to, besides the regular commercial aspects, 

enhance collaboration, find common development avenues and monitor performance

• Sufficient volumes of raw materials, as well as 
other products and services, for Neste needs

• Sustainability of supply chains and suppliers, 
commitment to sustainability including areas of 
governance (e.g. ethical business practices), labor 
and human rights (e.g. forced labor and freedom 
of association), health & safety, environment and 
biodiversity protection

• Potential avenues for enhanced collaboration and 
alignment on Neste and supplier performance on 
multiple dimensions

• Contracts only with and sourcing only from those suppliers and 
contractors who meet our requirements (e.g. Neste Supplier Code of 
Conduct)

• Supplier Code of Conduct (SCoC) trainings and workshops for suppliers 
and contractors

• Practical SCoC information guide for suppliers and other business 
partners

• Providing health, safety and work wellbeing related information and 
instructions for contractors, suppliers and partners

• Continuous search for new renewable raw material suppliers
• Sustainability evaluation on our raw material suppliers
• Collaboration to enhance sustainability performance
• Monitoring sustainability performance of our suppliers and contractors 

through audits. The number of sustainability audits increased in 2022.
• Share information with contractors at Neste sites through regular 

meetings, info sessions, trainings and newsletters 

NGOs • Continuous dialogue with NGOs, e.g. on biodversity and human rights
• Collaboration in joint projects (e.g. projects aiming for transformative sustainability 

improvements regionally and to support the smallholders in improving their 
sustainability performance and certification)

• Ongoing dialogue e.g. transparent reporting on sustainability performance, including 
the status and progress of sustainability-related grievances linked to Neste's raw 
material sourcing

• Ongoing dialogue with the Neste Advisory Council on Sustainability and New Markets

• Climate change mitigation, sustainability, human 
rights, biodiversity, sustainable sourcing (e.g. palm 
oil & PFAD), circularity and recycling aspects

• Sustainability of supply chains and suppliers, commitment to 
sustainability, protecting biodiversity (e.g. preventing deforestation), and 
respecting human rights (e.g. forced labor and freedom of association)

Industry associations • Engaging in dialogue and working with and as members of industry associations
• Providing insight, analysis and our views on different topics
• Taking part in events and seminars

• Climate change mitigation, transport emission 
reductions, circular economy, plastics recycling, 
industry competitiveness, sustainability

• Memberships in relevant organizations, e.g. Renewable Carbon Initiative 
(RCI), FuelsEurope, European Biodiesel Board, and Advanced Biofuels 
Association (US)

• The complete list of Neste's memberships is available on neste.com

Cooperation bodies • Engaging in dialogue with cooperation bodies and supporting initiatives
• Participating in working groups for developing industry related matters within initiatives
• Ensuring the sustainability of our supply chain with certifications

• Sustainability, renewable products, plastics 
recycling, climate change mitigation, resource 
efficiency, circular economy, biodiversity, human 
rights, innovation, climate commitments, emission 
reduction

• Cooperating with, e.g. Task Force on Climate-Related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD), Nordic Business Network for Human Rights, UN 
Global Compact, World Business Council for Sustainable Development 
(WBCSD), International Sustainability & Carbon Certification (ISCC)

• The complete list of Neste's commitments and engagements is 
available on neste.com

Key stakeholder How we engage Key topics of interest How we respond

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Stakeholder engagement

https://www.neste.com/sustainability/society/commitments-and-engagements#f1558afc
https://www.neste.com/sustainability/society/commitments-and-engagements#f1558afc


43

Universities and 
research organizations

• Neste works closely with universities and research centers
• Engaging in dialogue with local and global universities, different research organizations 

as well as researchers all over the world

• Innovation and R&D, renewable and circular 
solutions, green hydrogen, e-fuels, industrial 
chemistry, catalyses, artificial intelligence, among 
others

• Strategic cooperation with, e.g. Aalto University, Åbo Akademi and 
VTT (The Technical Research Centre Finland) and international partners 
mainly in Europe and in the US

• To further strengthen its global innovation and R&D capabilities, Neste 
established an Innovation center in Singapore (operational in 2023)

• Neste has established a competence ecosystem in renewable and 
circular solutions by building a portfolio of R&D&I projects in cooperation 
with universities, research institutes and companies in Finland

Local communities • Engaging in dialogue and collaboration with local communities and production site 
neighbors via newsletters, meetings, regional website and social media

• Arranging site tours for various interest groups
• Engaging and collaborating with local authorities and city representatives
• Volunteer initiatives from employees at local level (e.g. Food Bank, beach cleaning)

• Employment and cooperation opportunities, 
safety and environmental concerns, site 
investments and development as well as impacts 
on the community and neighbors

• Acting sustainably, since our environmental and safety performance 
affects the local communities

• Maintaining an open dialogue with local communities
• Engaging with specific local authorities on local matters of concern
• Employees volunteering for local charitable events
• At the Porvoo refinery, Neste conducts a stakeholder study bi-annually 

to assess the local community and authority perspectives on the refinery 
environmental and safety image and communications. The next study 
will be carried out in 2023

Media • Maintaining and developing relations with media globally, regionally and locally
• Regular distribution and proactive sharing of releases, news and topics to the media
• Actively responding to media inquiries
• Arranging interviews and media events 
• Proactively sharing Neste news and topics to the media

• Announcements, interim results and company 
news, mergers and acquisitions activities, different 
projects, customer stories and cooperations, 
societal and economic topics, innovation, 
research and development, sustainability topics, 
fuel taxing and pricing, oil price fluctuations, 
renewable and circular products and solutions 
(renewable fuels, renewable polymers and 
chemicals)

• Press releases and other materials as well as company information 
materials

• Following and responding to media inquiries through media service by 
Neste's communications

• Connecting the media with the correct spokespersons at Neste
• Actively working together with media to best serve them

Employees • Promoting cooperation by emphasizing the importance of social interaction and 
sharing thoughts and ideas

• Ensuring regular discussions around development, values and wellbeing through 
Forward Discussion process 

• Employee engagement through several measures, e.g employee feedback through 
regular pulse surveys, team and individual discussions, town hall meetings and team 
days

• Systematic support for health, safety and wellbeing of Neste personnel
• Active communication, dialogue and cooperation with internal stakeholders, including 

employees, line managers and employee representatives

• Neste strategy and values, sustainability, climate 
commitments, health, safety and wellbeing, 
learning & development, business ethics & code 
of conduct, diversity, equity and inclusion

• Proactive and systematic communication and training regarding topics 
of interest, responsive communication and dialogue on topics raised by 
employees

• Individual development discussions, development tools and programs
• Flexible ways of working and tools to support, e.g. Smart Work
• Fit for purpose leadership development, e.g. tailored leadership program 

WeLead
• Team discussions on different topics, e.g. safety and employee survey 

results 
• Support for leading ourselves and others through challenging times,  

ie. support material for people leaders, coaching 

Key stakeholder How we engage Key topics of interest How we respond

We believe in collaboration and want to be actively involved in developing a more sustainable future. We participate in the development of our industry, relevant associations, NGOs and aim to actively engage in open dialogue with all our stakeholders.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Stakeholder engagement



44

Global increase in efforts 
to combat climate change 
Neste’s commitment to limiting global warming by accel-
erating a shift to a circular economy means we engage 
actively with policymakers, regulators and the wider 
stakeholder community to drive and implement change. 

Main policy and legislative 
developments in Europe
The European Commission’s Fit for 55 package aims 
to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 55% by 2030 
(compared to 1990 levels). Neste continued to work with 
all three European institutions throughout 2022 as the 
European Parliament and Council debated the Commis-
sion’s proposals. The legislative package is part of the 
European Green Deal, which aims to make the Euro-
pean Union climate neutral by 2050.

Neste supported the process by meeting with policy-
makers to discuss technical aspects of the regulations, 
as well as how to support the rollout of climate technol-
ogies through legislation. In particular, Neste called for 
higher ambition in the Fit for 55 package with regards to 
decarbonizing the transport sector. 

In September 2022, trilogue negotiations started for 
the ReFuelEU Aviation regulation proposal, which aims 
to increase production and use of sustainable aviation 
fuels (SAF) to lower greenhouse gas emissions in the 
aviation sector. Currently, the proposal puts obligations 
on fuel suppliers to distribute SAF at EU airports, and 
states that all flights departing from EU airports must 
carry a minimum amount of SAF – an amount that will 
increase periodically until 2050. As the world’s leading 
producer of SAF Neste is committed to achieving an 
EU-wide obligation.

The revision of the Renewable Energy Directive (so 
called RED III) advanced to trilogue negotiations in Octo-
ber 2022. Under RED III, the EU would be obliged to 

ensure that at least 40% of its energy consumption 
comes from renewable energy sources by 2030. During 
the legislative process both the European Parliament and 
the Council have recognized the need to increase the 
ambition for the transport sector. The negotiations have 
also been characterized by the demand for stricter sus-
tainability criteria in the production of renewable energy.

Prompted by the war in Ukraine, in May 2022, the 
European Commission published its ‘REPowerEU’ plan 
outlining the EU’s path to energy independence from 
Russian fossil fuels by 2027. The plan includes a 66% cut 
in Russian gas consumption by the end of 2022. Con-
sequently the EU is accelerating its transition to renew-
able energy sources. As part of the REPowerEU plan the 
Commission proposes to further raise the EU’s renew-
able energy target to 45% share by 2030. The combi-
nation of sustainability priorities and EU energy security 
and competitiveness agendas represents a significant 
moment for the shaping of EU policy.

Neste recognizes and supports the need to diversify 
renewable energy sources in order to substitute conven-
tional fossil fuel imports, thereby establishing a future-
proof energy system.

 Although in the long term, the ambition to reduce the 
transport sector’s emissions is increasing at EU level, 
concerns over high fuel prices led some Member States 
to review their renewable fuels obligation in 2022. The 
Finnish government decided to decrease the national 
distribution obligation of renewable transport fuels by 
7.5% points in 2022 and 2023. The emission reductions 
lost in 2022–2023 will be compensated for by raising the 
distribution obligation between 2024–2030, with a tar-
get of 34% by 2030.

Other EU Member States raised their ambitions. Italy 
has included biofuels as part of its decarbonization strat-
egy and been an active player in the Fit for 55 negotia-
tions. Italy has promoted ambitious domestic policies, 

such as the forthcoming “neat” biofuel submandate, 
which is likely to foster a robust demand for biofuels 
across the market, contributing to a higher GHG emis-
sion reduction in road transportation. 

There is an unprecedented and politically ambitious 
push to produce legislation, particularly as 2023 will 
be the final year of the current European Commission’s 
mandate. 

Multiple initiatives under the Green Deal that pro-
vide the legal framework for Renewable Polymers and 
Chemicals have been proposed, with different timelines 
for implementation: 

• Mandatory requirements on recycled plastic content 
for key products such as packaging (2022). This will 
be followed by construction materials and vehicles 
(2023).

• A policy framework for bio-based plastics and 
biodegradable or compostable plastics (2022).

• A Regulation on substantiating environmental claims 
using the product/organization environmental 
footprint methods (2023).

• A Regulation on ecodesign for sustainable products, 
which will outline EU rules for regulating a number 
of goods and products in the coming years, 
including rules for recycled content, sustainability 
requirements, traceability and transparency (2023 for 
finalization and entry into force).

Other EU policies and legislative proposals include, but 
are not limited to, the Corporate Sustainability Due Dili-
gence Directive, the Deforestation Regulation, and dele-
gated acts under the Taxonomy Regulation.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Stakeholder engagement



45

Main policy and legislative 
developments in North America 
In the United States, climate initiatives were mostly 
implemented through the federal Inflation Reduction 
Act. This included an extension of the current Blend-
ers Tax Credit for biofuels through 2024 and created a 
new Sustainable Aviation Fuel credit, also through 2024. 
Neste liaised closely with policymakers on the creation 
of this credit, which marks the first time the significance 
of SAF is recognized in federal climate policy. A Clean 
Fuels Production Credit was created for both road and 
aviation fuels that will be active from 2025. However it 
links the biofuel value to CI score and requires domestic 
US production. This narrowed eligibility is controversial 
and may be revisited by the new congress.

The Biden Administration launched the ‘SAF Grand 
Challenge’ and released its plans to promote the use of 
SAF to reduce emissions in aviation. Its three primary 
goals include achieving a minimum 50% reduction in the 
life cycle GHG emissions compared to conventional fuel; 
producing three billion gallons of SAF per year by 2030; 
and supplying sufficient SAF to meet 100% of aviation 
fuel demand by 2050.

The US Environmental Protection Agency finalized the 
renewable volume obligations (RVOs) for years 2020, 
2021, and 2022, as well as denied 69 pending Small 
Refinery Exemptions (SREs). A draft of the Renewable 
Fuel Standard program “set rule” is expected in Novem-
ber 2022, which will establish future RVOs based on six 
statutory factors.

The states of California and Oregon are in the pro-
cess of revising their Low Carbon Fuel Standard pro-
grams. The state of Washington is scheduled to finalize 
the rules to complement its Clean Fuel Standard in time 
for a January 2023 start date. California has declared 
a state policy of achieving net zero emissions no later 
than 2045 (AB 4279) and to achieve and maintain net 
negative GHG emissions thereafter. Its target is state-
wide anthropogenic GHG emissions reduced to at least 
85% below the 1990 levels by 2045. While the California 

Governor vetoed a bill that would set goals for intrastate 
SAF use, the proposal may be considered administra-
tively by California Air Resources Board.

Canada adopted a federal Clean Fuel Standard (CFS) 
after several years of deliberation. Its targets include 
reducing the carbon intensity of Canada’s fuel pool by 
15% by 2030 from 2016 levels. Renewable fuels used in 
aviation (SAF) are allowed to contribute to the CFS via an 
opt-in provision. Federal credits can be earned, in addi-
tion to any credits earned from provincial programs. The 
government also released a federal Emissions Reduc-
tion Plan to reduce overall greenhouse gas emissions 
by 40–45% by 2030. Progress reports are required in 
2023, 2025 and 2027, with additional targets and plans 
for 2035 to 2050. British Columbia is revising its Low 
Carbon Fuels Act and is now expected to finalize it in the 
first half of 2023.

This year Canada announced a nation-wide ban on 
select single use plastic items applicable from Decem-
ber 2022. It will be enforced incrementally up to 2025.

Main policy and legislative 
developments in Asia-Pacific
Having announced a net zero emissions goal by 2050, 
New Zealand continues to take action to decarbonize 
road, marine and aviation transport. The government 
proposed the introduction of a Sustainable Biofuels Obli-
gation for road transport and separately for marine. From 
1 April 2024 onwards, fuel wholesalers are expected to 
reach a starting emissions reduction target of 2.4% and 
3.5% in 2025.

Australia’s first Bioenergy Roadmap was published in 
November 2021. Australian Renewable Energy Agency’s 
(ARENA) modeling shows that biofuels could account for 
about 10% of the total diesel market by 2050. The gov-
ernment’s Climate Change Bill, which passed in August 
2022, will enshrine into law an emissions reduction tar-
get of 43% from 2005 levels by 2030 and net zero emis-
sions by 2050.

In April 2021, Japan announced plans to raise its GHG 
emission reduction target for 2030 from 26% to 46% 
(compared to 2013 levels) to meet the overall target of 
carbon neutrality by 2050. The Ministry of Land Infrastruc-
ture Transport and Tourism (MLIT) has also announced a 
10% target for SAF blending by 2030 as well as a draft 
Basic Policy for Promoting Decarbonization of Aviation 
which aims for a 16% reduction of CO2 emissions for 
domestic flights by 2030 and carbon neutrality by 2050. 
A key policy development will be the planned revision of 
the 3rd Ordinance on Biofuels (2023–2027).

Singapore, a forerunner in policy and regulatory devel-
opment in the Asian region, has raised its national cli-
mate target to achieve net zero emissions by 2050, and 
will also reduce emissions to around 60 million tonnes of 
carbon dioxide equivalent (MtCO2e) from 65 MtCO2e as 
part of its revised 2030 Nationally Determined Contribu-
tion. The reduction of aviation and maritime emissions 
from travel and trade are part of its Green Plan 2030. An 
International Advisory Panel (IAP), which Neste was part 
of, has produced a report with a series of recommen-
dations including the use of SAF which will feed into a 
government blueprint to make Singapore a Sustainable 
Air Hub.

South Korea plans to expand domestic biofuel use 
through the adoption of a marine biofuel mandate by 
2025, a SAF mandate by 2026 and by raising its 2030 
biofuels blending mandate in its diesel pool to increase 
its biofuels blending mandate to 8% (5% FAME and 3% 
HVO) by 2030 as part of its Eco-Friendly Biofuel Devel-
opment Measures. The government has pledged car-
bon neutrality by 2050 and has some of the strongest 
restrictions on plastics in the Asian region, including a 
ban on single-use plastics and fines for not meeting gov-
ernment mandated plastic use targets.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Stakeholder engagement



46

Research cooperation
In 2022, we continued to strengthen our cooperation 
with companies, startups, universities and research 
institutions: 
• Neste’s Veturi ecosystem brings together Finnish 

companies, startups, universities and research 
institutes to jointly build the future capabilities 
needed to establish new value chains in renewable 
and circular solutions. 

• Strategic cooperation with VTT, which fosters the 
joint use and development of research infrastructures 
in Finland. 

• Strategic cooperation with Aalto University and Åbo 
Akademi University with the aim of improving the 
competitiveness of parties while increasing Finnish 
chemical industry expertise, including in such fields 
as chemical and process engineering, bioeconomy, 
digitalization and circular economy. 

• Neste, together with UPM and Borealis Polymers, is 
supporting a chemistry professorship specializing in 
circular economy at the University of Helsinki. 

• A five-year sponsorship for Helsinki University’s 
Centre for Coastal Ecosystem and Climate Change 
Research (CoastClim) was established, to further 
understand how the condition of the seas and 
climate change are linked.

• The cooperation also continued, for example, in our 
projects related to green hydrogen in Rotterdarm and 
Porvoo.

In addition, we actively engage in dialogue with sev-
eral universities and research institutes on collaboration 
opportunities.

   Read more about our research cooperation.

The Advisory Council on Sustainability and New Markets
The Advisory Council on Sustainability and New Markets, established in 2019, is an independent external council consist-
ing of a group of carefully selected experts able to provide strategic insight, guidance and assistance on our sustainability 
work. They are committed to helping accelerate Neste’s transformation and broadening its sustainability leadership activ-
ities. The council convenes three times a year and is chaired by John Elkington, one of the pioneers of the global sustain-
ability movement. 

From left to right: 
Geoffrey Weston, Senior Partner and Global Head of Bain & Company’s Global Airlines, Logistics and Transportation sector, Bain
Bernice Lee, Executive Director of the Hoffman Centre for Sustainable Resource Economy, Chatham House
James Cameron, Senior Adviser to Pollination Group and Adviser to COP26 Presidency
Vanessa Perez Cirera, Global Director for Economics at World Resources Institute
John Elkington, Founder & Chief Pollinator, Volans
Louise Kjellerup Roper, CEO, Volans
Marcius Extavour, EVP of Climate & Energy & Chief Scientist, XPRIZE

External recognitions in 2022 
• Dow Jones Sustainability Indices 
• CDP Climate Change and Forests 

Assessment Leadership level, A–
• Corporate Knights Global 100: among the  

100 most sustainable companies in the world 
for the 17th consecutive time

• MSCI ESG Rating Index, AAA
• Ecovadis Platinum rating
• S&P Global Sustainability Yearbook
• The European Chamber of Commerce in 

Singapore Travel & Transport category winner
• The best sustainability reporting in 2021  

in two categories: Human rights and 
Stakeholders’ Favorite by the Finnish 
Association of Authorized Public Accountants 
Sustainability Reporting competition

• German Sustainability Award finalist

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Stakeholder engagement

https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/climate-change/neste-support-research-baltic-sea-and-climate-change-coastclim-research-center
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/climate-change/neste-support-research-baltic-sea-and-climate-change-coastclim-research-center
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/climate-change/neste-support-research-baltic-sea-and-climate-change-coastclim-research-center
https://www.neste.com/about-neste/innovation/partnering-co-innovation-ecosystems#f1558afc
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/sustainability/neste-recognized-again-among-sustainability-leaders-2022-dow-jones-sustainability-indices
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/sustainability/neste-reached-leadership-level-cdps-2022-climate-change-assessment
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/sustainability/neste-among-100-most-sustainable-companies-world-17th-consecutive-time
https://www.neste.com/sustainability/performance/sustainability-indices#f1558afc
https://www.neste.com/sustainability/performance/sustainability-indices#f1558afc
https://www.neste.com/sustainability/performance/sustainability-indices#f1558afc


47

Value creation
Input 
Indirect upstream

  
Direct upstream

  
Indirect downstream

Outcome 
Impact

Output
Direct downstream

• Number of suppliers in 
 » Renewable Products 557
 » Oil Products 85 1)

 » Indirect procurement 6,816
• Operations in 15 countries
• Production in 4 countries

• Total equity 8,327 MEUR
• R&D expenditure 85 MEUR
• Interest-bearing net debt 1,344 MEUR
• Material and services 21,648 MEUR
• Other expenses 522 MEUR
• Renewable raw material inputs 3.6 Mt 
• Sourced crude oil and fossil feedstock 

12.7 Mt
• Indirect procurement spend  

4,177 MEUR
• Cash-out investments 1,757 MEUR

• Market cap 33,063 MEUR (at the end of 2022)
• Comparable EBITDA 3,537 MEUR
• Comparable ROACE 30.1%
• Dividends 1,167 MEUR from 2022
• Revenue 25,707 MEUR
• Share of Clean Revenue 38.9% 2)

• Share of Clean Investments 88.3% 2)

• Economic value retained 1,319 MEUR
• Neste MY Renewable Diesel sales 0.8 Mt
• Sales from in-house production, Oil Products 11.3 Mt
• 945 service stations in 4 countries
• Oil Products and Renewable Products in the wholesale 

market sold in 43 countries to approx. 237 customers 3)

• 2,073 granted patents and 683 pending patent applications

• Increase in the value of the shares  
and dividends

• New business opportunities
• Renewables help customers to reduce 

GHG emissions, reduce their reliance on 
fossil resources, and support UN SDGs

• Helping end users to avoid infrastructure 
and other investments with drop-in 
solutions

• M&S B2B Customer satisfaction: Net 
Promoter Score (NPS)  51%

• Taxes and tax-like fees paid and  
remitted by Neste EUR 4.6 billion

• Creating new jobs and supporting the existing 
ones in the company’s value chains

• Redirecting consumer expenditure towards 
sustainable solutions

• Supporting the development of customers’ 
brand value and brand awareness

E
c
o

n
o

m
ic

/G
o

ve
rn

a
n

c
e

• 100% of our palm oil 8) use is certified 
and traceable to plantations

• 100% of our PFAD 9) supply chain is 
mapped for palm oil mills and 86%  
to plantations

• 99% 10) of the renewable raw material 
volumes, 84% of the crude oil and 
fossil raw materials volumes and 73% 
of overall indirect contracted spend in 
2022 were covered by Neste Supplier 
Code of Conduct or equivalent.

• Scope 2 and 3 emissions from 
upstream value chain 6.3 Mt CO2e

• Use of waste and residues of 
global renewable raw material 
inputs 3.4 Mt, 95% of the total 
renewable feed 11)

• Water intake 8,604,000 m3/a
• Energy consumption 10.9 

TWh of which 17.8 % 
renewable energy.

• Energy saving measures 42.6 GWh
• Waste generated 294,000 t of which 13% 

recycled
• Wastewater 7,899,000 m3/a
• Scope 1, direct CO2 emissions 2.1 Mt CO2

• Scope 3 emissions from downstream value 
chain 35.7 Mt CO2e

• GHG emission reduction achieved with 
Neste’s renewable products 11.1 Mt 12)

• Neste MY Renewable Diesel enables on 
average 90% lower GHG emissions over 
the fuel’s life cycle compared to fossil 
diesel 12)

• Help fight the plastic waste challenge 
through developing chemical recycling to 
increase plastics recycling and circularity 
of materials

• Mitigating climate change
• Replacing fossil raw materials use with more 

sustainable alternatives
• Improving air quality
• Preventing deforestation
• Contributing to circular economy
• Influencing operating environment and 

regulation

View Neste’s tax footprint report on our website
Read more about Neste's value creation on our website

E
n

vi
ro

n
m

e
n

t

• 99% of Neste’s 
renewable raw material 
suppliers screened 
using social criteria 

• Highly skilled employees
 » Number of employees 5,244 4)

 » Hiring rate of permanent  
employees 18.3%

 » Leaving rate of permanent 
employees 10.2%

 » Recorded average training  
hours per FTE 20.8 5)

• Wages and salaries 449 MEUR
• Other personnel expenses 95 MEUR including 

training costs 5 MEUR
• 67.8% men and 32.2% women
• 3/9 members of the Board of Directors and 

3/12 members of the Executive Committee  
are women

• Employee safety TRIF 0.8 6)

• Safe days 314 7)

• Contractor TRIF 3.7 6)

• Charity work and sponsorship 1.9 MEUR
• Number of Neste employees, who 

participated in volunteer work 356

• Supporting social development and the services 
societies provide in countries of operation

• Enhancing competitiveness of employees  
in the labor market

• Wellbeing and safety of employees and 
suppliers

• Reducing transportation-related emissions  
in cities and communities

• Securing human and labor rights
• Improving gender equality 

S
o

c
ia

l

1) Includes natural gas and industrial gas suppliers. 2) See Principles for calculating the key indicators. 3) Customers supplied with Base Oils in 2022 before the effective sale of Base Oil business are excluded 
4) Annual average number of employees. 5) Full-time equivalent (FTE). 6) Total Recordable Injury Frequency 7) A day without a TRI accident, process safety events, fire or ignition, breach of environmental 
permit, or traffic accident. 8) Contains the use of conventional palm oil that we have processed into renewable products and sold to market. 9) Palm fatty acid distillate 10) Agri Trading excluded 11) The volumes 
are presented in millions of tons. The share of the volumes are calculated from exact figures and consequently the rounded figures presented may deviate from the share of volumes disclosed. 12) Compared 
to crude oil-based fuel. Calculation principles can be found on page 115.
Neste Annual Report 2022 | Value creation

Neste’s
business model

We provide value for society 
by developing renewable, low-
emission and circular solutions 
for the aviation, chemical
and plastics industries, 
transport sector and cities.

We do this by taking the lead to 
transform towards a carbon 
neutral value chain by 2040, and 
setting ourselves aspirational
targets for biodiversity, human 
rights, supply chain and raw 
materials.

https://www.neste.com/sustainability/society/economic-responsibility/nestes-tax-footprint#f1558afc
https://www.neste.com/sustainability/sustainability-neste/value-creation#f1558afc


48Neste Annual Report 2022 | Sustainability governance

The Executive Committee approves our sustainability 
priorities. Responsibility for individual corporate sus-
tainability targets is shared between the members of 
the Executive Committee. The Vice President, Sustain-
ability, is responsible for ensuring that relevant man-
agement processes and impact assessments relating 
to material corporate sustainability topics are being 
developed and implemented as part of our strategy. 
The relevant business units and functions will reserve 
the needed resources within their scope to imple-
ment the actions commonly agreed in the Executive 
Committee. 

Neste’s sustainability work described in this 
report is managed by the Sustainability, 
Human Resources, and Health, Safety and 
Environment (HSSEQ) organizations. 

Sustainability 
governance 



49

The Sustainability Leadership Team, chaired by the VP, 
Sustainability, has members from different functions, e.g. 
Climate Change and Circular Economy, Supply Chain 
Sustainability, Human Rights, Sustainability Reporting 
and Engagement, HSSEQ, Innovation and Communi-
cations. It prepares the sustainability priorities and pro-
posals to be taken to the Executive Committee by EVP, 
Sustainability and Corporate Affairs, together with the 
relevant sustainability experts.

Sustainability vision is part of the Neste strategy and 
goes through the same Neste Executive Committee and 
Board review as any other strategic priority. The Board 
approves the long-term ambition and targets for the sus-
tainability vision, based on the proposal from the Execu-
tive Committee and the Sustainability function, and reg-
ularly reviews the sustainability performance.  

 Significant factors concerning the composition of the 
Board of Directors include that the members should 
possess a variety of competences that complement 
the other members of the Board: education and expe-
rience in different professional and industrial fields, and 
in business operations and management, all of which 
include competencies on sustainability-related issues. 

Sustainability risk management 
The most significant sustainability risks are identified 
and assessed as a part of the annual risk management 
cycle facilitated by Neste’s risk management team. The 
risk management team monitors the level of risks and 
ensures that the risks are identified and mitigated appro-
priately by Neste’s business units, functions and coun-
try units. Our risk-based approach and our sustainability 
risks are further described in our Non-Financial Infor-
mation (NFI) Statement. 

Our sustainability impacts are reviewed and moni-
tored frequently at many levels of the company in addi-
tion to the Board of Directors. Sustainability related 
work, including climate change-related work, is steered 
by the company’s Executive Vice President, Sustainabil-
ity and Corporate Affairs, who is a member of the Exec-
utive Committee and reports to the President and CEO. 

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Sustainability governance

Our sustainability 
impacts are reviewed 
and monitored 
frequently at 
many levels. 



50Neste Annual Report 2022 | Compliance

Neste’s Code of Conduct sets the framework for our 
company’s global business operations and establishes 
the ethical practices to guide every Neste employee in 
their day-to-day business tasks. We also require our 
suppliers and other business partners to comply with 
applicable laws and expect them to follow equivalent 
ethical business standards as stated in the Code of 
Conduct, as further described in our Supplier Code of 
Conduct. 

Raising awareness of and training in the Code of 
Conduct and its topics are central elements of Neste 
compliance program. We regularly internally com-
municate on compliance-related topics and train our 
employees both through e-learning courses and face-
to-face trainings.  

In connection with the Code of Conduct renewal in 
2021, we also renewed the Code of Conduct e-learn-
ing. The e-learning, mandatory for all Neste employ-
ees, was first issued to all office workers in 2021 and 
to the rest of the organisation in 2022. It achieved a 
completion rate of 95%. 

We constantly develop our compliance program 
with special efforts in the defined key focus areas: 
competition law compliance, anti-corruption, trade 

We are committed to high ethical standards and conduct our 
business and operate in compliance with applicable laws and 
regulations. That means acting transparently, responsibly,  
with integrity and in accordance with our values. 

Compliance

sanctions, privacy and anti-money laundering. In 
2022, we further strengthened our trade sanctions 
compliance program and launched a new Basics of 
Trade Sanctions Compliance e-learning to support 
our training in the topic. The e-learning was issued to 
targeted employees in the end of 2022. As part of the 
regular compliance training efforts, we also re-issued 
the Anti-Corruption e-learning to all office workers 
in 2022.  

Neste’s Compliance Function is regularly issuing 
compliance newsletters on various compliance top-
ics. In 2022, topics included, among others, the Code 
of Conduct, anti-corruption, gifts & hospitality, privacy 
and trade sanctions. Neste also has an Anti-Corrup-
tion Principle that provides more detailed guidance 
on responsible business practices and the prevention 
of corruption. More information on Neste’s grievance 
process and the related Misconduct Investigation 
Standard is available in the Corporate Governance 
Statement and in the Report of the Board of Directors. 

Neste’s compliance program and function is 
described in more detail as part of Neste’s Corporate 
Governance Statement and in the Report of the Board 
of Directors.

https://www.neste.com/sites/neste.com/files/new_supplier_code_of_conduct._english.pdf
https://www.neste.com/sites/neste.com/files/new_supplier_code_of_conduct._english.pdf


51Neste Annual Report 2022 | Our people

We encourage everyone to be the driver of their own 
personal growth. As an employer, we want to offer a 
meaningful place to work for highly competent talents 
who share our values and are eager to join our journey 
towards a carbon neutral world.

We lead the way to accelerate both business and 
cultural transformation while driving high safety excel-
lence. We want our work at Neste to feel good and do 
good. At Neste, we all have opportunity to contribute 
to our success and take part in driving Neste forward.

At Neste, it is the people who make 
the strategy happen. To carry out our 
strategy and business growth, our 
values-led culture guides our work and 
the decisions and choices we make.

Our people



52

Transformation and growth 
offer new possibilities
In 2022, the average number of Neste personnel was 
5,244 and about 1,400 employees were hired globally 
by the end of 2022. About 30% of the recruits were tem-
porary.  We set a lot of focus on onboarding and induc-
tion of the new joiners and people in new roles. Accord-
ing to the new joiner survey, 90% of new employees 
feel happy working at Neste. Company’s transformation 
and growth offered our people many career opportuni-
ties and personal growth possibilities in new projects. 
Approximately 140 employees were working as expats 
in 8 different countries.

To support the company's transformation journey, we 
arranged a leadership summit and multiple other strat-
egy events during the autumn 2022 to ensure clarity 
towards our strategic goals and to strengthen engage-
ment and the feeling of belonging of our people. We lead 
the way with our strategy, values-led culture and talented 
employees.

We continue investing in sustainable refining and cir-
cular solutions. The planned transition of our Porvoo 
refinery into a renewable and circular site in the mid-
2030s will provide new opportunities and learning possi-
bilities to Oil Products personnel and also for many other 
Neste employees. One of the focus areas of the trans-
formation is to ensure that people are capable of per-
forming and adapting to changes.

In 2022, Neste Engineering Solutions (NES) in Fin-
land was merged to Neste Corporation. The merger 
supports executing Neste’s growth strategy to become 
a global leader in renewable and circular solutions, in 
which Engineering Solutions plays a key role. The entire 
NES personnel in Finland, approximately 800 profes-
sionals, transferred to Neste Corporation. 

Having a strong focus on commercial and innovation 
capabilities is one of our keys to success at Neste. To 
support our innovation capabilities in the Asia-Pacific 
region, the new innovation center in Singapore is start-
ing operations in 2023.

During 2022, we reorganized our HR operating model. 
A new talent acquisition hub was created to provide 
centralized recruitment consultancy. After a pilot phase 
it was expanded to serve recruitments in Finland, and 
later on there will be a scale up to offer global support. 
In addition, we launched a new people promise ‘We are 
the creators of change’ to support our employer brand-
ing work.

405 summer trainees were 
equipped with skills for the future
We recognize the importance of developing and 
supporting young people’s growth for the skills 
they will need for the future. In 2022, we recruited 
405 summer trainees of which approximately 47% 
continued with us. At Neste, summer trainees are 
paid employees, and we invest in their training and 
development to promote future employability under 
the transition to a carbon neutral society. We offer 
the summer trainees a program during the summer 
so they can network, get to know Neste as a com-
pany and learn about our business units, regard-
less of where in our organization they work during 
the summer. 81% of our summer trainees would 
recommend Neste as a great place to work.

  Read more about summer traineeships.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Our people

According to 
new joiner survey

90% 
of new employees 

feel happy working 
at Neste1,400

employees
were hired globally 

by the end of 
2022. 

Altogether about

https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-launches-strategic-study-transitioning-its-porvoo-refinery-renewable-and-circular-site-and
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-launches-strategic-study-transitioning-its-porvoo-refinery-renewable-and-circular-site-and
https://www.neste.com/about-neste/careers/young-professionals#f1558afc


53

Developing capabilities to deliver 
excellent customer experience
During 2022, we broadened our approach in develop-
ing commercial capabilities in the Renewables busi-
ness units. The joint capability development has two 
approaches: extending the existing capabilities devel-
oped by Renewable Road Transportation to Renewable 
Aviation and Renewable Polymers and Chemicals, and 
building completely new capabilities for all three custom-
er-centric business units. 

The prioritized development capabilities are strongly 
related to Neste’s ambition and strategy to be more cus-
tomer-centric in the future. During 2022, in close coop-
eration with business leaders, we have created a com-
petence framework for our commercial organization, 
defined competence expectations for Renewables’ com-
mercial roles, piloted and implemented individual-level 
development planning for the strategic and role-based 
commercial competences, and are currently integrat-
ing the competencies into talent acquisition, recruitment 
and assessment and designing learning solutions for tal-
ent development.

Driving a values-led culture  
and developing leadership 
Leadership is one of the most important elements to 
drive company culture. Our leadership model is built 
around our values – it describes how we want to lead 
and how we should behave to be able to deliver upon 
our strategy and to ensure work at Neste does good 
and feels good. We believe that supporting our employ-
ees’ individual development goals, developing our talent 
to meet business targets, and preparing our workforce 
for the growing and changing demands of future work 
makes working at Neste meaningful and inspiring. Line 
managers and employees have regular Forward discus-
sions where development and career plans are annually 
updated.

We offer company-wide development programs and 
tools to support the needed strategic capabilities in the 
company. In addition, there are several development ini-
tiatives designed in the business units and functions. 
During 2022, our tailored leadership development pro-
grams gained a lot of interest: more than 750 employees 
participated in company-wide development programs 
and the average feedback from the programs was 4.3 
(on a scale of 1–5). We offer the Neste leadership pro-
gram We Lead both for line managers as well as for our 
experts. In 2022 we designed and launched a new proj-
ect leadership program and offered development pro-
grams aimed especially for young talents to further build 
their strategic thinking and leadership skills, such as the 
Neste Reverse Mentoring Program and the Mission Pos-
sible program.

We engage with our employees in various ways, 
including a broader annual employee survey comple-
mented with shorter pulses and other targeted employee 
surveys. The survey results are regularly discussed and 
measures agreed within teams at each level of the orga-
nization. Other forms of engagement include team and 
individual discussions, surveys gathering onboarding 
and offboarding experiences, internal info sessions, and 
town hall meetings. Topics include for example the Neste 
strategy and values, sustainability and climate commit-
ments, health, safety and wellbeing.

Wellbeing is a key to success
Wellbeing at work is a critical factor for us to succeed. At 
Neste, health, safety and wellbeing at work are interre-
lated. Neste’s occupational healthcare aims at creating 
a healthy and safe working environment and a well-func-
tioning work community. Occupational healthcare aims 
to promote employees’ health, maintain work ability and 
functional capacity as well as prevent risk of occupa-
tional illnesses. In 2022, Neste’s occupational healthcare 
organized, for instance, expert webinars for employees 
about mental wellbeing, ergonomics, nutrition, sleep 
and recovery skill.

To align the quality of our health services, we follow the 
Neste Occupational Health Principle in the whole orga-
nization, subject to local legislation and requirements.

Work-life balance has a significant effect on wellbe-
ing at work. Depending on the job description, flexible 
working hours and remote working opportunities make 
work more meaningful. Smart Work is our common way 
of working that ensures we can succeed, and we believe 
teams know best how to get the job done most pro-
ductively, together. In 2022, Neste also enabled remote 
work abroad to meet employee expectations, enable 
agile and flexible working and to support employees’ 
wellbeing.

We offered development programs aimed especially 
for young talents to further build their strategic 
thinking and leadership skills. 

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Our people



54

Advancing diversity,  
equity and inclusion
Diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) form a key part of 
Neste’s values-led culture, human rights work and sus-
tainability vision. They are embedded in our values – we 
care, we have courage & we cooperate – as well as in 
our policies and principles such as our Code of Con-
duct, People Policy and Human Rights Principle. 

We are committed to developing a values-led culture 
that leverages the benefits of diversity and inclusiveness, 
one in which all Neste employees are given equal oppor-
tunities to pursue and thrive in their career, and where 
everyone feels safe, respected and encouraged to be 
their unique true selves. 

We believe that advancing diversity, equity and inclu-
sion is essential for our business. We need different per-
spectives, backgrounds and insights in order to per-
form, innovate and execute our strategy while building 
new business opportunities globally. It also plays a cru-
cial role in the wellbeing of our people and attracting and 
retaining the right talent.

 
Our DEI priorities for years 2022–2023 include:
• Building awareness and understanding of diversity, 

equity and inclusion across Neste
• Developing inclusive leadership both among our line 

managers and subject matter experts
• Embedding DEI further into our people practices

In 2022, key activities included developing a framework 
and priorities for diversity, equity and inclusion at Neste 
with the support of external experts. We also carried out 
preparations for a company-wide training initiative – to 
be cascaded in 2023 – to drive continuous learning and 
dialogue on DEI within all our teams and among senior 
management. The preparations during 2022 included 
training sessions, HR capability building, and a pilot pro-
gram with selected teams.

Our Executive Committee follows the progress of our 
development work and efforts within the diversity, equity 
and inclusion on a quarterly basis, and the theme is also 
regularly discussed with the Board of Directors. As a 
signatory to the UN Women’s Empowerment Principles, 
Neste’s President and CEO Matti Lehmus participated 
in the UN Women Finland Diversity Roundtable together 
with other leaders from Finnish corporations and univer-
sities, discussing initiatives on advancing diversity and 
inclusion in Finland.

Donations and voluntary work 
We engage positively with all the communities close to our 
operations. Our goal is to have a positive impact through char-
itable donations to causes that align with our purpose, values 
and strategy. We make donations in line with three key themes: 
innovation and education; climate and environment; and diver-
sity and inclusion. 

In 2022, we made donations to Save the Children, WIRES 
and Food Bank Houston, among others. In 2022, Neste was 
one of key partners of John Nurminen Foundation which aims 
to save the Baltic Sea and its heritage for future generations.

During 2022, we witnessed strong support for Ukraine among 
our employees, our customers and the international commu-
nity. We have provided humanitarian support by donating to 
two organizations, The Red Cross and UNICEF. Many of our 
employees have also chosen to use their dedicated time for vol-
untary work to support Ukrainian refugees.

We offer our employees a dedicated paid full day for volun-
tary work as we believe volunteering activities are a way to build 
closer ties to our society. In 2022, many of our employees opted 
to dedicate their time to charitable endeavors, including rais-
ing money for charity through sponsored sports challenges and 
waste collection. The number of Neste employees who partici-
pated in volunteer work increased to 356 volunteers (2021: 145).

  Read more about our donations.

Diversity, equity and inclusion form a key 
part of Neste’s values-led culture, human 
rights work and sustainability vision. 

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Our people

https://www.neste.com/sustainability/society/sponsorships-marketing-cooperations-and-charitable-contributions-neste#f1558afc


55Neste Annual Report 2022 | Safety

For us, safety means excellence in risk management and 
being in full compliance with regulatory requirements at 
all times. It is about the existence and effectiveness of 
all safety barriers that help to manage risks, prevent inci-
dents and mitigate adverse consequences.

We are determined to protect people and the environ-
ment as well as our operations, assets, information and 
brand from any harm and negative impacts. We believe 
that this can be achieved when everyone is truly commit-
ted to managing and improving safety. We understand 
all hazards related to our operations and have excellent 
ways to evaluate and manage risks.

Safety is at the core of everything  
we do. By improving safety and operational 
excellence we are able to achieve our 
strategic targets. With cooperation and 
commitment, we will achieve our safety 
vision of ‘No harm. Together.’

Safety 

Our safety vision: 
No harm. Together.

Safety 
at Neste

Understand 
hazards and risks

Manage 
risks and 
opportunities

Learn from 
experience

Commitment to 
operational excellence

Assets

Environment

People

Information

OperationsBrand



56

Driving safety excellence through 
Neste Operations Excellence 
Management System
The foundations for the safety excellence and continual 
improvement are defined by Neste’s Operations Excel-
lence Policy and Operations Excellence Management 
System (OEMS), which includes Operations Excellence 
Principles and supplementary detailed standards. The 
requirements of OEMS apply not only to own employees 
but also to external contractors. 

In 2022, we continued to clarify and simplify the 
OEMS implementation process. The deployment of the 
new process started in 2022 and continues in 2023. The 
systematic OEMS self-assessments and audits contin-
ued in 2022 in order to ensure that the requirements are 
fulfilled. During 2022, altogether 16 OEMS audits were 
done. 

In 2022, one of the safety priority areas was to improve 
the timely closure of the actions defined due to incidents, 
near-misses and audit findings. During the year, clear 
improvement was achieved. The topic was followed up 
monthly by the Neste Executive Committee.

As Neste operates in a safety critical business, one 
foundational driver for our safety management is to 
eliminate High Potential (HiPo) events in our operations. 
Focus on the reduction of HiPo events continued actively 
in our operations. The awareness was improved, but 
due to more systematic reporting, the number of cases 
remained on the same level as in 2021.

Safety leadership and culture 
The group and local level implementation of the new 
Safety Leadership Principle and updating the team safety 
commitments continued to be key issues when devel-
oping Neste’s safety leadership and culture during 2022. 
The 2022 global safety awareness activities included 
the launch of a new safety video, update of the safety 

visuals, new common safety communication channel 
and increased communication to the line managers.

In 2022, we restarted our face-to-face ‘I Act Safe’ 
learning workshops which were put on hold due to 
Covid-19. The workshops attracted a large number of 
participants, and for example in Finland and the Baltic 
states, all truck drivers participated in learning work-
shops focusing on personal safety leadership, aware-
ness, and management.

Due to the unsatisfactory safety performance and in 
order to enhance the safety leadership, a safety engage-
ment and communication program was initiated by the 
Neste President and CEO in the latter part of 2022. The 
purpose was to highlight the sense of urgency, to fur-
ther improve visible leadership actions, and to drive con-
crete actions to meet the desired safety performance. 
The program will continue in 2023.

Process safety 
Process safety activities in 2022 included the improve-
ment of the effectiveness of the Process Hazard Anal-
ysis (PHA) implementation, the utilization of the HSE 
design guideline for investments, the definition of the 
process safety design guidelines for new technologies in 
the Renewable Products business and Innovation units, 
and the first deployment of the new storage tank safety 
standard.

We started to define Neste Process Safety Funda-
mentals providing a set of basic principles for front-line 
workers, line managers, and managers that summarize 
the practices to prevent fatalities from Process Safety 
Events. The implementation of these fundamentals will 
start in 2023. In December 2022, the Rotterdam refin-
ery was shut down due to a fire in a refinery unit. Inju-
ries were avoided and the incident had no effect on the 
expansion project, however, the fire indicated the need 
to further improve the process safety performance.

Contractor safety
In addition to our own employees, contractors who are 
not employed by Neste work at our sites. The types of 
work they perform include construction, maintenance, 
and electrical work, among others. All contractors are 
required to complete a site safety training prior to access-
ing the site.

We aim to continuously improve contractor safety 
performance with our contractors through audit-
ing and thorough selection process, regular perfor-
mance evaluation, mutual feedback and with higher 
focus on subcontracting. In 2022, the deployment of 
the contractor safety management model continued.  

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Safety

Approximately 2,200 contractor HSSEQ performance 
assessments and over 50 contractor safety manage-
ment audits provided valuable information for the perfor-
mance improvement.



57

In local organizations, activities continued to drive 
improvements in the targeted areas. Effective incident 
investigations, verification of the defined actions and the 
learning from incidents continued as a key activity. The 
process was further improved and the responsibilities 
better defined. Oil Products initiated a three-year ‘No 
harm. Together’ safety development program focus-
ing on safety leadership, management of change, asset 
integrity and reliability, contractor HSE management, 
and operational safety. Short-term activities included 
the full deployment of the integrated safe system of 
work (ISSOW), a comprehensive work risk management 
practice.

Neste Renewables Platform focused on safety in 
turnarounds and in investments, as well as on improv-
ing safety in new acquisitions. Marketing & Services 
focused on process safety and change management in 
terminals, road safety and safety of loading and unload-
ing sites, ‘I Act Safe’ trainings and on the new safety 
e-learning training.

Product and chemical safety 
Following chemical legislation and changing regulation, 
adapting to them and ensuring compliance requires con-
tinuous focus in all countries of our operations. Provid-
ing the required registrations and notifications and care-
fully compiled safety data sheets in local languages is 
the core to product safety at Neste. In 2022, we estab-
lished a new internal Chemical Regulatory Affairs net-
work to ensure information flow and competence in this 
area. We also renewed the Safety Data Sheet Register, 
covering all safety data sheets.

Occupational hygiene surveys have been conducted 
on Neste’s sites since 1977. In 2022, approximately 30 
surveys for chemical agents, noise and other occupa-
tional exposure agents were carried out in the Finnish 
operations. One highlight of 2022 was the continuing 
exposure assessment survey of liquefied waste plastic 
(LWP). Knowing the levels of hazardous substances in 

the working environment is key to ensuring the safety of 
our own employees. This is especially important when a 
new raw material is taken into use. Occupational hygiene 
surveys are conducted as an integral part of the risk 
assessments and Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) 
guidance.

Performance in the 
key projects during 2022
One of the focus areas of 2022 continued to be ensuring 
safety in different projects, such as investments, change 
projects and turnarounds. The Singapore expansion 
project continued at a good safety level. The project’s 
Total Recordable Injury Frequency (TRIF) was well within 
our target and high-consequence work-related injuries 
were avoided. During the year, the project reached an 
accident free period of 12 million working hours. Key 
success factors in the project were active site observa-
tion reporting combined with fast corrective actions, sys-
tematic work management, and dedicated action focus-
ing on the contractors who needed the most support.

During 2022, turnaround works in Singapore, Rot-
terdam and Porvoo were mostly completed with the 
targeted safety performance and no serious incidents 
occurred. The major investment projects at the Rotter-
dam refinery and the Neste terminal in the Netherlands 
continued within the targeted safety performance.

The biggest safety challenges were experienced in an 
Engineering Solutions project to an external customer, 
where several TRI accidents occurred. Several actions 
were done during the project but the overall perfor-
mance remained worse than targeted. A thorough proj-
ect post-evaluation was done, and key improvements 
and actions were defined. Actions will be done and ver-
ified before the next similar project, and the relevant 
learnings will also be implemented in the Neste internal 
projects.

Neste Renewables Platform business unit focused 
on ensuring safety in the turnarounds and investments, 

TRIF own employees TRIF contractors TRIF total

Total recordable injury frequency (TRIF)

2.0

4.0

1.0

3.0

0
2022

0
.8

3
.7

2
.0

2019

1
.1

2
.7

1
.7

2020

1
.1

1
.6

1
.3

2021

1
.1

1
.6

1
.4

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Safety

and also integration of the new acquisition Bunge pre-
treatment plant in the Netherlands. Moreover, the focus 
was on improving the safety performance of Mahoney 
Environmental and its further integration to Neste safety 
and OEMS practices. A long-term safety roadmap was 
defined for Mahoney. Focus areas for Mahoney in 2022 
were improved leadership training, improvement inci-
dent management, effective safety meetings and HSE 
inspections and introduction of the Stop Work Authority 
practice.

Covid-19 pandemic management 
In 2022, Neste Crisis Management team continued to 
follow the global pandemic situation  closely. Personnel 
and contractors working on sites were informed about 
the situation with regular info sessions and instruction 
updates. The number of Covid-19 cases among Neste 
personnel and the effect on the operations were low.

Safety performance in 2022 
In 2022, Neste’s occupational safety performance rate 
(TRIF, or rate of accidents requiring medical treatment 
per million hours worked, including contractors) did not 
reach the target level (1.5) and was 2.0 (2021: 1.4). Big-
gest challenges were experienced in contractor safety 
where TRIF was 3.7.

The process safety performance rate (PSER, or the 
rate of process safety events per million hours worked) 
was in 2022 1.4 (1.4), which was in the 2022 target level 
(1.5). 

We also measure the number of safe days, i.e. days 
without occupational accidents, process safety events, 
other fires and leaks, environmental non-compliances, 
marine safety incidents and traffic accidents. In 2022, 
the number of safe days was 314 (306), and the number 
of incidents was 56 (67). 

Process safety event rate (PSER)

3

2

1

0
2022

PSER1 PSER2

2019

0.6 0.6

1.4 1.4

0.9 0.9

2020

1.6

1.0

0.6

2021

1.4

0.6

0.8



58Neste Annual Report 2022 | Climate

As our growth strategy and transformation story continues, we remain 
highly committed to our sustainability targets and vision to become a 
global leader in renewable and circular solutions. Climate commitments 
are an integral part of the corporate strategy and sustainability vision. 

Climate 
Climate change is already affecting every  
country on every continent, and the responsibility 
for taking action is shared by us all. Climate 
science is clear: global warming should be limited 
to 1.5°C by the end of the century to mitigate the 
risk of the most severe consequences to human 
and natural systems1). Prompt actions to reduce 
greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) globally are 
needed. Our vision is to lead the transformation 
towards a carbon neutral value chain. 

1) Source: The Sixth Assessement Report by 
the International Panel of Climate Change (IPCC).

Our vision is to lead transformation towards a carbon neutral value chain by 2040.

Footprint: 
Reducing the GHG 
emissions across 
our value chain 
(scope 1–3)

Reduce emissions in our own 
production (scope 1 & 2) by 50% 
by 2030 and reach carbon  
neutral production by 2035

Reduce the use phase 
emission intensity 1) of sold 
products by 50% by 2040 
compared to 2020 levels 
(scope 3)

Work with our suppliers 
and partners to reduce 
emissions across our 
value chain (scope 3)

Handprint: 
Helping our customers to 
reduce their GHG emissions 
with our renewable 
and circular products

Offer solutions that help our customers reduce their 
emissions by at least 20 MtCO2e annually by 2030 
and meet their climate targets

1) Use phase emission intensity is calculated by dividing the emissions from the use of products sold by Neste (part of scope 3) with the total amount of sold energy (gCO2e/MJ).



59

We enable our customers to reduce their greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions by offering renewable and circu-
lar products to replace fossil products. Our target is to 
help our customers reduce their GHG emissions by at 
least 20 million tons of CO2e annually by 2030. Our stra-
tegic initiatives are key driver to increasing our carbon 
handprint.

At the same time, we need to reduce our own car-
bon footprint. We are committed to reducing the GHG 
emissions from our production (scopes 1 & 2) and reach 
carbon neutral production by 2035. We are also com-
mitted to reducing the use phase emission intensity of 
sold products and work with our suppliers and partners 
to reduce the indirect GHG emissions from our entire 
value chain (scope 3). We have identified various mea-
sures to reach the targets, some of which are already 
well underway. We follow the progress regularly across 
the organization.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Climate

Climate scenarios supporting Neste’s 
strategy development
Climate change poses both business risks and opportu-
nities to Neste. Therefore, Neste is committed to apply-
ing the Task Force for Climate-related Financial Disclo-
sures (TCFD) reporting framework to understand and 
evaluate the potential implications of climate change.

Neste uses scenario analysis to assess the resilience 
and adaptability of Neste’s strategy to climate change. 
We base our scenario analysis on the internationally 
acknowledged climate pathways that represent objective 
and well-established benchmarks for the energy indus-
try, for example published by the International Energy 
Agency (IEA). We complement our scenarios by internal 
analysis and identification of trends and factors relevant 
to our business. In 2022, we analyzed the implications 
on Neste under three climate scenarios: Net Zero World 
2050, which is in line with the 1.5°C pathways; Net Zero 
EU and North America by 2050, consistent with a 2°C 
trajectory; and Compromised climate targets, reflecting 
global warming of 3°C or more by the end of the century. 
We have identified and estimated the impact of the risks 
and opportunities to Neste in each scenario according 
to the TCFD framework.

Climate commitments are an integral 
part of our corporate strategy and 
sustainability vision.



60

Net Zero World
2050

Net Zero EU and North 
America by 2050

Compromised climate 
targets 

Description Rapid and radical emission reductions 
globally to meet Net Zero emissions by 
2050 and limit global warming to 
1.5°C, building on the IEA Net Zero 
2050 Scenario.

Advanced economies demonstrating 
strong climate action while developing 
economies follow slower, consistent 
with a 2°C trajectory, building on the IEA 
Announced Pledges Scenario. 

Failure to take climate action leads to 
the continuation of the current trends, 
causing global warming of 3°C or more 
by the end of the century. Scenario 
is building on the IEA Stated Policies 
Scenario. 

Opportunities The accelerated global demand for 
renewable and circular products 
provides Neste opportunities to leverage 
global reach, expand to new markets, 
optimize across feedstocks, countries 
and customer sectors.

Continued demand growth in renewable 
and circular solutions; regulatory 
markets supported by voluntary climate 
ambitions.

Modest demand growth in renewable 
products due to less favorable regulatory 
framework gives room for differentiation 
and serving selected voluntary markets 
efficiently.

Risks Accelerated global demand for 
renewable and circular products 
and supportive regulatory landscape 
may present transition risks related 
to stringent competition of key raw 
materials and in entering new markets.

Identified transition risks relate to 
regulation limiting the competitiveness 
of renewable fuels or narrowing the 
eligibility of key raw materials.  
A steep decline of fossil fuel demand 
could also be seen as a transition risk for 
Neste’s current business. Risks related 
to accelerated alternative technology 
development have also been identified.

Transition risks include downscaled 
regulatory drivers, slowing down the 
demand growth for renewable products. 
In the long-term, physical risks related 
to chronic and acute climate change 
impacts can have significant negative 
effects on raw materials availability, 
supply chains and assets.

Indicative financial 
impact to Neste Positive Base case Slightly negative

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Climate

The focus in Neste’s strategic planning is the next 10 
years, with emphasis on transport, petrochemicals and 
refining sectors. In the scenario work, a time horizon until 
2050 is used as the effects of climate change become 
more imminent in the longer term. Climate change, 
and actions to mitigate and adapt to climate change, 
pose both transition and physical risks and opportuni-
ties to companies. In the climate-context, topics such 
as energy transition, regulation, competition and cus-
tomer preferences are relevant for Neste’s business. 
Impact potential of such drivers on Neste are evaluated 
on short-, medium- and long-term time horizons, with 
varying degree of certainty.

Neste will continue to build on its climate actions so 
that they are in line with the 1.5°C emission scenarios 
but refers to the “most likely” scenario reflecting a tra-
jectory of 2°C global warming by the end of the century 
as the base case. We calculate the impacts and test 
Neste’s strategy resilience against the scenarios by for 
example estimating the impact on Neste’s profitability 
compared to the base case. This is to ensure key driv-
ers underlying our strategy are robust under the varying 
assumptions across the pathways.

Results of the scenario assessment provide valuable 
information on the adaptability and resilience of Neste’s 
strategy. Results are used to support Neste’s strategy 
development and financial planning. Identified climate 
risks are included in our Enterprise Risk Management 
(ERM) process and risk mitigation plans are implemented 
where appropriate.

The full TCFD recommendations set out eleven rec-
ommended disclosures around four core areas for com-
panies to report material climate-related information to 
the market. You can navigate to all Neste disclosures in 
the annual report via the TCFD index.



61Neste Annual Report 2022 | Carbon handprint

The idea behind product carbon handprint 1) is to offer solutions to our customers 
that decrease their carbon footprint. The bigger the handprint, the better. 

We are able to increase our company handprint 2) and achieve the 2030 commit-
ment through our strategy of growing the production capacity for renewable and 
circular solutions, while ensuring the GHG emissions caused by our products are 
as low as possible.

The change we enable 
– our carbon handprint

We are committed to help our customers reduce their greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions by at least 20 million tons per year by 2030. 
In 2022, we enabled our customers to reduce GHG emissions by 11.1 
million tons. We are able to achieve the commitment through our 
strategy of growing the production capacity for renewable and 
circular solutions.

1) GHG emission reduction of a product compared to fossil reference product
2) The combined GHG emission reduction impacts of products Neste has produced and sold over the reporting year



62

Strategic investments to 
achieve our handprint target
Growing our renewable and circular solutions is a core 
theme of the Neste strategy. According to our strategic 
investments, our production capacity of renewable and 
circular solutions will expand significantly in the coming 
years. The expansion of our Singapore refinery will be 

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Carbon handprint

Our renewable 
and circular 
solutions 
enable our 
customers
to reduce GHG 
emissions 
across 
industries

Neste MY 
Sustainable 
Aviation Fuel 
(SAF)

Neste MY 
Renewable 
Diesel

Neste RE, 
feedstock for 
plastics production 
made out of 
renewable and 
recycled raw 
materials

Neste Marine 
0.1 Co-processed 
for marine, and 
also possible other 
solutions to new 
sectors

Science-based partnerships to develop handprint 
methodology
• Since 2016, we have been developing the world’s first science-based 

method for environmental handprint calculation and communication 
with the VTT Technical Research Centre of Finland and LUT University.

• Neste continues the handprint methodology development in a 
research project “The carbon neutrality empowered by handprint”  
with VTT, LUT University, Business Finland and other companies.

• The two-year project, started in September 2021, is developing 
an unambiguous and internationally-approved concept of carbon 
neutrality and reliable indication of the environmental benefits 
(handprint) of circular economy solutions.

   Read more about the project.

completed in 2023, which will bring the refinery’s renew-
able product capacity to 2.6 million tons per annum. In 
2022, we announced our final investment decision to 
invest into new renewable products production capacity 
in Rotterdam, which will expand our overall renewable 
product capacity by another 1.3 million tons per annum, 
bringing the total renewable product capacity in Rotter-
dam to 2.7 million tons annually by 2026.

In addition to the Rotterdam and Singapore expan-
sions, we will expand our production capacity through 
a joint operation with US-based Marathon Petroleum 
(Marathon). In 2022, we established Martinez Renew-
ables that will produce renewable diesel following a 
conversion project of Marathon’s refinery in Martinez, 
California. The facility is expected to be capable of pro-
ducing 2.1 million tons of renewable diesel per annum by 
the end of 2023. Through Martinez Renewables, Neste 
obtains a 50% interest in the Martinez Renewable Fuels 
project. Therefore upon completion, Martinez Renew-
ables is expected to increase Neste’s renewable prod-
ucts capacity by slightly over 1 million tons per annum. 

We are also exploring future options in Finland. In 
2022, we launched a strategic study on transitioning 
our Porvoo refinery to a renewable and circular site and 
ending crude oil refining in the mid-2030s. The transfor-
mation under study includes a long-term renewable and 
circular production capacity potential of 2 to 4 million 
tonnes per year. Read more about the Porvoo transfor-
mation study.

Growing our capacity for renewable and circular prod-
ucts is a key driver towards our carbon handprint target. 
At the same time, we need to ensure that our renew-
able and circular products have as low GHG emissions 
across their life cycle as possible. This requires for exam-
ple careful GHG impact evaluation of the renewable raw 
materials we use, optimizing our supply chains, and 
ensuring that the GHG emissions caused by refining are 
minimized. Read more about minimizing our emissions 
across our value chain in the carbon footprint section.

Achieving our carbon handprint target by growing 
our renewable and circular solutions

Our strategic investments drive our growth in renewable and circular solutions 
– a key driver for reaching our handprint target.

We aim to help our customers reduce their GHG emissions  
by at least 20 million tons per year by 2030

20Mt

2030

11.1Mt

2022

Singapore refinery expansion

Transition of Porvoo refinery to 
a renewable and circular site.

Rotterdam refinery expansion

Martinez Renewables

https://www.handprint.fi/carbon-neutrality-empowered-by-handprint/


63

Calculating the GHG emission 
reductions achieved with our 
renewable products
Our renewable and circular products have significantly 
lower GHG emissions over the life cycle compared to 
fossil alternatives, which helps our customers reduce 
their GHG emissions and reach their climate targets.

We calculate the GHG emissions of our products over 
their entire life cycle: from the production of their raw 
materials to the end use of the final product. For renew-
able fuels, the life cycle ends in the use phase, and for 
other (non-fuel) products such as renewable feedstock 
for new polymers and chemicals, the life cycle ends in 
the end-of-life treatment and potential recycling.

The methodologies we use for calculating life cycle 
emissions and emissions reduction comply with e.g. the 
European Union’s Renewable Energy Directive II ((EU) 
2018/2001), CORSIA or ISO 14040, ISO 14044, ISO 
14067, and the California LCFS methodology, which 
has been applied in the GHG reporting for volumes sold 
in the US since the beginning of 2022.

Neste’s renewable products, such as Neste MY 
Renewable Diesel, Neste MY Sustainable Aviation Fuel, 
as well as Neste RE, our renewable feedstock for poly-
mers and chemicals production, have 50-95% less GHG 
emissions  over the life cycle compared to similar 100 % 
fossil products. When calculating Neste’s handprint, we 
compare the life cycle emissions of our renewable prod-
ucts to the fossil comparator emission values as defined 
in the relevant regulation (e.g. EU RED II, LCFS) to eval-
uate the achieved GHG reductions for our customers.

Solutions to reduce 
GHG emissions in aviation
Neste continues to help the aviation industry achieve its 
ambitious net zero carbon emissions by 2050 goal by pro-
viding an immediate solution for reducing the emissions 
from air travel. Neste MY Sustainable Aviation Fuel™ is 
made from sustainably sourced, 100% renewable waste 

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Carbon handprint

Progress in establishing Neste 
as a partner or supplier to 
airlines and cargo carriers

• Air France-KLM Group
• Virgin Atlantic
• All Nippon Airways 

(ANA)

• United Airlines
• WestJet
• Etihad Airways

• Air New Zealand
• Ryanair
• DHL Express

Expanding partnerships along 
the supply chain to grow the 
availability of SAF

• ITOCHU
• Airbus

• Signature Flight 
Support

• World Fuel Services 

• Fuel distributors

Expanding into the voluntary 
market with new partnerships

• Victor
• CargoAi

• Sunweb

Examples of other 
achievements

• First 100% SAF flight on a regional commercial aircraft with ATR and Braathens
• SAF delivery through the Colonial and Buckeye pipeline systems into New York (US) 
• Aviation industry’s first ever CORSIA certified sustainable aviation fuel delivery  

to American Airlines

and residue raw materials, such as used cooking oil and 
animal fat waste. In its neat form, Neste MY SAF reduces 
greenhouse gas emissions by up to 80% over the fuel’s 
life cycle, compared to using fossil jet fuels (calculation 
method: CORSIA).

Neste MY SAF also significantly lowers non-CO2 emis-
sions compared to fossil jet fuel use. The fuel can be 
used as a drop-in fuel as it is compatible with existing 
aircraft engines and airport infrastructure, requiring no 
extra investment into these.

Our current annual SAF production capacity is 
100,000 tons. With the ongoing expansion of our Singa-
pore refinery and modification of our Rotterdam refinery, 
we will have an annual SAF production capacity of 1.5 
million tons in the beginning of 2024. Furthermore, the 
upcoming Rotterdam refinery expansion will increase 
the capacity to over 2 million tons by the end of 2026.

In 2022, we started many new partnerships in aviation and continued developing the existing ones. 
Examples include:

Aviation industry’s first ever 
CORSIA certified sustainable 
aviation fuel delivery to 
American Airlines
In 2022, for the first time in aviation history a 
CORSIA certified batch of sustainable aviation 
fuel (SAF) was delivered to a commercial air-
line. Neste delivered a batch of its Neste MY 
Sustainable Aviation Fuel to American Airlines 
at San Francisco International Airport. This 
was part of a pilot to certify SAF as a CORSIA 
eligible fuel that can be used by an airline to 
meet its emissions obligation under CORSIA. 

The Carbon Offsetting and Reduction 
Scheme for International Aviation (“COR-
SIA”) is a carbon offset and carbon reduction 
scheme to lower CO2 emissions for interna-
tional flights, to curb the aviation impact on 
climate change. It was developed by the Inter-
national Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO).

   Read more about the 
   delivery of CORSIA certified SAF.

We are actively working with partners in aviation’s sup-
ply chain to grow the availability of SAF globally. The fuel 
is already used by leading commercial airlines in Europe, 
North America and Asia including Lufthansa, KLM, IAG, 
Finnair, American Airlines, United Airlines and cargo car-
riers such as DP-DHL, Cargolux and Amazon PrimeAir. 
It is available at an increasing number of major airports, 
including San Francisco International Airport, Dallas Fort 
Worth International Airport, Amsterdam Airport, Frank-
furt Airport and Narita International Airport.

In addition, we offer businesses a tailored service to 
help them directly reduce the greenhouse gas emis-
sions of their air travel by buying SAF; Neste MY SAF for 
Business. This solution delivers real and credible emis-
sion reductions that can be used to meet science-based 
targets.

https://www.neste.com/products/all-products/saf#f1558afc
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-supply-air-france-klm-group-more-1-million-tons-sustainable-aviation-fuel
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-and-united-sign-sustainable-aviation-fuel-purchase-agreement-flights-out-amsterdam-airport
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/air-new-zealand-welcomes-first-shipment-neste-my-sustainable-aviation-fuel-new-zealand
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-and-dhl-express-announce-one-largest-ever-sustainable-aviation-fuel-deals
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/aviation/neste-and-itochu-expand-partnership-grow-availability-sustainable-aviation-fuel-japan
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-and-airbus-join-forces-advance-use-100-sustainable-aviation-fuel-key-solution-helping-reduce
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/signature-aviation-expands-supply-neste-my-sustainable-aviation-fuel-all-its-operations-california
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/signature-aviation-expands-supply-neste-my-sustainable-aviation-fuel-all-its-operations-california
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/world-fuel-services-now-authorized-branded-distributor-neste-my-sustainable-aviation-fuel-first
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/victor-and-neste-announce-industry-leading-partnership-reducing-private-jet-charter-emissions-80
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-and-cargoai-launch-partnership-offering-freight-forwarders-and-their-clients-option-reduce
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-and-travel-organization-sunweb-group-announce-partnership-reduce-sunweb-customers-flight
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/first-flight-history-100-sustainable-aviation-fuel-regional-commercial-aircraft
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/first-time-sustainable-aviation-fuel-has-been-delivered-new-york-using-existing-petroleum-pipelines
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-delivers-aviation-industrys-first-ever-corsia-certified-sustainable-aviation-fuel-american
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-delivers-aviation-industrys-first-ever-corsia-certified-sustainable-aviation-fuel-american


64Neste Annual Report 2022 | Carbon handprint

Expanding the availability of renewable 
solutions for road transportation
Neste MY Renewable Diesel™ is a drop-in solution for 
all diesel-powered vehicles, and its use does not require 
any changes to the existing engines or logistics. The use 
of our Neste MY Renewable Diesel helps reduce green-
house gas emissions by as much as 50–95% compared 
to fossil diesel over the fuel’s life cycle. The GHG emis-
sion reduction varies depending on the region-specific 
legislation that provides the methodology for the calcu-
lations (e.g. EU RED II (EU)2018/2001 for Europe and 
US California LCFS for the US), and the raw material mix 
used to manufacture the product for each market.

In 2022, we continued to expand the availability of 
renewable diesel by bringing it to new markets and by 
growing the station network. In Finland, we expanded 
the availability of Neste MY Renewable Diesel from 152 
stations to 168 stations. In Estonia, Latvia, and Lithua-
nia the number of stations selling the fuel grew with 17 
stations, totalling 24. In Sweden, Neste MY Renewable 
Diesel was sold at almost 400 stations by the end of the 
year.

In Germany, we partnered with two channel partners 
to jointly enable the supply of Neste MY Renewable Die-
sel and contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emission 
in the transport sector. EDi Energie-Direkt Hohenlohe 
GmbH and TOOL-FUEL Services GmbH will distribute 
and sell the fuel in Germany, while Neste will ensure suf-
ficient volumes of the fuel.

In March 2022, we enabled together with our partners 
Altens and TRAPIL the first-ever transport of renew-
able diesel by pipeline in Europe to help reduce emis-
sions from fuel transports. Altogether 3.5 million liters of 
Neste-produced renewable diesel was transported by 
TRAPIL via the pipeline from Le Havre, located in north-
western France, to Gennevilliers, close to Paris.

Neste and Rolls-Royce partner to accelerate 
the shift from fossil to renewable fuels
Neste and Rolls-Royce agreed to build a strategic partnership on accel-
erating the use of renewable diesel as a lower-emission solution for diesel 
engines. Both parties share a common vision of renewable fuels playing a 
key role in reducing greenhouse gas emissions in off-highway applications, 
such as construction and power generation.

   Read more about the partnership.

Reduced emissions with Neste MY Renewable Diesel™ 
Comparing 100% fossil diesel to 100% Neste MY Renewable Diesel results on average 90% lower 
greenhouse gas emissions when evaluating the emissions over the fuels’ life cycle. 

Total GHG 
emissions

Raw 
material

Transportation Fuel 
refining

Fuel 
transportation

Fuel use

1) Calculation method complies with the EU Renewable Energy Directive ((EU)2018/2001).

9

90%

GHG, gCO2e/MJ

Carbon emissions from the use of renewable diesel amount to zero, as the amount of bio-based carbon  
dioxide released upon combustion equals the amount that the renewable raw material has absorbed earlier.

less GHG 
emissions 1)

100% fossil diesel from crude oil

Neste MY Renewable Diesel 
from 100% renewable raw materials

94

https://www.neste.com/products/all-products/renewable-road-transport/neste-my-renewable-diesel#f1558afc
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-welcomes-two-new-partners-edi-energie-direkt-hohenlohe-gmbh-and-tool-fuel-services-gmbh-sell
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-welcomes-two-new-partners-edi-energie-direkt-hohenlohe-gmbh-and-tool-fuel-services-gmbh-sell
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-enabled-first-ever-transport-renewable-diesel-pipeline-europe-help-reduce-emissions-fuel
https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/renewable-solutions/neste-and-rolls-royce-building-strategic-partnership-accelerate-shift-fossil-renewable-fuels


65Neste Annual Report 2022 | Carbon handprint

Sustainable solutions for marine
More than 90% of the world’s trade is carried by sea, 
making maritime transport essential to the global econ-
omy. Neste helps shipping companies to reduce their 
emissions and respond to the tightening regulations 
on sulphur dioxide emissions with low-sulphur fuels. In 
addition, we provide solutions that enable GHG emission 
reductions in maritime, such as co-processed marine 
fuel, renewable diesel and drop-in bio-components for 
marine blending. We aim to develop new complemen-
tary solutions in order to widen Neste’s low-emission 
offering for the maritime industry.

Renewable and circular solutions for 
the polymers and chemicals industries
Neste provides the polymers and chemicals industries 
with renewable and circular solutions that help miti-
gate climate change, combat waste plastic pollution 
and reduce dependency on crude oil. Neste is already 
delivering renewable feedstock to be used as sustain-
able, drop-in raw solutions in the polymers and chem-
icals industries. It is made from renewable raw materi-
als, primarily waste and residue oils and fats, such as 
used cooking oil. With our feedstock, the polymers and 
chemicals producers as well as global brands can man-
ufacture lower carbon footprint products and reduce 
the use of fossil resources. We are also committed to 
becoming a solution provider for chemical recycling of 
waste plastic. Read more about chemical recycling on 
page 95.

Our renewable polymers and chemicals business is 
built on partnerships and collaboration across the value 
chain. Downstream partners turn our renewable and cir-
cular hydrocarbons, sold under the brand Neste RE™, 
into high quality products. Neste RE can be used for 
plastics and chemicals in a wide range of applications 
such as toys, sports equipment and clothing, food and 
beverage packaging, home and personal care and med-
ical devices. Neste RE is a drop-in solution that can be 

Piloting new low-emission marine fuel
In 2022, to help shipping companies and their customers to reduce the 
GHG emissions in their supply chain we introduced as the first company in 
the world the Neste Marine™ 0.1 Co-processed marine fuel. The solution 
enables up to 80% 1) GHG emission reduction over the life cycle compared 
to fossil fuels without compromising the product quality and performance. 
Together with our partner Nordic Marine Oil, we are piloting the Neste Marine 
0.1 Co-processed marine fuel in Scandinavia. During the pilot phase, Finn-
ish shipping company ESL Shipping became the world’s first shipping com-
pany to start utilizing Neste Marine 0.1 Co-processed marine fuel in its ves-
sels in Finland and Sweden.

   Read more about Neste Marine™ 0.1 Co-processed marine fuel.

1) The method used to calculate life cycle emissions and emission reduction 
 is guided by the EU Renewable Energy Directive II (EU)2018/2001.

1) The methodology for calculating life cycle emissions and emissions reduction is based on ISO 14040/44/67 standards.

Neste provides renewable and circular 
solutions that help mitigate climate change, 
combat waste plastic pollution and reduce 
dependency on crude oil.

used on its own or in a blend to manufacture products 
of identical quality to those made out of conventional 
feedstock based on virgin fossil resources. When 100% 
renewable Neste RE is used to replace conventional fos-
sil feedstock in the chemical and polymers industry, it 
shows a GHG emission reduction of at least 85%1) over 
the life cycle. The LCA study has been critically reviewed 
by a third party panel and results published in Journal of 
Cleaner Production.

https://www.neste.com/products/all-products/plastics/combating-plastic-pollution#f1558afc
https://www.neste.com/products/all-products/plastics/combating-plastic-pollution#f1558afc
https://www.neste.com/products/all-products/marine/neste-marine-01-co-processed#f1558afc
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0959652622042172
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0959652622042172


66Neste Annual Report 2022 | Carbon footprint

Neste’s climate vision is to lead transformation towards a 
carbon neutral value chain. Reaching this ambition requires 
reducing greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) in Neste's oper-
ations and across our value chain — our carbon footprint 
work. We have set targets that cover both direct and indirect 
emissions from our production and value chain, referred to 
as scopes 1, 2 and 3 as defined by the GHG Protocol. 

Our commitment to reduce the climate 
impact in our own production, as well as 
across the value chain, is integrated into 
our corporate strategy and sustainability 
vision. The target is ambitious, but we are 
well on track to achieve it. 

The change we make 
– our carbon footprint



67Neste Annual Report 2022 | Carbon footprint

Firstly, our main focus remains unchanged: significantly 
reducing the greenhouse gas emissions from our pro-
duction (scopes 1 & 2) through various means. We are 
committed to reducing our production emissions by 
50% by 2030, and reaching carbon neutral production 
by 2035. In 2022, we continued to identify and imple-
ment emission reduction measures across all of our pro-
duction sites.

Secondly, we have set a concrete target to reduce the 
use phase emission intensity of sold products (part of 
scope 3 emissions) by 50% by 2040 compared to 2020. 
The main driver to meet, and exceed, this target is to 
continue our transformation towards renewable and cir-
cular solutions.

Finally, we are committed to work with our suppli-
ers and partners to reduce the indirect GHG emissions 
across our entire value chain (scope 3). We want to lead 
the transformation towards a carbon neutral value chain, 
and that requires actions beyond our own production 
and products.

Through our climate commitments to reduce the GHG 
emissions from our production, sold products as well as 
throughout the value chain, we want to show leadership 
and determination to do our part in limiting global warm-
ing to 1.5°C compared to pre-industrial levels and meet-
ing the objectives of the Paris Agreement. We will con-
tinue to develop our climate commitments and actions 
to ensure that they are aligned with the 1.5°C emission 
scenarios.

Reduce GHG emissions in our 
own production (scopes 1 & 2) by 
50% by 2030 and reach carbon 
neutral production by 2035

Reduce the use phase emission 
intensity 1) of sold products by 
50% by 2040 compared to  
2020 levels (scope 3)

Work with our suppliers and 
partners to reduce GHG emissions 
across our value chain 
(scope 3)

1) Use phase emission intensity is calculated by 
 dividing the emissions from the use of products 
 sold by Neste (part of scope 3) with the total 
 amount of sold energy (gCO2e/MJ).

Our vision is to lead 
transformation towards a carbon 
neutral value chain by 2040

Our footprint: Neste’s value chain GHG emissions

Reported GHG emissions in 2022, MtCO2e 1)

1) Scope 1 accounting and reporting based on CO2.
2) Includes Use of sold products and End-of-life treatment of sold products.
3) Including Purchased services, Waste generated in operations, and Fuel- and energy-related activities.
4) Use phase emission intensity is calculated by dividing the emissions from the use of fuel products sold.
 by Neste (part of scope 3) with the total amount of sold energy (gCO2e/MJ)

We use the scope framework defined in the Corporate Standard by GHG 
Protocol to assess the GHG emissions across our value chain. scope 1 and 
scope 2 cover the emissions related to our own production. scope 3 includes 
all other relevant emissions throughout our value chain.

Scope 1
Direct 
emissions 
from refining 

Scope 2
Indirect 
emissions 
from 
purchased 
energy

Scope 3
Other indirect 
emissions 
from value 
chain

1.1 Other 3)

4.3 0.70.9 34.7
Purchased 

goods 
Product 

transport
Raw 

material
transport

Use of 
products 2)

2.1
Refining

0.4
Purchased

energy

57 gCO2e/MJ
Use phase emission 

intensity of sold 
fuel products 4)



68Neste Annual Report 2022 | Carbon footprint

Progress & highlights of 
the climate roadmap in 2022
Our commitment to reduce our climate impact remains 
strongly integrated into our corporate strategy. Neste is 
investing into growing its renewable and circular solu-
tions, which means that we also need to understand the 
climate impact of our growth. In 2022, we made sev-
eral strategic investment decisions, such as expanding 
our Rotterdam refinery and establishing a joint operation 
to produce renewable diesel in the US. In all of these 
cases, climate impact evaluation was part of the deci-
sion process, with focus on minimizing the impact on 
our production footprint. 

In 2022, we focused on driving the implementation 
of the short-term actions on our climate roadmap for 
production, and we for example reached a significantly 
higher share of renewable electricity compared to year 
2021. We have also progressed with the initiatives related 
to renewable hydrogen, which is a critical topic in the 
longer term. We also continued to make progress with 
scope 3 emissions through developing plans as well as 

Since 2020, we have evaluated the GHG emission 
impact of every investment decision. Our investment 
criteria aims to make the GHG emission impact of all 
investments more transparent, and align our invest-
ment decisions with our climate commitments. In the 
investment evaluation process, the estimated GHG 
emission impact needs to be presented for the project 
to proceed towards the final investment decision. Fur-
thermore, with growth investments, the possibilities to 
minimize the impact on production footprint need to 
be evaluated and integrated into the project plan.

To further align our investment we use our internal 
carbon price as a strategic tool to support reaching 
our climate commitments. Neste applies the internal 
carbon price in investment calculations, business case 
evaluations as well as in strategic planning. The devel-
opment of Neste’s internal carbon price is based on 
several external drivers and references, to reflect the 

development in our operating environment. The refer-
ences for our internal carbon price, for example the 
EU ETS allowance price, indicate that higher than pre-
viously expected carbon prices will be implemented 
already during this decade. In 2022, Neste’s internal 
carbon price was 80 EUR/tCO2e, and it will increase to 
above 120 EUR/tCO2e by 2030. We review our inter-
nal carbon price regularly as part of our strategic plan-
ning process.

To support our internal carbon price, we see that 
effective, robust, reliable and fit for purpose carbon 
pricing instruments are important to facilitate cost- 
efficient investment paths to reach global climate 
ambitions. Such pricing instruments also create a sta-
ble and predictable investment environment for com-
panies like Neste, who are committed to fighting the 
climate crisis. Therefore, Neste is also a signatory of 
the the global Call on Carbon initiative.1)

GHG emission impact evaluated in every investment decision 
with Neste internal carbon pricing

1) Call on Carbon is an initiative by Climate Leadership Coalition, Haga Initiative and Skift to support ramping up 
 climate investments and carbon pricing. 

concrete actions. As an example of work done in 2022, 
we implemented tools to constantly monitor GHG emis-
sions from marine logistics. We also continued with our 
Neste Flies with SAF commitment to cover our employee 
business flights with Sustainable Aviation Fuel (SAF).

As an important step, we launched a strategic study 
on transitioning our Porvoo refinery to a renewable and 
circular site and ending crude oil refining in the mid-
2030s. The targeted transformation would contribute 
significantly to meeting Neste’s climate commitments. 
Through this study, Neste shows an example of what 
leading the transformation towards a carbon neutral 
value chain could mean in practice.

In addition, we continued to increase the awareness 
and commitment across the company: our climate com-
mitments are a performance measure in long-term incen-
tives (LTIs) for Neste’s key personnel. We also actively 
advocate for supportive policies needed to advance 
more innovative solutions to reduce emissions in our 
production and across the value chain.

https://calloncarbon.com/


69Neste Annual Report 2022 | Carbon footprint

In September 2022, Neste launched a strategic study on 
transitioning its Porvoo refinery in Finland to a renewable 
and circular site and ending crude oil refining in the mid-
2030s. If implemented, the transformation will increase 
Neste’s raw material flexibility and capacity of renewable 
and circular solutions, while also driving company profit-
ability through asset optimization and new investments. 

The targeted transformation would strongly contribute 
to reaching Neste’s climate commitments across pro-
duction, sold products and the entire value chain, thus 
driving Neste towards the vision of leading the transfor-
mation towards a carbon neutral value chain by 2040. 
As part of the study, Neste will continue to maximize the 

opportunities of renewable hydrogen and focus on build-
ing larger electrolyser capacity for the hydrogen produc-
tion at the Porvoo refinery. Renewable hydrogen is a key 
element in the climate roadmap towards carbon neutral 
production by 2035. In addition, a change from fossil to 
renewable and circular raw materials would significantly 
reduce the GHG emissions caused by the refining pro-
cess itself.

Discontinuation of crude oil refining at the Porvoo 
refinery would also have a significant impact on Neste’s 
scope 3 GHG emissions. For Neste, the use phase emis-
sions in scope 3 are caused mainly by the use of the fos-
sil fuels produced and sold by Neste. Discontinuation 

Transitioning Porvoo refinery to a renewable and circular site and ending crude oil refining 
would have a significant climate impact

of crude oil refining would lead to Neste not producing 
fossil fuel products itself. This would then lead to signifi-
cant reduction of both the use phase emission intensity 
as well as the absolute emissions caused by the use of 
products produced and sold by Neste. Furthermore, the 
targeted Porvoo refinery transformation would have an 
impact on the other scope 3 categories for Neste. The 
main impact would likely be on the emissions related to 
the purchased goods, where the production of the crude 
oil currently purchased by Neste is one of the main emis-
sion sources.

Neste shows 
an example of 
what leading the 
transformation 
towards a carbon 
neutral value chain 
could mean 
in practice.



70

Our pathway to carbon neutral 
production by 2035
Our target is to reduce production (scopes 1 & 2) emis-
sions by 50% by 2030 compared to 2019, and reach 
carbon neutral production by 2035. We believe that 
these commitments are in line with global climate ambi-
tions and the Paris Agreement. We are well on track to 
reach our targets as in 2022, our production (scopes 1 & 
2) emissions totalled to 2.5 MtCO2, which is 28% smaller 
than in 2019, which is our baseline year. The production 
footprint in 2022 was slightly higher than in 2021, as we 
performed the major turnaround at our Porvoo refinery 
in 2021, which had a one-off impact on our production 
emissions.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Carbon footprint

We have identified over 100 measures to reduce our 
production GHG emissions. In 2022, we continued prog-
ress with the short-term actions on our production cli-
mate roadmap, such as increasing the share of renew-
able electricity. In 2022, the share of renewable electricity 
was 93.8%, significantly higher than in 2021 (36.5%). In 
the short to medium term, we will also push towards 
a higher share of renewable steam with our partners. 
These measures focus on purchased energy (scope 
2) and are estimated to have a reduction potential of 
around 20% by 2030 compared to our 2019 baseline.

Also in the medium term, the focus will be on con-
tinuous energy efficiency improvement and electrifica-
tion measures. Many of these measures are in imple-
mentation planning, for example as part of the refinery 
turnarounds. Due to the exceptional market situation in 
2022, energy efficiency improvements, especially related 
to reducing the use of natural gas, have been strongly 
highlighted. Many of the over 100 measures relate to 
energy efficiency, with an estimated emissions reduction 
potential of approximately 10% by 2030 compared to 
the 2019 baseline. 

Longer term actions on our climate roadmap include 
scaling up new technologies and innovations. The focus 
is still clear: renewable hydrogen. The GHG emissions 
caused by the hydrogen production are the largest sin-
gle source of production emissions in the fuel refining 
sector. Renewable hydrogen is one of Neste’s main 
innovation topics, and we have been building partner-
ships to advance the commercialization of the technol-
ogy. Renewable hydrogen and other new technologies 
are estimated to have a reduction potential of 20% or 
more by 2030 compared to 2019 baseline. 

Towards carbon neutral production by 2035

Our climate roadmap to reduce our production (scopes 1 & 2) emissions by 50% by 2030 and reach carbon neutral production by 2035.

Short-term measures
For example, Neste’s aims for 100% 
share of renewable electricity by 2023

Long-term measures
Scaling up lower emission technologies 
and innovations with focus on renewable hydrogen

Compensation
Any residual production emis-
sions that cannot be mitigated 
will be compensated through 
credible methods to reach 
carbon neutral production

Medium-term measures
For example, continuous energy efficiency improvements, 
electrification investments, and working with suppliers 
to leverage renewable energy for heat & steam

MtCO2/a

2.0

0.0

3.0

1.0

3.5

1.5

2.5

0.5

2019 2021 2022 2025 2030 20352020

>50% 
reduction in 
scopes 1 & 2 

by 2030

1.7

3.4

2.9

2.3
2.5

Carbon 
neutral 

production



71Neste Annual Report 2022 | Carbon footprint

Increasing the share of renewable electricity has been 
and still is one of the most important short-term actions 
on Neste’s climate roadmap to reduce our production 
emissions. We aim for 100% renewable electricity use 
globally by 2023, and have made significant progress 
during the past years towards this ambition. In 2022, 
93.8% of electricity purchased and used globally by 
Neste was of renewable origin with market-based mea-
sures (eligible for scope 2). 

We have already achieved a share of 100% renewable 
electricity in Finland during 2022. This was enabled by 

Neste has ongoing renewable hydrogen projects at its 
refineries in Porvoo, Finland and Rotterdam, the Neth-
erlands. The projects are essential in Neste’s efforts to 
reduce scope 1 & 2 emissions and to reach carbon neu-
tral production by 2035.

At the Porvoo refinery, Neste’s SHARC project focuses 
on developing the green hydrogen solutions for enabling 
a significant reduction of the refinery's greenhouse gas 
emissions. The project is in the feasibility phase with the 
planned start of the operations around the mid-2020s. 
The SHARC project aims to reduce Neste’s production 
footprint by more than 4 MtCO2e during the first 10 years 
of operation, approximately 0.4 MtCO2e per year.

At our Rotterdam refinery, we are demonstrating 
renewable hydrogen production in the MultiPLHY project, 
which aims at the installation and integration of an elec-
trolyser demonstration unit into the refinery. We expect 
to reach the commissioning and the  startup stage in the 
project in 2023.

  
  Read more about our hydrogen projects on
  the innovation section and raw materials section.

wind power deliveries from our partners Statkraft, Ilmatar 
and Fortum, as well as hydropower agreement with Vat-
tenfall. For our operations in the Netherlands (including 
Rotterdam refinery), we were able to reach a share of 
99% in 2022 through the use of Guarantees-of-Origin.

In Singapore, the availability of renewable electric-
ity in the local grid remains challenging, and we have 
engaged in additional measures to contribute to the use 
of renewable energy to produce electricity in South-East 
Asia. Through these measures, we covered an additional 
5.9% of Neste’s total purchased electricity. 

Aiming for 100% renewable electricity use globally by 2023 

Renewable hydrogen projects ongoing 
in Finland and the Netherlands



72Neste Annual Report 2022 | Carbon footprint

Reducing the use phase emission 
intensity of sold products
The most relevant scope 3 emission category for Neste 
is the use phase emissions of the products produced 
and sold by Neste. These are the GHG emissions gener-
ated when the products that we sell are used – for fuels, 
this means combustion. The key performance indicator 
in this area is the use phase emission intensity of sold 
products – the total GHG emissions from the combus-
tion of the products divided by the amount of energy in 
those products (gCO2e/MJ). 

In 2022, the use phase emission intensity of fuel prod-
ucts was 57 gCO2e/MJ, which is 2% lower than the 
2020 baseline (58 gCO2e/MJ). The reduction is mainly 
caused by the decision to end refining operations at 
Naantali in 2021, which has decreased our fossil prod-
ucts sales, and the increased sales of renewable prod-
ucts. The absolute GHG emissions related to the use of 
sold products in scope 3 were 33.6 MtCO2e in 2022, 
which is 13% lower than in 2020 (38.7 MtCO2e).

We have a target to reduce the use phase emission 
intensity of sold products by 50% by 2040 compared 
to 2020. To meet the target, we will further increase the 
share of renewable and circular products in our prod-
uct portfolio. Carbon emissions from the use of renew-
able fuel amount to zero, as the amount of bio-based 
carbon dioxide released upon combustion equals the 
amount that the renewable raw material has absorbed 
earlier. Thus, no new carbon is added into the atmo-
sphere by the combustion of biofuels. Read more about 
the accounting of the climate benefits of biofuels, such 
as Neste MY Renewable Diesel.

During this decade, a key driver for the reduction of the 
use phase emission intensity of sold products will be the 
increased sales of renewable products enabled by Sin-
gapore Expansion, Martinez Renewables and Rotterdam 

Expansion projects. In addition, we are already working 
to replace a part of the fossil raw materials at the Por-
voo refinery with renewable raw materials before 2030. 
With these initiatives, we estimate to be able to reduce 
the use phase emission intensity by over 30% already by 
2030 compared to 2020.

Beyond 2030, the reduction of use phase emission 
intensity is driven by transitioning our Porvoo refinery 
to a renewable and circular site and ending crude oil 
refining by the mid-2030s. This is supported by our fur-
ther growth in renewable solutions, such as utilizing new 
innovative raw materials.

Working with suppliers and  
partners to reduce GHG emissions 
across the value chain
For other scope 3 areas, emissions related to purchased 
goods, such as raw materials, purchased services, trans-
portation and logistics are important topics for Neste’s 
value chain emissions. 

Related to raw materials, Neste’s strategic ambitions 
support the scope 3 ambitions as well. For example, we 
continue focusing on waste and residue in our renew-
able raw material sourcing, and plan to reduce the share 
of conventional palm oil to 0% of its global renewable 
raw material inputs by the end of 2023. We are innovat-
ing new types of raw materials, and are aiming to replace 
some of the crude oil used at our Porvoo refinery with 
renewable and recycled raw materials through co-pro-
cessing. In addition, we will work even more closely with 
our suppliers to reduce emissions related to our raw 
materials. We have also carried out an assessment to 
enhance our understanding of the sustainability impacts 
and risks in Neste’s indirect procurement supply chains. 

Transportation of the raw materials and products 
is another key area. We are continuously looking for 

opportunities to optimize our logistics network and gain 
more visibility to logistics emissions. Our ambition is to 
scale up the use of low-emission solutions and increase 
fuel efficiency with our logistics partners. As concrete 
examples, Neste’s product distribution logistics in Fin-
land has used almost entirely Neste MY Renewable Die-
sel since 2021. With our shipping assets and contracts, 
Neste has already renewed four vessels to more ener-
gy-efficient ones. Also, we explore opportunities to part-
ner with ship owners to venture towards future fuels with 
next generation low carbon vessels. 

In 2022, we also continued our Neste Flies with SAF 
commitment. In 2020, we made a forerunner commit-
ment to mitigate GHG emissions from our employee 
business flights through the use of Neste MY SAF in 

collaboration with our partner airlines. The first partner-
ship was announced with Finnair and since we have also 
partnered with KLM Corporate SAF Program, Lufthansa 
Compensaid and Norwegian.

We recognize that leading the transformation across 
the entire value chain is a long-term ambition. There-
fore, in 2022, we have worked with internal and external 
stakeholders to build understanding on scope 3 emis-
sions baseline and hotspots, drivers affecting scope 3 
emissions and developing action plans across different 
work streams to enable moving from scope 3 ambition 
to action. We will continue to strengthen our capabili-
ties across the organization and build our action plan for 
scope 3 together with our suppliers and partners.

https://journeytozerostories.neste.com/aviation/neste-flies-saf-program-continued#711ca977
https://journeytozerostories.neste.com/aviation/neste-flies-saf-program-continued#711ca977


73

Indirect procurement supplier assessment
to strengthen understanding on scope 3 emissions
In 2022, we carried out an assessment to enhance our 
understanding of the sustainability impacts and risks in 
Neste’s indirect procurement supply chains. Desktop 
assessments were carried out for 50 key suppliers to 
evaluate climate- and human rights related topics, prac-
tices and risks. This assessment provides valuable input 
for developing Neste’s ambition and actions for its scope 
3 emissions. Read more about the assessment from the 
Supply chain & raw material section. 

Raising awareness on scope 3 emissions 
People take Neste’s climate commitments from ambi-
tion to action. Therefore, in 2022 we have focused on 
offering training and education for different teams. Our 
aim has been to increase Neste’s employees' under-
standing on scope 3 emissions, their measuring and 
the drivers impacting Neste's scope 3 emissions. In 
the beginning of the year, we organized a compa-
ny-wide sustainability seminar on scope 3 emissions.  

Event compensation standard
In addition to absolute emission reductions in Neste's 
production (scopes 1 & 2) and across the value chain 
(scope 3), we also want to make concrete climate 
actions an element in everything we do. Neste Event 
Compensation Standard is the first area to pilot vol-
untary carbon compensation. 

With Neste Event Compensation Standard, we 
commit to estimating, and minimizing GHG emissions 
in Neste's internal and external events. 

To evaluate the GHG emissions of events, we use 
a third party developed calculator tool. Actions taken 
during the event planning include choices around 
energy consumption, responsible menu options, and 
using renewable fuels for transport. The remaining 
emissions will be compensated with compensation 
projects that meet best available quality criteria. The 
estimated GHG emissions covered by the event com-
pensation standard in 2022 was 38 tCO2e (estimated 
with a third party calculator).

In 2022, we partnered with SouthPole, to invest in 
their projects Vichada and Rimba Raya Biodiversity 
Reserve. These projects include forest conservation 
and reforestation for sustainable timber production, 
while promoting biodiversity protection and ecosys-
tem restoration.

Neste's event partner retired compensation cred-
its on our behalf from these projects for 134 tCO2e.  
While the amount is small in the scale of Neste's cli-
mate commitments, we believe these are important 
actions to embed climate considerations across our 
operations and gain understanding of the voluntary 
carbon market mechanisms. 

Our carbon compensation approach
Neste develops its climate commitments and roadmap 
by closely following the latest climate science and lead-
ing practice for corporate climate targets1). Therefore, 
ambitious emission reductions in own production and 
across the value chain are the primary lever for achieving 
Neste’s climate ambition. 

However, there is an acknowledged need for com-
panies to contribute in emission mitigation beyond their 
own value chains to counterbalance the impact of any 
remaining emissions2). Any residual production emis-
sions that cannot be mitigated will be compensated 
through credible methods. Therefore, to reach carbon 
neutral production, different compensation methods will 
be the final lever on our climate roadmap. In 2022, we 
continued developing and detailing our compensation 
approach to ensure projects we invest in lead to impact-
ful additional climate benefits. We have followed the 
development of voluntary carbon compensation meth-
odologies and markets through participation in the World 
Business Council for Sustainable Development Nature-
Based Solutions works stream, continuous dialogue 
with leading compensation project developers and stan-
dard setters. We see that our compensation approach 
development has a potential to also support other areas 
of Neste’s sustainability vision, for example Biodiversity. 

1) Science-Based Targets initiative, Corporate Net Zero 
 Standard, Version 1.0, October 2021. 

2) Traditionally, this refers to companies procuring ‘carbon 
 credits’ from projects in e.g. reforestation, land conservation 
 or renewable energy investments. Carbon credits are traded 
 on voluntary carbon markets, which are expected to grow 
 exponentially over the next decade. 

Concrete actions to reduce scope 3 emissions

We have developed an internal handbook on scope 3 
accounting methodology and data, and throughout the 
year presented scope 3 to relevant teams in e.g. Procure-
ment, Innovation and Logistics. 

Data and digitalization supporting logistics  
emissions monitoring and management
Digitalization and data are necessary enablers in man-
aging GHG emissions across Neste’s value chain. As an 
example of work done in 2022, we have tools to con-
stantly monitor Neste marine logistics GHG emissions. 
This gives us a base to take actions and monitor the 
effectiveness of optimization of GHG emissions from 
shipping operations. These types of digital fleet optimi-
zation tools have made significant progress in the reduc-
tion of GHG. In 2022, a GHG emission reduction of  
9 000 tCO2e was achieved by digitalisation of just-in-time 
arrivals. Development towards further automatized fleet 
usage optimization will further reduce the environmental 
impact of logistics.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Carbon footprint



74Neste Annual Report 2022 | Biodiversity

Our business is dependent on natural resources. For our 
planet and our business to thrive and be resilient, the pre-
requisite is restoring and protecting healthy ecosystems. 

Biodiversity is one of the cornerstones of Neste’s sustain-
ability vision and we aim to drive a positive impact on bio-
diversity and achieve a nature positive value chain by 2040.

Biodiversity loss is the third most severe risk on 
a global scale over the next ten years1). Natural 
ecosystems are impacted by effects of climate 
change, unsustainable water use, forestry and 
farming practices resulting in resource depletion. 

Biodiversity

1) the World Economic Forum’s 2022 Global Risks Report



75

Aligned with our purpose of creating a healthier planet 
for our children, we wanted to set an ambitious biodiver-
sity vision, launched in 2021. We aim to achieve a nature 
positive value chain by 2040, meaning that the positive 
biodiversity impacts outweigh the negative ones. 

We have also set the ambition level to support the vision:
• We aim at creating net positive impacts (NPI) for 

biodiversity from new activities from 2025 onwards.
• We target no net loss (NNL) of biodiversity from all 

ongoing activities by 2035.

Biodiversity neutral value chain means that the impacts 
to biodiversity are minimized and the caused negative 
impacts are compensated either in the direct value chain 
or elsewhere.

Nature positive business means that the overall busi-
ness creates more benefits than causes adverse impacts 
to nature.

Net positive impacts
Aim at creating net positive impacts (NPI) 
for biodiversity from new activities from 
2025 onwards

Nature positive
Neste drives a positive impact on 
biodiversity and achieves a nature positive 
value chain by 2040.

Nature positive value chain means that 
throughout our value chain we are creating 
more positive impacts to nature than causing 
adverse ones.

No net loss
Target no net loss (NNL) of biodiversity 
from all ongoing activities by 2035

The scope of ‘Net positive impact’ (NPI) and ‘No net loss’ (NNL) goals is set 
to Neste’s own direct operations. ‘Direct’ means activities where Neste owns 
the land or is owning the operations or activity. NPI and NNL aim to address 
impacts by avoiding and minimizing losses, by restoring affected areas and 
finally by compensating the residual impacts, so that no biodiversity loss 
remains or positive impact is created. 

2025

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Biodiversity

2040

Building the means and roadmap to achieve our biodiversity vision

2035

In 2022, we defined the scope and developed 
methodology for net positive biodiversity impact 
for direct operations. Piloting and integration to 
processes will start in 2023.

No net loss means net zero impact on biodiversity.
It is required from all Neste own direct operations by 2035. 



76

Building a strong foundation 
for our biodiversity work
At Neste, we have started the development of a sys-
tematic, in-depth approach to building our biodiversity 
framework and roadmap towards our vision. Much more 
work is still needed to understand our impacts on nature 
as well as dependencies between climate, social and 
biodiversity topics. 

In 2022, the biodiversity work focused on develop-
ing our understanding of our current impacts. We con-
ducted materiality analysis for our direct operations 
(scope 1) and biodiversity inventory projects in Porvoo 
and Naantali operational areas in Finland to define the 
focus areas in our own operations. We concluded the 
water aspects to be significant in regards to biodiversity 
and nature. We also continued value chain materiality 
analysis, which we aim to complete in 2023 for selected 
raw materials.

We created definitions on Net Positive impact for 
Neste and created a net positive impact (NPI) methodol-
ogy for biodiversity to guide our work towards our vision. 
We will pilot the methodology in 2023 with chosen new 
initiatives.

In the longer term, we are looking for potential new 
renewable raw materials to turn into renewable hydro-
carbons and fuels. We are currently assessing raw 
materials like algae, lignocellulosic waste and residues 
and novel vegetable oils. In studying the new raw mate-
rial opportunities and innovations, biodiversity has been 
integrated into criteria from the beginning. For example, 
with novel vegetable oils, Neste is exploring regenera-
tive agriculture practices, such as intermediate crop-
ping, that maximize greenhouse gas savings while pro-
moting soil health, sustainable water and land use and 
biodiversity. 

Neste’s raw material sourcing for renewable fuels is 
strictly regulated by the sustainability criteria of, e.g., 

the EU Renewable Energy Directive. It defines no-go 
areas and restricts the use of materials originating from 
land with high biodiversity value. Similar restrictions are 
applied in the US and other markets as well, ensuring 
that raw material sourcing for renewables is environmen-
tally sound. Read more about our supply chain and raw 
materials.

We acknowledge that by actively listening to stake-
holders, following the work of the key organisations and 
collaborating with top specialists, we are able to develop 
a systematic approach and metrics to take into account 
the biodiversity, soil and water issues related to our busi-
ness. The backbone of our biodiversity work in 2022 has 
been our partnership with Fauna & Flora International. 
Currently, internationally recognized methodologies for 

biodiversity impact mitigation across value and supply 
chains are only just under development. Similarly, disclo-
sure frameworks are updating their biodiversity require-
ments. We are closely following the development of 
these methodologies and frameworks to help build a 
roadmap towards our vision.

Biodiversity risks 
Biodiversity loss including a destruction of natural cap-
ital, ranging from reductions in the genetic diversity to 
the collapse of entire ecosystems, is mainly the result of 
human activities causing deforestation and soil degra-
dation. Biodiversity loss is a global concern that has an 
effect also on Neste’s stable and secure operations and 
supply of raw materials. 

The risk could materialize on raw material accept-
ability by the stakeholders or regulatory limitations that 
lead to lack of sufficient volumes of raw materials. Future 
requirements for e.g. restoring and protecting biodiver-
sity may also have impacts towards our operations and 
value chains.

We gain more understanding on biodiversity related 
risks and opportunities when we finalize the holistic 
materiality analysis including our direct operations and 
the value chain impacts. During 2022, we conducted 
a materiality analysis for our own operations (scope 1), 
and water was highlighted as a key topic. There are risks 
related to freshwater ecosystems, water scarcity and 
marine ecosystems that we might impact through our 
freshwater withdrawal and release of effluents.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Biodiversity



77

Materiality analysis 
In 2022, we continued the materiality analysis of the key 
aspects related to biodiversity and nature in our value 
chain (scope 3) and conducted an analysis for our direct 
(scope 1) aspects including sites that are owned or oper-
ated by Neste. The analysis was conducted according 
to the current draft methodology by Science Based Tar-
gets Network (SBTN) that recognizes the same biodiver-
sity pressures as The Intergovernmental Science-Pol-
icy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services 
(IPBES). 

The methodology is still under development by SBTN 
and the application of the draft methodology remains 
limited. This has an impact on the first results achieved 
with the methodology. Neste closely follows the meth-
odology and its applicability. 

Progress and highlights in 2022 

The initial results for our direct impacts indicated that 
fresh water use and water pollutants are among the most 
material impacts we have on biodiversity and nature. 
Our Porvoo refinery is the major user of fresh water. In 
each of our locations we are closely monitoring and mit-
igating the effluents release to avoid impacts on marine 
ecosystems.

For our value chain, we continued the work to better 
understand our impacts on biodiversity from raw mate-
rials to end products. We find that our supply chain is a 
key asset especially for our renewable businesses, and 
having an impact and taking care of biodiversity in our 
supply chain is highly important.

In 2023, we will continue the work with defining mate-
riality for the selected raw materials (scope 3).

Defining positive impact 
In 2022, we focused on building the means and road-
map towards our biodiversity vision. We defined the 
scope and methodology for creating no net loss (NNL) 
and net positive impact (NPI) for biodiversity in our direct 
operations together with Fauna & Flora International’s 
experts.

Neste is aiming to create net positive impacts (NPI) for 
biodiversity from new activities from 2025 onwards and 
no net loss (NNL) of biodiversity from all ongoing activ-
ities by 2035. The scope of these targets are our own 
direct operations.

Both NPI and NNL aim to address impacts through the 
mitigation hierarchy by avoiding and minimizing losses, 
by restoring affected areas and finally by compensating 
the residual impacts, so that no biodiversity loss remains 

or positive impact is created.
We are planning to start to pilot the NPI methodol-

ogy in selected new activities in 2023. Through pilots we 
gain more understanding to further develop the frame-
work to be implemented in all new activities from 2025 
forward. We also initiated the integration of the meth-
odology to the investment process and criteria to bet-
ter guide investment planning from a biodiversity impact 
perspective. 

The work done during 2022 helped us to gain further 
understanding of the collaborations needed to be able 
to mitigate the negative impacts and create the posi-
tive ones for biodiversity. The work will further continue 
in 2023 by creating an approach and framework dedi-
cated to the value chain. 

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Biodiversity

https://ipbes.net/models-drivers-biodiversity-ecosystem-change
https://ipbes.net/models-drivers-biodiversity-ecosystem-change
https://ipbes.net/models-drivers-biodiversity-ecosystem-change


78

Developing a conservation  
stewardship program
Neste’s Mahoney Environmental site in Mendota, Illinois, 
US is developing a conservation stewardship program to 
manage their land in order to protect Illinois’ limited envi-
ronmental resources. As part of the process a wetland 
to handle storm water runoff and provide increased nat-
ural habitat has been completed. Wetlands are among 
the most productive ecosystems in the world, compa-
rable to rainforests and coral reefs. Wetlands protect 
and improve water quality, providing wildlife habitats, 
storing floodwaters and maintaining surface water flow 
during dry periods. In addition, wetlands help to moder-
ate global climate conditions because they store carbon 
within their plant communities and soil instead of releas-
ing it to the atmosphere as carbon dioxide. 

A next step in the process is to create a pollinator hab-
itat. Pollinators are vital to creating and maintaining the 
habitats and ecosystems that many animals rely on for 
food and shelter. Worldwide, over half the diet of fats and 
oils comes from crops pollinated by animals. More than 
3,500 species of native bees help increase crop yields.

Biodiversity inventory project 
We began piloting practical methods for measuring bio-
diversity and better understanding our opportunities to 
protect biodiversity. We carried out a biodiversity inven-
tory project at our Porvoo and Naantali sites in Finland. 
We utilized a specific Biodiversity Metric method for biodi-
versity baseline assessment and comparison purposes.

Porvoo and Naantali refinery areas were chosen for 
the assessment as both locations are large and include 
natural areas, such as forest. Information on the current 
biodiversity state helps us in identifying opportunities and 
forms a baseline for the sites to reach our biodiversity 
vision and understand impact of any land use change. 

Results indicated that we have some vulnerable spe-
cies and habitats to protect within our lands in Porvoo 
and Naantali, even though the lands are mainly not con-
sidered as areas of high biodiversity value. Within the 
Naantali refinery area we have some areas that we have 
protected in the past. The area is forest voluntarily pro-
tected under national legislation. The protected area is 
three hectares of the total 300 hectares. Other opera-
tional sites we own are located in more industrial areas, 
with a lower likelihood of impacting areas of high biodi-
versity value. 

The results serve as a baseline for biodiversity status 
in Porvoo and Naantali refinery areas and will be utilized 
in piloting the newly-created NPI methodology and in 
assessing the most impactful mitigation actions for bio-
diversity in our direct operations.

Going forward we are looking for ways to improve 
the biodiversity around our direct operations (scope 1)
aligned with the Net Positive and No Net Loss method-
ologies currently under development.

Established collaborations

• Fauna & Flora International: Neste is 
partnering with Fauna & Flora International to 
develop a biodiversity approach for Neste and 
a roadmap towards our biodiversity vision. 
The collaboration was established in 2021. 

• Science Based Targets Network (SBTN): 
Neste joined the Corporate Engagement 
Programme in 2021 to take part in the 
development of methods and guidance for 
science-based targets for nature. Programme 
will continue in 2023. 

• World Business Council for Sustainable 
Development (WBCSD): Neste participates 
in the WBCSD’s Nature Positive project to 
follow the global development of nature and 
biodiversity related corporate frameworks 
and policy development. The project aims 
for consistent and credible Nature-Positive 
business actions such as nature-based 
climate solutions.

• Consumer Goods Forum (CGF): In 2022, 
Neste joined the CGF’s Forest Positive 
Coalition to strengthen our collaboration 
on preventing deforestation and creating 
common metrics and definitions to disclose 
supply chain related biodiversity impacts.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Biodiversity

https://www.fauna-flora.org/
https://sciencebasedtargetsnetwork.org/
https://www.wbcsd.org/
https://www.wbcsd.org/
https://www.theconsumergoodsforum.com/


79

Even though we acknowledge that we are at the begin-
ning of the biodiversity journey, we have a long history 
of working with other areas of environmental protection. 
Below we highlight some of our key activities in different 
Neste locations.

Biological indicators show 
decreased impacts on nature
Neste has conducted continuous ambient air quality 
monitoring in the vicinity of the Porvoo refinery since 
1970. We have three automatic ambient air quality mea-
surement stations in Porvoo residential areas. The gen-
erated air quality data is part of the national data, which 
is verified and published by the Finnish Meteorological 
Institute on its air quality portal website, open to all. The 
air quality monitoring has demonstrated that sulphur 
dioxide and nitrogen oxides emissions to the air have 
significantly declined over the past decades. Reduced 
sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxides emissions are due 
to successful pollution control investments and refining 
technology improvements since the 1980s and 1990s, 
respectively.

In addition, Neste has been monitoring biologi-
cal indicators since the 1980s. According to the mon-
itoring results, Porvoo refinery impacts to nature have 
decreased. For example, the radius from the refinery to 
lichens impacted by air pollution has reduced from 10 
kilometers to less than 3 kilometers. Currently, tree nee-
dle nutrient levels are at the same level as in natural for-
ests, and tree growth has not been significantly influ-
enced by refinery emissions.

Preventing deforestation 
in our supply chains
Neste is committed to preventing deforestation and 
avoiding the conversion of habitats with valuable biodi-
versity for biomass production, while requiring the same 
from its suppliers globally. We source renewable raw 
materials only from known sources providing us with vis-
ibility into the raw material supply chain. Raw material 
traceability helps us ensure that raw material produc-
tion does not infringe human rights or put forests, car-
bon-rich areas or biodiversity at risk. 

In 2022, we joined the Consumer Goods Forum (CGF) 
Forest Positive Coalition to strengthen our collaboration 
on preventing deforestation. We also initiated a project 
that focuses on deforestation prevention in our existing 
animal fat waste supply chain. Read more about how 
Neste combats deforestation.

Material and energy efficiency 
Our aim is to use energy, as well as other utilities, as 
efficiently as possible. Energy efficiency plays a key role 
particularly in our production and logistics. 

In Finland, we have made a commitment to the 
national voluntary energy efficiency agreement scheme. 
During the agreement period 2017–2025, we aim to save  
500 GWh compared to the 2014 level. In 2022, our 
energy saving measures totaled 42.6 (95.8) GWh.

Neste is continuously developing ways to use mate-
rials more effectively and finding solutions to minimize 
the amount of waste and recover the waste generated. 
Reducing the amount of waste and improved material 
efficiency also has an impact on our climate performance.

We are using mainly waste and residue raw materials 
in our renewable products. Waste and residue raw mate-
rials are more difficult to refine in the process than pure 
vegetable oils and they need specific pretreatment pro-
cesses. This also has an impact on the amount of waste 
and wastewater generated. To respond to increasing 
production volumes, we have invested in new waste-
water treatment plants in our Rotterdam and Singapore 
refineries. 

Waste in our own operation is handled by contracted 
third parties locally and our waste reporting is based on 
data provided by them. We are following the local waste 
regulations and legislations in our operations and are as 
well continuously looking for new opportunities to mini-
mize the waste sent to landfill and finding new solutions 
to recover waste.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Biodiversity

Supporting pollination in 
the area of Neste headquarters
As we aim at creating net positive impacts (NPI) for bio-
diversity from new activities from 2025 onwards, we 
believe that smaller concrete actions can also have a 
notable effect at raising awareness and work as a call to 
action for many individuals. One example is supporting 
the pollinators that have a crucial role in the growth of a 
diverse nature globally. 

At Neste headquarters in Espoo, Finland we have 
four beehives that accommodate approximately 50,000 
bees each, creating a positive impact on the surround-
ing environment locally. The beehives were provided by 
Korpikuusikko Honey.

Pollinators contribute to the growth of a diverse nature 
and at the same time secure the food production, as var-
ious species of bees pollinate about 80% of the world’s 
plants. 

Examples of long-term and ongoing 
biodiversity projects in the locations 
where Neste operates

https://www.neste.com/sustainability/sustainable-supply-chain/preventing-deforestation#f1558afc
https://www.neste.com/sustainability/sustainable-supply-chain/preventing-deforestation#f1558afc


80

Environmental monitoring 
Continuous ambient air quality monitoring and other 
environmental programs, like marine and groundwater 
monitoring, continued in the vicinity of the Porvoo refin-
ery and Naantali terminal. 

In 2022, an odour assessment was conducted at the 
Porvoo refinery by engaging closest surrounding inhab-
itants to odour monitoring. This qualitative survey clar-
ified further that refinery related odour nuisance has 
decreased during the past decades. 

Furthermore, according to the long-term ambient air 
quality monitoring stations results, we expect to meet 
even the most stringent air quality guideline values by 
the WHO (2021) in the vicinity of the Porvoo refinery 
under normal operations. The EU is currently revising the 
Ambient Air Quality Directive’s limit values in which the 
long-term ambition is to meet the WHO (2021) guideline 
values as a part of the zero pollution vision for 2050.

Water
Water is essential for life, and people and nature are 
dependent on fresh water. Humanity depletes the avail-
able freshwater supply at a rate that is not sustainable. 
According to the World Economic Forum, water crises 
have been among the top five global risks in the last 
seven years. Climate change is also directly linked to 
water scarcity.

Neste relies on water and we recognize our role in 
working to protect freshwater ecosystems and improve 
water access and efficiency. We believe that by imple-
menting water stewardship, we can also build more 
resilient operations.

In 2022, we conducted a biodiversity materiality 
assessment for our own operations and water related 
aspects have been identified as a material topic for us. 
Based on the results, we initiated the work to update 
our approach to water and related targets to comple-
ment our vision towards the nature positive value chain 
by 2040.

Majority of Neste’s Porvoo refinery operations in Fin-
land use water mainly for cooling the refining processes. 
Cooling water is withdrawn from the sea. Most of the water 
used for cooling is brackish water. Cooling water is cir-
culated back to the source in a similar condition as when 
withdrawn, only at a slightly elevated temperature. Neste 
does not currently have water withdrawal from ground 
water. New wastewater treatment units were installed in 
Porvoo in 2019 and similar investments are under con-
struction in Singapore and Rotterdam and are expected 
to be completed by the end of 2023. In Singapore, major-
ity of used process water is discharged into a public 
sewer system for purposes of purification and further 
re-use.

Water risks 
We follow the current water risk status with several tools. 
The most recent water risk evaluation of our operational 
sites was done in 2022, based on the WWF water risk 
filter tool that enables both a site-specific and global 
review of the water risks at the physical, regulatory and 
reputational levels. 

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Biodiversity

Neste has been evaluating the water stress status of 
our own sites with a conservative approach. The results 
indicate that there are several separate risk indicators 
related to Neste locations that are at an elevated level. 
These indicators include risks such as flooding, water 
quality, ecosystem services and biodiversity importance. 
However, the physical risks are at a low or moderate 
level in all Neste locations. 

The risks related to operations have been assessed 
to be low, but the potential pressure caused in pricing 
of water resources, both water intake and wastewater 
treatment, has been taken into consideration in opera-
tional financial planning in the long term.

According to our company-wide environmental prin-
ciple, all investment projects include an Environmental 
Compliance Analysis and a compliance review in case of 
building new production capacity or increasing the cur-
rent capacity. Water risk assessment is included in the 
investment projects. 

In Neste’s supply chain water is mostly used in raw 
material extraction and cultivation and in raw material 
processing. On top of the operational site evaluations, 
the water risk evaluations covered the raw material sup-
ply chains when water risks were included in the biodi-
versity impact evaluations that were started in 2021. 

Environmental permit related incidents
In 2022, we had 3 minor environmental permit-related 
incidents in our operations. In the Rotterdam refinery, 
we identified elevated H2S concentration in one of the 
air emission outlets. NOx and SO2 emission at one of 
the energy production boilers in the Porvoo refinery 
exceeded an allowed daily average limit.

Regarding the timeline for installation of an off gas treat-
ment system in Rotterdam, the environmental authority 
has confirmed an order to have the system installed and 
taken into use, subject to a threatened penalty payment. 
To solve the installation timeline issue and to reduce air 
emissions, an off-gas treatment system was taken into 
use in November 2022 at the site.



81Neste Annual Report 2022 | Human rights

In line with the United Nations Guiding Principles on 
Business and Human Rights, our Human Rights Prin-
ciple, updated in 2022, sets the path and standards 
for a rights-based approach in all of Neste’s business 
decisions. 

We expect all of our suppliers and business partners 
to respect internationally-recognized human rights, and 
to comply with the minimum human rights requirements 
set out in Neste’s Supplier Code of Conduct. 

Our vision for a sustainable future
One of the cornerstones of Neste’s sustainability vision 
is our human rights ambition to create a more equita-
ble and inclusive value chain by 2030, in which every-
one works with dignity. The four priority areas for action 
under this ambition are: 

Human rights

Reducing inequality 
By 2030, reduce inequalities across the value chain and address the root causes of systemic human rights issues.

Responsible recruitment
Commit to and promote the Employer Pays 
Principle, with implementation in high risk 
areas by 2030, to ensure that no worker pays 
for a job and the costs of recruitment are paid 
for by the employer, not the worker. 

Children & education
Work together with our stakeholders to 
increase children’s access to education  
by 2030, and promote respect for children’s 
rights by actively supporting and participating  
in initiatives aimed at keeping children in school.

Living wages
Pay all of our employees at least a living 
wage, take action to promote living wages in 
Neste’s supply chains, and require strategic 
contractors and suppliers to pay their 
employees a living wage by 2030. 

https://www.neste.com/sites/neste.com/files/neste_human_rights_principle.pdf
https://www.neste.com/sites/neste.com/files/neste_human_rights_principle.pdf
https://www.neste.com/sites/neste.com/files/new_supplier_code_of_conduct._english.pdf
https://www.neste.com/sustainability/sustainability-vision


82

Identify actual & potential impacts
• Ongoing practice of reviewing Neste’s salient issues  

and understanding the gaps in our mitigation activities.
• Human Rights Impact Assessments, Gap Assessments  

and/or Risk Assessments integrated into the early phases  
of all major business development and investment projects. 

• Collaboration with independent third parties.
• Country and sector risk assessments.
• Supplier Sustainability Portal used for supplier management and  

traceability throughout the business relationship, supported by regular  
and ongoing desktop audits and direct supplier engagement.

Example: In 2022, we carried out a detailed human rights risk assessment for 
Neste’s indirect procurement. In the first stage, we assessed the risks associated 
with different sourcing categories and sourcing countries. In the second stage, 
we evaluated the human rights practices of suppliers selected based on risk and 
spend, taking into consideration the results from the first assessment. Read more 
about the indirect procurement assessments on page 90.

Prevent & mitigate adverse impacts
• Supplier Code of Conduct approval by suppliers and business partners 
• Counterparty pre-screening for potential business partners,  

escalated to manual review if any issues are found.
• Supplier Sustainability Survey and desktop audit for  

all new renewable raw material suppliers.
• Regular personnel surveys for all Neste employees.
• Human rights training included in e-learning rolled out globally to all employees, 

with targeted in-person training for specific teams and functions.
• Dedicated human rights specialists stationed on the ground  

for high-risk projects.
• Capacity building with suppliers in high-risk geographies and supply chains.
• Sustainability audits with strong human rights criteria.
• Multi-stakeholder collaboration and partnerships  

to jointly address root causes and systemic issues.

Example: In 2022, Neste partnered with the The European Institute for Crime 
Prevention and Control (HEUNI) as a third-party expert to host two seminars for 
training Neste employees on modern slavery and to raise awareness on the risks 
accross Neste’s own operations globally. Read more on page 85.

Policy commitment
• Neste Code of Conduct
• Neste Human Rights Principle, supported  

by operational policies and procedures

Example: Our Neste Human Rights Principle applies to the entire Neste 
Group. It describes how Neste meets its responsibilities to respect 
human rights and conduct human rights due diligence. The Human 
Rights Principle was updated in 2022, with extensive input from inter-
nal and external stakeholders and recognized subject matter experts. 

Remedy adverse impacts
• Anyone can file a report through our company-wide grievance 

mechanism, Ethics Online, which is accessible to all of our 
employees, internal and external stakeholders,  
and the general public via Neste’s website. 

• Operational-level complaints mechanisms  
designed for individual sites and projects.

Example: In 2022, we set up an operational-level local complaints and 
feedback mechanism at our Singapore refinery, providing a channel for 
all onsite workers, including contractors’ employees, to be able to raise 
local complaints directly to Neste and access effective remedy. 

Human rights due diligence: 
a people-first approach
In recognizing that our human rights impacts may 
change over time as our operations and value 
chains continue to evolve, we are committed to 
embedding human rights due diligence across our 
business as an ongoing, iterative process.

We achieve this by building human rights due 
diligence into our existing systems and processes, 
and creating new processes when needed.

When assessing human rights risks, we engage 
with affected stakeholders and pay special atten-
tion to vulnerable groups such as women, chil-
dren, migrant workers and Indigenous peoples. 
In all cases, we consider our rights-holders1) and 
ensure a people-first approach. 

Remedy adverse impacts Prevent & mitigate adverse im

pac
ts

Identify actual & potential impacts

Policy commitment

Embedding human rights 
due diligence at Neste
Neste has put in place ongoing management processes to identify, prevent, 
mitigate and remedy adverse human rights impacts. We continuously monitor 
and track the effectiveness of our response, with transparent reporting and 
communication on how impacts are addressed.

1)  Rights-holders are all the individuals or social groups  
 whose human rights may be impacted or affected 
 by Neste’s business activities, operations, products 
 or services. 

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Human rights



83

Embedding respect for
human rights across the business
In order to meet our responsibility to respect human 
rights, we implement an ongoing process of human rights 
due diligence to identify, prevent, mitigate and account 
for how we address adverse human rights impacts. We 
ensure that respect for human rights is driven across 
our organization by expecting all our personnel to be 
aware of Neste’s human rights commitments and under-
stand the implications for how they act and conduct 
their work. Below we highlight some of our key activities 
and engagements to advance respect for human rights 
throughout 2022.

Focusing on salient issues
Our Human Rights Principle outlines seven priority areas 
for human rights at Neste: Fair employment, Health & 
safety, Equity, diversity & non-discrimination, Children 
& young workers, Modern slavery, Fair treatment, and 
Economic, social & cultural rights. These are Neste’s 
salient human rights issues, that is, those issues that are 
at risk of the most severe negative impacts through our 
activities or business relationships. 

Economic, social 
& cultural 

rights

Fair 
treatment

Fair 
employment

Children 
& young 
workers

Modern
slavery

Equity, 
diversity & 

non-discrimination

Health & 
safety

Our most 
salient human 
rights issues

2) The Neste Human Rights Principle was first published in 2017, following Neste’s 2015 Human Rights Commitment to respect human rights in accordance with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights.

We regularly analyze the saliency of our human rights 
impacts based on severity and likelihood. This enables 
us to actively monitor our progress in addressing our 
salient human rights issues, and to account for any 
new risks resulting from changes in our business. It also 
ensures that we accurately focus and prioritize our work 
to address human rights risks. In 2022, we expanded 
our saliency assessments to evaluate the effectiveness 
of the measures we have in place to address our salient 
issues. This encompassed determining which adverse 
impacts Neste could cause, contribute or be directly 
linked to, and evaluating whether our existing practices 
are adequate in scale and complexity to address these. 
The results of this assessment were taken into account 
for our 2022 Human Rights Principle update. 

Human Rights Principle update
Understanding that our impacts on human rights have 
evolved with changes in our business and the world 
around us, in 2022 we conducted a major review and 
update of the Neste Human Rights Principle 2), informed 
by extensive consultation with both internal and exter-
nal stakeholders. Key updates to the principle include 

a new section on respecting the rights of human rights 
defenders, a greater focus on the importance of stake-
holder engagement, and enhanced clarity on how we 
act to implement the principle in practice. 

During the external consultation process, we received 
recommendations for improvements to the principle 
from a range of recognized topic experts, including 
human rights NGOs, government representatives and 
trade union experts. Our internal consultations at Neste 
included discussion and feedback from multiple teams, 
such as Sustainability, Human Resources, Health & 
Safety (HSSEQ), Public Affairs, Compliance and Legal. 

As part of the update process, we also incorporated 
the results of our annual human rights saliency assess-
ment and reviewed current industry-leading practices 
and expected requirements under upcoming human 
rights due diligence legislation in various countries and 
at the EU level. 

The Human Rights Principle received final review and 
approval by Neste’s President and CEO, based on the 
endorsement of the Neste Executive Committee. It forms 
part of Neste’s Management System (NMS) and is pub-
licly available on our website. 

Impact assessments and social audits
We are committed to assessing and monitoring our human 
rights impacts in both our own operations and our sup-
ply chains. Neste Supplier Code of Conduct defines min-
imum human rights requirements for all of our suppliers 
and business partners, who are also required to undergo 
a robust human rights assessment before they can part-
ner with Neste. Our sustainability audits have a strong 
human rights focus and prioritize assessing impacts on 
people. In 2022, we also integrated these human rights 
criteria into the audits we conduct for our raw material 
and end product terminals. Read more about the audits 
carried out in 2022, including a summary of results and 
key findings on human rights topics on page 88.

We continue to use human rights criteria and assess-
ments to inform decision making on strategic business 
development, investments and innovation projects. In 
2022, we strengthened our ability to identify and assess 
human rights risks in the early stages of these projects, 
by developing a new framework for integrating a human 
rights approach into our stakeholder engagement activ-
ities, to ensure that we evaluate how our business may 
impact local people and communities.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Human rights

https://www.neste.com/sites/neste.com/files/code_of_conduct.pdf
https://www.neste.com/sustainability/people/respecting-human-rights#f1558afc


84

We actively monitor and assess risks to people work-
ing onsite at our refineries. In 2022, we focused on 
strengthening our ability to understand, assess and mit-
igate human rights risks during refinery turnarounds. We 
also began planning contractor audits and key actions 
to ensure we will be able to hear worker voices during 
our Rotterdam refinery expansion, for example, imple-
menting a local complaints mechanism and carrying out 
worker voice surveys. 

Living wages
In 2022, we initiated an internal living wage gap assess-
ment for Neste’s own employees in Finland, using data 
provided by the Fair Wage Network. The results of this 
assessment enabled us to verify that all Neste employ-
ees working in Finland receive compensation above 
the local living wage benchmark. In May 2022, The Fair 
Wage Network provided living wage training sessions 
for relevant specialists on our Sustainability and Human 
Resources teams. We also started using living wage 
data in sustainability audits for raw material suppliers, 
with the dual aim of gaining a better understanding of 
our supplier wage practices and raising awareness to 
build supplier knowledge on this topic. In 2023, we plan 
to expand and complete the living wage gap assess-
ments for our own employees across our global loca-
tions and take further steps to promote living wages in 
our supply chains. 

Modern slavery
Neste supports the elimination of all forms of modern 
slavery. We recognize that modern slavery is a growing 
global issue from which no industry is immune, and we 
are committed to taking the appropriate steps to identify 
vulnerable workers and mitigate modern slavery risks in 
our operations and supply chains. Read more about the 
steps we are taking to address modern slavery risks in 
our annual Modern Slavery Statement.

Children & youth 
We are committed to respecting and supporting chil-
dren’s rights, and to implementing the Children’s Rights 
and Business Principles throughout our business and 
value chains. At the end of 2022, we started a partner-
ship with SOS Children’s Villages for a three year project 
to support children in high-risk communities where Neste 
has supply chains. Read more about our broader activ-
ities to advance respect for children’s rights throughout 
our business on our website. 

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Human rights

Worker voice 
As Neste’s global business continues to grow, so does the reach of our 
supply chains and the number of workers impacted by our business activ-
ities worldwide. This means that we also need to grow our ability to cap-
ture these workers’ voices in a systematic manner. For this reason, in 
2022, we partnered with Work Ahead to launch the use of a worker voice 
tool in Neste’s supply chains. The worker voice tool is an audiovisual sur-
vey that enables direct and anonymous engagement with workers using 
mobile devices. In May 2022, we piloted the tool with a Neste raw material 
supplier in Asia, and will roll this out for wider use in 2023. 

The survey will provide insights on various topics impacting workers in 
Neste’s supply chains, for example, inequality, living wages, recruitment 
fees and children’s access to education – priority areas of focus under our 
human rights ambition for 2030. It will be used to complement, but not 
replace, worker interviews during Neste sustainability audits, as a way to 
scale up the number of workers we engage with and improve our overall 
understanding of workers’ experiences. 

In 2022, we initiated an internal living wage 
gap assessment for Neste’s own employees 
in Finland, using data provided by the Fair 
Wage Network.

https://www.neste.com/sustainability/modern-slavery-statement#be8e0b22
https://d306pr3pise04h.cloudfront.net/docs/issues_doc%2Fhuman_rights%2FCRBP%2FChildrens_Rights_and_Business_Principles.pdf
https://d306pr3pise04h.cloudfront.net/docs/issues_doc%2Fhuman_rights%2FCRBP%2FChildrens_Rights_and_Business_Principles.pdf
https://www.neste.com/sustainability/people/human-rights/rights-children-youth#f1558afc


85

Training and capacity building 
Understanding that impact assessments and social 
audits alone are not sufficient for tackling human rights 
risks, we are also committed to training our employ-
ees on our policies, and engage in training and capacity 
building with suppliers. 

In 2022, we completed the roll out of our new Code 
of Conduct e-learning to all Neste employees, which 
includes topics on advancing respect for human and 
labor rights, and highlights our basic expectation for all 
employees to be aware of how their work impacts the 
human rights of people in our operations, value chain 
and communities. Human rights trainings, including top-
ics related to modern slavery, are also integrated into our 
global induction for all new employees who join Neste, 
as well as our Supplier Code of Conduct e-learning. 

In line with our KPI to increase the number of Neste 
employees who have received training on modern slav-
ery, in 2022 we carried out customized training for our 
Indirect procurement team on the minimum human 
rights requirements in our Supplier Code of Conduct.  

The training highlighted specific risks to be aware of in 
different procurement categories, with recommendations 
for complying with minimum requirements and advanc-
ing best practices with suppliers. Read more about the 
category risk assessments for indirect procurement on 
page 90.

In 2022, we also enhanced our understanding of 
modern slavery and labor exploitation risks by partner-
ing with the The European Institute for Crime Prevention 
and Control (HEUNI). HEUNI trained Neste employees 
on the prevalence of modern slavery in all countries and 
sectors around the world, and shared information on the 
occurrence of labor exploitation in the regions and sec-
tors connected to our business and value chains. HEUNI 
also provided bespoke training for members of our pro-
duction, supply and procurement teams with practical 
guidance on how to identify, prevent and mitigate risks 
of labor exploitation. 

In 2022, we organized a seminar with all of Neste’s con-
tractors audited during the Singapore Expansion project 
to share information on best practices and our overall 
learnings from the audits, with the aim of promoting the 

continued uptake of positive human rights practices in 
the wider construction industry beyond Neste’s opera-
tions. The seminar covered topics such as forced labor, 
responsible recruitment and living wages. Read more 
about the seminar here. 

We host annual sustainability workshops for our palm 
oil and PFAD suppliers to advance capacity building on 
human rights topics and engage in open dialogue on 
prevailing sustainability issues in the supply chain. Read 
more about the sustainability workshops on page 93.

In 2022, we also carried out global online human rights 
capacity building training for our medium and high risk 
renewable raw materials suppliers and sub-suppliers 
across Asia, Oceania, Americas, and the EMEA region. 
Topics covered in the workshops included human rights 
due diligence, forced labor, recruitment fees, children’s 
rights, living wages and more. Read more about the 
workshops on page 89. 

Collaborating to advance business 
respect for human rights 
We believe that human rights are best advanced through 
collaboration. We actively seek out opportunities to work 
with our stakeholders to collaboratively advance posi-
tive systemic change and together enhance our lever-
age to address the root causes of adverse human rights 
impacts. Below you can find examples of our key collab-
orative engagements in 2022: 

Neste is an active member of the Nordic Business Net-
work for Human Rights (NBNHR), a professional net-
work of global companies who work with human rights 
impacts in their organizations or supply chains, chaired 
by the Danish Institute for Human Rights. In 2022, Neste 
continued to participate in the network meetings, which 
enable us to stay updated on the most recent knowledge 
and trends in business and human rights, and provide 
us with a space to share various dilemmas with experts 
and peers. 

We are a member of the Consumer Goods Forum’s 
(CGF) Human Rights Coalition on Working to End 
Forced Labour. Members of the coalition are committed 
to helping achieve fair and decent working conditions 
worldwide by driving individual and collective action in 
their own operations and supply chains. In 2022, as part 
of our work under the coalition we carried out human 
rights due diligence assessments for two selected areas 
within our own operations: production and shipping, fol-
lowing the CGF Maturity Journey Framework. We also 
worked collectively through the coalition to advance 
positive human rights practices in palm supply chains 
and on the publication of a guide on the repayment of 
recruitment fees. 

Read more about our initiatives to promote social sus-
tainability and respect for human rights in the palm sec-
tor on page 93.

At Neste, we view inequality as a systemic risk that 
requires urgent action from business. In 2021, we joined 
the World Business Council for Sustainable Development 
(WBCSD) Business Commission to Tackle Inequality 
(BCTI), a cross-sector, multi-stakeholder coalition repre-
senting business, civil society, intergovernmental institu-
tions, academia, the labor movement, and the investor 
community. In 2022, Neste actively contributed to BCTI 
working groups focused on defining the actions that busi-
nesses should take to reduce inequality, as published in 
the BCTI Introductory Report. Moving into 2023, we 
plan to continue contributing to the work under the BCTI 
and its associated workstreams. 

Reporting
Since 2021, we have been reporting in accordance with 
the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and 
Human Rights (UNGP) Reporting Framework. Read more  
about the framework index for 2022 on page 114.

We believe that human rights are best 
advanced through collaboration.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Human rights

https://journeytozerostories.neste.com/sustainability/collaboration-key-ensuring-human-rights#711ca977
https://www.humanrights.dk/projects/nordic-business-network-human-rights
https://www.humanrights.dk/projects/nordic-business-network-human-rights
https://www.theconsumergoodsforum.com/news_updates/human-rights-coalition-working-to-end-forced-labour-welcomes-two-new-members-neste-and-rewe-group/
https://www.theconsumergoodsforum.com/news_updates/human-rights-coalition-working-to-end-forced-labour-welcomes-two-new-members-neste-and-rewe-group/
https://www.theconsumergoodsforum.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/03/2021-HRC-HRDD-Framework.pdf
https://www.theconsumergoodsforum.com/press_releases/consumer-goods-companies-release-practical-guidance-on-repayment-of-worker-paid-recruitment-fees/
https://www.wbcsd.org/Programs/People-and-Society/Tackling-Inequality/News/WBCSD-announces-new-Business-Commission-to-Tackle-Inequality#:~:text=Geneva%2C%2015%20July%202021%3A%20Today,generate%20shared%20prosperity%20for%20all.
https://www.wbcsd.org/Programs/People-and-Society/Tackling-Inequality/News/WBCSD-announces-new-Business-Commission-to-Tackle-Inequality#:~:text=Geneva%2C%2015%20July%202021%3A%20Today,generate%20shared%20prosperity%20for%20all.
https://tacklinginequality.org/files/introduction.pdf


86Neste Annual Report 2022 | Supply chain and raw materials

We continue to require all our suppliers to be committed to Neste Supplier 
Code of Conduct with criteria on human and labor rights, occupational health 
and safety, climate, environment and ethical business conduct. All our raw 
material suppliers are subject to additional sustainability due diligence.

Our vision is to drive a safe and healthy workplace, 
fair labor practices and increased commitment to 
sustainability across the supply chain. 

Supply chain and 
raw materials



87Neste Annual Report 2022 | Supply chain and raw materials

Ensuring sustainable supply chain
Ensuring responsible and ethical business depend not 
only on our own actions but also upon forming rela-
tionships with business partners who are committed 
to our sustainability criteria. We expect all our business 
partners and suppliers to uphold Neste’s policies and 
principles, including our Supplier Code of Conduct, a 
key element in Neste’s supplier management system. 
Additionally, our renewable raw material suppliers are 
expected to meet the requirements of Neste’s Respon-
sible Sourcing Principle.   
 
Neste Supplier Code of Conduct
Neste Supplier Code of Conduct, updated and imple-
mented in 2020, outlines the basic requirements Neste 
expects its suppliers and their own first tier suppliers, 
contractors and business partners to adhere to and 
implement throughout their businesses.

The Supplier Code of Conduct is included in the terms 
of contracts with all suppliers, contractors and other 
business partners participating in the delivery of any raw 
materials, products, components, materials or services 
to Neste, covering both direct and indirect procurement. 
Companies consolidated through mergers and acqui-
sitions are also expected to implement Neste Supplier 
Code of Conduct in their sourcing. 

To support the implementation of the Neste Supplier 
Code of Conduct, we carry out training and provide a 
guide with practical recommendations to help our sup-
pliers meet their obligations to comply with the Supplier 
Code of Conduct. The guide for suppliers was updated 
in 2022. In addition, we further enhanced internal guid-
ance on supply chain sustainability. We also carried out a 
training to support the implementation of Supplier Code 
of Conduct in Neste’s Indirect Procurement function. 

We have an e-learning for our employees outlining 
the main elements of the Supplier Code of Conduct and 
describing how to report potential violations. 

In 2022, 99% (99%) 1) of the renewable raw mate-
rial volumes, 84% (88%) of the crude oil and fossil raw 
materials volumes and 73% of overall indirect contracted 
spend were covered by Neste Supplier Code of Con-
duct or equivalent. 2)

Sustainability risk assessment 
in our supply chain
Identifying and selecting good partners are crucial to the 
sustainability of supply chains. Ensuring sustainability of 
Neste’s supply chains begins before agreements have 
been signed or raw materials, products, components, 
materials or services are delivered.

Neste’s suppliers and business partners are expected to comply 
with requirements set by Supplier Code of Conduct for five elements:

Compliance 
with laws and 

regulations

Business 
conduct

Occupational 
health, safety 
and security

Environmental 
impact and climate 

change

Human and 
labor rights

Neste has undertaken several initiatives to identify 
and understand the risks that may be present in our 
operations and supply chains. To ensure our suppliers’ 
compliance with the Supplier Code of Conduct, Neste 
has implemented systematic controls for counterparty 
screening and monitoring during which potential busi-
ness partners undergo automated screening, escalated 
to a manual review if any issues are found or the coun-
terparty’s business case matches predefined criteria.

While the screening is predominantly focused on eco-
nomic sanctions and similar compliance issues, coun-
terparties are also screened for selected ethical concern 
categories in third-party enforcement databases and 
major news outlet sources.

1) Agri Trading excluded 
2) In certain situations Neste may, after the assessment of the supplier’s or business partner’s own policies and principles, agree that compliance with their own 
 code of conduct is sufficient for the purpose of complying with the Neste Supplier Code of Conduct.

https://www.neste.com/sustainability/sustainability-neste/policies-and-principles#f1558afc
https://www.neste.com/sustainability/sustainability-neste/policies-and-principles#f1558afc
https://www.neste.com/sites/neste.com/files/new_supplier_code_of_conduct._english.pdf
https://www.neste.com/sites/neste.com/files/attachments/corporate/sustainability/managing_sustainability/neste_responsible_sourcing_principle_0.pdf
https://www.neste.com/sites/neste.com/files/attachments/corporate/sustainability/managing_sustainability/neste_responsible_sourcing_principle_0.pdf
https://www.neste.com/sites/neste.com/files/neste_supplier_code_of_conduct_scoc_guide_for_suppliers_-_updated_31.10.2022.pdf
https://www.neste.com/sites/neste.com/files/neste_supplier_code_of_conduct_scoc_guide_for_suppliers_-_updated_31.10.2022.pdf


88Neste Annual Report 2022 | Supply chain and raw materials

Sustainability due diligence for renewable 
raw material suppliers
Assessing country risk is a key element contributing to 
our understanding of sustainability risks in our renewable 
raw material supply chains. We use a bespoke, industry 
leading country risk assessment methodology to map 
sustainability risks for the countries in which we operate 
and have supply chains. Our categorization also includes 
a list of no-go countries and regions based on consid-
erations including trade sanctions, conflicts and sustain-
ability risks. In addition to assessing country risks, our 
risk assessment includes mapping of supply chains and 
operations, desk-based research, supplier self-assess-
ment questionnaires, supplier engagement and discus-
sions with expert stakeholders. 

Our renewable products’ raw material suppliers are 
subject to rigorous sustainability due diligence as part 
of our supplier sustainability approval process under the 
Neste Principle on Renewable Products Supplier Sus-
tainability Approval. The Principle applies worldwide to 
any Neste company which is establishing a business 
relationship with a supplier of renewable raw material for 
Neste’s renewable products. It sets the minimum sus-
tainability requirements for approving suppliers through 
a five-step sustainability due diligence process.

The sustainability review encompasses a comprehen-
sive range of topics that include governance, labor stan-
dards and practices, human rights, environment as well 
as health and safety. 

We continue commercial negotiations only with 
approved parties that meet our sustainability require-
ments, and all partners must continue to meet these 
criteria and commit to developing their operations in 
the future. Our overall approach to advancing sustain-
ability due diligence throughout the supplier relation-
ship is to work with our suppliers to drive positive prac-
tices and mutually enhance sustainability performance 
through continuous engagement, collaboration, and 
improvement.

The validity period of the sustainability approval for a 
supplier is three or five years depending on e.g. country 
risk, raw material volumes supplied to Neste, and the 
outcome of the sustainability review. Once the validity 
period expires, the supplier will undergo a new review.

In addition to understanding the sustainability perfor-
mance of our direct suppliers, we also want to gain vis-
ibility in practices throughout the entire renewable raw 
material supply chain, including our second-tier sup-
pliers. During the supplier onboarding, we require our 
renewable raw material suppliers to disclose their supply 

chain actors and locations as determined by market 
requirements – and even go beyond that in some cases. 
For palm oil we, for example, need to know the exact 
coordinates of the plantations.

Neste’s sustainability due diligence process is mainly 
managed on Neste’s Supplier Sustainability Portal (SSP), 
a digital platform that is used to facilitate our evaluation 
of potential and existing renewable raw material suppli-
ers, to support performance monitoring and to enable 
active supplier engagement. The portal was brought fully 
into use in 2020. In 2022, the total number of renewable 
raw material suppliers onboarded against sustainability 
criteria was 325. In 2022, we started to develop SSP 
to support a more risk-based approach. This work will 
continue in 2023.

Sustainability audits
Neste carries out sustainability audits to mitigate the 
risks in the supply chain. When selecting suppliers to 
be audited, we pay special attention to raw materials 
or countries with the highest sustainability risks. Based 
on the supplier risk assessment, we are better able to 
prioritize sustainability audits, conducted either by our 
own local sustainability specialists or a third-party audi-
tor. The purpose of Neste sustainability audits is to ver-
ify that our suppliers comply with Neste Supplier Code 
of Conduct and local regulatory requirements. After the 
audit, we follow up cases of non-compliance and require 
our suppliers to remediate significant open issues within 
a specified timeframe. The Neste Sustainability Audit 
Standard, which was published in 2021, sets out the 
overall requirements for sustainability audits at Neste. 

In 2022, we conducted a total of 118 sustainability 
audits: 26 on renewable and recycled raw materials, 35 
on terminals, and 57 contractor audits. Out of the total 
number 24 audits were carried out for renewable raw 
material suppliers, of which 8 were onsite, 7 were virtual 
and 9 were third party audits. Where possible, we also 

1.
Raw material 
evaluation 

2. 
Country and 
raw material 
risk assessment

3. 
Counterparty 
screening 
(incl. financial risk 
assessment) 

4. 
Sustainability 
review 

5. 
Sustainability 
audits

Sustainability due diligence process for renewable raw material suppliers
conduct audits on our second-tier suppliers. In 2022, 19 
audits were conducted to our direct and 5 to our sec-
ond-tier renewable raw material suppliers. The majority 
of the audit findings recorded in renewable raw material 
supplier audits in 2022 were related to health & safety.

In 2023, we aim to strengthen our due diligence prac-
tices by increasing the number of third party sustainabil-
ity audits with the key focus on high-risk suppliers and 
countries.

Ethical Business Practices 6%
Human and Labor Rights 28% 
Health & Safety 53% 
Environment 12%

6+29+53+12+I
Audit findings – different 
sustainability categories, 
renewable raw material suppliers, %



89Neste Annual Report 2022 | Supply chain and raw materials

Supplier engagement
Understanding that risk assessments and sustainability 
audits alone are not sufficient for tackling sustainability 
issues, we are also committed to training our employees 
on our policies and organizing capacity building train-
ing for our suppliers operating in high-risk sectors and 
geographies. 

In 2022, we conducted capacity building training on 
implementing human rights due diligence for our renew-
able raw material suppliers in Asia, Oceania, Americas 
and EMEA region. Direct suppliers and certain sec-
ond-tier suppliers were invited for the training from coun-
tries having a medium or high risk for violating human 
rights and labor standards.

Read more about our engagement with the palm oil 
and PFAD suppliers on page 93.

Neste’s grievance process 
We take all allegations of suspected sustainability vio-
lations and shortcomings seriously and investigate the 
cases. 

Upon learning about serious allegations concerning 
our suppliers, we put all further purchases from those 
suppliers or supply chains on hold. If the sustainability 
criteria and requirements included in our contracts have 
been verifiably breached, the nature of these is consid-
ered serious and progress to resolve those issues is not 
made in a reasonable time, we terminate our contract 
with the supplier in question. We publish monthly griev-
ance log updates on our website, and track and pub-
licly disclose the number and type of grievances that 
have been raised in person or via our whistleblowing 
channel.  

Engagement and cooperation with our suppliers are 
the primary ways of action to address any shortcomings. 

Ending purchases does not necessarily solve the prob-
lem, while by working together with our suppliers we can 
work towards improvements. We have a proven track 
record of collaborating with our suppliers and exter-
nal sustainability organizations, such as locally operat-
ing NGOs, to make a positive sustainability impact in 
the supply chain. We engage regularly with our suppli-
ers on sustainability policy development, due diligence, 
traceability, training and workshops as well as grievance 
management, among others. 

We address shortcomings once we become aware of 
them by: 
• Requiring the supplier to report the situation as part 

of Neste’s grievance mechanism.
• Engaging and cooperating with suppliers. This is our 

primary way of action. 
• Providing an assessment and, if necessary, 

conducting supply chain audits by our own local 
sustainability specialists or a third-party auditor. 

• Requiring a detailed plan with a timeline for corrective 
actions from the supplier. 

• Cooperating with the supplier and other stakeholders 
to help develop operations and perform necessary 
corrective actions. 

• Monitoring and reporting on the progress online. 
• Ending purchases if we do not see adequate 

progress or if the supplier loses relevant 
certifications.

• Reviewing, improving and adjusting our processes 
where needed. 

  Read more about our renewable 
   raw material grievances.

https://www.neste.com/about-neste/who-we-are/report-concern#f1558afc
https://www.neste.com/about-neste/who-we-are/report-concern#f1558afc
https://www.neste.com/sustainability/sustainable-supply-chain/renewable-raw-material-grievances#f1558afc


90Neste Annual Report 2022 | Supply chain and raw materials

Crude oil and other fossil 
raw material suppliers
As we are transforming from a traditional oil refiner into 
a provider of renewable and circular solutions, we con-
tinue to produce high-quality oil products from crude oil 
and condensates. We are committed to make our Por-
voo refinery the most sustainable refinery in Europe by 
2030 and to reach carbon neutral production by 2035. 
In 2022, we announced a strategic study on transi-
tioning our Porvoo refinery to a renewable and circu-
lar site and ending crude oil refining in the mid-2030s. 
Read more about the Porvoo refinery transformation on  
page 69.

Neste is purely a buyer of crude oil; we do not own 
shares in any company producing crude oil, nor are we 
engaged in oil exploration or drilling. Additionally, we 
do not purchase crude oil from Arctic sea areas, sanc-
tioned countries or conflict areas. At the start of the war 
in Ukraine, Neste decided to stop using Russian crude 
oil entirely and started replacing it with other qualities. 
The last crude oil cargo with Russian origin was supplied 
to Neste in July 2022 and the supply contracts ended. 
Supply contracts for other fossil raw materials from Rus-
sia ended at the end of 2022.

The due diligence process for our crude oil and other 
fossil raw material suppliers includes a country risk 
assessment and counterparty risk assessment. We 
also assess all new suppliers based on publicly avail-
able information regarding topics such as governance, 
labor standards and practices, human rights, environ-
ment, health and safety as well as crude oil production 
specific issues, such as flaring. This sustainability review 
was developed in 2021 to complement the existing due 
diligence process for our fossil raw material suppliers. 
In 2022, a total of 24 such suppliers were assessed. 

Crude oil and fossil feedstock 
sources by region, million tons

15

10

5

0
2022

12.7

2020

14.0

Other countries
USA
Norway
Russia1)

The sustainability review is renewed every three years 
for fossil raw material suppliers. In 2023, we will focus 
on further improving the sustainability due diligence pro-
cess and are committed to continue assessing all new 
suppliers. Read more about Neste’s sustainability due 
diligence on page 88.

In 2022, we also decided to adopt more stringent 
onboarding requirements for ethanol suppliers from 
higher risk countries as we seek supplies from new 
areas. The process includes evaluating production plant 
details and raw material origins, and draws inspiration 
from the renewable raw material supplier onboarding.

As we have noted increasing focus and efforts in the 
oil industry on decarbonizing the upstream sector, we 
have started to monitor the carbon intensity (CI) of dif-
ferent crude oils we purchase. We will monitor how the 
data becomes more transparent and reliable, for exam-
ple with industry analysts developing independent valu-
ation methods, and how crude oil carbon intensity can 
be a factor in evaluating different crude oils.

Indirect procurement
Neste’s indirect procurement covers purchasing of 
goods and services that are not included in the sourcing 
and delivery of refined crude oil or renewable and recy-
cled raw materials. It is responsible for sourcing, con-
tract management, purchasing and supplier manage-
ment. Prior to a commercial relationship with a supplier, 
Neste carries out an initial analysis, including ensuring 
approval of the Neste Supplier Code of Conduct, as 
well as counterparty screening and the supplier’s finan-
cial status check. Sustainability, security, safety, quality, 
reliability, technical, financial and legal aspects are core 
requirements and used as criteria in supplier selection.

In 2022, we carried out two assessments to enhance 
our understanding of the sustainability risks in Neste’s 
indirect procurement supply chains.

In the first assessment, we completed a comprehen-
sive study of all the products and services purchased 
as indirect procurement from 2019–2022, and used this 
to establish a country/sector human rights risk level for 
each of our procurement categories, identifying priority 
areas of focus for enhanced human rights due diligence. 
In total, the assessment covered 152 different types 
of products and services across our nine procurement 
categories: chemicals, professional services, logistics, 
IT, research & development, technical services, techni-
cal materials, utilities and real-estate management. This 
built on the findings from category risk assessments 
completed for indirect procurement at the end of 2020. 

In the second assessment, we designed and piloted a 
new framework for evaluating the human rights and cli-
mate-related practices of Neste’s indirect procurement 
suppliers. The goal of the assessment was to enhance 
visibility on supplier practices and improve our overall 
understanding of the sustainability risks in indirect pro-
curement supply chains. Desktop assessments were 
carried out for 50 key suppliers. The suppliers selected 
for assessments were chosen based on risk and spend, 
taking into consideration the results from the first assess-
ment. We are incorporating lessons learned and consid-
ering options for carrying these assessments forward at 
scale. For example, the assessment provides valuable 
input for developing Neste’s ambition and actions for its 
scope 3 emissions.

2021

10.1

1) At the start of the war in Ukraine, Neste decided to stop 
 using Russian crude oil entirely and started replacing it 
 with other qualities. The last crude oil cargo with Russian 
 origin was supplied to Neste in July 2022 and the supply 
 contracts ended. Supply contracts for other fossil raw 
 materials from Russia ended at the end of 2022.

20191)

15.6



91Neste Annual Report 2022 | Supply chain and raw materials

Renewable raw materials
Neste uses a wide variety of sustainably-produced renew-
able raw materials each year to produce our renewable 
products, such as renewable fuels for aviation and road 
transportation, as well as feedstock for the production of 
renewable polymers and chemicals. In 2022, the share 
of waste and residues was 95% of Neste’s total renew-
able raw material inputs globally.

Extensive portfolio provides flexibility
Animal fat from food industry waste, used cooking oil 
and various wastes and residues from vegetable oils 
processing represent the top three waste and residue 
raw material categories we use, based on their current 
and estimated shares of Neste’s total annual renewable 
raw material inputs. Proportions of individual raw mate-
rials in Neste’s refining, however, vary from year to year, 
depending on their availability, price and specific mar-
ket requirements, for example. Other waste and residue 
raw materials we have in our portfolio include fish fat 
from fish processing waste, tall-oil-based raw materi-
als, technical corn oil (TCO) and acid oils. In addition to 
waste and residues, Neste also uses small amounts of 
sustainably-produced vegetable oils as renewable raw 
materials. The share of vegetable oils of our renewable 
material inputs in 2022 was 5%, with palm oil represent-
ing around 4%.

An extensive portfolio of globally-sourced renewable 
raw materials provides flexibility and allows us to respond 
to the needs of different markets and customers. None 
of the raw materials in our portfolio individually represent 
the majority share of the total annual inputs.

Altogether we used 3.6 million tons of renewable raw 
materials, with a continued focus on developing new 
sources of raw materials and technologies enabling the 
use of these new types of raw materials, while grow-
ing the existing raw material pool towards lower-quality 
grades.

Strengthening our sourcing capability 
We source renewable raw materials globally for our 
renewables refineries located in Finland, the Netherlands 
and Singapore. One of our competitive advantages is 
our capability to efficiently source, transport and flexibly 
use various mixes of renewable raw materials to produce 
a wide range of high-quality renewable products with 
our proprietary NEXBTL™ refining technology. Another 
advantage is our unique capability to pretreat low-qual-
ity raw materials to remove impurities. This enables us to 
use primarily waste and residue raw materials.

Neste’s renewable raw material supply was substan-
tially strengthened in 2022, despite the uncertainties 
caused by the volatile raw material market. We continued 
to expand our renewable raw material sourcing capabil-
ity in our existing markets and new markets, such as in 
Eastern Europe and South America. We are focusing on 
waste and residue raw materials in these markets, such 
as animal fat waste and used cooking oil.

In 2022, Neste engaged in acquisitions and partner-
ships to ensure growth and increasing availability of raw 
materials in our existing sourcing markets. For example, 
we acquired Walco Foods, an Irish trader of animal fats, 
nowadays known as Neste Walco Limited. 

We also announced an agreement to acquire the used 
cooking oil collection and aggregation business from 
Crimson Renewable Energy in the United States. In addi-
tion, the successful integration and continuous expan-
sion of activities of Mahoney Environmental, a leading 
collector and recycler of used cooking oil, and Agri Trad-
ing, one of the largest independent renewable waste 
and residue fat and oil traders in the United States, both 
acquired by Neste in 2021, has helped us gain access 
to a substantial volume of used cooking oil and grow our 
raw material supply chain in North America.

In 2022, we established a 50/50 joint operation for 
production of renewable fuels with Marathon Petroleum 
in the United States. The joint operation called Martinez 

NEXBTLTM technology 
patent received 25 years ago
2022 marked two key anniversaries at Neste: 25 
years since receiving the patent for our proprietary 
NEXBTL technology and 15 years since the inau-
guration of the first NEXBTL unit at our Porvoo 
refinery.

NEXBTL, which stands for “next generation bio-
mass to liquid”, is Neste’s unique technology that 
allows us to convert a wide range of renewable raw 
materials into premium-quality renewable products. 
It has been the backbone of Neste’s transformation 
enabling customers and partners across the globe 
to switch to renewable products with a lower car-
bon footprint.

   Read more about NEXBTL

   Watch the video

Renewable raw material 
inputs globally, 
million tons

2.0

2.5

3.0

3.5

1.5

1.0

0.5

0

Waste and residues 
(e.g. animal fat from food industry waste, used cooking oil)

Vegetable oils

2022

0.2

3.4

3.6

2019

2.8

0.7

3.5

2020

0.6

3.1

3.7

2021

0.3

3.4

3.7

Renewables is expected to commence production in 
Martinez, California, in early 2023. In the initial phase, 
the Martinez Renewables refinery will process primarily 
vegetable oils from the US and Canada, such as soy-
bean oil, and some volumes of higher-quality waste and 
residues.

The volumes are presented in millions of tons. The share 
of the volumes are calculated from exact figures and 
consequently the rounded figures presented may deviate 
from the share of volumes disclosed.

https://www.neste.com/about-neste/innovation/nexbtl-technology#f1558afc
https://journeytozerostories.neste.com/innovation/celebrating-nexbtl-patent-received-25-years-ago#711ca977
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-pxHu85Air8


92Neste Annual Report 2022 | Supply chain and raw materials

Animal fat from 
food industry waste 
Animal fat is derived from the 
food industry’s meat processing 
waste. Neste sources mixed 
animal fat waste that is unsuitable 
for human consumption.

   Read more about animal fat waste.

Extensive portfolio 
of renewable 
raw materials

Vegetable oils
In 2022, the share of conventional vegetable oils of our 
global renewable raw materials inputs was approximately 
5%, with 100% certified palm oil representing about 4%. 
Neste plans to reduce the share of conventional palm oil 
to zero of its global renewable raw material inputs by the 
end of 2023. 

The share of waste and residue raw materials is 
expected to stay above 90% of Neste’s global renewable 
raw material inputs globally in the coming years, while 
in the longer term, the growth in novel vegetable oils’ 
availability may increase the share of sustainably pro-
duced vegetable oils.

   Read more about the vegetable oils 
   we have in our portfolio. 

Vegetable oil processing 
waste and residues
Many vegetable oil processing wastes 
and residues can be used as raw 
materials to produce Neste’s renew-
able products, including palm fatty 
acid distillate (PFAD), spent bleaching 
earth oil (SBEO) and palm oil mill  
effluent (POME).   

  Read more about 
  vegetable oil processing 

  waste and residues

Other waste and residues
Our raw material portfolio also includes 
fish fat from fish processing waste, tall 
oil based raw materials and technical 
corn oil.

Used cooking oil (UCO) 
UCO consists of oils and fats of a 
vegetable or animal origin that have 
been used by the food industry or 
restaurants to cook food for human 
consumption. UCO is considered a 
waste as it is no longer fit for human 
consumption for food hygiene reasons.

   Read more about used cooking oil.

In 2022, the share of waste and residues 
was 95% of Neste’s total renewable raw 
material inputs globally.

https://www.neste.com/products/all-products/raw-materials/waste-and-residues#f1558afc
https://www.neste.com/products/all-products/raw-materials/future-raw-materials#f1558afc
https://www.neste.com/products/all-products/raw-materials/renewable-raw-materials#f1558afc
https://www.neste.com/products/all-products/raw-materials/waste-and-residues#f1558afc
https://www.neste.com/products/all-products/raw-materials/waste-and-residues#f1558afc
https://www.neste.com/products/all-products/raw-materials/waste-and-residues#f1558afc


93Neste Annual Report 2022 | Supply chain and raw materials

Sustainability criteria for our renewable raw materials

• We select our renewable raw material suppliers carefully, based on our sustainability due diligence 
process. We source only sustainably-produced renewable raw materials from suppliers who meet 
our strict criteria for sustainability. These criteria are embedded into our policies and principles, as 
well as the regulatory requirements in our key markets. 

• We only accept renewable raw materials that are traceable to the point of origin. 

• All the renewable raw materials we use meet the sustainability criteria defined in the EU RED II 
(EU) 2018/2001 for the European markets or Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS), California/Oregon/
BC Low Carbon Fuel Standard (LCFS) requirements, as applicable, for North America. The raw 
material mixes used for products in specific markets additionally meet local market-specific and/or 
industry-specific regulatory requirements. 

• We are committed to avoiding conversion of habitats with valuable biodiversity for biomass 
production. We ensure that the production of our raw materials has not caused deforestation and 
that human rights have been respected. 

• We ensure that the renewable raw materials that we use in refining enable us to produce 
renewable fuels that always provide the required greenhouse gas emissions savings - at least 50% 
reduction as per EU RED II (EU) 2018/2001 over the fuels’ life cycle compared to similar emissions 
from 100% fossil alternatives. 

• All the renewable raw materials we use are either certified or their compliance with 
applicable laws and regulations is verified according to the legislation of the country  
to which the end product will be supplied.

Engaging with the palm oil 
and PFAD suppliers
We participate in collaborative efforts to advance posi-
tive social and environmental impacts in the palm sector. 
Neste is a member of the Palm Oil Collaboration Group 
(POCG) and has participated in its Social Issues Work-
ing Group (SIWG) since the initiative was launched in 
2020. In 2022, Neste continued to participate in SIWG 
subgroups advancing action on Responsible Recruit-
ment in Malaysia, and Human Rights Due Diligence in 
Supplier Management Systems. 

We cooperate particularly with palm oil producing 
smallholders to support the development of their sus-
tainability awareness and expertise. The adoption of 
sustainable practices enables smallholders to achieve a 
certification. Neste requires a commitment to certifica-
tion from all its palm oil suppliers.

Neste continues to collaborate with the Siak gov-
ernment, Daemeter and Proforest, along with global 
brands, in the Siak Pelalawan Landscape Programme, a 
private-sector driven initiative in the districts of Siak and 
Pelalawan in the Riau province of Indonesia. Through 
this collaborative effort at a landscape level, Neste aims 
to ensure positive sustainability impact in the region by 
addressing environmental and social issues, such as 
tackling deforestation, maintaining and enhancing key 
conservation areas, preventing exploitation, and improv-
ing smallholder livelihoods beyond palm oil production, 

and also for multiple commodities such as rubber and 
pineapple. The Village Support Programme in 2022 
focused on involving all types of village stakeholders to 
boost ecosystem conservation and improve commu-
nity livelihoods by working towards nature-positive and 
socially inclusive solutions. Improved engagement at 
the mill level supported them in fulfilling their No Defor-
estation, Peat and Exploitation (NDPE) commitments. 
Increased engagement at both the village and mill level 
in the program has not only helped in forest and biodi-
versity conservation, but also trained the farming com-
munity on good and sustainable management practices. 
Read more about the program.

In November 2022, we also organized an annual sus-
tainability workshop for our palm oil and PFAD suppliers. 
The workshop was curated especially for our suppliers 
with the objective of raising awareness and advancing 
on topics such as human rights due diligence and strat-
egies to achieve 100% traceability to plantation (TTP). 
New topics, such as greenhouse gas emissions tackling 
scope 3, were also introduced and discussed during the 
workshop. 35 participants from 16 existing and new sup-
plier companies attended the workshop. Sustainability 
workshops are crucial to ensuring our suppliers’ active 
involvement in improving sustainability in their own oper-
ations and the whole supply chain. 

https://palmoilcollaborationgroup.net/social-issues
https://palmoilcollaborationgroup.net/social-issues
https://www.siakpelalawan.net/


94Neste Annual Report 2022 | Supply chain and raw materials

Traceability to plantations
Our aim is to develop a commonly accepted 
and adopted approach to tracing palm oil-
based waste and residues, such as PFAD. 
For this, we have continued to develop the 
“Traceability to plantations” (TTP) approach. 
Building industry-wide acceptance for the 
TTP approach could significantly improve 
the overall transparency of palm oil supply 
chains for all industries. 

The TTP approach gathers data from sup-
pliers and prioritizes those sourcing raw 
materials in higher-risk areas, such as those 
in close proximity to forests, uncultivated 
peat and protected areas. We have engaged 
with palm oil and PFAD suppliers to intro-
duce the approach and promote alignment 
within the industry, and continue the same 
with new suppliers.

Progress in PFAD  
supply chain traceability 
Within the European Union, biofuel producers are required 
by law to use only raw materials that are traceable to 
the point of origin. We meet the traceability requirements 
among other legal sustainability requirements in all of the 
markets where our products are sold. This also means 
that if PFAD is classified as a residue within a specific 
market for example, we ensure traceability to the palm 
oil refineries where PFAD is removed during production 
of food-grade palm oil. If PFAD is classified as a co-prod-
uct, traceability is ensured to the palm oil plantations. 

Since 2017, we have been working towards a tar-
get of developing traceability for our entire PFAD sup-
ply chain to palm oil plantations. Working towards the 
target has required us to map large parts of previously 
unmapped palm oil supply chains and we have made 
significant progress.

During 2022, we were able to independently map and 
validate 100% (100%) of our PFAD supply chain to the 
supplying palm oil mills and 86% (85%) all the way to 
plantations. This significantly surpasses the fuel indus-
try’s current regulatory requirement for residue raw mate-
rials, or in the case of PFAD, traceability to the palm oil 
refinery. When mapping the supply chain to the planta-
tions, publicly available data (e.g. on RSPO, ISCC, ISPO 
certifications) and supplier reporting have been used.

 2017

Neste sets a new public target to 
map its entire PFAD supply chain 
to oil palm plantations.

1) Based on Risk-calibrated Traceable to Plantation approach. Figures are weighted by refinery volumes supplied to Neste.

% of Neste's PFAD supply traceable to plantation 1)

2018 2019 2020 2021 2022

86%85%85%

71%

44%



95Neste Annual Report 2022 | Supply chain and raw materials

Recycled raw materials
Neste is advancing chemical recycling, also known as 
advanced recycling, to speed up the transition to a circu-
lar economy for plastics. Neste’s development of chemi-
cal recycling technologies and capacity with value chain 
partners supports Neste’s strategic target of becoming 
a global leader in circular solutions, while also support-
ing Neste’s ambition to replace its fossil raw materials 
with alternative, more sustainable renewable and recy-
cled raw materials at its refinery in Porvoo, Finland. It is 
also aligned with our aim of reducing GHG emissions 
and reducing crude oil dependency in the society. Read 
more about our renewable and circular solutions for the 
polymers and chemicals industries on page 65.

Accelerating circular economy 
through chemical recycling 
Chemical recycling complements mechanical recycling 
by transforming waste plastic back into a raw mate-
rial similar to crude oil. Through chemical recycling, 
hard-to-recycle plastic waste such as colored, multi-
layer and mixed-material plastics can be turned into 
high-quality feedstock for polymers and chemicals that 
can be used even for demanding applications. 

The development of chemical recycling is crucial to 
enabling a circular economy for polymers and increas-
ing recycling rates for waste plastic. It thereby also helps 
tackle the plastic waste pollution challenge and reduces 
the need for virgin fossil resources.

Progress with strategic partners 
Neste has developed several partnerships to collect, 
sort and process plastic waste, as well as to develop 
chemical recycling technologies to enable their com-
mercialization and to speed up their adoption. One of 
these partnerships is with Ravago, with which we aim to 
establish a joint operation to build an industrial facility for 
chemical recycling in North Sea Port in Vlissingen, the 
Netherlands. In 2022, we acquired the European rights 

to US-based Alterra Energy’s liquefaction technology, 
which would also be the technology of choice for the 
joint operation with Ravago.

We aim to increase the volumes of liquefied waste 
plastic processing gradually to continue learning and 
developing the value chains and processing technolo-
gies. Neste’s ambitious goal is to process over one mil-
lion tons of plastic waste annually from 2030 onwards. 
To achieve that goal, we have announced a feasibility 
study to build pretreatment and upgrading capacities 
for liquefied waste plastic at our Porvoo refinery (Project 
PULSE). The project received a positive grant decision 
by the EU Innovation Fund for up to 135 million euros in 
July 2022. Investment decision readiness is targeted for 
2023 and gradual implementation is expected to start in 
2024. The targeted processing capacity of this project is 
400,000 tons of liquefied waste plastic per year. 

Sustainability criteria for 
liquefied waste plastics
In 2022, we continued defining the sustainability criteria 
for our liquefied waste plastic suppliers, and conducted 
our first pilot audit on one of the suppliers.

In addition to requiring our liquefied waste plastic sup-
pliers to fulfil the requirements in Neste Supplier Code of 
Conduct, policies and principles, we only accept lique-
fied waste plastic that is traceable and complies with the 
ISCC Plus certificate requirements. Read more about 
Neste’s supplier requirements on page 88.

Liquefied waste plastic processed 
at the Porvoo refinery 
Neste successfully continued its processing runs with liq-
uefied waste plastic at industrial scale at its Porvoo refin-
ery in Finland in 2022. In the course of the runs, Neste 
was able to upgrade gradually increasing volumes of liq-
uefied waste plastic into drop-in raw materials for plastic 
production and develop related processing capabilities 
at industrial scale. 

Neste’s renewable and circular 
solutions helped to replace 3.1Mt of 
non-renewable resource in transport, 
aviation and polymers and chemicals 
sectors in 2022.

With the latest runs in Porvoo, we are laying the foun-
dation for replacing crude oil based raw materials with 
liquefied waste plastic and accelerating the transition to 
a circular economy for plastics together with our cus-
tomers. Our decades of experience in oil refining, com-
bined with refining expertise in upgrading low-quality 
raw materials, provide a solid foundation for the rapid 
demonstration and scaling up of chemical recycling.



96Neste Annual Report 2022 | Supply chain and raw materials

Future raw materials
We continue to work towards increasing the availabil-
ity of renewable and recycled raw materials while also 
developing technologies to diversify our current portfolio 
with new scalable raw materials. This will help us ensure 
access to sufficient volumes of raw materials to support 
our growing production capacity, which enables us to 
maximize our positive carbon handprint. 

We continuously search for even lower-quality wastes 
and residues to be used in the production of fuels, 
chemicals and materials. In the short to mid-term, we 
aim at increasing the availability of emerging lower-qual-
ity waste and residues such as acid oils, palm oil mill 
effluent (POME), wastewater-derived grease (i.e. “brown 
grease”) and liquefied waste plastic. We are also explor-
ing novel vegetable oils from advanced agricultural con-
cepts. In the long term, renewable hydrogen, lignocel-
lulosic waste and residues, algae, and municipal solid 
waste are all viable sustainable raw material alternatives. 

Short to mid-term Long-term

Future raw materials and technologies

Renewable 
hydrogen 

1) Used for polymers and chemicals industry only

Novel 
vegetable oils

Acid oils Brown grease

Palm oil mill 
effluent (POME)

Liquified 
waste plastic 1) 

Algae Lignocellulose

Municipal 
solid waste

Power-to-X



97

Lignocellulose 
Waste and residue streams from agriculture and 
forestry practices provide viable and sustainable 
solutions for renewable chemicals, fuels and mate-
rials. Our focus is on resources that are currently 
underutilized, including waste and residue streams 
from forestry, the forest industry or agriculture.

Neste has a development project aimed at con-
verting forestry-based waste and residue raw mate-
rials into advanced biofuels at our Porvoo refinery 
in Finland. We are also exploring other site loca-
tions to fully develop the potential of producing 
advanced biofuels from locally-sourced forestry 
waste. In 2022, we also started to develop internal 
sustainability criteria for lignocellulose-based raw 
materials.

   Read more about lignocellulose.

Microalgae 
Photosynthetic microalgae may be cultivated wher-
ever there is water and sunlight, including salt water 
and land areas unsuitable for other types of culti-
vation. Microalgae may have a high oil yield, and 
they are usually rich in proteins and other valuable 
compounds. Through photosynthesis, microalgae 
contribute up to 50% of the breathable air on our 
planet.

Neste has explored and developed the use of 
algae for over 15 years. Neste has been involved in 
several international algae research projects, such 
as in the Netherlands and Australia, and continues 
to explore algae as a potential future raw material.

   Read more about microalgae.

Novel vegetable oils (NVO) from 
advanced agricultural concepts 
As part of our renewable raw material development 
efforts, we have been exploring advanced, sustain-
able agricultural concepts, with the objective of ful-
filling increasing demand for sustainable renewable 
raw materials while not competing with food pro-
duction. These concepts, such as silvopasture or 
intermediate cropping, strive to maximize green-
house gas savings and carbon sequestration, can 
improve soil health and biodiversity and create alter-
native income to farmers. They do not create addi-
tional demand for agricultural land. With these con-
cepts, the existing crops are not replaced and the 
indirect land use change (ILUC) risk is minimized. 

These novel cultivation methods aim at provid-
ing additional new volumes of vegetable oils from 

Renewable hydrogen
Renewable hydrogen made with electrolysis 
makes it possible to reduce the refinery green-
house gas (GHG) emissions. 

Neste is a minority owner of Sunfire, a technol-
ogy developer and producer of alkaline and solid 
oxide electrolyzers (SOEC). We are demonstrat-
ing green hydrogen production based on SOEC 
technology at our Rotterdam refinery with CEA,  
Sunfire, Paul Wurth and Engie in a project called 
MultiPLHY. The project aims to install and inte-
grate the world’s first multi-MW high-temperature 
electrolyser demonstration unit into the refinery.

We are also developing large-scale green 
hydrogen supply to our Porvoo refinery. The proj-
ect SHARC focuses on investing in production 
capacity of renewable hydrogen, reducing GHG 
emissions from hydrogen production and provid-
ing even more sustainable refinery products. The 
project is currently in the feasibility phase and 
the target is to start the first phase of operations  
(120 MW) around mid 2020s.

In the long term, Neste’s hydrogen projects will 
also build a foundation for the use of Power-to-X 
(PtX) technologies, which aim at utilizing carbon 
dioxide emissions together with green hydrogen 
to produce fuels and raw materials for the petro-
chemical industry.

   Read more about renewable hydrogen.

Municipal solid waste 
Neste explores various fractions of municipal solid 
waste that currently cannot be or are not recycled. 
These vary from market to market. 

Together with its partners, Neste is evaluating 
several technologies and potential further part-
ners with a target of converting suitable fractions of 
municipal solid waste to fuels and chemicals. 

   Read more about municipal solid waste.

a variety of crops and geographies. In 2022, we 
made significant progress in accelerating our efforts 
by exploring potential concepts and partnerships 
to drive our development work which will continue 
in the years to come.

Once available, the use of these additional vol-
umes of raw materials in biofuels production will fully 
comply with all the sustainability requirements and 
criteria included in the EU RED II (EU) 2018/2001. 
Besides being used in the road transportation and 
aviation sectors, NVOs could be used to produce 
our renewable feedstock for the polymers and 
chemicals sectors. 

   Read more about novel vegetable oils.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Supply chain and raw materials

https://www.neste.com/products/all-products/raw-materials/future-raw-materials/lignocellulose#f1558afc
https://www.neste.com/products/all-products/raw-materials/future-raw-materials/microalgae#f1558afc
https://www.neste.com/products/all-products/raw-materials/future-raw-materials/renewable-hydrogen
https://www.neste.com/products/all-products/raw-materials/future-raw-materials/municipal-solid-waste#f1558afc
https://www.neste.com/products/all-products/raw-materials/future-raw-materials#f1558afc


98Neste Annual Report 2022 | Sustainability reporting in 2022

An independent third party, KPMG Oy Ab, has assured the topic-spe-
cific GRI disclosures for economic, social, and environmental indica-
tors as well as General GRI disclosures 2–7 and 2–30. Also information 
presented on the Sustainability highlights, Material sustainability KPIs, 
Neste creates value, and Performance in figures pages of the report 
have been assured. In our report, we have aimed to focus on the most 
essential, based on our materiality assessment conducted biannually, 
latest in 2022. Our Sustainability Report is published only in English.

Our 2022 Sustainability Report has been prepared in accordance with 
the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative). We use the GRI Universal Standards 
2021, GRI Sector Standards for Oil and Gas Sector 2021, as well as Topic 
Standards with Standard versions indicated in the GRI Index.

Sustainability 
reporting in 2022



99Neste Annual Report 2022 | Sustainability reporting in 2022

We are committed to the UN Global Compact (UNGC), 
United Nations Guiding Principles on Human Rights 
(UNGP) and the International Labor Organization (ILO) 
Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at 
Work. Neste follows the OECD Guidelines for Multina-
tional Enterprises and guidelines for good governance. 
Neste has been a signatory of the UNGC Principles since 
2014. Our Annual Report includes information corre-
sponding to the reporting requirements as we are com-
mitted to complying to the Ten Principles in each of the 
UNGC areas for human rights, labor, environment, and 
anti-corruption. Our Communication of Progress with 
Global Compact Principles for 2022 information will be 
reported via the new UNGC portal.

Neste is committed to apply the Task Force on Cli-
mate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) report-
ing principles from 2019, in order to disclose climate- 
related financial risks and opportunities in the reporting. 
In addition to the Sustainability Report, part of our TCFD 
reporting takes place within Non-Financial Information 
Statement in the Review by the Board of Directors. Our 
Sustainability Report includes the TCFD index for navi-
gation purposes between these sections in the Annual 
Report. Our intention is to extend our reporting within 
the recommended TCFD implementation time frame. 

We are actively following various sustainability report-
ing framework developments, especially with the global 
sustainability reporting standardization in the EU, such as 
the Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD) 
and the European Sustainability Reporting Standards 
(ESRS), as well as with the coming standards from the 
International Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB), in 
order to keep our reporting methodologies up to date 
proactively. In addition to GRI, in the 2022 Sustainability 
Report we report according to SASB Oil & Gas Refining 
and Marketing Standards where applicable, as Neste is 

categorised under this sector standard by SASB. How-
ever, we aim at reporting also according to SASB Biofu-
els Standards in the future as we see that being an even 
more relevant sector standard for Neste. 

We support the principles of World Economic Forum’s 
(WEF) Stakeholder Capitalism. Our reporting based on 
GRI, SASB and TCFD fulfils the requirements for most of 
the WEF Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics (SCM). Hence, 
we are continuing reporting with the GRI supported by 
SASB and TCFD, yet paying close attention to any addi-
tional SCM requirements. 

Our reporting meets the requirements of the EU Direc-
tive on disclosure of non-financial and diversity informa-
tion and the Finnish Accounting Act as well as the infor-
mation in accord with the current requirements of EU 
Taxonomy regulation. The information is disclosed in the 
Non-financial Information Statement. The required non- 
financial information is disclosed in the Corporate Gover-
nance Statement and the Review by the Board of Direc-
tors, whereas in our Sustainability Report, we respond 
to broader stakeholder expectations and respond to 
many requirements of international indices. The Board 
reviews and approves the sustainability reporting before 
it is published. We published our 2021 Annual Report 
and the included Sustainability Report on March 4, 2022 
in PDF format on our website.

Reporting principles and guidelines 
Our financial reporting complies with the international 
IFRS accounting standards, and governance-related 
reporting complies with the legislation on listed compa-
nies and the Finnish Corporate Governance Code. The 
disclosure of environmental costs and liabilities is based 
on the Finnish Accounting Act. The reported financial 
indicators are based on audited information. The gen-
eral guideline issued by the Accounting Board on the 

preparation of review by the Board of Directors is fol-
lowed in calculating the personnel-related figures. Calcu-
lations related to safety-related accident frequency rates 
comply with the calculation principles of Concawe (the 
oil companies’ European association for environment, 
health and safety in refining and distribution). Changes 
to information disclosed in previous years or calcula-
tion principles are communicated in connection with 
the relevant indicators. In case restatements of informa-
tion were made, these are communicated in connection 
with the relevant indicators. The definitions, calculation 
principles, and formulas of reported indicators are pre-
sented separately under “Principles for calculating the 
key indicators”. 

Scope of the report 
Similarly to the Annual Report, the reporting period of the 
Sustainability Report is our financial  reporting year, Jan-
uary 1–December 31, 2022. The Sustainability Report is 
published annually. The safety and environmental report-
ing for 2022 covers the refineries in Finland and abroad 
in which the company has a holding of 50% or more. 
In addition, safety and environmental reporting covers 

the company’s terminals, offices, and country-specific 
retail companies in alignment with the financial reporting 
scope. The company does not report environmental infor-
mation on sites in which the company only has a minor 
part of the premises of an office building in its use. The 
reporting of safety information also covers service pro-
viders and contractors. The average number of person-
nel includes all operations and acquisitions. Except for 
that, the reporting indicators do not cover Walco Foods 
due to ongoing integration process. Currently some of 
the employee indicators only partly cover Mahoney and 
Neste Demeter B.V. Individual exceptions are communi-
cated in connection with the relevant indicators.  

Reporting systems 
Neste collects environmental and safety information 
with the HSEQ reporting tool, which supports Neste’s 
monthly and annual reporting. Personnel-related indi-
cators are derived from the HR systems. The company 
also has other reporting tools for collecting information 
required for sustainability reporting.



100Neste Annual Report 2022 | Sustainability reporting in 2022

2022 2021 2020
Emission limits and overruns: 
Deviations from environmental permits 3 2 2
Emissions into the air, tons 1)

Direct CO2 emissions (scope 1) 2,075,000 1,828,000 2,149,000
Indirect GHG emissions (scope 2, location-based) 427,000 519,000 625,000
Indirect GHG emissions (scope 2, market-based) 391,000 509,000 736,000
Other indirect GHG emissions (scope 3) 42,000,000 35,000,000 48,000,000

Purchased goods and services 5,000,000 4,900,000 5,900,000
Fuel- and energy-related activities 2) <50,000 100,000 100,000
Upstream transportation and distribution 3) 900,000 700,000 700,000
Waste generated in operations 400,000 200,000 100,000
Downstream transportation and distribution 4) 700,000 500,000 700,000
Use of sold products 33,600,000 27,600,000 38,700,000
End-of-life treatment of sold products 1,100,000 1,300,000 1,600,000

VOC 3,160 3,170 3,430
NOX 1,150 1,090 1,410
SO2 2,430 2,850 3,470
Particulate matter 78 64 90
Energy use
Total energy consumption, TWh 10.9 10.1 12.2

  Fuels and natural gas, % 72.7 72.0 72.9
  Purchased electricity, % 12.9 13.1 11.8
  Purchased heat, % 14.3 14.9 15.3

 Share of renewable energy of total energy consumption, % 17.8 11.6 7.2
Energy efficiency, energy saving measures, GWh 42.6 95.8 33
Energy intensity, total energy consumption per revenue,  
GWh/MEUR

0.4 0.7 1.0

Water, m3/a
Total water withdrawal by source 8,604,000 9,263,000 8,557,000

Process water & other water use
Surface water 7,839,000 7,927,000 8,283,000
Third-party water (municipal) 765,000 1,336,000 274,000

Total water discharge by destination 7,899,000 8,522,000 8,880,000
Surface water 141,000
Seawater 7,241,000
Third-party water (municipal) 517,000

Effluents to water, tons
Effluents of oil to water 0.5 0.6 1
Chemical oxygen demand 348 240 240
Effluents of nitrogen to water 19 31 68
Effluents of phosphorus to water 1 1.0 1.4
Waste generated, tons 5)

Non-hazardous 5) 35,000 23,900 36,352
 Preparation for reuse   150 - -
 Recycling 3,000 - -
 Other recovery operations 23,000 - -
 Incineration (with energy recovery) 2,000 - -
 Incineration (without energy recovery) 550 - -
 Landfill 4,300 - -
 Other discposal operations 2,000 - -

Hazardous 5) 259,000 160,600 75,610
 Preparation for reuse   160 - -
 Recycling 7,300 - -
 Other recovery operations 4,500 - -
 Incineration (with energy recovery) 70,700 - -
 Incineration (without energy recovery) 3,000 - -
 Landfill 11,500 - -

 Other disposal operations 162,000 - -
Number and magnitude of significant releases 3 pc/1146 m3 3 pc/45m3 

+ 10 tons
0

Carbon dioxide recovered, tons 126,600 130,400 134,200
Washing lye sold, tons 11,100 7,900 7,500

2022 2021 2020

Performance in figures Climate and the environment

1) Scope 1 emissions reporting covers CO2 emissions. Scope 2 and 3 emissions reporting covers GHG emissions and is reported as CO2e.
2) Only natural gas related emissions included.
3) Part of upstream transportation emissions are accounted in other categories.
4) Part of downstream transportation emissions are accounted in category 4.
5) Waste data is not fully comparable to last year’s data as categories are updated to latest GRI standard. Total amount of waste increased due to amount 
 of demolition waste from our Naantali site.

Calculation principles can be found on page 115.



101Neste Annual Report 2022 | Sustainability reporting in 2022

Supply chain and raw materials
Use of global renewable raw material inputs, million tons 6) 3.6 3.7 3.7
Share and use of waste and residues of global renewable 
raw material inputs 6)

95% 
3.4 Mt

92% 
3.4 Mt

83% 
3.1 Mt

GHG emission reduction achieved with Neste's renewable products 
compared to crude oil-based diesel, million tons 7) 8) 

11.1 10.9 10

GHG emission reduction with Neste's renewable diesel 
compared to crude oil-based diesel 7) 8)

50–95% 50–90% 50–90%

Number of all renewable raw material suppliers 557 389 405
Share and use of certified palm oil from all palm oil use 9) 100% 

135kt
100% 
236 kt

100% 
454 kt

The number of CPO smallholders 10) 0 13 227 14 403
The number of palm oil suppliers 4 6 6
The number of plantations 28 69 110
The number of palm oil mills 12 29 38
Average GHG emission reduction of palm oil based products 7) 80% 80% 77%
The number of renewable raw material suppliers' 
sustainability assessments and their outcome 11)

Total: 325 
New approved suppliers: 223 
All approved: 236 
Pending: 74 
Rejected: 15

Total: 223 
New approved suppliers: 171 
All approved: 186 
Pending: 33 
Rejected: 4

Total: 219 
New approved suppliers: 120 
All approved: 133 
Pending: 65 
Rejected: 21

Crude oil and fossil feedstock sources by region, million tons 12.7 10.1 14.0
Norway 7.1 1.3 1.7
Russia 12) 3.1 7.8 9.5
USA 0.6 0.04 0.2
Other countries 1.9 1.0 2.6

2022 2021 2020

Performance in figures Climate and the environment

6) The volumes are presented in millions of tons. The share of the volumes are calculated from exact figures and consequently the rounded figures presented may deviate from the share of volumes disclosed.
7) Calculation principle changed in 2022.
8) Annual greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction achieved with Neste’s renewable products compared to 100% crude oil based fuel. Calculation method complies with the EU Renewable Energy Directive II (EU) 2018/2001 and the California LCFS methodology, which has been applied in the GHG reporting for volumes sold in the US since the 
 beginning of 2022.
9) Contains the use of conventional palm oil that we have processed into renewable products and sold to market.
10) As we move towards our target of reducing the share of palm oil down to zero of our global renewable raw material input, there were no crude palm oil smallholders in our supply chain in 2022.
11) Figures include existing suppliers, which undergo a sustainability assessment process every 3–5 years. Supplier data includes only main contractual parties, excluding second-tier suppliers.
12) At the start of the war in Ukraine, Neste decided to stop using Russian crude oil entirely and started replacing it with other qualities. The last crude oil cargo with Russian origin was supplied to Neste in July 2022 and the supply contracts ended. Supply contracts for other fossil raw materials from Russia ended at the end of 2022.

Calculation principles can be found on page 115.



102

Personnel by segment 
as of 31 December 2022, %

Renewable Products 28.7% (28.9%)

Oil Products 22.0% (18.9%)

Marketing & Services 6.8% (9.0%)

Neste Engineering Solutions 15.4% (16.7%)

Innovation 8.2% (7.9%)

Other functions 18.9% (18.7%)29+22+7+15+8+19+I
Personnel by personnel group 
as of 31 December 2022, %

Blue-collar  
24.6% (24.7%)

White-collar and  
senior management  
75.5% (75.3%)25+75+I

Personnel by country 
as of 31 December 2022, %

Finland 66.7% (70.6%) 

The USA 12.9% (9.4%)

Singapore 7.8% (7.3%)

The Netherlands 6.7% (5.7%)  

Other countries 5.9% (7.0%)67+13+8+7+5+I
Employment length of employees 
as of 31 December 2022, %

35

30

25

20

15

10

5

0

20212022

1–4 
years

32.0
34.2

5–9 
years

16.0
17.3

Less than 
1 year

13.0

20.3

10–19 
years

19.1
20.3

20–29 
years

6.8 7.5

30– 
years

5.9
7.8

35

30

25

20

15

10

5

0

Employee breakdown by age 
as of 31 December 2022, %

20212022

< 30 
years

11.5 10.4

30–39 
years

33.0
33.6

40–49 
years

29.2 29.2

50–59 
years

20.9 21.7

5.4

60– 
years

5.3

Neste Personnel and Contractor 
Safety Performance as of 31 December 2022

2022 2021 2020

Total recordable injury 
frequency (TRIF) total 2.0 1.4 1.3

- TRIF own employees 0.8 1.1 1.1

- TRIF contractors 3.7 1.6 1.6

Lost workday injury 
frequency (LWIF) total 1.9 1.0 1.2

- LWIF own employees 0.7 1.1 1.0

- LWIF contractors 3.6 0.7 1.6

Process safety event rate 
(PSER) total 1.4 1.4 1.6

- PSER 1 0.6 0.6 1.0

- PSER 2 0.9 0.8 0.6

Safe Days 314 306 325

Fatalities 0 0 0

Average 
number of 
personnel

(4,872)

5,244

Performance in figures People

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Sustainability reporting in 2022

Average training hours per 
employee as of 31 December 2022

Women Men

All employees 15.2 22.6

Blue-collar 36.8 35.1

White-collar and  
senior management 14.3 16.1

Managers 22.2 20.9

Senior managers 5.8 10.3

Permanent 15.3 22.7

Temporary 13.5 20.5

Full-time 15.3 22.6

Part-time 12.9 27.1



103

Performance in figures People

Information on employees and governance bodies 
by gender ratio as of 31 December 2022, %

Women Men

2022 2021 2022 2021

All employees 32.2 31.5 67.8 68.5

Blue-collar 1.3 1.2 23.3 23.6

White-collar and senior management 30.9 30.3 44.5 45.0

Managers 31.1 30.3 68.9 69.7

Senior managers 27.7 25.9 72.3 74.1

Neste Executive Committee 25.0 25.0 75.0 75.0

Board of Directors 33.3 25.0 66.7 75.0

Permanent 31.5 30.6 66.4 67.0

Temporary 0.8 0.9 1.4 1.6

Full-time 30.9 30.1 67.0 67.7

Part-time 1.4 1.3 0.7 0.9

Total Finland USA Singapore The Netherlands Other countries

Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men

All employees 32.2 67.8 34.7 65.3 24.3 75.8 27.8 72.2 17.7 82.3 44.1 55.9

- under 30 4.2 7.3 4.6 7.3 3.1 9.8 4.7 5.7 1.7 8.3 4.7 2.8

- 30–50 19.9 42.3 20.9 40.5 14.7 43.7 19.5 53.4 11.9 47.2 28.4 39.4

- over 50 8.2 18.2 9.2 17.5 6.4 22.3 3.5 13.2 4.1 26.8 10.9 13.8

Hiring rate of permanent employees, all 20.5 17.33 15.4 10.8 47 39.8 35 21.6 34.9 26.2 14 11.8

Proportion of permanent hires 35.9 64.1 43.1 56.9 27.2 72.8 38.7 61.3 22.2 77.8 47.5 52.5

- under 30 3.8 6.7 4.1 6.4 3.2 9.9 4.8 5.7 1.7 8.4 4.1 2.9

- 30–50 20.1 42.8 21.3 41.1 14.6 43.7 19.9 53.8 11.8 47.1 28.3 39.8

- over 50 8.3 18.4 9.4 17.8 6.3 22.4 3.4 12.4 4.2 26.9 10.8 14

Leaving rate of permanent employees, all 9.7 10.5 8.8 8.2 15.5 23.2 6.8 9.6 7.9 6.1 14 10.7

Proportion of permanent leavers 30.4 69.6 36.3 63.7 17.5 82.6 21.6 78.4 21.7 78.3 50 50

- under 30 3.7 8.1 4.1 3.7 3.4 17.5 5.4 8.1 0 8.7 2.6 5.3

- 30–50 17.9 42.1 21 39.3 8.1 43 13.5 62.2 17.4 65.2 36.8 26.3

- over 50 8.9 19.4 11.2 20.7 6 22.2 2.7 8.1 4.4 4.4 10.5 18.4

Permanent employees 31.5 66.4 33.8 63.6 24 75.6 27.5 70.8 17.4 81.2 42.5 55.6

Temporary employees 0.8 1.4 0.9 1.7 0.3 0.1 0.2 1.4 0.3 1.1 1.6 0.3

Full-time employees 30.9 67 33.3 64.6 23.8 75.3 27.8 72 14.1 79.3 42.2 55.6

Part-time employees 1.4 0.7 1.4 0.7 0.4 0.4 0 0.2 3.6 3 1.9 0.3

Employee distribution and turnover as of 31 December 2022, %

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Sustainability reporting in 2022



104

GRI 1 Foundation
GRI 11 Oil & Gas Sector Standard
GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021
1. The organization and its reporting practices
2-1 Organizational details 22–23 HQ in Espoo, Finland. Countries of operations: Finland, Australia, Belgium, China, Estonia, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, 

Lithuania, the Netherlands, Singapore, Sweden, Switzerland, the USA (R)
2-2 Entities included in the organization’s sustainability 

reporting
98–99

2-3 Reporting period, frequency and contact point 98–99 Sustainability, Safety and Environment contacts
2-4 Restatements of information 98–99

2-5 External assurance 117–118

2. Activities and workers
2-6 Activities, value chain and other business relationships 8–9, 86–97, 155–158 In 2022 Neste acquired Walco Foods. Neste now holds all their shares. Neste's wholly-owned subsidiary Neste Engineering 

Solutions Oy was merged into Neste Corporation. The transaction to establish a joint operation with Marathon Petroleum in the 
United States was finalized. The divestment of Neste's base oils business to Chevron was completed. (R)

2-7 Employees 102–103, 116 Neste reports only total number of employees. (O)
2-8 Workers who are not employees 56 The consolidation of worker information is being reviewed. (O)
3. Governance
2-9 Governance structure and composition 48–49, 120–127,  

131–134

2-10 Nomination and selection of the highest governance body 120–123

2-11 Chair of the highest governance body 124, 125

2-12 Role of the highest governance body in overseeing the 
management of impacts

48–49

2-13 Delegation of responsibility for managing impacts 48–49, 157

2-14 Role of the highest governance body in sustainability 
reporting

48–49, 157 The Sustainability Report is reviewed by the senior executives and the highest governance body. Sustainability information, 
including the material topics, are also disclosed in the Board Review's Non-Financial Information statement. (R)

2-15 Conflicts of interest 120–123

2-16 Communication of critical concerns 39, 50, 170

2-17 Collective knowledge of the highest governance body 48–49, 106

2-18 Evaluation of the performance of the highest governance 
body 

123

2-19 Remuneration policies 140–146

2-20 Process to determine remuneration 140–146

2-21 Annual total compensation ratio 146

GRI Content Index 
GRI Standards Disclosure

Location in the report 
or our webpage Reporting (R) / Omission (O)

Oil&Gas Sector  
Standard REF #

Neste Oyj has reported in accordance with the GRI Standards for the period 1 January–31 December 2022.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Sustainability reporting in 2022



105

4. Strategy, policies and practices
2-22 Statement on sustainable development strategy 4–6

2-23 Policy commitments 48–49, 81–85, 86–97, 
98–99, 157–170, 
Neste Policies and 
Principles 

2-24 Embedding policy commitments 48–49, 81–85, 86–97, 
98–99, 157–170, 
Neste Policies and 
Principles 

2-25 Processes to remediate negative impacts 81–85, 157–170

2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising concerns 50, 82, 89, 131–132, 
167, 170

2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations No significant instances. (R)
2-28 Membership associations 41–43, Involvement in 

organizations and joint 
projects

5. Stakeholder engagement
2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement 29–30, 40–46

2-30 Collective bargaining agreements 3,743 persons, 69% (R)
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
3-1 Process to determine material topics 29–30

3-2 List of material topics 29–34

3-3 Management of material topics 40–46, 48–49, 50, 
51–54, 55–57, 61–65, 
66–73, 74–80, 81–85, 
86–97,165

11.1.1, 11.2.1, 11.3.1, 11.4.1, 11.5.1, 11.6.1, 
11.7.1, 11.8.1, 11.9.1, 11.10.1, 1.11.1, 11.12.1, 

11.13.1, 11.14.1, 11.15.1, 11.16.1, 11.17.1, 
11.18.1, 11.19.1, 11.20.1, 11.21.1, 11.22.1

GRI 200: Economic
GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 47, Value creation 11.14.2 & 

11.21.2
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities 

due to climate change
58–73, 165–166,  
182–183

11.2.2

201-4 Financial assistance received from government 153, 200 11.21.3
GRI 202: Market Presence 2016
202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local 

community
Neste is currently assessing the materiality of this indicator. Neste provides equal employment opportunities for all applicants and 
employees. This applies to all areas of employment. (O)

11.11.2 & 
11.14.3

GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016
203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 32, 46, 47, 208–209 11.14.4
203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 47 11.4.5

GRI Standards Disclosure
Location in the report 
or our webpage Reporting (R) / Omission (O)

Oil&Gas Sector  
Standard REF #

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Sustainability reporting in 2022

https://www.neste.com/sustainability/sustainability-neste/policies-and-principles#f1558afc
https://www.neste.com/sustainability/sustainability-neste/policies-and-principles#f1558afc
https://www.neste.com/sustainability/sustainability-neste/policies-and-principles#f1558afc
https://www.neste.com/sustainability/sustainability-neste/policies-and-principles#f1558afc
https://www.neste.com/sustainability/society/commitments-and-engagements#f1558afc
https://www.neste.com/sustainability/society/commitments-and-engagements#f1558afc
https://www.neste.com/sustainability/society/commitments-and-engagements#f1558afc
https://www.neste.com/sustainability/sustainability-neste/value-creation#f1558afc


106

GRI 204: Procurement practices 2016
204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Data undisclosed due to business sensitivity. Neste is committed to operating with integrity towards its suppliers and treating 

them fairly, and equally, always based on objective factors and excluding personal preferences or interest. Neste aims for long-
term and mutually beneficial business relationships with our key suppliers. Neste welcomes innovations and are always open for 
feedback from suppliers. (O)

11.14.6

GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 170 Neste regularly assesses its operations' risks including ia. risks of corruption and bribery. Numeric data not applicable. (R/O)
205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption 

policies and procedures
50, 87–88, 170 Neste Board Audit Committee receives regular updates on Neste compliance program and compliance activities, including such 

related to anti-corruption. In 2022, all members of Neste Board of Directors completed the Code of Conduct (CoC) e-learning. 
Neste´s Anti-corruption Principle and related guidance is available in Neste´s global intranet and further communicated and 
trained via anti-corruption e-learning issued to all office workers, and regular newsletters. Neste ExCo members and targeted 
employees are required to complete an Annual Compliance Acknowledgement confirming their compliance with i.a. the CoC 
and Anti-corruption Principle. In connection with the CoC renewal in 2021, we also renewed the CoC e-learning. The e-learning, 
mandatory for all Neste employees, was first issued to all office workers in 2021 and to the rest of the organization in 2022. It 
achieved a completion rate of 95% by the end of 2022. The CoC e-learning is part of global induction training and therefore, the 
completion fluctuates. We also require our suppliers and other business partners to comply with applicable laws and expect them 
to follow equivalent ethical business standards as stated in the CoC (including zero tolerance to corruption), as further described 
in our Supplier Code of Conduct. We are continuously developing our anti-corruption training processes and aspire to extend the 
reporting with the remaining indicator requirements related to training when applicable. (R/O) 

11.20.3

205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 39, 50,170 No confirmed incidents during the reporting period. (R) 11.20.4
GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behaviour 2016
206-1 Legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and 

monopoly practices
No cases during the reporting period. (R) 11.19.2

GRI 207: Tax 2019
207-1 Approach to tax Neste's tax footprint 11.21.4
207-2 Tax governance, control, and risk management Neste’s tax footprint 11.21.5
207-3 Stakeholder engagement and management of concerns 

related to tax
Neste’s tax footprint 11.21.6

207-4 Country-by-country reporting Neste’s tax footprint Neste discloses tax information for countries representing 90% of the external revenue of the group. (O) 11.21.7
GRI 300: Environmental
GRI 301: Materials
Neste 
indicator

Volume of liquefied waste plastic processed (t/a) 38, 95

GRI 302: Energy 2016
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 35, 79, 100, 115 11.1.2
302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization Neste is assessing potential relevant energy consumptions in the value chain. Across Neste's value chain, the majority of energy 

use outside the organization is estimated to occur through the use of products sold by Neste. (R/O)
11.1.3

302-3 Energy intensity 100, 115 11.1.4
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 35, 79, 100, 115 Energy savings consist of different initiatives in our production covering steam and cooling. (R)

GRI Standards Disclosure
Location in the report 
or our webpage Reporting (R) / Omission (O)

Oil&Gas Sector  
Standard REF #

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Sustainability reporting in 2022

https://www.neste.com/sustainability/society/economic-responsibility/nestes-tax-footprint#f1558afc
https://www.neste.com/sustainability/society/economic-responsibility/nestes-tax-footprint#f1558afc
https://www.neste.com/sustainability/society/economic-responsibility/nestes-tax-footprint#f1558afc
https://www.neste.com/sustainability/society/economic-responsibility/nestes-tax-footprint#f1558afc


107

GRI 303: Water and effluents 2018
303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource 80 11.6.2
303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts 80, 115 11.6.3
303-3 Water withdrawal 80, 100, 115 Neste is reviewing the GRI reporting on water categories including certain amount of total dissolved solids (O). 11.6.4
303-4 Water discharge 80, 100, 115 11.6.5
303-5 Water consumption 80, 100, 115 11.6.6
GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016
304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent 

to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value 
outside protected areas

25, 74–79 Protected areas owned within Naantali production area in Finland. The protected area is 3 hectares of high biodiversity value. (R) 11.4.2

304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services 
on biodiversity

74–79 Neste is developing its biodiversity work consistently, and will be proceeding with the company's biodiversity vision in the 
following years. Details in accordance with the indicator requirements will be reported as the work is progressing and impacts are 
further mapped. (O)

11.4.3

304-3 Habitats protected or restored 25, 74–79 11.4.4

304-4 IUCN Red List species and national conservation list 
species with habitats in areas affected by operations

74–79 The information on species not disclosed due to ongoing review of the reporting requirements globally. (O) 11.4.5

GRI 305: Emissions 2016
305-1 Direct (scope 1) GHG emissions 35, 98–99, 100, 115 11.1.5
305-2 Energy indirect (scope 2) GHG emissions 35, 98–99, 100, 115 11.1.6

305-3 Other indirect (scope 3) GHG emissions 100, 115 11.1.7
305-4 GHG emissions intensity 35, 72 Emissions used in the calculation: scope 3 Use of sold products. (R) 11.1.8
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 35, 58–73 11.2.3
305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other 

significant air emissions
100, 115 Neste considers the reported emissions as significant. (R/O) 11.3.2

GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016
306-3 Significant spills 80, 100 No significant environmental impacts identified. (R) 11.8.2
GRI 306: Waste 2020
306-1 Waste generation and significant waste-related impacts 79 11.5.2
306-2 Management of significant waste-related impacts 79, 95, 100 11.5.3
306-3 Waste generated 100, 115 11.5.4
306-4 Waste diverted from disposal 100 11.5.5
306-5 Waste directed to disposal 100 11.5.6
GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016
308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental 

criteria
86–90 99.4 % of Neste's renewable raw material suppliers and all oil product suppliers screened using environmental criteria. Indirect 

procurement proportions reporting development proceeding. More on their screening processes in the report. (R/O)
GRI 400: Social

GRI Standards Disclosure
Location in the report 
or our webpage Reporting (R) / Omission (O)

Oil&Gas Sector 
Standard REF #

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Sustainability reporting in 2022Neste Annual Report 2022 | Sustainability reporting in 2022



108

GRI 401: Employment 2016
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 37, 47, 52, 103 11.10.2
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not 

provided to temporary or part-time employees
Neste's temporary and part-time employees are not excluded from the benefits that are provided to the full-time employees 
in Finland. Reporting will be extended to other significant locations in the coming years. Neste complies with minimum local 
regulations and with local variations most often beyond.  (R/O)

11.10.3

401-3 Parental leave All Neste employees are entitled to parental leave at a minimum according to the local legislation. All together 268 employees took 
parental leave in 2022. Other data not disclosed due to developing the data needs for the new indicator. (R/O)

11.10.4 & 
11.11.3

GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 2016
402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes Neste follows the local laws and when applicable, bargaining agreements regarding operational changes. (R) 11.7.2 & 

11.10.5
GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018
403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 55–57 11.9.2
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident 

investigation
55–57 Neste Hazard Identification and Risk Assessment Principle includes processes and policies for workers to report hazardous 

situations and also instructions how to remove themselves from these types of situations. The principle describes minimum safety 
requirements for operating and maintenance procedures as well as safe work practises. Key common requirements include the 
Process Hazard analysis standard consisting of standards for process risk classification, process safety information and work risk 
management. (R)

11.9.3

403-3 Occupational health services 55–57 11.9.4
403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on 

occupational health and safety
OEMS Safety Leadership Principle sets requirements for Businesses to engage workforce for Health and Safety issues in various 
groups, development of work practices, investigation of incidents and risk assessments throughout Neste globally. Practices 
and fulfilling of requirements are followed through OEMS audit practices. In addition to to Safety Leadership Principle the local 
statutory requirements are identified and followed to engage personnel in Health and Safety issues. (R)

11.9.5

403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 55–57 11.9.6
403-6 Promotion of worker health 41–43, 53 11.9.7
403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and 

safety impacts directly linked by business relationships
55–57 11.9.8

403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety 
management system

56 11.9.9

403-9 Work-related injuries 56, 102, 115–116 We have defined our Life Saving Rules based on the high-risk activities which have caused fatalities and serious injuries at Neste 
and in the Industries. The purpose of the Life Saving Rules (Working at heights, Confined spaces, Equipment isolation, Work 
permit and Traffic hazards) is to help save lives and prevent serious injuries. In addition to Life Saving Rules related injuries we 
monitor comprehensively factors related injuries such as lenght of absence, injury types etc. 
In 2022 we had TRIF 2.0 which was way above our target. Majority (23 of 30) of injuries happened to contractors. In 2022 we 
did not have any injury that would have resulted permanent effect on health. All together we had four cases which resulted in 
long absences from work. Main injury types slips, strips and falls, cuts and scratches or overextertions caused by single straining 
motion at work, are the same both in employees and contractors. Total amount of working hours was circa 8 600 000 hours for 
employees and 6 170 000 hours for contractors. (R)

11.9.10

403-10 Work-related ill health 56, 102, 115–116 Neste records all work-related injuries. Occupational diseases are recorded separately.  
Neste has defined and implements practices in the Operations Excellence Management System (OEMS) to minimize hazards and 
to mitigate risks relating to any work-related ill health or injuries. (R/O)

11.9.11

GRI Standards Disclosure
Location in the report 
or our webpage Reporting (R) / Omission (O)

Oil&Gas Sector 
Standard REF #

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Sustainability reporting in 2022



109

GRI 404: Training and Education 2016
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 102 11.10.6 & 

11.11.7
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition 

assistance programs
41–43, 47, 52–53 11.7.3 & 

11.10.7
GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 37, 47, 54, 103, 123 11.11.4
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Women's mean basic salary in relation to men's by pay grade and employee category in Finland: blue-collars 92%-100% and 

whitecollars 86%-103%. Finland is reported as it is significant with over 67% weight of employees in total personnel. (R)
11.11.5

GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016
406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 39, 170 11.11.6
GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2016
407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of 

association and collective bargaining may be at risk
Neste Human Rights 
Commitment 
Human Rights Principle 
Neste Supplier Code of 
Conduct 
Neste Modern Slavery 
Statement

We have put in place a firm policy to mitigate this potential impact in our global operations and supply chains and the policy is 
implemented through our due diligence processes. We use a bespoke, industry leading, country risk assessment methodology 
from Verisk Maplecroft to identify countries or geographic areas with the highest risks to freedom of association and collective 
bargaining. The Neste Supplier Code of Conduct includes a minimum requirement to recognise and respect employees’ right to 
organize freely and bargain collectively. Specific operations and geographic areas not disclosed publicly. (R)

11.13.2

GRI 408: Child Labor 2016
408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk of incidents of 

child labor
81–85 
Neste Human Rights 
Commitment 
Human Rights Principle 
Neste Supplier Code of 
Conduct 
Neste Modern Slavery 
Statement

We have put in place a firm policy to mitigate this potential impact in our global operations and supply chains and the policy is 
implemented through our due diligence processes. We use a bespoke, industry leading, country risk assessment methodology 
from Verisk Maplecroft to identify countries or geographic areas with the highest risks of child labor. The Neste Supplier Code 
of Conduct includes minimum requirements regarding child labor. Further details regarding management approach, high risk 
operations and supply chains, and measures taken by Neste to assess and address child labor risks available in Neste's annual 
Modern Slavery Statement. (R)

GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016
409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk of incidents of 

forced or compulsory labor
81–85
Neste Human Rights 
Commitment 
Human Rights Principle 
Neste Supplier Code of 
Conduct 
Neste Modern Slavery 
Statement

We have put in place a firm policy to mitigate this potential impact in our global operations and supply chains and the policy is 
implemented through our due diligence processes. We use a bespoke, industry leading, country risk assessment methodology 
from Verisk Maplecroft to identify countries or geographic areas with the highest risks of forced labor. The Neste Supplier Code 
of Conduct includes minimum requirements regarding forced and compulsory labor. Further details regarding management 
approach, high risk operations and supply chains, and measures taken by Neste to assess and address forced labor risks 
available in Neste's annual Modern Slavery Statement. (R)

11.12.2

GRI 410: Security Practices 2016
410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies or 

procedures
100% of Neste group security personnel have received formal training on Neste human rights policies through Neste's Code of 
Conduct e-learning. (R)

11.11.6

GRI Standards Disclosure
Location in the report 
or our webpage Reporting (R) / Omission (O)

Oil&Gas Sector 
Standard REF #

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Sustainability reporting in 2022

https://www.neste.com/sites/default/files/attachments/corporate/sustainability/managing_sustainability/nhrc_17oct2017.pdf
https://www.neste.com/sites/default/files/attachments/corporate/sustainability/managing_sustainability/nhrc_17oct2017.pdf
https://www.neste.com/sites/neste.com/files/neste_human_rights_principle_0.pdf
https://www.neste.com/sites/neste.com/files/new_supplier_code_of_conduct._english.pdf
https://www.neste.com/sites/neste.com/files/new_supplier_code_of_conduct._english.pdf
https://www.neste.com/sites/neste.com/files/attachments/corporate/sustainability/our_people/neste_modern_slavery_statement_2021.pdf
https://www.neste.com/sites/neste.com/files/attachments/corporate/sustainability/our_people/neste_modern_slavery_statement_2021.pdf
https://www.neste.com/sites/default/files/attachments/corporate/sustainability/managing_sustainability/nhrc_17oct2017.pdf
https://www.neste.com/sites/default/files/attachments/corporate/sustainability/managing_sustainability/nhrc_17oct2017.pdf
https://www.neste.com/sites/neste.com/files/neste_human_rights_principle_0.pdf
https://www.neste.com/sites/neste.com/files/new_supplier_code_of_conduct._english.pdf
https://www.neste.com/sites/neste.com/files/new_supplier_code_of_conduct._english.pdf
https://www.neste.com/sites/neste.com/files/attachments/corporate/sustainability/our_people/neste_modern_slavery_statement_2021.pdf
https://www.neste.com/sites/neste.com/files/attachments/corporate/sustainability/our_people/neste_modern_slavery_statement_2021.pdf
https://www.neste.com/sites/default/files/attachments/corporate/sustainability/managing_sustainability/nhrc_17oct2017.pdf
https://www.neste.com/sites/default/files/attachments/corporate/sustainability/managing_sustainability/nhrc_17oct2017.pdf
https://www.neste.com/sites/neste.com/files/neste_human_rights_principle_0.pdf
https://www.neste.com/sites/neste.com/files/new_supplier_code_of_conduct._english.pdf
https://www.neste.com/sites/neste.com/files/new_supplier_code_of_conduct._english.pdf
https://www.neste.com/sites/neste.com/files/attachments/corporate/sustainability/our_people/neste_modern_slavery_statement_2021.pdf
https://www.neste.com/sites/neste.com/files/attachments/corporate/sustainability/our_people/neste_modern_slavery_statement_2021.pdf


110

GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples 2016
411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous 

peoples
Neste respects the rights of Indigenous Peoples set out in the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples 
(UNDRIP), and carries out due diligence to avoid infringing on human rights. In 2022, there were 0 incidents of violations involving 
the rights of Indigenous peoples reported via Neste’s available reporting channels, including Ethics Online. (R)

11.17.2

GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 2016
(412-1) Operations that have been subject to human rights 

reviews or impact assessments
All Neste operations reviewed as part of our 2022 corporate-wide human rights saliency assessments to evaluate the risk of Neste 
being associated with or complicit in adverse human rights impacts. We assess country risk using a bespoke, industry leading, 
country risk assessment methodology from Maplecroft to map sustainability risks for the countries in which we operate and have 
supply chains. (R)

(412-2) Employee training on human rights policies or procedures In 2022, 1,390 (1,076) hours were used for training on human rights policies and processes relevant to Neste’s business 
operations and supply chains. 51% (77%) of Neste employees were trained on topics related to Neste’s human rights policies and 
processes during 2022. 86% of the new employees hired in 2022 were trained on topics related to Neste’s human rights policies 
and processes. (R)

GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016
413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact 

assessments, and development programs
43, 75–80, 81–85 
Human Rights Principle

Neste is developing its community impact and engagement mechanisms in line with commitments set out in our Human Rights 
Principle. Details in accordance with the indicator requirements will be reported as the work progresses. (O)

11.15.2

413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative 
impacts on local communities

43, 75–80, 81–85 
Human Rights Principle

Neste is developing its community impact and engagement mechanisms in line with commitments set out in our Human Rights 
Principle. Details in accordance with the indicator requirements will be reported as the work progresses. (O)

11.15.3

GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016
414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 47, 86–90 99.4 % of Neste's renewable raw material suppliers and all oil product suppliers screened using social criteria. Indirect 

procurement proportions reporting development proceeding. More on their screening processes in the report. (R/O)
11.10.6 & 

11.12.3
414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions 

taken
102 actions initiated to advance supply chain workers’ human and labor rights in Neste raw material supplier sustainability audits. 
(R)

11.10.9

GRI 415: Public Policy 2016
415-1 Political contributions Neste does not make political contributions. (R) 11.22.2
GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016
416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product 

and service categories
57 Neste has assessed all (100%) of its products according to health and environmental impacts. This is a regulatory requirement 

for chemicals. Results of these assessments are documented in eg. the chemical safety data sheet that is supplied to customers. 
Also the feedstock used in manufacturing of Neste products are assessed for health and safety impacts.  (R)

11.3.3

416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and 
safety impacts of products and services

No incidents of non-compliance with the indicator requirements (R)

GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016
417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing 

communications
Four legal actions in Lithuania of which two were closed during 2022 and resulted in no fines. The remaining two cases have been 
responded to and are pending. A RCC complaint in the Netherlands was dismissed by the Advertising Code Committee during 
2022. (R)

Innovation and Partnerships
Neste 
indicator

Research and development expenditure 38, 172 11.22.2

Neste 
indicator

Number of granted patents and pending patent 
applications

38, 47

Neste 
indicator

Collaborations with research institutions and universities 38

GRI Standards Disclosure
Location in the report 
or our webpage Reporting (R) / Omission (O)

Oil&Gas Sector 
Standard REF #

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Sustainability reporting in 2022

https://www.neste.com/sites/neste.com/files/neste_human_rights_principle_0.pdf
https://www.neste.com/sites/neste.com/files/neste_human_rights_principle_0.pdf


111

TCFD Recommendations Disclosure Location in the report 
Governance  
Disclose the organization’s  
governance around climate- 
related risks and opportunities.

a) Describe the board’s oversight of climate related risks and opportunities. 48–50, 137,157

b) Describe management’s role in assessing and managing climate related risks and opportunities. 48–50, 137,157

Strategy 
Disclose the actual and potential  
impacts of climate-related risks  
and opportunities on the  
organization’s businesses,  
strategy, and financial planning  
where such information is  
material. 

a) Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organization has identified over the short, medium, and long term. 58–60, 138–139, 
165–166, 182–183

b) Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy, and financial planning. 8–9, 12–16, 47, 58–60, 
165–166, 182–183

c) Describe the resilience of the organization’s strategy, taking into consideration different climate related scenarios, including a 2°C or lower scenario. 58–60, 165–166, 
182–183

Risk Management 
Disclose how the organization  
identifies, assesses, and manages  
climate-related risks.

a) Describe the organization’s processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks. 49, 136–139, 157, 
165–166

b) Describe the organization’s processes for managing climate-related risks. 49, 136–139, 157,  
165–166

c) Describe how processes for identifying, assessing, and managing climate-related risks are integrated into the organization’s overall risk management. 49, 136–139, 157, 
165–166

Metrics and Targets 
Disclose the metrics and targets  
used to assess and manage  
relevant climate-related risks and  
opportunities where such  
information is material. 

a)  Disclose the metrics used by the organization to assess climate-related risks and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk management process.
25, 35–39, 47, 58–73, 

79–80, 100–101, 
115–116, 140, 158–164

b) Disclose scope 1, scope 2, and, if appropriate, scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and the related risks. 100, 35, 66–73,115–116

c) Describe the targets used by the organization to manage climate related risks and opportunities and performance against targets. 25, 35–39, 47, 58–73, 
79–80

TCFD Recommendations Disclosure

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Sustainability reporting in 2022



112

SASB Content Index
Neste disclosure of SASB Sustainability Accounting Standards for Oil and Gas Refining and Marketing

GHG Emissions

EM-RM-110a.1 Gross global scope 1 emissions, percentage covered under emissions-limiting 
regulations

Metric tons (t) CO2e, 
Percentage (%)

100, 115 98% covered under EU ETS. (R)

EM-RM-110a.2 Discussion of long-term and short-term strategy or plan to manage scope 1 
emissions, emissions reduction targets, and an analysis of performance against those 
targets 

n/a 35, 58–73

Air Quality

EM-RM-120a.1 Air emissions of the following pollutants: (1) NOx (excluding N2O), (2) SOx, (3) 
particulate matter (PM10), (4) H2S, and (5) volatile organic compounds (VOCs) 

Metric tons (t) 100, 115

EM-RM-120a.2 Number of refineries in or near areas of dense population Number All 3 Neste refineries in 2022 located in near areas (within 49km) of an urbanized area. 
(R)

Water management

EM-RM-140a.1 (1) Total fresh water withdrawn, (2) percentage recycled, (3) percentage in regions with 
High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress 

Thousand cubic meters 
(m³), Percentage (%)

100, 115 Neste’s water withdrawal from areas with water stress is not significant and seen as 
not material. Percentage for recycled water is not calculated separately, as most of the 
water withdrawn for cooling is discharged back to the source in similar condition as 
when withdrawn. (R)

EM-RM-140a.2 Number of incidents of non-compliance associated with water quality permits, 
standards, and regulations 

Number 80 No incidents of non-compliance associated with water quality permits, standards, and 
regulations.

Hazardous Materials Management

EM-RM-150a.1 Amount of hazardous waste generated, percentage recycled Metric tons (t), 
Percentage (%)

100 259,000 metric tons (t), recycled 5% (R)

EM-RM-150a.2 (1) Number of underground storage tanks (USTs), (2) number of UST releases requiring 
cleanup, and (3) percentage in states with UST financial assurance funds 

Number, 
Percentage (%)

25 underground storage tanks for petroleum products. No UST releases. 
Reporting based on Neste's environmental permits. (R)

Workforce Health and safety

EM-RM-320a.1 (1) Total recordable incident rate (TRIR), (2) fatality rate, and (3) near miss frequency 
rate (NMFR) for (a) full-time employees and (b) contract employees 

Rate 57, 102, 115–116 (1) and (2) Neste reports the most relevant OHS performance figures in its own 
operations (TRIF, LWIF, PSER, Safe Days, Fatalities). (3) NMFR 127. (R) 

EM-RM-320a.2 Discussion of management systems used to integrate a culture of safety n/a 55–57, 108

Product Specifications & Clean Fuel Blends 

EM-RM-410a.1 Percentage of Renewable Volume Obligation (RVO) met through: (1) production of 
renewable fuels, (2) purchase of separated renewable identification numbers (RIN)

Percentage (%) (1) 0%, (2) 100%. (R)

EM-RM-410a.2 Total addressable market and share of market for advanced biofuels and associated 
infrastructure

Reporting currency, 
Percentage (%)

14, 150

Pricing Integrity & Transparency

Code Accounting metric Unit of measure

Location in  
the report or  
our webpage Additional SASB reporting information Reporting (R) / Omission (O)

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Sustainability reporting in 2022



113

EM-RM-520a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of llegal proceedings associated with 
price fixing or price manipulation

Reporting currency, 
Percentage (%)

No legal proceedings.

Management of the Legal & Regulatory Environment 

EM-RM-530a.1 Discussion of corporate positions related to government regulations and/or policy 
proposals that address environmental and social factors affecting the industry

n/a 44–45, 60, 65, 
66–73, 81–85, 
92–93, 114,  
138, 157, 
165–166, position 
statement

Critical Incident Risk Management

EM-RM-540a.1 Process Safety Event (PSE) rates for Loss of Primary Containment (LOPC) of greater 
consequence (Tier 1) and lesser consequence (Tier 2)

Rate 102, 115–116 Neste reports PSER1 and PSER2 rates as described in Principles for calculating the 
key indicators

EM-RM-540a.2 Challenges to Safety Systems indicator rate (Tier 3) Rate Rate 71.2. Tier 3 Challenges to Safety Systems indicator are included in Neste's PSE3 
that we report. (R)

EM-RM-540a.3 Discussion of measurement of Operating Discipline and Management System 
Performance through Tier 4 Indicators 

n/a 55–57 Process safety management system weaknesses that may cause in the future PSE1 or 
PSE2 events. They are reported as part of PSE4 indicator at Neste.

Code Activity metrics Unit of measure

Location in the 
report or our 
webpage Additional SASB reporting information  

EM-RM-000.A Refining throughput of crude oil and other feedstocks Barrels of oil equivalent 
(BOE)

Oil Products 88 MMBOE (R)

EM-RM-000.B Refining operating capacity Million barrels per 
calendar day (MBPD)

15 Oil Products 0.25 MBPD (R)

Code Accounting metric Unit of measure

Location in  
the report or  
our webpage Additional SASB reporting information Reporting (R) / Omission (O)

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Sustainability reporting in 2022

https://www.neste.com/sites/neste.com/files/joint_statement_in_support_of_eu_mandatory_human_rights_due_diligence_legislation_.pdf
https://www.neste.com/sites/neste.com/files/joint_statement_in_support_of_eu_mandatory_human_rights_due_diligence_legislation_.pdf


114

PART C: Management of Salient Human Rights Issues

C1 Specific Policies
C1 Neste Human Rights Principle, Code of Conduct, Supplier Code of Conduct, 

Sustainability Policy, Sustainability Principle, Responsible Sourcing Principle, 
People Policy, Equality and Non–Discrimination Principle, Misconduct 
Investigation Standard, Neste Life Saving Rules, Operations Excellence Policy, 
Operational Safety Principle, Occupational Health Principle, Reproductive 
Health Standard, Privacy Principle, Cyber Security Principle

p.7–9

C1.1 p. 53–54, 56–57, 82–85 p. 17–18

C2 Stakeholder Engagement
C2 p. 29–30, 40–43, 46, 53, 56, 82–85, 93 Neste Human Rights Principle (p.11) p. 16, 19–21
C2.1 p. 29–30, 40–43, 46, 53, 56, 82–85, 93 Neste Human Rights Principle (p.11) p. 16, 19–21
C2.2 p. 29–30, 40–43, 46, 53, 56, 82–85, 93 p. 16, 19–21
C2.3 p. 29–30, 37, 40–43, 46, 53, 56, 82–85, 93 p. 10–11, 16,  

19–21

C3 Assessing Impacts
C3 p. 36–39, 56–57, 82–85, 88–89, 90, 131 p. 8, 10–14, 21
C3.1 p. 36–39, 56–57, 82–85, 88–89 p. 14, 16
C3.2 p. 39, Renewable Raw Material Grievance Log

C4 Integrating Findings and Taking Action
C4 p. 82 p. 10–16
C4.1 Cross–functional collaboration e.g. 48–49, 54, 81–85 p. 7, 11
C4.2 p. 82, 89, Neste Human Rights Principle sec.5.7.1 (p .8) p. 11,15
C4.3 p. 56, 81–91 p. 7–21

C5 Tracking Performance
C5 p. 36–39, 56–57, 81–85, 88–89, 90 p. 14, 16, 21
C5.1 p. 36–39, 56–57, 81–85, 88–89, 90 p. 14, 16, 21

C6 Remediation
C6 p. 82, 84, 89, 131–132, Neste Human Rights Principle (p. 7) p.  9, 15, 16, 21
C6.1 p. 82, 84, 89, 131–132 p. 9, 15, 16, 21
C6.2 p. 39, Singapore Expansion, Renewable Raw Material Grievance Log p. 16, 21

C6.3 p. 39, 82, 89, 131–132 Grievance Process; Singapore Expansion, Renewable 
Raw Material Grievance Log, Neste Human Rights Principle (p. 7)

p. 9, 15, 16, 21

C6.4 p. 39, Renewable Raw Material Grievance Log p. 16
C6.5 p. 39, Renewable Raw Material Grievance Log p. 16

Section of 
the Framework

Location in annual report
or website

Page location in 2021 
Modern Slavery Statement 1)

PART A: Governance of Respect for Human Rights

A1 Policy Commitment
A1 p. 81–83; Neste Human Rights Principle. 7
A1.1 p. 83; In 2022 we conducted a major review and update of the 

Neste Human Rights Principle, informed by extensive consultation 
with both internal and external stakeholders. It received final review 
and approval by Neste’s CEO, based on the endorsement of the 
Neste Executive Committee.

7

A1.2 All of Neste's rights–holders as defined on p.13 of the Neste 
Human Rights Principle 

A1.3 p. 36, 85; 87; 89; 110; Neste Human Rights Principle is published 
on our company website and internally accessible on the Neste 
intranet. It is communicated to employees via e–learnings, and 
to business partners via Neste's Supplier Code of Conduct 
Guidance and capacity building workshops.

9, 17, 18

A2 Embedding Respect for Human Rights
A2 p. 27, 48–49, 81–85, NBNHR Joint Statement, Neste Human 

Rights Principle (p.9–10)
 3, 7, 19, 20

A2.1 Described under section 6.1 of the Neste Human Rights Principle 
(p.9–10)

7

A2.2 p. 48–49, 83, Neste Human Rights Principle (p. 9–10) 22
A2.3 p. 85, 87, 89, Neste Code of Conduct (p. 7) 7, 9, 16–18
A2.4 p. 81–85, 87–90, Neste’s Supplier Code of Conduct Guidance  

(p. 13–21)
9, 12–15, 17–18

A2.5 p.  81–85, 88, 90 p. 7–9, 11–12, 14, 16–19, 
21–22

PART B: Defining the Focus of Reporting

B1 Statement of salient issues p. 83; Neste Human Rights Principle (p. 2–9) p. 8

B2 Determination of salient issues p. 83 p. 8

B3 Geographical focus N/A p. 10–11
B4 Additional severe impacts N/A N/A

Section of 
the Framework

Location in annual report
or website

Page location in 2021 
Modern Slavery Statement 1)

1) Page numbers provided for 2021 Modern Slavery Statement, as the 2022 statement will only be published in Q2, 2023.

UN Guiding Principles Reporting Framework Index
The UN Guiding Principles Reporting Framework provides comprehensive guidance for companies to report on human rights issues 
in line with their responsibility to respect human rights. For full details on the framework, please visit www.ungpreporting.org

UN Guiding Principles Reporting Framework Index

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Sustainability reporting in 2022

https://www.neste.com/sites/neste.com/files/neste_human_rights_principle_0.pdf
https://www.neste.com/sites/neste.com/files/neste_human_rights_principle_0.pdf
https://www.neste.com/sustainability/sustainable-supply-chain/renewable-raw-material-grievances#f1558afc
https://www.neste.com/sites/neste.com/files/neste_human_rights_principle_0.pdf
https://www.neste.com/sites/neste.com/files/neste_human_rights_principle_0.pdf
https://journeytozerostories.neste.com/sustainability/implementing-effective-grievance-channels-singapore-expansion-project#5697de17
https://www.neste.com/sustainability/sustainable-supply-chain/renewable-raw-material-grievances#f1558afc
https://www.neste.com/sites/neste.com/files/attachments/corporate/sustainability/sustainable_supply_chain/neste_grievance_process.pdf
https://journeytozerostories.neste.com/sustainability/implementing-effective-grievance-channels-singapore-expansion-project#5697de17
https://www.neste.com/sustainability/sustainable-supply-chain/renewable-raw-material-grievances#f1558afc
https://www.neste.com/sustainability/sustainable-supply-chain/renewable-raw-material-grievances#f1558afc
https://www.neste.com/sites/neste.com/files/neste_human_rights_principle_0.pdf
https://www.neste.com/sustainability/sustainable-supply-chain/renewable-raw-material-grievances#f1558afc
https://www.neste.com/sustainability/sustainable-supply-chain/renewable-raw-material-grievances#f1558afc
https://www.neste.com/sustainability/modern-slavery-statement
https://www.neste.com/sites/neste.com/files/neste_human_rights_principle_0.pdf
https://www.neste.com/sites/neste.com/files/neste_human_rights_principle_0.pdf
https://www.neste.com/sites/neste.com/files/neste_human_rights_principle_0.pdf
https://www.neste.com/sites/neste.com/files/neste_human_rights_principle_0.pdf
https://www.neste.com/sites/neste.com/files/neste_human_rights_principle_0.pdf
https://www.neste.com/sites/neste.com/files/neste_supplier_code_of_conduct_scoc_guide_for_suppliers_-_updated_31.10.2022.pdf
https://www.neste.com/sites/neste.com/files/neste_supplier_code_of_conduct_scoc_guide_for_suppliers_-_updated_31.10.2022.pdf
https://www.neste.com/sites/neste.com/files/joint_statement_in_support_of_eu_mandatory_human_rights_due_diligence_legislation_.pdf
https://www.neste.com/sites/neste.com/files/neste_human_rights_principle_0.pdf
https://www.neste.com/sites/neste.com/files/neste_human_rights_principle_0.pdf
https://www.neste.com/sites/neste.com/files/neste_human_rights_principle_0.pdf
https://www.neste.com/sites/neste.com/files/neste_human_rights_principle_0.pdf
https://www.neste.com/sites/neste.com/files/neste_supplier_code_of_conduct_scoc_guide_for_suppliers_-_updated_31.10.2022.pdf
https://www.neste.com/sites/neste.com/files/neste_human_rights_principle_0.pdf
https://www.neste.com/sustainability/modern-slavery-statement
https://www.neste.com/sustainability/modern-slavery-statement
https://www.ungpreporting.org/


115Neste Annual Report 2022 | Sustainability reporting in 2022

Principles for calculating the key indicators 

General disclaimer  
The figures in the sustainability report may be subject to 
rounding, which may cause some differences in aggre-
gate totals calculated from exact figures.

Environment 

Energy: The energy consumption figures cover Neste’s 
refineries, terminals, offices, the company’s own sta-
tion business and time-chartered ships. The figures are 
based on the data provided by these units. Consump-
tion is calculated based on invoicing and meters. Stan-
dard conversion factors are used (SI). Neste follows 
the Energy Efficiency Agreement for Industries which is 
an agreement between the Government and industrial 
associations on the efficient use of energy, providing also 
guiding methodology for energy efficiency calculations. 

Energy intensity is calculated as the ratio of total energy 
consumption to Neste’s revenue.

Carbon dioxide (CO2) or Greenhouse gas emis-
sions (GHG): Neste applies a financial control approach 
for consolidating the CO2 or GHG emission indicators. 
For the scope 1 emissions, the emission factors com-
pliant with the fuel classification published by Statistics 
Finland were used in addition to Neste’s in-house lab-
oratory measurement data. scope 2 covers emissions 
from indirect purchased electricity, steam and heat pro-
duction. Market-based scope 2 emissions are based 
on energy supplier-specific or residual grid mix emis-
sion factors. Location-based scope 2 emissions are 
based on country-specific emission factors (e.g. IEA, 
Motiva). scope 1 accounting and reporting is based on 
CO2, scope 2 includes other GHGs where available (the 
estimated share of other GHG is negligible compared  
to CO2).

Scope 3 calculation is based on the principles of the 
GHG protocol. The calculation of scope 3 emissions is 
based on internal data sources (e.g. sales and supply 
data), information available from public sources (e.g. 
Renewable Energy Directive) and Neste’s accredited 
in-house calculation data have been used as the emis-
sion factors. scope 3 emissions reporting covers GHG 
emissions and is reported as CO2e. Only relevant scope 
3 categories are included in the report.

GHG emission reduction calculation method 
complies with the EU Renewable Energy Directive II 
(EU) 2018/2001 and the California LCFS methodol-
ogy, which has been applied in the GHG reporting for 
volumes sold in the US since the beginning of 2022. 
Neste regularly updates its GHG emission factors in line with 
the updates in legislation and the certification schemes. 
Average GHG emission reduction of sourced palm oil 
contains the use of conventional palm oil that we have 
sold within the year 2022.

VOC, NOx, SO2, PM: Other emissions to air (exclud-
ing CO2) are measured with direct measurements (on-line 
or periodic) or with indirect monitoring methods. On-line 
measurement is typically done on major emission points. 
Both direct measurements and indirect monitoring is 
based on the site environmental permit or other local 
environmental regulation. Relevant process parame-
ters linked to pollutant emissions are monitored too. All 
emission monitoring is done in accordance with stan-
dards. If EN standards are not available, ISO, national or 
other international standard/method is used to ensure 
the provision of data of high scientific quality.

Water withdrawal: The water withdrawal volumes 
are based on the company’s own measurements or on 
invoicing. Neste's water risk assessment is based on 
WWF Water Risk Filter. Neste annually updates the risk 
assessment. 

Wastewater discharges: Neste reports the waste-
water volumes, chemical oxygen consumption, as well 
as the oil, nitrogen, and phosphorus releases. The figures 
are calculated on the basis of refinery- or terminal-spe-
cific data based on sampling or continuous metering. 
The figures do not include the loading values of waste-
water treated in municipal or other external wastewater 
treatment plants. Neste operates according to local dis-
charge permits and requirements. Our process waters 
are always treated to meet the requirements before they 
are safely discharged.

Waste generated: The waste volumes are based on 
the invoicing data. 

Non-renewable resource use: The amount of 
non-renewable resource use that Neste’s renewable 
and circular solutions helped replace in transport, avia-
tion and polymers and chemicals sectors. Calculations 
include fossil resource usage over renewable and circu-
lar production life cycles. An energy-based comparison 
is made with relevant fossil references. The difference is 
expressed as the energy content of crude oil.

Safety

Total Recordable Injury Frequency (TRIF): Acci-
dents at work resulting in absence from work, restriction 
to work, or medical treatment are included in the acci-
dent frequency figures. The formula for calculating acci-
dent frequency (number of accidents at work per mil-
lion working hours): total number of accidents at work 
× 1,000,000 / hours worked. The calculation includes 
in-house personnel, contractors and service providers 
working at Neste’s sites. 

Workplace accidents: Accidents that occur at work/
while performing work duties. 

Safe Day: A day without a TRI accident, process 
safety events, fire or ignition, breach of environmental 
permit, or traffic accident. 

Hours worked: The hours worked by the whole per-
sonnel and the service providers during the period under 
review. When recording the working hours of service pro-
viders, an estimate (e.g. accounting hours) can be used 
if the accurate number of hours is not known. Workplace 
accidents: Accidents that occur at work/while perform-
ing work duties. 

TRI (Total Recordable Injuries): All recorded acci-
dents at work: the number of accidents at work result-
ing in absence from work, restriction to work or medical 
treatment. 

LWIF (Lost Workday injury frequency): The num-
ber of accidents at work resulting in lost workdays, rela-
tive to a million hours worked. 

Process safety event rate (PSER): Rate of process 
safety events per million hours worked. 

PSE1 (Process Safety Event): An unplanned and 
uncontrolled release of any material, including nontoxic 
and non-flammable materials from a process, resulting 
in consequences according to the PSE1 classification. 



116Neste Annual Report 2022 | Sustainability reporting in 2022

Possible consequences: 
• Workplace accident leading to absence (LWI, RWI) 

or fatality. 
• Fires or explosions with direct expenses (excluding 

loss of production) higher than EUR 25,000. 
• Evacuation or taking cover indoors. 
• A leak exceeding the reporting threshold during a 

certain period, threshold according to Concawe 
(European Oil Company Organisation for 
Environment, Health and Safety). 

• A pressure relief device (PRD) discharge with  
above-mentioned consequences. 

The Group-level performance indicators include the par-
ent company and companies where the parent company 
holds more than 50% of shares. The associate compa-
nies are not included in the calculations. 

PSE2 (Process Safety Event): An unplanned and 
uncontrolled release of any material, including nontoxic 
and non-flammable materials from a process, resulting 
in consequences according to the PSE2 classification. 

Possible consequences: 
• Workplace accident requiring medical treatment 

(MTC). 
• Fires or explosions with direct expenses (excluding 

loss of production) higher than EUR 2,500. 
• A leak exceeding the reporting threshold during a 

certain period, threshold according to Concawe. 
• A pressure relief device (PRD) discharge with above-

mentioned consequences.

HSEQ: Health, safety, environment and quality.

Personnel 

Reporting of personnel numbers: The personnel 
numbers are calculated as numbers of employees, and 
include, as a rule, all personnel with active contracts of 
employment or employees on leave. Hourly paid employ-
ees are not included as their numbers of working hours 
vary greatly, and their number in proportion to other 
employees is very small. Unless otherwise specified, the 
personnel numbers are reported as at December 31. 

Number of permanent employees leaving the 
company: The number of employees leaving a perma-
nent contract of employment from Jan 1 to Dec 31/the 
number of permanent employees on Dec 31 (including 
all reasons for ending the employment). 

Number of permanent employees joining the 
company: The number of employees entering a per-
manent contract of employment from Jan 1 to Dec 31/
the number of permanent employees on Dec 31. 

Training costs: The training costs include exter-
nal training-related costs, such as the fees of external 
trainers, and the participation fees for external training 
events, but not, for example, the salaries of participants 
or the company’s own trainers 

Innovation 

Clean revenue means revenue from all goods and ser-
vices which have a clear environmental and/or social 
benefits. Clean investments are investments in such 
benefits consisting of Clean CAPEX, Clean R&D and 
Clean M&A. Clean Revenue and Clean Investments 
include for example revenue from, and investments in, 
clean transition as well as low-carbon and circular econ-
omy solutions. 

Clean Investments (%): Clean CAPEX+Clean R&D+-
Clean Acquisitions/Total CAPEX+R&D+Acquisitions. 

Clean Revenue (%): Clean Revenue/Total Revenue. 



117

Independent Assurance Report 

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Sustainability reporting in 2022

To the Management of Neste Corporation 
We have been engaged by the Management of Neste 
Corporation (hereafter “Neste”) to provide limited assur-
ance on selected numerical sustainability disclosures pre-
sented in the “Sustainability section” of Neste’s Annual 
Report 2022 (hereafter “Selected Numerical Sustainabil-
ity Information”) for the year ended 31 Dec 2022.

The Selected Numerical Sustainability Information 
consists of selected economic, social and environmen-
tal sustainability closures listed within the Topic-Spe-
cific Disclosures and General Disclosures 2–7 and 2–30 
as well as information presented in the “Sustainability 
highlights 2022”, “Sustainability KPIs”, “Value creation”, 
and “Performance in figures” sections in Neste’s Annual 
Report 2022.

Management’s responsibilities 
The Management of Neste is responsible for the prepa-
ration and presentation of the Selected Numerical Sus-
tainability Information in accordance with the reporting 
criteria, i.e. GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards, and 
the information and assertions contained within it. The 
Management is also responsible for determining Neste’s 
objectives with regard to sustainable development per-
formance and reporting, including the identification of 
stakeholders and material issues, and for establishing 
and maintaining appropriate performance management 
and internal control systems from which the reported 
performance information is derived.

Our responsibilities 
Our responsibility is to carry out a limited assurance 
engagement and to express a conclusion based on the 
work performed. We conducted our limited assurance 
engagement on the Selected Numerical Sustainability 
Information in accordance with International Standard 
on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised), 
Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews 
of Historical Financial Information, issued by the Interna-
tional Auditing and Assurance Standards Board IAASB. 
That Standard requires that we plan and perform the 
engagement to obtain limited assurance about whether 
the Selected Numerical Sustainability Information is free 
from material misstatement. 

KPMG Oy Ab applies International Standard on Qual-
ity Control ISQC 1 and accordingly maintains a compre-
hensive system of quality control including documented 
policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethi-
cal requirements, professional standards and applicable 
legal and regulatory requirements. 

We have complied with the independence and other 
ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for Profes-
sional Accountants issued by the International Eth-
ics Standards Board for Accountants IESBA, which is 
founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectiv-
ity, professional competence and due care, confidential-
ity and professional behavior.

Our multi-disciplinary team of sustainability and assur-
ance specialists possesses the needed skills and expe-
rience within financial and non-financial assurance, 

sustainability strategy and management, social and envi-
ronmental issues, as well as the relevant industry knowl-
edge, to undertake this assurance engagement.

Procedures performed
A limited assurance engagement on Selected Numerical 
Sustainability Information consists of making inquiries, 
primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of 
information presented in the Selected Numerical Sus-
tainability Information, and applying analytical and other 
evidence gathering procedures, as appropriate. In the 
engagement, we have performed the following proce-
dures, among others: 
• Interviewed the members of Neste’s senior 

management and relevant staff responsible for 
providing the Selected Numerical Sustainability 
Information;

• Assessed the application of the GRI Sustainability 
Reporting Standards reporting principles in the 
presentation of the Selected Numerical Sustainability 
Information;

• Assessed data management processes, information 
collecting and working methods used to gather and 
consolidate the Selected Numerical Sustainability 
Information;

• Reviewed the presented Selected Numerical 
Sustainability Information and assessed its quality 
and reporting boundary definitions and;

• Assessed of the Selected Numerical Sustainability 
Information’s data accuracy and completeness 
through a review of the original documents and 
systems on a sample basis.



118Neste Annual Report 2022 | Sustainability reporting in 2022

The procedures performed in a limited assurance 
engagement vary in nature and timing from, and are less 
in extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagement. 
Consequently, the level of assurance obtained in a lim-
ited assurance engagement is substantially lower than 
the assurance that would have been obtained had a 
reasonable assurance engagement been performed.

Inherent limitations 
Due to the inherent limitations of any internal control 
structure, it is possible that errors or irregularities in the 
information presented in the Report may occur and not 
be detected. Our engagement is not designed to detect 
all weaknesses in the internal controls over the prepa-
ration and presentation of the Selected Numerical Sus-
tainability Information, as the engagement has not been 
performed continuously throughout the period and the 
procedures performed were undertaken on a test basis.

Conclusion 
Our conclusion has been formed on the basis of, and is 
subject to, the matters outlined in this report.
We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient 
and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusions.

Based on the procedures performed and the evidence 
obtained, as described above, nothing has come to our 
attention that causes us to believe that the information 
subject to the limited assurance engagement is not pre-
sented, in all material respects, in accordance with the 
GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards.

In accordance with the terms of our engagement, this 
independent limited assurance report on the Selected 
Numerical Sustainability Information has been prepared 
for Neste Corporation in connect with reporting to Neste 
Corporation and for no other purpose or in any other 
context.

Restriction of use of our report
Our report should not be regarded as suitable to be used 
or relied on by any party wishing to acquire rights against 
us other than Neste Corporation for any purpose or in 
any other context. Any party other than Neste Corpora-
tion who obtains access to our report or a copy thereof 
and chooses to rely on our report (or any part thereof) 
will do so at its own risk. To the fullest extent permitted 
by law, we accept or assume no responsibility and deny 
any liability to any party other than Neste Corporation for 
our work, for this independent assurance report, or for 
the conclusions we have reached. 

Our report is released to Neste Corporation on the 
basis that it shall not be copied, referred to or disclosed, 
in whole (save for Neste Corporation’s own internal pur-
poses) or in part, without our prior written consent.

Helsinki, 2 March 2023
KPMG Oy Ab
     
Leenakaisa Winberg   Tomas Otterström
Authorised Public    Partner, Advisory 
Accountant, KHT   



119Neste Annual Report 2022 | Governance

Corporate Governance Statement 120

Risk management 136

Remuneration report 140

Governance

We are committed to high ethical standards 
and conduct our business and operate in 
compliance with applicable laws, regulations 
and generally accepted practices  
for good corporate governance.



120

Corporate Governance Statement 2022

This Corporate Governance Statement has been pre-
pared pursuant to the 2020 Corporate Governance 
Code, Chapter 7, Section 7 of the Securities Markets 
Act, as well as Section 7 of the Ministry of Finance’s 
Decree on the Regular Duty of Disclosure of an Issuer 
of a Security. The Corporate Governance Statement 
is issued separately from the Review by the Board of 
Directors and it can be found, in addition to the Annual 
Report, at neste.com/investors. 

Regulatory framework
Neste Corporation (“Neste” or the “Company”) observes 
good corporate governance practices in accordance 
with the laws and regulations applicable to Finnish 
listed companies, the Company’s own Articles of Asso-
ciation, and the Finnish 2020 Corporate Governance 
Code. The Corporate Governance Code can be found 
at cgfinland.fi/en/. Neste also complies with the rules of 
Nasdaq Helsinki Ltd, where it is listed, and the rules and 
regulations of the Finnish Financial Supervisory Authority. 

Neste’s Audit Committee has reviewed the Corpo-
rate Governance Statement, and the Company’s Audi-
tor, KPMG Oy Ab, has monitored that it has been issued 
and that the description of the main features of the inter-
nal control and risk management related to the financial 
reporting process included in the statement matches 
the Financial Statements. 

Neste issues Consolidated Financial Statements and 
interim reports in accordance with the International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the 
EU, the Securities Market Act, as well as the appropriate 
Financial Supervisory Authority standards, and Nasdaq 
Helsinki Ltd’s rules. The Review by the Board of Direc-
tors and the Parent Company’s Financial Statements are 
prepared in accordance with the Finnish Accounting Act 
and the opinions and guidelines of the Finnish Account-
ing Board. 

Governance Bodies 
The control and management of Neste is split between 
the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders (AGM), the 
Board of Directors, and the President and Chief Execu-
tive Officer (President and CEO). Ultimate decision-mak-
ing authority lies with shareholders at the AGM which 
appoints the members of the Board of Directors and the 
Auditor. The Board of Directors is responsible for Neste’s 

strategy and overseeing and monitoring the Company’s 
business. The Board of Directors appoints the President 
and CEO. The President and CEO, assisted by the Exec-
utive Committee (ExCo), is responsible for managing the 
Company’s business and implementing its strategic and 
operational targets. 

Neste’s headquarters are located in Espoo, Finland.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Corporate Governance Statement

Neste’s businesses are grouped into four reporting segments: Renewable Products, Oil Products, Marketing & Services, and Others. 

Shareholders / Annual General Meeting

Board of Directors

Audit Committee Personnel and Remuneration Committee

Shareholders’ Nomination Board

President & CEO

Assurance Functions

Executive Committee

Risk Management Compliance Internal Control

Renewable ProductsOil Products Marketing & Services Innovation Functions

Engineering 
Solutions

Renewable
Aviation

Renewable Polymers
and Chemicals

Renewables Platform

Neste’s Governance Bodies

Finance

Human Resources, 
HSSEQ and Procurement

Sustainability and 
Corporate Affairs

Legal

External 
Audit

Internal 
Audit

Renewable
Road Transportation

https://www.neste.com/investors
https://cgfinland.fi/en/


121

Annual General Meeting 
Under the Finnish Companies Act, shareholders exer-
cise their decision-making power at General Meetings of 
Shareholders, and attend meetings in person or through 
an authorized representative. Each share entitles the 
holder to one vote. 

Shareholders at the AGM make decisions on matters 
including: 
• the approval of the Financial Statements; 
• the distribution of profit for the year detailed in the 

Balance Sheet; 
• discharging the members of the Board of Directors 

and the President and CEO from liability; 
• if necessary, the approval of the Remuneration 

Policy; 
• the approval of the Remuneration Report; and 
• the election and remuneration of the Chair, the Vice 

Chair, and the members of the Board of Directors 
and the Auditor. 

The AGM is held annually before the end of June. An 
Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders address-
ing specific matters can be held, when considered nec-
essary by the Board of Directors, or when requested in 
writing by the Company’s Auditor or by shareholders 
representing at least one-tenth of all Company shares. 

Under the Articles of Association, an invitation to a 
General Meeting of Shareholders shall be delivered to 
shareholders by publishing it on the Company’s web-
site neste.com no earlier than two months, and no later 
than three weeks prior to a meeting, but at least nine 
days before the record date set for the meeting under 
the terms of the Companies Act. In addition, the Com-
pany may, if the Board of Directors decides so, publish 
details on the date and time and location of the meeting, 
together with the address of the Company’s website, in 
one or more newspapers. 

Neste is not aware of any shareholders’ agreements 
regarding the Company’s shares.  

2022
Neste’s Annual General Meeting (AGM) was held 
30 March 2022 under special arrangement at the 
Company’s headquarters in Espoo. In order to pre-
vent the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic, the AGM 
was held without shareholders’ or their proxy repre-
sentatives’ presence at the venue of the meeting. 
Shareholders and their proxy representatives had 
the possibility to participate in the meeting and exer-
cise their shareholder rights by voting in advance 
and by making counter-proposals and presenting 
questions in advance.

The AGM supported all the proposals presented 
to the meeting and approved the remuneration 
report. The AGM adopted the company’s Financial 
Statements and Consolidated Financial Statements 
for 2021 and discharged the Board of Directors and 
the President & CEO from liability for 2021. 

The AGM approved the Board of Directors’ pro-
posal that a dividend of EUR 0.82 per share will be 
paid on the basis of the approved balance sheet for 
2021. The dividend was paid in two installments.

The first installment of dividend, EUR 0.41 per 
share, was paid to a shareholder registered in the 
shareholders’ register of the Company maintained 
by Euroclear Finland Ltd on the record date for the 
first dividend installment, which was 1 April 2022. 
The first dividend installment was paid on 8 April 
2022.

The second installment of dividend, EUR 0.41 per 
share, was paid to a shareholder registered in the 
shareholders’ register of the Company maintained 
by Euroclear Finland Ltd on the record date for the 
second dividend installment, which was 30 Sep-
tember 2022. The second dividend installment was 
paid on 7 October 2022.

In accordance with the proposal made by the 
Shareholders’ Nomination Board, the AGM con-
firmed the number of members of the Board of 
Directors at nine. The AGM decided the composi-
tion of the Board of Directors and the remuneration 
to be paid to the members of the Board of Directors, 
and appointed the Auditor. The AGM also approved 
the Board’s proposals to the AGM.

Shareholders’ Nomination Board 
Following the proposal by the Board of Directors, the 
2013 AGM decided to establish a permanent Share-
holders’ Nomination Board to be responsible for draft-
ing and presenting proposals covering the remunera-
tion and number of members of the Company’s Board 
of Directors and for presenting candidates as potential 
Chair, Vice Chair, and members at the Board to the AGM 
and to an Extraordinary General Meeting of Sharehold-
ers when needed. The Shareholders’ Nomination Board 
shall also be responsible for identifying successors for 
existing Board Members. 

The Shareholders’ Nomination Board shall consist 
of four members, three of which shall be appointed by 
the Company’s three largest shareholders, who shall 
appoint one member each. The Chair of the Company’s 
Board of Directors shall serve as the fourth member. The 
Shareholders’ Nomination Board elects a Chair among 
its members. 

The Company’s largest shareholders entitled to elect 
members to the Shareholders’ Nomination Board shall 
be annually determined on the basis of the registered 
holdings in the Company’s list of shareholders held by 
Euroclear Finland Ltd as of the first weekday in Septem-
ber in the year concerned. The Chair of the Company’s 
Board of Directors shall request each of the three largest 

shareholders established on this basis to nominate one 
member to the Shareholders’ Nomination Board. In the 
event that a shareholder does not wish to exercise his or 
her right to appoint a representative, the right shall pass 
to the next-largest shareholder who would not other-
wise be entitled to appoint a member. 

The Shareholders’ Nomination Board shall serve until 
further notice, unless a General Meeting of Sharehold-
ers decides otherwise. Its members shall be appointed 
annually and their term of office shall end when new 
members are appointed to replace them. 

The Shareholders’ Nomination Board shall forward its 
proposals for the AGM to the Company’s Board of Direc-
tors annually by 31 January, prior to the holding of the 
AGM. Proposals intended for a possible Extraordinary 
General Meeting of Shareholders shall be forwarded to 
the Company’s Board of Directors in time for them to 
be included in the invitation to the meeting sent out to 
shareholders.  

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Corporate Governance Statement



122

Composition of the Shareholders’ Nomination 
Board prior to the 2023 AGM 
On 6 September 2022, the following members were 
appointed to Neste’s Shareholders’ Nomination Board: 
The Chair, Director General Kimmo Viertola of the Own-
ership Steering Department in the Prime Minister’s Office 
of Finland; Timo Sallinen, Senior Vice President, Invest-
ments of Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company; 
President and CEO Jouko Pölönen of Ilmarinen Mutual 
Pension Insurance Company and Matti Kähkönen, the 
Chair of Neste’s Board of Directors. As of 23 December 
2022, Senior Ministerial Adviser, Financial Affairs Maija 
Strandberg of the Ownership Steering Department in 
the Prime Minister’s Office of Finland, was appointed as 
the Chair.

Activities 
The Shareholders’ Nomination Board makes proposals 
for the next AGM on the following: 
• the number of members of the Board of Directors;
• the Chair, the Vice Chair and the members of the 

Board of Directors; and 
• the remuneration to be paid to the Chair, the Vice 

Chair, and the members of the Board of Directors. 

The nomination process of the Shareholders’ Nomina-
tion Board, its composition, and activities are detailed in 
its Charter.

Shareholders’ Nomination Board members

Maija Strandberg 
M.Sc. (Econ.), Chair of the Shareholders’ 
Nomination Board, as of 23 December 2022.
Born in 1969
Senior Ministerial Adviser, Financial Affairs of the Own-
ership Steering Department in the Prime Minister’s 
Office of Finland. Member of the Board and Audit Com-
mittee of SSAB Ab. Member of the Board and People 
and Remuneration Committee of Finnair Oyj. Chair of 
the Nomination Committee of Fortum Oyj. Member of 
the Nomination Committee of Kuntarahoitus Oyj. 

Holdings in Neste Corporation on 31 December 2022: 
no holdings. 1)

Prime Minister’s Office: 276,213,495 shares. 2)

Kimmo Viertola
Chair of the Shareholders’ Nomination Board 
between 18 September 2019 and 22 December 2022.
Director General of the Ownership Steering Depart-
ment at the Prime Minister’s Office of Finland.

Holdings in Neste Corporation on 31 December 2022: 
no holdings. 1)

Timo Sallinen
M.Sc. (Econ.), Member of the Shareholders’ 
Nomination Board. 
Born in 1970
Senior Vice President, Investments of Varma Mutual 
Pension Insurance Company. Member of the Share-
holders’ Nomination Board of Nokian Renkaat, Alma 
Media, Finnair, Atria, Raisio, Robit and Componenta.

Holdings in Neste Corporation on 31 December 2022: 
no holdings. 1)

Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company 
10,918,435 shares. 2)

Jouko Pölönen 
eMBA, M.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Adm.), 
Member of the Shareholders’ Nomination Board
Born in 1970
President and CEO, Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insur-
ance Company. Member of the Board of Directors of 
Nokian Tyres plc. Chair of the Board of Directors of the 
Finnish Pension Alliance TELA. Chair of the Board of 
The Finnish Foundation for Share Promotion. Member 
of the Board of Directors of Excellence Finland Ltd. 
Member of the Employment Pension Executive Com-
mittee, Finance Finland FFI.

Holdings in Neste Corporation on 31 December 2022:  
2,400 shares.1)

Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Company 
6,611,500 shares. 2)

Matti Kähkönen 
M.Sc. (Engineering), Member of the 
Shareholders’ Nomination Board.
Born in 1956
Senior Advisor, Metso Corporation 2017–2019. Chair 
of the Board of Neste Oyj. Chair of the Board of Direc-
tors at Kemira. Chair of the Board of Directors at the 
Finnish Fair Corporation. Chair of Neste’s Personnel 
and Remuneration Committee.

Holdings in Neste Corporation on 31 December 2022: 
13,080 shares. 1)

Holdings in Neste Corporation on 31 December 2022: 
1) Own holdings and controlled entities. 
2) Shareholder’s holdings represented by the member 
 of the Shareholders’ Nomination Board. 

The Shareholders’ Nomination Board convened 10 times 
between 31 January  2022 and 31 January 2023, and 
the members of the Shareholders’ Nomination Board 
attended such meetings as follows:

Composition of the Shareholders’ Nomination 
Board prior to the 2022 AGM 
On 20 September 2021, the following members were 
appointed to Neste’s Shareholders’ Nomination Board: 
The Chair, Director General Kimmo Viertola of the Own-
ership Steering Department in the Prime Minister’s Office 
of Finland; Deputy CEO, Investments Reima Rytsölä of 
Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company; Director 
General Outi Antila of The Social Insurance Institution of 
Finland and Matti Kähkönen, the Chair of Neste’s Board 
of Directors. The Shareholders’ Nomination Board con-
vened nine times between the 2021 AGM and 31 Jan-
uary 2022. The Shareholders’ Nomination Board pre-
sented its proposal covering the members of the Board 
of Directors on 28 January 2022.

Attendance

Maija Strandberg 2/2

Timo Sallinen 7/7

Jouko Pölönen 6/6

Matti Kähkönen 10/10

Kimmo Viertola 8/8

Outi Antila 4/4

Reima Rytsölä 3/3

Decisions on the proposals for the 2023 AGM were made 
by the members of the Shareholders’ Nomination Board in a 
manner set out in more detail in the stock exchange release 
published on 27 January 2023.  

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Corporate Governance Statement



123

Board of Directors 
In accordance with Neste’s Articles of Association, the 
Board of Directors has between five and ten members, 
who are elected at the AGM for a period of office that 
extends to the following AGM.  

Diversity of the Board of Directors 
In planning the composition of a skilled, competent, expe-
rienced, and effective Board of Directors, the Sharehold-
ers’ Nomination Board also follows the following diver-
sity principles defined by the Company. A cooperative 
and functional Board of Directors requires diversity for 
it to be able to respond to the requirements set out in 
Neste’s business and strategic objectives and to sup-
port and challenge the company’s operational manage-
ment in a proactive and constructive manner. 

Significant factors concerning the composition of the 
Board of Directors include a variety of competences that 
complement the other members of the Board, educa-
tion and experience in different professional and indus-
trial fields and in business operations and management 
existing in different development phases, as well as the 
personal qualities of each member, all of which add diver-
sity to the Board of Directors. The diversity of the Board 
of Directors is also supported by experience in industrial 
fields and markets that are strategically significant for 
Neste, experience and abilities in technologies and the 
international operating environment, and a diverse age 
and gender distribution so that both genders are always 
adequately represented in the Board of Directors. In con-
sidering the composition of the Board of Directors, it is 
important to pay attention to Neste’s current and evolv-
ing needs, and to ensure that the Board of Directors, as 
a whole, enables the current and future business devel-
opment of Neste, which diversity also supports. 

Neste’s Board of Directors was composed of nine 
members after the 2022 AGM, all of whom hold a uni-
versity-level degree, and two of whom have a doctorate. 
These degrees are from different fields, with technical 

fields being in the majority. Each member of the Board of 
Directors has international work experience in different 
types of positions, and has worked or is working in the 
Board of Directors or management of listed or unlisted 
companies. Three members have worked in managerial 
positions at major international petrochemical compa-
nies. The Board of Directors is also diverse in terms of 
cultural backgrounds: its members come from five differ-
ent countries and speak five different native languages. 
Women comprise 33% of all members of the Board of 
Directors. With regard to age, the members of the Board 
of Directors are divided evenly between 49 and 66 years 
of age. The duration of the terms of office of the Board 
members is divided as follows: four members have been 
on the Board of Directors for more than four years, while 
five members have been on the Board of Directors for 
less than four years. 

Activities of the Board of Directors 
The Board shall have at least eight regular meetings 
annually, all scheduled in advance, with extraordinary 
meetings when necessary. Extraordinary meetings, if 
requested by a Board Member or the President and 
CEO, shall be convened by the Chair, or, if the Chair is 
prevented from attending, by the Vice Chair, or if deemed 
necessary by the Chair. The Board constitutes a quorum 
if more than half of its members are present. The Board 
is responsible for preparing an operating plan for itself 
for its period of office between Annual General Meet-
ings, to include a timetable of meetings and the most 
important matters to be addressed at each meeting. 
The Board evaluates its performance annually to deter-
mine whether it is functioning effectively after the end of 
each financial year.

Duties of the Board of Directors 
The Board’s responsibilities and duties are defined in detail 
in the Charter approved by the Board. A member of the 
Board of Directors may not take part in decision-making 

in matters regarding (i) agreements between such mem-
ber and any entity within the Neste Group, (ii) agree-
ments between any entity within the Neste Group and 
third parties where such member has a material inter-
est in the matter which may conflict with the interest of 
Neste or any other entity within the Neste Group, and (iii) 
agreements between any entity within the Neste Group 
and a legal entity which such member may represent, 
either individually or together with any other person; pro-
vided however, that this point (iii) does not apply where 
the party contracting with Neste is a company within 
the Neste Group. The term ’agreement’ as used here 
includes litigation or other legal proceedings arising from 
or relating to such agreements.

2022 
The 2022 AGM confirmed the membership of the 
Board of Directors at nine members, and the follow-
ing were re-elected to serve until the end of the next 
AGM:  Mr. Matti Kähkönen, Mr. John Abbott, Mr. Nick 
Elmslie, Ms. Martina Flöel, Mr. Jari Rosendal, Ms. 
Johanna Söderström and Mr. Marco Wirén. Mr. Just 
Jansz and Ms. Eeva Sipilä were elected as new mem-
bers. Mr. Matti Kähkönen was re-elected as Chair and 
Mr. Marco Wirén was re-elected as Vice Chair. 

The Board convened 16 times in 2022. The atten-
dance rate at the meetings was 99.2%. In addi-
tion to the process resulting in Matti Lehmus being 
appointed as the President and CEO of the Company 
as of 1 May 2022, the Board focused in 2022 on the 
Company’s long-term strategy by means of e.g. the 
continued scale-up of the Company’s renewables 
businesses as well as the expansion of the Compa-
ny’s renewables feedstock platform and production 

capabilities, including the decision to establish the 
Martinez Renewables joint operation in the US, the 
final investment decision concerning the Rotterdam 
expansion project and continuous monitoring of the 
on-going Singapore expansion project. Feedstock 
growth related M&A and other investment topics were 
also on the Board agenda in 2022. In addition to the 
above and matters set out in the Board Charter, the 
Board further supervised strategy execution as well 
as evaluated the changes in the long-term operational 
environment and their impact on the Company’s busi-
ness operations from e.g. a sustainability perspec-
tive. Leadership matters, including changes in senior 
management announced during 2022, and talent 
management were also dealt with by the Board. The 
Board continuously monitored the Company’s safety, 
financial and operational performance as well as risk 
management.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Corporate Governance Statement



124

The shareholdings of the members of the Board of Directors are presented below their CVs. The remuneration paid to the members of the Board of Directors is detailed in the Remuneration Report.

Board of Directors, 31 December 2022

Position Born Education Main Occupation
Independent 

of the company

Independent 
of major 

shareholders

Personnel and 
Remuneration 

Committee
Audit 

Committee

Attendance at 
meetings

Board Committees

Matti Kähkönen Chair 1956 M.Sc. (Eng.) Non-Executive Director • • • 16/16 8/8

John Abbott Member 1960 B.Sc. (Chem. eng.) Non-Executive Director • • • 16/16 8/8

Nick Elmslie Member 1957 B.Sc. (Chem.) Non-Executive Director • • • 16/16 7/7

Martina Flöel Member 1960 Ph.D. (Chem.) Non-Executive Director • • • 16/16 8/8

Just Jansz Member 1957 Ph.D. 
(Chemical Metallurgy)

Independent board member 
and advisor, Managing Director of 

Expertise Beyond Borders
• • • 11/11 6/6

Jari Rosendal Member 1965 M.Sc. (Eng.) President and CEO of Kemira • • • 16/16 7/7

Eeva Sipilä Member 1973 M.Sc. (Econ.), CEFA Chief Financial Officer, Deputy to CEO, 
Metso Outotec Corporation • • • 10/11 6/6

Johanna Söderström Member 1971 M.Sc. (Econ.) EVP, Chief Human Resources Officer 
at Tyson Foods Inc • • • 16/16 8/8

Marco Wirén Member 1966 M.Sc. (Econ.) Chief Financial Officer 
at Nokia Corporation • • • 16/16 7/7

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Corporate Governance Statement



125

Members of the Board of Directors

1) Holdings in Neste Corporation: own holdings and controlled entities.

Matti Kähkönen (born in 1956)
M.Sc. (Engineering)
Chair of the Board since 2018
Member of the Board since 2017
Independent member
 
 
Senior Advisor, Metso Corporation 2017–2019. 
President and CEO, Metso Corporation 2011–
2017. Executive Vice President and Deputy 
to the CEO, Metso Corporation 2010–2011. 
President, Mining and Construction Technology, 
Metso Corporation 2008–2011. President, 
Metso Minerals 2006–2008. President, Metso 
Automation, 2001–2006. President, Metso 
Automation, Field Systems Division, 1999–
2001. Prior to 1999, various managerial and 
development positions in Neles-Jamesbury and 
Rauma-Repola. Chair of the Board of Directors 
at Kemira, 3/2022–. Vice Chair of the Board 
of Directors at Kemira 2021–3/2022. Chair 
of the Board of Directors at the Finnish Fair 
Corporation 2020–. Chair of Neste’s Personnel 
and Remuneration Committee.

Holdings in Neste Corporation on 31 Dec 2022:
13,080 shares.1)

 
 

John Abbott (born in 1960)
B.Sc. First Class Honours, Chemical Engineering
Member of the Board since 2021
Independent member
 
 

Downstream Director and a Member of the 
Executive Committee of Royal Dutch Shell plc, 
2013–2019. Executive Vice President of Global 
Manufacturing at Shell, 2012–2013. Executive 
Vice President of Shell’s Upstream Americas 
Heavy Oil business, based in Calgary, Canada, 
2008–2012. Vice President Manufacturing 
(Refining and Chemicals) Excellence and Support 
at Shell based in Houston, USA, 2006–2008. 
Various positions at Shell in the UK, Singapore, 
Thailand, the Netherlands, Canada, and the USA, 
predominantly in the areas of Global Manufacturing 
(Refining and Chemicals) as well as Supply, Trading 
and Distribution, 1981–2006. (In 1994, he was 
also seconded to the British Government for a 
short assignment). Non Executive Director of the 
Intercontinental Exchange (ICE) Futures Europe 
2021–. Advisor and participant at Mobility Impact 
Partners (MIP) 2020–. Mentor in the FTSE 100 
cross-company mentoring foundation 2013–. 
Member of Neste’s Personnel and Remuneration 
Committee.

Holdings in Neste Corporation on 31 Dec 2022:
374 shares.1)

Nick Elmslie (born in 1957)
B.Sc. (Chemistry)
Member of the Board since 2020
Independent member

 
 
Chief Executive, BP Global Petrochemicals based 
in Shanghai 2011–2015. Controller, Head of 
Finance Function, BP Downstream 2006–2011. 
Various directorial positions at BP plc., including 
Chief Executive, Acetyls Business and Business 
Unit Leader, Head of Chemicals Strategy and 
CFO, Polymers & Olefins 1992–2006. Various 
positions at BP plc 1978–1992. Member of the 
Board and Investor at 3fbio Ltd 2017–. Member 
of the Supervisory Board of OTI Greentech AG 
2017–. Member of the Board of Fosroc Group 
Holdings Limited 2009–. Chair of i-Keg Ltd  
2021–. Member of Neste’s Audit Committee.

Holdings in Neste Corporation on 31 Dec 2022: 
2,374 shares.1) 
 
 
 

Martina Flöel (born in 1960)
M.Sc. (Chemistry), Ph.D. (Chemistry)
Member of the Board since 2017
Independent member
 
 
 
CEO of Oxea 2007–2016. Managing Director 
and EVP, Europe of European Oxo in 2003–
2007. Vice President Oxo Chemicals, Celanese 
Chemicals 2000–2003. Plant Manager Böhlen, 
Celanese Chemicals 1998–2000. Prior to 1998, 
various managerial and directorial positions in the 
Hoechst Group. Member of the Board of Directors 
of Sasol 2018–. Member of Neste’s Personnel 
and Remuneration Committee.

Holdings in Neste Corporation on 31 Dec 2022: 
374 shares.1) 
 
 
 

Just Jansz (born in 1957)
Ph.D. (Chemical Metallurgy), M.Sc.  
(Mineral Engineering)
Member of the Board since 2022
Independent member

 
Independent board member and advisor 2011–. 
Managing Director of Expertise Beyond Borders 
2011–. President Technology Business, Basell / 
LyondellBasell 2004–2010. Senior Vice President, 
Advanced Polyolefins, Basell 2001–2004. Various 
managerial positions at Shell affiliate companies 
1989–2000. Member of the Board at Circular 
Plastics NL (Dutch National Growth Fund) 2022–. 
Member of Neste’s Audit Committee.

Holdings in Neste Corporation on 31 Dec 2022
374 shares.1) 

 
 
 

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Corporate Governance Statement



126

Members of the Board of Directors

1) Holdings in Neste Corporation: own holdings and controlled entities.

Jari Rosendal (born in 1965)
M.Sc. (Eng.)
Member of the Board since 2018
Independent member

President and CEO at Kemira since 2014. Various 
divisional President and Directorial positions, 
including Member of the Executive Board, at 
Outotec Oyj in 2001–2014. Various managerial 
and expert positions in the Outokumpu Group 
in Finland and the United States 1989–2001. 
Member of the Board of Directors of Chemical 
Industry Federation of Finland 2015–, Chair of the 
Board of Directors 2017–2018 and Vice Chair of 
the Board of Directors 2019–2020. Member of the 
Board of Directors of CEFIC, 2014–. Member of 
Neste’s Audit Committee.

Holdings in Neste Corporation on 31 Dec 2022: 
374 shares.1) 

Eeva Sipilä (born in 1973)
M.Sc. (Econ.), CEFA
Member of the Board since 2022
Independent member

Chief Financial Officer, Deputy to CEO, Metso 
Outotec Corporation 2020–. Chief Financial 
Officer, Deputy to CEO, Metso Corporation 2016–
2020. Executive Vice President, Chief Financial 
Officer, Cargotec Corporation 2008–2016. 
Senior Vice President, Communications and 
Investor Relations, Cargotec Corporation 2005–
2008. Various positions at Metso Corporation, 
Mandatum Stockbrokers part of Sampo Group 
and Arkwright AB 1997–2005. Supervisory 
Board Member, Varma, 2021–. Board Member, 
Outokumpu Corporation, 2017–2022, Vice Chair 
of Board 2020–2022, Chair of Audit Committee 
2019–2022. Member of Neste’s Audit Committee.

Holdings in Neste Corporation on 31 Dec 2022: 
1,354 shares.1) 

 

Johanna Söderström (born in 1971)
M.Sc. (Econ.)
Member of the Board since 2020
Independent member

Executive Vice President, Chief People Officer at 
Tyson Foods Inc. 2020–. Senior Vice President, 
Chief Human Resources Officer at the Dow 
Chemical Company 2014–2019. Vice President, 
Center of Expertise Human Resources at the 
Dow Chemical Company 2012–2014. Various 
directorial HR positions at Dow Chemical 
Company, Dow Europe GmbH and Dow Chemical 
Handels- und Vertriebsgesellschaft mbH 2007–
2012. Head of Global Compensation & Benefits 
at Huhtamäki Oyj 2006–2007. Various specialist 
and managerial positions at Dow Europe GmbH, 
Dow Chemical Handels- und Vertriebsgesellschaft 
mbH and Dow Suomi Oy 1999–2006. Prior to 
1999, various specialist positions at Oy L M 
Ericsson Ab. Member of Neste’s Personnel and 
Remuneration Committee.

Holdings in Neste Corporation on 31 Dec 2022:
3,374 shares.1) 
 
 
 
 

Marco Wirén (born in 1966)
M.Sc. (Econ.)
Vice Chair of the Board since 2019
Member of the Board since 2015
Independent member

Chief Financial Officer, Nokia Corporation 2020–. 
President, Wärtsilä Energy & Executive Vice 
President, Wärtsilä Corporation 2018–2020. 
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial 
Officer Wärtsilä 2013–2018. SSAB, Executive Vice 
President and CFO 2008– 2013. SSAB,  
Vice President Business control 2007–2008.  
Eltel Networks, CFO and Vice President Business 
Development 2002–2007; NCC, Vice President 
Business Development and Group Controller 
1995–2001. Chair of Neste’s Audit Committee.

Holdings in Neste Corporation on 31 Dec 2022:
3,537 shares.1) 
 

Jean-Baptiste Renard
(born in 1961)

M.Sc. (Eng.) and an engineering diploma 
in petroleum economics from the French 
Petroleum Institute (IFP)
Member of the Board since 2014
Independent member
 – Member of the Board until 30 March 2022

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Corporate Governance Statement



127

Board Committees 
The Board has established an Audit Committee, which 
has five members, and a Personnel and Remuneration 
Committee, which has four members. A quorum exists 
when more than two members, including the Chair, are 
present. All members are elected from amongst the 
members of the Board for a one-year term. The tasks 
and responsibilities of each committee are defined in 
their Charters, which are approved by the Board. The 
schedule and frequency of committee meetings are 
determined by the Chair and committee members. In 
addition, the Board of Directors can appoint committees 
as needed, for instance, for significant investment proj-
ects or other special tasks. Committees meet at least 
twice a year. Each committee reports regularly on its 
meetings to the Board. Reports include a summary of 
the matters addressed and the measures undertaken. 
Each committee conducts an annual self-evaluation of 
its performance and submits a report to the Board.

Audit Committee 
Under its Charter, the Audit Committee shall consist of a 
minimum of three Board members that are independent 
of the Company and its subsidiaries, and at least one of 
whom shall be independent of Neste’s major sharehold-
ers. Members are required to have sufficient knowledge 
of accounting practices and the preparation of finan-
cial statements and other qualifications that the Board 
deems necessary. The Audit Committee is permitted 
to use external consultants and experts when deemed 
necessary. 

Duties 
The responsibilities and duties of the Audit Commit-
tee are defined in detail in the Charter approved by the 
Board.

2022 
Starting from 30 March 2022, the Audit Committee 
comprised Marco Wirén (Chair), Nick Elmslie, Just 
Jansz, Jari Rosendal and Eeva Sipilä. In 2022, the 
Audit Committee convened 7 times, and the atten-
dance rate was 100.0%. As part of the tasks spec-
ified in its Charter, the Audit Committee supervised 
and reviewed external and internal audit activities, 
and the Company's financial and other reporting. 
The Audit Committee also focused on risk and com-
pliance management, including in relation to finan-
cial, market and geopolitical risks but also certain 
other risk areas, such as IT systems, segregation of 
duties and cyber security. Moreover, the Audit Com-
mittee also monitored e.g. legal and tax matters.

Personnel and Remuneration Committee 
The Personnel and Remuneration Committee consists 
of the Chair of the Board and at least two non-executive 
members of the Board. 

Duties 
The responsibilities and duties of the Personnel and 
Remuneration Committee are defined in detail in the 
Charter approved by the Board.

2022
Starting from 30 March 2022, the Personnel and 
Remuneration Committee comprises Matti Käh-
könen (Chair), John Abbott, Martina Flöel and 
Johanna Söderström. The Personnel and Remu-
neration Committee convened 8 times in 2022, and 
the attendance rate was 100.0%. During 2022, the 
Personnel and Remuneration Committee contin-
ued to focus on reviewing and developing Neste’s 
total remuneration and talent management and 

development to support the Company’s operational 
and strategic targets. In line with duties coming from 
its Charter, the Personnel and Remuneration Com-
mittee also followed up the ongoing performance 
period 2022 and outcomes of the rewarding based 
on 2021 results. To further ensure the implementa-
tion of our strategy, international growth and lead-
ership in sustainability the Committee led the spe-
cial project on developing both short-term-incentive 
(STI) and long-term incentive (LTI) at Neste. In addi-
tion, the Personnel and Remuneration Committee 
has followed up the personnel engagement level 
based on the Company’s Forward survey and Pulse 
survey results. 

President and CEO 
Neste’s President and CEO since 1 May 2022, Matti 
Lehmus (b. 1974, eMBA, M.Sc., Chemical Technology  
and Polymer Technology), manages the Company’s 
business operations in accordance with the Finnish 
Companies Act and instructions issued by the Board 
of Directors. The President and CEO shall oversee the 
executive management of the company in accordance 
with instructions and orders given by the Board of Direc-
tors, and is responsible for ensuring that the Compa-
ny’s accounts are in compliance with the law and that its 
financial affairs have been arranged in a reliable manner. 

Neste’s former President and CEO (2018–2022) Peter 
Vanacker (b. 1966, M.Sc., Chemical Engineering, Poly-
mers Engineering) resigned from the company as of 30 
April 2022 to continue his career outside Neste.

The President and CEO is appointed by the Board of 
Directors, which evaluates the performance of the Pres-
ident and CEO annually and approves his remuneration 
on the basis of a proposal by the Personnel and Remu-
neration Committee. Information on the remuneration of 
the President and CEO can be found in the 2022 Remu-
neration report. 

Executive Committee 
The Executive Committee assists the President and CEO 
in managing the company and in the deployment of the 
Company’s strategic and operational goals. Members 
are appointed by the Board of Directors. The Executive 
Committee meets regularly, on average once a month. 
Information on the remuneration of the members of the 
Executive Committee can be found at neste.com.  

2022 
Matti Lehmus was appointed President and CEO 
of the Company as of 1 May 2022. The Executive 
Committee had 11 meetings during the year, and 
also met regularly outside such meetings in relation 
to specific themes. In addition to supporting the 
President and CEO in the fulfillment of his general 
duties, the Executive Committee continued during 
2022 to work with the development and execution 
of the Company’s strategy aiming at global lead-
ership in renewable and circular solutions. In such 
context, the strategic focus areas included, among 
others, the continued scale-up of the Company’s 
renewables businesses as well as the expansion 
of the Company’s renewables feedstock platform 
and production capabilities, including the Martinez 
Renewables joint operation in the US, the Rotter-
dam expansion project and the Singapore expan-
sion project. The Company’s M&A and investment 
activities as well as development of the Company’s 
innovation business platforms were also closely fol-
lowed by the Executive Committee. In addition, a 
number of other matters were given special atten-
tion during the year, including geopolitical and other 
risks, the ongoing Porvoo transformation study as 
well as IT and cybersecurity matters. The Compa-
ny’s safety, financial and operational performance as 
well as sustainability and compliance matters were 
regularly monitored by the Executive Committee.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Corporate Governance Statement

https://www.neste.com/


128

Members of the Executive Committee

Matti Lehmus (born 1974)
President and CEO,
Chair of the Executive Committee
eMBA, M.Sc. (Chemical Technology 
and Polymer Technology)
President and CEO since 2022
 

Joined the company in 1998. Previously 
responsible for the Renewables Platform 2019–
2022 and for the Oil Products business area 
2014–2019. Has also served as Executive Vice 
President of the Oil Products and Renewables 
business area 2011–2014, Executive Vice 
President of the Oil Products business area 2009–
2010, Vice President of the Base Oils business in 
the Specialty Products Division 2007–2009, Vice 
President of Oil Refining Business Development in 
2007 and Gasoline Exports and Trading Manager 
2004–2007 in the Oil Refining Division. Member of 
the National Emergency Supply Council 2018–.

Holdings in Neste Corporation on 31 Dec 2022: 
21,471 shares.1)

 
 

Martti Ala-Härkönen (born 1965)
Executive Vice President 2), Chief Financial Officer, 
Strategy and IT
Dr.Sc. (Econ.), Lic.Sc. (Tech.)
Member of the Executive Committee since 2022

Joined the company in 2022. Served previously 
as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial 
Officer (Finance, M&A and IT) at Caverion 
Corporation 2016–2022, Chief Financial Officer 
(Finance & Development) at Cramo Plc 2006–
2016, Senior Vice President, Finance and 
Administration (CFO) at WM-data Ltd 2004–2006, 
Chief Financial Officer (Finance & Development) 
and Senior Vice President Business Development 
at Novo Group Plc 1998–2004 and as Finance 
Manager and Corporate Finance Manager at 
Postipankki Plc 1995–1998. Member of the 
Supervisory Board of Mutual Pension Insurance 
Company Ilmarinen 2022–. Member of the Board 
of Directors of Digia Plc 2016–. Member of the 
Board of Martinez Renewables 2022–.

Holdings in Neste Corporation on 31 Dec 2022: 
2,000  shares.1)

Mercedes Alonso (born 1966)
Executive Vice President, 
Renewable Polymers and Chemicals
M.Sc. (Chem)
Member of the Executive Committee since 2019
 

Joined the company in 2019. Responsible 
for the Renewable Polymers and Chemicals 
business unit. Previously served as Marketing 
Director Advanced Polymer Solutions Europe in 
LyondellBasell in 2019, Managing Director Eng. 
Composites Europe 2016–2019, and Global 
Director Corporate Marketing in A. Schulman 
Inc. 2013–2016, as well as Global Business 
Excellence Leader, Advanced Materials in Dow 
Chemical Inc. Europe GmbH 2010–2013. Member 
of the Executive Board and Executive Committee 
2020– and Chair of the Sustainability Advisory 
Forum 2022– at CEFIC. Member of the Board of 
Directors and member of the Human Resources 
Committee of Huhtamäki Oyj 2022–.

Holdings in Neste Corporation on 31 Dec 2022: 
4,187 shares.1)

Panu Kopra (born 1972)
Executive Vice President, 
Marketing & Services
BBA, MBA
Member of the Executive Committee since 2016

Joined the company in 1996. Responsible for the 
Marketing & Services business unit. Previously 
served as Vice President in Oil Retail Sales in 
Finland and Baltic Rim 2014–2015, Vice President 
in Oil Retail Russia and Baltic Rim 2010–2014, 
General Manager in St. Petersburg Russia 
in 2009, Business Development Manager in 
Renewable Products 2007–2008, Sales Director 
in 2006, General Manager in Latvia 2003–2005 
and in several other positions in the company.

Holdings in Neste Corporation on 31 Dec 2022: 
13,555 shares.1)

Markku Korvenranta (born 1966)
Executive Vice President, 
Oil Products
M.Sc. (Eng)
Member of the Executive Committee 
since December 2021

Joined the company in December 2021. 
Responsible for the Oil Products business 
unit. Served previously as SVP, Group Portfolio 
Development at Marquard & Bahls, in Germany, 
2019–2021. EVP, Base Chemicals & Member of 
Executive Board at Borealis in Austria, 2010–
2018. Before that had several directorial and 
managerial roles at Borealis in Austria, Finland, 
Denmark and Belgium 1994–2010. Has also 
served in various roles at Neste Chemicals in 
Finland, 1990–1994. Member of the Board of 
Directors of Oiltanking in Germany, 2021–.

Holdings in Neste Corporation on 31 Dec 2022: 
0 shares.1)

1) Holdings in Neste Corporation: own holdings and controlled entities.
2) The titles of the functions’ leaders have been changed to Executive Vice President as of 1 January 2023.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Corporate Governance Statement



129

Thorsten Lange (born 1963)
Executive Vice President, Renewable Aviation
M.Sc. (Banking and Auditing)
Member of the Executive Committee since 2020
 

Joined the company in 2020. Responsible for 
the Renewable Aviation business unit. Previously 
served as Head of Fuel Procurement (global) at 
Lufthansa Group 2001–2019. Has also served 
as Product Manager, Automotive Lubricants 
at FUCHS DEA Schmierstoffe GmbH&Co KG 
1999–2001, Director Industry Lubricants at DEA 
Mineraloel AG 1998–1999 as well as Marketing 
Manager and Pricing Groundfuels at DEA 
Mineraloel AG 1992–1997. Member of the IATA 
Fuel Steering Group.

Holdings in Neste Corporation on 31 Dec 2022: 
2,585 shares.1)

Carl Nyberg (born 1979)
Executive Vice President, Renewables Platform
M.Sc. (Economics and Business Administration)
Member of the Executive Committee since 2019

Joined the company in 2005. Responsible for the 
Renewables Platform unit. Previously responsible 
for the Renewable Road Transportation business 
unit 2019–2022. Served in various positions 
at Neste, most recently as Vice President of 
Sales Scandinavia of the Renewable Products 
business area 2016–2019, Vice President, 
Supply, Oil Products at Neste Geneva 2014–2016 
and Trading Manager, Crude Oil 2013–2014. 
Managing Director of Neste AB 2017–2019. 
Member of the Board of eFuel Alliance e.V. 2021–
. Member of the Board of Martinez Renewables 
2022–.

Holdings in Neste Corporation on 31 Dec 2022: 
8,597 shares.1)

 

Katja Wodjereck (born 1976)
Executive Vice President, Renewable Road 
Transportation, as of 1 April 2023
eMBA, M.Sc. (Business Administration, 
European Business Management)
Member of the Executive Committee 
as of 1 April 2023

Will join the company 1 April 2023 as Executive 
Vice President, Renewable Road Transportation. 
Served previously as the President D/A/CH, Italy 
& Commercial Director, Industrial Solutions EMEAI 
2022–, Commercial Director EMEAI, Industrial 
Solutions 2018–2021, and Commercial Director 
EMEAI, Energy and Microbial Technologies, 
Dow Europe GmbH, Switzerland 2017–2018, 
Sales Director Northern Europe, Packaging 
& Specialty, Belgium 2015–2017, Product 
Manager - Packaging & Specialties Plastics 
EMEA, Switzerland 2012–2015, Asset Manager 
Polyethylene (LDPE, LLDPE) for Latin America, 
Brazil 2011–2012, and several managerial 
positions in Dow Chemical 2002–2010. Member 
of the Board of American Chamber of Germany 
(Amcham), Member of the Board of EPCA The 
European Petrochemical Association.

 

Minna Aila (born 1966)
Executive Vice President 2), 
Sustainability and Corporate Affairs
LL.M.
Member of the Executive Committee since 2020

Joined the company in 2020. Responsible for 
Sustainability and Corporate Affairs. Served 
previously as the EVP Marketing & Corporate 
Affairs at Konecranes 2018–2020, VP, Corporate 
Affairs at Nokia 2015–2018, SVP, Marketing, 
Communications & Corporate Responsibility 
at Outotec 2012–2015 as well as Head of 
Communications, Federation of Finnish Financial 
Services 2010–2012. Various roles in global 
communications, investor relations, corporate 
responsibility and government relations at 
Elcoteq 2004–2009. Various roles at European 
Commission 1992–2004. Chair of the EU and 
Trade Policy Committee at the Confederation of 
Finnish Industries EK. Vice Chair of the Business 
at OECD Trade Committee. Member of the Board 
at National Defense Course Association and 
Savonlinna Opera Festival. Member of the Board 
of Directors and member of the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committees at DFDS A/S 2022–.

Holdings in Neste Corporation on 31 Dec 2022: 
4,502 shares.1)

 

Hannele Jakosuo-Jansson (born 1966)
Executive Vice President, Human Resources 
and HSSEQ 3)

M.Sc. (Eng.)
Member of the Executive Committee since 2006
 

Joined the company in 1990. Responsible for Human 
Resources and HSSEQ. Previously responsible for the 
Group’s Procurement, Human Resources and Safety 
corporate functions. Served as Vice President, Human 
Resources at Oil Refining 2004–2005 and Laboratory 
and Research Manager at the Technology Center 
1998–2004. Chair of the Skills and Competence 
Committee of the Chemical Industry Federation 
of Finland. Vice Chair of the Skilled workforce 
Committee at the Confederation of Finnish Industries 
EK. Member of the Board of Directors of Finnair, Chair 
of the People and Remuneration Committee of the 
Finnair Board Plc 2021–. 

Holdings in Neste Corporation on 31 Dec 2022: 
34,979 shares.1)

Members of the Executive Committee

1) Holdings in Neste Corporation: own holdings and controlled entities.
2) The titles of the functions’ leaders have been changed to Executive Vice President as of 1 January 2023.
3) As of 1 January 2023, Senior Vice President of Human Resources, HSSEQ and Procurement until 31 December 2022.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Corporate Governance Statement



130

Bart Leenders (born 1969)
Executive Vice President, Investment Management 
and Execution, as of 1 January 2023
M.Sc. (Mechanical Engineering)
Member of the Executive Committee 
starting 1 January 2023

Joined the company in 2010. Responsible for 
Investment Management and Execution function, 
including Engineering Solutions, and procurement 
as of 1 January 2023. Served previously as 
Vice President, Global Production, Renewable 
Platform 2015–2022, Interim Managing Director, 
Neste Singapore 2015, Managing Director, Neste 
Netherlands, Renewables Business unit 2010–
2015 and Manufacturing Manager Downstream 
Operations, Huntsman 2005–2010. Member of 
the Circular Task Force of the Economic Board 
Zuid-Holland, Member of Executing Committee 
national Climate Agreement Mobility and Executing 
Committee national Aviation Agreement, Chair of 
the Dutch Association for Sustainable Biofuels 
(NVDB), and Board member of Deltalinqs, 
Enterprise Association for Mainport Rotterdam, 
representing Renewables and Chair of the safety 
domain.

Lars Peter Lindfors (born 1964)
Executive Vice President 2), Innovation
Ph.D. (Tech.), MBA
Member of the Executive Committee since 2009

Re-joined the company in 2007. Responsible 
for Innovation, including research, development 
and technology as well as new business 
platforms. Previously responsible also for 
Investment Management, Information Technology, 
Procurement, Business Processes and Strategy. 
Served previously as Senior Vice President, 
Technology 2013–2019, Senior Vice President 
Technology and Strategy 2009–2012, and Vice 
President for the company’s Research and 
Technology unit 2007–2009. Previously served 
as Executive Vice President, Renewal and 
Development and Member of the Executive Team 
at Perstorp Group 2001–2007. Prior to that has 
served as R&D Manager and in various other 
positions at Neste 1989–2001. Chair of the Board 
of the Fortum and Neste Foundation.

Holdings in Neste Corporation on 31 Dec 2022: 
19,406 shares.1)

Christian Ståhlberg (born 1974)
General Counsel
LL.M.
Member of the Executive Committee since 2017

Joined the company in 2017. Responsible for the 
Group’s legal affairs and compliance. Secretary 
to the Executive Committee, the Board of 
Directors, the Audit Committee, the Shareholders’ 
Nomination Board and to the Stakeholder 
Advisory Panel. Served previously as General 
Counsel of Rettig Group Ltd 2015–2017, Director, 
Legal in Pohjola Bank plc 2011–2014, Senior 
Legal Counsel in Neste Oil Corporation 2007–
2011 and Senior Associate in Roschier Attorneys 
Ltd 1998–2007.

Holdings in Neste Corporation on 31 Dec 2022:
4,401 shares.1)

Members of the Executive Committee

1) Holdings in Neste Corporation: own holdings and controlled entities.
2) The titles of the functions’ leaders have been changed to Executive Vice President as of 1 January 2023.

Peter Vanacker
(born 1966)
M.Sc. (Chemical Engineering, Polymers 
Engineering)
President and CEO, Chair of the Executive 
Committee from 2018 until 30 April 2022.
- resigned from the company as of 30 April 2022 
to continue his career outside Neste.

Jyrki Mäki-Kala
(born 1961) 
M.Sc. (Econ.) 
Chief Financial Officer, Strategy and IT
Member of the Executive Committee from 2013 
until May 2022
- retired in May 2022

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Corporate Governance Statement



131

Company Auditor 
The AGM elects the Auditor annually. The Auditor’s 
term of office ends at the end of the next AGM following 
election. 

The Auditor is responsible for auditing the Company’s 
accounts, its financial statements, and Neste’s admin-
istration. The Auditor’s Report covers the Consolidated 
Financial Statements and the Parent Company’s Finan-
cial Statements, and can be found in the Financial State-
ments section of the Annual Report.

2022
The 2022 AGM elected KPMG Oy Ab as the Com-
pany’s auditor, and Authorized Public Accountant 
Leenakaisa Winberg acted as the auditor with prin-
cipal responsibility. 

The statutory audit fees in 2022 were EUR 1.6 
million, and other fees charged amounted to EUR 
0.9 million.

Internal Audit 
Neste’s Internal Audit provides independent and objec-
tive assurance and advisory services designed to add 
value and improve the operations of Neste. As a com-
ponent in the corporate governance process, it supports 
the organization by bringing a systematic approach to 
evaluating and improving the effectiveness of risk man-
agement and control and governance processes. 

Internal Audit’s activities encompass objective exam-
inations for the purpose of providing assessments to 
the Neste’s Board Audit Committee and management 
on the adequacy and effectiveness of governance, 
risk management and control processes at Neste. The 
scope of Internal Audit assessments include, among 
others, evaluating that risk management practices are 

in place, significant risks are appropriately identified and 
managed, key policies and guidelines exist and are doc-
umented and effectively implemented, organizational 
structures and governance models enable efficient deci-
sion making and steering system, roles and responsibil-
ities are clear, and results of operations and programs 
are consistent with established goals and objectives. 

Internal Audit work is carried out based on an annual 
Internal Audit Plan. Neste’s strategic objectives, key 
projects and identified risks are key elements in the audit 
planning process. The Vice President of Internal Audit 
reports periodically to the senior management and the 
Board Audit Committee Internal Audit’s activities relative 
to the annual plan, including audit recommendations 
and action plans established by organizations aiming for 
the continuous improvement and mitigation of risks. 

Internal Audit is also responsible for conducting spe-
cial assignments on behalf of management or the Board 
Audit Committee. As a member of Neste’s Investiga-
tion Group, the Vice President of Internal Audit partici-
pates in the investigation of suspected misconduct and 
breaches of Neste’s policies, principles and applicable 
laws and regulations. To assure an effective, efficient and 
value adding process, Internal Audit cooperates actively 
with other Neste’s assurance service functions (Corpo-
rate Risk Management, Internal Control and Compli-
ance) and top management and shares best practices 
from a process and governance point of view.

Internal Audit follows the mandatory elements of 
The Institute of Internal Auditors’ International Profes-
sional Practices Framework, including the Professional 
Practice of Internal Auditing. The Internal Audit reports 
directly to the Board of Directors’ Audit Committee and 
administratively to the President and CEO. The Board of 
Directors is responsible for approving the Internal Audit 
Charter and the annual Internal Audit Plan. Internal Audit 
Charter includes the determination regarding Internal 

Audit position, operational model, process and report-
ing lines. Internal Audit has at least annually a non-exec-
utive meeting with the Audit Committee members and 
the Audit Committee Chair. The Vice President of Inter-
nal Audit is responsible for the internal audit activities 
specified in the Internal Audit Charter. 

2022
Internal Audit performed internal audits set out in 
the Internal Audit Plan 2022, and reported audit  
results to the senior management and the Board 
Audit Committee. The Internal Audit function con-
tinued to strengthen cooperation with other Neste 
assurance functions such as compliance, risk man-
agement and internal controls with an aim to inte-
grate activities and reporting to the management. 

Neste’s strategic investments, top risks and key 
business processes were in focus during the year 
2022, including for example the Rotterdam Capac-
ity Growth Project, credit management process and 
cyber attack preparedness.

Compliance function 
Neste is committed to high ethical standards and con-
ducts its business and operates in compliance with 
applicable laws, regulations and generally accepted 
practices for good corporate governance. Neste’s Code 
of Conduct sets the framework for Neste’s global busi-
ness operations, and establishes the ethical practices 
to guide Neste employees in their day-to-day business 
activities and decisions. Neste also requires suppliers 
and other business partners to comply with applica-
ble laws and expects them to follow equivalent ethical 
business standards as stated in the Code of Conduct, 
as further described in our Supplier Code of Conduct. 

More info on Neste’s Code of Conduct in Neste’s Sus-
tainability Report and on Neste’s external web pages. 

The purpose of Neste’s Compliance function is 
to develop, establish, facilitate and oversee compli-
ance procedures and programs aimed at ensuring that 
Neste’s global organizations have effective systems and 
processes in place for identifying, preventing, detect-
ing and correcting non-compliance with applicable 
laws, regulations and Neste’s internal rules. The func-
tion supports Neste’s management in their responsibil-
ity for overall compliance risk management, as well as 
Neste’s organizational unit management in their respon-
sibilities to identify and manage compliance risks related 
to their operations. The compliance function works in 
close collaboration with Neste’s business units, func-
tions and other internal assurance organizations, in par-
ticular the Risk Management, Internal Control and Inter-
nal Audit functions. The compliance function is headed 
by the Chief Compliance Officer (CCO), who reports to 
Neste’s General Counsel. The CCO reports on compli-
ance activities on a regular basis to the ExCo and to the 
Board of Directors’ Audit Committee. Neste also has an 
Ethics and Compliance Committee, which oversees and 
steers the management of the ethics and compliance 
program in Neste. Reports on suspected misconducts 
received via the company’s externally operated and via 
other reporting channels are investigated in accordance 
with applicable laws and Neste’s internal Misconduct 
Investigation Standard.

In addition to other reporting channels, Neste also has 
an externally operated misconduct reporting system, 
Ethics Online, available to all Neste’s internal and exter-
nal stakeholders, including various actors in its supply 
chains. Ethics Online serves as a grievance mechanism 
and enables Neste’s stakeholders to raise concerns 
related to alleged misconduct in Neste’s practices. 
Neste’s Investigation Group is responsible for evaluating 

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Corporate Governance Statement

https://www.neste.com/sustainability/society#f1558afc


132

and investigating such reported cases. Neste has a 
non-retaliation policy for concerns reported in good faith. 
Neste’s main principles and policy followed in internal 
misconduct investigations is described in the company’s 
internal Misconduct Investigation Standard. The possi-
ble irregularities or misconducts are reported regularly to 
the Board of Directors’ Audit Committee.  

Insider administration procedures 
Neste complies with the EU Market Abuse Regulation 
(596/2014), including related regulation, as well as Nas-
daq Helsinki Ltd’s Insider Guideline as a minimum stan-
dard on insider matters. In addition, the Board of Direc-
tors has approved the Company’s own Guidelines for 
Insiders. 

The Company’s General Counsel is responsible for the 
coordination and supervision of insider matters, along 
with the insider register manager, the insider communi-
cation manager and individuals responsible as heads of 
project-specific registers. All the above individuals have 
their own deputies. In addition, the head of each organi-
zational unit is responsible for supervising insider matters 
within his or her organization. The Company arranges 
training related to the insider guidelines. 

The creation and maintenance of a project-specific 
insider register is the responsibility of the head of such 
register, who is named in the relevant project-specific 
insider register. 

The Company has defined, as persons discharging 
managerial responsibilities, the members of the Board 
of Directors and its secretary, the President and CEO, as 
well as the members of the ExCo and its secretary. These 
managerial persons and their closely associated persons 
must report their own transactions conducted with the 
Company’s financial instruments or financial derivatives 
to the Company and the Financial Supervisory Authority 

without delay, and no more than three business days 
of completing the business transaction. Reports to the 
Company and the Financial Supervisory Authority can 
be made by following the instructions on neste.com/
trading. 

The Company has also named certain other persons 
as core persons as they have better or more information 
about the Company than the market. These individuals 
are typically those who prepare the Company’s Interim 
Reports and Financial Statements, persons responsi-
ble for the Company’s finances, financial reporting or 
communication, or persons who have access to said 
information, as well as certain individuals in executive 
positions. 

Persons discharging managerial responsibilities and 
core persons may not trade with or conduct business 
with the Company’s financial instruments for themselves 
or a third party, directly or indirectly during the period 
from the closing date of an interim or annual accounting 
period to the date of publication of the interim report or 
financial statements for that period. The minimum period 
concerned is always a minimum period of 30 days prior 
to the date of publication of the interim report or the 
financial statements, including the date of publication 
(’closed window’). 

The Company also maintains a project- or event-spe-
cific list of insiders for all individuals that have access 
to insider information and that are employed by the 
Company or otherwise perform tasks that provide them 
access to insider information. Individuals who partici-
pate in the development and preparation of projects or 
events that involve insider information, such as mergers 
and acquisitions, are considered project- or event-spe-
cific insiders. Project-specific insiders may not trade or 
conduct other business using the Company’s financial 
instruments during the project.

Related party transactions
Neste has identified its related parties and it is regu-
larly engaged in transactions with some of these par-
ties. These transactions relate to the Company’s normal 
business operations and shall be in line with the pur-
pose of the company and executed on market or mar-
ket equivalent terms and practices generally observed 
and accepted within the industry in question.

The related party transactions are monitored in coop-
eration with Finance and Legal functions as a part of the 
Company’s normal reporting and control procedures. 
The Board of Directors is responsible for overseeing 
the processes established for monitoring related party 
transactions. Information on material transactions con-
cluded between the Company and its related parties is 
disclosed annually in the notes on the Company’s con-
solidated financial statements. When required under the 
applicable laws and regulations, material transactions 
conducted with related parties are also published via 
stock exchange release.

Controls over Financial Reporting 

Objectives 
The objective of internal controls at Neste is to provide a 
reasonable assurance with regard to the financial report-
ing and the preparation of financial statements in accor-
dance with the applicable laws and regulations and the 
internal requirements. Additionally, internal controls sup-
port the business in the achievement of its operational 
and strategic objectives by acting as performance accel-
erators in business processes.

The system of internal controls at Neste is based on 
the framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring 
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). 

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Corporate Governance Statement

https://www.neste.com/investors/corporate-governance/insiders/notifications-managers-transactions#f1558afc
https://www.neste.com/investors/corporate-governance/insiders/notifications-managers-transactions#f1558afc


133

Management sets its level of risk appetite by defining 
the Group-level control objectives. Control objectives 
state the Group’s minimum control requirements for the 
control activities in financial and business processes in 
order to mitigate the underlying key risks and estab-
lish the desired level of assurance for correct financial 
reporting, adherence with the regulations and policies, 
and prevention of fraud. Group level control objectives 
are endorsed by the Executive Committee and Audit 
Committee and reflect the top management guidelines, 
auditor reports, policies and regulations Neste complies 
with. Neste internal control requirements are defined 
in Neste Internal Control Principle, Neste Access Risk 
Management Principle and standards on Controls over 
Financial Reporting (COFR), Segregation of Duties, etc. 

Control environment 
Under the Finnish Companies Act, the Board of Direc-
tors is responsible for ensuring that there is adequate 
control over the Company’s accounts and finances. 
Responsibility for arranging this control is delegated to 
the President and CEO, who is required to ensure that 
the Company’s accounts are in compliance with the law 
and that its financial management has been arranged in 
a reliable manner. 

The internal control at Neste is based on the corpo-
rate structure whereby the operations are organized into 
organizational units. The heads of business units and 
finance function are responsible for establishing and 
maintaining appropriate, up-to-date, effective and ade-
quate controls over financial reporting. Operational man-
agement owns the risks and controls and is responsible 
that controls and deficiency related corrective actions 
are implemented. 

In order to provide additional assurance, Neste 
has established an Internal Control function, which is 
responsible for coordinating the Group-wide internal 
control development and monitoring. The Head of Inter-
nal Control reports on its activities on a regular basis to 
the Executive Committee and to the Board of Directors’ 
Audit Committee which monitors the effectiveness of 
the Company’s Internal Control. Internal Control follows 
up and verifies that actions are taken by the respective 
operational management. 

Internal Control Principle emphasizes the importance 
of internal controls and clarifies the responsibilities of the 
Three Lines for establishing effective controls in business 
processes. Neste’s values and management system 
containing the formal Code of Conduct are the founda-
tion of the control environment. The President and CEO 
and corporate management are responsible for empha-
sizing the importance of ethical principles and correct 
financial reporting. 

Risk assessment 
As a prerequisite for risk assessment, the organization’s 
objectives need to be established. With respect to finan-
cial reporting, the general objective is to have reliable 
reporting and ensure that transactions are recorded and 
reported completely and correctly. The assessment of 
risk includes risks related to fraud. 

Additional information on risk management princi-
ples is available in the Risk Management section of the 
Annual Report. 

Control activities 
Neste control activities include instructions, guidelines 
and procedures to ensure that the actions identified by 
management to address the relevant risks are carried 
out effectively. The most important guidelines related 
to financial reporting systems and practices are docu-
mented in Neste Internal Control Principle, Access Risk 
Management Principles, the Controls over Financial 
Reporting standard (COFR), Process charts, month end 
workflows and detailed Finance Instructions. 

Key control activities are documented in a global con-
trol catalog covering each business or financial process. 
Group-level policies and guidelines are documented in 
the Neste Management System. 

Communication 
Neste corporate-level communication practices support 
the completeness and correctness of financial reporting. 
Neste personnel have access to adequate information 
and communication regarding accounting and report-
ing principles and guidelines. The main means of com-
municating the relevant matters for appropriate finan-
cial reporting consist of internal control training, detailed 
Finance Instructions containing accounting principles 
and guidelines for forecasting and reporting, info ses-
sions, on-the-job training, process walk-throughs, and 
postings on internal channels and pages. 

Neste business units prepare regular financial and man-
agement reports for the management review, including 
analysis and comments of financial performance. The 
Executive Committee and the Board of Directors receive 
financial reports monthly. Interim Reports and Financial 
Statements are reviewed in Audit Committee meetings, 
and thereafter by the Board of Directors. 

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Corporate Governance Statement



134

Training and communication 
Clarify Control Requirements and tools. Support operational management and 
process owners in deploying controls in the organization. Perform an active role in 
communication with both personnel and stakeholders on important updates.

Remediation 
Internal Control follows up and supports 
the implementation of management 
actions identified by its own  
testing or auditor findings and  
that relate to strengthening  
the control environment.

Scope 
Defined based on Regulatory 
environment, Strategic Objectives, 
Assessment of Risks, Audit Committee 
priorities, change programs and 
Remediation actions.

Monitoring, 
testing and 
reporting 
Internal Control 
employs tools, such 
as RPA, Celonis and 
SAP GRC, and it conducts 
separate tests to assess the 
performance of the internal 
controls and detect gaps 
and areas for improvement. 
Findings are reported to 
relevant stakeholders.

Control development 
In partnership with business 
and process owners, define 
and enhance the controls. 
Increase control automation 
and monitoring capabilities. 
Keep up-to-date control 
catalogs. Create and update 
requirements and guidelines.

Internal 
Control activity

 
 

Focus on controls over financial 
reporting and prevention of fraud 

and financial losses

Building effective Internal Control is an ongoing process 
driven by strategy and control objectives

Monitoring 
Management regularly monitors the effectiveness of 
the controls, as a control that was initially effective can 
become ineffective due to changes in the operating envi-
ronment. Changes can also take place in the controls 
due to changed processes, IT systems or personnel. 

The Board of Directors and the Audit Committee regu-
larly review the financial performance including reviewing 
whether there is an adequate level of process to eval-
uate the risks and effectiveness of controls related to 
the financial reporting process at all levels of the orga-
nization. The Audit Committee oversees the Company’s 
finances, financial reporting, risk management, as well as 
the Internal Control and Internal Audit functions, as part 
of the Company’s corporate governance. Internal con-
trol deficiencies are communicated in a timely manner 
to those parties responsible for taking corrective action, 
and to management and the Board’s Audit Committee 
as appropriate.  

Corporate Internal Audit assesses annually the opera-
tional model and practices of internal control over Neste’s 
financial reporting as part of business and process-level 
audits. 

The Internal Control function also conducts separate 
tests to assess the adequacy of internal controls in busi-
ness processes, recommends corrections and reports 
the gaps to the respective management teams.

2022
In 2022, the internal control activity focus has been 
on three key areas: 

First, establishing a renewal business remedia-
tion program under direct supervision of the renew-
able business EVPs and with the aim at addressing 
control improvements that not only mitigate risks, 
but also bring advancement in business processes. 
Concrete improvements have been made in pricing 
accuracy of contracts with customers.  

The second focus area has been on bringing all 
core business process controls to the internal con-
trol platform, consisting of SAP GRC Process Con-
trol (PC) and GRC Access Control (AC) modules. 
A significant number of automated controls have 
been built and are functioning. Continuous Control 
Monitoring is used also for mitigating residual SoD 
risks, when needed.

The third focus area has been on revising and 
identifying control improvements in the ESG areas, 
mainly relating to Bio Compliance. Plan is to cover 
the majority of operations by the end of 2023.

The Executive Committee is monitoring closely 
the status of internal controls company-wide. 

Deep dives and cooperation with the exter-
nal auditor, KPMG, have been performed and 
analysis results are being followed up by the  
Audit Committee. 

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Corporate Governance Statement



135

Performance Management Process 
Neste’s Performance Management Process plays an 
essential role in helping the Group attain its strategic 
goals and reinforcing its performance-driven mindset. 
Neste has taken a step change in developing its perfor-
mance leadership towards a more agile model support-
ing daily operations. 

Performance management comprises daily leader-
ship, through which individuals, teams, units and the 
Company can achieve selected strategic priorities and 
develop organizational capability. Performance lead-
ership is used to ensure that everyone knows the val-
ues and objectives of the Company, and their short and 
long-term objectives, and what kind of competence is 
needed and developed to achieve these objectives.

Individual and team objectives are based on Neste’s 
strategy and way of working. There is a clear link between 
wellbeing at work and good leadership performance. 

The key elements in the Neste daily performance lead-
ership approach are: 
• setting challenging objectives and following them 

through; 
• supporting the achievement of objectives with up-to-

date feedback; 
• evaluating one’s own performance and results; 
• developing ways of working and taking responsibility 

for one’s own competence development; and 
• holding regular personal development discussions 

and check-in discussions that support day-to-day 
work. 

From a financial outlook and reporting point of view, 
the Neste Performance Management Process consists 
of long-term financial projections based on the strat-
egy and Performance Planning covering the midterm (3 
years) outlook. During the year, performance is evaluated 
in weekly Management Reporting, the monthly Business 
Review, and the bi-annual Common Functions Review. 

Financials and KPIs related information is evaluated 
against the strategic goals and business plans, and 
required actions are steered and followed throughout 
the year.

Leading performance in daily work

Target setting discussion             One-on-one discussions

Thanking and encouraging Regular f

eed
ba

ck

Forward discussionCaring and intervening

   
  C

offe
e with team members – current topics

C
o
nt

in
uo

us

Mission

Vision

Strategy

Value 
creation 
programs

Continuous development, rewarding

d
e
ve

lo
pm

en
t a

ct
ions

Im
p

le
m

entation

Business plannin
g

d
ia

lo
g

u
e,

 f
ee

dback and

Value creation
Results Wellbeing 

at work
Renewal

Performance Management Process

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Corporate Governance Statement



136

Risk management 
objectives and scope
Neste recognizes risk management as an integral part of 
sound management practice and an essential element 
of good corporate governance. Risk as an element of 
uncertainty (opportunity or threat) is an inevitable com-
ponent of running the business. Systematic risk man-
agement practices are the means to ensure that Neste 
is successful in achieving the set strategic goals and 
business objectives and is able to maintain continuous 
operations in a changing business environment. 

Neste’s risk management practices can be character-
ized by the following statements:
• The company emphasizes risk aware culture and 

proactive management of risks; 
• Risk management is a continuous process that is 

subject to improvement to reflect changes in the 
external and internal environment;

• The purpose of risk management is to analyze 
and manage all opportunities and threats that the 
company may encounter. By exploiting opportunities 
and reducing threats, Neste gains a competitive 
advantage; 

• Risks are managed as an integrated part of planning, 
decision making, and operational processes with a 
defined structure of roles and responsibilities; and

• Sufficiency of risk treatment actions and controls is 
monitored systematically.

Risk management

Risk management framework  
and principles 
Framework and principles for risk management have 
been defined in the Neste Corporate risk management 
policy, which has been approved by the Board of Direc-
tors. The policy is supplemented by risk management 
principles, guidelines, and instructions for specific risk 
disciplines. 

Neste’s risk management framework and processes 
are aligned with the internationally recognized best prac-
tices for risk management (COSO: Enterprise Risk Man-
agement – Integrating with Strategy and Performance; 
and ISO 31000:2009 standard). 

In Neste’s risk model, risks are classified into exter-
nal, strategic, and preventable risks that are more oper-
ational in nature. 
• External risks are exposures that cannot be fully 

influenced or controlled by Neste. The main risk 
classes are changes in the external environment and 
risks in the extended enterprise; 

• Strategic risks relate to strategic choices, 
strategy implementation and risks in the planning 
and execution of major projects (e.g. refinery 
turnarounds). Strategic risks are not inherently 
undesirable as they typically contain both upside and 
downside risk potential; and

• The third category of risks, preventable risks, 
consists of various risk classes that arise within the 
organization and are mostly controllable. In general, 
Neste does not gain strategic benefits from taking 
these risks.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Risk management



137

President and CEO and 
Executive Committee

Risk champions

1st Line of Defense
Ownership for risk taking

and risk treatment

2nd Line of Defense
Risk management support, facilitation, 

and consultation

Ethics and Compliance 
Committee, CFO

Internal 
Control

Risk coordination team, 
CRO

Risk
management Internal Audit

3rd Line of Defense
Independent assurance

Risk governance

Business Units

Renewables Platform

Functions

Innovation

Engineering Solutions

Board of Directors

Audit Committee

Compliance

Risk governance 
The Neste Board of Directors has the ultimate account-
ability for risk oversight. Among other duties the Board is 
in this role responsible for setting the Group’s risk appe-
tite and for approving the Risk Management Policy. 

The practical implementation, development and mon-
itoring of risk management processes is based on the 
three lines of defense model. The model distinguishes 
between: 

1st Line of Defense 
The first line of defense is responsible for setting the 
objectives, managing day-to-day performance and rein-
forcing risk responses in order to achieve the set targets. 
At Neste, the first-line actors include Business Units and 
Functions in their first-line roles. As a part of the first line 
of defense, Neste’s President and CEO and the Neste 
Executive Committee have the overall accountability for 
appropriate risk management practices. 

In practice, Business Units and Functions own and 
manage risks with the help of a dedicated network of 
risk champions and coordinators. The role of the risk 
champions/coordinators is to represent different risk dis-
ciplines and to ensure that risk discussions are embed-
ded in everyday management routines. 

2nd Line of Defense 
The role of the actors in the second line of defense is 
to provide guidance, support, facilitation and consulta-
tion for risk management. The second line of defense 
needs to have some degree of independence from the 
first line of defense in order to be able to challenge the 
first line in managing performance and making risk-in-
formed decisions. 

At Neste, the second line of defense includes Func-
tions in their second-line roles and specialist teams (cor-
porate risk management, compliance and internal con-
trols). In addition, Neste has established a separate 
Ethics and Compliance Committee that aims at increas-
ing management oversight of compliance- and eth-
ics-related issues within the Group. The Committee also 
ascertains the adequacy of mitigation actions in higher 
risk compliance areas. 

The corporate risk management team has the overall 
responsibility to confirm that risk management activities 
are carried out consistently throughout Neste Group and 
all risk classes. Corporate risk management also drives 
the overall development of risk management practices 
and tools. The team is supported by the network of risk 
champions and coordinators. 

3rd Line of Defense 
Internal Audit as an independent team evaluates the 
effectiveness and efficiency of the corporate-level risk 
governance model and related risk management pro-
cesses, including the effectiveness of internal controls 
and other risk treatment actions in the scope of each 
audit. Internal Audit also provides recommendations for 
improvement areas.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Risk management



138

Risk reporting 
Risk reporting aims at the transparent, consistent, and 
comprehensive communication of risk status in different 
areas. As a result of risk reporting, the Company’s risk 
profile can be compared with the defined risk appetite 
and it can be concluded whether additional risk treat-
ment actions are needed. 

Communication regarding the most important risk 
issues takes place along the strategic planning and per-
formance management cycle. 

Formal risk reporting is directed to the Business Unit 
and Function management teams, the Neste Exec-
utive Committee, the Audit Committee and the Board 
of Directors. The Corporate risk management team is 
responsible for aggregating risk information for reporting 
to different internal and external audiences. 

Risks relating to Neste’s business 
In the pursuit of its objectives and targets, Neste is 
exposed to different risk factors that stem from the 
external environment, internal decision making, operat-
ing processes and systems in use. The most significant 
risk factors relate to the areas mentioned below. Any one 
of the risks, either singly or in the aggregate, may have 
a material adverse effect on Neste’s business, financial 
condition, operating results and future prospects. 

External risks – Economic conditions, 
Geopolitics, Pandemic 
Year 2022 was marked with slowing economic growth 
and several crises - war in Ukraine, rising inflation and 
exceptional price hikes in the energy market. Following 
the war in Ukraine, major European refiners not con-
nected to the Druzhba pipeline shifted away from using 
Russian crudes. This combined with the OPEC+ supply 
control measures has strongly supported non-Russian 
crude prices this year. Russia will likely curtail its crude 
production upon the introduction of the G7 price cap 
and the EU’s embargo on Russian oil trading. Especially 

if the price cap is set at a too low level, additional cuts 
to Russian crude oil production are expected. Mean-
while, China’s Covid policies and economic fundamen-
tals could cast uncertainties towards the other direction.

Oil refining margins in 2022 were impacted by a hike in 
operating costs. This is due to a combination of overall 
heightened oil supply risks, and the significant increase 
in refineries’ utility costs. The latter was primarily driven 
by skyrocketing natural gas prices in Europe caused by 
Russia’s substantial reduction of natural gas exports to 
Europe. 

With an embargo on Russian oil products coming 
into force in the EU in early February 2023, uncertain-
ties related to the oil product availability, subsequent 
cost development for natural gas in Europe and macro-
economic developments impacting demand make the 
exact direction for refining margins going forward diffi-
cult to predict.

The renewable fuel market in 2022 was also impacted 
by the war in Ukraine, in two major ways. Firstly, by driv-
ing up prices for vegetable oils, and in turn other waste 
and residue feedstocks, in the months after the start of 
the war. Price levels have meanwhile declined substan-
tially from their peak in early summer. Secondly, through 
driving up the cost of fossil transport fuels, which led a 
few EU member states, including Finland and Sweden, 
to freeze or even lower their biofuel blending obligations 
in 2022 and the following years. However, the impact on 
biofuel demand was overall limited, as demand contin-
ued to grow in many markets in the EU, North America 
and around the world.

External risks – Environment 
Neste’s strategic ambition is to be the global leader in 
renewable and circular solutions. Growing pressure to 
combat climate change and reduce greenhouse gas 
emissions is therefore primarily a positive driver for 
Neste’s business. However, political and societal focus 
on the low-carbon transition and the energy sector’s 

carbon footprint also create risks. Indirect economic 
and political consequences of climate change may con-
tribute to the general uncertainty in the business envi-
ronment and hence have an adverse effect on Neste’s 
business. In addition, changes in carbon emission trad-
ing schemes or similar initiatives on EU-, US- or individ-
ual Member State-level may have a significant effect on 
Neste’s business.

External risks – Laws and regulation 
Changing regulation presents both an opportunity and 
a threat to Neste’s business. Neste’s refining operations 
and products are subject to extensive regulation (incl. 
environmental, health and safety, sustainability). General 
regulatory requirements in areas like commodity trading 
and data protection have also contributed to the formal-
ization of operating procedures. 

Neste’s business units mainly benefit from increased 
support for biofuels and renewable fuels (for example 
requirements that relate to renewable content in diesel 
and gasoline). However, changes in regulation especially 
in the European Union and the United States also cre-
ate uncertainties as these may influence the speed at 
which the demand for renewable products develops, 
and new raw materials sources are brought into use. For 
the renewable products, a significant source of uncer-
tainty is fragmented regulation around the acceptability 
and use of waste and residue feedstock. 

Risks relating to strategic choices  
and strategy implementation 
The majority of strategic risks relate to the viability of 
strategic choices and risks in strategy implementation. 
Opportunities and threats may arise from changes in the 
competitive landscape or from internal decision making 
and use of technology. 

Neste’s competitive position in the selected key mar-
kets is good. Neste’s proprietary NEXBTL produc-
tion technology is a proven technology for producing 

high-quality diesel from renewable raw materials. How-
ever, there is no assurance that this competitive posi-
tion will continue as new players enter the market, cur-
rent competitors develop their technologies or customer 
preferences for clean mobility change. In addition to 
the development of alternative feedstocks and produc-
tion technologies for liquid fuels, the evolution of engine 
technologies and introduction of alternative powertrains 
can be faster than expected. 

Staying ahead of competition requires continuous 
improvement, the ability to challenge current business 
models and a strong focus on innovations such as new 
production technology and feedstock platforms. In addi-
tion, Neste’s products and services must continuously 
meet customer requirements relating e.g. to product 
quality and sustainability. Evolving customer require-
ments together with more complex sourcing and logis-
tics networks and production methods increase the 
exposure to quality risks that need to be managed well 
in order to maintain the high-quality brand image. As 
risk mitigation, Neste has implemented systematic qual-
ity management measures both in its own operations 
and in partner networks.

Strong governance practices and the continued con-
tributions of Neste’s senior management, personnel and 
partners are vital for the company’s success. Due to 
fierce competition for talent, there is a risk that Neste 
may not be able to recruit and retain the highly skilled 
employees that are needed for strategy deployment and 
successful operations in the future. There is also a risk 
that Neste will not be able to build and manage strategic 
partnerships that contribute to future success.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Risk management



139

Project risks 
Successful projects play a key role in Neste’s strategy 
deployment, operational development and the digitiza-
tion of processes. Significant delays in project planning 
or execution may reduce operational efficiency or impair 
Neste’s ability to secure its competitive position. 

Business continuity risks 
During the last few years, widespread implications from 
Covid-19 pandemic have pushed many industries and 
companies towards more systematic continuity man-
agement practices. While the pandemic still continues to 
restrict economic activity in some areas, more significant 
pressures for contingency planning during 2022 have 
come from geopolitical tensions, energy market volatility 
and high inflation rates. While governments have shifted 
attention towards mitigation of higher cost of living, the 
market has seen temporary reductions in climate ambi-
tion and targets as well as slowed down implementa-
tion of climate policies that would also support demand 
for Neste’s solutions. Neste has continued implemen-
tation of strategic and operational business continuity 
measures. On the company level also scenario work has 
played an important role.

On the operational level Neste’s business performance 
is very much dependent on the continuous reliability 
of refining activities in Finland (Porvoo), Singapore and 
the Netherlands (Rotterdam). In addition to the planned 
maintenance turnarounds, for example disruptions in 
the supply of utilities or breakdown of critical machinery 
could cause unexpected shutdowns that would affect 
Neste’s ability to fulfill demand for end products. 

The vessels chartered to Neste or owned by Neste are 
subject to inherent risks like maritime disaster, damage 
to the environment and loss of or damage to cargo and 
property. Such events can be caused by multiple fac-
tors, such as adverse weather conditions or mechanical 
failures. 

Neste has insurance in place to reduce the financial 
impact of property damage, business interruption, and 
maritime disasters. However, insurance does not cover 
all potential losses and Neste could therefore be seri-
ously harmed by operational catastrophes or deliberate 
sabotage. 

Market risks
In 2022, the oil and energy market as a whole expe-
rienced unforeseen hikes in energy and utility prices. 
Despite market stabilization there is a continuing risk of 
market volatility and increasing prices. This could have 
direct impacts on Neste’s operating and project costs. In 
addition, high inflation could also have an indirect impact 
on the demand for Neste’s products as governments 
try to balance the cost of climate actions with the need 
to manage the generally increased cost of living. On the 
feedstock side, it is expected that the high demand and 
high pricing for different waste and residue feedstock 
streams continues as competitors are increasing their 
production capacity for renewable products. 

The financial results of Neste are primarily affected by 
the price differential, or margin, between refined petro-
leum and renewable product prices; and the prices for 
crude oil, different vegetable oils and other feedstock 
used. Historically, refining margins have been volatile 
and they are likely to continue to be so in the future. The 
main factors that may affect the refining margins include:

• Changes in aggregate demand for and  
supply of raw materials and products; 

• Changes in demand for and supply of  
specific raw materials and products; 

• Raw materials and product price fluctuations; and 
• Evolution of worldwide refining capacity, and in 

particular development of refining capacity that 
relates to petroleum and renewable products similar 
to Neste. 

As a part of risk management, Neste uses derivative 
instruments to protect its position against fluctuations in 
commodity prices.

Neste is exposed to foreign exchange risks because 
most of the sales are denominated in US dollars, whereas 
operating expenses (except the purchase of raw materi-
als) are recorded in euros. Neste limits the uncertainties 
relating to changes in foreign exchange rates by hedg-
ing its currency risks in contracted and forecasted cash 
flows and balance sheet exposures. 

More information on market risks can be found in 
the Financial Statements Note 3 section of the Annual 
Report. 

Counterparty and credit risk 
Counterparty risk arises from all business relationships, 
where Neste is exposed to the counterparty’s failure to 
perform according to Neste’s requirements and contrac-
tual commitments. The extent of counterparty risk has 
increased along the continued diversification of Neste’s 
supply base and customer segments. In order to man-
age the risk, Neste has implemented systematic con-
trols for counterparty screening and monitoring. 

Especially on the sales side, Neste is also exposed 
to credit risk i.e. the potential failure of a counterparty 
to meet its contractual payment obligations. Risk mag-
nitude is dependent on the size of the exposure con-
cerned and counterparty’s creditworthiness, which is 
assessed systematically both during onboarding and 
during the relationship.

Sustainability risks 
The most significant sustainability risks that relate to 
Neste’s own operations or to the extended enterprise 
have been reported in line with the requirements of the 
Non-Financial Reporting Directive as a part of the review 
by the Board of Directors. 

ICT and cyber risks 
Digitalization and emerging technologies (for example 
the use of artificial intelligence and robotics) offer oppor-
tunities to automate dangerous or error-prone tasks 
and increase the efficiency of operations. At the same 
time, the increasing sophistication of cyber threats and 
generally rising frequency of attacks targeted at oil and 
gas companies is also a concern for Neste. Cyber risks 
multiply the impact of other risks and as individual risks 
could also have a major negative impact on Neste’s rep-
utation or continuity of business operations. 

The reliability of the key IT systems and partnerships is 
essential for continuous business operations. Prolonged 
disruption in the availability of the key systems, data or 
interfaces could limit Neste’s ability to conduct its busi-
ness operations in a profitable, efficient and controlled 
manner. 

Risk management focus in 2022 
In 2022, special risk management initiatives focused on 
risk support for major investments, M&A transactions 
and business model changes. Also implementation of 
business continuity plans continued.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Risk management



140

Neste Remuneration Report 2022
Dear Shareholder, 

On behalf of Neste’s Personnel and Remuneration Com-
mittee (the ‘Committee’) I am pleased to present our 
2022 Remuneration Report outlining the remuneration 
of the members of the Board of Directors and the Pres-
ident and CEO (the CEO) for the financial year of 2022 
and describing how the Remuneration Policy approved 
by the 2020 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders 
(AGM) has been implemented in practice. This Remu-
neration Report has been prepared in accordance with 
the Finnish Corporate Governance Code 2020, and the 
requirements set forth in the Finnish Limited Liability 
Companies Act, the Finnish Securities Markets Act and 
the Decree of the Ministry of Finance. The report will be 
presented at the 2023 AGM of Neste for an advisory 
shareholder vote. 

Our approach to remuneration 
and link to sustainability 
Our purpose as a Personnel and Remuneration Com-
mittee is to ensure that remuneration programs at 
Neste reflect our longstanding remuneration principles 
of supporting the business strategy, paying for perfor-
mance, encouraging value-based behavior and individ-
ual accountability and paying competitively and fairly. 

Based on our remuneration principles we have 
designed our remuneration policies, practices and pro-
cesses to ensure that we are able to compete and retain 
the best workforce, talents and senior management in 
the diverse markets in which we operate. We believe 
that our performance-based remuneration programs 
together with selecting the right individuals for key posi-
tions, versatile career progression, proactive succession 
planning and appropriate market competitive rewarding 
are key to our success also in the future. 

Neste’s safety culture has been developed systemat-
ically for several years and the measures related to the 
improvement in both process and personnel safety con-
stitute 20% of the short-term incentives’ measures. Sim-
ilarly, Neste’s commitment to our strategic sustainability 
targets is also reflected in our long-term incentives plan 
where 20% of measures are based on our combined 
Greenhouse Gas impact. 

Our remuneration structure aims to reinforce and sup-
port our key strategic target to become a global leader 
in renewable and circular solutions, which will support 
sustainable, long-term value creation for all stakehold-
ers. For our President and CEO a significant proportion 
of remuneration is derived from variable pay to ensure 
that there is strong alignment between sustainable value 
creation for shareholders, company performance and 
reward. The Board of Directors sets the targets for both 
short- and long-term incentives and the variable payouts 
are directly linked to both operational, ESG and strategic 
measures.

Neste performance in 2022 
The challenges and turbulency in the world have had 
significant impacts on global energy markets, and 
energy prices have risen to high levels. However, Neste 
was able to deliver a comparable EBITDA of EUR 3,537 
million and take important steps in executing its growth 
strategy.

The performance measure for Performance Share 
Plan (PSP) 2020–2022 has been relative Total Share-
holder Return (relative TSR) of Neste share compared to 
the STOXX Europe 600 index between 2020 and 2022. 
Neste Total Shareholder Return was at the 84.9th per-
centile compared to the index.  

Application of the  
Remuneration Policy in 2022 
The remuneration for the Board of Directors and the CEO 
during the financial year 2022 was executed in accor-
dance with the 2020 Remuneration Policy. No devia-
tions from the Remuneration Policy have been made 
and no remuneration of the Board of Directors or the 
CEO has been reclaimed or restated during the financial 
year 2022. 

Advisory Shareholder vote regarding  
the Remuneration Report 2021 and 
shareholder engagement
At the Annual General meeting in 2022, 95.82% of the 
Neste Shareholders supported the Neste Remuneration 
Report 2021.

Looking ahead to 2023 
During 2022, the Personnel and Remuneration Com-
mittee of Neste focused on the renewal of both long-
term incentive (LTI) and short-term incentive (STI) plans 
to strengthen our pay for performance approach on total 
remuneration and to ensure the competitiveness and 
attractiveness as an employer in the international mar-
kets where Neste operates. Neste President and CEO 
Peter Vanacker stepped down in April 2022 and Matti 
Lehmus started as a President and CEO in May 2022. 
The remunerations of the new and the outgoing Pres-
ident and CEO are in accordance with the Remunera-
tion Policy 2020 adopted by shareholders at the Annual 
General meeting in 2020.

Matti Kähkönen 
Chair of the Personnel and Remuneration Committee

Neste Personnel and 
Remuneration Committee

Matti Kähkönen 
Chair of the Personnel and Remuneration 
Committee 

Committee members during 2022: 
• John Abbott from 30 March 2022
• Martina Flöel
• Jean-Baptiste Renard until 30 March 2022
• Johanna Söderström

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Neste Remuneration Report



141

The Annual General Meeting decides on the remuner-
ation to the members of the Board, based on the pro-
posal of the Shareholders’ Nomination Board, for one 
period at a time until the closure of the next AGM. On 
30 March 2022, the 2022 AGM confirmed the following 
annual fees for the members of the Board of Directors. 
98.89% of the votes cast were in favor of the proposal 
of the Shareholders’ Nomination Board.

1) If he or she does not simultaneously act 
 as Chair or Vice Chair of the Board

Remuneration of the Board of Directors 
for the previous financial year

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Neste Remuneration Report

Chair 78,100 EUR per annum

Vice Chair 54,400 EUR per annum

Member 37,900 EUR per annum

Chair of Audit Committee 1) 54,400 EUR per annum 

The AGM confirmed that 40% of the annual fixed fee will 
be paid in the form of Neste shares and the remainder 
in cash.

In addition, the AGM decided that the following fixed 
annual committee fees are paid:
• Member of the Audit Committee EUR 3,000;
• Chair of the Personnel and Remuneration  

Committee EUR 5,000 and Member of the Personnel 
and Remuneration Committee EUR 2,000; and

• the Chair of another committee established based 
on Board decision will, for such position, be paid  
EUR 5,000, and its members will, for such position, 
be paid EUR 2,000.

Following meeting fees were paid based on attendance, 
plus compensation for expenses in accordance with the 
Company’s travel guidelines:
• Meeting held in the member’s home country  

EUR 800;
• Meeting held in the same continent as the  

member’s home country EUR 1,600; and
• Meeting held outside the same continent  

as the member’s home country EUR 2,400.

The meeting fee for meetings held over the telephone or 
through other means of data communication was paid 
according to the fee payable for meetings held in each 
member’s home country. The meeting attendance fees 
include meeting fees paid due to special tasks set by the 
Board of Directors, but not travel expenses. 

Details of the shareholdings of the Board of Directors 
are shown in the web pages. These shares are person-
ally acquired. 



142

Annual fee for the 
period 

1–3/2022 in cash 
(EUR) 

Annual fee for the 
period 

4/2022–3/2023
(EUR) 1)

Committee and 
meeting fees

(EUR) 2)

Total 
(EUR)

Matti Kähkönen, Chair 16,975 78,100 29,200 124,275

Marco Wirén, Vice Chair 12,400 54,400 27,600 94,400

John Abbott 8,925 37,900 27,800 74,625

Nick Elmslie 8,925 37,900 29,000 75,825

Martina Flöel 8,925 37,900 28,600 75,425

Just Janz 3) - 37,900 21,400 59,300

Jean-Baptiste Renard 4) 8,925 - 4,800 13,725

Jari Rosendal 8,925 37,900 22,600 69,425

Eeva Sipilä 3) - 37,900 17,400 55,300

Johanna Söderström 8,925 37,900 36,000 82,825

1) The total annual fee for the Board membership 2022–2023 was paid in May 2022 and 40% of the annual fee was paid in shares 
 and 60% in cash. Neste has paid the transfer tax for share purchase and it has been handled as a taxable income for each member. 
2) Meeting fees include annual committee fee and fees based on attendance.
3) Member of Board since 30 March, 2022 
4) Member of the Board until 30 March, 2022

Remuneration has been paid from the parent company.

Remuneration paid to the members  
of the Board in 2022
In 2022, the remuneration of the members of the Board 
exceptionally consisted of two separate Board annual 
membership fees (three month fee of the Board mem-
bership 2021–2022 and the full annual fee of the Board 
membership 2022–2023), due to the structural change 
of the fee payments for the membership 2022–2023 
decided by the AGM 2022. The AGM 2022 decided that 
40% of the fixed annual fee is to be paid in the form of 
shares and the remainder in cash. The shares were pur-
chased directly on behalf of the Board members within 
two weeks after the publication of the interim report for 
the period 1 January to 31 March 2022 from the market 
at a price formed in public trading. The Company has 
paid all costs and transfer tax related to the purchase 
of Company shares. The total cash part of the annual 
Board fee and committee fees for the Board member-
ship period 2022–2023 were paid in May 2022. Meeting 
fees were paid during the year after the meetings. 

 

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Neste Remuneration Report



143

Neste’s Board of Directors decides on the remuneration of the President and CEO based on the proposal by the Board’s Personnel and Remuneration Committee. The available remuneration elements are 
defined in the Neste’s Remuneration Policy and aligned with market practices. The remuneration of the CEO consists of fixed annual remuneration, such as base salary and fringe benefits and variable remu-
neration, such as short- and long-term incentives plans and supplementary pension. 

President and CEO Matti Lehmus did not receive any share-based payments during his CEO period, starting from May 2022 onwards. As previous President and CEO Peter Vanacker had given notice of 
his resignation from the company in December 2021, the share allocation to him was canceled. 

The supplementary pension of the President and CEO is a defined contribution plan with an annual contribution of 16% of the fixed annual salary and retirement age of 62 years. This supplementary pension 
benefit is originally based on his previous positions and a member of Neste Executive Committee. For those Executive Committee members who have started in their position after 1 January 2009 but before 
31 August 2018, are eligible for a defined contribution (DC) pension scheme (based on retirement age of 62, 63 or as prescribed under Finnish pension legislation). No other financial benefits were paid to the 
President and CEO in 2022. 

The table below includes the taxable value of the remuneration:

Remuneration of the President and CEO in 2022

Fixed Annual 
Remuneration

Variable Remuneration
Total 

Remuneration Proportion of 
fixed and variable 

remunerationFixed 
Annual Salary 1)

Short-term
incentive plan

Long-term incentive plans Supplementary 
pension

Total Annual 
CompensationCash Shares

Matti 
Lehmus 
(from 5/2022)

Paid during 2022 
(based on financial 
year 2021 performance) 636,773.98 - - - 94,666.67 731,440.65 100% and 0%

Peter 
Vanacker 
(until 4/2022)

Paid during 2022
(based on financial 
year 2021 performance) 443,285.70 2) 261,179.08 - - - 704,464.78 63% and 37%

1) Benefits and vacation pay included in fixed remuneration. 
2) This includes vacation compensation of EUR 106,303.92 paid at the end of employment.

Remuneration has been paid from the parent company.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Neste Remuneration Report



144

Short-term incentives 
The President and CEO’s short-term incentives, including the terms and conditions for these plans, are determined by Neste’s Board of Directors. The Board of Directors annually sets and evaluates targets for 
the President and CEO. The maximum short-term incentive for the President and CEO was 40% of annual base salary in 2021 and 80% of annual base salary in 2022. The President and CEO’s Peter Vanack-
er’s achievement ratio for the short-term incentives for the year 2021 paid in March 2022 was 26.6%. 

Details of the short-term incentive plan award for the President and CEO, Peter Vanacker for 2021 paid in March 2022:

The achievement ratio for the year 2022 to be paid in 2023 is 61.6% and the incentive payment of EUR 369,219 (prorated to CEO time 5–12/2022) will be paid in March 2023.  
Comparable ROACE was introduced into measures to measure how efficiently Neste uses its capital to generate profits from its current active operations.
Details of the short-term incentive plan award for the President and CEO; Matti Lehmus for May–December 2022 to be paid in March 2023:

Details of the short-term incentive plan award for the President and CEO for 2023, potential reward payment in March 2024:

President and CEO 2021 STI 2021 results

Weighting Measures Level of achievement

60% Group comparable EBIT Between threshold and target

20% Free Cash Flow At maximum

10% Group Safety (TRIF) At maximum

10% Group Process Safety (PSER) At maximum

Total Between target and maximum

President and CEO 2022 STI 2022 results

Weighting Measures Level of achievement

50% Group comparable EBITDA At maximum

20% Free Cash Flow Between target and maximum

10% Comparable ROACE At maximum

10% Group Safety (TRIF) Below threshold

10% Group Process Safety (PSER) Between target and maximum

Total Between target and maximum

President and CEO 2023 STI

Weighting Measures

50% Group comparable EBITDA

20% Free Cash Flow

10% Comparable ROACE

10% Group Safety (TRIF)

10% Group Process Safety (PSER)

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Neste Remuneration Report



145

Long-term incentives  
The Board of Directors decides on and implements Neste’s long-term incentive plans and the earning opportunity for the President and CEO. The purpose of these plans is to drive Neste’s long-term 
performance and success. As previous President and CEO Peter Vanacker had given notice of his resignation from the company, the share allocation to him has been canceled and no shares were 
delivered.

President and CEO Matti Lehmus is entitled to following long-term incentive plans:

Based on Matti Lehmus’ previous role as Executive Vice President, Renewables Platform he is also entitled to PSP 2020–2022 and PSP 2021–2023 share plans which will vest in 2023 and in 2024. 

Performance 
Share Plan Measure Weight Grant date

Number of shares 
originally granted Vesting date

PSP 2022–2024 Relative Total Shareholder 
Return (TSR) compared to 
the STOXX Europe 600 Index

80% 9 Feb. 2022 26,400 31 Mar. 2025

Combined Greenhouse Gas 
Impact 2022–2024

20%

PSP 2023–2025 Relative Total Shareholder 
Return (TSR) compared to 
the STOXX Europe 600 Index

80% 13 Dec. 2022 23,600 31 Mar. 2026

Combined Greenhouse Gas 
Impact 2023–2025

20%

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Neste Remuneration Report



146

1) Average compensation of members of the Board includes all fees paid to the members (annual board fees, meeting fees, committee fees).
2) Average Neste employee includes all wages and salaries incl. incentive payments (LTI based on accounting value) without indirect employee costs 
 (social security costs, pension costs, other costs) divided by the average number of personnel during the year. 
3) Cost provision for personnel arrangements relating to the Naantali refinery closure of EUR 22 million has been eliminated from wages and salaries before calculating the average. 
4) The unused amount of cost provision reversal for personnel arrangements relating to the Naantali refinery closure of EUR 11 million has been eliminated from wages & salaries before calculating 
 the average. The average compensation between 2019 and 2020 has increased partly due to the divestment of Neste operations in Russia in 2019 covering 1,133 employees, and between 2020 
 and 2021 due to personnel decreases related to the closure of Naantali refinery. Simultaneously, strategic headcount increase has focused on white collar and higher employee cost markets.
5) The unused amount of cost provision reversal for personnel arrangements relating to the Naantali refinery closure of EUR 500,000 has been eliminated from wages & salaries before calculating 
 the average. The average compensation has increased partly due to strategic headcount increase on higher employee cost markets. Simultaneously, short-term incentive provision 
 is higher than in previous year.

Remuneration and company performance 
over the last five financial years
Average compensation, EUR 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022

Average compensation of Members of the Board 1) 53,283 50,272 44,386 51,368 72,512

President and CEO 
(taxable value of the remuneration in each year)

Matti Lievonen 
(until 10/2018) 2,497,774 - - - -

Peter Vanacker 
(from 11/2018 until 4/2022) 150,040 2,131,983 1,804,816 2,046,357 704,465

Matti Lehmus 
(from 5/2022) - - - - 731,441

Average compensation of Neste employee 2) 57,258 57,906 70,751 3) 77,529 4) 86,367 5)

Company performance 
Comparable EBITDA (MEUR) 1,838 2,452 1,929 1,920 3,537

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Neste Remuneration Report



147

Review by the Board of Directors 2022 148

Key figures  172

Calculation of key figures 174

Review by 
the Board of 
Directors

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Review by the Board of Directors



148Neste Annual Report 2022 | Review by the Board of Directors

Review by the Board of Directors 2022
Neste ended the year 2022 with a strong performance in all its business units. The war in Ukraine had a significant impact on 
international energy markets in 2022. In the exceptional market environment, the full year comparable EBITDA reached an all-
time high EUR 3,537 million compared to EUR 1,920 million in the previous year. All businesses improved their performance in 
2022. Despite the higher feedstock costs and increasing production costs, Renewable Products was able to further increase 
its comparable sales margin. In Oil Products, the main product margins improved significantly during the year and the rising 
production costs were successfully mitigated by optimizing the supply and use of utilities. Also, Marketing & Services was able 
to improve its performance compared to the previous year. As to the Group’s financial targets, Neste reached a Comparable 
ROACE of 30.1% over the last 12 months and a leverage ratio of 13.9% at the end of the year, both clearly meeting the 
financial target levels. Cash flow before financing activities was at EUR -390 million in a year of significant investments and 
M&A transactions. The solid financial position enables the continued implementation of our growth strategy going forward.

During the year Neste continued to execute its growth strategy in our three renewables businesses – Aviation, Polymers 
and Chemicals and Road Transportation. A strategic decision was made to invest into new renewable products’ production 
capacity in Rotterdam. The Rotterdam refinery expansion investment of approx. EUR 1.9 billion will expand Neste’s overall 
renewable product capacity by 1.3 million tons per annum, bringing the total renewable product capacity in Rotterdam to  
2.7 million tons annually, of which sustainable aviation fuel (SAF) production capability will be 1.2 million tons. Neste also 
established a 50/50 joint operation with US-based Marathon Petroleum. The joint operation will produce renewable diesel 
following a conversion project of Marathon’s refinery in Martinez, California. Neste’s total investment will amount to approx. 
EUR 0.9 billion (USD 1.0 billion). The project is expected to increase Neste’s renewable products capacity by slightly over 
1 million tons per annum by the end of 2023. Our Singapore renewables capacity expansion investment project reached 
mechanical completion at the end of 2022 and is currently on schedule for start-up by the end of the first quarter 2023.

At the same time, Neste continued to implement its sustainability vision in the fields of climate, biodiversity, human rights, 
our supply chain and raw materials. All these actions support the strategic transformation. Neste is making good progress in 
its journey to become a global leader in renewable and circular solutions. Board of Directors proposes a maximum dividend 
of EUR 1.52 per share (0.82 per share), consisting of an ordinary dividend of EUR 1.02 per share, an extraordinary dividend 
of EUR 0.25 per share and a discretionary second extraordinary dividend of EUR 0.25 per share, totaling a maximum of  
EUR 1,167 million (EUR 630 million).

Figures in parentheses refer to the financial statements for 2021, unless otherwise noted.

The Group’s results for 2022
Neste’s revenue in 2022 totaled EUR 25,707 million (15,148 million). The growth in revenue resulted from higher market and 
sales prices, which had a positive impact of approx. EUR 7.5 billion, and higher sales volumes which had a positive impact 
of approx. EUR 2.1 billion on the revenue. Additionally, a stronger US dollar had a positive impact of approx. EUR 1.2 billion 
on the revenue. Also, the revenue was negatively impacted by lower trading volumes and the divestment of the Base Oils 
business, total impact approx. EUR -0.2 billion.

The Group’s comparable EBITDA was EUR 3,537 million (1,920 million). Renewable Products’ comparable EBITDA was 
EUR 1,762 million (1,460 million), higher than in 2021, mainly due to a higher sales margin and stronger US dollar offsetting 
higher fixed costs. Oil Products reached a comparable EBITDA of EUR 1,654 million (353 million) in the improved refining 
market and with increased sales volumes. Marketing & Services’ comparable EBITDA was EUR 126 million (103 million) as a 
result of higher sales volumes and unit margins. The Others segment’s comparable EBITDA was EUR -4 million (11 million). 

The Group’s EBITDA was EUR 3,048 million (2,607 million), which was impacted by inventory valuation losses of  
EUR 352 million (gains of 573 million) and changes in the fair value of open commodity and currency derivatives totaling  
EUR -131 million (106 million). Profit before income taxes was EUR 2,279 million (1,962 million), and net profit EUR 1,891 
million (1,774 million). Comparable earnings per share were EUR 3.04 (1.54), and earnings per share EUR 2.46 (2.31).

Group key figures, MEUR 2022 2021
Comparable EBITDA 3,537 1,920
- inventory valuation gains/losses -352 573
- changes in the fair value of open commodity and currency derivatives -131 106

- capital gains/losses 10 3
- other adjustments -16 5
EBITDA 3,048 2,607

Revenue 2022 2021
Renewable Products 9,905 5,895
Oil Products 14,596 7,810
Marketing & Services 5,876 3,803
Others 147 170
Eliminations -4,816 -2,530
Total 25,707 15,148



149Neste Annual Report 2022 | Review by the Board of Directors

Comparable EBITDA 2022 2021
Renewable Products 1,762 1,460
Oil Products 1,654 353
Marketing & Services 126 103
Others -4 11
Eliminations -1 -6
Total 3,537 1,920

Operating profit 2022 2021
Renewable Products 1,046 1,723
Oil Products 1,337 263
Marketing & Services 98 77
Others -70 -34
Eliminations -1 -6
Total 2,410 2,023

31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021
Comparable return on average capital employed after tax (ROACE) 1), % 30.1 18.3
Leverage ratio (net debt to capital), % 13.9 0.6
1) Last 12 months. Calculation formula adjusted effective 1 January 2022; figures for 2021 restated.

 2022 2021
EBITDA 3,048 2,607
Capital gains/losses 0 0
Other adjustments -55 -118
Change in net working capital -1,357 -362
Finance cost, net -42 -39
Income taxes paid -398 -95
Net cash generated from operating activities 1,197 1,994
Capital expenditure -1,757 -1,298
Other investing activities 170 -186
Free cash flow (Cash flow before financing activities) -390 511

Financial targets
Comparable return on average capital employed after tax (Comparable ROACE) and leverage ratio are Neste’s key financial 
targets. The company’s long-term Comparable ROACE target is 15%, and the leverage ratio target is below 40%. At the 
end of December 2022, Comparable ROACE calculated over the last 12 months was 30.1%, and leverage ratio remained 
well within the targeted area at 13.9%.

Cash flow, investments, and financing
The Group’s net cash generated from operating activities totaled EUR 1,197 million (1,994 million) in 2022 reflecting the 
increase in net working capital. Cash flow before financing activities was EUR -390 million (511 million), mainly due to the 
higher capital expenditure compared to 2021. The Group’s net working capital in days outstanding was 35.4 days  
(33.3 days) on a rolling 12-month basis at the end of 2022.

Cash-out investments excluding M&A and asset acquisitions were EUR 990 million (976 million), and totaled EUR 1,757 
(1,298 million) including M&A and asset acquisitions in 2022. Maintenance investments accounted for EUR 249 million 
(411 million) and productivity and strategic investments for EUR 1,509 million (888 million). Renewable Products’ total 
investments were EUR 1,553 million (877 million), mainly related to the Singapore refinery capacity expansion project, and 
the asset acquisitions made in the segment. Oil Products’ investments amounted to EUR 130 million (380 million). Marketing 
& Services’ investments totaled EUR 21 million (13 million). Investments in the Others segment were EUR 55 million  
(29 million), concentrating on Innovation and business IT infrastructure upgrades.

Interest-bearing net debt was EUR 1,344 million at the end of December 2022, compared to EUR 41 million at the 
end of 2021. The average interest rate of borrowing at the end of December was 2.3% (1.2%) and the average maturity  
2.5 (3.7) years. At the end of the year the Net debt to EBITDA ratio was 0.4 (0.0).

The leverage ratio was 13.9% at the end of December 2022 (31 Dec 2021: 0.6%). The Group’s strong financial position 
enables Neste to continue with the implementation of its growth strategy going forward while maintaining a healthy dividend 
distribution.

The Group’s liquid funds and committed, unutilized credit facilities amounted to EUR 2,871 million at the end of December 
2022 (31 Dec 2021: 3,066 million). There are no financial covenants in the Group companies’ existing loan agreements. 

In accordance with the hedging policy, Neste hedges a large part of its net foreign currency exposure for the next 12 months, 
mainly using forward contracts and currency options. The most important hedged currency is the US dollar. At the end of 
December 2022, the Group’s foreign currency hedging ratio was approx. 55% of the sales margin for the next 12 months.



150Neste Annual Report 2022 | Review by the Board of Directors

Production 2022 2021
Renewable Diesel and SAF, 1,000 ton 2,988 3,043
Other products, 1,000 ton 249 247
Utilization rate, % 91 95

Sales 2022 2021
Renewable Diesel and SAF, 1,000 ton 3,032 3,021
Share of sales volumes to Europe, % 67 65
Share of sales volumes to North America, % 33 35

Key financials 2022 2021
Revenue, MEUR 9,905 5,895
EBITDA, MEUR 1,328 1,950
Comparable EBITDA, MEUR 1,762 1,460
Operating profit, MEUR 1,046 1,723
Net assets, MEUR 6,433 4,748
Return on net assets 1), % 18.6 40.9
Comparable return on net assets 1), % 26.6 29.4
1) Last 12 months

Key drivers 2022 2021
Comparable sales margin, USD/ton 804 715
Biomass-based diesel (D4) RIN, USD/gal 1.69 1.50
California LCFS Credit, USD/ton 99 178
Palm oil price 1), USD/ton 1,116 999
Waste and residues’ share of total feedstock, % 95 92
1) CPO BMD 3rd, Crude Palm Oil Bursa Malaysia Derivatives 3rd month futures price

Segment reviews
Neste’s businesses are grouped into four reporting segments: Renewable Products, Oil Products, Marketing & Services, and 
Others. 

Renewable Products

The feedstock market was highly volatile in 2022. Vegetable oil prices increased significantly in the beginning of the year due 
to the war in Ukraine. Especially rapeseed oil (RSO) and sunflower oil (SFO) experienced severe shortages and the low palm 
oil (PO) production especially in Malaysia increased prices. Also, Indonesia was restricting exports from March 2022, and 
this further tightened the market. Prices remained unusually high until May but towards the end of the year 2022 vegetable 
oil prices decreased. A further decrease was seen particularly at the end of the fourth quarter as a response to the US 
Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) blending mandate proposal. 

Waste and residue feedstock prices followed the same pattern as vegetable oil prices. However, animal fat (AF) still 
showed a yearly net gain particularly in the US due to the strong pull from growing Renewable Diesel sector. While Australian 
AF price also showed a strong increase, European AF prices increased less as certain sectors switched to less costly 
feedstocks. In contrast, Used Cooking Oil (UCO) ended up lower than end of 2021 particularly in the EU which received 
large imports especially from China in the latter part of the year. 

The Renewable Identification Number (RIN) D4 price first increased but dropped significantly in December in response 
to the EPA blending mandate proposal. The California Low Carbon Fuel Standard (LCFS) credit price has been gradually 
decreasing from 148 USD/ton to the level of approx. 67 USD/ton, which reflects an increasing supply of renewables 
solutions to the Californian market.

Renewable Products’ full-year comparable EBITDA was EUR 1,762 million (EUR 1,460 million). The comparable sales 
margin was USD 804/ton (715/ton), supported by a successful sales performance. The higher sales margin had a positive 
impact of EUR 195 million on the comparable EBITDA year-on-year. The BTC contribution was EUR 312 million (295 million) 
in 2022. Sales volumes were 3.03 million tons in 2022 (3.02). Higher sales volumes had a positive impact of EUR 4 million 
on the comparable EBITDA compared to 2021. During 2022 approx. 67% (65%) of sales volume went to Europe and 33% 
(35%) to North America. The share of 100% renewable diesel delivered to end-users was 28% (27%) of total volumes in full-
year 2022. The feedstock mix optimization continued, and the average proportion of waste and residue inputs increased 
to 95% (92%). A stronger USD had a positive impact of EUR 286 million on the segment’s comparable EBITDA compared 
to 2021. In 2022, the fixed costs in Renewable Products were EUR 183 million higher than in the previous year, as Neste 
continued to build up its capabilities for future growth.

US dollar exchange rate 2022 2021
EUR/USD, market rate 1.05 1.18
EUR/USD, effective rate 1) 1.11 1.18
1) The effective rate includes the impact of currency hedges.



151Neste Annual Report 2022 | Review by the Board of Directors

Production 2022 2021
Refinery

Production, 1,000 ton 11,176 9,504
Utilization rate, % 85 72

Refinery production costs, USD/bbl 7.5 6.8

Sales from in-house production, by product category (1,000t) 2022 % 2021 %
Middle distillates 1) 5,403 48 4,823 48
Light distillates 2) 4,438 39 3,420 34
Heavy fuel oil 930 8 1,000 10
Base oils 296 3 386 4
Other products 244 2 421 4
Total 11,310 100 10,051 100
1)  Diesel, jet fuel, heating oil, low sulphur marine fuels
2)  Motor gasoline, gasoline components, LPG

Sales from in-house production, by market area (1,000t) 2022 % 2021 %
Baltic Sea area 1) 6,843 61 6,264 62
Other Europe 2,897 26 2,485 25
North America 943 8 864 9
Other areas 627 6 438 4
1)  Finland, Sweden, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Denmark

Key financials 2022 2021
Revenue, MEUR 14,596 7,810
EBITDA, MEUR 1,619 546
Comparable EBITDA, MEUR 1,654 353
Operating profit, MEUR 1,337 263
Net assets, MEUR 2,652 2,045
Return on net assets 1), % 46.6 11.9
Comparable return on net assets 1), % 48.0 3.2
1) Last 12 months

Key drivers 2022 2021
Total refining margin, USD/bbl 23.42 8.99
Urals-Brent price differential, USD/bbl -25.28 -1.87
Urals' share of total refinery input, % 18 65

Oil Products

Crude oil prices were extremely volatile during 2022, and Brent dated traded between USD 76/bbl and USD 138/bbl. 
The war in Ukraine caused a rapid increase to the crude price during the first months of the war to 138 USD/bbl level. By 
summer however, the global recession fears, central banks’ monetary tightening and high fuel pump prices started to drive 
weaker demand outlook for crude oil and the year ended at USD 81/bbl – close to the level where the year started.   

Overall, the European refining margins were volatile but strong during 2022. Margins were still lower in the first quarter 
of the year but increased sharply after the Ukraine war started as many of the refineries changed their supply away from 
Russia. High natural gas prices impacted negatively on the refinery utilization and drove product margins higher. At the same 
time global demand for fuels was still healthy as economic recovery from Covid-19 had only begun and especially middle 
distillate inventories were tight.

Gasoline cracks were exceptionally good during the summer driving season but came down clearly towards the end 
of the year as high pump prices started to impact demand. Diesel margins remained strong throughout the year as the 
availability of diesel was tight in Europe and the shift to diesel away from natural gas in power generation and industrial use 
created extra demand. Strikes in France in November tightened them further and drove diesel margins temporarily to all-
time high levels. High utility and hydrogen prices pressured refining economics in Europe for refineries dependent on natural 
gas.

Oil Products’ full-year comparable EBITDA was EUR 1,654 million (353 million). The total refining margin averaged USD 
23.4/bbl (9.0/bbl) in 2022. The higher total refining margin had a positive impact of EUR 1,237 million on the comparable 
EBITDA year-on-year. Due to the Porvoo refinery major turnaround in 2021, our sales volumes were higher in 2022. 
The higher sales volumes had a positive impact of EUR 62 million on the comparable EBITDA year-on-year.  Stronger 
USD exchange rate had a positive impact of EUR 60 million on the EBITDA compared to 2021. During the year 2022 
the segment’s fixed costs were EUR 10 million higher than in the previous year due to an increase in personnel and 
development costs. The divestment of Base Oils business has a negative impact on comparable EBITDA year-over-year.



152Neste Annual Report 2022 | Review by the Board of Directors

Sales volumes by main product categories, million liters 2022 2021
Gasoline, station sales 600 612
Diesel, station sales 1,620 1,629
Heating oil 907 663

Net sales by market area, MEUR 2022 2021
Finland 4,601 2,896
Baltic countries 1,275 908

Key financials 2022 2021
Revenue, MEUR 5,876 3,803
EBITDA, MEUR 127 106
Comparable EBITDA, MEUR 126 103
Operating profit, MEUR 98 77
Net assets, MEUR 227 212
Return on net assets 1), % 40.8 38.1
Comparable return on net assets 1), % 40.5 36.6
1)  Last 12 months

Key financials 2022 2021
Comparable EBITDA, MEUR -4 11
Operating profit, MEUR -70 -34

Marketing & Services Others

Marketing & Services segment’s full-year comparable EBITDA was EUR 126 million (103 million). The road transportation fuel 
demand followed a normal seasonality pattern during the year. Aviation fuel demand remained below 2019 levels. Our sales 
volumes were slightly higher than in the year 2021, which had a positive impact of EUR 3 million on the comparable EBITDA. 
Average unit margins were supported by inventory gains and the higher margins had a positive impact of EUR 32 million year-
on-year. The segments’ fixed costs were EUR 11 million higher, reflecting a more normal level of activity.

The Others segment consists of Neste’s Engineering Solutions, and common corporate costs. The full-year comparable 
EBITDA of the Others segment totaled EUR -4 million (11 million), due to increased costs related to strategy execution.

Shares, share trading, and ownership
Neste’s shares are listed at NASDAQ Helsinki Ltd. The share price closed the year at EUR 43.02, down by 0.8% compared 
to the end of 2021. The total shareholder return (TSR) was 1.1% (-25.4%) in 2022. At its highest during 2022, the share price 
reached EUR 52.18, while the lowest price was EUR 30.81. Market capitalization was EUR 33.1 billion as of 31 December 
2022. An average of 1.01 million shares were traded daily, representing 0.1% of the company’s shares.

At the end of December 2022, Neste held 1,127,888 treasury shares. Neste’s share capital registered with the Trade Register 
totaled EUR 40 million, and the total number of shares was 769,211,058. 

The Board of Directors has no authorization to issue convertible bonds or share options. 
As of 31 December 2022, the State of Finland owned directly 35.9% (35.9% at the end of 2021) of outstanding shares, 

foreign institutions 39.7% (39.6%), Finnish institutions 16.8% (17.0%), and households 7.6% (7.5%).



153Neste Annual Report 2022 | Review by the Board of Directors

Largest shareholders as of 31 December 2022 Breakdown of share ownership as of 31 December 2022

Shareholder Shares % of shares
State of Finland / Prime Minister's Office                          276,213,495 35.91%
The Finnish Climate Fund 63,894,123 8.31%
Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company                          10,918,435 1.42%
Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Company                          6,611,500 0.86%
The Finnish Social Insurance Institution                          6,100,272 0.79%
City of Kurikka                          4,652,625 0.60%
Elo Mutual Pension Insurance Company                          3,437,000 0.45%
The State Pension Fund                          2,400,000 0.31%
OP-Finland                          1,759,902 0.23%
Danske Invest Finnish Equity Fund 1,284,187 0.17%
Neste Corporation                          1,127,888 0.15%
Nordea Pro Finland Fund 954,040 0.12%
Stiftelsen för Åbo Akademi                 912,514 0.12%
Samfundet Folkhälsan i Svenska Finland 911,300 0.12%
Nordea Nordic Fund 910,157 0.12%
Seligson & Co OMX Helsinki 25 Exchange Traded Fund (ETF)                          850,146 0.11%
Alhopuro Eero Sakari                   732,150 0.10%
Evli Finland Select Fund    714,922 0.09%
OP-Henkivakuutus Ltd. 711,967 0.09%
Säästöpankki Kotimaa Mutual Fund 671,370 0.09%

20 largest shareholders total 385,767,993 50.15%
Nominee registered 304,780,690 39.62%
Others 78,662,375 10.23%
Number of shares, total 769,211,058 100.00%

No. of shares
No. of 

shareholders
% of 

shareholders
Total no. 

of shares
% of 

shares
1–100 60,170 50.6 2,151,057 0.3

101–500 34,255 28.8 8,858,305 1.2
501–1,000 10,858 9.1 7,934,962 1.0

1,001–5,000 11,509 9.7 23,890,137 3.1
5,001–10,000 1,299 1.1 8,840,486 1.1

10,001–50,000 685 0.6 12,645,731 1.6
50,001–100,000 61 0.1 4,348,561 0.6

100,001–500,000 40 0.0 8,380,938 1.1
500,001– 29 0.0 692,160,881 90.0

Total 107,087 100.0% 769,211,058 100.0%
of which nominee registered 12 304,780,690 39.6%

By the owner sector % of shares
Central government 1) 44.2%
Non-Finnish shareholders 39.7%
Households 7.6%
General government 4.5%
Financial and insurance companies 1.6%
Corporations 1.0%
Non-profit organizations 1.3%
Total 100.0%
1)  Includes both State of Finland and The Finnish Climate Fund.

By the number of shares owned



154Neste Annual Report 2022 | Review by the Board of Directors

Corporate governance
The control and management of Neste Corporation is divided between shareholders, the Board of Directors, and the 
President and Chief Executive Officer (CEO). The General Meeting of Shareholders appoints the Board of Directors based on 
a proposal made by the Shareholders’ Nomination Board. The term of office of the Board of Directors will expire at the end 
of the next Annual General Meeting of Shareholders (AGM) following its election. Neste’s President and CEO is appointed 
and expelled by the Board of Directors. 

Changes to the company’s Articles of Association can be made at the General Meeting of Shareholders based on a 
proposal by the Board of Directors.

Neste Corporation’s Annual General Meeting (AGM) was held on 30 March 2022 under special arrangement at 
the Company’s headquarters in Espoo. In order to prevent the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic, the AGM was held 
without shareholders’ or their proxy representatives’ presence at the venue of the meeting. Shareholders and their proxy 
representatives had the possibility to participate in the meeting and exercise their shareholder rights by voting in advance 
and by making counter-proposals and presenting questions in advance.

The AGM supported all the proposals presented to the meeting and approved the remuneration report. The AGM adopted 
the company’s Financial Statements and Consolidated Financial Statements for 2021 and discharged the Board of Directors 
and the President & CEO from liability for 2021. 

Dividend of EUR 0.82 per share paid in two instalments
The AGM approved the Board of Directors’ proposal that a dividend of EUR 0.82 per share will be paid on the basis of the 
approved balance sheet for 2021. The dividend was paid in two instalments.

The first instalment of dividend, EUR 0.41 per share, was paid to a shareholder registered in the shareholders’ register 
of the Company maintained by Euroclear Finland Ltd on the record date for the first dividend instalment, which was 1 April 
2022. The first dividend instalment was paid on 8 April 2022.

The second instalment of dividend, EUR 0.41 per share, was paid to a shareholder registered in the shareholders’ register 
of the Company maintained by Euroclear Finland Ltd on the record date for the second dividend instalment, which was 30 
September 2022. The second dividend instalment was paid on 7 October 2022.

Composition and remuneration of the Board of Directors
In accordance with the proposal made by the Shareholders’ Nomination Board, the AGM confirmed the number of members 
of the Board of Directors at nine.

The AGM decided that the following were re-elected to serve until the end of the next AGM: Mr. Matti Kähkönen, Mr. John 
Abbott, Mr. Nick Elmslie, Ms. Martina Flöel, Mr. Jari Rosendal, Ms. Johanna Söderström and Mr. Marco Wirén. Mr. Just 
Jansz and Ms. Eeva Sipilä were elected as new members.

Mr. Matti Kähkönen was re-elected as Chair and Mr. Marco Wirén was re-elected as Vice Chair. Board member 
introductions can be found at the company’s web site.

Convening right after the AGM, Neste’s Board of Directors elected the members of its two Committees. Matti Kähkönen 
was elected as Chair and John Abbott, Martina Flöel and Johanna Söderström as members of the Personnel and 
Remuneration Committee. Marco Wirén was elected as Chair and Nick Elmslie, Just Jansz, Jari Rosendal and Eeva Sipilä 
as members of the Audit Committee.

The AGM decided on the remuneration to the Board as follows:
• Chair: EUR 78,100 per annum
• Vice Chair: EUR 54,400 per annum
• Member: EUR 37,900 per annum 
• Chair of Audit Committee: EUR 54,400 per annum if he or she does not simultaneously act  

as Chair or Vice Chair of the Board

The AGM decided on the remuneration for committee work as follows:
• other members of the Audit Committee than its Chair will, for such position, be paid EUR 3,000
• the Chair of the Personnel and Remuneration Committee will, for such position, be paid EUR 5,000,  

and its members will, for such position, be paid EUR 2,000
• the Chair of another committee established based on Board decision will, for such position, be paid EUR 5,000,  

and its members will, for such position, be paid EUR 2,000.

In addition to the annual fee, members of the Board of Directors receive a meeting fee of EUR 800 for each meeting held in the 
member’s home country, EUR 1,600 for meetings held in the same continent as the member’s home country, and EUR 2,400 
for meetings held outside the same continent as the member’s home country plus compensation for expenses pertaining 
to the Company’s travel guidelines. The meeting fee for meetings held over the telephone or through other means of data 
communication is paid according to the fee payable for meetings held in each member’s home country.

The AGM decided that a portion of 40% of the fixed annual fee will be paid in the form of shares and the remainder 
in cash. Committee and meeting fees will be paid in cash. The shares will be purchased directly on behalf of the Board 
members within two weeks after the publication of the interim report for the period 1 January to 31 March 2022. If the 
shares are not purchased and/or delivered based on a reason pertaining to the Company or the Board member, the fee will 
be in cash in its entirety. The Company is responsible for any transfer tax potentially levied on the purchase. 

Company Auditor
In accordance with a proposal by the Board of Directors, KPMG Oy Ab, Authorized Public Accountants, were appointed as 
the company’s Auditor, with Authorized Public Accountant Leenakaisa Winberg as the principally responsible auditor for Neste 
Corporation, until the end of the next AGM. Payment for their services shall be made in accordance with their invoice approved 
by the Company.

Authorizing the Board of Directors to decide the buyback of Company shares
The AGM approved the authorization, under which the Board is authorized to decide the purchase of and/or take as security a 
maximum of 23,000,000 Company shares using the Company’s unrestricted equity. The number of shares shall be equivalent 
to approximately 2.99% of the Company’s total shares.

Shares may be purchased in one or more lots. The purchase price shall be at least the lowest price paid for Company 
shares in regulated trading at the time of purchase and no more than the highest price paid for Company shares in 
regulated trading at the time of purchase. In connection with the buyback of Company shares, derivative, share lending, 
or other agreements that are normal within the framework of capital markets may take place in accordance with legislative 
and regulatory requirements and at a price determined by the market. The authorization shall allow the Board to decide to 
purchase shares otherwise than in proportion to shareholders’ current holdings (directed buyback).

Shares so purchased can be used as consideration in possible acquisitions or in other arrangements that are part of the 
Company’s business, to finance investments, as part of the Company’s incentive program, or be retained, conveyed, or 
cancelled by the Company.

The Board of Directors shall decide the other terms related to the buyback of Company shares. The buyback 
authorization shall remain in force for eighteen (18) months from the decision taken by the AGM. The authorization shall 
revoke the buyback authorization granted to the Board of Directors by the AGM on 30 March 2021.



155Neste Annual Report 2022 | Review by the Board of Directors

Innovation
Neste’s innovation expenditure totaled EUR 85 million (67 million) in 2022. The growth was largely driven by further boosting 
efforts in developing Innovation business platforms for new sustainable and scalable feedstock pools and by higher R&D 
investments to support the renewables growth. In 2022 the establishment of a new APAC Innovation center in Singapore 
progressed as planned, achieving readiness to operate.

In spring 2022 the R&D organization also supported the major change in the Porvoo refinery crude oil portfolio to stop and 
entirely replace the use of Russian crude oil with other crude oils.

Developing co-operations and preparing for technology demonstrations for scalable sustainable feedstock sources 
continued in the Innovation business platforms, focusing on feedstock pools such as lignocellulosic feedstocks, algae, 
municipal waste, carbon dioxide and renewable electricity utilization for green hydrogen production. The MultiPLHY project 
at the renewable products refinery in Rotterdam completed during 2022 installations with the intention to integrate and 
operate the world’s first high-temperature electrolyzer system to demonstrate production of green hydrogen for the refinery’s 
processes. Another project for introducing a large electrolyzer for green hydrogen production at Porvoo refinery entered 
the feasibility study phase. In 2022 Neste received IPCEI (Important Project of Common European Interest) status for its 
hydrogen projects, including a Business Finland award of EUR 27.7 million.

Expanding the use of renewable waste and residue feedstock continued in 2022, and about 3.5 million tons (3.3 million) 
of waste and residue feedstock was used during the year. Development of advanced technology for feedstock pretreatment 
progressed well, with continued focus on Renewable Energy Directive (RED) II Annex IX A and other challenging waste 
and residue feedstock. In addition to increased feedstock flexibility, development efforts were also targeted at the growing 
product portfolio, supporting growth of sustainable aviation fuels as well as renewable polymer and chemicals businesses 
from a technical and sustainability assessment perspective.  

Neste announced a study on the long-term transformation of its Porvoo refinery to renewable and circular feedstocks. In 
summer 2022 Neste received a EUR 135 million grant from the Innovation Fund for an investment at its Porvoo refinery into 
pretreating and upgrading liquefied waste plastic into high-quality petrochemical feedstock. R&D work for substituting fossil 
crude oil with renewable and circular feeds made significant progress in 2022 both in laboratory and at commercial scale. 
Both biofeeds and liquefied waste plastic feeds were studied extensively. 

 Research cooperation was conducted with several universities and research institutes in Europe, USA and Asia. In 
Finland, strategic cooperation continued particularly with Aalto University, Åbo Akademi and VTT, the Technical Research 
Centre of Finland, with joint research activities. Overall, Neste continued to grow competences in the area of novel 
sustainable and scalable solutions both internally and with partners, also through building Business Finland funded 
ecosystems in this field.

Main events published during 2022
On 28 January, Neste announced that the Shareholders’ Nomination Board had forwarded to the Board of Directors of the 
Company its proposals to the 2022 AGM. The Nomination Board proposed that Matti Kähkönen be re-elected as the Chair of 
the Board of Directors. In addition, the current members of the Board, John Abbott, Nick Elmslie, Martina Flöel, Jari Rosendal, 
Johanna Söderström and Marco Wirén were proposed to be re-elected for a further term of office. The Nomination Board 
proposed that Marco Wirén shall be re-elected as the Vice Chair of the Board. Further, the Nomination Board proposed that 
the Board shall have nine members and that Just Jansz and Eeva Sipilä shall be elected as new members.

On 16 February, Neste announced that Neste and ITOCHU Corporation have expanded their partnership to grow the 
availability of Sustainable Aviation Fuel (SAF) in Japan. In the expanded partnership, ITOCHU acts as the branded distributor 
of Neste MY Sustainable Aviation Fuel™ in Japan making Neste MY Sustainable Aviation Fuel available first at the two 
largest Japanese international airports; Tokyo Haneda and Narita.

On 1 March, Neste announced that it had signed definitive agreements for the establishment of a 50/50 joint venture with 
US-based Marathon Petroleum. The joint venture will produce renewable diesel following a conversion project of Marathon’s 
refinery in Martinez, California. The closing of the joint venture is subject to customary closing conditions and regulatory 
approvals, including obtaining the necessary permits, which depend upon certification of a final Environmental Impact 
Report. Neste’s total investment will amount to approx. EUR 0.9 billion (USD 1.0 billion), inclusive of half of the total project 
development costs projected through the completion of the project. The project is expected to increase Neste’s renewable 
products capacity by slightly over 1 million tons per annum. Production of renewable diesel is expected to come online in 
the second half of 2022. The facility is planned to reach its full annual nameplate capacity of 2.1 million tons by the end of 
2023.

On 21 March, Neste and DHL Express announced a significant step towards decarbonizing aviation logistics by 
expanding their existing cooperation with a new strategic collaboration. In the next five years, Neste will supply DHL with 
approx. 320,000 tons of Neste MY Sustainable Aviation Fuel. The agreement is Neste’s largest for Sustainable Aviation Fuel 
to date and one of the largest SAF agreements in the aviation industry. Neste and DHL have been working together since 
2020 making Neste MY Sustainable Aviation Fuel available for DHL’s operations.

On 23 March, Neste announced that Neste Corporation’s Board of Directors had appointed Matti Lehmus (born 1974) 
as President and CEO as of 1 May 2022. He succeeds Peter Vanacker, who will hold the position until 30 April 2022. Matti 
Lehmus holds a M. Sc. in chemical engineering and an eMBA. He joined Neste in 1998, and has held several key leadership 
positions during his career in both the oil products business and renewables. He has been a member of the Neste Executive 
Committee since 2009, and currently serves as Executive Vice President, Renewables Platform.

On 29 March, Neste announced that to proceed on the target of commercializing chemical recycling of waste plastic, it is 
conducting a feasibility study to examine investing in capacity for processing liquefied waste plastic at its refinery in Porvoo, 
Finland. The goal is to scale up processing capabilities for liquefied waste plastic by implementing proprietary technologies 
to pretreat and upgrade liquefied waste plastic and integrating the technologies into the refinery operations. The targeted 
pretreatment and upgrading capacity of this first step is 400,000 tons per year. This development would be a major step 
towards Neste’s target to process over 1 million tons of waste plastic per year from 2030 onwards. To develop and build 
up the capabilities at its Porvoo refinery, Neste will evaluate possible options for innovation funding and work together 
closely with local authorities supervising environmental aspects of the investment. Following the feasibility study, investment 
decision readiness is targeted for 2023 and the gradual implementation is expected to start in 2024. 

On 1 April, Neste announced that the divestment of its base oils business to Chevron had been completed. The 
transaction includes the NEXBASE™ brand, associated qualifications and approvals, and related sales and marketing 
business. As part of the divestment, the parties also agreed on a long-term offtake for Neste’s base oils supply from Porvoo, 
Finland. The transaction had been approved by regulatory authorities, and was completed on 1 April 2022. Neste also 
completed the exit of its base oils joint venture with Bahrain Petroleum Company and Nogaholding.

On 29 April, Neste announced that Neste’s Board of Directors had approved a merger plan according to which the 
company’s wholly-owned subsidiary Neste Engineering Solutions Oy will be merged into Neste Corporation. The merger is 
expected to take place on 30 September 2022 and it will only affect the Finnish operations.

On 10 May, Neste announced that Neste and United Airlines had signed a new purchase agreement that provides United 
the right to buy up to 160,000 metric tons of Neste MY Sustainable Aviation Fuel™ over the next three years to fuel United 
flights at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol, and potentially other airports, as well.

On 17 May, Neste announced that Neste introduces co-processed marine fuel in partnership with Nordic Marine Oil – a 
new solution for the maritime sector enabling up to 80% GHG emission reduction. Neste Marine 0.1 Co-processed marine 
fuel is produced at Neste’s refinery in Porvoo, Finland, where renewable raw materials are co-processed with fossil raw 
materials in the conventional refining process. The drop-in fuel can be taken in use without any fleet modifications as it has a 
similar composition to conventional bunker fuels.



156Neste Annual Report 2022 | Review by the Board of Directors

On 31 May, Neste announced that Carl Nyberg, M.Sc. (Economics and Business Administration), had been nominated 
as Executive Vice President, Renewables Platform and member of the Neste Executive Committee. He started in this 
position on 1 June 2022, and reports to President and CEO Matti Lehmus. In this role he succeeds Matti Lehmus, who was 
appointed as Neste’s President and CEO as of 1 May 2022.

On 1 June, Neste announced about a change in the composition of Neste’s Shareholders’ Nomination Board. The 
following members were appointed on 20 September 2021 to the Shareholders’ Nomination Board of Neste Corporation: 
The Chair, Director General Kimmo Viertola of the Ownership Steering Department in the Prime Minister’s Office of Finland; 
Deputy CEO, Investments Reima Rytsölä of Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company; Director General Outi Antila of 
The Social Insurance Institution of Finland and Matti Kähkönen, the Chair of Neste’s Board of Directors. As Mr. Rytsölä will 
assume duties for a new employer, Timo Sallinen, Senior Vice President, Investments of Varma Mutual Pension Insurance 
Company, has been appointed as member of the Nomination Board as of 1 June 2022.

On 3 June, Neste announced that it had signed a EUR 500 million green term loan agreement. The proceeds of the loan 
will be used to finance Eligible Assets and Projects in accordance with Neste’s Green Finance Framework. The loan has a 
tenor of 3 years with two 1-year extension options. Danske Bank A/S and OP Corporate Bank plc acted as coordinating 
mandated lead arrangers and bookrunners of the loan.

On 14 June, Neste announced that it raises its second quarter 2022 outlook. While the oil markets have been very 
volatile, impacted by the war in Ukraine, the Northwest European gasoline and diesel margins have increased to 
exceptionally high levels. In addition, Neste’s successful mitigation actions to replace Russian crude oil and natural gas have 
enabled the company to retain high utilization rates at its Porvoo refinery. Oil Products’ second-quarter total refining margin 
is expected to more than double from the level seen in the first quarter of 2022. Previously, the company estimated Oil 
Products’ second-quarter total refining margin to be at a roughly similar level as in the first quarter of 2022 (USD 10.3/bbl). 
The increase in the total refining margin is expected to improve the Group’s and Oil Products’ second-quarter comparable 
EBITDA significantly compared to the first quarter.

On 27 June, Neste announced that it had made the final investment decision to invest into new renewable products 
production capacity in Rotterdam. The decision is based on demand for renewable products growing substantially with 
customers’ higher climate ambitions. Neste’s current 1.4 million ton capacity for renewable products in Rotterdam is the 
largest in Europe. The Rotterdam refinery expansion investment of approx. EUR 1.9 billion will expand Neste’s overall 
renewable product capacity by 1.3 million tons per annum, bringing the total renewable product capacity in Rotterdam to 
2.7 million tons annually, of which sustainable aviation fuel (SAF) production capability will be 1.2 million tons. The company’s 
target is to start up the new production unit during the first half of 2026.

On 13 July, Neste announced that it had received a positive grant decision for up to EUR 135 million from the EU 
Innovation Fund for the company’s project to build chemical recycling capacities at its Porvoo refinery in Finland. The PUS 
project aims to implement Neste’s proprietary technologies to pretreat and upgrade liquefied waste plastic and integrate the 
technologies into the refinery operations. The project targets pretreatment and upgrading capacities of 400,000 tons per 
year, contributing to Neste’s goal of processing over 1 million tons of waste plastic per year from 2030 onwards. A feasibility 
study evaluating the investments related to PUS was announced in March 2022. Investment decision readiness is targeted 
for 2023 and gradual implementation is expected to start in 2024.

On 26 July, Neste announced that it had agreed to acquire 100% of Walco Foods, an Irish trader of animal fats. Walco 
Foods was established in 1996 as a family-run business. The in-depth knowledge and market understanding developed 
over the years has helped Walco Foods become a leading animal fat and by-products trading company in Ireland. Together 
with the previously announced acquisitions of IH Demeter, Bunge Loders Croklaan and Count Terminal in the Netherlands, 
and Mahoney Environmental and Agri Trading in the United States, Walco Foods will enhance Neste’s supply of global waste 
and residue raw materials. The transaction was subject to the fulfillment of customary closing conditions and regulatory 
approval, and it was closed on 1 September.

On 6 September, Neste announced that the following members had been appointed to Neste’s Shareholders’ Nomination 
Board: The Chair, Director General Kimmo Viertola of the Ownership Steering Department in the Prime Minister’s Office of 
Finland; Timo Sallinen, Senior Vice President, Investments of Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company; President and 
CEO Jouko Pölönen of Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Company and Matti Kähkönen, the Chair of Neste’s Board of 
Directors.

On 19 September, Neste announced that it launches a strategic study on transitioning its Porvoo refinery to a renewable 
and circular site and ending crude oil refining in the mid-2030s. Through co-processing and retrofitting of units, and 
benefiting from available refining assets, experience and know-how, Neste targets to significantly grow its renewables 
and circular production in Porvoo long term. The transformation under study would start with the co-processing of both 
renewable and circular feedstock and could continue with retrofits of existing units at a later stage, with a long-term capacity 
potential of 2 to 4 million tons per year. The targeted transformation would lead to a discontinuation of crude oil refining in 
Porvoo in the mid-2030s. Neste will also continue to actively study opportunities of green hydrogen at its Porvoo refinery. 
These developments would significantly contribute to the realization of Neste’s climate commitments, and make Neste a 
global frontrunner in the transformation of the fossil fuel industry.

On 21 September, Neste announced that it had finalized the transaction to establish a joint venture for production 
of renewable fuels with Marathon Petroleum in the United States. On 1 March 2022, Neste and Marathon Petroleum 
Corporation announced an agreement to establish a 50/50 joint venture to produce renewable diesel following a conversion 
project of Marathon’s refinery in Martinez, California. All required closing conditions have been met, and Neste and 
Marathon have closed the transaction for the establishment of the joint venture to be called Martinez Renewables. Martinez 
Renewables is expected to commence production in early 2023. Pretreatment capabilities are expected to come online in 
the second half of 2023 and the facility is expected to be capable of producing 2.1 million tons per year by the end of 2023.  

On 25 October, Neste announced that it has agreed to supply the Air France-KLM Group with more than 1,000,000 
tons (approx. 1.26 billion liters) of Neste MY Sustainable Aviation Fuel™ over a period of 8 years starting in 2023. This SAF 
agreement is one of the largest of its kind in the aviation industry and supports the Air France-KLM Group’s commitment to 
a more sustainable aviation sector. Using Neste MY Sustainable Aviation Fuel™ reduces greenhouse gas emissions by up to 
80%* over the fuel’s life cycle compared to using fossil jet fuel.

On 17 November, Neste announced that it has agreed to acquire the used cooking oil (UCO) collection and aggregation 
business and related assets in the United States from Crimson Renewable Energy Holdings, LLC. The transaction includes 
shares in SeQuential Environmental Services, LLC, and Pure, LLC, as well as a UCO processing plant in Salem, Oregon. 
Together with the previous acquisitions of Mahoney Environmental and Agri Trading in the United States, IH Demeter in 
the Netherlands, and Walco Foods in Ireland, the transaction continues to enhance Neste’s global raw materials sourcing 
platform. The transaction is subject to the fulfillment of customary closing conditions and regulatory approval. 

On 22 November, Neste announced that it delivered over 500,000 gallons (1,500 metric tons) of Neste MY Sustainable 
Aviation Fuel™ to Los Angeles International Airport (LAX). This SAF delivery was made possible by a close cooperation with 
LAXFUEL, the consortium of the airlines operating at LAX providing the jet fuel supply infrastructure for the planes at the 
airport. It is the first time SAF is delivered into LAXFUEL’s supply infrastructure using barges for transport.

On 23 November, Neste announced that Moody’s Investors Service has assigned an A3 long term issuer rating and a 
baseline credit assessment (bca) of baa1 to Neste Corporation. Neste’s outlook is stable. Moody’s rating rationale highlights 
Neste’s strong business profile with high profitability as a global producer of renewable products, the competitive advantage 
in sourcing waste and residues as main feedstock, and growing end market demand for renewable fuels and renewable raw 
materials for polymers and chemicals supported by both mandated and voluntary demand in Europe and North America.

On 8 December Neste announced that it has appointed Katja Wodjereck Executive Vice President, Renewable Road 
Transportation and a member of Neste Executive Committee. She will report to President and CEO Matti Lehmus, and take 
up the position on 1 April 2023. Katja will transfer to Neste from Dow. She will be following Carl Nyberg in this role as he 
was appointed EVP, Renewable Platform earlier this year. Neste also announced that in parallel, a new Executive Committee 



157

role is established to lead Neste’s Investment Management and Execution and Bart Leenders has been appointed Executive 
Vice President, Investment Management and Execution and a member of Neste’s Executive Committee. He will report to 
President and CEO Matti Lehmus, and take up the position on 1 January 2023. Bart Leenders currently holds the position of 
Vice President, Production at Neste. 

On 22 December Neste announced that the Chair of the Shareholders’ Nomination Board of Neste Corporation changes. 
Director General Kimmo Viertola of the Ownership Steering Department in the Prime Minister’s Office of Finland has been 
the Chair until 22 December 2022 and as of 23 December 2022, the Chair will be Senior Ministerial Adviser, Financial Affairs 
Maija Strandberg of the Ownership Steering Department in the Prime Minister’s Office of Finland. In line with the stock 
exchange release published on 6 September 2022, the other members of the Shareholders’ Nomination Board are: Timo 
Sallinen, Senior Vice President, Investments of Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company; President and CEO Jouko 
Pölönen of Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Company and Matti Kähkönen, the Chair of Neste’s Board of Directors.

Events published after the reporting period
On 13 January 2023, Neste announced that its earlier announced acquisition of used cooking oil collection and aggregation 
business from Crimson Renewable Energy in the United States is completed. The acquisition has been approved by regulatory 
authorities, and the transaction has been closed. 

On 27 January 2023, Neste announced that the Shareholders’ Nomination Board had forwarded to the Board of Directors 
of the Company its proposals to the 2023 AGM. The Nomination Board proposes that Matti Kähkönen shall be re-elected 
as the Chair of the Board of Directors. In addition, the current members of the Board, John Abbott, Nick Elmslie, Martina 
Flöel, Just Jansz, Jari Rosendal, Eeva Sipilä and Johanna Söderström are proposed to be re-elected for a further term 
of office. The Nomination Board proposes that Eeva Sipilä shall be elected as the Vice Chair of the Board. Further, the 
Nomination Board proposes that the Board shall have ten members and that Heikki Malinen and Kimmo Viertola shall be 
elected as new members.

Risk Management 
Neste considers risk management an integral part of daily management processes and good corporate governance. Systematic 
risk management practices are the means to ensure that Neste is successful in achieving its set strategic targets and business 
objectives and can maintain continuous operations in the changing business environment. Neste’s risk management framework 
and processes are aligned with internationally recognized best practices: the COSO Enterprise Risk Management framework; 
and the International Standard for risk management, ISO 31000:2009. 

Neste’s risk management framework and risk management principles have been defined in the Corporate Risk 
Management Policy which has been approved by the Board of Directors. The Risk Management Policy is supplemented 
by risk management principles, guidelines and instructions for specific risk disciplines. Communication regarding the most 
important risk issues takes place during the strategic planning and performance management cycle. Formal risk reporting 
is directed to the business management and function management teams, the Neste Executive Committee, the Audit 
Committee, and the Board of Directors. 

Risks related to Neste’s business 
Neste’s growth and financial performance may be impacted by macroeconomic and political uncertainties, which include 
exceptional inflation in Europe and the US, high interest rates, tightening central bank measures, the continuing war in Ukraine 
and regulatory changes at the European Union or individual member state level or in North America. Other risks potentially 
affecting Neste’s financial results in the next 12 months include regulatory risks, changes in market prices and the competitive 
situation, counterparty risks, any scheduled or unexpected shutdowns at Neste’s refineries, potential strikes, cyber and 
IT-related risks, and the outcome of legal proceedings. 

Sustainability risks
The Neste Corporate Risk Management Policy and supporting principles, requirements and processes also apply to sustainability 
risks, which are managed as a specific risk category in quarterly risk reviews. The assessment considers short-, medium- and 
long-term perspectives. In addition to the more regular sustainability risks, the assessment also takes into account emerging 
topics like inequality and just transition; as well as land use and biodiversity, which are discussed in the related sections below.

Sustainability risks, including risks related to climate change, are identified and assessed twice a year to determine which 
risks and opportunities could have a substantive financial, strategic or reputational impact. Communication regarding the 
most important sustainability risk issues takes place during the strategic planning and performance management cycle. 

For more detailed information on Neste’s risks and risk management, please refer to Risk Management in the Annual 
Report’s Governance chapter and the Notes to the Financial Statements. For more information on Neste’s sustainability 
risks, please see risk chapters in the following Non-Financial Information Statement below.

Non-Financial Information Statement
Neste fulfills the requirements of the EU Directive on the disclosure of non-financial and diversity information, and the changes 
made in the Finnish Accounting Act. Information in accordance with the current requirements of the EU Taxonomy Regulation 
is disclosed in this non-financial information statement. In addition, Neste 2022 Sustainability Report has been prepared in 
accordance with the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) and includes SASB Oil & Gas Refining and Marketing indicators where 
applicable. Neste is committed to applying the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) reporting principles 
in disclosing climate-related financial risks and opportunities in the reporting. Part of Neste’s TCFD reporting takes place 
within this Non-Financial Information (NFI) Statement in addition to the Sustainability Report, which also includes the TCFD 
index for navigation purposes between these sections. Neste’s Sustainability Report information is assured by a third-party 
in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised), Assurance Engagements 
other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information, issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards 
Board, IAASB. For more on Neste’s sustainability, see Neste’s Sustainability Report and Neste’s website. 

Business model
Neste employed an average of 5,244 (4,872) employees during 2022, of whom 1,642 (1,309) were based outside Finland. At 
the end of December, the company had 5,428 (4,845) employees, of whom 1,810 (1,461) were based outside Finland.

Neste is the world’s largest producer of sustainable aviation fuel and renewable diesel refined from waste and 
residues. The company is also introducing renewable solutions to the polymers and chemical industries. Neste is also a 
technologically advanced refiner of high-quality oil products, exploring ways to start using waste plastics as a raw material to 
produce new plastics, and developing chemical recycling to combat the plastic waste challenge.

Neste’s businesses are grouped into four reporting segments: Renewable Products (RP), Oil Products (OP), Marketing 
& Services (M&S), and Others. The renewables businesses are Renewable Aviation, Renewable Polymers and Chemicals, 
and Renewable Road Transportation. Neste has integrated sustainability into its business strategy to secure the long-term 
success of its business. 

The Renewable Products segment produces, markets, and sells renewable diesel, sustainable aviation fuel, renewable 
solvents, and feedstock for bioplastics to domestic and international wholesale markets. Neste’s renewable products’ 
refineries in Finland, the Netherlands, and Singapore produce renewable products entirely from renewable raw materials. 
The raw material supply chains for Neste’s renewable products are extensive and global. Neste procure raw materials from 
suppliers across Europe, North America, South America, Asia, Africa, and Australia.

The Oil Products segment produces, markets, and sells high-quality oil products and related services for the road 
transportation, non-road uses, aviation and marine sectors, as well as products for the oil and petrochemical industries. 
The product range includes diesel, gasoline, aviation and marine fuels, light and heavy fuel oils, gasoline components, and 
special fuels such as small engine gasoline, solvents, liquid gases and bitumens. Neste’s oil products are refined in Neste’s 

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Review by the Board of Directors

https://www.neste.com/sustainability


158

refinery in Porvoo, Finland. Neste Shipping chartering operations are included in the Oil Products segment. The company’s 
major crude oil and fossil feedstock sources have been Russia, Norway, and Kazakhstan. At the start of the war in Ukraine, 
Neste decided to stop using Russian crude oil entirely and started replacing it with other qualities. The last crude oil cargo 
with Russian origin was supplied to Neste in July 2022 and the supply contracts ended. Supply contracts for other fossil 
raw materials from Russia ended at the end of 2022. 

Marketing & Services offers sustainable solutions for the needs of consumers via its station network and a wide variety 
of B2B customers and partners. Neste seeks to develop a diverse range of services as part of the offering and to be where 
the customers are – in the mobile sphere. The Marketing & Services segment markets and sells petroleum products and 
associated services directly to end-users predominantly private motorists, industry, transport companies, farmers, and 
heating oil customers. Traffic fuels are marketed through Neste’s own service station network and direct sales. 

Neste’s purpose is to create a healthier planet for our children, with a vision to lead the way towards a sustainable future 
together. At Neste, we set high standards for sustainability. The company’s broadened sustainability vision is an integral part 
of the new wave of Neste’s transformation: we lead the transformation towards a carbon neutral value chain, and have set 
aspirational targets for biodiversity, human rights, supply chain and raw materials.

Sustainably-produced solutions are Neste’s most significant contribution to the implementation of the Paris Agreement, as 
well as the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). Neste is also developing chemical recycling to combat 
the plastic waste challenge. The company is introducing renewable and recycled raw materials such as liquefied waste 
plastic as refinery raw materials. Neste has an ambition to make its Porvoo refinery the most sustainable refinery in Europe 
aiming to reach carbon neutral production by 2035. A strategic study has been launched on transforming Porvoo refinery to 
a renewable and circular site with 2–4 million tons annual capacity and ending of crude oil refining by the middle of 2030s.

Neste creates value for society by helping its customers reduce greenhouse gas emissions by sustainably developing 
lower-emission solutions for road transportation, aviation, and marine uses, as well as renewable and circular solutions 
for the chemical and plastics industries. Neste’s NEXBTL refining technology enables the flexible use of various renewable 
raw materials, including low-quality waste and residue oils and fats. Renewable waste and residue fats and oils will be 
indispensable in delivering greenhouse gas emission reductions in the near future and over the longer term. Novel vegetable 
oils (such as cover crops cultivated on existing agricultural land during the off-season) will be an increasingly important 
source of raw material for further scaling up solutions such as renewable diesel, as well as sustainable aviation fuel 
production. In addition, new conversion technologies will enable the use of currently untapped raw material pools such as 
municipal solid waste and lignocellulosic biomass. In the long term, fuel produced from electricity and waste CO2, so-called 
e-fuels (or power-to-liquids), will also increasingly play a role. The potential of these technologies could be substantial if 
innovation activities successfully enhance technology maturity and bring down costs. Securing the supply of renewable 
raw materials is considered essential for the success of Neste’s growth strategy. Neste also focuses on providing excellent 
customer service, as well as flexible and reliable customer solutions. 

Neste’s value creation is also based on its high-quality products, a global business model for raw material sourcing and 
product sales, in-depth knowledge of regulations and global customer requirements for both renewable and fossil products, 
and continuous innovation and development of products and solutions. In 2022, we had refineries in Porvoo, Rotterdam 
and Singapore. Non-financial assets, e.g. production, sales and sourcing expertise, are an essential part of Neste’s value 
creation. A substantial effort is made to maintain and develop the skills base within the company. Neste is investing in 
developing corporate culture to deeply ingrain customer satisfaction, safety, and operational efficiency to the day-to-day 
operations. Please see Neste’s value creation map in the Sustainability Report. 

See also: Outlook 

EU Taxonomy

Proportion of taxonomy-aligned economic activities 
The EU taxonomy is a classification system for sustainable economic activities. It aims to provide robust definitions and 
transparent reporting to support increased finance for activities that substantially contribute to solving the climate and 
environmental crisis.

Large undertakings such as Neste that are required to publish non-financial information pursuant to the Non-Financial 
Reporting Directive (NFRD) are required to disclose information about how and to what extent business activities are 
associated with environmentally sustainable economic activities as defined in the taxonomy regulation. The EU taxonomy is 
reported in financial terms as the proportion of economic activities that are determined non-eligible, eligible and aligned in 
turnover, Capital Expenditure (CapEx) and Operating Expenditure (OpEx). 

Taxonomy eligibility for an activity is determined by the activity description in Annex I of the climate delegated act related 
to climate change mitigation in the taxonomy regulation. Taxonomy alignment for an activity is evaluated by the technical 
screening criteria for substantial contribution and “do no significant harm” (DNSH) as set out in Annex I. An activity is 
taxonomy-aligned when it substantially contributes to at least one environmental objective while doing no significant harm to 
the other environmental objectives as set out by the technical screening criteria. Additionally, an entity needs to comply with 
the minimum safeguards.

The taxonomy Regulation is not complete as only the technical screening criteria for the two climate-related objectives 
are in force so far. The technical screening criteria for the remaining four environmental objectives will be published in the 
second delegated act. Neste’s figures therefore represent taxonomy alignment solely in that respect and will be re-evaluated 
simultaneously with the legislative development. Neste is committed to the transformation towards a carbon neutral value 
chain and contributes substantially to the stabilization of greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere at a level which 
prevents dangerous anthropogenic interference with the climate system, consistent with the Paris Agreement’s long-term 
temperature goal. Neste has operations that contribute towards the climate change mitigation objective. 

Assessment of compliance with the taxonomy regulation
Neste has carried out an internal assessment to identify the activities within the scope of the taxonomy. The assessment was 
coordinated by the Sustainability Reporting and Finance teams and was supported by several functions in the organization. 
The assessment included all Neste’s business units and innovation platforms. Eligible activities were identified based on the 
description of the activity in the annex of the climate delegated act of the taxonomy regulation. The substantial contribution 
and do no significant harm criteria were evaluated for each activity identified according to the technical screening criteria laid 
out after the description of the relevant economic activity, to recognize the share of taxonomy-aligned economic activities. 
The identified economic activities have been evaluated based on their contribution to the climate change mitigation objective 
set out in the Climate Delegated Act. Based on this process, the following activities in the taxonomy have been identified as 
relevant for Neste:

4.13 Manufacture of biogas and biofuels for use in transport and of bioliquids
• Manufacture of renewable fuels 
• Bio co-processing of fuels

6.15 Infrastructure enabling low-carbon road transport and public transport
• Electric vehicle charging services

9.1 Close to market research, development and innovation
• R&D activities in Neste’s innovation business platforms, such as renewable hydrogen, Power-to-X and municipal  

solid waste

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Review by the Board of Directors



159Neste Annual Report 2022 | Review by the Board of Directors

Neste also has economic activities that are currently not covered by the EU taxonomy. For example, Neste provides circular 
economy solutions, for which the criteria are currently under development by the Commission and hence are not yet covered 
by the EU taxonomy. Moreover, the activities covered in the climate delegated act do not yet accommodate all operations that 
contribute to significant emission savings. Since the regulation is under development, the resulting figures do not represent the 
absolute value of our taxonomy-aligned activities. Neste is engaged in further developing the taxonomy framework and supports 
its role in enabling the transition to a climate neutral and circular economy. As the EU taxonomy continues to develop, Neste 
will also continuously re-evaluate whether its activities have a substantial contribution to the other environmental objectives 
under the taxonomy.

Substantial contribution of our core business
The EU taxonomy refers to the manufacture of biofuels for use in transport as a sustainable activity, and we have assessed 
Neste’s manufacturing of renewable fuels for the road transport and aviation sectors, as well as the bio co-processing of fuels to 
be taxonomy-relevant economic activities based on the climate delegated act of the regulation. Renewable Road Transportation 
and Renewable Aviation businesses offer renewable fuels for the road transport and aviation sectors. Renewables Platform 
enables Neste’s renewable raw materials sourcing, global renewables production and delivery of renewables to our global 
customer base. Bio co-processing is aimed at replacing crude oil input in the production of fuels used in various transport 
sectors. Our taxonomy-relevant activities represent climate change mitigation solutions and are well in line with our ambitious 
climate commitments. 

The EU taxonomy technical screening criteria for the climate Delegated Act including climate change mitigation 
establishes criteria for the “Manufacture of biogas or biofuels for use in transport and of bioliquids’’ activity. The recognized 
activities, manufacturing biofuels and bio co-processing of fuels, make a substantial contribution to climate change 
mitigation. The substantial contribution criteria sets the threshold for greenhouse gas (GHG) emission savings from the 
manufacture of biofuels and biogas for use in transport to at least 65% in relation to the GHG emission saving methodology 
and the relative fossil fuel comparator in accordance with Directive (EU) 2018/2001. Additionally, the criteria requires that 
no food and feed crops are used in the manufacturing. The share of manufacturing from waste and residue raw materials is 
therefore included in our alignment figures for this activity. The alignment figures for biofuel sales outside the EU are reported 
separately because the GHG emission calculation and verification methodologies differ. Neste complies with local legislation 
and the sales of biofuels meet the GHG emission saving and other sustainability requirements for each market, such as the 
Low Carbon Fuel Standard in California, US.

The activity “Infrastructure enabling low-carbon road transport and public transport” includes our electric vehicle charging 
services. The electric charging stations serve both companies and consumers, and are another solution in Neste’s portfolio 
to support the transition to low-emission transport. The figures for the activity are reported as eligible for the taxonomy, as 
the evaluation of the relevant “Do no significant harm” criteria is ongoing. 

Neste’s Innovation unit is focused on scalable, sustainable raw materials and required technologies for their conversion 
to fuels, polymers and chemicals. The R&D activities reported under the “Close to market research, development and 
innovation” activity meet the activity specific taxonomy alignment criteria and include projects in our portfolio related to 
renewable hydrogen, Power to X and municipal solid waste. Innovations and R&D which support our taxonomy-eligible and 
-aligned activities are accounted for in the taxonomy figures of the activity which they support. Neste’s innovation portfolio 
contains several projects that are developing towards economic activities relevant to the taxonomy. 

The relevant activity-specific “Do no significant harm” criteria from Annex I have been evaluated for each taxonomy-
aligned economic activity. Neste has established and implemented procedures to minimize any adverse impacts of our 
operations on the environment and complies with all relevant environmental requirements applicable to our operations. 
Neste complies with the minimum safeguards as determined in our Code of Conduct, which includes the topics of human 
rights, including workers’ rights, bribery and corruption, taxation and fair competition. We respect internationally recognized 
human rights as set out in the International Bill of Human Rights and the principles concerning fundamental rights set out in 
the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Neste implements an ongoing process of human rights 
due diligence to identify, prevent, mitigate and account for how it addresses adverse human rights impacts on people in 
accordance with the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs) and the OECD Guidelines 
for Multinational Enterprises.

Accounting policy
The definitions of taxonomy key performance indicators (KPIs) are based on Neste’s interpretation of the disclosure 
delegated act, which supplements the taxonomy regulation and follows requirements that apply for the disclosures 
under Article 8(2) of Regulation (EU) 2020/852. The taxonomy reporting scope covers Neste’s global operations and 
calculations follow general materiality principles. Taxonomy KPIs are calculated using financial information presented in 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Neste’s annual report 2022. To avoid double counting in the reported 
figures, allocations were made for each activity separately based on reporting structures and a reconciliation has been 
carried out for the final figures.

Based on Neste’s taxonomy alignment evaluation in 2022, previous taxonomy reporting for 2021 is specified, and 
changes in figures are largely due to a more in-depth assessment of taxonomy-relevant activities both within and outside 
the Renewable Products segment.  

Turnover
In calculating the proportion of turnover from products associated with taxonomy-eligible and -aligned economic activities, 
Neste includes revenue from goods and services which have a clear relationship with the identified economic activities. 
Turnover for the manufacture of biofuels and co-processing includes sales of bio-based fuels, biofuel credits related to the 
physical product, and exchange rate hedges. Turnover for infrastructure enabling low-carbon road transport activity includes 
sales from electric charging services. The denominator is Neste’s total sales and it covers revenue recognised pursuant to 
International Accounting Standard (IAS) 1 and refers to Note 5 Revenue in the consolidated financial statements.

Based on the taxonomy alignment evaluation in 2022, changes in the eligibility turnover reporting for 2021 excludes 
figures such as the production of renewable and recycled products for material uses and third-party raw material trading. 
Changes also include addition of taxonomy-eligible renewable fuels, which had not been accounted for previously. The 
restated taxonomy-eligible turnover for 2021 is 36%.



160

Proportion of turnover SUBSTANTIAL CONTRIBUTION CRITERIA DNSH CRITERIA

M
in

im
un

 s
af

eg
ua

rd
s

Ta
xo

no
m

y-
al

ig
ne

d
 p

ro
p

o
rt

io
n 

o
f 

tu
rn

o
ve

r 
in

 2
02

2 

Ta
xo

no
m

y-
al

ig
ne

d
 p

ro
p

o
rt

io
n 

o
f 

tu
rn

o
ve

r 
in

 2
02

1

C
at

eg
o

ry
 (e

na
b

lin
g

 a
ct

iv
it

y)
 

C
at

eg
o

ry
 (t

ra
ns

it
io

na
l a

ct
iv

it
y)

 

C
o

d
es

A
b

so
lu

te
 t

ur
no

ve
r

P
ro

p
o

rt
io

n 
o

f 
tu

rn
o

ve
r

C
lim

at
e 

ch
an

g
e 

m
it

ig
at

io
n 

C
lim

at
e 

ch
an

g
e 

ad
ap

ta
ti

o
n 

W
at

er
 a

nd
 m

ar
in

e 
re

so
ur

ce
s 

C
ir

cu
la

r 
ec

o
no

m
y 

P
o

llu
ti

o
n 

B
io

d
iv

er
si

ty
 a

nd
 e

co
sy

st
em

s 

C
lim

at
e 

ch
an

g
e 

m
it

ig
at

io
n

C
lim

at
e 

ch
an

g
e 

ad
ap

ta
ti

o
n

W
at

er
 a

nd
 m

ar
in

e 
re

so
ur

ce
s

 C
ir

cu
la

r 
ec

o
no

m
y

P
o

llu
ti

o
n

B
io

d
iv

er
si

ty
 a

nd
 e

co
sy

st
em

s

Economic activities MEUR % % % % % % % Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N % % E T

A. TAXONOMY-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES

A.1. Environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned)
Manufacture of biogas and biofuels 
for use in transport and of bioliquids 4.13 4,758 19 100 0 - - - - - Y Y Y Y Y Y 19 19 - -

Manufacture of biogas and biofuels 
for use in transport and of bioliquids 1) 4.13 2,817 11 100 0 - - - - - Y Y Y Y Y Y 11 14 - -
Turnover of environmentally sustainable activities 
(Taxonomy-aligned) 7,575 29 100 0 - - - - - Y Y Y Y Y Y 29 32 - -
A.2. Taxonomy-Eligible but not environmentally sustainable 
activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities)
Manufacture of biogas and biofuels 
for use in transport and of bioliquids 4.13 672 3
Infrastructure enabling low-carbon 
road transport and public transport 6.15 0 0
Turnover of Taxonomy-eligible but not 
environmentally sustainable activities 
(not Taxonomy-aligned activities) 673 3 3 3

Total (A.1 + A.2) 8,248 32 32 36

B. TAXONOMY NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES

Turnover of Taxonomy-non-eligible activities 17,459 68

Total (A+B) 25,707 100

1) Share of waste & residue based renewable fuels sold outside of the EU

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Review by the Board of Directors



161Neste Annual Report 2022 | Review by the Board of Directors

Breakdown of the CapEx KPI
Taxonomy-aligned activities 

(A.1)

Taxonomy-eligible but not 
taxonomy-aligned activities 

(A.2)
Additions to property, plant and equipment 1,419 192
Additions to intangible assets 1 1
Additions to capitalized right-of-use assets 227 30
Additions related to acquisitions 1) 4 0
Total CapEx (A.1 + A.2) 1,651 223

1) Goodwill excluded 30 MEUR

Capital Expenditure
The Capital Expenditure (CapEx) includes investments related to activities identified as taxonomy-eligible or -aligned. The 
CapEx figures consist mainly of investments enabling Neste’s renewable production capacity growth. To provide an accurate 
allocation of CapEx for taxonomy-aligned activities, Neste has used the share of taxonomy-aligned production volumes to 
allocate the proportion to the CapEx alignment figures. For example, allocations for the manufacture of biofuels activity are 
made based on production volumes which fulfill the GHG emission savings and raw material criteria outlined in the technical 
screening criteria for the activity.

The breakdown of the CapEx figures is based on the disclosure delegated act and includes taxonomy-eligible and 
-aligned CapEx. These taxonomy CapEx figures refer to additions in Note 13 Intangible assets (IAS38) and Note 14 
Property, plant and equipment (IAS16) and Right-of-use assets refer to Note 30 Leases (IFRS16) in the consolidated 
financial statements. However, the taxonomy figures only include the proportion of the investments which are within the 
scope of the EU taxonomy regulation and thus cannot be directly derived from the Notes. CapEx also covers additions to 
tangible and intangible assets resulting from business combinations. According to the current interpretation of the taxonomy 
regulation, goodwill is excluded from the CapEx calculations. The CapEx eligibility figure for 2021 has also been restated to 
reflect this interpretation. The restated taxonomy-eligible CapEx for 2021 is 61%.



162

Proportion of CapEx SUBSTANTIAL CONTRIBUTION CRITERIA DNSH CRITERIA

M
in

im
un

 s
af

eg
ua

rd
s

Ta
xo

no
m

y-
al

ig
ne

d
 p

ro
p

o
rt

io
n 

o
f 

C
ap

E
x 

in
 2

02
2 

Ta
xo

no
m

y-
al

ig
ne

d
 p

ro
p

o
rt

io
n 

o
f 

C
ap

E
x 

in
 2

02
1

C
at

eg
o

ry
 (e

na
b

lin
g

 a
ct

iv
it

y)
 

C
at

eg
o

ry
 (t

ra
ns

it
io

na
l a

ct
iv

it
y)

 

C
o

d
es

A
b

so
lu

te
 C

ap
E

x

P
ro

p
o

rt
io

n 
o

f 
C

ap
E

x

C
lim

at
e 

ch
an

g
e 

m
it

ig
at

io
n 

C
lim

at
e 

ch
an

g
e 

ad
ap

ta
ti

o
n 

W
at

er
 a

nd
 m

ar
in

e 
re

so
ur

ce
s 

C
ir

cu
la

r 
ec

o
no

m
y 

P
o

llu
ti

o
n 

B
io

d
iv

er
si

ty
 a

nd
 e

co
sy

st
em

s 

C
lim

at
e 

ch
an

g
e 

m
it

ig
at

io
n

C
lim

at
e 

ch
an

g
e 

ad
ap

ta
ti

o
n

W
at

er
 a

nd
 m

ar
in

e 
re

so
ur

ce
s

 C
ir

cu
la

r 
ec

o
no

m
y

P
o

llu
ti

o
n

B
io

d
iv

er
si

ty
 a

nd
 e

co
sy

st
em

s

Economic activities MEUR % % % % % % % Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N % % E T

A. TAXONOMY-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES

A.1. Environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned)
Manufacture of biogas and biofuels 
for use in transport and of bioliquids 4.13 528 24 100 0 % - - - - - Y Y Y Y Y Y 24 29 - -
Manufacture of biogas and biofuels 
for use in transport and of bioliquids 1) 4.13 1,122 51 100 0 % - - - - - Y Y Y Y Y Y 51 25 - -
CapEx of environmentally sustainable activities 
(Taxonomy-aligned) 1,651 75 100 0 % - - - - - Y Y Y Y Y Y 75 54 - -
A.2. Taxonomy-Eligible but not environmentally sustainable 
activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities)
Manufacture of biogas and biofuels 
for use in transport and of bioliquids 4.13 223 10
Infrastructure enabling low-carbon road transport 
and public transport 6.15 1 0
CapEx of Taxonomy-eligible but 
not environmentally sustainable activities
(not Taxonomy-aligned activities) 223 10 10 7

Total (A.1 + A.2) 1,874 85 85 61

B. TAXONOMY NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES

CapEx of Taxonomy-non-eligible activities 318 15

Total (A+B) 2,192 100
 
1) Share of waste & residue based renewable fuels sold outside of the EU

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Review by the Board of Directors



163Neste Annual Report 2022 | Review by the Board of Directors

Operating Expenses
The taxonomy-eligible and -aligned Operating Expenses (OpEx) cover direct non-capitalized expenses related to research and 
development, short-term leases (IFRS 16) and maintenance and repair. OpEx figures also include costs related to personnel, 
identified as other direct expenses relating to the day-to-day servicing required to maintain tangible fixed assets. The allocation 
of OpEx for activities that are partially taxonomy-aligned follows the same methodology as Neste uses in the taxonomy CapEx 
calculation and the expenses are thus allocated by using the share of taxonomy-aligned production volumes.

Neste’s taxonomy OpEx figures include expenses presented in Note 9 Other expenses, although the figures only include the 
proportion of expenses which are within the scope of the EU taxonomy regulation. Changes in the OpEx eligibility figure for 
2021 are mostly due to certain R&D activities being excluded as they cannot be directly allocated to a specific taxonomy-
activity. The restated taxonomy-eligible OpEx for 2021 is 29%.

Breakdown of the OpEx KPI
Taxonomy-aligned activities 

(A.1)

Taxonomy-eligible but not 
taxonomy-aligned activities 

(A.2)
Costs of R&D 37 6
Costs of short-term leases 5 1
Costs of maintenance and repair 38 5
Total OpEx (A.1 + A.2) 80 12



164

Proportion of OpEx SUBSTANTIAL CONTRIBUTION CRITERIA DNSH CRITERIA

M
in

im
un

 s
af

eg
ua

rd
s

Ta
xo

no
m

y-
al

ig
ne

d
 p

ro
p

o
rt

io
n 

o
f 

O
p

E
x 

in
 2

02
2 

Ta
xo

no
m

y-
al

ig
ne

d
 p

ro
p

o
rt

io
n 

o
f 

O
p

E
x 

in
 2

02
1

C
at

eg
o

ry
 (e

na
b

lin
g

 a
ct

iv
it

y)
 

C
at

eg
o

ry
 (t

ra
ns

it
io

na
l a

ct
iv

it
y)

 

C
o

d
es

A
b

so
lu

te
 O

p
E

x

P
ro

p
o

rt
io

n 
o

f 
O

p
E

x 

C
lim

at
e 

ch
an

g
e 

m
it

ig
at

io
n 

C
lim

at
e 

ch
an

g
e 

ad
ap

ta
ti

o
n 

W
at

er
 a

nd
 m

ar
in

e 
re

so
ur

ce
s 

C
ir

cu
la

r 
ec

o
no

m
y 

P
o

llu
ti

o
n 

B
io

d
iv

er
si

ty
 a

nd
 e

co
sy

st
em

s 

C
lim

at
e 

ch
an

g
e 

m
it

ig
at

io
n

C
lim

at
e 

ch
an

g
e 

ad
ap

ta
ti

o
n

W
at

er
 a

nd
 m

ar
in

e 
re

so
ur

ce
s

 C
ir

cu
la

r 
ec

o
no

m
y

P
o

llu
ti

o
n

B
io

d
iv

er
si

ty
 a

nd
 e

co
sy

st
em

s

Economic activities MEUR % % % % % % % Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N % % E T

A. TAXONOMY-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES

A.1. Environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned)
Manufacture of biogas and biofuels 
for use in transport and of bioliquids 4.13 48 17 100 0 - - - - - Y Y Y Y Y Y 17 15 - -
Manufacture of biogas and biofuels 
for use in transport and of bioliquids 1) 4.13 22 8 100 0 - - - - - Y Y Y Y Y Y 8 9 - -

Close to market research,  
development and innovation 9.1 10 4 100 0 - - - - - Y Y Y Y Y Y 4 2 E -
OpEx of environmentally sustainable activities 
(Taxonomy-aligned) 80 28 100 0 - - - - - Y Y Y Y Y Y 28 26 - -
A.2. Taxonomy-Eligible but not environmentally sustainable 
activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities)
Manufacture of biogas and biofuels f
or use in transport and of bioliquids 4.13 12 4
Infrastructure enabling low-carbon road transport 
and public transport 6.15 0 0
OpEx of Taxonomy-eligible but 
not environmentally sustainable activities 
(not Taxonomy-aligned activities) 12 4 4 3

Total (A.1 + A.2) 92 32 32 29

B. TAXONOMY NON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES

OpEx of Taxonomy-non-eligible activities 194 68

Total (A+B) 285 100
 
1) Share of waste & residue based renewable fuels sold outside of the EU

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Review by the Board of Directors



165Neste Annual Report 2022 | Review by the Board of Directors

Materiality
This NFI Statement focuses on the most material sustainability topics for Neste and its stakeholders in relation to value creation 
and risk management. Neste conducts a materiality assessment once every two years. The most recent assessment was 
conducted in 2022. The materiality assessment was conducted following the “double materiality” approach, which combines 
impact materiality and financial materiality. The most material topics identified for Neste are based on their business and 
stakeholder influence, outward impact on the economy, environment and people, as well as the estimated magnitude of their 
impacts. The materiality assessment identified eleven material topics that provide the framework for Neste’s sustainability 
agenda. The eleven topics are: Carbon handprint; Carbon footprint; Protecting biodiversity, air, water and soil; Stakeholder 
engagement, communication and transparency; Innovation; Partnerships; Sustainable products and services; Safety, health 
and wellbeing; Modern slavery; Diversity, equity and inclusion; and Engaged and talented workforce. Several of the material 
topics are relevant in both our own operations, and in our value chain. Hence, the supply chain and raw material sustainability 
are seen as an underlying theme that needs to be considered for each of the eleven topics’ impacts. Similar underlying themes 
are economic responsibility and ethics, compliance and corporate governance. These three themes are the cornerstones of 
our sustainability agenda. Our materiality matrix describes the significance of sustainability topics from the perspective of our 
business operations and stakeholders.

Neste’s eleven material topics are related to all four themes in non-financial reporting requirements: environmental matters; 
social and employee matters; respect for human rights; and anti-corruption and anti-bribery.

Neste’s sustainability policies and principles apply to the company as a whole and guide all its operations. In addition, 
international conventions and commitments underlie Neste’s work. In 2022, Neste was included in the Dow Jones Sustainability 
Index for the 16th consecutive time. Neste was included in both the DJSI World and DJSI Europe. The industry’s best scores 
in materiality, environmental and social reporting, human rights and human capital development contributed to the company’s 
inclusion among the top performers. Neste achieved an AAA rating in 2022 in the MSCI ESG Rating Index measuring companies’ 
resilience to long-term ESG risks. In the 2022 CDP Climate Change and Forests assessments, Neste achieved the Leadership 
level, with an A- rating and for Water Security, Neste received a B rating.

Climate and Environment

Policies and principles 
Neste’s climate commitments are a key part of the company strategy. They are discussed at the Executive Committee at 
least twice a year and by the Board of Directors at least once a year. The decision to strengthen the governance with regular 
reviews was made by the Neste Executive Committee in 2019. Key risks related to climate change are presented to the Audit 
Committee in connection with the risk reviews. Responsibility for climate issue management belongs to the EVP Sustainability 
and Corporate Affairs, who is responsible for managing climate-related risks and opportunities and presenting them to the 
Board as part of the meetings, together with the sustainability organization.  

Climate and biodiversity are two of the cornerstones of Neste’s sustainability vision. Our key policies and principles concerning 
environmental matters related to our own operations are our Sustainability Policy and Sustainability Principle. All Neste’s refineries 
and the company-managed security stockpiles have been certified in accordance with the requirements of the ISO 9001, ISO 
14001 and ISO 45001 standards. All Neste’s renewable product refineries have EU-compliant International Sustainability and 
Carbon Certification (ISCC) certificates. In the United States, the sustainability of Neste’s renewable fuels is monitored based 
on the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) sustainability requirements. We have committed to preventing deforestation 
in our supply chains, and to avoiding the conversion of habitats with valuable biodiversity for biomass production. We require 
the same from all our suppliers.

We have reported relevant climate- and environment-related metrics in the 2022 Sustainability Report. For climate, the 
metrics include GHG emission reduction by our customers with our renewable products, scopes 1, 2, and 3 GHG emissions 
and the use phase emission intensity of sold products. For biodiversity, the reporting is aligned with our vision to achieve a 
nature positive value chain by 2040 and the shorter term ambition levels to develop net positive impacts (NPI) and no net loss 
(NNL) for our own operations. In addition, metrics include more specific environmental topics like the availability of pollution 
prevention technology, and the number of permit violations.

Climate-related risks and opportunities
Climate change poses both business risks and opportunities to Neste. Neste is therefore committed to applying the Task Force 
for Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) reporting framework to understand and evaluate the potential implications 
of climate change. 

Neste uses scenario analysis to assess the resilience and adaptability of Neste’s strategy to climate change. We base 
our scenario analysis on the internationally acknowledged climate pathways that represent objective and well-established 
benchmarks for the energy industry, for example published by the International Energy Agency (IEA). We complement our 
scenarios by internal analysis and identification of trends and factors relevant to our business. In 2022, we analyzed the 
implications for Neste in three climate scenarios: Net Zero World 2050, which is in line with the 1.5°C pathways; Net Zero EU 
and North America by 2050, consistent with a 2 °C trajectory; and Compromised climate targets, reflecting global warming of 
3 °C or more by the end of the century. 

The focus in Neste’s strategic planning is the next 10 years, with an emphasis on the transportation, petrochemicals, 
and refining sectors. In the scenario work, a time horizon until 2050 is used as the effects of climate change become more 
imminent in the longer term. Climate change and actions to mitigate and adapt to it, pose both transition and physical risks 
and opportunities to companies. In the climate context, topics such as energy transition, regulation, competition and customer 
preferences are relevant for Neste’s business. The impact potential of such drivers on Neste are evaluated on short-, medium- 
and long-term time horizons, with a varying degree of certainty.

Neste will continue to build on its climate actions so that they are in line with the 1.5°C emission scenarios but refers to the 
“most likely” scenario reflecting a trajectory of 2°C global warming by the end of the century as the base case. For example, 
we calculate the impacts and test Neste’s strategy resilience against the scenarios by estimating the impact on Neste’s 
profitability compared to the base case. This is to ensure the key drivers underlying our strategy are robust under the varying 
assumptions across the pathways. 

Risks associated with the transition to a lower-carbon economy may entail changes for Neste to address. Policy and legal 
risks include for example unfavorable development of greenhouse gas emissions pricing or unforeseen regulatory development 
for GHG reductions, or the acceptability of reduction technologies. Technology risks include for example lower than expected 
availability or higher than expected cost for key GHG reduction technologies. Market risks such as stakeholder and customer 
attitudes moving in a less favorable direction, shifts in our products’ supply and demand and services and raw materials, 
increased raw material or utilities costs, or scarcity of renewable raw materials are seen as relevant risks. Both acute physical 
risks, such as extreme weather events, or chronic physical risks, such as changes in precipitation patterns or rises in sea level, 
may cause disruptions in our supply chain and the availability of different raw materials, as well as operating issues or damages 
to Neste’s sites. The identification of physical risks like extreme weather events also takes the long-term scenario into account, 
with different probabilities evaluated for different climate scenarios.

The adaptability and resilience of Neste’s strategy to climate change also creates opportunities by contributing to the 
transition to a lower-carbon economy. Our strategy has been influenced by opportunities related to renewable and circular 
products, and we see that increasing global climate ambitions and related regulations continue to increase the demand for our 
renewable and circular products.



166Neste Annual Report 2022 | Review by the Board of Directors

Results of the scenario assessment provide valuable information on the adaptability and resilience of Neste’s strategy. 
Results are used to support Neste’s strategy development and financial planning. Identified climate risks are included in our 
Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) process, and risk mitigation plans are implemented where appropriate. 

Biodiversity- and environment-related risks and opportunities
Biodiversity loss including a destruction of natural capital, ranging from reductions in the genetic diversity to the collapse of 
entire ecosystems, is mainly the result of human activities like deforestation and soil degradation. Biodiversity loss is a global 
concern that also effects on Neste’s stable and secure operations and supply of raw materials. The risk could be materialized 
in feedstock acceptability by the stakeholders or regulatory limitations that lead to lack of sufficient volumes of feedstock. 
There could also be an impact on our operations with potentially increasingly high requirements for biodiversity. During 2022, 
we conducted a biodiversity materiality analysis for our own operations, and water was highlighted as a key biodiversity topic. 
Risk is related to freshwater ecosystems and marine ecosystems that we might impact through our freshwater withdrawal and 
release of effluents. We are in the process of mapping the main potential adverse impacts relating to biodiversity in our value 
chain.

Neste is subject to a wide array of laws and regulations targeting safe operations and reduced environmental impact. In 
addition, transitioning to a lower-carbon economy entails additional requirements that affect Neste’s approach to managing 
refining assets and place more emphasis on the efficient use of different utilities such as water and energy. To ensure continuous 
compliance with the applicable laws and regulations, Neste has implemented certified management systems that reflect the 
international standards issued by the ISO. During 2022, a comprehensive set of leading environmental performance indicators 
was in use in business units to reduce the risk of environmental permit violations or emissions and incidents. 

Due to their nature, Neste’s operations carry an inherent risk of fires, explosions, leaks and releases of hazardous materials 
or other hazards that can result in soil, groundwater, air, or seawater contamination. At worst, maritime accidents would have a 
catastrophic impact on the surrounding environment. Neste has implemented systematic risk management actions to minimize 
the probability of chemical hazards. Actions taken include ship vetting, systematic safety procedures, partner selection and 
performance management, and training in Neste’s own operations. 

Outcomes and key performance indicators 
We are well on track with our commitment to help our customers reduce their greenhouse gas emissions by at least 20 million 
tons of CO2e annually by 2030. Neste’s performance against this target is reported in the table below. Neste is committed to 
reduce its production (scopes 1 & 2) emissions by 50 % by 2030 (compared to 2019) and reach carbon neutral production by 
2035. As part of this commitment, Neste aims for 100% renewable electricity use globally by 2023. 

These two climate performance indicators’ GHG emission reduction achieved by our customers with our renewable products 
(“GHG handprint”) and our scopes 1 & 2 emissions (“production GHG footprint”) are included in the long-term incentives for 
Neste’s key personnel.

Neste has also set a concrete target for scope 3 emissions to reduce the use phase emission intensity of sold products by 
50% by 2040 compared to 2020 levels. The main driver for reducing the use phase emission intensity of sold products for 
Neste is to continue increasing the share of renewable products in our portfolio through strategic investments. 

We are also committed to work with suppliers and partners to reduce the GHG emissions across our entire value chain 
(scope 3). We are in the process of building action plans across the relevant scope 3 categories, including raw materials and 
logistics. 

Emissions from operations at Neste’s refineries were in substantial compliance at all sites in 2022. A total of 3 minor non-
compliance cases occurred in Neste’s operations, with very limited local environmental impact. 

Regarding the timeline for the installation of an off gas treatment system in Rotterdam, the environmental authority has 
confirmed an order to have the system installed and taken into use, subject to a threatened penalty payment. To solve the 
installation timeline issue and reduce exhaust emissions, an off gas treatment system was taken into use at the site. 

Other climate-related metrics for GHG emissions (scopes 1, 2, and 3 emissions, as well as the use phase of the emission 
intensity of sold products) are reported in the 2022 Sustainability Report, and their associated risks are discussed in the 
climate-related risks above.

Neste’s biodiversity vision was launched a year ago: We aim to achieve a nature positive value chain by 2040, meaning that 
the positive biodiversity impacts outweigh the negative ones. We have also set the ambition level to support the vision: We aim 
at creating net positive impacts (NPI) for biodiversity from new activities from 2025 onwards and we target no net loss (NNL) 
of biodiversity from all ongoing activities by 2035.

In 2022 the biodiversity work focused on developing our understanding of our current impacts. We conducted materiality 
analysis for our direct operations (scope 1) and biodiversity inventory projects in Porvoo and Naantali to define the focus 
areas. We concluded the water aspects to be significant regarding biodiversity and moving forward we will develop our water 
approach and set targets. We also continued value chain materiality analysis, which we aim to complete in 2023 for selected 
feedstocks. We created definitions of net positive impact for Neste and created a net positive impact (NPI) methodology for 
biodiversity to guide our work towards our vision. We will pilot the methodology next year with chosen new initiatives.

Sustainable Supply Chain

Policies and principles
We expect all our business partners and suppliers to uphold Neste’s policies and principles, including our Supplier Code 
of Conduct, a key element in Neste’s supplier management system. Neste’s Supplier Code of Conduct was updated and 
implemented in 2020. The Supplier Code of Conduct is included in the terms of contract with all suppliers, contractors and 
other business partners participating in the delivery of products, components, materials or services to Neste, covering both 
direct and indirect procurement. Additionally, our renewable raw material suppliers are expected to meet the requirements of 
Neste’s Responsible Sourcing Principle. 

Neste has undertaken several initiatives to identify and understand how risks may be present in our operations and supply 
chains. To ensure our suppliers’ compliance with the Supplier Code of Conduct, Neste has implemented systematic controls 
for counterparty screening and monitoring in which potential business partners undergo automated pre-screening. A key 

Key figures 2022 2021
Energy efficiency, energy saving measures 
GWh. Target: Reduce Neste’s energy 
consumption by 500 GWh during 
2017–2025

42.6 GWh 95.8 GWh

GHG emissions reduction achieved with 
Neste’s renewable fuels compared to 
crude oil based diesel, million tons 1)

Target: 20 MtCO2e annually by 2030.

11.1 MtCO2 10.9 MtCO2

Emission limits and overruns: All deviations 
from environmental permits
Long-term target for OP and RP: zero 
permit violations

Permit violations:
3, of which 2 in OP 

and 1 in RP

Permit violations: 
3, of which 2 in OP 

and 1 in RP

1) Annual greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction achieved with Neste’s renewable products compared to 100% crude oil based fuel. 
 Calculation method complies with the EU Renewable Energy Directive II (EU) 2018/2001 and the California LCFS methodology, 
 which has been applied in the GHG reporting for volumes sold in the US since the beginning of 2022.



167Neste Annual Report 2022 | Review by the Board of Directors

element in understanding sustainability risks in our renewable raw materials supply chains is assessing country risk. Our 
overall approach to sustainability due diligence is to work with our suppliers to drive positive practices and mutually enhance 
sustainability performance through continuous engagement, collaboration and improvement.

Our renewable products’ raw material suppliers are subject to rigorous sustainability due diligence as part of our supplier 
sustainability approval process under the Neste Principle on Renewable Products Supplier Sustainability Approval. The Principle 
applies worldwide to any Neste company which is establishing a business relationship with a supplier of renewable raw 
material for Neste’s renewable products. It sets the minimum sustainability requirements for approving suppliers. We continue 
commercial negotiations only with approved parties who meet our sustainability requirements, and all partners must continue 
to meet these criteria and commit to developing their operations in the future. 

The due diligence process for our crude oil and other fossil raw material suppliers includes a country risk assessment and 
counterparty risk assessment. We also assess all new suppliers based on publicly available information regarding environmental, 
social and governance (ESG) topics that include governance, labor standards and practices, human rights, environment, 
health and safety and crude oil production-specific issues, such as flaring. This sustainability review was developed in 2021 to 
complement the existing due diligence process for our fossil raw material suppliers.

Neste’s key policies and principles concerning environmental matters related to the sourcing of renewable raw materials are 
the Neste Supplier Code of Conduct, Sustainability Principle, and Responsible Sourcing Principle. All Neste’s palm oil suppliers 
are committed to No-Deforestation policies. Since 2015, this has also been extended to cover their third-party suppliers. All 
the palm oil we have used has been fully traceable to the plantation level since 2007 and 100% certified since 2013. 

Supply chain risks
The main raw materials used in Neste’s refineries include animal fats, used cooking oils, and wastes and residues from 
vegetable oil processing, as well as some vegetable oils and crude oils. In recent years, the use of palm oil has created a 
reputational risk, as the sustainability of palm oil sourcing has given rise to public discussion and concerns from NGOs and 
customers, for example. Neste is committed to ensuring sustainable palm oil sourcing and has implemented several measures 
to improve transparency in its supply chain, as described above in Climate and Environmental matters. Neste plans to reduce 
the share of conventional palm oil to zero of its global renewable raw material inputs by the end of 2023. 

 We assess and monitor our human rights impacts in both our own operations and our supply chains. To effectively prioritize 
our activities, our risk assessment includes the mapping of supply chains and operations, country risk assessments, desk-
based research, supplier self-assessment questionnaires, supplier engagement, and discussions with expert stakeholders. 
Our Sustainability Audits have a strong human rights focus and prioritize the assessment of impacts on people. Read more in 
the Human Rights section below.

Outcomes and key performance indicators
Neste continues to focus on waste and residues and the share of waste and residue raw materials is expected to stay above 
90% of Neste’s global renewable raw material inputs globally in the coming years, while in the longer term, the growth in novel 
vegetable oils availability may increase the share of sustainably produced vegetable oils.

In 2022, we updated our Neste Traceability Dashboard to provide the latest data regarding our palm and palm fatty acid 
distillate (PFAD) supply chains. By the end of 2022, we had mapped our PFAD supply chain to the palm oil mills supplying 
the palm oil refineries where PFAD is extracted during vegetable oil refining. In 2022, we continued our PFAD supply chain 
mapping efforts in collaboration with palm oil suppliers and sustainability specialists from the Consortium of Resource Experts 
(CORE). With CORE, we continued to conduct risk assessments of palm oil mills supplying palm oil to refineries and engaged 
with suppliers to further enhance their No-Deforestation, Peat and Exploitation (NDPE) pledge. We continued to develop our 
Supplier Sustainability Portal to digitalize renewable raw material supplier evaluation, monitoring and engagement.  

Recognizing the need for sustainable raw materials in the supply chain, Neste has improved its procedures for tracking and 
processing grievances. This includes establishment of a cross-functional team to ensure speed and consistency in how we 

manage grievance cases and maintaining a publicly available log of grievances raised in our raw materials supply chains on our 
website. The grievance log is updated on a monthly basis to include new grievances, as well as to provide status updates on 
the remediation of existing grievances, and how they are being addressed or monitored by Neste. These raw material supply 
chain-related external grievances are reported separately by the Sustainability team on the Neste website. Today, these are 
mostly palm oil industry-related cases but the system is one that Neste uses for all renewable raw materials.

Safety and our employees

Policies and principles 
Safety is integral to our values. Improving safety and more broadly operational excellence covering occupational health and 
safety, process and marine safety, environment management, chemical compliance, quality, security, productivity, reliability, 
and efficiency enables us to achieve our strategic targets. For us, safety means excellence in risk management. This concerns 
the existence and effectiveness of every safety barrier that helps manage risks, prevent incidents and mitigate adverse 
consequences. We are determined to protect people and the environment, as well as our operations, assets, information and 
brand, from any harm. We believe this can be achieved when everyone working for and with us is truly committed to managing 
and improving safety, understands every hazard related to our operations and has excellent ways of evaluating and managing 
risks. Moreover, we strive to learn from experience and continuously improve our capabilities of understanding and managing 
hazards.

The foundations for the safety excellence and continuous improvement are defined by Neste’s Operations Excellence Policy 
and Operations Excellence Management System (OEMS), which includes Operations Excellence Principles and supplementary 
detailed standards. The requirements of OEMS apply not only to Neste’s own employees but also to external contractors. In 
2022, we continued to clarify and simplify the OEMS implementation process. The deployment of the new process started 
in 2022 and continues in 2023. The systematic OEMS self-assessments and audits continued in 2022 to ensure that the 
requirements were fulfilled. 

In 2022, one of the safety priority areas was to improve the timely closure of the actions defined due to incidents, near-
misses and audit findings. A significant improvement was achieved during the year. The Neste Executive Committee followed 
up the topic every month.

Other focus areas in 2022 were ensuring safety in investment projects and turnarounds with a high focus on contractor 
safety. Most of the projects were done with targeted safety levels. If the targets were not met, a systematic analysis was 
made and improvement activities were defined. We aim to continuously improve contractor safety performance with our 
contractors through auditing, regular performance evaluation, mutual feedback and great focus on subcontracting. In 2022, 
the implementation of the contractor safety management model continued. 

Key figures 2022 2021
The number of renewable raw material 
supplier’s sustainability assessment and 
their outcome 1)

Total: 325
New approved suppliers: 223
All approved: 236
Pending: 74
Rejected: 15

Total: 223
New approved suppliers: 171
All approved: 186
Pending: 33
Rejected: 4

1) Figures include existing suppliers, which undergo a sustainability assessment process every 3–5 years. Supplier data includes only 
 main contractual parties, excluding second-tier suppliers. 



168Neste Annual Report 2022 | Review by the Board of Directors

 The integration of the new acquisitions with Mahoney Environmental, Agri Trading and Neste’s Rotterdam terminal continued 
and was partly completed. Part of the activities will continue in the coming years, for example the full implementation of the 
Mahoney safety roadmap.

Neste’s key principles concerning social and employee matters are included in our People Policy. All the human resources 
(HR) principles and standards meet the Neste Management System (NMS) requirements, as well as the needs of the changing 
business environment, international growth and employment compliance. NMS combines unified policies, principles, standards 
and work procedures in one transparent structure. Globally, Neste now has one HR policy, ten HR principles and 17 HR 
standards in use.

The key principles included in the People Policy are: emphasizing the importance of the continuous development of leadership 
and corporate culture; acting in line with the company’s values and underlining everyone’s responsibility for their professional 
development as a means of achieving excellent results; guaranteeing equal rights and opportunities regardless of gender, ethnic 
origin, age, religion, political convictions, and other similar issues; promoting a workplace in which everyone understands the 
importance of their work in achieving common goals; and providing equal and fair compensation based on individual and team 
performance. One of Neste’s central principles is to abide by all laws, statutes and official regulations wherever the company 
operates and in all aspects of its operations, and to follow clear ethical standards and good practices. 

Diversity, equity, and inclusion form a key part of Neste’s values-led culture, human rights work and sustainability vision. 
We are committed to developing an inclusive workplace that fully leverages the benefits of diversity, one in which all Neste 
employees are given equal opportunities to pursue and thrive in their careers. 

Risk of safety incidents and social matters
In process safety, Neste has implemented and is continuously developing comprehensive safety rules, procedures and practices 
covering leadership, competence development, performance management and learning from experience. Considerable 
investments are carried out annually to improve the process safety of Nestes’ assets. In 2022, the focus was on the effectiveness 
of the Process Hazard Analysis (PHA) implementation and utilization of the HSE design guideline in the investments and, the 
definition of the process safety design guidelines for new technologies.

Rising inequality is a systemic issue that creates risks for business and the climate transition goals. It threatens the social 
and economic stability on which business depends to operate, innovate and grow. It erodes trust in political and economic 
systems, fuels civil and political unrest, limits economic growth and undermines companies’ collective capacity to tackle 
complex global challenges. Diversity, equity, and inclusion form a key part of Neste’s values-led culture, human rights work 
and sustainability vision. Neste is committed to reducing inequalities across the value chain and addressing the root causes 
of systemic human rights issues eg. by paying and promoting living wages, preparing people for the future of work, providing 
safe and secure employment, and creating an equitable and inclusive workplace and value chain

Outcomes and key performance indicators 
In 2022, Neste’s occupational safety performance (TRIF, or rate of accidents requiring medical treatment per million hours 
worked, including contractors) was 2.0 (1.4 in 2021) which did not meet the target for 2022 (1.5) and was worse than in 2021. 
The reason for the poorer performance was the higher number of contractor accidents. Several actions were taken in the 
projects and operations, and also improvements were defined for the Neste contractor safety management process. In 2022, 
process safety performance (PSER, or the rate of process safety events per million hours worked) was 1.4 (1.4 in 2021) which 
was better than the 2022 target level (1.5) and in the same level as in 2021.

Safety is a foundation in everything we do in Neste. Achieving a significantly better safety performance remains a top priority. 
The focus areas will be safety commitment and leadership, safety competence, process safety, contractor safety and safety 
in each operational activity. The key process safety items are investments in asset integrity, ensuring comprehensive and 
effective process hazard analysis and mitigation actions in all operations, continuous development of safety-critical operations 
and further improvement of process safety competence.

Neste fosters diversity as the business grows globally. Neste drives equality and non-discrimination and provides career 
and development opportunities to the employees who are most qualified without allowing any personal attribute to play any 
part in decision making. To benefit from increasing diversity and make people feel valued and supported, Neste pursues the 
development of inclusive leadership and a values-led culture.  

We measure our employee engagement in various ways. In addition to a broader employee engagement survey conducted 
at the beginning of the year, we measure change through shorter pulse surveys and other surveys targeted at specific groups. 
Our employee engagement index score increased to 69 according to the Pulse survey conducted in October 2022.  

Other forms of engagement include many types of development programs, team and individual discussions, surveys 
gathering onboarding and offboarding experiences, internal info sessions, and town hall meetings. Topics include the Neste 
strategy and values, sustainability and climate commitments, and health, safety and wellbeing.

See also: Diversity of the Board of Directors 

Human Rights

Policies and principles 
Neste has made a commitment to respect human rights and remediate adverse human rights impacts throughout its business 
operations and value chains. Neste demonstrates and meets this commitment by implementing, and acting in accordance 
with, the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs) and OECD Guidelines for Multinational 
Enterprises. 

Key figures 2022 2021
TRIF 1) 2.0 1.4
Process safety event rate
PSER 2) 1.4 1.4
New employee hires
and employee turnover

Leaving rate of permanent employees 
10.2%. Hiring rate of permanent 

employees 18.3%.

Leaving rate of permanent employees 
13.0%. Hiring rate of permanent 

employees 12.1%.
Employee engagement  
Target: Maintain a 
good level of employee 
engagement.

According to the employee engagement 
survey conducted early 2022, the 

employee engagement index score 
was 66. Majority of employees thought 

favorably of working at Neste and would 
recommend Neste as a workplace.

66% felt happy working at Neste, 80% 
understood how own work contributes to 
company’s success, 75% thought Neste 

acts in a responsible way, 76% felt safety 
is never compromised at Neste.

According to the engagement survey 
conducted in early 2021, the employee 

engagement index score was 66. Majority 
of employees thought favorably of 

working at Neste and would recommend 
Neste as a workplace.

65% felt happy working at Neste, 78% 
understood how own work contributes to 
company’s success, 70% thought Neste 

acts in a responsible way, 79% saw 
safety as a priority for Neste.

1) Total Recordable Incident Frequency, number of cases per million hours worked. Includes both Neste’s and contractors’ personnel, 
 except for Mahoney operations and Singapore expansion which have been internally reported and followed-up separately in 2022.
2) Process Safety Event Rate, number of cases per million hours worked. The figure includes all operations in Neste’s facilities.



169Neste Annual Report 2022 | Review by the Board of Directors

The Neste Human Rights Principle applies to the entire Neste Group. It describes how Neste meets its responsibilities to 
respect human rights and conduct ongoing human rights due diligence. It outlines seven priority areas for human rights at 
Neste: Fair Employment, Health & Safety, Equity, Diversity & Non-Discrimination, Children & Young Workers, Modern Slavery, 
Fair Treatment, and Economic, Social & Cultural Rights – including respect for the rights of minority groups and Indigenous 
Peoples. These are Neste’s salient human rights issues, that is, those issues that are at risk of the most severe negative 
impacts through our activities or business relationships. 

In 2022, we conducted a major review and update of the Neste Human Rights Principle, informed by extensive consultation 
with both internal and external stakeholders. The Human Rights Principle received final review and approval by Neste’s CEO, 
based on the endorsement of the Neste Executive Committee. It forms part of Neste’s Management System (NMS) and is 
publicly available on our website.

The minimum human rights requirements for Neste’s business partners including suppliers, contractors and service providers, 
are set out in the Neste Supplier Code of Conduct. Neste encourages and supports its business partners to continuously 
improve and develop beyond the minimum, to reach the human rights standards and expectations set out in the Neste Human 
Rights Principle.

The Neste Code of Conduct applies to the entire Neste Group and contains key human rights requirements and expectations 
with which all Neste employees are to comply in their daily work. For example, all employees are expected to be aware of 
how their work impacts the human rights of people in Neste’s operations, value chain and communities, understand how to 
recognize potential human rights risks in their daily work and decision making, and know how to recognize and report signs 
of modern slavery. 

Neste supports the elimination of all forms of modern slavery. We recognize that modern slavery is a growing global issue 
from which no industry is immune, and we are committed to taking the appropriate steps to identify vulnerable groups and 
mitigate modern slavery risks in our operations and supply chains. Our Modern Slavery Statement, updated annually, details 
the actions we are taking to prevent modern slavery and human trafficking in our businesses. 

We are committed to respecting and supporting children’s rights, and to implementing the Children’s Rights and Business 
Principles throughout our business and value chains, including in our workplace, marketplace and communities. More 
information on specific measures we take and the projects in which we are involved is available on our website. 

Risk of adverse human rights impacts 
Neste has undertaken several initiatives to ensure the proper management of human rights related risks across our business. 
To embed respect for human rights throughout our business operations and value chains, we carry out ongoing human rights 
due diligence to identify and assess risks to human rights, take action to prevent and mitigate them, track the effectiveness of 
our measures, and provide a remedy when required. In assessing human rights risks, we engage with affected stakeholders 
and pay special attention to vulnerable groups such as women, children, migrant workers and Indigenous People.

We regularly assess the saliency of our human rights impacts based on severity and likelihood. This enables us to actively 
monitor our progress in addressing our salient human rights issues, and to account for any new risks resulting from changes 
in our business. It also ensures that we accurately focus and prioritize our work to address human rights risks. In 2022, we 
expanded our saliency assessments to evaluate the effectiveness of the measures we have in place to address our salient 
issues.

In 2022, we carried out a detailed human rights risk assessment for Neste’s indirect procurement. In the first stage, we 
assessed the risks associated with different sourcing categories and sourcing countries. In the second stage, we evaluated 
the human rights practices of suppliers selected based on risk and spend, taking into consideration the results from the first 
assessment. 

In 2022, as part of our work under the Consumer Goods Forum’s (CGF) Human Rights Coalition we carried out human rights 
due diligence assessments for two selected areas within our own operations: production and shipping, following the CGF 

Maturity Journey Framework. We also worked collectively through the coalition to advance positive human rights practices in 
palm supply chains and on the publication of a guide on the repayment of recruitment fees.

We actively monitor and assess risks to people working onsite at our refineries. In 2022, we began to plan contractor audits 
and key actions to ensure we will be able to hear worker voices during our upcoming 2023 Rotterdam refinery expansion, for 
example, implementing a local complaints mechanism and carrying out worker voice surveys.

Human rights topics are integrated into our global induction for all new employees who join Neste, as well as our Code 
of Conduct and Supplier Code of Conduct e-learning courses. In 2022, we organized for the European Institute for Crime 
Prevention and Control (HEUNI) to train Neste employees on modern slavery and labor exploitation in the regions and sectors 
connected to our business and value chains. In 2022, we also carried out customized training for our Indirect procurement 
team on the minimum human rights requirements in our Supplier Code of Conduct.

We engage in capacity building with suppliers and contractors in high-risk sectors and geographies to drive positive human 
rights impacts throughout the supply chain. 

Outcomes and key performance indicators 
In recognizing that our human rights impacts may change over time as our operations and value chains continue to evolve, 
we are committed to embedding human rights due diligence across our business as an ongoing, iterative process. This year, 
we continued to conduct human rights due diligence within our supply chains and operations to prevent, mitigate and where 
necessary, remediate adverse human rights impacts. 

Key figures 2022 2021
Human Rights Due 
Diligence carried out 
for key business areas/
functions.  

Target: To strengthen 
Neste’s capacity to 
identify, assess, and 
address human rights 
risks in our operations 
and supply chains.

Four major assessments/initiatives 
undertaken in 2022:

1) Corporate-wide assessment to review 
Neste’s salient issues and their mitigation.

2) Human Rights Risk Assessments 
completed for Neste Indirect 

Procurement. 

3) Living wage gap assessment 
completed for Neste’s own employees in 

Finland.

4) CGF human rights due diligence 
assessments completed for Production 

(Singapore) and Shipping.

Four major assessments/initiatives 
undertaken in 2021:

1) Corporate-wide assessment to review 
Neste’s salient issues and understand 

gaps in mitigation activities. 

2) Human Rights Risk Assessment 
completed for potential Rotterdam 

Refinery Expansion Project

3) Human rights risk assessments 
completed for Lignocellulose and Algae 

Innovation platforms

4) Development and implementation of 
a new channel for all onsite workers to 

raise grievances and access effective 
remedy during the 2021 Turnarounds.



170Neste Annual Report 2022 | Review by the Board of Directors

Anti-Corruption

Policies and principles 
Neste and its management are committed to conducting the company’s global operations ethically and with integrity. As stated 
in the company’s Code of Conduct, Neste has zero tolerance of corruption of any kind in connection with Neste’s operations, 
whether committed by Neste employees or third parties acting on behalf of Neste. Neste also requires that its external business 
partners acting for or on behalf of the company to be aware of and share the commitment to zero tolerance of corruption. 
Neste’s key policies and principles concerning anti-corruption and anti-bribery are the Code of Conduct, Anti-Corruption 
Principle, and Supplier Code of Conduct. More information on the Code of Conduct can be found in the Sustainability Report.

Risk of corruption and bribery 
Risks of corruption and bribery are typically treated as inherent risks in the oil and gas sector due to its global nature, contractual 
relationships with local governments, and involvement in complex networks with various suppliers and contractors. Neste 
regularly assesses its operations’ risks including ia. risks of corruption and bribery. Neste has zero tolerance of any form of 
corruption and bribery. As a preventive measure, Neste has developed a compliance program which includes policy statements 
(Code of Conduct, Anti-Corruption Principle), dedicated eLearning packages, annual compliance acknowledgement, regular 
communication, and Ethics Online for the reporting of suspected misconduct. Neste’s counterparties are required to comply 
with the Supplier Code of Conduct and/or their own equivalent principles and undergo a compliance clearance and counterparty 
risk assessment. As stated in the Code of Conduct, Neste has processes in place to carry out due diligence on its business 
partners. The Compliance clearance and counterparty risk assessment covers the following risks: trade sanctions, politically 
exposed persons, money laundering, corruption and bribery. 

Outcomes and key performance indicators 
In addition to the Code of Conduct, Neste has an Anti-Corruption Principle, which sets the rules for preventing corruption in 
connection with Neste’s business operations and providing more detailed guidance on responsible business practices. Anti-
Corruption topics are regularly communicated to and trained for in the organization, including an Anti-Corruption e-learning 
course re-issued to office workers in 2022 as further described in the Sustainability Report’s Compliance chapter. The e-learning 
course also includes a requirement for employees to report observed or suspected violations of Neste’s Anti-Corruption 
Principle to their own manager, Neste’s HR, and the Compliance or Internal Audit functions. Employees may also report their 
concerns anonymously via Neste’s externally operated misconduct reporting system, Ethics Online, which can be used by 
phone or via the website. Ethics Online is available for both employees and external stakeholders. More information on Neste’s 
grievance process and the related Misconduct Investigation Standard is available in the Corporate Governance Statement.

Neste has also issued an Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorist Financing (CTF) Standard detailing Neste’s guidance 
and process in relation to preventing money laundering risks. 

Neste renewed its Code of Conduct in 2021. A related Code of Conduct e-learning course was issued as a first step for all 
office workers in 2021, and the course was issued to the rest of the organization in 2022. The e-learning course also covers 
anti-corruption topics and how to report observed or suspected violations of Neste’s Code of Conduct. The e-learning course 
is included in the training package for all new employees.

A total of 14 suspected misconduct incidents was reported during 2022, and 6 of these reports came via the EthicsOnline 
system. Confirmed misconduct by Neste employees was identified in 2 of the completed investigations, and misconduct by 

third parties in Neste’s supply chain was confirmed in one investigation, all leading to further action and process improvements. 
No confirmed misconduct was related to corruption or bribery. Furthermore, no misconduct was found in 7 completed 
investigations. Four investigations are pending. Neste’s Investigation Group investigated the received reports and reported 
the number of reported cases per category to the Board of Directors’ Audit Committee and to the Ethics and Compliance 
Committee, consisting of Neste Executive Committee members, the Chief Compliance Officer, and the VP, Internal Audit. In 
five investigations in 2022, the Neste Investigation Group retained independent external forensic and/or legal expertise to 
conduct the investigation.

Targeted training on anti-corruption, anti-money laundering, competition law compliance, trade sanction compliance and 
privacy was conducted with defined target groups. 

Key figures 2022 2021
Number of suspected 
misconducts reported 
in person or via the 
whistleblowing system to 
the Investigations Group.

Target: To further 
encourage employees 
and external stakeholders 
to report observed or 
suspected misconducts.

Number of suspected misconducts 
reported in person or via the available 

reporting channels including EthicsOnline 
to the Investigation Group was in total 

14 of which employment matters 2 
reports, discrimination and harrassment 

2, fraud 4, bribery, corruption and 
facilitation payment 1, theft, asset misuse 

& embezzlement 3, supplier/business 
partner misconduct/unethical behavior 

1 and 1 report belongs to category 
“other”. Misconduct by Neste employees 
confirmed in 2 cases, related to manager 

conduct, substance abuse and/or 
inappropriate behavior. Misconduct by a 

third party confirmed in 1 case, related 
to attempted fraud. All leading to further 

actions and process improvements. 
Four investigations are pending. The 
confirmed cases of misconduct were 

not related to corruption, bribery or 
facilitation payments. Renewable raw 
material Supply chain related external 

grievances are reported separately by the 
Sustainability team on the Neste website.

Number of suspected misconducts 
reported in person or via the available 

reporting channels including EthicsOnline 
to the Investigation Group was in total 

18 of which HR 4 reports, discrimination 
and harrassment 2, conflict of interest 

3, bribery, corruption and facilitation 
payment 2, and 7 reports belong 

to category “other”. Two reported 
suspected misconducts linked, 

leading to a total of 17 investigations. 
Misconduct by Neste employees 

confirmed in 3 cases, related to asset 
misuse, manager conduct, substance 
abuse and/or inappropriate behavior. 

Misconduct by a third party confirmed 
in 3 cases, related to inappropriate, 

discriminative and/or non-professional 
behaviour. All leading to further actions 

and process improvements. One 
investigation was pending during the 
reporting and resolved after that. The 
confirmed cases of misconduct were 

not related to corruption, bribery or 
facilitation payments. Renewable raw 
material Supply chain related external 

grievances are reported separately by the 
Sustainability team on the Neste website.



171

Outlook
Visibility in the global economy continues to be low due to high inflation, reduced economic growth expectations and continued 
geopolitical uncertainty. The war in Ukraine has had significant impacts on the global energy markets, and energy prices have 
risen to a high level. We expect volatility in the oil products and renewable feedstock markets to remain high, making the 
forecasting of margins challenging in both Renewable Products and Oil Products.

Renewable Products’ first-quarter sales volumes are expected to be lower than in the previous quarter as sales volume is 
affected by a one-month shutdown at the Rotterdam refinery due to an occurrence of a fire in a process unit in late December. 
The expected sales volume also includes first volumes from our joint operation company Martinez Renewables in the USA. 
Waste and residue markets are anticipated to remain tight and volatile as demand continues to be robust. Our first-quarter 
comparable sales margin is currently expected to be within the range USD 825–925/ton, supported by attractive waste and 
residue prices in the beginning of the year. The segment’s first-quarter fixed costs are expected to be approx. EUR 10 million 
higher than in the previous quarter, driven by the build-up of capabilities related to the upcoming start-up of our growth projects.

The utilization rates of our renewables production facilities are forecasted to remain high, except for the one-month shutdown 
at Rotterdam. The Rotterdam shutdown is expected to have a negative impact of approx. EUR 85 million on the segments’ 
full-year comparable EBITDA based on the estimated production losses and repair costs, mainly affecting the first quarter.

The market in Oil Products remains volatile and impacted by the war in Ukraine. Based on the current forward market, our 
first-quarter total refining margin is expected to remain solid, but somewhat lower compared to the fourth quarter of 2022. The 
first-quarter sales volumes are forecasted to be at approximately the same level as in the previous quarter. 

In Marketing & Services the sales volumes and unit margins are expected to follow the previous years’ seasonality pattern 
in the first quarter. The slowing economy is expected to have some negative impact on the overall demand.

Based on our current estimates and a hedging rate of approx. 85%, Neste’s effective EUR/US dollar rate is expected to be 
within the range of 1.05–1.07 in the first quarter of 2023.

Neste estimates the Group’s full-year 2023 cash-out capital expenditure to be approx. EUR 1.8 billion. Possible M&A is 
excluded from the figure.

Dividend distribution proposal
Neste’s dividend policy is to distribute at least 50% of its comparable net profit in the form of a dividend. The parent company’s 
distributable funds as of 31 December 2022 amounted to EUR 3,824 million, and there have been no material changes in the 
company’s financial position since the end of the financial year.

The Board of Directors proposes to the AGM that an ordinary dividend of EUR 1.02 per share be paid on the basis of the 
approved balance sheet for 2022 plus an extraordinary dividend of EUR 0.25 per share, i.e. EUR 1.27 per share in total. The 
ordinary dividend shall be paid in two instalments. The Board furthermore proposes that the AGM would authorize the Board 
to decide, in its discretion, on the payment of a second extraordinary dividend of EUR 0.25 per share, by 31 October 2023. 
The Board expects that this discretionary second extraordinary dividend will be paid, unless there is a significant deterioration 
in the business environment during 2023.

The first instalment of the ordinary dividend, EUR 0.51 per share, and the extraordinary dividend of EUR 0.25 per share, i.e. 
altogether EUR 0.76 per share, will be paid to shareholders registered in the shareholders’ register of the Company maintained 
by Euroclear Finland Ltd on the record date for the dividend payment, which shall be Thursday, 30 March 2023. The Board 
proposes to the AGM that the first instalment of the ordinary dividend and the extraordinary dividend would be paid on 
Thursday, 6 April 2023.

The second instalment of the ordinary dividend, EUR 0.51 per share, will be paid to shareholders registered in the shareholders’ 
register of the Company maintained by Euroclear Finland Ltd on the record date for the second instalment of the ordinary 
dividend, which shall be Friday, 29 September 2023. The Board proposes to the AGM that the second instalment of the 
ordinary dividend would be paid on Friday, 6 October 2023. The Board of Directors is authorized to set a new dividend record 
date and payment date for the second instalment of the ordinary dividend, in case the rules and regulations on the Finnish 
book-entry system would be changed, or otherwise so require.

The Board notes to the AGM that if the Board decides to pay the second extraordinary dividend by virtue of the authorization, 
the intention of the Board is to set the record date and payment date for the second extraordinary dividend payable on the 
basis of the authorization so that the dates are the same as for the second instalment of the ordinary dividend.

The proposed maximum total dividend of EUR 1.52 per share represents a yield of 3.5% (at year-end 2022 share price 
of EUR 43.02) and 50% of Neste’s comparable earnings per share in 2022. The proposed maximum total dividend in 2023 
amounts to approximately EUR 1,167 million. In the event the discretionary second extraordinary dividend of EUR 0.25 per 
share is not paid, the dividend totals EUR 1.27 per share and represents a yield of 3.0% (at year-end 2022 share price of EUR 
43.02) and 42% of Neste’s comparable earnings per share in 2022, totaling approximately EUR 975 million.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Review by the Board of Directors



172Neste Annual Report 2022 | Review by the Board of Directors

Key figures

Income statement 2022 2021 2020
Revenue EUR million 25,707 15,148 11,751
EBITDA EUR million 3,048 2,607 1,508
- of revenue % 11.9 17.2 12.8
Operating profit EUR million 2,410 2,023 828
- of revenue % 9.4 13.4 7.0
Profit before income taxes EUR million 2,279 1,962 786
- of revenue % 8.9 13.0 6.7
Profit for the period EUR million 1,891 1,774 714
- of revenue % 7.4 11.7 6.1
Comparable EBITDA EUR million 3,537 1,920 1,929
Comparable net profit EUR million 2,336 1,179 1,229

Profitability
Return on equity (ROE) % 25.1 28.5 11.8
Comparable return on average capital 
employed, after tax (ROACE) % 30.1 18.3 19.8

Financing and financial position
Interest-bearing net debt EUR million 1,344 41 -265
Leverage ratio % 13.9 0.6 -4.7
Equity-to-assets ratio % 56.3 56.6 61.1
Net Debt to EBITDA % 0.4 0.0 -0.2

Other indicators
Capital employed EUR million 10,942 8,742 7,236
Net working capital in days outstanding 35.4 33.3 35.0
Capital expenditure and investments in shares EUR million 2,218 1,535 1,197
- of revenue % 8.6 10.1 10.2
Research and development expenditure EUR million 85 67 61
- of revenue % 0.3 0.4 0.5
Average number of personnel 5,244 4,872 4,833

Share prices
Closing price EUR 43.02 43.36 59.16
Average price EUR 42.26 50.99 37.49
Lowest price EUR 30.81 41.17 20.37
Highest price EUR 52.18 64.74 60.14

Market capitalization EUR million 33,063 33,353 45,507
Trading volumes

Number of shares traded 1,000 270,643 246,647 340,904
- of weighted average number of shares % 35 32 44

Weighted average number of 
shares outstanding 768,060,103 767,643,112 767,370,423
Number of shares outstanding  
at the end of the period 768,083,170 767,969,396 767,836,640

1) Board of Directors’ proposal to the Annual General Meeting. 2022 key figures include an ordinary dividend of EUR 1.02 per share, 
 an extraordinary dividend of EUR 0.25 per share, and a discretionary second extraordinary dividend of EUR 0.25 per share.

Share-related indicators 2022 2021 2020
Earnings per share (EPS) EUR 2.46 2.31 0.93
Comparable earnings per share EUR 3.04 1.54 1.60
Equity per share EUR 10.83 9.09 7.72
Cash flow per share EUR 1.56 2.60 2.68
Price / earnings ratio (P/E) 17.50 18.79 63.75
Dividend per share EUR 1.52 1) 0.82 0.80
Dividend payout ratio % 61.8 1) 35.5 86.2
Dividend yield % 3.5 1) 1.9 1.4



173Neste Annual Report 2022 | Review by the Board of Directors  

Reconciliation of key figures to IFRS Financial Statements
Reconciliation between comparable EBITDA, EBITDA and operating profit is presented in Note 4, Segment information.

EUR million 2022 2021 2020
Comparable EBITDA 3,537 1,920 1,929
IS Depreciation, amortization and impairments -638 -584 -680
Items in depreciation, amortization and impairments 
affecting comparability 27 5 167

IS Total financial income and expenses -131 -61 -41
IS Income tax expense -388 -188 -72
IS Non-controlling interests -3 -2 -2
Tax on items affecting comparability -68 89 -71
Comparable net profit 2,336 1,179 1,229

Reconciliation of comparable return on average capital employed, after tax (ROACE), %

EUR million 2022 2021 2020
Comparable EBITDA, last 12 months 3,537 1,920 1,929
IS Depreciation, amortization and impairments -638 -584 -680
Items in depreciation, amortization and impairments affecting 
comparability 27 5 167
IS Financial income 9 4 4
IS Exchange rate and fair value gains and losses -80 -10 0
IS Income tax expense -388 -188 -72
Tax on other items affecting comparable ROACE -76 82 -77
Comparable net profit, net of tax 2,391 1,229 1,271
Capital employed average 9,823 7,952 7,326
Assets under construction average -1,880 -1,250 -898

Return on comparable average capital employed, 
after tax (ROACE), % 1) 30.1 18.3 19.8
1) The comparable ROACE calculation formula has been adjusted in 2022 by excluding assets under construction 
 average from the capital employed average. Comparison numbers have been restated accordingly.

Reconciliation of equity-to-assets ratio, %

EUR million 2022 2021 2020
BS Total equity 8,327 6,985 5,929
BS Total assets 14,917 12,417 9,815
Advances received -138 -86 -104
Equity-to-assets ratio, % 56.3 56.6 61.1

Reconciliation of net working capital in days outstanding

EUR million 2022 2021 2020
Operative receivables 1,902 1,561 1,179
BS Inventories 3,648 2,618 1,829
Operative liabilities -3,057 -2,795 -1,883
Net working capital 2,494 1,384 1,125
IS Revenue 25,707 15,148 11,751
Net working capital in days outstanding 35.4 33.3 35.0

Reconciliation between comparable EBITDA and comparable net profit



174Neste Annual Report 2022 | Review by the Board of Directors

Calculation of key figures
Neste presents Alternative Performance Measures to enhance comparability between financial periods as well as to reflect operational performance and financial risk level. These indicators should be examined together with the IFRS-compliant performance 
indicators.

Key figure Calculation Reason for use

EBITDA = Operating profit + depreciation, amortization and impairments EBITDA is an indicator to measure the operational performance and cash flow 
generation.

Comparable EBITDA =
EBITDA -/+ inventory valuation gains/losses -/+ changes in the fair value of open commodity 
and currency derivatives -/+ capital gains/losses - insurance and other compensations -/+ 
other adjustments

Comparable EBITDA describes underlying operational performance and cash flow 
generation. 1)

Items affecting comparability =
Inventory valuation gains/losses, changes in the fair value of open commodity and currency 
derivatives, capital gains/losses, insurance and other compensations, impairments and 
other adjustments

Items affecting comparability are linked to unpredictability events of a significant nature 
that do not form part of normal day-to-day business. 1)

Comparable net profit =

Comparable EBITDA - depreciation, amortizations and impairments -/+ items in 
depreciation, amortization and impairments affecting comparability - total financial income 
and expense - income tax expense - non-controlling interests - tax on items affecting 
comparability

Comparable net profit is the basis for Neste's dividend policy. Dividend distribution is 
one element in the company's cash allocation.

Return on equity (ROE), % = 100 x
Profit before income taxes - income tax expense, last 12 months

Return on equity provides additional information on the profitability of operations.
Total equity average, 5 quarters end values 

Comparable return on average 
capital employed, after-tax (ROACE), % = 100 x

Comparable EBITDA - depreciation, amortizations and impairments -/+ items in 
depreciation, amortization and impairments affecting comparability + financial income + 
exchange rate and fair value gains and losses - income tax expense - tax on other items 
affecting comparable ROACE, last 12 months

Comparable return on average capital employed after-tax (ROACE) is one of Neste’s 
key financial targets. It is a long-term over the cycle indicator measuring Neste’s 
profitability and efficiency of capital usage.

Capital employed average - assets under construction average, 5 quarters end values

Capital employed = Total equity + interest bearing liabilities Capital employed is primarily used to determine the comparable return on average 
capital employed (ROACE) which is Neste’s key financial target.

Interest-bearing net debt = Interest-bearing liabilities - cash and cash equivalents - current investments Interest-bearing net debt is an indicator to measure the total external debt financing. 

Leverage ratio, % = 100 x
Interest-bearing net debt Leverage ratio is one of Neste’s key financial targets. It provides useful information 

regarding Neste’s capital structure and financial risk level. Interest bearing net debt + total equity



175Neste Annual Report 2022 | Review by the Board of Directors

Equity-to-assets ratio, % = 100 x
Total equity

Equity-to-assets ratio provides useful information regarding financial risk level.
Total assets - advances received

Net working capital in days outstanding = 365 x
Net working capital Net working capital in days outstanding measures efficiency in turning  net working 

capital into revenue.Revenue, last 12 months 

Net Debt to EBITDA =
Interest-bearing net debt

Net debt to EBITDA measures capital structure and ability to cover debt.
EBITDA, last 12 months

Return on net assets, % = 100 x
Segment operating profit, last 12 months Neste uses return on net assets to follow the operational performance of its operating 

segments.Average segment net assets, 5 quarters end values

Comparable return on net assets, % = 100 x

Segment comparable EBITDA, last 12 months - depreciation, amortization and impairments 
+/- items in depreciation, amortization and impairments affecting comparability Neste uses comparable return on net assets to follow the underlying operational 

performance of its operating segments.
Average segment net assets, 5 quarters end values

Segment net assets =
Property, plant and equipment + intangible assets + investments in associates and joint 
ventures + inventories + interest-free receivables and liabilities - provisions - pension 
liabilities allocated to the business segment

Segment net assets are primarily used to determine the return on net assets and 
comparable return on net assets.

Calculation of share-related indicators

Earnings per share (EPS) =
Profit for the period attributable to the owners of the parent

Weighted average number of shares outstanding during the period

Comparable earnings per share  =
Comparable net profit

Weighted average number of shares outstanding during the period

Equity per share =
Shareholder's equity attributable to the owners of the parent

Number of shares outstanding at the end of the period 

Cash flow per share =
Net cash generated from operating activities

Weighted average number of shares outstanding during the period

Price / earnings ratio (P/E) =
Share price at the end of the period

Earnings per share

Key figure Calculation Reason for use



176Neste Annual Report 2022 | Review by the Board of Directors  

Dividend payout ratio, % = 100 x
Dividend per share

Earnings per share

Dividend yield, % = 100 x
Dividend per share

Share price at the end of the period

Average share price =
Amount traded in euros during the period

Number of shares traded during the period

Market capitalization = Number of shares at the end of the period x share price at the end of the period

Calculation of key drivers

Oil Products total refining margin (USD/bbl) =
Comparable sales margin x average EUR/USD exchange rate 
for the period x standard refinery yield Oil Products total refining margin measures the segment's comparable sales margin 

per refined unit sold. USD/bbl is a standard unit used in the oil industry.
Refined sales volume x standard barrels per ton

Renewable Products comparable sales 
margin (USD/ton) =

Comparable sales margin Renewable Products comparable sales margin measures the sales margin per unit 
sold.Renewable diesel sales volume

1) In the business environment where Neste operates, commodity prices and foreign exchange rates are volatile and can cause significant fluctuations in inventory values and operating profit. Comparable EBITDA eliminates both the inventory valuation gains/losses generated by 
the volatility in raw material prices and changes in open derivatives, and better reflects the company’s underlying operational performance. Also, it reflects Neste’s operational cash flow, where the change in operating profit caused by inventory valuation is mostly compensated 
by changing net working capital. Items affecting comparability are linked to unpredictability events of a significant nature that do not form part of normal day-to-day business. They include among others impairment losses and reversals, gains and losses associated with the 
combination or termination of businesses, restructuring costs, and gains and losses on the sales of assets. Only items having an impact of more than EUR 1 million on Neste’s result will be classified as items affecting comparability.

Key figure Calculation Reason for use



177

Consolidated Statement of Income 178

Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 178

Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 179

Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 180

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 181

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 182

Parent company Income Statement 240

Parent company Balance Sheet 240

Parent company Cash Flow Statement 241

Parent company Notes to the Financial Statements 242

Proposal for the distribution of earnings and  
signing of the Review by the Board of Directors  
and the Financial Statements 257

Auditor’s Report 258

Financial 
Statements

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Financial statements



178178Neste Annual Report 2022 | Financial statements

EUR million Note 1 Jan–31 Dec 2022 1 Jan–31 Dec 2021

Revenue 4, 5 25,707 15,148
Other income 6 54 48

Share of profit (loss) of associates and joint ventures 15 2 -3
Materials and services 7 -21,648 -11,751
Employee benefit costs 8 -545 -431
Depreciation, amortization and impairments 4 -638 -584
Other expenses 9 -522 -403
Operating profit  2,410 2,023

Financial income and expenses 10

Financial income 9 4
Financial expenses -60 -55
Exchange rate and fair value gains and losses -80 -10

Total financial income and expenses -131 -61

Profit before income taxes 2,279 1,962

Income tax expense 11 -388 -188

Profit for the period 1,891 1,774

Profit attributable to
Owners of the parent 1,888 1,771
Non-controlling interests 3 2

1,891 1,774

Earnings per share from profit attributable to  
owners of the parent (in euro per share) 12
Basic earnings per share 2.46 2.31
Diluted earnings per share 2.46 2.30

EUR million 1 Jan–31 Dec 2022 1 Jan–31 Dec 2021

Profit for the period 1,891 1,774

Other comprehensive income net of tax

Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
Remeasurements on defined benefit plans 18 -30
Net change of other investments at fair value -5 11
Total 13 -19

Items that may be reclassified subsequently 
to profit or loss
Translation differences -56 24
Cash flow hedges

recorded in equity 19 -99
transferred to income statement 90 -9

Share of other comprehensive income of investments  
accounted for using the equity method 17 4
Total 70 -80

Other comprehensive income for the period, net of tax 82 -98

Total comprehensive income for the period 1,973 1,675

Total comprehensive income attributable to:
Owners of the parent 1,970 1,673
Non-controlling interests 3 2

1,973 1,675
The notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

Consolidated Statement of Income Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive Income



179179

EUR million Note 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021

ASSETS
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 13 570 516
Property, plant and equipment 14 6,570 5,152
Investments in associates and joint ventures 15 63 60
Non-current receivables 17 103 63
Deferred tax assets 11 59 45
Derivative financial instruments 16, 19 5 11
Other financial assets 17 44 48
Total non-current assets 7,413 5,894

Current assets
Inventories 18 3,648 2,618
Trade and other receivables 17 2,178 1,677
Derivative financial instruments 16, 19 406 243
Current investments 17 0 135
Cash and cash equivalents 17 1,271 1,581
Total current assets 7,504 6,253

Assets classified as held for sale 28 0 270

Total assets 14,917 12,417

Consolidated Statement of Financial Position

EQUITY
Capital and reserves attributable  
to the owners of the parent 20
Share capital 40 40
Other equity 8,282 6,941
Total 8,322 6,981
Non-controlling interests 5 4
Total equity 8,327 6,985

LIABILITIES
Non-current liabilities
Interest-bearing liabilities 21 1,964 1,378
Deferred tax liabilities 11 336 309
Provisions 22 200 210
Pension liabilities 23 119 146
Derivative financial instruments 16, 19 12 1
Other non-current liabilities 21 43 43
Total non-current liabilities 2,674 2,087

Current liabilities
Interest-bearing liabilities 21 651 379
Current tax liabilities 43 12
Derivative financial instruments 16, 19 200 161
Trade and other payables 21 3,022 2,761
Total current liabilities 3,916 3,313

Liabilities related to assets held for sale 28 0 32

Total liabilities 6,590 5,432

Total equity and liabilities 14,917 12,417

The notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

EUR million Note 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Financial statements



180180

EUR million Note 1 Jan–31 Dec 2022 1 Jan–31 Dec 2021

Cash flows from operating activities
Profit before income taxes 2,279 1,962
Adjustments for 

Share of profit (loss) of associates and joint ventures 4, 15 -2 3
Depreciation, amortization and impairments 4 638 584
Other non-cash income and expenses -53 -121
Financial expenses - net 10 131 61
Profit / loss from disposal of fixed assets and shares 0 0

Cash flow before change in net working capital 2,994 2,490

Change in net working capital
Decrease (+) / increase (-) in trade and other receivables -322 -401
Decrease (+) / increase (-) in inventories -1,037 -795
Decrease (-) / increase (+) in trade and other payables 2 835

Change in net working capital -1,357 -362
 
Cash generated from operations 1,637 2,127

Interest and other finance cost paid -59 -52
Interest income received 6 1
Realized foreign exchange gains and losses 11 12
Income taxes paid -398 -95
Finance cost and income taxes paid -440 -133

Net cash generated from operating activities 1,197 1,994

Consolidated Cash Flow Statement

Cash flows from investing activities
Purchases of property, plant and equipment -1,670 -929
Purchases of intangible assets 13 -73 -48
Acquisitions of subsidiaries -14 -322
Proceeds from sales of shares in subsidiaries, joint 
arrangements and business operations 157 8
Proceeds from capital repayments in joint arrangements 15 13 0
Proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment 30 6
Changes in long-term receivables and other investments -31 -200
Cash flows from investing activities -1,588 -1,483

Cash flow before financing activities -390 511

Cash flows from financing activities
Payment of (-) / proceeds from (+) current interest-bearing 
liabilities 260 111
Proceeds from non-current interest-bearing liabilities 899 618
Repayments of non-current interest-bearing liabilities -407 -345
Repayments of lease liabilities -157 -144
Dividends paid to the owners of the parent -630 -614
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests -2 -2
Cash flows from financing activities -37 -377

Net decrease (-) / increase (+) in cash  
and cash equivalents -427 134

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the period 1,696 1,552
Exchange gains (+) / losses (-) on cash and cash equivalents 3 9

Cash and cash equivalents at end of the period 17 1,271 1,696

EUR million Note 1 Jan–31 Dec 2022 1 Jan–31 Dec 2021

The notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Financial statements



181181

EUR million Note
Share 

capital
Reserve 

fund

Reserve 
of invested

unrestricted
equity

Treasury 
shares

Fair value 
and other 
reserves

Actuarial
gains and

losses
Translation 
differences

Retained 
earnings

Owners of 
the parent

Non-
controlling 

interests
Total 

equity

Total equity at 1 January 2022 40 19 16 -6 -22 -96 -10 7,040 6,981 4 6,985
Profit for the period 1,888 1,888 3 1,891
Other comprehensive income for the period, net of tax 120 18 -56 82 0 82
Total comprehensive income for the period 0 0 0 0 120 18 -56 1,888 1,970 3 1,973

Transactions with the owners in their capacity as owners
Dividend decision -630 -630 -2 -632
Share-based compensation 1 -1 0 0
Transfer from retained earnings -12 0 12 0 0

Total equity at 31 December 2022 20 40 7 16 -5 98 -78 -66 8,309 8,322 5 8,327

EUR million Note
Share  

capital
Reserve  

fund

Reserve 
of invested 

unrestricted 
equity

Treasury 
shares

Fair value 
and other 
reserves

Actuarial 
gains and 

losses
Translation 
differences

Retained 
earnings

Owners of 
the parent

Non-
controlling 

interests
Total 

equity

Total equity at 1 January 2021 40 20 16 -7 71 -66 -35 5,886 5,925 4 5,929
Profit for the period 1,771 1,771 2 1,774
Other comprehensive income for the period, net of tax -93 -30 24 -98 0 -98
Total comprehensive income for the period 0 0 0 0 -93 -30 24 1,771 1,673 2 1,675

Transactions with the owners in their capacity as owners
Dividend decision -614 -614 -2 -617
Share-based compensation 1 -4 -3 -3
Transfer from retained earnings 0 0 0 0

Total equity at 31 December 2021 20 40 19 16 -6 -22 -96 -10 7,040 6,981 4 6,985
The notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Financial statements



182182

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
1 General information 
Neste Corporation is a Finnish public limited liability company domiciled in Espoo, Finland. Neste Corporation is listed on the 
NASDAQ Helsinki Oy. The address of its registered office is Keilaranta 21, P.O. Box 95, 00095 Neste, Finland.

Neste Corporation and its subsidiaries (together referred to as Neste) create sustainable solutions for transport, business, 
and consumer needs. Neste’s wide range of renewable and circular solutions enable its customers to reduce climate emissions. 
Neste is the world’s largest producer of renewable diesel and sustainable aviation fuel refined from waste and residue, developing 
chemical recycling to combat the plastic waste challenge. Sustainably-produced solutions are Neste’s most significant contribution 
to the implementation of the Paris Agreement, as well as the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). Neste is also 
a technologically advanced refiner of high-quality oil products. Neste wants to be a reliable partner with widely valued expertise, 
research, and sustainable operations.

Neste’s customers benefit not only from the high-quality products, but also from the comprehensive supply and logistics 
services that Neste can provide in Finland and abroad. Neste’s refineries are located in Finland, the Netherlands and Singapore. 
Additionally, during 2022 Neste has established a joint operation together with Marathon Petroleum to produce renewable diesel 
following a conversion project of Marathon’s refinery in the United States. Neste has a network of service stations and other retail 
outlets in Finland and the Baltic countries.

 The Board of Directors has approved these consolidated financial statements for issue on 7th of February 2023.

2 Accounting policies
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below. These 
policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.

Basis of preparation
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRS) and IFRS Interpretations Committee (IFRS IC) interpretations applicable to companies reporting under IFRS as adopted 
by the European Union. The consolidated financial statements also include compliance with Finnish accounting and corporate 
legislation. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention unless otherwise 
stated in the Neste’s accounting policies.

The consolidated financial statements are presented in million euros unless otherwise stated. The figures in the tables are 
subject to rounding, which may cause some rounding inaccuracies in aggregate column and row totals.
Neste discloses its accounting policies in conjunction with each note to provide enhanced understanding of each accounting 
area. The following symbols IS, OCI, BS, and CF are used to show which amounts in the notes can be reconciled to 
consolidated statement of income (IS), consolidated statement of comprehensive income (OCI), consolidated statement of 
financial position (BS) or consolidated cash flow statement (CF). 

New standards, significant amendments and interpretations adopted by Neste
Neste applied, for the first time, certain standards and amendments, which are effective for annual periods beginning on or 
after 1 January 2022. These amendments did not have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements of Neste. 
Neste has not early adopted any other standard, interpretation or amendment that has been issued but is not yet effective.

The following new standards and amendments became effective as of 1 January 2022 (unless otherwise stated):
• Onerous Contracts: Costs of Fulfilling a Contract – Amendments to IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent 

Assets.
• Annual Improvements to IFRS Standards 2018–2020: the annual improvements process provides a mechanism for minor 

and non-urgent amendments to IFRSs to be grouped together and issued in one package annually. The amendments clarify 
among others IFRS 9 and IFRS 16 Standards. 

• Proceeds before Intended Use: Amendments to IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment.
• Reference to the Conceptual Framework: Amendments to IFRS 3 Business Combinations.

New standards, amendments and interpretations not yet adopted
Certain new interpretations, amendments to existing standards or new standards have been published. Neste intends to adopt 
these standards when they become effective.

There are no IFRS or IFRIC interpretations that are not yet effective and that would be expected to have a material impact on Neste.

Estimates and judgements requiring management estimation
The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with the International Accounting Standard requires Neste’s 
management to make estimates and assumptions which have an impact on reported assets and liabilities, the disclosure of 
contingent assets and liabilities at the dates of the consolidated financial statements, and the reported amounts of income 
and expenses during the reporting period. In addition, management judgement may be required in applying the accounting 
principles, for example, classifying assets as held for sale.

These estimates, assumptions and judgements are based on management’s historical experience and other factors, 
including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. The actual amounts may 
differ significantly from the estimates used in the financial statements. 

Neste follows the changes in estimates, assumptions and the factors affecting them by using multiple internal and external 
sources of information. Possible changes in estimates and assumptions are recognized in the financial period the estimate or 
assumption is changed.

The sources of uncertainty which have been identified as most significant estimates by Neste are presented in connection to 
the items considered to be affected.

Visibility in the global economy continues to be low due to high inflation, reduced economic growth expectations and 
continued geopolitical uncertainty. The war in Ukraine has had significant impacts on the global energy markets, and energy 
prices have risen to high levels. We expect volatility in the oil products and renewable feedstock markets to remain high. Neste 
has assessed the impacts of war in Ukraine by reviewing the carrying values of the balance sheet items, which did not indicate 
a need for asset impairments. Neste does not have fixed assets in Russia nor in Ukraine. Neste’s financial position remained 
strong. Changes in the macroeconomic environment have been taken into account by updating the interest rate, discount 
rate and inflation assumptions to reflect the current situation.  More information can be found in the notes 3 Financial risk 
management, 13 Intangible assets and 23 Employee benefit obligations.

Climate related topics
Climate commitments are part of Neste’s corporate strategy. We have a two-pronged approach to combating climate change: 
on the one hand we enable change, a carbon handprint, with our renewable and recycled products. On the other hand, we 
ourselves make a change by reducing our own carbon footprint.  These two climate performance indicators are included in the 
long-term incentives for Neste’s key personnel. More information in Note 24 Share-based payments.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



183183

The financial impacts of the climate-related matters have been booked in the financial statements in accordance with 
accounting policies. For example investments to the Renewable Products segment are mainly EU taxonomy aligned capital 
expenditure.

Climate change poses both business risks and opportunities to Neste.
Risks associated with the transition to a lower-carbon economy include for example unfavorable development of greenhouse 

gas emissions pricing or unforeseen regulatory development for GHG reductions, or the acceptability of reduction technologies. 
Market risks are also seen as relevant risks.

The adaptability and resilience of Neste’s strategy to climate change also creates opportunities by contributing to the 
transition to a lower-carbon economy. Our strategy has been influenced by opportunities related to renewable and circular 
products, and we see that increasing global climate ambitions and related regulations continue to increase the demand for our 
renewable and circular products.

The risks and opportunities described above have been taken into account in the goodwill impairment testing of the 
Renewable Products Cash Generating Unit. More information in Note 13 Intangible assets.

Climate-related matters do not have material impact on provisions. More information in Note 22 Provisions.

Consolidation 

Subsidiaries
The consolidated financial statements cover the parent company, Neste Corporation, and all those companies over which 
Neste has control. Neste controls an entity when Neste is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement 
with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated 
from the date on which control is transferred to Neste, and are no longer consolidated when this control ceases. 

Acquired or established subsidiaries are accounted for by using the acquisition method. The consideration transferred and 
the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the acquired company are measured at their fair value on their date 
of acquisition. The consideration transferred includes any assets transferred by the acquirer, liabilities incurred by the acquirer 
to former owners of the acquiree and the equity interests issued by the acquirer. Any contingent consideration related to the 
business combination is measured at fair value on their acquisition date and it is classified as either liability or equity. Contingent 
consideration classified as liability is re-measured at its fair value at the end of each reporting period and the subsequent changes 
to fair value are recognized in profit or loss. Contingent consideration classified as equity is not subsequently re-measured. The 
consideration transferred does not include any transactions accounted for separately from the acquisition. Acquisition-related 
costs are expensed as incurred. 

All intra-group transactions, receivables, liabilities and unrealized margins, as well as distribution of profits within Neste, are 
eliminated in the preparation of consolidated financial statements.

The result for the period and items recognized in other comprehensive income are allocated to the equity holders of the company 
and non-controlling interests and presented in the statement of income and statement of other comprehensive income. Non-
controlling interests are presented separately from the equity allocated to the equity holders of the company. Other comprehensive 
income is allocated to the equity holders of the company and to non-controlling interests even in situations where the allocation 
would result in the non-controlling interests’ share being negative, unless non-controlling interests have an exemption not to 
meet obligations which exceed the non-controlling interests’ investment in the company.

When Neste ceases to have control, any retained interest in the entity is re-measured to its fair value at the date when control 
is lost, with the change in the carrying amount recognized in profit or loss. The fair value is the initial carrying amount for the 
purposes of subsequently accounting for the retained interest as an associate, joint venture or financial asset. In addition, any 
amounts previously recognized in other comprehensive income in respect of that entity are accounted for as if Neste had directly 
disposed of the related assets or liabilities. 

Joint arrangements
A joint arrangement is an arrangement in which two or more parties have joint control, and in which the sharing of control has 
been contractually agreed between the parties. Joint control exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require the 
unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. Joint arrangements are classified as either joint operations or joint ventures, 
depending on the contractual rights and obligations of each investor, rather than the legal structure of the joint arrangement. 
Neste has assessed the nature of its joint arrangements and determined them to be either joint ventures or joint operations. 

Joint operation is a joint arrangement, whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the assets, 
and obligations for the liabilities relating to the arrangement. Joint venture is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have 
joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the arrangement.

During 2022 Neste finalized a transaction to establish a joint arrangement, called Martinez Renewables, for production 
of renewable fuels together with Marathon Petroleum. Through the transaction, Neste obtained a 50% interest in Martinez 
Renewables. Production is expected to commence in early 2023 following a conversion project of Marathon’s refinery in Martinez, 
California. Pretreatment capabilities are expected to come online in the second half of 2023 and the facility is expected to be 
capable of producing 2.1 million tons per year by the end of 2023. As a result, Martinez Renewables is expected to increase 
Neste’s renewable products capacity by slightly over 1 million tons per annum.

At the time of making the investment, Neste made the interpretation to treat the establishment and initial investment into the 
joint arrangement as an asset acquisition. After the initial investment, Neste classified the joint arrangement as a joint operation 
as Neste and Marathon Petroleum have a joint control over the arrangement’s relevant activities, and the production output will 
be divided evenly between Neste and Marathon Petroleum. As a result of the joint operation classification, Neste recognises its 
50% share of Martinez Renewables’ assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses.

The investments into Martinez Renewables in 2022 resulted in EUR 753 million capital expenditure in investing cash flow. The 
impact to Neste’s balance sheet at year-end 2022 is presented in note 14 Property, plant and equipment, note 18 Inventories 
and note 30 Leases. Martinez Renewables did not have other material impacts to Neste’s balance sheet or income statement. 

Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method. Joint operations are consolidated for its share of the assets, liabilities, 
revenues, expenses and cash flow on a line-by-line basis. Under the equity method of accounting, interests in joint ventures 
are initially recognized at cost and adjusted thereafter to recognize Neste’s share of the post-acquisition profits or losses and 
movements in other comprehensive income. When Neste’s share of losses in a joint venture equals or exceeds its interests in the 
joint ventures (which includes any long-term interests that, in substance, form part of Neste’s net investment in the joint ventures), 
Neste does not recognize further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint ventures. 

Unrealized gains on transactions between Neste and its joint arrangements are eliminated to the extent of Neste’s interest in 
the joint ventures. Unrealized losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset 
being transferred. 

Associates
Associated companies are entities over which Neste has significant influence but not control, and generally involve a shareholding 
of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. Investments in associates are accounted for by using the equity method as 
described above in the “Joint arrangements” paragraph.

Structured entities
Neste engages in business activities with structured entities which are designed to achieve a specific business purpose. A 
structured entity is one that has been set up so that voting rights or similar rights are not the dominant factor in deciding who 
controls the entity. An example is when voting rights relate only to administrative tasks and the relevant activities are directed by 
contractual arrangements. 

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



184184

Structured entities are consolidated when the substance of the relationship between Neste and the structured entities indicate 
that the structured entities are controlled by Neste. The extent of Neste’s interests in unconsolidated structured entities will vary 
depending on the type of structured entities. Entities are not consolidated because Neste does not control them through voting 
rights, contract, funding agreements, or other means.

Management uses judgement when determining the accounting treatment of the structured entities. In addition to the voting 
rights or similar rights, the management considers other factors such as the nature of the arrangement, contractual arrangements 
and level of influence with the structured entities.

Foreign currency translation 

(a) Presentation currency
Items included in the financial statements of each of Neste’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the entity operates (‘the functional currency’). The consolidated financial statements are presented in euros, 
which is the company’s presentation currency. 

(b) Transactions in foreign currencies
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of 
the transactions or valuation where items are re-measured. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of 
such transactions, and from the translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign 
currencies, are recognized in the income statement, except when deferred in other comprehensive income as qualifying cash 
flow hedges and qualifying net investment hedges.

(c) Group companies
The results and financial position of all Neste entities (none of which uses a hyperinflationary economy currency) that have a 
functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: 
• Assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate quoted on the relevant balance sheet date; 
• Income and expenses are translated at average exchange rates (unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of 

the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at 
the dates of the transactions);

• All resulting exchange differences are recognized in other comprehensive income. 

On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities and currency instruments 
designated as hedges of such investments, are recognized in other comprehensive income. When a foreign operation is partially 
disposed of, sold, or liquidated, translation differences accrued in equity are recognized in the income statement as part of the 
gain or loss on the sale/liquidation. Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated 
as assets and liabilities of the entity in question and translated at the closing rate.

3 Financial risk management

Financial risk management principles
The Neste Board of Directors has approved the Corporate risk management policy. This policy together with the related 
principles and instructions defines the framework for financial risk management within Neste. Mandates and limits that are 
applicable to financial risks have been defined in the risk management policy.

For more information regarding Neste’s risk management principles and key risk areas, please refer to the risk management 
section in the annual report.

Market risks
Market risk is the risk or uncertainty arising from possible market price movements and their impact on the future performance 
of a business. For Neste, the main types of market risks are commodity price risk, foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk. 
These are specified in more detail in the following sections. In accordance with the Corporate risk management policy, various 
derivatives transactions are executed to mitigate exposure to risk. The positions are monitored and managed on a daily basis.  

1. Commodity price risks
The main commodity price risks Neste faces in its businesses are related to market prices for crude oil, renewable feedstocks, 
and other feedstocks, as well as refined petroleum and renewable products. These prices are subject to significant fluctuations 
resulting from a periodic over-supply and supply tightness in various regional markets, coupled with fluctuations in demand. 

Neste’s results of operations in any given period are principally driven by the demand for and prices of renewable and oil 
products relative to the supply and cost of raw materials. These factors, combined with Neste’s own consumption of raw 
materials and output of refined products, drive operational performance and cash flows in Renewable Products and Oil 
Products, which are Neste’s largest segments in terms of revenue, profits and net assets.

Neste divides the commodity price risks affecting Neste’s revenue, profits and net assets into two main categories: inventory 
price risk and refining margin risk. 

Inventory price risk
From a price risk management perspective, Neste’s refinery inventory consists of two components. The first and largest 
component remains relatively constant over time and is referred to as the ‘base inventory’. The second and daily fluctuating 
component is the amount of inventories differing from the base inventory level and at Neste it is called ‘transaction position’.

The base inventory is the minimum level that can reasonably assure the continuous operation of the refineries and prevent 
deliveries from being compromised. It comprises inventories at the refineries and within the supply chain. The base inventory 
includes the minimum level of stocks that Neste is required to maintain under Finnish laws and regulations.

The base inventory creates a risk in Neste’s income statement and balance sheet since Neste applies the weighted average 
method for measuring the cost of goods sold, raw materials and inventories. Hedging operations related to price risk do not 
target the base inventory. Instead, Neste’s inventory risk management policies target the ‘transaction position’ in as much as 
these stocks create cash flow risks depending on the relationships between feedstock purchases, refinery production and 
refined petroleum product sales over any given period. According to the Neste risk management policy, any open exposures of 
the transaction position are hedged without delay when the underlying pricing-in or pricing-out occurs.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



185185

In hedging the transaction position, derivative financial instruments are used. Because of the differences between the quality 
of the underlying feedstocks or end products for which derivative financial instruments can be sold and purchased and the 
actual quality of Neste’s feedstocks and end products, the business will remain exposed to some degree of basis risk. Basis 
risk is typically higher in the Renewables business compared to the fossil fuel refining due to the nature of the feedstock pool 
and limited availability of hedging instruments.

If crude or oil product markets are in contango where current forward prices are higher than current spot prices, Neste has 
the capability to build physical contango storages from time to time. These storages are excluded from the transaction position 
and are hedged separately.

Refining margin risk
Neste is exposed to a greater margin volatility in the Renewable Products segment compared to that of fossil fuel refining. 
In the Renewables business, the refining margin is mainly an outcome of the renewable product sale price received and 
the cost of feedstocks used. The underlying indices used in renewable diesel pricing are primarily related to oil products. 
Premiums over pricing indices fluctuate regionally depending on the nature of bio mandates and incentives, local supply 
and demand, and fossil fuel prices. In North America, Soy Methyl Ester (SME) is an important price driver through its link to 
Renewable Identification Number (RIN) prices. The cost of feedstocks depends on feedstock selection and is typically derived 
from different vegetable oils and fats. Feedstock prices are mainly driven by supply and demand balances, crop forecasts 
and regional weather. In Renewable Products segment, operational activities and margin hedges are the primary means of 
mitigating margin volatility.

Refining margin is an important determinant of Oil Products segment’s earnings. Its fluctuations constitute a significant risk. 
The refining margin risk is a result of the revenue from sold petroleum products and the cost of raw materials together with 
other costs. Neste’s exposure to low refining margins in traditional oil refining is partly offset by its high-conversion refinery 
capacity.

With the aim of securing its margin and cash flow, Neste has defined margin hedging principles for its main refining 
businesses. In the Renewable Products segment, the targeted hedge ratios are typically higher and can be expected to 
fluctuate over time. In the fossil fuel business, the hedge ratios are typically moderate. 

Both Oil and Renewable Product segments’ margins are also exposed to utility price risk that mainly arises from 
consumption of electricity and natural gas. Neste has also defined principles for hedging these exposures. In hedging the 
refining margin and utility price risks, commodity derivatives are used. Just as in transaction hedging, also when hedging 
the refining margin and utility risks, the business will remain exposed to a certain degree of basis risk that comes from the 
differences between actual qualities of feedstocks and products and qualities of available hedging arrangements. 

The exposure to open positions of commodity derivative contracts is summarized in Note 19 Derivative financial instruments. 
Neste does not apply IFRS hedge accounting for commodity hedging positions. 

2. Foreign exchange risk 
As the underlying currency of Neste’s main markets is the US dollar, and Neste operates and reports in Euro, this factor is one 
that exposes Neste’s business to currency risk. The objective of foreign exchange risk management in Neste is to limit the 
uncertainty created by changes in foreign exchange rates on the future value of cash flows and earnings, and in the balance 
sheet. Generally, foreign exchange risk can be managed by hedging currency risks in contracted and forecast cash flows and 
balance sheet exposures (referred to as transaction exposure) as well as the equity of non-euro-based subsidiaries (referred to 
as translation exposure). 

Transaction exposure
In general, all reporting segments hedge their transaction exposure related to highly probable future cash flows. Net foreign 
currency cash flows are forecast over a 12-month period on a rolling basis and hedged on average 70% for the first six months 
and 30% of the next six months for the Renewable business and on average 80% for the first six months and 40% for the 
following six months for the fossil fuel businesses. Deviations from the benchmark position are allowed in line with the limits 
set by treasury principles. The most important hedged currency is the US dollar. Other currencies to which Neste is exposed 
are the Swedish crown (SEK), the Chinese renminbi (CNY), the Singapore dollar (SGD), the Australian dollar (AUD) and the 
Malaysian ringgit (MYR). Neste’s net exposure is managed through the use of forward contracts and options. All transactions 
are made for hedging purposes and the majority is also hedge-accounted for according to IFRS. Segments are responsible for 
forecasting net foreign currency cash flows, while Group Treasury & Risk Management is responsible for implementing hedging 
transactions. In addition to the above mentioned foreign currency hedging programs Neste has continued to hedge the 
Singapore expansion project related currency exposures until the end of the investment. Both currency forwards and currency 
options can be used in order to manage this position.

Neste has several currency-denominated assets and liabilities in its balance sheet, such as foreign currency loans, deposits, 
net working capital and cash in other currencies than home currency. The principle is to hedge this balance sheet exposure 
fully using forward contracts. Similarly to commodity price risk management, the foreign exchange transaction hedging targets 
inventories in excess of the base inventory. Open exposures are allowed based on risk limits set by treasury principles. The 
largest and most volatile item in terms of balance sheet exposure is net working capital. Since many of the Neste’s business 
transactions, sales of products and services and purchases of crude oil and other feedstock are linked to the US dollar, the 
daily exposure of net working capital is hedged as part of the balance sheet hedge in order to neutralize the effect of volatility 
in EUR/USD exchange rate. During 2022, the daily balance sheet exposure fluctuated between approximately USD 1,346 
million and 3,429 million (2021: USD 1,209 million and 2,274 million). Group Treasury & Risk Management is responsible for 
consolidating various balance sheet items and carrying out hedging transactions. 

The exposure to open positions of foreign exchange derivative contracts is summarized in Note 19 Derivative financial 
instruments.

Translation exposure
Group Treasury & Risk Management is responsible for managing Neste’s translation exposure. This consists of net investments 
in foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures. Although the main principle is to leave translation exposure unhedged, Neste may 
seek to reduce the volatility in equity in the consolidated balance sheet through hedging transactions. Any hedging decisions 
are made by Group Treasury & Risk Management. At the end of 2022, the most important translation exposures were:  US 
dollar EUR 2,747 million and Swedish Crown EUR 89 million (2021: US dollar EUR 571 million, Swedish Crown EUR 76 
million). Neste has not hedged the exposures in 2022 or 2021.  

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



186186

3. Interest rate risk
Neste is exposed to interest rate risk mainly through its interest-bearing net debt. The objective of the interest rate risk 
management is to limit the volatility of interest expenses in the income statement. The benchmark duration for the debt 
portfolio is 12 months, and the duration can vary between six and 96 months. As of 31 December 2022, the duration was 29 
months (2021: 44 months). In addition to duration, Neste has defined a flow risk limitation.

Interest rate derivatives are used to adjust the duration of the debt portfolio. Neste’s interest rate risk management is handled 
by Group Treasury & Risk Management. Neste has not used interest rate derivatives in 2022 or 2021.

4. Key sensitivities to market risks

Sensitivity of operating profit to market risks arising from the Group's operations
Due to the nature of its operations, Neste’s financial performance is sensitive to the market risks described above. The following 
table details the approximate impact that movements in the Neste’s key price and currency exposures would have on its operating 
profit for 2023 (2022),  assuming normal market and operating conditions and with following assumptions on sensitivities:

• Hedging transactions are excluded
• The sensitivity of each factor in the table is individual, assuming other factors to remain constant, i.e., the ceteris paribus 

principle
• The sensitivity in the EUR/USD exchange rate is based on exposure forecast
• The sensitivity in the Oil Product totals refining margin is based on forecast volumes, representing an impact from change of 

1 USD/barrel 
• The sensitivity in the Oil Products crude oil price is based on impacts through inventory gains / losses and changes in utility 

and freight costs
• The sensitivity in the Renewable Products raw material price is based on impacts through inventory gains / losses 
• The sensitivity in the Renewable Products refining margin is based on nameplate capacity at end of 2022, representing an 

impact from a change of 50 USD/ton

The re-pricing period of interest-bearing  
debt occurs 2022

Within 
1 year

1 year– 
5 years > 5 years Total

Financial instruments with floating interest rate
Loans from financial institutions 776 0 0 776
Other loans 34 0 0 34

Financial instruments with fixed interest rate
Bonds 0 400 495 895
Commercial paper liabilities 346 0 0 346
Lease liabilities 111 135 289 535
Other loans 0 30 0 30

1,266 565 784 2,616

The re-pricing period of interest-bearing  
debt occurs 2021

Within 
1 year

1 year–
 5 years > 5 years Total

Financial instruments with floating interest rate
Loans from financial institutions 258 0 0 258
Other loans 131 0 0 131

Financial instruments with fixed interest rate
Bonds 0 399 494 893
Lease liabilities 111 141 192 444
Other loans 0 30 0 30

501 570 686 1,757

Approximate impact on operating profit, excluding hedges 2022 2021
+/- 10% in the EUR/USD exchange rate EUR million -534/+653 -289/+353
+/- USD 1.00/barrel in Oil Products total refining margin USD million +/-90 +/-90
+/- USD 10/barrel in crude oil price for Oil Products 1) USD million +/-115 +/-85
+/- USD 100/t in Renewable Products raw material price 1) USD million +/-180 +/-150
+/- USD 50/t in Renewable Products refining margin 2) USD million +/-170 +/-160
1) Inventory gains/losses excluded from comparable EBITDA
2) Based on name-plate capacity

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



187187

Sensitivity to market risks arising from financial instruments as required by IFRS 7
The following analysis, required by IFRS 7, is intended to illustrate the sensitivity of Neste’s profit for the period and equity 
to changes in oil prices, the EUR/USD exchange rate, and interest rates, resulting from financial instruments, such as 
financial assets and liabilities and derivative financial instruments, as defined by IFRS, included in the balance sheet as of 31 
December 2022 (2021). Financial instruments affected by the above market risks include net working capital items, such as 
trade and other receivables and trade and other payables, interest-bearing liabilities, deposits, liquid funds, and derivative 
financial instruments. When cash flow hedge accounting is applied, the change in the fair value of derivative financial 
instruments is assumed to be recorded fully in equity.

The following assumptions were made when calculating the sensitivity to the change in oil prices:
• The flat price variation for oil derivative contracts of crude oil, refined oil products and vegetable oil is assumed to be 

+/- 20%
• The sensitivity related to oil derivative contracts held for hedging refinery oil inventory position is included; the underlying 

physical oil inventory position is excluded from the calculation, since inventory is not a financial instrument
• The sensitivity related to oil derivative contracts held for hedging expected future refining margin is included; the underlying 

expected refining margin position is excluded from the calculation

The following assumptions were made when calculating the sensitivity to changes in the EUR/USD exchange rate:
• The variation in the EUR/USD-rate is assumed to be +/- 10%
• The position includes USD-denominated financial assets and liabilities, such as interest-bearing liabilities, deposits, trade 

and other receivables, trade and other payables, and liquid funds, as well as derivative financial instruments
• The position excludes USD-denominated future cash flows

The following assumptions were applied when calculating the sensitivity to changes in interest rates:
• The variation of interest rate is assumed to be a 1% parallel shift in the interest rate curve
• The interest rate risk position includes interest-bearing liabilities (excluding leases), interest-bearing receivables, and interest 

rate swaps, however liquid funds are excluded
• The income statement is affected by changes in the interest rates of floating-rate financial instruments except derivative 

financial instruments that are designated as and qualifying for cash flow hedges, which are recorded directly in equity

The sensitivity analysis presented in the following table may not be representative, since the Neste’s exposure to market risks 
also arises from balance sheet items other than financial instruments, such as inventories. As the sensitivity analysis does 
not take into account future cash flows, which Neste hedges in significant volumes, it only reflects the change in fair value 
of hedging instruments. In addition, the size of the exposure sensitive to changes in the EUR/USD exchange rate varies 
significantly, so the position on the balance sheet date may not be representative for the financial period on average. Equity in 
the following table includes items which are recorded directly in equity. Items affecting the income statement are not included 
in equity.

Liquidity and refinancing risks
Liquidity risk is defined as financial distress or extraordinarily high financing costs arising due to a shortage of liquid funds in a 
situation where business conditions unexpectedly deteriorate and require financing. The objective of liquidity risk management 
is to maintain sufficient liquidity and to ensure that it is available fast enough to avoid uncertainty related to financial distress at 
all times. 
 Neste’s principal source of liquidity is expected to be cash generated from operations. In addition, Neste seeks to reduce 
liquidity and refinancing risks by maintaining a diversified maturity profile in its loan portfolio. Certain other limits have also been 
set to minimize liquidity and refinancing risks. The amount of short-term financing is limited to the greater of the following: EUR 
500 million or 30% of total interest-bearing liabilities. Unused committed credit facilities together with cash must always be at a 
minimum EUR 700 million and sufficient to cover all forecasted negative free cash flows and interest bearing liabilities maturing 
within the next 12-month period.

The average loan maturity as of 31 December 2022 was 2.5 years (2021: 3.7 years). The most important financing programs 
in place are committed revolving multicurrency credit facility of EUR 1,200 million, committed single currency revolving credit 
agreement of EUR 250 million, committed overdraft facilities of EUR 150 million and uncommitted domestic commercial paper 
program of EUR 400 million.

2022 2021
Sensitivity to market risk arising from 
financial instruments as required by IFRS 7

Income 
statement Equity

Income 
statement Equity

+/- 20% change in oil price1) EUR million -/+27 +/-0 -/+2 +/-0
+/- 10% change in EUR/USD exchange rate EUR million +175/-214 +219/-218 +100/-122 +132/-138
+/- 1% parallel shift in interest rates EUR million -/+6 +/-0 -/+2 +/-0
1) Includes crude oil, refined oil products and vegetable oil derivatives

Liquid funds and committed unutilized credit facilities 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021
Liquid funds 1,271 1,716
Overdraft facilities, expiring within one year 150 150
Revolving credit facility, expiring beyond one year 1) 1,450 1,200
Total 2,871 3,066
In addition: unused commercial paper program (uncommitted) 54 400

1) EUR 1,200 million revolving credit facility dated 18 December, 2019 for general corporate purposes. The facility has tenor of 
 five years with two one-year extension options. The margin under the facility will be adjusted based on Neste’s progress to meet its 
 greenhouse gas emission reduction target. EUR 250 million single currency revolving credit agreement dated 23 December 2022 for 
 general corporate purposes with a tenor of three years and two one-year extension options.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



188188

Maturity profile of financial liabilities based on contractual payments 31 Dec 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028– Total
Trade payables and other liabilities 2,879 13 13 1 1 14 2,922
Interest-bearing liabilities

Bonds 1) 0 400 0 0 0 500 900
Loans from financial institutions 162 6 506 6 98 0 777
Commercial paper liabilities 346 0 0 0 0 0 346
Lease liabilities 2) 111 72 37 16 10 289 535
Other loans 34 30 0 0 0 0 64
Interest of lease liabilities 30 27 24 22 21 282 405
Interest of other liabilities 36 32 14 7 7 4 99

Total 3,597 580 594 52 136 1,089 6,048

Commodities 157 12 0 0 0 0 169
Gross settled forward foreign exchange contracts

- inflow (-) -7,014 -3 0 0 0 0 -7,017
- outflow 6,837 3 0 0 0 0 6,840

Derivatives total -20 12 0 0 0 0 -8

Maturity profile of financial liabilities based on contractual payments 31 Dec 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027– Total
Trade payables and other liabilities 2,656 9 9 9 1 16 2,699
Interest-bearing liabilities

Bonds 1) 0 0 400 0 0 500 900
Loans from financial institutions 137 6 6 6 6 98 258
Lease liabilities 2) 111 62 39 27 13 192 444
Other loans 131 0 30 0 0 0 161
Interest of lease liabilities 22 20 18 16 14 204 293
Interest of other liabilities 15 12 13 5 5 8 57

Total 3,073 109 514 62 39 1,018 4,814

Commodities 85 1 0 0 0 0 86
Gross settled forward foreign exchange contracts

- inflow (-) -3,909 -10 0 0 0 0 -3,919
- outflow 3,947 10 0 0 0 0 3,957

Derivatives total 123 1 0 0 0 0 124

1) Refer to Note 21 Financial liabilities for further information
2) Refer to Note 30 Leases for further information

1) Refer to Note 21 Financial liabilities for further information
2) Refer to Note 30 Leases for further information

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



189189

Credit and counterparty risk
Counterparty risk arises from all business relationships, where Neste is exposed to the counterparty’s failure to perform according to 
Neste’s requirements and contractual commitments. The risk arises especially from sales, supply, hedging and trading transactions 
as well as from cash investments. Risk magnitude depends on the size of the business exposure and creditworthiness of the 
counterparty. The objective of counterparty and credit risk management is to prevent and minimize the losses incurred as a result 
of a counterparty not fulfilling its obligations. Limits, mandates and management principles for counterparty and credit risk are 
covered in the Corporate risk management policy and separate principle and instruction-level documents. Credit risk limits are 
set at the Group level, designated by different levels of authorization and delegated to Neste’s reporting segments, which are 
responsible for counterparty risk management within these limits. 

When determining the credit lines for sales contracts, counterparties are screened and evaluated vis-à-vis their 
creditworthiness to decide whether an open credit line is acceptable or collateral, for example, a letter of credit, bank 
guarantee or parent company guarantee has to be posted. In the event that collateral is required credit risk is evaluated based 
on a financial evaluation of the party posting the collateral. If appropriate in terms of the potential credit risk associated with 
a specific customer, advance payment is required before delivery of products or services. In addition, Neste may reduce its 
counterparty risks by selling trade receivables to a third party, e.g., the bank. 

Neste risk management policy divides credit lines for counterparties into following categories according to contract type: 
physical sales contracts, derivative contracts and financial transactions. In each of the categories counterparty credit limits 
and decision making mandates are determined separately for counterparties rated by general rating agencies and unrated 
counterparties. For OTC (over-the-counter) derivative financial instrument contracts, Neste has negotiated framework 
agreements in the form of the ISDA (International Swaps and Derivatives Association) master agreement with the main 
counterparties concerning commodity, emission allowance, currency and interest rate derivative financial instruments. 
These contracts permit netting and allow for termination of the contract on the occurrence of certain events of defaults and 
termination events. Some of these agreements include Credit Support Annexes (CSA) with the aim of reducing credit and 
counterparty risk by requiring margin call deposits in the form of cash or letter of credit for balances exceeding the mutually 
agreed limit. At the end of December 2022, Neste had received EUR 34 million in cash collateral (2021: EUR 120 million) and 
EUR 0 million letter of credit (2021: EUR 0 million) due to CSA agreements. Neste had issued EUR 27 million in cash collateral 
(2021: EUR 0 million) and EUR 0 million letter of credit (2021: EUR 0 million) due to CSA agreements.

Financial impact of netting for instruments subject to an 
enforceable master netting agreement (or similar)

31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021

Financial assets Financial liabilities Financial assets Financial liabilities

Derivatives Trade receivables Derivatives Trade payables Derivatives Trade receivables Derivatives Trade payables
Gross amount of recognized financial instruments 411 51 211 8 254 30 162 2
Related liabilities or assets subject to master netting agreements 165 0 165 0 98 0 98 0
CSA agreements 34 0 27 0 120 0 0 0
Net exposure 212 51 19 8 36 30 64 2

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



190190

Neste subsidiaries are required to deposit their excess cash balances with the Group Treasury on an ongoing basis in order to 
provide sufficient visibility and management of Neste’s cash balance and risks associated with it. 

As for counterparty risk management, the minimum credit rating requirement for companies providing insurance for Neste 
Group is defined in the insurance principles.

Neste has a large number of different international counterparties. As to the range of counterparties, the most significant types 
are primarily large international oil companies and financial institutions. Neste’s exposure to unexpected credit losses within one 
reporting segment may increase with the concentration of credit risk through a number of counterparties operating in the same 
industry sector or geographical area, which may be adversely affected by changes in economic, political or other conditions. 
These risks are reduced by taking concentration risks into consideration in credit decisions.

Counterparties to contracts comprising derivative financial instruments exposure on 31 December 2022: over 85 % of the 
counterparties or their parent companies related to commodity derivative contracts have investment-grade rating from an 
established international credit rating agency. Respectively, Group Treasury & Risk Management had an exposure for currency 
and interest rate derivative contracts as of 31 December 2022 with banks, of which all have investment-grade rating at a 
minimum. Commodity derivative transactions are also done through exchange, which reduces credit risk.

Neste assesses expected credit losses and calculates impairment loss from trade receivables based on historical credit loss 
experience combined with current conditions and forward-looking macroeconomic analysis. Analysis is conducted utilizing industry 
outlook and economic forecasts from various data sources. Neste has chosen a cautious expected credit loss calculation as 
indicated by the low level of actual historical credit losses compared to the loan loss provision. The receivables have been divided 
in aging buckets and segments depending on business area and geographic region, in addition to which they are assessed case 
by case. Impairment loss from trade receivables for the period is EUR 12 million (2021: EUR 9 million). Recognized credit loss of 
trade receivables amounts to EUR 8 million (2021: EUR 1 million).

Financial assets are written off when there is no reasonable expectation of recovery. Indications that there is no reasonable 
expectation of recovery may be, e.g., a debtor failing to engage in a repayment plan with the company, or a debtor failing to 
make contractual payments more than 180 days past due. However, the write-offs are interpreted case by case and thus if 
there is a high probability that the receivable is still paid, no write-off is made. For all bankruptcies and debt restructurings, 
Neste makes an immediate write off. Where loans or receivables have been written off, the company continues to engage in 
enforcement activity to attempt to recover the receivable due. Where recoveries are made, these are recognised in profit or 
loss.

Of the trade receivables portfolio exposure, 38% (2021: 56%) is from counterparties or their parent companies having 
an investment-grade credit rating; 62% (2021: 44%) consists of trade receivables from counterparties that do not have an 
investment-grade credit rating, most of it comprising from a large number of corporate and private customers. 

Analysis of trade receivables by age 31 Dec 2022
Probability of 

Credit Loss, % 31 Dec 2021
Probability of 

Credit Loss, %
not past due 1,552 0–0.04% 1,253 0–0.04%
1–30 days overdue 89 0.01–4% 76 0.01–4%
31–60 days overdue 6 5–43% 4 5–43%
61–90 days overdue 3 10–55% 1 10–55%
91–180 days overdue 8 25–100% 3 25–100%
more than 180 days overdue 1) 31 100% 74 100%
Trade receivables total 1,688 1,412
Impairment loss -12 -9
Trade receivables – Net 1,675 1,403
1) Blender’s Tax Credit receivables from the US tax authorities on 31.12.2022 were total EUR 53 million, of which EUR 17 million 
 more than 180 days overdue. Due to the low risk nature, no credit loss is recognized on these receivables

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



191191

Capital risk management 
Neste’s objective when managing capital is to secure a capital structure that ensures access to capital markets at all times 
despite the business cycle of the industry in which Neste operates. Neste seeks to maintain a capital structure equivalent to a 
strong investment-grade rating. The capital structure of Neste is reviewed by the Board of Directors on a regular basis.

Neste monitors its capital on the basis of leverage ratio, the ratio of interest-bearing net debt to interest-bearing net debt 
plus total equity. Interest-bearing net debt is calculated as interest-bearing liabilities less liquid funds. Over the cycle, Neste’s 
leverage ratio is likely to fluctuate, and it is Neste’s objective to maintain the leverage ratio below 40%. 

 

The leverage ratio 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021
Total interest-bearing liabilities 2,615 1,757
Liquid funds 1,271 1,716
Interest-bearing net debt 1,344 41
Total equity 8,327 6,985
Interest-bearing net debt and total equity 9,671 7,026

Leverage ratio 13.9% 0.6%

Reconciliation of interest-bearing net debt Cash and cash equivalents Liquid investments Lease liabilities Borrowings Total
Net debt as at 1 January 2022 -1,581 -135 444 1,313 41
Cash flows 440 135 -157 754 1,173
New lease liabilities 0 0 253 0 253
Acquisitions and disposals -2 0 0 6 3
Foreign exchange differences -14 0 12 8 6
Other non-cash movements 1) -115 0 -17 0 -132
Net debt as at 31 December 2022 -1,271 0 535 2,080 1,344

Reconciliation of interest-bearing net debt Cash and cash equivalents Liquid investments Lease liabilities Borrowings Total
Net debt as at 1 January 2021 -1,552 -20 403 904 -265
Cash flows -117 -115 -144 397 22
New lease liabilities 0 0 141 0 141
Acquisitions and disposals -5 0 22 22 38
Foreign exchange differences -22 0 12 -10 -19
Other non-cash movements 1) 114 0 10 0 125
Net debt as at 31 December 2021 -1,581 -135 444 1,313 41

1) Refer to Note 28 Assets held for sale for further information.

1) Refer to Note 28 Assets held for sale for further information.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



192192

4 Segment information

Accounting policy
Neste’s operations are divided into four operating segments: Renewable Products, Oil Products, Marketing & Services, and 
Others. The performance of the reporting segments are reviewed regularly by the chief operating decision-maker, Neste’s 
President & CEO, to assess performance and to decide on allocation of resources. Operating segments are reported in a 
manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker.

The segments’ operating results are measured based on comparable EBITDA and comparable return on net assets. The 
accounting policies applicable to the segment reporting are the same as those used for establishing the Neste consolidated 
financial statements. All inter-segment transactions are on an arm’s length basis and are eliminated in consolidation. 
Segment operating profit includes realized gains and losses from foreign currency and commodity derivative contracts 
hedging cash flows of commercial sales and purchases that have been recycled in the consolidated statement of income.

Segment operating assets and liabilities consist of assets and liabilities utilized in the segments’ business operations. 
Assets consist primarily of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, investments in associates and joint ventures, 
inventories and operative receivables. They exclude deferred taxes, interest-bearing receivables, and derivative financial 
instruments designated as hedges of forecasted future cash flows. Segment operative liabilities consist of operative liabilities, 
pension liabilities, short-term and long-term lease liabilities and provisions; and exclude items such as current and deferred 
taxes, interest-bearing liabilities, and derivative financial instruments designated as hedges of forecasted future cash flows.

Neste's business structure
Neste’s operations are built around three business areas and six common functions. The business areas act as profit centers and 
are responsible for their customers, products, and business development. Business areas are: Renewable Products, Oil Products, 
and Marketing & Services. The common functions are: Finance, Human Resources, HSSEQ and Procurement, Sustainability 
and Corporate Affairs, Innovation, Legal, and Engineering Solutions. The common functions are responsible for supporting 
business areas and other organizations, and ensure their cost efficiency, transparency, and harmonization of procedures across 
the company, and for overseeing the use and sufficiency of Neste’s resources.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



193193

Operating segments
Operating segments are engaged in the following key business 
activities:

The Renewable Products segment produces, markets 
and sells renewable diesel, renewable jet fuels and solutions, 
renewable solvents as well as raw material for bioplastics 
based on Neste’s proprietary technology to domestic and 
international wholesale markets. Renewable diesel is currently 
produced at the Porvoo, Singapore, and Rotterdam refineries, 
which have a combined capacity of 3.3 million tons per year. 
Upon completion, Martinez Renewables is expected to 
increase Neste’s renewable products capacity by slightly over 
1 million tons per annum. The Renewable Products segment is 
assessed to contain taxonomy-eligible and -aligned economic 
activities based on the climate delegated act of the taxonomy 
regulation. These Taxonomy-relevant activities represent 
solutions for climate change mitigation and are well in line with 
Neste’s ambitious climate commitments. 

Neste’s calculations for climate related key indicators and the 
EU Taxonomy eligibility and aligment figures are mainly based 
on Renewable Products segment figures. More information 
about sustainability in Neste including climate related matters 
can be found both in Sustainability report and Non-Financial 
Information Statement in Review by the Board of Directors.

The Oil Products segment produces, markets and sells 
an extensive range of low-carbon solutions that are based 
on high-quality oil products and related services to a global 
customer base. The product range includes diesel fuel, 
gasoline, aviation and marine fuels, light and heavy fuel oils, 
gasoline components, special fuels, such as small-engine 
gasoline, solvents, liquid gases, and bitumens. Oil products 
are refined at the Neste Finland Refinery in Porvoo. Crude oil 
refining capacity is ca. 10 million tons per year.  Neste has 
an ambition to make its Porvoo refinery the most sustainable 
refinery in Europe aiming to reach carbon neutral production 
by 2035. A strategic study has been launched on transforming 
Porvoo refinery to a renewable and circular site with 2–4 million 
tons annual capacity and ending of crude oil refining by the 
middle of 2030s. Neste Shipping’s chartering operations are 
included in the Oil Products segment. 

The Marketing & Services segment markets and sells 
cleaner fuels and oil products and associated services 
directly to end-users, of which the most important are private 
motorists, industry, transport companies, farmers, and heating 
oil customers. Traffic fuels are marketed through Neste’s own 
service station network and direct sales.

The Others segment consists of the Engineering Solutions 
and common corporate costs. 

The operating segments presented above do not include 
any segments which are formed by aggregating two or more 
smaller segments. 

The ‘other expenses’ included in the consolidated statement 
of income for each business segment includes the following 
major items:

Renewable Products: repairs and maintenance, planning 
and consulting services, rents and other property costs, 
travel-, HSE- and marketing costs, and insurance premiums.

Oil Products: repairs and maintenance, planning and 
consulting services, rents and other property costs, travel- 
and HSE costs and insurance premiums.

Marketing & Services: repairs and maintenance, rents and 
other property costs and marketing costs.

Neste’s customer structure in 2022 and 2021 did not result 
in any major concentration in any given geographical area or 
operating segment.

Renewable 
Products

Oil 
Products

Marketing & 
Services

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



194194

2022
Renewable  
Products 1)

Oil 
Products

Marketing & 
Services Others Eliminations Group Note

IS External revenue 9,640 10,223 5,818 26 0 25,707
Internal revenue 265 4,373 58 120 -4,816 0
IS Total revenue 9,905 14,596 5,876 147 -4,816 25,707 5
IS Other income 14 21 5 32 -19 54 6
IS, CF Share of profit (loss) of associates and joint ventures -5 6 0 0 0 2 15
IS Materials and services -8,025 -12,657 -5,651 -48 4,733 -21,648 7
IS Employee benefit costs -200 -125 -29 -193 2 -545 8
IS, CF Depreciation, amortization and impairments -282 -282 -29 -46 0 -638
IS Other expenses -362 -222 -75 38 98 -522 9
IS Operating profit 1) 1,046 1,337 98 -70 -1 2,410
IS Financial income and expense -131 10
IS Profit before income taxes 2,279
IS Income tax expense -388 11
IS Profit for the period 1,891

Comparable EBITDA 1,762 1,654 126 -4 -1 3,537
inventory valuation gains/losses -299 -53 0 0 0 -352
changes in the fair value of open commodity and currency derivatives -135 4 0 0 0 -131
capital gains and losses 0 10 0 0 0 10
other adjustments 0 4 1 -20 0 -16

EBITDA 1,328 1,619 127 -24 -1 3,048
IS, CF Depreciation, amortization and impairments -282 -282 -29 -46 0 -638
IS Operating profit 1,046 1,337 98 -70 -1 2,410
1) The US Blender’s Tax Credit (BTC) contribution was EUR 312 million on the Renewable Products’ operating profit in 2022.

Information about Neste’s operating segments as of and for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 is presented in the following tables:

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



195195

2022
Renewable  

Products
Oil 

Products
Marketing & 

Services Others Eliminations Group Note
Capital expenditure and investments in shares 1,952 180 24 62 0 2,218

Segment operating assets 7,856 4,469 704 351 -458 12,922
BS Investments in associates and joint ventures 38 25 0 0 0 63 15
BS Deferred tax assets 59 11
Unallocated assets 1,873
BS Total assets 7,894 4,493 704 351 -458 14,917

Segment operating liabilities 1,909 1,866 529 221 -444 4,081
BS Deferred tax liabilities 336 11
Unallocated liabilities 2,174
BS Total liabilities 1,909 1,866 529 221 -444 6,590

Segment net assets 6,433 2,652 227 141 -14 9,440
Return on net assets, % 18.6 46.6 40.8 55.2
Comparable return on net assets, % 26.6 48.0 40.5 39.0

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



196196

2021
Renewable  
Products 1)

Oil 
Products

Marketing & 
Services Others Eliminations Group Note

IS External revenue 5,658 5,690 3,772 28 0 15,148

Internal revenue 237 2,120 31 142 -2,530 0

IS Total revenue 5,895 7,810 3,803 170 -2,530 15,148 5

IS Other income 10 18 9 31 -20 48 6

IS, CF Share of profit (loss) of associates and joint ventures -3 0 0 0 0 -3 15

IS Materials and services -3,576 -6,948 -3,616 -53 2,442 -11,751 7

IS Employee benefit costs -132 -103 -25 -174 3 -431 8

IS, CF Depreciation, amortization and impairments -227 -283 -29 -46 0 -584

IS Other expenses -243 -232 -66 37 100 -403 9

IS Operating profit 1) 1,723 263 77 -34 -6 2,023

IS Financial income and expense -61 10

IS Profit before income taxes 1,962

IS Income tax expense -188 11

IS Profit for the period 1,774

Comparable EBITDA 1,460 353 103 11 -6 1,920

inventory valuation gains/losses 409 164 0 0 0 573

changes in the fair value of open commodity and currency derivatives 81 25 0 0 0 106

capital gains and losses 0 -2 5 0 0 3

other adjustments 0 6 -2 1 0 5

EBITDA 1,950 546 106 12 -6 2,607

IS, CF Depreciation, amortization and impairments -227 -283 -29 -46 0 -584

IS Operating profit 1,723 263 77 -34 -6 2,023
1) The US Blender’s Tax Credit (BTC) contribution was EUR 295 million on the Renewable Products’ operating profit in 2021.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



197197

2021
Renewable  

Products
Oil 

Products
Marketing & 

Services Others Eliminations Group Note
Capital expenditure and investments in shares 1,023 451 22 39 0 1,535

Segment operating assets 5,689 3,967 588 350 -328 10,266
BS Investments in associates and joint ventures 35 25 0 0 0 60 15
BS Deferred tax assets 45 11
Unallocated assets 2,045
BS Total assets 5,724 3,992 588 350 -328 12,417

Segment operating liabilities 1,327 1,990 429 281 -315 3,712
BS Deferred tax liabilities 309 11
Unallocated liabilities 1,411
BS Total liabilities 1,327 1,990 429 281 -315 5,432

Segment net assets 4,748 2,045 212 78 -13 7,069
Return on net assets, % 40.9 11.9 38.1 29.6
Comparable return on net assets, % 29.4 3.2 36.6 30.1

2022 Finland
Other 

Nordic countries Baltic rim
Other 

European countries
North and 

South America
Other 

countries Group
IS Revenue by destination 8,459 4,348 1,850 5,131 5,685 234 25,707
Non-current assets 2,504 0 79 1,360 1,353 1,906 7,203
Capital expenditure 239 0 9 424 1,077 468 2,218

2021 Finland
Other 

Nordic countries Baltic rim
Other 

European countries
North and 

South America
Other 

countries Group
IS Revenue by destination 4,877 2,603 1,155 3,122 3,230 162 15,148
Non-current assets 2,666 2 78 1,027 371 1,583 5,727
Capital expenditure 828 2 7 115 142 441 1,535

Geographical information 
Neste operates production facilities in Finland, Singapore and the Netherlands and its retail sales network in Finland, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. The following table provides information on Neste’s revenue, which is allocated based on the country of 
destination, irrespective of the origin of the goods or services, and non-current assets and capital expenditure, which are allocated based on where the assets are located.  

Non-current assets consist of intangible assets, property, plant and equipment and investments in associates and joint ventures. ‘Other Nordic countries’ includes Sweden, Norway, Denmark and Iceland. ‘Baltic rim’ includes Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, 
Russia and Poland. Neste’s activities in this geographical area consists mainly of retail activities in the aforementioned countries.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



198198

5 Revenue

Accounting policy
Revenue from contracts with customers is recognized when or as Neste satisfies a performance obligation by transferring 
control of a promised good or service to a customer. A customer obtains control when it has the ability to direct the use 
of and obtain the benefits from the good or service, either over time or at a point in time. Neste principally satisfies its 
performance obligations at a point in time. The amounts of revenue recognized relating to performance obligations satisfied 
over time are not significant.

When, or as, a performance obligation is satisfied, Neste recognizes as revenue the amount of the transaction price that 
is allocated to that performance obligation. The transaction price is the amount of consideration to which Neste expects 
to be entitled in exchange for the promised goods or services. The transaction price is allocated to the performance 
obligations in the contract based on the standalone selling prices of the goods or services promised.

Timing for revenue recognized at a point in time is typically when control has been transferred based on the delivery 
terms used. A receivable is recognized when the goods are delivered as this is the point in time that the consideration is 
unconditional because only the passage of time is required before the payment is due.

Revenue recognized over time is measured in accordance with the input method (progress measured based on costs 
incurred) when the outcome of the contract can be estimated reliably. Neste uses an input method in measuring progress 
of the services because there is a direct relationship between Neste’s effort and the transfer of service to the customer. 
When the outcome cannot be reliably determined, the costs arising are expensed in the same financial period in which 
they occur, but the revenue is recorded only to the extent that the company will receive an amount corresponding to actual 
costs. Any losses are expensed immediately. 

Some of Neste’s contracts may involve elements of variable considerations, such as rebates, bonuses or penalties. The 
variable consideration is estimated by using either the expected value or the most likely amount -method, depending on 
the type of variable element and related contractual terms and conditions. Amount of variable consideration is included in 
the transaction price only to the extent that it is highly probable that a significant reversal of revenue does not occur later.

Neste provides its customers with standard payment terms. If extended payment terms exceeding one year are offered 
to customers, the invoiced amount is discounted to its present value and interest income is recognized over the credit term.

Revenue is presented net of indirect sales taxes such as value added tax and statutory stockpiling fees, penalties and 
discounts.

Low Carbon Fuels Standard credits (LCFS) and Renewable Identification Numbers (RINs) are recognized in revenue. 
Blender’s Tax Credit (BTC) impacts Revenue and Materials and services and is recognized if the Government of the United 
States decide to grant it. The decision is made annually. Blender’s Tax Credit is an incentive given to fuel blenders to use 
more renewable fuel by making the bio mandates less costly to achieve. In case Neste’s customers are blenders, all or 
some of the BTC credit value is included in the sale price and recognized in revenue. The Blender’s Tax Credit received 
directly from the US tax authorities are recognized as deduction of costs in materials and services. 

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



199199

Timing of revenue recognition 2022 2021

External revenue
Renewable 

Products Oil Products
Marketing & 

Services Others Total
Renewable 

Products Oil Products
Marketing & 

Services Others Total
Goods transferred at point in time 9,637 10,143 5,809 0 25,589 5,658 5,649 3,764 0 15,070

Services transferred at point in time 4 80 9 1 93 0 41 9 1 51

Services transferred over time 0 0 0 25 25 0 0 0 27 27

IS Total 9,640 10,223 5,818 26 25,707 5,658 5,690 3,772 28 15,148

Revenue by operating segment 2022 Renewable Products Oil Products Marketing & Services Others Eliminations Total
External revenue 9,640 10,223 5,818 26 0 25,707

Internal revenue 265 4,373 58 120 -4,816 0

IS Total revenue 9,905 14,596 5,876 147 -4,816 25,707

Revenue by operating segment 2021 Renewable Products Oil Products Marketing & Services Others Eliminations Total
External revenue 5,658 5,690 3,772 28 0 15,148

Internal revenue 237 2,120 31 142 -2,530 0

IS Total revenue 5,895 7,810 3,803 170 -2,530 15,148

Fuels category includes product sales from the Neste’s own refineries, other production facilities and retail stations as well as other sale of petroleum products, feedstock, raw materials and oil trading. Excise taxes included in the retail selling price of finished oil 
products amounting to EUR 1,575 million (2021: EUR 1,517 million) are included in the Middle distillates amount. The corresponding amount is included in the purchase price of petroleum products and included in Materials and Services, in Note 7.

Oil trading included in the Fuels category comprise of revenue from physical trading activities conducted on international and regional markets by taking delivery of and selling petroleum products and raw materials within a short period of time for the purpose 
of generating a profit from short-term fluctuations in product and raw material prices and margins.  

Net gains/losses on financial instruments related to sales designated as cash flow hedges are included in revenue amounting to EUR -250 million (2021: EUR 6 million).
Revenue from services mainly comprises revenue from the chartering services and Engineering Solutions, which is included in the Others segment.

Revenue by category 2022 2021

External revenue
Renewable 

Products Oil Products
Marketing & 

Services Others Total
Renewable 

Products Oil Products
Marketing & 

Services Others Total
Fuels 1) 8,629 9,570 5,679 0 23,879 5,517 4,882 3,667 0 14,065

Light distillates 162 4,736 1,116 0 6,013 138 2,325 876 0 3,339
Middle distillates 8,467 3,899 4,559 0 16,925 5,379 2,090 2,786 0 10,255
Heavy fuel oil 0 936 5 0 941 0 467 5 0 471

Other products 1,008 573 129 0 1,710 141 767 97 0 1,005

Other services 4 80 9 26 119 0 41 9 28 78
IS Total 9,640 10,223 5,818 26 25,707 5,658 5,690 3,772 28 15,148
1) Light distillates comprise motor gasoline, gasoline components, LPG, renewable naphtha, and biopropane. Middle distillates comprise diesel, jet fuels, low sulphur marine fuels, heating oil, renewable fuels, and renewable jet fuels. RINs (Renewable Identification Number), LCFS 
 (Low Carbon Fuels Standard) credits, and BTCs (Blender’s Tax Credits) are included in the corresponding fuel categories in the Renewable Products segment.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



200200

6 Other income 7 Materials and services

Accounting policy
Revenue from activities outside normal operations is reported in other income. This includes items such as capital gains on 
disposal of other non-current assets and rental income.

Accounting policy
Blender’s Tax Credit (BTC) impacts revenue, and materials and services and is recognized if the Government of the United 
States decide to grant it. The decision is made annually. Blender’s Tax Credit is an incentive given to fuel blenders to use 
more renewable fuel by making the bio mandates less costly to achieve. In case Neste’s customers are blenders, all or 
some of the BTC credit value is included in sales price and recognized in Revenue. The Blender’s Tax Credit received 
directly from the US tax authorities are recognized as deduction of costs in Materials and services. 

2022 2021
Gain on sale of subsidiaries and business operations 9 5
Capital gains on disposal of other non-current assets 2 0
Rental income 14 13
Government grants 16 8
Insurance compensations 0 8
Other 13 14
IS Other income 54 48

2022 2021
Materials and supplies 22,530 12,491
Change in inventories -963 -820
External services 81 80
IS Materials and services 21,648 11,751

Government grants relate mainly to innovation subsidies, and grants to shipping operations, which are entitled to apply for certain 
grants based on Finnish legislation. More information on sales of subsidiaries, joint arrangements and business operations is 
presented in Note 27 Acquisitions and disposals.

Materials and supplies include excise taxes included in the retail selling price of petroleum products amounting to EUR 1,575 
million (2021: EUR 1,517 million). The corresponding amount is included in Revenue in Note 5. 

The net result of non-hedge accounted commodity and foreign exchange derivatives amounted to EUR -581 million  
(2021: EUR 66 million). Net gains/losses on derivative instruments related to purchases designated as cash flow hedges  
amounted to EUR 0 million (2021: EUR 0 million). Both above-mentioned items are included in Materials and supplies.

Materials and supplies also include EUR 38 million (2021: 11 million) of expenses related to lease contracts which are accounted 
for as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Refer to Note 30 Leases for further information.

Revenue by operating destination 2022 2021

External revenue
Renewable 

Products Oil Products
Marketing & 

Services Others Total
Renewable 

Products Oil Products
Marketing & 

Services Others Total
Finland 352 3,547 4,536 24 8,459 402 1,604 2,848 22 4,877

Other Nordic countries 2,930 1,416 2 0 4,348 1,723 878 2 0 2,603

Baltic Rim 73 500 1,278 0 1,850 44 190 921 0 1,155

Other European countries 2,399 2,729 2 1 5,131 1,329 1,789 2 2 3,122

North and South America 3,685 2,000 0 1 5,685 2,111 1,115 0 4 3,230

Other countries 202 31 0 1 234 48 114 0 0 162

IS Total 9,640 10,223 5,818 26 25,707 5,658 5,690 3,772 28 15,148

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



201201

8 Employee benefit costs 9 Other expenses
2022 2021

Wages and salaries 1) 449 365
Social security costs 24 21
Share-based payments 5 4
Pension costs - defined contribution plans 60 49
Pension costs - defined benefit plans 5 6
Wages and salaries capitalized in fixed assets -15 -23
Other costs 17 9
IS Employee benefit costs 545 431

2022 2021
Repairs and maintenance 130 127
Services 201 145
Rents and other property costs 39 30
Insurances 36 32

Other 117 69
IS Other expenses 522 403

Fees charged by the statutory auditor 2022 2021
Authorised Public Accountants KPMG KPMG
      Auditor's fees 1.6 1.3
      Tax advisory 0.4 0.6
      Other advisory services 0.5 0.4

2.5 2.3

Number of personnel (average) 2022 2021
Renewable Products 1,528 1,245
Oil Products 1,217 1,328
Marketing & Services 398 392
Others 2,101 1,907

5,244 4,872

Wages, salaries and other compensation for key management are presented in Note 25 Related party transactions. Share-based 
payments are described in Note 24 Share-based payments and defined benefit plans in Note 23 Employee benefit obligations.

1) Includes reversed unused provision EUR 11 million in 2021 relating to the Naantali refinery closure.
Services include planning and consulting services, IT services, research and lab services and other services. Rents and other 
property costs include EUR 27 million (2021: EUR 9 million) of expenses related to lease contracts which are accounted for as 
an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Refer to Note 30 Leases for further information. Other expenses include 
travel expenses, HSE and advertising costs. Research expenditure is recognized as an expense as incurred and included in other 
expenses in the consolidated statement of income.

The statutory audit fees of KPMG Oy Ab included fees of 638 thousand euros for audit and 43 thousand euros for auditor’s 
statements. Non-audit services to entities of Neste Group were 935 thousand euros (2021: 835 thousand euros) in total during 
the financial year 2022. These services included 410 thousand euros (2021: 486 thousand euros) of tax advisory and 526 
thousand euros (2021: 349 thousand euros) of other advisory services.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



202202

10 Financial income and expenses
2022 2021

Financial income
Income from financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 0 0
Interest income from financial assets at amortized cost 9 3

9 4
Financial expenses
Interest expenses for financial liabilities/receivables at amortized cost

Lease liabilities -24 -21
Other liabilities -29 -26

Write-downs of loan receivables -3 -4
Other financial expenses -4 -4

-60 -55
Exchange rate and fair value gains and losses
Financial instruments at amortized cost -8 11
Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss -72 -21

-80 -10
IS Total financial income and expenses -131 -61

Net gains/losses on financial instruments 
included in operating profit and fixed assets 2022 2021
Foreign exchange derivatives, hedge accounted 1)

Included in revenue -250 6
Included in materials and services 0 0
Included in fixed assets 118 3

Foreign exchange derivatives, non-hedge accounted
 Included in materials and services -84 -68

Commodity derivatives, non-hedge accounted
Included in materials and services -495 134

-711 76
1) The recognized ineffectiveness was EUR 0.9 million due to Singapore expansion (2021: EUR 0.2 million).

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



203203

The major components of income tax expense 2022 2021
Current tax 405 94
Adjustments recognized for current tax for prior periods -1 0
Change in deferred taxes -16 94
IS Income tax expense 388 188

The reconciliation of income taxes 2022 2021
IS Profit before income taxes 2,279 1,962
Hypothetical income tax calculated at Finnish tax rate 20% -456 -392

Differences in tax rates in other countries 71 195
Non-deductible expenses and other permanent differences -3 -1
Tax exempt income 0 2
Tax on undistributed earnings -1 0
Taxes for prior periods 1 0
Net results of joint ventures 0 -1
Realisability of deferred tax assets 0 11
Other -1 -1
IS Income tax expense -388 -188
Effective tax rate, % 17 10

Neste’s effective tax rate was lower than the Finnish statutory tax rate (20%) mainly due to lower taxation in Estonia, Lithuania, 
Singapore and Switzerland, where Neste has business operations. The most significant portion of the lower tax rate relates to 
Singapore and the Renewable Products’ profitability. Neste’s manufacturing investment in Renewable Products during 2008–
2010 in Singapore is subject to tax exemption for 2010–2023 under the applicable Singapore legislation. In 2021 the realisability 
of deferred taxes includes EUR 9 million impact of tax losses utilized in Bahrain, of which deferred tax asset has not been 
previously booked. In 2022 Neste divested base oils business, including all operations in Bahrain.

11 Income taxes

Accounting policy
Neste’s income tax expenses include taxes of group companies calculated on the basis of the taxable profit for the period, 
with adjustments for previous periods, as well as the change in deferred income taxes. In respect of the deferred tax 
liability on undistributed foreign earnings, the amount recorded is based on expected circumstances and management 
expectations regarding the profit distribution. For items recognized directly in equity or other comprehensive income, the 
income tax effect is similarly recognized.

If adjustments regarding uncertain tax positions (IFRIC 23) are made in situations where it is not likely that the tax authority 
and/or the court would accept a certain tax treatment, Neste will choose a method of recording the liability that better 
describes the realization of the uncertainty.

Deferred income taxes are stated using the balance sheet liability method, to reflect the net tax effect of temporary 
differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities. Deferred income tax assets are recognized 
to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be 
utilized. Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates that are in force on the balance sheet date and are expected to 
apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realized or the deferred income tax liability is settled. 

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against 
current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority. Deferred tax assets are 
recognized for tax loss carryforwards and other unused tax credits to the extent that the utilization of the related tax benefit 
through future taxable profits is probable.

Estimates and judgements requiring management estimation
Liabilities and assets are recognised with respect to income tax amounts when management is expecting to pay and 
recover, respectively. Management has chosen not to discount non-current tax balances.

Neste has deferred tax assets and liabilities which are expected to be realized through the income statement over extended 
periods of time in the future. Neste management has made certain assumptions regarding future tax consequences and 
used certain estimates when calculating differences between carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their tax bases. 
Key assumptions underlying tax calculations include e.g. likelihood that recoverability periods for tax loss carryforwards 
will not change, and that existing tax laws and rates remain unchanged into the foreseeable future. At each balance sheet 
date deferred tax assets are assessed for recoverability and when circumstances indicate that it is no longer probable that 
deferred tax assets can be recovered, balances are reduced to their recoverable amounts.

The Council of the European Union has confirmed the adoption of a Pillar Two directive concerning minimum taxes. 
The directive will have to be transposed into member states’ national law by the end of 2023. Neste follows the legislative 
development and its impact on tax compliance accordingly.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



204204

Changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities 2022 On 1 Jan 2022
Charged to 

Income Statement
Charged in Other 

comprehensive income Acquisitions / Disposals
Exchange rate differences, assets 

held for sale and other changes On 31 Dec 2022
Tax loss carried forward 5 55 0 0 0 61
Provisions 35 -2 0 0 0 33
Pensions 30 -1 -4 0 0 24
Fixed assets 14 5 0 0 0 19
Derivative financial instruments 8 1 -8 0 0 2
Other temporary differences 13 12 0 0 0 25
Total deferred tax assets 105 70 -12 0 0 162
Netting against liabilities -60 -44 0 0 0 -103
BS Deferred tax assets 45 26 -12 0 0 59

Tax on undistributed earnings 9 0 0 0 0 9
Fixed assets 341 15 0 0 0 356
Derivative financial instruments 15 -13 16 0 0 17
Investments in partnerships 0 50 0 0 0 50
Other temporary differences 4 1 0 2 0 7
Total deferred tax liabilities 369 53 16 2 0 439
Netting against assets -60 -44 0 0 0 -103
BS Deferred tax liabilities 309 9 16 2 0 336

Changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities 2021 On 1 Jan 2021
Charged to 

Income Statement
Charged in Other 

comprehensive income Acquisitions / Disposals
Exchange rate differences, assets 

held for sale and other changes On 31 Dec 2021
Tax loss carried forward 1 5 0 0 0 5
Provisions 44 -9 0 0 0 35
Pensions 22 0 8 0 0 30
Fixed assets 13 1 0 0 0 14
Derivative financial instruments 1 0 8 0 0 8
Other temporary differences 9 5 0 0 -2 13
Total deferred tax assets 90 1 16 0 -2 105
Netting against liabilities -55 -5 0 0 0 -60
BS Deferred tax assets 35 -4 16 0 -2 45

Tax on undistributed earnings 9 0 0 0 0 9
Fixed assets 249 81 0 11 0 341
Derivative financial instruments 16 15 -16 0 0 15
Other temporary differences 3 -1 3 0 -1 4
Total deferred tax liabilities 277 95 -13 11 -1 369
Netting against assets -55 -5 0 0 0 -60
BS Deferred tax liabilities 222 90 -13 11 -1 309

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



205205

There are in total EUR 26 million (2021: EUR 84 million) of tax loss carryforwards and other unused tax credits for which no 
deferred tax asset is recognized.  Expiry dates are between 2022 and 2026 for EUR 2 million (2021: EUR 3 million) and no expiry 
for EUR 24 million (2021: EUR 81 million). The decrease in tax losses for which no deferred tax asset is recognized relates mainly 
to divestment of Base Oils business in Bahrain.

The increase in tax losses, where deferred tax asset is recognized, relates mainly to start-up phase of Martinez Renewable 
Fuels Joint Operations and its accelated tax depreciations. Investments in partnerships includes temporary differences in Martinez 
Renewable Fuels Joint Operations.

A deferred tax liability has been recognized for undistributed earnings of subsidiaries where income taxes would be payable 
upon distribution.

Deferred tax recognized relating to components of other comprehensive income:

Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the period attributable to owners of the parent by the weighted 
average number of shares outstanding during the year. The dilutive effect of equity settled share-based payments is included in 
the computation of diluted earnings per share.

Dividend per share
The dividends paid in 2022 were EUR 0.82 per share, totaling EUR 630 million (2021: EUR 0.80 per share, totaling EUR 614 
million). A ordinary dividend of EUR 1.02 per share, totaling approximately EUR 783 million and an extraordinary dividend of 
EUR 0.25 per share, totaling approximately EUR 192 million are proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 28 March 2023. In 
addition, the Board proposes that the AGM would authorize the Board to decide, in its discretion, on the payment of a second 
extraordinary dividend instalment of EUR 0.25 per share totaling approximately EUR 192 million by 31 October 2023. The 
proposed maximum total dividend in 2023 amounts to approximately EUR 1,167 million. This dividend is not reflected in the 
financial statements.

2022

Before tax
Tax (charge)

 / credit After tax
OCI Remeasurements of defined benefit plans 22 -4 18
OCI Net change of other investments at fair value -5 0 -5
OCI Translation differences -56 0 -56
Cash flow hedges

OCI recorded in equity 1 18 19
OCI transferred to income statement 131 -41 90

OCI Share of other comprehensive income of  
investments accounted for using the equity method 17 0 17
OCI Other comprehensive income 110 -28 82

2021

Before tax
Tax (charge)

 / credit After tax
OCI Remeasurements of defined benefit plans -37 7 -30
OCI Net change of other investments at fair value 14 -3 11
OCI Translation differences 24 0 24
Cash flow hedges

OCI recorded in equity -122 23 -99
OCI transferred to income statement -10 1 -9

OCI Share of other comprehensive income of  
investments accounted for using the equity method 4 0 4
OCI Other comprehensive income -127 29 -98

12 Earnings per share 
 and dividend per share

2022 2021
IS Profit for the period attributable to owners of the parent, EUR million 1,888 1,771

Weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year (thousands) 768,060 767,643
IS Basic earnings per share (euro per share) 2.46 2.31

Effect of share-based incentive plans (thousands) 486 890
Diluted weighted average number of shares during the year (thousands) 768,546 768,533
IS Diluted earnings per share (euro per share) 2.46 2.30

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



206206

13 Intangible assets

Accounting policy
Intangible assets, except goodwill, are stated at historical cost and amortized in a straight-line method over expected 
useful lives. Intangible assets comprise the following:

Computer software
Computer software licenses are capitalized on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and introduce the software in 
question. The costs include the software development employee costs and professional fees arising directly bringing the 
asset to its working condition. Capitalization also depends on the technology used, e.g., cloud services are not capitalized. 
Costs are amortized over their estimated useful lives (three to five years). Costs associated with updates or maintaining 
computer software programs are recognized as an expense.

Trademarks and licenses
Trademarks and licenses have a definite useful life and are carried at cost less accumulated amortization. They are amortized 
over their estimated useful lives (three to ten years).

Goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of Neste’s share of the net identifiable 
assets of the acquired business, subsidiary, associate or joint venture at the date of acquisition. Goodwill on acquisition of 
subsidiaries is included in intangible assets. Separately recognized goodwill is tested for impairment and carried at cost, 
less accumulated impairment losses. Impairment testing is done annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset 
may be impaired. Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed. Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include 
the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold. Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of 
impairment testing, using those cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from 
the business combination in which the goodwill arose. 

The discount rates used in impairment testing of goodwill represent the WACC specified for the business area in question 
after tax, which is adjusted by tax effects in connection with the test. The WACC formula inputs are risk-free rate of return, 
market risk premium, industry-specific beta factor, target capital structure, borrowing cost and country risks. WACC rates 
are specified for each of the cash generating units separately. WACC% and growth rate are used purely for the impairment 
testing. 

The key assumption used for the estimated cash flows in Renewable Products is sales margin.

Emission allowances
Emission allowances, which are purchased to cover future periods deficit, are recorded in intangible assets and measured 
at cost, and emission allowances received free of charge are recorded in their nominal value, i.e., at zero.

A provision is recognized to cover the obligation to buy emission allowances if emission allowances received free of 
charge and purchased emission allowances intended to cover the deficit do not cover actual emissions. The provision is 
measured at its probable settlement amount. The difference between emissions made and emission allowances received, 
as well as any change in the probable amount of the provision, are reflected in the operating profit.

Estimates and judgements requiring management estimation
Intangible assets as well as property, plant and equipment are always tested for impairment, when there is any indication 
that an asset may be impaired. When the recoverable amount of an asset is less than the carrying amount, an impairment 
loss is recognized as an expense immediately and the carrying amount is reduced to the asset’s recoverable amount.

The amounts recoverable from cash-generating units’ operating activities are determined based on value in use calculations. 
These calculations are based on estimated future cash flows approved by Neste’s management, covering a period of three 
years. Preparation of these estimates requires management to make assumptions relating to future expectations. The main 
assumptions used relate to the sales margin and discount rates. 

The climate related assumptions in the calculations include the demand increase in the Renewable Products, which is 
positively affecting  the sales margin and nominal growth rate assumptions. 

Impairment of non-financial assets
Intangible assets that have an indefinite useful life or intangible assets not ready to use are not subject to amortization and 
are tested annually for impairment. Assets that are subject to amortization are reviewed for impairment whenever events or 
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognized in 
the consolidated statement of income to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The 
recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value in use. Non-financial assets other than 
goodwill that suffered impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date. 

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



207207

2022 Goodwill

Other 
intangible 

assets Total
Gross carrying amount on 1 January 362 410 772
Exchange rate differences 11 2 14
Acquisitions 7 4 10
CF Additions 22 51 73
Disposals 0 -9 -9
Reclassifications 1 13 14
Gross carrying amount on 31 December 402 470 873

Accumulated amortization and impairment losses on 1 January 0 256 256
Exchange rate differences 0 0 0
Disposals 0 -5 -5
Reclassifications 0 0 0
Amortization and impairments for the period 2 50 52
Accumulated amortization and impairment losses on 31 December 2 301 303

BS Carrying amount on 1 January 2022 362 154 516
BS Carrying amount on 31 December 2022 401 169 570

2021 Goodwill

Other 
intangible 

assets Total
Gross carrying amount on 1 January 120 363 483
Exchange rate differences 10 2 12
Acquisitions 206 24 230
CF Additions 25 23 48
Disposals 0 -1 -1
Reclassifications 0 0 0
Gross carrying amount on 31 December 362 410 772

Accumulated amortization and impairment losses on 1 January 0 219 219
Exchange rate differences 0 0 0
Disposals 0 -1 -1
Reclassifications 0 0 0
Amortization for the period 0 39 39
Accumulated amortization and impairment losses on 31 December 0 256 256

BS Carrying amount on 1 January 2021 120 144 264
BS Carrying amount on 31 December 2021 362 154 516

WACC% 2022 2021
Renewable Products 7.6 401 359
Oil Products 0 2

401 362

Impairment test of goodwill
Goodwill is allocated to Neste’s cash-generating units (CGUs). From identified CGU’s goodwill is allocated to the Renewable Products cash-generating unit which is equal with the Renewable Products segment. Goodwill of Oil Products segment was disposed 
in 2022.

A segment-level summary of the goodwill allocation is presented below:

A decrease of 20% in sales margin or 3%-points increase in the discount rate would not create a situation in which the carrying amounts of the cash-generating units would exceed their recoverable amounts. Cash flows beyond the three-year period 
are extrapolated by using 2.5% nominal growth rate.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



208208

14 Property, plant and equipment

Accounting policy
Property, plant, and equipment mainly comprise oil refineries and other production plants and storage tanks, marine fleet, 
and retail station network infrastructure and equipment. Neste owns station network infrastructure with the exception of 
dealer stations. Property, plant, and equipment are stated at historical cost in the balance sheet, less depreciation and any 
accumulated impairment losses. Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the 
items in question and the initial estimate of the costs of dismantling and removing the item and restoring the site on which 
it is located. Cost may also include transfers from equity of any gains/losses on qualifying cash flow hedges related to 
foreign currency purchases of property, plant, and equipment. Assets acquired through the acquisition of a new subsidiary 
are stated at their fair value on the date of acquisition. 

Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognized as a separate asset, as appropriate, only 
when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to Neste and the cost of the item can 
be measured reliably. Costs for major periodic overhauls at oil refineries and other production plants on a 3–5 year cycle 
are capitalized when they occur and then depreciated during the shutdown cycle, i.e., the time between shutdowns. All 
other repairs and maintenance are charged to the consolidated statement of income during the financial period in which 
they are incurred.

Land areas are not depreciated. The bottom of crude oil rock inventory and precious metals in catalysts used in production 
process are included in other tangible assets and are depreciated according to possible usage. Depreciation on tangible 
assets is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost to their residual values over their estimated useful 
lives as follows:

The residual values and useful lives of assets are reviewed and adjusted where appropriate at each balance sheet date. 
The carrying amount of an asset is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the former amount is greater than 
its estimated recoverable amount. Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing proceeds with carrying 
amounts. These are included in ‘Other income’ or ‘Other expenses’ in the consolidated statement of income. 

Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset, a major 
initial investment, such as a new production facility, form part of the cost of that asset. Other borrowing costs are recognized 
as an expense.

Buildings and structures, including terminals 20–40 years
Machinery and equipment:
      Production machinery and equipment 15–20 years
      Marine fleet 15–20 years
      Retail station network infrastructure and equipment 5–15 years
      Other equipment and vehicles 3–15 years
Other tangible assets 20–40 years

Expenditure on development activities is capitalized only when it fulfills strict criteria e.g., development relates to new 
products that are both technically and commercially feasible. The majority of Neste’s development expenditure does not 
meet the criteria for capitalization and are recognized as expenses as incurred.

Leases
Neste assesses at contract inception whether a contract is, or contains, a lease. That is, if the contract conveys the right 
to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration.

As a lessee, Neste recognizes the right-of-use asset on the balance sheet as property, plant and equipment at a value 
equivalent to the initial measurement of the lease liability adjusted for lease prepayments, lease incentives, initial direct 
costs and any restoration obligations at the commencement date of the lease.

Right-of-use assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the lease term of the assets. Right-of-use assets are 
assessed for impairment in line with the accounting policy for impairment of property, plant and equipment, intangible 
assets, and goodwill (see Note 13 Intangible assets).

Refer to Note 30 Leases for further information.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



209209

2022 Land
Buildings  

and constructions
Machinery and 

equipment
Other 

tangible assets
Assets under 
construction Total

Gross carrying amount on 1 January 287 2,679 5,593 518 1,310 10,387
Exchange rate differences 0 1 -31 5 -36 -62
Additions 91 32 264 100 1,654 2,141
Acquisitions 0 0 0 0 0 0
Disposals -15 -80 -594 -89 -4 -780
Reclassifications 0 22 304 1 -328 -2
Assets held for sale 0 0 21 31 0 52
Gross carrying amount on 31 December 363 2,654 5,557 567 2,595 11,736

Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses on 1 January 38 1,287 3,715 186 10 5,235
Exchange rate differences 0 0 0 2 0 3
Disposals -7 -85 -564 -38 0 -694
Reclassifications 3 2 3 0 0 8
Depreciation and write downs for the period 12 96 367 89 22 586
Assets held for sale 0 0 6 22 0 28
Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses on 31 December 46 1,300 3,527 262 32 5,166

BS Carrying amount on 1 January 2022 249 1,392 1,879 332 1,300 5,152
BS Carrying amount on 31 December 2022 318 1,354 2,030 305 2,563 6,570

Property, plant and equipment includes an increase of EUR 853 million from joint operation Martinez Renewables on 31 December 2022 and it mainly included assets under construction and machinery and equipment. The carrying amount of assets under 
construction included additionally mainly assets related to the ongoing Singapore and Netherlands expansion projects. Property, plant and equipment include right-of-use (ROU) assets where Neste is a lessee as specified in Note 30 Leases.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



210210

2021 Land
Buildings  

and constructions
Machinery and 

equipment
Other 

tangible assets
Assets under 
construction Total

Gross carrying amount on 1 January 280 2,529 4,971 453 1,166 9,399
Exchange rate differences 0 1 3 9 1 14
Additions 7 33 443 183 499 1,164
Acquisitions 8 66 58 4 1 136
Disposals -7 -7 -195 -99 -7 -315
Reclassifications 0 57 303 0 -350 11
Assets held for sale 0 0 10 -31 0 -22
Gross carrying amount on 31 December 287 2,679 5,593 518 1,310 10,387

Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses on 1 January 28 1,205 3,523 162 4 4,922
Exchange rate differences 0 0 1 4 0 5
Disposals -4 -6 -184 -43 0 -237
Reclassifications 2 2 7 0 0 11
Depreciation and write downs for the period 12 85 358 85 6 545
Assets held for sale 0 0 11 -22 0 -12
Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses on 31 December 38 1,287 3,715 186 10 5,235

BS Carrying amount on 1 January 2021 252 1,324 1,448 291 1,162 4,477
BS Carrying amount on 31 December 2021 249 1,392 1,879 332 1,300 5,152

Property, plant and equipment include right-of-use (ROU) assets where Neste is a lessee as specified in Note 30 Leases.

Capitalized borrowing costs
During 2022 borrowing costs amounting to EUR 2.8 million (2021: EUR 1.9 million) were capitalized related to the Singapore and Netherlands expansion projects. They are included in property, plant and equipment. Neste’s average interest rate of borrowings 
for each month was applied as the capitalization rate, which resulted in average capitalization rate of 1.3% (2021: 1.5%).

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



211211

15 Investments in associates and joint ventures
Carrying amount 2022 2021
On 1 January 60 56
IS, CF Share of profit (loss) of associates and joint ventures 2 -3
OCI Share of other comprehensive income of investments accounted 
for using the equity method 17 4
Translation differences 1 4
CF Capital repayments -13 0
Dividends -15 0
Investments 12 0
Other changes -1 0
BS On 31 December 63 60

2022 2021
Country of 

incorporation
Nature of the 

relationship
% interest 

held
% interest 

held
Alterra Energy LLC USA Note 1 40.00 40.00
Glacia Limited Bermuda Note 2 0.00 50.00
Kilpilahti Power Plant Ltd Finland Note 3 40.00 40.00

Neste’s interest in its principle associates and joint ventures at 31 December, all of which are unlisted, are listed in the 
following table:

Note 1: Alterra Energy LLC is a US-based, chemical recycling technology company. The cooperation between Neste and Alterra 
includes joint technology development and commercialization of the technology. 

Management has classified Alterra as an associated company due to the considerable influence that Neste has in the company.  

Note 2: Glacia Limited was a joint venture company owned on a 50/50 basis by Neste and Stena Maritime AG (part of the Stena 
Group). The company owned an Aframax-size crude tanker, which joined the Neste fleet in January 2007. The company was 
liquidated in 2022. The liquidation did not have a material impact on Neste’s financials. 

Note 3: Kilpilahti Power Plant Ltd is a joint venture company that produces and supplies steam and other utilities to Neste´s 
refinery and Borealis’ petrochemical plant in Porvoo, Finland. The joint venture is owned 40% each by Neste and Veolia and 20% 
by Borealis.

Management has classified this ownership as a joint venture because the arrangement is structured through a separate vehicle, 
the legal form of which separates its assets and liabilities of its shareholders and it is directed so that the relevant activities of 
the company require unanimous consent from all parties sharing control. The new power plant’s capacity is also meant to serve 
external customers in addition to Neste and Borealis and thus optimize the returns of all shareholders in form of net profit. 
Management has also taken into account that Kilpilahti Power Plant Ltd plans and executes the power plant operations as its 
own business decisions which are operated by Veolia. 

Associates and joint ventures have been consolidated using the equity method.

The Martinez Renewables joint arrangement together with Marathon Petroleum has been classified as a joint operation, and 
more information has been presented in note 2 Accounting Policies, note 14 Property, plant and equipment, note 18 Inventories 
and note 30 Leases.  

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



212212

Alterra Energy LLC Glacia Limited Kilpilahti Power Plant Ltd

2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021
Non-current assets 37 29 0 15 518 471

Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents 10 2 0 29 23 38
Other current assets 
(excl. cash and cash equivalents) 0 1 0 0 116 150

Total current assets 10 3 0 29 139 188

Non-current liabilities
Non-current financial liabilities  
(excl. trade payables and provisions) 7 0 0 0 500 444
Other non-current liabilities 0 0 0 0 17 14

Total non-current liabilities 7 0 0 0 517 458

Current liabilities
Current financial liabilities  
(excl. trade payables and provisions) 0 0 0 0 31 31
Other current liabilities 2 1 0 1 92 141

Total current liabilities 2 1 0 1 123 171

Net assets 38 31 0 43 17 29

Revenue 34 1 2 5 458 257
Depreciation, amortization and impairments 2 2 1 3 8 8
Interest income 0 0 0 0 0 0
Interest expense 0 0 0 0 8 6
Income tax expense 0 0 0 0 0 92
Profit/loss -20 -8 0 -2 -6 -4

Summarized financial information in respect of Neste's associates and joint ventures are set out in the following table:

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



213213

Alterra Energy LLC Glacia Limited Kilpilahti Power Plant Ltd

2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021
Opening net assets 1 January 86 87 43 41 10 0
Investment in associate/joint venture 30 0 0 0 0 0
Profit for the period -11 -8 6 -2 9 2
Other comprehensive income 6 7 -3 2 43 9
Capital repayments -15 0 -15 0 0 0
Dividends 0 0 -30 0 0 0
Other changes 0 0 0 0 -1 -1
Closing net assets 31 December 96 86 0 43 61 10
Interest in joint venture 38 35 0 21 24 4
Carrying value 38 35 0 21 24 4

The share of profits of associates and joint ventures are consolidated based on the companys’ preliminary results for the financial period.

Transactions carried out with associates and joint ventures are disclosed in Note 25 Related party transactions. Contingent liabilities relating to the Neste’s interest in the associates and joint venturess are disclosed in Note 29 Contingencies and commitments.

Reconciliation of summarized financial information
Reconciliation of the summarized financial information presented to the carrying amount of its interest in the associates and joint ventures.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



214214

16 Financial assets and liabilities by measurement categories
Neste classifies financial assets and liabilities according to IFRS 9. Accounting policies, classification criterias and other information relating to financial assets and liabilities can be found in Notes 17 Financial assets and 21 Financial liabilities.

Derivative financial instruments under Fair value through OCI -category meet criteria for hedge accounting.  Derivative financial instruments are initially recognized at fair value on the trade date and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value on the balance 
sheet date. The fair values of the foreign exchange forward and the interest rate swap contracts are calculated as the present values of the future cash flows and the fair values of foreign exchange options by using the Black and Scholes option pricing model. The 
fair value of the exchange traded commodity derivatives is based on exchange market quotations and the fair value of over-the-counter commodity derivative contracts is based on the net present value of cash flows. The fair value of all derivatives is calculated 
using the observable market inputs for currency and interest rates, volatilities and commodity price quotations on the closing date. Derivative contracts are included in current assets or liabilities, except derivatives maturities greater than 12 months after the 
balance sheet date, which are classified as non-current assets or liabilities. More information relating to derivative financial instruments can be found in Note 19 Derivative financial instruments.

31 Dec 2022 
Balance sheet item Fair value through OCI

Fair value through  
profit or loss Amortized cost Carrying amount Fair value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3

Non-current financial assets
BS Non-current receivables 103 103 103
BS Derivative financial instruments 5 5 5 5
BS Other financial assets 37 7 44 44 44

Current financial assets
Trade and other receivables 1) 2,101 2,101 2,101
BS Derivative financial instruments 120 287 406 406 17 389
BS Current investments 0 0 0
BS Cash and cash equivalents 1,271 1,271 1,271

Financial assets 157 298 3,475 3,930 3,930

Non-current financial liabilities
BS Interest-bearing liabilities 1,964 1,964 1,880 811 1,070
BS Derivative financial instruments 0 12 12 12 12
Other non-current liabilities 1) 43 43 43

Current financial liabilities
BS Interest-bearing liabilities 651 651 651 651
BS Derivative financial instruments 29 170 200 200 41 159
Trade and other payables 1) 2,879 2,879 2,879

Financial liabilities 29 182 5,537 5,749 5,665
1) Excluding non-financial items

Interest-bearing liabilities at level 1 consist of listed bonds. Derivative financial instruments at level 1 consist of commodity derivatives which are directly valued based on exchange quatations. Other financial assets in fair value through profit and loss category 
include unlisted other investments of EUR 7 million. Other financial assets in fair value through other comprehensive income category include unlisted shares of EUR 37 million. Fair values are determined in accordance of IFRS 13. During the year 2022 there 
were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements, and no transfers into and out of Level 3 fair value measurements. 

Financial instruments that are measured at fair value in the balance sheet and the interest-bearing liabilities are presented according to fair value measurement hierarchy: 
Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities
Level 2: other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly
Level 3: inputs for the assets or liability that is not based on observable market data.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



215215

31 Dec 2021 
Balance sheet item Fair value through OCI

Fair value through  
profit or loss Amortized cost Carrying amount Fair value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3

Non-current financial assets
BS Non-current receivables 2 60 63 63
BS Derivative financial instruments 0 11 11 11 11
BS Other financial assets 42 6 48 48 48

Current financial assets
Trade and other receivables 1) 1,664 1,664 1,664
BS Derivative financial instruments 20 224 243 243 1 242
BS Current investments 135 135 135
BS Cash and cash equivalents 1,581 1,581 1,581

Financial assets 62 243 3,440 3,744 3,744

Non-current financial liabilities
BS Interest-bearing liabilities 1,378 1,378 1,393 909 484
BS Derivative financial instruments 1 1 1 1
Other non-current liabilities 1) 43 43 43

Current financial liabilities
BS Interest-bearing liabilities 379 379 379 379
BS Derivative financial instruments 59 102 161 161 25 136
Trade and other payables 1) 2,656 2,656 2,656

Financial liabilities 59 103 4,456 4,618 4,634
1) Excluding non-financial items

During the year 2021 there were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements, and no transfers into and out of Level 3 fair value measurements. 

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



216216

17 Financial assets

Accounting policy
Financial assets are classified in the following measurement categories: amortized cost, fair value through other comprehensive 
income and fair value through profit or loss. The classification depends on used business model for managing the financial 
assets and the contractual terms of the cash flows. Assets are classified as current assets, except for maturities over 12 
months after balance sheet date, which are classified as non-current assets. Purchases and sales of financial assets are 
recognized on the settlement date (excluding derivatives, Note 19 Derivative financial instruments). Financial assets are 
derecognized when the rights to receive cash flows from the investments have expired or have been transferred and the 
Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.

Amortized cost category consists of liquid funds, trade receivables and loan receivables where the business model is 
to hold the asset to collect the contractual cash flows which represent only payments of principal and interest. Financial 
assets recognized at amortized cost are valued using the effective interest method.

Assets at fair value through profit or loss consists of equity investments (and derivatives which do not meet the criteria 
for hedge accounting). The investments in unlisted companies are measured at their fair value according to IFRS 13. Gains 
or losses of the equity investments are included in financial income and expenses. 

Other financial assets in fair value through other comprehensive income category include unlisted shares which are not 
held for trading. These are strategic investments and Neste considers this classification to be more relevant. 

Liquid funds
Liquid funds consists of cash and cash equivalents and current investments. Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in 
hand, deposits held at banks, and other highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less. Current 
investments includes deposits held at banks and other liquid investments with original maturities from 3 to 12 months. 

Impairment
The general expected credit loss model is used for debt instruments carried at amortized cost and the impairment is 
recognized through profit or loss. The credit loss is recognized based on individual assessment of receivable. The simplified 
expected credit loss model is applied for trade receivables according to IFRS 9. Every business area uses a specific provision 
matrix for the trade receivables due to the different nature of the businesses. The business area impairment process is 
based on historical credit loss experience combined with current conditions and forward looking macroeconomic analysis. 
The impairment or credit loss is recognized in the consolidated statement of income within other expenses.

Liquid funds 2022 2021

BS Current investments 0 135
BS, CF Cash and cash equivalents 1,271 1,696
Classified as assets held for sale 0 -115
Liquid Funds 1,271 1,716

Trade and other receivables 2022 2021
Trade receivables 1,675 1,403
Other receivables 422 294
Advances paid 4 1
Accrued income and prepaid expenses 77 43
Classified as assets held for sale 0 -64
BS Trade and other receivables 2,178 1,677
Trade and other receivables excluding non-financial items 2,101 1,664

Non-current financial assets 2022 2021
Non-current interest-bearing receivables 82 40
Other non-current receivables 20 23
BS Non-current receivables 103 63
BS Other financial assets 44 48

The maximum exposure to credit risk is the carrying amount of the liquid funds. Note 3 Financial risk management sets out more 
information about credit risk. The impairment of liquid funds has not been recognized because the amount is immaterial. 

Due to the nature of short-term trade and other receivables their carrying amount is expected to be equal to their fair value. 
The maximum exposure to credit risk is the carrying amount of the trade and other receivables. Analysis of trade receivables by 
age, information about the impairment and credit losses are presented in Note 3 Financial risk management, section ‘credit and 
counterparty risk’.

The fair value of non-current financial receivables is not materially different from the carrying amount which is also the maximum 
exposure to credit risk. No impairment losses have been recognized as there are no significant credit risks associated with the 
receivables. Other financial assets consist of unlisted shares.  

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



217217

18 Inventories 19 Derivative financial instruments

Accounting policy
Inventories are stated at either cost or net realizable value, whichever is the lowest. Cost is determined using the weighted 
average method. The cost of finished goods and work in progress comprises raw materials, direct labor, other direct costs, 
and related production overheads (based on normal operating capacity). Net realizable value is the estimated selling price 
in the ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses. Inventories held for trading purposes are 
measured at fair value less selling expenses. Standard spare parts are carried as inventory and recognized in profit or loss 
as consumed. RIN (Renewable Identification Number) and LCFS (Low Carbon Fuels Standard) credits are accounted for as 
government grants upon receipt of the product inventory in the USA and are accounted for as inventory. RINs and LCFSs 
are included in Finished products and goods -category.

Accounting policy
The derivative instruments are mainly held for economic hedging purposes although most of the derivatives do not qualify 
for hedge accounting. Changes in the fair value of derivatives, for which hedge accounting is not applied, are recognized 
in the income statement either in operating profit or financial income and expenses, depending on the underlying hedged 
item. Impact to the income statement from the derivatives is presented in Note 10 Financial income and expenses.

When hedge accounting is applied to the derivative contracts, the method of recognizing any resulting gain or loss 
depends on the nature of the item being hedged. Neste designates certain derivative financial instruments as either hedges 
of highly probable forecast transactions (cash flow hedges); or hedges of the fair value of recognized assets or liabilities or 
a firm commitment (fair value hedges); or hedges of net investments in foreign operations. 

The effective portion of the changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and qualified 
as cash flow hedges are recognized in equity. Amounts accumulated in equity hedging future sales are recorded within 
revenue, or in case of capital expenditure as part of acquisition cost, when future cash flows of the hedged item occur. 
Forward points in currency forwards and time value of options are transaction related and thus recognized in equity and 
reclassified either to the income statement or adjusting the hedged item according to hedging relationship. In cash flow 
hedges the critical terms in hedged item and hedging instruments are the same and hedge ratio is 1:1. Any potential gain 
or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognized immediately in the income statement. Accured interest of interest rate 
swaps hedging floating rate interest-bearing liabilities is recognized in the income statement within financial expenses. If a 
forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss reported in equity is immediately transferred 
to the income statement. 

 Certain interest rate swaps are designated as fair value hedges. Changes in the fair value of interest rate swaps that 
are designated and qualified as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement in financial income and expenses, 
together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability attributable to the hedged risk compensating the 
effect. Any gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognized immediately in the income statement.

Neste documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instrument and hedged items, as 
well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. Neste also documents its 
assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis quarterly, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging 
transactions are effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items. 

Estimates and judgements requiring management estimation
Estimates of net realizable value are based on the most reliable evidence available at the time the estimates are made. 
These estimates take into consideration fluctuations of price or cost directly relating to events occurring after the end of the 
period to the extent that such events confirm conditions existing at the end of the period. 

2022 2021
Materials and supplies 1,560 1,044
Finished products and goods 2,085 1,637
Other inventories 3 1
Classified as assets held for sale 0 -64
BS Inventories 3,648 2,618

Additions to inventories included EUR 48 million from joint operation Martinez Renewables on 31 Dec 2022. 
Write-downs included the inventories at the end of the period were EUR 245 million (2021: EUR 80 million). 

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



218218

31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021

Nominal value by maturity Fair Value Nominal value by maturity Fair Value

 < 1 year  > 1 year Positive Negative Net  < 1 year  > 1 year Positive Negative Net

Foreign exchange rate derivatives
Foreign exchange derivatives, forwards 3,754 3 115 29 86 2,216 10 20 55 -35
Foreign exchange options

Purchased 84 0 5 0 5 159 0 0 0 0
Written 84 0 0 0 0 159 0 0 5 -5

Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges 3,922 3 120 29 90 2,534 10 20 59 -39

Foreign exchange derivatives, forwards 3,083 0 104 13 91 1,730 0 14 17 -3
Non-hedge accounting derivatives 3,083 0 104 13 91 1,730 0 14 17 -3

Commodity derivatives
Oil and vegetable oil derivatives

Sold forwards, million bbl 25 0 65 67 -2 23 0 29 57 -29
Purchased forwards, million bbl 19 0 59 67 -8 19 0 100 15 86

Electricity and gas derivatives
Sold forwards, GWh 18 0 2 0 2
Purchased forwards, GWh 1,996 620 62 36 26 2,966 940 91 14 77

Non-hedge accounting derivatives 188 169 18 220 86 134

Derivatives Total 411 211 200 254 162 92
of which
BS Non-current derivative financial instruments 5 12 -7 11 1 10
BS Current derivative financial instruments 406 200 207 243 161 82

Neste uses foreign exchange, interest rate and commodity derivatives to manage market risks (Note 3 Financial risk management). Hedge accounting is not applied to commodity derivatives, although these are mainly held for economic hedging purposes. 
Commodity derivatives include oil, vegetable oil, freight, electricity and gas contracts. Neste uses forwards as hedging instruments for commodities.  

Neste has designated certain foreign currency and interest rate derivatives as hedges of future transactions i.e., as cash flow hedges. Such contracts are, e.g., foreign exchange derivatives hedging USD- and SEK-sales for the next twelve months according 
to the Corporate risk management policy or hedging investment costs in Singapore refinery (Note 3 Financial risk management). On 31 December 2022, there were no interest rate swaps. 

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



219219

20 Equity

Share capital
The Parent Company’s share capital registered with the Trade Register as of 31 December 2022 totalled EUR 40,000,000, divided into 769,211,058 shares of equal value. Neste Oyj has one class of shares and each share entitles a shareholder to one vote at 
the Annual General Meeting. The nominal value of one share is not determined. The share capital is fully paid. There have been no changes in share capital in 2022 or 2021.

Treasury shares
On 15 March 2022 a total of 113,774 treasury shares of Neste Corporation has been conveyed without consideration to the key 
persons participating in the Performance Share Plan 2019–2021 and in the Restricted Share Plan 2019–2021 of the share-based 
incentive program 2019 in accordance with the terms and conditions of the program. The directed share issue without payment 
is based on the authorization granted by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders on 18 May 2020. The number of treasury 
shares after the directed share issue is 1,127,888 shares.

On 15 March 2021 a total of 132,756 treasury shares of Neste Corporation has been conveyed without consideration to the 
key persons participating in the earning period 2018–2020 of the share-based incentive program 2016 according to the terms 
and conditions of the program. The directed share issue without payment is based on the authorization granted by the Annual 
General Meeting of Shareholders on 18 May 2020. The number of treasury shares after the directed share issue is 1,241,662 
shares.

Number of shares, 1,000 Treasury shares, 1,000 Outstanding shares, 1,000
1 January 2022 769,211 -1,242 767,969
Transfer of treasury shares 0 114 114
31 December 2022 769,211 -1,128 768,083

1 January 2021 769,211 -1,374 767,837
Transfer of treasury shares 0 133 133
31 December 2021 769,211 -1,242 767,969

Other reserves
Reserve fund comprises of restricted reserves other than share capital.

The reserve of invested unrestricted equity includes other equity-related investments and that part of the share subscription 
price that has not specifically been allocated to share capital.

Fair value and other reserves include the effective portion of the change in fair value of derivative financial instruments that are 
designated as and qualify for cash flow hedges, amounts recognized directly in equity concerning other financial assets, and 
concerning equity settled share based payments, the amount corresponding to the expense recognized in the consolidated 
statement of income.

Actuarial gains and losses includes the remeasurements of defined benefit plans and net change of other investments at fair 
value, which are recognised in other comprehensive income.

Translation differences include exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities on 
consolidation, change in the fair value of currency instruments designated as hedges of the net investment, and exchange 
differences resulting from the translation of income statement of foreign entities at the average exchange rates and balance sheet 
at the closing rates.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



220220

21 Financial liabilities

Accounting policy
Financial liabilities are classified at amortized cost (except derivative financial liabilities whose accounting policy is presented 
at Note 19 Derivative financial instruments). Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost are recognized initially at fair 
value, net of transaction costs and subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method. Liabilities 
are recognised on the date when the entity becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. Any difference 
between net proceeds and nominal amount is recognized as interest cost over the period of the borrowing using the 
effective interest method. Financial liabilities are included in non-current liabilities, except for items with maturities less than 
12 months after the balance sheet date, which are included in current liabilities. A financial liability is derecognized when 
the related obligation is discharged, cancelled or expires.

Bank overdrafts are recorded in current liabilities on the balance sheet. Fees of revolving credit facility are capitalized and 
amortized over the period of the facility.

The fair values of the listed bonds are driven from market quotations. The fair values of other interest-bearing liabilities at 
amortized cost are determined by using the discounted cash flow method employing market interest rates at the balance 
sheet date. 

Non-current financial liabilities 2022 2021
Bonds 1) 895 893
Loans from financial institutions 2) 615 121
Lease liabilities 3) 425 333
Other loans 30 30
Other non-current liabilities 43 43
Total 2,007 1,420
BS of which interest-bearing 1,964 1,378
Other non-financial items included to other non-current liabilities 0 1 Issued/Maturity

Interest 
basis

Interest  
rate, % Currency

Nominal  
amount

Carrying 
amount

2017/2024 Fixed 1.50 EUR 400 400
2021/2028 Fixed 0.75 EUR 500 495
Total 900 895

Current financial liabilities 2022 2021
Loans from financial institutions 161 137
Commercial paper liabilities 346 0
Lease liabilities 3) 110 111
Other loans 34 131
Advances received 119 67
Trade payables 2,021 1,829
Other current liabilities 738 760
Total 3,530 3,036
BS of which interest-bearing 651 379
Other non-financial items included to trade and other payables 144 105

1) Neste issued a EUR 500 million green bond in March 2021. The 7-year bond carries a coupon of 0.75 per cent. The bond represents the  
 first issuance under the Green Finance Framework established in February 2021. The proceeds from the issue are allocated in accordance 
 with the Green Finance Framework to investments into the development, operations, maintenance and expansion of the renewable and 
 circular solutions with the objective to mitigate climate change globally by reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
2)  Neste has signed a EUR 500 million green term loan agreement in June 2022. The proceeds of the loan will be used to finance Eligible 
 Assets and Projects in accordance with Neste’s Green Finance Framework. The loan has a tenor of 3 years with two 1-year extension options.
3)  Refer to Note 30 Leases.

The fair values of financial liabilities can be found in Note 16. Re-pricing periods of interest-bearing liabilities are disclosed in Note 
3, Financial risk management, section ‘Market risk’.

Listed bond issues

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



221221

22 Provisions

Accounting policy
The nature of certain Neste’s businesses exposes Neste to risks of environmental costs and potential contingent liabilities. 
The risks arise from the manufacture, use, storage, disposal and maritime and inland transport as well as sale of materials 
that may be considered to be contaminants when released into the environment. Liability may also arise through the 
acquisition, ownership or operation of properties or businesses.

A provision is recognized in the consolidated statement of financial position when Neste has a present legal or constructive 
obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the obligation will result in payment, and the amount of payment 
can be estimated reliably. Provisions can arise from environmental risks, litigation, restructuring plans or onerous contracts. 
Environmental provisions are recorded based on current interpretations of environmental laws and regulations when the 
conditions referred to above are met. Neste has asset retirement obligations recorded in the consolidated statement of 
financial position.

Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that an outflow of resources will be required in settlement is 
determined by considering the class of obligations as a whole. A provision is recognized even if the likelihood of an outflow 
with respect to any one item in the same class of obligations may be small.

Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using 
a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the obligation. 
The increase in the provision due to passage of time is recognized as an interest expense.

Estimates and judgements requiring management estimation
The existence of criteria for recognizing provisions and the amounts of provisions are determined based on estimates. The 
amount to be recorded is the best estimate of the cost required to settle the obligation at the reporting date or transfer 
to a third party. The estimate of the financial impact of the past event requires management judgement, which is based 
on similar events occurred in the past, and where applicable, the opinion of external experts. Estimates may differ from 
the actual future amount of the obligation and with respect to the existence of the obligation. In addition to the provisions 
recognized, there are some off-balance-sheet contingent liabilities for which the future potential outcome (timing, costs) 
cannot be estimated reliably.

The most significant provisions in the consolidated statement of financial position relate to environmental liabilities. 
Environmental provisions are based on management’s best estimate of remediation costs. The restructuring provision is 
recognized when Neste has prepared a detailed restructuring plan and published it. 

Environmental 
provisions

Restructuring 
provisions

Provision to 
return emission 

allowances
Other 

provisions Total
BS On 1 January 2022 199 2 0 9 210

Additions 5 0 57 9 71
Amounts used during the period -7 -1 -58 -2 -68
Reversed unused provisions -1 -1 2 -3 -3
Changes in the discount rate 
and inflation assumption -10 0 0 0 -10

BS On 31 December 2022 187 0 0 13 200

Environmental 
provisions

Restructuring 
provisions

Provision to 
return emission 

allowances
Other 

provisions Total
BS On 1 January 2021 204 23 0 5 232

Additions 5 0 17 5 27
Amounts used during the period -7 -10 -17 -1 -35
Reversed unused provisions -1 -11 -1 0 -12
Changes in the discount rate 
and inflation assumption -3 0 0 0 -3

BS On 31 December 2021 199 2 0 9 210

Environmental provisions consists mostly of Neste’s asset retirement obligations (ARO) that are related to retail stations and 
refineries. In the next five years is expected EUR 105 million of ARO obligations to be realised and the rest of the obligations are 
mainly expected to be realised in 30–50 years. Neste recognizes a provision for the decommissioning costs of an oil installation 
to the extent that Neste is obliged to rectify damage already caused. The provisions are to be discounted, where the effect of the 
time value of money is material.

The exchange rate difference relating to Neste’s provisions is immaterial.

Emission allowances
Neste Finland Refinery in Porvoo comes under the European Union’s greenhouse gas emission trading system, and was granted 
a total of 2.0 million tons emission allowances for 2022. In addition to refinery operations Neste purchases allowances to cover 
certain emissions of the local partners who provide utility services to Neste. A provision is recognized to cover the obligation 
to buy emission allowances if emission allowances received free of charge and purchased emission allowances intended to 
cover the deficit do not cover actual emissions. Emission allowances, which are purchased to cover future periods deficit are 
accounted for as intangible assets and measured at cost, and emission allowances received free of charge are accounted for at 
nominal value, i.e. at zero. 

As at 31 December 2022 there was no obligation to purchase emission allowances in the balance sheet of Neste (31.12.2021 
EUR 0 million). The actual amount of CO2 emissions in 2022 were 2.8 million tons (2021: 2.6 million tons). Neste has 
traded emission allowances for net amount of 0.7 million tons during the financial period ended 31 December 2022 (2021:  
0.4 million tons).

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



222222

23 Employee benefit obligations

Accounting policy
Neste has pension arrangements in different countries, which are generally funded through insurance companies. Pension 
cover is based on the legislation and agreement in force in each country. Pension schemes consist of both defined 
benefit and defined contribution plans. Finnish statutory pensions are accounted for as a defined contribution plan in the 
consolidated financial statements.

Contributions to the defined contribution plans are charged directly to the statement of income in the year to which these 
contributions relate. In defined contribution plans, Neste has no legal or contractive obligations to pay further contributions 
in case the payment recipient is unable to pay the retirement benefits. All arrangements that do not fulfill these conditions 
are considered defined benefit plans. 

In defined benefit plans, after Neste has paid the amount for the period, an excess or deficit may result. The defined benefit 
obligation represents the present value of future cash flows from payable benefits, which are calculated for by using the 
projected unit credit method. The discount rate assumed in calculating the present value of the pension obligation is based 
on the market yield of high-quality corporate bonds (AA-rated) with appropriate maturities. Pension costs are recognized in 
the consolidated statement of income so as to spread the current service cost over the service lives of employees based 
on actuarial calculations. The net interest is included as part of the finance cost in the consolidated statement of income. 

The liability (or asset) recognized in the consolidated statement of financial position is the pension obligation at the 
closing date less the fair value of plan assets. Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes 
in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to equity in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise. 
Actuarial valuations for Neste’s defined benefit pension plans are performed annually.

Estimates and judgements requiring management estimation
Accounting for defined benefit pensions and other long-term employee benefits involves making significant estimates 
when measuring Neste’s pension expenses and obligations. The assumptions that are the most significant to the amounts 
reported are the discount rate, the rate of salary increase and future benefit increase. Changes in these assumptions could 
result in significant changes to the carrying amount of Neste’s pension liability and future pension expenses. 

Neste has defined benefit pension plans in Finland, Switzerland and the Netherlands. The largest plans are in Finland, which 
account for 95% (2021: 95%) of Neste’s total defined benefit pension obligation and 94% (2021: 96%) of Neste’s total plan 
assets. The voluntary pension plan in Finland accounting for most of this has been closed since 1 January 1994. The insured 
supplementary pension scheme consists of defined benefit group pension insurances, which are very similar in structure, with 
the exception of retirement age and pension accrual rules. 

Other long-term employee benefits are long-service remunerations, which are accounted for as an unfunded defined benefit 
plan in accordance to IAS 19.

Characteristics of the post-employment defined benefit plans in Finland
In Finland, Neste has a voluntary pension plan for a certain group of employees to fulfill an aggregated benefit after retirement. 
The voluntary pension plan is managed in an insurance company.

The voluntary plan’s benefit is based on the aggregated benefits determined by the insurance contract. The voluntary benefit is 
the difference between aggregated benefits and compulsory benefits calculated at the age 63 in the old age plan. The aggregated 
benefits are at most 60% or 66% of the supplementary pension salary depending on the plan. The supplementary pension salary 
is calculated based on the last 10 years’ salaries prior to the pension event adjusted by the index level. The benefits in the plans 
are old age and disability pensions, survivors’ pensions for widows and children, and funeral grants. Old-age pension ages are 
60, 62 and 65 years. In some pension schemes the pension cover also includes the right to early old-age pension retirement 
ages. 

The insurance company collects premiums on a yearly basis from the employer. The future premiums are adjusted so that 
the old-age pension will be fully funded until retirement. The disability and survivor’s pension are also financed by risk premiums 
collected during the employment period. The premiums with fixed discount rate 1.5% are based on the last known salary without 
any assumptions on future salary increases. The insurance company guarantees the same interest yield to the assets in the plan, 
as the one they have used in calculating the premiums.

The employer finances the index-linkage by paying an additional premium covering the index increase during the year. 
Discretionary bonuses from the insurance company will lower the index premium. The insurance company decides the amount 
of the bonus annually. 

Neste has insured the benefits index increases each year as the benefits have been increased. If the insurance company’s 
granted bonus index does not cover the annual index increase, the insurance company collects a premium from the employer 
to cover the increase. The insurance company’s bonus index varies on yearly basis.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



223223

Risks associated with defined benefit plans  
Through its defined benefit pension plans Neste is exposed to a number of risks. The employer´s defined benefit obligations 
pension liability depends on the discount rate which is determined to a yield of corporate bonds as at the reporting date. A 
decrease in used discount rates increase the defined benefits obligations. However, a decrease in the used discount rate yield 
also increases the fair value of the assets partially offsetting the total impact of change in yield on the net defined benefit pension 
liability.

The benefit of the plans is tied to the future benefit increase, which depends on inflation and common salary index. Higher 
inflation increases the benefit increase, which leads to an increase in liabilities and annual payments to the insurance company.

If the active employee’s salary increases more than the common salary index, the amount of promised benefit and the benefit 
obligation increases together with annual payments to life insurance company.

The longevity risk is borne by the insurance company in case the actual mortality differs from the assumed. Possible adjustments 
in mortality assumption have an effect on the employer’s liability according to IFRS. The insurance company completely bears the 
mortality risk on accrued benefits. The employers have a mortality risk only if the insurance company will raise its future benefit 
accruals premiums because of mortality adjustment. 

Defined benefit plans

Cost of defined benefit plans 2022 2021
Service cost 5 6
Net interest (+expense/-income) 1 0
Remeasurements related to other long-term remunerations 0 0
Defined benefit cost recognized in the consolidated statement of income 6 6

Remeasurements of defined benefit plans 2022 2021
Actuarial gains/losses

Changes in demographic assumptions -3 0
Changes in financial assumptions 105 -17

Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in net interest expense -70 -25
Experience adjustments -11 4
Total remeasurements recognized in other comprehensive income 22 -38

Amounts recognized in the consolidated statement of financial position 2022 2021
Present value of funded defined benefit obligations 385 488
Present value of unfunded defined benefit obligations 7 8
Fair value of plan assets -273 -350
BS Net defined benefit liability 119 146

Changes in fair value of plan assets 2022 2021
January 1 350 388
Interest income 3 1
Return on plan assets (excluding amounts included in net interest expense) -71 -25
Employer contributions 11 8
Benefits paid -20 -19
Assets held for sale 0 -3
December 31 273 350

The assets are the responsibility of the insurance company and a part of the insurance company’s investment assets. 
The distribution within categories is not possible to provide. 

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



224224

Changes in the present value 
of the defined benefit obligation

2022 2021

Funded Unfunded Funded Unfunded
January 1 488 8 492 7
Current service cost 4 1 5 1
Interest cost 4 0 1 0
Actuarial gains (-)/ losses (+) -92 -1 12 1
Settlements 0 0 0 0
Benefits paid -18 -1 -18 -1
Liabilities related to assets held for sale 0 0 -5 0
December 31 385 7 488 8

Significant actuarial assumptions (presented as weighted average) 2022 2021
Discount rate, %

Finland 3.20% 0.80%
Other countries 1.83% 0.31%

Future salary increase, %
Finland 3.74% 3.45%
Other countries 1.11% 1.11%

Future benefit increase, %
Finland 2.78% 2.26%
Other countries 0.00% 0.00%

Impact on the defined benefit 
pension obligation

Assumptions Change in assumption 2022 2021
Discount rate

0.50% increase EUR million -20 -34
0.50% decrease EUR million 22 38

Future salary increase
0.50% increase EUR million 1 3
0.50% decrease EUR million -1 -3

Future benefit increase
0.50% increase EUR million 20 31
0.50% decrease EUR million -19 -28

The expected contributions to be paid to the defined benefit plans in 2023 are EUR 12 million.

Sensitivity analysis of significant actuarial assumptions
Reasonably possible changes at the reporting date to one of the weighted principal assumptions, while holding all other 
assumptions constant, would have affected the defined benefit obligation as shown below:

- 0.50% increase /decrease in the discount rate would lead to a decrease /increase of 5.1% /5.7% in the defined 
benefit obligation.
- 0.50% increase /decrease in the  rate of salary increase would lead to a increase /decrease of 0.4% /0.4% in the defined 
benefit obligation. 
- 0.50% increase /decrease in the rate of pension index would lead to a increase /decrease of 5.2% /4.7% in the defined 
benefit obligation.

The above sensitivity analysis may not be representative of the actual impact of change. If more than one assumption is changed 
simultaneously, the combined impact of changes would not necessarily be the same as the sum of the individual change. If the 
assumptions change to a different level compared to that presented above, the effect on the defined benefit obligation may not 
be linear.

Maturity profile of the undiscounted defined benefit obligation 2022
Within the next 12 months 23
Between 1 and 5 years 95
Between 5 and 10 years 108
Beyond 10 years 390
Total 616

The average duration of the defined benefit pension obligation at the end of the reporting period is 12 years.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



225225

24 Share-based payments

Accounting policy
Neste’s share-based incentive plans include a net settlement feature, i.e., share-based payments are settled net in shares 
after withholding taxes, and thus they are accounted for as fully equity settled plans. The compensation expense for the 
shares is recognized as an employee benefit expense evenly during the required service period whereas the compensation 
expense resulting from the cash portion is recognized as an employee benefit expense on accrual basis between grant and 
payment date. The entire transaction is measured at fair value prevailing on the grant date of the share-based incentive plan 
and the amounts recognized in the consolidated statement of income are accumulated in equity. The difference realized 
upon the settlement date is also accounted for against equity.

The purpose of Neste’s share-based long-term incentive plans is to drive long-term sustainable growth and align the interests of 
executives with shareholders. The Board annually selects the members of Neste’s senior management and other key employees 
to participate in the long-term incentive plans.

Neste applies a share ownership policy to the members of the Neste Executive Committee (ExCo). According to the policy, 
each member of the ExCo is expected to retain in his/her ownership at least half of the shares received under the share-based 
incentive programs of Neste until the value of his/her share ownership in Neste corresponds to at least his/her annual gross base 
salary.

The amount of rewards payable to participants based on Neste’s long-term incentive scheme is limited by a share price 
development-based pay cap, the level of which the Board of Directors sets. The level of the pay cap in the ongoing plans is two 
times the share price which prevailed at the beginning of the plan period. If Neste share price more than doubles during the plan, 
the exceeding value of the payable rewards will not be paid to the plan participants.

Share-based incentive plan as of 1 January 2022
The Board of Directors of Neste Corporation decided on 9 February 2022 to establish a new share-based long-term incentive 
scheme for selected members of Neste’s management and key employees. The decision includes a Performance Share Plan 
(also “PSP”) as the main structure and a Restricted Share Plan (also “RSP”) as a complementary structure for specific situations. 

The Performance Share Plan consists of three annually commencing individual performance share plans, each with a three-
year performance period, followed by the payment of the potential share reward. The three plans commence as of the beginning 
of the years 2022, 2023 and 2024. The commencement of each individual plan is, however, subject to a separate Board approval 
in each case.

The plan PSP 2022–2024 commences effective as of the beginning of 2022 and the potential share reward thereunder will 
be paid during H1 2025. The payment of the reward is conditional on the achievement of the performance targets the Board 
of Directors has set for the plan. The potential reward will be paid in listed shares of Neste Corporation (deducted with the 
applicable payroll tax). The performance targets based on which the potential share reward under PSP 2022–2024 will be paid 
are the Relative Total Shareholder Return relative to the STOXX Europe 600 index and Combined Greenhouse Gas Impact.

The plan RSP 2022–2024 within the Restricted Share Plan scheme commences effective as of the beginning of 2022 and 
the potential share reward thereunder will be paid during H1 2025 at the latest. The Restricted Share Plan consists of annually 
commencing individual restricted share plans, each comprising a restriction period with an overall length of three years. The 
company may during the plan period grant fixed share rewards to individually selected key employees. The rewards are paid at 
the latest after the end of the restriction period during H1 of the fourth year of the individual plan. The rewards are paid in listed 
shares of Neste Corporation (deducted with the applicable payroll tax). A precondition for the payment of the share reward based 

on the Restricted Share Plan is that the employment or service of the individual with Neste continues until the payment date of 
the reward.

Share-based incentive plan as of 1 January 2019
The Board of Directors of Neste Corporation decided on 12 December 2018 to establish a new share-based long-term incentive 
scheme for selected members of Neste’s management and key employees. The decision included a Performance Share Plan as 
the main structure and a Restricted Share Plan as a complementary structure for specific situations. 

The Performance Share Plan consists of three annually commencing individual performance share plans, each with a three-
year performance period, followed by the payment of the potential share reward. The three plans commence in the years 2019, 
2020 and 2021. The commencement of each individual plan is, however, subject to a separate Board approval. 

The potential reward will be paid in shares of Neste (deducted with the applicable payroll tax), provided that the performance 
target set by the Board of Directors is achieved. For award plan cycles commenced in 2019 (PSP 2019–2021) and 2020 (PSP 
2020–2022), relative total shareholder return of Neste’s share compared to STOXX Europe 600 index is set as a performance 
measure. In the PSP 2021–2023 plan, in addition to the relative total shareholder return of Neste’s share, Neste’s combined 
greenhouse gas (GHG) impact is also set as a performance measure. The combined GHG impact includes GHG emission 
reductions achieved with Neste renewable products by customers and GHG emissions from Neste production.   

The Restricted Share Plan consists of annually commencing individual restricted share plans, each with a three-year retention 
period after which the share rewards granted within the plan will be paid to the participants in shares of Neste (deducted with 
the applicable payroll tax). The commencement of each individual plan is subject to a separate Board approval. A precondition 
for the payment of the share reward based on the Restricted Share Plan is that the employment relationship of the individual 
participant with Neste continues until the payment date of the reward. 

The first plan (RSP 2019–2021) within the Restricted Share Plan started in the beginning of 2019 and the share reward 
thereunder was paid in the spring 2022. The second plan (RSP 2021–2023) started in the beginning of 2021 and the potential 
share reward thereunder will be paid in the spring 2024.

For the 2019–2021 LTI plan cycle a gross reward of 246,390 shares equaling EUR 9.8 million were awarded to the participants 
of the plan. The net amount of shares delivered totalled 113,774 shares and the rest of the reward was paid in cash to cover 
taxes. The fair value of the share as at delivery date was 39.76 euros (15.3.2022). The members of Neste’s Executive Committee 
received a gross reward equaling to 62,515 shares.

Share-based incentive plan as of 1 January 2016
The Board of Directors of Neste Corporation decided on 14 December 2015 to establish a new long-term share-based incentive 
plan for Neste’s senior management and nominated key personnel. The plan included three individual share plans, each with a 
three-year earning period. The plans began in 2016, 2017 and 2018, respectively.

The earning criteria for the earning periods 2016–2018, 2017–2019 and 2018–2020 were Neste’s cumulative comparable free 
cash flow (75%) and total return by Neste’s share compared to STOXX Europe 600 index (25%). In plan 2016–2018 the target 
long-term incentive for the President & CEO and the other members of the Neste Executive Committee (ExCo) was around 40% 
of individuals’ annual fixed salary. In plans 2017–2019 and 2018–2020 the target long-term incentive for the President & CEO 
and the other members of the ExCo was around 30% of individuals’ annual fixed salary. The maximum long-term incentive for 
the President & CEO was 100% of his annual fixed salary and 80% for the other members of the ExCo. The combined amount 
of incentives paid based on earnings under the long-term incentive program together with the incentive paid on the annual short-
term program, could not exceed 120% of participants’ annual fixed salary in any given year.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



226226

Participants were not entitled to sell or transfer the shares they received as incentives during a restriction period following the end of the earning period. The lenght of this period was three years in the 2016–2018 plan. In 2017–2019 and 2018-2020 plans the 
restriction period was one year.

For the 2016–2018 LTI plan cycle the net amount of shares were delivered in 2019 while simultaneously the rest of the reward was paid in cash to cover taxes. For the 2017–2019 LTI plan cycle the net amount of shares were delivered in 2020 while simultaneously 
the rest of the reward was paid in cash to cover taxes.

For the 2018–2020 LTI plan cycle, the maximum target set in December 2017 for Neste’s cumulative comparable free cash flow were exceeded and Neste generated a total shareholder return clearly out performing the Europe Stoxx 600 Market Index. A gross 
reward of 273,079 shares equaling EUR 14.7 million were awarded to the participants of the plan. The net amount of shares delivered totalled 132,756 shares and the rest of the reward was paid in cash to cover taxes. The fair value of the share as at delivery 
date was 53.8 euros (15.3.2021). The members of Neste’s Executive Committee received a gross reward equaling to 50,879 shares.

More specific information on the share-based incentive plans is presented in the following tables.

Plan Long-Term Incentive Plan 2022 Long-Term Incentive Plan 2019 Long-Term Incentive Plan 2016

Type Share allocation Share allocation Share allocation

Instrument PSP 2022–2024 RSP 2022–2024 PSP 2021–2023 RSP 2021–2023 PSP 2020–2022 PSP 2019–2021 RSP 2019–2021 PSP 2018–2020 PSP 2016–2018

Grant dates 11 Feb 2022 11 May 2022 13 Jan 2021 21 Jan 2021 20 Feb 2020 6 May 2019 26 Jun 2019 11 Jan 2018 1 Feb 2016
Grant prices, euros 35.14 36.58 57.81 59.82 35.72 26.70 27.98 16.87 8.70
Share price as at grant date, euros 37.97 39.40 60.94 62.64 38.91 28.94 30.08 18.82 9.58
Beginning of earnings period 1 Jan 2022 1 Jan 2022 1 Jan 2021 1 Jan 2021 1 Jan 2020 1 Jan 2019 1 Jan 2019 1 Jan 2018 1 Jan 2016
End of earnings period 31 Dec 2024 31 Mar 2025 31 Dec 2023 31 Dec 2023 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021 31 Dec 2021 31 Dec 2020 31 Dec 2018
End of restriction period 31 Mar 2025 31 Mar 2025 31 Mar 2024 31 Mar 2024 31 Mar 2023 31 Mar 2022 31 Mar 2022 31 Mar 2022 30 Apr 2022

Changes during the period,  
share allocation Shares Shares Shares Shares Shares Shares Shares Shares Shares
Outstanding at the beginning of the 
reporting period, pcs 0 0 222,454 12,500 288,825 342,352 10,100 239,037 316,252
Granted during the period 357,570 89,500 1,216 8,500 9,600 0 0 0 0
Forfeited during the period 11,300 0 26,636 0 44,608 104,596 1,466 15,961 0
Excercised during the period 0 0 0 0 0 237,756 8,634 223,076 316,252
Outstanding at the end of the period, pcs 346,270 89,500 197,034 21,000 253,817 0 0 0 0

Number of persons at the end of the 
reporting year 132 49 122 10 107 0 0 0 0
Share price at the end of the reporting 
period, euros 43.02 43.02 43.02 43.02 43.02 39.76 39.76 53.77 31.61
Estimated rate of realization of the 
earnings criteria, % 35% 100% 41% 100% 61% 57% 100% 100% 100%
Estimated termination rate before the end 
of the restriction period, % 10% 10% 10% 0% 10% 0% 0% 0% 0%

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



227227

Fair value determination
The fair value of share-based incentives have been determined at grant date and the fair value is expensed until vesting. The 
grant price, i.e., fair value as of the grant date, has been determined as follows: grant price equals the share price as at grant 
date deducted by expected dividends payable during the earning period.  For plans under the Long-Term Incentive Plan 2019 
and 2022, which include market based criteria, the fair value estimation is calculated using the Monte Carlo simulation with 
Geometric Brownian Motion. The simulation requires some parameters, such as volatility and the risk-free rate to be estimated.

The expense included in the income statement is specified in the following table:

2022 2021
Expense arising from equity-settled share-based payment transactions 5 4
Total expense arising from share-based payment transactions 5 4

At the end of the period the estimated future cash payments to be paid to the tax authorities from share-based payments are 
EUR 10 million (2021: EUR 11 million).

25 Related party transactions

Neste is controlled by the State of Finland, which owns 44.2% of the company’s shares. The remaining 55.8% of shares are 
widely held.

Neste has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries, associates, joint arrangements and the entities controlled by Neste’s 
controlling shareholder, the State of Finland. Related parties also include the members of the Board of Directors, the President 
and CEO and other members of the Neste Executive Committee (key management persons), close members of the families of 
the mentioned key management persons and entities controlled or jointly controlled by the mentioned key management persons 
or close members of those persons’ families.

Subsidiaries, associates and joint arrangements are presented in Note 26 Group companies.
Parent company of Neste is Neste Corporation. The transactions between Neste, its subsidiaries and joint operations, which 

are related parties of the company, have been eliminated during consolidation and are not disclosed in this note. Details of 
transactions between Neste and other related parties are disclosed below. All transactions between Neste and other companies 
controlled by the State of Finland are on an arm’s length basis.

2022

Sales of 
goods and 

services

Purchases of 
goods and 

services

Financial 
income and 

expense Receivables Liabilities
Joint ventures 314 260 3 158 22
Other related parties 116 243 0 3 0

430 503 3 160 22

2021

Sales of 
goods and 

services

Purchases of 
goods and 

services

Financial 
income and 

expense Receivables Liabilities
Joint ventures 189 121 2 159 17
Other related parties 40 50 0 3 0

229 171 2 162 17

Transactions carried out with related parties

There were no material transactions with key management persons or entities controlled by them.

The major part of business between Neste and its joint ventures was with Kilpilahti Power Plant Ltd. Neste’s transactions with 
Kilpilahti Power Plant Ltd consisted mainly of steam purchases and sales of heavy fuel oil, water and asphaltene. The steam 
supply agreement includes a fixed annual fee of EUR 45 million until 2037. 

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



228228

Board of Directors and key management compensation Compensation to the Board of Directors

EUR thousand 2022 2021
Salaries and other short-term employee benefits 5,259 5,346
Statutory pensions 819 745
Supplementary pensions 416 416
Share-based payments 1,961 2,736
Total (Including statutory pensions) 8,455 9,243

EUR thousand 2022 2021
Board of Directors at 31 December 2022

Matti Kähkönen 124 80
John Abbott, since 30 March 2021 75 40
Nick Elmslie 76 51
Martina Flöel 75 53
Just Jansz, since 30 March 2022 59 0
Jari Rosendal 69 47
Eeva Sipilä, since 30 March 2022 55 0
Johanna Söderström 83 48
Marco Wirén 94 63

Former Board members
Sonat Burman-Olsson, until 21 July 2021 0 27
Jean-Baptiste Renard, until 30 March 2022 14 52

Board of Directors, all members total 725 462

President 
and CEO

Members 
of the Neste 

Executive Committee

EUR thousand
Matti 

Lehmus
Peter 

Vanacker
Total
2022 2021 2022 2021

Annual remuneration
Base salary 626 443 1,069 972 2,892 2,788
Taxable benefits 11 0 11 0 110 130
Annual incentive (STI plan) 0 261 261 216 826 778

Total annual remuneration 637 704 1,341 1,188 3,829 3,696
Vested long term remuneration 0

Supplementary pension 
(insurance contributions) 95 0 95 0 416 416
Share-based incentive plan  0 0 0 858 1,961 1,878

Total remuneration 731 704 1,436 2,046 6,205 5,990

Key management consists of President and CEO and other members of the Neste Executive Committee. There were no 
outstanding loan receivables from key management on 31 December 2022 or 31 December 2021.

Compensation to President and CEO and members of the Neste Executive Committee

Compensation to the Board of Directors include annual remuneration and meeting fee paid to each member of the Board for 
each meeting attended as well as for any meetings of the Board committees attended. Board members are not covered by 
the company’s remuneration systems and do not receive any performance or share related payments. Compensation to the 
Board of Directors in 2022 includes three months of annual remuneration related to Board membership 2021–2022 and entire 
annual remuneration for Board membership 2022–2023. Hence, the compensation in 2022 is not completely comparable to the 
compensation in 2021.

The CEO’s notice of termination period is 6 months on both sides. Should the company decide to give notice of termination, 
the President & CEO shall be entitled to his salary during the 6 months period of notice, together with a severance payment 
equivalent to 6 months’ salary. The supplementary pension of the President and CEO is a defined contribution (DC) plan with an 
annual contribution of 16% of the annual fixed salary and retirement age of 62 years.

Net liability of defined benefit plans of former Presidents and CEOs on 31 December 2022 were EUR 1,692 thousand (2021: 
EUR 1,757 thousand).

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



229229

Subsidiaries Group holding % Country of incorporation
Agri Trading Fats & Oils, LLC 100.00% USA
B J B, LLC 100.00% USA
B J B, Properties of Hutchinson, LLC 100.00% USA
Kiinteistö Oy Espoon Keilaranta 21 100.00% Finland
Mahoney Environmental Solutions, LLC 100.00% USA
Mahoney Transportation Services LLC 100.00% USA
Navidom Oy 50.00% Finland
Neste (Shanghai) Trading Company Limited 100.00% China
Neste (Suisse) S.A. 100.00% Switzerland
Neste AB 100.00% Sweden
Neste Affiliate B.V. 100.00% The Netherlands
Neste Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd 100.00% Singapore
Neste Australia Pty Ltd 100.00% Australia
Neste Belgium NV 100.00% Belgium
Neste Canada Inc. 100.00% Canada
Neste Components B.V. 100.00% The Netherlands
Neste Demeter B.V. 51.00% The Netherlands
Neste Eesti AS 100.00% Estonia
Neste Engineering Solutions B.V. 100.00% The Netherlands
Neste Engineering Solutions Pte. Ltd. 100.00% Singapore
Neste Germany GmbH 100.00% Germany
Neste Insurance Limited 100.00% Guernsey
Neste Italy S.R.L. 100.00% Italy
Neste Markkinointi Oy 100.00% Finland
Neste Netherlands B.V. 100.00% The Netherlands
Neste Pretreatment Rotterdam B.V. 100.00% The Netherlands
Neste Renewable Products Inc. (new) 100.00% USA
Neste Renewable Solutions US, Inc. 100.00% USA
Neste RPC Solutions US, Inc. 100.00% USA
Neste Shipping Oy 100.00% Finland
Neste Singapore Pte. Ltd. 100.00% Singapore
Neste Spain S.L. (new) 100.00% Spain
Neste Terminal Rotterdam B.V. 100.00% The Netherlands

26 Group companies
Subsidiaries Group holding % Country of incorporation

Neste US, Inc. 100.00% USA
Neste USA, L.L.C. 100.00% USA
Neste Walco Limited (new) 100.00% Ireland
SIA Neste Latvija 100.00% Latvia
Sterling Logistics, LLC 100.00% USA
UAB Neste Lietuva 100.00% Lithuania

Associates Group holding % Country of incorporation
Alterra Energy LLC 40.00% USA
Neste Arabia Co. Ltd. (inactive) 48.00% Saudi Arabia

Joint arrangements Group holding % Classification
Country of 

incorporation
A/B Svartså Vattenverk - Mustijoen Vesilaitos O/Y 40.00% Joint Operation Finland
Kilpilahti Power Plant Ltd 40.00% Joint Venture Finland
Martinez Renewables LLC (new) 50.00% Joint Operation USA
Tahkoluodon Polttoöljy Oy 31.50% Joint Operation Finland

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



230230

 Neste Demeter B.V. Navidom Oy

2022 2021 2022 2021
Proportion of shares held by non-controlling interests 49.00% 49.00% 50.00% 50.00%
Current assets 209 155 0 0
Non-current assets 0 0 0 0
Current liabilities 199 147 0 0
Non-current liabilities 0 0 0 0
Revenue 1,281 868 1 1
Profit for the period 7 5 0 0
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests -2 -2 0 0
Cash flows from operating activities 8 9 0 0
Cash flows from investing activities -1 -6 0 0
Cash flows from financing activities -5 -4 0 0

Specification of financial information on subsidiaries with material non-controlling interests Unconsolidated structured entities
In 2015, Neste sold its shares of Aurora Kilpilahti Oy (former Kilpilahden Sähkönsiirto Oy). After the sale Neste does not have direct 
or indirect investment in the company. Aurora Kilpilahti Oy is responsible for high- and medium-voltage electricity distribution 
in the Kilpilahti industrial area where Neste Finland Refinery in Porvoo is situated. In addition to Neste, Aurora Kilpilahti Oy’s 
customers include other companies operating in the area.

Under the contractual arrangements with Aurora Kilpilahti Oy Neste has been supplying small and decreasing part of the 
operating services needed in electricity distribution. It can be considered that Neste has the possibility to influence only limited 
development investments made by Aurora Kilpilahti Oy. Aurora Kilpilahti Oy distributes electricity to Neste and Neste remains to 
be the main user of the capacity of the electricity distribution network. Aurora Kilpilahti Oy operates on land leased from Neste for 
30 years with an option to extend the lease. Neste has not provided any financial support or other significant support to Aurora 
Kilpilahti Oy without contractual obligation.

Based on the factors described above Neste has determined that it has limited influence though no control over Aurora 
Kilpilahti Oy and treats the company as unconsolidated structured entity in its consolidated financial statements. Management 
has assessed the company’s exposure to losses by considering the nature of Neste’s involvement in Aurora Kilpilahti Oy, and 
the company’s significance to Neste from an operative perspective. Neste’s exposure is mainly dependent upon the efficient 
operation of the distribution network.

Consolidated structured entities
Since 2014, Neste has treated the sold vessels’ long-term agreements made with Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Company 
and Finland’s National Emergency Supply Agency as structured entities. As a part of these arrangements, Neste guarantees the 
vessels’ residual value and certain return on the investors’ investments.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



231231

27 Acquisitions and disposals

Acquisitions

2022

No major acquisitions took place in financial period 2022.

Other business combinations
In year 2022 Neste has made smaller business combinations that are immaterial individually. These business combinations also 
include the previously published acquisition of Walco Foods in 2022. The collective fair values of the acquired net assets are 
presented in the table below. Based on purchase price allocations, a portion of the purchase price was allocated to supplier 
and customer relations that have been recognized as intangible assets. The recognized goodwill is deductible for income tax 
purposes, and represents the value of acquired business knowledge and synergies. The business combinations do not have a 
material impact to Neste’s revenue nor result. The purchase prices were paid fully in cash.

Values of acquired assets and liabilities at time of acquisition Fair value
Intangible assets 13
Property, plant and equipment 3
Inventories 0
Trade and other receivables 14
Cash and cash equivalents 2
Total assets 33

Interest-bearing liabilities 6
Provisions 0
Trade and other payables 4
Total liabilities 11
Fair value of acquired net assets 22

Consideration transferred 51
Fair value of contingent consideration 0
Fair value of acquired net assets -22
Goodwill 30

Cash flows of acquisition 2022
Consideration, paid in cash -51
Transaction costs of the acquisition 0
Net cash flow on acquisition -51

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



232232

2021

Bunge Loders Croklaan’s refinery plant
On 1 March 2021 Neste acquired Bunge Loders Croklaan’s refinery plant located in Rotterdam, the Netherlands. The refinery 
plant is located next to Neste’s existing biorefinery and it consists of a pretreatment facility, tank farm, jetties, and has a pipeline 
connection to Neste’s site. The name of the acquired company was changed from Bunge Loders Croklaan Oils B.V. to Neste 
Pretreatment Rotterdam B.V. The transition of operations and employees will be implemented in phases with the refinery plant’s full 
and modified pretreatment capacity available for processing Neste’s feedstock by the end of 2024. The acquisition is consolidated 
into the Renewable Products segment.

The acquisition of the refinery plant supports Neste’s global growth strategy in renewables. It allows Neste to accelerate the 
scaling up of renewable raw material pretreatment capacity, which is an important driver for expanding the use of waste and 
residue feedstocks and increasing Neste’s feedstock flexibility.

The fair values of the acquired net assets are presented in the table below. Based on the purchase price allocation, a portion of 
the purchase price was allocated to property, plant & equipment. Goodwill represents synergies arising from expanding the use 
of waste and residue feedstocks, increasing feedstock flexibility, and the plant’s location next to Neste’s existing refinery. Goodwill 
is not deductible in taxation.

The transaction costs of the acquisition are included in other expenses in the consolidated statement of income. The acquisition 
does not have a material impact on the Group´s revenue nor profit. The purchase price was paid fully in cash and material 
adjustments to purchase price are not expected.

Values of acquired assets and liabilities at time of acquisition Fair value
Intangible assets 1
Property, plant and equipment 104
Inventories 1
Total assets 107

Interest-bearing liabilities 10
Deferred tax liabilities 11
Current tax liabilities 3
Trade and other payables 1
Total liabilities 25
Fair value of acquired net assets 81

Consideration transferred 255
Fair value of acquired net assets -81
Goodwill 173

Cash flows of acquisition 2021
Consideration, paid in cash -255
Transaction costs of the acquisition -2
Net cash flow on acquisition -257

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



233233

Agri Trading
On 1 November 2021 Neste acquired 100% of Agri Trading, one of the largest independent renewable waste and residue fat and 
oil traders in the United States. The acquisition is consolidated into the Renewable Products segment.

Neste’s feedstock strategy is focusing on waste and residues growth and the development of new feedstock sources. Agri 
Trading is an important partner for Neste as an industry leader in trading animal fat waste, used cooking oil, technical corn oil, 
and other vegetable oils in North America. The completion of this transaction is an important step forward in delivering on Neste’s 
growth strategy in renewables and in strengthening our global renewable raw material platform. Additionally, Agri Trading’s 
established logistics networks and assets will enable Neste to source and transport raw material efficiently with a lower carbon 
footprint and, ultimately, enable Neste to maintain its leadership position in the global raw material market.

 The fair value of acquired net assets, based on preliminary assessment, are presented in the table below. Based on preliminary 
purchase price allocation, a portion of the purchase price was allocated to supplier and customer relations that have been 
recognized as intangible assets. The recognized goodwill is deductible for income tax purposes, and represents the value of 
acquired business knowledge and synergies. Transactions costs of the acquisition have been recognized as other expenses in 
the consolidated statement of income. Agri Trading contributed revenue of EUR 103 million to Neste’s revenue during the two 
months under Neste’s ownership during 2021. If the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2021, the management estimates 
that consolidated revenue would have been EUR 415 millions more in 2021. The acquisition does not have a material impact on 
Neste’s result.

Purchase price was paid fully in cash and as part of the purchase agreement with the previous owners of Agri Trading, a 
contingent consideration has been agreed. There will be additional cash payments to the previous owners if they meet certain 
predefined financial targets for 2022–2024. The additional cash payments will be paid during 2023–2025. As at the acquisition 
date, the fair value of the contingent consideration was estimated to be EUR 23 million. The future changes in the fair value of 
contingent consideration are recognized through profit or loss. The purchase price was also adjusted by net working capital and 
other provisional adjustments amounting to EUR 3 million, which Neste received during 2022. In connection with the closing of 
the acquisition, the interest bearing liabilities of the acquiree were paid off, and the related cash flow impact is presented in cash 
flows from financing activities.

Values of acquired assets and liabilities at time of acquisition Fair value
Intangible assets 23
Property, plant and equipment 32
Inventories 28
Trade and other receivables 27
Cash and cash equivalents 5
Total assets 115

Interest-bearing liabilities 33
Provisions 1
Trade and other payables 23
Total liabilities 56
Fair value of acquired net assets 59

Consideration transferred 72
Adjustment to consideration in 2022 -3
Fair value of contingent consideration 23
Fair value of acquired net assets -59
Goodwill 33

Cash flows of acquisition 2021
Consideration, paid in cash -72
Cash and cash equivalents in acquiree 5
Acquiree's liabilities paid off at closing -21
Transaction costs of the acquisition -4
Net cash flow on acquisition -91

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



234234

Other business combinations
In year 2021 Neste has made smaller business combinations that are immaterial individually. The collective fair values of the 
acquired net assets are presented in the table below. Based on purchase price allocations, a portion of the purchase price 
was allocated to supplier and customer relations that have been recognized as intangible assets. The recognized goodwill is 
deductible for income tax purposes, and represents the value of acquired business knowledge and synergies. The business 
combinations do not have a material impact to Neste’s revenue nor result. The purchase prices were paid fully in cash.

Values of acquired assets and liabilities at time of acquisition Fair value
Intangible assets 4
Property, plant and equipment 3
Inventories 0
Trade and other receivables 0
Total assets 7
Fair value of acquired net assets 7

Consideration transferred 30
Fair value of contingent consideration 2
Fair value of acquired net assets -7
Goodwill 26

Cash flows of acquisition 2021
Consideration, paid in cash -30
Transaction costs of the acquisition 0
Net cash flow on acquisition -31

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



235235

2021
On 15 January 2021 Neste sold its liquefied petroleum gas (LPG ) cylinder business and its 50 percent shareholding in the bottling 
plant Oy Innogas Ab to Oy Linde Gas Ab (formerly AGA). Liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) cylinder business and Oy Innogas Ab 
were part of the Marketing & Services segment. The divestment does not have a material impact on the Group’s revenue nor 
profit.

Sale of LPG cylinder business and stake in Oy Innogas Ab Recognized values
Total consideration 9
Sold net assets -4
Gain on sale 5

Cash consideration received 9
Cash and cash equivalents disposed of -1
Net cash flow of the disposal 8

Disposals

2022
On 1 April 2022  Neste sold its existing base oils business to Chevron Global Energy Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Chevron 
Corporation. The transaction includes the NEXBASE™ brand, associated qualifications and approvals, and related sales and 
marketing business. As part of the divestment, the parties also agreed on a long-term offtake for Neste’s base oils supply from 
Porvoo, Finland. In connection with the divestment, Neste has also completed the exit of its base oils joint arrangement with 
Bahrain Petroleum Company and Nogaholding. Base oils business was consolidated as part of the Oil Products segment. 

Assets and liabilities Recognized values
Property, plant and equipment 9
Deferred tax assets 2
Inventories 83
Trade and other receivables 70
Cash and cash equivalents 21
Total assets 185

Deferred tax liabilities 1
Pension liabilities 2
Interest-bearing liabilities 8
Current tax liabilities 3
Trade and other payables 3
Total liabilities 18
Sold net assets 167

Total consideration 1) 176
Sold net assets -167
Gain on sale 9

Cash consideration received 176
Cash and cash equivalents disposed of -21
Net cash flow 156

1) Transaction costs are included in total consideration

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



236236

28 Assets held for sale

Accounting policy
Non-current assets (or disposal groups) are classified as held for sale and stated at the lower of their carrying amount and 
fair value, less costs to sell, if their carrying amount is recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through 
continuing use and sale is considered highly probable. For this to be the case, the asset must be available for immediate 
sale in its present condition subject only to terms that are usual and customary for sales of such assets.

The assets are not depreciated after being classified as held for sale. 

2022
There were no assets classified as held for sale on 31 December 2022.

2021

Futura and Mastera tankers
The assets classified as held for sale as of 31 Dec 2021 related to the sale of the tankers Futura and Mastera. The vessels were 
consolidated into the Oil Products segment.

Base oils business
The assets held for sale at 31 Dec 2021 related to an agreement to sell its existing base oils business to Chevron Corporation. As 
part of the divestment, the parties agreed on a long-term offtake for Neste’s base oils supply from Porvoo, Finland. In connection 
with the divestment, Neste signed an agreement to exit its base oils joint arrangement with Bahrain Petroleum Company and 
Nogaholding. Base oils business was consolidated as part of the Oil Products segment.

Futura and Mastera vessels
Assets classified as held for sale 2021
Property, plant and equipment 15
Total 15

Base Oils business
Assets classified as held for sale 2021
Property, plant and equipment 9
Deferred tax assets 2
Inventories 64
Trade and other receivables 64
Cash and cash equivalents 115
Total 255

Liabilities related to assets held for sale 2021
Non-current interest-bearing liabilities 3
Deferred tax liabilities 1
Pension liabilities 2
Current interest-bearing liabilities 7
Trade and other payables 18
Total 32

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



237237

Commitments 2022 2021
Commitments for purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 810 289
Other commitments 8 9
Total 818 298

Value of collateral Value of collateral
Contingent liabilities 2022 2021
On own behalf for commitments

Real estate mortgages 26 26
Other contingent liabilities 49 59

Total 75 85
On behalf of joint arrangements

Pledged assets 89 44
Total 89 44

On behalf of others
Guarantees 1 1

Total 1 1
164 130

29 Contingencies and commitments

The pledged assets on behalf of joint arrangements are granted to the secured creditors as continuing security for due and 
punctual payment, discharge and performance of all or any part of the secured obligations of Kilpilahti Power Plant Ltd. The 
pledged assets mean all shareholder loan receivables, all contribution loan receivables and the shares of Kilpilahti Power Plant 
Ltd. The security period ends on the date on which all the secured obligations have been unconditionally and irrevocably paid 
and discharged in full. 

Capital commitments are mainly related to the expansion projects in Netherlands, USA and Singapore which will extend Neste’s 
renewable products overall capacity.

Take-or-pay contracts
Neste has long-term supply agreements related to hydrogen, nitrogen, steam, natural gas and electricity. These agreements are 
generally take-or-pay by nature. In addition to minimum purchase obligations, agreements normally include termination fees if 
the contract is being terminated early. The probability of such circumstances is cosidered to be low.

30 Leases

Accounting policy 
Neste assesses at contract inception whether a contract is, or contains, a lease, i.e., if the contract conveys the right to 
control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration.

Neste as a lessee
Neste has lease contracts for various land areas, vessels, tanks, containers, facilities and other equipment used in its 
operations. Lease contracts are made for fixed periods of 1 to 60 years. Some leases include an option to extend the lease 
for an additional period after the end of the contract term or terminate the contract during the lease term.

Neste recognises a leased asset and a lease liability at the lease commencement date, except for short-term leases and 
leases of low-value assets.

i) Right-of-use assets
Neste recognises right-of-use assets on the commencement date of the lease (i.e., the date the underlying asset is 
available for use). Right-of-use assets are measured at cost, less any accumulated depreciation and impairment losses, 
and adjusted for any remeasurement of lease liabilities. The cost of right-of-use assets includes the amount of lease 
liabilities recognised, initial direct costs incurred, any restoration obligations and lease payments made at or before the 
commencement date less any lease incentives received. Right-of-use assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over 
the lease term. If ownership of the leased asset transfers to Neste at the end of the lease term or the cost reflects the 
exercise of a purchase option, depreciation is calculated using the estimated useful life of the asset. The right-of-use assets 
are also subject to impairment.

Neste’s right-of-use assets are included in Property, plant and equipment (see Note 14 Property plant and equipment).

ii) Lease liabilities
At the commencement date of the lease, Neste recognises lease liabilities measured at the present value of lease payments 
to be made over the lease term. The lease payments include fixed payments (including insubstance fixed payments) less 
any lease incentives receivable, variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate, and amounts expected to 
be paid under residual value guarantees. The lease payments also include the exercise price of a purchase option that is 
reasonably certain to be exercised by Neste and payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects 
Neste exercising the option to terminate.

Variable lease payments that do not depend on an index or a rate are recognised as expenses in the period in which the 
event or condition that triggers the payment occurs.

In calculating the present value of lease payments, Neste uses interest rate implicit in the lease if readily determinable 
and if not, Neste uses its incremental borrowing rate at the lease commencement date. After the commencement date, 
the amount of lease liabilities is increased to reflect the accretion of interest and reduced for the lease payments made. In 
addition, the carrying amount of lease liabilities is remeasured if there is a modification, a change in the lease term, a change 
in the lease payments (e.g., changes to future payments resulting from a change in an index or rate used to determine such 
lease payments) or a change in the assessment of an option to purchase the underlying asset.

Neste’s lease liabilities are included in Interest-bearing liabilities (see Note 21 Financial liabilities).

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



238238

Right-of-use assets Note 2022 2021
Land 249 183
Buildings and constructions 45 22
Machinery and equipment 152 102
Other tangible assets 108 127
Total assets included in property, plant and equipment 14 553 434

Lease liabilities 
Non-current interest-bearing liabilities 425 333
Current interest-bearing liabilities 110 111
Total liabilities included in interest-bearing liabilities 21 535 444

Depreciation charge of right-of-use assets Note 2022 2021
Land 14 14
Buildings and constructions 13 9
Machinery and equipment 48 47
Other tangible assets 87 81

14 163 151

Interest expense (included in finance cost) 10 24 21
Expense relating to short-term leases (included in materials and services) 7 38 11
Expense relating to short-term leases (included in other expenses) 9 5 5
Expense relating to leases of low-value assets (included in other expenses) 9 0 0
Variable lease payments not included in lease liabilities 
(included in materials and services) 7 0 1
Variable lease payments not included in lease liabilities 
(included in other expenses) 9 21 4

iii) Short-term leases and leases of low-value assets
Neste applies the short-term lease recognition exemption to its short-term leases (i.e., those leases that have a lease term 
of 12 months or less from the commencement date and do not contain a purchase option). It also applies the lease of low-
value assets recognition exemption to leases that are considered to be low value. Lease payments on short-term leases 
and leases of low-value assets are recognised as expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.

Neste as a lessor
At inception of a lease contract, Neste makes an assessment whether the lease is a finance lease or an operating lease. If 
the lease substantially transfers all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of the asset, it is considered to be a finance 
lease; if not, the lease is considered to be an operating lease. Neste has a minor amount of operating lease contracts, 
whereby the lease payments are recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term and is included in revenue in the 
statement of profit or loss due to its operating nature. Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating and arranging an operating 
lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised over the lease term on the same basis as rental 
income.

Estimates and judgements requiring management estimation
Neste determines the lease term as the non-cancellable term of the lease, together with any periods covered by an option 
to extend the lease if it is reasonably certain to be exercised, or any periods covered by an option to terminate the lease, if 
it is reasonably certain not to be exercised.

Neste has several lease contracts that include extension and termination options. Neste’s management applies judgement 
in evaluating whether it is reasonably certain whether or not to exercise the option to renew or terminate the lease. That 
is, it considers all relevant factors that create an economic incentive for it to exercise either the renewal or termination. 
After the commencement date, Neste’s management reassesses the lease term if there is a significant event or change in 
circumstances that is within its control and affects its ability to exercise or not to exercise the option to renew or to terminate.

Neste’s management applies judgement also for estimating the term of lease agreements in effect until further notice. 
The management’s estimates are based on the company’s strategic situation and market conditions, as well the costs that 
would incur if the leased asset would be replaced by another asset.

Additions to the right-of-use assets during the 2022 financial year were EUR 300 million (2021: EUR 213 million) and it included 
EUR 111 million from joint operation Martinez Renewables on 31 December 2022.

The maturity analysis of lease liabilities is disclosed in Note 3 Financial risk management.

Amounts recognised in the statement of profit or loss
The statement of profit or loss shows the following amounts relating to leases:

The total cash outflow for leases in 2022 was EUR 157 million (2021: EUR 144 million) which is presented in the line item 
‘Repayments of lease liabilities’ under the cash flows from financing activities in the consolidated cash flow statement.

Amounts recognized in the balance sheet
The balance sheet shows the following amounts relating to leases:

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



239239

31 Disputes and potential litigations

32 Events after the balance sheet date

Neste is involved in legal proceedings and disputes incidental to its business. In management’s opinion, the outcome of these 
cases is difficult to predict but not likely to have material effect on the Neste’s financial position.

Acquisition
The acquisition of shares in SeQuential Environmental Services, LLC, and Pure, LLC, as well as a UCO processing plant in Salem, 
Oregon has been approved by regulatory authorities, and the transaction has been closed 13.1.2023. Through the transaction, 
Neste acquired a leading used cooking oil (UCO) collection and recycling business and related assets on the US West Coast 
from Crimson Renewable Energy Holdings, LLC. 

The preliminary estimate of the acquisition is presented in the table below. Based on the preliminary purchase price allocation, 
a portion of the purchase price was allocated to customer and supplier relations that have been recognized as intangible assets. 
The goodwill represents the value of acquired business knowledge and synergies, and goodwill’s depreciations of the recognized 
goodwill are deductible for income tax purposes. 

The purchase price was paid fully in cash. Consideration transferred includes approx. 18 million euros of contingent consideration. 
The final amount depends on how certain targets are achieved during 2023. The transaction costs of the acquisition will be 
included in other expenses in the consolidated statement of income. The acquisition does not have a material impact on the 
Group’s revenue nor profit. 

Values of acquired assets and liabilities at time of acquisition Estimated value
Intangible assets 32
Property, plant and equipment 31
Inventories 2
Trade and other receivables 1
Cash and cash equivalents 0
Total assets 67

Interest-bearing liabilities 7
Trade and other payables 9
Total liabilities 16
Fair value of acquired net assets 51

Consideration transferred 164
Fair value of acquired net assets -51
Goodwill 113

Cash flows of acquisition 2022
Consideration, paid in cash -164
Cash and cash equivalents in acquiree 0
Acquiree's liabilities paid off at closing -1
Transaction costs of the acquisition -1
Net cash flow on acquisition -166

No other significant events took place in Neste after the balance sheet date.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



240240Neste Annual Report 2022 | Parent Company Financial Statements

EUR million Note 1 Jan–31 Dec 2022 1 Jan–31 Dec 2021
Revenue 2 19,231 10,021
Change in product inventories 367 233
Other operating income 3 28 27
Materials and services 4 -17,075 -8,948
Personnel expenses 5 -275 -220
Depreciation, amortization and write-downs 6 -248 -236
Other operating expenses 7 -445 -511
Operating profit/loss 1,583 365

Financial income and expenses 385 534
Financial income and expenses total 8 385 534

Profit/loss before appropriations and taxes 1,967 898

Appropriations 9 -49 -54

Income tax expenses 10 -291 -52

Profit for the year 1,628 792

Parent company income statement     Parent company balance sheet
EUR million Note 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021
ASSETS
Fixed assets and other long-term investments 11, 12
Intangible assets 123 103
Tangible assets 1,886 1,976
Other long-term investments 3,404 2,251

5,413 4,329
Current assets
Inventories 13 1,914 1,300
Long-term receivables 14 43 66
Short-term receivables 15 3,349 2,552
Cash and cash equivalents 806 1,492

6,113 5,410

Total assets 11,526 9,739

SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Shareholders' equity 16
Share capital 40 40
Other funds and reserves

Invested non-restricted equity fund 19 19
Fair value reserve 69 -32

Other funds and reverses total 88 -13
Retained earnings 2,189 2,027
Profit for the year 1,628 792

3,945 2,846

Accumulated appropriations 17 1,140 1,092

Provisions for liabilities and charges 18 117 115

Liabilities 19
Long-term liabilities 1,969 1,134
Short-term liabilities 4,355 4,552

6,324 5,686

Total equity and liabilities 11,526 9,739



241241

EUR million 1 Jan–31 Dec 2022 1 Jan–31 Dec 2021

Cash flows from operating activities
Profit/loss before approriations and taxes 1,967 898
Depreciation, amortization and write-downs 248 236
Other non-cash income and expenses -99 -67
Financial income and expenses -385 -534
Divesting activities, net -13 0
Operating cash flow before change in working capital 1,719 534

Change in working capital
Decrease (+)/increase (-) in interest-free receivables -824 -616
Decrease (+)/increase (-) in inventories -615 -379
Decrease (-)/increase (+) in interest-free liabilities -49 1,072

Change in working capital -1,487 77

Cash generated from operations 232 611

Interest and other financial expenses paid, net -16 -11
Dividends received 420 547
Income taxes paid -306 -52
Realized foreign exchange gains and losses, net -33 2
Net cash from operating activities 297 1,097

Parent company cash flow statement

Cash flows from investing activities
Capital expenditure -184 -250
Proceeds from sale of fixed assets 0 0
Investments in shares in subsidiaries -1,014 -427
Investments in shares in other shares -1 -1
Proceeds from shares in subsidiaries 17 0
Proceeds from other shares 0 0
Change in other investments, increase (-)/decrease (+) 13 -318
Net cash used in investing activities -1,170 -996

Cash flow before financing activities -873 101

Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from long-term liabilities 899 583
Payments of long-term liabilities -491 -322
Change in other long-term liabilities 0 121
Change in short-term liabilities 248 104
Dividends paid -630 -614
Group contributions, net 128 76
Cash flow from financing activities 155 -52

Net increase (+)/decrease (-) in cash and cash equivalents -719 49

Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period 1,492 1,443
Cash and cash equivalent increases from merger 33 0
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 806 1,492
Net increase (+)/decrease (-) in cash and cash equivalents -719 49

EUR million 1 Jan–31 Dec 2022 1 Jan–31 Dec 2021

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Parent Company Financial Statements



242242

Buildings and structures 20–40 years
Production machinery and equipment, including special spare parts 15–20 years
Other equipment and vehicles 3–15 years
Other tangible assets 20–40 years
Intangible assets 1) 3–10 years

1 Accounting policies

The financial statements of Neste Corporation (Parent company) are prepared in accordance with Finnish GAAP. The financial 
statements are presented in millions of euros unless otherwise stated. The figures in the tables are exact figures and consequently 
the sum of individual figures may deviate from the sum presented. 

Subsidiary Neste Engineering Solutions Oy has been merged to Neste Oy and Neste Engineering Solutions Oy’s business 
continued as a part of Neste Oy since 1st of October 2022. The board executed the final decision of the merger on the 28th 
of April 2022 according to the 6th of May 2022 registrated merger plan. Merger was executed according to OYL 16 2 § as a 
subsidiary merger. Merger was executed in order to clarify corporate structure and policies. The gain on merger is presented in 
the financial items when the gain can be compared to financial income. The gain on merger equals to Neste Engineering Solutions 
Oy retained earnings (profit and loss from previous periods and profit/loss of the period) which states that the corresponding 
dividend distribution would have been treated as financial income in parent company Neste Oyj under Finnish Accounting 
Standards.

Neste Oyj is preparing separate natural gas sale and network financial statements that are audited. This is regulated by natural 
gas market act. 

Visibility in the global economy continues to be low due to high inflation, reduced economic growth expectations and continued 
geopolitical uncertainty. The war in Ukraine has had significant impacts on the global energy markets, and energy prices have 
risen to high levels. We expect volatility in the oil products and renewable feedstock markets to remain high.

Neste Oyj does not have subsidiaries in Russia nor in Ukraine. Neste Oyj’s financial position remained strong.

Revenue
Revenue include sales revenues from actual operations less discounts, indirect taxes such as value added tax and excise tax 
payable by the manufacturer and statutory stockpiling fees. Revenue is recognised on accrual accounting basis.

Other operating income
Other operating income includes gains on the sales of fixed assets and contributions received as well as all other operating 
income not related to the sales of products or services, such as rents.

Foreign currency items
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies have been valued using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction. 
Receivables and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies outstanding on the balance sheet date have been valued using the 
exchange rate quoted on the balance sheet date. Exchange rate gains and losses related to operative items are recognized as 
adjustments to operative income and expenses in the income statement. Net exchange rate differences related to financial items 
are reported under financial income and expenses.

Financial assets and liabilities
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the trade date and are subsequently re-measured at their 
fair value on the balance sheet date. Other financial assets and liabilities are measured at amortized cost and recognized initially 
at fair value on the settlement date.

Loans and receivables consist of cash and cash equivalents, loans granted together with trade and other receivables. Other 
financial liabilities include interest-bearing liabilities together with trade and other payables. Due to the nature of short-term trade 
and other receivables their carrying amount is expected to be equal to their fair value.

Changes in the fair value of derivatives, for which hedge accounting is not applied, are recognized in the income statement. 

The effective portion of the changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and qualified as cash 
flow hedges are recognized in equity.

Derivative financial instruments
The company uses derivative financial instruments mainly to hedge commodity price, foreign exchange and interest rate exposures. 
Derivatives not qualified for hedge accounting are recognized in the income statement either in operating profit or financial income 
and expenses, depending on the underlying hedged item.

Current investments
Current investments includes deposits held at banks and other liquid investments with original maturities from three months to 
12 months.

Hedge accounting
The company applies hedge accounting on certain forward foreign exchange contracts, options and interest rate derivatives.

Fair value hedges
The company applies fair value hedge accounting to reduce exposure to fair value fluctuations of interest-bearing liabilities due 
to changes in interest rates. Changes in fair value of derivatives designated and qualifying as fair value hedges, together with any 
changes in the fair value of hedged liabilities attiributable to the hedged risk, are recognized in financial income and expenses.

Cash flow hedges
The company applies cash flow hedge accounting to reduce exposure of currency and interest rates fluctuations. The result of 
foreign currency derivative contracts hedging future cash flows and qualifying for hedge accounting is recognized once matured 
and when the hedged item affects the income statement. Gains or losses for interest rate swaps used to hedge the interest rate 
risk exposure are accrued over the period to maturity and are recognized as an adjustment to the interest income or expense of 
the underlying liabilities.

Fixed assets and other long-term investments
The balance sheet value of fixed assets consists of historical costs less depreciation according to plan and other possible write-
offs, plus revaluation permitted by local regulations. Fixed assets are depreciated using straight-line depreciation based on the 
expected useful life of the asset. Land areas are not depreciated. The depreciation is based on the following expected useful 
lives:

1) Capitalized development expenditure in intangible assets consists of capitalized patents and license fees. 

Investments in subsidiaries and other companies are measured at acquisition cost, or fair value in case the fair value is lower 
than cost.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Parent Company Financial Statements



243243

2 Revenue

3 Other operating income

Inventories
Inventories are stated at either cost or net realizable value, whichever is the lowest. Cost is determined using the weighted 
average method. The cost of finished goods and work in progress comprises raw materials, direct labor, other direct costs, 
and related production overheads (based on normal operating capacity). Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the 
ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses. Inventories held for trading purposes are measured at fair 
value less selling expenses. Standard spare parts are carried as inventory and recognized in profit or loss as consumed.

Research and development
Research expenditure is recognized as an expense as incurred and included in other operating expences in the income statement. 
Expenditure on development activities is capitalized only when it fulfills tight criteria e.g. development relates to new products that 
are techincally and commercially feasible. The majority of the company’s development expenditure does not meet the criteria for 
capitalization and are recognized as expenses as incurred.

Cash pool receivables/liabilities
Cash pool items are presented as short-term receivables or liabilities.

Pension expenses
An external pension insurance company manages the pension plan.The pension expenses are booked to income statement 
during the year they occur.

Appropriations
Appropriations consist of received or given group contributions from or to Neste Group companies and depreciation above the 
plan.

Deferred taxes
Deferred taxes are determined on the basis of temporary differences between the financial statement and tax bases of assets 
and liabilities. Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates that have been enacted at the balance sheet date and are 
expected to apply.

Provisions
Foreseeable future expenses and losses that have no corresponding revenue and which Neste Corporation is committed or 
obliged to settle, and whose monetary value can reasonably be assessed, are entered as expenses in the income statement 
and included as provisions in the balance sheet. These items include expenses relating to the pension liabilities, guarantee 
obligations, restructuring provisions, expenses relating to the future clean-up of proven environmental damage and obligation to 
return emission allowances. Provisions are recorded based on management estimates of the future obligation.

Revenue by segment 2022 2021
Renewable Products 5,918 3,656
Oil Products 13,149 6,255
Marketing & Services -2 8
Other 165 103

19,231 10,021

2022 2021
Rental income 5 6
Gain on sale of intangible and tangible assets 0 0
Gain on sale of subsidiary shares 13 0
Insurance compensations 0 8
Government grants 7 3
Other 4 9
Other operating income total 28 27

Revenue by market area 2022 2021
Finland 5,813 3,301
Other Nordic countries 3,859 2,195
Baltic Rim 1,846 856
Other European countries 5,843 2,914
North and South America 1,202 554
Other countries 669 201

19,231 10,021

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Parent Company Financial Statements



244244

2022 2021
Depreciation according to plan 216 232
Write-offs 32 4
Write-downs of Naantali refining operations closure 0 0
Depreciations, amortization and write-downs total 248 236

2022 2021
Operating leases and other property costs 26 23
Repairs and maintenance 102 265
Planning and consulting services 58 46
IT services 105 71
Other 155 106
Other operating expenses total 445 511

EUR thousands 2022 2021
Authorised Public Accountants KPMG KPMG

Auditor's fees 604 553
Tax advisory 1 42
Other advisory services 141 62

746 657

4 Materials and services 6 Depreciation, amortization and write-downs

7 Other operating expenses

5 Personnel expenses

2022 2021
Materials and supplies

Purchases during the period 16,800 8,733
Change in inventories -247 -146

16,552 8,587

External services 523 361
Materials and services total 17,075 8,948

2022 2021
Wages, salaries and remunerations 221 200
Restructuring provisions related to Naantali refining operations closure 1) -1 -11
Indirect employee costs

Pension costs 49 36
Other indirect employee costs 9 9

Wages and salaries capitalized in fixed assets -4 -15
Personnel expenses total 274 220

Average number of employees 2022 2021
White-collar 2,081 1,740
Blue-collar 729 699

2,810 2,439

Salaries and remuneration
Key management compensations are presented in Note 25 in the Neste Group consolidated financial statements.

Fees charged by the statutory auditor 

1) Includes reversed unused provision of Naantali refinery closure in 2022 and 2021.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Parent Company Financial Statements



245245

2022 2021
Dividend income

From Group companies 420 547
From associated companies 0 0

Dividend income total 420 547

Interest income from long-term loans and receivables
From Group companies 7 10
From others 4 2

Interest income from long-term loans and receivables total 11 12

Other interest and financial income
From Group companies 3 1
Other 5 0
Gain on merger 0 0

Other interest and financial income total 7 1

Write-downs on long-term investments
Write-downs on long-term investments (receivables) -3 -4
Return of write-downs on long-term investments 1) 45 17
Write-drowns of other long-term investments -5 0

Write-downs on long-term investments total 37 13

Interest expenses and other financial expenses
To Group companies -10 -1
Other -22 -24

Interest expenses and other financial expenses total -33 -25

Exchange rate differences -58 -15

Financial income and expenses total 385 534

Total interest income and expenses 2022 2021
Interest income 18 13
Interest expenses -29 -22
Net interest expenses -11 -9

2022 2021
Change in depreciation difference

Difference between depreciation according to plan 
and depreciation in taxation -49 -182

Group contributions
Group contributions received 0 128

Appropriations total -49 -54

2022 2021
Income taxes on regular business operations 291 52
Taxes for prior periods 0 0
Change in deferred tax assets 0 0
Income tax expense total 291 52

8 Financial income and expenses 9 Appropriations

10 Income tax expense

1) Consists of Neste Bahrain’s loan receivables repayment

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Parent Company Financial Statements



246246

Intangible assets Goodwill Other intangible assets Total

Acquisition cost as of 1 January 2022 1 303 304
Increases 0 52 52
Decreases 0 -6 -6
Transfers between items 0 5 5
Increases from merger 0 4 4
Acquisition cost as of 31 December 2022 1 358 359

Accumulated amortization and write-downs as of 1 January 2022 1 200 201
Amortization for the period 0 31 31
Amortization for the period from merger 0 4 4
Accumulated amortization and write-downs as of 31 December 2022 1 235 236

Balance sheet value as of 31 December 2022 0 123 123

Intangible assets Goodwill Other intangible assets Total

Acquisition cost as of 1 January 2021 1 287 288
Increases 0 18 18
Decreases 0 -2 -2
Transfers between items 0 0 0
Acquisition cost as of 31 December 2021 1 303 304

Accumulated amortization and write-downs as of 1 January 2021 1 169 170
Amortization for the period 0 31 31
Accumulated amortization and write-downs as of 31 December 2021 1 200 201

Balance sheet value as of 31 December 2021 0 103 103

11 Fixed assets and long-term investments

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Parent Company Financial Statements



247247

Tangible assets Land areas
Buildings 

and structures
Machinery 

and equipment
Other 

tangible assets
Advances paid and 

construction in progress Total

Acquisition cost as of 1 January 2022 26 1,487 3,676 102 109 5,400
Increases 0 1 18 0 106 125
Decreases 0 -37 -392 -22 -22 -472
Transfers between items 0 3 18 22 -26 17
Increases from merger 0 0 3 0 0 3
Acquisition cost as of 31 December 2022 26 1,453 3,323 102 167 5,072

Accumulated depreciation and write-downs as of 1 January 2022 0 835 2,567 48 0 3,451
Accumulated depreciation and write-downs of decreases and transfers 0 -34 -391 0 0 -425
Depreciation and write downs for the period 0 39 144 2 0 185
Depreciation and write-downs for the period due to the merger 0 0 3 0 0 3
Write-downs of Naantali refining operations closure 0 0 0 0 0 0
Accumulated depreciation and write-downs as of 31 December 2022 0 840 2,323 50 0 3,213

Revaluations 6 21 0 0 0 27
Balance sheet value as of 31 December 2022 32 634 1,000 53 167 1,886

Balance sheet value of machinery and equipments used in production 736

Tangible assets Land areas
Buildings 

and structures
Machinery 

and equipment
Other 

tangible assets
Advances paid and 

construction in progress Total

Acquisition cost as of 1 January 2021 26 1,418 3,218 102 415 5,178
Increases 0 11 202 0 14 227
Decreases 0 0 -3 0 -2 -6
Transfers between items 0 58 259 0 -318 0
Acquisition cost as of 31 December 2021 26 1,487 3,676 102 109 5,400

Accumulated depreciation and write-downs as of 1 January 2021 0 797 2,410 46 0 3,253
Accumulated depreciation and write-downs of decreases and transfers 0 -2 -3 0 0 -4
Depreciation and write downs for the period 0 38 160 2 0 200
Write-downs of Naantali refining operations closure 0 1 0 0 0 2
Accumulated depreciation and write-downs as of 31 December 2021 0 835 2,567 48 0 3,451

Revaluations 6 21 0 0 0 27
Balance sheet value as of 31 December 2021 32 672 1,108 55 109 1,976

Balance sheet value of machinery and equipments used in production 1,108

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Parent Company Financial Statements



248248

Other long-term investments
Shares in 

group companies
Receivables from 
group companies

Shares in 
associated 
companies

Receivables 
from associated 

companies
Other shares 
and holdings

Other 
receivables Total

Acquisition cost as of 1 January 2022 2,145 39 7 37 20 2 2,251
Increases 1,306 284 0 69 2 2 1,663
Decreases -322 -153 0 -24 0 -1 -501
Acquisition cost as of 31 December 2022 3,130 170 7 82 21 3 3,413

Accumulated depreciation and write-downs as of 1 January 2022 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Decrease 0 0 0 0 5 3 8
Accumulated depreciation and write-downs as of 31 December 2022 0 0 0 0 0 3 8

Balance sheet value as of 31 December 2022 3,130 170 7 82 16 0 3,404

Other long-term investments
Shares in 

group companies
Receivables from 
group companies

Shares in 
associated 
companies

Receivables 
from associated 

companies
Other shares 
and holdings

Other 
receivables Total

Acquisition cost as of 1 January 2021 1,719 58 7 35 19 0 1,837
Increases 427 260 0 38 1 12 738
Decreases 0 -279 0 -36 0 -6 -321
Acquisition cost as of 31 December 2021 2,145 39 7 37 20 6 2,254

Accumulated depreciation and write-downs as of 1 January 2021 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Decrease 0 0 0 0 0 4 4
Accumulated depreciation and write-downs as of 31 December 2021 0 0 0 0 0 4 4

Balance sheet value as of 31 December 2021 2,145 39 7 37 20 2 2,251

Interest-bearing and interest-free receivables 2022 2021

Interest-bearing receivables 252 79
Interest-free receivables 0 0

252 79

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Parent Company Financial Statements



249249

12 Revaluations

13 Inventories

14 Long-term receivables

15 Short-term receivables
Revaluations 

as of 
Jan 1 2022 Increases Decreases

Revaluations 
as of 

Dec 31 2022

Land areas 6 0 0 6
Buildings 21 0 0 21
Revaluations total 27 0 0 27

2022 2021
Raw materials and supplies 848 601
Products/finished goods 1,066 698
Advance payments on inventories 1 0
Inventories total 1,914 1,300

Replacement value of inventories 1,968 1,490
Book value of inventories 1,914 1,300
Difference 54 191

2022 2021
Long-term receivables from others

Long-term advance payments 19 22
Other receivables 17 12
Deferred tax assets 7 32

Long-term receivables total 43 66

Short-term accrued income and prepaid expenses 2022 2021
Accrued interest 0 0
Derivative financial instruments 521 318
Current investments 0 135
Other 47 28
Total 568 481

2022 2021
Receivables from Group companies

Trade receivables 998 703
Loan receivables 4 139
Other receivables 667 342
Accrued income and prepaid expenses 120 73
Total 1,789 1,257

Receivables from associated companies
Trade receivables 51 69
Other receivables 0 0
Total 51 69

Receivables from others 
Trade receivables 773 636
Loan receivables 0 0
Other receivables 287 181
Accrued income and prepaid expenses 448 408
Total 1,509 1,225

Short-term receivables total 3,349 2,552

Policies and principles for revaluations and evaluation methods

The revaluations are based on fair values at the moment of revaluation. 
Deferred taxes have not been booked on revaluations.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Parent Company Financial Statements



250250

16 Changes in shareholders' equity 17 Accumulated appropriations

18 Provisions for liabilities and charges

2022 2021
Share capital at 1 January 40 40
Share capital at 31 December 40 40

Fair value reserve at 1 January -32 64
Increases 5,100 1,692
Decreases -5,000 -1,788
Fair value reserve at 31 December 69 -32

Restricted shareholders equity 109 8

Invested non-restricted equity fund at 1 January 19 19
Invested non-restricted equity fund at 31 December 19 19

Retained earnings at 1 January 2,819 2,641
Dividends paid -630 -614
Profit for the year 1,628 792
Retained earnings at 31 December 3,817 2,819

Non-restricted shareholders equity 3,836 2,838

Capitalized development expenditure 12 6

Distributable equity 3,824 2,800

2022 2021
Depreciation difference 1,140 1,092

2022 2021
at 1 Jan Increase Decrease at 31 Dec at 1 Jan Increase Decrease at 31 Dec

Restructuring provisions 2 0 1 0 23 0 21 2
Provision for environment 1 0 0 1 1 0 0 1
Provision for environment for Naantali refining operations closure 112 4 5 111 117 2 6 112
Other provisions 0 4 0 4 0 1 1 0
Total 115 8 6 117 141 3 29 115

The amount of own shares is presented in the group’s consolidated financial statements in note 20.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Parent Company Financial Statements



251251

19 Liabilities

Long-term liabilities 2022 2021
Bonds 895 893
Loans from financial institutions 615 0
Advanced payments 18 19
Liabilities to Group companies

Other long-term liabilities 429 99
Other long-term liabilities 0 121
Accruals and deferred income 12 1
Long-term liabilities total 1,969 1,134

Interest-bearing liabilities due after five years 2022 2021
Loans from financial institutions 94 98
Bonds 495 494

589 592

Short-term liabilities 2022 2021
Loans from financial institututions 5 0
Advances received 25 36
Trade payables 890 890
Liabilities to Group companies

Advances received 0 0
Trade payables 661 736
Other short-term liabilities 1,317 1,718
Accruals and deferred income 119 140
Total 2,097 2,594

Liabilities to associated companies
Trade payables 22 17
Total 22 17

Other short-term liabilities 1,014 779
Accruals and deferred income 301 236
Short-term liabilities total 4,355 4,552

Short-term accruals and deferred income 2022 2021
Salaries and indirect employee costs 90 57
Accrued interests 9 8
Derivative financial instruments 317 307
Other short-term accruals and deferred income 4 3

420 376

Interest-bearing and interest-free liabilities 2022 2021
Long-term liabilities

Interest-bearing liabilities 1,936 1,105
Interest-free liabilities 33 29

1,969 1,134
Short-term liabilities

Interest-bearing liabilities 1,695 1,838
Interest-free liabilities 2,660 2,714

4,355 4,552

Issued/Maturity
Interest 

basis
Interest
rate, % Currency

Nominal, 
million

Carrying 
amount,

EUR million
2017/2024 Fixed 1.5000 EUR 400 400
2021/2028 Fixed 0.7500 EUR 500 495
Total outstanding carrying amount 31 December 2022 895

Listed bond issues

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Parent Company Financial Statements



252252

20 Contingent liabilities
Contingent liabilities 2022 2021

Contingent liabilities given on own behalf
Real estate mortgages 26 26
Pledged assets 0 0
Other contingent liabilities 27 23
Total 52 49

Contingent liabilities given on behalf of Group companies
Guarantees 409 278
Total 409 278

Contingent liabilities given on behalf of associated companies
Pledged assets 89 44
Total 89 44

Contingent liabilities given on behalf of others
Guarantees 1 1
Total 1 1

Other contingent liabilities

The Company is obliged to adjust VAT deductions made from real estate investments on 2008 or after if the taxable utilization of 
real estate will decrease during a 10 years control period.

Operating lease liabilities 2022 2021
Due within a year 22 16
Due after a year 19 14
Total 41 31

Capital commitments 2022 2021
Commitments for purchase of property,  
plant and equipment and intangible assets 38 17
Other commitments 8 9
Total 46 25

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Parent Company Financial Statements



253253

31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021
Nominal value by maturity Fair Value Nominal value by maturity Fair Value

< 1 year > 1 year Positive Negative Net < 1 year > 1 year Positive Negative Net
Foreign exchange derivatives
Foreign exchange derivatives, forwards 2,984 0 99 18 81 1,604 10 8 45 -37
Foreign exchange options

Purchased 84 0 5 0 5 124 0 0 0 0
Written 84 0 0 0 0 124 0 0 3 -3

Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges 3,153 0 104 18 86 1,851 0 8 48 -40

Foreign exchange derivatives, forwards 3,853 3 119 24 96 2,343 0 26 27 -1
Intra-group forward foreign exchange contracts 1,551 3 24 20 4 950 0 13 23 -10
Currency options

Purchased 0 0 0 0 0 35 0 0 0 0
Written 0 0 0 0 0 35 0 0 1 -1

Intra-group currency options
Purchased 0 0 0 0 0 35 0 0 0 0
Written 0 0 0 0 0 35 0 1 0 1

Non-hedge accounting 5,404 6 143 43 100 3,434 0 41 51 -11

21 Derivative financial instruments

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Parent Company Financial Statements



254254

31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021
Nominal value by maturity Fair Value Nominal value by maturity Fair Value

< 1 year > 1 year Positive Negative Net < 1 year > 1 year Positive Negative Net
Commodity derivatives 1)

Oil and vegetable oil derivatives
Sold forwards, million bbl 25 0 65 66 -1 26 0 29 71 -42
Purchased forwards, million bbl 18 0 59 67 -8 21 0 107 15 92

Intra-group oil and vegetable oil derivatives
Sold forwards, million bbl 11 0 32 36 -4 9 0 7 48 -41
Purchased forwards, million bbl 12 0 37 27 10 13 0 45 11 34

Electricity and gas derivatives
Sold forwards, GWh 18 0 2 0 2 0 0 0 0 0
Purchased forwards, GWh 1,996 620 62 36 26 2,966 940 91 14 77

Intra-group electricity and gas derivatives
Sold forwards, GWh 1,328 489 34 38 -4 1,236 590 3 60 -57

Non-hedge accounting 3,408 1,109 291 270 21 4,270 1,530 281 218 63

Derivatives Total 538 332 206 330 318 12
of which
Current derivative financial instruments 521 -317 838 318 307 10
Non-current derivative financial instruments 17 -15 32 12 10 2

 1) Commodity derivative contracts with non-hedge accounting status include oil, vegetable oil, electricity and gas derivative contracts. They consist of trading derivative contracts and cash flow hedges without hedge accounting status.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Parent Company Financial Statements



255255

Fair value hierarchy of derivatives 2022 2021
Financial assets Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
Non-current derivative financial instruments

Currency derivatives 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Commodity derivatives 0 17 0 17 0 12 0 12

Other financial assets 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Current derivative financial instruments

Currency derivatives 0 247 0 247 0 48 0 48
Commodity derivatives 32 242 0 274 3 266 0 269

Financial liabilities
Non-current derivative financial instruments

Currency derivatives 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Commodity derivatives 0 15 0 15 0 10 0 10

Current derivative financial instruments
Currency derivatives 0 62 0 62 0 99 0 99
Commodity derivatives 54 201 0 255 3 205 0 208

Financial instruments that are measured in the balance sheet at fair value are presented according to following fair value measurement hierachy:

Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities
Level 2: inputs other than quoted price included within Level 1 that are observable for the assets or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e derived from prices)
Level 3: inputs for the assets or liablity that is not based on obervable market data (unobservable inputs).

Fair value estimations
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognized and subsequently re-measured at their fair values i.e.the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participant and the measurement 
date. The fair value of exchange traded commodity futures and option contracts is determined using the forward exchange market quotations as per last business day of financial year. The fair value of over-the-counter derivative contracts is calculated using the 
net present value of the forward derivative contracts quoted market prices as per last business day of financial year.   

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Parent Company Financial Statements



256256

Country of 
incorporation No of shares Holding -%

Subsidiary shares

Kiinteistö Oy Espoon Keilaranta 21 Finland 16,000 100.00
Navidom Oy Finland 50 50.00
Neste (Suisse) S.A. Switzerland 200 100.00
Neste AB Sweden 2,000,000 100.00
Neste Affliliate B.V. Netherlands 26,090 100.00
Neste Belgium NV Belgium 615 100.00
Neste Canada Canada 30,000 100.00
Neste Components B.V. Netherlands 40 100.00
Neste Eesti AS Estonia 10,000 100.00
Neste Engineering Solutions B.V. Netherlands 1 100.00
Neste Engineering Solutions Pte. Ltd. Singapore 1 100.00
Neste Germany GmbH Germany 25,000 100.00
Neste Insurance Limited Guernsey 7,000,000 100.00
Neste Italy S.R.L. Italy 1 100.00
Neste Markkinointi Oy Finland 210,560 100.00
Neste Netherlands B.V. Netherlands 18,000 100.00
Neste Pretreatment Rotterdam B.V. Netherlands 18,000 100.00
Neste Renewable Products Inc USA 5,000 100.00
Neste Renewable Solutions US, Inc. USA 1,000 100.00
Neste RPC Solutions US, Inc. USA 1,000 100.00
Neste Shipping Oy Finland 101 100.00
Neste Singapore Pte. Ltd. Singapore 1,727,535,875 100.00
Neste US, Inc. USA 1,000 100.00

Associated companies

A/B Svartså Vattenverk - Mustijoen Vesilaitos O/Y Finland 14 40.00
Kilpilahti Powerplant Ltd. Finland 20,000 40.00
Neste Arabia Co. Ltd. Saudi Arabia 480 48.00
Tahkoluodon Polttoöljy Oy Finland 630 31.50

22 Shares and holdings

23 Disputes and potential litigations

Other shares and holdings

Circularise B.V. Netherlands 9,586
CLEEN  Oy Finland 100
Kiinteistö Oy Anttilankaari 8 Finland 51
Kiinteistö Oy Himoksen Aurinkopaikka Finland 51
Kiinteistö Oy Katinkullan Hiekkaniemi Finland 102
Kiinteistö Oy Katinkultaniemi Finland 51
Kiinteistö Oy Kotkan Klubi Finland 30
Kiinteistö Oy Kuusamon Tähti 1 Finland 51
Kiinteistö Oy Laavutieva Finland 51
Kiinteistö Oy Lapinniemi & Osakeyhtiö Lapinniemi Finland 24
Posintra Oy Finland 190
Recycling Technologies Ltd. United Kingdom 3,122,666
St Laurence Golf Oy, B-osake Finland 3
Sunfire GmbH Germany 264,121

Telephone shares

Elisa Oyj Finland 1
Osuuskunta PPO Finland 1
Pietarsaaren Seudun Puhelin Oy Finland 3
Savonlinnan Puhelinosuuskunta SPY Finland 1

Country of 
incorporation No of shares

Neste Corporation is involved in legal proceedings and disputes incidental to its business. In management’s opinion, the outcome 
of these cases is difficult to predict but not likely to have material effect on the Neste’s financial position.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Parent Company Financial Statements



257Neste Annual Report 2022 | Signature of the review by the Board of Directors and the Financial Statements

Proposal for the distribution of earnings and signing 
of the Review by the Board of Directors and the Financial Statements

Espoo, 7 February 2023

Matti Kähkönen Marco Wirén

Martina Flöel Jari Rosendal

John Abbott Nick Elmslie

Johanna Söderström Just Jansz

Eeva Sipilä Matti Lehmus
President and CEO

The Parent company’s distributable funds as of 31 December 2022 stood at EUR 3,824 million. The Board of Directors 
proposes to the Annual General Meeting that Neste Corporation pays an ordinary dividend of EUR 1.02 per share for 
2022, totaling approximately EUR 783 million, and an extraordinary dividend of EUR 0.25 per share, totaling approximately 
EUR 192 million. In addition, the Board proposes that the AGM would authorize the Board to decide, in its discretion, on 
the payment of a second extraordinary dividend instalment in an amount of EUR 0.25 per share, totaling approximately 
EUR 192 million by 31 October 2023. The Board expects that this discretionary second extraordinary dividend will be paid, 
unless there is a significant deterioration in the business environment during 2023. The proposed maximum total dividend in 
2023 amounts to approximately EUR 1,167 million. Any remaining distributable funds will be allocated to retained earnings.  
The Board of Directors will also propose that the annual dividend and extraordinary dividend shall be paid in two instalments.  

The Auditor’s Note
A report on the audit performed has been issued today.

Helsinki, 7 February 2023

KPMG Oy Ab
Authorised Public Accountants

Leenakaisa Winberg
Authorized Public Accountant



258Neste Annual Report 2022 | Auditor’s Report

This document is an English translation of the Finnish auditor’s report. Only the Finnish version of the report is legally binding.

Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements 

Opinion

We have audited the financial statements of Neste Corporation 
(business identity code 1852302-9) for the year ended 
December 31, 2022. The financial statements comprise 
the consolidated statement of financial position, income 
statement, statement of comprehensive income, statement 
of changes in equity, statement of cash flows and notes, 
including a summary of significant accounting policies, as well 
as the parent company’s balance sheet, income statement, 
statement of cash flows and notes.
In our opinion
• the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair 

view of the group’s financial position, financial performance 
and cash flows in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU

• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the 
parent company’s financial performance and financial 
position in accordance with the laws and regulations 
governing the preparation of financial statements in Finland 
and comply with statutory requirements.

Our opinion is consistent with the additional report submitted 
to the Audit Committee.

Basis for Opinion 

We conducted our audit in accordance with good auditing 
practice in Finland. Our responsibilities under good auditing 
practice are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities 
for the Audit of the Financial Statements section of our report.

We are independent of the parent company and of the group 
companies in accordance with the ethical requirements that 
are applicable in Finland and are relevant to our audit, and we 
have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance 
with these requirements.

In our best knowledge and understanding, the non-audit 
services that we have provided to the parent company and 
group companies are in compliance with laws and regulations 
applicable in Finland regarding these services, and we have 
not provided any prohibited non-audit services referred to in 
Article 5(1) of regulation (EU) 537/2014. The non-audit services 
that we have provided have been disclosed in note 9 to the 
consolidated financial statements.

We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Materiality

The scope of our audit was influenced by our application 
of materiality. The materiality is determined based on our 
professional judgement and is used to determine the nature, 
timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the 
effect of identified misstatements on the financial statements 
as a whole. The level of materiality we set is based on 
our assessment of the magnitude of misstatements that, 
individually or in aggregate, could reasonably be expected 
to have influence on the economic decisions of the users of 
the financial statements. We have also taken into account 
misstatements and/or possible misstatements that in our 
opinion are material for qualitative reasons for the users of the 
financial statements.

Auditor’s Report 

To the Annual General Meeting of Neste Corporation

Key Audit Matters 

Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional 
judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the 
financial statements of the current period. These matters 
were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial 
statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, 
and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. 
The significant risks of material misstatement referred to in 
the EU Regulation No 537/2014 point (c) of Article 10(2) are 
included in the description of key audit matters below.

We have also addressed the risk of management override of 
internal controls. This includes consideration of whether there 
was evidence of management bias that represented a risk of 
material misstatement due to fraud.



259

THE KEY AUDIT MATTER

Biofuel credits   
(reference to notes 5 and 18 in the 
consolidated financial statements)

Renewable Products revenue includes income deriving 
from biofuel credits which Neste earns its sales operations 
especially in the USA. Neste’s biofuel credits relate to 
the import and sale of renewable fuels in the USA in 
the form of Renewable Identification Number (RINs) and 
Low Carbon Fuel Standard (LCFSs) and Blenders Tax 
Credits (BTC). 

RINs and LCFSs are accounted for as government 
grants upon receipt of the product inventory in the USA 
and are recognized as a revenue when biofuel credits are 
sold to a third party. RINs and LCFSs are accounted for 
as inventory to the extent they have been separated from 
the physical goods, which happens when renewable fuel 
is blended with fossil fuel.

As there is a risk relating to accuracy of biofuel credits 
it has been considered as a key audit matter.

HOW THE MATTER WAS ADDRESSED 
IN THE AUDIT

Our audit procedures related to biofuel credits included:
• Evaluating the appropriateness of the accounting 

policies applied when recording biofuel credits in 
relation to underlying IFRS principles. 

• Evaluation of the process for registering biofuel credits 
and for reconciling balances to the eligible credits. 

• Comparing of the registered balances against the 
systems administered by the Environmental Protection 
Agency (EPA) in the USA. 

In addition, our test of details included the following 
procedures to confirm accuracy of biofuel credits:
• Testing of revenue recognition on a sample basis 

based on the sales agreements and system generated 
documents. 

• Comparing the valuation of RINs and LCFSs accounted 
for as inventory to quoted market prices.

• Comparing of the value of the BTC to that confirmed 
by the authorities in the USA.

THE KEY AUDIT MATTER

Martinez Renewables 
Joint Arrangement 
(reference to the note 2: accounting 
policies and notes 14, 18 and 30 in 
the consolidated financial statements)
 

During 2022 Neste finalized a transaction to establish a 
joint arrangement (Martinez Renewables) for production 
of renewable fuels together with Marathon Petroleum. 

At the time of making the investment, Neste made 
the interpretation to treat the establishment and initial 
investment into the joint arrangement as an asset 
acquisition. After the initial investment, Neste classified 
the joint arrangement as a joint operation reflecting that 
Neste and Marathon Petroleum have a joint control 
over the arrangement’s relevant activities, and that the 
production output will be divided evenly between Neste 
and Marathon Petroleum. 

As a result of the joint operation classification, Neste 
recognizes its 50% share of Martinez Renewables’ 
assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses.

Neste capital expenditure into Martinez Renewables 
impacting in 2022 cash flow was 753 M€. The impact 
to Neste’s property, plant and equipment at the year end 
was 853 M€.

Due to the nature of unusual transaction as well as its’ 
monetary significance, joint arrangement is considered 
as a key audit matter.

HOW THE MATTER WAS ADDRESSED 
IN THE AUDIT

Our audit procedures related to Martinez Renewables joint 
arrangement included: 
• Evaluating the structure of the transaction and 

the accounting policies applied in relation to the 
IFRS-standards.

• Involving our valuation specialists to assist us in 
evaluating methodologies and underlying assumptions 
applied by the management in the purchase price 
calculation.

• Providing instructions to the auditors of joint operation 
to carry out appropriate controls testing and substantive 
procedures relating to property, plant and equipment. 

• Evaluating the findings reported by the auditors of joint 
operation including discussion with the auditors.

In addition, we have assessed the appropriateness 
of the Group’s disclosures in respect of the 
transaction and the joint arrangement.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Auditor’s Report



260

Responsibilities of the Board of Directors 
and the Managing Director for the Financial 
Statements 

The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are 
responsible for the preparation of consolidated financial 
statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted 
by the EU, and of financial statements that give a true and fair 
view in accordance with the laws and regulations governing 
the preparation of financial statements in Finland and comply 
with statutory requirements. The Board of Directors and the 
Managing Director are also responsible for such internal control 
as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of 
financial statements that are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the Board of Directors 
and the Managing Director are responsible for assessing the 
parent company’s and the group’s ability to continue as a going 
concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters relating to going 
concern and using the going concern basis of accounting. 
The financial statements are prepared using the going concern 
basis of accounting unless there is an intention to liquidate the 
parent company or the group or cease operations, or there is 
no realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of 
the Financial Statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether the financial statements as a whole are free from 
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to 
issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable 
assurance is a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee 
that an audit conducted in accordance with good auditing 
practice will always detect a material misstatement when it 
exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are 
considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could 
reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions 
of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.

As part of an audit in accordance with good auditing practice, 
we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional 
scepticism throughout the audit. We also:
• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of 

the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, 
design and perform audit procedures responsive to 
those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient 
and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The 
risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting 
from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, 
as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional 
omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal 
control.

• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant 
to the audit in order to design audit procedures that 
are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the 
purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of 
the parent company’s or the group’s internal control. 

• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies 
used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates 
and related disclosures made by management.

THE KEY AUDIT MATTER

Valuation of inventories 
(reference to note 18 in the consolidated 
financial statements)

The company has significant inventory balances both in 
the Renewable Products and Oil Products segments. 
The inventory is valued at the lower of cost or net 
realizable value. The cost of inventory in the Renewable 
Products segment reflects purchase prices, which are 
impacted by the market prices of different feedstocks as 
well as the mix of feedstocks purchased. 

Inventory management, stocktaking routines and 
costing of inventories are underlying key factors in 
determining the value of inventories. 

Due to complexity of the inventory valuation calculations 
for Renewable Products the valuation of inventories in 
Renewable Product segment is considered as a key 
audit matter.

HOW THE MATTER WAS ADDRESSED 
IN THE AUDIT

Our audit procedures related to valuation of Renewable 
Products’ inventories included:
• Evaluating the appropriateness of the accounting 

policies applied in relation to IFRS standards. 
• Testing of controls over inventory management and 

valuation. 
• Performing substantive audit procedures in order to 

test the accuracy of inventory valuation at the lower of 
cost or net realization value at reporting date by testing 
on a sample basis accuracy of relevant components 
related to valuation.

In addition, we have assessed the appropriateness of the 
Group’s disclosures in respect of inventory valuation.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Auditor’s Report



261

In our opinion, the information in the report of the Board 
of Directors is consistent with the information in the financial 
statements and the report of the Board of Directors has 
been prepared in accordance with the applicable laws and 
regulations.

If, based on the work we have performed on the other 
information that we obtained prior to the date of this auditor’s 
report, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of 
this other information, we are required to report that fact. We 
have nothing to report in this regard.

Other Statements 
We support that the financial statements and the consolidated 
financial statements should be adopted. The proposal by the 
Board of Directors regarding the use of the profit shown in 
the balance sheet is in compliance with the Limited Liability 
Companies Act. We support that the Members of the Board 
of Directors and the Managing Director of the parent company 
should be discharged from liability for the financial period 
audited by us.

Helsinki February 7, 2023
KPMG OY AB

Leenakaisa Winberg
Authorised Public Accountant, KHT

• Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of 
Directors’ and the Managing Director’s use of the going 
concern basis of accounting and based on the audit 
evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists 
related to events or conditions that may cast significant 
doubt on the parent company’s or the group’s ability 
to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that 
a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw 
attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures 
in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are 
inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions 
are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the 
date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or 
conditions may cause the parent company or the group 
to cease to continue as a going concern.

• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content 
of the financial statements, including the disclosures, 
and whether the financial statements represent the 
underlying transactions and events so that the financial 
statements give a true and fair view.

• Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding 
the financial information of the entities or business 
activities within the group to express an opinion on the 
consolidated financial statements. We are responsible 
for the direction, supervision and performance of the 
group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit 
opinion.

We communicate with those charged with governance 
regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and 
timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including 
any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify 
during our audit.

We also provide those charged with governance with 
a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical 
requirements regarding independence and communicate with 
them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be 
thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, 
related safeguards.

From the matters communicated with those charged with 
governance, we determine those matters that were of most 
significance in the audit of the financial statements of the 
current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We 
describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or 
regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or 
when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a 
matter should not be communicated in our report because 
the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably 
be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such 
communication.

Other Reporting Requirements 

Information on our audit engagement
We were first appointed as auditors by the Annual General 
Meeting on March 30, 2021 and our appointment represents 
a total period of uninterrupted engagement of 2 years.

Other Information 
The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are 
responsible for the other information. The other information 
comprises the report of the Board of Directors and the 
information included in the Annual Report but does not include 
the financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon. We 
have obtained the report of the Board of Directors prior to the 
date of this auditor’s report, and the Annual Report is expected 
to be made available to us after that date. Our opinion on the 
financial statements does not cover the other information.

In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our 
responsibility is to read the other information identified above 
and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is 
materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our 
knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be 
materially misstated. With respect to the report of the Board of 
Directors, our responsibility also includes considering whether 
the report of the Board of Directors has been prepared in 
accordance with the applicable laws and regulations.

Neste Annual Report 2022 | Auditor’s Report




	Strategy
	Review
	Finance
	a1
	a2
	a3
	a4
	a5
	a6
	a7
	a8
	a9
	a10
	a11
	a12
	a13
	a14
	a15
	a16
	a17
	a18
	a19
	a20
	a21
	a22
	a23
	a24
	a25
	a26
	a27
	a28
	a29
	a30
	a31
	a32

	Parent
	p1
	p2
	p3
	p4-7
	p8-10
	p11
	p12-14
	p16-18
	p19
	p20
	p21
	p22-23
	p15

	Sustainability
	Governance
	CF
	BS
	OC
	IS

	Button 1: 
	Page 2: 
	Page 3: 
	Page 4: 
	Page 5: 
	Page 6: 

	Button 2: 
	Page 2: 
	Page 3: 
	Page 4: 
	Page 5: 
	Page 6: 

	Button 3: 
	Page 2: 
	Page 3: 
	Page 4: 
	Page 5: 
	Page 6: 

	Button 4: 
	Page 2: 
	Page 3: 
	Page 4: 
	Page 5: 
	Page 6: 

	Button 5: 
	Page 2: 
	Page 3: 
	Page 4: 
	Page 5: 
	Page 6: 

	takaisin 13: 
	Page 2: 
	Page 3: 
	Page 4: 
	Page 5: 
	Page 6: 

	Button 6: 
	Page 2: 
	Page 3: 
	Page 4: 
	Page 5: 
	Page 6: 

	Button 7: 
	Page 2: 
	Page 3: 
	Page 4: 
	Page 5: 
	Page 6: 

	Button 8: 
	Page 2: 
	Page 3: 
	Page 4: 
	Page 5: 
	Page 6: 

	Button 14: 
	Page 7: 
	Page 8: 
	Page 9: 
	Page 10: 
	Page 11: 
	Page 12: 
	Page 13: 
	Page 14: 
	Page 15: 
	Page 16: 
	Page 17: 
	Page 18: 
	Page 19: 
	Page 20: 
	Page 21: 
	Page 22: 
	Page 23: 

	Button 1773: 
	Page 7: 
	Page 8: 
	Page 9: 
	Page 10: 
	Page 11: 
	Page 12: 
	Page 13: 
	Page 14: 
	Page 15: 
	Page 16: 
	Page 17: 
	Page 18: 
	Page 19: 
	Page 20: 
	Page 21: 
	Page 22: 
	Page 23: 

	Button 1774: 
	Page 7: 
	Page 8: 
	Page 9: 
	Page 10: 
	Page 11: 
	Page 12: 
	Page 13: 
	Page 14: 
	Page 15: 
	Page 16: 
	Page 17: 
	Page 18: 
	Page 19: 
	Page 20: 
	Page 21: 
	Page 22: 
	Page 23: 

	Button 1775: 
	Page 7: 
	Page 8: 
	Page 9: 
	Page 10: 
	Page 11: 
	Page 12: 
	Page 13: 
	Page 14: 
	Page 15: 
	Page 16: 
	Page 17: 
	Page 18: 
	Page 19: 
	Page 20: 
	Page 21: 
	Page 22: 
	Page 23: 

	Button 1776: 
	Page 7: 
	Page 8: 
	Page 9: 
	Page 10: 
	Page 11: 
	Page 12: 
	Page 13: 
	Page 14: 
	Page 15: 
	Page 16: 
	Page 17: 
	Page 18: 
	Page 19: 
	Page 20: 
	Page 21: 
	Page 22: 
	Page 23: 

	Button 1777: 
	Page 7: 
	Page 8: 
	Page 9: 
	Page 10: 
	Page 11: 
	Page 12: 
	Page 13: 
	Page 14: 
	Page 15: 
	Page 16: 
	Page 17: 
	Page 18: 
	Page 19: 
	Page 20: 
	Page 21: 
	Page 22: 
	Page 23: 

	takaisin 16: 
	Page 7: 
	Page 8: 
	Page 9: 
	Page 10: 
	Page 11: 
	Page 12: 
	Page 13: 
	Page 14: 
	Page 15: 
	Page 16: 
	Page 17: 
	Page 18: 
	Page 19: 
	Page 20: 
	Page 21: 
	Page 22: 
	Page 23: 

	Button 1778: 
	Page 7: 
	Page 8: 
	Page 9: 
	Page 10: 
	Page 11: 
	Page 12: 
	Page 13: 
	Page 14: 
	Page 15: 
	Page 16: 
	Page 17: 
	Page 18: 
	Page 19: 
	Page 20: 
	Page 21: 
	Page 22: 
	Page 23: 

	Button 1779: 
	Page 7: 
	Page 8: 
	Page 9: 
	Page 10: 
	Page 11: 
	Page 12: 
	Page 13: 
	Page 14: 
	Page 15: 
	Page 16: 
	Page 17: 
	Page 18: 
	Page 19: 
	Page 20: 
	Page 21: 
	Page 22: 
	Page 23: 

	Button 22: 
	Page 24: 
	Page 25: 
	Page 26: 
	Page 27: 
	Page 28: 
	Page 29: 
	Page 30: 
	Page 31: 
	Page 32: 
	Page 33: 
	Page 34: 
	Page 35: 
	Page 36: 
	Page 37: 
	Page 38: 
	Page 39: 
	Page 40: 
	Page 41: 
	Page 42: 
	Page 43: 
	Page 44: 
	Page 45: 
	Page 46: 
	Page 47: 
	Page 48: 
	Page 49: 
	Page 50: 
	Page 51: 
	Page 52: 
	Page 53: 
	Page 54: 
	Page 55: 
	Page 56: 
	Page 57: 
	Page 58: 
	Page 59: 
	Page 60: 
	Page 61: 
	Page 62: 
	Page 63: 
	Page 64: 
	Page 65: 
	Page 66: 
	Page 67: 
	Page 68: 
	Page 69: 
	Page 70: 
	Page 71: 
	Page 72: 
	Page 73: 
	Page 74: 
	Page 75: 
	Page 76: 
	Page 77: 
	Page 78: 
	Page 79: 
	Page 80: 
	Page 81: 
	Page 82: 
	Page 83: 
	Page 84: 
	Page 85: 
	Page 86: 
	Page 87: 
	Page 88: 
	Page 89: 
	Page 90: 
	Page 91: 
	Page 92: 
	Page 93: 
	Page 94: 
	Page 95: 
	Page 96: 
	Page 97: 
	Page 98: 
	Page 99: 
	Page 100: 
	Page 101: 
	Page 102: 
	Page 103: 
	Page 104: 
	Page 105: 
	Page 106: 
	Page 107: 
	Page 108: 
	Page 109: 
	Page 110: 
	Page 111: 
	Page 112: 
	Page 113: 
	Page 114: 
	Page 115: 
	Page 116: 
	Page 117: 
	Page 118: 

	Button 1780: 
	Page 24: 
	Page 25: 
	Page 26: 
	Page 27: 
	Page 28: 
	Page 29: 
	Page 30: 
	Page 31: 
	Page 32: 
	Page 33: 
	Page 34: 
	Page 35: 
	Page 36: 
	Page 37: 
	Page 38: 
	Page 39: 
	Page 40: 
	Page 41: 
	Page 42: 
	Page 43: 
	Page 44: 
	Page 45: 
	Page 46: 
	Page 47: 
	Page 48: 
	Page 49: 
	Page 50: 
	Page 51: 
	Page 52: 
	Page 53: 
	Page 54: 
	Page 55: 
	Page 56: 
	Page 57: 
	Page 58: 
	Page 59: 
	Page 60: 
	Page 61: 
	Page 62: 
	Page 63: 
	Page 64: 
	Page 65: 
	Page 66: 
	Page 67: 
	Page 68: 
	Page 69: 
	Page 70: 
	Page 71: 
	Page 72: 
	Page 73: 
	Page 74: 
	Page 75: 
	Page 76: 
	Page 77: 
	Page 78: 
	Page 79: 
	Page 80: 
	Page 81: 
	Page 82: 
	Page 83: 
	Page 84: 
	Page 85: 
	Page 86: 
	Page 87: 
	Page 88: 
	Page 89: 
	Page 90: 
	Page 91: 
	Page 92: 
	Page 93: 
	Page 94: 
	Page 95: 
	Page 96: 
	Page 97: 
	Page 98: 
	Page 99: 
	Page 100: 
	Page 101: 
	Page 102: 
	Page 103: 
	Page 104: 
	Page 105: 
	Page 106: 
	Page 107: 
	Page 108: 
	Page 109: 
	Page 110: 
	Page 111: 
	Page 112: 
	Page 113: 
	Page 114: 
	Page 115: 
	Page 116: 
	Page 117: 
	Page 118: 

	Button 1781: 
	Page 24: 
	Page 25: 
	Page 26: 
	Page 27: 
	Page 28: 
	Page 29: 
	Page 30: 
	Page 31: 
	Page 32: 
	Page 33: 
	Page 34: 
	Page 35: 
	Page 36: 
	Page 37: 
	Page 38: 
	Page 39: 
	Page 40: 
	Page 41: 
	Page 42: 
	Page 43: 
	Page 44: 
	Page 45: 
	Page 46: 
	Page 47: 
	Page 48: 
	Page 49: 
	Page 50: 
	Page 51: 
	Page 52: 
	Page 53: 
	Page 54: 
	Page 55: 
	Page 56: 
	Page 57: 
	Page 58: 
	Page 59: 
	Page 60: 
	Page 61: 
	Page 62: 
	Page 63: 
	Page 64: 
	Page 65: 
	Page 66: 
	Page 67: 
	Page 68: 
	Page 69: 
	Page 70: 
	Page 71: 
	Page 72: 
	Page 73: 
	Page 74: 
	Page 75: 
	Page 76: 
	Page 77: 
	Page 78: 
	Page 79: 
	Page 80: 
	Page 81: 
	Page 82: 
	Page 83: 
	Page 84: 
	Page 85: 
	Page 86: 
	Page 87: 
	Page 88: 
	Page 89: 
	Page 90: 
	Page 91: 
	Page 92: 
	Page 93: 
	Page 94: 
	Page 95: 
	Page 96: 
	Page 97: 
	Page 98: 
	Page 99: 
	Page 100: 
	Page 101: 
	Page 102: 
	Page 103: 
	Page 104: 
	Page 105: 
	Page 106: 
	Page 107: 
	Page 108: 
	Page 109: 
	Page 110: 
	Page 111: 
	Page 112: 
	Page 113: 
	Page 114: 
	Page 115: 
	Page 116: 
	Page 117: 
	Page 118: 

	Button 1782: 
	Page 24: 
	Page 25: 
	Page 26: 
	Page 27: 
	Page 28: 
	Page 29: 
	Page 30: 
	Page 31: 
	Page 32: 
	Page 33: 
	Page 34: 
	Page 35: 
	Page 36: 
	Page 37: 
	Page 38: 
	Page 39: 
	Page 40: 
	Page 41: 
	Page 42: 
	Page 43: 
	Page 44: 
	Page 45: 
	Page 46: 
	Page 47: 
	Page 48: 
	Page 49: 
	Page 50: 
	Page 51: 
	Page 52: 
	Page 53: 
	Page 54: 
	Page 55: 
	Page 56: 
	Page 57: 
	Page 58: 
	Page 59: 
	Page 60: 
	Page 61: 
	Page 62: 
	Page 63: 
	Page 64: 
	Page 65: 
	Page 66: 
	Page 67: 
	Page 68: 
	Page 69: 
	Page 70: 
	Page 71: 
	Page 72: 
	Page 73: 
	Page 74: 
	Page 75: 
	Page 76: 
	Page 77: 
	Page 78: 
	Page 79: 
	Page 80: 
	Page 81: 
	Page 82: 
	Page 83: 
	Page 84: 
	Page 85: 
	Page 86: 
	Page 87: 
	Page 88: 
	Page 89: 
	Page 90: 
	Page 91: 
	Page 92: 
	Page 93: 
	Page 94: 
	Page 95: 
	Page 96: 
	Page 97: 
	Page 98: 
	Page 99: 
	Page 100: 
	Page 101: 
	Page 102: 
	Page 103: 
	Page 104: 
	Page 105: 
	Page 106: 
	Page 107: 
	Page 108: 
	Page 109: 
	Page 110: 
	Page 111: 
	Page 112: 
	Page 113: 
	Page 114: 
	Page 115: 
	Page 116: 
	Page 117: 
	Page 118: 

	Button 1783: 
	Page 24: 
	Page 25: 
	Page 26: 
	Page 27: 
	Page 28: 
	Page 29: 
	Page 30: 
	Page 31: 
	Page 32: 
	Page 33: 
	Page 34: 
	Page 35: 
	Page 36: 
	Page 37: 
	Page 38: 
	Page 39: 
	Page 40: 
	Page 41: 
	Page 42: 
	Page 43: 
	Page 44: 
	Page 45: 
	Page 46: 
	Page 47: 
	Page 48: 
	Page 49: 
	Page 50: 
	Page 51: 
	Page 52: 
	Page 53: 
	Page 54: 
	Page 55: 
	Page 56: 
	Page 57: 
	Page 58: 
	Page 59: 
	Page 60: 
	Page 61: 
	Page 62: 
	Page 63: 
	Page 64: 
	Page 65: 
	Page 66: 
	Page 67: 
	Page 68: 
	Page 69: 
	Page 70: 
	Page 71: 
	Page 72: 
	Page 73: 
	Page 74: 
	Page 75: 
	Page 76: 
	Page 77: 
	Page 78: 
	Page 79: 
	Page 80: 
	Page 81: 
	Page 82: 
	Page 83: 
	Page 84: 
	Page 85: 
	Page 86: 
	Page 87: 
	Page 88: 
	Page 89: 
	Page 90: 
	Page 91: 
	Page 92: 
	Page 93: 
	Page 94: 
	Page 95: 
	Page 96: 
	Page 97: 
	Page 98: 
	Page 99: 
	Page 100: 
	Page 101: 
	Page 102: 
	Page 103: 
	Page 104: 
	Page 105: 
	Page 106: 
	Page 107: 
	Page 108: 
	Page 109: 
	Page 110: 
	Page 111: 
	Page 112: 
	Page 113: 
	Page 114: 
	Page 115: 
	Page 116: 
	Page 117: 
	Page 118: 

	Button 1784: 
	Page 24: 
	Page 25: 
	Page 26: 
	Page 27: 
	Page 28: 
	Page 29: 
	Page 30: 
	Page 31: 
	Page 32: 
	Page 33: 
	Page 34: 
	Page 35: 
	Page 36: 
	Page 37: 
	Page 38: 
	Page 39: 
	Page 40: 
	Page 41: 
	Page 42: 
	Page 43: 
	Page 44: 
	Page 45: 
	Page 46: 
	Page 47: 
	Page 48: 
	Page 49: 
	Page 50: 
	Page 51: 
	Page 52: 
	Page 53: 
	Page 54: 
	Page 55: 
	Page 56: 
	Page 57: 
	Page 58: 
	Page 59: 
	Page 60: 
	Page 61: 
	Page 62: 
	Page 63: 
	Page 64: 
	Page 65: 
	Page 66: 
	Page 67: 
	Page 68: 
	Page 69: 
	Page 70: 
	Page 71: 
	Page 72: 
	Page 73: 
	Page 74: 
	Page 75: 
	Page 76: 
	Page 77: 
	Page 78: 
	Page 79: 
	Page 80: 
	Page 81: 
	Page 82: 
	Page 83: 
	Page 84: 
	Page 85: 
	Page 86: 
	Page 87: 
	Page 88: 
	Page 89: 
	Page 90: 
	Page 91: 
	Page 92: 
	Page 93: 
	Page 94: 
	Page 95: 
	Page 96: 
	Page 97: 
	Page 98: 
	Page 99: 
	Page 100: 
	Page 101: 
	Page 102: 
	Page 103: 
	Page 104: 
	Page 105: 
	Page 106: 
	Page 107: 
	Page 108: 
	Page 109: 
	Page 110: 
	Page 111: 
	Page 112: 
	Page 113: 
	Page 114: 
	Page 115: 
	Page 116: 
	Page 117: 
	Page 118: 

	takaisin 17: 
	Page 24: 
	Page 25: 
	Page 26: 
	Page 27: 
	Page 28: 
	Page 29: 
	Page 30: 
	Page 31: 
	Page 32: 
	Page 33: 
	Page 34: 
	Page 35: 
	Page 36: 
	Page 37: 
	Page 38: 
	Page 39: 
	Page 40: 
	Page 41: 
	Page 42: 
	Page 43: 
	Page 44: 
	Page 45: 
	Page 46: 
	Page 47: 
	Page 48: 
	Page 49: 
	Page 50: 
	Page 51: 
	Page 52: 
	Page 53: 
	Page 54: 
	Page 55: 
	Page 56: 
	Page 57: 
	Page 58: 
	Page 59: 
	Page 60: 
	Page 61: 
	Page 62: 
	Page 63: 
	Page 64: 
	Page 65: 
	Page 66: 
	Page 67: 
	Page 68: 
	Page 69: 
	Page 70: 
	Page 71: 
	Page 72: 
	Page 73: 
	Page 74: 
	Page 75: 
	Page 76: 
	Page 77: 
	Page 78: 
	Page 79: 
	Page 80: 
	Page 81: 
	Page 82: 
	Page 83: 
	Page 84: 
	Page 85: 
	Page 86: 
	Page 87: 
	Page 88: 
	Page 89: 
	Page 90: 
	Page 91: 
	Page 92: 
	Page 93: 
	Page 94: 
	Page 95: 
	Page 96: 
	Page 97: 
	Page 98: 
	Page 99: 
	Page 100: 
	Page 101: 
	Page 102: 
	Page 103: 
	Page 104: 
	Page 105: 
	Page 106: 
	Page 107: 
	Page 108: 
	Page 109: 
	Page 110: 
	Page 111: 
	Page 112: 
	Page 113: 
	Page 114: 
	Page 115: 
	Page 116: 
	Page 117: 
	Page 118: 

	Button 1785: 
	Page 24: 
	Page 25: 
	Page 26: 
	Page 27: 
	Page 28: 
	Page 29: 
	Page 30: 
	Page 31: 
	Page 32: 
	Page 33: 
	Page 34: 
	Page 35: 
	Page 36: 
	Page 37: 
	Page 38: 
	Page 39: 
	Page 40: 
	Page 41: 
	Page 42: 
	Page 43: 
	Page 44: 
	Page 45: 
	Page 46: 
	Page 47: 
	Page 48: 
	Page 49: 
	Page 50: 
	Page 51: 
	Page 52: 
	Page 53: 
	Page 54: 
	Page 55: 
	Page 56: 
	Page 57: 
	Page 58: 
	Page 59: 
	Page 60: 
	Page 61: 
	Page 62: 
	Page 63: 
	Page 64: 
	Page 65: 
	Page 66: 
	Page 67: 
	Page 68: 
	Page 69: 
	Page 70: 
	Page 71: 
	Page 72: 
	Page 73: 
	Page 74: 
	Page 75: 
	Page 76: 
	Page 77: 
	Page 78: 
	Page 79: 
	Page 80: 
	Page 81: 
	Page 82: 
	Page 83: 
	Page 84: 
	Page 85: 
	Page 86: 
	Page 87: 
	Page 88: 
	Page 89: 
	Page 90: 
	Page 91: 
	Page 92: 
	Page 93: 
	Page 94: 
	Page 95: 
	Page 96: 
	Page 97: 
	Page 98: 
	Page 99: 
	Page 100: 
	Page 101: 
	Page 102: 
	Page 103: 
	Page 104: 
	Page 105: 
	Page 106: 
	Page 107: 
	Page 108: 
	Page 109: 
	Page 110: 
	Page 111: 
	Page 112: 
	Page 113: 
	Page 114: 
	Page 115: 
	Page 116: 
	Page 117: 
	Page 118: 

	Button 1786: 
	Page 24: 
	Page 25: 
	Page 26: 
	Page 27: 
	Page 28: 
	Page 29: 
	Page 30: 
	Page 31: 
	Page 32: 
	Page 33: 
	Page 34: 
	Page 35: 
	Page 36: 
	Page 37: 
	Page 38: 
	Page 39: 
	Page 40: 
	Page 41: 
	Page 42: 
	Page 43: 
	Page 44: 
	Page 45: 
	Page 46: 
	Page 47: 
	Page 48: 
	Page 49: 
	Page 50: 
	Page 51: 
	Page 52: 
	Page 53: 
	Page 54: 
	Page 55: 
	Page 56: 
	Page 57: 
	Page 58: 
	Page 59: 
	Page 60: 
	Page 61: 
	Page 62: 
	Page 63: 
	Page 64: 
	Page 65: 
	Page 66: 
	Page 67: 
	Page 68: 
	Page 69: 
	Page 70: 
	Page 71: 
	Page 72: 
	Page 73: 
	Page 74: 
	Page 75: 
	Page 76: 
	Page 77: 
	Page 78: 
	Page 79: 
	Page 80: 
	Page 81: 
	Page 82: 
	Page 83: 
	Page 84: 
	Page 85: 
	Page 86: 
	Page 87: 
	Page 88: 
	Page 89: 
	Page 90: 
	Page 91: 
	Page 92: 
	Page 93: 
	Page 94: 
	Page 95: 
	Page 96: 
	Page 97: 
	Page 98: 
	Page 99: 
	Page 100: 
	Page 101: 
	Page 102: 
	Page 103: 
	Page 104: 
	Page 105: 
	Page 106: 
	Page 107: 
	Page 108: 
	Page 109: 
	Page 110: 
	Page 111: 
	Page 112: 
	Page 113: 
	Page 114: 
	Page 115: 
	Page 116: 
	Page 117: 
	Page 118: 

	Button 30: 
	Page 119: 
	Page 120: 
	Page 121: 
	Page 122: 
	Page 123: 
	Page 124: 
	Page 125: 
	Page 126: 
	Page 127: 
	Page 128: 
	Page 129: 
	Page 130: 
	Page 131: 
	Page 132: 
	Page 133: 
	Page 134: 
	Page 135: 
	Page 136: 
	Page 137: 
	Page 138: 
	Page 139: 
	Page 140: 
	Page 141: 
	Page 142: 
	Page 143: 
	Page 144: 
	Page 145: 
	Page 146: 

	Button 1787: 
	Page 119: 
	Page 120: 
	Page 121: 
	Page 122: 
	Page 123: 
	Page 124: 
	Page 125: 
	Page 126: 
	Page 127: 
	Page 128: 
	Page 129: 
	Page 130: 
	Page 131: 
	Page 132: 
	Page 133: 
	Page 134: 
	Page 135: 
	Page 136: 
	Page 137: 
	Page 138: 
	Page 139: 
	Page 140: 
	Page 141: 
	Page 142: 
	Page 143: 
	Page 144: 
	Page 145: 
	Page 146: 

	Button 1788: 
	Page 119: 
	Page 120: 
	Page 121: 
	Page 122: 
	Page 123: 
	Page 124: 
	Page 125: 
	Page 126: 
	Page 127: 
	Page 128: 
	Page 129: 
	Page 130: 
	Page 131: 
	Page 132: 
	Page 133: 
	Page 134: 
	Page 135: 
	Page 136: 
	Page 137: 
	Page 138: 
	Page 139: 
	Page 140: 
	Page 141: 
	Page 142: 
	Page 143: 
	Page 144: 
	Page 145: 
	Page 146: 

	Button 1789: 
	Page 119: 
	Page 120: 
	Page 121: 
	Page 122: 
	Page 123: 
	Page 124: 
	Page 125: 
	Page 126: 
	Page 127: 
	Page 128: 
	Page 129: 
	Page 130: 
	Page 131: 
	Page 132: 
	Page 133: 
	Page 134: 
	Page 135: 
	Page 136: 
	Page 137: 
	Page 138: 
	Page 139: 
	Page 140: 
	Page 141: 
	Page 142: 
	Page 143: 
	Page 144: 
	Page 145: 
	Page 146: 

	Button 1790: 
	Page 119: 
	Page 120: 
	Page 121: 
	Page 122: 
	Page 123: 
	Page 124: 
	Page 125: 
	Page 126: 
	Page 127: 
	Page 128: 
	Page 129: 
	Page 130: 
	Page 131: 
	Page 132: 
	Page 133: 
	Page 134: 
	Page 135: 
	Page 136: 
	Page 137: 
	Page 138: 
	Page 139: 
	Page 140: 
	Page 141: 
	Page 142: 
	Page 143: 
	Page 144: 
	Page 145: 
	Page 146: 

	Button 1791: 
	Page 119: 
	Page 120: 
	Page 121: 
	Page 122: 
	Page 123: 
	Page 124: 
	Page 125: 
	Page 126: 
	Page 127: 
	Page 128: 
	Page 129: 
	Page 130: 
	Page 131: 
	Page 132: 
	Page 133: 
	Page 134: 
	Page 135: 
	Page 136: 
	Page 137: 
	Page 138: 
	Page 139: 
	Page 140: 
	Page 141: 
	Page 142: 
	Page 143: 
	Page 144: 
	Page 145: 
	Page 146: 

	takaisin 18: 
	Page 119: 
	Page 120: 
	Page 121: 
	Page 122: 
	Page 123: 
	Page 124: 
	Page 125: 
	Page 126: 
	Page 127: 
	Page 128: 
	Page 129: 
	Page 130: 
	Page 131: 
	Page 132: 
	Page 133: 
	Page 134: 
	Page 135: 
	Page 136: 
	Page 137: 
	Page 138: 
	Page 139: 
	Page 140: 
	Page 141: 
	Page 142: 
	Page 143: 
	Page 144: 
	Page 145: 
	Page 146: 

	Button 1792: 
	Page 119: 
	Page 120: 
	Page 121: 
	Page 122: 
	Page 123: 
	Page 124: 
	Page 125: 
	Page 126: 
	Page 127: 
	Page 128: 
	Page 129: 
	Page 130: 
	Page 131: 
	Page 132: 
	Page 133: 
	Page 134: 
	Page 135: 
	Page 136: 
	Page 137: 
	Page 138: 
	Page 139: 
	Page 140: 
	Page 141: 
	Page 142: 
	Page 143: 
	Page 144: 
	Page 145: 
	Page 146: 

	Button 1793: 
	Page 119: 
	Page 120: 
	Page 121: 
	Page 122: 
	Page 123: 
	Page 124: 
	Page 125: 
	Page 126: 
	Page 127: 
	Page 128: 
	Page 129: 
	Page 130: 
	Page 131: 
	Page 132: 
	Page 133: 
	Page 134: 
	Page 135: 
	Page 136: 
	Page 137: 
	Page 138: 
	Page 139: 
	Page 140: 
	Page 141: 
	Page 142: 
	Page 143: 
	Page 144: 
	Page 145: 
	Page 146: 

	Button 38: 
	Page 147: 
	Page 148: 
	Page 149: 
	Page 150: 
	Page 151: 
	Page 152: 
	Page 153: 
	Page 154: 
	Page 155: 
	Page 156: 
	Page 157: 
	Page 158: 
	Page 159: 
	Page 160: 
	Page 161: 
	Page 162: 
	Page 163: 
	Page 164: 
	Page 165: 
	Page 166: 
	Page 167: 
	Page 168: 
	Page 169: 
	Page 170: 
	Page 171: 
	Page 172: 
	Page 173: 
	Page 174: 
	Page 175: 
	Page 176: 

	Button 1794: 
	Page 147: 
	Page 148: 
	Page 149: 
	Page 150: 
	Page 151: 
	Page 152: 
	Page 153: 
	Page 154: 
	Page 155: 
	Page 156: 
	Page 157: 
	Page 158: 
	Page 159: 
	Page 160: 
	Page 161: 
	Page 162: 
	Page 163: 
	Page 164: 
	Page 165: 
	Page 166: 
	Page 167: 
	Page 168: 
	Page 169: 
	Page 170: 
	Page 171: 
	Page 172: 
	Page 173: 
	Page 174: 
	Page 175: 
	Page 176: 

	Button 1795: 
	Page 147: 
	Page 148: 
	Page 149: 
	Page 150: 
	Page 151: 
	Page 152: 
	Page 153: 
	Page 154: 
	Page 155: 
	Page 156: 
	Page 157: 
	Page 158: 
	Page 159: 
	Page 160: 
	Page 161: 
	Page 162: 
	Page 163: 
	Page 164: 
	Page 165: 
	Page 166: 
	Page 167: 
	Page 168: 
	Page 169: 
	Page 170: 
	Page 171: 
	Page 172: 
	Page 173: 
	Page 174: 
	Page 175: 
	Page 176: 

	Button 1796: 
	Page 147: 
	Page 148: 
	Page 149: 
	Page 150: 
	Page 151: 
	Page 152: 
	Page 153: 
	Page 154: 
	Page 155: 
	Page 156: 
	Page 157: 
	Page 158: 
	Page 159: 
	Page 160: 
	Page 161: 
	Page 162: 
	Page 163: 
	Page 164: 
	Page 165: 
	Page 166: 
	Page 167: 
	Page 168: 
	Page 169: 
	Page 170: 
	Page 171: 
	Page 172: 
	Page 173: 
	Page 174: 
	Page 175: 
	Page 176: 

	Button 1797: 
	Page 147: 
	Page 148: 
	Page 149: 
	Page 150: 
	Page 151: 
	Page 152: 
	Page 153: 
	Page 154: 
	Page 155: 
	Page 156: 
	Page 157: 
	Page 158: 
	Page 159: 
	Page 160: 
	Page 161: 
	Page 162: 
	Page 163: 
	Page 164: 
	Page 165: 
	Page 166: 
	Page 167: 
	Page 168: 
	Page 169: 
	Page 170: 
	Page 171: 
	Page 172: 
	Page 173: 
	Page 174: 
	Page 175: 
	Page 176: 

	Button 1798: 
	Page 147: 
	Page 148: 
	Page 149: 
	Page 150: 
	Page 151: 
	Page 152: 
	Page 153: 
	Page 154: 
	Page 155: 
	Page 156: 
	Page 157: 
	Page 158: 
	Page 159: 
	Page 160: 
	Page 161: 
	Page 162: 
	Page 163: 
	Page 164: 
	Page 165: 
	Page 166: 
	Page 167: 
	Page 168: 
	Page 169: 
	Page 170: 
	Page 171: 
	Page 172: 
	Page 173: 
	Page 174: 
	Page 175: 
	Page 176: 

	takaisin 19: 
	Page 147: 
	Page 148: 
	Page 149: 
	Page 150: 
	Page 151: 
	Page 152: 
	Page 153: 
	Page 154: 
	Page 155: 
	Page 156: 
	Page 157: 
	Page 158: 
	Page 159: 
	Page 160: 
	Page 161: 
	Page 162: 
	Page 163: 
	Page 164: 
	Page 165: 
	Page 166: 
	Page 167: 
	Page 168: 
	Page 169: 
	Page 170: 
	Page 171: 
	Page 172: 
	Page 173: 
	Page 174: 
	Page 175: 
	Page 176: 

	Button 1799: 
	Page 147: 
	Page 148: 
	Page 149: 
	Page 150: 
	Page 151: 
	Page 152: 
	Page 153: 
	Page 154: 
	Page 155: 
	Page 156: 
	Page 157: 
	Page 158: 
	Page 159: 
	Page 160: 
	Page 161: 
	Page 162: 
	Page 163: 
	Page 164: 
	Page 165: 
	Page 166: 
	Page 167: 
	Page 168: 
	Page 169: 
	Page 170: 
	Page 171: 
	Page 172: 
	Page 173: 
	Page 174: 
	Page 175: 
	Page 176: 

	Button 1800: 
	Page 147: 
	Page 148: 
	Page 149: 
	Page 150: 
	Page 151: 
	Page 152: 
	Page 153: 
	Page 154: 
	Page 155: 
	Page 156: 
	Page 157: 
	Page 158: 
	Page 159: 
	Page 160: 
	Page 161: 
	Page 162: 
	Page 163: 
	Page 164: 
	Page 165: 
	Page 166: 
	Page 167: 
	Page 168: 
	Page 169: 
	Page 170: 
	Page 171: 
	Page 172: 
	Page 173: 
	Page 174: 
	Page 175: 
	Page 176: 

	Button 41010: 
	Button 41012: 
	Button 46: 
	Page 177: 
	Page 178: 
	Page 179: 
	Page 180: 
	Page 181: 
	Page 182: 
	Page 183: 
	Page 184: 
	Page 185: 
	Page 186: 
	Page 187: 
	Page 188: 
	Page 189: 
	Page 190: 
	Page 191: 
	Page 192: 
	Page 193: 
	Page 194: 
	Page 195: 
	Page 196: 
	Page 197: 
	Page 198: 
	Page 199: 
	Page 200: 
	Page 201: 
	Page 202: 
	Page 203: 
	Page 204: 
	Page 205: 
	Page 206: 
	Page 207: 
	Page 208: 
	Page 209: 
	Page 210: 
	Page 211: 
	Page 212: 
	Page 213: 
	Page 214: 
	Page 215: 
	Page 216: 
	Page 217: 
	Page 218: 
	Page 219: 
	Page 220: 
	Page 221: 
	Page 222: 
	Page 223: 
	Page 224: 
	Page 225: 
	Page 226: 
	Page 227: 
	Page 228: 
	Page 229: 
	Page 230: 
	Page 231: 
	Page 232: 
	Page 233: 
	Page 234: 
	Page 235: 
	Page 236: 
	Page 237: 
	Page 238: 
	Page 239: 
	Page 240: 
	Page 241: 
	Page 242: 
	Page 243: 
	Page 244: 
	Page 245: 
	Page 246: 
	Page 247: 
	Page 248: 
	Page 249: 
	Page 250: 
	Page 251: 
	Page 252: 
	Page 253: 
	Page 254: 
	Page 255: 
	Page 256: 
	Page 257: 
	Page 258: 
	Page 259: 
	Page 260: 
	Page 261: 

	Button 1801: 
	Page 177: 
	Page 178: 
	Page 179: 
	Page 180: 
	Page 181: 
	Page 182: 
	Page 183: 
	Page 184: 
	Page 185: 
	Page 186: 
	Page 187: 
	Page 188: 
	Page 189: 
	Page 190: 
	Page 191: 
	Page 192: 
	Page 193: 
	Page 194: 
	Page 195: 
	Page 196: 
	Page 197: 
	Page 198: 
	Page 199: 
	Page 200: 
	Page 201: 
	Page 202: 
	Page 203: 
	Page 204: 
	Page 205: 
	Page 206: 
	Page 207: 
	Page 208: 
	Page 209: 
	Page 210: 
	Page 211: 
	Page 212: 
	Page 213: 
	Page 214: 
	Page 215: 
	Page 216: 
	Page 217: 
	Page 218: 
	Page 219: 
	Page 220: 
	Page 221: 
	Page 222: 
	Page 223: 
	Page 224: 
	Page 225: 
	Page 226: 
	Page 227: 
	Page 228: 
	Page 229: 
	Page 230: 
	Page 231: 
	Page 232: 
	Page 233: 
	Page 234: 
	Page 235: 
	Page 236: 
	Page 237: 
	Page 238: 
	Page 239: 
	Page 240: 
	Page 241: 
	Page 242: 
	Page 243: 
	Page 244: 
	Page 245: 
	Page 246: 
	Page 247: 
	Page 248: 
	Page 249: 
	Page 250: 
	Page 251: 
	Page 252: 
	Page 253: 
	Page 254: 
	Page 255: 
	Page 256: 
	Page 257: 
	Page 258: 
	Page 259: 
	Page 260: 
	Page 261: 

	Button 1802: 
	Page 177: 
	Page 178: 
	Page 179: 
	Page 180: 
	Page 181: 
	Page 182: 
	Page 183: 
	Page 184: 
	Page 185: 
	Page 186: 
	Page 187: 
	Page 188: 
	Page 189: 
	Page 190: 
	Page 191: 
	Page 192: 
	Page 193: 
	Page 194: 
	Page 195: 
	Page 196: 
	Page 197: 
	Page 198: 
	Page 199: 
	Page 200: 
	Page 201: 
	Page 202: 
	Page 203: 
	Page 204: 
	Page 205: 
	Page 206: 
	Page 207: 
	Page 208: 
	Page 209: 
	Page 210: 
	Page 211: 
	Page 212: 
	Page 213: 
	Page 214: 
	Page 215: 
	Page 216: 
	Page 217: 
	Page 218: 
	Page 219: 
	Page 220: 
	Page 221: 
	Page 222: 
	Page 223: 
	Page 224: 
	Page 225: 
	Page 226: 
	Page 227: 
	Page 228: 
	Page 229: 
	Page 230: 
	Page 231: 
	Page 232: 
	Page 233: 
	Page 234: 
	Page 235: 
	Page 236: 
	Page 237: 
	Page 238: 
	Page 239: 
	Page 240: 
	Page 241: 
	Page 242: 
	Page 243: 
	Page 244: 
	Page 245: 
	Page 246: 
	Page 247: 
	Page 248: 
	Page 249: 
	Page 250: 
	Page 251: 
	Page 252: 
	Page 253: 
	Page 254: 
	Page 255: 
	Page 256: 
	Page 257: 
	Page 258: 
	Page 259: 
	Page 260: 
	Page 261: 

	Button 1803: 
	Page 177: 
	Page 178: 
	Page 179: 
	Page 180: 
	Page 181: 
	Page 182: 
	Page 183: 
	Page 184: 
	Page 185: 
	Page 186: 
	Page 187: 
	Page 188: 
	Page 189: 
	Page 190: 
	Page 191: 
	Page 192: 
	Page 193: 
	Page 194: 
	Page 195: 
	Page 196: 
	Page 197: 
	Page 198: 
	Page 199: 
	Page 200: 
	Page 201: 
	Page 202: 
	Page 203: 
	Page 204: 
	Page 205: 
	Page 206: 
	Page 207: 
	Page 208: 
	Page 209: 
	Page 210: 
	Page 211: 
	Page 212: 
	Page 213: 
	Page 214: 
	Page 215: 
	Page 216: 
	Page 217: 
	Page 218: 
	Page 219: 
	Page 220: 
	Page 221: 
	Page 222: 
	Page 223: 
	Page 224: 
	Page 225: 
	Page 226: 
	Page 227: 
	Page 228: 
	Page 229: 
	Page 230: 
	Page 231: 
	Page 232: 
	Page 233: 
	Page 234: 
	Page 235: 
	Page 236: 
	Page 237: 
	Page 238: 
	Page 239: 
	Page 240: 
	Page 241: 
	Page 242: 
	Page 243: 
	Page 244: 
	Page 245: 
	Page 246: 
	Page 247: 
	Page 248: 
	Page 249: 
	Page 250: 
	Page 251: 
	Page 252: 
	Page 253: 
	Page 254: 
	Page 255: 
	Page 256: 
	Page 257: 
	Page 258: 
	Page 259: 
	Page 260: 
	Page 261: 

	Button 1804: 
	Page 177: 
	Page 178: 
	Page 179: 
	Page 180: 
	Page 181: 
	Page 182: 
	Page 183: 
	Page 184: 
	Page 185: 
	Page 186: 
	Page 187: 
	Page 188: 
	Page 189: 
	Page 190: 
	Page 191: 
	Page 192: 
	Page 193: 
	Page 194: 
	Page 195: 
	Page 196: 
	Page 197: 
	Page 198: 
	Page 199: 
	Page 200: 
	Page 201: 
	Page 202: 
	Page 203: 
	Page 204: 
	Page 205: 
	Page 206: 
	Page 207: 
	Page 208: 
	Page 209: 
	Page 210: 
	Page 211: 
	Page 212: 
	Page 213: 
	Page 214: 
	Page 215: 
	Page 216: 
	Page 217: 
	Page 218: 
	Page 219: 
	Page 220: 
	Page 221: 
	Page 222: 
	Page 223: 
	Page 224: 
	Page 225: 
	Page 226: 
	Page 227: 
	Page 228: 
	Page 229: 
	Page 230: 
	Page 231: 
	Page 232: 
	Page 233: 
	Page 234: 
	Page 235: 
	Page 236: 
	Page 237: 
	Page 238: 
	Page 239: 
	Page 240: 
	Page 241: 
	Page 242: 
	Page 243: 
	Page 244: 
	Page 245: 
	Page 246: 
	Page 247: 
	Page 248: 
	Page 249: 
	Page 250: 
	Page 251: 
	Page 252: 
	Page 253: 
	Page 254: 
	Page 255: 
	Page 256: 
	Page 257: 
	Page 258: 
	Page 259: 
	Page 260: 
	Page 261: 

	Button 1805: 
	Page 177: 
	Page 178: 
	Page 179: 
	Page 180: 
	Page 181: 
	Page 182: 
	Page 183: 
	Page 184: 
	Page 185: 
	Page 186: 
	Page 187: 
	Page 188: 
	Page 189: 
	Page 190: 
	Page 191: 
	Page 192: 
	Page 193: 
	Page 194: 
	Page 195: 
	Page 196: 
	Page 197: 
	Page 198: 
	Page 199: 
	Page 200: 
	Page 201: 
	Page 202: 
	Page 203: 
	Page 204: 
	Page 205: 
	Page 206: 
	Page 207: 
	Page 208: 
	Page 209: 
	Page 210: 
	Page 211: 
	Page 212: 
	Page 213: 
	Page 214: 
	Page 215: 
	Page 216: 
	Page 217: 
	Page 218: 
	Page 219: 
	Page 220: 
	Page 221: 
	Page 222: 
	Page 223: 
	Page 224: 
	Page 225: 
	Page 226: 
	Page 227: 
	Page 228: 
	Page 229: 
	Page 230: 
	Page 231: 
	Page 232: 
	Page 233: 
	Page 234: 
	Page 235: 
	Page 236: 
	Page 237: 
	Page 238: 
	Page 239: 
	Page 240: 
	Page 241: 
	Page 242: 
	Page 243: 
	Page 244: 
	Page 245: 
	Page 246: 
	Page 247: 
	Page 248: 
	Page 249: 
	Page 250: 
	Page 251: 
	Page 252: 
	Page 253: 
	Page 254: 
	Page 255: 
	Page 256: 
	Page 257: 
	Page 258: 
	Page 259: 
	Page 260: 
	Page 261: 

	takaisin 20: 
	Page 177: 
	Page 178: 
	Page 179: 
	Page 180: 
	Page 181: 
	Page 182: 
	Page 183: 
	Page 184: 
	Page 185: 
	Page 186: 
	Page 187: 
	Page 188: 
	Page 189: 
	Page 190: 
	Page 191: 
	Page 192: 
	Page 193: 
	Page 194: 
	Page 195: 
	Page 196: 
	Page 197: 
	Page 198: 
	Page 199: 
	Page 200: 
	Page 201: 
	Page 202: 
	Page 203: 
	Page 204: 
	Page 205: 
	Page 206: 
	Page 207: 
	Page 208: 
	Page 209: 
	Page 210: 
	Page 211: 
	Page 212: 
	Page 213: 
	Page 214: 
	Page 215: 
	Page 216: 
	Page 217: 
	Page 218: 
	Page 219: 
	Page 220: 
	Page 221: 
	Page 222: 
	Page 223: 
	Page 224: 
	Page 225: 
	Page 226: 
	Page 227: 
	Page 228: 
	Page 229: 
	Page 230: 
	Page 231: 
	Page 232: 
	Page 233: 
	Page 234: 
	Page 235: 
	Page 236: 
	Page 237: 
	Page 238: 
	Page 239: 
	Page 240: 
	Page 241: 
	Page 242: 
	Page 243: 
	Page 244: 
	Page 245: 
	Page 246: 
	Page 247: 
	Page 248: 
	Page 249: 
	Page 250: 
	Page 251: 
	Page 252: 
	Page 253: 
	Page 254: 
	Page 255: 
	Page 256: 
	Page 257: 
	Page 258: 
	Page 259: 
	Page 260: 
	Page 261: 

	Button 1806: 
	Page 177: 
	Page 178: 
	Page 179: 
	Page 180: 
	Page 181: 
	Page 182: 
	Page 183: 
	Page 184: 
	Page 185: 
	Page 186: 
	Page 187: 
	Page 188: 
	Page 189: 
	Page 190: 
	Page 191: 
	Page 192: 
	Page 193: 
	Page 194: 
	Page 195: 
	Page 196: 
	Page 197: 
	Page 198: 
	Page 199: 
	Page 200: 
	Page 201: 
	Page 202: 
	Page 203: 
	Page 204: 
	Page 205: 
	Page 206: 
	Page 207: 
	Page 208: 
	Page 209: 
	Page 210: 
	Page 211: 
	Page 212: 
	Page 213: 
	Page 214: 
	Page 215: 
	Page 216: 
	Page 217: 
	Page 218: 
	Page 219: 
	Page 220: 
	Page 221: 
	Page 222: 
	Page 223: 
	Page 224: 
	Page 225: 
	Page 226: 
	Page 227: 
	Page 228: 
	Page 229: 
	Page 230: 
	Page 231: 
	Page 232: 
	Page 233: 
	Page 234: 
	Page 235: 
	Page 236: 
	Page 237: 
	Page 238: 
	Page 239: 
	Page 240: 
	Page 241: 
	Page 242: 
	Page 243: 
	Page 244: 
	Page 245: 
	Page 246: 
	Page 247: 
	Page 248: 
	Page 249: 
	Page 250: 
	Page 251: 
	Page 252: 
	Page 253: 
	Page 254: 
	Page 255: 
	Page 256: 
	Page 257: 
	Page 258: 
	Page 259: 
	Page 260: 
	Page 261: 

	Button 1807: 
	Page 177: 
	Page 178: 
	Page 179: 
	Page 180: 
	Page 181: 
	Page 182: 
	Page 183: 
	Page 184: 
	Page 185: 
	Page 186: 
	Page 187: 
	Page 188: 
	Page 189: 
	Page 190: 
	Page 191: 
	Page 192: 
	Page 193: 
	Page 194: 
	Page 195: 
	Page 196: 
	Page 197: 
	Page 198: 
	Page 199: 
	Page 200: 
	Page 201: 
	Page 202: 
	Page 203: 
	Page 204: 
	Page 205: 
	Page 206: 
	Page 207: 
	Page 208: 
	Page 209: 
	Page 210: 
	Page 211: 
	Page 212: 
	Page 213: 
	Page 214: 
	Page 215: 
	Page 216: 
	Page 217: 
	Page 218: 
	Page 219: 
	Page 220: 
	Page 221: 
	Page 222: 
	Page 223: 
	Page 224: 
	Page 225: 
	Page 226: 
	Page 227: 
	Page 228: 
	Page 229: 
	Page 230: 
	Page 231: 
	Page 232: 
	Page 233: 
	Page 234: 
	Page 235: 
	Page 236: 
	Page 237: 
	Page 238: 
	Page 239: 
	Page 240: 
	Page 241: 
	Page 242: 
	Page 243: 
	Page 244: 
	Page 245: 
	Page 246: 
	Page 247: 
	Page 248: 
	Page 249: 
	Page 250: 
	Page 251: 
	Page 252: 
	Page 253: 
	Page 254: 
	Page 255: 
	Page 256: 
	Page 257: 
	Page 258: 
	Page 259: 
	Page 260: 
	Page 261: 

	Button 1720: 
	Page 178: 
	Page 179: 
	Page 180: 
	Page 181: 
	Page 182: 
	Page 183: 
	Page 184: 
	Page 185: 
	Page 186: 
	Page 187: 
	Page 188: 
	Page 189: 
	Page 190: 
	Page 191: 
	Page 192: 
	Page 193: 
	Page 194: 
	Page 195: 
	Page 196: 
	Page 197: 
	Page 198: 
	Page 199: 
	Page 200: 
	Page 201: 
	Page 202: 
	Page 203: 
	Page 204: 
	Page 205: 
	Page 206: 
	Page 207: 
	Page 208: 
	Page 209: 
	Page 210: 
	Page 211: 
	Page 212: 
	Page 213: 
	Page 214: 
	Page 215: 
	Page 216: 
	Page 217: 
	Page 218: 
	Page 219: 
	Page 220: 
	Page 221: 
	Page 222: 
	Page 223: 
	Page 224: 
	Page 225: 
	Page 226: 
	Page 227: 
	Page 228: 
	Page 229: 
	Page 230: 
	Page 231: 
	Page 232: 
	Page 233: 
	Page 234: 
	Page 235: 
	Page 236: 
	Page 237: 
	Page 238: 
	Page 239: 

	Button 1721: 
	Page 178: 
	Page 179: 
	Page 180: 
	Page 181: 
	Page 182: 
	Page 183: 
	Page 184: 
	Page 185: 
	Page 186: 
	Page 187: 
	Page 188: 
	Page 189: 
	Page 190: 
	Page 191: 
	Page 192: 
	Page 193: 
	Page 194: 
	Page 195: 
	Page 196: 
	Page 197: 
	Page 198: 
	Page 199: 
	Page 200: 
	Page 201: 
	Page 202: 
	Page 203: 
	Page 204: 
	Page 205: 
	Page 206: 
	Page 207: 
	Page 208: 
	Page 209: 
	Page 210: 
	Page 211: 
	Page 212: 
	Page 213: 
	Page 214: 
	Page 215: 
	Page 216: 
	Page 217: 
	Page 218: 
	Page 219: 
	Page 220: 
	Page 221: 
	Page 222: 
	Page 223: 
	Page 224: 
	Page 225: 
	Page 226: 
	Page 227: 
	Page 228: 
	Page 229: 
	Page 230: 
	Page 231: 
	Page 232: 
	Page 233: 
	Page 234: 
	Page 235: 
	Page 236: 
	Page 237: 
	Page 238: 
	Page 239: 

	Button 1722: 
	Page 178: 
	Page 179: 
	Page 180: 
	Page 181: 
	Page 182: 
	Page 183: 
	Page 184: 
	Page 185: 
	Page 186: 
	Page 187: 
	Page 188: 
	Page 189: 
	Page 190: 
	Page 191: 
	Page 192: 
	Page 193: 
	Page 194: 
	Page 195: 
	Page 196: 
	Page 197: 
	Page 198: 
	Page 199: 
	Page 200: 
	Page 201: 
	Page 202: 
	Page 203: 
	Page 204: 
	Page 205: 
	Page 206: 
	Page 207: 
	Page 208: 
	Page 209: 
	Page 210: 
	Page 211: 
	Page 212: 
	Page 213: 
	Page 214: 
	Page 215: 
	Page 216: 
	Page 217: 
	Page 218: 
	Page 219: 
	Page 220: 
	Page 221: 
	Page 222: 
	Page 223: 
	Page 224: 
	Page 225: 
	Page 226: 
	Page 227: 
	Page 228: 
	Page 229: 
	Page 230: 
	Page 231: 
	Page 232: 
	Page 233: 
	Page 234: 
	Page 235: 
	Page 236: 
	Page 237: 
	Page 238: 
	Page 239: 

	Button 1723: 
	Page 178: 
	Page 179: 
	Page 180: 
	Page 181: 
	Page 182: 
	Page 183: 
	Page 184: 
	Page 185: 
	Page 186: 
	Page 187: 
	Page 188: 
	Page 189: 
	Page 190: 
	Page 191: 
	Page 192: 
	Page 193: 
	Page 194: 
	Page 195: 
	Page 196: 
	Page 197: 
	Page 198: 
	Page 199: 
	Page 200: 
	Page 201: 
	Page 202: 
	Page 203: 
	Page 204: 
	Page 205: 
	Page 206: 
	Page 207: 
	Page 208: 
	Page 209: 
	Page 210: 
	Page 211: 
	Page 212: 
	Page 213: 
	Page 214: 
	Page 215: 
	Page 216: 
	Page 217: 
	Page 218: 
	Page 219: 
	Page 220: 
	Page 221: 
	Page 222: 
	Page 223: 
	Page 224: 
	Page 225: 
	Page 226: 
	Page 227: 
	Page 228: 
	Page 229: 
	Page 230: 
	Page 231: 
	Page 232: 
	Page 233: 
	Page 234: 
	Page 235: 
	Page 236: 
	Page 237: 
	Page 238: 
	Page 239: 

	Button 1724: 
	Page 178: 
	Page 179: 
	Page 180: 
	Page 181: 
	Page 182: 
	Page 183: 
	Page 184: 
	Page 185: 
	Page 186: 
	Page 187: 
	Page 188: 
	Page 189: 
	Page 190: 
	Page 191: 
	Page 192: 
	Page 193: 
	Page 194: 
	Page 195: 
	Page 196: 
	Page 197: 
	Page 198: 
	Page 199: 
	Page 200: 
	Page 201: 
	Page 202: 
	Page 203: 
	Page 204: 
	Page 205: 
	Page 206: 
	Page 207: 
	Page 208: 
	Page 209: 
	Page 210: 
	Page 211: 
	Page 212: 
	Page 213: 
	Page 214: 
	Page 215: 
	Page 216: 
	Page 217: 
	Page 218: 
	Page 219: 
	Page 220: 
	Page 221: 
	Page 222: 
	Page 223: 
	Page 224: 
	Page 225: 
	Page 226: 
	Page 227: 
	Page 228: 
	Page 229: 
	Page 230: 
	Page 231: 
	Page 232: 
	Page 233: 
	Page 234: 
	Page 235: 
	Page 236: 
	Page 237: 
	Page 238: 
	Page 239: 

	Button 1725: 
	Page 178: 
	Page 179: 
	Page 180: 
	Page 181: 
	Page 182: 
	Page 183: 
	Page 184: 
	Page 185: 
	Page 186: 
	Page 187: 
	Page 188: 
	Page 189: 
	Page 190: 
	Page 191: 
	Page 192: 
	Page 193: 
	Page 194: 
	Page 195: 
	Page 196: 
	Page 197: 
	Page 198: 
	Page 199: 
	Page 200: 
	Page 201: 
	Page 202: 
	Page 203: 
	Page 204: 
	Page 205: 
	Page 206: 
	Page 207: 
	Page 208: 
	Page 209: 
	Page 210: 
	Page 211: 
	Page 212: 
	Page 213: 
	Page 214: 
	Page 215: 
	Page 216: 
	Page 217: 
	Page 218: 
	Page 219: 
	Page 220: 
	Page 221: 
	Page 222: 
	Page 223: 
	Page 224: 
	Page 225: 
	Page 226: 
	Page 227: 
	Page 228: 
	Page 229: 
	Page 230: 
	Page 231: 
	Page 232: 
	Page 233: 
	Page 234: 
	Page 235: 
	Page 236: 
	Page 237: 
	Page 238: 
	Page 239: 

	Button 1726: 
	Page 178: 
	Page 179: 
	Page 180: 
	Page 181: 
	Page 182: 
	Page 183: 
	Page 184: 
	Page 185: 
	Page 186: 
	Page 187: 
	Page 188: 
	Page 189: 
	Page 190: 
	Page 191: 
	Page 192: 
	Page 193: 
	Page 194: 
	Page 195: 
	Page 196: 
	Page 197: 
	Page 198: 
	Page 199: 
	Page 200: 
	Page 201: 
	Page 202: 
	Page 203: 
	Page 204: 
	Page 205: 
	Page 206: 
	Page 207: 
	Page 208: 
	Page 209: 
	Page 210: 
	Page 211: 
	Page 212: 
	Page 213: 
	Page 214: 
	Page 215: 
	Page 216: 
	Page 217: 
	Page 218: 
	Page 219: 
	Page 220: 
	Page 221: 
	Page 222: 
	Page 223: 
	Page 224: 
	Page 225: 
	Page 226: 
	Page 227: 
	Page 228: 
	Page 229: 
	Page 230: 
	Page 231: 
	Page 232: 
	Page 233: 
	Page 234: 
	Page 235: 
	Page 236: 
	Page 237: 
	Page 238: 
	Page 239: 

	Button 1727: 
	Page 178: 
	Page 179: 
	Page 180: 
	Page 181: 
	Page 182: 
	Page 183: 
	Page 184: 
	Page 185: 
	Page 186: 
	Page 187: 
	Page 188: 
	Page 189: 
	Page 190: 
	Page 191: 
	Page 192: 
	Page 193: 
	Page 194: 
	Page 195: 
	Page 196: 
	Page 197: 
	Page 198: 
	Page 199: 
	Page 200: 
	Page 201: 
	Page 202: 
	Page 203: 
	Page 204: 
	Page 205: 
	Page 206: 
	Page 207: 
	Page 208: 
	Page 209: 
	Page 210: 
	Page 211: 
	Page 212: 
	Page 213: 
	Page 214: 
	Page 215: 
	Page 216: 
	Page 217: 
	Page 218: 
	Page 219: 
	Page 220: 
	Page 221: 
	Page 222: 
	Page 223: 
	Page 224: 
	Page 225: 
	Page 226: 
	Page 227: 
	Page 228: 
	Page 229: 
	Page 230: 
	Page 231: 
	Page 232: 
	Page 233: 
	Page 234: 
	Page 235: 
	Page 236: 
	Page 237: 
	Page 238: 
	Page 239: 

	Button 1728: 
	Page 178: 
	Page 179: 
	Page 180: 
	Page 181: 
	Page 182: 
	Page 183: 
	Page 184: 
	Page 185: 
	Page 186: 
	Page 187: 
	Page 188: 
	Page 189: 
	Page 190: 
	Page 191: 
	Page 192: 
	Page 193: 
	Page 194: 
	Page 195: 
	Page 196: 
	Page 197: 
	Page 198: 
	Page 199: 
	Page 200: 
	Page 201: 
	Page 202: 
	Page 203: 
	Page 204: 
	Page 205: 
	Page 206: 
	Page 207: 
	Page 208: 
	Page 209: 
	Page 210: 
	Page 211: 
	Page 212: 
	Page 213: 
	Page 214: 
	Page 215: 
	Page 216: 
	Page 217: 
	Page 218: 
	Page 219: 
	Page 220: 
	Page 221: 
	Page 222: 
	Page 223: 
	Page 224: 
	Page 225: 
	Page 226: 
	Page 227: 
	Page 228: 
	Page 229: 
	Page 230: 
	Page 231: 
	Page 232: 
	Page 233: 
	Page 234: 
	Page 235: 
	Page 236: 
	Page 237: 
	Page 238: 
	Page 239: 

	Button 1729: 
	Page 178: 
	Page 179: 
	Page 180: 
	Page 181: 
	Page 182: 
	Page 183: 
	Page 184: 
	Page 185: 
	Page 186: 
	Page 187: 
	Page 188: 
	Page 189: 
	Page 190: 
	Page 191: 
	Page 192: 
	Page 193: 
	Page 194: 
	Page 195: 
	Page 196: 
	Page 197: 
	Page 198: 
	Page 199: 
	Page 200: 
	Page 201: 
	Page 202: 
	Page 203: 
	Page 204: 
	Page 205: 
	Page 206: 
	Page 207: 
	Page 208: 
	Page 209: 
	Page 210: 
	Page 211: 
	Page 212: 
	Page 213: 
	Page 214: 
	Page 215: 
	Page 216: 
	Page 217: 
	Page 218: 
	Page 219: 
	Page 220: 
	Page 221: 
	Page 222: 
	Page 223: 
	Page 224: 
	Page 225: 
	Page 226: 
	Page 227: 
	Page 228: 
	Page 229: 
	Page 230: 
	Page 231: 
	Page 232: 
	Page 233: 
	Page 234: 
	Page 235: 
	Page 236: 
	Page 237: 
	Page 238: 
	Page 239: 

	Button 1730: 
	Page 178: 
	Page 179: 
	Page 180: 
	Page 181: 
	Page 182: 
	Page 183: 
	Page 184: 
	Page 185: 
	Page 186: 
	Page 187: 
	Page 188: 
	Page 189: 
	Page 190: 
	Page 191: 
	Page 192: 
	Page 193: 
	Page 194: 
	Page 195: 
	Page 196: 
	Page 197: 
	Page 198: 
	Page 199: 
	Page 200: 
	Page 201: 
	Page 202: 
	Page 203: 
	Page 204: 
	Page 205: 
	Page 206: 
	Page 207: 
	Page 208: 
	Page 209: 
	Page 210: 
	Page 211: 
	Page 212: 
	Page 213: 
	Page 214: 
	Page 215: 
	Page 216: 
	Page 217: 
	Page 218: 
	Page 219: 
	Page 220: 
	Page 221: 
	Page 222: 
	Page 223: 
	Page 224: 
	Page 225: 
	Page 226: 
	Page 227: 
	Page 228: 
	Page 229: 
	Page 230: 
	Page 231: 
	Page 232: 
	Page 233: 
	Page 234: 
	Page 235: 
	Page 236: 
	Page 237: 
	Page 238: 
	Page 239: 

	Button 1731: 
	Page 178: 
	Page 179: 
	Page 180: 
	Page 181: 
	Page 182: 
	Page 183: 
	Page 184: 
	Page 185: 
	Page 186: 
	Page 187: 
	Page 188: 
	Page 189: 
	Page 190: 
	Page 191: 
	Page 192: 
	Page 193: 
	Page 194: 
	Page 195: 
	Page 196: 
	Page 197: 
	Page 198: 
	Page 199: 
	Page 200: 
	Page 201: 
	Page 202: 
	Page 203: 
	Page 204: 
	Page 205: 
	Page 206: 
	Page 207: 
	Page 208: 
	Page 209: 
	Page 210: 
	Page 211: 
	Page 212: 
	Page 213: 
	Page 214: 
	Page 215: 
	Page 216: 
	Page 217: 
	Page 218: 
	Page 219: 
	Page 220: 
	Page 221: 
	Page 222: 
	Page 223: 
	Page 224: 
	Page 225: 
	Page 226: 
	Page 227: 
	Page 228: 
	Page 229: 
	Page 230: 
	Page 231: 
	Page 232: 
	Page 233: 
	Page 234: 
	Page 235: 
	Page 236: 
	Page 237: 
	Page 238: 
	Page 239: 

	Button 1732: 
	Page 178: 
	Page 179: 
	Page 180: 
	Page 181: 
	Page 182: 
	Page 183: 
	Page 184: 
	Page 185: 
	Page 186: 
	Page 187: 
	Page 188: 
	Page 189: 
	Page 190: 
	Page 191: 
	Page 192: 
	Page 193: 
	Page 194: 
	Page 195: 
	Page 196: 
	Page 197: 
	Page 198: 
	Page 199: 
	Page 200: 
	Page 201: 
	Page 202: 
	Page 203: 
	Page 204: 
	Page 205: 
	Page 206: 
	Page 207: 
	Page 208: 
	Page 209: 
	Page 210: 
	Page 211: 
	Page 212: 
	Page 213: 
	Page 214: 
	Page 215: 
	Page 216: 
	Page 217: 
	Page 218: 
	Page 219: 
	Page 220: 
	Page 221: 
	Page 222: 
	Page 223: 
	Page 224: 
	Page 225: 
	Page 226: 
	Page 227: 
	Page 228: 
	Page 229: 
	Page 230: 
	Page 231: 
	Page 232: 
	Page 233: 
	Page 234: 
	Page 235: 
	Page 236: 
	Page 237: 
	Page 238: 
	Page 239: 

	Button 1733: 
	Page 178: 
	Page 179: 
	Page 180: 
	Page 181: 
	Page 182: 
	Page 183: 
	Page 184: 
	Page 185: 
	Page 186: 
	Page 187: 
	Page 188: 
	Page 189: 
	Page 190: 
	Page 191: 
	Page 192: 
	Page 193: 
	Page 194: 
	Page 195: 
	Page 196: 
	Page 197: 
	Page 198: 
	Page 199: 
	Page 200: 
	Page 201: 
	Page 202: 
	Page 203: 
	Page 204: 
	Page 205: 
	Page 206: 
	Page 207: 
	Page 208: 
	Page 209: 
	Page 210: 
	Page 211: 
	Page 212: 
	Page 213: 
	Page 214: 
	Page 215: 
	Page 216: 
	Page 217: 
	Page 218: 
	Page 219: 
	Page 220: 
	Page 221: 
	Page 222: 
	Page 223: 
	Page 224: 
	Page 225: 
	Page 226: 
	Page 227: 
	Page 228: 
	Page 229: 
	Page 230: 
	Page 231: 
	Page 232: 
	Page 233: 
	Page 234: 
	Page 235: 
	Page 236: 
	Page 237: 
	Page 238: 
	Page 239: 

	Button 1734: 
	Page 178: 
	Page 179: 
	Page 180: 
	Page 181: 
	Page 182: 
	Page 183: 
	Page 184: 
	Page 185: 
	Page 186: 
	Page 187: 
	Page 188: 
	Page 189: 
	Page 190: 
	Page 191: 
	Page 192: 
	Page 193: 
	Page 194: 
	Page 195: 
	Page 196: 
	Page 197: 
	Page 198: 
	Page 199: 
	Page 200: 
	Page 201: 
	Page 202: 
	Page 203: 
	Page 204: 
	Page 205: 
	Page 206: 
	Page 207: 
	Page 208: 
	Page 209: 
	Page 210: 
	Page 211: 
	Page 212: 
	Page 213: 
	Page 214: 
	Page 215: 
	Page 216: 
	Page 217: 
	Page 218: 
	Page 219: 
	Page 220: 
	Page 221: 
	Page 222: 
	Page 223: 
	Page 224: 
	Page 225: 
	Page 226: 
	Page 227: 
	Page 228: 
	Page 229: 
	Page 230: 
	Page 231: 
	Page 232: 
	Page 233: 
	Page 234: 
	Page 235: 
	Page 236: 
	Page 237: 
	Page 238: 
	Page 239: 

	Button 10111: 
	Page 178: 
	Page 179: 
	Page 180: 
	Page 181: 
	Page 182: 
	Page 183: 
	Page 184: 
	Page 185: 
	Page 186: 
	Page 187: 
	Page 188: 
	Page 189: 
	Page 190: 
	Page 191: 
	Page 192: 
	Page 193: 
	Page 194: 
	Page 195: 
	Page 196: 
	Page 197: 
	Page 198: 
	Page 199: 
	Page 200: 
	Page 201: 
	Page 202: 
	Page 203: 
	Page 204: 
	Page 205: 
	Page 206: 
	Page 207: 
	Page 208: 
	Page 209: 
	Page 210: 
	Page 211: 
	Page 212: 
	Page 213: 
	Page 214: 
	Page 215: 
	Page 216: 
	Page 217: 
	Page 218: 
	Page 219: 
	Page 220: 
	Page 221: 
	Page 222: 
	Page 223: 
	Page 224: 
	Page 225: 
	Page 226: 
	Page 227: 
	Page 228: 
	Page 229: 
	Page 230: 
	Page 231: 
	Page 232: 
	Page 233: 
	Page 234: 
	Page 235: 
	Page 236: 
	Page 237: 
	Page 238: 
	Page 239: 

	Button 10112: 
	Page 178: 
	Page 179: 
	Page 180: 
	Page 181: 
	Page 182: 
	Page 183: 
	Page 184: 
	Page 185: 
	Page 186: 
	Page 187: 
	Page 188: 
	Page 189: 
	Page 190: 
	Page 191: 
	Page 192: 
	Page 193: 
	Page 194: 
	Page 195: 
	Page 196: 
	Page 197: 
	Page 198: 
	Page 199: 
	Page 200: 
	Page 201: 
	Page 202: 
	Page 203: 
	Page 204: 
	Page 205: 
	Page 206: 
	Page 207: 
	Page 208: 
	Page 209: 
	Page 210: 
	Page 211: 
	Page 212: 
	Page 213: 
	Page 214: 
	Page 215: 
	Page 216: 
	Page 217: 
	Page 218: 
	Page 219: 
	Page 220: 
	Page 221: 
	Page 222: 
	Page 223: 
	Page 224: 
	Page 225: 
	Page 226: 
	Page 227: 
	Page 228: 
	Page 229: 
	Page 230: 
	Page 231: 
	Page 232: 
	Page 233: 
	Page 234: 
	Page 235: 
	Page 236: 
	Page 237: 
	Page 238: 
	Page 239: 

	Button 10113: 
	Page 178: 
	Page 179: 
	Page 180: 
	Page 181: 
	Page 182: 
	Page 183: 
	Page 184: 
	Page 185: 
	Page 186: 
	Page 187: 
	Page 188: 
	Page 189: 
	Page 190: 
	Page 191: 
	Page 192: 
	Page 193: 
	Page 194: 
	Page 195: 
	Page 196: 
	Page 197: 
	Page 198: 
	Page 199: 
	Page 200: 
	Page 201: 
	Page 202: 
	Page 203: 
	Page 204: 
	Page 205: 
	Page 206: 
	Page 207: 
	Page 208: 
	Page 209: 
	Page 210: 
	Page 211: 
	Page 212: 
	Page 213: 
	Page 214: 
	Page 215: 
	Page 216: 
	Page 217: 
	Page 218: 
	Page 219: 
	Page 220: 
	Page 221: 
	Page 222: 
	Page 223: 
	Page 224: 
	Page 225: 
	Page 226: 
	Page 227: 
	Page 228: 
	Page 229: 
	Page 230: 
	Page 231: 
	Page 232: 
	Page 233: 
	Page 234: 
	Page 235: 
	Page 236: 
	Page 237: 
	Page 238: 
	Page 239: 

	Button 10114: 
	Page 178: 
	Page 179: 
	Page 180: 
	Page 181: 
	Page 182: 
	Page 183: 
	Page 184: 
	Page 185: 
	Page 186: 
	Page 187: 
	Page 188: 
	Page 189: 
	Page 190: 
	Page 191: 
	Page 192: 
	Page 193: 
	Page 194: 
	Page 195: 
	Page 196: 
	Page 197: 
	Page 198: 
	Page 199: 
	Page 200: 
	Page 201: 
	Page 202: 
	Page 203: 
	Page 204: 
	Page 205: 
	Page 206: 
	Page 207: 
	Page 208: 
	Page 209: 
	Page 210: 
	Page 211: 
	Page 212: 
	Page 213: 
	Page 214: 
	Page 215: 
	Page 216: 
	Page 217: 
	Page 218: 
	Page 219: 
	Page 220: 
	Page 221: 
	Page 222: 
	Page 223: 
	Page 224: 
	Page 225: 
	Page 226: 
	Page 227: 
	Page 228: 
	Page 229: 
	Page 230: 
	Page 231: 
	Page 232: 
	Page 233: 
	Page 234: 
	Page 235: 
	Page 236: 
	Page 237: 
	Page 238: 
	Page 239: 

	Button 10115: 
	Page 178: 
	Page 179: 
	Page 180: 
	Page 181: 
	Page 182: 
	Page 183: 
	Page 184: 
	Page 185: 
	Page 186: 
	Page 187: 
	Page 188: 
	Page 189: 
	Page 190: 
	Page 191: 
	Page 192: 
	Page 193: 
	Page 194: 
	Page 195: 
	Page 196: 
	Page 197: 
	Page 198: 
	Page 199: 
	Page 200: 
	Page 201: 
	Page 202: 
	Page 203: 
	Page 204: 
	Page 205: 
	Page 206: 
	Page 207: 
	Page 208: 
	Page 209: 
	Page 210: 
	Page 211: 
	Page 212: 
	Page 213: 
	Page 214: 
	Page 215: 
	Page 216: 
	Page 217: 
	Page 218: 
	Page 219: 
	Page 220: 
	Page 221: 
	Page 222: 
	Page 223: 
	Page 224: 
	Page 225: 
	Page 226: 
	Page 227: 
	Page 228: 
	Page 229: 
	Page 230: 
	Page 231: 
	Page 232: 
	Page 233: 
	Page 234: 
	Page 235: 
	Page 236: 
	Page 237: 
	Page 238: 
	Page 239: 

	Button 10116: 
	Page 178: 
	Page 179: 
	Page 180: 
	Page 181: 
	Page 182: 
	Page 183: 
	Page 184: 
	Page 185: 
	Page 186: 
	Page 187: 
	Page 188: 
	Page 189: 
	Page 190: 
	Page 191: 
	Page 192: 
	Page 193: 
	Page 194: 
	Page 195: 
	Page 196: 
	Page 197: 
	Page 198: 
	Page 199: 
	Page 200: 
	Page 201: 
	Page 202: 
	Page 203: 
	Page 204: 
	Page 205: 
	Page 206: 
	Page 207: 
	Page 208: 
	Page 209: 
	Page 210: 
	Page 211: 
	Page 212: 
	Page 213: 
	Page 214: 
	Page 215: 
	Page 216: 
	Page 217: 
	Page 218: 
	Page 219: 
	Page 220: 
	Page 221: 
	Page 222: 
	Page 223: 
	Page 224: 
	Page 225: 
	Page 226: 
	Page 227: 
	Page 228: 
	Page 229: 
	Page 230: 
	Page 231: 
	Page 232: 
	Page 233: 
	Page 234: 
	Page 235: 
	Page 236: 
	Page 237: 
	Page 238: 
	Page 239: 

	Button 10117: 
	Page 178: 
	Page 179: 
	Page 180: 
	Page 181: 
	Page 182: 
	Page 183: 
	Page 184: 
	Page 185: 
	Page 186: 
	Page 187: 
	Page 188: 
	Page 189: 
	Page 190: 
	Page 191: 
	Page 192: 
	Page 193: 
	Page 194: 
	Page 195: 
	Page 196: 
	Page 197: 
	Page 198: 
	Page 199: 
	Page 200: 
	Page 201: 
	Page 202: 
	Page 203: 
	Page 204: 
	Page 205: 
	Page 206: 
	Page 207: 
	Page 208: 
	Page 209: 
	Page 210: 
	Page 211: 
	Page 212: 
	Page 213: 
	Page 214: 
	Page 215: 
	Page 216: 
	Page 217: 
	Page 218: 
	Page 219: 
	Page 220: 
	Page 221: 
	Page 222: 
	Page 223: 
	Page 224: 
	Page 225: 
	Page 226: 
	Page 227: 
	Page 228: 
	Page 229: 
	Page 230: 
	Page 231: 
	Page 232: 
	Page 233: 
	Page 234: 
	Page 235: 
	Page 236: 
	Page 237: 
	Page 238: 
	Page 239: 

	Button 10118: 
	Page 178: 
	Page 179: 
	Page 180: 
	Page 181: 
	Page 182: 
	Page 183: 
	Page 184: 
	Page 185: 
	Page 186: 
	Page 187: 
	Page 188: 
	Page 189: 
	Page 190: 
	Page 191: 
	Page 192: 
	Page 193: 
	Page 194: 
	Page 195: 
	Page 196: 
	Page 197: 
	Page 198: 
	Page 199: 
	Page 200: 
	Page 201: 
	Page 202: 
	Page 203: 
	Page 204: 
	Page 205: 
	Page 206: 
	Page 207: 
	Page 208: 
	Page 209: 
	Page 210: 
	Page 211: 
	Page 212: 
	Page 213: 
	Page 214: 
	Page 215: 
	Page 216: 
	Page 217: 
	Page 218: 
	Page 219: 
	Page 220: 
	Page 221: 
	Page 222: 
	Page 223: 
	Page 224: 
	Page 225: 
	Page 226: 
	Page 227: 
	Page 228: 
	Page 229: 
	Page 230: 
	Page 231: 
	Page 232: 
	Page 233: 
	Page 234: 
	Page 235: 
	Page 236: 
	Page 237: 
	Page 238: 
	Page 239: 

	Button 10119: 
	Page 178: 
	Page 179: 
	Page 180: 
	Page 181: 
	Page 182: 
	Page 183: 
	Page 184: 
	Page 185: 
	Page 186: 
	Page 187: 
	Page 188: 
	Page 189: 
	Page 190: 
	Page 191: 
	Page 192: 
	Page 193: 
	Page 194: 
	Page 195: 
	Page 196: 
	Page 197: 
	Page 198: 
	Page 199: 
	Page 200: 
	Page 201: 
	Page 202: 
	Page 203: 
	Page 204: 
	Page 205: 
	Page 206: 
	Page 207: 
	Page 208: 
	Page 209: 
	Page 210: 
	Page 211: 
	Page 212: 
	Page 213: 
	Page 214: 
	Page 215: 
	Page 216: 
	Page 217: 
	Page 218: 
	Page 219: 
	Page 220: 
	Page 221: 
	Page 222: 
	Page 223: 
	Page 224: 
	Page 225: 
	Page 226: 
	Page 227: 
	Page 228: 
	Page 229: 
	Page 230: 
	Page 231: 
	Page 232: 
	Page 233: 
	Page 234: 
	Page 235: 
	Page 236: 
	Page 237: 
	Page 238: 
	Page 239: 

	Button 101010: 
	Page 178: 
	Page 179: 
	Page 180: 
	Page 181: 
	Page 182: 
	Page 183: 
	Page 184: 
	Page 185: 
	Page 186: 
	Page 187: 
	Page 188: 
	Page 189: 
	Page 190: 
	Page 191: 
	Page 192: 
	Page 193: 
	Page 194: 
	Page 195: 
	Page 196: 
	Page 197: 
	Page 198: 
	Page 199: 
	Page 200: 
	Page 201: 
	Page 202: 
	Page 203: 
	Page 204: 
	Page 205: 
	Page 206: 
	Page 207: 
	Page 208: 
	Page 209: 
	Page 210: 
	Page 211: 
	Page 212: 
	Page 213: 
	Page 214: 
	Page 215: 
	Page 216: 
	Page 217: 
	Page 218: 
	Page 219: 
	Page 220: 
	Page 221: 
	Page 222: 
	Page 223: 
	Page 224: 
	Page 225: 
	Page 226: 
	Page 227: 
	Page 228: 
	Page 229: 
	Page 230: 
	Page 231: 
	Page 232: 
	Page 233: 
	Page 234: 
	Page 235: 
	Page 236: 
	Page 237: 
	Page 238: 
	Page 239: 

	Button 16045: 
	Page 178: 
	Page 179: 
	Page 180: 
	Page 181: 
	Page 182: 
	Page 183: 
	Page 184: 
	Page 185: 
	Page 186: 
	Page 187: 
	Page 188: 
	Page 189: 
	Page 190: 
	Page 191: 
	Page 192: 
	Page 193: 
	Page 194: 
	Page 195: 
	Page 196: 
	Page 197: 
	Page 198: 
	Page 199: 
	Page 200: 
	Page 201: 
	Page 202: 
	Page 203: 
	Page 204: 
	Page 205: 
	Page 206: 
	Page 207: 
	Page 208: 
	Page 209: 
	Page 210: 
	Page 211: 
	Page 212: 
	Page 213: 
	Page 214: 
	Page 215: 
	Page 216: 
	Page 217: 
	Page 218: 
	Page 219: 
	Page 220: 
	Page 221: 
	Page 222: 
	Page 223: 
	Page 224: 
	Page 225: 
	Page 226: 
	Page 227: 
	Page 228: 
	Page 229: 
	Page 230: 
	Page 231: 
	Page 232: 
	Page 233: 
	Page 234: 
	Page 235: 
	Page 236: 
	Page 237: 
	Page 238: 
	Page 239: 

	Button 16046: 
	Page 178: 
	Page 179: 
	Page 180: 
	Page 181: 
	Page 182: 
	Page 183: 
	Page 184: 
	Page 185: 
	Page 186: 
	Page 187: 
	Page 188: 
	Page 189: 
	Page 190: 
	Page 191: 
	Page 192: 
	Page 193: 
	Page 194: 
	Page 195: 
	Page 196: 
	Page 197: 
	Page 198: 
	Page 199: 
	Page 200: 
	Page 201: 
	Page 202: 
	Page 203: 
	Page 204: 
	Page 205: 
	Page 206: 
	Page 207: 
	Page 208: 
	Page 209: 
	Page 210: 
	Page 211: 
	Page 212: 
	Page 213: 
	Page 214: 
	Page 215: 
	Page 216: 
	Page 217: 
	Page 218: 
	Page 219: 
	Page 220: 
	Page 221: 
	Page 222: 
	Page 223: 
	Page 224: 
	Page 225: 
	Page 226: 
	Page 227: 
	Page 228: 
	Page 229: 
	Page 230: 
	Page 231: 
	Page 232: 
	Page 233: 
	Page 234: 
	Page 235: 
	Page 236: 
	Page 237: 
	Page 238: 
	Page 239: 

	Button 16047: 
	Page 178: 
	Page 179: 
	Page 180: 
	Page 181: 
	Page 182: 
	Page 183: 
	Page 184: 
	Page 185: 
	Page 186: 
	Page 187: 
	Page 188: 
	Page 189: 
	Page 190: 
	Page 191: 
	Page 192: 
	Page 193: 
	Page 194: 
	Page 195: 
	Page 196: 
	Page 197: 
	Page 198: 
	Page 199: 
	Page 200: 
	Page 201: 
	Page 202: 
	Page 203: 
	Page 204: 
	Page 205: 
	Page 206: 
	Page 207: 
	Page 208: 
	Page 209: 
	Page 210: 
	Page 211: 
	Page 212: 
	Page 213: 
	Page 214: 
	Page 215: 
	Page 216: 
	Page 217: 
	Page 218: 
	Page 219: 
	Page 220: 
	Page 221: 
	Page 222: 
	Page 223: 
	Page 224: 
	Page 225: 
	Page 226: 
	Page 227: 
	Page 228: 
	Page 229: 
	Page 230: 
	Page 231: 
	Page 232: 
	Page 233: 
	Page 234: 
	Page 235: 
	Page 236: 
	Page 237: 
	Page 238: 
	Page 239: 

	Button 16048: 
	Page 178: 
	Page 179: 
	Page 180: 
	Page 181: 
	Page 182: 
	Page 183: 
	Page 184: 
	Page 185: 
	Page 186: 
	Page 187: 
	Page 188: 
	Page 189: 
	Page 190: 
	Page 191: 
	Page 192: 
	Page 193: 
	Page 194: 
	Page 195: 
	Page 196: 
	Page 197: 
	Page 198: 
	Page 199: 
	Page 200: 
	Page 201: 
	Page 202: 
	Page 203: 
	Page 204: 
	Page 205: 
	Page 206: 
	Page 207: 
	Page 208: 
	Page 209: 
	Page 210: 
	Page 211: 
	Page 212: 
	Page 213: 
	Page 214: 
	Page 215: 
	Page 216: 
	Page 217: 
	Page 218: 
	Page 219: 
	Page 220: 
	Page 221: 
	Page 222: 
	Page 223: 
	Page 224: 
	Page 225: 
	Page 226: 
	Page 227: 
	Page 228: 
	Page 229: 
	Page 230: 
	Page 231: 
	Page 232: 
	Page 233: 
	Page 234: 
	Page 235: 
	Page 236: 
	Page 237: 
	Page 238: 
	Page 239: 

	Button 16049: 
	Page 178: 
	Page 179: 
	Page 180: 
	Page 181: 
	Page 182: 
	Page 183: 
	Page 184: 
	Page 185: 
	Page 186: 
	Page 187: 
	Page 188: 
	Page 189: 
	Page 190: 
	Page 191: 
	Page 192: 
	Page 193: 
	Page 194: 
	Page 195: 
	Page 196: 
	Page 197: 
	Page 198: 
	Page 199: 
	Page 200: 
	Page 201: 
	Page 202: 
	Page 203: 
	Page 204: 
	Page 205: 
	Page 206: 
	Page 207: 
	Page 208: 
	Page 209: 
	Page 210: 
	Page 211: 
	Page 212: 
	Page 213: 
	Page 214: 
	Page 215: 
	Page 216: 
	Page 217: 
	Page 218: 
	Page 219: 
	Page 220: 
	Page 221: 
	Page 222: 
	Page 223: 
	Page 224: 
	Page 225: 
	Page 226: 
	Page 227: 
	Page 228: 
	Page 229: 
	Page 230: 
	Page 231: 
	Page 232: 
	Page 233: 
	Page 234: 
	Page 235: 
	Page 236: 
	Page 237: 
	Page 238: 
	Page 239: 

	Button 16050: 
	Page 178: 
	Page 179: 
	Page 180: 
	Page 181: 
	Page 182: 
	Page 183: 
	Page 184: 
	Page 185: 
	Page 186: 
	Page 187: 
	Page 188: 
	Page 189: 
	Page 190: 
	Page 191: 
	Page 192: 
	Page 193: 
	Page 194: 
	Page 195: 
	Page 196: 
	Page 197: 
	Page 198: 
	Page 199: 
	Page 200: 
	Page 201: 
	Page 202: 
	Page 203: 
	Page 204: 
	Page 205: 
	Page 206: 
	Page 207: 
	Page 208: 
	Page 209: 
	Page 210: 
	Page 211: 
	Page 212: 
	Page 213: 
	Page 214: 
	Page 215: 
	Page 216: 
	Page 217: 
	Page 218: 
	Page 219: 
	Page 220: 
	Page 221: 
	Page 222: 
	Page 223: 
	Page 224: 
	Page 225: 
	Page 226: 
	Page 227: 
	Page 228: 
	Page 229: 
	Page 230: 
	Page 231: 
	Page 232: 
	Page 233: 
	Page 234: 
	Page 235: 
	Page 236: 
	Page 237: 
	Page 238: 
	Page 239: 

	Button 16051: 
	Page 178: 
	Page 179: 
	Page 180: 
	Page 181: 
	Page 182: 
	Page 183: 
	Page 184: 
	Page 185: 
	Page 186: 
	Page 187: 
	Page 188: 
	Page 189: 
	Page 190: 
	Page 191: 
	Page 192: 
	Page 193: 
	Page 194: 
	Page 195: 
	Page 196: 
	Page 197: 
	Page 198: 
	Page 199: 
	Page 200: 
	Page 201: 
	Page 202: 
	Page 203: 
	Page 204: 
	Page 205: 
	Page 206: 
	Page 207: 
	Page 208: 
	Page 209: 
	Page 210: 
	Page 211: 
	Page 212: 
	Page 213: 
	Page 214: 
	Page 215: 
	Page 216: 
	Page 217: 
	Page 218: 
	Page 219: 
	Page 220: 
	Page 221: 
	Page 222: 
	Page 223: 
	Page 224: 
	Page 225: 
	Page 226: 
	Page 227: 
	Page 228: 
	Page 229: 
	Page 230: 
	Page 231: 
	Page 232: 
	Page 233: 
	Page 234: 
	Page 235: 
	Page 236: 
	Page 237: 
	Page 238: 
	Page 239: 

	Button 4109: 
	Button 4108: 
	Button 4107: 
	Button 4106: 
	Button 41013: 
	Button 41017: 
	Button 41025: 
	Button 41014: 
	Button 41032: 
	Button 41015: 
	Button 41018: 
	Button 41016: 
	Button 41019: 
	Button 41020: 
	Button 41026: 
	Button 41027: 
	Button 41028: 
	Button 41031: 
	Button 41022: 
	Button 41023: 
	Button 41033: 
	Button 41051: 
	Button 41036: 
	Button 41040: 
	Button 41029: 
	Button 41030: 
	Button 41034: 
	Button 41035: 
	Button 41041: 
	Button 41042: 
	Button 41039: 
	Button 41044: 
	Button 41043: 
	Button 41045: 
	Button 41046: 
	Button 41047: 
	Button 41048: 
	Button 1750: 
	Page 240: 
	Page 241: 
	Page 242: 
	Page 243: 
	Page 244: 
	Page 245: 
	Page 246: 
	Page 247: 
	Page 248: 
	Page 249: 
	Page 250: 
	Page 251: 
	Page 252: 
	Page 253: 
	Page 254: 
	Page 255: 
	Page 256: 

	takaisin 15: 
	Page 240: 
	Page 241: 
	Page 242: 
	Page 243: 
	Page 244: 
	Page 245: 
	Page 246: 
	Page 247: 
	Page 248: 
	Page 249: 
	Page 250: 
	Page 251: 
	Page 252: 
	Page 253: 
	Page 254: 
	Page 255: 
	Page 256: 

	Button 1751: 
	Page 240: 
	Page 241: 
	Page 242: 
	Page 243: 
	Page 244: 
	Page 245: 
	Page 246: 
	Page 247: 
	Page 248: 
	Page 249: 
	Page 250: 
	Page 251: 
	Page 252: 
	Page 253: 
	Page 254: 
	Page 255: 
	Page 256: 

	Button 1752: 
	Page 240: 
	Page 241: 
	Page 242: 
	Page 243: 
	Page 244: 
	Page 245: 
	Page 246: 
	Page 247: 
	Page 248: 
	Page 249: 
	Page 250: 
	Page 251: 
	Page 252: 
	Page 253: 
	Page 254: 
	Page 255: 
	Page 256: 

	Button 1753: 
	Page 240: 
	Page 241: 
	Page 242: 
	Page 243: 
	Page 244: 
	Page 245: 
	Page 246: 
	Page 247: 
	Page 248: 
	Page 249: 
	Page 250: 
	Page 251: 
	Page 252: 
	Page 253: 
	Page 254: 
	Page 255: 
	Page 256: 

	Button 1754: 
	Page 240: 
	Page 241: 
	Page 242: 
	Page 243: 
	Page 244: 
	Page 245: 
	Page 246: 
	Page 247: 
	Page 248: 
	Page 249: 
	Page 250: 
	Page 251: 
	Page 252: 
	Page 253: 
	Page 254: 
	Page 255: 
	Page 256: 

	Button 1755: 
	Page 240: 
	Page 241: 
	Page 242: 
	Page 243: 
	Page 244: 
	Page 245: 
	Page 246: 
	Page 247: 
	Page 248: 
	Page 249: 
	Page 250: 
	Page 251: 
	Page 252: 
	Page 253: 
	Page 254: 
	Page 255: 
	Page 256: 

	Button 1756: 
	Page 240: 
	Page 241: 
	Page 242: 
	Page 243: 
	Page 244: 
	Page 245: 
	Page 246: 
	Page 247: 
	Page 248: 
	Page 249: 
	Page 250: 
	Page 251: 
	Page 252: 
	Page 253: 
	Page 254: 
	Page 255: 
	Page 256: 

	Button 1757: 
	Page 240: 
	Page 241: 
	Page 242: 
	Page 243: 
	Page 244: 
	Page 245: 
	Page 246: 
	Page 247: 
	Page 248: 
	Page 249: 
	Page 250: 
	Page 251: 
	Page 252: 
	Page 253: 
	Page 254: 
	Page 255: 
	Page 256: 

	Button 2037: 
	Page 240: 
	Page 241: 
	Page 242: 
	Page 243: 
	Page 244: 
	Page 245: 
	Page 246: 
	Page 247: 
	Page 248: 
	Page 249: 
	Page 250: 
	Page 251: 
	Page 252: 
	Page 253: 
	Page 254: 
	Page 255: 
	Page 256: 

	Button 2045: 
	Page 240: 
	Page 241: 
	Page 242: 
	Page 243: 
	Page 244: 
	Page 245: 
	Page 246: 
	Page 247: 
	Page 248: 
	Page 249: 
	Page 250: 
	Page 251: 
	Page 252: 
	Page 253: 
	Page 254: 
	Page 255: 
	Page 256: 

	Button 2041: 
	Page 240: 
	Page 241: 
	Page 242: 
	Page 243: 
	Page 244: 
	Page 245: 
	Page 246: 
	Page 247: 
	Page 248: 
	Page 249: 
	Page 250: 
	Page 251: 
	Page 252: 
	Page 253: 
	Page 254: 
	Page 255: 
	Page 256: 

	Button 2046: 
	Page 240: 
	Page 241: 
	Page 242: 
	Page 243: 
	Page 244: 
	Page 245: 
	Page 246: 
	Page 247: 
	Page 248: 
	Page 249: 
	Page 250: 
	Page 251: 
	Page 252: 
	Page 253: 
	Page 254: 
	Page 255: 
	Page 256: 

	Button 2039: 
	Page 240: 
	Page 241: 
	Page 242: 
	Page 243: 
	Page 244: 
	Page 245: 
	Page 246: 
	Page 247: 
	Page 248: 
	Page 249: 
	Page 250: 
	Page 251: 
	Page 252: 
	Page 253: 
	Page 254: 
	Page 255: 
	Page 256: 

	Button 2047: 
	Page 240: 
	Page 241: 
	Page 242: 
	Page 243: 
	Page 244: 
	Page 245: 
	Page 246: 
	Page 247: 
	Page 248: 
	Page 249: 
	Page 250: 
	Page 251: 
	Page 252: 
	Page 253: 
	Page 254: 
	Page 255: 
	Page 256: 

	Button 2042: 
	Page 240: 
	Page 241: 
	Page 242: 
	Page 243: 
	Page 244: 
	Page 245: 
	Page 246: 
	Page 247: 
	Page 248: 
	Page 249: 
	Page 250: 
	Page 251: 
	Page 252: 
	Page 253: 
	Page 254: 
	Page 255: 
	Page 256: 

	Button 2048: 
	Page 240: 
	Page 241: 
	Page 242: 
	Page 243: 
	Page 244: 
	Page 245: 
	Page 246: 
	Page 247: 
	Page 248: 
	Page 249: 
	Page 250: 
	Page 251: 
	Page 252: 
	Page 253: 
	Page 254: 
	Page 255: 
	Page 256: 

	Button 2053: 
	Page 240: 
	Page 241: 
	Page 242: 
	Page 243: 
	Page 244: 
	Page 245: 
	Page 246: 
	Page 247: 
	Page 248: 
	Page 249: 
	Page 250: 
	Page 251: 
	Page 252: 
	Page 253: 
	Page 254: 
	Page 255: 
	Page 256: 

	Button 2056: 
	Page 240: 
	Page 241: 
	Page 242: 
	Page 243: 
	Page 244: 
	Page 245: 
	Page 246: 
	Page 247: 
	Page 248: 
	Page 249: 
	Page 250: 
	Page 251: 
	Page 252: 
	Page 253: 
	Page 254: 
	Page 255: 
	Page 256: 

	Button 2038: 
	Page 240: 
	Page 241: 
	Page 242: 
	Page 243: 
	Page 244: 
	Page 245: 
	Page 246: 
	Page 247: 
	Page 248: 
	Page 249: 
	Page 250: 
	Page 251: 
	Page 252: 
	Page 253: 
	Page 254: 
	Page 255: 
	Page 256: 

	Button 2049: 
	Page 240: 
	Page 241: 
	Page 242: 
	Page 243: 
	Page 244: 
	Page 245: 
	Page 246: 
	Page 247: 
	Page 248: 
	Page 249: 
	Page 250: 
	Page 251: 
	Page 252: 
	Page 253: 
	Page 254: 
	Page 255: 
	Page 256: 

	Button 2043: 
	Page 240: 
	Page 241: 
	Page 242: 
	Page 243: 
	Page 244: 
	Page 245: 
	Page 246: 
	Page 247: 
	Page 248: 
	Page 249: 
	Page 250: 
	Page 251: 
	Page 252: 
	Page 253: 
	Page 254: 
	Page 255: 
	Page 256: 

	Button 2050: 
	Page 240: 
	Page 241: 
	Page 242: 
	Page 243: 
	Page 244: 
	Page 245: 
	Page 246: 
	Page 247: 
	Page 248: 
	Page 249: 
	Page 250: 
	Page 251: 
	Page 252: 
	Page 253: 
	Page 254: 
	Page 255: 
	Page 256: 

	Button 2054: 
	Page 240: 
	Page 241: 
	Page 242: 
	Page 243: 
	Page 244: 
	Page 245: 
	Page 246: 
	Page 247: 
	Page 248: 
	Page 249: 
	Page 250: 
	Page 251: 
	Page 252: 
	Page 253: 
	Page 254: 
	Page 255: 
	Page 256: 

	Button 2057: 
	Page 240: 
	Page 241: 
	Page 242: 
	Page 243: 
	Page 244: 
	Page 245: 
	Page 246: 
	Page 247: 
	Page 248: 
	Page 249: 
	Page 250: 
	Page 251: 
	Page 252: 
	Page 253: 
	Page 254: 
	Page 255: 
	Page 256: 

	Button 2040: 
	Page 240: 
	Page 241: 
	Page 242: 
	Page 243: 
	Page 244: 
	Page 245: 
	Page 246: 
	Page 247: 
	Page 248: 
	Page 249: 
	Page 250: 
	Page 251: 
	Page 252: 
	Page 253: 
	Page 254: 
	Page 255: 
	Page 256: 

	Button 2051: 
	Page 240: 
	Page 241: 
	Page 242: 
	Page 243: 
	Page 244: 
	Page 245: 
	Page 246: 
	Page 247: 
	Page 248: 
	Page 249: 
	Page 250: 
	Page 251: 
	Page 252: 
	Page 253: 
	Page 254: 
	Page 255: 
	Page 256: 

	Button 2044: 
	Page 240: 
	Page 241: 
	Page 242: 
	Page 243: 
	Page 244: 
	Page 245: 
	Page 246: 
	Page 247: 
	Page 248: 
	Page 249: 
	Page 250: 
	Page 251: 
	Page 252: 
	Page 253: 
	Page 254: 
	Page 255: 
	Page 256: 

	Button 2052: 
	Page 240: 
	Page 241: 
	Page 242: 
	Page 243: 
	Page 244: 
	Page 245: 
	Page 246: 
	Page 247: 
	Page 248: 
	Page 249: 
	Page 250: 
	Page 251: 
	Page 252: 
	Page 253: 
	Page 254: 
	Page 255: 
	Page 256: 

	Button 20103: 
	Page 240: 
	Page 241: 
	Page 242: 
	Page 243: 
	Page 244: 
	Page 245: 
	Page 246: 
	Page 247: 
	Page 248: 
	Page 249: 
	Page 250: 
	Page 251: 
	Page 252: 
	Page 253: 
	Page 254: 
	Page 255: 
	Page 256: 

	Button 2055: 
	Page 240: 
	Page 241: 
	Page 242: 
	Page 243: 
	Page 244: 
	Page 245: 
	Page 246: 
	Page 247: 
	Page 248: 
	Page 249: 
	Page 250: 
	Page 251: 
	Page 252: 
	Page 253: 
	Page 254: 
	Page 255: 
	Page 256: 

	Button 2058: 
	Page 240: 
	Page 241: 
	Page 242: 
	Page 243: 
	Page 244: 
	Page 245: 
	Page 246: 
	Page 247: 
	Page 248: 
	Page 249: 
	Page 250: 
	Page 251: 
	Page 252: 
	Page 253: 
	Page 254: 
	Page 255: 
	Page 256: