N
estlé – A

nnual Review
 2022

Nestlé.
We unlock the power of food 
to enhance quality of life for everyone, 
today and for generations to come.

Annual Review 2022



Our purpose

Contents Accompanying reports

Corporate Governance Report 2022
Compensation Report 2022
Financial Statements 2022

You can find more information
about the Nestlé Group at 
www.nestle.com

Find out more about Creating Shared 
Value at www.nestle.com/csv

Online

Front cover

Purina ONE +Plus Joint Health Formula 
Purina ONE +Plus Joint Health Formula 
dry dog food combines nature and 
research for results, with a SmartBlend 
of high-quality ingredients, plus fish 
oil and glucosamine, for a formula that 
supports dog joint health and mobility.

 2 Letter to our shareholders

 6  Generating value through  
our strategy

 10 Innovating to unlock  
  the power of food

 14 Creating shared value

 24  Accelerating data-driven 
digitalization

 28 Connecting through our brands

 44 Financial review

 68 Corporate Governance  
  and Compliance 

 75 Shareholder information

Nestlé. Unlocking the power of food to enhance quality of life for everyone, 
today and for generations to come.

We constantly aim to push the boundaries 
of what is possible with food, beverage 
and nutritional health products to promote 
better health, greater accessibility 
and affordability, effortless preparation, 
protection of our natural resources 
and enjoyment.

https://www.nestle.com
https://www.nestle.com/csv


Nestlé Annual Review 2022 1

In 2022, our organic growth 
was strong, with resilient RIG 
and responsible pricing to 
reflect significant cost inflation. 
A summary of the 2022 full-year 
results can be found in the table  
to the right.

* Financial performance 
measures not defined by 
IFRS. For further details, see 
’Financial review’ on page 46.

Group sales (in CHF) Organic growth * Real internal growth *

94.4 billion 8.3% 0.1%

Underlying trading 
operating profit *  
(in CHF)

Underlying trading 
operating profit  
margin *

Underlying trading  
operating profit  
margin *

16.1 billion 17.1% - 40 Basis points
Constant currency

Trading operating  
profit * (in CHF)

Trading operating  
profit margin *

Trading operating  
profit margin *

13.2 billion 14.0% 0 Basis point
Constant currency

Earnings per share 
(in CHF)

Earnings  
per share

Underlying earnings  
per share *

3.42 - 43.5% + 9.4%
Constant currency

Operating cash flow 
(in CHF)

Free cash flow * 
(in CHF)

11.9 billion
24.7% of net financial debt

6.6 billion

Proposed dividend 
(in CHF)

Proposed dividend  
increase

2.95 + 5.4%

Our financial performance
Our Nutrition, Health and Wellness strategy is the engine of our value creation.



What we sell (in CHF billion)

Where we sell (in CHF billion)

Number of employees Number of countries we sell in

275 000 188

Total group salaries and social  
welfare expenses (in CHF)

Corporate taxes paid in 2022 
(in CHF)

15
billion

3.1
billion

Our business
We focus our energy and resources where unlocking the power of food  
can make the greatest difference. 

We apply our expertise in 
nutrition, health and wellness 
to help people, families and 
pets live happier, healthier 
lives. We work to protect and 
restore the environment and 
generate significant value for 
our shareholders and other 
stakeholders alike. 

Powdered and 
Liquid Beverages

Confectionery Water

25.2

Prepared dishes  
and cooking aids

12.5

8.1 3.5

Milk products 
and Ice cream

11.3

Nutrition and 
Health Science

15.7

PetCare

18.1

GC

5.8

EUR

22.3

AOA

21.0

LATAM

12.3

NA

33.0



Our key non-financial  
performance
We create shared value through our social and environmental commitments.

To measure our progress, 
we use a comprehensive set 
of indicators that support 
our business performance 
and generate value for our 
shareholders and other 
stakeholders. Some key 
performance indicators are 
included here – the full set is 
in our Creating Shared Value 
and Sustainability Report. 

Our climate commitment Our KPI *
Net zero greenhouse 
gas emissions by 2050 
 
20% reduction of scope 1, 2 and 
3 GHG emissions by 2025 and 
50% reduction by 2030, versus 
2018 baseline 

6.4 million tonnes
greenhouse gas emissions (CO₂e) reductions compared with a business-
as-usual scenario, with an additional 4.3 million tonnes CO₂e of removals 
initiated in 2022, giving a total 10.7 million tonnes CO₂e

Ongoing 

Our forests commitment Our KPI *
Deforestation-free supply chains 
for our meat, palm oil, pulp and 
paper, soy and sugar supply 
chains by end 2022 

99.1%
assessed deforestation-free for stated supply chains in 2022

Ongoing

Our plastics commitment Our KPI *
Cut virgin plastic in our packaging  
by a third by 2025 10.5%

reduction in virgin plastic in our packaging  
in 2022 versus 2018 baseline 

On track

Our diversity, equity and 
inclusion commitment

Our KPI *

Increase the representation of 
women in the top 200+ senior 
executive positions to 30% by 2022

30.2%
women in the top 200+ senior executive positions 

Achieved

Our youth commitment Our KPI *
Help 10 million young people 
around the world have access to 
economic opportunities by 2030 

5.6 million
young people around the world with access to  
economic opportunities (cumulative) 

On track

Our nutrition commitment Our KPI *
Bring tasty and balanced diets 
within reach for billions 129.2 billion

servings of affordable nutrition with micronutrient fortification  
(the “big four” micronutrients: iron, vitamin A, iodine and zinc)  
provided in 2022 

On track

* Non-financial performance 
metrics are defined in 
the Reporting Scope and 
Methodology for ESG 
KPIs document available at 
www.nestle.com/esg-kpis 

 EY has performed limited 
assurance on the six key 
performance indicators on 
this page. The assurance 
statement with EY’s 
independent conclusion can 
be found at: www.nestle.
com/assurance-statement

https://www.nestle.com/esg-kpis
https://www.nestle.com/assurance-statement
https://www.nestle.com/assurance-statement


Nestlé Annual Review 20222

Staying the course 

True to our values 
At the start of 2022, the extreme challenges of the COVID-19 
pandemic seemed to be waning. There were some supply 
chain challenges as well as inflationary pressures but those 
appeared to be manageable. The unexpected invasion 
of Ukraine at the end of February changed the course of 
the year. Global supply chain issues proliferated, inflation 
became rampant, concerns over energy shortages took hold 
and food insecurity grew.

We faced a choice this past year in how to react to these 
challenges. There was little handwringing as it was clear to 
us that we could not lose sight of our long-term strategy: 
we continued to invest in R&D, our brands and sustainability 
initiatives. Increased food insecurity only strengthened 
Nestlé’s commitments to maintaining essential food 
supplies, providing affordable nutrition and advancing 
regenerative food systems. 

To stay on course required a constant rebalancing between 
growth, affordability, and meeting our commitments to 
shareholders and other stakeholders. There were no easy 
solutions, but we did not waver in our resolve to deliver 
on short-term expectations, progress on our long-term 
ambitions and remain true to the core of our strategy: Good 
for You, Good for the Planet. Nestlé’s decentralized five-
zone structure allowed us to be close to our consumers and 
respond to shifts in their needs, while our global, balanced 
and diversified portfolio helped us weather inflation and 
supply chain challenges.

Dear fellow shareholders, 

The turbulent operating environment of the past 
year has only reinforced our commitment to 
Nestlé’s longer-term objectives. Good for You, 
Good for the Planet is at the heart of our strategy. 
Our strong brands, our impactful innovation 
capabilities and our operational execution have 
helped us continue to deliver. 

“Increased food insecurity only 
strengthened Nestlé’s commitments 
to maintaining essential food  
supplies, providing affordable 
nutrition and advancing regenerative 
food systems.” 



Nestlé Annual Review 2022 3

U. Mark Schneider, Chief Executive Officer (left), and Paul Bulcke, Chairman (right)

Dependably on track 
Even in a year as challenging as 2022, we continued to deliver. 
We stayed focused on bringing fast-paced innovations to 
market, enhancing our digital capabilities, investing in our 
brands and managing our portfolio. Our real internal growth 
remained robust under challenging conditions.

We adjusted prices to reflect our own growing costs due to 
inflation. However, we did so responsibly, seeking internal 
efficiencies and cost-saving measures to try to limit price 
increases. Nestlé’s role has always been to make nutritious 
food affordable and accessible to people everywhere, 
and we stay committed to that even in times of economic 
headwinds. Highlights from 2022 include the following:
 
 – Organic growth reached 8.3%, with pricing of 8.2% 

and real internal growth of 0.1%. 
 – Foreign exchange reduced sales by 0.9%. Net 

acquisitions had a positive impact of 1.1%. As a result, 
total reported sales increased by CHF 7.3 billion or 8.4% 
to CHF 94.4 billion. 

 – Underlying trading operating profit (UTOP) margin 
reached 17.1%. The trading operating profit (TOP) 
margin was unchanged versus the prior year at 14.0% 
on a reported basis. As announced at our investor 
seminar, we expect our underlying trading operating 
profit margin to return to a range of 17.5% to 18.5% 
by 2025, following the impact of cost inflation on 
our margin in 2021 and 2022.

 – Underlying earnings per share (EPS) increased 
by 9.4% in constant currency and by 8.4% on a 
reported basis to CHF 4.80. We expect to deliver 
an underlying EPS growth target range of 6% 
to 10% in constant currency. Earnings per share 
decreased by 43.5% to CHF 3.42 on a reported basis, 
mainly reflecting the gain on the disposal of L’Oréal 
shares in 2021.

 – Free cash flow was CHF 6.6 billion, as working 
capital increased temporarily in the context of supply 
chain constraints and capital expenditure remained 
at an elevated level. We expect to trend toward free 
cash flow of 12% of sales and ROIC of 15% by 2025.



Nestlé Annual Review 20224

Strategic portfolio management 
In 2022, we continued to invest in high-growth categories 
that contribute to our Nutrition, Health and Wellness 
strategy. Nestlé remains disciplined in its approach to 
portfolio management, looking for strategic and cultural fit, 
as well as attractive financial returns.

We remain focused on driving sustained profitable growth 
in the coffee category with the announced acquisition of 
Seattle’s Best Coffee brand from Starbucks. In addition to 
Starbucks packaged coffees sold by Nestlé under the Global 
Coffee Alliance, Seattle’s Best Coffee will join Nestlé’s roster 
of beloved coffee brands in the United States including 
Nescafé, Nespresso and Blue Bottle. 

We continue to develop Nestlé Health Science’s leadership 
position in nutrition and health, sharpening the focus 
on Consumer Care and Medical Nutrition. In 2022, 
we acquired a majority stake in Orgain as well as the 
businesses of Puravida and The Better Health Company. 
The new brands expand our markets in the vitamins, 
minerals and supplements segment in the United States, 
Latin America and Oceania. At the same time, we decided 
to explore strategic options for Palforzia, the peanut allergy 
treatment, following slower than expected adoption by 
patients and healthcare professionals.

Innovating to unlock the power of food
Building a pipeline of highly differentiated innovations, 
while rapidly testing and launching new ideas, fuels 
our growth. Our focus is on delivering tasty, nutritious, 
affordable and sustainable products by anticipating 
growing trends and meeting people’s diverse evolving 
needs and preferences, while investing in solutions with an 
improved environmental footprint. In 2022, we were able 
to maintain the same time-to-market speed as in 2021, 
despite the challenging environment.

Infant nutrition. We continue to develop science-based 
nutritional solutions for infants. The newly launched infant 
formula with Nutrilearn Connect, a unique nutrient blend to 
increase brain myelination, and rollout of our infant formulas 
with five human milk oligosaccharides (HMOs) to support 
gut health and immunity exemplify this focus. In 2022, 

infant formula with HMOs had CHF 1.3 billion in sales with 
double-digit growth.

Coffee. We are innovating novel systems that bring the 
perfect cup of coffee to consumers in a sustainable way. 
Nescafé Dolce Gusto Neo gives coffee lovers the best coffee-
shop-at-home experience with three brewing methods and 
compostable paper-based pods. Nespresso will also roll out 
a new range of compostable paper-based capsules that are 
retro-compatible with Nespresso Original machines, while 
Nespresso Vertuo Pop offers the smartest, smallest, most 
optimized and accessible coffee machine ever, made from 
35% recycled plastic.

Plant-based. Market demand for plant-based products 
continues to create opportunities for new offerings across 
the entire food and beverage portfolio, which contribute to 
our sustainability goals. An early focus into a wide variety of 
plant-based alternatives and a retail focus on ready-made 
meals has proven to be a winning strategy. Recent launches 
include Gerber Plant-tastic, soy-based Milo, KitKat V, Garden 
Gourmet Voie Gras and Malher Huevo Más. Plant-based 
products generated sales of around CHF 1 billion in 2022, 
posting high single-digit organic growth.

Accelerated digitalization 
Data and technology are an essential source of competitive 
advantage and Nestlé continues its data-driven digital 
transformation. We are building a seamless consumer 
experience and channel-less commerce system, unlocking 
value via consumer data across geographies and categories. 
E-commerce sales grew by 9.2% to account for 15.8% of total 
Group sales. We remain on track to hit 25% by 2025.

Artificial intelligence and remote assistance are allowing us 
to be more agile and flexible in our manufacturing sites and 
supply chains – more important now than ever.

Creating Shared Value 
Creating Shared Value has always been fundamental to 
the way we do business at Nestlé. We have long believed 
that our company can only be successful in the long term 
by creating value for both our shareholders and society. For 
decades, our activities and products have aimed to make 



Nestlé Annual Review 2022 5

Paul Bulcke
Chairman

U. Mark Schneider
Chief Executive Officer

a positive difference to society in order to foster Nestlé’s 
ongoing success. We have not wavered in that commitment 
in the face of short-term challenges this year.

Net Zero Roadmap. We have made good progress on our 
Net Zero Roadmap, which was strongly supported by our 
shareholders at the 2021 Annual General Meeting. We have 
already passed peak carbon, with greenhouse gas emissions 
below the 2018 baseline. From 2024, we will vote annually on 
a comprehensive report on our non-financial performance, 
including our climate-related agenda. Our commitment to 
advancing regenerative food systems supports this agenda. 
We are supporting farmers in their transition to regeneration 
through the Nescafé Plan 2030 and our income accelerator 
program for cocoa-farming families.

Affordable nutrition. Our offering of affordable and accessible 
products aims to provide lower-income consumers with 
high-quality food products that deliver nutritional value at 
an affordable cost and in an appropriate format. Most of our 
affordable and accessible offering is fortified with at least one 
of the “big four” micronutrients: iron, iodine, vitamin A and 
zinc. In 2022, we provided 129.2 billion fortified servings of 
affordable nutrition products.

Good for You. In 2022, we made a commitment to increase 
the transparency of the nutritional value of our global 
portfolio. For the first time, we benchmarked our entire 
global portfolio against the Health Star Rating (HSR) system 
– a nutrient profiling system used by the Access to Nutrition 
Initiative – and have given an overview of our wide range 
of specialized nutrition products, which are not covered by 

“For decades, our activities and 
products have aimed to make a positive 
difference to society in order to foster 
Nestlé’s ongoing success. We have not 
wavered in that commitment in the 
face of short-term challenges this year.”

the HSR system. Nestlé is the first company to disclose the 
nutritional value of its entire portfolio.
 
Refined Board oversight 
Our Board of Directors continued to provide valuable 
guidance on our strategy, business performance and 
sustainability agenda. We maintained our practice of adding 
diverse experience and expertise through the appointment 
of two new independent directors. In recent years we have, 
in particular, strengthened the Board’s expertise on food 
systems, food and beverage, digitalization, marketing, 
sustainability and other topics. 

During 2022, the Board further refined the governance 
framework related to our sustainability agenda, including 
the annual work plan of the dedicated Sustainability 
Committee, which advises on all aspects of the Group’s 
environmental and social sustainability, including our 
efforts on climate change, human rights, and diversity 
and inclusion.
 
Consistently committed to our purpose 
We are committed to creating shared value for our 
shareholders and all stakeholders connected to our business 
by unlocking the power of food to enhance quality of life. 
We could not do this without the loyalty of our employees, 
business partners and investors. In this challenging year, 
we thank our employees for their admirable dedication in 
keeping us on track while rebalancing. We are also grateful 
for the support of our business partners, our consumers 
and the communities where we operate. We thank you, 
our shareholders, for your continued trust in us to stay 
the course.



Nestlé Annual Review 20226

10.8%
growth in affordable 
nutrition products

7.4% 
growth in premium  
products

9.2%
organic growth 
in e-commerce

~22% 
of portfolio rotated  
2017-2022

Garden Gourmet Sensational Crispy Mini Filet 
In 2022, we continued to expand the plant-based 
food options within our Garden Gourmet brand, 
such as the new 2.0 Sensational Crispy Mini Filet.

Generating value 
through our strategy



Nestlé Annual Review 2022 7

Nestlé creates value through a persistent focus on 
relevance, operational agility and executional excellence. 
As a company, we continuously evolve our product 
offerings to meet consumer needs and excite consumer 
preferences. We strive for a balanced pursuit of financial 
growth through rapid innovation, operational efficiency 
and resource allocation. Our long-term strategy ensures 
we deliver consistent, sustainable success. 
 
Good food, Good life is good business
We focus our energy and resources where unlocking the power 
of food can make the greatest difference to the lives of people 
and pets, protect and enhance the environment, and generate 
significant value for our shareholders and other stakeholders 
alike. Products that are right for consumers and right for the 
planet are increasingly desirable and make for good business. 
This helps us be a force for good. Accordingly, we:
  
 – Apply our expertise in nutrition, health and wellness – 

developed over more than 150 years – to help people, 
families and pets live happier, healthier lives. 

 – Bring affordable, safe and high-quality nutrition to 
consumers, regardless of income level, taking advantage 
of our long-standing presence around the world.

 – Meet the needs of modern consumers with healthy, 
delicious, convenient products for conscious, time-
constrained lifestyles. 

 – Strive to package and deliver our products in ways that 
are safe and protect the environment. 

 – Bring distinctive, premium innovations to market fueled 
by creative exploration and consumer insights, pioneering 
nutrition science and culinary excellence.   

 – Enhance our food systems and offer more plant-based 
food and beverage options to be consumers’ first choice 
as they diversify their diets. 

 – Commit to ambitious sustainability goals to advance the 
health of the planet, drive societal progress and support 
sustainable, healthy food systems.

Our long-term value creation model is based on the 
balanced pursuit of top- and bottom-line growth as well as 
improved capital efficiency. We create value guided by three 
strategic pillars:

 – Growth through continuous innovation.  
 – Operational efficiency. 
 – Resource and capital allocation with discipline  

and clear priorities, including through acquisitions 
and divestitures.

Sustained organic sales growth  
We maintain a diversified portfolio, both in terms of geography 
and category. Our agility in changing environments and 
cultivation of our global, regional and local brands contribute 

to long-term financial performance. Our objective is to 
sustain a mid single-digit organic growth rate through rapid 
innovation, market share gains and portfolio management. 

We compete in attractive and growing categories, and 
prioritize investments to stay relevant and win in every 
segment and market in which we operate. Our digital 
technologies help us identify emerging consumer needs and 
business model opportunities so we can bring differentiated 
innovation to market fast. We partner with customers 
across the retail landscape to adapt our product portfolio 
and channel strategies, leveraging our global brands to 
customize new products for local tastes and preferences.  

In 2022:
 – 31 of our trusted brands, including Maggi, Milo and 

Nido, generated over CHF 1 billion each in annual sales 
at the retail level.

 – E-commerce sales represented 15.8% of sales and 
grew by 9.2%, and our digital marketing spend 
increased to 55%. 

 – Our premium offerings represented around 30% 
of sales and grew at a high single-digit rate. 

 – Plant-based products generated sales of around 
CHF 1 billion, posting high single-digit organic growth.

 – Emerging markets represented 42% of sales and 
grew by 10%.

 – Sales of affordable, accessible products – many nutrient-
fortified – accounted for around 18% of emerging market 
sales and grew at a double-digit rate.

 
We focus on categories and geographies with attractive 
dynamics where Nestlé has an ability to win. Since 2017, we 
have completed or announced more than 100 transactions 
(acquisitions and divestitures) with annual sales equivalent 
to around 22% of 2017 Group sales. 

In 2022, these included:  
 – Purchase of a majority stake in Orgain, a US leader in 

plant-based nutrition, with the option to fully acquire 
Orgain in 2024. 

 – Acquisition of Puravida, a premium Brazilian nutrition 
and health lifestyle brand, expanding the consumer 
health portfolio in Latin America. 

 – Acquisition of The Better Health Company in New 
Zealand, which includes the GO Healthy brand and 
New Zealand Health Manufacturing, expanding Nestlé 
Health Science’s portfolio of vitamins, minerals and 
supplements in AOA.

 – Acquisition of the Seattle’s Best Coffee brand from 
Starbucks. 

 – Creating a partnership with L Catterton to bring together 
Freshly and Kettle Cuisine.

 – Divestment of Gerber Good Start. 



Nestlé Annual Review 20228

We take decisive action to restore growth and profitability 
when businesses underperform. Nestlé has decided to 
explore strategic options for Palforzia, the peanut allergy 
treatment, following slower than expected adoption by 
patients and healthcare professionals. The review is  
expected to be completed in the first half of 2023. Going 
forward, Nestlé Health Science will sharpen its focus on 
Consumer Care and Medical Nutrition.

We have formed a partnership with L Catterton to bring together 
Freshly and Kettle Cuisine, a leading manufacturer of fresh 
artisanal foods for retail and foodservice customers. L Catterton 
will be the majority owner, with Nestlé holding a minority stake.
 
Operating more efficiently 
We fuel our growth agenda through disciplined cost 
management, improving operational efficiency at all levels 
of the business. Alongside sales growth, this approach 
enables us to free up resources for reinvestment in product 
innovation, brand building, digitalization and sustainability 
initiatives, while creating value for our shareholders. Internal 
efficiency projects help us free up resources for investments 
by optimizing our skills and enhancing effectiveness and 
speed of our organization.

We continued to adapt our organization to be more agile, 
flexible and digitalized. In manufacturing, we continued to 
upgrade our operational footprint in 2022, increasing factory 
fixed overheads by around 6%. In procurement, increased 
global buying combined with a reduced number of product 
specifications helped us reduce costs and complexity. 

Global buying through our three purchasing hubs was 68% 
in 2022. In our administration, we continued to simplify and 
standardize processes. 

As a percentage of sales based on a 5-quarter rolling 
average, working capital increased to 1.9% in 2022 due to 
our conscious decision to temporarily increase inventory 
levels. This decision, taken in the context of significant 
supply chain disruptions and the energy crisis in Europe, 
reflects our commitment to ensure continuity of supply.
 
Prudent allocation of capital 
Our priorities are to invest in the long-term growth and 
development of our business, while increasing shareholder 
returns and creating shared value. Nestlé pursues a value 
creation model that balances growth in earnings per share, 
competitive shareholder returns, flexibility for external 
growth and access to financial markets. We will continue 
to invest to drive brand building, innovation, digitalization 
and sustainability.

Investing for the long term includes R&D investment, 
brand support and capital expenditure to support organic 
profitable growth. We focus on projects with the highest 
potential to create economic profit. We are accelerating our 
capital expenditure plans for our fast-growing categories, 
particularly coffee and pet care.

We are disciplined when it comes to mergers and acquisitions 
in order to protect our ROIC. We have a thorough project 
governance in place, with clear accountability and targets. 

In 2022, Nestlé 
acquired a majority 
stake in Orgain, 
a leader in organic, 
plant-based nutrition 
in the United States, 
with a foundation in 
science, great taste 
and broad appeal.



A B C D 3E

A B C D 3E

A B C D 3E

A B C D 3E

A B C D 3E

Nestlé Annual Review 2022 9

 A   USA

 ~ CHF 625 million
 USD 675 million in 

new beverage facility 
in Glendale, Arizona

B  Mexico 

 ~ CHF 315 million
 USD 340 million in 

new Nescafé factory 
in Veracruz, Mexico

C  Brazil 
 
 ~ CHF 50 million
 BRL 300 million to 

support Neo launch 
in Nescafé factory in 
Montes Claros, Brazil

D  Spain

 ~ CHF 99 million
 EUR 100 million for 

digital technology in 
Nestlé coffee factory 
in Girona, Spain

E   Thailand

 ~ CHF 133 million
 THB 5 billion in new 

Purina PetCare factory 
in Rayong, Thailand

Potential acquisitions must have a good strategic and 
cultural fit with our organization and offer attractive financial 
returns. We look for creative ways to structure transactions 
and build partnerships that enhance our strategic options. 

We have demonstrated our commitment to maintaining 
a high level of reinvestment into the business while at 
the same time continually increasing capital returns to 
shareholders. We do this by increasing our dividend year 
after year. Based on our 2022 performance, the Board of 
Directors has proposed a dividend increase of 15 centimes 
to CHF 2.95 per share to be paid in April 2023. This 
will be our 28th consecutive annual dividend increase. 
As a result of our strong free cash flow generation and 
business disposals, we continued to return excess cash 
to shareholders through share buybacks. In 2022, Nestlé 
repurchased 92 million of its shares for a total amount of 
CHF 10.6 billion at an average price of CHF 115.36 per share. 
Nestlé plans to repurchase CHF 20 billion of its shares over 
the period 2022 to 2024. 
 
Creating Shared Value: The way we operate 
We build for the long term, act with focus and combine 
global resources with local know-how to create value for 

Investing in strategic and  
high-growth regions and categories

In addition to 
Starbucks packaged 
coffees, Seattle’s 
Best Coffee will join 
Nestlé’s collection of 
beloved coffee brands 
in the United States, 
which include 
Nescafé, Nespresso 
and Blue Bottle.

both society and our shareholders at a meaningful scale.  
We do so because we believe that business should act as 
a force for good. 

Nestlé continues to follow through on our commitments to 
do business in a way that creates shared value, illustrated 
by progress toward net zero greenhouse gas emissions, 
regenerative agriculture, 100% deforestation-free supply 
chains, sustainable packaging and improved nutrition in 
our portfolio.



Nestlé Annual Review 202210

Nespresso 
Our paper-based compostable capsules offer 
consumers a choice between fully recyclable 
aluminum capsules and compostable paper.

Innovating to unlock 
the power of food

1.7
billion Swiss francs invested 
in R&D annually 

4100 
R&D employees globally 

23
R&D locations worldwide 

2 
new focus areas  
(Nestlé Institute of Agricultural 
Sciences and R&D Latin America)



Nestlé Annual Review 2022 11

Food provides essential nutrients to support the good 
health of people and pets, in a tasty and pleasurable 
way. It is a vital pillar of cultures, brings people 
together, underpins economies and impacts planet 
health. At Nestlé, through our R&D organization, we 
innovate with purpose to unlock the power of food and 
deliver tasty, nutritious, affordable and sustainable 
products – for today, and for generations to come. 

Our innovation capabilities 
We continuously strengthen our innovation capabilities to 
ensure that we deliver products that meet people’s diverse 
evolving needs, while reducing our carbon footprint and 
contributing to company growth. In 2022, we were able 
to maintain the same time-to-market speed as in 2021, 
despite the challenging environment.

Through our regional R&D centers in Africa, China, India 
and South-East Asia, we can innovate closer to the 
people we serve with agility. We recently inaugurated 
an additional regional R&D Center for Latin America in 
Santiago, Chile, enabling us to innovate for consumers 
in the region, while leveraging our global science and 
technology capabilities to deliver tasty, nutritious, 
affordable and sustainable products. 

We also rely on new innovation tools to increase speed, 
efficiency and decision making, and deliver breakthrough 
solutions. Using advanced algorithms, we can capture 
information on trends, ingredients, flavors and health 
benefits to virtually create and quickly test concepts 
before further refining for launch. Using these tools, 
in China we launched Nescafé Dalgona coffee mixes 
and Nesvita probiotic supplements for adults. We are 
also exploring the use of artificial intelligence and data 
science that can help to manage tradeoffs between taste, 

nutrition, sustainability and affordability in an increasingly 
complex innovation environment.

To go from idea to shop in six months – with new sites 
in Chile, China, India and Arlington, Virginia, in the 
United States – we now have 14 R+D Accelerators. 
Since 2019, the Accelerator initiative has had over 
300 participants, with 150 new products in 20 countries. 

Using a test-and-learn approach and working closely with 
retailers, we quickly develop and pilot novel concepts before 
investing in a full-scale launch. After a successful pilot test 
for KitKat V, we launched the vegan chocolate on a wider 
scale in 15 European markets.

Nutrition solutions across life stages 
We develop innovations that are backed by science across 
life stages, for people and pets. New research showed 
that Nutrilearn Connect, a unique nutrient blend, increases 
brain myelination, a process vital for cognition and motor 
development during early life. This led to a first launch 
in Hong Kong and China under the Wyeth S-26 Ultima 
brand. We also continued the rollout in 20 markets of infant 
formula with five HMOs to support gut health and immunity.

To meet toddlers’ unique nutritional needs, we introduced 
Gerber Powerblend cereals in China and India. These 
are made from diverse food groups such as whole grains, 
legumes, milk and fruits to support immunity, brain 
development and the gut microbiome.

Providing solutions for people with specific health needs 
is also a priority for us. To support women during and after 
pregnancy while breastfeeding, we launched a range of 
Materna multivitamins and supplements in Latin America 
and Europe. 

In the United States, we developed 
a range of Compleat plant-based 
standard tube feeding formulas to 
support digestive health, increased 
energy needs or decreased fluid needs 
in patients aged 1 to 13 years. In China, 
we launched Yiyang milk powder made 
with mulberry leaf extract, a traditional 
Chinese ingredient, to support people 
aged over 45 years in managing 
blood glucose.

For cats and dogs, we launched Purina 
Pro Plan supplements – in a multi-
format such as oils, powders and 
tablets – to support mobility, immunity, 
vitality, healthy skin and coat.

Our new regional 
R&D Center for Latin 
America in Santiago, 
Chile, enables us 
to innovate tasty, 
nutritious, affordable 
and sustainable 
products that are 
highly relevant to 
local consumers.



Nestlé Annual Review 202212

Increasing access to affordable nutrition
Everyone has the right to adequate and nutritious foods, 
including high-quality protein. In Latin America, under the 
Malher brand, we piloted a powdered, shelf-stable, plant-
based protein blend to complement egg dishes in a nutritious 
and affordable way. When cooking scrambled eggs, omelets 
and batters, the soy-based Huevo Más can replace some 
eggs at a lower cost, but with an equal amount of protein, 
fewer calories, and less cholesterol and saturated fats. 

Our scientists developed a new source of iron suitable 
for dairy products and three times more absorbed when 
compared to existing sources. It was first used in Bunyad 
Iron+, an affordable dairy-based drink to address iron 
deficiency in children in Pakistan, with more products 
to follow.

Breakthrough technology for sugar reduction 
Offering healthier choices as part of a balanced diet is a 
priority for us. Our new proprietary technology reduces sugar 
in key raw materials, with no impact on taste or texture, for 
different types of products.

Based on fermentation, the technology significantly reduces 
sugar in malt and milk, while generating prebiotic fibers. We 
introduced sugar-reduced Milo in South-East Asia, Africa 
and Oceania, with other product categories and geographies 
to follow. 

Pioneering plant-based products
Our expertise in proteins, nutrition, plant sciences and 
culinary arts enables us to develop tasty, nutritious and 
sustainable plant-based products across brands, categories, 
formats and geographies. This includes soy-based Milo in 
Thailand, Nestlé Veggie plant-based yogurt with probiotics 

in Chile, Garden Gourmet Schnitzel in Europe, Garden 
Gourmet Voie Gras – an alternative to foie gras – in Spain and 
Switzerland, and Gerber Plant-tastic range of organic foods 
and snacks for toddlers in the United States and Europe. 

Actively pursuing novel technologies
Transitioning toward regenerative food systems requires 
changes in the way agricultural raw materials are produced 
and sourced. We created the Nestlé Institute of Agricultural 
Sciences to translate and apply agricultural science and 
identify the most promising technologies. Part of our global 
research organization in Switzerland, the Institute includes 
a plant science unit in France, and cocoa, coffee and dairy 
research farms in Ecuador, Côte d’Ivoire, Thailand and 
Switzerland. 

We also explore emerging technologies with start-ups, 
such as the pilot for animal-free dairy protein–based 
beverages through our US R+D Accelerator. Using precision 
fermentation, the products are made with animal-free 
protein sourced from the start-up Perfect Day, which is 
identical to cow’s milk whey protein without compromising 
on nutrition and taste. We are also exploring tasty, nutritious 
and sustainable cultured meat with the start-up Future 
Meat Technologies.

Scientists at the 
Nestlé Institute of 
Agricultural Sciences 
screen science-based 
agricultural solutions 
and assess their 
potential for reducing 
the environmental 
footprint of key 
agricultural raw 
materials.



Nestlé Annual Review 2022 13

The new, patented Nescafé Dolce Gusto Neo, 
with compostable paper-based pods and 
proprietary SmartBrew technology, was refined 
over five years at the Nestlé System Technology 
Center in Switzerland.

We are innovating novel systems 
that bring the perfect cup of coffee 
to consumers in a sustainable way. 
This work is driven by R&D experts 
at the Nestlé System Technology 
Center in Switzerland. 

Neo, a new cutting-edge system for 
Nescafé Dolce Gusto first launched 
in Brazil, gives coffee lovers the best 
sustainable coffee-shop-at-home 
experience. It comes with a proprietary 
SmartBrew technology that combines 
three brewing methods so that 
consumers can enjoy high-quality 

espressos, coffee-shop-like americanos 
and drip-style coffees in one single 
machine. Its new range of compostable 
paper-based pods deliver high-quality 
coffee with 70% less packaging than 
current capsules. 

For Nespresso lovers, we developed a 
new range of paper-based compostable 
capsules that are retro-compatible with 
Nespresso Original machines, which will 
pilot in France and Switzerland in 2023.

Through extensive research, the Nestlé 
System Technology Center developed 
the paper-based pods and capsules 
together with the Nestlé Institute of 
Packaging Sciences to ensure that 
the packaging protects the coffee and 
maintains good taste and quality during 
extraction. 

Other novel systems launched include 
Nespresso Vertuo Pop, the smartest, 
smallest, most optimized and accessible 
coffee machine ever, made from 35% 
recycled plastic. These new systems 
meet the expectations of today’s most 
passionate coffee lovers and represent 
the long-term future of the category.

IN FIGURES

OUR VOICES

“When we develop a new 
system, we need to harmonize its 
three key elements for the perfect 
in-cup result: the product, its 
packaging and the machine.”

Julia Lauricella
Head of Nestlé 
System Technology 
Center
Switzerland 

Raising  
the bar for  
coffee systems

>200
novel material structures tested before 
perfecting the Neo paper-based pod



Nestlé Annual Review 202214

Creating  
shared value

Golden Morn 
Our Golden Morn cereal brand in Nigeria 
contains over 50% whole grains, is fortified 
with essential nutrients such as vitamin A and 
iron, and is mainly made from locally sourced 
ingredients – from Nigerians, for Nigerians.

6.4 million tonnes
greenhouse gas emissions (CO₂e) 
reductions compared with a business-
as-usual scenario

99.1% 
assessed deforestation-free in stated 
supply chains

10.5%
reduction in virgin plastic  
in our packaging since 2018

30.2% 
women in the top 200+ senior 
executive positions 



Nestlé Annual Review 2022 15

Nestlé’s purpose is to unlock the power of food to enhance 
quality of life for everyone, today and for generations to 
come. This purpose drives us to make a positive impact 
on people, pets and the planet – now and in the future. 
We are committed to supporting a just transition to 
regenerative food systems that can nourish the world. 

Understanding our material topics 
To reflect shifting trends and stakeholder priorities, we 
regularly conduct a materiality assessment to identify 
where Nestlé has the greatest impact on society and the 
environment, and which impacts are most important to our 
business success. In 2022, we worked with an independent 
third party to interview 55 internal and external stakeholders 
to make the assessment.

Based on their responses, we identified critical topics for our 
business and stakeholders, including significant changes 
since our last assessment. The top-rated topics are covered 

in this section: product quality and safety, health and 
nutrition, greenhouse gas emissions, packaging lifecycle 
management, water management, ecological impacts, and 
environmental and social impacts in our ingredient supply 
chain. These and all other material topics, as well as the 
assessment results, are covered in detail in our Creating 
Shared Value and Sustainability Report.

Improved nutrition and labeling
We aim for our food to be tasty, nutritious, sustainable, 
and accessible and affordable to everyone, across all life 
stages. Our extensive portfolio ranges from beverages and 
meal solutions to confectionery and healthcare nutrition 
products. We are improving the nutritional profile of our 
products by adding more whole grains, proteins and fibers 
while reducing sugars, sodium and saturated fats – without 
compromising taste. In 2022, we updated our systems 
and policies to further improve the healthiness and taste of 
our products.

Providing transparent information about our products is 
central to maintaining people’s trust. In 2022, for the first 
time, we benchmarked our entire global portfolio against 
the Health Star Rating (HSR) system, a nutrient profiling 
system used by the Access to Nutrition Initiative and 
on front-of-pack labels in some countries. We are also 
reporting separately on specialized nutrition products like 
infant foods and medical nutrition, which are not covered 
by the HSR system. Nestlé is the first company to disclose 
the nutritional value of its entire portfolio, ranging from 
occasional treats to nutritious foods and beverages for daily 
consumption, to our specialized nutrition offerings.

Uncle Tobys Oat Milk 
range in Australia 
is made with 100% 
Australian oats and has 
a Health Star Rating of 
four out of five.

SELECTED 2022 RATINGS 

*  Brands accounting for approximately 10% of Nestlé net sales are B Corp certified.

*



Nestlé Annual Review 202216

Further, to communicate transparently about the nutritional 
composition of our products, we will continue to display 
locally relevant front-of-pack nutrition labeling schemes, 
such as Nutri-Score. In our Creating Shared Value and 
Sustainability Report, we disclose the nutritional value 
of local portfolios in 13 countries using their respective 
government-endorsed front-of-pack labeling systems. This 
transparency is part of Nestlé’s efforts to grow and expand 
the nutritious segments of our portfolio, including plant-
based, children’s and healthy aging products. 

Access to essential and affordable food products 
Product access and affordability are more important than ever 
given the social and economic instability and supply chain 
constraints the world is facing. Nestlé remains committed 
to providing essential food products in markets worldwide. 

We also continue to offer a wide range of affordable and 
micronutrient fortified products, totaling 129.2 billion fortified 
servings of affordable nutrition products in 2022. New 
offerings include Bunyad Iron+ in Pakistan and expansion in 
Nestlé East and Southern African Region (ESAR) of Nestlé 
Everyday, an affordable, medium-fat milk powder enhanced 
with locally sourced ingredients containing calcium, iron, 
vitamins and zinc.

Marketing our products responsibly 
We advertise our products according to strict guidelines 
– especially when it comes to how we communicate to 
children and how we promote breast milk substitutes. 
In 2022, we announced plans to update our Marketing 
Communication to Children Policy with a commitment 
not to market confectionery, ice cream or water-based 
beverages with added sugars to children aged under 
16 years. This will meet the strictest standard in the industry. 
In 2022, we also announced plans to update our policy on 
the responsible marketing of breast milk substitutes, with 
a commitment to unilaterally stop the promotion of infant 
formula globally for babies aged 0 to 6 months. 

Product quality and food safety 
Quality and safety for consumers is Nestlé’s top priority.  
This applies to our entire portfolio, from foods and 
beverages to systems and services. Quality assurance 
and product safety is one of Nestlé’s Corporate Business 
Principles, while our Quality Policy guides our actions 
in this area. Our global, independently verified quality 
management system is our platform for guaranteeing 
food safety and compliance with quality standards in 
conformance with laws and regulatory requirements, 
ISO norms and internal standards.

We carefully revised our quality management systems 
in 2022 and are placing even greater emphasis on 
reinforcing a quality and food safety culture, strengthening 
competencies, performing more frequent and targeted 
testing, enhancing verification, and making better use 
of data for prediction and detection of incidents.

Our road to net zero
In 2022, our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions remained 
decoupled from business growth, as we achieved higher 
revenues and lower absolute emissions. 

To help fight 
deficiencies, Bear 
Brand tailors the 
micronutrient 
fortification of its 
products to the 
specific nutritional 
gaps of each market 
where it is sold.

The nutritional value of our portfolio *

Excluding PetCare 
(79% net sales *)

Including PetCare 
(97% net sales *)

Net sales from products with a Health Star Rating of:
HSR of less than 1.5 21% 17%
HSR of 1.5 to less than 3.5 22% 18%
HSR of 3.5 or above 37% 30%
Net sales from specialized nutrition products without HSR:
Specialized nutrition 20% 35%

*  Excludes products that are not foods or beverages for consumption, and some 
recent acquisitions.



Governance

Board’s oversight Oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities is embedded at 
the highest level. The Board has oversight of climate-related matters 
and monitors progress toward related goals. The Board’s Sustainability 
Committee reviews Nestlé’s sustainability agenda and the Audit 
Committee is informed of the content of our non-financial reporting 
and of the audit process for selected assured metrics.

Management’s role The Executive Board is responsible for executing sustainability strategies, 
including our Net Zero Roadmap, through an ESG & Sustainability 
Council. At operational level, an ESG Strategy and Deployment Unit 
drives implementation.

Strategy Strategy / Risk Management

Climate-related risks and opportunities Climate change is considered a material risk for Nestlé. Within our 
Enterprise Risk Management framework, we conduct an annual 
assessment of climate change risks and review the strategy and plans 
to mitigate them. We assess related financial risks using a discounted 
cash flow methodology.

Our assessment establishes:
 – Transition risks: we have assessed transition risks to 2030, based on 

exposure levels from low-, medium- and high-emission pathways. 
Modeling results show a degree of exposure, but our Net Zero 
Roadmap could reduce this by up to half.  

 – Physical risks: changing temperatures and weather extremes can 
affect the quality and availability of key raw materials through 
lower and variable yields, as well as shifts in the regions suitable 
for cultivation. For ingredients covering ~ 90% of our spend, we 
have assessed exposure to 2040, based on a likely 1.5°C global 
temperature rise. For our key materials cocoa, coffee, dairy and 
palm oil we outline the mitigating actions.

Nestlé is well positioned to implement nature-based solutions for less 
resource-intense and more resilient food production, as it has direct 
access to more than 500 000 farmers. One significant example is the 
Nescafé Plan 2030, which aims to help drive regenerative agriculture, 
reduce GHG emissions and improve farmers’ livelihoods.

Impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities

Resilience of the organization’s strategy

Risk Management

Processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks

Processes for managing climate-related risks

Integration into the organization’s overall risk management

Metrics & Targets

Metrics used to assess climate-related risks and opportunities In addition to the indicators published last year, for 2022, we have added 
the percentage of key raw materials sourced through regenerative 
agriculture methods as a major component of our Net Zero Roadmap 
for increasing climate resilience.

Scope 1, 2 and 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions In 2022, 70% of carbon savings generated came from interventions in 
raw material sourcing and 30% came from other value chain efficiencies 
and innovative product categories. This demonstrates our ability to 
mitigate climate risks and embrace opportunities.

Targets used to manage climate-related risks, opportunities 
and performance

We review our Net Zero Roadmap for achieving planned GHG emissions 
reductions for 2025 and 2030 annually to validate that our activities are 
keeping us on the path to net zero and are helping mitigate and adapt to 
climate risk throughout our value chain.

Nestlé Annual Review 2022 17

Our alignment with the Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures



Nestlé Annual Review 202218

Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions within the boundaries of 
our Net Zero Roadmap have now reduced by 6.4 million 
tonnes compared with a business-as-usual scenario. 
These emissions have fallen below our 2018 baseline for 
the first time since introducing our Roadmap, despite 
revenue growth over the same four-year period. Emissions 
reductions are the result of a wide range of projects in 
our agricultural supply chains, as well as in our factories.

In addition to these emissions reductions, we secured 
4.3 million tonnes of GHG removals by implementing 
nature-based solutions that transfer GHGs from the 
atmosphere into carbon stores. These removals take 
place within our supply chain and the landscapes where 
we source our raw materials, and help to restore forests, 
wetlands and peatlands, or improve land management.

We are proud of our progress, but know there is more to 
do to reduce Nestlé’s absolute emissions on our way to 
net zero by 2050. We are still adapting our approach in 
response to what we learn. Many of our emissions reduction 
and removal activities will take time to implement but we 
remain confident they will yield rapid results to keep us on 
track. Our commitment to help farmers in a just transition 
toward regenerative agriculture supports our climate-
related agenda.

Progress on our deforestation-free commitment 
In 2010, Nestlé was one of the first companies to commit 
to end deforestation in its supply chains. By the end 
of 2022, 99.1% of our primary supply chains for meat, 
palm oil, pulp and paper, soy and sugar were assessed 
as deforestation-free. 

From experience, we know that the last percentage 
points are the hardest to reach due to the volume sourced 
from thousands of smallholders who require customized 
technical assistance at a local level. We remain focused on 
achieving our deforestation-free commitment.

Our vision for packaging and circularity 
Our vision continues to be that none of our packaging, 
including plastic, ends up in landfill or as litter. As with 
carbon, we are moving beyond peak virgin plastics, 
reducing the volume we use while our business continues 
to grow.

We have a strategy that supports our vision and addresses 
both product design and infrastructure systems. By 
reducing unnecessary packaging, designing better 
packaging for reuse and recycling systems, modeling fair 
collection systems and supporting good regulation, we aim 
to support the transition to no waste in landfills or nature.

Our Henniez bottled-
water plant in 
Switzerland produces 
renewable energy 
by collecting and 
burning manure from 
local cattle in a biogas 
plant, together with 
spent coffee grounds 
from Nespresso.



2018

10

100

90

80

70

60

50

40

30

20

0

110

2021

Net Zero Roadmap launched

2022 2030

93.3
99.7 Business-as-usual scenario

Actual emissions

2019 2020

94.3*
2018 baseline

Peak carbon

* Baseline restated due to acquisitions, divestures, emissions factor restatements and adjusted scope

6.4
Million tonnes of CO2e reductions 
compared with a business-as-usual scenario

68% 
Ingredient sourcing

28% 
Manufacturing

4% 
Packaging Key initiatives 

delivering GHG 
emissions reductions 

in 2022 

Nestlé Annual Review 2022 19

As a signatory of the Ellen MacArthur Foundation Global 
Commitment, our aim is to have 100% of our packaging 
designed for acceptance in recycling systems. By 2025, more 
than 95% of our packaging will be designed for recycling. 
We are on track to reduce our use of virgin plastics from 
2018 levels by one-third by 2025: at end of 2022, we had 
reduced our use of virgin plastics by 10.5%.

Reuse and refill systems are also important. We have run 
over 20 packaging reuse pilots in 12 countries, providing 
products in our Nestlé Waters business and with partners 
such as Loop, Aldo and Carrefour. However, we recognize 
that more needs to be done and will work with retail 
partners to increase and scale up reuse and refill systems. 

We advocate for well-planned regulation to enable 
collection, sorting, reuse and recycling systems. We 
support regulations like extended producer responsibility 
and deposit return systems. We are also highly committed 
to supporting UN negotiations for a high-ambition Global 
Plastics Treaty as a legally binding agreement to end 
plastic pollution.

Promoting sustainable production
In addition to our own actions, we need to foster large-scale 
changes throughout our supply chain, if we are to support 
a just transition to regenerative food systems.

In France, we 
launched a pilot 
with Carrefour 
testing new refillable 
solutions for Nescafé, 
confectionery and pet 
food in the bulk aisles 
of two hypermarkets.

Progress on our roadmap to 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions  by 2025 
and 50% reduction by 2030 and net zero by 2050
2018 baseline (million tonnes of CO₂e)

NET ZERO ROADMAP



Nestlé Annual Review 202220

We aim to address environmental and social impacts for 
14 priority raw materials by assessing whether they have 
been produced sustainably. Produced sustainably means 
that the origin of the materials is known and the way they 
are produced has been assessed as compliant with our 
environmental and social requirements. The 14 priority raw 
materials are cereals and grains; cocoa; coconut; coffee; 
dairy; fish and seafood; hazelnuts; meat, poultry and eggs; 
palm oil; pulp and paper; soy; spices; sugar; and vegetables. 
We have set specific environmental and social requirements 
for each raw material. We aim for 100% of these materials to 
be produced sustainably by end of 2030.

Advancing regenerative agriculture
We are helping farmers in our supply chain transition to 
regenerative agriculture practices. Regenerative agriculture 
is an approach to farming that aims to improve soil health 
and soil fertility, protect and enhance biodiversity, and 
preserve water resources. As agriculture accounts for the 
majority of our GHG emissions, and healthy soil and biomass 
can capture increased levels of carbon, this approach is 
central to achieving net zero. 

In 2022, we published the Nestlé Agriculture Framework, 
which describes our vision for agriculture as a central building 
block of more regenerative food systems. The framework 
contains common principles and techniques that may be 
expanded on for specific crops. Most importantly, farmers  

Soil moisture sensors 
and plant stress-level 
sensors are helping 
farmers in our supply 
chains determine 
when to irrigate, how 
often and with how 
much water.

The new Nestlé 
Agriculture 
Framework aims to 
help our agriculture 
and sourcing experts 
and suppliers to 
understand and  
implement  
our regenerative 
agriculture model.



Nestlé Annual Review 2022 21

are at the center of our model. Where introducing 
regenerative agriculture practices generates initial risks or 
costs for smallholder farmers, we may provide technical, 
collaborative or financial assistance to support a just 
transition. Our Nescafé Plan 2030 and income accelerator 
program for cocoa-farming families are examples of how 
we are supporting farmers.

We also established the Nestlé Institute of Agricultural 
Sciences, a new center that builds on our existing 
agricultural expertise. Its aim is to translate novel agricultural 
science into concrete applications and identify promising 
agricultural technologies, with a focus on plant science, dairy 
livestock and agricultural systems.

Respecting human rights 
Regenerative food systems put people at the center. By 
respecting and advancing human rights in our value chain, 
we are building a foundation that contributes to a resilient 
future for our planet and its people. In 2021, we outlined our 
approach and salient human rights issues in a new Human 
Rights Framework and Roadmap.

In 2022, we published our Data Protection and Privacy action 
plan. In 2023, we will publish the remaining action plans for 
each of our salient issues, describing the actions we intend 
to take, the collective action needed to help tackle root 
causes and key indicators for measuring the effectiveness 

Reducing dairy 
emissions is essential 
to Nestlé’s climate 
ambitions, so we are 
exploring changes 
to cow feed, manure 
management, 
pasture coverage and 
renewable energy 
use, among others.

Nestlé is creating 
action plans for the 
11 salient human 
rights issues most 
relevant to its business 
and stakeholders, 
publishing the  
Data Protection and 
Privacy action plan 
in March 2022.



Nestlé Annual Review 202222

The Nestlé Youth 
Entrepreneurship 
Platform is a one-stop 
shop where young 
people can gain 
access to knowledge 
and facilities, such 
as our technology 
centers and 
international network 
of R+D Accelerators.

of each plan. Our framework and action plans will help us 
protect people, first and foremost, as well as stay ahead 
of emerging human rights due diligence legislation in the 
markets where we operate.

Creating youth opportunities
As part of our Nestlé needs YOUth initiative, in August we 
brought together all our existing youth innovation initiatives 
in one place on the Nestlé Youth Entrepreneurship Platform 
(YEP). This digital platform supports young innovators 
and entrepreneurs who want to gain new knowledge and 
skills, test an idea or grow their businesses in areas ranging 
from food science and technology to the development of 
products and services, including sustainable packaging and 
regenerative agriculture. Nestlé created access to economic 
opportunities for a total of 1.7 million young people in 2022, 
bringing the total since 2017 to 5.6 million.



+500

+500

Nestlé Annual Review 2022 23

Helping  
to improve  
farmer incomes 

We plan to extend the program to all cocoa-
farming families in our global cocoa supply 
chain by 2030.

Our income accelerator program 
aims to improve the livelihoods of 
cocoa-farming families and tackle 
the root causes of child labor risks in 
cocoa production, while advancing 
sustainable farming practices. 

Poverty is the main reason that children 
work on cocoa farms. Building on 
more than a decade of experience with 
our Nestlé Cocoa Plan and our Child 
Labor Monitoring and Remediation 
System, this innovative approach 
aims to incentivize cocoa farming 
families to make sustainable changes 
that will help move them closer to 
a living income.

Through the accelerator, we pay a cash 
incentive directly to cocoa-farming 
households for activities such as 
pruning to increase crop productivity, 
planting shade trees to increase climate 
resilience, growing additional crops or 
raising livestock to diversify income, 
and enrolling children in school. Our 
suppliers send the payments when 
costs are typically high – like the back-
to-school period. We also help farmers 
and women in the household access 
the training and resources needed to 
make the changes.

To enable these payments and bring 
about lasting change, we are shifting 
our sourcing to segregated cocoa 
supplies that can be traced from 
the farming family all the way to 
our factory.

The income accelerator program is 
expanding a successful pilot of 1000 
farmers in Côte d’Ivoire to a further 
10 000 families. We will assess the 
results, adapting where necessary, 
before extending the program 
throughout our global cocoa supply 
chain by 2030.

OUR VOICES 

“It motivates me to see farmers 
convinced of the benefits: over 
90% want to continue pruning 
and some already pruned the 
remainder of their plot.”

IN FIGURES

CHF 500
the amount families can earn annually in the 
first two years

Luc Affoli N’Guessan 
Toussaint
Income Accelerator 
Project Manager 
Côte d’Ivoire



Nestlé Annual Review 202224

Accelerating data-driven 
digitalization

Maggi Meu Segredo
We are building culinary 
ecosystems to engage with 
our consumers along the entire 
journey from recipe inspiration 
to shopping experience. Through 
platforms like Receitas Nestlé, 
consumers can find inspiration 
and services easily online or  
in-store through QR codes.

55%
of total media spend was  
on digital media

275 million 
first-party data records

15.8%
sales through e-commerce

150 
connected factories



Nestlé Annual Review 2022 25

Consumers want access to goods and services, 
regardless of channel. They expect brands to connect 
with them directly and get new products to market 
quickly. Plus, they want full transparency about how 
their products were made. To meet these demands 
and drive growth, we are accelerating our data-driven 
digital transformation.

Acceleration of e-commerce
In 2021, we launched the e-commerce acceleration 
initiative, building detailed action plans by market. In 2022, 
our primary focus was executing these plans to improve 
e-commerce performance in all markets and categories. 

Our 2025 ambition of 25% of sales via e-commerce will 
impact all markets, brands and roles. As such, a key priority 
is building e-commerce skills. We have created a global 
e-commerce community of more than 3000 employees who 
connect and share best practices, successes and challenges. 
We are reaching an even wider audience with online 
webinars and trainings. More than 11 000 people across 
Nestlé have already attended these events. 

Executing online has parallels with offline but requires a 
different approach to win. While remaining agile, we have 
defined our vision of perfect shelf execution and have set 
about measuring this by market and retailer, down to the 
SKU level. By standardizing and scaling our approach, we 
can improve digital shelf execution – including content, text, 
ratings and reviews. To advance our Retail Digital Media we 
are working closely with our retail partners, adapting our 
ways of working and developing practices to improve return 
on investment. 

As the retail landscape becomes more fragmented, we 
have ever more customers and channels to manage. This 
complexity requires us to do more with less. With Amazon, 
one of our largest e-commerce customers, we created the 
Amazon center of scale where we outsource or automate 
routine tasks to ensure our teams are only working on the 
most value-adding activity.

Advancing always-on analytics
Quick access to actionable data insights is key to 
understanding fast-changing consumer needs and 
optimizing our demand-generation activities, thus 
maximizing our resources. We are harnessing the power 
of data to streamline our business practices, becoming 
more strategic and predictive while making changes in 
real time. 

In 2022, our analytics capability has been critical to help 
us navigate an extremely volatile retail environment and 
rising costs of raw materials. Our data-powered sales 
and marketing teams have been able to optimize our 
sales prices and promotional activity while maintaining 
consumer demand for our brands and products. 

Our strategic revenue management program now covers 
around 95% of our markets. We are also leveraging 
artificial intelligence (AI) with end-to-end analytics to 
deepen collaboration with customers, improve product 
assortment and enhance promotion effectiveness.

To increase the effectiveness of our marketing investment, 
we are investing in proprietary solutions deployed at scale 
in many geographies from Indonesia to North America. 

Retailer websites, 
apps and direct-to-
consumer platforms 
are a shop window 
for our consumers 
to engage with our 
brands. Tracking and 
making continuous 
improvements 
at scale help us 
continuously improve 
the customer 
experience and 
drive sales.



Nestlé Annual Review 202226

We recently created a hub for data science in Bangalore. 
Here, we are developing solutions to track the return on 
every investment in key Zone AOA markets and building 
models to predict best investment scenarios that allow us 
to adjust channel strategies in real time. 

With 55% of our media spend invested on digital 
platforms and exponential need for platform-specific 
content, we have built a more efficient and agile operating 
model for creating and optimizing content. In 2022, we 
further expanded our expertise across the digital value 
chain and the content studio model: 37 content studios 
are producing high-quality content 50% cheaper than our 
previous model. We use AI to track, correct and enhance 
the relevance of more than 500 000 digital assets per year 
across the key digital platforms, leading to performance 
improvement up to 66% in return on ad spend measured 
across Meta platforms, Facebook and Instagram.

Digitally enhanced operations 
We are deploying advanced operational planning technology 
at scale covering all key areas across our value chain – from 
demand sensing to production scheduling. The technology 
allows us to drive agility and resilience of our operations, 
enhancing our ability to react to consumer demand quickly 
and efficiently. We have successfully implemented these 
core capabilities in the United States, our biggest market, 
and are accelerating rollout with the intention to reach 80% 
of our businesses by the end of 2025.

Our core digital technologies are now deployed in more than 
275 factories in 60 countries, enabling over 50 000 connected 
workers to be highly productive and autonomous with fast 
and easy decision making. The data gathered from these 
technologies is used by AI and predictive analytical tools to 
enable the delivery of exceptional quality, zero breakdowns, 

improved energy efficiency and reduced 
water consumption. 

Our ability to frequently reconfigure 
the supply networks through digital 
twins and AI-based optimization 
methods delivers cost efficiency and 
resilience in turbulent times. Digitally 
enabled transport control towers (or 
T-Hubs) are now deployed in more 
than 20 locations, manage more than 
16 000 trucks daily and cover 85% of 
our turnover. Capabilities have been 
built around cost efficiency as well as 
resilience and responsiveness.

Our journey to warehouse automation 
is well underway to deliver cost 

efficiency. These agile operations meet customer 
requirements while mitigating labor shortage.

Validation of sustainability
Digitalization helps enable Nestlé’s sustainability agenda in 
areas such as sustainable packaging, responsible sourcing, 
tackling CO₂ emissions and water management. 

With the help of our greenhouse gas performance system, 
we are now able to monitor our carbon footprint more 
accurately, including Scope 3 emissions. In addition to an 
automated combination of Nestlé spend and activities with 
the emission factors from relevant external databases, 
this system enables Nestlé to include primary data about 
emissions from suppliers and farms.

In 2022, we debuted a new technology to improve end-
to-end traceability and substantiate sustainability claims. 
Nespresso partnered with OpenSC to use their technology to 
bring greater transparency and accountability to the supply 
chain for Reviving Origins organic coffee, Kahawa Ya Congo, 
by using smart devices and QR codes. The OpenSC platform 
automatically verifies that each smallholder farmer receives 
the correct Nespresso AAA Sustainable Quality Program 
premium directly for the coffee they produced – either via 
mobile money or cash.

Nestlé is investing 
EUR 100 million in 
one of its largest 
coffee factories 
in Girona, Spain, 
installing state-
of-the-art digital 
technology that 
will accelerate 
improvement in 
sustainability, 
logistics and 
production capacity.



Nestlé Annual Review 2022 27

Receitas Nestlé drives higher consumption 
of Nestlé products, with a 30% frequency 
increase observed in Brazil.

Nestlé’s online recipe platforms 
provide an opportunity to connect 
directly with consumers to gain 
insights on culinary preferences and 
drive higher consumption of Nestlé 
products. In Latin America, our recipe 
platforms reach more than 100 million 
consumers annually.

Our Nestlé online recipe platforms 
allow our brands to engage with 
consumers directly, inspiring home 
cooks and foodies. With Rece(i)tas 
Nestlé, Latin American consumers 
can tap into more than 20 000 recipes, 

access how-to cooking tutorials, pose 
direct questions to our chefs and  
follow nutritional guidance to create 
balanced diets for their families.

Nestlé is connecting with communities 
and influencers to co-create recipes 
and leverage insights to inform future 
product innovation. The platforms 
offer us the ability to collect richer 
data about culinary preference, which 
gives us the opportunity to serve 
diverse audiences with personalized 
content and choose the best brands 
for engaging with consumers.

By connecting the platforms with 
our retailers, we can drive consumers 
to use shoppable recipes to receive the 
ingredients directly at their doorstep, 
creating instant value for all parties 
involved. We have deployed over 
150 recipe websites and created more 
than 70 000 recipes that are globally 
accessible through our smart recipe 
hub back end. 

Engaging  
consumers  
online

OUR VOICES 

“Recetas Nestlé has been a 
key enabler for our brands 
to connect with consumers 
directly and improve online 
communication effectiveness.”

IN FIGURES

Julieta Loaiza
Head of Consumer 
and Corporate 
Communications 
Mexico

+200 million
visits to Rece(i)tas Nestlé in 2022



Nestlé Annual Review 202228

Our brands are enjoyed by people around the world.

Connecting 
through 
our brands

PetCare
Page 32

Powdered 
and Liquid 
Beverages
Page 30

brand Cat Food

®

®



Nestlé Annual Review 2022 29

Confectionery
Page 40

Water
Page 42

Milk products
and Ice cream
Page 38

Nutrition and
Health Science
Page 34

Prepared dishes 
and cooking aids
Page 36

®

®®

I N FA N T  C E R E A L SI N FA N T  C E R E A L SI N FA N T  C E R E A L S

®

E N L IGH T E N E D  FO OD S

®



Nestlé Annual Review 202230

At a glance

25.2
Sales (in CHF billion)

22.2%
UTOP margin

26.7%
Percentage of 
Nestlé’s sales

Our Powdered and Liquid Beverages category includes our coffee, 
cocoa and malt beverage businesses. This category features iconic 
coffee brands Nescafé, Nespresso and Starbucks, plus the world’s  
most popular chocolate malt drink, Milo.

Milo
Thanks to our new proprietary 
technology, in 2022 Milo 
hit market shelves in Asia, 
Africa and Oceania with sugar 
reduction, while preserving 
its signature taste. 

Starbucks Frappuccino 
The iconic ready-to-drink 
Starbucks Frappuccino, in 

Coffee and Mocha flavors, is 
now available to consumers 

in select markets across 
South-East Asia and Oceania. 

Nespresso Reviving Origins
Using OpenSC technology, 
Nespresso is bringing 
greater transparency 
and accountability to the 
supply chain for Reviving 
Origins organic coffee, 
Kahawa Ya Congo, involving 
over 1000 smallholder farms. 

Nescafé Gold Roastery 
With sales above 
expectations since its launch 
in 2021, the Nescafé Gold 
Roastery collection of instant 
coffee is expertly roasted 
in batches by our master 
roasters to unlock the very 
best flavors.

powdered and liquid beverages 

Providing the world’s 
favorite drinks 



Nestlé Annual Review 2022 31

OUR VOICES

“We are moving to an 
integrated strategy, using 
regenerative agriculture to 
deliver emissions reduction, 
improved farmer income and 
better social conditions.” 

Climate change is putting coffee-
growing areas under pressure. 
Building on a decade of experience 
with the Nescafé Plan, Nestlé is 
accelerating work to help tackle 
climate change and address social 
and economic challenges within 
Nescafé supply chains. 

In 2022, Nestlé’s largest coffee brand 
and one of the world’s favorite coffees 
outlined its extensive plan to invest 
over one billion Swiss francs to help 
make coffee farming more sustainable: 
the Nescafé Plan 2030. A central 
part of this is working with coffee 

farmers to help them transition to 
regenerative agriculture.

Regenerative agriculture is an 
approach to farming that aims to 
improve soil health and protect water 
resources and biodiversity. Healthier 
soils are more resilient to the impacts 
of climate change and can increase 
yields, helping improve farmers’ 
incomes. As such, supporting 
farmers to make this transition 
can help reduce emissions from 
coffee farming while contributing 
to better farmer livelihoods and 
stronger communities. 

Nescafé is committed to supporting 
farmers who take on the risks and 
costs associated with the move to 
regenerative agriculture, with priority 
for the seven countries where we 
source 90% of our coffee. Nescafé 
will provide farmers with training, 
technical assistance and high-
yielding coffee plantlets. In Mexico, 
Côte d’Ivoire and Indonesia, Nescafé 
will pilot a financial support scheme 
to help farmers accelerate the 
transition to regenerative agriculture.

Renewing 
the world of 
coffee 

IN FIGURES

87% 
of Nescafé’s coffee produced sustainably 
in 2022 (100% by 2025) 

Marcelo Burity
Head of Green  
Coffee Development, 
Coffee SBU  
United Kingdom

Part of Nescafé’s contribution to Nestlé’s net 
zero emissions commitment involves helping 
coffee farmers plant more than 20 million trees 
across 8 countries by 2026.



Nestlé Annual Review 202232

Our PetCare business delivers life-changing nutrition for pets 
alongside expertise for their owners and veterinarians. Purina is guided 
by science and driven by passion to enrich the lives of pets and the 
people who love them. 

Purina Pro Plan supplements  
This line of supplements 
complements the Pro Plan 
pet food range, scientifically 
designed to help support 
mobility, immunity, vitality, 
healthy skin and coat, and 
calmer behavior in both dogs 
and cats. 

Purina Cat Chow 
Launched in Latin America, 
the new modern and 
premium Purina Cat Chow 
helps to protect cats and 
strengthen their natural 
defenses – with natural 
prebiotic fiber and no 
artificial colors or flavors.

Purina Fancy Feast Medleys 
As part of the #1 global wet 
cat food brand, the Medleys 
range offers an elevated 
mealtime experience with 
a refreshed design and 
new globally inspired 
recipes crafted with high-
quality ingredients.

Purina ONE Immune 
Defence Plus+ 
The Purina ONE brand 
relaunched its dry cat line 
in Asia, Oceania and Africa 
with Immune Defence Plus+, 
which is a specialty blend 
that helps to support the 
immune health of cats.

petcare 

Bringing pets and 
people together 

At a glance

18.1
Sales (in CHF billion)

20.5%
UTOP margin

19.2%
Percentage of 
Nestlé’s sales



Nestlé Annual Review 2022 33

IN FIGURES

Purina Pro Plan Veterinary Diets 
HA Hydrolyzed was the first truly 
hypoallergenic dry diet for dogs 
with food allergies. Progressive 
science has led to Purina Pro Plan 
Veterinary Diets EL Elemental – our 
most advanced formula for dogs 
with food sensitivities to date.

Purina Pro Plan Veterinary Diets EL 
Elemental is formulated with purified 
amino acids to support dermatological 
and gastrointestinal health in dogs 
with adverse food reactions.  

It contains low-allergen carbohydrate 
sources to help minimize the risk of 
an allergic reaction. It is also highly 
digestible to promote optimal nutrient 
absorption and has limited fat to aid 
digestion for dogs with compromised 
gastrointestinal tracts. The formula 
contains omega-3 and omega-6 
fatty acids, vitamin A and zinc to 
maintain and protect the skin barrier, 
and prebiotic fiber to help nourish 
the gastrointestinal tract. Great taste 
ensures adequate nutrition intake.

The science behind Purina therapeutic 
diets represents a collaboration 
between Purina nutritionists, 
researchers and veterinarians. Purina 
Pro Plan Veterinary Diets EL Elemental 
serves as another example of using 
breakthrough science to create life-
changing therapeutic nutrition that 
addresses challenging conditions.

In 2022, Purina Pro Plan Veterinary 
Diets EL Elemental arrived on US 
shelves. Additional countries will 
follow in 2023. This is great news 
for dogs with food sensitivities and 
their owners.

Formulating 
breakthrough  
 therapeutic 
diets 

OUR VOICES

“Seeing our science-based 
innovations positively impact 
the lives of pets and people 
who love them is incredibly 
rewarding.” 

Double-digit
organic growth for Purina 
Pro Plan Veterinary Diets in 2022

Annie Valuska
Principal Scientist, Nestlé 
Purina North America
United States

The Purina Pro Plan Veterinary Diets range 
includes other innovative dry diet formulas 
such as UR Urinary for cats and HA Hydrolyzed 
for dogs.



Nestlé Annual Review 202234

Our nutrition business provides science-based products and solutions 
for mothers, babies and children. Our Nestlé Health Science business 
empowers healthier lives by offering an extensive portfolio of  
science-based consumer care and medical nutrition. 

Orgain
Nestlé Health Science 
purchased a majority stake 
in Orgain in 2022, a leader 
in plant-based nutrition 
in the United States with 
an emphasis on clean, all 
natural, organic ingredients. 

At a glance

15.7
Sales (in CHF billion)

19.1%
UTOP margin

16.6%
Percentage of 
Nestlé’s sales

Gerber Plant-tastic
Gerber Plant-tastic allows 
babies and toddlers to 
discover the world of plants 
with a trio of greens, grains 
and beans – carbon neutral 
in the United States since 
its launch.

Althéra, Alfaré  
and Alfamino 

Nestlé Health Science is the 
leader in the CMPA (cow’s 

milk protein allergy) formula 
market in mainland China, 

with Althéra, Alfaré and 
Alfamino holding over 50% 
market share and growing 

triple digits.

BEBA Bio 
Our first certified organic 

formula range with reduced 
carbon emissions supports 
healthy child development 
while caring for the planet 
with sustainably sourced 

ingredients and plant-based 
lids and scoops.

nutrition and health science 

Boosting health 
through nutrition 



Nestlé Annual Review 2022 35

Nestlé is committed to helping 
parents and caregivers get the infant 
formula they need so their children 
can thrive. We were pleased to work 
with the US government to address 
the formula shortage as part of 
Operation Fly Formula. 

In the spring of 2022, the United 
States experienced a severe infant 
formula shortage following a recall 
of another manufacturer’s products. 
Nestlé teams from around the 
globe mobilized all resources to 
help address the crisis through 
its Nestlé Health Science and 
Nutrition businesses.

Although a small player in the 
US infant formula market, Nestlé 
realized early on this could become 
a national health crisis for families 
and took immediate action, even 
as details of supply chain issues 
were still unfolding. Nestlé teams 
in Switzerland, Germany, the 
Netherlands, Mexico and the United 
States accelerated production of 
formulas, including those that serve 
a critical medical purpose.

During a time when infant formula 
out-of-stock rates hit as high as 
70%, Nestlé was the first partner 
to participate in Operation Fly 
Formula. The first two flights in 
May 2022 flew 500 000 bottle 
equivalents of Nestlé Health 
Science’s Alfamino Infant and 
Alfamino Junior and a million 
bottle equivalents of Gerber Good 
Start Extensive HA – all for babies 
with cow’s milk protein allergies. 
This was followed by many more 
shipments of specialized and non-
specialized Nestlé infant formula, 
including NAN Supreme pro and 
Gerber Gentle.

OUR VOICES

“The logistics of moving so 
much product in such a short 
timeframe were complex.  
Our teams across Europe 
and the United States pulled 
together to make it happen.” 

42 million + 
equivalent 8-ounce bottles 
sent under Operation Fly 
Formula

IN FIGURES

Olivier Gléron
Head of Supply Chain, 
Nestlé Health Science 
Switzerland 

Supporting 
Operation  
Fly Formula 

Teams in the factories in Konolfingen and 
Nunspeet worked tirelessly to ensure that 
Nestlé could help with the specialized infant 
formula shortage in the United States. 



Nestlé Annual Review 202236

Our prepared dishes and cooking aids category provides the daily 
essentials, including bouillons, chilled culinary products, and frozen 
food and pizzas. Iconic brands such as Maggi, Stouffer’s and DiGiorno 
cater to regional and local tastes.

prepared dishes and cooking aids 

Assisting with 
everyday meals 

At a glance

12.5
Sales (in CHF billion)

16.3%
UTOP margin

13.2%
Percentage of 
Nestlé’s sales

Totole Cooking Sauces 
The expanded Totole range 
added two new low-sodium 
variants – with 25% less salt – 
to help Chinese consumers 
get superior savory taste in 
their top dishes in a natural 
and healthier way.

Maggi Market Place 
The new Maggi De La Huerta 

range in Latin America 
addresses consumer 

demand for naturality with 
creamy vegetable soups and 
all-in-one-seasonings rich in 

herbs and spices.

Stouffer’s Bowl-FULLS 
Bold and tasty frozen-ready 

meals – like Fried Chicken 
and Mashed Potatoes – meet 

consumer expectations for 
high-quality, restaurant-inspired 

recipes delivering high-protein 
satiety in a bowl format. 

Maggi Recipe Solutions 
New Maggi Recipe Solutions 
combine all spices and 
aromatics needed for a 
recipe, as well as simple 
steps to help Malaysian 
cooks prepare great tasting 
dishes easily.



Nestlé Annual Review 2022 37

Demanding flexitarian consumers 
want easy ways to include more 
healthy, plant-based meals in their 
diets without compromising on 
taste. Nestlé is at the forefront in 
responding to this trend, innovating 
plant-based options that are 
delicious, nutritious, sustainable 
and more convenient.

Nestlé continues to use its innovation 
expertise to develop and improve 
delicious plant-based food. High-
quality, sustainably sourced ingredients 
contribute to great taste. The increased 
use of vegetables and legumes creates 
greater nutritional value. 

In 2022, we continued to expand the 
plant-based options within our Garden 
Gourmet brand, such as the new 
chicken alternative, Sensational Crispy 
Mini Filet. Beyond new innovations, 
we constantly explore ways to improve 
the quality of existing popular plant-
based products – the Garden Gourmet 
Sensational Burger is now even more 
flavorful and juicy.

Our plant-based strategy is not only 
about creating meat alternatives. 
The popular Maggi Veggie Masala 
Noodles has the same iconic taste 
as the original but now includes 
nutritious carrots and beans. Plus, 
Maggi offers recipes to cook delicious 
plant-based meals from scratch. 
Plant-based versions of the popular 
Wagner Piccolinis have now entered 
more homes, providing vegan and 
vegetarian options. And the new 
Thomy Vegan Tartare offers a plant-
based sauce option.

Our plant-based innovations are 
proving that we can offer consumers 
healthy options with a lower 
environmental burden that taste great.

Advancing the 
plant-based
food portfolio 

OUR VOICES

“We use our R&D expertise to 
rapidly develop great-tasting, 
nutritious and sustainable 
plant-based options.” 

Haguith Peretz
R&D Plant-Based 
Meal Solutions 
Department Lead  
Germany

Within our popular Maggi line of bouillon 
cubes, our Kub Or made from plant-based 
ingredients adds its iconic flavor to rice, pasta, 
soups and vegetable dishes. 

Mid single-digit 
growth in plant-based food products in 2022

IN FIGURES



Nestlé Annual Review 202238

milk products and ice cream 

Offering something 
for everyone 
Our milk products business delivers nutritional products for all stages 
of life, ambient dairy, plant-based alternatives and coffee creamers. 
Our ice cream business offers a variety of special treats. 

At a glance

11.3
Sales (in CHF billion)

22.7%
UTOP margin

12.0%
Percentage of 
Nestlé’s sales

Nescafé Gold Cappuccino 
Ice Cream 
Piloted in Malaysia with an 
eye toward further rollout, this 
refreshing new way to indulge 
Nescafé Gold Cappuccino 
uses Nescafé Gold coffee in 
the innovative soft coating 
and the ice cream.

Molico Multigold
Launched in Brazil, this 
multi-benefit product is 
rich in calcium for bones, 
collagen for joints, fiber 
for gut health, protein for 
muscles, and vitamins and 
minerals for immunity.

Starbucks Zero Creamer
This new zero–added sugar 
creamer option – in Caramel 
Macchiato and Hazelnut 
Latte flavors – addresses 
the consumer-driven trend 
toward sugar reduction, 
without compromising 
on taste.

Yiyang GI Control 
Yiyang continues to support 
healthy aging in China with 

this new functional milk 
powder that supports blood 

glucose management by 
providing low glycemic index 

(GI) nutrition.



Nestlé Annual Review 2022 39

Addressing  
iron
deficiency

IN FIGURES

417 
million 
fortified servings 
of Bunyad Iron+ 
consumed in 2022

In Pakistan, where one out of 
two children is deficient in iron, 
Nestlé has brought a breakthrough 
solution to market with Bunyad 
Iron+. The affordable dairy-
based drink is fortified with a 
new source of iron that is more 
suitable for dairy products, as well 
as three times more absorbed in 
the body compared to existing 
available sources. 

Access to affordable nutrition is a 
global challenge affecting many 
people around the world, especially 
in emerging countries. Many 

people suffer from micronutrient 
deficiencies, particularly children and 
pregnant women. To help address 
this challenge, Nestlé is accelerating 
its efforts to develop more affordable 
nutrition products that contain 
essential vitamins and minerals.

The unique and proprietary iron 
source is based on Ferri-Pro, a 
technology originally developed by 
Riddet Institute at Massey University 
in New Zealand – acquired by Nestlé 
in January 2019. After acquiring the 
technology, Nestlé R&D continued to 
work with Massey University to bring 
the new source of iron to the market. 
The result is Iron+.

The Nestlé Dairy teams in Pakistan 
and Switzerland, supported by 
the Nestlé R&D Center for Dairy 
in Konolfingen, Switzerland, 
successfully launched the innovative 
Iron+ in the affordable nutrition 
brand Bunyad in 2022. Two glasses 
of Bunyad Iron+ offer 60% of daily 
iron requirements, as well as 
providing calcium and vitamins 
A and C.

OUR VOICES

“Using our R&D expertise in 
dairy products, we optimized 
and improved the taste, 
stability, cost and other key 
parameters to bring Iron+  
to the market.”

In April 2022, Nestlé East and Southern 
African Region (ESAR) launched Nestlé 
Everyday, an affordable dairy powder 
product aimed at supporting the whole 
family against micronutrient deficiencies.

Heike Steiling
Head of Nestlé’s R&D  
Center for Dairy  
Switzerland



Nestlé Annual Review 202240

Our confectionery business includes the iconic KitKat brand and a portfolio 
of much-loved regional and local brands. The business innovates to create 
great tasting chocolate products and nutritious snacks.

confectionery 

Crafting that 
singular delight

At a glance

8.1
Sales (in CHF billion)

16.8%
UTOP margin

8.6%
Percentage of 
Nestlé’s sales

Talento and Alpino
Brazilian consumers are 
increasingly moving to 
more premium chocolate 
tablets like Talento – the 
“best of Garoto” – with 
100% Brazilian cocoa, and 
the smooth and creamy 
Nestlé Alpino.

Cailler 
The iconic premium Swiss 

chocolate brand Cailler 
continues to win over 

consumers with its unique 
chocolate taste, crafted with 

Swiss milk from Gruyère-
region farmers. 

Munch 
This popular and affordable 
coated wafer in India 
continues to appeal to 
consumers through price 
point management and an 
interactive digital campaign 
with the IPL cricket league.

Uncle Tobys 
Uncle Tobys, synonymous 
with goodness since 1893, 
is the fastest growing kids’ 
snack brand in Australia, 
with tasty products that 
score high on the Health Star 
Rating system. 



Nestlé Annual Review 2022 41

IN FIGURES

The KitKat Chocolatory I  Brazil boxes, 
available in several editions, offer typical 
Brazilian flavors – like Açaí, Beijinho and 
Guaraná – so lovers of KitKat can explore 
the tastes of Brazil. 

KitKat is attracting new consumers by 
appealing to local needs and tastes. 
Since the 1950s, the brand has invited 
people all around the world to, “Have 
a break, have a KitKat.” With double-
digit growth in 2022, more and more 
people worldwide are doing just that. 

Over 5 billion KitKat bars were sold in 
2022. For a brand launched more than 
80 years ago, its continued relevance 
is due to strong brand building and 
distribution. Young adult consumers  

– in both developed and developing 
countries – are making it one of the 
fastest growing chocolate bars in 
the world.

Growth in India has been driven by 
the ability to hit key price points with 
the 1-, 2- and 4-finger bars. Alongside 
this has been a tireless commitment to 
increasing distribution of the products 
in small shops. 

The impressive growth achieved in 
Asia is equally matched by a runaway 
success in Latin America. In Brazil, with 
KitKat Chocolatory stores and products 
as well as a partnership with the Rock in 
Rio music event, the brand is increasing 
its appeal to young adult consumers.

Equally important to growth are the 
efforts to remain relevant to chocolate 
consumers in markets where the brand 
has existed for many years. In the UK, 
the brand switched its 2-finger range 
to use recycled (and recyclable) plastic 
wrappers. Across Europe, the vegan 
KitKat V continued rollout in 2022. And 
in Australia and Canada, KitKat tablets 
are what people crave for a break.

Growing  
globally  
by giving  
breaks

OUR VOICES

“My job is to make sure KitKat 
is available and visible in 
every store so that everybody 
can buy a KitKat whenever 
they want to take a break.” 

Easwar
Sales
India

85+ 
countries with KitKat 
direct sales



Nestlé Annual Review 202242

water

Quenching thirst 
and more
Our water business is dedicated to providing healthy hydration, 
enhancing quality of life while contributing to a sustainable future.  
The strategic focus is on international premium and mineral water 
brands as well as healthy beverages.

At a glance

3.5
Sales (in CHF billion)

7.8%
UTOP margin

3.7%
Percentage of 
Nestlé’s sales

Naleczowianka NAŁ+ Relaks 
Expanding the Polish NAŁ+ 
range of functional waters, the 
new Relaks is enriched with 
magnesium and vitamin B3, 
and infused with lemon balm 
and orange blossom flavor to 
support body and mind.

Essentia
Essentia continues its strong 
performance in the United 
States with high single-
digit organic growth and 
market share gains driven 
by distribution expansion in 
convenience and drug stores.

Perrier Energize  
Lemon-Lime 

Perrier Energize, the iconic 
sparkling water from France 

powered by plant-based 
caffeine, is now available in a 
delicious Lemon-Lime flavor, 

for a zesty and invigorating  
low-calorie sensation.

Acqua Panna 
Our new brand purpose 

– to cultivate natural and 
cultural beauty – comes 

to life with an iconic visual 
identity redesign and a new 

cross-media communication 
campaign, honoring the 

water’s Tuscan roots.



Nestlé Annual Review 2022 43

At Nestlé Waters, protection of 
water resources in terms of quantity 
and quality is at the heart of our 
sustainability strategy. This is 
crucial both for our operations and 
for the communities located in the 
watersheds where we operate. We are 
unwavering in our commitment and 
continued to make progress toward 
our goals in 2022.

For several years now, we have used the 
Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS) 
Standard to structure our understanding 
and drive actions to support good water 

stewardship. Created by prominent 
conservation organizations and 
experts, adoption of the AWS Standard 
is helping us strengthen the collection 
and sharing of data on watersheds, 
engage with local stakeholders and 
communities, and analyze shared water 
challenges to design tailored action 
plans, including collective initiatives 
within the watershed. 

In 2021, Nestlé Waters expanded its 
efforts to include a commitment to lead 
the regeneration of local water cycles, 
to help create a positive water impact 
everywhere we operate. More than 
100 projects will be implemented by 
2025 across 47 sites with that objective.

At the end of 2022, 40 projects 
have already been identified or 
implemented. These projects are 
adjusted to local contexts and bring 
tailored benefits, including a drip 
irrigation program in the Pakistani 
city of Sheikhupura, restoration of 
water quality in Thailand’s Khanom 
Chin canal and pond renaturation to 
protect amphibians close to Spain’s 
Viladrau municipality.

Championing  
 water  
stewardship 

IN FIGURES

With a commitment to certify all our sites by 
2025, at the end of 2022, 21 of 47 sites have 
AWS certification 

Our Spanish mineral water brand Viladrau 
is working with local environmental 
organizations to improve biodiversity 
in the Montseny Natural Park. 

OUR VOICES

“With Nestlé’s global presence, 
we can learn from our many 
partners and contribute to 
solving the water challenges in 
locations near our operations.” 

Cédric Egger
Head of Sustainability, 
Nestlé Waters 
Switzerland 

21



44 Nestlé Annual Review 2022

Financial review



Nestlé Annual Review 2022 45

Key figures (consolidated)

In millions of CHF (except for data per share and employees)
2021 2022

Results 
Sales 87 088  94 424 
Underlying trading operating profit (a) 15 119  16 103 
as % of sales 17.4% 17.1%
Trading operating profit (a) 12 159  13 195 
as % of sales 14.0% 14.0%
Profit for the year attributable to shareholders of the parent (Net profit) 16 905  9 270 
as % of sales 19.4% 9.8%

Balance sheet and Cash flow statement
Total Equity 53 727  42 792 
Net financial debt (a) 32 917  48 159 
Ratio of net financial debt to total equity (gearing) 61.3% 112.5%
Operating cash flow 13 864  11 907 
as % of net financial debt 42.1% 24.7%
Free cash flow (a) 8 715  6 570 
Capital additions 12 977  8 264 
as % of sales 14.9% 8.8%

Data per share
Weighted average number of shares outstanding (in millions of units)  2 788  2 707 
Basic earnings per share CHF 6.06 3.42
Underlying earnings per share (a) CHF 4.42 4.80
Dividend as proposed by the Board of Directors of Nestlé S.A. CHF 2.80 2.95

Market capitalization, end December  351 682  285 865 

Number of employees (in thousands)  276  275 

Principal key figures (b) (illustrative) in CHF, USD, EUR
In millions (except for data per share) Total CHF Total CHF Total USD Total USD Total EUR Total EUR

2021 2022 2021 2022 2021 2022
Sales  87 088  94 424  95 212  98 772  80 564  94 010 
Underlying trading operating profit (a)  15 119  16 103  16 530  16 845  13 987  16 033 
Trading operating profit (a)  12 159  13 195  13 293  13 802  11 248  13 137 
Profit for the year attributable to shareholders of the parent (Net profit)  16 905  9 270  18 481  9 697  15 638  9 230 
Total Equity  53 727  42 792  58 747  46 281  51 961  43 444 
Market capitalization, end December  351 682  285 865  384 542  309 177  340 122  290 225 
 
Data per share
Basic earnings per share 6.06 3.42 6.63 3.58 5.61 3.41

(a)  Certain financial performance measures are not defined by IFRS. For further details, see Foreword on page 46.
(b)  Income statement figures translated at weighted average annual rate; Balance sheet figures at year-end rate.



Nestlé Annual Review 202246

Group overview

Foreword
The Financial review contains certain financial 
performance measures, that are not defined 
by IFRS, that are used by management to assess 
the financial and operational performance 
of the Group. They include among others:

 – Organic growth, Real internal growth  
and Pricing;

 – Underlying trading operating profit margin  
and Trading operating profit margin;

 – Net financial debt;
 – Free cash flow; and
 – Underlying earnings per share (EPS) and EPS  

in constant currency.

Management believes that these non-IFRS 
financial performance measures provide useful 
information regarding the Group’s financial and 
operating performance.

The Alternative Performance Measures document 
published under www.nestle.com/investors/
publications defines these non-IFRS financial 
performance measures.

Operating segments 2021 comparative figures 
have been adjusted following the creation of 
Zone North America (NA) and Zone Greater China 
(GC) as of January 1, 2022. Zone AOA includes 
Middle East and North Africa (MENA) previously 
included in Zone EMENA (see Note 3 of the 2022 
Consolidated Financial Statements).

Introduction
Last year brought many challenges and tough 
choices for families, communities and businesses. 
Inflation surged to unprecedented levels, cost 
of living pressures intensified and the effects of 
geopolitical tensions were felt around the world. 

The entire Nestlé team demonstrated 
dependability, as we navigated this difficult 
environment. Organic growth was solid, margins 
continued to be resilient and our underlying 
earnings per share development was strong. At 
the same time, we ensured access to nutritious 
products and affordable offerings globally. 

During 2022, we also confirmed our longstanding 
nutrition strategy, with Good for You, Good 
for the Planet at its heart. We took important 
actions to further strengthen our industry-leading 
responsible marketing practices and to provide 
transparency on the nutritional value of our global 
portfolio. At the same time, we also advanced the 
implementation of our climate roadmap.

Looking to 2023, we expect another year of robust 
organic growth, with a focus on restoring our 
gross margin, stepping up marketing investments 
and increasing free cash flow. Nestlé’s value 
creation model puts us in a strong position to 
achieve our 2025 targets and to generate reliable, 
sustainable shareholder returns.

Group sales 
Organic growth (OG) was 8.3%. Pricing 
increased to 8.2%, reflecting significant cost 
inflation. Real internal growth (RIG) was positive 
at was positive at 0.1%, following a high base 
of comparison in 2021, supply constraints and 
portfolio optimization actions. 

Organic growth was 7.1% in developed markets, 
driven by pricing. In emerging markets, organic 
growth was 10.0%, supported by both pricing 
and RIG.

By product category, Purina PetCare was the 
largest contributor to organic growth, with 
continued momentum for science-based and 

http://www.nestle.com/investors/publications
http://www.nestle.com/investors/publications


Nestlé Annual Review 2022 47

premium brands Purina Pro Plan, Purina ONE 
and Fancy Feast, as well as veterinary products. 
Sales in coffee grew at a high single-digit rate, 
with broad-based growth across brands and 
geographies, supported by a strong recovery 
of out-of-home channels. Sales of Starbucks 
products grew by 12.9% to reach CHF 3.6 billion, 
generating over CHF 1.5 billion of incremental 
sales compared with 2018. Infant Nutrition 
saw double-digit growth, with broad-based 
contributions across geographies and brands. 
Confectionery posted high single-digit growth, 
reflecting particular strength for KitKat, seasonal 
products and key local brands. Dairy reported mid 
single-digit growth, with continued momentum 
for coffee creamers, affordable fortified milks 
and home-baking products. Water recorded 
double-digit growth, with a sales decrease in the 
fourth quarter as a result of temporary capacity 
constraints. Prepared dishes and cooking aids 
posted low single-digit growth, following a high 
base of comparison in 2021, with continued 
strong demand for Maggi. Sales in vegetarian 
and plant-based food grew at a mid single-digit 
rate. Garden Gourmet in Europe continued to 
see double-digit growth, while sales for Sweet 
Earth in North America were impacted by SKU 
optimization. Nestlé Health Science reported mid 
single-digit growth, driven by Medical Nutrition 
and healthy-aging products. 

By channel, organic growth in retail sales 
remained robust at 7.2%. E-commerce sales grew 
by 9.2%, reaching 15.8% of total Group sales. 
Organic growth of out-of-home channels reached 
23.5%, with sales exceeding 2019 levels. In the 
fourth quarter, RIG for out-of-home channels 
moderated to a mid single-digit rate as a result 
of post-pandemic normalization.  

Net acquisitions increased sales by 1.1%, largely 
related to the acquisitions of the core brands of 
The Bountiful Company and Orgain. The impact 
on sales from foreign exchange was negative at 
-0.9%. Total reported sales increased by 8.4% to 
CHF 94.4 billion. 

Sales by geographic areas
Differences 2022/2021 (in %)

in CHF
in local 

currency
in CHF 

millions
By main markets 2022
North America + 15.2% (a) 33 000 
United States + 15.4% + 10.4% 30 314 
Canada + 13.0% + 12.3% 2 686 
Europe + 0.3% (a) 22 291 
France – 6.5% + 0.6% 3 558 
United Kingdom + 0.1% + 7.1% 3 409 
Germany – 5.2% + 2.1% 2 316 
Rest of geographic area + 3.4% (a) 13 008 
   of which Switzerland – 2.4% – 2.4% 1 109 
Asia, Oceania and Africa + 3.7% (a) 20 967 
Philippines + 0.4% + 6.3% 2 667 
India + 12.9% + 14.7% 1 960 
Australia + 1.8% + 5.4% 1 510 
Rest of geographic area + 3.4% (a) 14 830 
Latin America + 17.9% (a) 12 323 
Brazil + 28.4% + 17.6% 3 756 
Mexico + 16.7% + 10.7% 3 457 
Chile + 1.8% + 11.8% 1 302 
Rest of geographic area + 16.0% (a) 3 808 
Greater China + 5.1% (a) 5 843 
Greater China + 5.1% + 5.2% 5 843 
Total + 8.4% (a) 94 424 

(a)  Not applicable.



Nestlé Annual Review 202248

Underlying trading operating profit
Underlying trading operating profit increased by 
6.5% to CHF 16.1 billion. The underlying trading 
operating profit margin decreased by 30 basis 
points to 17.1% on a reported basis and by 40 basis 
points in constant currency, reflecting significant 
cost inflation. 

Gross profit increased by 2.5% to CHF 42.7 billion. 
Gross profit margin decreased by 260 basis 
points to 45.2%, following significant broad-
based inflation for commodity, packaging, freight 
and energy costs. The impact of cost inflation 
increased in the second half, reflecting higher 
costs for dairy, cereals and energy. Pricing, growth 
leverage and efficiencies helped to partly offset 
the impact of cost inflation.

Distribution costs as a percentage of sales 
benefited from the divestment of the Nestlé 
Waters North America brands.

Marketing and administration expenses 
decreased by 2.6% to CHF 16.8 billion. 
Consumer-facing marketing spend decreased 
temporarily, following a lower level of promotion 
and marketing activities in the context of supply 
constraints. Consumer-facing marketing spend 
increased in the second half of the year compared 
to the first half. Administrative expenses as 
a percentage of sales benefited from very 
disciplined cost control.

Restructuring expenses and net other trading 
items were CHF 2.9 billion, slightly below the 
prior year. As a result, trading operating profit 
increased by 8.5% to CHF 13.2 billion and the 
trading operating profit margin was unchanged 
versus the prior year on a reported basis at 14.0%.

Underlying trading operating 
profit by operating segment
In % of sales

Trading operating profit
by operating segment
In % of sales

 Zone NA
 Zone EUR
 Zone AOA
 Zone LATAM
 Zone GC
 Nespresso
 Nestlé Health Science

21
.0

%

18
.6

%21
.2

%

20
.3

%

16
.4

%

14
.2

%

16
.1%

15
.7

%

13
.6

%

-9
.0

%

22
.9

%

22
.4

%

21
.5

%

20
.3

%

Underlying trading operating profit and Trading operating profit
In millions of CHF In % of sales

 Underlying trading operating profit
 Trading operating profit

2021 20212022 2022

17.1%

13 195
14.0%

15 119

16 103

12 159

17.4%

14.0%



Nestlé Annual Review 2022 49

Net financial expenses and Income tax
Net financial expenses increased by 19.2% to 
CHF 1.0 billion, reflecting higher average net debt. 
Our average cost of net debt increased slightly to 
2.2%, compared to 2.0% in 2021.

The Group reported tax rate increased by 330 basis 
points to 24.2% as a result of one-off items. The 
underlying tax rate was relatively stable at 20.9%.

Net profit and Earnings per share
Net profit decreased by 45.2% to CHF 9.3 billion. 
Net profit margin decreased by 960 basis 
points to 9.8%, reflecting the gain on disposal 
of L’Oréal shares in 2021. As a result, earnings 
per share decreased by 43.5% to CHF 3.42 on a 
reported basis.

Underlying earnings per share increased by 9.4% in 
constant currency and by 8.4% on a reported basis 
to CHF 4.80. The increase was mainly the result 
of strong organic growth. Nestlé’s share buyback 
program contributed 1.8% to the underlying 
earnings per share increase, net of finance costs. 

Cash flow
Cash generated from operations before changes 
in working capital increased from CHF 16.8 billion 
to CHF 18.4 billion, up 20 basis points as a 
percentage of sales. 

Free cash flow decreased from CHF 8.7 billion 
to CHF 6.6 billion, reflecting a deliberate and 
temporary increase in inventories in the context 
of supply chain disruptions and the energy 
crisis in Europe. Capital expenditure remained 
at an elevated level due to increased demand, 
particularly for PetCare.

6.06

2021 2022

3.42

Earnings per share

In CHF

 Nestlé S.A. share
 Nestlé relative to Swiss Market Index

11.9

2021 2022

13.9

Operating cash flow
In billions of CHF

100% 

75% 

50% 

25% 

0% 

Share capital by investor type, long-term evolution (a)

2018 2022

(a)  Percentage derived from total number of registered shares. 
Registered shares represent 55.8% of the total share capital. 
Statistics are rounded, as at 12/31/2022.

201420102006

Private  
Shareholders 20%

Institutions 80%

Evolution of the Nestlé S.A. share in 2022
In CHF

130.00

125.00

120.00

115.00

110.00

105.00

 | | | | | | | | | | | | |

6%

4%

2%

0%

-2%

-4%

-6%

J F M A M J J A S O N D



Nestlé Annual Review 202250

Dividend
At the Annual General Meeting on April 20, 2023, 
the Board of Directors will propose a dividend of 
CHF 2.95 per share, an increase of 15 centimes. 
If approved, this will be the company’s 28th 
consecutive annual dividend increase. The 
company has maintained or increased its 
dividend in Swiss francs over the last 63 years. 
Nestlé is committed to maintaining this long-held 
practice to increase the dividend in Swiss francs 
every year.

The last trading day with entitlement to receive 
the dividend will be April 21, 2023. The net 
dividend will be payable as from April 26, 2023.

Shareholders entered in the share register 
with voting rights on April 13, 2023, at 12:00 
noon (CEST) will be entitled to exercise their 
voting rights.

Share buyback program
In 2022, the Group repurchased CHF 10.6 billion 
of Nestlé shares as part of the three-year 
CHF 20 billion share buyback program, which 
began in January 2022. At the upcoming Annual 
General Meeting, the Board of Directors will 
propose to reduce the share capital by 80 million 
shares from CHF 275 million to CHF 267 million 
through the cancellation of shares purchased, as 
part of the share buyback program. 

Net debt
Net debt was CHF 48.2 billion as at December 31, 
2022, compared to CHF 32.9 billion at 
December 31, 2021. The higher level of 
debt largely reflected share buybacks of 
CHF 10.5 billion, mostly financed by the 
disposal of L’Oréal shares in December 2021, 
and a temporary increase in working capital. 

Return on invested capital (ROIC)
The Group’s ROIC was unchanged versus 2021 
at 12.2%. Excluding significant impairments, 
ROIC increased by 10 basis points to 14.3%. 

Portfolio management 
Nestlé completed acquisitions and divestments 
with a total value of around CHF 1.9 billion 
in 2022.

On April 1, 2022, Nestlé Health Science 
completed the acquisition of a majority stake in 
Orgain, a leader in plant-based nutrition. Orgain 
complements Nestlé Health Science’s existing 
portfolio of nutrition products that support 
healthier lives. 

On September 1, 2022, Nestlé Health Science 
completed the acquisition of Puravida, a premium 
Brazilian nutrition and health lifestyle brand. 
The acquisition will enable Nestlé Health Science 
to expand its consumer health portfolio in Latin 
America. 

On September 1, 2022, Nestlé Health Science 
completed the acquisition of The Better 
Health Company. The acquisition includes 
the GO Healthy brand, New Zealand’s 
leading supplement brand, and New Zealand 
Health Manufacturing, an Auckland-based 
manufacturing facility for vitamins, minerals and 
supplements. The acquisition will expand Nestlé 
Health Science’s portfolio of vitamins, minerals 
and supplements in AOA. 

Dividend per share
In CHF

2.70

2.45

2.75

2018 2019 2020 2021 2022

2.80

2.95



Nestlé Annual Review 2022 51

On October 19, 2022, Nestlé announced 
the acquisition of Seattle’s Best Coffee from 
Starbucks. This transaction is part of Nestlé’s 
focus on driving sustained profitable growth in 
the coffee category and strengthens the Global 
Coffee Alliance by allowing both companies 
to focus on their core strengths. The transaction 
was completed on January 13, 2023. 

On November 1, 2022, Nestlé completed the sale 
of the Gateway infant formula plant in Eau Claire, 
Wisconsin, along with U.S. and Canadian rights 
to the Gerber Good Start infant formula brand 
to Perrigo. 

On November 15, 2022, Nestlé and L Catterton 
created a partnership that brings together Freshly 
and Kettle Cuisine, a leading manufacturer of 
fresh food products for retail and foodservice 
customers. The combined company focuses on 
offering a wide assortment of fresh food products 
to customers across geographies and a variety 
of channels. L Catterton is the majority owner, 
with Nestlé holding a minority stake.

Sales, employees and factories by geographic area

Sales Employees Factories
2021 2022 2021 2022 2021 2022

NA 32.9% 34.9% 15.1% 14.3%  61  57 
EUR (a) 25.5% 23.6% 29.9% 30.1%  109  106 
AOA 23.2% 22.2% 24.3% 24.8%  97  93 
LATAM 12.0% 13.1% 21.3% 21.9%  64  65 
GC 6.4% 6.2% 9.4% 8.9%  23  23 

(a)  8332 employees in Switzerland in 2022.

Employees by activity
In thousands

2021 2022
Factories 140 140 
Administration and sales 136 135 
Total 276 275 

On November 29, 2022, the Group announced 
the decision to explore strategic options 
for Palforzia, the peanut allergy treatment, 
following slower than expected adoption by 
patients and healthcare professionals. The 
review is expected to be completed in the first 
half of 2023. 

Outlook
2023 outlook: we expect organic sales growth 
between 6% and 8% and underlying trading 
operating profit margin between 17.0% and 
17.5%. Underlying earnings per share in 
constant currency is expected to increase 
between 6% and 10%. 

2025 targets fully confirmed: we expect 
sustainable mid single-digit organic sales 
growth and a return to an underlying trading 
operating profit margin range of 17.5% to 
18.5% by 2025. We expect annual underlying 
earnings per share growth to be in the range 
of 6% to 10% in constant currency.



Nestlé Annual Review 202252

In millions of CHF
2021 * 2022 Proportion of total sales (%) RIG (%) OG (%)

Powdered and Liquid Beverages
Soluble coffee/coffee systems 17 120 16 891 67.0%
Other 6 855 8 327 33.0%
Total sales 23 975 25 218 + 0.2% + 8.0%
Underlying trading operating profit 5 631 5 593 22.2%
Trading operating profit  5 406 5 358 21.2%

Water
Total sales 4 040 3 536 + 2.2% + 11.0%
Underlying trading operating profit 364 277 7.8%
Trading operating profit  257 241 6.8%

Milk products and Ice cream
Milk products 9 778 10 359 91.8%
Ice cream 922 930 8.2%
Total sales 10 700 11 289 – 4.3% + 5.4%
Underlying trading operating profit 2 707 2 568 22.7%
Trading operating profit  2 642 2 508 22.2%

Nutrition and Health Science
Total sales 13 157 15 678 + 1.7% + 7.4%
Underlying trading operating profit 2 307 2 990 19.1%
Trading operating profit  243 1 323 8.4%

Prepared dishes and cooking aids
Frozen and chilled 5 871 5 859 46.9%
Culinary and other 6 275 6 625 53.1%
Total sales 12 146 12 484 – 6.9% + 3.1%
Underlying trading operating profit 2 040 2 038 16.3%
Trading operating profit  1 931 1 508 12.1%

Confectionery
Chocolate 5 716 6 139 75.6%
Sugar confectionery 651 661 8.2%
Snacking and biscuits 1 147 1 318 16.2%
Total sales 7 514 8 118 + 4.8% + 9.4%
Underlying trading operating profit 1 205 1 364 16.8%
Trading operating profit  1 093 1 259 15.5%

PetCare
Total sales 15 556 18 101 + 4.3% + 14.5%
Underlying trading operating profit 3 282 3 706 20.5%
Trading operating profit  3 241 3 494 19.3%

*  The new Zones’ organization as of January 1, 2022, as described in Foreword on page 46, had no impact on the information by product.

Product category and operating segment review



Nestlé Annual Review 2022 53

Zone NA 
In millions of CHF

2021 * 2022 Proportion of total sales (%) RIG (%) OG (%)
United States and Canada 23 693 26 328 

Powdered and Liquid Beverages 3 373 3 891 14.8%
Water 1 666 1 042 4.0%
Milk products and Ice cream 2 689 3 143 11.9%
Prepared dishes and cooking aids 5 155 5 328 20.2%
Confectionery 667 696 2.6%
PetCare 9 112 10 926 41.5%
Nutrition and Health Science 1 031 1 302 5.0%
Total sales 23 693 26 328 – 1.3% + 10.3%

Underlying trading operating profit 4 804 5 528 21.0%
Trading operating profit  4 548 4 904 18.6%
Capital additions 2 319 2 272 8.6%

*  2021 comparatives adjusted, see Foreword on page 46.

Review of Zones, Nespresso  
and Nestlé Health Science

Zone North America (NA)

 – 10.3% organic growth: -1.3% RIG; 11.6% pricing.
 – The Zone’s underlying trading operating profit 

margin increased by 70 basis points to 21.0%.

Organic growth was 10.3%, with pricing of 11.6%. 
RIG was -1.3%, following pricing activities, a 
high base of comparison in 2021 and supply 
constraints. In the fourth quarter, RIG was 
-4.9%, largely impacted by portfolio optimization 
actions, a growth moderation in out-of-home 
channels and temporary capacity constraints 
for water. Net divestitures reduced sales by 
3.8%, mainly due to the divestment of the Nestlé 
Waters North America brands. Foreign exchange 
had a positive impact of 4.7%. Reported sales 

in Zone North America increased by 11.1% to 
CHF 26.3 billion. 

Zone North America saw broad-based growth 
across brands and categories, driven by pricing, 
strong operational execution and continued 
momentum in e-commerce. Nestlé gained market 
share in the Zone, led by pet food, portioned 
coffee and baby food.

By product category, Purina PetCare was the 
largest growth contributor with strong momentum 
across channels, particularly in e-commerce and 
pet specialty stores. Purina Pro Plan, including 
veterinary products, Purina ONE and Fancy Feast 
all saw strong double-digit growth, supported 
by innovation. Sales in Nestlé Professional and 
Starbucks out-of-home products grew at a 
strong double-digit rate. Beverages, including 
Starbucks at-home products, Coffee mate and 
Nescafé, posted high single-digit growth, helped 
by new product launches. Prior to the divestiture 
of Gerber Good Start infant formula in November, 
the brand recorded strong demand following 
supply constraints in the market. Baby food 

Sales CHF 26.3 billion
Organic growth + 10.3%
Real internal growth – 1.3%
Underlying trading operating profit margin 21.0%
Underlying trading operating profit margin + 70 basis points
Trading operating profit margin 18.6%
Trading operating profit margin – 60 basis points



Nestlé Annual Review 202254

Sales CHF 19.1 billion
Organic growth + 7.2%
Real internal growth + 0.9%
Underlying trading operating profit margin 16.4%
Underlying trading operating profit margin – 190 basis points
Trading operating profit margin 14.2%
Trading operating profit margin – 340 basis points

Zone Europe (EUR)reported robust growth, led by healthy snacking. 
Frozen food saw low single-digit growth, with 
robust sales developments for Hot Pockets frozen 
snacks and DiGiorno pizza. Premium water posted 
mid single-digit growth, with a sales decrease 
in the fourth quarter mainly due to temporary 
capacity constraints. Ready-to-drink Nesquik in 
the U.S. and KitKat in Canada reported strong 
growth, supported by new product launches 
and execution.

The Zone’s underlying trading operating profit 
margin increased by 70 basis points. Pricing, 
growth leverage and portfolio management more 
than offset significant cost inflation.

 – 7.2% organic growth: 0.9% RIG; 6.4% pricing.
 – The Zone’s underlying trading operating profit 

margin decreased by 190 basis points to 16.4%.

Organic growth was 7.2%, with pricing of 6.4%. 
RIG was resilient at 0.9%, following a high base of 
comparison in 2021 as well as supply constraints. 
Foreign exchange negatively impacted sales by 
7.6%, reflecting the appreciation of the Swiss franc 
against the Euro. Reported sales in Zone Europe 
increased by 1.8% to CHF 19.1 billion.

In a challenging environment, Zone Europe 
demonstrated resilience and a commitment 
to invest for the long-term. In Ukraine, Nestlé 
announced a CHF 40 million investment for a new 
production facility in the Volyn region. 

The Zone saw market share gains in 
confectionery, pet food and Infant Nutrition. 
By product category, the key growth driver was 
Purina PetCare, fueled by premium brands 
Gourmet, Felix and Purina Pro Plan. Growth 
was strong across all channels, particularly in 
e-commerce and pet specialty stores. Sales in 
Nestlé Professional grew at a strong double-
digit rate, helped by new growth platforms and 
increased distribution, particularly for beverages. 
Water saw double-digit growth, with a sales 
decrease in the fourth quarter mainly due to 
temporary capacity constraints. Coffee posted 
mid single-digit growth, led by Nescafé soluble 
coffee and continued strong sales developments 
for Starbucks by Nespresso. Confectionery 
reported mid single-digit growth, with strong 
demand for KitKat and seasonal offerings. Sales 
in Infant Nutrition grew at a double-digit rate, 
based on strong momentum for premium infant 



Nestlé Annual Review 2022 55

formula, including human milk oligosaccharides 
(HMOs) products. Culinary recorded a sales 
decrease, impacted by negative growth in pizza 
and noodles. Garden Gourmet plant-based 
products continued to see double-digit growth, 
reflecting new product launches. 

The Zone’s underlying trading operating profit 
margin decreased by 190 basis points. Significant 
cost inflation and the impact of war-induced 
supply chain constraints outweighed pricing, 
growth leverage and cost efficiencies.

Zone EUR
In millions of CHF

2021 * 2022 Proportion of total sales (%) RIG (%) OG (%)
Western Europe 13 532 13 334 69.7%
Eastern Europe 3 858 4 272 22.3%
Türkiye and Israël 1 404 1 522 8.0%

Powdered and Liquid Beverages 5 148 5 140 26.9%
Water 1 606 1 626 8.5%
Milk products and Ice cream 330 345 1.8%
Prepared dishes and cooking aids 3 038 2 820 14.7%
Confectionery 3 054 3 091 16.2%
PetCare 4 316 4 732 24.7%
Nutrition and Health Science 1 302 1 374 7.2%
Total sales 18 794 19 128 + 0.9% + 7.2%

Underlying trading operating profit 3 439 3 138 16.4%
Trading operating profit  3 316 2 719 14.2%
Capital additions 1 475 1 489 7.8%

* 2021 comparatives adjusted, see Foreword on page 46.



Nestlé Annual Review 202256

Zone AOA
In millions of CHF

2021 * 2022 Proportion of total sales (%) RIG (%) OG (%)
ASEAN 6 984 7 112 38.5%
Oceania and Japan 3 049 2 964 16.0%
South Asian Subcontinent 2 898 3 156 17.1%
Middle-East and Africa 4 963 5 252 28.4%

Powdered and Liquid Beverages 5 909 6 108 33.0%
Water 597 641 3.5%
Milk products and Ice cream 3 804 3 636 19.7%
Prepared dishes and cooking aids 2 263 2 560 13.9%
Confectionery 1 280 1 372 7.4%
PetCare 682 702 3.8%
Nutrition and Health Science 3 359 3 465 18.7%
Total sales 17 894 18 484 + 0.1% + 8.2%

Underlying trading operating profit 4 288 4 237 22.9%
Trading operating profit  3 399 4 133 22.4%
Capital additions 866 930 5.0%

*  2021 comparatives adjusted, see Foreword on page 46.

 – 8.2% organic growth: 0.1% RIG; 8.1% pricing.
 – The Zone’s underlying trading operating profit 

margin decreased by 110 basis points to 22.9%.

Organic growth reached 8.2%, with pricing of 
8.1%. RIG was 0.1%, impacted by a high base of 
comparison in 2021 and portfolio optimization 
actions. Foreign exchange reduced sales by 4.9%. 
Reported sales in Zone AOA increased by 3.3% to 
CHF 18.5 billion. 

Growth in Zone AOA was driven by pricing, 
continued recovery of out-of-home channels and 
innovation. The Zone saw market share gains in 
coffee, culinary and Infant Nutrition. 

Zone Asia, Oceania and Africa (AOA)

Sales CHF 18.5 billion
Organic growth + 8.2%
Real internal growth + 0.1%
Underlying trading operating profit margin 22.9%
Underlying trading operating profit margin – 110 basis points
Trading operating profit margin 22.4%
Trading operating profit margin + 340 basis points

South-East Asia saw mid single-digit growth, 
led by Nescafé, Maggi and Milo. South Asia 
posted double-digit growth, with market share 
gains and continued momentum for Maggi, 
KitKat and Nescafé. Sales in the Middle East 
and Africa grew at a double-digit rate, based on 
strong momentum for affordable offerings across 
Maggi and Milo as well as broad-based demand 
for Infant Nutrition products. Despite portfolio 
optimization, Japan reported low single-digit 
growth, supported by Nescafé, Starbucks and 
Purina PetCare. Sales in South Korea grew at a 
double-digit rate, driven by Starbucks products 
and increased demand for KitKat. Oceania 
recorded high single-digit growth, with particular 
strength for Nescafé, Maggi and KitKat.

By product category, culinary was the largest 
growth contributor, led by Maggi cooking 
aids and noodles. Sales in Nestlé Professional 
grew at a strong double-digit rate across 
geographies and categories, fueled by increased 
distribution. Coffee saw high single-digit growth, 
with continued strong demand for Nescafé 
and Starbucks products. The Zone launched 



Nestlé Annual Review 2022 57

 – 13.1% organic growth: 1.5% RIG; 11.6% pricing.  
 – The Zone’s underlying trading operating profit 

margin decreased by 70 basis points to 21.2%.

Organic growth was 13.1%, with pricing of 11.6%. 
RIG was 1.5%, following a high base of comparison 
in 2021. Foreign exchange had a positive impact 
of 4.0%. Reported sales in Zone Latin America 
increased by 17.2% to CHF 11.8 billion. 

Zone Latin America saw sustained broad-based 
growth, supported by pricing, strong operational 
execution and continued momentum of out-of-
home channels. The Zone saw market share gains 
in Infant Nutrition, pet food and culinary.

Zone Latin America (LATAM)

Sales CHF 11.8 billion
Organic growth + 13.1%
Real internal growth + 1.5%
Underlying trading operating profit margin 21.2%
Underlying trading operating profit margin – 70 basis points
Trading operating profit margin 20.3%
Trading operating profit margin – 10 basis points

Zone LATAM 
In millions of CHF

2021 * 2022 Proportion of total sales (%) RIG (%) OG (%)
Latin America and Caribbean 10 086 11 819 

Powdered and Liquid Beverages 2 009 2 422 20.5%
Water 122 175 1.5%
Milk products and Ice cream 2 702 3 030 25.6%
Prepared dishes and cooking aids 775 845 7.1%
Confectionery 1 690 2 067 17.5%
PetCare 1 333 1 614 13.7%
Nutrition and Health Science 1 455 1 666 14.1%
Total sales 10 086 11 819 + 1.5% + 13.1%

Underlying trading operating profit 2 208 2 501 21.2%
Trading operating profit  2 053 2 401 20.3%
Capital additions 687 805 6.8%

*  2021 comparatives adjusted, see Foreword on page 46.

Starbucks ready-to-drink products in seven 
markets. Infant Nutrition reached high single-
digit growth, based on innovation and increased 
distribution. Cocoa and malt beverages posted 
high single-digit growth, driven by Milo. Sales in 
confectionery grew at a double-digit rate, led by 
KitKat. Purina PetCare reported high single-digit 
growth, with continued momentum for Purina 
ONE, Felix and Purina Pro Plan. Ambient dairy saw 
a slight sales decrease, largely due to portfolio 
optimization actions. 

The Zone’s underlying trading operating profit 
margin decreased by 110 basis points. Significant 
cost inflation more than offset pricing, growth 
leverage and disciplined cost control.



Nestlé Annual Review 202258

Sales in Brazil grew at a strong double-digit 
rate, reflecting high demand for confectionery 
and Infant Nutrition as well as cocoa and malt 
beverages. Mexico saw double-digit growth, with 
strong sales developments for Purina PetCare, 
Nescafé and Carnation. Sales in Chile grew at a 
double-digit rate, led by confectionery, coffee and 
Purina PetCare. Colombia and the Plata Region 
continued to see strong double-digit growth.

By product category, confectionery was the 
largest growth contributor, based on strong 
demand for key local brands and KitKat. Sales in 
Purina PetCare grew at a double-digit rate, led by 
Dog Chow, Cat Chow and Purina Pro Plan, as well 
as the continued expansion of Purina ONE across 
the Zone. Coffee posted broad-based double-digit 
growth, supported by Nescafé soluble coffee, 
Nescafé Dolce Gusto and Starbucks products. 
Dairy reported high single-digit growth, based 
on strong sales developments for fortified milks 
and home-baking products. Infant Nutrition 
recorded high single-digit growth, based on 
continued momentum for Nido and NAN. Sales 
in Nestlé Professional grew at a strong double-
digit rate, significantly exceeding 2019 levels, with 
growth fueled by new digital platforms. Water 
also posted strong double-digit growth. Plant-
based products saw strong growth, helped by the 
expansion of dairy alternatives for La Lechera and 
by Nature’s Heart.

The Zone’s underlying trading operating profit 
margin decreased by 70 basis points, as one-off 
items and cost inflation more than offset pricing, 
growth leverage and disciplined cost control.



Nestlé Annual Review 2022 59

Zone GC
In millions of CHF

2021 * 2022 Proportion of total sales (%) RIG (%) OG (%)
Greater China 5 175 5 351 

Powdered and Liquid Beverages 957 1 018 19.0%
Water 49 52 1.0%
Milk products and Ice cream 1 162 1 121 20.9%
Prepared dishes and cooking aids 914 930 17.4%
Confectionery 797 843 15.8%
PetCare 112 127 2.4%
Nutrition and Health Science 1 184 1 260 23.5%
Total sales 5 175 5 351 + 1.0% + 3.5%

Underlying trading operating profit 700 862 16.1%
Trading operating profit  (466) 840 15.7%
Capital additions 261 207 3.9%

*  2021 comparatives adjusted, see Foreword on page 46.

Zone Greater China (GC)

Sales CHF 5.4 billion
Organic growth + 3.5%
Real internal growth + 1.0%
Underlying trading operating profit margin 16.1%
Underlying trading operating profit margin + 260 basis points
Trading operating profit margin 15.7%
Trading operating profit margin + 2470 basis points

 – 3.5% organic growth: 1.0% RIG; 2.5% pricing.  
 – The Zone’s underlying trading operating profit 

margin increased by 260 basis points to 16.1%.

Organic growth was 3.5%, with pricing of 2.5%. 
RIG was 1.0%, impacted by COVID-19-related 
movement restrictions. Foreign exchange had a 
negative impact of 0.1%. Reported sales in Zone 
Greater China increased by 3.4% to CHF 5.4 billion. 

Growth in Zone Greater China was supported 
by strong operational execution, e-commerce 
momentum and continued innovation. 

By product category, Infant Nutrition saw high 
single-digit growth, with improved market share 
trends for NAN and illuma. Coffee posted high 
single-digit growth, led by Nescafé soluble 
and ready-to-drink coffee as well as Starbucks 
products. In confectionery, Hsu Fu Chi reported 
high single-digit growth, helped by innovation 
including the launch of savory snacks. Culinary 
recorded mid single-digit growth, helped by 
increased distribution and innovation. Sales 
in Purina PetCare grew at a double-digit rate, 
with strong growth in specialty channels and 
e-commerce. As a result of movement restrictions, 
Nestlé Professional saw a mid single-digit sales 
decrease, with market share gains supported by 
new customers and product launches.

The Zone’s underlying trading operating profit 
margin increased by 260 basis points. Favorable 
mix and disciplined cost control more than offset 
cost inflation.



Nestlé Annual Review 202260

Nespresso
In millions of CHF

2021 2022 RIG (%) OG (%)
Total sales 6 418 6 448 – 1.7% + 3.5%

Underlying trading operating profit 1 475 1 388 21.5%
Trading operating profit  1 456 1 309 20.3%
Capital additions 445 520 8.1%

 – 3.5% organic growth: -1.7% RIG; 5.2% pricing.
 – The underlying trading operating profit margin 

of Nespresso decreased by 150 basis points 
to 21.5%.

Organic growth was 3.5%, with pricing of 5.2%. 
RIG was -1.7%, following strong growth of 8.2% 
in 2021 during the pandemic. Foreign exchange 
negatively impacted sales by 2.7%. Reported sales 
in Nespresso increased by 0.5% to CHF 6.4 billion.

Growth in Nespresso was led by broad-based 
momentum for the Vertuo system. Vertuo Pop, 
a new compact machine, was launched in 
10 markets. Growth was also supported by a strong 
recovery of out-of-home channels, with continued 
expansion of the Momento system and improved 
sales development for the office segment. 
Innovation and new product launches, including 
the year-end festive campaign with Pierre Hermé, 
continued to resonate with consumers. 

By geography, North America posted double-
digit growth with continued market share gains. 
Europe reported a sales decrease, with growth 
turning positive in the fourth quarter. Other regions 
combined recorded high single-digit growth.

Nespresso

Sales CHF 6.4 billion
Organic growth + 3.5%
Real internal growth – 1.7%
Underlying trading operating profit margin 21.5%
Underlying trading operating profit margin – 150 basis points
Trading operating profit margin 20.3%
Trading operating profit margin – 240 basis points

The underlying trading operating profit margin 
of Nespresso decreased by 150 basis points, 
impacted by cost inflation and investments in 
the rollout of the Vertuo system.



Nestlé Annual Review 2022 61

Nestlé Health Science
In millions of CHF

2021 2022 RIG (%) OG (%)
Total sales 4 822 6 602 + 0.6% + 4.0%

Underlying trading operating profit 654 899 13.6%
Trading operating profit  628 (596) – 9.0%
Capital additions 6 594 1 795 27.2%

 – 4.0% organic growth: 0.6% RIG; 3.4% pricing.
 – The underlying trading operating profit margin 

was unchanged at 13.6%. 

Organic growth was 4.0%, with increased 
pricing of 3.4%. RIG was 0.6%, following 
strong double-digit growth in both 2020 and 
2021 during the pandemic. Net acquisitions 
increased sales by 31.5%, largely related to the 
acquisitions of the core brands of The Bountiful 
Company and Orgain. Foreign exchange 
positively impacted sales by 1.5%. Reported 
sales in Nestlé Health Science increased by 
36.9% to CHF 6.6 billion. 

Consumer Care posted positive growth, as 
double-digit growth in active nutrition was offset 
by a slight sales decrease in vitamins, minerals 
and supplements. Within active nutrition, 
healthy-aging products were the largest 
contributor to growth, led by Boost and Nutren. 
Vital Proteins and Orgain saw double-digit 
growth with market share gains. Within vitamins, 
minerals and supplements, growth for The 
Bountiful Company brands and Garden of Life 
were impacted by a high base of comparison for 
immunity-related products during the pandemic. 

Medical Nutrition recorded double-digit growth, 
with strong sales developments for pediatric and 
allergy products, Althéra, Alfaré and Alfamino. 
Adult medical care products also posted strong 
growth based on new product launches. 

By geography, sales in North America grew at a 
low single-digit rate. Europe reported positive 
growth. Other regions combined posted high 
single-digit growth. Overall, Nestlé Health Science 
saw broad-based market share gains.

The underlying trading operating profit margin of 
Nestlé Health Science was unchanged versus the 
prior year, as cost synergies from newly acquired 
businesses and growth leverage were offset by 
cost inflation and growth investments.

Nestlé Health Science 

Sales CHF 6.6 billion
Organic growth + 4.0%
Real internal growth + 0.6%
Underlying trading operating profit margin 13.6%
Underlying trading operating profit margin 0 basis point
Trading operating profit margin – 9.0%
Trading operating profit margin – 2200 basis points



Nestlé Annual Review 202262

Principal risks and uncertainties

The Group aims to adopt a risk profile aligned 
to our purpose and business strategy. We aim 
to create long-term value through a balance 
of sustainable growth and resource efficiency. 
Our culture and values – rooted in respect for 
ourselves, others, diversity and the future – 
guide our decisions and actions. Our Creating 
Shared Value approach helps us prioritize 
those areas that maximize value creation for 
shareholders and cultivate positive societal and 
environmental impacts.

The Nestlé Group Enterprise Risk Management 
(ERM) framework is designed to assess and 
mitigate risks in order to minimize their potential 
impact and support the achievement of Nestlé’s 
long-term purpose and business strategy. 
A top-down assessment is performed at Group-
level once a year. A bottom-up assessment 
occurs in parallel, resulting in aggregation of the 
individual market assessments. This creates a 
good understanding of the company’s key risks 
in order to allocate ownership to drive specific 
actions around them and take any relevant steps 
to address them. 

Additionally, Nestlé engages with external 
stakeholders to better understand the issues 
that are of most concern to them. The materiality 
assessment (included in the Creating Shared 
Value and Sustainability Report) rates the degree 
of external stakeholder concern and potential 
business impact. This helps to ensure that wider 
sustainability issues are incorporated into the risks 
and opportunities under consideration across  
the company. 

Risk assessments and any mitigating actions 
are the responsibility of the individual line 
management. If Group-level intervention is 
required, responsibility for mitigating actions will 
generally be determined by the Executive Board. 
The annual Group risk assessment is reported 
annually to the Executive Board, Audit Committee 
and Board of Directors. Under the Group’s 
governance, the full Board is responsible for risk 
oversight. Further detail of the ERM processes can 
be found in the Corporate Governance Report.

We are committed to transparency and action 
on climate-related risks and opportunities. As 
such, we have aligned our reporting disclosures 
with the recommendations of the Taskforce on 
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Our 
TCFD-aligned disclosures, including our analysis 
undertaken in 2022, can be found on page 17 
and in Nestlé’s 2022 Climate Risk and Impact 
Report (www.nestle.com/tcfdreport).

The risks listed below are considered the most 
relevant for our business and performance. 
Many of the longer-term mitigation strategies are 
expanded on in our Creating Shared Value and 
Sustainability Report.



Nestlé Annual Review 2022 63

Principal risk Description Potential impact Key mitigations

Product quality  
and safety

Major event triggered by a serious 
food safety, product quality or other 
product-related non-compliance 
issue

 – Serious harm or death
 – Negative effect on Nestlé’s 
reputation and/or brands
 – Failure to meet evolving regulatory 
requirements
 – Loss of trust
 – Penalties and/or fines
 – Litigation

 – Policies, processes and controls to 
ensure high-quality, safe products 
and prevention of health risks 
 – Quality and food safety culture

Consumer  
preferences

Failure to adequately anticipate 
evolving consumer preferences; 
innovate relevant, competitive 
products and brands; or execute 
at speed 

 – Negative effect on Nestlé’s 
reputation and/or brands 
 – Failure to achieve growth targets, 
loss of market share

 – Strengthen consumer-centricity of 
innovation process
 – Apply scientific and nutritional 
know-how to enhance nutrition, 
health and wellness
 – Improve the accessibility of safe 
and affordable food

Regulation Prolonged negative perceptions 
concerning health implications 
of processed food and beverage 
categories

 – Increase in regulation on industry 
and/or specific categories
 – Erosion of consumer confidence in 
industry
 – Limitations on marketing and 
distribution

 – Focus scientific and nutritional 
know-how to enhance nutrition, 
health and wellness
 – Policies, including Responsible 
Marketing to Children and 
Marketing of Breast Milk 
Substitutes

Customer  
and channel 
management

Customer concentration, channel 
dynamics accelerating pressure on 
distribution, pricing and trade

 – Reduced distribution of our 
products to consumers
 – Restricted ability to price 
impacting margin 
 – Failure to achieve growth targets, 
loss of market share

 – Strategic customer relationship 
management
 – Accelerate digital capabilities, 
expansion of e-commerce and 
online communication

Human rights Failure to identify and/or prevent 
human rights violations in direct 
operations and extended supply 
chain (e.g., forced labor, child labor, 
working hours, living wage, etc.)

 – Negative impact on individuals
 – Negative effect on Nestlé’s 
reputation and/or brands
 – Penalties and/or fines 
 – License to operate challenges 
 – Litigation

 – Human Rights Due Diligence 
Framework
 – Salient issue action plans
 – Sustainable Sourcing programs 
(e.g., Nescafé Plan, Nestlé Cocoa 
Plan, etc.)
 – Policies, processes and controls to 
respect and promote human rights
 – Grievance mechanisms and 
consequence management 

Supply chain 
stewardship

Failure to ensure a transparent, 
sustainable and resilient food supply 
chain

 – Negative effect on Nestlé’s 
reputation and/or brands
 – Penalties and/or fines 
 – License to operate challenges
 – Product shortages

 – Generation Regeneration activities 
to support the advancement of 
regenerative food systems
 – Sustainable sourcing programs 
to achieve transparency and 
traceability on key raw materials

Climate change Climate-related physical (including 
extreme weather events, water 
shortages and floods, and land use 
change, including deforestation and 
biodiversity loss) and transitional 
disruption (including policy actions, 
technological advances, market 
sentiment) disrupting our operations 
and/or consumer demand

 – Volatility in supply of raw materials 
due to physical climate changes 
(e.g., water stress, heat stress, etc.)
 – Policy impacts (e.g., carbon tax, 
land use restrictions, agricultural 
subsidy shifts, etc.) on operating 
costs
 – Increased consumer and/or 
stakeholder concern on climate 
impacting reputation

 – Nestlé’s Net Zero Roadmap 
progress, which is included in 
the Creating Shared Value and 
Sustainability Report, and Nestlé’s 
response to the CDP questionnaires 
 – Generation Regeneration activities 
to support the advancement of 
regenerative food systems
 – Publication of Nestlé’s Climate Risk 
and Impact Report

Product and plastic 
packaging

Failure to comply with current 
or future regulation on plastic 
packaging and/or failure to meet 
commitments on packaging and the 
environment

 – Specific packaging (e.g., single-use 
plastic) and/or elements (e.g., straws) 
taxed, banned and/or delisted
 – Failure to develop circular 
packaging and/or business models 
 – Stigmatization of products, brands 
and/or categories 
 – Failure to achieve growth targets, 
loss of market share

 – Waste-free future: recyclable 
or reusable packaging; pioneer 
new packaging materials; 
collaborations to drive recycling 
penetration; educate via brand 
communications
 – Nestlé Institute of Packaging 
Sciences



Nestlé Annual Review 202264

Principal risk Description Potential impact Key mitigations

Environmental 
stewardship

Failure to comply with legislation or 
meet expectations concerning the 
environment, including biodiversity 
impacts, use of natural resources, air 
emissions and waste discharges, etc.

 – Negative effect on Nestlé’s 
reputation and/or brands
 – Corporate fines and/or taxation on 
products/categories
 – License to operate challenges 
(e.g., access to water)
 – Litigation

 – Caring for Water plan to implement 
water stewardship initiatives 
 – Commitments to improve 
operational efficiencies (e.g., 
switch to renewable energy 
sources, reduction in air 
emissions, etc.)
 – Nestlé membership on the 
Taskforce for Nature-related 
Financial Disclosures

Health and safety Failure to comply with local health 
and safety regulations and/or 
nurture safe healthy workplaces in 
all countries where Nestlé operates

 – Negative effect on Nestlé’s 
reputation and/or brands
 – Penalties and/or fines 
 – Litigation
 – Injuries or fatalities
 – Occupational illness or accidents

 – Long-term initiatives to promote 
safe and healthy behaviors
 – Health and safety policies and 
procedures
 – Procedures to comply with local 
health and safety legislation
 – Employee Health Strategy, 
including #HealthyLives to build 
personal health, safety and 
well-being awareness among 
employees

Systems, security  
and privacy

Threat of cyber-attacks or failure 
of internal systems and digital 
networks disrupting the reliability, 
security and privacy of data and/or 
ability to operate

 – Inability to run operational 
activities
 – Loss of confidential information 
impacting corporate reputation
 – Loss of consumer trust 
 – Penalties and/or fines 
 – Litigation

 – Contingencies and policies to 
protect hardware and software
 – Privacy program to guard against 
data security threats and comply 
with an evolving regulatory 
landscape

Supply chain  
disruption

Major event impacting raw material 
sourcing, transport, and/or internal 
or external manufacturing facilities 
(e.g., commodity shortages, strikes, 
sanctions, natural disasters, health 
outbreaks, conflict, etc.) 

 – Impacts ability to ensure supply 
of key products, ingredients and 
packaging, including sourcing, 
transporting to operational 
facilities and distribution to 
customers
 – Increase in input prices and/or 
production and distribution costs 

 – Business continuity and disaster 
recovery plans for key sites
 – Active price risk management on 
key commodities
 – Local and multiple supply options

Strategic investment 
choices

Investment choices evolve over 
time and may include emerging 
technologies; new business models; 
creation of, or entry into, new 
categories; geographic expansion

 – Broader exposures for the Group
 – Acceptance of higher risk and 
return metrics

 – Group’s investment choices 
aligned with our strategy and 
prioritized based on the potential 
to create value over the long term

Business 
transformations

Failure of strategic transformations 
such as large-scale change 
management projects, restructuring, 
mergers and acquisitions, etc.

 – Failure to realize anticipated 
benefits 
 – Impairments 
 – Low employee morale and/or 
engagement

 – Transformations receive executive 
sponsorship with aligned targets 
and appropriate levels of resources 
to support successful execution

People retention Failure to attract and retain skilled, 
talented employees in a competitive, 
dynamic marketplace

 – Adversely impact our corporate 
reputation
 – Failure to equip the workforce with 
the skills for the digital age
 – Failure to achieve growth and 
profit targets

 – Initiatives to improve gender 
balance and cultural diversity
 – Development strategies to cope 
with the demands of a changing 
work force

Ethics and compliance Failure to act with integrity or in a 
manner consistent with our purpose 
and values

 – Adversely impact our corporate 
reputation and brands
 – Penalties and/or fines 
 – Litigation

 – Corporate Business Principles 
and Code of Business Conduct 
outline the Group’s commitment 
to integrity
 – Compliance program and systems, 
including grievance mechanisms



Nestlé Annual Review 2022 65

Principal risk Description Potential impact Key mitigations

Non-financial corporate 
governance

Failure to comply and/or meet 
stakeholders’ expectations 
with regards to non-financial 
performance and reporting

 – Adversely impact our corporate 
reputation and brands
 – Penalties and/or fines 
 – Litigation

 – Board oversight supported by 
the Sustainability Committee
 – Leadership provided by the ESG 
& Sustainability Council
 – Dedicated ESG Strategy & 
Deployment Unit
 – Alignment to relevant non-
financial reporting frameworks

Macro financial  
factors

Volatility and/or sudden shocks 
impacting macro factors (e.g., 
currencies, interest rates, cost of 
capital, credit ratings, pension 
liabilities)

 – Government intervention (e.g., 
capital controls, price controls) 
impacting operations and financial 
performance
 – Access to capital markets

 – Appropriate governance and risk 
mitigation measures to actively 
manage exposures and long-term 
asset and liability outlook

Taxation factors Changes and/or interpretation of 
existing tax regulations, and/or new 
tax regulations (e.g., OECD Base 
Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS))

 – Failure to comply with tax 
regulations 
 – Increase in effective tax rates
 – Increase in the cost of compliance

 – Group Tax Management Principles 
to manage and monitor tax 
compliance 
 – Develop processes/tools to 
ensure compliance with new 
requirements (e.g., OECD 15% 
minimum tax)

Geo-political, societal 
factors

Adverse instability and/or 
uncertainty (e.g., political instability, 
conflicts, trade wars, pandemic 
or health outbreaks, labor and/or 
infrastructure-related risks)

 – Reduction in consumer demand 
across categories and/or channels 
 – Disruption to Nestlé’s ability to do 
business in a country or region
 – Disruption to supply chain

 – Monitoring and ad-hoc continuity 
plans to mitigate against events
 – Group-wide geographical and 
product category spreads 



Nestlé Annual Review 202266

Factories 

The figure in black after the 
country denotes the number  
of factories.

  Powdered and Liquid Beverages
 Water
 Milk products and Ice cream
 Nutrition and Health Science
  Prepared dishes and  

cooking aids
 Confectionery
 PetCare

North America (NA)
Canada 2
United States 55

Europe (EUR)
Belgium 1
Bulgaria 1
Czech Republic 3
Denmark 1
Finland 2
France 14
Germany 13
Greece 2
Hungary 2
Ireland 1
Israel 7
Italy 7
Netherlands 1
Poland 5
Portugal 2
Republic of Serbia 1
Russia 6
Slovak Republic 1
Spain 10
Sweden 1
Switzerland 10
Türkiye 3
Ukraine 3
United Kingdom 9

Asia, Oceania and Africa (AOA) 
Algeria 2
Angola 1
Australia 6
Bahrain 1
Bangladesh 1
Cameroon 1
Côte d’Ivoire 2
Egypt 2
Ghana 1
India 8
Indonesia 3
Iran 2
Japan 3
Jordan 1
Kenya 1
Lebanon 1
Malaysia 6
Morocco 1
Myanmar 1
New Zealand 4
Nigeria 3
Pakistan 4
Papua New Guinea 1
Philippines 5
Qatar 1
Senegal 1
Singapore 2
Saudi Arabia 5
South Africa 5
Sri Lanka 1
Thailand 8
United Arab Emirates 2
Vietnam 6
Zimbabwe 1



Nestlé Annual Review 2022 67

Latin America (LATAM)
Argentina 6
Bolivia 1
Brazil 12
Chile 9
Colombia 5
Cuba 3
Dominican Republic 2
Ecuador 3
Guatemala 2
Mexico 12
Nicaragua 1
Panama 1
Peru 1
Trinidad and Tobago 1
Uruguay 1
Venezuela 5

Greater China (GC)
Greater China 23



68 Nestlé Annual Review 2022

Corporate Governance 
and Compliance



 Switzerland 37.1%
 United States 32.9%
 United Kingdom 5.7%
 Germany 4.8%
 Canada 2.7%
 Luxembourg 2.2%
 Sweden 1.7%
 Belgium 1.6%
 Japan 1.6%
 Australia 1.3%
 Others 8.4%

Share capital distribution by geography

Nestlé Annual Review 2022 69

by our Lead Independent Director, evaluates 
Board composition, performance, structure and 
succession planning, and assesses candidates 
for nomination to the Board. Our Sustainability 
Committee advises on our environmental and 
social sustainability, including our response 
to climate change and our human rights due 
diligence program. Our Compensation Committee 
ensures alignment of our remuneration systems 
with our values, strategies and performance. In 
2022, it continued its work to review the KPIs in 
our short- and long-term incentive plans. Our 
Audit Committee oversees internal and external 
audit, financial and non-financial reporting, and 
internal controls; and reviews reports regarding 
compliance, fraud and risk management.

We recognize that for our company to be 
successful over time and to be a force for good, 
we must also create value for society. Our 
governance helps us strike the right balance in our 
pursuit of long-term, sustainable value creation.

Our principles-based governance provides the 
base for our many actions leading to sustainable 
value creation. We continue to balance the pursuit 
of top-line and bottom-line growth with capital 
efficiency. Aiming for business to be a force for 
good, we use our scale, resources and expertise 
to create shared value for all our stakeholders.

In 2022, our value creation model proved its 
resilience and allowed us to continue to invest, 
renovate and grow. Our science- and consumer-
driven innovations met fast-changing consumer 
needs. At the same time, we progressed on our 
path to gradually reduce absolute GHG emissions 
in our supply chain to achieve net zero emissions 
by 2050 and continued to support the transition 
to a regenerative food system. Our engagement 
on climate action is in line with our detailed Net 
Zero Roadmap, which our shareholders strongly 
supported at the 2021 Annual General Meeting. 
While making our portfolio good for the planet, 
we further intensified our efforts to make our 
products good for our consumers. In 2022, we 
strengthened our internal tools and systems that 
guide the nutritional composition of our foods and 
beverages, upgraded our policies and increased 
transparency on the healthfulness of our portfolio.

Our diverse and competent Board of Directors is 
engaged to oversee the direction of our company. 
We have continuously strengthened the Board by 
adding new independent directors with diverse 
experience and expertise directly relevant to 
Nestlé, for example, with respect to food systems, 
food and beverage, digitalization, marketing 
and other topics. Under our governance, the full 
Board is in charge of strategy, governance and 
risk oversight. We continue to engage with our 
shareholders through our roadshows, investor 
meetings and analyst calls. Our Chairman’s 
Roundtables took place virtually with investors in 
Asia, North America, Switzerland, Germany, the 
UK, France and the Netherlands.

Our Chair’s and Corporate Governance Committee 
regularly reviews all aspects of our governance, 
as well as our asset and liability management and 
other topics. Our Nomination Committee, chaired 

Corporate Governance



Nestlé Annual Review 202270

Board of Directors  
of Nestlé S.A.

Board of Directors of Nestlé S.A. 
at December 31, 2022

Paul Bulcke (1, 2, 4)

Chairman

U. Mark Schneider (1, 2)

Chief Executive Officer

Henri de Castries (1, 2, 4, 6)

Vice Chairman
Lead Independent Director
Former Chairman and CEO, AXA

Pablo Isla (1, 2, 3)

Former Executive Chairman, 
Inditex

Renato Fassbind (1, 2, 6)

Vice Chairman, Swiss Re AG

Eva Cheng (1, 4)

Former Chairwoman and CEO, 
Amway China & Southeast Asia

Patrick Aebischer (1, 3)

President Emeritus of the  
Swiss Federal Institute of
Technology Lausanne (EPFL)

Kimberly A. Ross (1, 6)

Former CFO, Baker Hughes LLC,  
Avon Products Inc. and  
Royal Ahold N.V.

Dick Boer (1, 3, 5)

Former President and CEO,
Ahold Delhaize N.V.

Dinesh Paliwal (1, 3, 4)

Former President and CEO, 
Harman International 
Industries Inc.

Hanne Jimenez de Mora (1, 2, 5)

Co-founder, a-connect group

Lindiwe M. Sibanda (1, 5)

Professor, University of Pretoria, 
RSA

Luca Maestri (1, 6)

Chief Financial Officer, Apple Inc.

Chris Leong (1, 5) 

Chief Marketing Officer, 
Schneider Electric

(1) Term expires on the date of the
 Annual General Meeting 2023
(2) Chair’s and Corporate 
 Governance Committee
(3) Compensation Committee
(4) Nomination Committee
(5) Sustainability Committee
(6) Audit Committee

For further information on the Board of 
Directors, please refer to the Corporate 
Governance Report 2022.

Peter Brabeck-Letmathe
Chairman Emeritus

David P. Frick 
Secretary to the Board

EY (1)

Independent auditors



Nestlé Annual Review 2022 71

U. Mark Schneider Pablo IslaPaul Bulcke

Renato Fassbind

Chris Leong

Eva Cheng Patrick Aebischer

Dick Boer

Kimberly A. Ross

Dinesh Paliwal Hanne Jimenez de Mora Lindiwe M. Sibanda

Luca Maestri

Henri de Castries

David P. Frick
Secretary to the Board



Nestlé Annual Review 202272

Executive Board of Nestlé S.A.
at December 31, 2022

From left to right
EVP: Executive Vice President
CEO: Chief Executive Officer

For further information on the  
Executive Board, please refer to the 
Corporate Governance Report 2022.

 Stefan Palzer 
EVP, Innovation Technology, 
Research and Development

 Bernard Meunier 
EVP, Strategic Business Units, 
Marketing and Sales

 Laurent Freixe 
EVP, CEO Zone Latin America

 Greg Behar 
Deputy EVP, CEO, 
Nestlé Health Science

 Leanne Geale 
EVP, General Counsel, 
Corporate Governance 
and Compliance

 David Rennie 
Deputy EVP, Nestlé Coffee 
Brands

 Marco Settembri 
EVP, CEO Zone Europe

U. Mark Schneider 
Chief Executive Officer

Executive Board of Nestlé S.A.



Nestlé Annual Review 2022 73

Steven Wood Presley 
EVP, CEO Zone North America

 David Xiqiang Zhang 
EVP, CEO Zone Greater China

 

Sanjay Bahadur 
Deputy EVP, Group Strategy 
and Business Development

Magdi Batato 
EVP, Operations

 François-Xavier Roger 
EVP, Chief Financial Officer

 Béatrice Guillaume-Grabisch 
EVP, Human Resources 
and Business Services

Remy Ejel 
EVP, CEO Zone Asia, Oceania 
and Africa

Nestlé’s Product and Technology 
Development Centers – including our 
“home of food” in Singen, Germany – 
translate our scientific discoveries to 
develop products and technologies for 
specific categories such as food, dairy, 
coffee, confectionery, infant nutrition 
and pet care. 



Nestlé Annual Review 202274

Compliance

Business ethics and compliance are the 
foundations of how we do business and the 
conditions for creating shared value. Our 
commitments to ethics, integrity, fairness and 
authenticity are enshrined in our Purpose and 
Values, the Corporate Business Principles and the 
Code of Business Conduct. Our comprehensive 
Compliance Management System helps our 
employees and managers do the right thing 
for the right reason, while protecting and 
strengthening Nestlé’s reputation. 

Our Board of Directors and our Executive Board 
oversee and promote good practices throughout 
the company. Line management is supported 
by our Legal and Compliance function, which 
provides guidance and functional leadership, 
as well as by all other functions engaged in our 
risk- and principles-based Compliance program. 
Our Group Compliance Committee ensures a 
continuous evolution of our Integrated Assurance 
Framework. Market Compliance Officers and 
Committees ensure a consistent approach across 
the Group and help identify local compliance 
priorities. 

In 2022, we continued a positive evolution of 
mandatory trainings and during the year more 
than 800 000 modules were taken on topics 
relating to the Corporate Business Principles, 
the Code of Business Conduct, Human Rights, 
Diversity & Inclusion, and others. 

Our IT Roadmap facilitates an effective 
management of our Compliance Management 
System through increased automation. 

We monitor compliance through our corporate 
functions, our internal audit function and our 
external auditors. Through our CARE program, 
we regularly assess specific aspects of our social 
compliance with the help of independent external 
auditors. 2022 was the second year of our three-
year CARE cycle and a total of 264 audits were 
performed in 2022, covering 389 sites. 

Our Speak Up system allows us to address 
concerns from employees and external 

stakeholders. It is independently operated 
by a third party to ensure confidentiality. All 
complaints are investigated and remedial actions 
taken as needed. Trend analysis enables us to 
monitor key risks and the quality of consequence 
management decisions and improvement action 
plans. Substantiated complaints helped us 
address issues such as abuse of power and/or 
mobbing/bullying, labor practices, discrimination 
and harassment, sexual harassment, fraud and 
non-compliance with the WHO Code. In 2022, 
154 employees had to leave our company and 
11 service providers were terminated as a result 
of non-compliance incidents. 

An annual Compliance communication plan 
reinforces our Compliance culture. This helps us 
create sustainable value for all our stakeholders 
and make Nestlé a force for good.



Nestlé Annual Review 2022 75

Shareholder information

Stock exchange listing
At December 31, 2022, Nestlé S.A. shares  
are listed on the SIX Swiss Exchange, 
Zurich (ISIN code: CH0038863350). 
American Depositary Receipts (ISIN code: 
US6410694060) representing Nestlé S.A. 
shares are offered in the USA by Citibank,  
N.A., New York. 

Registered Offices
Nestlé S.A.
Avenue Nestlé 55
CH-1800 Vevey (Switzerland)
tel. +41 (0)21 924 21 11

Nestlé S.A. (Share Transfer Office)
Zugerstrasse 8
CH-6330 Cham (Switzerland)
tel. +41 (0)41 785 20 20

For additional information, contact:  
Nestlé S.A.  
Investor Relations
Avenue Nestlé 55
CH-1800 Vevey (Switzerland)
tel. +41 (0)21 924 35 09
e-mail: ir@nestle.com

As to information concerning the share  
register (registrations, transfers,  
dividends, etc.), please contact:
Nestlé S.A. (Share Transfer Office)
Zugerstrasse 8
CH-6330 Cham (Switzerland)
tel. +41 (0)41 785 20 20
fax +41 (0)41 785 20 24
e-mail: shareregister@nestle.com

The Annual Review is available online  
as a PDF in English, French and German.  
The consolidated income statement, balance 
sheet and cash flow statement are also 
available as Excel files.

www.nestle.com

April 20, 2023 
156th Annual General Meeting

April 21, 2023
Last trading day with entitlement to dividend

April 24, 2023 
Ex-dividend date 

April 25, 2023 
2023 three-month sales figures 

April 26, 2023 
Payment of the dividend 

July 27, 2023 
2023 half-year results 

October 19, 2023 
2023 nine-month sales figures 

February 22, 2024 
2023 full-year results

© 2023, Nestlé S.A., Cham and Vevey 
(Switzerland)

The Annual Report contains forward-
looking statements which reflect 
Management’s current views and 
estimates. The forward-looking 
statements involve certain risks and 
uncertainties that could cause actual 
results to differ materially from those 
contained in the forward-looking 
statements. Potential risks and 
uncertainties include factors such as 
general economic conditions, foreign 
exchange fluctuations, competitive 
product and pricing pressures,  
and regulatory developments.

The Annual Report is published  
in English, German and French.  
The English version is binding for  
the content.

The brands in italics are registered 
trademarks of the Nestlé Group.

Visual concept and design
Société des Produits Nestlé S.A., 
Corporate Identity & Design, 
with Large Network

Photography
Gaëtan Bally,
Lionel Deriaz,
William Gammuto,
Matthew Joseph,
Nestlé S.A.

Prepress
Images3 S.A. (Switzerland)

Production
Genoud S.A. (Switzerland)

Paper
This report is printed on Refutura,  
a paper certified by the Forest 
Stewardship Council (FSC) produced 
from 100% recycled content.

https://www.nestle.com

	Our purpose
	Our financial performance
	Our business
	Our key non-financial performance
	Letter to our shareholders
	Generating value through our strategy
	Innovating to unlock the power of food
	Creating shared value
	Accelerating data-driven digitalization
	Connecting through our brands
	Powdered and Liquid Beverages
	PetCare
	Nutrition and Health Science
	Prepared dishes and cooking aids
	Milk products and Ice cream
	Confectionery
	Water

	Financial review
	Key figures (consolidated)
	Group overview
	Product category and operating segment review
	Review of Zones, Nespresso and Nestlé Health Science
	Principal risks and uncertainties
	Factories

	Corporate Governance and Compliance
	Corporate Governance
	Board of Directors of Nestlé S.A.
	Executive Board of Nestlé S.A.
	Compliance

	Shareholder information