NTT Group 
Sustainability Report 
2022



Ensuring the positive coexistence
of nature and humanityCEO Message

Improving prosperity for all 
people and cultures Maximizing well-being for all 0 0 2 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y  R e p o r t  2 0 2 2

Editorial Policy

The composition of this Data Book closely corresponds 
with items in the NTT Group Sustainability Priority Activ-
ities in order to report comprehensively and in an easy to 
understand manner to stakeholders, including investors 
who value ESG. While the report covers the status of the 
NTT Group overall as much as possible, the scope of 
data is clearly noted when it is limited to a part of the 
Group.
For detailed information on the business strategies of 
NTT (hereinafter “the Company”) and operations, please 
refer to Annual Report 2022. For details on ongoing ef-
forts related to sustainability and achievements at NTT 
Group companies, please refer to the Sustainability Re-
port published separately by each company.

n NTT IR Site
https://group.ntt/en/ir/

n NTT Group Sustainability Site
https://group.ntt/en/csr/

Scope of 
Disclosure

The Data Book covers the NTT Group in its entirety. The scope of reporting for some sections are as follows.
[A] Main companies: NTT, NTT East, NTT West, NTT Communications, NTT DOCOMO, NTT DATA, NTT Facilities, NTT COMWARE, NTT Urban Solutions
[B] Domestic Group companies: 282
[C] Domestic and overseas Group companies: 964
[D] Main companies + operating companies

<Operating companies: 10> NTT East Group, 6 companies
(NTT EAST-HOKKAIDO, NTT EAST-TOHOKU, NTT EAST-KANSHINETSU, NTT EAST-MINAMIKANTO, NTT EAST SERVICE, 
NTT-ME),
NTT West Group, 4 companies
(NTT MARKETING ACT, NTT BUSINESS SOLUTIONS, NTT FIELDTECHNO, NTT BUSINESS ASSOCIE WEST)

[E] Companies subject to NTT Group plans to double the number of female managers 
<[D] + the companies below: 23>  NTT Urban Development, NTT FINANCE, NTT BUSINESS ASSOCIE, NTT BUSINESS ASSOCIE EAST, NTT Electronics, NTT 

Advanced Technology, NTT LOGISCO, NTT ADVERTISING, NTT TechnoCross, InfoCom Research, NTT LEARNING SYSTEMS, 
NTT TRAVEL SERVICE, NTT CLARUTY

Note: Unless specifically stated otherwise, the scope of environmental performance statistics refers to domestic companies.

Reporting Period April 1, 2021 to March 31, 2022 Certain activities implemented after March 31, 2022 and the 
outlook for the future are also included.

Publication Date November 23, 2021 (Previous report: December 2021; Next report (tentative): October 2023)

Decision Making 
Process for 
Published Content

To determine the content requirements for the publication, the Board of Directors discussed 
sustainability and other basic policies in April 2022, and then the representative director and 
senior executive vice president acted on their authority under the organizational rules to confirm 
and approve the content.

Reference 
Guidelines

• GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards 2016/2018/2019
• Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2018, Japan Ministry of the Environment
• ISO 26000: Guidance on Social Responsibility

Legend •  Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corporation is abbreviated as NTT, Nippon Telegraph and 
Telephone East Corporation as NTT East, and Nippon Telegraph and Telephone West Cor-
poration as NTT West. Some group companies of the NTT Group are defined with “エヌ・ティ・
ティ” for registration purposes, but in general use the NTT notation. In principle, notations for 
status of incorporation have been omitted from the names of NTT Group companies.

•  Figures in the numerical tables have been rounded and therefore may not necessarily add up 
to the total figures.

•  The names of companies, products and services are the registered trademarks or trademarks 
of each company.

Third-Party 
Assurance

The NTT Group obtained third-party assurance from Sustainability Accounting Co., Ltd. with re-
gard to indicators for the fiscal 2021 results of “Improving prosperity for all people and cultures” 
and “Maximizing well-being for all,” and for the indicators of CO2 emission volumes (Scopes 1, 
2, and 3), waste disposal volumes, and water intake (clean water) within the fiscal 2021 results 
of “Ensuring the positive coexisting of nature and humanity,” from the NTT Group CSR Priority 
Activities. (See page 170)

Inquiries Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corporation Otemachi First Square East Tower, 5-1, Otemachi 1-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8116, Japan Sus-
tainability Promotion Office, General Affairs Department
TEL: 03-6838-5560   https://group.ntt/en/csr/contact/

002 Editorial Policy

004 NTT Group Sustainability
• CEO Message
• NTT’s Mission, Vision, Values
•  Process for selecting material issues for three 

themes for achieving Self as We, which under-
pins NTT’s vision for a sustainable society

•  Contributing to the development of a sustain-
able society with medium-term strategies

•  Organization for Implementation
• Stakeholder Engagement
•  Message from Management (Senior Executive 

Vice President) (1)
•  Initiatives for human capital management
•  Message from Management (Senior Executive 

Vice President) (2)
•  IOWN concept
•  2021 highlights

028 Ensuring the positive coexistence 
of nature and humanity
• Feature 1  Environment and Energy Vision
• Social Challenge 1–3
• Business Activity 1–11
• TCFD

068 Improving prosperity for all 
people and cultures
•  Feature 2  Transformation to a New Manage-

ment Style
• Social Challenge 4–6
• Business Activity 12–21

125 Maximizing well-being for all
• Feature 3  Promoting Supplier Engagement
• Social Challenge 7–9
• Business Activity 22–30

161 Data List

170 Independent Assurance Statement

171 GRI Content Index

CONTENTS

https://group.ntt/en/ir/
https://group.ntt/en/csr/
https://group.ntt/en/csr/contact/


List of Memberships (as of November 2022) Keidanren (Japan Business Federation, general incorporated association; vice chair) Tokyo Employers’ Association (honorary chairman, deputy chairman, president)
 Telecommunications Carriers Association (incorporated association; chairman, director) ITU Association of Japan (general incorporated association; director, council member, advisor)

 Association of Radio Industries and Businesses (general incorporated association; director, member of the management adviser) ICT Ecology Guideline Council Telecommunication Technology Committee (incorporated association; vice chairman)

Integrated ICT 
Business

Regional 
communications

Global Solutions 
Business

Others (Real Estate, 
Energy and Others)

Consolidated
Operating Revenue

Ratio (FY2021)

Consolidated
Operating Income

Ratio (FY2021)

(¥5,870.2 billion)

41.7%
(¥1,072.5 billion)

59.7%

(¥3,207.6 billion)

22.8%
(¥440.0 billion)

24.5%

(¥3,615.2 billion)

25.7%
(¥210.5 billion)

11.7%

(¥1,396.0 billion)

9.9%
(¥72.5 billion)

4.0%

* The percentage of each segment’s simple total (including inter-segment transactions)

Consolidated
Operating Income

(FY2021)

¥1,768.6 billion

No. of Employees
(FY2021)

333,850

Consolidated
Operating Revenue

(FY2021)

¥12,156.4 billion

At a Glance NTT Group
The experience and advanced technologies developed by the NTT Group will be used to achieve a “paraconsistent”* society, and contribute to resolving social issues faced by society as a whole.
(*Where opposing concepts or matters are both achieved inclusively)

In addition to promoting sales of 5G services and “docomo Hikari,” etc., for corporate business, we 
promoted initiatives for “docomo Business,” a corporate business brand unifying NTT DOCOMO, NTT 
Communications, and NTT Comware, to support all corporate customers with one-stop service.
In the smart life area, we are advancing collaboration with various businesses and worked to provide 
new added value.

Centered on the Hikari Collaboration Model provides wholesale fiber-optic access services to various 
service providers, and also strengthening the solutions business with the aim of revitalizing local 
communities and regional economies.

In the Global Solutions business, we worked to enhance our ability to provide services in growth areas, 
including the data center business and managed services, as well as expanding and providing various 
IT services in a reliable manner, such as digitization proposals and system integration in response to 
market changes.

Provides services related to the real estate business, energy business, and other businesses.

Ensuring the positive coexistence
of nature and humanityCEO Message

Improving prosperity for all 
people and cultures Maximizing well-being for all 0 0 3 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y  R e p o r t  2 0 2 2



NTT Group’s Roots

NTT Group has 
continued to develop a range of solutions as a partner 
that enables society and industry to move ahead.

It was some 70 years ago that the telephone and telegraph services provided by the 
Ministry of Communications and Ministry of Telecommunications were handed over to 
Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Public Corporation. With economic growth booming 
following the country’s post-war recovery, the company began exploring a range of 
avenues to meet growing public demand for telephone services that connect in an 
instant.

After subsequently undergoing a name-change to NTT, the company expanded its 
businesses including the regional communications, long-distance and international 
communications, mobile communications, and global data communications sectors, 
based on its roots that aim to respond to the needs of customers and challenges faced 
by industry and society.

Focused on creating a better future for Japan and the world... Never losing sight of 
the goal as “Your Value Partner.”

A small inner loop at the top of the mark ensures that 
the voice of customers and society is always heard. 
This symbol represents NTT’s vision and its commit-
ment to developing a harmonious society through both 
business and cooperation.

The single continuous curve represents 
the dynamism and our commitment for 
continuous innovation and delivering value to 
people and society.

Privatized in 1985.
Our Dynamic Loop – The Heart of NTT

CEO Message
Ensuring the positive coexistence

of nature and humanity
Improving prosperity for all 

people and cultures Maximizing well-being for all 0 0 4 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y  R e p o r t  2 0 2 2



Ensuring the positive coexistence
of nature and humanityCEO Message

Improving prosperity for all 
people and cultures Maximizing well-being for all 0 0 5 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y  R e p o r t  2 0 2 2

In 1952, the telephone 
and telegraph services 
delivered by the Ministry 
of Communications and 
Ministry of Telecommuni-
cations were handed over 
to Nippon Telegraph and 
Telephone Public Corpo-
r a t i on .  The  company 
developed various tech-
nologies to meet growing 
public demand for tele-
phone services that con-
nect in an instant.

1952
“Nippon Telegraph  
and Telephone Public 
Corporation” established

2007
Hikari TV services 
Launched

2008
Cloud services launched

2009
Android OS 
smartphones Launched

2000
ISDN flat-rate services 
launched

2001
Optical fiber services 
launched for general 
households

2004
Osaifu-Keitai (Mobile 
Wallet) announced Hikari 
Denwa services 
launched

2000s
Full-scale roll-out of broadband ubiquitous 
services
NTT began offering the FLET’S ISDN always-on ser-
vice as well as the B FLET’S optical fiber service, fa-
cilitating the widespread roll-out of high-speed, 
high-capacity communication services.

2010
Acquired Dimension Data
LTE (Xi) services launched
Acquired Keane (currently NTT DATA, Inc.)

2013
iPhone launched

2014
“Kake-hodai & Pake-Aeru” phone plans 
launched
“Hikari Collaboration Model” launched 
“docomo Hikari” launched

2016
Acquired Dell Services
(currently NTT DATA, Inc.)

2018
“Your Value Partner 2025” medium-
term management strategy formulated

2010s
Global ICT services framework 
developed
NTT Group had primarily been operating 
in markets in Asia, Europe, and the US, 
and acquired Dimension Data and 
Keane in preparation for delivering total 
ICT services around the globe, including 
Australia, South America, Africa, and the 
Middle East.

2020
5G services launched from March 25 
Communication speeds up to 4.1 Gbps 
downstream

2021
Provided support for the Olympic and 
Paralympic Games Tokyo 2020 as a 
Gold Partner 2021 Green Innovation 
toward 2040 announced A new 
management style unveiled

2020s
IOWN concept released
Framework involving devices, networks and infor-
mation processing infrastructure built on optical 
and other innovative technologies, to deliver high-
speed and high-capacity communications, and 
vast computing resources exceeding the limits of 
existing infrastructure. Specifications are planned 
to be finalized by 2024 for a 2030 roll-out.

1987
Mobile telephone services 
Launched

1988
NTT Data established
World’s first ISDN service
Launched

1980s
NTT Group born from 
telecommunications 
liberalization
Nippon Telegraph and Tele-
phone Public Corporation was 
privatized in 1985 following 
liberalization of telecommuni-
cations services, resulting in 
the birth of “Nippon Telegraph 
and Telephone Corporation 
(NTT).”

1991
NTT DOCOMO established

1996
OCN internet connection 
services launched

1998
i-mode services launched

1999
NTT Group transitioned to 
holding company structure

1990s
Expanded telephone 
services with view of 
building an advanced 
telecommunications society

Phone services with a broad 
range of plans to suit customer 
usage scenarios were launched. 
The Open Computer Network 
(OCN) was launched with the 
view of expanding Internet use.

NTT Group’s History

NTT has contributed to lifestyles of people through its business activities.
Ever since being established as the Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Public Corporation in 1952, the NTT Group has developed a wide range of technologies and services, and has been delivering 
infrastructure for services like mobile phones, internet and cloud computing that could never have been imagined in the past. At the heart of these achievements is NTT’s underlying commitment to work-
ing as a partner that supports society and industry as a whole.



Ensuring the positive coexistence
of nature and humanityCEO Message

Improving prosperity for all 
people and cultures Maximizing well-being for all 0 0 6 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y  R e p o r t  2 0 2 2CEO Message

NTT’s Vision of a Sustainable Society

The NTT Group established its Global Sustainability 
Charter in Autumn when it restructured its medium-
term management strategy. This new Charter 
encompasses three key themes.

(1)  Ensuring the positive coexistence of nature and 
humanity: 

Aiming to solve environmental issues as well as achieve 
economic growth

(2)  Improving prosperity for all people and cultures:
Accepting diverse, inclusive cultures while aiming to 
build a better society and create value

(3)  Maximizing well-being for all:
We aim to maximize the well-being of everyone by 
respecting human rights and encouraging diversity and 
inclusion.

Nine challenges and thirty business activities have been 
establ ished under these three themes,  to be 
implemented alongside business operations as part of 
our goal to achieve a sustainable society.

We have also developed a structured approach 
for our environmental vision, management style, and 
human rights policy based on this new Sustainability 
Charter.

Three themes the NTT Group is pursuing

We will be continuing our efforts toward transformation 
undertaken thus far, while also creating a path forward 
by responding to changes, or, at times, pre-empting 
changes and transforming ourselves, in line with the 
NTT Group Global Sustainability Charter. To ensure 
that we continue to be a company that is chosen by 
our customers, we need to raise the quality of our 
products and services. We will be pursuing the 
following three initiatives to ensure that the NTT Group 
delivers new experiences and value to our customers.

The first of these initiatives is to create better 
customer experiences (CX) through improved employee 
experiences (EX). We will be taking the sense of 
excitement felt by each of our employees and using it 
as a source of inspiration for “creating new value, 
experiences, and excitement for our customers 
(meaning CX).”

From April 2023, we will be rolling out a new and 
revised specialization-based personnel compensation 
system for the main companies of the NTT Group. The 
source of motivation for creating new value for our 
customers is the potential of employees. This revision 
will help to inspire each and every employee to further 
increase their specializations and acquire, or maximize 
their skills, as part of our efforts to create added value 
across a broad range of fields.

I want to harness the potential of our employees 
to generate new value, and provide customers with a 
new sense of excitement.

m e s s a g e
CEO Message

Akira Shimada
President and Chief Executive Officer, 
Representative Member of the Board



Ensuring the positive coexistence
of nature and humanityCEO Message

Improving prosperity for all 
people and cultures Maximizing well-being for all 0 0 7 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y  R e p o r t  2 0 2 2CEO Message

The second init iative is to decarbonize through 
technology. The decarbonization of society is a matter 
of urgency. I believe it is the mission of those of us living 
in the present to ensure that our descendants can live 
sustainably on the planet. The NTT Group has set a 
goal of achieving carbon neutrality by 2040. In order to 
realize this goal we are working to drastically reduce our 
power consumption through the promotion of Innovative 
Optical & Wireless Networks (IOWN), and to develop 
and expand our use of renewable energy. An example 
is Green 5G provided by DOCOMO provided as part of 
its service aimed at achieving carbon neutrality. 
Initiatives like these illustrate just some of the ways that 
the NTT Group is helping to alleviate the impact that 
society as a whole has on the environment.

The third initiative is to maintain connectivity with 
infrastructure and critical IT systems even in the event of 
major disasters. We will be making efforts to enhance 
our preparations for more widespread and complex 
large-scale disasters l ike an earthquake directly 
underneath Tokyo or the Nankai Trough off Japan’s 
southern coastline. In addition to wired-and-wireless 
networks and other services, the NTT Group is also 
involved in numerous national projects like systems that 
provide connectivity for financial institutions. It goes 
without saying that networks and critical systems like 
these are the very foundation of Japan and serve as an 
indispensable infrastructure. Preparation is the key to 
staying connected. We therefore need to continue 
taking into consideration all the possible risks that could 
occur.

Mission and ideals of the NTT Group

When considering the NTT Group five years from now, 
moving ahead with these three initiatives provides an 
opportunity to contribute to the creation of a sustainable 
society, and also serves as a chance for the NTT Group 
to generate revenue. We need to contribute to society 
while simultaneously delivering organizational growth. 
An example that illustrates this is the way NTT DATA is 
working to digitize valuable materials held by the Vatican 
Library. We have built up a business model where 
donations provided by those who view digital archives 
of valuable documents and collections serve as the 
funds for future archiving work. Harnessing the 
capabilities of IT to preserve our historical assets and 
culture for future generations, making them available as 
training material to as many people as possible around 
the world, is a socially significant initiative that helps to 
maintain digital archiving efforts and contribute to global 
cultural and research activities.

We will be shifting our ideals from a company that 
“connects communications” to a company that 
“connects data to create new value for people, business 
and society.” We will be accelerating our growth as a 
group that provides services to make customer 
businesses and lifestyle even better by utilizing a broad 
range of data. I am confident that we will develop 
various solutions through close collaboration with our 
partners, by applying our technology and know-how 
across a broad range of fields. Creating new business 
sectors as part of these efforts will help to expand our 
business base, as we aim to develop into a customer-
centric company.

I would like to take this opportunity to ask for your 
continued support moving forward.

President and Chief Executive Officer, 
 Representative Member of the Board

Akira Shimada



NTT will continue to innovate through imagination and by challeng-
ing ourselves. 

We always listen to our clients, employees, and the world at 
large. NTT’s culture is based on our core belief of responding to the 
needs of our clients and society to help achieve their best future 
possible. This is NTT’s vision and its commitment to developing a 
harmonious society through both business and co-operation.

NTT promises to always listen to our clients and the world at large. We 
engage with clients and society as a valued partner with a deep commitment 
to trust, long-term relationships and mutual success.
We believe in achieving transformative results through technology innovation 
for ourselves, our clients, and society.

Our Vision

We are NTT.

Your valued partner that is committed and can be trusted 

NTT seeks to solve social challenges and create a 
sustainable society through our business operations and 
partnerships for people, organizations, and communities. 
We commit to providing the confidence needed to move 
into the digital future that works for all of us.

Our Mission
Contributing to society through our 
business operations

NTT’s values are based on trust, integrity, and connecting. We always act 
with a moral and ethical code across our trusted relationships with clients, 
employees, partners, and society. We are a trustworthy company that 
believes in the value of diversity and inclusion in our people and the world.

Our Values

Our shared values informs all our decision making

NTT’s Mission, Vision, Values

VISION

MISSION

VALUES
Connect Trust Integrity

Your Value Partner

Ensuring the positive coexistence
of nature and humanityCEO Message

Improving prosperity for all 
people and cultures Maximizing well-being for all 0 0 8 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y  R e p o r t  2 0 2 2



Ensuring the positive coexistence
of nature and humanityCEO Message

Improving prosperity for all 
people and cultures Maximizing well-being for all 0 0 9 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y  R e p o r t  2 0 2 2

What Exactly is “Our Vision for a Sustainable Society”

Global versus Local.

Environmental versus Economic.

Today versus the Future.

Many seemingly contradictory ideas, perceptions,  

and values exist around the world.

Yet a single phenomenon can be interpreted differently  

depending on perspective.

Instead of focusing only on one perspective,  

the NTT Group will be making them all a reality.

That is the sustainable society we are setting out to achieve.

The “Self as We” concept underpins the NTT Group’s efforts to achieve this goal.

“We” live our lives supported by the connections between diverse people,  

things, and technologies.

The well-being of everyone throughout society is maximized by seeking our own 

happiness along with the happiness of others.

Being sincere in accepting of others and building connections across the entire 

globe will achieve a greater harmony with nature and make culture flourish.

The NTT Group acts with high ethical standards in its commitment to achieving 

“sustainability” that helps to resolve social issues, 

while growing also as a company.

NTT’s Vision of a Sustainable Society

Conflicting phenomena
exist in society

Events differ depending
on the actor

Paraconsistent
(concepts achieved inclusively)

Vision for a “Sustainable Society”

Promoting “Self as We”

Cannot be understood
with traditional dualistic thinking

Basic Philosophy

Different reality or meaning
depending on perspective



Ensuring the positive coexistence
of nature and humanityCEO Message

Improving prosperity for all 
people and cultures Maximizing well-being for all 0 1 0 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y  R e p o r t  2 0 2 2

The Self as We concept
Self as We is a concept where the individual ‘self’ is part of the whole ‘We’.
It extends beyond the individual level—it is also about making others happy at the same time, and achieving a broad range of policies backed with a sense of altruistic purpose.

“Self as We”

The traditional “Self as I”

“I” as an individual (self-centered, self-sustaining)
A choice between being either active or passive

“Self as We”

“I” as one of all the individuals (non-self-centered, non-self-sustaining)
Collaboration with others in the same situation

“I”

“I”

Self

“Self = We”

Control Entrust

Body BodyOthers OthersThing ThingEnvironment Environment



Three themes for achieving a sustainable society
To achieve the sustainable society that NTT is envisioning, we will be promoting initiatives for a 
“sustainable society” by achieving both “Growth as a company” and “Resolving social issues” as 
part of these three themes, by driving ahead with the IOWN concept based on NTT’s high ethical 
standards, advanced technology and innovation.

Maximizing well-being for all
Contribute to maximizing the well-being of 
everyone by respecting human rights and 
encouraging diversity and inclusion.

Improving prosperity for all people and cultures
Accepting diverse, democratic cultures while 
contributing to a better society and creating value.

Ensuring the positive coexistence of nature
and humanity
Contributing to solving environmental issues as 
well as achieving economic growth.

Ensuring the positive coexistence of
nature and humanity

Improving prosperity for
all people and cultures Maximizing well-being for all

Moving toward
a decarbonized

society

A commitment
to a resource-

recycling future

A future where
people and nature

are in harmony

Establish
shared ethical

standards

Prepare for
a new future

with the power
of technology

Moving towards a
safe, secure, and
resilient society

Respect for
human rights

Diversity &
Inclusion

Creating
new work

style models

Ensuring the positive coexistence
of nature and humanityCEO Message

Improving prosperity for all 
people and cultures Maximizing well-being for all 0 1 1 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y  R e p o r t  2 0 2 2



NTT Group Sustainability

A future where
people and nature

are in harmony

A commitment
to a resource-

recycling
future

Moving
toward a

decarbonized
society

Creating
new work style

models

Diversity &
Inclusion

Respect for
human rights

Moving
towards a

safe, secure,
and resilient

society

Prepare for
a new future

with the power
of technology

Establish
shared ethical

standards

M
aximizing well-being fo

r a
ll

Improving prosperity for

En
su

rin
g 

th
e 

po
si

tiv
e 

co
existence

of
 n

at
ur

e 
an

d 
hu

manity all people and cultures

Ensuring the positive coexistence
of nature and humanityCEO Message

Improving prosperity for all 
people and cultures Maximizing well-being for all 0 1 2 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y  R e p o r t  2 0 2 2

The three themes cover nine 
challenges and thirty business 
activities

We are actively implementing these initiatives to contribute to the 
development of a sustainable society.
A broad range of sustainability indicators have been defined.

Of these, the following items have been added as key financial indicators, 
with compensation of members of the Board and audit & supervisory 
Board members linked accordingly:
• “Carbon neutrality” as an indicator for environmental issues
• “B2B2X earnings” as an indicator for resolving social issues
•  “Ratio of women newly promoted to management positions” as an 

indicator for human rights, diversity and inclusion



Ensuring the positive coexistence
of nature and humanityCEO Message

Improving prosperity for all 
people and cultures Maximizing well-being for all 0 1 3 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y  R e p o r t  2 0 2 2

Process for Selecting Material Issues 
Material issues (materiality) are selected using the following steps based on the GRI materiality standards and processes.

STEP1 

Identifying material issues
Using evaluation organizations like third party institutions, 
ISO26000 and GRI Standards, global trends, internal 
workshops, and materiality at other companies as a guide, 
we identify material issues through a comprehensive review 
of new problems related to sustainability, in order to discuss 
and select important issues that NTT should address on a 
global scale.

STEP2 

Setting priorities
NTT assesses the priorities to be addressed based on their 
impact on two aspects, “Growth as a company” and “Solv-
ing social issues.” To achieve management that simultane-
ously helps resolve social issues while achieving business 
growth, NTT assesses priorities by incorporating the opin-
ions of outside experts.

STEP3

Confirming validity & approval
NTT also incorporates the opinions of third parties from a 
global perspective, which are then deliberated by the Sus-
tainability Committee and approved by the Board of Direc-
tors.
*  These are reviewed regularly (once/year) and revised when neces-

sary.

S
o

lving
 so

cial issues

Growth as a company

Reducing power consump-
tion by introducing IOWN 

technologies

Promoting energy 
conservation

• Ensuring the positive coexistence of nature and humanity  • Improving prosperity for all people and cultures  • Maximizing well-being for all

Developing and expanding 
the use of renewable energy

Providing new services that 
contribute to carbon neutrality

Creating innovative environmental 
and energy technologies

Increasing the reuse and recycling of 
communications equipment, mobile 
terminals, and other technologies

Reduction in plastics use 
and promotion of recycling

Proper treatment, 
storage, and manage-

ment of hazardous waste

Appropriate and 
efficient management 

of water resources

Thoroughly implementing 
environmental assessment

Contributing to natural 
ecosystem conservation

Establishing and 
thoroughly 
complying with 
ethical standards

Appropriately managing 
conduct risk

Thoroughly reinforcing corporate 
governance and compliance

Sharing high ethical standards 
with business partners

Promoting the 
B2B2X model

Protection and respect 
for intellectual property

Contribution to the revitalization of 
local communities and economies

Ensuring the stability and 
reliability of services

Strengthening information security 
and personal information protection

Compliance with 
the NTT Group 
Global Human 
Rights Policy

Encouraging society as a whole 
to respect human rights

Promoting recruitment, training, and 
education of diverse human resources and 
women’s advancement in the workplace

Encouraging of understand-
ing of LGBTQ+ and 

promoting the advancement 
of people with disabilities

Support for balancing work 
and homelife such as childcare 
and nursing care

Promoting remote work and 
other workplace models

Promoting a 
decentralized society 
based on remote work

Achieving zero fatal 
accidents as well as 
maintaining and 
promoting employee 
health

Promoting paperless 
operations

Supporting 
autonomous capacity 
development

20

21

22

14 12

13

15

18

19

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

23

25

24

29

30

1

16

26
27

17 28



Ensuring the positive coexistence
of nature and humanityCEO Message

Improving prosperity for all 
people and cultures Maximizing well-being for all 0 1 4 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y  R e p o r t  2 0 2 2

Contributing to development of a sustainable society 
with medium-term strategies
NTT Group works together with its partners as “Your Value Partner” to resolve social issues 
through its business operations and respond to future changes in the operating environment, 
such as the advancement of digitization and DX. To guide us in this pursuit, we refined the NTT 
Group Medium-Term Management Strategy announced in November 2018 to accelerate our 
transformation into an open, global, and innovative new NTT.

Organization for Implementation
In November, the NTT Group moved to a new organizational structure by establishing the “Sus-
tainability Committee” under the Board of Directors, chaired by the Chief Executive Officer. The 
committee reviews and discusses strategies concerning sustainability, the status of implementa-
tion of activities, and information disclosure, and implements relevant initiatives. The Sustainabili-
ty Committee includes the Corporate Ethics Committee, Human Rights Committee, and Green 
Innovation Committee to handle the individual topics relevant to each sub-committee. Efforts to-
ward sustainability throughout the entire group are also implemented by holding Group Sustain-
ability Committee meetings (with senior executive vice presidents of major group companies). 
The meetings are for sharing common challenges and examples of success from each Group 
company, and for monitoring progress on sustainability implementation with respect to PDCA 
cycles and further promoting a sense of unity throughout the group.

(1) Evaluation   The viability, effectiveness, and progress of measures are checked every year by employing the 
PDCA cycle to review and expand the focus of activities. Attainment levels are also linked to the 
evaluation standards of directors.

(2) Disclosures   Internal conferences involving global group companies are held for reporting the results of ef-
forts and facilitating dialogue, which are then disclosed on the website and in sustainability re-
ports. The impact of climate change risks and revenue opportunities on business activities and 
revenue are disclosed in accordance with TCFD, an international framework created to devel-
op such disclosures.

(3) Dialogue with Third Parties   Each process involves dialogue with experts and other third parties, with a 
PDCA cycle used to obtain evaluations from third parties for reviewing and ex-
panding the focus of activities as needed.

Social / Economic 
Directionality NTT Group’s Directionality New Strategic 

Frameworks Initiatives to Achieve the Strategy

Society During 
COVID-19 and 
Post-COVID-19

A New Management Style 
Suitable for a Decentralized 
Network Society

Transformation to a 
New Management 
Style

• New style based on remote work

Advancement of 
Digitalization / DX

Enhance Domestic and 
Global Business

Enhance Domestic 
and Global Busi-
ness

•  Growth and strengthening of the 
newly formed DOCOMO Group

•  Promotion of the IOWN development 
/ rollout plan

•  Enhance competitiveness in global 
business

•  Promote the B2B2X model
•  Strengthening of new businesses

Achieving well-being 
in society

Enhancement of Corporate 
Value through ESG Initiatives

Enhancement of 
Corporate Value

• New Environmental and Energy Vision
• Disaster countermeasures initiatives
•  Enhancement of returns to sharehold-

ers

Contribute to Achieving a Sustainable Society

Directionality of NTT Group’s Transformation and New Strategic Frameworks

Background of the Re-Examination of the Medium-Term Management Strategy and New 
Strategic Frameworks Future Changes in the Operating Environment
Future Changes in the Operating Environment

Sustainability Promotion System (from November 10, 2021)

Board of Directors

Green Innovation Committee

Human Rights Education Committee

Corporate Ethics Committee

Group
Sustainability Committee

Members:
Senior executive vice

presidents of major group
companies

Members
Representative Member of the Board,

Senior Vice President of Corporate Strategy Planning Department,
 Senior Vice President of Technology Planning Department,

Senior Vice President of Research and Development Planning,
Senior Vice President of Finance and Accounting Department,

Senior Vice President of General Affairs Department,
Senior Vice President of Global Business Of�ce,

Senior Vice President of Strategic Business Development

Sustainability Committee
Chairperson: President and Chief Executive Of�cer,

Representative Member of the Board

Society / Economy
• Advancement of digitalization / DX
• Increasing the importance of economic security
• Expansion of AI / robotics usage
• Pluses and minuses of digitalization (surveillance capitalism)

During and Post-COVID-19
• Accelerating the division of the world 
• Co-existence with the threat of infectious diseases
• Advancement of a remote / decentralized society
• Social advancement of diverse personnel

Environment / Resources, Energy
• Increasing scale of natural disasters worldwide
• Achieving carbon neutrality by 2050

Technology
•  Breaking the existing paradigm with new  

technologies
—Beyond 5G / 6G, Quantum, Genome, etc.—



Ensuring the positive coexistence
of nature and humanityCEO Message

Improving prosperity for all 
people and cultures Maximizing well-being for all 0 1 5 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y  R e p o r t  2 0 2 2

Benefits of Stakeholder EngagementStakeholder Engagement
The Fundamental Principle
The NTT Group provides products and services to diverse stakeholders around the world, and its value chain continues to expand 
globally and grow in complexity. Along with these changes, our stakeholders’ needs and expectations are also becoming increas-
ingly diverse, and we must accurately understand and reflect them in our business activities through stakeholder engagement. 
Stakeholder input, particularly on social and environmental issues, can help us to become more competitive and accountable while 
guaranteeing our public license to conduct operations in the various regions in which we conduct business. Stakeholder engage-
ment forms the building blocks of trust-based, value-generating relationships. To properly develop these relationships, the NTT 
Group follows global guidelines based in part on the AA1000 Stakeholder Engagement Standard (AA1000SES) and AA1000 Ac-
count Ability Principles Standard (AA1000APS) and applies them to all of our worldwide operations. By having all Group companies 
apply the same principles to engaging with stakeholders, we intend to promote effective, efficient, and ultimately value-creating in-
teractions between the NTT Group and its stakeholders. It goes without saying that all means of engagement shall be conducted 
according to relevant laws, regulations, and legal requirements.

Process of Stakeholder Engagement

Benefits for the NTT Group
•  Identify emerging environmental/social trends and reflect them in strategy 

formulation
•  Identify potential risks and develop countermeasures
•  More closely manage our brand reputation
•  Identify opportunities for potential new businesses, collaboration, and in-

novation
• I mprove community relations and support for operations, in particular by 

involving stakeholders in decisions to ensure their needs are taken into 
consideration

•  Improve our understanding of sensitive issues and of stakeholders’ opin-
ions of us

• Make more sustainable business decisions based on stakeholder input

Benefits for Stakeholders
• Clearer understanding of the NTT Group strategy and projects
• provide relevant feedback in line with expectations 

Levels and Methods of Engagement

Step 1  Plan

Level of engagement Examples of engagement methods
Monitor Tracking of media and one-way communications to the company

Inform
Provision of information from the company to stakeholders through 
letters, bulletins, websites, speeches, reports, etc., with no invitation to 
respond

Consult
Two-way exchange of information between the company and 
stakeholders through surveys, focus groups, workshops, etc., with an 
expectation of responses from both sides

Involve

Two-way exchange of information between the company and 
stakeholders, with stakeholders more actively involved in decision-
making, through establishment of advisory panels or multi-stakeholder 
dialogues

Collaborate Joint ventures and partnerships on specific projects

Potential Risks of Engagement with Specific Stakeholders
n Unwillingness to engage on the part of stakeholders
n Disruptive stakeholders
n  Creation of unrealistic and unfulfillable expectations of the company on the part of 

stake-holders
n  Inter-stakeholder conflicts and other issues could potentially result in criticism of the com-

pany and damage to the company’s reputation 

While engaging with stakeholders, discussions should 
be held on mutual expectations regarding such 
engagement, and any necessary revisions to initial en-
gagement plans should take into consideration stake-
holder requests as well as the NTT Group’s initial 
intentions.

When holding events attended by multiple stakeholders, care 
must be taken to ensure balanced participation to minimize risk 
and maximize value.

Step 2  Do

Factors Requiring Consideration during Engagement
n  Levels of contribution and a clear definition of participant roles
n Details of the process, including timelines and methods
n  Timely provision of instructions and required materials for par-

ticipation in and meaningful contribution to the engagement 
process

n  Boundaries of disclosure of required information, including 
confidentiality requirements

n Communication of the results of the engagement

After concluding the engagement, results must be re-
ported both internally and to participating stakeholders 
as well as externally to the wider public as necessary 
to conduct both an evaluation of the outcome of the 
engagement and a review of the engagement process 
itself and define KPIs for the assessment of results.

Regarding the review of the engagement process itself, an in-
ternal review should be conducted and feedback should be 
sought from participating stakeholders regarding how they felt 
about their involvement, and a plan for improvement should be 
developed based on the results of these.

Step 3  Follow-up and Review

Factors that Should Be Included in Reports and Infor-
mation Disclosure
n  The purpose, scope, method and participants of the engage-

ment
n  A summary of content, including issues and concerns raised 

during the process
n  NTT Group response to the outcomes of the engagement



Ensuring the positive coexistence
of nature and humanityCEO Message

Improving prosperity for all 
people and cultures Maximizing well-being for all 0 1 6 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y  R e p o r t  2 0 2 2

Identifying Stakeholders 
Our stakeholders are organizations or individuals who have an interest, in one way or another, in the business activities or decision making of the NTT Group. Major stakeholders of the NTT Group include 
customers (corporations and individuals), shareholders and investors, employees (employees, their families and retired employees), local communities, business partners, ICT companies and industry 
associations,  central government and administrative agencies.

The NTT Group will fulfill its responsibilities and the expectations of its various stakeholders related to these businesses.

Customers (Individuals and Corporations)

All customers, both corporate and individual, who use services provided by the NTT Group

As we strive to be chosen as 
“Your Value Partner,” each indi-
vidual employee will strive for an 
even higher awareness of sus-
tainability to provide safe, secure 
services that are high in quality 
and convenient from the cus-
tomer’s standpoint.

NTT’s Approach

n  Customer information service

n  Customer satisfaction surveys

n  Website, social media

Methods of Engagement  
(examples)

The NTT Group endeavors to 
enhance customer satisfaction 
and become “Your Value Part-
ner” for our customers by un-
derstanding customer needs in 
order to provide higher quality 
services and products.

Why We Engage

Employees (Employees, Their Families, and Retired Employees)

Employees who work at the NTT Group and retired employees who support the NTT Group’s sustainability ideals

We will pursue various employee 
initiatives to create safe and 
healthy workplaces in which ev-
eryone can realize their full po-
tential and be rewarded in their 
work and daily lives. We will also 
value communication with re-
tired employees.

NTT’s Approach

n  Employee satisfaction surveys

n  Regular interviews

n  Dialogue between labor and 
management

n  Corporate ethics helplines

n  Hold sustainability confer-
ences

Methods of Engagement  
(examples)

We create safe and healthy 
workplaces for our employees 
and support their daily lives so 
that each individual employee 
can realize their full potential 
and carry out their work with a 
high sense of CSR.

Why We Engage

Shareholders and Investors

Individual and institutional investors including the shareholders and creditors of the NTT Group

We will return profits to share-
holders whi le maintaining a 
sound financial standing and 
enhance our corporate value. 
We will also endeavor to dis-
close information related to the 
Group in a timely, appropriate, 
and fair manner.

NTT’s Approach

n  General Meeting of Share-
holders, earnings reports

n  Explanatory presentation for 
individual investors

n  Explanatory presentation for 
institutional investors

n Annual reports

Methods of Engagement  
(examples)

We endeavor to disclose infor-
mation in a timely, appropriate, 
and fair manner to return profits 
to shareholders while maintain-
ing a sound financial standing 
and enhancing our corporate 
value.

Why We Engage

Local Communities

People in local communities who are connected to us through the businesses of NTT Group companies

We will support local communi-
ties through our ICT business 
and operations to support soci-
ety and provide disaster recov-
ery.

NTT’s Approach

n  Support and collaboration 
through social contribution 
activities

n  Negotiations with local resi-
dents on construction work, 
system development, and 
other activities

n  Support through donations 
and sponsorships

Methods of Engagement  
(examples)

We seek to contribute to the de-
velopment of a flourishing and 
vibrant community and to under-
stand and identify the issues 
faced by local communities in 
order to provide social contribu-
tions and disaster countermea-
sures through our ICT business.

Why We Engage



Ensuring the positive coexistence
of nature and humanityCEO Message

Improving prosperity for all 
people and cultures Maximizing well-being for all 0 1 7 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y  R e p o r t  2 0 2 2

Business Partners

Business partners who support us in various ways in providing the NTT Group’s services

We will seek to work together to 
create and implement services 
that help to solve a variety of so-
cial issues.

NTT’s Approach

n Inquiry forms

n  Disclosure of procurement 
policies and guidelines

n Questionnaires of suppliers

n Briefing for suppliers

Methods of Engagement 
(examples)

By procuring products with due 
consideration to the environ-
ment and human rights, and by 
forging partnerships based on 
fairness, we will fulfill our social 
responsibilities as a company 
and achieve sustainable growth 
alongside our business partners.

Why We Engage

Central Government and Administrative Agencies

Central and local governments and administrative agencies that make policy decisions on informa-
tion and telecommunications, employment and the economy, the environment, and other issues

We will fulfill our responsibility as 
an information and telecommu-
nications company by adhering 
to the policies of the central gov-
ernment, administrative agen-
cies, and local governments.

NTT’s Approach

n  Response to laws and regula-
tions

n Policy proposals

n  Participation in joint projects 
between the government and 
private sector

Methods of Engagement 
(examples)

We will respond to and comply 
with central and local govern-
ment and administrative agency 
policies. Therefore, we will carry 
out business activities in an ap-
propriate manner and contribute 
to resolving social issues faced 
by the Japanese people and lo-
cal governments.

Why We Engage

ICT Companies and Industry Associations

Other ICT companies and people in industry associations who are striving to develop Japan’s 
information and telecommunications

We will engage in discussions on 
the direction and initiatives for 
the information and telecommu-
nications industry, not only in 
Japan but from a global per-
spective, and seek to address 
diverse social issues together.

NTT’s Approach

n  Participation in industry asso-
ciations and related initiatives

n Participation in conferences

Methods of Engagement 
(examples)

We will engage in discussions 
on the direction and initiatives 
for the information and telecom-
munications industry. By doing 
this, we will invigorate the indus-
try and contribute to society by 
promoting development and 
progress in information and tele-
communications.

Why We Engage

NGOs, NPOs, and Experts

NGOs, NPOs, and experts who are positioned within the NTT Group’s domain of activities includ-
ing sustainability

We will contribute to creating a 
sustainable society by sharing 
the expert knowledge and expe-
rience of NGOs, NPOs, and ex-
perts, and by incorporating them 
into the telecommunications in-
dustry.

NTT’s Approach

n  Participation and collaboration 
with study groups and activi-
ties of each organization

n Dialogues

n Collaborative projects

Methods of Engagement 
(examples)

The NTT Group provides ser-
vices that extend beyond tele-
communications to broader 
domains, and gaining the spe-
cialized perspectives of NGOs, 
NPOs, and experts allows the 
Group to appropriately and ef-
fectively develop business activ-
ities.

Why We Engage



Ensuring the positive coexistence
of nature and humanityCEO Message

Improving prosperity for all 
people and cultures Maximizing well-being for all 0 1 8 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y  R e p o r t  2 0 2 2

m e s s a g e
Message from Management
(Senior Executive Vice President)

Achieving a sustainable society and profit 
growth

When we look at the various issues that plague society these 
days, there are simply too many to mention—the increasingly 
tense global situation, circumstances related to carbon neutrality, 
the rapid increase in traffic and network loads due to a spike in 
remote operations spurred by COVID-19, and soaring oil prices 
to name a few. The NTT Group aims to help achieve a sustainable 
society by promoting its own transformation in response to the 
direction of society and the economy and solving various social 
issues through its business operations. To ensure that the NTT 
Group keeps on track for sustainable growth, efforts have been 
made to grow and strengthen the new DOCOMO Group, coupled 
with significant restructuring of business segments from January 
2022. In May 2022, we also announced reorganization of our 
global businesses. We are also aiming to boost corporate value 
through initiatives geared for ESGs, and in November 2021 we 
created and announced the NTT Group Global Sustainability 
Charter. In order to implement these initiatives, performance 
indicators for officer compensation was freshly updated covering 
aspects like amount of greenhouse gas emissions or ratio of 
women in management positions. Going forward, we will be 
making greater effort for the disclosure of non-financial 
information like utilization of human capital, while also pre-
empting trends in social values likely to undergo significant 
changes such as environmental issues, in an attempt to achieve 
more advanced disclosure.

Achieving carbon neutrality

To reach carbon neutrality, around half of efforts to reduce energy 
consumption will come from increasing the efficiency of electricity 
usage while the other half will be from innovations based on 
IOWN. In addition to ongoing efforts towards energy-efficiency, 
we will also be rolling out measures such as switching to 
renewable energy sources for our power consumption. We are 
also looking at highlighting use cases and other benefits of IOWN 
with an eye toward commercialization.

Initiatives for human capital management

Human capital development is drawing a greater level of attention 
throughout society every year and is an area in which we will be 
placing a greater focus. . Strategic investment into human capital 
is considered a key factor underpinning “sustainabi l i ty 
management” that aims to achieve both sustainability for society 
as well as corporate growth and earning power—we are planning 
to make improvements with a focus on the following three areas.

The first will be “linking management strategy and human 
resources strategy.” In October 2021, NTT unveiled its “New 
Management Style.” We believe that promoting diverse work 
styles and increasing opportunities to harness the capabilities of 
people from diverse backgrounds will help to achieve a more 
open, global and innovative business management style. We are 
promoting the participation of women, foreign employees and 
outside personnel as part of these efforts and introduced a job-
based personnel system last fiscal year to encourage self-guided 
career formation. We are moving ahead with a shift from 
company-driven career development to a system that allows 
employees to control the development of their own careers.

The second area is gaining an understanding (visualization) 
of the gap between available personnel and our human resources 
strategy, against the business model and management strategy 
we are striving to achieve. We aim to disclose various types of 
information required in response to trends in systems, laws and 
policies, and in response to requests like this from society. We 
are also looking at spurring effective investments toward human 
capital, by analyzing the gap in skills between the business model 
or management strategy that we are striving to achieve for the 
future, and the currently available personnel with their skills and 
specializations.

We consider “visualization of human capital” as an essential 
step for advancing both corporate and personnel growth to 
create value and subsequently a more prosperous society. 
Looking ahead, we will be engaging in discussion to develop a 
clear awareness and vision for investment into human capital, 
with efforts including defining our expectations of personnel that 
match our management strategy, implementing policies to 
facilitate securing and training, and establishing indicators and 
targets for monitoring the results.

Takashi Hiroi
Senior Executive Vice President CFO,
Representative Member of the Board



Ensuring the positive coexistence
of nature and humanityCEO Message

Improving prosperity for all 
people and cultures Maximizing well-being for all 0 1 9 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y  R e p o r t  2 0 2 2

The third area is establishing a corporate culture that 
encourages behavioral changes among individuals throughout the 
organization. We want to develop a culture that respects more 
open, flat and flexible communications, and diverse values, that 
also embrace the action of taking on challenges without fear of 
failure. To better visualize the way this culture is instilled, the NTT 
Group in fiscal 2021 revamped its existing Employee Satisfaction 
Survey, which focused on questions related to ease of working, 
and added questions related to job satisfaction. Approximately 
130,000 Group employees in Japan responded.

By understanding current levels of engagement among NTT 
Group employees and the issues that need to be improved, and 
by taking action to make improvements, we hope to increase the 
number of highly engaged employees who identify with the 
company's and organization's policies and strategies, as well as 
feel pride and take initiative in their work.

The employee engagement rate has a major impact on labor 
productivity and is also directly related to business performance. 
This provided a clearer image of specific issues when viewed 
against domestic and international standards, and we will be 
investigating potential courses of action that can be taken to 
establish a corporate culture that encourages behavioral changes.

Management strategy and sustainability

Carbon neutrality and various policies related to human capital 
only make sense if they are tied to the management strategy and 
incorporated specifically within action plans. Initiatives aimed at 
achieving carbon neutrality can help to reduce the costs that 
society or companies would have to bear in the future and 
providing our initiatives as solutions could also result in potential 
business opportunities. We believe that advancing Diversity & 
Inclusion as part of the human resources strategy creates an open 
workplace environment and being able to harness the potential of 
diverse human resources in turn results in greater productivity. As 
work styles, unconstrained by location or t ime, become 
increasingly commonplace we introduced the Remote Standard 
from July 2022 to address the need for companies to provide 
flexible working arrangements. We will continue creating an 
environment where individual diversity can lead to dialogue, 
innovation and positive business outcomes.

The NTT Group wil l strive to become an innovative 
corporation spearheading societal transformation by inviting 
dialogue and communication with various market players and a 
broad range of stakeholders.



Ensuring the positive coexistence
of nature and humanityCEO Message

Improving prosperity for all 
people and cultures Maximizing well-being for all 0 2 0 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y  R e p o r t  2 0 2 2

Initiatives for human capital management
New management style
In October 2021, the NTT Group unveiled its “New 
Management Style.” In addition to promoting the 
appointment of female managers (newly appoint-
ed managers in FY2021: 29% (target 30%)), intro-
ducing new work styles (from July 2022) based on 
remote work and expanding satellite offices (551 
locations at the end of September 2022) for pro-
moting work-in-life (health management) through 
the workplace-residence proximity, we began a 
trial at the holding company from October 2022 for 
decentralizing the organization in order to enhance 
resilience.

We believe that promoting diverse work 
styles and increasing opportunities to harness the 
capabilities of people from diverse backgrounds 
will help achieve a more open, global and innova-
tive business. We are promoting the participation 
of women, foreign employees and outside person-
nel as part of these efforts to increase the choices 
for working time, place, and residence. The NTT 
Group has reviewed its personnel system to as-
sign the right person to the right job at the right 
time regardless of their gender, years employed, 
or age. We are focusing on specialization, encour-
aging self-guided career formation, and also rais-
ing the starting salary of new recruits as part of 
efforts to revise the personnel system for general 
employees.

Promotion of participation of women, foreign employees and 
outside personnel

Target Results

Promote the appointment of females as managers and Board members

Enhance various support and training programs

Newly appointed managers:  
30% every year 29%

Managers:  
15% in FY2025 8.7%

Board members:  
25% to 30% in FY2025 17.7%

Aggressively hire foreign employees and outside personnel Mid-career hires*:  
30% in FY2023 32.5%

*Outside personnel

Introduction of new personnel system Target Results

Expand job-based personnel system to all management positions

-

Introduced in October 2021

Promote self-guiding career formation for general employees
(revision to specialization-based personnel compensation system)

New system to be introduced in 
April 2023

Decentralization of the organization (including head office and 
back-office employees)

Target Results

Decentralize organization from metropolitan areas to regional areas 
(core cities)

From FY2022 Began trial in October 2022

Further accelerate community-based regional revitalization businesses 
for primary or other industries in the region From FY2021

Promotion of work-in-life (health management) through the 
workplace-residence proximity

Target Results

Ensure remote work for employees, and provide them with the freedom 
to choose their place of work
(no need for relocations and unaccompanied assignments, recruitment 
of remote-based employees, expansion of satellite offices, etc.)

FY2022
260 or more locations*

End of September, FY2022
551 locations*

*Satellite offices



Ensuring the positive coexistence
of nature and humanityCEO Message

Improving prosperity for all 
people and cultures Maximizing well-being for all 0 2 1 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y  R e p o r t  2 0 2 2

Engagement Survey
In fiscal 2021, NTT Group revamped its existing Employee Satisfaction Survey, which focused on questions relat-
ing to ease of working, and added questions relating to job satisfaction as an indicator for defining culture. It also 
conducted a Group-wide Engagement Survey to quantify employees' attachment to and trust in the company to 
which they belong as an “engagement score.” By understanding the issues that need to be improved for estab-
lishing corporate culture, and by taking action to make improvements, we hope to establish a corporate culture 
where employees identify with the company's and organization's policies and strategies, as well as feeling pride 
in their work.

NTT Group’s Four KPIs
Willingness to make voluntary contributions
(1)   I am motivated to contribute more than is required to get 

the job done at the company

Attachment to and pride in the company
(2)  I am proud to work at this company
(3)   I would recommend our company as a great place to 

work to those I know

Job satisfaction
(4)   I gain a sense of personal accomplishment through my 

work

Management where investment in human resources 
leads to value provided to customers
The NTT Group focuses on assigning the best-suited person to the work and post, regardless of age, and is 
moving ahead with self-guided career development that will result in better earnings for the company by boosting 
the motivation of employees to take on challenges and encouraging them to enhance their skills by acquiring 
specialized knowledge. To achieve this, we are implementing a system for posts with clearly defined roles that 
assigns the right person to the right job, while taking into account employees’ career plans, in line with the job-
based personnel system introduced in October 2021 for all management positions. We will also be rolling out a 
system for general employees from April 2023, built on a revised personnel compensation system with a greater 
focus on specialization so that employees can work on enhancing their professional areas of specialization and 
forge their own path forward.

Providing customers with a new sense of excite-
ment only comes about due to having the motivation or 
taking action to create something new. In fact, each and 
every idea or product is created by a “person.” We believe 
that employees creating added value helps to increase 
convenience throughout our customers’ lifestyles and 
can even lead to the development of new social trends. All 
of these revisions have helped to inspire each and every 
employee to further increase their specializations and ac-
quire or maximize their skills and have resulted in the cre-
ation of a working environment that allows them to create 
added value in a broad range of fields. Creating new value 
by reforming business and expanding into new business 
areas will provide the impetus for continued growth and 
development through the entire NTT Group.

Introduction of job-based personnel system to all man-
agement positions (October 2021)

Shift to assigning the right person to the right job for greater strategic capability
•  Job definition and grading linked to management strategy and business strategy importance
•  Assign the right person that suits the roles and tasks required of each job, regardless of number of 

years employed or age
•  Framework where compensation is determined based on job assignment. Move  to a working environ-

ment where special appointments or salary reductions are the norm
•  Transform awareness for management positions and increase employee motivation to take on chal-

lenges, and promote self-guided career development

Increase
employees’

specializations
and skills

Increase
employees’

ability to
provide

value-add

Provide
new value to
customers

Business
growth

Investment
in human
resources

Revision to specialization-based personnel compensa-
tion system (general employees, April 2023)

Personnel compensation system that rewards specialization with promotions
•  Framework that eliminates requirements for years employed or years served, and provides promotions 

and salary increases corresponding to acquired specialization or level of skills (set grade standards that 
clarifies the specializations or other skills required in 18 specialist fields)

•  Formation of a new “Specialist Course” that provides high compensation for employees with a particu-
larly high level of specialization (career diversification)

Personnel system that supports self-guided career development
• Shift to personnel assignment and transfer policy to boost specialization
•  Greater support for self-guided career development (enhanced training, better career consulting 

functions, etc.)

Percentage 
of positive 
responses

57%

The Average of the Four KPIs



Ensuring the positive coexistence
of nature and humanityCEO Message

Improving prosperity for all 
people and cultures Maximizing well-being for all 0 2 2 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y  R e p o r t  2 0 2 2

Decentralization of the Organization (Including Head Officers and Back-Offices)

The NTT Group began initiatives for decentralizing the organization from metropolitan areas to 
regional areas (core cities)

<Specific Initiatives>

•  Trial run for dispersing the organization across regions to begin at the holding company (starting 
in October 2022)

•  From the standpoint of resilience, we will aim for sustainable business operations by opening 
offices in Takasaki City and Kyoto City for promoting distributed offices 
The first step will involve a trial of certain organizations (with approx. 200 employees) of the 
holding company

•  The trial will be used to test for issues or measures related to business operations and communi-
cations with distributed offices, with a view to applying it to actual operations

•  Introduce a working style based on telework in which employees engage in head office opera-
tions while residing in a distant location

•  Introduce a “hometown double work” program  to contribute to the revitalization of local commu-
nities and areas associated with the Company while continuing current assignments

Home

Travel
expenses

Relocation allowance

Travel expenses Office

No need for 
unaccompanied

assignment
Home

(to return to)
Home

Remote Standard
•  Any residence in Japan is acceptable
•  Any reasonable transportation 

method to and from work that 
can be considered travel 
expenses (lodging expenses 
provided if accommodation is 
needed) is acceptable

•  No need to relocate to a 
remote location if the new 
location is an organization 
that accepts the Remote 
Standard

New Work Style
•  In general, reside in a location within 2 hours 

commuting distance (one-way)
•  Relocation or unaccompanied assignment if 

transferred to remote locations

Past Work Style

Home

Relocation
allowance

Travel allowance
for returning home

Commuting 
allowance

Dormitory Company
housing

Office

Home (to return to)

Relocation
Unaccompanied

assignment

Previous residence

Flexible work styles not bound by time and place
In September 2021, we declared our policy aimed at eliminating the pressures of job transfers or 
working away from their family, as part of efforts to create work styles throughout the entire NTT 
Group that are no longer constrained by location or time. In July 2022, we introduced a work system 
that generally allows employees to work anywhere as long as they reside in Japan, and successful-
ly rolled out Remote Standard for 30,000 employees, around half of all of those working at the 
Group’s main companies. We believe that flexible work styles encourage individual diversity, dialog 
and innovation, which will lead to a work environment that delivers positive business outcomes.

Achieved work styles not bound by time and place. 
To eliminate restrictions by place of residence...

New system “Remote Standard” (2022)

Previous System Revisions (2020)

System revisions due to COVID-19
Remote work
(no restrictions to frequency or location)
Commuting allowance
(payment corresponding to actual commuting)
Remote work stipend 
(equivalent to energy, water and communication costs)
Super �ex-time system 
(without core times, can be staggered)

Work-from-home (with upper limit)

Commuting allowance (fixed payments)

No work-from-home stipends

Flex (with Core Times)

Past work style New work style (Remote Standard)
• Commuting to the office was 

the norm
• Reside within commuting 

distance to office
• Remote work required approval
• Commuting allowance paid 

when commuting to office

• Remote work is the norm (hybrid work with both 
remote work and commuting to the office)

• No restrictions to place of residence
• Travel allowance paid when commuting to office 

(processed as business trip, no upper limit)
• Initially available for approx. 30,000 employees, 

mainly office workers



Ensuring the positive coexistence
of nature and humanityCEO Message

Improving prosperity for all 
people and cultures Maximizing well-being for all 0 2 3 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y  R e p o r t  2 0 2 2

m e s s a g e
Message from Management
(Senior Executive Vice President)

Using Technology to Achieve Sustainability

The 21st century world that we all live in today is facing major 
challenges on the way to achieving a low-carbon and sustainable 
environmentally-oriented society. The NTT Group views resolving 
issues like climate change as one of its key corporate activities in 
its goal of building a sustainable society  and implements various 
initiatives in line with its "Your Valued Partner” management philos-
ophy. The NTT Group is aiming to achieve sustainability based on 
technology with a key focus on the Innovative Optical and Wireless 
Network (IOWN).

Providing customers with reliable telecommunications ser-
vices is the most important role for NTT Group to fulfill. As IoT be-
comes more widely used and the services that are essential to our 
daily lives diversify, the amount of traffic continues to grow, and we 
are approaching various limits in terms of data volume, latency, 
and power consumption. While the NTT Group initially aimed for 
commercialization of IOWN around 2030, a number of social is-
sues have emerged, including the aforementioned rapid increase 
of network load, the global situation regarding carbon neutrality, 
the expansion of traffic due to a spike in remote usage spurred by 
COVID-19, and soaring oil prices. For these reasons, the NTT 
Group will move its 2030 target forward and start offering IOWN 
services during fiscal 2022. We are introducing these services to 
users who have a need for advanced services and planning to in-
troduce services for specific applications and areas while achiev-
ing further advancements with technological demonstrations. We 
are already running a proof-of-concept for the “Urban DTC®” 
(DTC: Digital Twin Computing) initiative aimed at increasing com-
fort in cities using data on buildings, urban spaces and behavior of 
people, at the “Urbannet Nagoya Nexta Building” next-generation 
advanced office that opened in June 2022. After putting some 
technologies to practical use during fiscal 2022, we will also grad-
ually be installing equipment in facilities of the NTT Group. We plan 
to showcase the results of our IOWN-related efforts at the 2025 
World Exposition to be held in Osaka, Kansai.

The Value that IOWN Provides and  
Collaborating with Our Partners

In September 2021, we unveiled our new environment and energy 
vision, “NTT Green Innovation toward 2040” aimed at achieving 
zero environmental impact while continuing economic growth, by 
reducing the environmental impact of our business activities and 
creating breakthrough innovation. This vision was designed so that 
the NTT Group is able to achieve carbon neutrality in fiscal 2040 
with IOWN, ten years before the 2050 goal for carbon neutrality set 
by the Japanese government.

Additional utilization of optical technology is important for 
implementing the IT infrastructure with both high performance and 
low power consumption that IOWN is aiming for. We will introduce 
optical technology, which can handle signals while using less pow-
er than electricity, not only for transmission, but also for process-
ing. This will enable us to achieve advanced fusion of light and 
electricity (photoelectric merging technology), in which optical 
technology is applied in extremely close proximity to the parts 
where operations are performed. Incorporating this technology 
into semiconductors will fundamentally solve the aforementioned 
issues. Photoelectric merging technology is an area in which NTT 
excels, given the optical-related technologies it has amassed.

At present, Japanese companies possess significant tech-
nology and manufacturing capabilities in the semiconductor value 
chain. However, we have not yet achieved the kind of presence a 
global stakeholder should have. Our goal is for Japan to spear-
head IOWN in collaboration with our global partners and become 
an indispensable global player in the semiconductor value chain. 
Established in the United States in 2020, the IOWN Global Forum 
has already attracted more than 100 members from Europe, the 
United States, and Asia. This forum is unique in that it is not limited 
to the IT and telecommunications industries, but also encompass-
es the automotive, plant, and financial industries, as well as aca-
demic institutions. We believe that we can work hand in hand with 
the members of the forum to create a value chain that utilizes 
IOWN in every industry.

Katsuhiko Kawazoe
Senior Executive Vice President CTO,
Representative Member of the Board



Ensuring the positive coexistence
of nature and humanityCEO Message

Improving prosperity for all 
people and cultures Maximizing well-being for all 0 2 4 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y  R e p o r t  2 0 2 2

Investment in human capital is essential to 
continue producing research results

Research and development at NTT involves approximately 2,300 
researchers conducting a broad, diverse range of research, from 
basic research to R&D that underpins business development at 
operating companies, based on the principle of creating world-
leading technologies and services and contributing to the 
development of society, industry, and academia. We are creating 
competitive technologies as part of the research and development 
that forms the source of growth for the NTT Group,  and will go on 
to create new value through open innovation and collaboration 
with various companies, universities and research institutions. It is 
vital to view each and every employee as an independent 
researcher with a high level of market value. To facilitate this, we 
are supporting diversity-rich career formation, from basic research 
to technology management, in line with each individual’s career 
plan. With even more rapid changes occurring today, we are 
regularly reviewing training programs to ensure they are up to date 
and optimized for nurturing researchers with a high level of market 
value.

Going forward, we will need excellent researchers in a wide 
range of fields such as encryption technology energy. To this end, 
we will aim to make NTT Group more attractive, not only in terms 
of compensation, but also in terms of prestige, the research 
environment, and many other aspects so that people wish to work 
here.



Ensuring the positive coexistence
of nature and humanityCEO Message

Improving prosperity for all 
people and cultures Maximizing well-being for all 0 2 5 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y  R e p o r t  2 0 2 2

An abbreviation for the Innovative Optical and 
Wireless Network (IOWN), this concept is a step 
for achieving a Smart World through the fusion of 
photonics-electronics convergence technology 
and three core elements—an All-Photonics 
Network, Digital Twin Computing, and Cognitive 
Foundation.

This is the core concept that delivers a stable, high-capacity commu-
nications network with computing capacity that exceeds the perfor-
mance of conventional computing technologies and networks, with 
lower power consumption and overcoming communication latency 
issues. *1 Target value of power efficiency of photonics technology-applied part   *2 Target value of communication capacity per optical fiber   

*3 Target end-end delay for video traffic that does not require compression within the same prefecture

What is IOWN 
concept

All-photonics network 
(APN) for achieving 
the IOWN concept

Smart World

Limits and reduces power consumption

Power efficiency*1

100 times higher

(1) Low power consumption
•  No conversion between 

light ⇔ electricity
•  Integrated opto-electronic 

information processing

Capable of handling increasing traffic

Transmission capacity*2 

125 times higher

(2)  High capacity and 
high quality

•  Allocate wavelength for 
each service

•  IP-independent

Low-latency transmission backbone

End-to-end delay*3 

1/200

(3) Low latency
• No data compression
• No queueing

Chip-to-chip optical
transmission

Connections
around a chip

COSA

Increased
information
processing
capability

* Photonics-electronics convergence device

Optical transmission:
400 Gbps

Core-to-core optical transmission in the chip
Optical signal transmission 
in the chip

Tight coupling of optical and electronic circuits
[Photonics-electronics 
convergence processor]

Electrical layer

Optical layer

Public network Private

Optical processor
(Photon fusion type)

A
P

I
A

P
I

CtrlAPI

CtrlAPI

Edge
CloudCtrlAPI Ctrl

Ctrl

Digital Twin Computing

Device Agent

All-Photonics Network

End-to-end connectivity by combining ICT resources

Network services

Ctrl

A
chieve rap

id
 IC

T
 reso

urce d
ep

lo
ym

ent
and

 calib
ratio

n o
p

tim
izatio

n

M
ultio

rchestrato
r

Cognitive
Foundation

Business A
Business B

Business C



Ensuring the positive coexistence
of nature and humanityCEO Message

Improving prosperity for all 
people and cultures Maximizing well-being for all 0 2 6 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y  R e p o r t  2 0 2 2

Going forward, the goal is to implement use cases raised at the IOWN Global Forum by demonstrating conceptual use cases among a wide range of companies and organizations.

Future use cases achieved with IOWN

Area management Smart mobility
Capable of high-speed processing of data generated from the large number of cameras and 

other sensors installed around the venue, together with low power consumption
Automation of logistics within a venue by using automatically driven vehicles, 

transportation robots, drones, and more

※1 · 2 · 3: Target value of R&D

APN

Quickly dispatch 
to venue

Bandwidth: 96 Gbps*1

4K video
Real-time
processing
IT resources
Use ef�ciency

Limits power
consumption

1/8th that of IA servers

Wavelength allocated
for objective

100 Gbps / wavelength
※1

※2Concatenated loop

Data
processing

Data
processing

Data
processing

*1 For 4K/H.265, 30 fps x 4,000 units

Disaggregated 
computing

APN
Data

processing

Remote
operation

※3

Concatenated
loop

Cognitive Foundation
(ExNaaS)

Achieves smooth 
movement in varying 
wireless environments

*2 1 Gbps / device, 120 Gbps/1km2

Bandwidth: 120 Gbps*2

E2E delay
10-20msec

AudiencePerformers

APN

Data
processingLive venue

Remote venue

Performers

Concatenated
loop

Ultra-realistic live
experience same or better

than those at the venue

Uncompressed video/
Voice transmission

Bandwidth: 14 Gbps to 230 Gbps*3 x number of venues
Latency: less than 70 ms (performer → audience)

*3 When using Volumetric Capturing uncompressed video

Live entertainment
Achieves live entertainment that brings together live 
venues, remote venues and the audience



2021 highlights

544.1billion

B2B2X earnings
Ratio of women newly promoted 
to management positions

Ratio of direct dialogue 
with critical suppliersRatio of remote work

100%

29.1%

77.3%

reduction38%
(compared to FY2013)

GHG reduction
(Scope1+2)

Ensuring the positive coexistence of 
nature and humanity

Improving prosperity for 
all people and cultures

Maximizing well-being for all

Recycling rate

97.8%

Ensuring the positive coexistence
of nature and humanityCEO Message

Improving prosperity for all 
people and cultures Maximizing well-being for all 0 2 7 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y  R e p o r t  2 0 2 2


	CEOメッセージ
	自然との共生
	文化の共栄
	Well-beingの最大化
	３テーマ９チャレンジ３０アクティビティ
	重要課題選定プロセス
	特集1環境エネルギービジョン
	Business Activity-1
	Business Activity-2
	Business Activity-3
	Business Activity-4
	自然 その他の取組

	ボタン2010: 
	Page 9: 
	Page 99: 

	ボタン2011: 
	Page 9: 
	Page 99: 

	ボタン247: 
	Page 9: 
	Page 99: 

	ボタン248: 
	Page 9: 
	Page 99: 

	ボタン2012: 
	Page 4: 

	ボタン2013: 
	Page 4: 

	ボタン2014: 
	Page 4: 

	ボタン2015: 
	Page 4: