2022 ESG Report 


  

                            



Table of Contents 

Message from CEO 2 

Our Company 3 

Our Values 4 

ESG at Northrop Grumman: 5 
Our Approach 

PIONEERING 9 
PERFORMANCE 
Company Performance 10 

Governance Structure 11 

Compliance 13 

Ethics & Responsible Business Practices 14 

Global Supply Chain 19 

Cybersecurity & Data Protection 24 

PIONEERING PEOPLE 25 
Our Diverse Workforce 26 

Diversity, Equity & Inclusion 27 

Employee & Family Well-Being 32 

Employee Health & Safety 35 

Talent Strategy 37 

Talent Management & Development 40 

Corporate Citizenship 43 

PIONEERING PURPOSE 53 
Our Approach to Environmental Action 54 

Enhancing Operations & Management 57 

Environmental Remediation & Conservation 62 

PIONEERING INNOVATION 65 
Ushering in a Digital Transformation 66 

Product Quality 67 

Product Stewardship 70 

Research & Development 71 

APPENDIX 73 
Selected Awards & Recognitions for 2022 74 

Organizations & University Partnerships 75 

Materiality 77 

Stakeholder Engagement 78 

Environmental Data Accountability 79 
Methodology 

Forward-Looking Statements 79 

GRI Standards Content Index 80 

SASB Index 86 

ESG Performance Data Matrix 87

1
 

2022 ESG Report



INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX 

Message from CEO 
A more connected and protected world, and a 
universe better understood. 

That’s our mission at Northrop Grumman. To create 
cutting edge technology that solves the world’s most 
complex challenges and defines what is possible. To 
make a massive aircraft disappear; intercept moving 
targets continents away; peer backwards through 
time to the creation of the universe. 

Behind each groundbreaking program are people and 
communities who turn these ideas into realities. They 
are the driving force of our company, counting on us 
to adapt, innovate and lead as the defense and 
national security stages evolve. 

Globally, we’ve witnessed environmental and societal 
changes threatening values that we hold dear: from 
resource inequity to severe weather events, data 
privacy breaches to social justice and sovereignty. 
These dynamic shifts threaten our way of life and 
demand bold, meaningful action. Now. 

Northrop Grumman has the talent, technology, 
purpose and ingenuity to help our world become 
more sustainable, equitable and secure for everyone. 

Our vision for the future is built on decades of 
experience supporting communities. Purpose and 
ethics are foundational to our company and our 
values. We foster transparency and trust among 
employees, customers and shareholders, enabling us 
to innovate fearlessly and operate with excellence; 
qualities earning our team the 2022 Deming Cup for 
Operational Excellence. 

Our people are one of our greatest assets. We are 
deeply proud of the culture of belonging we have built 
at Northrop Grumman where employees feel 
empowered and valued. Leading groups in diversity, 
equity and inclusion including DiversityInc, Human 
Rights Campaign, Disability Equality Index, Military 
Friendly and others continue to recognize our focus 
and efforts to ensure all employees can thrive. 

Harnessing our technology leadership, we’ve also 
made strides to reduce our carbon, water and waste 
footprints and partnered with customers and suppliers 
to help them do the same. Last year, we released 
bold sustainability goals, including Net Zero 
greenhouse gas emissions in our operations by 
2035.1 We were named one of America’s Most JUST 
Companies for our work making a more equitable 
business environment and named to the Dow Jones 
Sustainability Index for the seventh year in a row. We 
also brought forth our inaugural sustainability 
hackathon and two incredible Tech for Conservation 
projects – HOP Queue and Project Glacier Watch – 
which rethink how we use artificial intelligence, 
sensors and satellites to monitor water quality and ice 
melt rates. 

From undersea to outer space, there is infinite 
opportunity to make positive contributions to our 
communities and our planet. And a journey to a more 
sustainable, equitable and secure world is underway. 

Our legacy of success emboldens our vision for a 
brighter future fueled by innovation. Because while 
the challenges that face our world may seem great, 
we are ready, as always, to define what is possible. 

Sincerely, 

KATHY J. WARDEN 
Chair, Chief Executive Officer and President 
March 16, 2023 

22022 ESG Report

1. "Net Zero operations", as referred to throughout this report, is defined as our goal to reach Net Zero GHG emissions in our operations (i.e., our Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions) by 2035. Our baseline year for 
tracking interim progress on the goal is 2019.



INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX

Our Company 
Northrop Grumman Corporation (herein referred to as “Northrop Grumman,” the “company,” “we,” “us” or “our”) is a leading global aerospace and defense technology 
company. Our pioneering solutions equip our customers with the capabilities they need to connect and protect the world, and push the boundaries of human exploration 
across the universe. Driven by a shared purpose to solve our customers’ toughest problems, our 95,000 employees define possible every day. We have four operating sectors 
that comprise our business: 

Aeronautics Systems is a leader in 
the design, development, production, 
integration, sustainment and 
modernization of advanced aircraft 
systems for the United States (U.S.) 
Air Force, the U.S. Navy, other U.S. 
government agencies and 
international customers. These 
aircraft systems support four mission 
areas: strike; air dominance; battle 
management and control; and 
intelligence, surveillance and 
reconnaissance (ISR). 

Defense Systems is a leader in the 
design, development, production, 
integration, sustainment and 
modernization of weapon and mission 
systems for U.S. military and civilian 
agency customers, and a broad 
range of international customers. 
Major products and services include 
integrated battle management 
systems, weapons systems and 
aircraft and mission system 
sustainment and modernization. 

Mission Systems is a leader in 
advanced mission solutions and 
multifunction systems, primarily for 
the U.S. defense and intelligence 
community and international 
customers. Major products and 
services include cyber; command, 
control, communications and 
computers, intelligence, surveillance 
and reconnaissance (C4ISR) 
systems; radar, electro-optical/ 
infrared (EO/IR) and acoustic 
sensors; electronic warfare 
systems; advanced communications 
and network systems; cyber 
solutions; intelligence processing 
systems; navigation; and maritime 
power, propulsion and payload 
launch systems. 

Space Systems is a leader in 
delivering end-to-end mission 
solutions through the design, 
development, integration, production 
and operation of space, missile 
defense, launch and strategic missile 
systems for national security, civil 
government, commercial and 
international customers. Major 
products include satellites and 
payloads; ground systems; missile 
defense systems and interceptors; 
launch vehicles and related propulsion 
systems; and strategic missiles. 

3
 

2022 ESG Report



INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX 

Our Values 
Our Values underlie all we do; they enable us to deliver on our shared purpose; they reflect who we are and how we treat others; they define who we are as a people and a 
culture, and how we act and operate. Our Values reaffirm what is important to us and explicitly state what we should expect from our company and from one another. This is 
what makes our company special. 

4
 

2022 ESG Report

We do the 
right thing 

We do what 
we promise 

We commit to 
shared success We pioneer



INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX 

ESG at Northrop Grumman: 
Our Approach 
At Northrop Grumman, our pioneering solutions equip 
our customers with the capabilities they need to 
connect and protect the world, and push the 
boundaries of human exploration across the universe. 
Driven by a shared purpose to solve our customers’ 
toughest problems, we endeavor to advance our 
understanding of the universe and how we sustain it 
for the future. We aim to identify and manage our 
environmental, social and governance (ESG) impacts 
and define what is possible across our company and 
in our communities. Whether it’s singular engineers 
bringing the power of their whole selves to a project, 
our teams and suppliers working ethically to source 
materials or facilities managers reducing the footprint 
of our operations, sustainability and doing the right 
thing is part of our culture and is grounded in our 
Values. We strive to responsibly manage our ESG 
impacts as we deliver and build on that innovative 
spirit that has guided us for decades. At Northrop 
Grumman, we make a safe, sustainable and inclusive 
world possible. 

Non-Financial 
Performance Metrics 
We are committed to developing a fair and equitable 
workplace for our employees and enhancing 
environmental sustainability while maintaining an 
unrelenting focus on our customers. To reinforce 
these commitments, we include related non-financial 
performance metrics in our annual incentive 
compensation program. These metrics — Diversity, 
Employee Experience, Environmental Sustainability, 
Quality and Customer Satisfaction — align our 
commitment to achieving a high level of ESG 
performance with our overall strategy. This report 
covers our performance against these metrics, as 
well as other important ESG metrics and goals that 
drive our company forward. 

DIVERSITY 

EMPLOYEE EXPERIENCE

 

ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY 

QUALITY 

 

CUSTOMER SATISFACTION 

5
 

2022 ESG Report

About this Report 
This report follows the Global Reporting Initiative 
(GRI) Standards, a voluntary framework widely 
used to support transparency in ESG reporting. 
Our GRI Index is available towards the end of 
this document, located in the Appendix, along 
with our Sustainability Accounting Standards 
Board (SASB) Index and ESG Performance Data 
Matrix. Additionally, we are continuing to build 
upon our alignment with the recommendations 
from the Task Force on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD). In 2022, we published our 
first TCFD summary report and published an 
updated report in 2023. For more information on 
our alignment with TCFD, please see the 
Updates to Climate Strategy section. 

This report addresses certain items which are 
most important to the company from an ESG 
reporting perspective consistent with the GRI 
Standards. Information disclosed in this report 
should not be interpreted as meaning an item is 
material for purposes of the U.S. Securities and 
Exchange Commission (SEC) rules and 
regulations, including those related to SEC 
reporting and disclosure obligations, or any other 
securities laws or U.S. Generally Accepted 
Accounting Principles (GAAP). We periodically 
review our assessment of those items that are 
important from an ESG reporting perspective and 
update such assessments as appropriate. 

For copies of our previous reports and more 
information on our ESG-related policies, 
statements and disclosures and the latest news 
about how our people are using technology as a 
guiding force for sustainable progress, please 
see our website.

https://www.northropgrumman.com/wp-content/uploads/2023-TCFD-Report_Final-for-Upload.pdf?_gl=1*r8luvm*_ga*NzY0NzI2NjY1LjE2Mzc1OTg2ODM.*_ga_7YV3CDX0R2*MTY3OTMxNDA3MS40ODAuMS4xNjc5MzE4NDk5LjAuMC4w
https://www.northropgrumman.com/corporate-responsibility/sustainability-reports-and-esg-information/


INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX

Our Environmental Sustainability Goals
In 2022, we introduced our Next-Generation sustainability goals in three mission areas. In this report, we announce our pioneering goals for water and waste. All of these 
goals serve as success markers to help us better measure our sustainability progress. As you read through the rest of the report, look for the symbols below to indicate where 
one of our 2022 actions supports a goal listed here: 

FOOTPRINT 
Address the fundamental needs 
driving environmental 
sustainability by minimizing the 
footprint of our operations. 

FOOTPRINT GOALS INCLUDE: 
• Net Zero greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in our 

operations (Scopes 1 and 2) by 2035. Interim 
target of 50% reduction by 2030.2 

• Source 50% of total electricity from renewable 
sources by 2030. 

• Reduce 10% of absolute water withdrawals,2 

reuse 10% of water withdrawals and replenish 
10% of water withdrawals, focusing in water-
stressed regions — all by 2030. 

• Reduce solid waste sent to landfill and incineration 
by 10% by 2030.2 

2022 PROGRESS 
• Achieved 10.6% reduction in emissions, compared 

to 2019 base year and sourced 10.0% of 
electricity from renewable sources. 

• Set pioneering goals in environmental stewardship 
for water and waste.3 

HANDPRINT 
Enhance sustainability within the 
aerospace & defense industry by 
supporting customer needs and 
supply chain objectives. 

HANDPRINT GOALS INCLUDE: 
• In collaboration with key customers, work to 

develop a pioneering product stewardship 
program focused on material efficiency, product 
design and life cycle assessment. 

• Update the company’s "Standards of Business 
Conduct for Suppliers and Other Trading Partners" 
to incorporate industry-leading sustainability 
practices by 2023. 

2022 PROGRESS 
• Engaged with customers, industry trade 

associations and internal stakeholders on product 
stewardship, chemical management, material 
efficiency, product design and life 
cycle assessment. Began planning our first 
comprehensive life cycle assessment that will 
occur in 2023. 

• Performed benchmarking to identify industry-
leading supply chain sustainability practices and 
integrated practices into the Supplier Standards 
of Business Conduct, to be published by the end 
of 2023. 

BLUEPRINT 
Affirm our leadership in 
sustainability by collaborating to 
protect ecosystems and define 
environmental opportunities in 
our communities. 

BLUEPRINT GOALS INCLUDE: 
• Expand Technology for Conservation (T4C) 

initiatives in proximity to Northrop Grumman’s U.S. 
locations by 2030, in collaboration with 
external partners. 

2022 PROGRESS 
• Expanded T4C initiatives to 54 additional sites (up 

from 17 sites in 2021). 
• Launched two new T4C projects, HOP Queue and 

Project Glacier Watch. 

2. Indicated footprint reduction goals and/or targets have a base year of 2019. 
3. The water and waste goals listed under footprint replace our initial water and waste goal, originally written as “Strengthen leadership in operational footprint reduction through setting and achieving pioneering targets 

in environmental stewardship by 2025, including potable water use and solid waste to landfill.” 

62022 ESG Report



INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX

2022 ESG Success Indicators 

Zero
Northrop Grumman is committed to 
achieving net zero GHG emissions in 
our operations by 2035 

43 
million pounds of waste 
diverted from landfill 

10.6%
reduction in GHG emissions from 2019 

$1.4 billion
in capital investment 
(CapEx) 

$36.6 
billion
total sales

$1.2 billion
in R&D investments 

25%
female employees 

34%
female leadership 
(Vice President and above) 

37%
employees of color 

19%
people of color in leadership 
(Vice President and above) 

7
 

2022 ESG Report



INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX

Industry Recognitions 

One of DiversityInc’s “Top 50 
Companies for Diversity,” as well as 
a top company for Veterans, employee 
resource groups, Native American/Pacific 
Islander employees, people with 
disabilities, executive diversity councils, 
Black executives and ESG 

Participated in the CDP Climate 
Survey for the 11th consecutive 
year, receiving a B score 

Designated as a “High Performing 
Company” by Willis Tower Watson for 
our high levels of employee engagement 

MSCI ESG Rating of AA

Achieved a perfect score on the CPA- 
Zicklin Index of Corporate Political 
Disclosure and Accountability 

Support of 14 employee resource 
groups (ERGs) with more than 
28,000 total employee participants 

Named as one of JUST Capital’s “100 
Most Just Companies” for 2022 

Included on the Dow Jones 
Sustainability North America Index 
for the seventh consecutive year 

Achieved a perfect score on 
the Corporate Equality Index and 
designated as a “Best Place to Work for 
LGBTQ+ Equality” 

18th consecutive year  that Northrop 
Grumman has exceeded the 
U.S. government's 23% small 
business statutory goal

8
 

2022 ESG Report



INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX

PIONEERING 
PERFORMANCE 
GOVERNANCE 
AT THE FOUNDATION OF INNOVATION 
Governance is the foundation of our approach to ESG. The policies, systems and 
principles to which we hold ourselves represent the fundamentals of what fuels our 
innovation and long-term growth. Governance sets us all on a path to success – the 
kind of success we can be proud of – that is sustained by ethics, responsibility and 
motivation to go beyond what is required to what is needed by the world. But we 
know that governance is more than just a rule book or set of standards. It’s a sense 
of accountability that empowers us to make a difference to our customers and to 
countless communities around the world. 

9
 

2022 ESG Report



INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX 

Company Performance 
We are focused on performance, our portfolio and a 
balanced approach to capital deployment as a 
foundation for long-term value creation for our 
shareholders. We assess and transparently report 
against the performance of our company using a 
comprehensive set of measures important to our 
shareholders, customers and employees. Our 
compensation programs are tied to achievement of 
such measures. 

We utilize both financial and non-financial metrics to 
assess our performance and progress. Our non-
financial metrics include measures focused on 
Diversity, Employee Experience, Environmental 
Sustainability, Quality and Customer Satisfaction. 
These non-financial metrics have been a key element 
of our compensation programs since 2010, 
demonstrating our longstanding commitment to using 
ESG priorities as a key measure of the company’s 
overall performance. 

In February 2022, we revised our annual incentive 
plan design to include non-financial metrics in our 
core metrics, as opposed to a negative-only modifier 
as in prior years (i.e., non-financial metrics could only 
reduce the overall annual incentive plan score and 
were not a component of the overall score). This 
reflects our continued focus on ESG and alignment 
for employees, shareholders and other stakeholders. 
The non-financial metrics account for 10% of the 
overall 2022 annual incentive plan score and include 
specific metrics for performance across ESG topics. 
For more information regarding our annual incentive 
plan, please see our 2023 Proxy Statement. 

$36.6 billion 
Annual sales 

2022 Revenue Breakdown 

102022 ESG Report

13% 
International 

U.S. 

87%

95,000 
Employees 

52 million 
Square feet of floor space 

Board of Directors Diversity 

46% 
Women on the board 

31% 
People of color on the board 

6 
Years of average tenure 

* All company performance data on this page is as of and for the year ended December 31, 2022. Board data based on the full slate of Board nominees, as reflected in the 2023 Proxy Statement. 

https://www.northropgrumman.com/wp-content/uploads/Northrop-Grumman-2023-Proxy-Statement-FINAL-Bookmarked-Web-Ready-v2.pdf?_gl=1*1b7vclb*_ga*NzY0NzI2NjY1LjE2Mzc1OTg2ODM.*_ga_7YV3CDX0R2*MTY4MDUzNzk2MS41MDIuMS4xNjgwNTM4MDIzLjAuMC4w


INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX 

Governance Structure 
We are committed to maintaining high standards of 
corporate governance consistent with our Values and 
in service to our shareholders, employees, customers 
and other stakeholders. Our Principles of Corporate 
Governance and Standards of Business Conduct, 
among other documents, serve as key pillars of our 
strong corporate governance practices, which reflect 
and reinforce our commitment to our core values and 
robust governance practices. 

Board of Directors 
Our Board of Directors (BoD) is responsible for 
fostering the long-term success of the company and 
promoting the interests of our shareholders. We have 
a balanced, independent BoD with a diversity of 
backgrounds and experiences, all of which help to 
enhance diversity of thought and the overall 
effectiveness of our Board. The BoD is composed of 
13 directors, 12 of whom are independent.4 The BoD 
has four standing committees: Audit and Risk, 
Compensation, Governance and Policy. In 2022, the 
BoD held nine meetings, including a meeting focused 
on reviewing long-term strategy. 

For more information regarding our BoD, including 
committees of the Board and their roles and 
responsibilities, please see our 2023 Proxy 
Statement, committee charters and other corporate 
governance policies available on the Northrop 
Grumman website. 

Risk Oversight 
The BoD oversees enterprise risk management, and 
each of our Board committees assists in this role and 
provides expertise. The BoD and Audit and Risk 
Committee also receive reports on our Enterprise 
Risk Management Council, which seeks to ensure we 
have identified and understood the more significant 
risks facing our business and that we have effective 
mitigation measures in place to address them. 

Key Corporate 
Governance Elements 
• All board committees are comprised entirely of 

independent directors 

• Annual election of all directors 

• A lead independent director with significant and 
clearly defined responsibilities 

• Majority voting for directors in uncontested 
elections with a director resignation policy if a 
director fails to receive a majority of votes cast “for” 
their election 

• Proxy access bylaw provision, providing for eligible 
shareholders to include their own director 
nominees in Northrop Grumman’s Proxy materials 

• Annual board, committee and director self-
evaluations 

• Ability of shareholders to act by written consent 

• Ability of shareholders to call a special meeting 

• Ability of shareholders to communicate and meet 
directly with our management and directors 

• Annual advisory vote on executive compensation 

• Recoupment policy for incentive compensation 

• Stock ownership guidelines for directors and 
executive officers 

• Policy prohibiting hedging, pledging and other 
specified derivative transactions involving Northrop 
Grumman stock by directors, executive officers 
and those receiving performance-based 
compensation 

11
 

2022 ESG Report

4  Board data based on the full slate of Board nominees, as reflected in the 2023 Proxy Statement.

https://investor.northropgrumman.com/corporate-governance/highlights
https://www.northropgrumman.com/wp-content/uploads/Northrop-Grumman-2023-Proxy-Statement-FINAL-Bookmarked-Web-Ready-v2.pdf?_gl=1*1b7vclb*_ga*NzY0NzI2NjY1LjE2Mzc1OTg2ODM.*_ga_7YV3CDX0R2*MTY4MDUzNzk2MS41MDIuMS4xNjgwNTM4MDIzLjAuMC4w
https://www.northropgrumman.com/wp-content/uploads/Northrop-Grumman-2023-Proxy-Statement-FINAL-Bookmarked-Web-Ready-v2.pdf?_gl=1*1b7vclb*_ga*NzY0NzI2NjY1LjE2Mzc1OTg2ODM.*_ga_7YV3CDX0R2*MTY4MDUzNzk2MS41MDIuMS4xNjgwNTM4MDIzLjAuMC4w


INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX

ESG Oversight 

BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
Our BoD provides leadership and oversight with respect to ESG practices, among other duties, and regularly 
receives reports from management throughout Northrop Grumman on these matters. 

AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE 
• Reviews and discusses the company’s global 

compliance programs with our General Counsel 
and Chief Compliance Officer (CCO), including 
the tone set by leaders throughout the 
organization. 

• Meets quarterly with our Vice President of Global 
Corporate Responsibility to receive a report on 
matters that are communicated through the 
OpenLine reporting system. 

• Assists the BoD in its overall financial and 
enterprise risk management responsibilities, 
including review of the company’s financial risks, 
as well as risks pertaining to anti-corruption, 
cybersecurity, insurance, nuclear, natural and 
environmental matters and the company 
compliance program. 

• Responsible for overseeing the audit and 
assurance processes for ESG reporting. 

POLICY COMMITTEE 
• Receives a report from our Vice President of 

Global Corporate Responsibility at least annually 
regarding our ethics and corporate responsibility 
programs, including our Standards of Business 
Conduct, and reviews and oversees practices 
with respect to sustainability and environmental 
matters, human rights, health and safety and 
charitable organizations. 

• Oversees the company’s environmental 
program, including Net Zero operations, water 
and waste plans; receives updates from the 
Chief Sustainability Officer; and oversees 
management of climate change risks (including, 
among other things, Scope 1 and 2 GHG 
emissions and targets for emissions reductions), 
TCFD evaluations and our annual ESG report 
(formerly known as the sustainability report). 

GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE 
• Provides the BoD with oversight of the 

company’s corporate culture and governance-
related risks. 

• Oversees our corporate governance, the make-
up and effectiveness of our BoD, with a focus on 
diversity and succession planning, and 
engagement with our shareholders, including on 
shareholder proposals. 

COMPENSATION COMMITTEE 
• Reviews the company’s human capital 

management processes with the Chief Human 
Resources Officer, oversees policies and 
practices with respect to diversity, equity and 
inclusion (DE&I) and reviews a risk assessment 
of the company’s compensation programs. 

• Approves DE&I goals and financial and 
non-financial metrics for our 
compensation programs. 

12
 

2022 ESG Report



INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX

Compliance 
Our compliance program, overseen by the Northrop 
Grumman CCO helps ensure that we meet or exceed 
our performance standards and set ourselves and our 
stakeholders up for success. Located within the 
company’s law department and reporting directly to 
the General Counsel, the CCO and team promote 
and facilitate a company culture of integrity, ethics 
and compliance with all applicable laws, helping us to 
achieve our strategic goals. The compliance team 
works closely with functional and operational teams 
across the company to identify, assess, manage and 
mitigate compliance and ethics risks and ensure 
internal controls are effective. Our CCO chairs the 
company’s Compliance Council, which includes 
senior representatives from Internal Audit, Human 
Resources, Finance, the Sustainability Office, 
Security, Quality, Digital Transformation, Ethics, 
Global Corporate Responsibility and all four of our 
operating sectors. 

Our Compliance Council: 
• Provides leadership and guidance on effective and agile 

internal policies, procedures and processes that are globally 
accessible to our employee base 

• Meets regularly to identify and assess compliance risks and 
evaluate the continued effectiveness of the company’s 
system of policies and procedures, as well as elements of 
the compliance program itself 

• Monitors changes in the regulatory environment and 
supports effective implementation of new or revised 
compliance plans to address evolving requirements in the 
U.S. and globally 

• Promotes a “speak-up” and safe culture (in collaboration with 
Ethics, Human Resources and other functions) to enhance 
business performance and help enable employees to report 
issues without fear of retaliation 

• Regularly evaluates and adapts the company’s compliance 
program to reflect the changing nature of our business, our 
long-term objectives, our customers’ evolving requirements, 
our shareholders’ interests and the global environment 

Additionally, we are diligent in assessing third parties such as 
sales representatives, partners, consultants, suppliers and 
teammates for compliance. We expect our partners to share our 
commitment to do business with high levels of ethics and integrity 
and comply with all applicable laws and regulations. As articulated 
in our Standards of Business Conduct for Suppliers and Other 
Trading Partners, we also require our partners and suppliers to 
share our commitment to human rights. For more information, 
please see the Global Supply Chain section. 

2022 Compliance 
Highlights 
• Sustaining a best in class 

compliance program focused on 
doing the right thing, promoting a 
speak up culture, implementing 
effective policies and procedures 
and providing engaging education 
and training to leaders 
and employees 

• Supporting the development and 
implementation of digital 
transformation projects designed to 
effectively manage risk and further 
integrate compliance into 
company operations 

Northrop Grumman is also active in the 
compliance community outside our 
company to promote ethics and 
integrity throughout the global defense 
industry and beyond. For more 
information, please see the list of 
partnership organizations in 
the Appendix. 

13
 

2022 ESG Report



INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX

Ethics & Responsible Business Practices 
We have built our business on doing the right thing. 
Our commitment to ethics and integrity is the 
foundation of our business culture — so much so that 
doing the right thing is the first of our company 
Values. When we lead with honesty and integrity, we 
create a work environment where each employee is 
empowered to speak up and perform at the 
highest standards. 

Operating ethically is fundamental to achieving our 
goals, complying with requirements and consistently 
delivering excellence to our stakeholders. Our 
dedicated Ethics team develops and implements our 
strategy and initiatives to support ethical culture 
throughout our company. We have full-time ethics 
directors and advisors in place at the business unit 
level to assist in implementing our programs and 
initiatives. We provide our employees with guidelines 
and resources to both understand and do what is 
right, make ethical decisions and support compliance 
with company policies, procedures and 
legal requirements. 

Our ethics are reflected in our Values, the Standards 
of Business Conduct and leadership behaviors. 
These are available in several languages to make 
them more accessible for our global population. For 
more information on our policies and practices, 
please see our Ethics and Business 
Conduct webpage. 

Our “Speak-Up" Culture 
We are committed to ensuring our employees feel 
safe to speak up, share ideas and challenge how 
things are done without fear of retaliation. Employees 
may raise concerns and ask questions through their 
managers, members of our Human Resources or Law 
departments, Business Conduct Advisors (BCAs) or 
the global OpenLine reporting system. In 2022, we 
refreshed our Ethical Decision Guide and Ethical 
Dilemma Conversation Guide, which provide 
employees with a framework to guide their decision 
making, plus tools to help both the employee and the 
leader navigate conversations around ethical issues. 
We encourage employees to seek guidance on ethics 
questions and report possible violations of our 
Standards of Business Conduct, company policy or 
the law. 

Ethics Training 
We provide mandatory ethics training during 
onboarding for all new employees. We reinforce our 
ethical standards through annual training that focuses 
on informing and updating employees on ethical 
practice and obligations. This annual refresher 
training is required for all full- and 
part-time employees. 

Ethics training for new employees covers key topics 
including our Standards of Business Conduct, time 
and labor charging, business courtesies, conflicts of 
interest and the revolving door policy. 

Our interactive ethics refresher training course 
connects our company Values to key topics. The 
training covers our Standards of Business Conduct, 
civility and respect, which includes discrimination and 
harassment, business courtesies, conflicts of interest, 
time charging accuracy and the importance of a 
“speak-up” culture. Printed training materials are 
available to manufacturing and production employees 
who do not have access to a work computer. The 
ethics training is also translated into Dutch, French, 
German, Italian, Polish and Arabic. 

All employees must certify at the completion of the 
training that they are familiar with and will abide by 
the Northrop Grumman Standards of Business 
Conduct. In addition, each year we require our U.S. 
employees and many of our international employees 
to certify that they do not have any new or 
undisclosed conflicts of interest. 

Approximately 

99% 
of our full and part-time employees 
completed ethics training in 2022 

14
 

2022 ESG Report

https://www.northropgrumman.com/sustainability/ethics-business-conduct/
https://www.northropgrumman.com/sustainability/ethics-business-conduct/


INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX 

Business Conduct Advisors 
BCAs are well respected Northrop Grumman employees who are nominated and selected by 
their leadership and the Corporate Ethics Office because they demonstrate high ethical 
standards. BCAs are key stakeholders who promote ethics awareness to management and 
employees, coach colleagues through ethical dilemmas, raise concerns and potential risks to 
their departments or the corporate ethics office and respond to questions and concerns from 
employees. Northrop Grumman has more than 140 BCAs located at major company sites around 
the globe. Through monthly BCA meetings and the BCA Share Center, we provide updates on 
ethics initiatives, trends and additional resources to support their role and responsibilities. We 
gather the community annually at our regional BCA workshops, which took place in Falls Church, 
Redondo Beach, London and Brisbane in 2022. 

Northrop Grumman OpenLine 
All Northrop Grumman employees, business partners, suppliers and other stakeholders are 
encouraged to use the OpenLine to report any concerns or potential violations of the law, 
regulations or company policies without fear of retaliation. The OpenLine phone is a toll-free, 
third-party phone number which is available 24/7 and in multiple languages so all employees can 
speak to a representative in their native language. Web-based reporting is also available to 
employees in locations where it does not conflict with local laws. 

To efficiently address and resolve OpenLine contacts, we first categorize them as either inquiries, 
business conduct allegations or employee relations concerns. 

• We assign inquiries to subject matter experts. These questions typically call for a response 
based on Northrop Grumman’s policy or procedures. Most inquiries relate to business 
courtesies and conflicts of interest. 

• Ethics investigators handle most business conduct allegations, such as matters relating to 
suspected fraud, waste and abuse. The more serious allegations may be referred to the law 
department for investigation. Employee relations investigators typically address reported cases 
of employee misconduct and employment practices. 

In 2022, approximately 35% of contacts, including allegations of wrongdoing, were substantiated, 
in whole or in part. This compares to 40% in 2021. A total of 368 actions were taken as a result. 
The percentage of substantiated allegations was lower than the NAVEX 2022 Ethics Hotline 
Benchmark Report (NAVEX Report) figure (43%) which includes over 3,400 companies. 
Employees or other parties who contact us through the OpenLine typically share their name, but 
they have the option to remain anonymous, entirely at their discretion. In 2022, anonymous 
contacts were at 36%. In comparison, the NAVEX Report average for anonymous contacts 
was 50%. 

We analyze OpenLine metrics quarterly to identify trends and areas of potential concern, and 
share findings with the Corporate Ethics Committee, which consists of members of the Executive 
Leadership Team, and also with other senior leaders, external auditors and the Audit and Risk 
Committee of our BoD. We provide department and site leadership with quarterly OpenLine 
metrics and address trends through leadership actions, including targeted communications and 
additional training. 

152022 ESG Report

2022 Allegations and Inquiries 

574 Business Conduct Allegations: 
44% Substantiated 

Top Allegations: 
Time Reporting/Mischarging/
Overpayments: 278 

 

Security: 62 
Misuse of Company Resources: 51 

990 Employee Relations Allegations: 
29% Substantiated 

Top Allegations: 
Employee Conduct: 482 
Employment Practices: 297 
Harassment Policy Violation: 73 

6141,564 2,178
Total ContactsOpenline 

Allegations
Openline 
Inquiries

2022 Actions Taken 
as a Result of Investigations Substantiated 
in Whole or in Part 

Coaching or Counseling 132 
Written Warning 85 
Terminations 84 
Memo of Expectations 54 
Verbal Warning 6 
Personnel Move 5 
Suspension & Demotion 2 
Total 368 



INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX 

Ethics Communications 

Throughout the year, we use a variety of engagement 
channels to highlight the importance of ethics and 
integrity in the workplace. In 2022, we continued to 
communicate with employees about various ethics 
initiatives and resources throughout the year. 
This includes: 

• Messaging from our CEO, Kathy Warden, on 
ethics, which reaffirms our commitment to ethics 
and encourages employees to speak up with 
concerns. This is reinforced through our quarterly 
ethics newsletters. 

• Our annual training, which brings together 
important ethics and compliance information and 
our Values. This year, we held Ethics Awareness 
Month activities including leadership 
communications, ethics quizzes, giveaways and 
on-site activities. 

Political Involvement 
We engage in the democratic process in a variety 
of ways. Our Chief Strategy and Development 
Officer manages political activities, including 
lobbying, and reports directly to the CEO. Our 
BoD Policy Committee also reviews and oversees 
the company’s political activities. 

We conduct political activities in accordance with 
applicable laws and our company Values and ethical 
standards. Policies, approval procedures and 
required disclosures for involvement in political 
activities are clearly stated and available to 
our employees. 

We are proud to be recognized by the Center for 
Political Accountability (CPA) and the Zicklin Center 
for Business Ethics Research for our transparency, 
policies and strong disclosure practices related to 
political expenditures. Based on voluntarily disclosed 
information, the Zicklin Index measures electoral 

spending transparency among the largest 
corporations in the U.S. Northrop Grumman was one 
of 17 companies to receive a 100% score in the 2022 
CPA-Zicklin Index. We have received a 100% score 
for the last four years, the only aerospace and 
defense company to consistently receive this 
recognition of our longstanding political transparency. 

16
 

2022 ESG Report

For more information on the company’s political activity 
practices, as well as links to publicly available 
disclosure reports, please see our Political 
Contributions webpage. 

Northrop Grumman was one of 17 companies 
to receive a 100% score in the 2022 CPA-
Zicklin Index. 

Anti-Corruption Compliance 
By maintaining a best-in-class global anti-corruption 
compliance program, we continue to operate as a 
trusted supplier for our customers, a reliable 
performer for our shareholders and an employer of 
choice for our workforce. We require all our 
employees and those with whom we do business to 
maintain high ethical standards in full compliance 
with applicable anti-corruption laws. We have zero 
tolerance for bribes, kickbacks or any other illegal 
business practices. We require our employees to 
ask questions and raise concerns they may have 
regarding ethics and compliance issues. For details 
on the various elements of our program, please see 
our Anti-Corruption Compliance webpage.

https://www.northropgrumman.com/investor-relations/political-contributions/
https://www.northropgrumman.com/investor-relations/political-contributions/
https://www.northropgrumman.com/corporate-responsibility/anti-corruption-compliance-at-northrop-grumman/


INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX

Product Sales 
We have robust procedures to ensure we do not 
conduct business in countries or with customers who 
are not properly approved by the U.S. government, 
or, even if permissible, where the risk is too significant 
and cannot adequately be mitigated. We focus on 
doing business that aligns with our company Values 
and applicable laws. We incorporate our ESG 
responsibilities and customer support into decision-
making, including the products we design, develop, 
manufacture and sustain. 

Sales to international countries include both Foreign 
Military Sales (FMS) and Direct Commercial Sales 
(DCS). FMS sales are administered through the 
Defense Security Cooperation Agency, with final 
approval from the State Department, and involve the 
U.S. government directly procuring products or 
services on behalf of a foreign defense ministry. DCS 
sales are contracted directly with foreign entities and 
require an export license from the State Department’s 
Directorate of Defense Trade Controls for defense 
related products and services, pursuant to the 
International Traffic in Arms Regulations. In addition 
to following all applicable laws and regulations, 
Northrop Grumman has a rigorous risk-based internal 
due diligence process and policy for international 
business activities. 

Controversial Weapons 
We are committed to high standards of ethical 
business conduct in our developments, offerings and 
provisions of goods and services. We consider 
potential risks and impacts in assessing whether and 
how to design and manufacture products, as well as 
to whom and under what circumstances our products 
and services can and should be sold. We are mindful 
of how our products might be used and potential 

unintended uses. We have robust processes and 
procedures in place that are designed to ensure we 
do not do business in certain countries or sell 
products to certain customers. We also have made 
the following commitments as it relates to 
certain products: 

• We do not manufacture or sell cluster munitions or 
components of such munitions as defined in the 
Convention on Cluster Munitions issued on May 
30, 2008 as initiated at the Oslo Conference in 
2007 (Oslo Conference). 

• We do not manufacture or sell anti-personnel 
mines or components of such articles as defined in 
the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, 
Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-
personnel Mines and on their Destruction 
(Ottawa Treaty). 

• We do not manufacture or sell biological or 
chemical weapons or components of such articles 
as defined in the Biological and Toxin Weapons 
Convention and Chemical Weapons Convention. 

• We do not manufacture or sell white phosphorus 
weapons or components of such articles. 

Additionally, in 2022 we announced our decision to 
exit our prime role in depleted uranium ammunition. 

We conduct business globally in a manner consistent 
with our Values, as well as applicable laws. We work 
to incorporate our ESG responsibilities and customer 
support into decision-making, including the products 
the company designs, develops, manufactures and 
sustains. For more information on how we uphold our 
commitment to these practices, please see 
our Human Rights Policy. 

Human Rights 
Northrop Grumman deeply respects individual and 
human rights. To that end, we have a robust and 
wide-reaching Human Rights Policy, as well as 
other company policies, practices and procedures 
that reflect and reinforce our commitment. Our 
policies address discrimination, harassment and 
retaliation; they also cover freedom of association, 
fair working conditions, ethical procurement practices, 
health and safety and the protection of the 
environment. Our Human Rights Policy also 
addresses how we do business, including how we 
develop and provide our goods and services, and 
how we work with our supply chain. 

We have established a Human Rights Working 
Group to help ensure our Human Rights Policy is 
implemented effectively. The general counsel or 
her designee leads the working group, which 
consists of senior representatives from Global 
Corporate Responsibility, Human Resources, 
Legal, Global Supply Chain, Investor Relations, 
Contracts, Environmental, Health and Safety 
(EH&S), Global Business Office, Government 
Relations, Communications and each of our four 
operating sectors. 

Our BoD provides oversight of both our policy and 
our practices. The Policy Committee in particular 
oversees our human rights program, including 
reviewing and making recommendations for 
enhancements, as appropriate. The Policy 
Committee receives reports from the Human 
Rights Working Group, our Vice President of 
Global Corporate Responsibility and our General 
Counsel on how we implement our Human Rights 
Policy, as well as areas of concern or suggestions 
for improvement. 

172022 ESG Report

https://www.northropgrumman.com/corporate-responsibility/northrop-grumman-human-rights-policy/
https://www.northropgrumman.com/corporate-responsibility/northrop-grumman-human-rights-policy/


INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX 

Labor Relations 
Across our company, we are committed to strong 
management practices in support of our employees. 
Currently, collective bargaining agreements cover 
approximately 4% of Northrop Grumman employees 
in the U.S. At our facilities, employees are free to 
exercise their rights of freedom of association and 
collective bargaining, and we work to maintain 
positive relationships with the third-party 
organizations who represent our employees. We 
engage in constructive negotiations on labor topics 
that include wages, schedules and hours, job 
progression, training and education, health and 
safety, non-discrimination and benefits, including 
employee assistance resources. These negotiations 
help our company reach collective agreements that 
benefit our employees. 

Anti-Human Trafficking & 
Forced Labor 
We have zero tolerance for human trafficking or 
forced labor and support the elimination of both from 
the supply chain. As reflected in our Standards of 
Business Conduct for Suppliers and Other 
Trading Partners, we require our suppliers to comply 
with all applicable local laws in the country or 
countries in which they operate and our standard 
terms and conditions prohibit trafficking of persons 
and the use of forced labor. We require our suppliers 
to integrate applicable terms and conditions into their 
lower tier purchase orders and continue to prohibit 
trafficking in persons and the use of forced labor. 
More broadly, we provide our employees and 
suppliers with targeted training and awareness 
regarding the global problem of human trafficking and 
forced labor through online training modules, 
communication campaigns, newsletters, posters at 
applicable work sites and postings on Northrop 
Grumman websites. For information on our Anti-
Human Trafficking and Slavery Statement, please see 
our Anti-Human Trafficking Compliance webpage. 

18
 

2022 ESG Report

Responsible Sourcing of Minerals/Conflict Minerals 
We are committed to responsibly sourcing minerals in our supply chain and routinely take steps to ensure that 
suppliers comply with applicable laws and regulations regarding conflict minerals (i.e., tin, tantalum, tungsten and 
gold). As required, we report known or potential use of conflict minerals to the SEC, consistent with requirements. 
We also regularly review our process for opportunities to improve our conflict minerals due diligence and 
oversight practices. For more information, please see our Conflict Minerals Statement. 

Business Continuity & Operational Resilience 
Business continuity practices at Northrop Grumman extend from standards to systems and programs that allow 
us to pivot quickly and address challenges. These practices were critical in 2022, as we responded to significant 
natural disasters, the continued COVID-19 pandemic, acts of violence and continued supply chain challenges, 
among other disruptions. We require each sector of our business to have an established, effective security 
program that considers relevant risks and vulnerabilities, including crisis management, emergency response, IT 
disaster recovery and business recovery and resumption. We work to protect and secure our personnel, 
resources and information — while maintaining compliance with customer, federal, state, local and risk 
management requirements and regulations.

https://www.northropgrumman.com/suppliers/doing-business-with-northrop-grumman/northrop-grumman-standards-of-business-conduct-for-suppliers-and-other-trading-partners/
https://www.northropgrumman.com/suppliers/doing-business-with-northrop-grumman/northrop-grumman-standards-of-business-conduct-for-suppliers-and-other-trading-partners/
https://www.northropgrumman.com/suppliers/doing-business-with-northrop-grumman/northrop-grumman-standards-of-business-conduct-for-suppliers-and-other-trading-partners/
https://www.northropgrumman.com/suppliers/doing-business-with-northrop-grumman/#h-anti-human-trafficking-compliance
https://www.northropgrumman.com/corporate-responsibility/northrop-grumman-conflict-minerals-statement/


INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX

Global Supply Chain 
Our diverse supplier base is essential to our continued growth and leadership in 
supply chain management. Successful program performance is defined by our 
ability to foster these supplier partnerships and deliver on our Values. To help create 
the most cutting-edge solutions for our customers and generate shared value, we 
prioritize suppliers who provide high-quality, ethically sourced raw materials, 
products and services. 

Supplier Responsibility 
Meeting the moment of need or challenge is what we do best, and we are 
committed to protecting the world's natural resources and upholding high standards 
of ethics and human rights through responsible sourcing. 

We expect our suppliers to act consistently with our Values and manage our supply 
chain with a particular focus on performance, risk management and transparency. 
We require our suppliers to comply with all applicable laws, regulations and contract 
terms, and adhere to our Standards of Business Conduct for Suppliers and 
Other Trading Partners (or approved equivalent). Our standard terms and 
conditions include a provision that requires suppliers and other trading partners to 
comply with our standards of business conduct as a condition of doing business. 
These standards apply to our suppliers at all tiers, as well as those who work for 
them, and encompass a variety of topics including ethics and integrity, labor and 
employment practices, diversity and inclusion, human rights protection and 
environmental sustainability. If a violation of these standards occurs, we reserve the 
right to terminate our contract. 

We support our suppliers in many ways, including by providing training materials 
and resources through our online Supplier Portal. These resources support 
engagement and collaboration with our suppliers and facilitate long-term, mutually 
beneficial relationships. We regularly communicate and engage with our suppliers 
regarding social responsibility and regulatory compliance in areas including, but not 
limited to, affirmative action, anti-human trafficking, conflict minerals, counterfeit 
parts, cybersecurity, equal employment opportunity, harassment and discrimination 
and international trade. 

For more information about our work to prevent human trafficking and forced labor 
within the global supply chain, please see the Human Rights section. 

Supply Chain Sustainability 
We cannot act alone to address global environmental challenges like 
climate change. That's why we created the "Handprint" Mission within our 
Next-Generation Sustainability Goals. This mission area encompasses our 
commitment to enable sustainable practices within our supply chain and 
within the aerospace and defense industry by supporting our customer needs 
and supply chain objectives. 

In support of this mission area, we established a Global Supply Chain (GSC) 
sustainability working group in 2022. This group reports to the Supply Chain 
Leadership Council and is composed of a cross-sectional team from across 
the company — including members of the supply chain team at both the 
corporate and sector levels, investor relations, supplier diversity, mission 
assurance and the law department. Core members of the team meet 
regularly to develop and refine the GSC Sustainability Strategy, which is built 
on industry best practices and focuses on the ongoing integration and 
advancement of ESG considerations. 

The working group is also working on advancing internal and external goals 
and developing programs and processes to implement these goals. Northrop 
Grumman announced a public goal to update the company’s Standards of 
Business Conduct for Suppliers and Other Trading Partners to incorporate 
industry-leading sustainability practices by the end of 2023. Additionally, the 
working group is focused on remaining in close collaboration with the 
industry as a whole on supply chain sustainability. For example, in 2022 
members of the group participated in the International Aerospace 
Environmental Group’s Work Group 11, which is focused on ESG in the 
industry, including engagement across the supply chain. 

HANDPRINT 
GOAL 

Update the company’s “Standards of Business Conduct 
for Suppliers and Other Trading Partners” to incorporate 
industry-leading sustainability practices by 2023. 

19
 

2022 ESG Report

https://www.northropgrumman.com/suppliers/doing-business-with-northrop-grumman/northrop-grumman-standards-of-business-conduct-for-suppliers-and-other-trading-partners/
https://www.northropgrumman.com/suppliers/doing-business-with-northrop-grumman/northrop-grumman-standards-of-business-conduct-for-suppliers-and-other-trading-partners/
https://www.northropgrumman.com/suppliers/


INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX

Supplier Performance 
We evaluate supplier performance across several 
major categories including management, technical, 
schedule, cost, proposal, mission assurance, security, 
cybersecurity, supply chain management and 
customer satisfaction. We monitor and assess our 
current and potential suppliers across a variety of risk 
and resilience factors that measure their overall 
capability and capacity to meet current and expected 
supply chain demands. We place an additional focus 
on those suppliers who are most critical to our core 
business requirements, using critical supplier 
criteria including: 

• Criticality of program 

• Past performance 

• Dollar value and total spending 

• Open purchase order value and volume 

• Sole-source or single-source 

• Multiple programs 

• Affordability 

• Risk/financial health 

• Investments, business agreements and small 
business categories 

• Unique technology and strategic partnering 

Our supplier rating and evaluation processes help us 
identify superior supplier performance, drive future 
sourcing decisions and address potential supplier 
performance issues. Evaluations can occur at several 
points, including at the time of onboarding, annually 
through certification reviews, triennially with full scope 
reassessments or whenever a business experiences 
significant changes. These audits enable the 
management of supply chain risks and the 
development of corrective action plans as required. 

Supply Chain Risk Management 
Throughout 2022, the aerospace and defense 
industry has been challenged with managing various 
supply chain risks. These risks include rising inflation, 
geopolitical unrest, labor challenges, resource 
shortages, transportation and logistics challenges and 
volatility in the microelectronics market. Recognizing 
these challenges, Northrop Grumman’s Enterprise 
Risk Management Council utilizes a process to 
identify, assess and mitigate certain risks that have 
the potential to disrupt our supply chain. 

The Council assesses risks broadly across 20 
financial, operational or business characteristics, 
including regulatory compliance, supply chain 
sustainability, cybersecurity and market conditions. 
The team uses data-driven approaches and 
evaluates the likelihood, potential impact and velocity 
of risks. We regularly monitor levels to determine 
changes in our risk trends. Assessments that exceed 
predefined prioritization levels trigger the 
development and execution of enterprise-level 
mitigation strategies. The Council incorporates 
insights from a diverse set of stakeholders and data 
from many different sources, enabling collaboration 
across our enterprise to help ensure the identification 
and management of enterprise risks at the 
appropriate level. We apply risk management 
strategies at program levels, informed by guidance 
and data gathered across the enterprise. 

The residual effects of COVID-19 combined with 
rising inflation and other macroeconomic challenges 
impact our small suppliers in particular. As a result, 
Northrop Grumman continues to support these 
organizations. Since the onset of the pandemic, we 
have accelerated payments to over 330 small and 
vulnerable suppliers, positively impacting localities 
across approximately 40 states. On average, we have 
accelerated $34 million of payments each week, 
bringing our total to more than $4.5 billion in 
payments since the program began in 2020. For more 
information about our efforts, please see our 
Suppliers COVID-19 Resource Center webpage 
and our 2021 Sustainability Report. 

20
 

2022 ESG Report

https://www.northropgrumman.com/suppliers/resources/suppliers-covid-19-resource-center/
https://www.northropgrumman.com/wp-content/uploads/2021-NG-Sustainability-Report_Final.pdf


INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX

Transportation & Logistics 
Throughout our global supply chain, we pursue 
opportunities to improve efficiency and reduce our 
GHG emissions associated with transportation and 
logistics. Since 2008, Northrop Grumman has been a 
registered U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 
(EPA) SmartWay Transport Partner. Today, we use 
SmartWay Carrier Partners across our business to 
meet our freight transportation requirements. We 
continue to integrate sustainability requirements 
beyond SmartWay into our transportation contracts 
and all new requests for proposals. 

Climate considerations have also been added to our 
transportation management strategy. For Scope 3 
emissions, we continue to consolidate domestic 
shipments and switch from air to ocean freight 
carriers to further drive down carbon dioxide (CO2) 
emissions where feasible. Where air freight carriers 
must be utilized, we have prioritized partnerships with 
providers who use sustainable aviation fuel and 
consolidate traffic at the container level. We are also 

pursuing opportunities to reduce CO2 by modally 
diverting shipments from air to surface transportation 
through partnerships with logistics service providers 
(LSPs) who deploy zero emission vehicles (ZEVs) or 
utilize alternative fuels for the movement of our 
goods. Through our efforts, we have been able to 
reduce our Scope 3 GHG emissions while 
simultaneously increasing shipment efficiency and 
decreasing fuel usage. 

Our focus for 2023 and beyond is to strengthen our 
partnerships with LSPs who are actively embracing 
Net Zero goals, have ZEVs in their fleet or utilize 
alternative fuels such as sustainable aviation fuels for 
their aircrafts or biodiesel, green methanol or green 
ammonia fuels for their vessels. We remain 
committed to exploring additional opportunities to 
reduce emissions, such as by pursuing circular 
transportation and increasing electric vehicle 
availability within our own fleet, as well as improving 
our ability to measure emissions by gathering 
additional Tier 2 and 3 supplier data. 

212022 ESG Report



INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX

Supplier Diversity 
Having a diverse supply chain adds resiliency and 
value to our business and our customers. Through 
our Global Supplier Diversity Program (GSDP), we 
work to expand our relationships with small and 
diverse suppliers, including businesses owned by 
minorities, women, veterans, service-disabled 
veterans, people with disabilities, the LGBTQ+ 
community and businesses located in historically 
underutilized business zones, such as HUBZone 
small businesses. 

We manage supply chain diversity at both the 
enterprise level and within our sectors. Our sector 
supply chain teams make annual commitments for 
their sector and are responsible for increasing diverse 
business spend in commodities where possible. In 
addition, we leverage our current supplier 
relationships for training and subcontracting, 
examine sourcing decisions that impact diverse 
suppliers and utilize nonprofit organizations for 
training opportunities. 

We embrace different ways of engaging and 
encouraging small and minority business. We support 
small and diverse business growth and development 
through mentoring programs and academic 
sponsorship. Our supply chain teams engage in the 
Mentor-Protégé Program, which pairs prime 
contractor mentors with small business protégés to 
help protégés expand their business skills and better 
compete for contracts. 

The GSDP partners with Historically Black Colleges 
and Universities (HBCUs), Hispanic-serving 
institutions and tribal colleges and universities. We 
also work with our ERGs to help identify diverse 
supplier candidates. For more information, please see 
the GSDP webpage. 

Northrop Grumman remains focused on assisting our 
small business suppliers as they navigate today’s 
challenging economic environment. In addition to the 
COVID-19 Accelerated Payment process, we 
continue to provide favorable payment terms to 
vulnerable small business suppliers. We also 
continue to support the National Minority Supplier 
Development Council Business Consortium Fund’s 
mission to provide diverse businesses with access to 
low-cost loans to grow and sustain their businesses. 

Northrop Grumman spent nearly $11.0 billion 
domestically on subcontractors during government 
fiscal year 2022. Over $3.9 billion was awarded to 
small business suppliers, representing 36% of our 
total domestic spend. This marks the 18th 
consecutive year that Northrop Grumman has 
exceeded the U.S. government's 23% small business 
statutory goal. These expenditures represent 
important investments in the local economies where 
our subcontractors operate. 

National Veteran Small 
Business Coalition 
In 2022, Northrop Grumman Defense 
Systems received the Champion of Veterans 
Enterprise Award from the National Veteran 
Small Business Coalition. This award is 
presented to large business prime 
contractors and federal agencies that met or 
exceeded the 3% Service-Disabled Veteran 
Owned Small Business and/or the 8% 
Veteran Owned Small Business contract 
awards goals for veteran small businesses. 
Northrop Grumman Defense Systems has 
met or exceeded the Service-Disabled 
Veteran Owned Small Business goal for 
seven consecutive years. 

22
 

2022 ESG Report

https://www.northropgrumman.com/suppliers/global-supplier-diversity-program-gsdp/


INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX 

Supply Chain Security 
We know the importance of protecting company and 
customer property and information, including 
intellectual assets. We collaborate with government 
and industry partners to develop common strategies 
and standards that mitigate risks associated with 
cybersecurity, counterfeit material and global trade 
security. Our company-wide approach to supplier 
security identifies and assesses risks across the 
business with a consistent strategy. 

We implement effective policies and procedures to 
lessen the burden on small business suppliers. We 
provide our partners with resources and guidance 
that align with our security expectations consistent 
with applicable federal, state and local laws, 
regulations and internal policy. Additionally, our 
program’s digital transformation activities present 
opportunities to further refine and develop our 
approach to supply chain security, particularly with 
regards to lower-tier suppliers. 

Supply Chain 
Cybersecurity Model 
Our supply chain cybersecurity maturity model aligns 
with the National Institute of Standards and 
Technology Special Publication 800-161, Supply 
Chain Management Practices for Federal Information 
Systems and Organizations. This maturity model 
includes targeted improvements in the areas of risk 
definition, governance, impact levels, support 
process, supplier information security, supplier 
management and incident response. 

Northrop Grumman actively participates in the 
Aerospace Industries Association Supplier 
Management Council Cybersecurity working group 
and the Defense Industrial Base Sector Coordinating 
Council (DIB SCC) Supply Chain Cyber Task Force, 
which is aligned with the National Defense 
Information Sharing and Analysis Center. By 

participating in these groups, we share best practices 
and provide suppliers with additional resources to 
keep their operations secure. 

In 2022, we provided additional resources to assist 
our suppliers in implementing effective cybersecurity 
risk mitigation strategies. These resources include our 
Cybersecurity Reminders and Resources, as well as 
a Supplier Awareness Video, which provides 
recommendations and materials related to some of 
the biggest cybersecurity challenges our suppliers 
face, including spear phishing schemes, business 
email compromise and ransomware attacks. In 
addition, we partnered with the DIB SCC Supply 
Chain Cyber Task Force to release the Cybersecurity 
Maturity Model Certification (CMMC) Level 1 Training 
Modules on the Cyber Assist webpage. For 
additional information, please see our Cybersecurity 
Resources for Suppliers webpage. 

Material Authenticity and 
Counterfeit Parts 
We design our procedures and procurement 
strategies to help detect and prevent counterfeit 
material from entering our supply chain. Our suppliers 
are contractually required to maintain full compliance 
with our counterfeit parts prevention processes, as 
well as government regulations, as applicable. We 
provide material authenticity training to our supply 
chain, quality, engineering, program management and 
receiving organizations. This training offers guidance 
on prevention, detection and mitigation practices to 
keep counterfeit parts from entering our supply chain. 

Beyond training, our Counterfeit Material Detection 
and Avoidance program requires Northrop Grumman 
to source materials from suppliers confirmed to have 
appropriate counterfeit prevention processes. If an 
approved supplier is not available, we apply rigorous 
quality control measures to validate the authenticity of 
parts received. 

Global Trade Security 
As a company with global operations and a 
dedication to security, we are committed to complying 
with global trade security standards. Northrop 
Grumman participates in U.S. Customs and Border 
Protection’s (CBP) Customs Trade Partnership 
Against Terrorism (CTPAT) program and encourages 
our international partners to participate in their 
respective Authorized Economic Operator (AEO) or 
other supply chain security programs. Participation 
allows for common and approved processes that 
support a more secure supply chain ecosystem. 
CTPAT and AEO programs minimize disruptions, 
improve import predictability and reliability and foster 
a high level of trust with the U.S. government and a 
strong partnership with CBP. For more information, 
please see our Global Trade Security 
(CTPAT) webpage.

23
 

2022 ESG Report

https://ndisac.org/dibscc/cyberassist/
https://www.northropgrumman.com/suppliers/cybersecurity-resources-for-suppliers/
https://www.northropgrumman.com/suppliers/cybersecurity-resources-for-suppliers/
https://www.northropgrumman.com/suppliers/doing-business-with-northrop-grumman/
https://www.northropgrumman.com/suppliers/doing-business-with-northrop-grumman/


INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX 

Cybersecurity & Data Protection 
We recognize the critical importance of maintaining the security of our systems and data, both internally and throughout our supply chain. To achieve this high level of security, 
we must continually improve our approach to guard against threats as our business evolves. We are vigilant in protecting our networks, systems and intellectual property, as 
well as company, customer, partner and employee data wherever it resides. 

Cybersecurity 
We provide Northrop Grumman employees with a range of tools to help keep our information secure, including 
training, information-sharing and assessments. To help ensure effective oversight, the BoD Audit and Risk 
Committee receives reports on information security and cybersecurity from the Vice President and Chief Information 
Security Officer regularly. 

Our approach to information security includes several key elements: 

• Information Sharing and Collaboration: We work 
with government, customer, industry and/ or 
supplier partners to gather and develop best 
practices, address cyber threats and enhance the 
overall security of these partnerships. Northrop 
Grumman has a leading role in collaborating 
with the greater defense industrial base community. 
We actively participate in the National Defense 
Information Sharing and Analysis Center as well as 
other government-industry partnerships that 
promote awareness and share cyber threat 
information, best practices and product 
enhancements for improved cybersecurity. 

• Technology Investment: We work to protect our 
computing environments and products from cyber 
threats through multi-layered defenses. We invest 
in cloud storage and computing power, and we 
leverage data analytics to detect anomalies and 
hunt for known threats, which provides greater 
return for us to reinvest in our cybersecurity. 

• Insider Threats: To help safeguard against the 
potential theft and misuse of intellectual property 
and other sensitive information, we maintain an 
insider threat program designed to identify, assess 
and, as necessary, address potential risks. Our 
program evaluates potential risks consistent with 

industry leading practices, customer requirements 
and privacy considerations. 

• Third-Party Risk Assessments: Before sharing or 
allowing the hosting of sensitive data in a 
computing environment managed by a third party, 
we conduct an information security assessment 
and implement contractual provisions that mandate 
security protections. 

• Training and Awareness: We train our employees 
to identify, avoid and mitigate cyber threats as they 
are our first line of defense in information security. 
New employees receive cybersecurity training that 
covers company expectations and first-line of 
defense methods. All employees participate 
annually in a mandatory training that includes 
spear phishing exercises. 

• Supplier Engagement: We collaborate with our 
suppliers to help them build in resiliency throughout 
our supply chain. Northrop Grumman provides 
training opportunities and informative cyber 
updates to tens of thousands of our suppliers to 
help their systems meet our security standards. 
This program is designed to protect our information 
while also giving small suppliers an opportunity to 
build more mature systems using best practices 
they may not have access to otherwise. 

Data Privacy 
We implement leading data protection standards 
through a comprehensive approach that complies 
with global, federal, state and local laws, where 
applicable. Our Corporate Privacy Office manages 
our global commitment to respect the personal 
information of our employees, customers and 
other stakeholders. Our website notifies users of the 
cookies we track, which meets global best practices 
and provides awareness to all website visitors, 
regardless of location or nationality. This practice 
also provides a more personalized and faster user 
experience to website visitors. Our privacy 
professionals monitor emerging global privacy 
standards to help ensure our practices remain 
aligned with evolving requirements. We regularly 
seek to enhance our privacy governance framework 
through training and awareness initiatives for 
employees, audits, self-assessments, access 
controls, international and third-party supplier risk 
assessments, effective privacy notices, compliant 
cross-border transfers of data and other risk 
mitigation measures.

24
 

2022 ESG Report



INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX 

PIONEERING 
PEOPLE 
SOCIAL 
EQUITY AT THE HEART OF EMPOWERMENT 
Possibility becomes reality because of people. The individuals who have chosen 
Northrop Grumman as the place to develop themselves and their careers are the harbingers 
of success and innovation. We see firsthand that when people can be themselves, they can 
be their best. With our immense scale and scope, we support our people to shape their 
career journeys, feed their curiosity and fuel their passion in our culture of belonging that 
embraces diverse experiences and perspectives. We take that mindset beyond our walls, to 
invest in the growth and success of the communities of which we are a part. Inclusivity 
powers success at Northrop Grumman. Because we know that the most innovative ideas are 
only possible when people can thrive.

25
 

2022 ESG Report



INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX 

Our Diverse Workforce 

TOTAL POPULATION5 

25% 
Women 

18%
 Veterans 

8% 
People With 
Disabilities 

62.7% 
White 

14.4% 
Hispanic/Latino 

11.1% 
Asian 

7.4% 
Black/African American 

3.6% 
Two or More Races 

0.4% 
American Indian/
Native American or 
Alaska Native 

 

0.4% 
Native Hawaiian/
Other Pacific Islander 

 

LEADERSHIP — TOTAL MANAGEMENT POPULATION5 

27%
Women 

29%
People of 
Color 

LEADERSHIP — VICE PRESIDENT & ABOVE POPULATION5 

34%
Women 

19%
People of 
Color 

2022 HIRES5,6 

16,000 
External 

Hires 

3,900 
Women 

7,100 
People 
of Color 

3,300 
Veterans 

1,300 
People with 
Disabilities 

5 All demographic data reflects U.S. population only. 
6 New hires may fall into one or more diversity categories.

262022 ESG Report

37%
People 
of Color



INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX 

Introducing Kenny Robinson, 
New VP of Global Corporate 
Responsibility and Chief 
Diversity Officer 
Kenneth “Kenny” Robinson was named the 
Chief Diversity Officer and Vice President of 
Global Corporate Responsibility for Northrop 
Grumman, effective May 31, 2022 after 15 years 
of leadership within the company, and following 
a distinguished career in the U.S. Air Force. He 
takes the reins from Sandra Evers-Manly whose 
career at Northrop Grumman spanned over 40 
years and culminated with her selection as the 
inaugural recipient of the Out & Equal Arne 
Sorenson Vanguard Award for her leadership in 
advancing equality for LGBTQ+ people in 
workplaces globally. 

In this role, Kenny drives the advancement of 
the company’s DE&I strategy, corporate 
citizenship initiatives, equal employment 
opportunities, workplace accommodations and 
ethics programs. He also serves as the 
president of the Northrop Grumman Foundation. 
In 2023, Kenny and his team will focus on 
elevating our culture of allyship, diversity and 
belonging by continuing to develop vital tools 
and resources for employees and leaders. 

Diversity, Equity & 
Inclusion 
At Northrop Grumman, we believe that an innovative 
idea can come from anywhere or anyone. When 
bringing a diverse community together, anything is 
possible. We work every day to support that 
community by providing a strong, inclusive culture 
that emphasizes equity across our entire business. 
We are advancing social justice and unity within our 
workforce and through our partnerships while 
remaining focused on providing growth and 
development opportunities to all of our employees. 
Our culture of DE&I enables us to recognize diversity 
in many forms and fosters an environment where all 
of our employees belong. 

DE&I is a part of our history and our legacy as a 
company. Since 2009, we have enacted formal 
diversity plans to ensure long-term support as a 
critical business function. We use our diversity plans 
to set priorities for the business, demonstrate 
accountability and incorporate the company’s non-
financial performance metrics for diversity. In 2022, 
we completed year three of our current five-year 
diversity plan, showing continued alignment of our 
representation to our available talent pool. The rate of 
women in all leadership roles was consistent at 27% 
from 2021 to 2022. The rate of people of color in 
leadership roles continued to increase, from 28% in 
2021 to 29% in 2022. 

We use technology to support our diversity efforts. 
Workday, our Human Resources Information System, 
facilitates our diversity efforts by flagging positions to 
recruiters that are currently underrepresented by 
minority populations. The system helps our hiring 

teams better understand the needs of our workforce 
and where we can reach available diverse talent 
pools to find the most qualified candidates. 

The Enterprise DE&I Leadership Council (EDEILC) 
sets our DE&I strategy and serves as the governing 
body of our related activities, including developing our 
company-wide strategic direction, policies and 
initiatives. EDEILC also partners with the Global DE&I 
Leadership Committee staffed by company leaders 
from around the world, along with a DE&I Working 
Group based in the United Kingdom (U.K.). 

Each Northrop Grumman sector has a dedicated 
DE&I team and a sector-focused Diversity Council 
comprised of Executive Leadership, Human 
Resources Vice Presidents and working groups. Each 
Diversity Council works in coordination with the 
EDEILC, serving as a link between our DE&I 
organization and our employees and manages priority 
topics from a corporate and sector level. The 
Compensation Committee of the BoD reviews the 
company’s progress in workforce diversity on at least 
a semi-annual basis. 

Non-Financial Performance Metrics 
Diversity: Representation of females and 
people of color in all management level 
positions with respect to internal and 
external benchmarks

27
 

2022 ESG Report



INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX 

How We Embed DE&I Into Our Culture 
We develop successful programs and initiatives to drive awareness and educate our employees on DE&I matters of opportunity and interest. These initiatives include: 

Inclusion Promotion: Our DE&I 
organization continued the Small Acts of 
Inclusion program, which promotes simple 
actions that any employee or team can take 
to enhance inclusion for all employees. 

 

DE&I Councils: At the enterprise level and 
within each sector, DE&I Councils and their 
working teams lead our strategy from the top 
and foster a culture of understanding and 
commitment to DE&I around the world. As an 
example, in 2022, the councils developed a 
company-wide focus group initiative to better 
understand the employee experience and 
potential needs of our self-reported multi-
racial population. 

 

DE&I Events: In 2022, we offered more than 
125 individual events to support the nine 
heritage months recognized by Northrop 
Grumman, as well as over 200 group 
trainings, engagements and briefings to 
support our inclusion initiatives. 

Employee Resource Groups (ERGs): 
Across the company, these groups foster a 
sense of belonging, familial support and 
community and provide opportunities to take 
action to build a diverse, inclusive workplace 
aligned with Northrop Grumman Values and 
goals. ERGs also promote educational 
awareness and provide development 
opportunities for all members. 

 

Sustained Support of Social Justice and 
Unity: Through CEO meetings with all levels 
of leadership and employees, we stand with 
and demonstrate support for all communities, 
including our Black, Asian, Veteran and 
LGBTQ+ employees and employees with 
disabilities. For example, we offered listening 
sessions to provide employees with a safe 
space to speak and promoted awareness of 
available relevant resources. 

Training and Education: In 2021, 99% of 
current employees completed required DE&I 
training, and we maintained a 99% 
completion rate for all new hires in 2022. This 
content included materials on understanding 
and remediating unconscious bias. We also 
continued to offer optional monthly micro-
learning sent to every employee via email. 

Growth Partnerships: We continuously 
partner with best-practice programs that 
connect leaders and employees with 
solutions and next steps to face today’s 
diversity needs and challenges. Our 
initiatives include both internal and external 
partnerships. During 2022, company 
partnership performance was assessed by 
more than 18 external organizations, after 
which the volume and value of 
accomplishments were recognized with 
annual awards (see Appendix for a list of 
awards). Externally, we participated in events 
such as the White House Office of Science 
and Technology Policy’s STEM Initiative and 
Workforce Pledge Activities, both of which 
focus on developing a diverse talent pipeline. 

Achievement Conferences: We leverage 
achievement conferences to demonstrate our 
dedication to diverse talent, recruit 
prospective employees to build our diverse 
talent pipeline and expand leadership reach. 
We also offer our employees guidance in the 
award nomination process to recognize their 
incredible contributions and performance 
through individual achievement awards.

28
 

2022 ESG Report



INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX 

Learning About Each Other 
Our DE&I organization partners with our 
Communications and Human Resources teams to 
manage a robust education curriculum and provide 
information and awareness on diversity matters to 
employees across the company. 

We began requiring DE&I training for current and 
newly hired Northrop Grumman employees in 2021. 
Since instituting that requirement, we have achieved 
a more than 99% training completion rate. In 2022, 
the EDEILC introduced training curriculum with the 
intention of meeting employees where they are in 
their DE&I journey and providing a solid foundation 
for future progress. We also encourage managers to 
have ongoing conversations about topics included in 
the training, such as unconscious bias, micro-
inequities and how DE&I relates to our Values. 

In 2022, we also expanded the outreach of our Global 
DE&I Toolkit, which consists of targeted micro-
learning topics, quick-read resources and year-round 
educational opportunities. We continue to build 
awareness of the toolkit by sending monthly e-mail 
updates to our employees and highlighting offerings 
in biweekly employee and leader newsletters. We 
saw higher rates of engagement with the toolkits that 
offered guidance for annual reviews and provided 
resources that highlighted methods for engaging with 
managers throughout the review process. 

29
 

2022 ESG Report

Employee Resource Groups 
Our ERGs play a key role in fostering belonging, inclusion, engagement and allyship, and they promote talent 
attraction and retention at Northrop Grumman. More than 28,000 employee ERG members volunteer their 
time to learn, develop and have meaningful conversations with their colleagues. In 2022, our DE&I 
organization sought to expand ERG membership and resources in chapters both inside and outside of the 
U.S. This work included numerous in-person and virtual experiences, such as leadership development events, 
retention and engagement activities, community outreach and competitive sporting events with industry 
companies. We introduced new chapters of our 14 ERGs at nine sites, which helped Northrop Grumman rank 
#3 on DiversityInc’s Top Companies for ERGs. 

Throughout the year, our DE&I organization partnered with our ERGs and hosted 10 ERG summits, which 
were open to all employees regardless of membership in a specific ERG. The ERG summits provide our 
people with additional opportunities to connect and learn from guest speakers and colleagues about a variety 
of DE&I and ERG-specific topics. In total, our ERG summits brought together more than 1,500 attendees in-
person and virtually in 2022. Many of the summits had record-level participation this year, including the Asian 
Pacific Professional Network (APPN) summit, which was attended by more than 100 employees. 

The APPN also hosted the Executive Leadership Team (ELT) at the Society of Asian Scientists and Engineers 
event in Atlanta. Each year, the ELT attends one achievement conference as a group and they spent time at 
this year's event getting to know the Northrop Grumman award winners, recognizing members of the 
company’s APPN ERG and networking with conference attendees. 

Northrop Grumman Women's International Network (NGWIN) presented their inaugural lifetime achievement 
award to Mary Petryszyn, who served as the Defense Systems Sector president through October 2022 and 
worked tirelessly on behalf of women across the company and supported NGWIN. 

In 2022, our Adelante ERG launched a working group for Latina women and their allies. Known as the 
Mujeres Initiative, the group has piloted a LatinX and Hispanic Employee Advocacy Program, known as 
Mujeres Circles, that builds on the traditional mentoring program with a focus on earned advocacy. The group 
is led by senior leaders and allies within the company who offer guidance in how mentees can rise to 
positions of leadership within Northrop Grumman. 

For more information on our ERGs, please see our website.

https://www.northropgrumman.com/sustainability/employee-resource-groups-at-northrop-grumman/


INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX 

Equal Opportunity & Access 
Our inclusive culture relies on our commitment to equity and access. At Northrop Grumman, we reinforce 
equity through our Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) compliance activities as a federal contractor, as 
well as through U.S. and global government reporting related to gender, race and ethnicity, and disability 
and veteran status. Our Equality and Equity Compliance team oversees equal opportunity efforts across 
our employment hiring and selection processes. The team also develops affirmative action plans in the 
U.S. to help ensure our programs comply with EEO laws and regulations. Our affirmative action plans also 
enable us to leverage the diversity of the available talent pool when recruiting candidates for employment 
at Northrop Grumman. 

We are committed to equitable pay for all employees, including for women and people of color. In support 
of this goal, we benchmark our pay through external salary surveys, use a performance-based incentive 
system and make further adjustments to promote internal equity. As of 2022, we include salary ranges for 
all job descriptions and support U.S. requisitions to improve pay transparency. 

As part of our efforts to enhance inclusion for potential and current employees, we provide workplace 
accommodations to employees, applicants and visitors. The Workplace Accommodations team manages a 
centralized budget, which covers qualifying accommodation requests that reflect a diverse range of needs, 
including, but not limited to, deployment of job equipment, provision of specialized services, modifications 
of job duties and schedules, modifications to the environment, requests unique to the COVID-19 pandemic 
and more. 

Following the integration of the legacy accommodation request process into the Employee Services portal, 
employees now have increased visibility and access to the Workplace Accommodations process. Direct 
access to the process enables employees to request accommodations side-by-side with Human Resources 
and IT services, making the overall process easier and enhancing the employee experience. The improved 
user experience has also led to an increase of accommodation requests made by employees through the 
Employee Services portal. In 2022, we received approximately 1,700 accommodation requests through 
our system.

30
 

2022 ESG Report



INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX 

Unlocking Potential: 
Northrop Grumman Launches 
Neurodiverse Internship 
Program 
Intern Hax’s path to Northrop Grumman is a bit of 
a funny story. 

“Other people from my school sent out over a 
hundred internship applications, got an interview 
with five companies and an offer from three,” said 
Hax. “I sent out one application, I got one interview 
and I got one offer.” 

For Hax, this is funny because, as of May 2022, he 
hadn’t yet submitted any internship applications — 
but when a friend shared an internship pilot program 
at Northrop Grumman’s Baltimore, Maryland, site 
targeted to neurodiverse candidates, his interest 
was piqued. 

A rising third-year student at the University of 
Maryland studying computer science, Hax identifies 
as neurodiverse. For Hax, who has both ADHD 
(attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder) and autism, 
tasks which require a high level of planning, multi-
tasking and focused attention can be challenging, 
including the internship application process. 

“Those abstract tasks just don’t resonate with me in 
the same way they do for a ‘neurotypical’ person; it 
feels almost like there isn’t really an end goal there,” 
said Hax. 

Hax also communicates in a frank, highly technical 
manner, as is characteristic of many neurodiverse 
people, who are often technically inclined and detail 
oriented. “We say everything in as few words as 
possible to convey as much meaning as we can,” he 
said. Hax explained that this can make the traditional, 
multi-round interview process feel like jumping 
through hoops. 

Northrop Grumman software engineer and former 
intern Tyler — who has several neurodiverse family 
members, including a twin sister with Asperger’s — 
agreed that job search processes often aren’t 
conducive to success for neurodiverse candidates. 
She served as a mentor in the pilot. “I know that 
people who are neurodiverse are more than capable 
of getting the job done,” said Tyler. “In general, people 
work differently, and we need to be understanding of 
how anybody, neurodiverse or not, works best.” 

Northrop Grumman Talent Acquisition Manager Luke 
Mann also recognized this, and it frustrated him — in 
addition to not being as inclusive as we could be, it 
meant Northrop Grumman was potentially missing out 
on talent. “I’ve wanted to stand up a neurodiversity 
hiring program for years,” said Luke. 

With the program’s executive sponsor, Human 
Resources Vice President Beth Pitts-Madonna, and 
NGCare Manager Debbie Edwards Veihdeffer, he 
spent a year researching what environment 

they would need to create for neurodiverse 
candidates to be successful, partnering with the 
Howard County Autism Society and the Maryland 
Department of Disabilities, as well as meeting with 
other companies that have successful 
neurodiversity programs. 

The pilot program was designed to provide 
neurodiverse candidates with opportunities to 
make a real-world impact. Interns were matched 
with employee mentors to provide support, and the 
program’s application process was designed to 
have a straightforward approach to better set 
neurodiverse candidates up for success. 

Matt Cunningham, a Northrop Grumman intern 
manager who participated in the pilot, said he 
learned a lot from the program, and not just about 
managing neurodiverse employees. This 
experience was a reminder that all employees — 
regardless of their neurodiversity — thrive when 
they’re working in an environment where they feel 
empowered to contribute their best work. 

“This program is about focusing on providing the 
coaching people need in order to maximize their 
potential; it’s an opportunity for us to learn about 
growth, development and coaching of employees 
across the board,” said Matt. “Neurodiversity is a 
good microcosm to study, but the lessons should 
be applied everywhere.” 

As the company’s Baltimore team looks to the 
program’s future, they’re excited for its growth, 
both at their campus and beyond. 

“A program like this is really important, because a 
lot of the greatest engineers and minds throughout 
history have been people who are neurodivergent 
in some form,” said Hax, who is continuing to intern 
with Northrop Grumman through the fall. “There 
are a large number of very talented STEM majors 
who are neurodiverse, but, often, we’ll get left 
behind by the hiring process.”

31
 

2022 ESG Report



INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX 

Employee & Family Well-Being 
A successful career starts with the foundational well-
being that encompasses many aspects of an 
employee's life. When our employees and their 
families have the tools to care for their well-being, we 
all thrive. Our well-being strategy focuses on 
increasing awareness, organizing introductions for 
employee participation, equipping leadership with the 
right tools and using data analytics to promote, 
execute and evaluate the program's ability to meet 
employee needs. To help employees and their 
families determine which paths are best for their 
needs, we designed the My Well-Being program. 

The program emphasizes four dimensions of well-
being — emotional, physical, financial and social — 
that play an important role in overall employee health. 

Our NGCare Program promotes work-life balance, 
reduces stress and provides peace of mind to our 
employees and their families. We support working 
parents and caretakers with subsidized back-up 
childcare and eldercare, plus virtual tutoring and 
camps. Other programs include discounts to childcare 
centers, college advising and support for parents of 
children with special needs. In 2022, over 14,000 
employees participated in these programs. 

Northrop Grumman has flexible work guidelines in 
place and is committed to educating both managers 
and employees on how to successfully use these 
options. A toolkit and training are available to help 
guide managers and employees as they consider 
whether a flexible work arrangement is right for them 
and for their job responsibilities. Flexible work 
arrangements can take many forms, including 
compressed work-weeks, flexible schedules and 
locations, including hybrid work arrangements and 
part-time options, where possible dependent on 
job duties. 

In 2022, we introduced the Well-Being Champions 
program. Champions are employees who act as an 
extension of the well-being team to connect with and 
support their colleagues. More than 60 employees 
currently serve as champions across the company. 
Throughout the year, we have also focused on raising 
awareness of our employee-facing Total Rewards 
Gateway, which offers program services and 
resources to all employees and their families. 

Other 2022 initiatives included: 

• Implementing the Manager’s Well-being Toolkit: 
Designed to provide quick and easy access to 
monthly information for managers, the toolkit 
highlights programs and resources that managers 
can share during team and one-on-one meetings. 

• Increasing engagement with My Well-being 
newsletter: Our monthly newsletter is read by 83% 
of Northrop Grumman employees. The content 
focuses on increasing education and awareness of 
the My Well-being Program and sharing resources 
from all four pillars of well-being — physical, 
financial, social and emotional. 

• Ongoing assessment: We continue to evaluate 
the well-being needs of our people and develop 
personalized solutions based on identified gaps 
and feedback. For example, in 2022, we expanded 
leave benefits in response to concerns raised in the 
Total Rewards surveys. 

• Caregiver support: Caregiver support is often 
sought by Northrop Grumman employees, and 
specific events were sponsored by our 
NGCare community in collaboration with our 
NGFamily ERG throughout 2022. These events 
offered employees the chance to access support 
provided by the company, share concerns with 
colleagues and ask questions.

32
 

2022 ESG Report

https://totalrewards.northropgrumman.com/page/28/mywell-being


INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX 

Emotional Well-Being 

• Connected more than 28% of employees with 
services through the NGCare Employee 
Assistance Program (EAP) including counseling, 
work-life support, financial and legal consultation, 
webinars and workplace support following a crisis. 

• Hosted over 121 NGCare webinars that were 
attended by more than 12,000 employees. 
Sessions covered a variety of tailored topics and 
some were in partnership with our ERGs. 

• Provided in-house clinical support for mandatory 
and formal EAP referrals and supported almost 40 
events including sessions covering grief and loss, 
critical incidents and transgender inclusion. 

• Hosted over 120 mindfulness programming 
sessions, which approximately 4,900 employees 
attended, in addition to hosting trainings on the 
benefits of mindfulness. 

• Presented webinars and information sessions 
about emotional well-being benefits and coping 
with traumatic events, including suicide, domestic 
violence and understanding addiction. 

• Certified 96 leaders from across functions 
and locations in Mental Health First Aid at Work, 
which teaches participants how to notice and 
support individuals who may be experiencing a 
mental health concern or crisis at work. 
Participants included Human Resources staff and 
well-being champions. 

• Offered team and non-step challenges, such as the 
Power Down Challenge, through ENGAGE to 
encourage unplugging from technical devices 
at night. 

Physical Well-Being 

• Launched the SWORD Healthy Back and Joint 
Program, a virtual physical therapy program that 
matches employees with a physical therapist who 
will design a personalized treatment program to 
manage acute or chronic pain due to 
musculoskeletal pain. 

• Hosted more than 12,000 attendees at the 2022 
Well-Being EXPO, which was held virtually and 
hosted onsite at six locations. 

• Over 30,000 people received a $500 well-being 
incentive by completing their annual physical and 
setting health goals through ENGAGE, a 
personalized, digital well-being assistant. 

• Hosted over 100 onsite flu clinics. 
• Offered telemedicine care, which approximately 

5,600 people used for non-emergency services 
like cold, flu and other acute care — saving over 
$1 million in out-of-pocket costs. 

• Implemented a 2022 team-based step challenge 
through Engage, which 588 Mission Possible 
Teams completed, walking over 560 million steps. 

Social Well-Being 

• Aligned our volunteerism and outreach initiatives 
with the strategic pillars of the Corporate 
Citizenship program: STEM education, Military and 
Veterans, Health and Human Services and 
the Environment. 

• Expanded our paid parental leave from two weeks 
to four weeks, offering our new parents more time 
to connect with their growing families. We 
implemented this change as a result of feedback 
from our second Total Rewards Survey, which had 
a 48% participation rate among all employees, and 
in collaboration with our NGWIN ERG. We also 
offer lactation accommodations for our employees 
that are nursing, including reasonable break time 
and access to lactation rooms. 

Financial Well-Being 

• Presented 39 financial preparedness workshops. 
• Offered 39 Ask Fidelity Retirement Sessions. 
• Implemented Financial Wellness Check-Ups, which 

more than 4,200 employees completed. 
• Offered one-on-one consultations with Fidelity 

representatives, and approximately 5,800 
employees attended a session.

33
 

2022 ESG Report



INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX 

Mental Health Training for Leadership 
Balancing emotional well-being and the demands of the business can be challenging for an individual. At Northrop 
Grumman, we are changing perceptions among the leadership team about the role they play in the mental health 
of their employees. 

When approached holistically, leaders at all levels of the organization recognize their importance in creating an 
environment where it is acceptable to discuss mental health concerns, including stress. Our leadership’s ability to 
set this tone is critical in building a workplace where all employees can thrive. We recognize that while leaders are 
not counselors, their role often requires a basic understanding of how mental health works and how a person’s job 
can affect their well-being. To prepare our leaders for the well-being aspect of their work, we held Mental Health 
Awareness trainings for leaders across the organization in 2022. More than 3,400 leaders attended trainings this 
year during 13 sessions. 

The trainings focused on the importance of creating a climate of open communication. The trainings also provided 
guidance on: 

• Building strong relationships through open 
communication and active listening. 

• Understanding how job stressors affect mental 
health and can be addressed by proactively 
communicating NGCare benefits. 

• Maintaining regular dialogue about the 
importance of well-being and one-on-one check-
ins with direct reports. 

• Spotting the warning signs of possible mental 
health concerns in a colleague, including suicide. 

• Reaching out and offering initial help, including 
what to say to someone who may be in distress 
and how to say it. 

• Guiding employees to professional help and the 
emotional well-being resources the company 
offers, including short-term counseling available 
through NGCare and our confidential, dedicated 
telephone number that connects employees 
directly with a licensed counselor. 

We continue to look for opportunities to support, 
counsel and collaborate with leaders and partners 
across our global operations so they can provide 
support and offer solutions to teams around 
the world.

34
 

2022 ESG Report



INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX 

Employee 
Health & 
Safety 
Success at our company begins and ends with the health 
of our employees, customers, visitors and contractors. 
We work diligently to protect their health and safety, and 
we evolve our safety program to address emerging 
challenges. By prioritizing the safety of our people, we 
enable them to continue defining possible. 

Health & Safety 
We work every day to create a safe workplace for our 
employees. We focus our efforts on training, risk and 
hazard identification, abatement and prevention. 
Everyone at Northrop Grumman has a responsibility to 
safely perform tasks and identify workplace hazards. We 
empower employees to report concerns or hazards 
without fear of retaliation directly to their supervisors or 
through our confidential reporting system, OpenLine. 
Employees have the right to stop any job they deem 
hazardous to human health and safety or the 
environment. We provide occupational health and safety 
training, tailored to employees’ job duties, through in-
person and online training modules. Trainings help 
employees recognize common workplace hazards and 
establish methods for reporting and remediating safety 
issues. Supervisors help to ensure their employees have 
completed assigned trainings. 

Safety is managed at all levels throughout the company. Our Safety Committee is a diverse representation of 
our business that meets monthly to develop and manage safety initiatives. The Safety Committee advises the 
EH&S Leadership Committee as well as corporate and sector management on health and safety, including 
procedures and best practices across the company as a whole and in individual sectors. As part of an effort to 
proactively prevent employee injuries, the committee continued to implement a near miss/good catch program 
across our sectors and worked to refine the system throughout 2022. Launched in 2021, the program 
encourages employees to report events to EH&S and management for evaluation and correction. The goal of 
the program is not only to reduce overall injuries, but also encourage our employees to be more diligent and 
to proactively report safety concerns. 

Northrop Grumman EH&S specialists work to verify compliance with legal requirements and review the 
effectiveness of our hazard risk assessment program through periodic self-inspections and audits. EH&S 
investigates the root cause of findings, identifies potential preventive actions and makes recommendations to 
prevent future safety incidents. We review data on all safety incidents and related events to identify and 
address injury trends by type and location. We take action to mitigate safety concerns where necessary, 
working with internal and external industrial hygienists and other EH&S partners to investigate and eliminate 
workplace hazards and potential exposures. 

For tasks that carry a significant element of risk, we often conduct Job Hazard Analysis (JHA) reviews. 
Employees work with our EH&S specialists to review JHAs prior to undertaking tasks and receive answers to 
questions regarding personal protective equipment and steps needed to minimize hazards. Employees use 
JHA reviews in addition to prior training and hazard identification resources to help them make decisions. 

When removal of risks through engineering and process design changes is not possible, we seek to identify 
the hazard and enact other measures to protect employee health and safety. At select locations, on-site 
medical personnel are available to treat injuries and illnesses if and when they occur.

35
 

2022 ESG Report



INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX

Continuing to Learn from COVID-19
The COVID-19 pandemic has provided an opportunity for us to enhance our public 
health program and support our workforce both at work and at home. Our goals have 
been, and continue to be, to reduce the potential adverse health and economic 
impacts of the pandemic, to perform for our stakeholders and to position the company 
for long-term success.

Since the onset of the pandemic in late 2019, we have taken robust actions to protect 
the health, safety and well-being of our employees, customers, visitors and 
contractors. In 2022, we made further improvements to our reporting and tracking 
methodologies. COVID-19 positive tests with potential impact to our sites are reported 
through our Human Resources Service Center. Handling these cases through one 
centralized team helps us prioritize positive cases with potential site impact, ensures 
consistency in how cases are handled across sites and sectors and further 
streamlines our metrics.

Health & Safety Performance Summary
We evaluate the effectiveness of our internal health and safety programs by 
conducting trend analyses of our past performance and externally through 
benchmarking with industry peers and the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics.

In 2022, we made improvements to our reporting and tracking methodologies. 
Reflecting the rise of the more infectious COVID-19 Omicron variant and the U.S. 
Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) recommendation that 
COVID-19 cases be tracked as recordable cases and days away, we saw an increase 
in our total case rates this year. For reference, we also provide our health and safety 
performance excluding COVID-19 cases to provide insight into our health and safety 
performance more broadly. 

TOTAL CASE RATE & DAYS AWAY CASE RATE

Total Case Rate Days Away Case Rate
Total Case Rate Days Away Case Rate

0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
1.2
1.4
1.6

2019 2020 2021 2022

* *

LOST WORK DAY RATE

Lost Work Day Rate
Lost Work Day Rate

0.00

4.00

8.00

12.00

16.00

20.00

24.00

2019 2020 2021 2022

*

* Health and Safety metrics excluding COVID-19 cases.

362022 ESG Report

0.90

0.96
1.08

1.52

0.79

0.79 0.85

0.39
0.56

0.87

0.23 0.23 0.29 0.31

7.46

10.70

18.61 17.56

9.11

14.72
13.17



INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX 

Talent Strategy 
As demand for top talent increases and the employment landscape changes, we 
are working to ensure that we have the right talent at the right place and at the right 
time. We are broadening our talent pool with diverse candidates and skills-based 
hiring and redesigning work models to create a superior and tailored career 
experience for each Northrop Grumman employee. We align our employee 
development, engagement and retention efforts with pivotal career milestones and 
strive to address the specific needs of Northrop Grumman employees throughout 
every step of their journey. 

At Northrop Grumman, our diverse workforce thrives in an inclusive, engaging 
environment where we come together as a team to deliver solutions for our 
customers. We work on a meaningful mission to connect and protect the world. With 
our immense scale and scope, our people have boundless opportunities to shape 
their career journeys in a culture of belonging that embraces their diverse 
experiences and perspectives. Our employees have the support and work-life 
flexibility to be themselves and thrive in life. 

Broadening Our Talent Pools 
We differentiate ourselves from other companies through our people, our culture of 
belonging and our pioneering technology. In 2022, we updated our employee value 
proposition to reflect this voice internally and externally. We continue to reinforce 
this culture within employee programs and actions, including our Career 
Development Hub and branding and marketing to attract and retain talent. 

We have invested in tools, resources and training to: 

• Incorporate a skills-driven talent strategy. 
• Shape our recruitment marketing efforts to attract diverse talent pools. 
• Identify and counteract unconscious bias when sourcing, interviewing and hiring. 
• Expand our network to reach a wider range of candidates by promoting our jobs 

on diverse job boards. 
• Ensure a consistent interview structure that reflects our Values and 

Leadership Behaviors. 
• Reimagine our internal partnerships with ERGs. 

We focus on remaining responsive to the evolving hiring environment to ensure a 
positive experience for Northrop Grumman employees and candidates. As we 
compete for top talent, we understand the importance of skills-based hiring and 
continue to explore the best ways to measure and evaluate skills in the hiring 
process. This helps ensure that we include all potential candidates in our hiring pool 
and ultimately hire the best qualified individuals for the job, regardless of 
their background. 

Highlights from our 2022 talent 
acquisition activities include: 
• We attended, sponsored and hired diverse talent at ten achievement 

conferences, including Black Engineer of the Year, National Society of Black 
Engineers, Disability:IN, Grace Hopper Celebration, Great Minds in STEM, 
Society of Asian Scientists, Society of Hispanic Engineers, Society of 
Women Engineers, Out and Equal Workplace, and Out in Science, 
Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics. Through these conferences we 
extended over 1,300 written offers. 

• The enterprise Contingent Workforce Solution (CWS) program in 
partnership with a third-party managed service provider and vendor 
management system governs our contingent workforce engaged through 
staffing suppliers. Currently, we have approximately 1,800 active contingent 
workers, with a 37% conversion-to-employee rate at end of assignment. In 
2022, the program resulted in a savings of $8.8 million. Additional CWS 
program benefits include contingent worker population visibility and 
compliance, co-employment risk mitigation, supplier management and 
performance metrics. 

• Through our work with the Business Roundtable Workforce Partnership 
Initiative and OneTen, we work with peer companies to identify new ways to 
recruit skilled candidates without requiring them to have specific degrees 
or credentials. 

• To support critical skill hiring needs in key business locations, we executed 
a recruiting campaign targeted to rehires. We utilized a customized 
approach to attract these candidates to return to NG, including personalized 
communications, tailored content and a high-touch candidate experience. 
As a result, rehires accounted for approximately 5% of total hires in 2022.

37
 

2022 ESG Report



INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX 

Diverse STEM Talent Pipeline 
In October 2022, our annual HBCU Invitational 
shifted from virtual to in-person in Washington, DC 
for the first time since 2019. This flagship event 
brought in over 130 students from 23 schools for a 
two-day event that included personal networking 
with executives, technical presentations on various 
Northrop Grumman products and capabilities, 
professional skills workshops and a tour of the 
National Museum of African American History and 
Culture. The event culminated in interviews for 
internship or entry-level positions, resulting in 116 
job offers. Northrop Grumman provided all travel, 
lodging and meals to the participating students. We 
look forward to participating in continued in-person 
and virtual events to support our growing pipeline 
of diverse talent. 

iReturn 
We continued our participation in the iReturn 
program in partnership with the Society of Women 
Engineers and iRelaunch. This program helps 
experienced professionals of all genders return to 
the workforce after a career break of two years or 
more by providing a 12-week “returnship” to 
prepare for a full-time career at Northrop 
Grumman. 

In 2022, all four of our business sectors 
participated in iReturn with an expanded pool of 
twelve locations and 35 participants. Since 2017, 
we have hired 132 participants into the iReturn 
program, converting 118 participants to full-time 
employment with an 82% retention rate. Northrop 
Grumman is committed to widening our talent pool 
and iReturn assists with bringing in diverse top 
talent across the business. 

Skills-Based Hiring 
At Northrop Grumman, our hiring practices focus on the 
skills and competencies required for the job, rather than 
solely specific degrees or certifications. In 2022, we 
scaled our approach by developing a skills-based hiring 
playbook for hiring teams and hosted a talent acquisition 
training on skills-based hiring, while continuing to support 
existing systems to further integrate this hiring model into 
our practices. Additionally, we utilize hiring data to closely 
track and analyze sector-specific unique skills which 
informs our upskilling and development efforts across the 
organization. We will continue these efforts in 2023 as 
we implement manager skills-based hiring training. 

Talent Pipeline Development 
We utilize key data and analyze performance trends to 
develop our talent pipeline and embrace the evolution of 
workers’ expectations. We focus on diversifying our 
talent pipeline to leverage the breadth of the available 
talent pool to meet our future needs. Local partnerships 
with colleges and universities continue to bring in ready-
to-learn talent, and our hands-on training programs, such 
as ASTAR, provide the tools and resources our new 
hires need to succeed. 

It is our top priority to foster a diverse future workforce of 
Northrop Grumman employees with the skills they need 
to succeed in their careers. To achieve this, we support 
engineering and technology-based programs and 
initiatives that engage, excite and develop today’s 
students. In 2022, we continued to increase our support 
to enable the enrollment and success of a diverse STEM 
pipeline at two-year and four-year universities. Our 
funding to diversity-focused efforts, including programs, 
activities and clubs increased by 3% over 2021. For 
additional partnerships, please see our list of 
partnerships in the Appendix. 

We work closely with colleges and universities to 
attract a diverse, highly skilled cohort of candidates 
prepared for the future of work. We collaborate with 
the Greater Washington Partnership and Capital 
Collaborative of Leaders in Academia and Business 
(CoLAB) to provide credentialed digital skills to more 
than 12,000 undergraduate students across 18 
universities annually. Now entering its fourth year, 
CoLAB helps academic institutions develop stronger 
curricula that prepare students and make them more 
attractive candidates when entering the workforce. 

Northrop Grumman's involvement with OneTen is 
another example of how we invest and engage with 
trusted partners to grow and support a diverse talent 
pipeline. In 2021, we joined OneTen, a coalition of 
companies representing a wide range of industries 
that seek to advance racial justice and close the 
opportunity gap for Black talent in the U.S. With the 
support of partner companies such as Northrop 
Grumman, OneTen aims to train, hire and promote 
one million Black individuals over the next 10 years 
into family-sustaining careers with opportunities 
for advancement. 

38
 

2022 ESG Report

https://www.northropgrumman.com/life-at-northrop-grumman/welcome-to-the-a-team/


INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX 

Internships and 
Early Career Hiring 
We provide students with hands-on work experience 
through our summer internship program. Northrop 
Grumman interns gain the opportunity to build their 
professional network, learn more about our company 
culture and better understand potential STEM career 
paths. In 2022, we continued the hybrid virtual/in-
person model established in 2020 in response to 
COVID-19, hosting nearly 2,400 interns. More than 
680 interns from last year's cohort converted to full-
time employees in 2022. We also offer 
apprenticeships in select locations to hire and train 
new talent to gain additional skills. 

Our approach to early career talent focuses on 
developing strategic skills and abilities which will 
enable the ultimate success of our business. One 
such program that supports this approach is our 
Pathways Program, which gives select early-career 
hires the opportunity to fast-track their development 
through three targeted rotations. The program 
prepares early career employees for future talent 
needs critical to the business while developing a solid 
foundation for a successful career at 
Northrop Grumman. 

Approximately 

65% 
of eligible interns convert to full-time 
employees every year 

95% 
of our interns said they would 
recommend Northrop Grumman 
to others 

Hiring Military Veterans 
With almost 18% of our total workforce self-identifying 
as veterans, we recognize the great contributions 
made by military veterans to Northrop Grumman's 
success as a company. The approximately 200,000 
service members transitioning out of the U.S. military 
each year are an important source of talent, and 
examples of our efforts to work with and recruit 
veterans include: 

• Operation IMPACT, our unique, award-winning 
program focused on helping wounded service 
members in their transition to civilian careers. 

• The NG6 Partnership, in conjunction with Los 
Angeles County, which assists unhoused veterans 
in identifying employment opportunities and 
provides funding for housing. 

• Our partnership with Embry-Riddle Aeronautical 
University as a primary hiring partner in their 
Aviation Maintenance Program, which provides 
education and training. Embry-Riddle currently 
enrolls thousands of active-duty service members, 
reservists and veterans through its online 
Worldwide Campus programs. 

• Participation in the Department of Defense 
SkillBridge program, where we host internships for 
transitioning veterans during their last 180 days of 
service, followed by a full-time role post internship. 
Since 2020, Northrop Grumman has hosted over 
300 transitioning military members and maintains a 
97% full-time employment offer rate. 

• Attendance at five military and veteran conferences 
in 2022, focused on increased hiring of 
transitioning military members and veterans. 

2022 Veteran Hiring 
Highlights 

3,300 
Veterans hired, representing 21% 
of external hires 

60 
Veterans 
hired through 
Operation 
IMPACT 

8 
Unhoused veterans 
hired as a result of the 
NG6 Partnership 
Program

39
 

2022 ESG Report



INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX 

Talent Management & Development 
From pre-hire to retirement, we focus on employee 
well-being and growth, keeping the holistic 
experience of our employees in mind. Our employee 
and leadership development offerings are rooted in 
our Values and Leadership Behaviors. We aim to 
strengthen the skill sets, behaviors and mindsets that 
support both our current and future business needs. 
We foster knowledge-sharing and support career 
growth and progression. We encourage employees to 
pursue diverse job experiences that expand their 
knowledge of our business, products and customers. 
As developers of talent, we expect our leaders to 
provide performance feedback, coaching and 
development opportunities to employees to foster a 
culture of continuous improvement. In 2022, 98% of 
our employees completed a performance review, and 
22% of our employees were promoted in the 
company, reflecting development and growth in 
the workforce. 

We believe that we need to grow, develop and 
optimize our human capital to help Northrop 
Grumman achieve its goals. We continuously 
evaluate our approach to talent management, and our 
priorities are organized around four key pillars: 
attract, engage, develop and adapt. Our strategy 
helps align us with a changing 
employment landscape. 

Talent Development 
We support our employees who seek to shape their 
career journeys with diverse roles and experiences 
that expand their expertise, feed their curiosity and 
fuel their passions. We offer development tools 
through our Career Development Hub, which serves 
as a one-stop resource for employees to hone their 
skills and knowledge. We continue to encourage 
internal mobility within the company, and our core 
human resources system, Workday, empowers 
employees by putting them in the driver’s seat of their 
career journey. By setting up job alerts and building 
career profiles, employees can easily view suggested 
roles and job opportunities based on their career 
interests, as well as identify people in these roles so 
they can connect with and learn from others in 
the company. 

Executive & Leadership 
Development 
We hold regular talent review discussions with our 
leadership to ensure line of sight to talent at various 
levels of the organization. Succession plans are 

refreshed and reviewed to promote a robust, diverse 
talent pipeline and business continuity, which 
encourages a tight linkage to development. We focus 
on accelerating the learning and growth of our 
leaders by providing a combination of experiences, 
exposure and education. Our Executive Assessment 
& Development Program provides high potential 
senior executives with comprehensive development 
insights as well as an opportunity to participate in a 
masterclass series that focuses on key enterprise 
leadership capabilities, gain exposure to leading 
internal and external thought leaders/experts and 
strengthen peer networks through collaborative 
learning. We also offer leadership development 
cohort programs such as the Executive Leadership 
Program, the Leadership Cohort Program, Women in 
Leadership and the Affinity Forum. Within these 
programs, participants engage in strategic dialogue 
with senior leaders, external thought leaders and 
peers, and apply learnings real-time in their sectors. 
In 2022, we evolved our development strategy to 
align closely with our goal to develop and support “the 
modern leader,” as expectations of leaders continue 
to shift. 

40
 

2022 ESG Report

In 2022 nearly 

350 people 
completed either the Leadership 
Cohort Program, Women in Leadership 
Program, or the Affinity Forum



INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX 

Vice President Mentoring 
We offered structured mentoring for high-potential talent for the sixth year in a row, 
demonstrating our commitment to develop current and future leaders. Company 
leaders engaged in monthly mentoring sessions focused on accelerating growth 
and mobility through position-based development and skill-building. Of the over 190 
employees who participated in this mentoring program in 2022, 64% were women 
and/or people of color, reflecting Northrop Grumman’s commitment to develop and 
promote the best and brightest within our growing pool of diverse internal talent. 

Manager Development 
Our Leading For Impact Program offers development paths for all new and 
experienced managers seeking to refresh or build their leadership capabilities. 
Approximately 3,300 leaders have honed their skills by leveraging various learning 
modalities, including virtual instructor-led, in-person and web-based trainings, in 
addition to micro-courses. 

Professional & Technical Development 
We work with subject matter experts across the company to provide relevant and 
timely employee development paths in critical skill areas. Using input gathered from 
employees ranging from junior engineers to Northrop Grumman Fellows, we 
created a Technical Career Progression resource that helps employees direct their 
careers. In 2022, we also created the Systems Engineering development path, the 
newest of 11 Technical Development Paths, which will help us upskill employees 
from beginner- to expert-level. Over 1,500 pathways were completed across all 
Technical Development Paths in 2022. 

Our employees have access to countless learning opportunities, including on-the-
job training, formal training and platform-based learning. Across the company, we 
leverage learning technology platforms to enable our people to access curated 
content relevant to help them develop new skill sets and support their career 
growth. Since 2020, nearly 77,000 employees have benefited from My Learning 
Experience, our primary point of access for all professional and career 
development. This platform implements machine learning to recommend related 
resources and create a personalized training experience for each employee. All 
learning materials are accessible from this single location with integrated social 
interaction and the ability to connect with subject matter experts across the 
company. In 2022, over 47,000 employees accessed My Learning Experience, 
completing almost 1.9 million pieces of content. On average, a minimum of 11 
training hours per person were completed through our learning platform, GLX. This 
does not include the other formal and on-the-job training opportunities our 
employees access regularly. 

Prioritizing Learning and Development 
Northrop Grumman believes that development is important to support continued 
learning and build curiosity throughout the business, and it should exist both 
inside and outside of daily work duties. In 2022, we launched our Learning in the 
Flow of Work vision, to help promote faster and more relevant access to learning 
and development resources. We also support our employees in broadening their 
expertise through various cohort programs that bolster critical skill areas and 
build their internal network. Cohorts not only provide regular opportunities for 
career development, but in some instances have also evolved into communities 
of practice with long-term impacts on the company. Our cohorts include: 

• The Enterprise Women in Science and Engineering (WiSE) Cohort, which 
focuses on empowering early- to mid-career female technical employees by 
providing opportunities to develop skills, make informed decisions about 
available career paths at Northrop Grumman and build their community by 
forming lasting relationships. In 2022, the Enterprise WiSE had 119 graduates, 
with 40% of the cohort comprised of people of color, representing all sectors of 
the business. Many participants mentioned how they resonated with the cohort 
themes and speakers, with one participant stating: “I learned so much and feel 
much more empowered in my career. I enjoyed going through the program 
alongside so many other talented women.” For an example of what one WiSE 
cohort accomplished, please see the Product Stewardship section. 

• The TechStarter Cohorts, which are aimed at early- to mid-career technical 
employees looking to jump start their learning in a critical skill area. The cohort 
places an emphasis on attracting the underutilized and diverse talent within the 
company. In 2022, Northrop Grumman supported 189 total graduates, with 
46% people of color and 34% women, representing all sectors. One participant 
remarked, “I am grateful that programs like this exist. I don’t think I would have 
had exposure like this to artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning if I 
wasn’t part of this program and I very well could have missed out on 
discovering an interest I didn’t know I had.”

41
 

2022 ESG Report



INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX

Education Assistance
Northrop Grumman supports employee efforts to 
expand their career opportunities even further 
through continued education. We offer Education 
Assistance benefits to employees who pursue a 
college degree or professional or technical 
certification that directly aligns with our present and 
future skills requirements. Northrop Grumman covers 
up to $10,000 per year for education at any 
accredited institution with manager approval, and we 
also partner with a third-party firm to negotiate 
discounted tuition rates for our employees at several 
academic institutions. In addition to tuition assistance, 
coaching services are available to employees who 
want to discuss topics such as education decisions, 
field of study choices and financing. In 2022, Northrop 
Grumman invested $37.5 million in education 
assistance for 6,580 employees who used this benefit 
to enhance their career journeys.

79% of Northrop Grumman employees completed 
the annual employee survey, performing in the top 
6% of companies, exceeding industry norms and 
earning us the designation of a High Performing 
Company by Willis Towers Watson.

Breakdown of Education 
Assistance Provided to 
Employees

$37 
million
Education 
Assistance

53%
Graduate 
Degree
22%
Non-Degrees
23%
Undergraduate 
Degrees

Employee Engagement
Northrop Grumman strives to place our employees at 
the center of everything we do. This focus on 
employee experience requires continuous listening 
and ongoing improvements at every level of the 
company. Employees are able to provide honest 
feedback through surveys deployed in the flow of 
work, as well as quarterly pulses and an annual 
experience survey. Key areas of focus include career 
development, inclusion, living our values, operational 
efficiency, leadership, well-being and the 
work environment.

Our performance on the annual survey is compared 
to the Global High Performance Norm and Aerospace 
& Defense Norm from the survey provider, Willis 
Towers Watson. In 2022, we exceeded industry 
norms in all categories and once again secured our 
designation as a High Performing Company, which is 
based on financial performance and employee 
experience. This best-in-class designation showcases 
our strong culture, where employees feel engaged, 

empowered and supported. Survey results also show 
that career enablement, work-life integration and an 
inclusive work environment are all areas of strength 
for Northrop Grumman. They also show that removing 
obstacles, improving operational efficiencies and 
challenging tradition are areas of opportunity. We 
received over 91,000 specific comments through the 
survey. Our leaders review the survey responses and 
work collaboratively with their teams to take 
meaningful action based on survey results.

Non-Financial 
Performance Metrics
Employee Experience: Perform at or above the 
Aerospace & Defense Norm, a Willis Towers 
Watson index, with a focus on inclusion and 
engagement. Results are derived from the 
annual employee survey with a “percent 
favorable response” measurement scale.

422022 ESG Report



INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX 

Corporate Citizenship 

Corporate Citizenship at Northrop Grumman 
starts with people — the people we employ, 
the people in our communities and the 
people who may become part of our 
workforce. Together with our employees, we 
strive to make the lives of the people in our 
communities better, safer and 
more successful. 

SUPPORT AROUND THE WORLD 

Education Military and Veterans Health and Human Services Environment

43
 

2022 ESG Report



INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX

Corporate Citizenship Strategy
Our Corporate Citizenship strategy is set at the 
corporate level and executed locally by Corporate 
Citizenship team members who provide regional 
oversight. A network of volunteer ambassadors 
supports this framework and serves as points of 
contact at sites where Corporate Citizenship staff are 
not located. The strategy includes the 
following priorities: 

• Develop a diverse workforce though strategic
STEM education programs and initiatives that align
to the company’s current and future talent needs.

• Drive employee attraction and retention through
strategic and impactful volunteerism, skills
development and philanthropy that underscore our
commitment to DE&I.

• Enhance Northrop Grumman’s position as an
employer and business of choice through key
partnerships in our communities.

• Address local stakeholder issues in communities
that support DE&I and align with the company’s
business strategies.

Corporate Citizenship team members collaborate with 
local Northrop Grumman leaders and ambassadors, 
as well as community-based nonprofit organizations, 
to identify needs, develop objectives, review 
philanthropic opportunities and implement 
community-specific plans that align with our priorities 
and focus areas. Every year, the team evaluates and 
analyzes the impact of grants and assesses 
performance against our goals. This process helps to 
determine continuation or refinement of our 
partnerships. In 2022, we contributed to organizations 
in over 70 Northrop Grumman communities.

442022 ESG Report

Charitable Giving
To support the diverse needs of the communities in which we live and work, Northrop Grumman, the 
Northrop Grumman Foundation and our generous employees provide strategic contributions aimed at 
strengthening our communities. Our core areas of giving include programs and partnerships that focus on 
four areas: STEM education, Military and Veterans, Health and Human Services and the Environment.

SOCIAL VALUE GENERATED

$16.9 million
Company Giving* 
$16.5 million
Foundation 
$4.0 million
Employees 
$2.3 million
Employee 
Volunteerism 
$0.8 million
In-Kind/Non-Cash

* In addition, Northrop Grumman donated $15 million to the Northrop Grumman Foundation.

$40 million
in social value generated by 
Northrop Grumman



INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX 

FOCUS AREA 
STEM Education 

Our country is facing a shortage in the number of 
students with an interest in STEM — which is why we 
leverage our Corporate Citizenship efforts to support 
strategic education programs and initiatives that 
match the company’s current and future needs for top 
talent. To do so, we engage with students throughout 
their entire educational life cycle — from elementary 
school through vocational school or college and 
beyond. Working closely with our University Relations 
and Recruiting (URR) organization and Chief 
Technology Office, we identify the fundamental skills 
required for key company disciplines. With this in 
mind, we develop strategic partnerships with nonprofit 
organizations and K-12 institutions focused on 
engineering- and technology-based experiences 
designed to excite, engage and educate students and 
grow their interest in STEM careers. 

45
 

2022 ESG Report

Critical Skills 
and Disciplines 

Starting in 2021, we established an annual Education 
Equity Goal to dedicate a minimum of 50% of our 
education funding to resources or programs that 
support social justice through DE&I. Student 
populations include women and racial groups who are 
underrepresented in STEM, people with disabilities, 
LGBTQ+ individuals, low-income groups and those 
experiencing homelessness. In 2022, we exceeded 
our goal by contributing 83% of our education funding 
to support education equity.  

In 2022, Northrop Grumman and the 
Northrop Grumman Foundation 
contributed a total of 

$17 million 
to STEM-related programs.



46
 

2022 ESG Report

INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX 

In support of our goal, this year, we refined our K-12 
partner school grants to focus on diversity 
organizations' junior chapters, teacher professional 
development and hands-on engineering and 
technology capabilities for students. In addition, we 
piloted a high school-to-college bridge program that 
involved providing grants to partner universities’ K-12 
STEM programming. 

Our global aim is to reach students who are 
underserved in STEM, with particular attention to 
engaging with girls, people of color, people with 
disabilities, low-income individuals and Indigenous 
Peoples. In 2022, we set a goal to reduce disparities 
in K-12 STEM education for underrepresented 
students, by providing 5 million STEM experiences 
annually through informal and formal programming 
and teacher professional development. 

One such example is the Summer Engineering 
Experience for Kids (SEEK), a three-week 
educational experience for students in grades three 
through five. The Northrop Grumman Foundation 
provides direct funding to this program, which is 
administered by the National Society of Black 
Engineers. In addition, our African-American Task 
Group ERG connects students to Northrop Grumman 
employees during the camp to provide mentoring and 
project support. We also share SEEK engagement 
opportunities with our university partners to provide 
additional counseling opportunities for these students. 

Northrop Grumman provides informal programming 
that gives students opportunities to explore STEM by 
engaging in hands-on activities and experiences 
through classroom visits, career talks, science fairs, 
site tours and celebratory STEM events at Northrop 
Grumman facilities like Engineers Week or 
Manufacturing Day. 

In addition to student-directed programs, we also 
recognize the important role teachers play in 
impacting students’ likelihood to pursue STEM 
careers. To that end, we support teacher professional 
development programs that help increase their 
competency in teaching STEM subjects with a focus 
on those that align with the company’s core 
disciplines. By exposing educators to strategic 
learning opportunities, they are better prepared to 
demonstrate the connection between curriculum and 
exciting STEM careers. These include a training 
intensive focused on one or more of the following: 
pedagogy, STEM, Next Generation Science 
Standards and Common Core. 

Supporting STEM Education in Utah 
Utah is a critical community for our workforce development and for enhancing Northrop 
Grumman’s position as an employer and business of choice. We have expanded our operations 
in northern Utah in recent years and, with this growth, we have become more dedicated to 
engaging with our local communities by supporting the STEM pipeline. 

We contribute funding to the Hill Aerospace Museum and the Clark Planetarium, both of which 
provide air and space STEM education programs to their local communities. These partnerships 
directly support increased STEM access to underserved and rural populations in northern Utah, 
as well as the development of curriculum and workshops for teachers. 

Northrop Grumman also supports the Douglas Space and Science Center in Ogden, Utah. The 
facility hosts a number of student events throughout the year, including Space Week. Our 
employee volunteers exposed students to STEM concepts such as combustible propulsion by 
conducting experiments and then applying this knowledge to simulate rocket launches.



       47
 

2022 ESG Report

INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX 

High School Involvement Partnership Mentoring Program 
In support of our focus on enhancing the workforce readiness for STEM students, the High School Involvement 
Participation (HIP) mentoring program pairs high school juniors and seniors with employees to provide them with 
business exposure and hands-on experiences in real-world environments. HIP exposes these students to Northrop 
Grumman’s core capabilities, technology, mission and business priorities by contributing to their development and 
the enhancement of critical skills necessary for success in career pathways leading to vocation, college and beyond. 
We collaborated with our URR team to integrate our respective strategies to support workforce pathway progression 
and align with new workforce development needs, such as in AI and machine learning. As an example, our HIP 
program will continue to engage students who are on a four-year, technical college path, but we will also expand the 
program to include vocational and manufacturing pathways. During the 2022-2023 school year, 300 students 
participated in HIP in communities near Northrop Grumman sites. 

Mentoring Future Innovators 
The TryEngineering Together virtual mentoring program aligns well with our focus on developing a diverse STEM 
workforce. The organization pairs Northrop Grumman employees with students in grades six through eight who 
attend low socio-economic schools. The program curriculum exposes students to standards-aligned STEM topics 
such as aerospace, engineering and technology. Through our engagement, we work to provide students 
opportunities to explore potential STEM careers. During the most recent academic year, Northrop Grumman 
employees helped mentor 300 students in nine classrooms across eight states. 

Global Education Outreach 
Northrop Grumman also partners with CyberPatriot, a national youth cyber education program that aims to direct 
students toward careers in cybersecurity and other STEM-based disciplines. CyberPatriot is a STEM competition 
that challenges students to find and fix security vulnerabilities in a virtual computer environment. CyberSakura, the 
program's newest iteration in Japan, offers cybersecurity educational programs and competitions to Japanese junior 
high and high school students. In addition to CyberPatriot and CyberSakura, we also support CyberCenturion in the 
U.K. and CyberTaipan in Australia. We are proud to continue our support of these organizations that play a crucial 
role in exciting, engaging and educating today’s students about different STEM careers.



INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX 

FOCUS AREA 
Military & Veterans 

We take great pride in supporting our veterans, military and their families through volunteerism and giving. We contribute 
to programs focused on employment, homelessness, appreciation and services for the wounded, ill and injured. 

American Corporate Partners 
Northrop Grumman employees volunteer to serve as mentors and provide both professional development 
guidance and career networking opportunities through American Corporate Partners (ACP). ACP is a 
nonprofit organization dedicated to helping post-9/11 veterans and spouses of service members transition to 
the civilian workforce through one-on-one mentoring, networking and online career advice. In addition to 
direct assistance, Northrop Grumman employees frequently provide veterans and military spouses with 
guidance and advice through ACP’s AdvisorNet, a free online business Q&A site. With 18% of our total 
workforce self-identifying as veterans, our employees take pride in passing on their skills and experiences in 
aid of veterans, service members and military spouses. 

Wreaths Across America 
In partnership with our military and veteran-focused employee resource group, VERITAS, we hold an annual 
campaign to engage our workforce through volunteering and sponsor wreaths for Wreaths Across America 
Day in December. Wreaths Across America is an organization that honors our fallen U.S. military veterans 
through coordinated wreath-laying ceremonies at thousands of cemeteries around the world. We are proud 
of the generosity our employees exhibit year after year to support Wreaths Across America and help 
Northrop Grumman surpass our annual donation goal. During 2022, our employees contributed over 7,200 
wreaths and our total donations over the last five years is close to 24,000 wreaths.

48
 

2022 ESG Report



INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX 

FOCUS AREA 
Health and Human Services 

Both hunger and disaster relief are critical issues we 
address within Northrop Grumman’s Health and 
Human Services focus area. This year, we 
reassessed our 2021 goal of providing five million 
meals to people in need by 2030 and doubled it to ten 
million meals donated by 2030. As 2022 unfolded, we 
again exceeded our projections due largely to 
Hurricane Ian and the Ukrainian humanitarian crisis. 
The company and our employees donated 
approximately 4.2 million meals in 2022. 

Goal: Donate 

10,000,000 meals 
to people in need by 2030 
To further encourage employee engagement and 
performance toward reaching our goal of 10 million 
meals donated by 2030, we created a campaign in 
support of Hunger Action Month in September. During 
the month-long campaign, we offered an employee 
donation match to select organizations. Additionally, 
we provided opportunities for employees to register to 
support hunger relief organizations year-round 
through the ECHO workplace giving program. 

49
 

2022 ESG Report

We also collaborated with Rise Against Hunger to 
conduct 26 meal packing events at Northrop Grumman 
sites across the country. During this assembly-line style 
activity, hundreds of volunteers scooped and measured 
nutritious ingredients, which were then sealed and 
packaged for delivery. These meals will help provide 
healthy options throughout the world in school food 
programs, orphanages and crisis relief efforts. 

In 2022, our employees further demonstrated their 
commitment to ending hunger by organizing 41 food 
drives and volunteering more than 4,000 hours at 100 
hunger-related events.



INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX 

Habitat for Humanity 
Northrop Grumman employees have been an active part of our years-long engagement with 
Habitat for Humanity, volunteering and donating locally through ECHO workplace and giving to 
numerous projects and locations. 

In 2022, Northrop Grumman supported Habitat for Humanity’s Female Veterans’ Village project in 
Brevard County, Florida. The Female Veterans’ Village, completed in December 2022, is the first 
of its kind, providing six new homes to female military veterans and their families. As part of the 
project, the new homeowners will also benefit from zero-interest mortgages to help keep their 
living expenses manageable. 

The Female Veterans’ Village serves as a shining example of what is possible for future affordable 
housing around the country. The project also contributes to the overall revitalization of the 
Diamond Square neighborhood in Cocoa, Florida. We are proud to be a part of creating a place in 
our communities where people feel a sense of safety and community. 

Disaster Relief and Humanitarian 
Crisis Support 
We address critical local needs in our communities by 
supporting disaster relief through planned giving to 
organizations such as the American Red Cross and 
Americares. Our annual gifts help these organizations 
provide crucial support when communities need it most 
following a disaster. 

Natural disasters are an unfortunate reality and our 
employees have long demonstrated their willingness to 
quickly respond to support those affected. In response to 
the devastating tornadoes that ripped across our country’s 
heartland in December 2021 and the wildfires that burned 
in Colorado in January 2022, our employees donated 
close to $170,000 toward relief efforts. 

In September, we committed funding through the Northrop 
Grumman Foundation to assist people in Florida and 
Puerto Rico impacted by hurricanes. Following Hurricane 
Ian, we offered a donation match to our employees, raising 
more than $82,000 in relief. In response to Hurricane 
Fiona, Northrop Grumman provided a charitable grant to 
the University of Puerto Rico, Mayagüez to assist with 
the school’s most pressing needs including their food 
bank, a generator for the Student Center and mini solar 
charging stations for students to charge their laptops 
and phones. 

We also addressed humanitarian crises in 2022. This 
included financial contributions in communities impacted 
by shootings in Buffalo, New York; Uvalde, Texas; and 
Colorado Springs, Colorado. After the onset of the war in 
Ukraine in February, the Northrop Grumman Foundation 
provided funding in support of Ukrainian war victims and 
offered up to $500,000 towards an employee match. Our 
employees exceeded this limit, raising a total of $521,000 
in donations, which were fully matched by the Foundation.

50
 

2022 ESG Report



INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX 

FOCUS AREA 
Environment 

Each year, Northrop Grumman employees uphold our company’s commitment to the environment by supporting important causes in their local ecosystems. We extend this 
mindset through our philanthropic partnerships with local nonprofit organizations to help protect our natural environment and provide a more resilient planet for future 
generations. We aim to promote conservation and inspire the next generation of environmental stewards. 

We are mindful of the fact that low-income and communities of color are often disproportionately affected by climate change. Northrop Grumman prioritizes these communities 
in our philanthropic giving to ensure our actions contribute to a more inclusive and equitable future for all people. 

The Nature Conservancy’s 
Resilient Coasts Program 
In 2022, Northrop Grumman provided a grant to support The Nature 
Conservancy’s (TNC) Resilient Coasts Program in Crisfield, Maryland. The 
program approaches climate change through the lens of environmental justice 
to identify strategies to adapt to climate impacts in a socially equitable way. 
Crisfield, Maryland, a town near the Chesapeake Bay with a poverty rate more 
than double the national average is at the frontline of climate change, 
experiencing frequent flooding that threatens the long-term health of the city. 
The grant supports TNC’s efforts to develop a nature-based adaptation 
strategy that also helps safeguard Crisfield’s long-term social and 
economic health. 

Green Star Schools 
We continually look for ways to expand our commitment to environmental 
sustainability beyond our company by instilling principles of conservation and 
stewardship in our communities. In Colorado, we provided grant funding for the 
Green Star Schools recycling program, an initiative managed by Eco-Cycle, a 
community recycling center in Boulder County. The program engages with Pre-K 
through 12th grade students, exposing them to key zero waste practices 
including recycling, composting and special waste reduction techniques. 
Through the program, students learn about more sustainable methods of 
consumption and disposal that foster a sense of environmental stewardship. 
This program reached more than 28,000 students at 59 schools in Colorado. We 
value the opportunity to support our next generation of leaders as they learn to 
make zero waste a way of life.

51
 

2022 ESG Report



INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX 

52
 

2022 ESG Report

Making a Difference Through Volunteering 
Employee engagement through volunteering is an accompanying goal to our 
programming and an important aspect of our Corporate Citizenship strategy. As we 
develop our partnerships, we seek ways to connect the passions and talents of our 
employees to the community. 

Throughout the year, employees logged approximately 77,000 volunteer hours 
valued at $2.3 million. Those who logged 40 or more hours within a calendar year 
received a Community Service Grant to benefit the nonprofit or school where they 
volunteer. This year, we increased Community Service Grants from $400 to $500 
and modified the program to allow employees to accumulate volunteer hours across 
multiple organizations instead of just one. Approximately $139,000 was distributed 
to nonprofits through this program during the year. 

The Difference Maker Awards celebrate employees' commitment to making a 
difference through volunteerism. Awards are given in three categories, with the top 
winner in each awarded a $10,000 charitable grant for their qualifying nonprofit or 
accredited public school and two runners-up in each category receive a similarly 
qualifying $5,000 charitable grant. The categories recognize volunteers committed 
to STEM education, our ERG's philanthropic initiatives and those who define 
possible every day in the community.



INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX 

PIONEERING 
PURPOSE 
ENVIRONMENT 
INSPIRED BY ECOSYSTEMS 
Adapting in the face of global climate change is one of greatest challenges facing our 
planet. Good thing some of the best problem-solvers work at Northrop Grumman. 
Whether we are managing our footprint, applying our visionary minds to the climate 
needs of customers or innovating for global ecosystem protection, we discover new 
performance opportunities when we consider our planet. Taking action to meet a 
moment of need is what we do best at Northrop Grumman, and our actions as 
environmental stewards give us a meaningful opportunity to have an enduring, positive 
impact on the future of our natural world.  

53
 

2022 ESG Report



INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX 

Our Approach to Environmental Action 
The impact of climate change on our ecosystems is something that affects us all. 
As we pioneer leading technologies, we recognize that we have an important role 
to play in ensuring a sustainable future for our business and stakeholders. 

As a part of embracing our stewardship role, we published our first TCFD Report 
in 2022, highlighting our approach to identifying and addressing climate risks and 
opportunities. We issued an update to our TCFD Report in early 2023 to expand 
on our company’s disclosure on climate change strategy, risks and opportunities. 

As we continue on our journey to next-generation environmental stewardship, our 
teams are defining possible, with our sustainability goals as a key driver. As we 
continue to innovate, integrate and strategize, we remain transparent about our 
progress towards achieving our goals. While we focused on setting the 
organization up for success through ambitious goal setting and strategy in 2022, 
we now have our sights set firmly on execution and achievement, starting with 
the impact we can have on our climate. 

Mike Witt: Chief Sustainability Officer, Year One 
2022 marked Mike Witt’s first full year in his role as 
Chief Sustainability Officer at Northrop Grumman. 
Mike's team kicked off the year in earnest, with the 
March publication of the company’s 2021 Sustainability 
Report along with the publication of the company’s first 
TCFD Report, providing stakeholders with actionable 
ESG information earlier in the year. On Earth Day in 

April, he announced the company’s Next-Generation Environmental 
Sustainability Goals. 

Stakeholder engagement was another priority for 2022. Mike developed a regular 
cadence of meetings with the Chief Executive Officer, Executive Leadership Team 
and the Board of Directors to discuss the view and vision of what the 
sustainability and ESG opportunities are and where he and his team can help to 
guide the company to harness value-creating opportunities. That cadence also 
extended to regular discussions with a variety of stakeholders, from investors to 
suppliers to customers. Direct engagement with the company’s key customers, 
including the U.S. Department of Defense, National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration (NASA) and National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 
(NOAA) supports the development of tailored solutions that meet the needs of 
customers while enabling progress towards both customer and Northrop 
Grumman sustainability goals. These discussions are focused on footprint 
reduction, supplier engagement and building a blueprint that enables progress 
towards the sustainable future we’re all seeking. 

“The work that my team and I have done this year builds upon the foundation of 
sustainability that this company has had in place for well over a decade,” said 
Witt. “We’re building momentum that drives sustainability progress in a way that 
leans on our strengths of seeing where environmental sustainability can be a 
positive addition to growing the aerospace, manufacturing and 
defense industries.”

54
 

2022 ESG Report

https://www.northropgrumman.com/wp-content/uploads/2023-TCFD-Report.pdf


INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX 

Updates to Climate Strategy 
At Northrop Grumman, we recognize that 
environmental sustainability is a matter of national 
security. We see the impacts of climate change as a 
destabilizing force in our world today — with 
increasing and intensifying natural disasters 
displacing populations and leading to critical resource 
shortages. The significance of these impacts to our 
global community drives our climate strategy, which 
aims to provide solutions and technology that expand 
the boundaries of what it means to define possible for 
our planet. 

We have a long history of serving as a global steward 
of environmental sustainability and have made 
significant progress in reducing our footprint. In 2022, 
we continued to build on that work by establishing our 
Next-Generation Environmental Sustainability Goals, 
which include our commitment to achieving Net Zero 
operations by 2035.7 

We will realize these reductions through a 
multifaceted strategy, which will focus on: 

• Sourcing renewable energy 

• Identifying and implementing energy efficiency 
solutions across our sites 

• Engraining resource conservation and 
efficiency into operations decisions 

We established an interim target of 50% reduction in 
GHG emissions by 2030 from a 2019 baseline year. 
We also announced our goal to source 50% of our 
total electricity from renewable sources by 2030. We 
continue to pursue other avenues for emissions 
reductions through electrification, alternative fuels 
and energy monitoring. 

We recognize that focusing on GHGs emitted from 
our operations alone is not all that we can or need to 
do to mitigate the impacts of climate change on our 
planet and limit global temperature rise to 1.5 
degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels. For that 
reason, we have also set goals across our value 
chain to work with our customers and our supply 
chain to advance sustainability across the industry. 
Additionally, we have established goals specific to 
water and waste reduction. For more information on 
these goals, please see the Water and 
Waste sections. 

7 “Net Zero operations” is defined as our goal to reach Net Zero GHG emissions in our operations (i.e., our Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions) by 
2035. Our baseline year for tracking interim progress on the goal is 2019.

55
 

2022 ESG Report



INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX 

Expanding Renewable 
Energy Opportunities 

FOOTPRINT 
GOAL 

Source 50% of total 
electricity from renewable 
sources by 2030 

Sourcing renewable electricity is an important component 
of our mission to achieve Net Zero operations by 2035. In 
2022, we sourced 10.0% of electricity from renewable 
sources. To achieve our 50% renewable energy goal, we 
will work to integrate a mix of onsite and offsite renewable 
energy across our portfolio. After exploring our potential 
onsite solar opportunities, we have developed and 
approved standard solar power purchase and site license 
agreements at several locations. A total of 10 sites in four 
states have approved onsite solar designs and are in 
various stages of implementation. 

In addition to our onsite projects, we are also exploring 
opportunities for large-scale offsite renewable energy. We 
are currently prioritizing developments located near our 
major electricity loads to ensure our investment in 
renewable energy benefits our communities. We have 
assessed 30 potential large-scale offsite solar projects 
and identified a subset of developments for terms 
negotiations. Together with our onsite renewable projects, 
these offsite developments will help our company meet 
our renewable energy procurement goal. 

Like many companies, we were impacted by industry-
wide factors that have delayed the original timeline to bring 
a new renewable energy project online. In 2022, we 
continued to move forward on the development process 
for the 62.5 megawatt solar facility in Orange County, 
Virginia constructed by Dominion Energy as a part of our 
15-year virtual power purchase agreement (VPPA) signed 
in 2020. The project completion date has been postponed 
due to delays in the issuance of a Special Use Permit to 
the developer. The Special Use Permit and the associated 
Land Disturbance Permit have been received with the 
unanimous approval from the Orange County Board. 

Driving Towards Zero 
Emission Vehicles 
Enabling and engaging our employees to participate in 
carbon reduction activities is a central part of our 
environmental sustainability mission. Our Electric Vehicle 
(EV) Workplace Charging Program helps address our 
employees' demand for onsite charging stations as the 
use of EVs continues to rise. In 2022, 720 new drivers 
enrolled in this program, representing a 34% increase in 
enrollment since 2021. At the end of 2022, we had 
approximately 2,900 drivers in the program. Three new 
sites began providing EV charging for employees in 2022, 
and a total of 14 new charging connections were added 
across the enterprise to accommodate employee demand 
for this service. 

We also know that business and regulatory considerations 
are pushing our vehicle fleets towards electrification and 
we are taking meaningful strides to plan for that shift. We 
have already begun preparing for the ZEV transition by 
replacing some of our fleet trucks and buses and investing 
in dedicated fleet charging stations. We are also taking 
steps to reduce our upstream transportation emissions. 
For more information, please see the Transportation and 
Logistics section.

56
 

2022 ESG Report



572022 ESG Report

INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX 

Enhancing Operations & Management 
Environmental stewardship is at the heart of our 
operations and management approach. At Northrop 
Grumman, we are continuously exploring how our 
business processes can be more environmentally 
sustainable. By placing sustainability at the forefront 
of all that we do, we find new ways to define possible 
within our footprint. 

Non-Financial Performance Metrics 
Environmental Sustainability: Reductions 
in absolute greenhouse emissions 

GHG Emissions 

FOOTPRINT 
GOAL 

Net Zero GHG emissions 
in our operations by 
2035, with an interim 
target of 50% reduction in 
GHG by 2030, from a 
2019 base year. 

We report our GHG emissions performance in 
accordance with the company’s GHG emissions 
goals. As we undertake activities to meet this 
commitment, we remain focused on implementing 
projects and initiatives that further reduce our 
emissions, support energy efficiency and improve 
operational performance. 

In 2022 our total GHG emissions decreased 10.6% 
compared to our 2019 base year. Although we saw 
fluctuations in operations since 2019, in part due to 
the COVID-19 pandemic, we are seeing consistent 
year-over-year benefits from our emissions-reduction 
projects and process improvements to mitigate 
inefficiencies. We also continue to evaluate and 

pursue opportunities to diversify our energy portfolio 
with renewable energy. This year, 100% of our 
electricity usage in Virginia was offset with 
Renewable Energy Certificates; this usage will 
continue to be offset by renewable energy once our 
Orange County, Virginia VPPA comes online. In 2022, 
we implemented innovative solutions through the 
execution of 64 projects which are expected to save a 
total of 3,250 MT of carbon dioxide-equivalent (CO2e) 
annually to continue on a path towards Net 
Zero operations. 

Energy Conservation 
Energy conservation is essential to achieving our Net 
Zero operations and renewable energy goals, 
reducing our climate impact and lowering costs within 
our operations. Internally, our Energy Management 
Committee works to leverage the company's progress 
to date to share best practices and learn about new 
technologies that can further drive efficiencies across 
the company. 

Externally, we continue to collaborate with the EPA as 
members of the ENERGY STAR Partner program. We 
consulted with EPA leaders to develop an energy 
management vision that includes a playbook for 
implementing company-wide energy efficiency 
measures. The vision and playbook are based on 
ENERGY STAR’s guidelines for energy management, 
which is the foundation for the International 
Organization for Standardization (ISO) 50001 Energy 
Management Standard. 

In 2022, our electricity consumption increased by 
1.4% and natural gas usage was consistent, both 
when compared to 2021. Business growth drove the 
increase which was offset by energy reduction 
projects and initiatives described above. 

2022 GHG Performance 
Highlights 

3,250 MT CO2e 

Implemented 64 GHG and energy 
reduction projects, expected to reduce 
3,250 MT of CO2e annually 

2,000 MT CO2e 

Invested in LED lighting upgrades, 
reducing 2,000 MT CO2e annually 

1,020 MT CO2e 

Completed 18 boiler and HVAC 
replacements, reducing 1,020 MT CO2e 
annually 

SCOPE 1 & SCOPE 2 EMISSIONS 
(TOTAL MT CO2e) 

788,480 751,380 744,750 705,240 

2019 
(base 
year) 

2020 2021 2022 
0 

200,000 

400,000 

600,000 

800,000



INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX 

Waste 

FOOTPRINT 
GOAL 

Reduce solid waste sent 
to landfill and incineration 
by 10% from a 2019 base 
year by 2030. 

We recognize the importance of reducing our waste 
streams and maintaining diversion practices across 
our operations. In 2023, we established a goal to 
reduce solid waste sent to landfill and incineration by 
10% by 2030, from a 2019 base year. In 2022, our 
waste reduction and diversion efforts included 
targeted material recovery and reuse initiatives, 
expanded composting and recycling of specific waste 
streams and improved solid waste management 
infrastructure. This included the installation of trash 
compactors at sites to improve data accuracy and 
reduce the amount of landfill space needed. We also 
executed process improvements to divert and reduce 
the generation of hazardous waste. While a 
combination of program growth, increased personnel 
working on site, including new hires, and renovation 
activities resulted in an increase in disposed waste in 
2022, we are intent on both reducing and improving 
the management of our most significant 
waste streams. 

In addition, as we pursue our next generation waste 
reduction target, we will continue to ensure that the 
solid and hazardous waste we generate is 
responsibly managed in compliance with all 
applicable legal requirements, from point of 
generation to final disposition. We exercise additional 
due diligence with our hazardous waste streams by 
maintaining a list of approved treatment, storage and 
disposal facilities for our authorized waste haulers 
to use. 

2022 Waste Performance 
Highlights 

600 tons total 

Implemented 21 solid waste projects 
across the company, estimated to divert 
600 tons from landfill annually 

38 tons 

Implemented and expanded organics 
waste programs at various sites, 
reducing 38 tons 

17 tons 

Installed chemical recovery distillation 
systems, reducing 17 tons of waste 

SOLID WASTE SENT TO LANDFILL/ 
INCINERATION (TONS) 

20,000 
21,890 21,490 21,940 

2019 
(base 
year) 

2020 2021 2022 
10,000 

12,000 

14,000 

16,000 

18,000 

20,000 

22,000 

24,000 

Waste Reduction Projects 
To achieve our ambitious waste goal, we know 
that we'll have to find new opportunities for 
reducing and diverting the waste we generate. 
We face unique challenges in alternative 
disposal methods due to the nature of many of 
our processes and products. However, we are 
dedicated to working alongside our customers 
and suppliers to make sure we prevent any 
resources from unnecessarily reaching a landfill 
or incinerator. 

One way we plan to achieve new waste 
reduction is by exploring opportunities to extend 
the lifecycle of our material inputs. For example, 
at our Salt Lake City, Utah site, we use epoxy in 
the manufacturing of navigation systems. Our 
team identified that epoxy was often a source of 
both industrial and hazardous waste due to 
quality protocols that required its disposal after 
the expiration of its shelf life. Through 
collaboration with program teams and 
customers, our team completed acceptance 
testing in our labs and revised our protocols to 
extend the useable life of the epoxy. Not only did 
this initiative reduce our industrial and 
hazardous waste generation at the site, but the 
longer shelf life also led to lower costs for our 
project teams.

582022 ESG Report



592022 ESG Report

INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX 

Water 

FOOTPRINT 
GOAL 

Reduce 10% of absolute water withdrawals from a 2019 baseline, reuse 10% of water 
withdrawals and replenish 10% of water withdrawals, focusing in water-stressed regions 
— all by 2030. 

Water is a crucial natural resource for our operations 
and communities, particularly in water-stressed 
regions. In 2023, we announced our next-generation 
water goals as described above. 

These new goals underscore our commitment to 
using water more efficiently, minimizing our impact 
on water resources, especially in water-stressed 
regions, and ensuring we can sustainably grow 
our operations. 

Our water withdrawals directly support our 
manufacturing processes around the world. Our sites 
withdraw water primarily from municipal and 
groundwater supplies with some surface water 
consumption from rivers and rainwater capture 
systems. We do not use seawater or produced water 
sources and any wastewater discharges from our 
operations flow through onsite wastewater treatment 
plants or directly to municipal sanitary sewers. All 
Northrop Grumman sites adhere to local regulatory or 
permit requirements for quality. 

Our water withdrawals have fluctuated from the 2019 
base year, with 2020 and 2021 fluctuations largely 
due to impacts from the COVID-19 pandemic. This 
year we saw a 1.5% increase in water withdrawal 
from the 2019 base year and a 6.2% increase from 
2021. This year over year growth is primarily due to 
operational growth, including increased activity in 
production operations with water intensive processes. 
Although this growth in our operations has impacted 
our water goal performance, we continue to 
implement sustainable solutions to increase efficiency 
at our operations. In 2022, we focused on our 
operations at water-stressed locations and executed 
11 projects which are expected to reduce 15 million 
gallons of water annually to strategically align us to 
our 2030 water goals. 

2022 Water Performance 
Highlights 

15M Gallons 
Implemented 11 water conservation 
projects across the company, as detailed 
below, expected to conserve over 15 million 
gallons annually 

10M Gallons 
Implemented water reuse initiatives at 
Space Park, CA and Allegheny Ballistics 
Laboratory, WV, two of our water-stressed 
sites, with over 10 million gallons reduced 
annually 

2M Gallons 
Improved the water leak detection system 
and identified maintenance opportunities at 
our Palmdale, CA site, with a nearly 
two million gallon annual reduction 

3M Gallons 
Replaced water intensive equipment and/or 
processes at seven sites with an expected 
annual reduction of three million gallons 

TOTAL POTABLE WATER WITHDRAWALS 
(MILLION GALLONS)

1,438
1,262

1,375 1,460

2019
(base year)

2020 2021 2022
0

300

600

900

1,200

1,500



INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX 

U.K. Former Fareham 
Southampton Site Partners 
with Clear Workspace to 
Reduce Office Waste 
When our U.K. operations reorganized site 
locations due to increases in remote workers 
and shifts within the business, our former 
Fareham Southampton site closed in 2022. As a 
result of the closure, there was a significant 
amount of leftover onsite furniture and IT 
equipment, such as computer screens, 
keyboards and brackets. To prevent as much of 
this from becoming waste as possible, we 
redistributed these items to other Northrop 
Grumman offices as well as provided them to 
our local employees for at-home use. 

However, despite these efforts, a large amount 
of furniture and equipment remained. Rather 
than send these items to a landfill, we partnered 
with Clear Workspace, a London-based zero-
waste company that promotes a circular 
economy through national and international 
reuse of used office goods. All items that could 
not be relocated internally were removed by 
Clear Workspace, refurbished as needed and 
redistributed for reuse. In instances where items 
could not be redistributed, they were broken 
down by component and material for recycling. 
This partnership ensured that the site closure 
contributed zero waste from onsite furniture 
and equipment. 

60
 

2022 ESG Report

Environmental & Efficiency Program 
One way we advance efficiency and environmental conservation across Northrop Grumman is by 
employing a centralized investment mechanism to allocate additional targeted capital funding. Through our 
environmental and efficiency (E&E) allocated capital, we solicit project ideas from across the company and 
fund impactful projects that drive efficiency and performance against our goals. In 2022, the E&E allocation 
totaled $2.7 million. The funding was distributed across the company for projects and initiatives across all 
environmental footprint elements, the largest of which were three projects in water-stressed regions, 
expected to reduce annual water consumption by 10 million gallons. We will increase the level of 
investment in 2023 to $8.0 million to incentivize and encourage innovation and operational efficiencies that 
support environmental sustainability. 

Harnessing Helium 
Supply chain challenges have impacted nearly every aspect of our business, including the use of 
critical materials. With a sustainability mindset, we consider ways to reduce both our impact and our 
reliance on critical material inputs. Helium is naturally occurring and cannot be made by humans. This 
finite resource is produced as a byproduct of natural gas extraction and processing, ultimately used in 
the production of electronics, medical imaging technology and fiber optics manufacturing. At Northrop 
Grumman, helium is critical for semi-conductor manufacturing. 

A global helium shortage leading up to 2022 resulted in delivery delays that forced us to reimagine how 
we can improve use of this limited natural resource. At our Advanced Technology Laboratories site in 
Maryland, we used the E&E fund to invest in improvements that will optimize the plant that stores 
helium until it is ready to use. The updates to the plant, which include new pressure vessels, will 
enhance its operational efficiency, increasing our helium reuse capability by an estimated 
93,000 cubic feet.



INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX 

61
 

2022 ESG Report

Environmental Management 
Northrop Grumman is committed to sound environmental management and environmental sustainability. We 
conduct all operations in an environmentally responsible manner with a particular focus on the health and safety 
of our employees, contractors, visitors and community. We strive for continual improvement through our 
environmental programs and the implementation of our EH&S policy and associated procedures, which help 
reduce risk and maintain compliance with applicable laws, regulations and company-established directives. 

Navigating the complex and evolving nature of environmental management requires both a stalwart foundation 
as well as the flexibility to adapt to emerging issues. 

At Northrop Grumman, we take a multi-pronged approach to responsible management of our 
environmental impacts, which includes: 

• Program Execution: We position our EH&S professionals at all levels of the company to manage and 
support our environmental programs. These employees are responsible for executing site-level 
compliance activities, implementing key projects, conducting compliance reviews, maintaining EH&S 
management systems, tracking our performance against established goals and targets and engaging with 
internal and external stakeholders. The work these individuals perform and facilitate is critical to the 
implementation and success of our environmental programs at Northrop Grumman. 

• Compliance Assurance: We conduct site-level EH&S compliance reviews to help evaluate how key 
fundamentals of our environmental programs are being successfully integrated into day-to-day 
operations. In 2022, we largely resumed our normal cadence of in-person reviews, although some were 
completed with a hybrid in-person/virtual approach to accommodate the ongoing challenges presented by 
the COVID-19 pandemic. In total, we conducted reviews at 42 of our sites, which account for roughly 46% 
of the sites included in this program. 

• EH&S Management Systems: We maintain an internal EH&S Management System requirement, which 
is a pillar of our compliance program and based on ISO 14001. We require the implementation and 
maintenance of a management system for our sites that actively manage complex or specific EH&S risks. 
In addition, currently 21 of our sites hold an external environmental certification, such as ISO 14001. 
These sites account for approximately 23% of our global footprint. 

• Stakeholder Engagement: We implement training and educational campaigns to help ensure employees 
are aware of and understand job-specific requirements and company environmental priorities. We also 
engage with external stakeholders including regulatory agencies, industry organizations, peers and our 
local communities. Interacting with these stakeholders allows us to share insights on industry-wide 
issues, benchmark our performance and gather feedback to inform our environmental priorities.



INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX 

Environmental Remediation & 
Conservation 
Northrop Grumman is committed to safe, effective 
and sustainable environmental remediation. Our 
remediation team works in close coordination with 
federal, state and local regulators and stakeholders 
and in accordance with scientifically sound 
approaches. We have a longstanding record of 
leveraging our R&D innovations to provide effective 
and lasting solutions in lieu of more traditional, 
resource-intensive practices. This helps reduce the 
overall impact of our remediation efforts on the 
surrounding environment. We work to return our sites 
to beneficial use in our communities and conserve 
our environment for generations to come. 

In 2022, we remained dedicated to meeting our 
annual planned remediation obligations and were 
able to make significant progress on key projects. 

Bethpage, New York 
We have been engaged in extensive, science-based 
remedial activities for over 25 years related to historic 
operations at the former U.S. Navy and Grumman 
facilities in Bethpage, New York. 

In 2022, New York State reached an agreement with 
Northrop Grumman that provides for how our 
company implements the Bethpage amended 
groundwater remedy, makes payments to benefit 
water districts, funds other public water supply and 
restoration projects and resolves claims for natural 
resource damages. 

In order to further benefit the citizens of Bethpage 
and surrounding communities — including the local 
water districts — we are building on our longstanding 
partnership with the State and exhaustive work over 
the past 25 years to understand and remediate 
contamination. The work we will continue to perform 
complements the work that we understand the Navy 
has agreed to undertake. 

As of 2022, we have completed the installation and 
testing of 11,000 feet of conveyance piping and are 
completing construction of a state-of-the-art 
groundwater treatment system in Bethpage. This 
system, which is expected to commence start-up 
operations in Spring 2023, will treat an estimated 
2.7 million gallons of water each day and replenish 
the aquifer below. In early 2023, we will implement 
the next phase of the latest state-approved amended 
groundwater remedy by installing six vertical profile 
borings to sample and map specific areas offsite; then 
implement a science-based remedy according to 
state requirements. 

We also completed the first phase of our in-situ 
thermal remediation in nearby Bethpage Community 
Park. This work at the Park exceeded New York 
State’s clean-up objectives. We are commencing 
phase two of our operations using the same method 
at two other designated locations of the Park. This 
remediation technology is an “in-ground” application, 
which means the treatment was performed without 
excavating and trucking soil to a disposal facility. 

We are actively engaged with key community 
stakeholders including residents, business owners, 
elected officials and organizations.

62
 

2022 ESG Report



INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX 

Puente Valley, City of 
Industry, California 
With oversight from the EPA and local water 
authorities, Northrop Grumman and the local water 
district have worked together to deliver a creative, 
pragmatic solution to help the San Gabriel Valley in 
Southern California address increased demand for 
local water supplies. Known as the City of Industry, 
the region will soon benefit from the first of two new 
state-of-the-art ground water treatment facilities. The 
initial facility, which broke ground in 2018, was 
designed and constructed under the leadership of 
Northrop Grumman. It will produce enough drinkable 
water to support 50,000 people annually in the San 
Gabriel Valley Groundwater Basin area. 

To reach this major milestone, our team successfully 
navigated an intricate set of technical, regulatory, 
legal and administrative challenges. We are now 
working through the extensive permitting process 
required and anticipate delivering this significant new 
resource to the community by the first quarter 
of 2024. 

Shelbyville, Indiana 
As part of Indiana's Department of Environmental 
Management Voluntary Remediation Program, 
Northrop Grumman led the excavation of over 3,800 
tons of hazardous and non-hazardous chlorinated 
solvent-impacted soils resulting from legacy 
operations in Shelbyville. This removal ensures 
chlorinated solvents that were present in the soil do 
not further impact the community's 
groundwater resources. 

Our remediation team, contractors and consultants 
worked with property owners and existing businesses 
in Shelbyville to prevent disruptions to business 
operations and community events and minimize the 
overall impact on the community throughout the 
duration of the project. We expect the completion of 
excavation activities and restoration of impacted 
areas by Spring 2023. 

Alternative Remediation 
Technologies 
At several remediation sites, Northrop Grumman 
has implemented enhanced in-situ bioremediation 
(EISB) technologies that do not require large 
excavations, transport and disposal of soil or 
discharge of groundwater. Depending on the water 
chemistry and other environmental conditions, we 
have been able to enhance the naturally occurring 
chemical degradation processes of microbial 
communities in the ground by adding food sources 
for microbes, such as substrate, or by increasing 
oxygen in the groundwater by air sparging. 

In Hawthorne, California, we have implemented two 
EISB systems to treat volatile organic compounds 
(VOCs) that have impacted the groundwater. Each 
system consists of a network of injection and 
extraction wells used to recirculate groundwater 
that has been amended with sodium lactate and a 
bacterial culture, which work together to stimulate 
the biological degradation of the VOCs. These 
systems have been in operation at the Hawthorne 
site since 2021, covering more than 16 acres, 
and are expected to yield a 90% total VOC 
mass reduction. 

In Anaheim, California, we have built a groundwater 
circulation well to reduce VOC impacts at a former 
Northrop Grumman facility. The circulation well is 
connected to a system of in-casing advanced 
oxidation equipment that uses ultraviolet light and 
hydrogen peroxide to destroy VOCs in the 
groundwater without generating unwanted 
byproducts. It creates a localized circulation cell by 
pumping groundwater into the well casing for 
treatment and then discharging clean groundwater 
back into the aquifer. Initially piloted in 2010, the 
well has been operating as a full-scale remedy and 
has successfully reduced VOC concentration by 
approximately 50% within its approximately 6.5 
acre area of influence.

63
 

2022 ESG Report



INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX 

Conservation and Biodiversity 
Biodiversity is critical to the stability of natural 
resources and provides resilience in the face of 
climate-related events. Northrop Grumman is 
invested in doing our part to protect and conserve 
critical habitats around the world. As our land footprint 
is comparatively small, we believe that the biggest 
role we can play in protecting biodiversity is to 
contribute our brainpower and technology to support 
conservation efforts. 

Through our T4C initiative, Northrop Grumman 
engineers work with conservation partners to help 
tackle some of the toughest challenges facing 
ecosystems and wildlife. T4C teams develop 
innovative technologies that conservationists need to 
collect data in harsh or remote conditions. These 
partners gain access to advanced systems and 
engineering expertise suitable for their needs, while 
our employees get the opportunity to use their 
technical skills to help their communities and the 
planet thrive. 

T4C teams and projects generate cutting-edge 
technical and tactical solutions that provide our 
conservation partners with unique insights to better 
analyze, predict and address environmental issues 
such as climate change and biodiversity loss. This 
work capitalizes on our pioneering, innovative spirit — 
and underscores our understanding of the role 
conservation and sustainability plays in securing a 
safer world. For these reasons, we formally 
established a goal related to T4C as a part of our 
2022 Next-Generation Environmental Sustainability 
Goals. By 2030, we will expand T4C initiatives in 
proximity to our U.S. locations and in collaboration 
with external partners. 

In 2022, we expanded engagement with T4C to 54 
additional sites and launched two new projects. One 
new project is HOP Queue, which utilizes a 
hyperspectral imager and an onboard AI processor to 
more quickly and efficiently assess and predict 

coastal water and forest health from low Earth orbit. 
Phase 1 of the project is currently underway. During 
this phase, airborne data is collected using the new 
HOP Queue method and is being compared to "truth 
data" from smart buoys in the Chesapeake Bay, as 
well as satellite images and prior data acquired by 
partners like NASA) to establish a baseline. 

Engagement with T4C grew from 

17 
Northrop Grumman sites in 2021 to 

71 
sites in 2022, a more than 300% 
increase year-over-year. 

The second new project is Project Glacier Watch, 
which establishes an innovative system to better 
measure glacial melt below the surface of the ocean, 
a major cause of sea level rise. The project utilizes 
sensors mounted on smart buoys to collect 
conductivity, temperature and depth data at 
predetermined depths. This allows the T4C team, 
Hyperkelp and our partners at the NASA Jet 
Propulsion Lab to measure the sub-glacial meltwater 
plume from fixed depths. The buoy takes daily 
measurements in several places along the 
underwater column, creating a more frequent and 
efficient data collection method. 

In 2022, we began the process of handing over a 
number of T4C projects. We successfully transitioned 
our Oyster Monitoring Challenge project to our 
partners at the Chesapeake Bay Foundation. Their 
team will continue testing and integrating components 
of the system in 2023 in anticipation of its regular use 
for remote monitoring of reef health to support oyster 
restoration in the Chesapeake Bay. 

Additionally, we are preparing to hand over the Turtle 
Tech system to our partners at Brevard Zoo. The zoo 
will utilize the remote sensing technology developed 
by our T4C team to detect, identify and track sea 
turtles along the Florida coastline. The project 
includes self-sustaining support, primarily from 
university partners, that will continue to operate, 
maintain and enhance the program moving forward. 

Environmental Sustainability 
Hackathon 
More than 300 Northrop Grumman employees 
participated in our inaugural Environmental 
Sustainability Hackathon in June 2022. 
Hackathons focus on finding solutions to 
technical and social challenges in time efficient 
ways, and often result in the development of 
new software codes, websites, engineering 
designs, policies, business plans, community 
models or art. 

The goals of our hackathon were to brainstorm 
strategies for making areas of Northrop 
Grumman’s business more environmentally 
sustainable, proactively connect with people 
who could implement these strategies and 
provide support for the resulting initiatives. 
Fifteen of the formal projects submitted reached 
the exploration of funding stage, and the 
roundtable discussions held at the hackathon 
generated captivating and meaningful dialogue 
and activity focused on making our products and 
processes more environmentally sustainable. 

BLUEPRINT 
GOAL 

Expand T4C initiatives in 
proximity to Northrop 
Grumman’s U.S. locations 
by 2030, in collaboration 
with external partners.

64
 

2022 ESG Report

https://www.northropgrumman.com/sustainability/hop-queue/
https://www.northropgrumman.com/tag/corporate-citizenship/


INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX 

PIONEERING 
INNOVATION 
PRODUCTS 
SAFEGUARDING OUR FUTURE 

At Northrop Grumman, we utilize our experiences and the tools around us to deliver the highest 
quality products and capabilities to our customers today — and anticipate their needs for 
tomorrow. By developing cutting-edge technologies and conducting pioneering research that 
outpaces the speed of need, we’re making a difference to our customers and communities. 
Through our products, we are making lasting, positive impacts for our industry that the world 
never thought possible.

65
 

2022 ESG Report



INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX 

Ushering in a Digital Transformation 
As the defense industry gains momentum on its 
digital transformation journey, Northrop 
Grumman continues leading the way. We are 
demonstrating the value of implementing digital 
solutions across the enterprise to facilitate access to 
data and employ collaboration tools in new and 
innovative ways. We are realizing unprecedented 
success in accelerating design, testing and 
deployment cycles faster than ever before to meet the 
rapidly evolving needs and expectations of 
our customers. 

In addition to adding value for our customers, 
digital transformation has also opened doors to 
broader workforce inclusion and efficiency. We now 
have more remote and hybrid career options 
empowering our teams to connect and collaborate 
globally through integrated business systems and 
secure virtual operations. These factors, combined 
with the transition to a dashboard-driven digital 
culture, contribute to an even smaller carbon footprint 

by diminishing travel demands and reducing paper 
and other waste, while also increasing 
communication and efficiency. 

Our success as a partner in digital 
transformation builds on our leadership in 
digital engineering, Development Security and 
Operations, AI and machine learning, advanced 
manufacturing and an open architecture woven 
through Lean-Agile methodologies. Key groups 
within the company are also providing digital 
transformation leadership. For example, our 
Corporate Operations Council (COC), made up 
of vice presidents representing each business 
unit, provides governance strategies to initiate 
change across the company. In 2022, our COC 
continued to focus on digital transformation across all 
departments, collaborating closely with our enterprise 
Digital Transformation leaders. For more information 
about our approach to digital transformation, please 
see our website. 

Digital Transformation 
Change Network 
Our commitment to digital transformation 
has impacted all areas of our business. For this 
reason, we launched the Digital Transformation 
Change Network in 2022 to help us 
accelerate change across our business and 
ensure employees are prepared to embrace 
new technologies and adapt to new ways of 
working. This group is comprised of change 
management professionals across the company, 
who aim to establish a common change 
management framework and implement best 
practices in change management across our 
sectors. The group has also distributed change 
management resources and tools, including a 
Digital Transformation Change Management 
Toolkit to help better support employees to 
adapt to changes that impact their work.

66
 

2022 ESG Report

https://www.northropgrumman.com/what-we-do/digital-transformation/


INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX 

Product Quality 
Our culture of continuous improvement propels our teams to find new ways to push the boundaries of technology and 
research, pioneering advancements with proven best practices to deliver industry-leading product innovations. 
Adaptive trainings enable our engineers to assess the impact of decisions on the overall product systems at every 
stage of the development process, and their experience and dedication help us deliver safe, high-quality solutions to 
our customers. From observation to implementation, our processes emphasize customer satisfaction, quality and 
product safety as we develop our products. As a result of our dedication to quality, Northrop Grumman chair, CEO 
and president Kathy Warden was recognized as a recipient of the 2022 Deming Cup for Operational Excellence 
Award by Columbia Business School. 

Program Quality & Engineering 
Our enduring commitment to quality is inherent throughout Northrop Grumman’s culture and systems. Our Quality 
Management Policy requires our sites to implement a Quality Management System (QMS) consistent with either ISO 
9001 or the aerospace industry-specific AS9100 standards, as appropriate. Leadership and quality professionals 
curate quality management policies, report on metrics and share best practices on a quarterly basis. 

Awards for Excellence 
The Awards for Excellence (AFE) are Northrop Grumman’s highest honor, reserved for those who live our values 
and make exceptional contributions to our customers, business and company. This year the award honored 14 
teams whose 87 winners represent the depth and breadth of our portfolio and capabilities. The AFE recognize 
teams for extraordinary performance and contributions in six area — customer excellence, innovation excellence, 
operational excellence, program excellence, quality excellence and systems engineering excellence. 

First Inspector Program with Model-Based Staffing 

Our Aeronautics Systems sector received an AFE in the Quality Excellence category for the First Inspector 
Program, which is a remarkable example of cross-functional collaboration that drives a culture of quality. The 
reduction of defects, rework, repair hours and charge-back defects has aided the team to meet their schedule 
commitments. Together, it demonstrates the influence of Northrop Grumman’s values, the enabling power of 
digital transformation and the team’s hard work and dedication to excellence. 

James Webb Space Telescope Leadership 

After nearly two decades of innovation and performance by Northrop Grumman employees, including a 
successful launch and historic on-orbit operations, the James Webb Space Telescope (JWST) has begun to 
study every phase of cosmic history. Our Space Systems sector received an AFE in the Program Excellence 
category for JWST, which is one of the most ambitious missions in NASA’s history. The award recognized the 
Northrop Grumman team's ability to foster partnerships that resulted in phenomenal success, with a recent 
performance rated as “excellent” by the customer.

67
 

2022 ESG Report



INTRODUCTION PIONEERING PERFORMANCE PIONEERING PEOPLE PIONEERING PURPOSE PIONEERING INNOVATION APPENDIX 

Customer Satisfaction & 
Quality Metrics 
We consider customer satisfaction to be crucial to our 
continued success. We hold ourselves accountable 
for quality performance excellence, and we 
demonstrate our commitment to our customers 
through continuous performance analysis and 
refinement. Our Programs, Quality and Engineering 
team oversees performance in these key areas 
and implements strategic initiatives to support 
our programs. 

Each month, our corporate leadership reviews 
customer satisfaction and quality metrics to ensure 
we remain mission driven. When programs fail to 
meet performance expectations, our teams supply 
additional oversight and resources to move the 
programs forward and improve performance. We also 
provide teams with guidance on developing and 
executing our “Return to Green” plan, corporate 
engagement with partners and suppliers and regular 
meetings between corporate executives and 
program leaders. 

We are proud to report that we exceeded our quality 
and customer satisfaction targets in 2022. 

Product Safety 
We implement processes that include our QMS and 
corporate systems engineering policy to ensure our 
products remain safe and reliable for our customers. 
We develop individualized system safety plans for 
each program, which address potential hazard 
sources such as hardware, software, environmental 
and organizational issues. These safety system 
plans also apply to our partners and suppliers, 
helping ensure safety performance throughout our 
supply chain. 

Northrop Grumman’s experienced safety engineers 
oversee each of our product safety programs. The 
team applies industry best practices, which are 
discussed and collected through our company-wide, 
cross-sector Safety Community of Practice (COP), to 
identify, analyze and manage risk. Engineers on the 
team track safety risks, provide oversight when they 
conduct hazard analyses on programs, ensure 
compliance with applicable standards and work 
closely with customer and regulatory safety personnel 
to communicate and address any residual risks. 

68
 

2022 ESG Report

The Environmental Sustainability of the James Webb 
Space Telescope 
The JWST, launched successfully in late 2021, is an example of how environmental sustainability is ingrained in 
how we operate as a company. The JWST was commissioned by NASA and manufactured by a large team led by 
Northrop Grumman. As engineers designed and built the JWST over a span of 20 years, they incorporated 
environmental sustainability principles into the development and successful production of the telescope. 

Throughout the manufacturing process of the JWST, the team minimized industrial waste and recycled materials by 
performing rigorous pre-production design reviews. This enabled them to adjust the design of the JWST prior to 
manufacturing, preventing excess waste. In addition, any cut metallic chips were recycled so that they could be 
repurposed for other manufacturing jobs and infrastructure development at our Space Park site. Our JWST team 
also adopted robust testing standards for all design and manufacturing elements of the telescope, which resulted in 
fewer latent failures and minimal final production runs. “All these actions led to a smaller carbon footprint of the 
JWST and produced a high-quality product,” said Scott Willoughby, vice president and program manager. 

Our JWST team also considered the environmental impact of the data that the telescope would collect. 

Information gathered studying the planets inside and outside the solar system can help us draw important 
conclusions about Earth’s formation and its future. For example, the JWST’s groundbreaking optics and sensing 
systems will help scientists study Venus — a planet similar in size and composition to Earth but completely 
unlivable. Venus’ atmosphere is made up mostly of CO2 and scientists want to understand how Venus became that 
way. “They also want to answer questions like: Did it contain oceans or trees at some point? Were they destroyed 
by its high amount of CO2?” said Glen McBrayer, a Northrop Grumman engineering manager. 

Looking ahead, Northrop Grumman is continuing to apply the lessons learned with the JWST. We are investing 
resources in state-of-the-art milling machines that help prevent errors and increase machine automation. The 
company has also adopted new digital inspection capabilities which reduce parts inspections from days to minutes. 
These efforts and the constant, new scientific findings of the JWST demonstrate our contributions to pushing the 
boundaries of what we know is possible within our industry, ourselves and our universe.



 
  

INTRODUCTION PIONEERING  PERFORMANCE PIONEERING  PEOPLE PIONEERING  PURPOSE PIONEERING  INNOVATION APPENDIX 

Non-Financial 
Performance  Metrics 

Customer  Satisfaction:  Customer  
feedback,  including  customer-generated  
performance  scores,  award  fees  and  
verbal  and  written  feedback  

Quality:  Program-specific  objectives,  
including  defect  rates,  process  quality,  
supplier  quality,  planning  quality  or  other  
appropriate  criteria  for  program  type  
and  phase 

Assessing  Airworthiness 
Airworthiness  continues  to  be  an  integral  aspect  of  
product  safety  for  the  air  systems’  hardware  and  
software  that  our  team  produces,  procures,  
manages  and  sustains.  Northrop  Grumman’s  
CO-AW100  Airworthiness  Enterprise  Governing  
Procedure  empowers  an  airworthiness  lead  
department  to  oversee  cross-department  
compliance  to  military  and  civil  
airworthiness  regulations. 

As  we  continue  to  embrace  the  digital  
transformation  of  airworthiness,  we  are  working  to  
launch  a  model-based  approach  and  digital  
certification  database  that  is  integrated  into  a  
common  company-wide  platform.  This  platform  
helps  us  stay  aligned  with  customers’  expectations  
for  modern  and  agile  airworthiness  compliance. 

Northrop  Grumman  is  also  leading  industry  
airworthiness  training  and  education  standardization  
with  the  development  of  standards  through  the  
Aerospace  Industries  Association.  In  2022,  we  
received  no  airworthiness  directives.  

69 2022 ESG Report 



 
  

INTRODUCTION PIONEERING  PERFORMANCE PIONEERING  PEOPLE PIONEERING  PURPOSE PIONEERING  INNOVATION APPENDIX 

Product  Stewardship 
Northrop  Grumman  is  committed  to  delivering  
thoughtfully  designed,  high-quality  products  that  meet  
the  mission  of  our  customers  efficiently  and  
effectively.  By  maintaining  strong  lines  of  
communication  with  our  customers,  partners  and  
suppliers,  we  look  to  better  understand  the  needs  and  
expectations  of  our  stakeholders  and  align  on  shared  
goals  and  initiatives,  such  as  sustainability,  which  has  
become  an  increasingly  prominent  priority  to  our  
customers  and  partners.  In  2022,  we  launched  a  new  
sustainability  goal  to  build  a  product  stewardship  
program  in  collaboration  with  key  customers  which  is  
focused  on  material  efficiency,  product  design  and  life  
cycle  assessment.  While  manufacturing  efficient,  
sophisticated  and  durable  products  has  always  been  
a  core  practice  for  our  company,  the  intent  of  this  new  
goal  is  to  leverage  the  “systems  thinking”  that  
underpins  our  strong  manufacturing  and  design  
processes  to  examine  product  environmental  impacts  
and  opportunities  through  a  sustainability  lens. 

For  many  years,  we  have  relied  on  the  discipline  of  
systems  engineering  to  create  balanced  product  
solutions  that  achieve  the  performance  objectives  of  
our  customers  effectively,  reliably  and  affordably.  For  
example,  longevity  and  durability  are  often  critical  
product  characteristics  for  our  customers,  and  the  
application  of  systems  thinking  helps  ensure  we  
deliver  smart,  efficient  and  durable  products  that  have  
decades-long  service  lives.  Much  like  systems  
engineering,  effective  product  stewardship  requires  
cross-functional  engagements  with  a  variety  of  teams  
from  an  environmental  sustainability  perspective.  
Examining  our  products  through  the  lens  of  
sustainability  with  experts  from  teams  such  as  
engineering,  EH&S  and  supply  chain  allows  
collaboration  to  better  understand  our  designs  and  
processes  and  to  identify  new  opportunities  for  
improving  the  health,  safety,  environmental  and  social  
impacts  of  our  products  while  continuing  to  support  
our  customers’  needs. 

In  2022,  we  worked  to  define  our  product  stewardship  
program  with  a  focus  on  developing  a  process  that  
looks  more  critically  at  our  product  footprint.  This  
approach  will  provide  opportunities  to  increase  
engagements  with  our  partners  and  customers  for  
better  alignment  on  product  stewardship  priorities  and  
identify  tools  and  resources  to  better  equip  us  to  
design  our  products  with  a  sustainability  mindset.  

We  are  also  exploring  the  use  of  life  cycle  
assessments  to  gather  critical  data  and  identify  
opportunities  to  integrate  environmental  sustainability  
in  our  products  and  we  have  established  greater  
transparency  with  our  suppliers,  including  expanding  
our  Supplier  Code  of  Conduct,  to  articulate  our  
expectations  more  clearly  around  sustainability. 

The  Product  Stewardship  Community  of  Practice 
At  Northrop  Grumman,  we  believe  that  creating  a  workforce  and  a  workplace  that  values  diversity  and  fosters  
inclusion  is  pivotal  to  promoting  innovation  and  driving  sustainable  solutions.  Our  WiSE  talent  development  
program  is  just  one  example  of  a  program  that  supports  diversity  in  engineering  across  our  workforce.  In  
2020,  we  tasked  a  WiSE  Cohort  with  developing  a  product  stewardship  approach  for  a  product.  This  project  
led  to  the  creation  of  a  Product  Stewardship  COP  within  the  Aeronautics  Systems  sector.  The  COP  uses  an  
integrated  approach  to  product  stewardship,  which  helps  to  achieve  environmental  sustainability  outcomes  
for  our  company.  In  2022,  the  team  identified  one  chemical  of  concern,  gathered  data  regarding  its  
applications  throughout  the  business,  studied  its  health  and  environmental  impacts  and  prepared  a  business  
case  to  understand  the  implications  of  switching  to  alternative  chemicals. 
Since  completing  this  pilot  program,  the  COP  has  begun  engaging  real-life  opportunities  to  adjust  the  
company’s  use  of  the  chemical.  Moving  forward,  they  plan  to  continue  identifying  chemicals  of  concern  and  
examining  the  implications  of  their  use  across  the  sector.  For  more  information  on  our  Enterprise  WiSE  
Cohort,  please  see  the  Talent  Management  and  Development  section. 

Sperry  Marine 
The  shipping  industry  contributes  significantly  to  global  GHG  emissions.  The  International  Maritime  Organization  
(IMO),  the  UN  body  responsible  for  overseeing  maritime  regulations,  has  pledged  to  half  these  emissions  by  2050  
and  Northrop  Grumman  Sperry  Marine,  a  worldwide  supplier  of  navigation  and  automation  systems  for  
commercial  marine  and  naval  markets,  is  prepared  to  help  customers  achieve  these  reductions.  Sperry  Marine  
provides  dedicated,  state-of-the  art  navigation  and  automation  systems  for  commercial  and  naval  vessels.  
Products  like  the  Navipilot  4500N  autopilot  system  and  the  Intelligent  Navigation  digital  navigational  platforms  are  
designed  to  optimize  ship  routes  and  bolster  fuel  efficiency  traits,  which  are  invaluable  to  every  ship-owner  and  
help  satisfy  adherence  to  IMO  regulations,  while  championing  environmentally  sustainable  shipping.  

 HANDPRINT 
GOAL 

In  collaboration  with  key  customers,  work  to  develop  a  pioneering  product  stewardship  
program  focused  on  material  efficiency,  product  design  and  life  cycle  assessment. 

2022 ESG Report 70 



 
  

INTRODUCTION PIONEERING  PERFORMANCE PIONEERING  PEOPLE PIONEERING  PURPOSE PIONEERING  INNOVATION APPENDIX 

Research  &  Development 
Exploration  and  experimentation  through  R&D  
are  necessary  for  the  long -term  growth  of  our  
business.  Our  R&D  portfolio  encourages  innovation  at  
every  level  of  our  organization  and  empowers  our  
technologists  and  researchers  to  deploy  innovations  
within  and  across  each  of  our  business  departments.  
Departments  gain  new  insights  into  the  nature,  
direction  and  technology  of  our  portfolio.  Company -
wide,  our  R&D  management  approach  fosters  data- 
driven  decision  making  across  our  
technology  investments. 

We  make  strategic  investments  in  R&D,  which  allows  
us  to  create  and  identify  cutting  edge  technologies  
and  integrate  those  technologies  into  our  already  
proven  systems  and  services.  In  2022,  we  invested  
$1.2  billion  in  company -sponsored  R&D.  Our  
approach  to  R&D  ensures  continued  success  of  the  
most  complex  missions  our  nation  and  its  allies  will  
face  going  forward. 

The  Northrop  Grumman  Corporate  Technology  
Council  (CTC)  is  a  key  part  of  our  R&D  approach  as  
the  group  identifies  and  supports  company  
campaigns  and  investment  focus  areas  that  define  
success  for  our  customers’  most  critical  missions.  In  
2022,  the  CTC  partnered  with  the  enterprise  Joint  All- 
Domain  Command  and  Control  campaign  to  identify  
various  cross -sector  technologies  and  investments  
that  could  be  utilized  in  creative,  non -traditional  ways  
to  achieve  better  results  for  our  customers.  
Collaborations  like  this  enable  the  CTC  to  tackle  the  
most  challenging  problems  facing  our  customers  and  
provide  innovative  solutions. 

NORTHROP  GRUMMAN  TECHNOLOGY  PRIORITIES  BROADLY  ALIGN  WITH  CUSTOMER  
TECHNOLOGY  VISION 

2022 ESG Report 71 



 
  

INTRODUCTION PIONEERING  PERFORMANCE PIONEERING  PEOPLE PIONEERING  PURPOSE PIONEERING  INNOVATION APPENDIX 

Technology  and  Business  
Innovation  and  Operations 
Northrop  Grumman  remains  committed  to  fulfilling  the  
needs  of  our  customers  by  focusing  on  the  
advancement  of  critical  technology,  supply  and  
team  priorities,  which  are  vital  to  our  national  security. 

One  such  way  is  through  our  development  
of  technologies  with  open  architectures  that  
significantly  enhance  our  customers’  situational  
awareness  and  their  ability  to  realize  its  vision  of  
information  advantage  and  decision  superiority.  As  
the  need  for  data-centric  technologies  rapidly  
increases,  we  remain  dedicated  to  the  exploration  of  
employing  the  commercial  cloud  for  operational  data  
management  and  hosted  environments  for  
engineering  services  expansion. 

Re-establishing  microchip  manufacturing  in  the  U.S.  
is  another  active  focus  area  for  our  team.  Through  
strategic  efforts,  we  are  engaging  with  the  most  
advanced  semiconductor  technologies  available  in  
the  country  to  strengthen  our  domestic  supply  chain.  
One  such  effort  is  our  active  participation  in  various  
efforts  associated  with  the  CHIPS  Act,  which  aims  to  
revitalize  domestic  manufacturing  of  semiconductors,  
advanced  computing  components  and  strengthen  
U.S.  supply  chains  by  making  historic  investments  in  
domestic  workers,  communities  and  businesses.  Our  
involvement  in  the  CHIPS  Act  encompasses  efforts  
across  the  entire  U.S.  to  address  microelectronics  
workforce  development  and  create  advanced  
prototypes  for  future  government  systems  and  
commercial  industries. 

We  also  align  our  technology  priorities  with  our  
strategic  university  partners.  We  are  committed  
to  maturing  technical  talent  through  our  partnerships  
with  universities  across  the  country.  The  close  
collaboration  in  critical  technology  areas  is  vital  to  the  
outside-the-box  thinking  that  drives  the  development  
of  solutions  to  the  most  complex  environments.  Our  
support  of  and  commitment  to  our  university  partners  
remains  strong,  and  our  ongoing  collaborations  
include  projects  and  engagements  that  define  and  
shape  the  curriculum  and  mentorship  of  young  talent. 

For  more  information  on  the  critical  skills  and  
disciplines  our  curriculum  focuses  on,  please  see  
the  Education  Focus  Area  in  the  Corporate  
Citizenship  section. 

Responsible  Artificial  
Intelligence 
AI  is  fundamentally  changing  the  way  we  work  and  
the  way  our  solutions  perform.  AI  presents  us  with  an  
opportunity  to  harness  advanced  technologies  to  
enhance  performance  for  next-generation  mission  
solutions.  With  that  opportunity  comes  the  
responsibility  to  develop  our  AI  products  and  systems  
ethically  and  securely. 

In  2022,  we  continued  working  with  government  
and  trade  organizations  as  well  as  industry  and  

academic  partners  to  build  policies  for  implementing  
responsible  AI.  We  developed  technical  solutions  to  
enable  responsible  AI  development,  testing  and  
operations.  These  actions  will  help  us  continue  to  

meet  the  high  ethical  standards  and  expectations  set  
by  our  Values  and  our  customers.  Looking  to  the  
future,  operationalizing  AI  in  a  responsible  way  is  of  
utmost  importance.  We  recognize  the  unique  
opportunity  that  AI  presents  to  enable  our  products  
and  systems  to  perform  at  unprecedented  levels,  and  
continually  adapt  to  the  fast-evolving  environment  
around  them.  As  we  continue  to  push  the  boundaries  
of  AI  development  and  integrate  it  into  our  business,  
our  top  priority  will  continue  to  be  delivering  this  
technology  to  our  customers  in  a  safe,  effective  and  
ethical  way.  For  more  information,  please  see  our  AI  
Ethics  website. 

2022 ESG Report 72 

https://www.northropgrumman.com/what-we-do/ai-ethics-building-security-and-responsibility-into-intelligent-systems/
https://www.northropgrumman.com/what-we-do/ai-ethics-building-security-and-responsibility-into-intelligent-systems/


 
  

INTRODUCTION PIONEERING  PERFORMANCE PIONEERING  PEOPLE PIONEERING  PURPOSE PIONEERING  INNOVATION APPENDIX 

APPENDIX 
DEFINING  OUR 
SUSTAINABILITY  STANDARDS 

2022 ESG Report 73 



 
  

INTRODUCTION PIONEERING  PERFORMANCE PIONEERING  PEOPLE PIONEERING  PURPOSE PIONEERING  INNOVATION APPENDIX 

Selected  Awards  &  
Recognitions  for  2022 
• 100%  rating  for  the  eighth  consecutive  year  on  the  

Human  Rights  Campaign’s  Corporate  Equality  
Index  “Best  Place  to  Work  for  LGBTQ+  Equality” 

• 2022  Best  of  the  Best  Top  Employers  and  Top  
LGBTQ+  Friendly  Companies  by  Professional  
Woman’s  Magazine 

• 2022  Best  of  the  Best  Top  Employers  and  Top  
LGBTQ+  Friendly  Companies  lists  by  Black  
Employment  &  Entrepreneur  Journal 

• 2022  Best  of  the  Best  Top  Supplier  Diversity  
Programs  and  Top  Veteran-Friendly  Company  by  
U.S.  Veterans  Magazine 

• 2022  Best  of  the  Best  Top  Supplier  Diversity  
Programs,  Top  Employers  and  Top  LGBTQ+  
Friendly  Companies,  Hispanic  Network  Magazine  

• 2022  Best  of  the  Best  Top  Disability  Friendly  
Companies,  DIVERSEability  Magazine 

• 2022  Columbia  Business  School  Deming  Cup  for  
Operational  Excellence  awarded  to  Kathy  Warden,  
Chair,  CEO  and  President 

• 2022  Gold  HIRE  Vets  Medallion  Award  from  the  
U.S.  Department  of  Labor 

• 2022  JUST  Capital’s  100  Most  JUST  Companies 
• 2022  Champion  Partner  in  Education  Award  from  

the  Ogden  &  Weber  School  District  Foundation 
• AA  rating  from  MSCI  for  ESG  management 
• American  Heart  Association  Workplace  Health  

Achievement  Index  Silver  Level  Recognition 
• Champion  of  Veterans  Enterprise  Award  from  the  

National  Veterans  Small  Business  Coalition 
• Disability  Equality  Index  “Best  Place  to  Work  for  

Disability  Inclusion.”  Achieved  100%  for  nine  
consecutive  years 

• DiversityInc’s  Top  50  Companies  for  Diversity  
(#20).  Specific  lists:  Top  Company  for  Veterans  
(#2),  ERGs  (#3),  Native  American/Pacific  Islander  
(#5)Top  Company  for  People  with  Disabilities  (#7),  
Executive  Diversity  Councils  (#10),  Black  
Executives  (#16)  and  ESG  (#21) 

• Forbes  2022  World’s  Best  Employers  List 
• INSIGHT  Into  Diversity  Magazine’s  2022  Inspiring  

Programs  in  STEM  Award 
• Military  Friendly®  (Gold)  and  Military  Friendly  

Spouse  awards  from  Victory  Media 
• Named  to  the  S&P  Global  Dow  Jones  

Sustainability  Index,  North  America 
• National  Organization  on  Disability  Leading  

Disability  Employer  for  eighth  consecutive  year 
• One  of  only  two  A&D  companies  to  receive  a  100%  

Score  on  the  CPA-Zicklin  Index  for  Corporate  
Political  Contributions 

• One  of  Top  50  Employers  by  CAREERS  &  the  
disABLED  Magazine  and  named  Private-Sector  
Employer  of  the  Year  for  2022 

• One  of  the  Top  50  LinkedIn  2022  Companies  for  
investment  in  talent  and  helping  employees  build  
their  careers  for  long-term  success 

• One  of  54  organizations  recognized  by  the  2022  
Seramount  Inclusion  Index  for  creating  an  
inclusive  workplace 

• Participated  in  the  CDP  climate  change  
questionnaire  for  11  consecutive  years,  receiving  a  
B  score 

• One  of  the  Top  10  supporters  of  HBCUs 
• Veteran’s  Consortium  Pro  Bono  Program  2022  Pro  

Bono  Mission  Partner  Award 

2022 ESG Report 74 



 
  

INTRODUCTION PIONEERING  PERFORMANCE PIONEERING  PEOPLE PIONEERING  PURPOSE PIONEERING  INNOVATION APPENDIX 

Organizations  &  
University  Partnerships 
Northrop  Grumman  maintains  affiliations  with  a  variety  of  organizations  and  universities  that  inform  and  enhance  our  performance.  Some  of  these  organizations  
are  listed  below.  In  addition,  our  list  of  trade  association  memberships  is  available  on  our  trade  associations  webpage. 

Organizations 
• Advancing  Minorities  Interest  in  

Engineering  (AMIE) 

• Aerospace  Industries  Association 

• American  Association  of  Exporters  and  Importers  

• Asian  Business  Association 

• Association  for  Supply  Chain  Management  

• Association  of  Corporate  Citizenship  Professionals  

• Black  Business  Association 

• Black  Engineer  of  the  Year 

• Boston  College  Center  for  Corporate  Citizenship 

• Boston  College  Center  for  Work  &  Family  
Workforce  Roundtable 

• Brookings  Institution  

• Business  Roundtable 

• Capital  Collaborative  of  Leaders  in  Academia  and  
Business  (CoLAB) 

• CAPS  Research 

• Center  for  a  New  American  Security 

• Center  for  Strategic  and  Budgetary  Assessments  

• Center  for  Strategic  and  International  Studies  

• Corporate  Eco  Forum 

• Defense  Industry  Initiative  on  Business  Ethics  
and  Conduct 

• Disability:IN 

• Diversity  Best  Practices 

• Ethics  and  Compliance  Initiative  

• Equal  Justice  Works 

• Gartner  Advisory  Group 

• Great  Minds  in  STEM 

• Greater  Washington  Partnership  

• Greater  Los  Angeles  African  American  Chamber  
of  Commerce 

• HUBZone  Contractors  National  Council  

• Human  Rights  Campaign 

• Industrial  Security  Awareness  Council  

• Institute  for  Supply  Management  

• Institute  of  Business  Ethics 

• International  Aerospace  Environmental  Group  

• International  Forum  on  Business  Ethical  Conduct  

• Latin  Business  Association 

• Mitchell  Institute  for  Aerospace  Studies 

• National  Association  of  Manufacturers 

• National  Association  of  Women  Business  Owners 

• National  Center  for  American  Indian  
Enterprise  Development 

• National  Defense  Industrial  Association  

• National  LGBT  Chamber  of  Commerce 

• Capital  Region  National  Minority  Supplier  
Development  Council  

• National  Science  Teaching  Association 

• National  Society  of  Black  Engineers  

• National  Veteran  Small  Business  Coalition  

• OneTen 

• Out  &  Equal  Workplace  Summit 

• Recycling  Black  Dollars 

• Responsible  Minerals  Initiative  

• Society  of  Asian  Scientists  and  Engineers 

• Society  of  Hispanic  Professional  Engineers  

• Society  of  Women  Engineers 

• Southern  California  Minority  Supplier  
Development  Council 

• The  Conference  Board 

• The  Telemus  Group  LLC 

• U.S.  Pan  Asian  American  Chamber  of  Commerce 

• Virginia  Chamber  of  Commerce 

2022 ESG Report 75 

https://www.northropgrumman.com/investor-relations/trade-associations/


 
  

INTRODUCTION PIONEERING  PERFORMANCE PIONEERING  PEOPLE PIONEERING  PURPOSE PIONEERING  INNOVATION APPENDIX 

Universities 
• Alabama  A&M  University 

• Antelope  Valley  College 

• Arizona  State  University 

• Bowie  State  University 

• California  Institute  of  Technology 

• California  Polytechnic  State  University,  
San  Luis  Obispo  

• California  State  Polytechnic  University,  Pomona  

• California  State  University,  Long  Beach 

• California  State  University,  Northridge  

• Carnegie  Mellon  University 

• Colorado  School  of  Mines 

• Embry-Riddle  University  

• Florida  A&M  University 

• Florida  Institute  of  Technology  

• George  Mason  University  

• Georgia  Institute  of  Technology  

• Howard  University 

• James  Madison  University  

• Massachusetts  Institute  of  Technology  

• Morgan  State  University 

• North  Carolina  A&T  State  University  

• Pennsylvania  State  University 

• Purdue  University 

• Rochester  Institute  of  Technology 

• San  Diego  State  University 

• Stanford  University  

• University  of  Alabama,  Huntsville  

• University  of  Arizona 

• University  of  California,  Irvine  

• University  of  California,  Los  Angeles  

• University  of  California,  San  Diego  

• University  of  California,  Santa  Barbara  

• University  of  Central  Florida 

• University  of  Colorado,  Boulder  

• University  of  Florida 

• University  of  Illinois,  Chicago 

• University  of  Illinois,  Urbana-Champaign  

• University  of  Maryland,  Baltimore  County  

• University  of  Maryland,  College  Park  

• University  of  Michigan 

• University  of  Oklahoma 

• University  of  Puerto  Rico,  Mayaguez  

• University  of  South  Florida 

• University  of  Southern  California  

• University  of  Utah 

• University  of  Virginia  

• Utah  State  University 

• Virginia  Polytechnic  Institute  and  State  University  

• Weber  State  University 

• West  Virginia  University 

2022 ESG Report 76 



 
  

INTRODUCTION PIONEERING  PERFORMANCE PIONEERING  PEOPLE PIONEERING  PURPOSE PIONEERING  INNOVATION APPENDIX 

Materiality 
This  report  addresses  certain  items  that  are  most  important  to  the  company  from  an  ESG  reporting  perspective  consistent  with  the  GRI  Standards. 

In  2020,  we  conducted  a  comprehensive  materiality   assessment  of  ESG  topics  with  a  third  party  to  identify  and  prioritize  those  items  that  were  most  important  to  the  
company  from  an  ESG  reporting  perspective. 

*

In  this  process,  we  gathered  and  analyzed  input  by  engaging  with  a  diverse  set  of  internal  and  external  stakeholders,  including  company  leadership,  trade  associations,  
university  partners,  nonprofits  and  suppliers.  Our  executive  leadership  reviewed  and  validated  the  results  to  ensure  we  had  a  list  of  topics  that  aligned  with  our  business  and  
reflected  the  feedback  from  our  stakeholders.  For  a  full  description  of  our  materiality  assessment  process,  please  see  our  2020  Sustainability  Report. 

In  2022,  we  reviewed  and  refreshed  this  assessment,  giving  consideration  to,  among  other  things,  our  current  ESG  priorities,  our  strengths  and  opportunities  and  external  trends.  This  
report  reflects  the  outcome  of  these  assessments  and  highlights  certain  topics  that  are  most  important  to  our  company  and  stakeholders  from  an  ESG  reporting  perspective,  including  
the  ESG  topics  identified  in  the  table. 

These  ESG  topics  are  considered  in  shaping  our  sustainability  strategies,  goals,  initiatives,  risk  management  and  more.  We  track  emerging  ESG  issues  and  update  our  
sustainability  strategies  periodically  to  address  the  topics  that  are  important  to  our  business  and  our  many  stakeholders. 

Environmental 
• Climate,  GHG  Emissions  and  

Product  Environmental  Impact 

• Environmental  Impact  of  
Operations 

• Environmental  Remediation 

Social 
• Community  Engagement 

• Diversity,  Equity  &  Inclusion 

• Employee  Health,  Safety  and  
Well-being 

• Human  Rights 

• Talent  Acquisition,  Management  
and  Development 

Governance 
• Business  Continuity 

• Corporate  Governance 

• Cybersecurity 

• Ethics 

• Geopolitical  Factors 

• Regulatory  Compliance 

Product 
• Customer  Satisfaction 

• Product  Safety  &  Quality 

• R&D,  Innovation  &  Digital  
Transformation 

* We  do  not  use  the  term  “materiality”  as  defined  by  or  in  the  context  of  the  U.S.  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  (SEC)  laws  including  those  related  to  SEC  reporting  and  disclosure  obligations,  or  any  other  
securities  laws,  or  as  the  term  is  used  in  the  context  of  financial  statements  and  financial  reporting 

2022 ESG Report 77 

https://www.northropgrumman.com/wp-content/uploads/Northrop-Grumman_2020-SustainabilityReport.pdf


 
  

INTRODUCTION PIONEERING  PERFORMANCE PIONEERING  PEOPLE PIONEERING  PURPOSE PIONEERING  INNOVATION APPENDIX 

Stakeholder  Engagement 
Our  key  stakeholders  include  academia,  communities,  customers,  employees,  governments,  industry  partners,  policymakers,  professional  associations,  shareholders  and  
suppliers.  We  engage  extensively  with  stakeholder  groups  through  various  means  to  promote  understanding  and  dialogue  regarding  management  of  these  material  
ESG  issues. 

WHOM  WE  ENGAGE HOW  WE  ENGAGE 
Communities Review  programs  and  initiatives  in  collaboration  with  community  partners  and  senior  leadership;  develop  community  engagement  plans  

that  align  with  strategic  priorities   

Network  with  leaders  from  organizations  in  our  targeted  areas,  including  military  and  veterans,  STEM  education  and  diversity-focused  
organizations,  to  understand  key  issues  and  needs 

Customers Work  with  customers  on  establishing  program  goals  and  priorities   

Partner  with  government  and  industry  partners  to  develop  and  drive  common  strategies  and  standards  that  support  program  performance,  
foster  innovation  and  reduce  supply  chain  risk 

Employees Consult  and  collaborate  with  employees  through  a  variety  of  ways,  including  our  annual  employee  survey,  ERGs,  Global  and  Sector  
Diversity  and  Inclusion  Committees  and  all  hands  and  small  group  forums   

Offer  volunteer  opportunities  and  programs  in  areas  such  as  mentoring,  STEM  education,  environmental  conservation,  military  and  
veterans,  health  and  human  services,  matching  gifts  and  payroll  contributions  to  charities 

Industry  Partners Represent  the  company  on  industry  associations  addressing  security  stakeholder  topics  such  as  critical  technology  protection,  controlled  
unclassified  information,  insider  threats  and  personnel  security  clearance   

Participate  in  industry  meetings  with  various  nonprofit  and  government  organizations 
Shareholders Collaborate  with  investment  leads  and  actively  managed  shareholders   

Meet  with  the  governance  leads  of  our  largest  shareholders 
Suppliers Host  supplier  outreach  events  and  offer  mentoring  programs   

Sponsor  academic,  customer  and  industry  activities  that  support  small  business  growth  and  development 

2022 ESG Report 78 



 
  

INTRODUCTION PIONEERING  PERFORMANCE PIONEERING  PEOPLE PIONEERING  PURPOSE PIONEERING  INNOVATION APPENDIX 

Environmental  Data  Accountability  
Methodology 
We  have  continued  to  prioritize  tracking  and  
maintaining  high-quality  data  about  our  key  
operational  environmental  metrics,  including  GHG  
emissions,  energy  usage,  water  usage  and  solid  
waste  reduction  from  landfills. 

In  2022,  we  shifted  our  environmental  data  reporting  
year  from  calendar  year  (January-December)  to  the  
government  fiscal  year  (October-September).  This  
shift  accommodates  our  earlier  report  publication  date  
and  enables  our  data  to  include  actual  results  for  all  
months  where  data  is  available,  improving  our  data  
quality  and  eliminating  duplicative  reporting  efforts.  
The  2019-2021  environmental  data  for  GHG,  energy,  

water  and  solid  waste  for  Northrop  Grumman  global  
facilities  has  been  re-stated  to  reflect  our  adjusted  
reporting  year. 

Our  environmental  footprint  data  is  tracked  across  the  
full  portfolio  of  our  facilities  where  we  have  
operational  control,  which  represents  more  than  
99%  of  our  global  footprint.  Reporting  for  our  
historical  data  has  also  been  adjusted  to  align  with  
our  current  business  composition,  structure  and  
revised  methodologies.  Our  GHG  inventory  was  
developed  in  accordance  with  the  GHG  Protocol  
Corporate  Standard  and  in  alignment  with  the  

International  Aerospace  Environmental  Group  
Greenhouse  Gas  Reporting  Guidance,  and  includes  
CO2,  CH4,  N2O,  HFCs,  PFCs,  SF6  and  NF3.  We  
continue  to  engage  third-party  verifiers  to  validate  our  
Scope  1  (direct),  Scope  2  (indirect,  location- and  
market-based)  and  Scope  3  (other  indirect)  Business  
Travel  emissions  to  the  ISO  14064-3  standard.  Our  
waste  metric  includes  hazardous  waste  generation,  
so  reduction  from  landfill  reflects  our  entire  waste  
portfolio  for  the  business  as  opposed  to  just  non-
hazardous  waste. 

Forward-Looking 
Statements 
Statements  in  this  report  contain  or  may  contain  
statements  that  constitute  “forward-looking  
statements”  within  the  meaning  of  the  Private  
Securities  Litigation  Reform  Act  of  1995.  Words  such  
as  “will,”  “expect,”  “anticipate,”  “commit,”  “intend,”  
“may,”  “could,”  “should,”  “plan,”  “project,”  “forecast,”  
“believe,”  “estimate,”  “outlook,”  “trends,”  “goals”  and  
similar  expressions  generally  identify  these  forward-
looking  statements.  These  forward-looking  
statements  speak  only  as  of  the  date  when  made,  
and  the  company  undertakes  no  obligation  to  publicly 

update  or  revise  any  forward-looking  statements  after  
the  date  of  this  release,  except  as  required  by  
applicable  law.  Forward-looking  statements  are  not  
guarantees  of  future  performance  and  inherently  
involve  a  wide  range  of  risks  and  uncertainties  that  
are  difficult  to  predict.  A  discussion  of  these  risks  
and  uncertainties  is  contained  in  the  company’s  filings  
with  the  SEC. 

2022 ESG Report 79 



INTRODUCTION PIONEERING  PERFORMANCE PIONEERING  PEOPLE PIONEERING  PURPOSE PIONEERING  INNOVATION APPENDIX 

GRI  Standards  Content  Index 
The  GRI  content  index  indicates  the  location  of  each  disclosure  within  this  report,  externally  on  our  website  or  other  reports  or  provides  the  information  directly  in  a  statement. 

We  have  also  indicated  how  our  reporting  topic  areas  align  with  the  United  Nations  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (UN  SDGs).  The  SDGs  address  global  challenges  and  
are  designed  to  encourage  active  participation  by  corporations,  governments  and  nonprofit  organizations  to  collaborate  on  finding  solutions. 

For  more  information,  please  see  the  UN  SDGs  website. 

Index 

 
  

PR:  2022  Proxy  Statement 
PCG:  Principles  of  Corporate  Governance 

 General Disclosures 
Statement  of  Use Northrop  Grumman  has  reported  with  reference  to  the  GRI  Standards  for  the  period  January  1,  2022-December  31,  2022,  unless  

otherwise  noted. 
GRI  1  Used GRI  1:  Foundation  2021 
Applicable  GRI  Sector  Standard(s) Not  applicable 

Disclosure Location  (Or  Direct  Information) 
SDG  
Reference 

2-1 Organization  Details a. Northrop  Grumman  Corporation  (NYSE:  NOC) 
b. Organization  details  can  be  found  in  the  Our  Company  section  and  ownership  information  in  the  

Form  10-k,  p.  1 
c. Location  of  Headquarters:  Falls  Church,  Virginia,  U.S. 
d. For  location  of  operations,  see  the  Northrop  Grumman  website,  Contact  Us 

2-2 Entities  included  in  the  organization’s  
sustainability  reporting 

Northrop  Grumman  Corporation 

2-3 Reporting  period,  frequency  and  
contact  point 

a. Reporting  period  for  sustainability  reporting:  January  1,  2022  to  December  31,  2022,  unless  otherwise  
noted.  For  more  information,  see  the  Environmental  Data  Accountability  Methodology. 

b. Reporting  period  for  financial  reporting:  January  1,  2022  to  December  31,  2022 
c. See  the  Northrop  Grumman  website,  Contact  Us 

2-4 Restatements  of  information a. See  Environmental  Data  Accountability  Methodology 
2-5 External  assurance a. Governance  Structure  –  ESG  Oversight 

b. We  externally  assure  our  Emissions  and  Water  data  using  an  independent  assurance  provider,  LRQA.  
See  our  website. 

2022 ESG Report 80 

https://sdgs.un.org/goals
https://www.northropgrumman.com/who-we-are/contact-us-northrop-grumman/
https://www.northropgrumman.com/who-we-are/contact-us-northrop-grumman/
https://www.northropgrumman.com/corporate-responsibility/sustainability-reports-and-esg-information/
https://www.northropgrumman.com/wp-content/uploads/Northrop-Grumman-2023-Proxy-Statement-FINAL-Bookmarked-Web-Ready-v2.pdf?_gl=1*1b7vclb*_ga*NzY0NzI2NjY1LjE2Mzc1OTg2ODM.*_ga_7YV3CDX0R2*MTY4MDUzNzk2MS41MDIuMS4xNjgwNTM4MDIzLjAuMC4w
https://investor.northropgrumman.com/static-files/18fe83e4-8eb9-4f74-9fe6-7c770a1d787a


   
 

 
  

INTRODUCTION PIONEERING  PERFORMANCE PIONEERING  PEOPLE PIONEERING  PURPOSE PIONEERING  INNOVATION APPENDIX 

SDG 
Disclosure Location (Or Direct Information) Reference 
2-6 Activities,  value  chain  and  other  

business  relationships 
a. Our  Company  
b. For  activities,  products,  services  and  markets  served:  Our  Company.  For  information  on  the  supply  

chain:  Global  Supply  Chain 
c. We  disclose  our  significant  business  relationships  in  the  Supply  Chain  section  of  this  report. 

2-7 Employees People  and  Culture;  ESG  Performance  Data  Matrix 
Employee  data  is  as  of  12/31/22. 

2-8 Workers  who  are  not  employees People  and  Culture;  ESG  Performance  Data  Matrix 
2-9 Governance  structure  

and  composition 
a. Governance  Structure  –  ESG  Oversight;  Board  of  Directors;  PR  Proposal  1:  Election  of  Directors 
b. Governance  Structure  –  ESG  Oversight;  Board  of  Directors;  PR  Proposal  1:  Election  of  Directors 
c. Board  of  Directors;  PR  Proposal  1:  Election  of  Directors 

SDG  5,  16 

2-10 Nominating  and  selecting  the  
highest  governance  body 

a. Board  of  Directors;  PR  Proposal  1:  Election  of  Directors 
b. Board  of  Directors;  PR  Proposal  1:  Election  of  Directors 

SDG  5,  16 

2-11 Chair  of  the  highest 
governance  body 

a. Board  of  Directors;  PR  Proposal  1:  Election  of  Directors 
b. Board  of  Directors;  PR  Proposal  1:  Election  of  Directors 

SDG  16 

2-12 Role  of  the  highest  governance  body  
in  overseeing  the  management  
of  impacts 

a. Stakeholder  Engagement;  Board  of  Directors,  Board  of  Directors:  Sustainability  Oversight;  PCG  
Sections  I,  II,  IV.G 

b. PR:  Board  Membership  and  External  Relationships 
c. Stakeholder  Engagement;  Board  of  Directors,  Board  of  Directors:  Sustainability  Oversight 

SDG  16 

2-13 Delegation  of  responsibility  for  
managing  impacts 

a. Governance;  PCG  Section  11.B SDG  16 

2-14 Highest  governance  body’s  role  in  
sustainability  reporting 

a. Governance;  PCG  Section  11.B 

2-15 Conflicts  of  interest a. Ethics  &  Responsible  Business  Practices;  PCG  Section  III.E;  VII;  PR,  p.  34,  42 SDG  16 
2-17 Collective  knowledge  of  the  highest  

governance  body 
PR  Director  Qualifications  and  Experience 

2-18 Evaluation  of  the  performance  of  
the  highest  governance  body 

a. Governance;  PCG  Section  VI.D 
b. PCG  Section  VI.D 
c. PR  Annual  Self-Assessment  Process 

2-19 Remuneration  policies PR,  p.  41-58,  64-65 
2-20 Process  to  determine  remuneration PCG  Section  V.A,  B  ;  PR,  p.  7,  31,  43-85 
2-21 Annual  total  compensation  ratio PR,  p.  84 
2-22 Statement  on  sustainable  

development  strategy 
Message  from  CEO;  TCFD  Report  –  a  Message  from  Our  Chief  Sustainability  Officer 

2-23 Policy  commitments a. Ethics  &  Responsible  Business  Practices;  Global  Supply  Chain 
b. Ethics  &  Responsible  Business  Practices;  Global  Supply  Chain 
c. Standards  of  Business  Conduct  and  Suppliers  Standards  of  Business  Conduct;  

Human  Rights  Policy;  Anti-Human  Trafficking  and  Slavery  Statement 
d. Governance 
e. Ethics  &  Responsible  Business  Practices;  Global  Supply  Chain 
f. Ethics  &  Responsible  Business  Practices;  Global  Supply  Chain 

SDG  16 

2022 ESG Report 81 



   
 

 
  

INTRODUCTION PIONEERING  PERFORMANCE PIONEERING  PEOPLE PIONEERING  PURPOSE PIONEERING  INNOVATION APPENDIX 

Disclosure 
2-24 Embedding  policy  commitments 

Location (Or Direct Information) 
Our  Values;  Ethics  &  Responsible  Business  Practices;  PR,  p.  32 

2-25 Processes  to  remediate  
negative  impacts 

a. Ethics  &  Responsible  Business  Practices:  Northrop  Grumman  OpenLine 
b. Ethics  &  Responsible  Business  Practices:  Northrop  Grumman  OpenLine 
c. Northrop  Grumman  OpenLine 
d. Northrop  Grumman  OpenLine 
e. Compliance  (Business  Conduct  Advisors) 
f. Ethics  &  Responsible  Business  Practices:  Northrop  Grumman  OpenLine 

SDG 
Reference 

2-26 Mechanisms  for  seeking  advice  
and  raising  concerns 

Ethics  &  Responsible  Business  Practices:  Northrop  Grumman  OpenLine;  ESG  Performance  Data  Matrix SDG  16 

2-27 Compliance  with  laws  and 
regulations 

ESG  Performance  Data  Matrix SDG  16 

2-28 Membership  associations Organizations  &  Universities 
2-29 Approach  to  stakeholder  engagement Stakeholder  Engagement 
2-30 Collective  bargaining  agreements ESG  Performance  Data  Matrix SDG  8 
3-1 Defining  report  content  and  

topic  boundaries 
About  This  Report;  Materiality 

3-2 List  of  material  topics Materiality
Reporting  changes  are  listed  in  About  This  Report 

3-3 Management  of  Material  Topics Ethics  &  Responsible  Business  Practices SDG  12 
Governance  Structure SDG  12 
Ethics  &  Responsible  Business  Practices SDG  12 
Cybersecurity  &  Data  Protection SDG  9 
Business  Continuity  &  Operational  Resilience SDG  12 
Ethics  &  Responsible  Business  Practices SDG  8 
Global  Supply  Chain SDG  8 
Ushering  in  a  Digital  Transformation,  Research  &  Development SDG  9 
Product  Stewardship SDG  12 
Product  Quality SDG  9 
Enhancing  Operations  &  Management SDG  6,  7,  13,  

14,  15 
Pioneering  People SDG  8 
Diversity,  Equity  &  Inclusion SDG  5,  10 
Employee  Health  and  Safety SDG  3,  8 
Enhancing  Operations  &  Management  SDG  6,  7,  13,  

14,  15 
Enhancing  Operations  &  Management SDG  6,  7,  13,  

14,  15 
Corporate  Citizenship SDG  1,  2,  3,  

4,  5,  11,  17 

2022 ESG Report 82 



 
  

INTRODUCTION PIONEERING  PERFORMANCE PIONEERING  PEOPLE PIONEERING  PURPOSE PIONEERING  INNOVATION APPENDIX 

 Topic-Specific Disclosures 

Disclosure Location  (Or  Direct  Information) 
SDG 
Reference 

Economic 
ECONOMIC  PERFORMANCE 
201-1 Direct  economic  value  generated  and  distributed Company  Performance;  Annual  Report;  ESG  Performance  Data  Matrix SDG  2,  8,  9 
PROCUREMENT  PRACTICES 
204-1 Proportion  of  spending  on  local  suppliers Global  Supply  Chain SDG  12 
ANTI-CORRUPTION 
205-1 Operations  assessed  for  risks  related  to  corruption Ethics  &  Responsible  Business  Practices;  Standards  of  Business  Conduct;  

Form 10-k ,  p.  16-24  (Business  and  Operational  Risks) 
SDG  16 

205-2 Communication  and  training  about  anti-corruption 
policies  and  procedures 

Governance  Structure;  Ethics  &  Responsible  Business  Practices SDG  16 

205-3 Confirmed  incidents  of  corruption  and  actions  taken Northrop  Grumman  Openline SDG  16 
Environmental 
ENERGY 
302-1 Energy  consumption  within  the  organization ESG  Performance  Data  Matrix;  2022  CDP  Response SDG  7,  12,  13 
302-3 Energy  Intensity ESG  Performance  Data  Matrix SDG  7,  12,  13 
302-4 Reduction  of  energy  consumption Energy  Conservation SDG  7,  12,  13 
WATER  AND  EFFLUENTS 
303-1 Interactions  with  water  as  a  shared  resource Enhancing  Operations  &  Management 
303-2 Management  of  water  discharge-related  impacts Enhancing  Operations  &  Management 
303-3 Water  withdrawal Enhancing  Operations  &  Management;  ESG  Performance  Data  Matrix SDG  6 
EMISSIONS 
305-1 Direct  (Scope  1)  GHG  emissions Enhancing  Operations  &  Management;  ESG  Performance  Data  Matrix;  2022  

CDP  Response 
SDG  12,  13 

305-2 Energy  indirect  (Scope  2)  GHG  emissions Enhancing  Operations  &  Management;  ESG  Performance  Data  Matrix;  2022  
CDP  Response 

SDG  12,  13 

305-3 Other  indirect  (Scope  3)  GHG  emissions 2022  CDP  Response SDG  12,  13 
305-4 GHG  emissions  intensity ESG  Performance  Data  Matrix SDG  12,  13 
305-5 Reduction  of  GHG  emissions ESG  Performance  Data  Matrix;  2022  CDP  Response SDG  12,  13 
WASTE 
306-3 Waste  generated Enhancing  Operations  &  Management;  ESG  Performance  Data  Matrix SDG  12 
306-4 Waste  diverted  from  disposal Enhancing  Operations  &  Management;  ESG  Performance  Data  Matrix SDG  12 
306-5 Waste  directed  to  disposal Enhancing  Operations  &  Management;  ESG  Performance  Data  Matrix SDG  12 

2022 ESG Report 83 

https://www.northropgrumman.com/corporate-responsibility/ethics-and-business-conduct/standards-of-business-conduct/
https://investor.northropgrumman.com/static-files/18fe83e4-8eb9-4f74-9fe6-7c770a1d787a


   

 
  

INTRODUCTION PIONEERING  PERFORMANCE PIONEERING  PEOPLE PIONEERING  PURPOSE PIONEERING  INNOVATION APPENDIX 

Disclosure 
SUPPLIER  ENVIRONMENTAL  ASSESSMENT 

Location (Or Direct Information) 
SDG 
Reference 

308-1 New  suppliers  that  were  screened  using 
environmental  criteria 

Global  Supply  Chain  - Supplier  Performance 

308-2 Negative  environmental  impacts  in  the  supply  chain 
and  actions  taken 

Global  Supply  Chain- Supplier  Performance 

Social 
EMPLOYMENT 
401-1 New  employee  hires  and  employee  turnover DE&I;  ESG  Performance  Data  Matrix SDG  8 
401-2 Benefits  provided  to  full-time  employees  that  are  not  

provided  to  temporary  or  part-time  employees 
Employee  &  Family  Well-Being;  My  Well-being SDG  8 

401-3 Parental  leave Employee  Resource  Groups SDG  8 
OCCUPATIONAL  HEALTH  AND  SAFETY 
403-1 Occupational  health  and  safety  management  system Employee  Health  &  Safety 
403-2 Hazard  identification,  risk  assessment  and  

incident  investigation 
Employee  Health  &  Safety 

403-3 Occupational  health  services Employee  &  Family  Well-Being;  Northrop  Grumman  Total  Rewards 
403-4 Worker  participation,  consultation  and 

communication  on  occupational  health  and  safety 
Employee  Health  &  Safety 

403-5 Worker  training  on  occupational  health  and  safety Employee  Health  &  Safety 
403-6 Promotion  of  worker  health Employee  Health  &  Safety;  Employee  &  Family  Well-Being 
403-7 Prevention  and  mitigation  of  occupational 

health  and  safety  impacts  directly  linked  by 
business  relationships 

Global  Supply  Chain:  Supplier  Responsibility;  Supplier  Standards  of  
Business  Conduct 

403-8 Workers  covered  by  an  occupational  health  and 
safety  management  system 

Employee  Health  &  Safety 

403-9 Types  of  injury  and  rates  of  injury,  occupational 
diseases,  lost  days  and  absenteeism  and  number  of 
work-related  injuries 

ESG  Performance  Data  Matrix 

TRAINING  AND  EDUCATION 
404-1 Average  hours  of  training  per  year  per  employee SDG  8 
404-2 Programs  for  upgrading  employee  skills  and 

transition  assistance  programs 
Talent  Management SDG  8 

404-3 Percentage  of  employees  receiving  regular 
performance  and  career  development  reviews 

Talent  Management SDG  8 

2022 ESG Report 84 

https://www.northropgrumman.com/who-we-are/total-rewards-benefits/
https://www.northropgrumman.com/who-we-are/total-rewards-benefits/
https://www.northropgrumman.com/corporate-responsibility/ethics-and-business-conduct/standards-of-business-conduct/
https://www.northropgrumman.com/corporate-responsibility/ethics-and-business-conduct/standards-of-business-conduct/


   

 
  

405-1 Diversity  of  governance  bodies  and  employees Governance  Structure;  Talent  Management  &  Development;  ESG  Performance  
Data  Matrix 

SDG  5,  8 

NON-DISCRIMINATION 

407-1 Operations  and  suppliers  in  which  the  right  to 
freedom  of  association  and  collective  bargaining 
may  be  at  risk 

a. Labor  Relations 
b. ESG  Performance  Data  Matrix 

SDG  8 

CHILD  LABOR 

INTRODUCTION PIONEERING  PERFORMANCE PIONEERING  PEOPLE PIONEERING  PURPOSE PIONEERING  INNOVATION APPENDIX 

Disclosure Location (Or Direct Information) 
DIVERSITY  AND  EQUAL  OPPORTUNITY 

406-1 Incidents  of  discrimination  and  corrective 
actions  taken 

Ethics  &  Responsible  Business  Practices:  Northrop  Grumman  Openline SDG  8 

FREEDOM  OF  ASSOCIATION  AND  COLLECTIVE  BARGAINING 

408-1 Operations  and  suppliers  at  significant  risk  for 
incidents  of  child  labor 

Ethics  &  Responsible  Business  Practices 

FORCED  OR  COMPULSORY  LABOR 
409-1 Operations  and  suppliers  at  significant  risk  for 

incidents  of  forced  or  compulsory  labor 
Ethics  &  Responsible  Business  Practices 

SUPPLIER  SOCIAL  ASSESSMENT 
414-1 New  suppliers  that  were  screened  using 

social  criteria 
Global  Supply  Chain  - Supplier  Performance 

414-2 Negative  social  impacts  in  the  supply  chain  and 
actions  taken 

Global  Supply  Chain  - Supplier  Performance 

PUBLIC  POLICY 
415-1 Political  Contributions Northrop  Grumman  Political  Contributions 

SDG 
Reference 

SDG  8 

SDG  8 

SDG  16 

2022 ESG Report 85 

https://www.northropgrumman.com/investor-relations/political-contributions/


 
  

INTRODUCTION PIONEERING  PERFORMANCE PIONEERING  PEOPLE PIONEERING  PURPOSE PIONEERING  INNOVATION APPENDIX 

SASB  Index 
The  table  below  identifies  the  SASB  indicators  for  which  we  have  publicly  available  information,  relevant  to  the  Aerospace  &  Defense  Standard  (Version  2018-10). 

Metric  Code 
Energy  Management 

Accounting  Metric Location  or  Direct  Information 

RT-AE-130a.1 (1)  Total  energy  consumed  (in  gigajoules  (GJ)) 
(2)  Percentage  of  grid  electricity 
(3)  Percentage  renewable 

(1)  10,384,010  GJ 
(2)  53% 
(3)  5% 

Hazardous  Waste  Management 
RT-AE-150a.1 Amount  of  hazardous  waste  generated,  percentage  recycled 3,560  MT 

1%  recycled 
RT-AE-150a.2 Number  and  aggregate  quantity  of  reportable  spills,  quantity  recovered 1  reportable  spill 
Data  Security 
RT-AE-230a.2 Description  of  approach  to  identifying  and  addressing  data  security  risks  in  

company  operations  and  products 
Cybersecurity  &  Data  Protection 

Product  Safety 
RT-AE-250a.2 Number  of  counterfeit  parts  detected  —  While  this  quantitative  metric  is  not  

reported,  we  provide  a  qualitative  description  of  our  management  approach  to  
protecting  the  integrity  of  our  supply  chain. 

Global  Supply  Chain 

RT-AE-250a.3 Number  of  Airworthiness  Directives  received;  total  units  affected 0  Airworthiness  Directive  received 
0  units  affected 

Fuel  Economy  &  Emissions  In  Use-Phase 
RT-AE-410a.1 Revenue  from  alternative  energy-related  products NC 
RT-AE-410a.2 Description  of  approach  and  discussion  of  strategy  to  address  fuel  economy  

and  GHG  emissions  of  products 
Product  Stewardship 

Materials  Sourcing 
RT-AE-440a.1 Description  of  the  management  of  risks  associated  with  the  use  of  

critical  materials 
Ethics  &  Responsible  Business  Practices 
Global  Supply  Chain 

Business  Ethics 
RT-AE-510a.3 Discussion  of  processes  to  manage  business  ethics  risks  throughout  the  

value  chain 
Ethics  &  Responsible  Business  Practices 
Global  Supply  Chain 

Activity  Metric 
RT-AE-000.B Number  of  employees 95,000 

NC:  Not  collected. 

2022 ESG Report 86 



 
        

      
          

 
            

           
             
              
          
            
           

      
           
       

         
        

      
       
      

      
        

    

 
  

INTRODUCTION PIONEERING  PERFORMANCE PIONEERING  PEOPLE PIONEERING  PURPOSE PIONEERING  INNOVATION APPENDIX 

ESG  Performance  Data  Matrix 
TOPIC 2020 2021 2022 GRI SASB 
COMPANY DATA 
Sales (million USD) $ 36,799 $ 35,667 $ 36,602 2-6 
Employees 97,000 88,000 95,000 2-7 RT-AE-000.B 
Floor space (thousand square feet) 50,875 51,104 51,508 2-6 
CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP/COMMUNITY 
Direct community investment through philanthropy (million USD)1 $ 33.9 $ 34.3 $ 33.4 201-1 
Company charitable grants—education (target 50%) 50% 60% 56% 201-1 
Company charitable grants—military and veterans (target 25%) 13% 13% 14% 201-1 
Company charitable grants—health and human services (target 20%) 20% 13% 14% 201-1 
Company charitable grants—environment (target 5%) 3% 3% 4% 201-1 
Company in-kind and non-cash contributions (million USD) $ 5.0 $ 0.1 $ 0.8 201-1 
Charitable donations as measured by Business for Societal Impact (company and 
foundation) 26% 13% 18% 201-1 
Community investments as measured by Business for Societal Impact (company and 
foundation) 74% 87% 82% 
Employee giving (million USD)2 $ 5.2 $ 3.3 $ 4.0 
Employee volunteerism (hours) 55,890 56,310 76,750 
Paid volunteerism (hours) 0 120 90 
STEM experiences provided to underrepresented students NR NR 8,718,000 
Meals donated towards hunger relief NR NR 4,158,000 
ENVIRONMENT 
Sites with ISO 14001 certification 23 22 21 
Significant fines and penalties (shown in years paid) ($) 0 0 0 
Tons of toxic release inventory 421 667 N/A 

1 Includes  investments  from  Northrop  Grumman  and  the  Northrop  Grumman  Foundation;  excludes  donations  from  Northrop  Grumman  to  the  Northrop  Grumman  Foundation. 
2 Includes  giving  through  ECHO,  matched  gifts  and  employee  fundraising.  

NR:  Not  reported  publicly  in  prior  years.  

2022 ESG Report 87 



 
         
       
        

  
       

       
       

          
       

       

        
         
           
             

         
        
         

          
           

             
              
     

              
         

   
              

                              
 

       

 
  

INTRODUCTION PIONEERING  PERFORMANCE PIONEERING  PEOPLE PIONEERING  PURPOSE PIONEERING  INNOVATION APPENDIX 

TOPIC 2020 2021 2022 GRI SASB 
HAZARDOUS WASTE3 

Hazardous waste generation (tons) 3,530 3,400 3,560 306-3 RT-AE-150a.1 
Hazardous waste (number of reportable spills) 0 0 1 RT-AE-150a.2 
Hazardous waste recycled 4% 2% 1% 306-3 
NONHAZARDOUS SOLID WASTE3 

Reuse (tons) 730 420 240 306-4 
Recycling (tons) 18,690 20,660 20,260 306-4 
Composting (tons) 860 1,370 1,220 306-4 
Recovery (including energy recovery) (tons) 400 820 680 306-4 
Landfill (tons) 21,490 20,670 21,260 306-5 
Diversion rate 48% 51% 50% 306-4 
ENERGY3 

Energy consumption (GJ) 9,929,370 10,227,860 10,384,010 302-1 RT-AE-130a.1 
Renewable energy consumption (GJ) 77,570 85,330 564,630 
Percentage of energy that is renewable 1% 1% 5% 302-1 RT-AE-130a.1 
Percentage of energy supplied from grid electricity 54% 53% 53% RT-AE-130a.1 
Energy intensity (Joules/USD sales) 269,830 286,760 283,700 302-3 
Electricity consumption (MWh) 1,514,350 1,546,500 1,567,600 
Renewable electricity consumption (MWh) 21,550 23,700 156,840 
Onsite renewable electricity generation (MWh) 690 690 660 
Percentage of electricity that is renewable 1% 2% 10% 
EMISSIONS3 

Direct (Scope 1) greenhouse gas emissions (tonnes CO2e) 268,700 265,650 282,240 305-1 
Indirect (Scope 2) market-based greenhouse gas emissions (tonnes CO2e) 493,680 479,100 423,000 305-2 
Carbon removals (tonnes CO2e) 11,000 0 0 305-5 
Total GHG emissions (market-based, includes carbon removals) (tonnes CO2e) 751,380 744,750 705,240 
Greenhouse gas emission intensity (Scope 1 and Scope 2—location-based) 
(tonnes CO2e/per USD sales) 0.00002042 0.00002088 0.00001927 305-4 
Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions (from 2019 base year) -4.7% -5.5% -10.6% 305-5 

3 Environmental metrics are restated as a result of our shift in environmental data reporting year from a 12/31 year end to a 9/30 year. For more information, please see the Environmental  Data  Accountability  
Methodology. 

NR: Not reported publicly in prior years. 

2022 ESG Report 88 



   
   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   

   
   
   
   
   

 
  

INTRODUCTION PIONEERING  PERFORMANCE PIONEERING  PEOPLE PIONEERING  PURPOSE PIONEERING  INNOVATION APPENDIX 

TOPIC 2020 2021 2022 GRI SASB 
WATER3 

Water  withdrawal  (potable)—total  (gallons) 1, 261,608,000   1,374,568,000   1,459,828,000  303-3 
Water  withdrawal  source  (potable)—surface  water  (gallons) 113,549,000  95,972,000  121,889,000  303-3 
Water  withdrawal  source  (potable)—groundwater  (gallons) 292,910,000  425,822,000  496,417,000  303-3 
Water  withdrawal  source  (potable)—municipal  supply  (gallons) 855,149,000  852,775,000  841,523,000  303-3 
Water  withdrawal  (potable  and  nonpotable)—total  (gallons) 1, 284,998,000  1, 427,854,000  1, 521,382,000  303-3 
Water  withdrawal  source  (nonpotable)—municipal  reclaimed  (gallons) 23,352,000  53,258,000  61,533,000  303-3 
Water  withdrawal  source  (nonpotable)—rainwater  (gallons) 38,000  27,000  21,000  303-3 
ETHICS  AND  INTEGRITY 
OpenLine  inquiries 565  577  614  2-26 
OpenLine  allegations 1,578  1,611  1,564  2-26 
GOVERNANCE4 

Members  on  the  Board  of  Directors 12  13  13  2-9 
Independent  directors  on  the  Board 11  12  12  2-9 
Women/minority  directors  on  the  Board 5  (42%) 6  (46%) 8  (62%) 2-22,  405-1 
HEALTH  AND  SAFETY 
Work-related  fatalities5 0 1 0 403-9,  403-10 
Total  case  rate  (per  100  workers)6 0.96  1.08  1.52  403-9,  403-10 
Employee  lost  work  day  rate  (per  100  workers)7 10.70  18.61  17.56  403-9,  403-10 
Days  away  case  rate  (per  100  workers)8 0.39  0.56  0.87  403-9,  403-10 
Lost-time  injuries  frequency  rate  (per  one  million  hours  worked)  (LTIFR)9 2.00  2.84  4.34  
Total  recordable  incident  rate  (TRIR)10 0.96  1.08  1.52  
PRODUCTS 
Number  of  airworthiness  directives  received 1 0 0 RT-AE-250a.3 
Number  of  airworthiness  directives,  units  affected 0 0 0 RT-AE-250a.3 
Revenue  from  alternative  energy-related  products  (million  USD) NC NC NC RT-AE-410a.1 
RESEARCH  AND  DEVELOPMENT  AND  INNOVATION 
Company-sponsored  R&D  expense  (million  USD) $  1,100  $  1,100  $  1,200  201-1 

3 Environmental  metrics  are  restated  as  a  result  of  our  shift  in  environmental  data  reporting  year  from  a  12/31  year  end  to  a  9/30  year.  For  more  information,  please  see  the  Environmental  Data  Accountability  
Methodology.  

4 Board  data  for  2020,  2021  and  2022,  respectively,  reflects  the  full  slate  of  Board  nominees,  as  reflected  in  the  2021,  2022  and  2023  Proxy  Statements,  respectively. 
5 Updated  in  this  report  to  include  one  fatality  in  2021.  
6 Total  case  rate  (per  100  workers)  excluding  COVID-19  cases  was  0.79,  0.79  and  0.85,  respectively,  for  the  years  ended  December  31,  2020,  2021  and  2022,  respectively.  
7 Employee  lost  work  day  rate  (per  100  workers)  excluding  COVID-19  cases  was  9.11,  14.72  and  13.17,  respectively,  for  the  years  ended  December  31,  2020,  2021  and  2022,  respectively.  
8 Days  away  case  rate  (per  100  workers)  excluding  COVID-19  cases  was  0.23,  0.29  and  0.31,  respectively,  for  the  years  ended  December  31,  2020,  2021  and  2022,  respectively.  
9 LTIFR  excluding  COVID-19  cases  was  1.16,  1.44  and  1.53,  respectively,  for  the  years  ended  December  31,  2020,  2021  and  2022,  respectively. 
10 TRIR  excluding  COVID-19  cases  was  0.79,  0.79  and  0.85,  respectively,  for  the  years  ended  December  31,  2020,  2021  and  2022,  respectively.  
NC:  Not  collected. 

2022 ESG Report 89 



   
   

 
  

INTRODUCTION PIONEERING  PERFORMANCE PIONEERING  PEOPLE PIONEERING  PURPOSE PIONEERING  INNOVATION APPENDIX 

TOPIC 2020 2021 2022 GRI SASB 
SUPPLY  CHAIN 
Domestic  spend  on  subcontractors  (billion  USD) $  13.0  $  12.5  $  11.0  
Amount  awarded  to  small  business  suppliers  (billion  USD) $  4.8  $  3.8  $  3.9  
Percent  of  Small  Business  37%   30%   36%  2-6 
Percent  of  Small  Disadvantaged  Business  (SDB) 5%    4%   4%  2-6 
Percent  of  Women-Owned  Small  Business  (WOSB) 8%   6%   7%   2-6 
Percent  of  HUBZone  Small  Business  3%  3%    4%  2-6 
Percent  of  Veteran-Owned  Small  Business  (VOSB) 4%   4%   4%   2-6 
Percent  of  Service-Disabled  Veteran-Owned  Small  Business  (SDVOSB)  2%   2%   2%  2-6 
TALENT  MANAGEMENT,  DIVERSITY,  EQUITY  AND  INCLUSION11 

Part-time  employees 1,388  1,390  1,407  2-7 
Employee  average  age 43  44  43  
U.S.  employees  covered  by  collective  bargaining  agreements  4%  4%   4%   2-30 
Total  population—men 75%   75%   75%   405-1 
Total  population—women  25%  25%   25%   405-1 
Total  population—non-binary NR NR 0. 1%  
Total  population—people  of  color 35%   36%   37%   405-1 
Total  population—veterans 18%   18%   18%   405-1 
Total  population—persons  with  disabilities  8%   9%  8%   405-1 
Management  population—men  73%   73%   73%  405-1 
Management  population—women 27%   27%    27%  405-1 
Management  population—people  of  color  27%   28%  29%   405-1 
Vice  president  and  above  population—women  32%   35%   34%  405-1 
Vice  president  and  above  population—people  of  color 18%    18%   19%  405-1 
Women  in  revenue-generating  management  positions NR NR  25%  
Women  in  STEM-related  positions NR NR  17%  

11 All  demographic  data  reflects  U.S.  population  only. 

NR:  Not  reported  publicly  in  prior  years. 

2022 ESG Report 90 



         
        
        
          

          

 

 
  

INTRODUCTION PIONEERING  PERFORMANCE PIONEERING  PEOPLE PIONEERING  PURPOSE PIONEERING  INNOVATION APPENDIX 

TOPIC 2020 2021 2022 GRI SASB 
TALENT- NEW  HIRES  (EXTERNAL)  AND  TURNOVER11 

Total external hires 13,400 9,100 16,000 401-1 
Veteran external hires 22% 21% 21% 
Female external hires 23% 23% 24% 
Persons with disabilities external hires 11% 11% 8% 
People of color external hires 43% 41% 44% 

11  All  demographic  data  reflects  U.S.  population  only.   

2022 ESG Report 91 



          

Look  for  our  other  reports: 

For  more  information  on  our  ESG  Reporting,  please  see  our  website: 

https://www.northropgrumman.com/
https://www.northropgrumman.com/wp-content/uploads/2022-Northrop-Human-Rights-Report-finalreduced-file-size.pdf?_gl=1*12vd9yp*_ga*NzY0NzI2NjY1LjE2Mzc1OTg2ODM.*_ga_7YV3CDX0R2*MTY4MDUzNzk2MS4
https://www.northropgrumman.com/wp-content/uploads/2023-TCFD-Report.pdf
https://investor.northropgrumman.com/static-files/18fe83e4-8eb9-4f74-9fe6-7c770a1d787a
https://www.northropgrumman.com/wp-content/uploads/Northrop-Grumman-2023-Proxy-Statement-FINAL-Bookmarked-Web-Ready-v2.pdf?_gl=1*1b7vclb*_ga*NzY0NzI2NjY1LjE2Mzc1OTg2ODM.*_ga_7YV3CDX0R2*MTY4MDUzNzk2MS41MDIuMS4xNjgwNTM4MDIzLjAuMC4w

	2022 ESG Report 
	Table of Contents 
	Message from CEO 
	Our Company 
	Our Values 
	ESG at Northrop Grumman: Our Approach 
	PIONEERING PERFORMANCE 
	Company Performance 
	Governance Structure 
	Compliance 
	Ethics & Responsible Business Practices 
	Global Supply Chain 
	Cybersecurity & Data Protection 

	PIONEERING PEOPLE 
	Our Diverse Workforce 
	Diversity, Equity & Inclusion 
	Employee & Family Well-Being 
	Employee Health & Safety 
	Talent Strategy 
	Talent Management & Development 
	Corporate Citizenship 

	PIONEERING PURPOSE 
	Our Approach to Environmental Action 
	Enhancing Operations & Management 
	Environmental Remediation & Conservation 

	PIONEERING INNOVATION 
	Ushering in a Digital Transformation 
	Product Quality 
	Product Stewardship 
	Research & Development 

	APPENDIX 
	Selected Awards & Recognitions for 2022 
	Organizations & University Partnerships 
	Materiality 
	Stakeholder Engagement 
	Environmental Data Accountability Methodology 
	Forward-Looking Statements 
	GRI Standards Content Index 
	SASB Index 
	ESG Performance Data Matrix