Where all good 
change starts

2022 
Sustainability  
Report



2

Origin's corporate reporting suite provides 
a summary of our financial, operating and 
sustainability performance, and how we are 
managing material risks and opportunities.

• 2022 Annual Report
Details our financial and operating performance.

• 2022 Sustainability Report
Details our sustainability performance.

• Management approaches
Describe our approach and policies on how we 
manage key aspects of our business.

• Performance data
Includes our sustainability performance data for 
the past five years.

• 2022 Modern Slavery Statement
Outlines our processes for identifying, assessing 
and addressing the risk of modern slavery in our 
supply chain and actions taken.

• 2021 Tax Contribution Report
Details the taxes we paid in the 2020 and 2021 
financial years.

• Case studies on the Origin blog 
A deeper look into some of the actions we are 
taking in key areas of sustainability. 

We have also published the following reports on 
key issues:

• Beetaloo Native Title Holder Engagement and 
FY2022 update
Sets out key practices for engagement with the 
Native Title holders in the Northern Territory.

• Industry Association Review
Reviews our industry association memberships 
and their respective positions on climate change 
and climate-related policies.

UN Sustainable Development Goals
We are contributing to a number of the United 
Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 
through our policies and activities. We  
have mapped these through the report and  
outline actions supporting the SDGs in detail  
in Our reporting.  
 
Reporting frameworks
This report references the Global Reporting Initiative 
(GRI). This year we have also reported against the 
SASB Standards. Our GRI content index and SASB 
index are available on our website.

Origin became a supporter of the Task Force on 
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) in 
FY2018 and is listed as a supporter on the TCFD 
website. See our TCFD disclosure. 

We Mean Business
In 2015, we became the first energy company in the 
world to sign up to the first seven commitments of 
the We Mean Business coalition, which is dedicated 
to accelerating corporate action on climate change. 
See our website for details on our progress towards 
our commitments.

External assurance
EY has provided limited assurance on certain 
greenhouse gas emissions and other metrics within 
this report. Its limited assurance statement includes 
a full list of data assured.

Report feedback
We welcome your thoughts and feedback.  
Email us at sustainability@originenergy.com.au.

Contents
•  •  •  •

Origin’s corporate reporting 
•  •  •  •

We recognise Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples as the Traditional Owners and Custodians 
of the land on which we operate, and we pay our respects to Elders past, present and future.

41 Our reporting

• Stakeholder engagement
• Our material sustainability issues
• UN Sustainable 

Development Goals
• Key sustainability 

performance measures
• Glossary 

35 People and culture

• Safety, health and wellbeing
• How we work
• Inclusion 

17 Communities

• Working with communities
• Supporting communities
• Responsible procurement

23 Planet

• Energy and climate change
• Greenhouse gas emissions
• Water
• Waste
• Air emissions
• Biodiversity

3 Introduction

• A message from the CEO
• Our purpose
• Our strategy
• FY2022 performance summary
• Origin at a glance
• Where we operate

10 Customers

• Delivering superior 
customer experiences

• Energy affordability and support  
for vulnerable customers

• Energy reliability
• Smart, connected and 

lower-carbon solutions

More information on Origin and its reporting can be found at originenergy.com.au.

2022 Sustainability Report

https://www.originenergy.com.au/wp-content/uploads/Annual-Report-FY2022_FinalWeb.pdf
https://www.originenergy.com.au/about/sustainability/sustainability-reports.html
https://www.originenergy.com.au/wp-content/uploads/Origin_2022_sustainability_performance_data.pdf
https://www.originenergy.com.au/wp-content/uploads/Origin_Modern_Slavery_Statement_2022.pdf
https://www.originenergy.com.au/wp-content/uploads/Tax-Contribution-Report-2021-final-27.06.22.pdf
https://www.originenergy.com.au/blog/
https://www.originenergy.com.au/content/dam/origin/about/investors-media/documents/origin_traditional_owners_report_aug_2021.pdf
https://www.originenergy.com.au/wp-content/uploads/J016671-Origin-Beetaloo-NTH-update_Final.pdf
https://www.originenergy.com.au/wp-content/uploads/Industry-Association-Review.pdf
https://www.originenergy.com.au/about/sustainability/sustainability-reports/
https://www.originenergy.com.au/wp-content/uploads/Origin_2022_TCFD_disclosure.pdf
http://www.originenergy.com.au


I am pleased to present Origin’s 2022  
Sustainability Report. 

FY2022 has been another extraordinary 
year, presenting us with both challenges and 
opportunities. It has underscored the importance 
of keeping a strong focus on our ambition to lead 
the energy transition through cleaner energy and 
customer solutions.

Changes that were already underway in world 
energy markets have collided with macroeconomic 
and geopolitical factors, causing significant volatility 
and challenges to energy security and commodity 
prices. This has reinforced the central challenge 
facing society, in balancing energy affordability, 
reliability and security, with decarbonisation goals. 

The energy transition presents Origin with great 
opportunities to grow renewable energy and 
storage, and supply cleaner and smarter solutions 
to customers, while maximising the value of our 
existing business.

Our ambition to lead the energy transition
In FY2022, our absolute Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse 
gas equity emissions reduced by 4 million tonnes 
compared to FY2021. We have achieved the 
absolute emissions reduction planned for our short-
term target over three years within the first two years. 

Over the medium-term, we have set a new 
emissions intensity target to reduce our Scope 1, 
2 and 3 equity emissions by 40 per cent by 2030, 
from our FY2019 baseline.1 This target is consistent 
with the goals of the Paris Agreement to limit global 
warming to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels.2  
We are also targeting an absolute reduction of 20 
million tonnes of Scope 1, 2 and 3 equity emissions 
by 2030, from a FY2019 baseline.

These targets support our long-term ambition to 
be net zero Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions by 2050. 
The targets, our strategy to decarbonise Origin, and 
the governance that underpins our approach, are 
explained in detail in Origin’s first Climate Transition 
Action Plan. This plan reflects our commitment 
to transparent and ongoing engagement with our 
stakeholders, and will be put to a non-binding, 
advisory vote of shareholders at our Annual General 
Meeting (AGM) on 19 October 2022.

1 Excluded from these targets are the potential future emissions 
from any development of new gas fields like the Beetaloo Basin. 
This is because there has been no decision, nor are we close 
to a decision, to produce those gas resources. However, any 
development would only occur where it was consistent with our 
net zero emissions by 2050 ambition. 

2 Pursuant to the methodology set out in the Climate Transition 
Action Plan.

3

A message from the  
Chief Executive Officer
•  •  •  •

Welcome to our 2022 Sustainability Report

Frank Calabria 
Chief Executive Officer

2022 Sustainability Report

https://www.originenergy.com.au/wp-content/uploads/Climate-Transition-Action-Plan-2022_FINAL.pdf
https://www.originenergy.com.au/wp-content/uploads/Climate-Transition-Action-Plan-2022_FINAL.pdf


4

Decarbonising our business
In February, we announced we will accelerate our exit 
from coal-fired power generation, with the potential 
closure of Eraring Power Station brought forward, to 
as early as August 2025. This is the most significant 
step we have taken to decarbonise our business – 
 in FY2022, Scope 1 emissions from Eraring were  
10.7 million tonnes CO2-e. 

We have been exploring alternative uses for the 
Eraring site and received NSW Government 
planning approval for a large battery of up to 
700 megawatts (MW). As part of our strategy 
to contribute to the replacement of Eraring's 
capacity, we have accelerated the acquisition and 
development of renewable energy options within 
our portfolio, with around 1,600 MW of solar farm 
development projects secured to date. 

We have also been progressing opportunities in 
the emerging hydrogen industry. This includes 
partnering with Orica and others to develop a 
potential green hydrogen project and associated 
value chain in the Hunter Valley.

Providing cleaner energy solutions for customers
This year we have taken many steps to offer cleaner 
and smarter energy solutions to our customers 
large and small. We launched Origin Zero, a 
business unit dedicated to supporting our large 
business customers with their energy needs, with 
a focus on providing a range of solutions to help 
them achieve their own decarbonisation goals. 
The aim is to partner with customers over the long 
term, to optimise their energy use and costs, and 
provide tailored renewable energy solutions that 
deliver tangible emissions reduction. 

We continue to grow our virtual power plant, which 
connects thousands of energy assets across many 
separate locations and aggregates them to help us 
manage the demand and supply in the electricity 
market – and in the process, offer additional 
benefits to customers. Our virtual power plant  
is now 258 MW and we aim to grow this to  
2 gigawatts (GW).

We have also launched an electric vehicle sharing 
service, 360 EV Car Share, for residents of 
apartments and commercial buildings. In addition, 
our new Solar Assessment Tool helps prospective 
customers understand exactly how solar can 
support their energy needs, encouraging further 
uptake of rooftop solar by Australians. 

Supporting our communities 
I am proud of Origin’s efforts to support our 
communities. The continuing effects of the 
COVID-19 pandemic, repeated flooding events on 
the east coast, and the rising cost of living, have all 
placed pressure on communities, and we have taken 
action to help.

At a time when energy prices have increased 
for customers, we have continued to work with 
vulnerable members of our communities to 
provide access to affordable energy. This includes 
supporting those experiencing reliable housing 
issues and domestic violence.

The Origin Energy Foundation contributed 
$2.6 million in FY2022 to organisations that 
use education to help young people reach their 
potential. We also donated more than 7,000 hours 
to Australian charities through the Foundation’s 
employee volunteering program.

As part of our wider commitment to support  
a just energy transition, in FY2022 we allocated a  
$5 million community fund for Eraring, to support  
a range of activities in the area as we accelerate our 
exit from coal-fired generation.

Reconciliation 
We acknowledge that Aboriginal and Torres Strait 
Islander cultures are the oldest surviving continuous 
cultures in the world and we are committed to 
creating a culture of respect and inclusion across 
all parts of our organisation. We have advocated 
in support of the Uluru Statement from the Heart, 
including establishing a First Nations Voice to 
Parliament and enshrining it in the Australian 
Constitution, along with a Makarrata Commission 
for the purpose of treaty making and truth-telling.  

In FY2022, we completed our first Stretch 
Reconciliation Action Plan (Stretch RAP), which 
details how we set about embedding social change 
in our workplace, in alignment with Reconciliation 
Australia’s three pillars of relationships, respect and 
opportunities. Achievements will be reported in our 
second Stretch RAP, currently being developed and 
due to begin in early 2023.

The past year has certainly posed a series of 
challenges to our business, customers and the 
economy. I am very pleased that despite this,  
we have continued to achieve significant progress 
across our business and our employees remain 
focused on our purpose: getting energy right  
for our customers, communities and planet.

As the energy transition continues to accelerate, 
we will work hard to make the right choices 
for our stakeholders to appropriately balance 
energy security, reliability and affordability, with 
emissions reduction. 

Frank Calabria 
Chief Executive Officer

2022 Sustainability Report



5

      
People and culture

  C
us

to
m

ers
    Com

m
unities

     Planet

As a leading retailer of essential 
services, we provide customers with 
a range of products and solutions to 
power and connect homes, businesses, 
and communities. Our focus is on 
delivering great customer experiences 
and providing affordable, sustainable 
and smarter energy solutions – for 
today and tomorrow.

We care about our impact on the 
environment. Our ambition is to 
achieve net zero Scope 1, 2 and 3 
emissions by 2050.

Customers

Planet

For us, being purpose-led is about how 
we help shape a better energy future and 

society. It is about being part of a company 
of which we are all proud.

Our purpose

Getting energy right 
for our customers, 

communities and planet.

We are embedding a purpose-led and 
values-driven business, where all our 
people are motivated to be their best 
every day. We promote safety, health and 
wellbeing; foster diversity and inclusivity; 
and work to ensure we all act lawfully, 
honestly, ethically and with integrity.

People and culture

Work as one team, 
one Origin

Be the customer 
champion

Care about 
our impact

Being accountable Find a better way

Our values
Our values help guide how we make decisions, balance priorities and work together.

We play an important role in communities 
– working to provide reliable and 
affordable energy, employing around 
5,000 people across Australia and the 
Pacific, and supporting educational 
opportunities through the Origin Energy 
Foundation. We aim to work responsibly 
and respectfully with our local 
communities and identify opportunities 
for Origin and our employees to make  
a positive difference.

Communities

Our purpose
•  •  •  •

2022 Sustainability Report



6

Our strategy
•  •  •  •

• Leading brand providing lowest 
cost and superior customer 
experience

• Smart, connected and low carbon 
solutions to enable customers’ 
transition to net zero

• Significantly grow customer scale 
and breadth of offering

Our ambition to lead the 
energy transition through 
cleaner energy and customer 
solutions is supported by our 
strategic pillars designed to 
drive decarbonisation and 
evolve our portfolio. 

• Accelerate growth in renewable 
energy supported by peaking 
generation

• Invest in storage to support growth 
and renewable energy

• Grow in-house Virtual Power Plant

• Develop scalable domestic and 
export hydrogen business

• Provide the energy customers 
require at competitive cost

• Decarbonise portfolio consistent 
with 1.5°C pathway

• Any new gas supply to be 
consistent with our net zero 
emissions ambition

Unrivalled 
customer solutions

Accelerate renewable 
and cleaner energy

Deliver reliable energy 
through the transitionLPG

H2

Deliver reliable energy through the tra
nsitio

n

Our ambition 
To lead the energy 
transition through 

cleaner energy and 
customer solutions

U
nr

iv
al

le
d 

cu
st

om
er

 so
lutio

ns
Accelerate renewable

 and
 cleaner

 energy

2022 Sustainability Report6



3 Excluded from this target are the potential future emissions from any development of new gas fields like the Beetaloo Basin. This is because 
there has been no decision, nor are we close to a decision, to produce those gas resources. However, any development would only occur 
where it was consistent with our net zero emissions by 2050 ambition.

4 Pursuant to the methodology set out in the Climate Transition Action Plan.

7

 Strategic Net Promoter Score1

 FY2022 performance summary
•  •  •  •

• Supported residential and small business 
customers in financial distress due to 
COVID-19, and the floods in New South 
Wales and Queensland

• Achieved almost 340,000 customer 
accounts across our GreenPower, Green 
Gas, Green LPG and Origin Go Zero 
products, up from 260,000 in FY2021

• Attained carbon neutral certification from 
Climate Active for our Origin Go Zero 
(electricity), Carbon Neutral Solar, and 
Carbon Neutral Demand Response products 

• Launched Origin Zero, dedicated to 
supporting large business customers on 
their decarbonisation journey 

• Improved our processes after we failed to 
meet some key regulatory obligations.

• Spent $318 million directly with 
regional suppliers, or 20% of our 
procurement spend

• Spent $17 million directly and indirectly 
with Indigenous suppliers.

• Provided almost $800,000 to support 
various local community programs 
and events

• Donated more than 7,000 hours and 
$720,000 to Australian charities through 
the Origin Energy Foundation’s Give Time 
employee volunteering and Give2 matched 
giving programs

• Committed to a $5 million community fund 
as part of our support for the community as 
we transition out of coal-fired generation 
at Eraring.

• Achieved a reduction in process safety Tier 
1 and Tier 2 events to 2, from 11 in FY2021 

• TRIFR increased to 4.0 from 2.7 in 
FY2021, due to a rise in the number of 
recordable injuries, although severity of 
injuries decreased

• Employee engagement score down 6 per 
cent to 68 per cent  – remains 7 per cent 
above the Australia and New Zealand 
energy industry average 

• Awarded 'Gold employer status' at the 
Australian LGBTQ Inclusion Awards

• Announced support for the Uluru 
Statement from the Heart.

Communities

•  Developed a new medium-term equity 
emissions intensity target,3 consistent with 
a 1.5°C pathway envelope4

• Developed our first Climate Transition 
Action Plan, which we will put to a non-
binding advisory vote at our 2022 AGM 

• Announced the accelerated closure of 
Eraring Power Station, from as early as 
August 2025

• Achieved the absolute emission reductions 
planned for our short-term emissions target 
over three years within the first two years

• Total Scope 1 and 2 equity emissions down by 
12 per cent compared to FY2021.

Customers Planet People and culture

under orchestration in our virtual power plant, 
up from 159 MW in FY2021

-3

4

5

FY2020

 1 12-month average as at June

FY2021 FY2022

1,600 MW
of solar farm development  
projects secured to date

40.8%
female Senior Leaders,  

up from 34.6% in FY2021

Total Recordable Injury Frequency 
Rate (TRIFR)

2.7

4.0

2.6

FY2020 FY2021 FY2022

>$2.6m 
contributed to the community  

by the Origin Energy Foundation 

20%

FY2020 FY2021 FY2022

Regional procurement spend  
as % of total spend

17%
18%

258 MW

Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions  
(kt CO2-e equity basis)

17,801
16,499

14,453

FY2020 FY2021 FY2022
 Scope 1  Scope 2

2022 Sustainability Report

https://www.originenergy.com.au/wp-content/uploads/Climate-Transition-Action-Plan-2022_FINAL.pdf


8

Origin at a glance
•  •  •  •

Leading integrated 
energy company

Listed on the Australian Securities 
Exchange in 2000

4.5 million  
customer accounts

Electricity, gas, LPG and broadband 
customers across Australia and 
the Pacific

5,000 
employees

Inclusivity in the workplace, 
leading parental support

Climate transition embedded 
in our strategy

2030 emissions intensity target5 
consistent with 1.5°C pathway envelope6

Powering  
Australia

7,300 MW generation portfolio, 
including 1,245 MW owned and 
contracted renewables and storage

27.5% interest in  
Australia Pacific LNG

Continue to be a significant contributor 
to the east coast gas market

Supporting Australian  
communities

The Origin Energy Foundation has 
contributed more than $35 million 
over 12 years

Driving future  
energy innovation

20% interest7 in Octopus Energy, 
investing in new technology, start-ups 
and future fuels

Exploration  
and appraisal

Positions in three large prospective 
onshore basins: Beetaloo, Canning and 
Cooper-Eromanga

Where all good
change starts

5 Excluded from this target are the potential future emissions 
from any development of new gas fields like the Beetaloo Basin. 
This is because there has been no decision, nor are we close 
to a decision, to produce those gas resources. However, any 
development would only occur where it was consistent with our 
net zero emissions by 2050 ambition.

6 Pursuant to the methodology set out in the Climate Transition 
Action Plan. 

7 Following CPPIB investment in Octopus Energy during December 
2021, Origin accounted for its interest in Octopus Energy at 18.7 
per cent from 1 December 2021 (previously 20 per cent). An 
additional $163 million (£94 million) was invested to restore its 20 
per cent interest in August 2022.

2022 Sustainability Report

https://www.originenergy.com.au/wp-content/uploads/Climate-Transition-Action-Plan-2022_FINAL.pdf
https://www.originenergy.com.au/wp-content/uploads/Climate-Transition-Action-Plan-2022_FINAL.pdf


9

Where we operate
•  •  •  •

Gas
Pumped hydro
Solar (contracted)
Wind (contracted)
Coal
Wind (contracted, not complete)

LPG seaboard terminal

Electricity customer accounts
Natural gas customer accounts

Origin/JV upstream acreage
APLNG upstream acreage
Production facility
APLNG pipeline

Exploration & production acreage Generation

Brisbane

Gladstone
LNG Export

Canning 
Basin

Beetaloo 
Basin

Adelaide

Melbourne

Hobart

Bowen/ 
Surat Cooper 

Eromanga 
Basin

basins

Browse 
Basin

Sydney

608k
495k

1,193k
379k

674k
178k

257k
211k

15k

South East Queensland

Bowen/ 
Surat 
basins

Brisbane

Gladstone

Pacific countries LPG

Rabaul

Lae

Santo

Honiara

Port Vila
Suva

Lautoka

Labasa
Apia

Pago Pago Rarotonga

Port Moresby

2022 Sustainability Report



10

Customers
•  •  •  •

As a leading retailer of essential services, Origin provides 
customers with a range of products and solutions for their 
homes and businesses. Our focus is on delivering great 
customer experiences and providing affordable, sustainable, 
and smarter energy solutions – for today and tomorrow.

Performance at a glance

• Supported residential and small business  
customers in financial distress due to  
COVID-19, and the floods in New South Wales  
and Queensland

• Achieved almost 340,000 customer accounts  
across our GreenPower, Green Gas,  
Green LPG and Origin Go Zero products, 
up from 260,000 in FY2021

• Attained carbon neutral certification  
from Climate Active for our Origin Go  
Zero (electricity), Carbon Neutral Solar,  
and Carbon Neutral Demand Response  
products 

• Launched Origin Zero, dedicated to  
supporting large business customers  
on their decarbonisation journey 

• Improved our processes after we failed  
to meet some key regulatory obligations 

Management approach

Find out more about our approach 
to getting energy right for 

our customers 

Customers 

UN Sustainable Development Goals

Our activities are helping 
to contribute to the following SDGs:

under orchestration in our virtual power 
plant, up from 159 MW in FY2021

258 MW

 Strategic Net Promoter Score*

-3

4

5

FY2020

 * 12-month average as at June

FY2021 FY2022

2022 Sustainability ReportCustomers 2022 Sustainability Report

https://www.originenergy.com.au/content/dam/origin/about/investors-media/documents/origin_our_approach_customers.pdf


11

Delivering superior customer 
experiences

Customers are at the heart of everything we do –  
that is why our strategy focuses on leading customer 
experience and satisfaction. We are working to 
deliver great customer experiences that are simple, 
seamless, and increasingly digital. 

Transforming the customer experience 
As at 30 June 2022, we had successfully migrated 
more than 2.2 million customer accounts to the 
Kraken platform, licensed through our partnership 
with Octopus Energy. We are on track to complete 
the transition of our retail electricity and gas 
customers to the Kraken platform by the  
end of 2022. 

Kraken is delivering benefits for our customers by 
providing one point of service, simpler processes, and 
the ability to integrate services into a single account. 
Customers are serviced by small teams of Energy 
Specialists, each with accountability for providing 
end-to-end service for their unique customer base.

Making it easier with digital
With 96 per cent of our customers choosing  
to engage with us through a digital channel,  
we continue to focus on our digital platforms. 

In FY2022, this included redesigning our website 
home page to make it easier for customers to find 
information and complete tasks. We also added a 
number of enhancements to My Account and to our 
app. To help create a more seamless experience for 
customers, we connected LPG accounts to Origin’s 
My Account, allowing LPG customers to access all of 
their Origin services in the one place online.  
 
We also made it easier for our solar customers to use 
My Account to assess their solar system. Customers 
can view their solar system status as well as data 
about their household energy usage, including what 
times of the day they are using energy, how much 
energy comes from their solar panels, and costs and 
carbon savings achieved by using their solar system.

Electricity
2.73 million

Natural Gas
1.27 million

Broadband
60,500

Origin customer accounts*

LPG
367,600

* As at 30 June 2022

8 A Tier 1 retailer is an energy provider that has more than 10% 
of the market share in a network region (that is, a distribution 
network owned and maintained by a particular energy distributor).

Customer satisfaction 
One of our key customer satisfaction 
measurement tools is the Net Promoter Score 
(NPS), which measures customer advocacy 
and helps us understand what our customers 
are saying about their experience with us. We 
measure NPS as a business (at the strategic level) 
and after a customer has a conversation or digital 
experience with us (at the interaction level). 

Our Strategic NPS was 5 in FY2022, up from  
4 in FY2021, and remains the top score among 
Tier 18 energy providers. To more accurately 
reflect our performance, in FY2022 we moved 
from reporting our final quarter score to reporting  
an average over the year. 

At the interaction level, our NPS was 39.7 in 
FY2022, an improvement from 34.1 in FY2021. 
Since we began measuring Interaction NPS in 
FY2016, our performance has improved from a 
score of 12.3. This is due to our focus on improving 
customer experiences across our channels and 
improving our processes to make it quicker and 
easier to resolve customer enquiries.

 
 

Following a survey of 12,000 broadband users, 
Canstar Blue awarded Origin’s broadband product 
the 2022 Most Satisfied Customers Award. And 
we have an ‘excellent’ rating on Trustpilot, an 
independent measure of customer satisfaction, 
with almost 13,000 customer reviews.

Strategic Net Promoter Score

4

FY2021

5

FY2022

-3

FY2020

Interaction Net Promoter Score

34.1

FY2021

39.7

FY2022

26.4

FY2020

Large business customer satisfaction
Our strategic customer experience score for 
our commercial and industrial (C&I) customers 
was 71 in FY2022, improving by 7 points since 
FY2021. At the interaction level, our C&I NPS for 
our customer service teams ended the year at 50. 
This represented a significant improvement from 
the starting position of 22 at the end of September 
2021, which reflects an increased focus on 
responsiveness and proactive communication.

  Origin's broadband product was awarded the 2022 
Most Satisfied Customers Award from Canstar Blue.

2022 Sustainability Report



12

If, despite our best efforts, a customer feels that we 
have not sufficiently addressed their issue or concern, 
they can have the matter reviewed by the relevant 
ombudsman in their state or territory. 

In FY2022, the number of ombudsman complaints 
per 1,000 Origin customers was 1.5, representing 
a steady improvement over the past three years. 
During this time, we have focused on ways to resolve 
complaints quicker, and review and address the 
root causes of ombudsman complaints. This work 
has led to a number of initiatives, including anytime 
self-meter reads. We have also created a new role to 
analyse complaint trends and customer pain points, 
and to make it easier for our customers to understand 
the ombudsman complaint process overall. 

Ombudsman complaints  
(per 1,000 customers)

1.9

FY2021

1.5

FY2022

2.7

FY2020

Regulatory compliance
We strive to meet all of our compliance obligations. 
We regret that we have not always achieved this and 
have been the subject of enforcement action by the 
Australian Energy Regulator (AER) and the Essential 
Services Commission of Victoria (ESC) over the past 
year. We are committed to getting this right for all 
of our customers and are taking significant steps to 
improve our compliance systems and training.

In June 2022, in proceedings taken by the AER, 
the Federal Court of Australia found that Origin had 
breached some of its obligations to customers in 
financial hardship under the National Energy Retail 
Laws and Rules. The Court made orders against 
Origin, including imposing a $17 million penalty. 
The breaches related to three automated processes 
used by Origin in our Power On hardship program 
– which were introduced with the aim of improving 
administration processes – and to our dealings with 
18 individual customers. Origin cooperated with the 
AER’s investigation, admitted liability, and made joint 
submissions with the AER to the Court in relation 
to the penalty and other orders. Origin ceased the 
relevant automated processes in October 2021. 

We deeply regret that the breaches occurred 
and acknowledge they meant that some of 
our customers did not receive a number of 
the important protections to which they were 
entitled under the National Energy Retail Law 
and Rules. Origin is committed to supporting 
customers in financial hardship through our 
Power On program and to ensuring we meet 
our compliance obligations. To that end, we 
have taken significant steps to improve our 
compliance processes and training relating to 
hardship to ensure our customers receive the 
assistance they are entitled to. We are also taking 
steps to compensate customers who may have 
been disconnected following our conduct.

In October 2021, Origin paid $5 million in respect 
of penalty notices issued by the ESC. The penalty 
notices alleged that we had wrongly included a 
clause allowing us to charge exit fees in some of our 
Victorian small business contracts between June 
2016 and September 2020. When we discovered 
this issue, we self-reported it to the ESC, apologised, 
credited the accounts of current Victorian small 
business customers who were charged the fee,  
and offered refunds to former customers. 

In August 2021, Origin paid $450,000 in respect 
of penalty notices issued by the ESC. The 
penalty notices alleged that we had wrongfully 
disconnected customers between February 2019 
and February 2020 because the text messages 
we sent to customers before disconnecting them 
did not fully satisfy requirements in relation to the 
provision of clear and unambiguous information 
about the payment assistance customers were 
entitled to under Victoria’s payment difficulty 
framework. We updated our SMS messaging 
to fully comply with the requirements and 
also compensated customers who had been 
wrongfully disconnected.

Privacy and cyber security
We are committed to protecting our customers’ 
privacy and managing their personal information in 
accordance with the requirements of the Privacy 
Act 1988 (Cth). In FY2022, as per previous years, 
we had no reportable privacy matters (see our 
sustainability performance data tables). For more 
information, visit originenergy.com.au/privacy. 

We recognise that cyber security risk can have a 
material impact on our business. We are committed 
to continuously improving our security resilience 
and safeguarding our critical assets and our 
customers’ data. During FY2022, we undertook 
several exercises to ensure that our incident 
management processes were up to the task. In 
addition, an independent audit was conducted on 
Origin’s ransomware controls and our readiness 
to comply with the requirements of the Security 
Critical Infrastructure Act (recent amendments). 
Neither audit identified any high-risk findings. 

We invest in cyber security controls in response 
to the changing threat landscape and to ensure 
that Origin is safely adopting modern technologies 
across the company. Considering current 
geopolitical and regional tensions, we expect an 
increase in cyber threats over the coming years.  
To safeguard against this, we are undertaking a 
number of control uplifts and strengthening our 
24/7 security monitoring and response capabilities. 

Championing the customer
Our Consumer Advocacy Panel regularly engages 
with consumer groups that represent the interests 
of customers. The panel is chaired by the Executive 
General Manager, Retail, and meets around every 
four months. Topics discussed in FY2022 included 
compliance, pricing, product ranges, and customer 
onboarding processes. 

We also ensure that customers’ views are 
represented in our business decisions by 
consulting with the Origin Exchange Customer 
Insights Community Research Panel. Throughout 
this year, we have continued to grow the panel 
from around 3,000 customers in FY2021 to more 
than 4,500 in FY2022 by bringing LPG customers 
into the community. The panel provides 
insights and feedback on a range of projects 
in development, which this year included the 
addition of LPG services to My Account, loyalty 
and fuel offers, and ideas around the potential of 
residential renewable energy.  

Complaints and resolutions
We try to resolve customer complaints quickly and 
to identify learning opportunities to improve our 
service delivery and customer experience. 

2022 Sustainability Report

https://www.originenergy.com.au/wp-content/uploads/Origin_2022_sustainability_performance_data.pdf
http://originenergy.com.au/privacy


13

Energy affordability and support 
for vulnerable customers

Affordability is an important issue for our customers, 
and we continue to focus on how we can help them 
manage their energy costs.

Power On hardship program
We continue to support customers through our 
hardship program, Power On. For more than 18 
years, this program has helped vulnerable customers 
by providing them with extensions, personalised 
payment plans, home energy efficiency advice,  
and referrals to financial counsellors.  

Participating customer accounts in Power On 
increased from 26,707 on June 2021 to 47,055 
as at June 2022, with more customers requiring 
hardship assistance as COVID-19 support 
mechanisms ended. 

We focused on normalising the use of payment 
plans in our communications to customers 
showing signs of financial stress to make it easier 
for them to seek assistance. This saw a 12 per cent 
improvement on customer engagement, and a 
large increase in the number of people choosing 
to set up a payment plan or join our Power On 
program. 

Through Power On, we supported residential and 
small business customers who were affected by 
floods in Queensland and New South Wales in 
FY2022. We also provided additional bill relief 
where a customer’s property had been destroyed 
or they were unable to live or work in their property 
for an extended period.

Supporting vulnerable communities
We work with various organisations and initiatives 
to identify opportunities to support access to 
energy in our communities, including helping those 
affected by domestic violence; vulnerable groups 
in our community; and people in Indigenous, 
migrant, and regional and remote communities. 
For example, in FY2022, we began working with 
Women's Property Initiatives, a not-for-profit 
community housing organisation in Victoria that 
provides permanent and affordable homes for 
women and children at risk of homelessness. 
The organisation owns over 100 homes 
accommodating more than 230 women and 
children, and we provide these households with 
access to our Power On program.

In FY2022, Origin also partnered with Nunga 
Mi:Minar to waive disconnection and reconnection 
fees for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander 
women and children fleeing domestic violence. 
Origin also partnered with Uniting Communities 
to waive connection fees for long-term homeless 
people moving from transitional housing to 
long-term housing.

With COVID-19 restrictions lifting, we were able 
to return to face-to-face community events in 
FY2022. These included financial counsellor 
conferences, where we engaged with counsellors 
that support our hardship customers. We also 
attended government-run ‘Bring Your Bills’ days, 
where we helped people understand their bills, 
reviewed whether they were on the best energy 
plan for them, and provided energy saving tips. 

We continued our partnership with the New 
South Wales Government to deliver the Solar 
for Low Income Households program, installing 
free 3 kilowatt (kW) solar systems to low-income 
households. The program aims to help participants 
save up to $600 a year on their electricity bills, 
and we have installed more than 500 solar systems 
since it began in 2019. 

To date, we have helped more than 100,000 
concession cardholders through the South 
Australian Government’s Concessions Energy 
Discount Offer. We also continued to provide a 
loyalty discount offer to our concession customers 
in the Australian Capital Territory (ACT) for Origin 
Standing, Supply and Basic products.

Prices
Most electricity customers in New South Wales, 
Queensland and South Australia saw price decreases 
on 1 July 2021 and so paid less in FY2022 compared 
to the previous year. The ACT variable market rate 
increased in July 2021, while natural gas prices for 
customers in New South Wales, Queensland, South 
Australia and the ACT increased from 1 July 2021, 
mainly due to higher wholesale costs. Most Victorian 
electricity customers on variable rate offers received 
bill increases in early 2022 due to network cost 
changes. Natural gas prices for Victorian customers 
also increased in January 2022. 

After many years of relatively stable electricity 
prices, and with electricity costs in 2021 reaching 
their lowest point in eight years,9 FY2022 saw 
significant increases in the wholesale cost of 
energy. This was driven by several factors, 
including a global spike in coal and gas costs  
and a number of power plant outages across  
the National Energy Market (NEM).

These price increases went beyond what has been 
factored into the regulated price caps for standing 
offer customers. For many retailers, those regulated 
tariffs do not provide adequate allowance to recover 
their costs. As providers of an essential service, 
energy retailers faced the challenge of balancing the 
need to recover the much higher cost of supplying 
energy to customers, while being mindful of the 
cost-of-living pressures affecting the community.

To help minimise the impact of price changes on 
our customers, we absorbed some higher energy 
costs to make sure that most Origin customers 
paid no more than the Default Market Offer on 
1 July 2022 after product benefits. Additionally, 
we intend to protect customers in our Power On 
hardship program from electricity and gas price 
increases in FY2023.

9 Source: ACCC's Inquiry into the National Electricity Market, 
November 2021

  With COVID-19 restrictions lifting, we were able to attend government-run Bring Your Bills days in FY2022.

2022 Sustainability Report



14

Energy reliability

In June 2022, possible electricity shortfalls due 
to a combination of many factors – including 
particularly cold weather, overcast days leading 
to below average solar output, fuel supply issues 
caused by reduced coal stockpiles and rail supply 
issues, and approximately 5,000 MW of scheduled 
and unscheduled baseload outages within the 
NEM – led the NSW and Queensland governments 
to issue warnings of potential blackouts and load 
shedding along the Australian east coast due to 
electricity shortfalls. 

Origin’s generation fleet played an important role in 
keeping the lights on by helping to cover electricity 
supply shortages in the market, with output from 
Eraring Power Station rising by 30 per cent in the 
final quarter of the financial year compared to the 
previous quarter, and output from our gas peakers 
surging by 82 per cent. We worked with the New 
South Wales Government to address some of the 
coal supply issues affecting the sector, including 
prioritising rail deliveries to coal-fired power 
stations needing supply during this time. 

Australia Pacific LNG, in which Origin has a  
27.5 per cent shareholding, directed additional gas 
into the domestic market so it could be used for 
gas-fired power generation and provided additional 
pipeline capacity, helping to alleviate the forecast 
shortfall in supply identified by the Australian 
Energy Market Operator (AEMO).  

Retailer of Last Resort
Volatile energy prices and retail price caps, which 
limited retailers’ ability to recover higher energy 
costs, has seen five retailers fail since May 2022.10 
For the first time in many years, AEMO used 
the Retailer of Last Resort mechanism, which is 
designed to ensure consumers continue to receive 
energy when their energy retailer goes out of 
business. Origin was the nominated Retailer of  
Last Resort in a number of areas. Australia Pacific 
LNG responded to requests from Retailers  
of Last Resort for the supply of additional gas.

RERT mechanism 
In FY2022, Origin and some of our large 
commercial customers started participating in the 
Reliability and Emergency Reserve Trader (RERT) 
mechanism to help ensure a reliable energy supply. 
The RERT gives AEMO a tool to help it maintain 
power system reliability and system security by 
asking RERT participants to reduce their grid 
electricity use if forecast electricity supply does not 
meet forecast demand. In FY2022, there were five 
RERT events, including four in June.

Eraring Power Station
In February 2022, we announced plans to 
accelerate our exit from coal-fired generation, 
submitting notice to AEMO to retire Eraring 
Power Station, potentially as early as August 2025 
(previously 2032). The closure timing of all four 
units will be determined closer to 2025. 

The replacement of Eraring’s capacity and the 
energy it provides will need to be carefully managed 
to help maintain reliable energy supply. We are 
aiming to grow renewable and storage capacity 
within our generation portfolio by 4 GW by 2030.11 
We are progressing plans for a 700 MW battery on 
the Eraring site and have acquired around 1,600 
MW of renewable energy development projects to 
date. Combined with the growth in our virtual power 
plant (VPP), these actions, when delivered, will 
help replace the capacity from Eraring with lower 
emissions energy sources. 

See Eraring and the energy transition for 
more information. 

Smart, connected and  
lower-carbon solutions 

Our ambition is to lead the energy transition 
through cleaner energy and customer solutions. 
Key to this is delivering smart, connected and 
lower-carbon solutions that can help our customers 
transition to net zero.

Smart products
Technology is increasingly offering customers 
the opportunity to have more control over their 
energy usage and costs. We are providing more 
personalised products and services that deliver 
value to customers by helping them make their 
energy assets in their homes and business more 
affordable and sustainable.

Origin Spike is a behavioural demand response 
program that rewards customers for reducing 
their energy use during peak periods, called Spike 
Hours. Almost 75,000 customers have signed up, 
receiving a total of more than $3.8 million in reward 
points since the program was launched in August 
2020. Over that time, we have held more than 
2,800 Spike Hours, with an overall participation rate 
of 69 per cent, and a total energy reduction of  
342 megawatt-hours (MWh). 

We continue to grow our VPP, Origin Loop, 
reaching 258 MW from more than 120,000 
connected services in FY2022. Loop orchestrates 
distributed energy assets across many separate 
locations, providing Origin with an important tool 
to manage the supply and demand balance in the 
electricity market. Loop uses artificial intelligence 
to optimise these assets and shifts demand from 
periods of high demand and high emissions 
intensity to times when renewable generation  
is high and electricity prices are low, reducing  
the cost of energy and carbon intensity. 

MW under orchestration in Origin VPP

159

FY2021

258

FY2022

85

FY2020

We worked collaboratively with Gasbot to 
develop a solution that helps customers to never 
run out of LPG. Smart devices (telemetry) installed 
onto our bulk cylinders tanks collect and send 
data from the field and automatically update our 
systems with the quantity of LPG in a customer’s 
cylinder or tank, triggering an order when a 
customer is running low. We have rolled out more 
than 10,500 of these smart devices, predominantly 
to our business customers in Australia and expect 
to have approximately 25,000 units in place by  
the end of FY2023.

10 As at 25 August 2022, with three Retailer of Last Resort events 
in FY2022.

11 This is inclusive of current portfolio position and 
previous announcements.

2022 Sustainability Report



15

Lower-carbon customer solutions
We offer solar and renewable energy, carbon offset 
products, and electric vehicle solutions, and work 
with our customers to develop and deliver cleaner 
energy solutions.

Solar energy
We are a Clean Energy Council-accredited retailer 
of solar energy. In the year to December 2021, we 
were the second largest installer of solar in terms 
of overall capacity, and the second largest in the 
commercial (15-100 kW) category. 

During FY2022, we installed almost 8,000 solar 
systems on the roofs of Australian homes and 
businesses, with a capacity of around 70 MW, 
down 5 per cent on FY2021. This small decline 
follows several years of strong growth and reflects 
the impacts of COVID-19 lockdowns as well as 
supply chain cost increases. At 30 June 2022, 
around 558,000 Origin customers had solar 
installed at their properties. 

Capacity of solar systems installed (MW)

74

FY2021

70

FY2022

61

FY2020

In FY2022, we introduced the Origin Solar 
Assessment Tool to make it easier for prospective 
customers12 to make decisions when considering 
a solar energy solution. Developed in collaboration 
with Accenture and Google Cloud, the tool uses 
3D data visual, artificial intelligence and advanced 
analytics to provide customers with an accurate and 
tailored assessment of how solar will support their 
household’s energy requirements, in just 10 minutes. 

This includes solar power generation forecasts, 
estimates of system and installation costs, potential 
energy and bill savings, and details on a household’s 
investment ‘break-even’ point. Calculations are 
based on a customer’s specific household energy 
consumption and details such as roof pitch, area and 
shading by obstructions. Since we launched the tool 
in December 2021, customers have requested over 
3,200 quotes, resulting in over 600 sales.

There has been continued interest in solar energy 
from business customers wanting to achieve their 
own climate aspirations. In FY2022, our team 
installed a 160 kW solar system at JB Hi-Fi’s new 
store in Holmesglen, Victoria. We also provided a live 
dashboard installed behind the payments counter 
that tells customers and staff how much solar power 
is being generated by the store’s rooftop panels; how 
much energy is being drawn from rooftop solar and 
from the grid; the volume of carbon emissions being 
avoided through the store’s use of solar; and the 
energy independence rating for the store. Read more 
about the project in our case study.

 

Renewable and carbon neutral products
We have almost 340,000 customer accounts on 
our GreenPower, Green Gas, Green LPG and Origin 
Go Zero (electricity) products, up from 260,000 
in FY2021. This growth was driven by process 
changes that we implemented to make it easier for 
customers to select lower-carbon options, as well as 
targeted campaigns.

We are one of Australia’s largest GreenPower 
providers13 with over 205,000 customers’ accounts 
signed up to our GreenPower product in FY2022, up 
from around 190,000 in FY2021. When customers 
choose GreenPower, they can select the percentage 
of their electricity they would like Origin to match 
with an equivalent amount of electricity from 
GreenPower-accredited renewable sources, which  
is added to the electricity grid. 

In FY2022, we added Origin Go Zero, Carbon 
Neutral Solar, and Carbon Neutral Demand 
Response to our suite of products that have been 
certified carbon neutral by Climate Active, a 
partnership between the Australian Government 
and Australian businesses. This is in addition to 
Green Gas and Green LPG, which is currently 
the only Climate Active certified LPG product 
in Australia. For these products, we offset the 
relevant emissions associated with the customer’s 
consumption of natural gas, LPG, electricity, the 
extraction, manufacturing, transport, installation 
and maintenance of a solar PV system, or 
production and consumption of alternative fuel  
use in a demand response event, as part of our 
Climate Active commitments. 

12 Within 100 kilometres of Adelaide, Brisbane, Canberra, 
Melbourne, and Sydney

13 GreenPower 2020 Annual Audit Report Final

Case study

JB Hi-FI solar 
partnership

We are working with JB Hi-Fi to 
reduce its energy costs and carbon 
emissions by using solar and have 
installed a live in-store dashboard 
so customers can see how they 
are tracking.

2022 Sustainability Report

https://www.greenpower.gov.au/sites/default/files/2021-09/GreenPower%202020%20Annual%20Audit%20Report%20for%20publication.pdf
https://www.originenergy.com.au/blog/customers-renewable-journey/
https://www.originenergy.com.au/blog/adapting-to-a-changing-energy-landscape/
https://www.originenergy.com.au/blog/adapting-to-a-changing-energy-landscape/
https://www.originenergy.com.au/blog/customers-renewable-journey/


16

Electric vehicles 
Supporting large and small customers with the 
transition to electric vehicles (EVs), and helping these 
customers manage the charging of their vehicles, 
is central to Origin’s ambition to lead the energy 
transition. We are a member of EV100, a global 
initiative that brings together companies committed 
to playing a leadership role in helping  
to accelerate the uptake of EVs. 

In FY2021, we partnered with Custom Fleet to launch 
Origin 360 EV Fleet, which aims to make it easier 
for Australian businesses to make the switch to EVs, 
helping them lower their carbon footprint and their 
operating costs. We are aiming to have at least 5,000 
EVs under management by FY2026. Since launch 
we have received strong interest from organisations 
looking to start their EV fleet transition and have 
signed leases with a number of organisations across a 
range of industries.

In FY2022, we hosted two of nine planned EV 
Drive Day events, with support from the NSW 
Government. This series of Origin 360 EV Drive 
Days gives businesses the opportunity to test drive 
a range of EVs and speak to industry experts about 
their business needs, including key considerations 
when looking to transition their fleet. Origin has 
also successfully obtained funding under the NSW 
Government’s EV Fleet Incentive Program to 
subsidise 130 EVs for businesses. 

Origin Zero 
•  •  •  •

Our large business 
customers are becoming 
increasingly focused on  
their sustainability goals 

As the energy transition accelerates towards 
a net zero future, our customers’ needs and 
expectations are rapidly changing. This is 
particularly the case for our large business 
customers, which use as much energy as our 
4 million residential customers combined 
but only make up around 1 per cent of 
our customer base. These businesses are 
becoming increasingly focused on their 
sustainability goals and looking for optimised 
energy solutions that can help achieve them. 

We established a new business unit in early 
2022 called Origin Zero, which is intended 
to assist large business customers on their 
decarbonisation journey. 

Origin Zero will create long-term partnerships 
with customers, helping to optimise their 
demand and match it with tailored renewable 
energy solutions. We are focusing on:

• reducing carbon emissions and cost  
through demand side services such  
as EV fleet management, energy efficiency, 
and carbon assessments; 

• providing lower carbon supply solutions, 
including solar, storage, renewable energy, 
and firming; and 

• ongoing optimisation and orchestration of 
assets to hit long term objectives, and offering 
monitoring, maintenance, and demand 
response, including installing behind-the-
meter solutions connected  
to our VPP.

We are continuing to work towards transitioning all of 
our passenger and light commercial vehicles to EVs 
by 2030 and are looking to replace vehicles in our 
fleet with EVs at the conclusion of their lease. Vehicle 
supply shortage in Australia has resulted in delays in 
EVs being delivered and deployed in the Origin fleet 
but we continue to work with EV manufacturers to 
understand when EVs will be available. 

We launched an EV sharing service in FY2022,  
360 EV Share, for residents and tenants of 
apartments and commercial buildings to book and 
access an exclusive EV via a digital app, providing 
a seamless digital car-sharing experience. Since 
its launch, Origin has seen strong interest from 
property developers and owners looking to 
use this service to enhance the sustainability 
credentials of their buildings.

The smart charging trial we started in 2021 
with the Australian Renewable Energy Agency 
(ARENA), continues to make progress with over 
200 chargers rolled out to EV owners and fleets 
across Australia. The chargers are connected 
to Origin Loop, our VPP, to minimise energy 
consumption during the evening peak period and 
maximise EV charging during the middle of the 
day when is there is excess renewable energy and 
have been integrated in the Origin app. We will 
report to ARENA on the results of the trial at the 
end of 2022.

Origin Zero helps customers shift from 
traditional energy supply agreements to 
tailored, flexible energy solutions. Our services 
are supported by our data and analytics, 
allowing customers a clear line of sight to 
improvements in energy efficiency and costs, 
and helping them understand how they are 
reducing their carbon footprint. 

For example, in FY2022 we worked with  
PwC Australia to develop a tailored three-
year 100 per cent renewable electricity 
solution for its offices nationally, with large-
scale generation certificates sourced from  
Origin’s Stockyard Hill Wind Farm offtake 
agreement. We also developed offers for 
PwC employees on a range of cleaner and 
connected energy solutions.

We aim to offer services and solutions that 
go beyond energy supply and are targeting a 
broader service offering for more than one third 
of our business customers by FY2026. This 
could include renewable energy, along with 
emissions reduction, load management and 
demand response solutions. 

See also our case study on our partnership with 
JB Hi-Fi for another example of how Origin Zero 
is helping customers to decarbonise. 

  We are aiming to have at least 5,000 EVs under management by FY2026 as part of Origin 360 EV Fleet. 

2022 Sustainability Report

https://www.originenergy.com.au/blog/customers-renewable-journey/


Performance at a glance

• Spent $318 million directly and indirectly  
with regional suppliers, or 20% of our  
procurement spend

• Spent $17 million directly and indirectly  
with Indigenous suppliers 

• Provided almost $800,000 to support  
various local community programs  
and events 

• Donated more than 7,000 hours and  
$720,000 to Australian charities through  
the Origin Energy Foundation’s Give Time  
employee volunteering and Give2 matched  
giving programs 

• Committed to a $5 million community  
fund as part of our support for the  
community as we transition out of coal-fired  
generation at Eraring

We play an important role in communities – working to 
provide reliable and affordable energy, employing around 
5,000 people in Australia and the Pacific, and supporting 
educational opportunities through the Origin Energy 
Foundation. We aim to work responsibly and respectfully 
with our local communities and to identify opportunities for 
Origin and our employees to make a positive difference.

Communities
•  •  •  •

UN Sustainable Development Goals

Our activities are helping to  
contribute to the following SDGs:

>$2.6m 
contributed to the community  

by the Origin Energy Foundation 

20

FY2020 FY2021 FY2022

Regional procurement spend  
as % of total spend

17 18

Management approach

Find out more about our approach 
to getting energy right for our 

communities

Communities

Procurement

17 2022 Sustainability ReportCommunities 2022 Sustainability Report

https://www.originenergy.com.au/content/dam/origin/about/investors-media/documents/origin_our_approach_procurement.pdf
https://www.originenergy.com.au/content/dam/origin/about/investors-media/documents/origin_our_approach_procurement.pdf
https://www.originenergy.com.au/wp-content/uploads/origin_our_approach_communities.pdf


18

Working with communities

We respect the rights and interests of the 
communities in which we operate. We consult 
with them to understand and manage the 
environmental, economic and social impacts  
of our activities and maximise the benefits. 

Our assets – such as power stations, gas fields, 
processing facilities and pipelines – can have 
a lifespan of several decades, which means we 
have a long-term presence in the communities 
in which we operate. Our projects can deliver a 
range of benefits for local communities, including 
employment for people living in the region; 
opportunities for local suppliers; financial payments 
for landholders and Native Title holders; and taxes, 
levies and royalties for governments.

While we engage with communities across our 
sites, our most significant interactions occur at our 
Australia Pacific LNG operations in Queensland, 
our Beetaloo Basin exploration project in the 
Northern Territory, and our power stations, the 
largest of which is Eraring in New South Wales.

Australia Pacific LNG
As upstream operator of Australia Pacific LNG, we 
regularly engage with local councils, chambers of 
commerce, economic development groups and 
other community organisations. Our business also 
proactively engages with our landholders through 
dedicated stakeholder liaison officers. 

Conduct and Compensation Agreements (CCAs) 
between Origin and landholders set out how we will 
enter the land to carry out our activities and how 
landholders will be compensated. We negotiated 
and signed 75 CCAs with landholders in FY2022.14 
These CCAs bring the total number of agreements 
signed since the Australia Pacific LNG project 
began to 1,385.

14 The number of Australia Pacific LNG CCAs, as defined by 
Queensland’s Mineral and Energy Resources (Common 
Provisions) Act 2014 signed during the 12-month period. This 
excludes non-operated sites.

Engaging with Traditional Owners
We work closely with several Traditional Owner 
groups in the Surat Basin in Queensland, collaborating 
to protect cultural heritage. We instigated more 
regular meetings with representatives from 
Traditional Owner groups in FY2022 to provide 
information about planned work programs, identify 
any need to train additional cultural heritage officers 
(who assess proposed developments for areas of 
cultural significance), and help to maintain strong 
working relationships.

Australia Pacific LNG holds Native Title Agreements 
and Indigenous Land Use Agreements (ILUAs) with 
Traditional Owners, which recognise native title 

rights and interests, and help to identify sustainable 
social and economic development opportunities, 
including learning, mentoring and employment. 
ILUAs are voluntary agreements between native title 
parties and other people or bodies about the use 
and management of areas of land and/or waters. We 
agreed a new ILUA with the Iman People in FY2022 
and are now seeking approval for registration. 

During FY2022, Australia Pacific LNG was not 
associated with any incidents of non-compliance 
with ILUAs or Cultural Heritage Management Plans. 
Refer to our Communities management approach 
for more information on how we engage with 
Traditional Owners.

We continue to identify opportunities to build 
cultural awareness among our people and 
communities. For example, during NAIDOC Week 
in July 2021, team members were privileged to walk 
with Traditional Owners and community members 
in reconciliation and healing as the Star of Taroom, 
an important Aboriginal artefact, was returned to 
Iman Country. During National Reconciliation Week, 
we held events with local school children, providing 
educational opportunities through dance, music, art 
and storytelling. 

 A smoking ceremony was conducted by Iman Elder Uncle John Waterton to welcome our new camp service provider ESS at our Spring Gully village.

2022 Sustainability Report

https://www.originenergy.com.au/wp-content/uploads/origin_our_approach_communities.pdf


19

Conduct and Compensation Agreements 
and landholder complaints

 1,700 

 1,400 

 1,100 

 800 

 500

 100

 80

 60

 40

 20

 0
FY2020 FY2021 FY2022

 Cumulative number of CCAs in place at year end
           Landholder complaints received

1,276
1,310 1,385

33
41

56

Community engagement
In May and June 2022, we participated in 
meetings on Country with Native Title holders 
and the NLC. We discussed our upcoming 
work program, the results of our previous 
work program and potential employment 
opportunities, and answered questions from 
participants, which related to the topics 
discussed and also the archaeological site 
identified during surveys. Origin employees 
involved in these meetings included personnel 
from field operations, drilling and hydraulic 
fracturing operations, groundwater monitoring, 
water management, social performance and 
senior management. We followed up these 
meetings with additional engagement from 
our subject matter expert on Northern Territory 
hydrogeology, who answered further questions 
on groundwater protection and monitoring. 

We plan to continue expanding our community 
engagement in the coming year, facilitating 
community visits to our sites and using additional 
channels of communication to further expand the 
sharing of project information.

Site inspections are an important opportunity for 
Native Title holders to spend time with on-site 
specialists and see for themselves how exploration 
activity is conducted. As part of our efforts to engage 
with the broader community, Origin will be offering 
facilitated community bus tours to site to residents  
of Elliott, Marlinja, Borroloola and Minyerri in FY2023 
so they can see our exploration activity first-hand and 
discuss any concerns with site personnel.

More information on our practices for engagement 
with the Native Title holders of areas where we are 
undertaking exploration work during FY2022 and 
plans for forthcoming engagement can be found 
in our Beetaloo Native Title Holder Engagement – 
2022 Update.

Eraring Power Station
Immediately following the announcement to 
potentially bring forward the closure of Eraring, 
we began a program of communications 
and briefings for employees, contractors and 
suppliers, government, industry, media and other 
stakeholders. Key activities included Eraring 
site employee and contractor briefings; Origin-
wide internal communications; government and 
industry engagement, including federal, state 
and local representatives; and community and 
supplier engagement.

See Eraring and the energy transition for more details 
on our community engagement plans, including 
establishing a community fund with $5 million 
committed between now and 2032.

Responding to complaints
Origin has grievance mechanisms in place to 
allow community members to share feedback and 
concerns, and to have these addressed. We monitor 
complaints, our response times, and resolution of 
these matters. 

In FY2022, community complaints concerned 
operational impacts such as noise, and incidents 
while accessing landholder properties.  

Community complaints1

2

12

3

2

3

FY2020 FY2021 FY2022
 Energy Markets  Integrated Gas

1. The Energy Markets figures do not include complaints from customers, 
which is covered in Customers. The Integrated Gas figures exclude 
complaints from landholders with whom we have negotiated or are 
negotiating a CCA.

During the year, we received 56 complaints from 
landholders with whom we have negotiated or are 
negotiating a CCA, with new processes leading 
to better recording of complaints in our system. 
Most of these related to land access issues and 
the failure to either close or leave open farm 
gates. Each complaint is carefully investigated, 
and we are working to improve our performance 
and reduce the number of complaints. In response 
to an increase in complaints regarding gates, we 
rolled out training sessions to operational teams 
and are trialling alternative gate lock options, 
aiming to reduce the number of gate incidents. 
The sustained wet weather in FY2022 also saw 
increased complaints regarding property access 
track damage and meant that repair works 
were delayed.

Beetaloo Basin exploration project
We have been engaging with community members 
across the Northern Territory since we became the 
operator of the Beetaloo Basin permits in 2014. We 
work constructively and transparently with those 
within our permit areas, including Native Title holders 
for the area of our exploration activity. 

In FY2022, we further strengthened our team 
with the addition of a Community Liaison Officer 
based in Elliott, who is working to deepen Origin’s 
engagement with the community in Elliott and 
Marlinja. As well, we employed a regionally based 
Asset Field Officer, who is also a Native Title holder 
within the area of Origin’s activities, to conduct 
maintenance, inspection and monitoring activities  
at site, including water sampling activities. 

We work closely with the Northern Land Council 
(NLC) and Native Title holders for the area of 
Origin’s exploration activity. In FY2022, we began 
preparing for negotiations on a development and 
production ILUA.

Sacred site surveys
During the year, Native Title holders and NLC 
anthropologists, conducted sacred site clearance 
and avoidance surveys of our potential future 
work areas. No work can be undertaken without 
a survey and approval from the Aboriginal Areas 
Protection Authority. 

During this work, an archaeological site containing 
numerous stone artefacts was identified and action 
was taken to protect the site. We notified the NLC, 
as the representative of the Native Title holders, 
and discussed the find with Native Title holders at 
on-country meetings. We set up a no-go buffer 
zone of 500 metres around the find and relocated 
proposed well and seismic survey locations away 
from the area, consistent with our site avoidance 
approach. We shared an archaeological report with 
the Northern Territory Heritage Branch and the NLC, 
and consultations are underway with Native Title 
holders as to whether any further site protection 
measures are needed.

2022 Sustainability Report

https://www.originenergy.com.au/wp-content/uploads/J016671-Origin-Beetaloo-NTH-update_Final.pdf
https://www.originenergy.com.au/wp-content/uploads/J016671-Origin-Beetaloo-NTH-update_Final.pdf


20

Supporting communities

We contribute to communities by providing 
emergency and crisis support, through local and 
national community investment and through the 
Origin Energy Foundation. We work to protect 
customers experiencing hardship. We are also 
committed to supporting those affected by 
domestic violence, vulnerable groups in our 
community, and people in Indigenous, migrant, 
and regional and remote communities. See 
Customers for more information.

We also support communities by buying from local 
suppliers, providing financial incentives for our 
people to ‘live local’, and offering local  
apprenticeship and traineeship opportunities. 

Emergency and crisis support
We donated $100,000 in FY2022 to the 
BizRebuild program to support flood-affected 

communities. BizRebuild provides vouchers 
worth up to $2,000 to small businesses to 
buy replacement equipment and offers an 
additional $500 for local legal, accounting and 
business advisory services to help with business 
recovery plans.

Community investment
Our national community programs include 
Little Big Idea, an annual competition that seeks 
Australia's next generation of inventors. We also 
assist Netball Australia to support players at all 
levels across the country – from local clubs to  
the world-leading Australian Diamonds. 

In FY2022, we announced our sponsorships of the 
Sydney Swans and Melbourne City FC, supporting 
the clubs to take action to reduce their carbon 
footprints and meet their sustainability goals. The 
clubs join Netball Australia in our Good Change 
Club initiative, which aims to educate, inspire and 
incentivise sports fans to make small acts of good 
change that collectively make a big difference 
towards a cleaner energy future.

Case study

Helping Chinchilla with 
its 20-year vision

Enabling local communities to drive 
their own growth is key to their 
long-term sustainability. Origin is 
supporting one Queensland town’s 
local business association, Chinchilla 
Community Commerce and Industry, 
to do this through targeted funding 
and in-kind assistance. 

 Origin volunteer Caitlin helps students build a prosthetic hand for an amputee in the developing world through Origin Energy Foundation's 
partnership with the Helping Hands program.

Local community programs
Our investments in local communities target four 
priority areas: creating safe, vibrant and inclusive 
communities; building great places to live and 
work; caring for our environment; and delivering 
economic benefits. We also provide financial 
and in-kind support, and encourage employee 
volunteering and charitable donations, which are 
managed through the Origin Energy Foundation. 

During FY2022, Origin contributed around 
$800,000 to various local community programs, 
through multi-year partnerships, and support for 
important services and events. 

For example, following the devastating bushfires of 
recent years, we continued our support of local fire 
brigades by helping to fund the development and 
ongoing maintenance of a 1.7-kilometre air strip for 
the Wallumbilla Combined Emergency Services 
Group in south west Queensland. Opened in 
FY2022, the air strip is connected to a water bore 
with quick fill points at each end to assist water 
bombing aircraft in bushfire season. 

Recognising the impact of COVID-19 on 
communities, in FY2022, we continued our support 
of mental health initiatives. This included activities 
to raise awareness and break the stigma around 
suicide with mental health advocacy group Let’s Talk 
in Mortlake, Victoria, and support for Men’s Sheds, 
where men can meet, talk and work on community 
projects together, in Uranquinty and Mortlake. 
We have also supported projects that seek to 
address isolation or loss of community connection. 
For example, in south east Queensland, we are 
partnering with Western Downs Regional Council 
and the Murilla Community Centre to expand a 
successful local newsletter to neighbouring regions. 

In Chinchilla in the Western Downs, we have 
partnered with Chinchilla Community Commerce 
and Industry, including helping to fund a dedicated 
business manager to assist the community in 
developing a five-year strategic plan and drive 
local initiatives. One such initiative in FY2022 was 
a buy local campaign that saw 23,000 entries 
into a prize draw for purchases at participating 
local businesses, representing a local spend of 
more than $460,000. See our case study for more 
information on the partnership.  
   

2022 Sustainability Report

https://www.originenergy.com.au/blog/helping-chinchilla/
https://www.originenergy.com.au/blog/adapting-to-a-changing-energy-landscape/
https://www.originenergy.com.au/blog/adapting-to-a-changing-energy-landscape/
https://www.originenergy.com.au/blog/helping-chinchilla/


21

Identifying, assessing, and addressing 
modern slavery risks
Origin rejects any form of slavery and will only 
partner with suppliers and stakeholders who are 
committed to preventing, identifying, addressing 
and remediating issues where they may have caused 
or contributed to an adverse impact to people in our 
supply chain.

In FY2022, we focused on building our 
understanding of modern slavery and capabilities to 
address risk, improving our policies and processes, 
and enhancing our engagement with suppliers. We 
rolled out human rights awareness training to 98 per 
cent of our employees and contingent workers via 
our refreshed Code of Conduct. 

We also worked to better understand the risks 
associated with the production of polysilicon in 
China, required to manufacture solar modules, 
following widely reported allegations16 of forced 
labour. Limited transparency of supply chain 
practices has made it difficult to accurately assess the 
validity of these allegations, however, we have taken 
a number of steps to better understand and manage 
the issue, including engaging with our existing 
supplier of solar modules to determine its current 
controls for managing modern slavery risks. As well, 
we contributed to the Clean Energy Council’s Risks 
of Modern Slavery Working Group to progress an 
industry position and response and worked with the 
Human Rights in Resources and Energy collaborative 
to understand experiences and approaches. 

Our assessments to date have not identified any 
known modern slavery practices in our operations 
or supply chain, however, we recognise there are 
potentially issues deeper in our supply chain and 
that uncovering these issues requires ongoing 
vigilance. For more information, see our 2022 
Modern Slavery Statement.

Origin Energy Foundation
Established by Origin in 2010, the Origin Energy 
Foundation supports education programs that help 
break the cycle of disadvantage and empower 
young Australians to reach their potential. The 
Foundation distributes funds drawn from interest 
on a $55 million corpus provided by Origin. We 
also fund the running costs, ensuring that all the 
investment income goes to community programs.

Through grants, volunteering, in-kind donations 
and workplace giving programs, the Foundation 
distributed more than $2.6 million to the community 
in FY2022. It has provided more than $35 million to 
support community organisations since its inception. 

In FY2022, we introduced the Origin Energy 
Foundation Board Observer Program, a professional 
development program for senior Origin leaders who 
can join the program as an observer for 12 months. 
Each year, one or more observers with a diverse skill set 
and a genuine interest in the community sector will be 
selected to bring their experience and energy to the 
Foundation while gaining insight into the boardroom.

Working with community partners
Through its grants program, the Foundation provides 
funding to Australian non-profit organisations that 
work to increase diversity in science, technology, 
engineering and maths (STEM) education, and 
equality of educational opportunity for Indigenous 
students and young people living in regional, rural 
and remote Australia. 

As a founding partner in the Illuminating Communities 
program, led by Australian charity SolarBuddy, the 
Foundation and Origin volunteers were invited to the Torres 
Strait in April 2022 to run SolarBuddy’s ‘Lights for learning’ 
program in some of Australia’s most remote schools. 

The Foundation also funded solar-powered lighting 
for the multi-purpose centre at Tagai State College, 
the Strait’s only high school, to bring the community 
together safely after dark. The program focuses on 
creating opportunities for young people and providing 
solar power to communities impacted by energy 
poverty. See our case study for more information.

The Foundation also supports capacity-building 
for the Australian non-profit sector, to help 
improve its social impact. In FY2022, the Origin 
Energy Foundation, along with the Paul Ramsay 

Foundation, funded Paying What it Takes, a report 
by Social Ventures Australia, Centre for Social Impact 
and Philanthropy Australia, which examined the 
underfunding of Australian charities and called for 
a substantial shift in funding systems to ensure the 
long-term effectiveness of Australia’s non-profit sector.  

Supporting employee giving
A key element of the Foundation’s work is our 
employee volunteering program, Give Time. This year, 
our participation rate of 41 per cent saw employees 
donate more than 7,000 hours to various STEM and 
mentoring programs, reaching around 5,300 students. 

Through our workplace giving program, Give2, 
the Foundation matched employee donations 
dollar-for-dollar, providing more than $725,000 to 
around 280 Australian not-for-profit organisations.

Responsible procurement

Our supply chain includes the supply of goods and 
services, wholesale commodities and the distribution 
of energy. It encompasses nearly 3,700 direct 
suppliers with which we spent around $10.5 billion in 
FY2022.15 Our direct suppliers are mainly in Australia, 
with 10 per cent based internationally. The goods and 
services segment represents approximately 20 per 
cent of our overall supply chain spend and accounts 
for approximately 90 per cent of our direct suppliers.

We strive to improve our supply chain’s social and 
ethical footprint, and work with suppliers that share 
our values. We expect our suppliers to comply with 
all applicable laws and to demonstrate that they 
have the attributes set out in our Supplier Code. 
We recognise the opportunity to create a positive 
impact on communities by making considered 
choices about how and where we source the goods 
and services we need to operate our business. 

Our responsible procurement plan focuses on 
four areas:
• identifying, assessing, and addressing modern 

slavery risks;
• supporting regional communities;
• increasing Indigenous participation; and
• supporting small businesses.

15     Supply chain spend is approximate annualised third-party 
spend excluding taxes, government charges, joint ventures, 
intercompany transfers and landowner compensation payments.

16 Energy of Freedom

Case study

Illuminating 
Communities with 
SolarBuddy

The partnership between the Origin 
Energy Foundation and SolarBuddy has 
resulted in more than 8,000 solar lights 
donated to children living in energy 
poverty. Now the two organisations 
have joined forces in a new initiative, 
starting in the Torres Strait. 

2022 Sustainability Report

https://www.originenergy.com.au/wp-content/uploads/Origin_Modern_Slavery_Statement_2022.pdf
https://www.originenergy.com.au/wp-content/uploads/Origin_Modern_Slavery_Statement_2022.pdf
https://www.originenergy.com.au/blog/solar-lights-up-torres-strait/
https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/research/beacons-of-excellence/rights-lab/resources/reports-and-briefings/2022/march/the-energy-of-freedom-full-report.pdf
https://www.originenergy.com.au/blog/solar-lights-up-torres-strait/
https://www.originenergy.com.au/blog/adapting-to-a-changing-energy-landscape/
https://www.originenergy.com.au/blog/adapting-to-a-changing-energy-landscape/
https://www.originenergy.com.au/blog/solar-lights-up-torres-strait/


22

entering corporate supply chains, and to build a 
pipeline of local Indigenous businesses to support 
our operations, and those of other corporates.

Around 50 businesses attended drop-in sessions 
to discuss their business ideas with Many Rivers 
and Origin representatives in six locations across 
Queensland, and we are working with them to upskill 
and develop the capabilities necessary to apply for 
corporate supply opportunities. This includes Ochre 
Sun, an Indigenous sunscreen products business, 
which successfully secured a contract to supply 
SPF50+ sunscreen products to Origin.

Supporting regional communities
Procuring goods and services from local and 
regional suppliers is an important way to share 
economic benefits with the communities in which 
we operate. We seek to procure local goods and 
services wherever possible and work with our major 
contractors to do the same.

We have a growing network of service providers 
with a local presence in the Maranoa and Western 
Downs regions, supporting Australia Pacific LNG 
assets. In FY2022, to continue this commitment, 
we signed a new three-year agreement with Coho 
Resources, a key service provider to our well drilling 
operations, which operates hubs in Roma and Miles, 
and actively contributes to the local community.

Overall, we spent $318 million directly and indirectly 
with regional suppliers this year. Our proportion of 
regional spend increased to 20 per cent.  

Regional procurement spend as a percentage 
of total procurement spend

FY2020 FY2021 FY2022

20

18
17

Increasing Indigenous participation in 
our supply chain
We are committed to increasing the participation 
of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander businesses 
in our supply chain. Origin’s Stretch Reconciliation 
Action Plan (Stretch RAP) includes measurable 
targets to increase the diversity and quantity 
of goods and services procured directly and 
indirectly from Aboriginal and Torres Strait 
Islander-owned businesses.

In FY2022, our spend with Indigenous suppliers 
was $17 million,17 exceeding our Stretch RAP target 
of $12.2 million and bringing our cumulative spend 
under our three-year Stretch RAP to $32.6 million. 

We expanded the breadth of Indigenous business 
capability in our supply chain to include solar 
installation and IT services, while continuing to 
build on our relationships with our Indigenous 
suppliers in civil construction, facilities maintenance, 
office supplies and personal protective 
equipment suppliers.

We have included Indigenous Participation 
Commitments (IPCs) in contracts with key suppliers 
since 2018 to help facilitate more opportunities 
for Indigenous businesses. In FY2022, 33 new 
IPCs were agreed, adding to the 22 existing IPCs. 
Collaborating with our major contractors to promote 
opportunities through IPCs has resulted in around 
$4.5 million in additional indirect spending with 
Indigenous businesses in FY2022. Employing these 
businesses via IPCs allows Indigenous businesses 
to participate in our supply chain indirectly, 
growing industry and employment opportunities for 
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people.

We support and participate in opportunities to build 
our network of local and Indigenous suppliers. For 
example, in FY2022 we took part in the Northern 
Territory Energy Club’s ‘Meet the Buyer’ event in 
Darwin and supported the Aboriginal Economic 
Development Forum held in Alice Springs, which 
provides an opportunity for Indigenous-owned 
businesses from across the Northern Territory to 
showcase their products and services.

Goods and services procured from Aboriginal and 
Torres Strait Islander-owned businesses  

(direct and indirect spend) ($m)

FY2020 FY2021 FY2022

17

10

6

Many Rivers Marketplace

In FY2022, through our long-term not-for-profit 
partner, Many Rivers, we introduced a Marketplace 
project to help identify and break down barriers that 
prevent emerging Indigenous businesses from

17 Progress towards achieving our Stretch RAP objective is 
measured by monitoring direct procurement spend (paid by 
Origin) and indirect spend (sub-contractors to Origin). This figure 
includes indirect and direct spend.

Supporting small business
As a signatory to the Business Council of Australia’s 
voluntary Australian Supplier Payment Code, we are 
committed to making on-time payments to around 
2,000 small businesses that supply Origin. 

We implemented a new organisation-wide system 
in FY2022 to simplify and automate payment 
processes for our suppliers.

 Indigenous sunscreen products business, Ochre Sun, secured a contract with Origin after participating in the Many Rivers Marketplace program.

2022 Sustainability Report



23

Performance at a glance

• Developed a new medium-term equity 
emissions intensity target,18 consistent with 
a 1.5°C pathway envelope19 

• Developed our first Climate Transition  
Action Plan, which we will put to a non- 
binding advisory vote at our 2022 AGM

• Announced the accelerated closure of Eraring 
Power Station, from as early as August 2025

• Achieved the absolute emissions reductions 
planned for our short-term target over three 
years within the first two years

• Total Scope 1 and 2 equity emissions down  
by 12 per cent compared to FY2021

 Planet
•  •  •  •

We care about our impact on the environment. Our ambition is 
to achieve net zero Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions by 2050.

1,600 MW
of solar farm development  

options secured to date

UN Sustainable Development Goals

Our activities are helping to contribute  
to the following SDGs:

Management approach

Find out more about our approach to 
getting energy right for the planet

Climate Transition 
Action Plan

Environment

Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions  
(kt CO2-e, equity basis)

17,801
16,499

14,453

FY2020 FY2021 FY2022
 Scope 1  Scope 2

18 Excluded from this target are the potential future emissions 
from any development of new gas fields like the Beetaloo 
Basin. This is because there has been no decision, nor are 
we close to a decision, to produce those gas resources. 
However, any development would only occur where it was 
consistent with our net zero emissions by 2050 ambition.

19 Pursuant to the methodology set out in the Climate 
Transition Action Plan.

2022 Sustainability ReportPlanet

https://www.originenergy.com.au/wp-content/uploads/Climate-Transition-Action-Plan-2022_FINAL.pdf
https://www.originenergy.com.au/wp-content/uploads/origin_our_approach_environment.pdf
https://www.originenergy.com.au/wp-content/uploads/Climate-Transition-Action-Plan-2022_FINAL.pdf
https://www.originenergy.com.au/wp-content/uploads/Climate-Transition-Action-Plan-2022_FINAL.pdf
https://www.originenergy.com.au/content/dam/origin/about/investors-media/documents/origin_our_approach_environment.pdf
https://www.originenergy.com.au/wp-content/uploads/Climate-Transition-Action-Plan-2022_FINAL.pdf


24

Climate Transition Action Plan

Underpinning everything we do is a commitment 
to transparent and ongoing engagement with 
our stakeholders on our strategy, priorities 
and the progress we are making in the energy 
transition. This includes our customers, 
communities, people, and shareholders.

Following our commitment to support the Say 
on Climate initiative in FY2021, we have released 
our first Climate Transition Action Plan (CTAP) 
and will put this to a non-binding, advisory vote of 
shareholders at our 2022 AGM.

The report outlines our ambition to 
lead the transition to net zero and the 
pathway to achieving this, including our 
updated emissions reduction targets and 
decarbonisation strategy. The report also 
discusses the methodology we used to align 
our decarbonisation plan and targets with 
the goals of the Paris Agreement, scenario 
analysis results and insights, Origin’s capital 
allocation framework, climate change 
governance and our approach to the 
just transition.

Energy and climate change

Climate change remains one of the most significant 
challenges facing society. As a leading energy 
company, the climate transition is embedded in  
our strategy and key to delivering on our purpose.

We believe the world must pursue efforts to limit 
global average temperature rise to 1.5°C above pre-
industrial levels. Our long-term ambition is to achieve 
net zero Scope 1, 2 and 318 emissions by 2050. 

Scope 1 emissions are greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 
released to the atmosphere as a direct result of our 
activity. These are sometimes referred to as direct 
emissions; examples include emissions from electricity 
generation and gas production. Scope 2 emissions are 
GHG emissions resulting from purchased electricity we 
consume to power our offices and operating sites. Scope 
3 emissions are indirect GHG emissions, other than 
Scope 2, relating to our value chain that we do not own or 
control, including wholesale purchases of electricity from 
the NEM that we sell to our customers and also the use of 
our sold products such as LNG and domestic gas sales.  

To achieve our targets and our net zero ambition, we 
must reduce emissions from our operations (Scope 1 
and 2) and our value chain (Scope 3). 

Scope 3 emissions account for the majority of  
our total emissions. However, as these are indirect 
emissions that come from sources that Origin does 
not control, they are more challenging to address. 
Reducing our Scope 3 emissions will mean working 
hard, including with our partners, to identify, measure 
and mitigate emissions within our value chain, and 
working with our customers and suppliers to help 
them achieve their decarbonisation goals. 

We will work with our customers, both residential and 
business, to provide them with a growing portfolio of 
low-carbon products and cleaner energy solutions, such 
as renewable electricity, electric vehicles and hydrogen, 
to help them achieve their decarbonisation goals.

The transition to a low-carbon world will affect 
communities in different ways. We aim to support 
our people, communities and customers through the 
energy transition while contributing to an orderly, 
secure, reliable and low carbon energy system. 

Origin recognises the importance of governance to 
support the consideration of climate-related risks and 
opportunities. We are continuously improving the way 
we identify, assess, manage and govern climate-related 
risks and opportunities for our business. Origin has been 
reporting against the TCFD framework since FY2018 and is 
committed to ongoing development of its climate-related 
financial disclosures. See our TCFD Disclosure Index and 
our Climate Transition Action Plan for more information.

Our long-term ambition is to achieve net zero  
Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions by 20501

Our targets to support our net zero ambition: 

By 2023 

 8 mt cumulative reduction in Scope 1 equity emissions 
between FY2021-FY2023, against FY2017 baseline

By 2030 

 40% reduction in Scope 1, 2 and 3 equity emissions 
intensity against FY2019 baseline1,2,3

By 2030 

 20 mt reduction in absolute Scope 1, 2 and 3 equity 
emissions against FY2019 baseline1,2

20 Origin has relied on data, analysis and methodologies prepared by the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), the International 
Energy Agency and the Science Based Targets initiative among others, 
in calculating its 1.5°C envelope and has not sought to verify those 
materials. Our approach to setting our medium-term emission intensity 
target for Scope 1, 2 and 3 was independently assured on a limited basis 
by EY for its alignment with a 1.5°C pathway envelope. EY’s limited 
assurance statement is included in our Climate Transition Action Plan.

Our net zero ambition and emissions 
reduction targets
We have set new short and medium-term targets 
for increased emissions reduction across Origin, 
towards our long-term ambition to be net zero 
Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions by 2050.

We believe our updated medium-term intensity target 
and our long-term ambition are consistent with the 
goals of the Paris Agreement, to limit the increase in 

1 Covers all material Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions.
2 Excluded from these targets are the potential future emissions from any development of new gas fields. This is 

because there has been no decision, nor are we close to a decision, to produce those gas resources. However, 
any development would only occur where it was consistent with out net zero emissions by 2050 ambition.

3 Subject to limited assurance by EY.

the average global temperature to 1.5°C above  
pre-industrial levels. Our Climate Transition Action 
Plan outlines the methodology and approach we 
used to set our targets.20

2022 Sustainability Report

https://www.originenergy.com.au/wp-content/uploads/Climate-Transition-Action-Plan-2022_FINAL.pdf
https://www.originenergy.com.au/wp-content/uploads/Origin_2022_TCFD_disclosure.pdf


25

Performance against existing targets

For the FY2022 reporting period, our medium-
term emissions reduction targets were to:

• reduce Scope 1 and Scope 2 equity emissions 
by 50 per cent by 2032, from our FY2017 
baseline; and

• reduce Scope 3 equity emissions by 25 per cent 
by 2032 from our FY2017 baseline.21

Our performance against these targets is 
shown below.

In 2020, we introduced a short-term target to 
reduce our Scope 1 equity emissions by an annual 
average of 10 per cent between FY2021 and 
FY2023, compared to our FY2017 baseline.  
The target was set over a period of three years.

 Scope 1 and 2 
 Scope 3

Graph: Medium-term equity emissions targets and 
performance (kt CO2-e)

FY2017 baseline FY2020 FY2021 FY2022 FY2032 Target

-21%

-15%

30,000

25,000

20,000

15,000

10,000

5,000

0

21 Our SBTI-approved Scope 3 target covered a minimum two-thirds of our total Scope 3 equity emissions in the baseline. It covered all 
supply chain emissions incurred within the domestic market, including the electricity and gas that our Energy Markets business sells 
to customers and the Origin equity gas Australia Pacific LNG sells to domestic customers. It did not include Australia Pacific LNG’s 
LNG exports.

22 Our short-term target continues to use our original 2017 SBTi base year as the target was set two years ago, prior to our new base year 
decision, and was designed to run consecutively over a three year period. We note that this is the only target with a 2017 baseline.

We have achieved the absolute emission 
reductions planned over the three years within 
the first two years. In FY2022, Scope 1 equity 
emissions declined by 22 per cent against the 
FY2017 baseline. Scope 1 equity emissions 
have declined by an average of 16 per cent over 
FY2021-FY2022 against our FY2017 baseline, or a 
cumulative reduction of 5.6 million tonnes. 

We have set a new short-term target to reduce 
Scope 1 equity emissions by a cumulative 8 million 
tonnes CO2-e between FY2021-FY2023, against 
the FY2017 baseline.22

Case study

Decarbonising business 
operations with LPG

We are working to decarbonise our 
business operations and helping 
our customers to do the same by 
replacing other fuel sources with LPG.

Our strategy to transition to net zero
We are focusing our decarbonisation efforts in three 
key areas aligned to our strategy. We plan to: 

• Reduce emissions from our existing operations

• Grow our portfolio of renewables and cleaner energy

• Enable customers to decarbonise

Accelerate the exit from coal-fired generation
In February 2022, we announced plans to accelerate 
our exit from coal-fired power generation at Eraring 
Power Station, potentially as early as August 2025. 
Bringing forward our exit from coal-fired power 
generation is the most significant step we have taken 
towards achieving our emissions targets. 

In FY2022, Scope 1 emissions from Eraring were  
10.7 million tonnes CO2-e. 

Reduce emissions from our gas operations
We continue to target a reduction in absolute 
operational methane emissions over the next three 
years. We aim to drive emissions reductions through 
replacing equipment and devices with more 
efficient and advanced technologies, retrofitting 
facilities to reduce methane venting, and further 
reducing flaring using targeted planning and the 
implementation of artificial intelligence tools to 
minimise flaring during planned shutdown and 
maintenance events.

In our LPG business, we are lowering our carbon 
emissions with three new LPG-powered carrier 
ships for transporting LPG along Australia’s eastern 
seaboard. These are the first ships of this size in the 
world to be powered by LPG and generate around 
20 per cent lower emissions compared to ships run 
on conventional marine fuel. 

We are also working with our customers to 
decarbonise their businesses by switching to LPG. 
See our case study for more information.

Reduce emissions of our 
existing operations

Reducing our Scope 2
As a signatory to the We Mean Business global 
coalition, we committed to sourcing 100 per cent 
of energy from renewable sources for our office 
premises and, where possible, all other operations 
by 2050. To help achieve this, we have a program to 
identify opportunities to run our sites on renewable 
energy. In FY2022, we completed installation of 
around 180 kW of solar across our Mortlake and 
Quarantine power stations, bringing the total 
combined capacity across 17 sites to over 700 kW.

2022 Sustainability Report

https://www.originenergy.com.au/blog/decarbonising-business-operations-with-lpg/
https://www.originenergy.com.au/blog/adapting-to-a-changing-energy-landscape/
https://www.originenergy.com.au/blog/adapting-to-a-changing-energy-landscape/
https://www.originenergy.com.au/blog/decarbonising-business-operations-with-lpg/


26

In February 2022, we announced plans to 
accelerate our exit from coal-fired power 
generation, submitting notice to AEMO to 
retire Eraring Power Station, potentially as early 
as August 2025 (previously 2032). The closure 
timing of all four units will be determined 
closer to 2025. 

This decision reflects the rapidly changing 
conditions in the NEM, which is increasingly 
unsuited to traditional baseload power stations, 
challenging their viability. In the years since 2013, 
when Origin acquired Eraring from the NSW 
Government, a significant amount of renewable 
energy has entered the electricity market, with 
renewable generation output nearly doubling 
from 34.7 GWh in 2013 to 63 GWh in 2021.21

The growth of grid-scale roof top solar and 
wind generation has placed pressure on the 
economics of coal-fired power stations like 
Eraring, particularly during the middle of the day 
when lower cost, renewable generated energy is 
generally plentiful.

Bringing forward our exit from coal-fired power 
generation is the most significant step we have 
taken towards achieving our emissions targets. 

Exiting coal, not Eraring
With an overall generating capacity of  
2,922 MW, Eraring has helped meet nearly a 
quarter of NSW’s energy needs since operations 
began in the 1980s. But while coal-fired 
generation at Eraring will cease, we intend to 
find new ways to use the site to help support the 
market’s continued transition to renewables.

The Eraring site is ideally suited to future 
electricity generation and storage options. 

It has significant grid connection and ancillary 
infrastructure already in place. We are well 
advanced in our plans to install a grid-scale 
storage battery, securing the NSW Government’s 
approval for a battery at the site in May 2022. It 
will have an overall capacity of up to 700 MW 
and a dispatch duration of four hours, making 
it Australia’s largest battery project to receive 
planning approval to date.

The Eraring battery is part of our broader plan to 
bring online additional renewable and storage 
capacity in Australia. This includes the potential 
expansion of our Shoalhaven pumped hydro 
scheme and around 1,600 MW of renewable 
energy development projects to date. Combined 
with the growth in our virtual power plant, 
these actions, when delivered, will help replace 
the capacity from Eraring with low emissions 
energy sources.

Supporting our people
While bringing forward the closure of coal-fired 
power generation at Eraring does not immediately 
change its operation, we recognise the importance 
of moving quickly to support site employees during 
the initial phase of the transition. 

We have established a program for supporting 
our employees throughout Eraring’s transition 
to provide them with ongoing learning, career 
and wellbeing support, as well as up-to-date 
information, resources and events. In FY2022, 
this included engaging a specialist local career 
consultancy to conduct one-on-one career 
conversations with Eraring employees to identify 
their personal and career ambitions, potential 
reskilling and/or upskilling needed to achieve those 
goals, and to develop a detailed people transition 
plan. We supported employees to prepare for their 
one-on-one career conversations, with general and 
tailored superannuation information workshops, 

21 Clean Energy Report 2013 and 2021

Eraring and the energy transition 
•  •  •  •

the opportunity to seek independent financial 
advice, and a series of on-line webinars and  
career workshops. 

The career conversations have been offered to all 
affected employees, and, as at the end of June 
2022, we had held one-on-one conversations with 
92 per cent of impacted employees. 

A Transition Consultation Committee has been 
set up with employee, union, and site leader 
representatives. We are providing regular 
transition and consultation updates to all Eraring 
employees, including fortnightly updates with 
details on employee consultation, transition 
planning and the support available. We also 
currently share updates on Eraring transition 
activities to employees, contractors, unions and 
government officials. 

Engaging with the community

We have begun initial consultations with 
community groups and representatives, 
including the Eraring Power Station Community 
Forum, Lake Macquarie City Council, the local 
member of the NSW Parliament, the Eraring 
Residents’ Association and Eraring’s Community 
Consultative Committee. Our initial engagement 
with these key community and government 
stakeholder groups indicates their areas of focus 
include how we will:
• support employees, contractors and suppliers 

who may be impacted by the closure;

• repurpose the site and what other uses might 
be envisaged; and

• approach site rehabilitation, including the 
ash dam.

We continue to work towards a full community 
engagement strategy for Eraring that will be 
informed by community feedback. 

To date, we have pledged to continue with our 
community commitments, sponsorships and 
donations, and established a community fund with 
$5 million committed between now and 2032.

Environmental management
Origin remains committed to responsibly 
managing our operations and minimising our 
impact on the environment, which includes 
maintaining our existing environmental controls.

We have a restoration and rehabilitation provision 
of $221 million in place for the Eraring site. This 
will be reviewed regularly and is expected to 
be incurred over several years after any closure, 
with the timing dependent, in part, on a potential 
battery investment, other generation and storage 
options, and the ongoing management and 
rehabilitation of Eraring’s ash dam. 

2022 Sustainability Report



27

We submitted a report to the Tasmanian 
Government into the feasibility of our concept for 
a large-scale green hydrogen and ammonia plant 
at Bell Bay in FY2022. We successfully secured 
an additional $3 million from the government to 
continue working on the concept. 

We also secured $1.2 million to continue working 
on a joint initiative with the Japanese energy 
company ENEOS to conduct further feasibility 
studies into providing an affordable and stable 
supply of green hydrogen to Japan. The project 
could result in a clean hydrogen hub being 
established in Gladstone.

We are providing customers with a growing 
portfolio of simple, affordable low-carbon 
products and cleaner energy solutions. Today, this 
includes rooftop solar and batteries, renewable 
and carbon-neutral energy, EV solutions, 
renewable power purchase agreements (PPAs), 
and load and demand management. We are also 
developing a suite of future energy customer 
offerings, including green hydrogen and 
ammonia, and carbon management solutions.

See Customers for more information on our 
FY2022 activities.

Renewables and storage
We are aiming to grow renewable and storage 
capacity within our generation portfolio to 4 GW 
by 2030. We are pursuing a range of opportunities 
at varying stages of development, with a focus on 
large-scale solar and wind and batteries. Our most 
advanced project is the Eraring battery.

To date, we have secured around 1,600 MW of 
solar farm development projects. In April 2022, we 
acquired the Yarrabee Solar Farm development project 
located in the Riverina district in south west NSW. The 
first stage is expected to include 450 MW of solar 
generation, with the potential for up to 900 MW. 

We also acquired the Carisbrook Solar Farm, a  
74 MW solar development project located in  
central Victoria. Carisbrook has planning approval 
and connection agreements in place. 

Future fuels
Origin expects green hydrogen to play an important 
role in the future global energy mix, particularly in 
hard-to-abate sectors such as heavy industry and 
maritime transport. We are exploring both domestic 
and export market opportunities for green hydrogen 
and ammonia through a number of projects.  

In FY2022, we partnered with Orica to assess 
the potential of a ‘Hunter Valley Hydrogen 
Hub’ green hydrogen production facility and 
associated value chain. The hub would produce 
green hydrogen from sustainably sourced water 
and renewable electricity from Origin’s portfolio, 
using a grid-connected 55 MW electrolyser. 
Produced hydrogen could fuel trucking and 
passenger bus operations in the Hunter Valley, 
Central Coast and Greater Sydney regions. 
We have received a $41 million grant under 
the Australian Government’s Clean Hydrogen 
Industrial Hubs Program to support the project. 

Grow our supply portfolio  
of cleaner energy

Enable customers 
to decarbonise

2022 Sustainability Report



28

Climate policy engagement 
Origin works constructively with governments 
and industry associations to advocate for a sound 
climate change policy that is consistent with the 
goals of the Paris Agreement.  
 
During FY2022 we advocated for energy policy 
that supports private investment as we transition to 
net zero emissions by 2050. This includes backing 
of the NEM 2025 reforms, gas policy that supports 
the transition here and overseas, and climate 
change policy that supports growth in renewables, 
EVs, and hydrogen.

We review our industry association memberships 
for policy alignment, and cost and benefits annually. 
In FY2022, our review found we were aligned 
on climate change positions, including strong 
commitments to the Paris Agreement and net zero 
emissions by 2050. The Australian Energy Council 
and the Business Council of Australia have also 
strengthened their interim climate change targets, 
which are now more ambitious than both major 
federal political parties. 

For more information, see our Industry 
Association Review.  

Supporting a just energy transition
We unequivocally support the Paris Agreement, 
which recognises the importance of a just transition. 

We recognise that we have a responsibility to 
manage the impact of our path through the energy 
transition in a way that minimises adverse outcomes 
for those impacted and promotes the opportunities 
that will come from the energy transition.

Aligning to our purpose and taking into consideration 
feedback we have received following the 
announcement to accelerate Eraring’s closure, in 
FY2022 we developed a set of overarching principles 
to support a just energy transition. These principles 
will guide us as we work with our stakeholders to 
develop a tailored approach for priority areas and 
assets, build partnerships and develop the skills for 
the future energy system. 

Refer to our Climate Transition Action Plan for more 
details on our approach to a just transition.

2022 Sustainability Report

Principles for a just energy transition

Creating sustainable value for shareholders  
and stakeholders

Customers              

We will provide low-carbon solutions to 
support our customers' transition and 
strive to provide affordable and reliable 
energy through the energy transition, 
while supporting the most vulnerable 
customers with access to energy. 

Our people            

We will support our people through 
the energy transition, providing career 
planning and upskilling, and seeking 
redeployment opportunities for those 
whose roles are directly affected by  
the transition.

Communities          

We will promote opportunities 
to create economic value and 
development by engaging with local 
communities, Traditional Owners, 
governments and our value chain on 
the energy transition. 

Planet              

We aim to lead the energy transition 
and will take actions to preserve 
biodiversity and restore the 
environment.

Open, inclusive and transparent engagement 

We will develop and act on a tailored approach through inclusive, open, 
informed and ongoing consultation with our stakeholders, including advocating 

for policies and regulation to support a just transition.

https://www.originenergy.com.au/wp-content/uploads/Industry-Association-Review.pdf
https://www.originenergy.com.au/wp-content/uploads/Industry-Association-Review.pdf
https://www.originenergy.com.au/wp-content/uploads/Climate-Transition-Action-Plan-2022_FINAL.pdf


29

Greenhouse gas emissions 

We report our greenhouse gas emissions on both 
an equity and operational control basis.

Emissions reported on an equity basis captures 
the emissions relating to the assets we own, 
including our generation fleet, and our share 
of Australia Pacific LNG, which includes the 
downstream operations and non-operated areas. 
Our share of Australia Pacific LNG was  
37.5 per cent up to 18 February 2022, after  
which it was 27.5 per cent following completion  
of Origin’s sale of a 10 per cent stake. 

Our operational control emissions are those from 
our operated assets (our generation fleet and 100 
per cent of the upstream operations at Australia 
Pacific LNG). 

Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions 
Our total Scope 1 and Scope 2 equity emissions 
were 14,453 kt CO2-e, down by 12 per cent 
compared to FY2021. Our Scope 1 equity 
emissions declined by 13 per cent year-on-year 
reflecting lower output from Eraring. Scope 2 
equity emissions declined by 7 per cent due 
to the decrease in our equity share of Australia 
Pacific LNG.

GHG emissions by Scope (kt CO2-e)  
– equity basis

17,801
1,228

16,573

16,499
1,108

15,391

14,453
1,032

13,421

FY2020 FY2021 FY2022
 Scope 1  Scope 2

Our total Scope 1 and Scope 2 operational  
control emissions were 15,300 kt CO2-e down  
by 11 per cent compared to FY2021 emissions. 

GHG emissions by Scope (kt CO2-e) 
– operational control basis

18,417
2,403

16,014

17,192
2,304

14,888

15,300
2,350

12,950

FY2020 FY2021 FY2022
 Scope 1  Scope 2

Energy Markets
On an operational control basis, Energy Markets’ 
Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions were 12,346 kt 
CO2-e in FY2022, a 14 per cent decrease on the 
previous year. This decrease is principally due to 
a 16 per cent decline in generation output from 
Eraring, largely owing to coal supply constraints. 

The amount of generation sourced from our 
customers’ renewable PPAs and solar feed-in 
tariffs (‘solar FiTs’) has grown to 5.5 terawatt 
hours (TWh) combined, or 15 per cent of our total 
electricity procurement.

Origin’s electricity sources (TWh)

 40

 35

 30

 25

 20

 15

 10

 5

 0
FY2020 FY2021 FY2022

 Coal (Eraring)  Gas (incl. Mt Stuart) 
 Hydro  Wind and solar  Solar FiT 
 Swaps, PPAs and pool purchases

Emissions intensity – Energy Markets
Our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions intensity 
for power generation,23 including contracted 
renewables, was steady at 0.71 tonnes of CO2-e 
per MWh in FY2022. 

To enable a valid comparison of our performance 
against the NEM, where intensities consist of Scope 1 
and Scope 3 emissions, we also report our emissions 
intensity in this format. The emissions intensity of our 
electricity generation portfolio, including contracted 
renewables, was maintained at 0.76 tonnes of 
CO2-e per MWh in FY2022 for Scope 1 and Scope 3 
emissions, which was higher than the NEM average.

Average emissions intensity of the NEM versus Origin  
(tonnes CO2-e per MWh, Scope 1 and Scope 3) 

FY2020 FY2021

 Origin  NEM

FY2022

0.76

0.72

0.76

0.70

0.76

 

0.66

The NEM continues to decarbonise. It is moving 
rapidly from a centralised system of large coal and 
gas generation towards a mixture of smaller scale, 
widely dispersed wind and solar generators, and 
grid-scale batteries, with consumers having more 
control over how and when they use energy. During 
2021, 2,086 MW of new large-scale wind and solar 
generation capacity was added to the NEM. 

The emissions intensity of Eraring, calculated using 
Scope 1 emissions only, increased slightly to  
0.96 tonnes of CO2-e per MWh in FY2022, from 
0.94 tonnes of CO2-e per MWh in FY2021. The 
increase was mainly due to reduced output at 
Eraring, which is running at lower loads, as ramping 
units up and down results in less efficient output. 

23 Based on sent out generation, which is electricity that is sent 
from the station gate (revenue meter). 

2022 Sustainability Report



30

Integrated Gas
On an operational control basis, Integrated Gas 
produced total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions  
of 2,943 kt CO2-e  in FY2022, a three per cent 
increase on FY2021. In FY2022, the emission 
estimation reporting methods set out in the  
National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting  
(NGER) Measurement Determination, 2008 
changed for some of our fugitive emission  
sources. The legislative amendment reclassified 
some emissions that were previously reported 
under venting as leakage and increased the 
default leakage factors for gas production and 
processing, causing an uplift in our reported 
Scope 1 emissions. The increase in Scope 1 
emissions was partly offset by reductions in fuel 
consumption and flaring, and implementation  
of other emission reduction initiatives. 

Emissions from flaring, venting and leaks

Emissions from flaring, venting and leaks are 
determined using a combination of estimation 
methods, including regulatory emission factors, 
metering and engineering calculations. Emissions 
totalled 351 kt CO2-e in FY2022, or 3 per cent of 
our total Origin Scope 1 operated emissions. 

Emissions from flaring are comprised mainly of 
CO2-e , as most of the methane is combusted 
during the flaring process. Flaring is mainly 
associated with unplanned downtime at gas 
processing facilities and is also used during 
production testing of exploration wells. We 
introduced flaring in place of cold venting methane 
gas during live workovers of CSG wells in FY2022 
to reduce emissions. 

Through planning and implementation of gas field 
turndown tools that use artificial intelligence, we 
have minimised flaring at our Australia Pacific LNG 
gas processing facilities during planned shutdown 
and maintenance events. This contributed to a 
28 per cent reduction in emissions from flaring, 
compared to FY2021 and a 72 per cent decline 
since FY2019.

Emissions reported from venting and leaks, mostly 
methane, totalled 303 kt CO2-e in FY2022, an 
increase of 31 per cent on FY2021. This increase 
was mainly due to the change in the NGER 
calculation methods described earlier. 

Australia Pacific LNG’s methane intensity in 
FY2022 was 0.10 per cent of metered gas sales. 
This is lower than the methane intensity ambition  
of the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative of well below 
0.2 per cent by 2025.

Emissions intensity – Integrated Gas

The Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions intensity of 
Integrated Gas on an operational control basis was 
5.07 tonnes of CO2-e per terajoule (TJ) of sales gas 
in FY2022, the uplift from FY2021 mainly due to 
the change in NGER calculation methods. 

Integrated Gas emissions intensity (t  CO2-e/TJ)

FY2020 FY2021 FY2022

4.85 4.91 5.07

Monitoring and studies

During the year we continued conducting the 
Picarro sniffer truck infrastructure survey and fugitive 
emissions research with the CSIRO. In addition to 
surveying our infrastructure for methane emissions, 
the sniffer truck was also deployed to monitor 
landscape emissions in future development fields, 
focusing on abandoned coal exploration holes. 
This enables us to identify and potentially remove 
any emission sources before development. As the 
upstream operator for Australia Pacific LNG, we are 
not responsible for the ongoing management of old 
coal industry exploration bores, however, we work 
with coal companies, landowners and government 
on a case-by-case basis to remediate them for 
environmental and safety reasons.

In FY2022, we supported the CSIRO in collecting 
methane emission measurements from our CSG 
processing facilities. The results of this fugitive 
emissions research will provide an independent 
Australian CSG data set that will inform emissions 
factors under the NGER legislative framework.  
We anticipate that the final report will be released  
in second half of 2022.

We continue to collaborate with CSIRO’s Gas 
Industry Social and Environmental Research  
Alliance (GISERA) to establish independent 
evidence-based data on fugitive emissions  
levels during unconventional shale  
development activities. 

Beetaloo 

The Scope 1, 2 and 3 greenhouse gas emissions 
for the exploration and appraisal activities in 
the Beetaloo Basin for calendar year 2021 have 
been neutralised using Australian Carbon Credit 
Units. The carbon credits are sourced from an 
Indigenous carbon farming project in the NT, 
which provides significant community, cultural 
and biodiversity co-benefits. This activity has 
been independently verified carbon neutral, 
with 7,391 t CO2-e carbon credits retired. Origin 
will continue to offset emissions from planned 
exploration and appraisal activities to June 2023 
and obtain independent verification that these 
activities are carbon neutral.

Scope 3 emissions 
In FY2022, Energy Markets’ Scope 3 emissions 
increased by 7 per cent. This was partly due  
to an increase in net electricity purchases from  
the NEM and external sources due to lower output 
from our owned and contracted generation, 
including Eraring.

Scope 3 emissions from Integrated Gas’s domestic 
operations declined by 8 per cent due to the sale 
of a 10 per cent stake in Australia Pacific LNG 
in FY2022. This reduced our share of domestic 
gas sales.

Similarly, our estimated equity share of Scope 3 
emissions from Australia Pacific LNG’s LNG exports 
was down by 9 per cent to 10,082 kt CO2-e  
reflecting the sale of our equity interest.

Scope 3 emissions1  
equity basis (kt CO2-e) 

33,377 33, 365
32,021

10,610

3,615

17,796

11,122

3,061

19,182

10,082

2,826

20, 469

FY2020 FY2021 FY2022
 Energy Markets  IG – Domestic  IG – LNG Export

1 Reported Scope 3 GHG emissions exclude some of Origin’s joint 
venture holdings. The exclusions have been applied to align with 
the approach adopted for our 2017 SBTi baseline, and to reflect 
sufficiently robust measurement approaches. As we look to revise 
our targets and reporting methodology, we will review inclusion 
of  these sources moving forward.

2022 Sustainability Report



31

Water

We mainly use water for cooling while generating 
electricity, primarily at Eraring Power Station. We 
also extract water while developing natural gas at 
Australia Pacific LNG operations.

Energy Markets
Eraring draws salt water from Lake Macquarie as 
cooling water for its generating units. The water is 
returned to the lake after use in accordance with 
environmental requirements. This represents most 
of the water use in our Energy Markets business. 
Water is also used at our gas-fired power stations, 
which require much less water to operate than 
Eraring. We use water to generate electricity at 
our Shoalhaven pumped hydro station; however, 
this usage is excluded from our data as pumped 
storage is not considered a water withdrawal 
because the water circulates in a closed loop. 

Australia Pacific LNG
Australia Pacific LNG’s operations extract 
groundwater (CSG water) and gas from coal seams 
and small volumes of water from other sources like 
dams and bores for project use. In FY2022, we 
extracted 20,268 megalitres (ML) of water through 
Australia Pacific LNG’s operations, of which  
20,031 ML was from CSG production. 

Each year, around 90 per cent of extracted CSG 
water is treated through reverse osmosis and made 
available for a number of beneficial uses. This includes 
crop irrigation and injection into aquifers to increase 
available groundwater. Treated CSG water directed 
for beneficial use must meet regulatory water quality 
criteria and requirements set out in environmental 
approvals. The remaining untreated CSG water is 
either used for project activities, stored awaiting 
treatment or lost through natural evaporation. 

A total of 16,201 ML of treated water was available 
for beneficial use in FY2022 (with 1,185 ML stored 
or evaporated and 2,645 ML stored in ponds as 
brine). Due to prolonged wet weather reducing 
demand for treated water for irrigation purposes, 
13,907 ML was applied to a beneficial use, and we 
released 2,243 ML from authorised release points.

Aquifer injection

In FY2022, 2,453 ML was injected into the Great 
Artesian Basin’s Precipice Sandstone aquifer at the 
Australia Pacific LNG Reedy Creek and Spring Gully 
assets. This represents 79 per cent of the water 
produced at the Reedy Creek and Combabula gas 
fields, and all of the produced water at Spring Gully 
gas fields in excess of what is directed to the crop 
irrigation scheme. 

FY2020 FY2021 FY2022

Total water withdrawn 2,592,920 2,599,206 2,338,516

Energy Markets, of which: 2,571,219 2,578,109 2,318,242

 » Water consumed 2,143 2,097 2,646

Integrated gas, of which: 21,680 21,093 20,268

 » Fresh water consumed 434 72 237

 » Produced CSG water, of which: 21,246 21,020 20,031

• Applied to beneficial use  
        (treated and untreated)

17,477 16,492 13,907

Corporate 21 4 6

Total water consumed 23,843 23,194 22,920

Water use across Origin’s portfolio (ML)

Eraring’s water use (ML)

2,318,143
2,578,0222,571,087

FY2020 FY2021 FY2022

 Water extracted (ML)  
 Water from Lake Macquarie returned to source (%)

1,213 1,930 1,091

2,243

2,645

2,5292,524

17,477 16,492
13,907

Australia Pacific LNG’s produced CSG 
water use (ML)

FY2020 FY2021 FY2022

 Treated and untreated water for beneficial use  
 Brine produced from treated water 
 Treated water applied to river releases  
 Untreated water stored or evaporated

Case study

Replenishing water 
supplies from gas 
production

Treated water from coal seam gas 
mining production in Queensland is 
being used to replenish groundwater 
supplies in the Great Artesian Basin, 
with more than 37 gigalitres of treated 
water injected into underground 
aquifers since the project 
began in 2015.

2022 Sustainability Report

https://www.originenergy.com.au/blog/boosting-great-artesian-basin-health/
https://www.originenergy.com.au/blog/adapting-to-a-changing-energy-landscape/
https://www.originenergy.com.au/blog/adapting-to-a-changing-energy-landscape/
https://www.originenergy.com.au/blog/boosting-great-artesian-basin-health/


32

Since the project began in 2015, Origin has injected 
more than 37 gigalitres of treated water into the 
aquifer – the same volume as about 15,000 Olympic 
sized swimming pools. Groundwater decline has 
been observed in the Great Artesian Basin over the 
past 100 years as water has been withdrawn for town 
water use and to sustain pastoral and other industries 
and businesses. In FY2022, the Queensland 
Government’s Groundwater Impact Assessment for 
the area found that groundwater levels in the aquifer 
have risen since the operational phase of the injection 
project began. Read more about the development of 
the scheme and its benefits in our case study.

Regulatory compliance
During FY2021, we resolved two statutory clean up 
notices that we received as the upstream operator of 
Australia Pacific LNG. 

These notices relate to losses of saline-impacted 
stormwater during a large storm event from two 
produced water tanks we were decommissioning. 

We self-reported the incidents, remediated the sites 
to a standard where there was no residual risk of 
environmental harm, and adjusted procedures to 
reduce the potential for recurrence. The Queensland 
environmental regulator commenced related 
prosecutions in June 2021 and we received a penalty 
of $60,000 in July 2022. Origin cooperated with the 
regulator throughout the matter. 

Following a regulatory compliance audit undertaken 
in March 2021, the Queensland Government’s 
Department of Environment and Science issued a 
penalty infringement notice to Origin as upstream 
operator of Australia Pacific LNG for alleged 
contraventions of conditions in relation to the 
requirement to establish and maintain a regulated 
dams register. The penalty infringement notice was 
accompanied by a fine of $13,345.

Following an investigation into a loss of containment 
incident from a Pilot Pond leak detection tank 
in August 2020, the Department issued an 
environmental protection order in December 
2021. We have been meeting the reinstatement 
and rehabilitation requirements by the required 
timeframes set out in the order.

Protecting groundwater resources
We seek to protect water resources in the natural 
environment and responsibly manage our water 
consumption, including mitigating any impacts  
on local water supplies. 

Australia Pacific LNG
Within our gas operations, production wells are 
installed to extract gas from below water aquifers 
generally used by other users such as local 
landholders. As part of the installation process, 
and in accordance with regulation, steel casing 
is cemented into place to preclude aquifer 
interconnection during operations. 

We continuously monitor for interconnection 
at our Australia Pacific LNG operations. It 
can be detected by observing changes in 
the groundwater levels of shallower aquifers 
surrounding the gas production well and in the 
quality of water pumped from the water well.

We hydraulically fractured 24 wells at our  
Australia Pacific LNG operations in FY2022. 
Hydraulic fracture stimulation is the process 
designed to release gas trapped in coal seams 
or dense shale rocks deep underground. There 
were no groundwater impact incidents caused by 
hydraulic fracturing at any of our operations  
in FY2022. 

The Queensland Department of Environment and 
Science conducted a compliance audit of our 
hydraulic fracturing operation this year. As per the 
audit conducted on our operations in FY2021, the 
regulator identified no evidence of non-compliance 
with the environment authority or the Environmental 
Protection Act (1994) (Qld). 

To date, we have installed 224 bores to monitor 
groundwater levels and water quality around our 
Australia Pacific LNG operations. We submit these 
results to the Queensland Government as part of its 
regional monitoring and management program.24 

Beetaloo Basin
Origin uses engineered barriers and controls as 
well as natural geological barriers to isolate and 
protect underground water sources at Beetaloo 
Basin. We design our wells to protect aquifers and 
we test controls before proceeding with work.

During FY2022, we completed a production test 
at the Kyalla 117 well, drilled a new vertical well on 
the Velkerri 76 lease pad, and completed a second 
production flow test at our Amungee NW1H well. 

A groundwater monitoring program was  
established in 2014 to provide a baseline of the 
natural variability in water levels and water quality, 
and to assist in detecting any impacts associated 
with gas exploration activity in the Beetaloo 
Basin. This monitoring has found no evidence 
of any impact from our work to date. There are 
currently eight compliance monitoring bores in the 
program, however, in addition we routinely assess 
approximately 25 other landholder bores. 

For more information on our approach, including 
the safeguards we have put in place to protect 
land and water in the Northern Territory, see our 
Environment management approach.

 Water quality testing at Reedy Creek Water treatment facility 
where CSG water from the gas field is treated for beneficial use.

24 See Underground Water Impact Report for the Surat 
Cumulative Management Area.

2022 Sustainability Report

https://www.originenergy.com.au/blog/boosting-great-artesian-basin-health/
https://www.originenergy.com.au/wp-content/uploads/origin_our_approach_environment.pdf
http://dnrme.qld.gov.au/__data/assets/pdf_file/0019/1461241/uwir-full-report.pdf
http://dnrme.qld.gov.au/__data/assets/pdf_file/0019/1461241/uwir-full-report.pdf


33

Waste 

We are committed to effectively managing waste 
across our entire business. Our two most significant 
waste-generating activities are Eraring and the 
upstream operations of Australia Pacific LNG.

Eraring Power Station
The main by-product from burning coal at Eraring is fly 
ash. The fly ash we produce has numerous applications 
across the industrial and construction sectors. We 
supply it to multiple customers for a range of end uses or 
deposit it in our ash dam adjacent to the power station. 
In FY2022, the amount of ash produced at Eraring was 
down by almost 10 per cent due to lower output. 

Ash produced, re-used and deposited at Eraring 
(kilotonnes)

 
 
Eraring ash dam
The Eraring ash dam occupies around 250 hectares 
north of the main power station and is a critical part 
of operations of Eraring.

Our Long Term Ash Management Strategy outlines our 
commitment to improve the efficiency of, and reduce 
environmental impacts associated with, the operation 
of Eraring and the ash dam. We are committed to 
minimising the quantity of coal ash sent to the ash dam, 
consistent with the NSW Department of Planning and 
Environment’s annual ash re-use goal of 80 per cent.

During FY2022, Eraring’s ash re-use rate was 73 per cent, 
up from 36 per cent in FY2021. We were on track to reach 
our 80 per cent target until May 2022, when our largest 
ash customer requested that we temporarily cease ash 
supply until it could resolve engineering issues at its site. 

We are also actively engaging with key government 
and industry stakeholders to identify and facilitate 
new markets for ash products and re-use. In FY2022, 
we worked with the NSW Environment Protection 
Authority to amend approvals to maximise the 
potential for ash reuse, including for large government 
projects, such as Transport for NSW road projects.

To effectively manage the risk of dusting – when 
strong wind can carry ash from the dam – we 
have implemented a program of controls. These 
include installing dedicated water tanks, 200 
misting sprayers, 20 mobile water cannons and 
five articulated water carts for spraying the ash to 
help with dust suppression. We have also capped 
and revegetated more than 80 hectares. We had 
no reportable dusting events in FY2022, despite 
significant winds during the December 2021 period.

Australia Pacific LNG brine management 
The main waste product from Australia Pacific 
LNG’s upstream operations is brine, which is 
stored in engineered ponds. The ponds are built 
to regulatory standards and inspected annually by 
certified engineers.

Each Australia Pacific LNG water treatment facility 
has multiple brine ponds. The total volume of stored 
brine at the end of FY2022 was around 7,130 ML. 
Australia Pacific LNG did not record any loss of 
containment events at the ponds. 

In FY2022, we joined with the Queensland 
Government’s Department of Environment and 
Science, community stakeholder groups, and 
other CSG companies to form a working group to 
investigate long-term management approaches 
for brine. The group contributed to a draft action 
plan that outlines key principles and actions for the 
management of brine. The plan promotes continued 
research and investigation into alternative options for 
brine management in keeping with the Queensland 
Government’s policies and approach. We expect the 
Department to release the final Brine Management 
Action Plan in the second half of 2022.

Our current approach to brine management is 
outlined in our Environment management approach.

Air emissions

Our main air emissions are from generating 
electricity at our power stations and producing 
natural gas.

Electricity generation at Eraring produces the 
majority of our nitrogen oxide (NOx), sulphur oxides 
(SOx), and particulate matter (PM) emissions. Our 
operations at Australia Pacific LNG produce most  
of the volatile organic compounds (VOCs).

Our total air emissions decreased in FY2022, 
mainly due to lower output at Eraring during the 
year. Eraring is one of the few coal generators in 
NSW that has low NOx burner technology installed, 
which reduces NOx emissions by 40 per cent per 
megawatt hour.

FY2020 FY2021 FY2022
 Ash re-used  Ash deposited  Ash re-used (%)

1,424
1,358 1,225

39%
36%

73%

NOx and SOx emissions (tonnes)

39,072

24,351

33,152

23,187
25,716

19,916

FY2020 FY2021 FY2022
 SOx  NOx

VOC emissions (tonnes)

699

668

630

FY2020 FY2021 FY2022

Particulate matter (tonnes)1

184

110 120

FY2020 FY2021 FY2022
 PM2.5  PM10

1 PM10 includes Eraring Power Station and Integrated Gas. 
PM2.5 is a subset of PM10 from Eraring Power Station only.

2022 Sustainability Report

https://www.originenergy.com.au/wp-content/uploads/origin_our_approach_environment.pdf


34

Biodiversity

We are committed to minimising the impacts of 
our activities on biodiversity in the areas where 
we operate. 

We engage with local communities and biodiversity 
experts on ways to reduce our disturbance 
footprint. We also work with communities to restore 
and protect the local biodiversity through programs 
such as tree planting and fish restocking. 

Australia Pacific LNG
The greatest footprint of our activities is in the 
Surat and Bowen basins in Queensland through our 
role as the upstream operator of Australia Pacific 
LNG. We conduct biodiversity assessments during 
the design phase of a project and then develop site 
construction plans that minimise and mitigate the 
impact of the project. These plans consider matters 
such as cultural heritage, landowner needs, erosion 
risk and constructability. 

We also implement offset initiatives for projects 
where we cannot avoid having a significant impact 
on biodiversity. To date, we have secured more 
than 5,000 hectares of land for this purpose,  
either through a direct purchase or long-term  
lease agreements with landholders. 

In FY2022, we identified a further 7,000 hectares of 
potential habitat for Matters of National Environmental 
Significance on Australia Pacific LNG owned land 
using a mix of desktop and field assessments. These 
areas have been set up as exclusion zones and will be 
used to provide additional offsets for future Australia 
Pacific LNG activities. The identified biodiversity 
values include habitat for koalas, greater gliders, 
Australian Painted Snipe and Yakka Skink as well as 
brigalow, coolibah and poplar box communities.

Our largest offset property is the 4,500-hectare Dukes 
Plain in central Queensland, which contains active 
grazing paddocks. To better understand the impact of 
cattle grazing, 171 hectares of cattle exclusion zones 
were established in FY2022, across various types of 
vegetation communities and habitat. These will enable 
us to identify impacts and effects of excluding cattle 
compared to control areas where grazing can occur. 

Having identified the importance of recreational 
fishing to the local community and economy 
near Australia Pacific LNG operations in Miles, 
Queensland we established a multi-year 
partnership with the Miles District Fishing and 
Recreation Club in FY2022. It will support the 
development of waterway rehabilitation plans 
and improve biodiversity in the local waterways, 
working with the Queensland Department of 
Agriculture and Fisheries. 

Rehabilitation 
We seek to understand and protect any area we 
disturb, ensuring that it can be returned to its original 
condition, or better use, balancing the expectations 
of our landholder and community stakeholders, 
Traditional Owners, and commitments to regulators.

As upstream operator of Australia Pacific LNG, 
we undertake a rehabilitation monitoring program 
each year to assess the status of areas that have 
been rehabilitated following the conclusion of 
activity. We conduct a wide range of checks to 
protect the environment, including diversity of 
plant species growing, level of ground cover, 
the presence of weeds, and erosion damage. In 
FY2022, we conducted field surveys at 6,500 
monitoring points. The information gathered 
informs maintenance requirements such as  
weed and erosion control and can help with 
decision-making around fencing and allowing 
cattle grazing by the landholder.

In FY2022, we successfully completed the 
decommissioning of our LPG Terminal in Port 
Botany in Sydney after 40 years of operations. 
This included removing 18 LPG tanks, each 
of which was around 38 metres long and able 
to hold 235 tonnes of gas. With a focus on 
recycling and reusing wherever possible, we 
recycled 30,000 tonnes of soil and 1,800 tonnes 
of steel, and stored much of the LPG equipment 
for reuse. The pipeline from ship to site is being 
repurposed by a site neighbour. 

For more information see our Environment 
management approach.

 We work with community groups such as the Miles District Fishing and Recreation Club to improve local biodiversity and 
develop effective management plans.

2022 Sustainability Report

https://www.originenergy.com.au/wp-content/uploads/origin_our_approach_environment.pdf
https://www.originenergy.com.au/wp-content/uploads/origin_our_approach_environment.pdf


35

Performance at a glance

• Achieved a reduction in process safety  
Tier 1 and Tier 2 events to 2, from 11  
in FY2021

• TRIFR increased to 4.0 from 2.7 in  
FY2021, due to a rise in the number  
of recordable injuries, although severity  
of injuries decreased

• Employee engagement score down  
6 per cent to 68 per cent – remains 7 per 
cent above the Australia  
and New Zealand energy industry average

• Awarded 'Gold employer status' at the  
Australian LGBTQ Inclusion Awards 

• Announced support for the Uluru  
Statement from the Heart

People and culture
•  •  •  •

We are continuing to embed a purpose-led and values-driven 
business, where all our people are motivated to be their best 
every day. We promote safety, health and wellbeing; foster 
diversity and an inclusive culture, and work to ensure we all act 
lawfully, honestly, ethically and with integrity. 

UN Sustainable Development Goals

Our activities are helping to contribute 
to the following SDGs:

40.8%
female Senior Leaders, up from 

34.6% in FY2021

Total Recordable Injury Frequency 
Rate (TRIFR)

Management approach

Find out more about our approach to 
getting energy right for our people

People 
and culture

Health, safety 
and wellbeing

2.7

4.0

2.6

FY2020 FY2021 FY2022

2022 Sustainability Report

https://www.originenergy.com.au/content/dam/origin/about/investors-media/documents/origin_our_approach_people_culture.pdf
https://www.originenergy.com.au/content/dam/origin/about/investors-media/documents/origin_our_approach_health_safety.pdf


36

Safety, health and wellbeing

One of our values is caring about our impact – on each 
other, on the environment and on the communities in 
which we operate. We are committed to preventing 
fatalities and injuries and working to keep our people, 
environment and communities safe.

In FY2022, with COVID-19 lockdowns and travel 
restrictions continuing across many parts of 
Australia, we continued to comply with the evolving 
government requirements to protect our people, 
minimise the spread of the virus in our communities, 
and meet the needs of our customers. 

Our COVID-19 response included extensive 
workplace health controls, such as requiring 
COVID-19 testing for personnel working in specific 
situations, a temporary COVID-19 Vaccination Policy 
and detailed social distancing and hygiene controls. 

We also provided 10 days of pandemic leave, which 
has been accessed by over 2,000 employees since 
its inception in April 2020. 

Our COVID-19 response also included support 
for employee and community vaccinations. In 
the Northern Territory, Origin provided support 
to regional healthcare workers in their roll-out of 
the territory’s COVID-19 vaccination program for 
remote communities, including communications, 
supplies and logistical support to the Health Clinic. 
Following this, the communities of Elliott and 
Marlinja increased their double vaccination rate to 
approximately 95 per cent. We also supported our 
LPG shipping crews to access COVID-19 vaccines.

The safety of our people continued to be a core focus 
in FY2022. During recent floods on the Australian east 
coast, we used mapping tools to monitor flooding to 
help ensure employee safety and manage any plant-
related risks. We restricted employee travel in flood 
affected areas and offered special leave to employees 
not able to work due to the floods. Origin also closely 
monitors the civil environment in the regions in which 
we operate to ensure employee safety. Civil unrest in 
the Solomon Islands last year prompted us to close the 
Origin LPG terminal and retail locations temporarily, as 
well as use police escorts to maintain deliveries to key 
locations such as hospitals.

Employee health and wellbeing
With many of our employees experiencing 
prolonged pandemic related lockdowns in FY2022, 
our online Health and Wellbeing Hub provided 
a schedule of events covering topics such as 
managing anxiety and stress, supporting teams 
through lockdown and returning to work. We also 
conducted a number of mental health and wellbeing 
check-ins and partnered with one of Australia’s 
leading health and fitness experts to offer a free 
fitness and nutrition program to all employees. 

Mental health awareness training is available to 
people leaders to help them recognise warning 
signs of mental health issues in team members and 
where to find support. We improved escalation 
processes and provided guidance materials to assist 
people managers.

In FY2022, more than 100 employee volunteers 
received training through our peer support program 
to help them support work colleagues experiencing 
work-related or personal difficulties. These volunteers 
provide confidential, informal, short-term assistance, 
such as referring colleagues to appropriate sources 
of help, resources, or other specialist services in our 
employee assistance program.

Life Saving Controls
In FY2022, we completed the roll out of our  
Life Saving Controls program at operational sites 
across Origin. With a focus on continuous learning, 
the program empowers leaders and supervisors 
to test our critical controls using a consistent 
set of verification questions, and to have safety 
conversations with their teams on the ground. 

In FY2022, we completed more than 5,500 Life 
Saving Control verification activities, with activities 
related to road transport, working at heights and 
falling objects representing the highest risk.  

Board site visits 

Members of the Origin Board regularly 
undertake site visits to observe safety standards 
and operational procedures. Board directors 
also regularly undertake HSE-specific site 
visits, which provide an opportunity for a 
two-way discussion on safety and highlight the 
importance to the Board of safe operations and 
the wellbeing of our people. 

Due to ongoing COVID-19 restrictions, site 
visits were conducted virtually except for  
the visit to Eraring Power Station.  

Reedy Creek, Combabula and Peat Asset, 
Queensland
In September 2021, Chairman of the Safety 
and Sustainability Committee Maxine Brenner 
and Directors Mick McCormack and Steve 
Sargent attended a SiteRep meeting to review 
the latest incidents, hazards identification, and 
corrective actions taken. They also attended 
a virtual familiarisation site trip of the water 
treatment facility. The directors also met with 
the facilities team and were provided with an 
asset overview presentation of Reedy Creek. 

Bulwer Island LPG Terminal, Queensland
In November 2021, Maxine Brenner attended a 
virtual walk-around of the terminal, which provided 
her with insight into operational functions across 
the storage and cylinder terminals. Ms Brenner 
met members of the team and was briefed on key 
HSE issues, performance and Life Saving Controls.

Osborne Legacy Gasworks Sites, 
South Australia
In December 2021, Chairman Scott Perkins 
and Maxine Brenner participated in a virtual 
site tour with focus on remediated boundary 
areas, proximity to water and residential 
areas, the state of overlaying vegetation, and 
surface debris.

Eraring Power Station, New South Wales
In June 2022, Maxine Brenner, Mick 
McCormack and Bruce Morgan met with senior 
plant managers at Eraring Power Station and 
discussed the response of staff, contractors 
and the community to the accelerated 
closure of Eraring. Other key areas of focus 
included construction options for the ash dam 
stability works and options being explored for 
repurposing the site post retirement from coal.

 Origin Board Directors at Eraring Power Station.

2022 Sustainability Report



37

HSE performance
Origin aims to prevent harm to people and the 
environment as a result of our business activities. 
We use several performance indicators across the 
company to measure and manage our performance. 
These include Actual serious incidents, which aims 
to prevent harm to people and the environment, and 
Learning incidents, which aims to prevent Actual 
serious incidents by encouraging learning from 
incidents that have the potential to cause harm. 

In FY2022, we recorded five Actual serious 
incidents – all were injuries to people, none of which 
included a fatality, and identified 36 opportunities to 
share the learnings from HSE incidents.   

We continue to measure our Total Recordable 
Injury Frequency Rate (TRIFR), which measures 
the number of company-wide work-related 
recordable injuries per million hours worked  
for employees and contractors. 

This year, our TRIFR increased to 4.0 compared to 
2.7 in FY2021. This is because while the number of 
hours worked fell, the number of recordable injuries 
sustained by our workforce rose to 50, compared to 
35 in the prior year. The increase in injuries occurred 
during a major change activity in our Integrated Gas 
business, the Eraring Power Station outage, and 
additional work completed that was rescheduled 
as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. We will 
work with our contracting partners to review the 
increase in recordable injuries and look to improve 
our performance. While the number of recordable 
injuries has increased, the severity of injuries has 
decreased compared with previous years. 

As a member of the Safer Together industry 
initiative, we have continued our work to support 
employees to become safer leaders. In FY2022, 
this included developing learning tools to help 
leaders implement effective incident investigation 
processes, and training to enable effective safety 
conversations on site.

Case study

Eraring 
maintenance outage

At Eraring Power Station, a crucial 
maintenance outage was planned for 
one of the plant’s four units ahead 
of the 2021 summer peak period to 
conduct inspections and any required 
repairs. This was a significant piece 
of work with worker safety being a 
central consideration. More than 
2,600 safety observations were 
recorded, and 32,000 on-the-job 
safety checks completed.

25 We use the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (IOGP) definition of Tier 1 and Tier 2 process safety events, which can occur as a result of an unintentional release of chemicals, energy or materials  
to a volume threshold of a Tier 1 (greater consequence) or Tier 2 (lesser consequence). See iogp.org/bookstore/product/process-safetyrecommended-practice-on-key-performance-indicators/ (pages 19-20).

4 4

5

FY2020 FY2021 FY2022

Actual serious incidents

2.6
2.7

4.0

FY2020 FY2021 FY2022

Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate (TRIFR)

9

3

10

1 2

FY2020 FY2021 FY2022

 Tier 1  Tier 2

Process safety events

Process safety

In FY2022, we experienced a significant 
improvement in our process safety performance 
with two Tier 225 process safety events, compared 
to 10 Tier 2 events in FY2021. There were no  
Tier 1 process safety events in FY2022. This result 
was supported by a range of activities focused on 
reducing risk, including increasing awareness of 
safety process management and building technical 
capability among teams, and improving discipline 
around reporting and preventative actions. 

2022 Sustainability Report

https://www.originenergy.com.au/blog/covid-safe-maintenance/
https://www.originenergy.com.au/blog/adapting-to-a-changing-energy-landscape/
https://www.originenergy.com.au/blog/adapting-to-a-changing-energy-landscape/
https://www.originenergy.com.au/blog/adapting-to-a-changing-energy-landscape/
https://www.originenergy.com.au/blog/covid-safe-maintenance/


38

How we work

Employee engagement
We recognise that an engaged and high-performing 
workforce is essential for the success and growth  
of our business.

In FY2022, Origin’s engagement score was  
68 per cent, down 6 per cent from last year but 
remaining 7 per cent higher than Origin’s 2019 
(pre-COVID-19) score of 61 per cent, and 7 per cent 
above the Australia and New Zealand energy industry 
average. Around 84 per cent of our employees 
participated in the annual engagement survey.   

Employee engagement score (%)

75 74

68

FY2020 FY2021 FY2022

Learning and development
We provide a variety of learning opportunities for 
employees, including our dedicated online learning 
and development hub, LinkedIn Learning portal, and 
mentorship and leadership programs. 

In FY2022, we concluded a 12-month pilot 
sponsorship program in which senior leaders 
supported talented employees looking to progress 
their careers. During the pilot, Origin supported two 
employees to start MBAs and promoted five others. 
All employees built their internal networks for future 
growth. The learnings from the pilot will guide the 
development of a future program. 

Following feedback from employees that they would 
like to see more opportunities for career development, 
we launched Career@Origin in FY2022. 

Led by employees and supported by managers, 
the program provides opportunities for learning, 
developing new skills, growing personal networks, 
and experiencing different parts of our business. 

We have increased the visibility of career 
opportunities by creating new channels for our 
people to connect and share open roles and 
developed an internal recommendation campaign 
to help employees encourage their colleagues 
to apply. We have also held sessions with expert 
speakers on career development, provided tools 
and guidance for people to craft career stories that 
make an impact, and spotlighted career stories of 
employees at different levels. 

Since launching Career@Origin, we saw a four-
point lift in in the area of ‘career opportunities’ in 
the 2022 employee engagement survey results. 
We also achieved an increased mobility rate, 
which measures the number of promotions, 
redeployment, secondments, transfers or higher 
duties employees took on, from 25 per cent to  
34 per cent, and doubled the number of 
promotions from 3 per cent in FY2021 to 6 per 
cent in FY2022.

Working ethically
Our Code of Conduct builds on our purpose and 
values and sets standards that guide us in making 
the right choices when we act, solve problems 
and make decisions. Code of Conduct training is 
mandatory for all employees and contractors, with 
a 99 per cent completion rate in FY2022. 

There were no reported incidents of bribery  
or corruption in FY2022. 

For more information on how we work, including 
our approach to anti-bribery and corruption and 
how employees can escalate a concern, see our 
People and culture management approach. 

 

2022 Sustainability Report

https://www.originenergy.com.au/wp-content/uploads/origin_our_approach_people_culture.pdf


39

Inclusion

Inclusion at Origin means we strive to enable our 
employees to feel comfortable, safe, and able to 
bring their whole self to work every day.

Having a diverse workplace and diversity of 
thought allows us to embrace our differences, 
and be better at listening, learning, collaborating 
and making unbiased decisions. When we are 
inclusive, we innovate, solve problems and better 
serve the needs of our diverse customers. To help 
support this, we continue to build on our policies 
supporting gender equity, reconciliation, and our 
LGBTIQA+ colleagues. 

At Origin, we encourage our people to call out 
behaviour that does not align with our intention  
of being a fair and inclusive workplace.

Gender diversity
In July 2021, we became a signatory to 
40:40 Vision, an investor-led initiative targeting 
gender balance in executive leadership by 2030. 
The initiative identifies gender balance as having  
40 per cent male, 40 per cent female and  
20 per cent any gender representation at the senior 
level across the organisation. As part of the  
40:40 Vision initiative, we are committed to 

achieving and maintaining a minimum 40:40:20 
gender balance across the Board and CEO Level-1 
(CEO plus executive leadership that reports to CEO), 
and have extended that to also apply to CEO Level-2 
(roles directly reporting to CEO Level-1), and Senior 
Leaders (captures the three reporting levels below 
CEO and includes roles with base salaries exceeding 
approximately $200,000 per annum) by 2030. 

In FY2022, we achieved 40.8 per cent of women  
in the senior leaders cohort, up from 34.6 per cent in 
FY2021. Female Board representation also increased 
to 40 per cent from 30 per cent in FY2021. 

Origin has continued to focus on delivering  
equal average pay for men and women at each job 
grade, with the overall differential within our policy 
tolerance of ±1 percentage point in FY2022. 

Read our Corporate Governance Statement for more 
information on our gender diversity targets. 

We were ranked 38th globally and in the top 10 
in Australia in Equileap’s 2022 Gender Equality 
Global Report & Ranking, which assessed 4,000 
companies worldwide across 19 criteria as part of its 
Gender Equality Scorecard.

Case study

A gold award for 
Pride@Origin

Founded in December 2017 by 
Origin employees, our Pride@Origin 
Network has championed the right to 
feel safe - and celebrated - at work. 
This year their work was recognised 
when Origin was awarded 'Gold 
employer status' at the Australian 
LGBTQ Inclusion Awards.

22.2%

30.0%

40.0%

33.3% 33.3%
30.0%

43.9% 42.9% 43.6%

33.9% 34.6%

40.8%

Board CEO-1 CEO-2 Senior Leaders

 FY2020  FY2021  FY2022  Target: 40%

Female representation within Origin (%) 

Supporting with Pride
We are committed to creating an inclusive culture 
in which people of all genders, sexes and sexualities 
feel respected, included and understood.

The Pride@Origin Committee works to create a 
supportive, safe and inclusive workplace for our 
LGBTIQA+ communities. 

It focuses on aligning us to the Australian Workplace 
Equality Index (AWEI), as our external benchmark. 
At the Australian LGBTQ Inclusion Awards 2022, 
run by Pride in Diversity, Origin was named an AWEI 
Gold Employer in recognition of the initiatives we 
have introduced to help champion our LGBTQIA+ 
communities and ensure we have the systems and 
processes in place to support diverse genders, 
sexes and sexualities. See our case study for 
more information.

In December 2021, Origin signed the Darlington 
Statement, a joint consensus statement by Australian 
and Aotearoa/New Zealand intersex organisations 
and independent advocates. It sets out the priorities 
of the intersex human rights movement in our 
countries. These are categorised as human rights 
and legal reform; health and wellbeing; peer support; 
allies; and education, awareness and employment. 
Intersex Human Rights Australia facilitated an 
awareness session with our employees to broaden 
their understanding of intersex people’s experiences.

We installed all gender bathrooms in our 
Melbourne office in FY2022 to help ensure the 
comfort and safety of all employees and visitors. 
There are plans to introduce all gender toilets to 
other Origin offices over the next several years.

2022 Sustainability Report

https://www.originenergy.com.au/wp-content/uploads/CGS_4G_combined.pdf
https://www.originenergy.com.au/blog/pride-at-origin/
https://www.originenergy.com.au/blog/adapting-to-a-changing-energy-landscape/
https://www.originenergy.com.au/blog/adapting-to-a-changing-energy-landscape/
https://www.originenergy.com.au/blog/pride-at-origin/


40

Reconciliation
Origin acknowledges that Aboriginal and Torres 
Strait Islander cultures are the oldest surviving 
continuous cultures in the world, and we are 
committed to creating a culture of respect and 
inclusion across all parts of our organisation. 

In FY2022, we announced our support for the 
Uluru Statement from the Heart. The statement is 
an invitation to all Australians from First Nations 
Australians, asking them to help build a better 
future by supporting the establishment of a First 
Nations Voice to Parliament enshrined in the 
Australian Constitution and to establish a Makarrata 
Commission for treaty making and truth-telling.

We completed our first Stretch Reconciliation 
Action Plan (Stretch RAP) in FY2022. Our Stretch 
RAP aligns with Reconciliation Australia’s three 
pillars of relationships, respect and opportunities, 
and outlines how we plan to embed social change 
in our workplace. 

Case study

Origin’s Indigenous 
Employee Network

Our Indigenous Employee Network 
now has over 70 members helping 
to create a supportive and culturally 
safe space to work in.

We will launch our second Stretch RAP in FY2023, 
outlining and building on our achievements so far.

Building the cultural knowledge and capability of our 
employees was fundamental to our Stretch RAP. Our 
employee cultural awareness learning, built with the 
help of our Indigenous Employee Network, had a  
98 per cent completion rate. This year we also 
partnered with Mirri, an Aboriginal-owned cultural 
awareness organisation, to extend cultural learning to 
our people leaders through workshops. 

We continued our programs to support Indigenous 
employment, helping seven students in FY2022 
through the Career Trackers 10x10 program, and 
seven traineeships. These programs, with the help 
of a dedicated Indigenous Recruitment Consultant 
at Origin, have seen us grow our Indigenous talent 
base, from 35 Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander 
employees at the beginning of our Stretch RAP in 
FY2018 to 73 in FY2022. 

 Mura Biri Gururu Aboriginal Dancers run a school-based cultural immersion activity as part of National Reconciliation Week in Chinchilla, Queensland, supported by Origin.

Our Indigenous Employee Network continues 
to support Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander 
employees to engage, discuss issues, share 
knowledge and provide peer-to-peer support. The 
network also helps drive our reconciliation activities. 
A survey of network members in November 2021 
showed 96 per cent of respondents felt accepted  
by their team members and 92 per cent would speak 
positively about and recommend Origin to friends 
and family. Respondents cited career development 
and progression as key areas to improve. See our 
case study for more information on the achievements 
of the network. 

 

2022 Sustainability Report

https://www.originenergy.com.au/blog/indigenous-employee-network/
https://www.originenergy.com.au/blog/adapting-to-a-changing-energy-landscape/
https://www.originenergy.com.au/blog/adapting-to-a-changing-energy-landscape/
https://www.originenergy.com.au/blog/indigenous-employee-network/


41

Environmental, social and governance (ESG) ratings

Australian Council of Superannuation Investors 
Comprehensive rating (category previously ‘Leading’) for disclosure of ESG 
risks and opportunities in 2009-2011, 2013-2022.

DISCLOSURE INSIGHT ACTION

Carbon Disclosure Project
Origin has participated in the CDP climate change survey since 2006. The 
survey is conducted globally and reported in arrears.

Origin’s 2021 CDP climate change performance score (covering FY2020) was 
‘A-‘, an improvement on our previous ‘B’. We were also awarded an ‘A-’ for CDP’s 
Supplier Engagement Rating, which assesses how effectively companies are 
engaging with suppliers on climate change.

In 2022, we participated in the climate change survey, which covers our 
performance during the FY2021 reporting period. These responses are 
expected to be available on the CDP website in late 2022.

FTSE4Good
2004–2022
FTSE Russell (the trading name of FTSE International Limited and Frank Russell 
Company) confirms that Origin Energy has been independently assessed 
according to the FTSE4Good criteria, and has satisfied the requirements to 
become a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series.26

MSCI
MSCI ESG’s A rating
In 2021, Origin received a rating of A (on a scale of AAA-CCC) in the MSCI 
Ratings assessment.27

Sustainalytics
In 2022, Origin’s ESG Risk Rating was assessed by Sustainalytics at 34.0, 
within Sustainalytics’ high-risk band for experiencing material financial impacts 
from ESG factors. 

26 Created by the global index provider FTSE Russell, the FTSE4Good Index Series is designed to measure the performance of companies 
demonstrating strong ESG practices. The FTSE4Good indices are used by a wide variety of market participants to create and assess 
responsible investment funds and other products.

27 The use by Origin Energy of any MSCI ESG Research LLC or its affiliates (MSCI) data, and the use of MSCI logos, trademarks, service marks or 
index names herein, do not constitute a sponsorship, endorsement, recommendation, or promotion of Origin Energy by MSCI. MSCI services 
and data are the property of MSCI or its information providers, and are provided as-is and without warranty. MSCI names and logos are 
trademarks or service marks of MSCI.

Our 2022 Sustainability Report outlines what we are doing 
to get energy right for our customers, communities and 
planet. We report on our performance in the financial year 
2022, focusing on the material topics that matter most to 
our stakeholders. 

Our reporting
•  •  •  •

2022 Sustainability Report



42

Stakeholder engagement

We engage with our stakeholders in a variety of ways throughout the year to listen, learn and respond to their needs and expectations.  
Some examples of our stakeholder engagement in FY2022 include:

Stakeholder Areas of interest How we engaged

Shareholders • Sustainable earnings 
• Identification and management of risks 
• Climate change and GHG emissions 
• Engagement with Traditional Owners
• Approach to a Just Transition
• Remuneration

• Held investor meetings, briefings and roadshows, including with members of 
the ELT and Board, on various matters, including climate change, engagement 
with Native Title holders in the Beetaloo, our approach to managing the closure 
of Eraring Power Station and executive remuneration

• Participated in various investor and broker conferences

• Responded to investor enquiries and undertook surveys to gather 
investor feedback

• Responded to sustainability-related information requests and participated in 
benchmark surveys

• Met with investor proxy advisors

Customers • Energy affordability 
• Quality of our service 
• Ease of interacting with Origin
• Climate change and emissions 
• Lower-carbon energy solutions
• Energy reliability

• Provided support to customers affected by the COVID-19 pandemic and floods
• Received feedback on a range of projects in development from more than 

4,500 customers through our Origin Exchange Customer Insights Community 
Research Panel

• Sought feedback from our Customer Advocacy Panel on a range of topics from 
digital services to residential renewables

• Asked our customers what mattered to them via our RepTrak™ survey, as part of 
ascertaining our Strategic NPS score, and after each interaction, which provides 
our Interaction NPS score

Communities • Impact on local communities 
• Environmental management
• Land access and coexistence 
• Sharing economic benefits
• Response to COVID-19 and 

natural disasters

• Engaged with landholders as upstream operator of Australia Pacific LNG, 
including negotiating 75 Conduct and Compensation Agreements, and 
Traditional Owners, including updates on work programs 

• Communicated and engaged with Native Title holders as part of our Beetaloo 
Basin project, including meetings on Country and site inspections  

• Began initial consultations with Eraring community groups and representatives 
following the announcement to bring forward the potential closure of Eraring 
Power Station

• Supported community partners through the Origin Energy Foundation, 
including more than 7,000 hours donated by Origin employee volunteers

Suppliers • Climate change and emissions
• Workforce health and safety
• Working ethically
• Business resilience
• Cyber security

• Supported small, emerging Indigenous businesses in partnership with Many 
Rivers through our Marketplace initiative

• Engaged with suppliers with high inherent modern slavery risk to identify gaps 
in risk controls and develop improvement actions

• Collaborated with suppliers to manage COVID-19 health risks at our workplaces 
and operating locations 

• Promoted our upcoming tender opportunities with local chambers of 
commerce and continued to develop our database of local supplier capability

Our people • Climate change and emissions
• Our impact on communities
• Working ethically 
• Resilience of our business
• Career and development opportunities

• Held virtual forums hosted by the Executive Leadership Team, with 
opportunities for employees to ask questions

• Conducted our annual engagement survey, to give employees the opportunity 
to provide feedback on culture and engagement and help shape their future 
working environment

• Shared information on how we are delivering on our purpose via various 
channels, including CEO emails and videos, posts on our internal social media 
platform, and live Q&A sessions with subject matter experts

• Sought employee feedback on communication related to the COVID-19 
pandemic, health and wellbeing resources, and team engagement, to help 
inform ongoing support for employees 

Government • Reliability of energy
• Affordability of energy
• Climate change and emissions
• Our engagement with Traditional Owners
• Our plans for our operations

• Advocated directly and through peak industry associations for sound policy 
outcomes on energy and climate policy

• Hosted key ministers and others in government to help them understand our 
assets and projects, including Traditional Owner engagement

• Met with governments, regulators and non-government organisations on topics 
such as the energy transition, the role of gas, and climate change action

• Participated in forums, workshops and conferences with government, non-
government organisations, think tanks and others on the energy transition and 
challenges facing energy markets

2022 Sustainability Report



43

1. Identify
We review the previous year’s list of material 
topics and definitions, reflecting on peer 
material topics and sustainability challenges, 
media coverage of the industry, relevant ESG 
frameworks and standards (including GRI, SASB 
and TCFD), and any shifts in or updates to Origin’s 
key risks, policies, strategies, goals and targets. 
Through this process we develop an updated 
list of sustainability issues relevant to Origin and 
our stakeholders.

2. Engage
Key to the materiality process is taking into 
account the interests and expectations of Origin’s 
stakeholders, such as investors, banks, insurers, 
customers, local communities, employees, 
government, non-governmental organisations and 
suppliers. 

We engage with our stakeholders on an ongoing 
basis through various channels, including face-to-
face and virtual meetings, briefings, workshops, 
surveys, research and by responding to queries 
and concerns. (See Stakeholder engagement 
for details on our FY2022 engagement). The 
feedback we gather throughout the year informs 
our materiality assessment. As well, we survey key 
stakeholder groups, including employees, investors 
and customers, and ask them to rank our list of 
sustainability issues by importance to them. 

Our material sustainability issues

2022 material topics Other important and emerging issues

Customers

Affordability of energy Cyber security

Customer experience Supporting vulnerable customers

Lower-carbon customer solutions

Reliability of energy

Communities

Impacts to communities Closure planning of sites/assets

Land access and coexistence Human rights

Rights and cultural heritage of Indigenous peoples Responsible supply chain

Planet

Climate change and greenhouse gas emissions Air emissions

Biodiversity and ecosystem services Policy and regulation

Water management

Waste management and resource efficiency

Our people and culture

Health and safety Governance

Diversity and inclusion Workforce training, development and engagement

Ethical business practices

We conduct a materiality assessment each year to determine the most important sustainability issues 
for our stakeholders and use the findings to guide our sustainability strategy, inform and prioritise our 
activities and ensure we have meaningful metrics against which to measure our performance. The 
analysis provides a basis for the structure and content of this report as well as the annual review of our 
management approaches.

Our materiality process 
Our materiality process considers Origin’s economic, environmental and social impacts and the 
consequences and risks associated with these, in consultation with our stakeholders.

3. Assess and prioritise

The results of the surveys are assessed along with 
other stakeholder inputs, requiring consideration 
of competing views and priorities. In determining 
the final list of material issues, we consider 
the data with respect to what is important 
to Origin and how can we best contribute to 
sustainable development.

Through this process we identified 14 material 
topics as well as a number of important and 
emerging topics on which we also report. 

4.  Review

Our list of material topics is reviewed by our risk 
team, senior management and the Board. 

The material topics in FY2022 did not change 
significantly from FY2021, however, we have 
redefined some of our material topics.

2022 Sustainability Report



44

United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)

In 2015, the United Nations adopted the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure prosperity for all by 2030. 

Our purpose of getting energy right for our customers, communities and planet is aligned with many of the SDGs. We have mapped the SDGs to the four sections of our report and outlined our aims and 
overarching approach in these areas. The table below maps some of the actions we have taken in FY2022 that support the SDGs.

SDG Actions in FY2021 that support the SDGs

Location in  
sustainability  
reporting

• Focused on learning from incidents and sharing insights with employees 
across our business and partner organisations.

• Continued our Pandemic Leave Policy to support our people, with up to 10 
days paid leave available for employees who have been impacted by the 
pandemic, including for vaccination appointments (linked to SDG8).

• Achieved a reduction in process safety Tier 1 and Tier 2 events to 2 in 
FY2022, from 11 in FY2021.

• Supported LPG shipping crews through the challenges of the COVID-19 
pandemic by facilitating access to adequate vaccines.

• Rolled out a set of Life Saving Controls at operational sites across Origin with 
a focus on continuous learning.

Safety, health 
and wellbeing

• The Origin Energy Foundation distributed over $2.6 million to charity 
partners in FY2022.

• Continued to support the transition of Indigenous students to the workplace 
through our partnership with CareerTrackers, (linked to SDG10).

• Reached 5,300 students through our employee volunteering program.
• Donated solar lights to children living in energy poverty, working with the 

Origin Energy Foundation and its partner SolarBuddy.

Supporting  
communities
 
 

Inclusion

• Achieved 40.8 per cent of women in senior roles in FY2022 and continue 
to deliver equal average pay for men and women at each job grade (linked 
to SDG8).

• The Pride@Origin Committee worked to create a supporting, safe and 
inclusive workplace for our LGBTIQA+ communities, focussing on aligning 
Origin to the Australian Workplace Equality Index (AWEI) as our external 
benchmark (linked to SDG10).

• Ranked Top 10 in Australia in Equileap’s 2022 Gender Equality Global report 
& Ranking.

• Awarded AWEI Gold Employer at the Australian LGBTQ Inclusion Awards 
2021 run by Pride in Diversity.

Inclusion 
 

SDG Actions in FY2021 that support the SDGs

Location in  
sustainability  
reporting

• Provided more than $3.8 million in rewards to Origin Spike customers for 
reducing their energy use during peak periods, (linked to SDG 9 and 12).

•  Close to 340,000 customers across our GreenPower, Green Gas, Green LPG 
and Origin Go Zero products, up from 260,000 in FY2021.

•  Grew our Virtual Power Plant to 258 MW across 120,000 
connected services.

• Installed 70 MW of solar.
• Supported access to energy through our Power On program.
• Continued our partnership with NSW Government to deliver the Solar for 

Low Income Housing program to provide, free of charge, 3 kW solar systems 
to low-income households (linked to SDG10).

• Advanced plans to install a grid scale storage battery at Eraring with an overall 
capacity of up to 700 MW and a dispatch duration of four hours, making it 
Australia's largest battery project to achieve planning approval to date.

• 1,600 MW of solar farms development projects secured in our portfolio.

Smart, connected 
and lower-carbon 
solutions

 

Energy affordability 
and support for 
vulnerable  
customers

 
 
Energy and climate 
change

• Spent 20 per cent of our total direct and indirect spend with regional 
suppliers. (linked to SDG 10).

• Spent $17 million directly and indirectly with Indigenous suppliers, up from 
$10 million in 2021 (linked to SDG10).

• Supported regional apprentice schemes to build local workforce capacity 
through training and development.

Responsible  
procurement
 

Supporting 
our communities

2022 Sustainability Report



45

SDG Actions in FY2021 that support the SDGs

Location in  
sustainability  
reporting

• Installed 200 smart chargers in homes and businesses across NSW, Victoria, 
Queensland and South Australia as part of the ARENA trial (linked to SDG 7 
and 13).

• Launched Origin Zero, a business unit dedicated to supporting large business 
customers their decarbonisation journey.

• Hosted two EV Drive Day events, with support from the NSW Government.
• Progressed our green hydrogen and renewable ammonia opportunities, 

including commencing a feasibility study in Bell Bay, Tasmania (linked to 
SDG 7 and 13).

• Held our annual Little Big Idea competition, which encourages creativity and 
innovation in students.

Smart, connected 
and lower-carbon 
solutions 
 
 
 
 
Energy and 
climate change
 
Supporting 
communities

• Launched our cultural awareness learning framework to build awareness of 
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander cultures, histories and achievements.

• Completed our first Stretch RAP in FY2022, and will launch our second 
Stretch RAP in FY2023 (linked to SDG8).

• 73 Origin employees voluntarily self-identified as Aboriginal or Torres Strait 
Islander, an increase from 35 at the beginning of our Stretch RAP in FY2018.

• Announced our support for the Uluru Statement from the Heart and the 
establishment of a First Nations Voice to Parliament enshrined in the 
Australian Constitution and Makarrata Commission for the purpose of treaty 
making and truth-telling.

Inclusion 

• Provided 13,907 ML of treated produced water for beneficial use.
• Launched an EV sharing service, 360 EV Share, for residents and tenants of 

apartments and commercial buildings to book and access an exclusive EV 
via a digital app, providing a seamless digital car-sharing experience (linked 
to SDG 7).

• Safely demolished site structures and recycled and re-used materials 
wherever possible with the decommissioning of our site at Port Botany. This 
includes removing 30,000 tonnes of soil for re-use, recycling more than 
1,800 tonnes of steel, reuse of the ship line, and recovering 15 pallets of 
equipment for re-use as spares and for future projects.

Water 
Smart, connected 
and lower-carbon 
solutions
 
Biodiversity

• Updated our emissions reduction targets and ambitions.
• Actively engaged in responsible engagement in climate policy.
• Announced the early closure of Eraring Power Station, potentially from 

August 2025.
• Introduced the Origin Solar Assessment Tool to help reduce the effort for 

prospective customers considering buying a solar energy solution.

Energy and climate  
change 
 
 
 
Smart, connected 
and lower-carbon 
solutions

• Worked with communities to restore and protect the local biodiversity 
through programs such as fish restocking in local waterways.

• Monitored and managed our biodiversity offset initiatives, including Duke's 
Plain in central Queensland.

Biodiversity 

SDG Actions in FY2021 that support the SDGs

Location in  
sustainability  
reporting

• Rolled out human rights awareness training to 98 per cent of our employees 
and contingent workers via our refreshed Code of Conduct.

Responsible  
procurement

• The Origin Energy Foundation partnered with not-for-profit organisations to 
break the cycle of disadvantage and empower young Australians to reach 
their potential. Origin employees donated more than 7,000 hours to good 
causes through the Origin Energy Foundation.

• The Foundation, along with Paul Ramsay Foundation, funded Paying What 
it Takes, a report that examined the underfunding of Australian charities 
and called for a substantial shift in funding systems to ensure the long-term 
effectiveness of Australia’s non-profit sector. 

• The Foundation is partnering with SolarBuddy to provide affordable energy 
in the form of solar lights to children living in energy poverty globally (linked 
to SDG 4).

• Joined with the Queensland Government’s Department of Environment and 
Science, community stakeholder groups, and other CSG industry companies to 
form a working group to investigate long-term management approaches for brine.

• Established a multi-year partnership with the Miles District Fishing and 
Recreation Club to support the development of waterway rehabilitation 
plans and improve biodiversity in the local waterways, working with the 
Queensland Government’s Department of Agriculture and Fisheries. 

Supporting  
communities 
 

 
 
 
 

 
Waste
 
 
Biodiversity

2022 Sustainability Report



46

FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 FY2021 FY2022

Customers
Total customer accounts (electricity, gas, LPG and broadband) (’000)  4,178 4,199 4,233 4,266 4,458
Customer accounts across our GreenPower, Green Gas, Green LPG and 
Origin Go Zero products (’000)

152 135 118 260 338

Ombudsman complaints (per 1,000 customers) 2.8 2.7 2.7 1.9 1.5
Net Promoter Score – strategic28  (19.0)  (9.0) 3.0 4.0 5.0
Net Promoter Score – interaction 21.7 24.7 26.4 34.1 39.7
Reputation (RepTrak™ score) 63.6 63.3 66.0 67.7 66.9
Successful Power On payment plan completions29 42,107 48,659  33,102 35,336 11,352

Communities
Community complaints received 86 12 14 3 5
Landholder complaints received 51  25 33 41 56
Regional procurement spend (%) – 16 17 18 20
Foundation funds distributed ($m) 2.4 2.4 3.2 3.0 2.6
Indigenous supplier spend (Stretch RAP target) ($m) – 3.3 5.5 10.2 17.0
Employee volunteering through the Origin Energy Foundation (hours) 8,002 9,153 6,758 8,466 7,112

Planet (climate change, environment)
Scope 1 emissions (equity basis, kt CO2-e)29 18,681 18,430 16,573 15,273 13,421
Scope 2 emissions (equity basis, kt CO2-e) 1,028 1,188 1,228 1,108 1,032
Generation emissions intensity (owned and contracted) (tCO2-e/MWh) 0.76 0.78 0.76 0.76 0.76
Integrated Gas emissions intensity (tCO2-e/TJ) 5.17 5.10 4.85 4.91 5.07
Capacity of solar PV systems installed (MW) 43 48 61 74 70
Environmental consequence incidents 0 0 2 0 0
Fugitive emissions (flaring, leaks and venting) (ktCO2-e)29 506 459 300 296 351
Ash re-used at Eraring (%) 30 35 39 36 73
Air emissions (NOx, SOx, VOC, PM10) (tonnes) 67,100 74,139 64,367 57,348 67,115

People
Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate (TRIFR)30 2.2 4.4 2.6 2.7 4.0
Actual serious (or above) incidents31 – 9 4 4 5
Learning incidents32 – 38 69 52 36
Process safety incidents (Tier 1 and 2)33 12 8 12 11 2
Employee engagement score (%)34 61 61 75 74 68
Female representation (%)
 Board 25.0 22.2 22.2 30.0 40.0
 CEO-1 20.0 25.0 33.3 33.3 30.0
 CEO-2 33.8 40.6 43.9 42.9 43.6
 Senior leaders 34.2 34.4 33.9 34.6 40.8
Indigenous representation (voluntarily self-identified) 35 41 46 70 73
Reported incidents of bribery or corruption35 0 1 0 0 0

Key sustainability 
performance measures

The following table provides a five-year summary of our 
current key non-financial performance metrics. 

Performance across these measures is considered as part 
of the Origin Board’s ‘underpin’ review process to support 
long term remuneration decisions. Origin believes consistent 
strong performance in key ESG metrics is important to 
building sustainable shareholder value over the long term. 

28 12-month average at 30 June 30. 
Restated for FY2018-FY2021.

29 FY2022 data reflects changes in the 
emission estimation reporting methods 
set out in the National Greenhouse 
and Energy Reporting  Measurement 
Determination, 2008.

30  Measures the number of company-wide 
work-related recordable injuries per 
million hours worked for employees 
and contractors.

31 Metric introduced in FY2019 and 
includes incidents rated with a rating as 
a Risk Consequence of 3-Serious Actual 
(or above) on the Origin Risk Matrix.

32 Metric introduced in FY2019 and 
includes incidents rated with a rating 
as a Risk Consequence of 4-Major 
Potential (or above) on the Origin Risk 
Matrix. Note: Excludes incidents already 
counted under the Actual Serious 
Consequence metric.

33 Include all incidents that resulted in Tier 1 
or Tier 2 events as per the IOGP Process 
Safety Recommended Practice on Key 
Performance Indicators, Report No. 456. 
Disclosures for prior years only include 
Tier 1 and 2 events that resulted in an 
outcome of serious and above.

34 Kincentric’s methodology.
35 FY2019 incident has been included in 

our reporting due to the broad definition 
of 'corruption' in the GRI Standards, that 
includes fraud, in this case fraud by an 
individual employee.

2022 Sustainability Report



EY Assurance  
Statement

1 

 

A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited 
Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation 

 

Our Conclusion: 
Ernst & Young (‘EY’, ‘we’) have been engaged by Origin Energy Limited (Origin) to perform a limited assurance engagement, as defined by Australian Standards on Assurance Engagements, 
here after referred to as a ‘review’, over selected disclosures included in Origin’s 2022 Sustainability Report and Performance data tables (the ‘Report’) for the year ended 30 June 2022. 
Based on our review, nothing has come to our attention that caused us to believe that the selected disclosures presented below have not been prepared and presented fairly, in all material 
aspects, in accordance with the criteria detailed below. 
 

Independent Limited Assurance Statement to the 
Management and Directors of Origin Energy Limited 

What our review covered 
We reviewed selected sustainability disclosures, listed below, disclosed in the 
Report for the year ended 30 June 2022. 

Selected disclosures Value 

Communities  

Community complaints received (#) 5 

Planet 

Total Scope 1 emissions (operated) (ktCO2-e) 12,950 

Total Scope 2 emissions (operated) (ktCO2-e) 2,350 

Total Scope 1 emissions (equity) (ktCO2-e) 13,421 

Total Scope 2 emissions (equity) (ktCO2-e) 1,032 

Total Scope 3 emissions (equity) (ktCO2-e) 33,377 

Emissions intensity (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions per TJ, 
operational control) – Integrated Gas (tCO2-e/TJ) 

5.07 

Emissions intensity (Scope 1 and Scope 3 emissions per MWh 
electricity sent to the grid, operational control) – Energy 
Markets (tCO2-e/MWh) 

0.76 

Total volume of water withdrawn (ML) 2,338,516 

Total volume of produced CSG water applied to beneficial use 
by Australia Pacific LNG (ML) 

13,907 

People and culture 

Female representation: Senior leaders (%) 40.8% 

 
 

 

Criteria applied by Origin 
In preparing the selected disclosures, Origin applied:  

► National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting (‘NGER’) Act 2007, NGER 
Regulations 2008, and NGER (Measurement) Determination 2008  

► Greenhouse Gas Protocol’s Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and 
Reporting Standard 

► Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Standards 
► Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards  
► Origin’s own publicly disclosed criteria as detailed in the Report.  

Key responsibilities 
EY’s responsibilities  
Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on selected 
disclosures included in the Report based on the evidence we obtained. We were also 
responsible for maintaining our independence and confirm that we have met the 
requirements of the APES 110 Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants including 
independence and have the required competencies and experience to conduct this 
assurance engagement. 

We conducted our review in accordance with the Australian Standard for Assurance 
Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information 
(‘ASAE 3000’), Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements (‘ASAE 
3410’) and the terms of reference for this engagement as agreed with Origin on 6 
May 2022.  

Those standards require that we plan and perform our engagement to obtain limited 
assurance about whether, in all material respects, the Subject Matter is presented in 
accordance with the Criteria, and to issue a report. The nature, timing, and extent of 
the procedures selected depend on our judgment, including an assessment of the 
risk of material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.  

47 2022 Sustainability Report



EY Assurance  
Statement

2 

A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited 
Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation 

We believe that the evidence obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our limited assurance conclusions. 

Origin’s responsibilities
Origin’s management (‘Management’) was responsible for selecting the Criteria, and 
for presenting the selected disclosures in accordance with that Criteria. This 
responsibility included establishing and maintaining internal controls, adequate 
records and making estimates that are relevant to the preparation of the subject 
matter, such that it is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. 

EY’s independence and quality control
We have maintained our independence and confirm that we have met the 
requirements of the APES 110 Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants including 
independence and have the required competencies and experience to conduct this 
assurance engagement.

Description of procedures performed 
Procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing 
from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagement. 
Consequently, the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is 
substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had a 
reasonable assurance engagement been performed. Our procedures were designed 
to obtain a limited level of assurance on which to base our conclusion and do not 
provide all the evidence that would be required to provide a reasonable level of 
assurance.

Although we considered the effectiveness of Management’s internal controls when 
determining the nature and extent of our procedures, our assurance engagement 
was not designed to provide assurance on internal controls. Our procedures did not 
include testing controls or performing procedures relating to checking aggregation or 
calculation of data within IT systems.

A limited assurance engagement consists of making enquiries, primarily of persons 
responsible for preparing the selected disclosures and related information, and 
applying analytical and other review procedures including: 
► Conducting interviews with key personnel to understand Origin’s process for 

collecting, collating and reporting the selected disclosures during the reporting 
period

► Checking that the Criteria has been reasonably applied in preparing the selected 
disclosures

► Checking the reasonableness of assumptions
► Inquiring of personnel to identify risks of underreporting and quality controls
► Undertaking data analytics to check the reasonableness of the data supporting 

disclosures, such as analysis of month-on-month changes in the consumption of 
various energy sources 

► Performing recalculations of performance metrics to confirm quantities stated
were replicable, such as performing a recalculation of greenhouse gas emissions 
using source data and the relevant emissions factor as defined by the Criteria

► Assessing evidence on a sample basis, such as selecting a sample of coal 
purchases and assessing whether the reported amounts aligned with the support 
provided

► Checking aggregation of selected disclosures and transcription to the Report
► Checking the appropriateness of the presentation relating to the selected 

disclosures in the Report.

Use of our Assurance Statement 
We disclaim any assumption of responsibility for any reliance on this assurance 
statement, or on the selected disclosures to which it relates, to any persons other 
than the management and the Directors of Origin, or for any purpose other than that 
for which it was prepared. Our review included web-based information that was 
available via web links as of the date of this assurance statement. We provide no 
assurance over changes to the content of this web-based information after the date 
of this assurance statement.

Ernst & Young   Meg Fricke

Melbourne, Australia  Partner

25th August 2022

48 2022 Sustainability Report



49

Glossary

Ash dam
A pond used for storing coal ash generated by 
burning coal in coal-fired power plants.

Cleaner energy
Includes solar, wind, hydro, green hydrogen, 
battery storage, bioenergy, and energy efficiency.

CO
Carbon monoxide.

CO2
Carbon dioxide.

CO2-e

Carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2-e) is a measure 
for describing how much global warming potential 
a given type and amount of greenhouse gas may 
cause, using the functionally equivalent amount or 
concentration (CO2) as the reference.

CSG
Coal seam gas. Natural gas contained within 
coal seams.

Electricity measures:

 Watt (W)
 A measure of power when one ampere of   
 current flows under one volt of pressure.

 Kilowatt (kW)
 One kW = 1,000 watts.

 Kilowatt hour (kWh)

 Standard unit of electrical energy representing  
 consumption of one kilowatt over one hour.

 Megawatt (MW)
 One MW = 1,000 kW or one million watts.

 Megawatt hour (MWh)
 One MWh = 1,000 kilowatt hours.

 Gigawatt hour (GWh)
 One GWh = 1,000 megawatt hours or one   
 million kilowatt hours.

 Terawatt hour (TWh)
 One TWh = 1,000 gigawatt hours, or one   
 million megawatt hours.

Flaring
A process to release gas by burning the 
methane in specially designed flares within 
infrastructure. Flaring converts methane to carbon 
dioxide, which is a less potent greenhouse gas 
than methane.

Fugitive emissions
Fugitive emissions are the gases that leak or are 
vented or flared while extracting, producing, 
processing, storing, transmitting or distributing 
certain fossil fuels. The Australian regulatory 
definition for fugitive emissions includes flaring 
but excludes landscape emissions.

Gas measures:

 Joule (J)
 Standard unit of measurement for energy.

 Gigajoule (GJ)
 One GJ = 109 joules.

 Terajoule (TJ)
 One TJ = 1012 joules.

 Petajoule (PJ)
 One PJ = 1015 joules.

GHG emissions
Greenhouse gas emissions mainly refers 
to carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, 
sulphur hexafluoride, hydrofluorocarbons 
and perfluorocarbons.

GHG emissions intensity
The level of greenhouse gas emissions per unit 
of economic activity.

kt
One kilotonne = 1,000 tonnes.

Leaks
Gas can leak from infrastructure, particularly at 
pipe joints, valves and actuators.

LNG
Liquefied natural gas.

LPG
Liquefied petroleum gas.

National Electricity Market (NEM)
The wholesale electricity market for the electrically 
connected states and territories, with the exception 
of Western Australia and the Northern Territory.

NGERs
The National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting 
Act, 2007 introduced a single national framework 
for reporting and disseminating company 
information about greenhouse gas emissions, 
energy production and energy consumption.

NOx
Nitrogen oxide.

PM2.5

Particulate matter that is 2.5 micrometres or less 
in diameter.

PM10

Particulate matter that is 10 micrometres or less 
in diameter.

Process safety event
An unplanned or uncontrolled Loss of Primary 
Containment (LOPC) of any material, including 
non-toxic and non-flammable materials from a 
process, or an undesired event or condition that 
under slightly different circumstances, could have 
resulted in LOPC.

Reverse osmosis
A process that uses a membrane under pressure 
to separate relatively pure water (or other solvent) 
from a less pure solution.

SBTi
The Science-Based Targets Initiative is an 
independent body made up of representatives 
from the World Resources Institute, the Carbon 
Disclosure Project, the World Wildlife Fund and  
the UN Global Compact.

SOx
Sulphur oxide.

Scope 1 emissions
GHG emissions released to the atmosphere as a 
direct result of our activity. These are sometimes 
referred to as direct emissions; examples include 
electricity generation and gas production

Scope 2 emissions
GHG emissions resulting from purchased 
electricity that we consume to power our offices 
and operating sites.

Scope 3 emissions
Indirect GHG emissions, other than Scope 2, 
relating to our value chain that we do not own 
or control, including wholesale purchases of 
electricity from the NEM and the use of our sold 
products such as LNG and domestic gas sales.

Venting
The process that relieves pressure in the system, 
releasing gas to atmosphere.

VOC
Volatile organic compound.

Water measures:

 Kilolitre (kL)
 One kL = one thousand litres (1,000 L).

 Megalitre (ML)
 One ML = one million litres (1,000,000 L).

2022 Sustainability Report



Registered Office

Level 32, Tower 1
100 Barangaroo Avenue
Barangaroo NSW 2000
GPO Box 5376
Sydney NSW 2001
T  (02) 8345 5000
F  (02) 9252 9244
originenergy.com.au
enquiry@originenergy.com.au

Secretary

Helen Hardy

Share Registry

Boardroom Pty Limited  
Level 12, 225 George Street
Sydney NSW 2000
GPO Box 3993  
Sydney NSW 2001
T  Australia 1300 664 446
T  International (+61 2) 8016 2896
F  (02) 9279 0664
boardroomlimited.com.au
origin@boardroomlimited.com.au

Auditor

EY

Further information about Origin’s performance 
can be found on our website:
originenergy.com.au

DirectoryAbout our reporting

In this report a reference to ‘Origin’, ‘Origin Energy’, ‘Group’, ‘Origin Group’, ‘Company’, ‘we’, and ‘our’ is to Origin Energy Limited and 
its controlled entities and joint venture arrangements as outlined in our  
2022 Annual Report.

Unless otherwise stated, Origin Energy’s 2022 Sustainability Report provides a summary of Origin’s performance on material 
social and environmental sustainability aspects for the period 1 July 2021 to 30 June 2022 (FY2022). It's scope is limited to the 
assets we operate (including those under exploration, projects in development or execution phases, sites and closed operations). 
The exception is emissions performance, which we report on both an operational control and equity basis, in line with regulatory 
and reporting norms. 

Origin is the upstream operator of Australia Pacific LNG and 27.5 per cent shareholder. 

Forward-looking information

This report contains forward looking statements, including, but not limited to: Origin’s plans, strategies and objectives 
with respect to sustainability and generally; statements regarding trends in commodity prices and supply and demand for 
commodities; and statements regarding potential regulatory and policy developments.

Where this report contains forward-looking statements, including statements of current intention, statements of opinion and 
predictions as to possible future events and future financial prospects, these statements are not statements of fact and there can 
be no certainty of outcome in relation to the matters to which the statements relate. Forward-looking statements involve known 
and unknown risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other important factors that could cause the actual outcomes to be materially 
different from the events or results expressed or implied by such statements, and the outcomes are not all within Origin’s control. 

The forward-looking statements in this report are based on management’s current expectations and reflect judgements, 
assumptions, estimates and other the information available as at the date of report and/or the date of Origin’s planning 
processes or scenario analysis processes. There are also inherent limitations with scenario analysis and it is difficult to predict 
which, if any, of the scenarios might eventuate. Scenarios do not constitute definitive outcomes or probabilities, and scenario 
analysis relies on assumptions that may or may not be, or prove to be, correct and may or may not eventuate. Scenarios may 
also be impacted by additional factors to the assumptions disclosed. 

Except as required by applicable regulations or by law, Origin does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or review 
any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information or future events. Forward looking statements speak 
only as of the date of this report or the date planning process assumptions or scenario analysis assumptions were adopted, as 
relevant. Past performance cannot be relied on as a guide to future performance.

Approach to reporting

All monetary amounts are in Australian dollars unless otherwise stated. 

We report our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions under the National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting Act, 2007 (NGER). We 
calculate Scope 3 emissions based on the Greenhouse Gas Protocol’s Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting 
Standard and Scope 3 guidance documents.36

Due to the inherent uncertainty and limitations in measuring emissions under the calculation methodologies used in the preparation of 
such data, all emissions data or references to emissions volumes (including ratios or percentages) in this report are estimates.  Where 
data is not available due to timing, we apply a reasonable estimation methodology. Where applicable, we revise prior year data in the 
Sustainability Report to update prior estimates and align with external reporting requirements such as NGER.

36 ghgprotocol.org/standards/scope-3-standard

http://www.originenergy.com.au
http://ghgprotocol.org/standards/scope-3-standard

	Cover
	Contents
	Our Purpose
	 FY2021 Performance Highlights
	Where we operate
	Communities
	Planet
	People and Culture
	Our reporting

	Button 31: 
	Button 34: 
	Button 32: 
	Button 35: 
	Button 33: 
	Button 36: 
	Home (contents): 
	Page 2: 
	Page 3: 
	Page 4: 
	Page 5: 
	Page 6: 
	Page 7: 
	Page 8: 
	Page 9: 
	Page 11: 
	Page 12: 
	Page 13: 
	Page 14: 
	Page 15: 
	Page 16: 
	Page 18: 
	Page 19: 
	Page 20: 
	Page 21: 
	Page 22: 
	Page 24: 
	Page 25: 
	Page 26: 
	Page 27: 
	Page 28: 
	Page 29: 
	Page 30: 
	Page 31: 
	Page 32: 
	Page 33: 
	Page 34: 
	Page 35: 
	Page 36: 
	Page 37: 
	Page 38: 
	Page 39: 
	Page 40: 
	Page 41: 
	Page 42: 
	Page 43: 
	Page 44: 
	Page 45: 

	Button 82: 
	Page 2: 
	Page 3: 
	Page 4: 
	Page 5: 
	Page 6: 
	Page 7: 
	Page 8: 
	Page 9: 
	Page 11: 
	Page 12: 
	Page 13: 
	Page 14: 
	Page 15: 
	Page 16: 
	Page 18: 
	Page 19: 
	Page 20: 
	Page 21: 
	Page 22: 
	Page 24: 
	Page 25: 
	Page 26: 
	Page 27: 
	Page 28: 
	Page 29: 
	Page 30: 
	Page 31: 
	Page 32: 
	Page 33: 
	Page 34: 
	Page 35: 
	Page 36: 
	Page 37: 
	Page 38: 
	Page 39: 
	Page 40: 
	Page 41: 
	Page 42: 
	Page 43: 
	Page 44: 
	Page 45: 

	Button 83: 
	Page 2: 
	Page 3: 
	Page 4: 
	Page 5: 
	Page 6: 
	Page 7: 
	Page 8: 
	Page 9: 
	Page 11: 
	Page 12: 
	Page 13: 
	Page 14: 
	Page 15: 
	Page 16: 
	Page 18: 
	Page 19: 
	Page 20: 
	Page 21: 
	Page 22: 
	Page 24: 
	Page 25: 
	Page 26: 
	Page 27: 
	Page 28: 
	Page 29: 
	Page 30: 
	Page 31: 
	Page 32: 
	Page 33: 
	Page 34: 
	Page 35: 
	Page 36: 
	Page 37: 
	Page 38: 
	Page 39: 
	Page 40: 
	Page 41: 
	Page 42: 
	Page 43: 
	Page 44: 
	Page 45: 

	Our reporting 3: 
	Page 2: 
	Page 3: 
	Page 4: 
	Page 5: 
	Page 6: 
	Page 7: 
	Page 8: 
	Page 9: 
	Page 11: 
	Page 12: 
	Page 13: 
	Page 14: 
	Page 15: 
	Page 16: 
	Page 18: 
	Page 19: 
	Page 20: 
	Page 21: 
	Page 22: 
	Page 24: 
	Page 25: 
	Page 26: 
	Page 27: 
	Page 28: 
	Page 29: 
	Page 30: 
	Page 31: 
	Page 32: 
	Page 33: 
	Page 34: 
	Page 35: 
	Page 36: 
	Page 37: 
	Page 38: 
	Page 39: 
	Page 40: 
	Page 41: 
	Page 42: 
	Page 43: 
	Page 44: 
	Page 45: 

	People and culture 3: 
	Page 2: 
	Page 3: 
	Page 4: 
	Page 5: 
	Page 6: 
	Page 7: 
	Page 8: 
	Page 9: 
	Page 11: 
	Page 12: 
	Page 13: 
	Page 14: 
	Page 15: 
	Page 16: 
	Page 18: 
	Page 19: 
	Page 20: 
	Page 21: 
	Page 22: 
	Page 24: 
	Page 25: 
	Page 26: 
	Page 27: 
	Page 28: 
	Page 29: 
	Page 30: 
	Page 31: 
	Page 32: 
	Page 33: 
	Page 34: 
	Page 35: 
	Page 36: 
	Page 37: 
	Page 38: 
	Page 39: 
	Page 40: 
	Page 41: 
	Page 42: 
	Page 43: 
	Page 44: 
	Page 45: 

	Communities: 
	Page 2: 
	Page 3: 
	Page 4: 
	Page 5: 
	Page 6: 
	Page 7: 
	Page 8: 
	Page 9: 
	Page 11: 
	Page 12: 
	Page 13: 
	Page 14: 
	Page 15: 
	Page 16: 
	Page 18: 
	Page 19: 
	Page 20: 
	Page 21: 
	Page 22: 
	Page 24: 
	Page 25: 
	Page 26: 
	Page 27: 
	Page 28: 
	Page 29: 
	Page 30: 
	Page 31: 
	Page 32: 
	Page 33: 
	Page 34: 
	Page 35: 
	Page 36: 
	Page 37: 
	Page 38: 
	Page 39: 
	Page 40: 
	Page 41: 
	Page 42: 
	Page 43: 
	Page 44: 
	Page 45: 

	Planet 3: 
	Page 2: 
	Page 3: 
	Page 4: 
	Page 5: 
	Page 6: 
	Page 7: 
	Page 8: 
	Page 9: 
	Page 11: 
	Page 12: 
	Page 13: 
	Page 14: 
	Page 15: 
	Page 16: 
	Page 18: 
	Page 19: 
	Page 20: 
	Page 21: 
	Page 22: 
	Page 24: 
	Page 25: 
	Page 26: 
	Page 27: 
	Page 28: 
	Page 29: 
	Page 30: 
	Page 31: 
	Page 32: 
	Page 33: 
	Page 34: 
	Page 35: 
	Page 36: 
	Page 37: 
	Page 38: 
	Page 39: 
	Page 40: 
	Page 41: 
	Page 42: 
	Page 43: 
	Page 44: 
	Page 45: 

	Customers: 
	Page 2: 
	Page 3: 
	Page 4: 
	Page 5: 
	Page 6: 
	Page 7: 
	Page 8: 
	Page 9: 
	Page 11: 
	Page 12: 
	Page 13: 
	Page 14: 
	Page 15: 
	Page 16: 
	Page 18: 
	Page 19: 
	Page 20: 
	Page 21: 
	Page 22: 
	Page 24: 
	Page 25: 
	Page 26: 
	Page 27: 
	Page 28: 
	Page 29: 
	Page 30: 
	Page 31: 
	Page 32: 
	Page 33: 
	Page 34: 
	Page 35: 
	Page 36: 
	Page 37: 
	Page 38: 
	Page 39: 
	Page 40: 
	Page 41: 
	Page 42: 
	Page 43: 
	Page 44: 
	Page 45: 

	Introduction: 
	Page 2: 
	Page 3: 
	Page 4: 
	Page 5: 
	Page 6: 
	Page 7: 
	Page 8: 
	Page 9: 
	Page 11: 
	Page 12: 
	Page 13: 
	Page 14: 
	Page 15: 
	Page 16: 
	Page 18: 
	Page 19: 
	Page 20: 
	Page 21: 
	Page 22: 
	Page 24: 
	Page 25: 
	Page 26: 
	Page 27: 
	Page 28: 
	Page 29: 
	Page 30: 
	Page 31: 
	Page 32: 
	Page 33: 
	Page 34: 
	Page 35: 
	Page 36: 
	Page 37: 
	Page 38: 
	Page 39: 
	Page 40: 
	Page 41: 
	Page 42: 
	Page 43: 
	Page 44: 
	Page 45: 

	Button 44: 
	Button 45: 
	Button 117: 
	Button 42: 
	Button 50: 
	Button 43: 
	Button 51: 
	Button 59: 
	Button 54: 
	Button 52: 
	Button 60: 
	Button 53: 
	Button 61: 
	Button 67: 
	Button 114: 
	Button 58: 
	Button 47: 
	Button 62: 
	Button 118: 
	Button 110: 
	Button 111: 
	Button 49: 
	Button 148: 
	Button 149: 
	Button 150: 
	Button 151: 
	Button 160: 
	Home (contents) 1: 
	Button 2: 
	Button 101: 
	Button 103: 
	Button 102: 
	Our reporting 5: 
	People and culture 5: 
	Communities: 
	Planet 5: 
	Customers: 
	Introduction: 
	Button 130: 
	Home (contents) 8: 
	Button 153: 
	Button 152: 
	Our reporting 6: 
	People and culture 6: 
	Communities 1: 
	Planet 6: 
	Introduction 2: 
	Button 85: 
	Button 84: 
	Home (contents) 6: 
	Button 1014: 
	Procurement: 
	Button 161: 
	Home (contents) 9: 
	Button 154: 
	Button 155: 
	Our reporting 7: 
	People and culture 7: 
	Planet 7: 
	Customers 2: 
	Introduction 3: 
	Button 156: 
	Button 157: 
	Home (contents) 10: 
	Button 1012: 
	Button 99: 
	Climate change: 
	Button 27: 
	Button 159: 
	Button 158: 
	Home (contents) 2: 
	Communities 7: 
	Our reporting 9: 
	People and culture 9: 
	Button 92: 
	Introduction 9: 
	Button 1020: 
	Button 107: 
	Button 28: 
	Button 29: 
	Button 106: 
	Button 109: 
	Button 104: 
	Home (contents) 3: 
	Button 135: 
	Button 134: 
	Our reporting 8: 
	People and culture 8: 
	Communities 3: 
	Planet 8: 
	Customers 5: 
	Introduction 5: 
	Home (contents) 4: 
	Button 138: 
	Button 139: 
	Our reporting 10: 
	People and culture 10: 
	Communities 4: 
	Planet 9: 
	Customers 6: 
	Introduction 6: 
	Home (contents) 5: 
	Button 142: 
	Button 143: 
	Our reporting 11: 
	People and culture 11: 
	Communities 5: 
	Planet 10: 
	Customers 7: 
	Introduction 7: 
	Home (contents) 7: 
	Button 145: 
	Button 144: 
	Our reporting 12: 
	People and culture 12: 
	Communities 6: 
	Planet 11: 
	Customers 8: 
	Introduction 8: 
	Button 128: