We Care
For an inclusive ecosystem

For digital transformation

For sustainable value creation

For an empowered workforce

For a greener planet

For societal well-being

Business Responsibility Report 2021-22



B 1Reliance Industries Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Reporting Suite

At Reliance Industries Limited (RIL), sustainability is viewed as an environmental 
and social responsibility, which allows the organisation to deliver on stakeholder 

expectations. RIL continues to communicate its obligations and performance to all 
stakeholders through its Business Responsibility Report (BRR).

Integrated Annual 
Report

CSR Report Business 
Responsibility Report

As a responsible corporate citizen, RIL believes in inclusive 
growth. The Company strives to accelerate India’s 
transition to a knowledge economy and create value for 
the nation by elevating the quality of life across the entire 
socio-economic spectrum. 

This report conforms to the Business Responsibility 
Reporting (BRR) requirements of the Securities & 
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (SEBI LODR) 
and the National Voluntary Guidelines (NVGs) on Social, 
Environmental and Economic Responsibilities of Business 
released by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA), India.

Creating and 
Nurturing Vibrant 

Ecosystems

https://www.ril.com/
DownloadFiles/
BRR2021-22.pdf

https://www.ril.com/
ar2021-22/pdf/RIL-
Integrated-Annual-
Report-2021-22.pdf 

https://www.ril.com/
DownloadFiles/
CSR202122.pdf



2 3Reliance Industries Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Product Life Cycle 
Sustainability 
Businesses should provide goods 
and services that are safe and 
contribute to sustainability 
throughout their life cycle

Section A

General Information about the Company
1.  Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the 

Company: L17110MH1973PLC019786

2.  Name of the Company: Reliance Industries Limited

3.  Registered Address:  
3rd Floor, Maker Chambers IV, 222, Nariman Point, 
Mumbai 400 021, India

4. Website: www.ril.com

5. E-mail id: investor.relations@ril.com

6. Financial Year Reported: 2021-22

7.  Sector(s) that the Company is engaged in 
(industrial activity code-wise):

  Oil to Chemicals, Exploration and Production of  
Oil & Gas and Textiles.

Industrial 
Group Description

061 Extraction of crude petroleum 

062 Extraction of natural gas 

131 Spinning, weaving and finishing of textile 

139 Manufacture of other textiles 

192 Manufacture of refined petroleum products 

201 
Manufacture of basic chemicals, fertilisers 
and nitrogen compounds, plastic and 
synthetic rubber in primary forms 

203 Manufacture of man-made fibres 

  As per National Industrial Classification – The Ministry 
of Statistics and Programme Implementation

8.  List three key products/services that the 
Company manufactures/provides (as in balance 
sheet):

 i. Transportation fuels

 ii. Polymers and Elastomers  

 iii.  Aromatics, Fibre Intermediates and  
Polyester Fibres 

9.  Total number of locations where business 
activity is undertaken by the Company:

 i. International locations:
   RIL has undertaken business activities in four 

international locations (on standalone basis).  
The major locations include North America, South 
America, Europe, Middle East and Asia. 

 ii. National locations: 
   RIL has carried out business activities in 

over 50 domestic locations . The Company’s 
manufacturing divisions are at Barbanki, Dahej, 
Hazira, Hoshiarpur, Jamnagar, Nagothane, 
Naroda, Patalganga, Silvassa and Vadodara. 
The Exploration and Production (E&P) units are at 
KG- D6 – Gadimoga and CBM -Shahdol.

10. Markets served by the Company:

  In addition to serving Indian markets, RIL exported to 
105 countries worldwide as on March 31, 2022.

Section B

Financial Details of the Company
1.  Paid-up capital: `6,765 crore as on  

March 31, 2022

2.  Total turnover: `4,66,425 crore as on  
March 31, 2022

3.  Total profit after taxes: `39,084 crore as on  
March 31, 2022

4.  Total spending on Corporate Social 
Responsibility (CSR) as a percentage of profit 
after tax: `813 crore for the year ended  
March 31, 2022 (2.21%*)

5.  List of activities in which Corporate Social 
Responsibility (CSR) expenditures have been 
incurred:

 1. Rural transformation

 2. Health (including COVID-19)

 3. Education

 4. Sports for development

 5. Disaster Response (including COVID-19)

 6. Arts, Culture, Heritage and Urban Renewal

Stakeholder 
Engagement 
Businesses should respect the 
interests of, and be responsive 
towards, all stakeholders, 
especially those who are 
disadvantaged, vulnerable and 
marginalised

Environment 
Businesses should respect, 
protect, and make efforts to 
restore the environment

Policy Advocacy 
Businesses, when engaged 
in influencing public and 
regulatory policy, should do so 
in a responsible manner

Inclusive Growth 
Businesses should support 
inclusive growth and equitable 
development

Customer Value 
Businesses should engage 
with and provide value to their 
customers and consumers in a 
responsible manner

NVG Principles

Business Responsibility Report

1 3

4 5 6

7 8 9

Ethics, Transparency 
and Accountability 
Businesses should conduct 
and govern themselves with 
Ethics, Transparency and 
Accountability

Employees’  
Well-Being 

Businesses should promote the 
well-being of all employees

Human Rights
Businesses should respect and 
promote human rights

2

* Based on average net profit of the Company for last three financial years 



Business Responsibility Report

4 5Reliance Industries Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Principle-wise as per National Voluntary Guidelines (NVGs)  
BR Policy/Policies (Reply in Y/N)

Sr. 
No. Questions 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9

1 Do you have policy/policies for... P P P P P P P P P

2 Has the policy been formulated in consultation with 
relevant stakeholders? 

P P P P P P P P P

3 Does the policy conform to any national/international 
standards? If yes, specify. (The policies are based on 
NVG-guidelines, in addition to conformance to the spirit 
of international standards like ISO 9000, ISO 14000, OHSAS 
18000, UNGC guidelines and ILO principles) 

P P P P P P P P P

4 Has the policy been approved by the Board? 
If yes, has it been signed by the MD/owner/CEO/appropriate 
Board Director?

P P P P P P P P P

5 Does the Company have a specified committee of the 
Board/ Director/Official to oversee the implementation 
of the policy? 

P P P P P P P P P

6 Indicate the link to view the policy online Please refer Annexure 2 below for linkages of these policies 
with BR principles and below for web links.

7 Has the policy been formally communicated to all relevant 
internal and external stakeholders? 

The policies have been communicated to RIL’s key internal 
and external stakeholders through the Company’s website. 
Additionally, the policies are communicated annually 
through this report.

8 Does the Company have in-house structure to implement its 
policy/policies?

Yes, the CSR&G Committee of the Board of Directors is 
responsible for the implementation of RIL’s policies.

9 Does the Company have a grievance redressal mechanism 
related to the policy/policies to address stakeholders’ 
grievances related to policy/policies? 

Yes, any grievance or feedback related to the policies can be 
sent to investor.relations@ril.com. CSR&G Committee of the 
Board of Directors is responsible for addressing stakeholder 
concerns related to BR policies.

10 Has the Company carried out independent audit/
evaluation of the working of this policy by an internal or 
external agency? 

The BR policy is evaluated internally. Policies pertaining 
to health, safety and environment have been audited 
externally by DNV.

Annexure 1 – Details of Compliance

Section C 

Other Details
1. Subsidiary companies

  The number of RIL’s subsidiary companies as on 
March 31, 2022 was 233 as per details given in 
Annual Report.

2.  Participation of subsidiary company/companies 
in the BR Initiatives of the parent company

  RIL undertakes various Business Responsibility (BR) 
initiatives throughout the year and encourages its 
subsidiary companies to participate in its Groupwide 
BR initiatives. All subsidiaries are aligned with 
the Group’s CSR agenda and philosophy, which 
are implemented through Reliance Foundation 
(RF), Reliance Foundation Institution of Education 
and Research (RFIER), Reliance Foundation Youth 
Sports (RFYS) and the business CSR interventions 
across locations. During FY 2021-22, RIL’s operating 
subsidiaries and associates such as Reliance Retail 
Limited, Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited, among 
others, participated in various initiatives related 
to the promotion of healthcare and education, 
cleanliness drives, rural development etc. As part of 
its BR initiatives, RIL also collaborates with the relevant 
external stakeholders such as suppliers, distributors, 
local communities, government and other entities in 
the value chain.

3.  Participation and percentage of participation 
of other entity/entities (e.g., suppliers and 
distributors, among others) that the Company 
does business with, in the BR initiatives of the 
Company

  Stakeholders have the ability to influence the way 
a company is perceived. RIL engages with several 
stakeholders such as suppliers, distributors, local 
communities, government and other entities in 
the value chain. The Company collaborates with 
all relevant stakeholders as part of its BR initiatives. 
Considering the spread of RIL’s value chain, at 
present, the number of entities which directly 
participate in the BR initiatives would be more 
than 60%.

Section D 

BR Information
1.  Details of Director/Directors  

responsible for BR

 a.  Details of the Director/Director responsible 
for the implementation of the BR 
policy/ policies

   The Corporate Social Responsibility and 
Governance (CSR&G) Committee of the Board 
of Directors is responsible for implementation of 
BR policies. The following are the members of the 
CSR&G Committee:

•  DIN Number: 00001620 
Name: Shri Nikhil R. Meswani 
Designation: Executive Director

• DIN Number: 00074119 
Name: Dr. Raghunath A. Mashelkar 
Designation: Independent Director

•  DIN Number: 02787784 
Name: Dr. Shumeet Banerji 
Designation: Independent Director

b. Details of the BR head

Particulars Details

DIN Number (if applicable) 00001620

Name Shri Nikhil R. Meswani

Designation Executive Director

Telephone Number 022 – 3555 5000

Email id nikhil.meswani@ril.com

2. Governance related to BR

 a.  Frequency with which the Board of Directors, 
Committee of the Board or CEO meet to assess 
the Company’s BR performance

   The CSR&G Committee assesses the BR 
performance of the Company annually.

 b.  BR and Sustainability Reports published; 
frequency and link of published reports

    RIL publishes its Business Responsibility Report 
(BRR) annually. BRR forms a part of Reliance’s 
Integrated Annual Report.

   https://www.ril.com/InvestorRelations/FinancialReporting.aspx
*  Based on average net profit of the Company for  

last three financial years

Principles

1    2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9

Links 
Health, Safety and Environment Policy

 http://www.ril.com/Sustainability/HealthSafety.aspx

Corporate Social Responsibility Policy

 http://www.ril.com/DownloadFiles/IRStatutory/CSR-Policy.pdf

Our Code

 http://www.ril.com/DownloadFiles/IRStatutory/ourcode.pdf

Code of Conduct

 http://www.ril.com/DownloadFiles/IRStatutory/Code-of-Conduct.pdf

Values and Behaviours

 http://www.ril.com/DownloadFiles/IRStatutory/VB.pdf

Business Partner Code of Conduct

 https://www.ril.com/DownloadFiles/IRStatutory/RIL-Business-
Partner-Code-of-Conduct-(BPCOC).pdf

mailto:%20investor.relations%40ril.com?subject=
https://www.ril.com/InvestorRelations/FinancialReporting.aspx
http://www.ril.com/Sustainability/HealthSafety.aspx
http://www.ril.com/DownloadFiles/IRStatutory/CSR-Policy.pdf
http://www.ril.com/DownloadFiles/IRStatutory/ourcode.pdf
http://www.ril.com/DownloadFiles/IRStatutory/Code-of-Conduct.pdf
http://www.ril.com/DownloadFiles/IRStatutory/VB.pdf
https://www.ril.com/DownloadFiles/IRStatutory/RIL-Business-Partner-Code-of-Conduct-(BPCOC).pdf
https://www.ril.com/DownloadFiles/IRStatutory/RIL-Business-Partner-Code-of-Conduct-(BPCOC).pdf


Business Responsibility Report

6 7Reliance Industries Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

1.  Coverage of policy relating to ethics, 
bribery and corruption (e.g., joint ventures, 
suppliers, contractors and NGOs, among 
others)

 RIL upholds the highest standards of integrity and 
ethical behaviour. Ethics is one of the five enablers of 
RIL’s strategy which reaffirms our belief that ethical 
performance is a source of our competitive strength. 
Reliance is committed to establishing a culture of 
integrity, transparency, openness and compliance 
– as is visible from our Values and Behaviours, Our 
Code and Code of Conduct.

 Our Code
 Our Code is a public statement that Reliance is 

committed to doing the right thing. It provides the 
guidance and support we need to conduct our business 
ethically and comply with the law. These two things 
are vital to our success. Our Values and Behaviours 
form the foundation of Our Code. Robust control and 
monitoring mechanisms, including policies, procedures 
and systems have been put in place for effective 
implementation. Where the requirements under Our 
Code are more stringent than those under the law, 
employees are encouraged to always follow the more 
stringent of the two, so that both are fully complied with. 
Underlying philosophy driving every activity of ours is ‘do 
the right thing – first time, every time’.

 Code of Conduct
  RIL’s Code of Conduct defines the behaviour expected 

from all the employees and stakeholders and practices 
along with the policies and systems for effective 
implementation. The Company’s Code of Conduct 
ensures that all its employees, suppliers and vendors 
are required to respect human rights of not only 
each other, but also of the communities in which they 
operate. RIL has developed a set of policies, codes, and 
guidelines to govern its directors, senior executives, 
officers, employees (whether permanent, fixed term or 
temporary) and other stakeholders, including suppliers 
and business partners associated with RIL.

  Vigil Mechanism and Whistle-blower Policy
  Employees and other stakeholders are required to 

report actual or suspected violations of applicable 
laws and regulations and the Code of Conduct. RIL 

has established a robust mechanism through a Vigil 
Mechanism and Whistle-blower Policy for reporting 
and handling of such violations – termed as 
‘Reportable Matters’. Under this policy, the employees 
are encouraged to report any such violations 
without fear of retaliation. For easy access, the Vigil 
Mechanism and Whistle-blower Policy is hosted on 
the website of the Company.

 An Ethics and Compliance Task Force (ECTF) 
comprising the Reliance Group’s Executive Director 
(Chairman, ECTF), General Counsel, Group Controller 
and President – Group Corporate Secretarial and 
Governance has been established to oversee and 
monitor implementation of ethical business practices 
within Reliance. All ECTF complaints and incidents are 
reviewed and reported to the Audit Committee on 
quarterly basis. 

 The whistle-blower can make a protected disclosure, 
without being afraid of any reprisal, through an 
e-mail, telephone or through a letter either to 
the ECTF or directly to Chairman of the the Audit 
Committee. 

 Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy
  Being a responsible organisation, Reliance has 

proactively taken measures in combating bribery 
and corruption. As an additional pillar to support 
existing governance mechanism, we have 
established a robust Anti-Bribery Management 
System (ABMS). ABMS is a systematic framework of 
policy and processes set up by Reliance in support 
of existing Governance mechanism with an aim to 
help prevent, detect and respond to bribery risks. To 
benchmark itself against the best in class, Reliance 
has also adopted ISO 37001:2016 standard. 

 Reliance has in place a mandatory e-learning 
course which aims to equip its employees with 
the required understanding and knowledge to 
effectively prevent, identify, and respond to bribery 
risks. Reliance believes that as an industry leader, it 
can contribute to create a stronger, bribery-resistant 
business ecosystem. Towards this end, “Satarkata”, 
an e-learning module, has also been developed for 
Reliance’s vendors. This will help vendors understand 
Reliance’s ABMS better and also create the right levels 
of awareness about Reliance’s expectations of ethical 
conduct of business.

Linkage of Policies of RIL with BR Principles as per National Voluntary Guidelines 
(NVG) on Social, Environmental & Economic Responsibilities

Principle  
No. NVG Principle Reference Document Reference Section

1
Businesses should conduct and 
govern themselves with Ethics, 
Transparency and Accountability

Code of Conduct Section 2, 3, 5 and 7 

Values and Behaviours Customer Value

Our Code Section 3

2
Businesses should provide goods 
and services that are safe and 
contribute to sustainability 
throughout their life cycle

Code of Conduct Section 6

Values and Behaviours Customer Value

Corporate Social Responsibility Policy Section 3

Health, Safety & Environment Policy Please refer page no. 7 for web link

Business Partner Code of Conduct Section 5

3 Businesses should promote the 
well-being of all employees

Code of Conduct Section 3, 4 and 8

Values and Behaviours Excellence Value

4

Businesses should respect the 
interests of, and be responsive 
towards all stakeholders, especially 
those who are disadvantaged, 
vulnerable and marginalised

Code of Conduct Section 5 and 6

Our Code Section 5

Corporate Social Responsibility Policy Section 3 

Health, Safety & Environment Policy Please refer page no. 7 for web link

5 Businesses should respect and 
promote human rights

Our Code Section 5

Business Partner Code of Conduct Section 3 and 4

Code of Conduct Section 6

6
Businesses should respect, protect 
and make efforts to restore 
the environment

Corporate Social Responsibility Policy Section 3

Health, Safety & Environment Policy Please refer page no. 7 for web link

Business Partner Code of Conduct Section 5

7
Businesses, when engaged in 
influencing public and regulatory 
policy, should do so in a 
responsible manner

Code of Conduct Section 5 and 6

8
Businesses should support 
inclusive growth and 
equitable development

Our Code Section 5

Health, Safety & Environment Policy Please refer page no. 7 for web link

Corporate Social Responsibility Policy Section 3

9
Businesses should engage 
with and provide value to their 
customers and consumers in a 
responsible manner

Values and Behaviours Customer Value

Our Code Section 2 & 5

Code of Conduct Section 5 

Business Partner Code of Conduct Section 2 and 3

Principle 1  : Ethics, Transparency and Accountability

Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with ethics, transparency and accountability

Annexure 2

Section E : Principle-wise Performance



Business Responsibility Report

8 9Reliance Industries Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

  Waste Plastic to Oil:
  A catalytic process is being developed that can 

convert plastic waste including multi-layer plastics 
without requiring feed segregation or clean up to 
stable oil. This oil can be processed in refineries or 
petrochemical plants to produce plastics again, 
thus closing the loop. This process gives higher 
yield of very stable oil. Overall circularity is highest 
for the RIL process compared to several competing 
technologies. Technical and economic evaluations 
have been carried out and a modular demo 
package is being developed.

  PBAT (PolyButylene Adipate Terephthalate) -
  Biodegradable Polymers (Bioplastic, Sustainability 

Products and Technology Development): 
Technology developed for novel biodegradable 
plastic blends & composites to replace single 
use plastics in packaging (e.g.net-bags, bag-on-
rolls), mulch film and agricultural applications. The 
developed materials showed excellent properties 
required for flexible as well as rigid packaging. This 
technology is being scaled up to the next level.

  Research and technology at RIL support in creating 
superior value by harnessing internal research and 
development skills and competencies and create 
innovations in emerging technology domains related 
to RIL’s various businesses. Research and technology 
at Reliance focus on (i) New products, processes, 
and catalyst development to support existing 
business and create breakthrough technologies 
for new businesses, (ii) Advanced troubleshooting, 
(iii) Support to capital projects and profit and 
reliability improvement in manufacturing plants.

  Some of the products, which incorporate 
environmental and social concerns in their design, 
are:

1)  Technology developed for emulsified SBR grades to 
reduce carbon footprint

2) Butyl Rubber based self-sealing sealant technology 
developed to reduce waste generation.

3) Recycling method developed for multilayer 
packaging material.

4) Sustainable recycling method developed for waste 
tires.

5) New Energy and New Materials (Hydrogen Economy 
and Carbon Fiber): Developing and assessing 
bouquet of new energy and new materials 
across hydrogen value chain for an integrated 
Green Hydrogen production, storage, supply, and 

consumption for clean transportation and electricity 
generation. Choosing optimal mix of reliable, clean, 
and affordable energy/ materials viz. hydrogen, 
wind, solar, fuel cells, battery, CO2 capture/ utilisation, 
carbon fiber etc. to tackle global challenge of climate 
change and become a net carbon-zero company by 
2035 while meeting the growth aspiration.

6) REL-ORCAT (Reliance Olefins Removal Catalytic 
Technology): Novel catalyst for olefins removal from 
aromatics stream commercially manufactured 
and implemented at aromatics plant Patalganga 
Manufacturing Division (PMD). This will replace the 
environmentally hazardous acid activated clay 
having operational issues viz., shorter cycle life, longer 
replacement period and disposal of huge quantity of 
clay at shorter intervals.

7) Green Hydrogen: Technology development of 
biomass catalytic gasification to produce Green 
Hydrogen and syngas.

8) R-Cat HTL (Reliance Catalytic HydroThermal 
Liquefaction) technology: Development of catalytic 
hydrothermal liquefaction technology for converting 
wet waste to crude Bio-Oil. The technology has 
received several national and international awards 
for its potential to convert waste biomass to oil. Pilot 
plant is currently under operation and running at 
Jamnagar, Gujarat.

9) CO2 capture and utilisation: Projects are being 
evaluated on a techno-economic basis to identify 
the best sustainable solutions for reducing CO2 
emissions from the Jamnagar Manufacturing Division 
(JMD).

10) MCC (Multi-zone Catalytic Cracking) - Reliance 
patented Oil to Chemicals (O2C) Technology: MCC is 
in advanced detailed design stage to implement the 
first demonstration unit to eliminate heavy cuts from 
the refinery to produce high-value chemicals.

11) Super Proteins: Highly nutritious protein products and 
food prototypes demonstrated from algae, grown 
most sustainably using the non-arable least land 
with sunlight, CO2 gases and sea water. This opens 
opportunities to drive next-gen food manufacturing 
businesses in India in a sustainable manner.

12) Algal Feed: In house developed algal feed ingredient 
was found to suitably replace an environmentally 
regressive ingredient in fish meal and poultry feed 
applications.

13) Nanocellulose: Process developed for production 
of high purity nanocellulose from residual stream 
of algal extractions to make advanced materials 

1.  List three products or services whose design 
has incorporated social or environmental 
concerns, risks and/or opportunities

  As a global business leader, RIL’s continuous 
endeavour is to address environmental and social 
concerns which is reflected in its business processes 
and products. Some such products created during  
FY 2021-22 have been listed below:

 R|Elan™ – Fusion technologies
  RIL has leveraged its technical knowhow to develop 

fusion technologies under R|Elan™ that provide 
functional benefits and are made through the 
eco- friendly route. These fusion technologies provide 
functionalities like moisture management (R|Elan™ 
Kooltex), thermal insulation (R|Elan™ AirTherm), all-
weather comfort (R|Elan™ AllClima) and are made 
from 100% post- consumer waste PET bottles (R|Elan™ 
GreenGold).

  These innovative technologies are an ideal 
solution to the consumers. They also bring forward 
the commitment of RIL to introduce innovative 
technologies that enable sustainable products.

  RelWood™ is One Material with Endless 
Possibilities

  “RelWood™, is an eco-friendly and sustainable wood 
substitute from RIL. India’s forest cover is only 21% 
versus ideal requirement of 33%; plus, India is the 
largest importer of wood in the world. So, RelWood™, 
the new value added product from RIL can make 
an impact, as it is 100% no wood (Proprietary blend 
of Natural Silicates, Polymers & Special Additives), it 
helps to sustain forest cover, recyclable, and does not 
release formaldehyde or other hazardous fumes. The 
ability of RelWood™ to match the aesthetics of wood 
with improved qualities such as resistance to termites, 
water, fire and UV, low maintenance, long lasting 
and thermoforming friendly could be the selling 
proposition material to the customers.

  PET based fabric recycling:
  RIL deeply cares for the likely adverse impact of 

continuously growing post-use consumer waste on 
our environment. To address this issue, RIL has been 
at the forefront to promote circular economy in all 
possible ways.

  In an attempt towards fostering the circular economy 
and addressing the environmental burden caused 
due to discarded PET based fabrics, RIL is targeting 
to separate PET from fabric blends and convert it 
back into fibres and eventually into fabric using a 
cost-effective technology. To explore other avenues 
for valorisation, the recovered PET fibres from fabrics 
are being used as reinforcement fillers in concrete 
composites to improve the compression strength. 
This will not only ensure recycling of PET but also 
reduce the amount of concrete in the mix; thereby 
contributing to sustainable production and reducing 
climate impact due to the highly polluting concrete 
making process.

  Having pioneered the recycling of post-consumer 
PET bottles, we have been exploring new viable 
processes to recycle PET based fabrics and its blends 
to reproduce raw Polyesters to be further utilised for 
producing new fabrics and garments.

  Replacement of hazardous Hydrofluoric 
Acid (HF) by green ionic liquid catalyst:

  For manufacturing of Linear Alkyl Benzenes (LAB), 
Reliance R&D has developed an Ionic Liquid (IL)-
based technology to replace the Hydrofluoric Acid 
(HF) catalyst which is potentially hazardous. This 
process significantly reduces the risk of health and 
environmental hazards of operation. Thorough demo 
scale studies are under progress to further fine-
tune the operating parameters and low-cost fast 
track demonstration of IL-LAB technology using idle 
Vadodara Manufacturing Division (VMD) LAB unit is 
under consideration.

2.  Stakeholder complaints received in the past financial year and percentage of complaints 
satisfactorily resolved by the management

  RIL received 1,040 complaints from its shareholders till March 31, 2022, which were promptly resolved. No complaint was 
outstanding, as on March 31, 2022

 RIL’s Code of Conduct provides a structured mechanism for all its stakeholders to freely share their concerns and 
grievances with the Company through a structured mechanism.

Principle 1  : Contd. Principle 2  : Contd.

Principle 2  : Product Life Cycle Sustainability

Businesses should provide safe goods and services that contribute to sustainability throughout their life cycle



Business Responsibility Report

10 11Reliance Industries Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

replacing extensive processes and opening windows 
of opportunities in personal care and medical 
application.

14) BAGI (Reliance Bio-Available Vegan Iron): R-BAGI 
protein molecule has been recently shown to be 
safe for consumption and demonstrated its efficacy 
to cure anemia and protein deficiency. Probiotic 
bacterial strain development for combating iron 
deficiencies in human are in Proof of Concept (POC) 
demonstration state.

15) Spider silk protein: Spider silk protein is an emerging 
biopolymer product, capable of replacing chemical 
alternates in personal care products industry. Several 
national and international collaboration are going on 
for developing application of recombinant spider-silk 
for skin and hair care application.

16) CRISPR RNP (Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short 
Palindromic Repeats RiboNucleoProtein): RIL’s 
research article published on CRISPR RNP based gene 
silencing system in algae has received attention and 
accolades from several scientific bodies of the world. 
Scientists working in the CRISPR technology at RIL 
are serving as an expert resource in several national 
trainings and orientation workshops for developing 
talent pool in India.

17) AI (Artificial Intelligence) in Biology: R&D synthetic 
Biology has developed an interesting AI based tool 
‘Digital Tongue’ which not only can predict the taste 
of food but also can help potentially customise and 
enhance the taste of food.

18) AI (Artificial Intelligence) in Agriculture: RIL AI based 
algorithm for large scale image analysis has been 
successfully tested to be applied in driving next-gen 
technologies for digital agriculture, product quality 
assessment and developing strategies for improving 
biomass productivity.

19) COVID-19 Test: RIL scientists, skilled in molecular 
techniques & diagnostics, scale up COVID-19  
sample testing.

20) COVID-19 Kit: Scientists from biology- R&D developed 
novel cost-effective COVID-19 diagnostic kits called 
R-Green and R-Green pro. Both the kits received ICMR 
approval and showed more than 98% specificity 
and accuracy during validation at ICMR laboratory 
studies.

21) R&D is also actively disseminating relevant technical 
wisdom and has published more than a dozen 
research articles on management and detection of  
COVID-19. Article on the role of Astaxanthin in 
COVID-19 management published in SSRN is 

recognised among top 100 research papers and 
listed in WHO’s Global repository. Research article on 
CRISPR-based assays for rapid detection of SARS-
CoV-2 has received attention from several scientific 
bodies of the world.

22) In House FCC (Fluid Catalytic Cracking) catalyst 
additive developed and commercialised: R&D has 
developed an in-house inexpensive selective catalyst 
for FCCU, to improve conversion and propylene yield. 
This catalyst is scaled-up and performance is being 
demonstrated at pilot plant scale. This catalyst will be 
toll manufactured for commercial trials in Reliance’s 
FCC units. The toll manufactured catalyst has 
completed the plant trial and performance is as per 
prediction.

23) Effluent treatment using Hydrodynamic Cavitation: 
A simple and cost-effective process has been 
developed for treatment of Merox spent caustic 
effluent which operates at ambient condition as 
compared to present wet air oxidation process (WAO) 
which usually operates at high pressure and high 
temperature conditions. The demonstration of the 
developed process at commercial scale is under 
progress.

24) Application of IR4 Technologies in R&D: Adopting 
advanced digital and computational aided discovery 
and research capabilities in Data Science & Analytics 
utilising AI-ML (Artificial Intelligence- Machine 
Learning) intricate models & tools deployed on  
state-of-the-art cloud computing infrastructure for 
internal & external stakeholders.

a.  Team ensured continuous availability of all 
operational computational systems and 
applications critical to ensure WFH productivity.

b.  External PoC ongoing for Deconvolution tool that 
uses GPC (Gel Permeation Chromatography) 
data for polymer molecular weight distribution.

c.  Developed and deployed CNN (Convolutional 
Neural Networks) based microscopic image 
analysis for monitoring algal pond health.

d.  Developed an NLP (Natural Language Processing) 
based, knowledge modeling system for speeding 
up R&D process.

e.  Optimum utilisation of computational infra, 
software licences and cyber security compliance 
was achieved.

25) Digital Transformation in R&D: Developed in-house 
‘Integrated IP Financial System’ for management of 

IP operations. The web-based system can be used to 
estimate IP budgets using a cost model, track budget 
vs expenditure, update and log all expenses in a 
database, manage IP portfolio and is also integrated 
with the IP Analytics dashboard.

26) R&D Advanced Analytical Sciences (AAS) fine-tuned 
hyaluronic acid hydrogel formulations and process 
parameters using rheological characterisation.

27) HIIR (Halobutyl-Rubber): The NMR analytical method 
has been developed to determine the microstructure 
of HIIR and provided detailed quantification of 
organic halogens for the RIL-Sibur JV plant to meet 
customer requirements.

2.  Procedures in place for sustainable sourcing 
(including transportation) and percentage of 
inputs sourced sustainably

  Reliance conducts sustainability due diligence/ audit 
of the suppliers and service providers. A rigorous 
screening process is undertaken by Reliance for 
registration and assessment of all suppliers during 
both pre-award and post-award stages. The 
Supplier’s Code of Conduct, developed by Reliance, 
forms the basis of the Company’s relationship with its 
suppliers. Reliance’s belief in its suppliers to comply 
with labour and human rights, health and safety, 
environmental protection, ethical conduct, business 
integrity and confidentiality laws and standards is 
reflected in its Supplier Code of Conduct. Reliance’s 
sustainable sourcing emphasises on five strategic 
areas that are intended towards social progress, 
economic development and reduced environmental 
impact. The five strategic areas are: 

  Energy Management, Environment Responsibility, 
Product Stewardship, Occupational Health and 
Safety, and Social Institution Building. 

  RIL’s sustainable sourcing ethos focuses on eight key 
parameters:

• Green packaging 
• Environment protection 
• Regeneration/Safe disposal 
• Contract worker care 
• Community support 
• Supplier collaboration 
• Make in India and development of India’s 

engineering talent 
• Digital enabling interaction with Suppliers 

 Reliance has adopted RC-14001, an international 
environmental management system to effectively 
manage its activities like manufacturing, distribution, 
and the use of chemicals in the products. For 
improving human health impacts and the protection 

of environment, the Company has sourced 
REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and 
Restriction of Chemicals) compliant materials, and 
its requirements include that its Tier 1 suppliers also 
procure REACH-compliant materials. 

 Reliance also reaffirms its commitment towards 
developing a vibrant Micro, Small and Medium 
Enterprise (MSME) supplier base by reaching out 
proactively to its suppliers to update their entity 
status with MSME registration / UAN details in order to 
ensure compliance with the MSMED Act.

3.  Steps taken to procure goods and services 
from local and small producers, including 
communities and capability-building 
initiatives undertaken for local and 
small vendors

 Reliance has procured goods and services worth 
over `23,800 crore from resident suppliers. The 
Company’s continuous investments in mega projects 
and operations have led to the establishment of 
India’s chemical and engineering supplier base. 
Presently, leading Indian engineering, raw material 
and industrial goods companies are Reliance’s 
long-term partners. Reliance collaborates with a few 
strategic suppliers on product development. Further, 
the majority of Reliance’s suppliers and contractors 
are India-based. Reliance supports and encourages 
its suppliers to indigenise, to expand their capabilities 
and increase their economic value. 

 The Company ensures that it engages with local 
villagers and small businesses around its plants 
through productive employment, such as vehicle 
hiring, material handling, housekeeping, waste-
handling and horticulture contracts, thus expanding 
its direct and indirect economic impact.

 The Company continued to reach out to the local 
communities with continuous service throughout the 
challenges of COVID-19 pandemic and beyond. 

4.  Mechanism to recycle products and waste 
and the percentage of recycling of products 
and waste (separately as <5%, 5-10%, >10%)

 RIL’s environment policy outlines the importance 
of the 3R (Reduce, Reuse, Recycle) principle. The 
Company promotes recycling and the use of 
alternative materials. The concerted efforts in 
optimising resource efficiency have helped in 
minimising waste and reducing water footprint.

 RIL remains one of the largest recyclers of the 
postconsumer PET waste through its brand products 

Principle 2  : Contd. Principle 2  : Contd.



Business Responsibility Report

12 13Reliance Industries Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

such as R|Elan™ and Recron® Certified. During  
FY 2021-22, RIL continued to recycle over 2 billion 
waste PET bottles, converting them to products 
like Recron® GreenGold. RIL has collaborated with 
Srichakra Ecotex India Pvt Ltd. which will set up a 
recycled polyester fibre facility (rPSF) exclusively for 
RIL. This toll manufacturing arrangement will more 
than double the PET bottle recycling capacity of RIL to 
5 billion PET bottles.

 RIL has developed and launched a new product 
ReRoute™ that uses difficult-to-recycle flexible plastic 
waste or end-of-life plastics to construct roads. 
The product has been tested and approved by the 
Central Road Research Institute (CRRI).

 RIL is developing circular polyolefin (Polypropylene 
and Polyethylene) products called EcoRepol™ and 
EcoRelene™ with its partners. These products offer 
sustainable packaging solutions for non-food and 
non-pharma applications. RIL’s aim is to provide 
waste plastics a new life through mechanical 
recycling instead of the waste ending up in landfill or 
incineration.

1. Total number of employees
 The total number of employees is 22,642 as on  

March 31, 2022.

2.  Number of permanent female employees 
 The total number of permanent women employees is 

1,303 as on March 31, 2022

3.  Number of permanent employees with 
disabilities

 The total number of permanent employees with 
disabilities is 45 as on March 31, 2022

4.  Employee associations recognised by the 
management

 RIL respects the rights of its employees to freedom of 
association and union representation. The Company 
has various employee unions and associations 
at various sites, which encourage the employees 
to participate freely in constructive dialogue with 
the management.

1.  Mapping of internal and external 
stakeholders

 The Company believes that stakeholder 
engagement is the greatest source of input for its 
development activities and it also broadens the 
horizon for improving the Company’s sustainability 
performance. In order to achieve this, Reliance 
engages with its stakeholders on a regular basis 
with the goal of seeking constructive feedback and 
systematic identification and resolution of their 
concerns.

 Reliance has developed a series of processes for 
communicating and engaging with its various 
stakeholder groups at various levels, as well as 
putting in place necessary measures to meet their 
requirements and expectations. Through these 
interactions, the Company strives for economic and 
ecological sustainability, and pre-empt and manage 
future uncertainties.

 The mapping of internal and external stakeholders 
is an outcome of the analysis of issues that have the 
potential to impact the Company’s activities and are 
of critical importance to the Company’s stakeholders.

 Post interaction with stakeholders, RIL has identified 
eight stakeholder groups.

Principle 2  : Contd.

 Apart from mechanical recycling, RIL is also working 
towards chemical recycling of hard-to-recycle end-
of-life waste plastic. RIL has successfully developed 
a continuous catalytic pyrolysis technology at pilot 
scale, which can convert unsegregated mixed 
waste plastics including single use plastic and 
multi- layered plastic (MLP) into Pyrolysis Oil. This 
Pyrolysis oil can be used as feedstock to refinery/
cracker to produce final output as circular polymers. 
The commercial model plant commissioning is under 
progress and expected to be completed in 2022.

 Moving towards a circular economy and addressing 
the environmental burden caused due to discarded 
PET-based fabrics, RIL is targeting to separate PET 
from fabric blends and convert it into fibres and 
eventually into fabric. RIL is also developing an 
in-house technology to convert waste recyclable 
polyester material into valuable chemicals.

Principle 3  : Employee Well-being 

Businesses should promote the well-being of all employees

Principle 4  : Stakeholder Engagement

Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive towards all stakeholders, especially those who are 
disadvantaged, vulnerable or marginalised

5.  Percentage of permanent employees that 
are members of recognised employee 
associations

 Nearly 100% of non-supervisory permanent 
employees at manufacturing locations are members 
of trade unions/employee associations.

6.  Number of complaints relating to child 
labour, forced labour, involuntary labour, 
sexual harassment in the last financial year 
and pending, as on the end of the financial 
year

 No cases of child labour, forced labour, involuntary 
labour, sexual harassment and discriminatory 
employment have been reported till March 31, 
2022. RIL has internal complaints committees at all 
operational locations where employees can register 
their complaints against sexual harassment. This is 
supported by the Company's Anti-Sexual Harassment 
Policy which ensures a free and fair enquiry process 
with clear timelines for resolution.

7.  Percentage of under mentioned employees 
that were given safety and skill upgradation 
training in the previous year
• Permanent employees
• Permanent women employees
• Casual/temporary/contractual employees
• Employees with disabilities

S. 
No.

Category of  
Employees % Coverage Learning Hours 

Consumed

1 Permanent employees 95.9% 7,65,273 hours

2 Permanent 
women employees 91.1% 63,000 hours

3 Casual/temporary/
contractual employees 100% 2,35,084 hours

4 Employees with disability 43.1% 203.23 hours

  Health, safety, and skill upgradation of employees are 
of significant importance to RIL, and to create a safe 
workplace, emphasis is given on training programs to 
cater to these specific development needs. During FY 
2021-22, RIL imparted 7.65 lakh man-hours of training 
to its workforce. 100% RIL’s contractual employees 
receive mandatory safety training before entering the 
Company’s premises and also acquire on-the-job 
training through the contractor and the Company.

  At RIL, 95.9 % of its permanent workforce received 
safety and skill upgradation trainings. 91.1% of women 
employees received trainings through classroom and 
web-based training programs. Out of 45 permanent 
employees with disabilities, 43% received safety and 
skill upgradation trainings. RIL ensures 100% employee 
participation in safety and mock fire drills.

Principle 3  : Contd.

Stakeholder category Corresponding mode(s)  
of engagement

Customers Meetings, surveys, and web portals
Local communities Meetings, newsletters, surveys, field 

work and trainings, digital services / 
virtual engagement

Employees Personal/group interactions, mailers, 
trainings, employee satisfactions 
survey, townhalls

Suppliers Meetings and Annual Report
Trade unions Visits and camps
NGOs Meetings and correspondence
Investors 
and shareholders

Meetings, conferences, investor 
calls, investor roadshows, 
and correspondence

Government and 
regulatory authorities

Industry representations, filings, 
correspondence, meetings

2.  Identification of the disadvantaged, 
vulnerable and marginalised stakeholders

 RIL is committed towards improving the lives of India's 
most marginalised and vulnerable communities for 
a stronger and inclusive India. Communities are a 
part of the stakeholder engagement process and 
project design. Methodologies such as desk research 
for situational analysis, Participatory Rural Appraisals, 
need assessment, Focused Group Discussions 
are taken up. These help establish connect with 
local NGOs, community-based organisations 
and communities for identification of potential 



Business Responsibility Report

14 15Reliance Industries Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

marginalised and vulnerable groups within the 
community, understand the hardships faced by them 
and their urgent needs. 

3.  Special initiatives taken by the Company to 
engage with the disadvantaged, vulnerable 
and marginalised stakeholders

 RIL engages with the disadvantaged, vulnerable 
and marginal communities as part of its CSR 
initiatives. RIL works towards inclusive development 
to address societal issues and engage with 
disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalised 
stakeholders. At RIL, there are certain criteria for 
selecting a social development project. It engages 
with the communities to understand their priorities 
and empower them through trainings, awareness 
generation and capacity building efforts. It adopts 
a consultative and participative approach, investing 
in people capacities to plan, manage and govern 
their own projects in key areas impacting rural 
communities such as small farmers / fishermen and 
livestock owners.

 As a process, it conducts need assessment in the 
intervention area, involving local communities to 

understand their urgent needs in the areas including 
agriculture, livestock, health, education and access 
to information. The Company extends its support 
beyond the business activities to meet their most 
important needs. Also, in each of its implementation 
processes, Reliance involves community members 
in planning and delivery of the CSR initiatives. Several 
need-based training programs are conducted to 
enhance the skills and knowledge of the communities 
to enable them to improve their livelihoods as well as 
drive the village development process. Empowering 
local institutions such as Self-help Groups, Farmer 
Producer Organisations, Common Interest Groups 
through mentoring and capacity building support 
have instilled a sense of ownership among 
communities while also making the development 
efforts sustainable.

 These range from strengthening local institutions to 
building skills of community members, facilitating 
education and employment for youth besides 
empowering women’s group as well as transferring 
technology and providing expert guidance for 
managing resources including water, soil, crops and 
livestock.

1.  Coverage of the Company’s policy on human 
rights to the Company and its extension 
to the Group/joint ventures/suppliers/
contractors/NGOs/others

 The Company’s Code of Conduct reiterates its 
commitment to human rights. While respecting the 
dignity of people, the Company plays a role in the 
elimination of human right abuses such as child 
labour, forced labour and human trafficking. Reliance 
also recognises the ‘corporate responsibility to 
respect human rights’, as outlined in the framework 
of United Nations Guiding Principles on Business 
and Human Rights (UNGP). RIL's Code of Conduct 
safeguards the protection of human rights across 
its entire value chain. It firmly upholds ethics and 
respect for human rights, thereby ensuring the 
sustainability of its operations.

 The Supplier Code of Conduct implemented 
by Reliance, forms the basis of the Company’s 
relationship with its suppliers. Reliance’s belief in 
its suppliers to attain and adhere to fundamental 

1.  Coverage of the policy related to Principle 
6 and its extension to the Group/joint 
ventures/suppliers/contractors/NGOs/others

 Reliance’s Environment Policy reaffirms the 
Company’s commitments towards environment and 
society and addresses relevant issues applicable 
to all its employees, contractors, suppliers and 
customers. The policy lays stress on compliance to 
all regulatory requirements as laid down in various 
regulations, approvals, amendments and internal 
standards. Reliance’s new innovative projects related 
to clean technology and energy conservation 
showcase its commitment towards abating 
environmental impact.

2.  The Company’s strategies/initiatives to 
address global environmental issues, such as 
climate change, global warming and more

 Based on the Company’s vision of clean and green 
development, RIL has set itself a target to become Net 
Carbon Zero by 2035. The key elements of the carbon 
reduction strategy include:

• Energy transition towards renewable and green 
energy from fossil based fuels.

• Improving energy efficiency.
• Transition from transportation fuels to chemical 

building blocks integrated with sustainable 
downstream derivatives.

• Maximising use of biofuels and using bio-pathways 
to fix CO2 and facilitate conversion to renewable 
fuels and materials.

• Scaling up recycling of materials and maximising 
circularity across the value chains.

• Achieving CO2 capture, storage and conversion 
to useful chemicals and materials at competitive 
costs.

 RIL also became one of the early companies to 
commit to World Economic Forum International 
Business Council metrics on sustainability reporting.

The Company’s participation in Perform 
Achieve and Trade (PAT) programme
Seven manufacturing locations of RIL have been given 
specific energy consumption targets under Perform, 
Achieve and Trade (PAT) scheme by the Government of 
India. These include DTA and SEZ refineries at Jamnagar 
and petrochemical units at Dahej, Nagothane, Hazira and 
Vadodara, and textile unit at Naroda.

Chlor-Alkali unit at Dahej and both refineries at Jamnagar, 
i.e., DTA and SEZ, have completed PAT Cycle 2 (2016-2019) 
successfully. Chlor-Alkali and RIL-DTA were issued with 
3,429 nos. and 26,036 nos. of EScerts respectively. RIL-SEZ 

Principle 4  : Contd.

Principle 5  : Human Rights

Businesses should respect and protect human rights

Principle 6  : Environmental Management

Businesses should respect, protect and make efforts to restore the environment

values, comply with labour and human rights, 
health and safety, environmental protection, ethical 
conduct, business integrity and confidentiality laws 
and standards is reflected in its Supplier Code of 
Conduct. Accordingly, a rigorous screening process is 
undertaken by Reliance for registration and periodic 
assessment of all suppliers. The Company has a 
specific cadence of engagement with suppliers 
during both pre-award and post-award stages and 
uses a well-defined set of assessment criteria to 
drive high performance from its suppliers. This year, 
Reliance has strengthened its commitment towards 
the Supplier Code of Conduct (Code) by seeking 
explicit acceptance from all its suppliers towards 
this Code.

2.  Stakeholder complaints received in the past 
financial year and percentage of complaints 
satisfactorily resolved by the management

 During the reporting period, there were no cases of 
child labour, forced labour, involuntary labour, sexual 
harassment and discriminatory employment.

also achieved its target. However, it did not qualify for 
issuance of any ESCerts. 

A new cycle, PAT Cycle VI (2020-21 to 2022-23) has started 
for the refineries. Based on the study conducted by 
the Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE) in December 2019, 
designated consumers in Chlor-Alkali sector that includes 
Chlor-Alkali plant at Dahej, have been issued with new 
energy saving target under PAT Cycle VII (2022-23 to 
2024-25).

In view of pandemic related issues, the time period for PAT 
Cycle IV has been extended by BEE to include  
FY 2021-22. RIL is currently working with the BEE and Ministry 
of Power for closure of this cycle that covers the cracker 
based petrochemical sites Hazira, Vadodara, Dahej and 
Nagothane.

3.  Identification and assessment of potential 
environmental risk

 Potential environmental risks and opportunities are 
identified by RIL from all its operations through EMS. 
Necessary operational controls are established for 
control and mitigation of these risks.

4.  The Company’s initiatives towards Clean 
Development Mechanism (CDM)

 RIL has registered eight CDM projects with the United 
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change 
(UNFCCC). These projects are related to energy 
efficiency, use of renewable energy and cleaner 
fuels. The Company has built in-house capacity to 
develop CDM projects and obtain the registration and 
issuance of the same in the form of Certified Emission 
Reductions (CERs) from the UNFCCC.

5.  The Company’s initiatives on – clean 
technology, energy efficiency and renewable 
energy, among others

 Clean Technology
• Change in technology from vapour phase reaction 

to Liquid Phase Isomerisation (LPI) process in Parex 
train-2 resulted in fuel gas and High Pressure (HP) 
steam saving.

• Advanced process controls implemented at JMD, 
DMD, PMD, VMD etc. for optimising operations, 
effectively resulting in energy savings 

• Blending of biomass with coal is being explored 
for firing in process heaters in Patalganga 
Manufacturing Division.

• Direct blending of CNHT (Coker Naphtha Hydro 
Treater) treated naphtha to ULSD (Ultra Low  
Sulphur Diesel) header, avoiding energy  
consumed in reprocessing.



Business Responsibility Report

16 17Reliance Industries Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

 Energy Efficiency
 RIL continues to work on energy efficiency of 

equipment and processes by undertaking a variety 
of initiatives in the field of waste heat recovery, 
cogeneration, process optimisation and technology 
upgradation. 

• Low pressure flash steam recovery from Medium 
Pressure condensate in Alkylation unit.

• Recovery of hydrocarbon from High Pressure Flare 
using FGRS-2 (Flare Gas Recovery System).

• Routing of MGB (Mercaptan Guard Bed) Nitrogen 
to LLP flare instead of Main flare to reduce dilution, 
thereby freeing up capacity of FGRS compressor 
resulting in higher recovery of hydrocarbon going 
to main flare.

• Recovery of waste heat in LLDPE (Linear Low Density 
Polyethylene) Plant in C2 Complex to replace 20 TPH 
Low Pressure steam from Captive Power Plant.

• Satgas de-ethaniser overhead re-routed to fuel 
gas resulting in reduction of flared hydrocarbon 
during start-up of ROGC (Refinery Off Gas Cracker) 
plant.

• Insulation of Unsat Gas Cooler pipeline to reduce 
heat ingress.

• Advanced Process Control (APC) implementation 
in ASU resulting in 10.5TPH of High Pressure steam 
reduction.

• Replacement of cooling tower fans in CP-10, CP-12 
and PTA-1 plants with energy efficient fans.

 Renewable Energy
• Generated 5101.8 MWh power from 3.56 MW 

solar power generation project at Silvassa 
Manufacturing Division 

• Biomass firing has been 2 ,166.92 TJ that constitutes 
3.19% of total solid fuel fired in HMD and DMD 
combined. 

• Import of rice husk based process steam 
equivalent to 327 TJ at Hoshiarpur Manufacturing 
Division. 

6.  Reporting on the emissions/waste generated 
by the Company as per the permissible limits 
given by CPCB/SPCB

 RIL’s operating units are in compliance with all the 
environmental regulations and various statutory 
approvals/permits granted by the authorities. The 
Company’s environment management plans include 
monitoring, trending and analysing GHG and other air 
emissions. All operating units are ISO-14001 compliant 
and have robust and matured systems in place to 
monitor environmental footprints. The continuous 
emission and effluent monitoring systems (CEMS) for 
emissions and effluents, installed at the refinery and 
petrochemical units transmit real-time data to the 
authorities. The Company submits environmental 
monitoring and compliance related reports to the 
statutory authorities as prescribed. 

7.  Number of show cause/legal notices received 
from CPCB/SPCB, which are pending (i.e. not 
resolved to satisfaction) as on the end of the 
financial year

 There were no pending show cause/legal notices 
from CPCB/SPCB at the end of FY 2021-22.

• UPVC Window & Door Manufacturers Association 
• World Plastics Council 
• Alliance to End Plastic Waste 
• European Chemical Industry Council 
• The Catalyst Group Resources Inc. 
• Gasification and Syngas Technologies Council 
• Dutch Polymer Institute 
• Biotech Consortium 
• Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and 

Industry 
• Confederation of Indian Industry
• Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry 

of India
• Federation of Indian Exporters Organisation
• PET Container Manufacturing Association
• PET Packaging Association 
• Indian Beverage Association 
• European Petrochemical Association 
• International Institute of Synthetic Rubber 

Producers 
• Cotton Association of India
• Indian Home and Personal Care Industry 

Association

2.  Advocated/lobbied through above 
associations for the advancement or 
improvement of public good

 As a responsible producer of petrochemicals, RIL has 
been collaborating with the Indian Centre for Plastic 

in the Environment (ICPE) over the past few years on 
a voluntary basis. It provides technical and financial 
support to develop newer technologies for plastic 
waste management, establishment of pilot projects 
for plastic waste management in cooperation with 
the municipal authorities and the civil society. RIL 
also supports ICPE communication awareness and 
educational initiatives through the ‘Fight Pollution, 
Not Plastics’ (FPNP) campaign, school awareness 
engagement campaigns and an All-India Students 
Creative Competition to generate unique solutions 
that could potentially help reduce pollution.

 RIL has collaborated with some of the top universities 
and research institutions in the US on a project known 
as Producing Algae & Coproducts for Energy (PACE) 
to develop and demonstrate algae and produce 
energy and co-products.

 RIL is the founding member and one of the few 
Indian companies to participate in the global 
effort to eliminate plastic waste in the environment 
through the Alliance to End Plastic Waste (AEPW). RIL 
has supported AEPW in various areas by becoming 
part of Thematic Expert Groups (such as Engaging 
with Cities, Advanced Recovery Recycling etc.), 
Communications Task Group, and View Point Task 
Group. RIL is also the Co-chair for South Asia Regional 
Task Group.

Principle 6  : Contd.

Principle 7  : Policy Advocacy

Businesses, when engaged in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a responsible manner

Principle 7  : Contd.

1.  Representation in any trade and chamber/
association
• Association of Oil and Gas Operators in India 

(AOGO) 
• Federation of Indian Petroleum Industry (FIPI) 
• Alkali Manufacturers Association of India 
• American Chemistry Council 
• Asia Pacific Vinyl Network 
• Association of Synthetic Fibre Industry 

• Centre for Lab Environmental & Technical Studies 
for Asia 

• Chemicals and Petrochemicals Manufacturers’ 
Association 

• Gulf Petrochemicals and Chemicals Association 
• Indian Vinyl Council 
• International Rubber Study Group 
• International Textile Manufacturers Federation 
• Organisation of Plastic Processors of India 

Principle 8  : Inclusive Growth

Businesses should support inclusive growth and equitable development

1.  Specified programmes/initiatives/projects by 
the Company in pursuit of the policy related 
to Principle 8

 RIL’s CSR policy demonstrates its commitment 
towards building a stronger and inclusive India by 
enabling lives and livelihoods through social and 
economic development initiatives. The Company’s 
CSR initiatives are in concurrence with The 
Companies Act, 2013 and are aligned with the United 
Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as 
delineated in the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development and India’s National Developmental 
Goals. RIL’s community development initiative focuses 
on Rural Transformation, Healthcare, Education, 
Sports for Development, Disaster Response, Art and 
Culture, and Urban Renewal.

 During FY 2021-22, the Company’s social initiatives 
were focused towards achieving the following 
objectives:

• Helping vulnerable communities cope with the 
health and humanitarian crisis posed by the  
COVID-19 pandemic through comprehensive, 
multi-pronged prevention and mitigation strategies

•  Ensuring the well-being of rural communities by 
strengthening local governance and promoting 
interventions for sustaining the rural ecosystem

•  Building capabilities of the youth for employment 
generation

• Empowering women by building their leadership 
and entrepreneurial skills while providing them 
increased access to economic opportunities

• Creating access to healthcare by operating static 
and Mobile Medical Units and health camps in the 
vicinity of business sites

•  Conserving the environment by undertaking large-
scale tree plantation activities 

• Promoting primary, secondary and tertiary 
education through RF Schools and Jio Institute 



Business Responsibility Report

18 19Reliance Industries Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

besides providing support to schools run by state 
governments and municipal bodies towards 
improving learning experience of students

• Promoting sports as a medium to encourage 
learning and build leadership among children and 
youth of India offering a free platform to budding 
athletes across the country, to develop their talent 
and prowess in multiple sports

2.  Modes through which programmes/projects 
undertaken (through in-house team/own 
foundation/external NGO/government 
structures/any other organisation)

 The Company follows multiple models for 
implementing its CSR initiatives. For all operational 
sites, the company has dedicated in-house teams 
that work closely with representatives of local 
communities to understand and address their 
expectations, concerns and needs and develop 
locally useful innovative solutions and programmes 
in partnership with the other experts within the RIL 
Group.

 The Company has also set up Reliance Foundation 
which implements CSR initiatives in a more 
programmatic manner through comprehensive 
multi-thematic programmes. These initiatives 
have a huge coverage, both in terms of scale, as 
well as impact, implementing programmes at 
both operational sites and other identified areas 
– both rural and urban - across India. The focus is 
on strengthening the society’s marginalised and 
underprivileged sections.

 In addition, the Company also collaborates with 
like-minded partners (both government and non-
government) in order to gain from the technical and 
thematic expertise of the network of such agencies, 
so as to meet the local needs of the underprivileged 
sections more effectively. 

3. Impact assessment initiatives
 The CSR initiatives of RIL are governed by a Monitoring 

& Evaluation (M&E) framework developed in order to 
measure the outcome and impact of initiatives by 
measuring change in the lives of the target groups. 
It employs both internal and external mechanisms 
to monitor its social projects, including third-party 
assessments. This framework includes the following 
tools and steps: 

• Community need assessment (to help in design of 
the intervention package)

• Baseline survey (to set up the pre-intervention 
level of key indicators of development in the target 
group)

• Routine programme monitoring through MIS
• Mid-line and End-line Evaluations that measure the 

change observed in the area and examine whether 
it is attributable to the intervention

 The inputs from these studies are used for making 
informed decisions and course corrections, based on 
the extent of outcomes and impacts. The progress on 
the Company’s CSR initiatives is periodically reviewed 
by the CSR&G Committee and the Company’s Board 
of Directors. RIL continuously enhances its existing 
systems and processes to capture the impact 
(social/ economic and development) in various ways. 
During 2021-22, eight important third party impact 
assessment studies were carried out to determine 
and validate the relevance, effectiveness, efficiency 
and sustainability of the interventions in areas of 
rural transformation, sports for development and 
skilling & employment. These have built in a strong 
mechanism of assessment to ensure that the social 
initiatives achieve their purpose and positively 
impact communities.

4.  Company’s direct contribution to community 
development projects

 As on March 31, 2022, RIL spent ` 813 crore on 
community development projects. 

5.  Steps undertaken to ensure that community 
development initiatives are successfully 
adopted by the community

 Community collaboration and participation are 
part of RIL’s CSR initiatives at all stages. Extensive 
engagement with the community from planning 
to implementation not only helps in identifying 
needs of the stakeholders but also leads to greater 
sense of ownership among people. It also facilitates 
better capacities by the transfer of skills to plan and 
manage the programme, thus ensuring continued 
support for the initiative and adoption of good 
practices even after the exit of Reliance from the 
intervention area. This is done by organising multiple 
training programmes. These training programmes 

also help create a pool of young, local leaders 
who are confident and passionate about taking 
the development process forward. The community 
participation is formalised by creating and 
mentoring rural institutions and community-based 
organisations.

 Multiple interactions are held with communities 
through village meetings, meetings with local 
administration and officials from various line 
departments to support linkages and access to 
entitlements along with understanding the key gaps 
that RIL could invest in and address. The Company 

supports community healthcare initiatives, health 
outreach and provides quality healthcare facilities. 
RIL also encourages regular feedback from the 
communities to continuously improve services in 
locations. With regard to initiatives such as water 
restoration, traditional models as well as expert 
know-how are integrated in tandem, with community 
knowledge, ownership, participation and contribution 
to ensure their maintenance and sustainability. 
This has resulted in significant advantage for the 
community in continued sustenance of social 
initiatives.

Principle 8  : Contd.Principle 8  : Contd.

Principle 9  : Value for Customers

Businesses should engage with and provide value to their customers and consumers responsibly

1.  Percentage of customer complaints/
consumer cases pending as on the end of the 
financial year

 As on March 31, 2022, 1,191 customer complaints were 
received of which 1,125 were successfully resolved. 
Subsequently, most of the remaining complaints 
have been resolved.

2.  Product information and product labelling
 RIL continued its efforts for reducing the 

environmental, health and safety impacts of its 
products throughout their lifecycle. RIL adheres to all 
the compliance of product information and product 
labelling. The Company’s marketing communication 
efforts adhere to the brand standards/guidelines 
about visual manifestation, brand promise, relevance 
and salience of the target group. RIL adheres to all 
legal statutes with respect to product labelling and 
display of product information. The Company follows 
the Globally Harmonised System for classification 
of chemicals and preparation of material safety 
data sheets. Besides, RIL shares information with its 
customers on safe handling and use of products at 
the time of distribution. 

3.  Case filed by any stakeholder against the 
Company regarding unfair trade practices, 
irresponsible advertising and/or anti-
competitive behaviour during the last five 
years and pending as on the end of the 
financial year

 NIL, as of March 31, 2022.

4.  Consumer survey/consumer satisfaction 
trends carried out by the Company

 Understanding the needs of the customers is 
of paramount importance to RIL. The Company 
follows several modes of customer engagement to 
understand customer needs and is always vigilant 
towards providing superior customer experience.

 RIL’s customer engagement activities include 
customer audits, customer surveys, call centres, 
direct feedback taken by visiting managers/ plant 
personnel and factory visits organised for customers. 
These modes support RIL to understand customer 
requirements, satisfaction levels and behaviour. The 
Company also conducts one-to-one meetings with 
customers to enable efficient communication and 
resolve specific needs. In addition, RIL also conducts 
web-based customer satisfaction surveys.

 RIL has also conducted third-party mystery 
 customer audits, customer satisfaction surveys 
and call centre evaluation studies for this purpose. 
This has helped the Company to ensure periodical 
fulfilment of service delivery promise, conformance 
to internal norms and standards, identification 
of process improvement areas and understand 
customer attitude and behaviour change to 
ascertain those needs are met at all stages.



Business Responsibility Report

20 21Reliance Industries Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Linkage of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals adopted at the United Nations 
Sustainable Development summit with Business Responsibility Report, 
Management Discussion and Analysis and Corporate Social Responsibility

Business Responsibility Report

3  Employee Well-being

4  Stakeholder Engagement

8   Inclusive Growth

End poverty in all its 
forms everywhere

2   Product Life Cycle Sustainability

6  Environmental Management

7  Policy Advocacy

8  Inclusive Growth

9   Value for Customers

End hunger, achieve 
food security and 
improved nutrition and 
promote sustainable 
agriculture

3   Employee Well-being

6   Environmental Management

8   Inclusive Growth

Ensure healthy lives and 
promote well-being for 
all at all ages

• Livelihood enhancement 
• Market linkages 

Corporate Social Responsibility

• Mission Annaseva – supporting 
through cooked meals 

• Reliance Nutrition Gardens – to 
help address nutrition gap 

• 1,000 MT Oxygen provided daily 
• 1.4+ crore reusable masks distributed 
• 2,000+ COVID-19 care beds set up
• Enhanced COVID-19 testing 

capabilities
• Health consultations through MMUs

• Improving livelihoods through 
Farmer Producer Organisations

References of illustrations

• Developed highly nutritious protein 
products and food prototypes 
from Algal biomass

• 21-Day Campaign to mark 
International Day of Happiness 

• Developed highly nutritious 
protein products and food 
prototypes from Algal biomass

• In-house development of 
Nano-cellulose – new vistas of 
sustainability 

• Story Sutra – Uplifting employee 
mood 

• Extending critical care to 
communities during COVID-19 

• R-Green - novel cost-effective 
COVID-19 diagnostic kits

• R-Swasthya – ensuring mental 
well-being 

PG 206
PG 196

PG 179, 196, 181, 205, 195

3   Employee Well-being

8   Inclusive Growth

Ensure inclusive and 
equitable quality 
education and promote 
lifelong learning 
opportunities for all

3  Employee Well-being

4  Stakeholder Engagement

5   Human Rights

8   Inclusive Growth

Achieve gender equality 
and empower all women 
and girls

2   Product Life Cycle Sustainability

6   Environmental Management

8  Inclusive Growth

Ensure availability 
and sustainable 
management of water 
and sanitation for all

• Supporting early childhood care 
and education

• Reliance Foundation Digital 
Classrooms - upgrading schools 

• Empowering rural women 
• Special initiatives for women 

empowerment: closing the gender 
digital divide

• Water security management 
• Building water resilient rural 

communities

• Empowering through education 
• Education and skill development: 

Bridging the literacy divide 
• Nurturing talent through Career 

Accelaration Programme 

• Empowering women through 
R-Aadya – a gender inclusion 
programme 

• Women Connect India Challenge 
– to bridge gender digital gap 

• HerCircle – Multilingual digital 
networking platform to accelerate 
women’s empowerment 

• Shramdaan – towards water 
security; Maximising waste water 
recyclability and reusability

PG 209, 182

PG 180, 207

PG 207

 Social and Relationship Capital and Value Creation 

 Human Capital and People Connect

 Natural Capital and Climate Change

 Manufactured Capital and Product Stewardship

 Intellectual Capital and Innovation

 Financial Capital and Credit Rating



Business Responsibility Report

22 23Reliance Industries Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Business Responsibility Report

2   Product Life Cycle Sustainability

6   Environmental Management

7  Policy Advocacy

Affordable and clean 
energy – Ensure access 
to affordable, reliable, 
sustainable and modern 
energy for all

2   Product Life Cycle Sustainability

3   Employee Well-being

5   Human Rights

8   Inclusive Growth

Promote sustained, 
inclusive and 
sustainable economic 
growth, full and 
productive employment 
and decent work for all

3  Employee Well-being

4  Stakeholder Engagement

6   Environmental Management

8   Inclusive Growth

Build resilient 
infrastructure, 
promote sustainable 
industrialisation and 
foster innovation

Corporate Social Responsibility

• Strengthen livelihoods of rural 
communities

• Water Security

• Development of fuel cells for 
distributed energy supply 

• Technology to derive value from 
waste

• New Energy business supporting 
net carbon zero commitment

References of illustrations

• Reliance Foundation Information 
Systems: A lifeline for many in good 
times and bad

• R-phish: A phishing simulation 
platform to measure user 
awareness level 

• PET-based fabric recycling 
• Development of technology to 

convert plastic waste into oil 
• Developed catalytic gasification 

technology to convert 
carbonaceous feedstock into 
hydrogen

PG 198, 172, 21

PG 208

PG 200, 197, 198

2   Product Life Cycle Sustainability

5   Human Rights

6   Environmental Management

7  Policy Advocacy

Reduce inequality 
within and among 
countries

3  Employee Well-being

4  Stakeholder Engagement

7  Policy Advocacy

8   Inclusive Growth

9   Value for Customers

Make cities and human 
settlement inclusive, 
safe, resilient and 
sustainable

2   Product Life Cycle Sustainability

6   Environmental Management

9   Value for Customers

Ensure sustainable 
consumption and 
production patterns

• Enhanced livelihood of livestock 
owners

• Supporting early childhood care 
and education

• Rural Transformation Inititatives

• Disaster Response
• Promoting livelihoods

• Sustainable agriculture

• Improving livelihoods through 
Farmer Producer Organisations 

• Delivering health services to the 
underserved across India 

• From training to employment for 
differently abled – contributing 
to inclusive growth at Sahakari 
Bhandar

• Empowering women through 
R-Aadya – a gender inclusion 
programme 

• Giving Sight, Giving Opportunity 
through Drishti programme 

• Moving towards being the 
‘Preferred Provider’ for all mobility 
solutions in India

• Bioplastic and Sustainability 
Products and Technology 
Development 

• Development of fuel cells for 
distributed energy supply 

• R Elan Ecogold – fashion with 
sustainability 

• Redefining Customer centricity 
and elevating customer 
experience 

• Standing by customers through 
COVID-19 

• 3 R philosophy of a circular 
economy – Reduce, Reuse, Recycle 

• Go Green with Tetra Pack 
• Developed catalytic gasification 

technology to convert 
carbonaceous feedstock into 
hydrogen. 

PG 206, 205, 180

PG 110, 198, 115

PG 214, 215, 192, 70, 198

 Social and Relationship Capital and Value Creation 

 Human Capital and People Connect

 Natural Capital and Climate Change

 Manufactured Capital and Product Stewardship

 Intellectual Capital and Innovation

 Financial Capital and Credit Rating



Business Responsibility Report

24 25Reliance Industries Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Business Responsibility Report

2   Product Life Cycle Sustainability

6   Environmental Management

7  Policy Advocacy

8  Inclusive Growth

Take urgent actions to 
combat climate original 
design change and its 
impacts

2   Product Life Cycle Sustainability

6   Environmental Management

7  Policy Advocacy

8  Inclusive Growth

9   Value for Customers

Conserve and 
sustainably use the 
oceans, seas and 
marine resources 
for sustainable 
development

2   Product Life Cycle Sustainability

6   Environmental Management

7  Policy Advocacy

8  Inclusive Growth

9   Value for Customers

Protect, restore and promote 
sustainable use of terrestrial 
ecosystems, sustainably 
manage forests, combat 
desertification, and halt and 
reverse land degradation 
and halt biodiversity loss

• Climate action through 
community led green drives

• Building up environmental 
consciousness

• Disaster Response

Corporate Social Responsibility

• Enabling safer and sustainable 
fishing

• Supporting wildlife conservation 
and animal welfare initiatives

• Promoting animal health

• Chemical Recycling of Multilayer 
Packaging Material 

• Algae to Oil – a technology to 
convert waste CO2 to valuable 
products 

• Net Carbon Zero commitment
• Developed catalytic gasification 

technology to convert 
carbonaceous feedstock into 
hydrogen

• Technology to derive value from 
waste

• Development of fuel cells for 
distributed energy supply 

References of illustrations

• Reliance Foundation Information 
Systems: A lifeline for many in good 
times and bad 

• R Elan Ecogold – fashion with 
sustainability

• Reduced fresh water dependence 

• Chemical Recycling of Multilayer 
Packaging Material 

• R Elan Ecogold – fashion with 
sustainability

• Maintaining Ecosystems and 
Biodiversity surrounding greenfield 
and brownfield projects 

PG 197, 199, 173, 198

PG 208, 115, 175

PG 197, 115, 172

1   Ethics, Transparency and Accountability

3  Employee Well-being

4  Stakeholder Engagement

5   Human Rights

7  Policy Advocacy

8  Inclusive Growth

Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for 
sustainable development, provide access to 
justice for all and build effective, accountable 
and inclusive institutions at all levels

1   Ethics, Transparency and Accountability

7  Policy Advocacy

8  Inclusive Growth

Strengthen the means of implementation 
and revitalise the global partnership for 
sustainable development

• Global partnerships with 
organisations such as USAID, NAB 
among others

• 21-Day Campaign to mark 
International day of Happiness 

• Noble laureates within New Energy 
Council guiding the energy 
transition

• Circular Design Challenge 3.0 in 
partnership with UNEP

• Global partnerships & Acquisitions
• JioGenNext – Nurturing India’s startup 

ecosystem

PG 179, 186 PG 114, 22, 212

 Social and Relationship Capital and Value Creation 

 Human Capital and People Connect

 Natural Capital and Climate Change

 Manufactured Capital and Product Stewardship

 Intellectual Capital and Innovation

 Financial Capital and Credit Rating



Business Responsibility Report

26 27Reliance Industries Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

To the Management of Reliance Industries 
Limited, 3rd Floor, Maker Chambers IV, 222, 
Nariman Point, Mumbai 400021, Maharashtra, 
India.

Introduction
We, KPMG Assurance and Consulting Services 
LLP (‘KPMG’), have been engaged for the 
purpose of providing assurance on the 
selected sustainability disclosures presented 
in the Integrated Annual Report (‘the Report’) 
of Reliance Industries Limited (‘RIL’ or ‘the 
Company’) for FY 2021-22. Our responsibility 
was to provide assurance on the selected 
aspects of the Report as described under 
‘boundary, scope and limitations’ below.

Reporting Criteria
RIL has developed its report based on the 
applicable accounting standards and 
has incorporated the principles of the 
International Integrated Reporting Framework 
(<IR>) published by the International 
Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC), into 
the Management Discussion and Analysis 
section of the Report.

The Company’s sustainability performance 
reporting criteria has been derived from 
the GRI Standards of the Global Reporting 
Initiative, United Nation’s Sustainable 
Development Goals (UN SDGs), the American 
Petroleum Institute / The International 
Petroleum Industry Environmental 
Conservation Association’s (API/IPIECA) 
Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, and 
the Business Responsibility Reporting (BRR) 
framework of the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (SEBI).

RIL has also referred to new and emerging 
frameworks such as the Task Force on 
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), 
and the WEF-IBC metrics.

Assurance Standards
We conducted the assurance in  
accordance with:

• The requirements of the International 
Federation of Accountants’ (IFAC) 
International Standard on Assurance 
Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised) 
Assurance Engagements Other than 
Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial 
Information.

 - Under this standard, we have reviewed 
the information presented in the Report 
against the characteristics of relevance, 
completeness, reliability, neutrality and 
understandability.

 - Limited assurance consists primarily of 
enquiries and analytical procedures. 
The procedures performed in a limited 
assurance engagement vary in nature 
and timing and are less in extent 
than for a reasonable assurance 
engagement.

 - Reasonable assurance is a high level 
of assurance, but it is not a guarantee 
that it will always detect a material 
misstatement when it exists.

Boundary, Scope, and 
Limitations
• The boundary of our assurance covers 

the sustainability performance of RIL’s 
manufacturing divisions, refineries, 
exploration and production in India; 
business divisions such as chemicals, 
fibre intermediates, petroleum, polyester, 
polymers, Recron and RP Chemicals units 
in Malaysia, petro-retail division facilities 
under Reliance BP Mobility Limited (RBML), 
terminal operations, LPG, Reliance Jio 
Infocomm Limited (RJIL), Reliance Retail 
Ventures Limited (RRVL), and corporate 
office at Reliance Corporate Park, Navi 
Mumbai.

• The reporting period for all the above 
business units except Recron and RP 
Chemicals, Malaysia was from 01 April 2021 
to 31 March 2022. The reporting period for 
Recron and RP Chemicals, Malaysia was 
from 01 January 2021 to 31 December 2021.

• The scope of reasonable assurance 
included total number of employees,  
new employee hires, diversity of 
governance bodies and employees, 
parental leave and total manhours 
of training for Reliance Group. The 
sustainability performance data for RIL 
covered under reasonable assurance 
were total energy consumption, reduction 
in energy consumption, renewable 
energy generated, direct (scope 1) GHG 
emissions and energy indirect (scope 2) 
GHG emissions, quantity of flared and 
vented hydrocarbons, emissions of total 
particulate matter, oxides of nitrogen, 
oxides of sulphur, and volatile organic 

compounds (VOC), water withdrawal, 
waste water discharged, water recycled, 
hazardous and non-hazardous waste 
disposed, and the number of injuries, 
fatalities, and Lost Time Injury Frequency 
Rate (LTIFR).

• Additionally, the data subjected to limited 
assurance for RIL included, markets served, 
mechanisms for advice and concerns 
about ethics, governance structure and 
chair of the highest governance body. 
For Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited (RJIL), 
the sustainability performance data 
covered under limited assurance were 
total energy consumption, renewable 
energy consumption, direct (scope 1) 
GHG emissions, energy indirect (scope 2) 
GHG emissions and other indirect (scope 
3) GHG emissions (limited to business 
travel, upstream leased assets, upstream 
transportation and distribution, capital 
goods, purchased goods and services, 
fuel and electricity and waste disposal), 
hazardous and non-hazardous waste 
disposed, number of injuries, fatalities, and 
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR). For 
Reliance Retail Ventures Limited (RRVL), 
the data on number of injuries, fatalities, 
and Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR), 
were covered under limited assurance. 
For Recron Malaysia and RP Chemicals 
Malaysia, the performance data namely 
total energy consumption, direct (scope 
1) GHG emissions, energy indirect (scope 
2) GHG emissions, emissions of total 
particulate matter, oxides of nitrogen, 
oxides of sulphur, water withdrawal, 
wastewater discharged, water recycled, 
hazardous and non-hazardous waste 
disposed, number of injuries, fatalities, 
and LTIFR were covered under limited 
assurance.

The assurance scope excludes:

• Aspects of the report other than those 
mentioned above;

• Data and information outside the defined 
reporting period;

• Strategy, regulatory compliances and 
other related linkages expressed in the 
Report;

• The Company’s statements that describe 
expression of opinion, belief, aspiration, 
expectation, aim or future intention and 
assertions related to intellectual property 
rights and other competitive issues.

Assurance Procedures
Our assurance process involved performing 
procedures to obtain evidence about the 
reliability of specified performance data. 
The nature, timing and extent of procedures 
selected depend on our judgment, including 
the assessment of the risks of material 
misstatement of the selected sustainability 
performance data whether due to fraud or 
error. In making those risk assessments, we 
have considered internal controls relevant 
to the preparation of the Report in order 
to design assurance procedures that are 
appropriate in the circumstances. Our 
assurance procedures also included:

• Assessment of RIL’s reporting procedures 
regarding their consistency with the 
application of the GRI Standards.

• Evaluating the appropriateness of the 
quantification methods used to arrive at 
the sustainability performance presented 
in the Report.

• Verification of systems and procedures 
used for quantification, collation, and 
analysis of sustainability performance 
data included in the Report.

• Understanding the appropriateness of 
various assumptions, estimations and 
materiality thresholds used by RIL for data 
analysis.

• Discussions with the personnel at 
the corporate and business unit level 
responsible for the performance data 
presented in the Report.

• Discussion on sustainability aspects with 
senior executives at the different plant 
locations and at the corporate office to 
understand the risks and opportunities 
from sustainability context and the 
strategy RIL is following.

• Assessment of data reliability and 
accuracy.

• For the data and information related to 
RIL’s financial performance, we have relied 
on its audited financial statements for the 
FY 2021-22.

• Review of the Company’s Business 
Responsibility Report section to check 
alignment with the National Voluntary 
Guidelines on Social, Environmental and 
Economic Responsibilities of Business 
(NVG-SEE)

• Verification of performance data 
through virtual conference meetings 
with manufacturing units at Barabanki, 

Dahej, Hazira, Hoshiarpur, Jamnagar DTA, 
Jamnagar SEZ, Jamnagar C2 complex, 
Jamnagar Pet Coke Gasification unit, 
Nagothane, Naroda, Patalganga, Silvassa, 
Vadodara; Recron Malaysia facilities at 
Nilai and Melaka; RP Chemicals Malaysia; 
Petro-retail division facilities under RBML, 
Terminal Operations and LPG; On-shore 
and Off-shore exploration and production 
facilities at Gadimoga and Shahdol; 
Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited; Reliance 
Retail Ventures Limited; and Corporate 
office at Reliance Corporate Park, Navi 
Mumbai.

Appropriate documentary evidence was 
reviewed to support our conclusions on 
the information and data verified. Where 
such documentary evidence could not be 
shared with us due to sensitive nature of 
the information, our team verified the same 
during the site interactions using screen 
sharing tools.

Independence
The assurance was conducted by 
a multidisciplinary team including 
professionals with suitable skills and 
experience in auditing environmental, social 
and economic information in line with the 
requirements of ISAE 3000 (Revised) standard. 
Our work was performed in compliance 
with the requirements of the IFAC Code of 
Ethics for Professional Accountants, which 
requires, among other requirements, that 
the members of the assurance team 
(practitioners) be independent of the 
assurance client, in relation to the scope 
of this assurance engagement, including 
not being involved in writing the Report. The 
Code also includes detailed requirements for 
practitioners regarding integrity, objectivity, 
professional competence and due care, 
confidentiality and professional behaviour. 
KPMG has systems and processes in place 
to monitor compliance with the Code and to 
prevent conflicts regarding independence. 
The firm applies ISQC 1 and the practitioner 
complies with the applicable independence 
and other ethical requirements of the IESBA 
code.

Responsibilities
RIL is responsible for developing the 
Report contents. RIL is also responsible 
for identification of material sustainability 
topics, establishing and maintaining 
appropriate performance management and 
internal control systems, and derivation of 
performance data reported. This statement 
is made solely to the Management of 
RIL in accordance with the terms of our 
engagement and as per scope of assurance.

Our work has been undertaken so that we 
might state to RIL those matters for which we 
have been engaged to state in this statement 
and for no other purpose. To the fullest 
extent permitted by law, we do not accept 
or assume responsibility to anyone other 
than RIL for our work, for this report, or for the 
conclusions expressed in this independent 
assurance statement. The assurance 
engagement is based on the assumption 
that the data and information provided 
to us is complete and true. We expressly 
disclaim any liability or co-responsibility 
for any decision a person or entity would 
make based on this assurance statement. 
By reading this assurance statement, 
stakeholders acknowledge and agree to the 
limitations and disclaimers mentioned above.

Conclusions
Based on our assurance procedures 
and in line with the boundary, scope and 
limitations, we conclude that, for the selected 
performance data subjected to limited 
assurance procedures as defined under the 
scope of assurance, nothing has come to our 
attention that causes us not to believe that 
these are appropriately stated in all material 
respects, in line with the reporting principles 
of the GRI Standards. The sustainability 
performance data that have been subjected 
to reasonable assurance procedures as 
defined under the scope of assurance, are 
fairly stated in all material respects and are in 
alignment with the GRI standards.

Anand S. Kulkarni
Technical Director
KPMG Assurance and Consulting Services LLP

19 July 2022

Independent Assurance Statement to Reliance Industries Limited on their 
Sustainability Disclosures in the Integrated Annual Report for Financial Year 2021-22