Sustainability
Report 2022
from ambition to action and beyond



01

content
Table of

02 stc.com.sa

Introduction
About this report 
Welcome message from the Chairman 
Welcome message from the GCEO
stc at a glance  
Industry leadership 
ESG performance highlights

05
07
08
10
15
17

01
Social Chapter
Enriching lives and experiences 
      Customer relations and satisfaction
      Data privacy, security and protection 
      Community contribution and 
      development
Expanding access to technology and 
connectivity

Accessibility, connectivity and digital 
inclusion

Advancing innovative digital opportunities
      Digital innovation and transformation
Empowering our people 
      Diversity, equality and inclusiveness
      Talent management 
      Health, safety and well-being

51 
51
56

64 

73 

73 
82 
82 
94 
94 
101 
110 

04

117 

117 
132 
133 
135 

05
Governance and Economic 
Chapter
Doing business with integrity 
      Business ethics, governance, and        
      transparency
      Human rights 
Enhancing economic impacts 
      Supply chain management

02
Sustainability at stc
Our sustainability strategy and policies
Sustainability governance model
Sustainability cultural transformation 
Our sustainability platform
Materiality and stakeholder engagement
ESG disclosure frameworks
Aligning with national priorities
Our contribution to the SDGs

22 
24 
26 
27 
28 
32 
33 
34

Environmental  Chapter

03
Caring for the environment 
     Energy and climate change 
     Water management 
     Waste management

37 
38 
46 
47

Appendices

06
Appendix A - Detailed stakeholder map 
Appendix B - GRI content index 
Appendix C - GSMA ESG metrics 
Appendix D – ESG supplement

145
147
155
159

stc.com.sa



01
Sustainability continues to be an integral part of our business 
and a responsibility we remain seriously committed to addressing. 
With that, we are pleased to present stc’s fourth annual 
sustainability report, highlighting the company’s activities and 
performance in the environmental, social, and governance aspects 
of sustainability.  

This report is for all our stakeholders who want to learn more 
about stc’s strategy, commitments, and actions pertaining to 
sustainability within our organization, the communities we serve, 
the environment we operate on and the economy we contribute 
to. As always, we welcome any feedback  on our sustainability 
progress and ambitions on sustainability@stc.com.sa.

Cautionary Message
This report contains statements that may be deemed as “forward-looking statements” that express the way 
in which stc intends to conduct its activities. Forward statements could be identified by the use of forward-
looking terminology such as “plans”, “aims”, “assumes”, “continues”, “believes”, or any variations of such 
words that certain actions, events or results “may”, “could”, “should”, “might”, “will”, or “would” be taken or be 
achieved. 

stc has made every effort to ensure the report is as accurate and truthful as possible. However, by their 
nature forward-looking statements are qualified to inherent risks and uncertainties surrounding future 
expectations that could cause actual results to differ materially from these projected or implied statements. 
Such statements are subject to risks that are beyond stc’s ability to control and therefore do not represent a 
guarantee that events implied in these forward-looking statements will actually occur.

Introduction

03 04stc.com.sa stc.com.sa

[GRI 2-3]

mailto:sustainability@stc.com.sa


report
About this

Reporting practices Top management oversight

Feedback

Reporting period Reporting scope & boundaries

This year’s report has been prepared 
in accordance with the GRI standards, 
focusing on the material sustainability 
issues to both stc and its stakeholders. 
The GRI content index is provided in 
Appendix B. 

stc is a signatory to the United Nations 
Global Compact (UNGC) and adheres to 
the ten principles laid out in the UNGC. 
This report serves as our communication 
of progress towards advancing these 
principles. stc is also reporting on the 
GSMA ESG metrics tailored for the ICT 
sector. 

stc Group’s CSO reviews and approves 
our annual sustainability reports. Our 
executive sustainability committee, 
chaired by the Group CEO, tracks our 
progress on sustainability and regularly 
discusses key ESG topics. Read more 
about our governance procedures in the 
Sustainability Governance section of 
this report. 

Inquiries, feedback or suggestions are welcome at:

sustainability@stc.com.sa
twitter.com/stc
facebook.com/stc/
linkedin.com/company/stc

The report covers the calendar year 
from January 1st to December 31st, 
2022 and focuses on activities during 
this period. Information from 
previous years is provided where it 
may be helpful.

Unlike previous reports, which covered 
operations in the Kingdom of Saudi 
Arabia (KSA) only, this report covers 
stc operations in KSA, Bahrain, Kuwait 
and other subsidiaries. Please refer to 
section New Operating Model for the 
full list. Unless specified, data from 
other clients, external contractors and 
suppliers are not included. Financial data 
is expressed in Saudi Riyals (SAR), unless 
otherwise specified.

Financial, legal, and governance 
information, including our 2022 Annual 
Report, is available on our investors’ 
webpage. Prior years’ sustainability 
reports are available in our Sustainability 
Platform archive. 

05 stc.com.sa 06 stc.com.sa

[GRI 2-3][GRI 2-3]

https://unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc/mission/principles
https://unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc/mission/principles
https://www.stc.com.sa/content/stc/sa/ar/personal/home.html
https://sustainability.stc.com.sa/#/
https://sustainability.stc.com.sa/#/
mailto:sustainability@stc.com.sa
https://www.facebook.com/stc/
https://twitter.com/stc
https://www.facebook.com/stc/


message
Welcome

Dear stc shareholders and stakeholders, 

I would like to thank every one of our stakeholders for your continued 
support of stc as the world returned to a state of normalcy that had not been 
present for the past two years. As the world recovered from the greatest 
global challenge in modern history, stronger and more focused efforts 
surrounding Sustainable Development have become the norm, even in the 
face of economic slowdowns. With this, stc continues laudable efforts to 
achieve the United Nations SDGs, as well as the expected corporate social 
responsibilities of a global brand. Our focus on connecting people and 
bridging the digital divide, including investing in digital literacy, has helped 
us to further deliver on advancing the aims of Saudi Vision 2030, as well as our 
commitment to the UNGC and broader international community.  

2022 was a notable year for stc, as we embraced a greater role and purpose 
for our business. We believe that we have a greater role to play as a connector 
of society and enabler of digital progress that ultimately leads to better 
environmental and social outcomes. This was fortified by more human 
capital investment, in both our own people and in society at large, leading to 
increased investment, training, contributions, engagement, and technological 
embracement as the key enabler of the knowledge economy. stc has been 
an instrumental force over the past year for building society, enabling 
connections, seamless solutions, and partnerships while working to operate 
in a responsible way for the environment and society. 

Exhibiting sustainability leadership means gaining and maintaining trust of 
not only customers, but also suppliers, shareholders, and all stakeholders. 
Enhanced transparency, greater Board engagement regarding ESG, and more 
dedication to Board and governance matters due to sensitivity regarding 
data were all areas of focus for stc in 2022. We also focused on championing 
technology for the greater good, developing partnerships across GCC and 
beyond, as a part of this increased effort to put ESG at the forefront.  

I would like to take this opportunity to extend my sincere thanks and 
appreciation to the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, King Salman bin 
Abdul-Aziz, and to the Crown Prince HRH Prince Mohammed bin Salman 
in recognition of the unlimited support provided by our wise leadership. 
Their tremendous support of the ICT sector in the Kingdom has greatly 
contributed to its development and growth, as well as to the improvement 
of its infrastructure in record time. I also extend thanks to our esteemed 
shareholders for their trust and continuous support for the Board, to our 
valued customers who are our success partners, and to my stc Group 
colleagues in the region for their hard work to ensure the continued success 
of the Group.  

Another year of disciplined capital allocation, strong financial performance, 
and ESG focus has proven to vault stc to success once again and will allow 
us all to remain resilient in the face of continued societal and economic 
challenges.

07 stc.com.sa 08 stc.com.sa

message
Welcome

Dear stc shareholders and stakeholders, 

Following the very unique year that was 2021, we were eager for a return to 
more normalcy in 2022. Building on stc’s resounding success throughout the 
global uncertainty that permeated the previous two years, the Group once 
again continued to increase annual revenue due to the relentless efforts of 
the wonderful stc team. The importance of business sustainability continued 
to grow in various vital sectors, in addition to the ongoing success of the stc’s 
strategic direction to be a leading regional center for digital services through 
innovative projects and global partnerships.  

This year, stc is proud to launch our fourth sustainability report, and the 
first to include stc reporting as a Group. This has not only streamlined 
the reporting process, but also ensured more comprehensive disclosures. 
Our 2022 report further solidifies the Group’s role as an enabler of digital 
transformation in the Kingdom and the region, helping to maximize economic, 
social, and environmental impacts in the telecom industry and beyond. 

2022 saw another year of solid financial performance and accelerated growth 
in revenue, as well as an expansion of services throughout stc Group. This 
has come as we have drafted clearer targets for our ESG performance and 
stc Group objectives, focusing on science-based targets for environmental 
metrics and clearer directives regarding social investment. With this, we 
have also implemented greater transparency in our disclosures, along with 
more indicators and more alignment with the UNGC. We would also like to 
specifically acknowledge the ILO Protection of Wages Convention, 1949 (No. 
95) and The Hygiene (Commerce and Offices) Convention, 1964 (No. 120) which 
came into force on 7 December 2021, and we have assured that stc has been in 
full compliance throughout 2022 and will continue to do so for the future.  

Based on transformative global megatrends that became apparent during 
the pandemic and have proven to be lasting factors, we have identified 
digitization and decarbonization as not only long-term drivers of change 
for the world, but also the two most important areas of focus for stc’s future 
outlook. Looking ahead, we are steadfastly committed to greater expansion in 
services and stakeholder engagement, increased transparency on the value 
that we create as a Group, and expanding our responsibility with regard to the 
environmental and social issues.  

We would like to thank you for your trust and support during the past year 
as stc Group continued to build a global reputation as a pioneering digital 
enabler for transformation and sustainability in the Kingdom and in the 
greater MENA region as a whole. Our resolve to decarbonize, increase 
digitalization, and keep innovation at the heart of stc’s ongoing development 
has never been stronger.

Mohammed K. A. Al Faisal

Chairman of the Board of 
Directors

Olayan M. Alwetaid

Group CEO



Q&A with 
stc GCSO

What are stc’s key sustainability priorities?
We take sustainability very seriously at stc Group, and as such we have seven key areas of
focus for our business: Expanding Access to Technology & Connectivity, Enhancing Economic
Impacts, Advancing Digital Opportunities, Doing Business with Integrity, Enriching Lives
& Experiences, Caring for the Environment, Empowering People. We cover each of these
principles in great detail throughout our 2022 report.

How does stc think about the connection between digital innovation and sustainability?
We at stc see ourselves as more than just the largest telecom provider and ICT company in 
the region  - we are the leading digital enabler. Our focus on digital innovation is a big part of 
our overall sustainability strategy, as these innovations lead to decreased carbon emissions, 
economic benefits for communities, and positive social impacts for people all over the 
regions in which we operate. 

What are the biggest challenges that stc faces in meeting its sustainability goals?
Given our commitment to achieving net-zero emissions by 2050, and our growing business 
offerings through all of stc’s subsidiaries, this will be a challenge  - but it is one that we 
are tackling with full force and one that we aim to achieve. We also challenge ourselves to 
be more inclusive and impact the community in more positive ways each year. These are 
challenges we embrace and are committed to surmounting as we constantly move forward 
with our sustainability goals. 

What is stc doing to foster a culture of sustainability?
Our Digital Transformation program is a part of stc’s dare 2.0 strategy, the main driver of 
our overarching sustainability strategy (and something that is covered in-depth in our 2022 
Sustainability Report), and this program includes a centralized workspace platform, digital 
KPIs, insights, and reports to drive both sustainability culture and digital transformation 
culture across stc. In addition to this, we believe in a top-down, inclusive approach to 
fostering a culture of sustainability, which means that it starts with leadership and is 
continued on by employees and stakeholders of all levels. 

What is stc doing to advance diversity and inclusion?
We know that working across various countries, communities, and cultures provides an 
opportunity to tap into unique skills and viewpoints. Diversity is a major driving force behind 
our progress and success in digital technology, as it enhances our ability to innovate. Our 
employees are encouraged to embrace their unique qualities and individuality, and we 
acknowledge that fostering an environment of equity and inclusion is crucial to the success 
of our group.

Our commitment to diversity, inclusion, and representation of the communities we serve 
is both a business imperative and an ethical responsibility  - we want to be an equitable 
employer and create an inclusive workplace that attracts, develops, and retains the most 
talented individuals. We have developed several initiatives to advance our diversity and 
inclusion efforts, which are detailed in dedicated sections in our 2022 Sustainability Report. 

How does stc support communities?
We have a broad portfolio of community investments, and these all directly support the 
communities we serve, UN SDGs and the national visions of all the countries that stc 
operates within. Our community investment initiatives span various developmental areas, 
such as education, healthcare, digital inclusion, technological innovations, caring for the 
environment, entrepreneurship, donations, sponsorships, and community engagement 
investments. Continuous monitoring of our community investment activities also allows us to 
set to guide future plans on how to further improve our programs and maximize our positive 
impacts within local communities.

Why does stc publish an annual Sustainability Report?
Sustainability reporting  - also called ESG reporting  - is important to all of our stakeholders, 
including customers, investors, contractors, and employees. With increasing stakeholder 
interest in not just sustainability, but also the intertwined social impacts and transparency 
around company actions, we at stc Group feel that publishing our sustainability progress on 
an annual basis is essential. Our 2022 Sustainability Report, the fourth consecutive one to 
be published, provides a transparent look at our far-reaching impacts and contributions to 
sustainability and social progress in Saudi Arabia and beyond. It is a way for us to showcase 
what we are able to achieve, together, and what we can all expect from stc Group in the future.

09 stc.com.sa 10 stc.com.sa

Saudi Telecom Company (“stc”) was established in 1998 and is listed in the Saudi Stock Exchange (Tadawul). 
The Public Investment Fund (“PIF”) is the ultimate controlling party of the company through its ownership of 
64% as of 31 December 2021 (2020: 70%). stc’s head office is located in Riyadh, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.

We consider ourselves more than just a telecom company – we are pioneers and champions of digitization, 
always focusing on innovation and evolution of digital solutions. We seek to be the leading digital enabler 
across the entire Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, offering a variety of ICT solutions and digital services in different 
areas, including telecommunications, IT, financial technology, digital media, cybersecurity, and other 
advanced digital solutions. 

Our aim is to lead in the coming digital transformation, both nationally and regionally, and to use this as 
an opportunity to promote sustainability, innovation, and empowerment of people across the Kingdom and 
beyond.

glance
stc at a

Abdullah Abdulrahman
Alkanhl

Group Chief Strategy Officer

[GRI 2-1]



operating model
Our new

11 12stc.com.sa stc.com.sa

New group operating model:

Interaction framework

Subsidiaries

Direct Indirect

Group shared 
services

Group 
functional 

units
Clusters of 
influence

The following stc Group entities are included in this report: 

We depend on: We create value for:

stc Group relies on the optimization and simplification of its operating model to increase 
efficiencies, flexibility, and transparency of its services and processes in order to ensure 
highest quality of products and services for our customers and stakeholders.

To achieve our dare 2.0 strategy objectives, we require the right organization, governance 
and culture. In 2022, we rolled out a new Group-Operating Model (GOM) that is enabled by 
clusters of influence, strategic group functions and shared services and centers of excellence 
to ensure agility and efficiency. We also developed group-wide processes, governance 
mechanisms and extensive training to ensure the new operating model successfully delivers 
on its bold ambitions.

How we create value:

Skills and expertise Our customers

Financial capital
Our shareholders

Assets and technology

Our brand Our people

Relationships and partnerships Our planet

Natural resources Local communities

Our talented team of 22,000+ employees We aspire to be a digital enabler, providing 
connectivity to break digital divides, serving 
millions of customers. Read more on page 41.

Our financial performance is strong with y-o-y 
break record improvements. Read more on 
page 120. In our journey to being the digital enabler in 

the region, we continue to grow shareholder 
value.

Tangible assets (such as network 
infrastructure) and intangible assets such as 
technologies are key to connecting people. 
Read more on page 61.

Recognized as one of the most valuable  
brands due to major diversification in our 
offerings. Read more on page 120. 

We provide an equal and inclusive work 
environment that attracts, develops, and 
retains the best individual talents. Read more 
on page 80.
 

Our vision:
Digital and telco leader, enabling 
the society and economy to 
thrive, in KSA and beyond.

Business activities: 
We offer variety of ICT 
solutions and digital services 
in several categories including 
telecommunication, IT, financial 
technology, digital media, 
cybersecurity, and other 
advanced digital solutions, with 
that we are leading the digital 
transformation nationally and 
regionally.

Underpinned by our value:
Dynamism, Devotion, Drive

We rely on constructive relationships with our 
stakeholders including  customers, suppliers, 
investors, peers and regulatory authorities. 
Read more on page 128. 

The ICT industry is a contributor to the global 
greenhouse emissions and we are committed 
to realizing our goal of net zero by 2050. Read 
more on page 28.

We rely on natural resources such as fuel and 
we also operate in water scarce areas. Read 
more on page 28. 

Our approach to community investment is 
rooted in developing the communities around 
us through unique services, digital innovation, 
transformative technologies, and meaningful 
investments that go beyond regular corporate 
donations. Read more on page 54.

stc KSA is a pioneering digital champion 
focused on innovation and evolution that 
offers a variety of ICT solutions and digital 
services, leading the digital transformation 
in KSA.

channels by stc is the sales and distribution arm 
of stc Group, and one of the leading companies 
in the field of sales and distribution of the 
telecommunications sector in the Middle East 
and operates in GCC countries.

stc Bahrain is a world-class digital enabler 
and the fastest growing telecommunications 
operator in the Kingdom of Bahrain.

specialized by stc is regarded as a trusted 
partner of critical communications services and 
innovative solutions

solutions by stc is Saudi Arabia’s leading 
enabler of digital transformation and the 
number one ICT service provider in the 
Kingdom.

Intigral is a leading digital entertainment 
company in the MENA region, a subsidiary 
of the stc Group and its digital media and 
entertainment arm.

stc Kuwait is a Kuwaiti shareholding 
company that launched its 
operations in December 2008.

ccc is a leading customer experience 
management company, as it offers spectrum 
of seamless solutions spans outsourced 
customer care and technology services

Tawal provides leading integrated 
ICT infrastructure in the Kingdom of 
Saudi Arabia.

AQALAT is the real-estate arm of stc 
Group established to drive the execution 
of the stc real-estate monetization 
strategy that covers stc’s land bank of 
1,388 plots covering 18.7 million sqm 
widely dispersed across KSA

sirar by stc is a cutting-edge cyber security 
provider that empowers organizations to 
take control of their cyber capabilities and 
digital environments.

[GRI 2-2]



stc’s dare 2.0 strategy balances a focus between short- and long-term objectives. This helped stc achieve strong 
financial performance while maintaining its focus on investment in its strategic initiatives and capabilities.

Building on the original “dare” strategy, our reimagined vision of stc inspired this updated, second iteration of the dare 
strategy that outlines the key pillars to create value with greater efficiencies for a better future. Each letter in “dare” 
represents one of the four strategy pillars. The strategy includes nine strategic objectives implemented across the 
entire stc Group.   

In 2022, within a global context of record levels of inflation, supply chain disruptions, increasing interest rates, and rising 
energy costs, stc continued the successful implementation of its dare 2.0 strategy, effectively balancing an emphasis on 
short-term gains and long-term goals. This helped stc achieve strong financial performance while maintaining its focus 
on investment in strategic initiatives and future capabilities. 

The fundamental pillars of stc’s strategy (D - Digitize stc; A – Accelerate performance; R – Reinvent experience; and E – 
Expand scale and scope), and its associated strategic objectives, are listed below. 

success - dare
Our strategy for

13 14stc.com.sa stc.com.sa

stc’s dare 2.0 strategy positions us as a key enabler of the Kingdom’s Vision 2030 and its digital transformation by 
successfully building necessary, key infrastructure for the country. We have continued our sustained connectivity 
leadership in KSA and in the broader region by expanding 4G, 5G, and fiber networks, decommissioning copper networks 
and 3G network, building state-of-the-art new-era data centers, and guaranteeing business continuity through a 
highly resilient network. These infrastructure investments consequently place KSA on the list of top countries with the 
fastest networks and digitization rankings. stc’s digital transformation initiatives have also led to the company to being 
placed at the top in the MENA region and at the top of digital companies globally, as measured by Forbes. Our push for 
digitization is adopted by customers with increasing usage in digital self-service channels. 

On the economic development front, strategic objectives defined under dare 2.0 push stc for strategic partnerships 
with key government entities, global hyperscalers, and worldwide enterprises, which has led to successful growth 
stories for several stc subsidiaries. Our active role in venture capital and start-up ecosystem funding is another impact 
driven by the dare 2.0 strategy, and stc is also a significant contributor to the Kingdom’s Local Content Program, with 
more than SAR 22 billion spent on it over the past year, in addition to significant contributions made in 2022.

On the social development front, stc is one of the top employers in KSA and the Gulf region with over 22,000 people 
employed in total in the whole Group and an aim to increase its 13% women employee ratio in-line with dare 2.0’s 
focus to attract and retain top talent. stc is also seen as one of the top employers of choice among fresh university 
graduates, with the company’s TIP program and other talent programs providing career paths for newcomers within 
the organization. We understand the value of our people as the key bearers of our strategy, and because of this stc 
continued its efforts to attract, develop, and retain a diversified and inclusive workforce. The stc Academy further 
expanded its leadership development programs by collaborating with some of the leading global academics and experts 
for the second year in a row, and women empowerment and diversity remained high on our agenda with the further 
induction of more women employees in our Talent Incubation and other development programs, as well as more women 
progressing upwards in the management hierarchy.

On the environmental front, we are again aiming to take major strides in addressing our own environmental footprint 
by setting concise plans and targets to reduce emissions, minimize waste, spread awareness, and identify the risks and 
opportunities that climate change presents. We have set big ambitions and are committed to reach net-zero carbon 
emissions by 2050. Currently, we are on the path to net-zero as we develop our science-based targets and explore clean 
energy and circular economy solutions.

Generating positive impacts in favor of social and economic 
development through dare.

Vision: “Digital and telco leader, enabling society and economy to thrive, in KSA and beyond.” 

Strategic objectives:



15 16stc.com.sa stc.com.sa

leadership
Industry

Associations and memberships

Global Leaders Forum (GLF)

Global System for Mobile Communications (GSMA)

GCC Board Directors Institute (GCC BDI)

World Economic Forum Cyber Security and 
Digital Trust Platform

Member of Jubail Industrial City Leadership 
Council headed by The Royal Commission in Jubail

GRI Community Member

International Telecommunication Union (ITU)

United Nations Global Compact (UNGC)       

Business Ethics Leadership AllianceTM (“BELA”)

Pearl Initiative

Global Forum of Incident Response and Security 
Teams First.org

Local Content Leadership Council (LCLC)

GSMA Climate Action Taskforce

World Economic Forum – Partnering Against 
Corruption Initiative (PACI)

We are active members of the ICT community, seeking to influence and learn from other leading professionals in our 
sector. stc is actively involved with, or holds membership in, several industry associations and advocacy groups, 
including the following:

Certifications

Awards and recognition

stc strives to continually monitor and improve its business practices and performance in-line with regulations, industry 
standards and best practice. In 2022, our operations were aligned with the following standards to ensure continuity with 
implementing the industry’s best practices:

Over the years that stc has been in operation, we have realized many achievements thanks to the incredible work and 
drive of our staff, stakeholders, and core partners. We have been fortunate enough to receive recognition and accolades 
from esteemed organizations in our industry for which we are collectively humbled. The table below contains an 
illustrative, non-exhaustive list of the awards received in 2022:

stc KSA: CSR Arabia award for large business category 

stc KSA: Glotel award in the Private Networks Perfection category

stc KSA: “ Best Corporate Governance System” award KSA in from World Finance Magazine

stc KSA: The working environment award for people with disabilities within the large and vast enterprises category by HRSD

stc KSA: The Saudization award for nationalizing the communications and information technology sector by HRSD

TAWAL : Best Workplaces in KSA 2022 by the Global Authority on Workplace Culture 

stc KSA: “Best HR Analytics Strategy” award in the MENA region at the Future Workplace Awards 2022 by Informa Connect.

stc KSA: “Best Corporate Governance System in the Telecommunication Sector –  Middle East”  from Ethical Boardroom Magazine

Stc Kuwait: “Telecommunications Deal of the Year – 2022” for its acquisition of E-Portal Holding Company

stc KSA: “Platinum Games Operator” Award from CST    

Solutions by stc: Integrated Performance Excellence Award by The KPI Institute

stc KSA: “Outstanding industry contribution” Award  from tmforum through  tmforum Catalyst: Leveraging AI/ML to drive CX Business outcomes proactively  

stc KSA: ‘Most Valuable telecom brand’  in Middle East from brand Finance   

Sirar by stc : Best Workplaces in KSA 2022 by the Global Authority on Workplace Culture for small and medium companies  

Solutions by stc: Best Workplaces in KSA 2022 by the Global Authority on Workplace Culture 

stc KSA

stc Bahrain

Intigral

Specialized

stc Kuwait

Solutions

Sirar

TAWAL

stc Group

ISO 22301
Security and 
Resilience - 

Business 
Continuity 

Management 
Systems

ISO 9001 
Quality 

Management

ISO 31000 
Risk 

Management

ISO 27001
Information 

Security, 
Cybersecurity 

and Privacy 
Protection

ISO 10002
Quality 

Management 
- Customer 

Satisfaction

ISO 14001
Environ-
mental 

Management 
System

ISO 45001 
Occupation-

al Health 
& Safety 

Management 
System

ISO 37301
Compliance 

Management 
System

ISO 29990
Learning 

Services for 
Non-Formal 
Education 

and Training

ISO 27017
Information 
technology 
— Security 
techniques

ccc: Company of the year best practice award and the Market Leadership best practice award by Frost and Sullivan. 



17 18stc.com.sa stc.com.sa

highlights
ESG Performance

22,759 total 
workforce

127,000 + learning hours 
provided through stc 
Academy

Through Rawafed program, 
45+ million mobile SIM cards 
and 3.6 billion recharge cards 
manufactured locally

Fastest-growing brands 
in the region with a 
growth rate of 16.7%

99% stc Group employees 
completed data 
protection and privacy 
training

SAR 67 billion revenues (7% 
increase from 2021)

Leading Fintech with 
stcpay, with more than 
9.6 million registered 
users

Zero employee and 
contractor fatalities 

52% women 
representation across 
our advanced analytics 
department

Recorded 10,000+ 
employee volunteering 
hours

Through InspireU, 
incubated nearly 100 
startups with a total 
valuation of almost SAR 
10 billion

1.5+ million 5G 
subscribers with 7,000+ 
deployed sites across 
Saudi Arabia

89% employee 
engagement

97%, 34% and 67% 
nationalization rates in 
senior management across 
stc KSA, stc Bahrain and stc 
Kuwait

18% board seats occupied by 
women

Committed to 50% and 47% 
reduction in scope 1 and 
scope 2 absolute emissions, 
respectively by 2027

Mega projects awarded 
through local content valued 
at SAR 5 billion

Technically empowered 324 
NGOs through technical 
enablement program - 
serving more than 10,000 
users across 64 cities

38.21% local content score

150 women enrolled in 
Women in Stem (WiSTEM) 
program

Launched the trade-
in program and the 
renewed devices 
program 

0 legal cases regarding 
anti-corruption

100% of business units 
analyzed for risk related to 
corruption

213 SMEs engaged in 
procurement activities

43 different 
nationalities 
representation across 
workforce

Award winning work 
environment, with more 
than 5 different awards 
and recognition received 
throughout the year

4,348 sustainability 
training hours provided to 
employees



19 20stc.com.sa stc.com.sa

Sustainability 
at stc02



Our sustainability
strategy and 
policies

21 22stc.com.sa stc.com.sa

Maha Alnuhait
Sustainability GM 
“Maximizing economic value, creating positive 
environmental impact and supporting progressive 
social development lie at the heart of our approach to 
sustainability.  

Our continued ambition is to lead the ICT industry and 
create a positive environmental impact throughout the 
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the greater Gulf region. We 
are committed to supporting the national, regional, and 
global goals in alignment with national visions and the 
SDGs, as well as aiming to ensure our business practices 
are in-line with these goals to promote positive 
advances and avoid detrimental impacts on society 
and the environment. We aim to become a role model 
in the region by applying best practices and innovative 
solutions to foster positive changes, and our aim is to 
continue leading the way to 2030 and beyond. 

We seek to be a constant steward for the environment 
by minimizing our own direct environmental impacts 
as well as the impact associated with the use of our 
products and services. As with other leading companies 
worldwide, our aim is to achieve net-zero carbon 
emissions before 2050 in-line with the Paris Agreement. 
We are committed to adopting science-based targets 
to help us achieve this goal, and we aim to launch our 
specific carbon reduction targets in 2023. 

Furthermore, stc invests heavily in infrastructure 
development to reduce digital divides and provide 
universal, affordable access to information and 
communication for people in all geographical areas that 
we operate within. We also focus on providing services 
to groups that are at risk to be marginalized, such as 
the elderly, children, low-income households, those in 
remote areas, and many others who will benefit from 
digital inclusivity.  

We align our actions with the goal of helping to build a 
better future, and we believe the steps we have taken to 
date are already catalyzing digital transformation across 
all the communities that we are fortunate to serve.”

We have developed a rolling 3-year strategy and roadmap that is endorsed by the GCEO and sustainability committee. 
Our sustainability strategy is the vehicle which drives us towards achieving our sustainability mission by turning 
our ambitions into actions. The strategy builds on our sustainability framework and is also aligned with our dare 2.0 
corporate strategy, Saudi National Vision 2030, and the UN SDGs. 

In 2022, in line with stc’s new operating model, we refreshed out strategy to include emerging sustainability trends, 
potential ESG risks, opportunities, and impacts arising from such trends. We aim to rollout our new strategy by 2023.  
stc’s Board approves the sustainability strategy and delegates execution of the strategy to executive management. This 
includes setting KPIs, guidelines, policies, and corporate social responsibility spending, which is then approved by the 
broader management team. 

Mission:

Strategic Pillars

Strategic 
Objectives

Caring for the 
environment

- Steward 
of the 
environment 

- Catalyst for a 
transition to 
a sustainable 
environment 
for future 
generations

- Safer and 
easier to use 
products & 
services, with 
highest levels 
of customer 
care 

- Responsible 
use of 
technology 
and closing 
digital divides

- Universal access 
to affordable 
digital and 
communications 
services

- Adoption of 
world-class 
digital and 
communications 
infrastructure

- Enabler of 
innovative 
digital platforms 
and services

- Facilitating 
major 
advancements 
in energy saving 
smart solutions, 
e-health, 
e-learning and 
e-government

- Ensuring high  
   levels of  
   employee  
   satisfaction, and  
   commitment to  
   sustainability

- Investing in the  
   development  
   of the national  
   workforce

- Elevating 
standards and 
best practices 
for transparency, 
integrity, trust 
and good 
governance

- Leading the 
region in terms 
of sustainability

- Deliver value to 
stakeholders 
& contribute 
to Saudi vision 
through direct 
economic 
activities

- Foster 
economic 
growth through 
telecom/ 
digital 
infrastructure 
& services

Enriching 
lives and 
experiences

Expanding 
access to 
technology & 
connectivity 

Advancing 
innovative 
digital 
opportunities 

Be a role model for sustainability and corporate governance

Empowering 
people

Doing busi-
ness with 
integrity

Enhancing 
economic 
impacts

dare 2.0



governance model
Sustainability

23 24stc.com.sa stc.com.sa

We apply a range of policies and policy statements to our operations and relations with 
stakeholders to improve ESG performance. These are reviewed and updated periodically 
and demonstrate how we operate in an open, transparent, and responsible manner. Below 
is a non-exhaustive list of stc policies published online:

Policies and commitments

- Code of ethics and business conduct
- Privacy statement 
- Quality policy
- Conflict of interest policy
- Whistleblowing policy
- Management commitment to Occupational Health and Safety
- Anti-corruption policy statement
- Environmental policy statement
- Responsible Supply Chain policy statement
- Training and Career Development policy statement
- Responsible Marketing policy statement
- Access to Communication policy statement
- Community Involvement policy statement
- Data Privacy and Security policy statement
- Human Rights policy statement

Our commitment to sustainability is embedded in our core business practices, our purpose, and our operational 
strategy. Strong governance structures and clear lines of accountability will support stc in achieving commitments 
set out in the company’s three-year sustainability roadmap. 

stc’s sustainability governance model aims to provide a solid foundation for developing and anchoring 
sustainability strategies and targets. This model ensures that stc focuses on embedding sustainability into all 
aspects of the organization by implementing tools and integrating sustainability-related risks and opportunities, 
including ESG and climate-related risks and opportunities, in the decision-making process. 

Our CEO and Board of Directors set the tone for how sustainability is approached, which means decisions come 
from the top – and ESG considerations are an integral part of how decisions are made. Across our organization, 
throughout all our activities and business units, we are fully committed to managing stc in the most sustainable 
way possible. Corporate responsibility values are imparted on each employee to support them in recognizing the 
collective impact of individual action within a larger organization. 

The company’s sustainability management committee acts as an important vehicle for informing the board on 
sustainability issues and helping demonstrate a corporate commitment to sustainability at the highest levels. This 
committee monitors ESG risks and opportunities that stc should address, while also overseeing stc’s sustainability-
related conduct and corporate reputation. It is chaired by the GCEO, with eight members in total including the 
Chief Strategy Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Technology Officer, Chief Human Resources Officer, Group 
Shared Services Officer, Chief Legal and Risk Officer, and General Council, and Corporate Sustainability General 
Manager. 

https://www.stc.com.sa/content/dam/groupsites/en/pdf/codeofethics_EN.pdf
https://www.stc.com.sa/content/dam/groupsites/common/generic/pdfs/Human%20Rights%20Position%20Statement.pdf
https://www.stc.com.sa/content/stc/sa/en/content-page/privacy.html
https://www.stc.com.sa/content/stcgroupwebsite/sa/en/terms-and-policies/quality-policy.html
https://www.stc.com.sa/content/dam/groupsites/en/pdf/ConflictInterestsPolicy-en.pdf
https://www.stc.com.sa/content/dam/groupsites/common/generic/investors/investor-pdf/whistle-blowing-policy.pdf
https://www.stc.com.sa/content/dam/groupsites/common/generic/pdfs/Management%20commitment%20to%20Occupational%20Health%20and%20Safety%20-%2002.20.2023.pdf
https://www.stc.com.sa/content/dam/groupsites/common/generic/pdfs/Anti-Corruption%20Position%20Statement.pdf
https://www.stc.com.sa/content/dam/groupsites/common/generic/pdfs/Environmental%20Position%20Statement.pdf
https://www.stc.com.sa/content/dam/groupsites/common/generic/pdfs/Responsible%20Supply%20Chain%20Position%20Statement.pdf
https://www.stc.com.sa/content/dam/groupsites/common/generic/pdfs/Training%20and%20Career%20Development%20Position%20Statement.pdf
https://www.stc.com.sa/content/dam/groupsites/common/generic/pdfs/Responsible%20Marketing%20Position%20Statement.pdf
https://www.stc.com.sa/content/dam/groupsites/common/generic/pdfs/Access%20to%20Communication%20Position%20Statement.pdf
https://www.stc.com.sa/content/dam/groupsites/common/generic/pdfs/Community%20Involvement%20Position%20Statement.pdf
https://www.stc.com.sa/content/dam/groupsites/common/generic/pdfs/Data%20Privacy%20and%20Security%20Position%20Statement.pdf


25 26stc.com.sa stc.com.sa

Work change through digitization of 
processes and systems
(Sustainability Data Management 
System)

Teams sustainability understanding and 
culture change

Leadership buy-in and influence

Sustainability 
training covering all 

employees - 2022

Total number of training hours

4,348
Sustainability Training

Building adequate awareness and tools are key in achieving the targeted goals and 
embedding sustainability into stc’s culture.  

In 2022, we focused on building this awareness and helped in fostering a deeper 
understanding of sustainability across the stc Group. This includes launching a 
company-wide training program throughout different organizational levels including 
board members, C-suite executives, GMS, VPs, and staff members. In 2022, more than 
4,348 sustainability-training hours were provided to employees. 

Further to our mission to facilitate cultural transformation around sustainability, we 
are also working on digitizing our internal environmental and sustainability data, 
workflows, and reporting to facilitate quality and disclosure. 

Systems 
and 

processes

Change and learning
(Group-wide staff 

sustainability training)

Leadership behavior
(Board and executives ESG 

training)

cultural transformation 
Sustainability

2022 - 2024 cultural transformation

Board of Directors

- Chaired by GCEO
- Reviews and approves strategic sustainability framework 

and initiatives in line with stc’s commitments

Sets strategic sustainability direction and focus areas

Supports business areas and group functions in implementing stc’s sustainability 
ambition

- Assists integration of strategy and goals by supporting
the sustainability team

- Implements strategies, tracks performance, and engages with teams

- Quarterly manages stewardship on sustainability        
   performance

- Helps stc adopt sustainable practices to achieve stc’s 
   sustainability ambitions

Sustainability management committee

Sustainability general manager

G
ov

er
na

nc
e

C
oE

O
pe

ra
ti

on
al

Sustainability general department team

Sustainability champions

Sustainability champions 

We recognize that employee engagement is crucial for successfully implementing our sustainability objectives, goals, 
and overall strategy. stc’s Sustainability Champions working group members are nominated by the group’s executive 
management team. The working group consists of 41 members in 11 subsidiaries across 3 countries, and it helps drive 
improvements in our sustainability performance by embedding sustainability into the way we operate as a business. Key 
areas of focus for the Sustainability Champions working group include:

stc Group sustainability governance model:

Engagement – working to engage stc employees in programs that connect them to the business of sustain-
ability and drive internal performance. 

Performance – contributing to the development of each country or sustainability action plan to help stc 
identify and meet public commitments

Reporting – supporting the collection of sustainability data for internal and external reporting purposes for 
our annual Sustainability Report.

Awareness – encouraging employees to take sustainable actions into their work through clear and deep 
understanding of sustainability and what it means to stc.



27 28stc.com.sa stc.com.sa

Materiality
and stakeholder
engagement

Understanding the organizational 
context Identify actual and potential impacts:

Assess the significance of impacts Prioritize the most significant impacts 

In 2022, stc conducted an updated materiality and stakeholder engagement exercise, culminating in a 
materiality assessment conducted in accordance with GRI standards to achieve a final set of key material 
topics. The aim of this exercise is to have a more focused list of material topics. This process included the 
following steps:

In the initial step for assessing materiality, a high-level 
overview of stc’s activities, business relationships, and 
stakeholder overview, including the sustainability in which 
these can occur, were set out to identify actual and poten-
tial impacts.

With the goal of creating a ranking of importance, the third 
step in this approach identified a representative sample of 
stakeholders for consultation, which included both internal 
and external stakeholders, such as executives, key employ-
ees, investors, customers, and suppliers. Surveys were sent 
to these representatives to provide quantitative priority of 
these topics, which were then used to identify and quantify 
the significance of material impacts. 

The fourth and final step of this approach involved stake-
holder prioritization on topics based on importance and 
significance related to stc’s impacts. This culminated in 
a list of 13 main topics which were deemed to be material 
issues. The other 12 topics, which nonetheless remain im-
portant to stc, will continue to be addressed but are either 
not included in the materiality matrix or have been merged 
along with other topics.

In the second step, we identified actual and potential 
impacts on the economy, environment, and people across 
stc’s business activities and relationships. We compiled a 
list of material topics along with explanations using a wide 
variety of inputs from peer reviews, surveys, industry trends, 
UN SDGs, the Saudi Vision 2030, ESG rating agencies, and 
national and international standards, guidelines, and dec-
larations (such as GSMA, WEF, SASB, and GRI Standards). 
We also revised the previous materiality matrix to consider 
changes in the operating model structure. This resulted in a 
list of 25 ESG topics for review and discussion by stakehold-
ers and stc management. 

Please refer to Table of impacts section to read more on the 
actual and potential impacts of our material topics.

1 2

3 4

Our approach to materiality

We are actively committed to ongoing engagement with our stakeholders, enabling us to better understand 
and address their needs. Stakeholder insights and perspectives are important because they help drive 
continual business improvement and internal strategy development.  

During the stakeholder engagement process, we seek to identify topics where we have significant impacts 
in areas that matter the most to our stakeholders. Identifying these material topics helps ensure our 
reporting is directly relevant to serving our target audience and allows them to be an integral part of 
crafting our broader ESG strategy. 

Our sustainability platform helps us engage and empower our stakeholders while making our environmental, 
social, and governess (ESG) progress more transparent and accessible to everyone. This is how we are able 
to maximize economic value while simultaneously creating positive environmental impacts and supporting 
progressive social development. 

Our platform displays and demonstrates stc’s sustainability activities, services, and community initiatives to 
raise awareness and spur action regarding ciritical issues.

Visit https://sustainability.stc.com.sa/#/ to learn more about our sustainability platform. 

This is achieved through three core services: 

Volunteering Program
A service that will enable 

company employees to have 
the opportunity to volunteer 

for non-profit entities to 
enhance their participation 

in sustainable community 
development.

Technical Enablement
A service that digitally empowers 

charities and non-profit 
organizations through digital 
solutions and platforms that 

help them develop and improve 
their operational processes and 

increase efficiencies.

Knowledge Sharing
A service to provide 

training courses to build 
capacity and awareness 
of sustainability issues 

delivered in partnership with 
many specialized agencies.

platform
Our sustainability

[GRI 3-1]



As we update our materiality topics every year, our refreshed materiality topics for this year are more focused and 
comprehensive, highlighting 13 priority material issues. These topics will be addressed throughout our sustainability 
strategy, framework, and reporting. For each issue, we identified why it is material and our management approach, 
related performance metrics, and any relevant targets that have been set surrounding the issue. 

topics

Material topic Actual/ potential Negative/ positive

Data privacy, 
security and 
protection

Actual

Actual

Actual

Actual

Actual

Actual

Actual

Positive

Positive

Positive

Positive

Positive

Positive

Positive

Potential

Potential

Potential

Potential

Potential

Potential

Potential

Negative

Negative

Negative

Negative

Negative

Negative

Negative

Energy and climate 
change

Health, safety and 
wellness

Accessibility and 
digital inclusion

Business ethics and 
governance

Diversity, equality 
and inclusivity 

Supply chain 
management

Reduction of emissions and energy consumption from our direct operations 
through improvement of the energy mix by increasing renewable capacity and effi-
ciencies. Through our digital and innovative products and services we seek to help 
our customers reduce their environmental impact especially emissions and energy.

Working with companies that might have a negative environmental impact, thus 
we seek to enhance suppliers and project selection that identify and respond to 
activities that may have negative environmental impacts. 

stc monitors and reports occupational health and safety performance including 
employees and contractors through preventive actions. stc cares about employees’ 
wellness and motivates via a series of engagement, and wellness initiatives and 
programs.

Increase in the rate of accidents due to a failure to disseminate a health and safety 
culture across communities in which the stc operates.

Ensure access to ICT products and services in remote areas that serve all groups 
of people including vulnerable groups thanks to products and services quality 
improvements.  

Reduction in accessibility and digital inclusion opportunities might have 
reputational impacts as it will minimize socio-economic development 
opportunities and limit attaining new customers. 

Ensure solid governance according to international and national requirements, and 
transparent communication on group’s performance to groups’ key stakeholders 
such as investors, lenders, partners, suppliers, regulators, community, and the 
environment.

Inability to respond to stakeholders’ increased ESG expectations performance 
could negatively impact customer engagements, investor support, talent attraction 
and retention and regulatory compliance. 

Growing our diverse and inclusive work environment creates better services and 
experiences for our customers while respecting the rights of stakeholders. 

Inability to attract, develop, reward and retain talented employees, will not address 
customer needs and will not meet sustainability challenges.

Ensure sustainable procurement practices and support local procurement spend-
ing and SME support to positively contribute to the national GDP of countries we 
operate. 

Increase in environmental impacts due to a failure to adopt environmental manage-
ment policies by the suppliers with whom we conduct business.

stc focuses on data privacy, security and protection as its first material topic. In 
terms of cybersecurity maturity level, stc continues to build on its strength in 
cyber resilience, protecting stc’s information assets, safeguarding confidential and 
sensitive data for stc customers. 

Cybersecurity threats against data safety of stc and its customers remains crucial. 
These threats exists not only within stc but also its third-party contractors, which 
are considered as more vulnerable by cyber-criminals. To prevent damages of cyber 
and data threats (e.g. loss of customer/company data), the appropriate preventive 
measures should be taken throughout the organization and all value chain.

Overview of ESG impacts

Our stakeholders Our material

29 30stc.com.sa stc.com.sa

Engaging with our stakeholders and attaining their views into which material topics are most 
relevant to them was a crucial part of determining our priority material topics. Ongoing and 
effective engagement with our stakeholders are crucial to address these topics, and we strive 
to provide transparent and timely information while actively encouraging feedback pertaining 
to any and all material topics. That is why, we are aiming to align our stakeholder engagement 
approach with the Accountability AA1000 Stakeholder Engagement Standard that recognizes 3 
key principles of accountability: inclusivity, materiality, and responsiveness.

The figure below shows our main stakeholders with whom we engaged and received viewpoints 
on the most important material topics related to them. 

Refer to Appendix A to read more about each stakeholder group and how we engage with them.

Employees

Investors & Shareholders

Regulators & Governmental 
entities

Private sector

Suppliers & Business 
partners

Customers

Local Communities

International organizations

Academics

stc’s stakeholder groups

+

+

+

+

+

+

+

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

Materiality analysis – table of impacts:

[GRI 3-1]

[GRI 3-1] [GRI 3-2]



31 32stc.com.sa stc.com.sa

The GSMA’s sustainability assessment framework provides best-practice examples across the telecom 
sector and serves as a useful reference to assess performance in working towards addressing global 
challenges and opportunities. In 2022, we became a member of the GSMA’s ESG Metrics pilot project 
working group and engaged in consultation to work towards establishing, assessing and validating a 
common KPI framework for the mobile industry. 

The National Sustainability Standards created by the KSA Ministry of Commerce outlines a framework 
for comparability and harmony with the UN SDGs, the Kingdom’s 2030 National Vision, and interna-
tional agreements such as the Paris Agreement for Climate Change and the Framework Convention on 
Climate Change (UNFCCC). 

Formerly the Saudi Stock Exchange ‘Tadawul,’ the Saudi Exchange ESG Guide supports the advance-
ment of ESG reporting in Saudi Arabia and the wider region, and stc aligns its reporting framework with 
the exchange’s ESG guidelines. 

On January 9th, the GCC Exchanges Committee (chaired by the Saudi Exchange) published a unified 
set of ESG disclosure metrics aligned to the World Federal Exchanges, Sustainable Stock Exchanges 
Initiative and other sustainability reporting frameworks. stc voluntarily reports against these metrics.   

The analysis and ratings produced by specialized sustainability rating agencies and index providers 
– which assess companies based directly on ESG criteria – provide guidance to our ESG disclosure 
journey. 

Global System for Mobile 
Communications (GSMA) 

National Sustainability 
Standards by Ministry of 
Commerce (KSA) 

Saudi Exchange ESG Guide 

GCC Exchanges 
Committee

Sustainability indices and 
rating agencies

As part of our ESG journey, we are committed to enhancing transparency within our disclosures, vol-
untary initiatives, and public commitments. In an effort to effectively achieve this, we have aligned our 
reporting and practices with the following nationally and internationally recognized standards: 

stc’s non-financial reporting is prepared and presented in accordance with the GRI Standards. The GRI 
Standards provide a rigorous framework for voluntary sustainability reporting, and this report focuses 
on issues classified as particularly important in the context of the aforementioned materiality assess-
ment. 

The United Nations Global Compact is a voluntary initiative based on CEO commitments to implement 
universal sustainability principles and to undertake steps towards addressing the 17 UN SDGs. stc 
became a signatory to this voluntary initiative in December 2021 and now communicates on its progress 
annually. stc Group sustainability GM also sits on the Global Compact board in KSA. 

GRI Standards

United Nations Global 
Compact (UNGC) 

Material topic Actual/ potential Negative/ positive

Actual

Actual

Actual

Actual

Actual

Positive

Positive

Positive

Positive

Positive

Potential

Potential

Potential

Potential

Potential

Negative

Negative

Negative

Negative

Negative

Customer relations 
and satisfaction

Resource 
management

Human rights

Talent management

Community 
contribution and 
development

Increase in the quality of innovative and sustainable products and services provid-
ed to customers to enrich and improve their lives. 

Lack of clear, transparent and inclusive communication on business information.

E-waste is one of the global fastest-growing waste streams. Waste management for 
stc can not be designed without recycling and repurposing e-waste. Measures are 
being taken to increase the amount of recycled waste and e-waste.

Water is a scarce commodity in this day and age. Lack of action to manage water 
use and efficiency across facilities and operations, can have negative implications 
such as increase in its utility bills, inefficiencies and a negative public image.

Assessing and addressing human rights risks and remedying impacts across opera-
tions and the supply chain and operations.

Greater awareness of human rights atrocities puts pressure from investors, 
governments and stakeholders on companies to identify and remediate direct or 
associated human rights impacts. This requires a better understanding of legal and 
reputational risks. Insufficient capabilities to address such challenges often sits 
outside the knowledge base of teams. 

Ensure stimulating and decent work environment for our people.

Decreased job opportunities offered that fulfill people’s potential due to 
inadequate institutional support.

Social and economic development of the communities in which we operate by 
actively listening to them and addressing their needs, which in turn would improve 
public image, gain publicity, help contribute to the SDGs and national visions, or 
even offset negative aspects of operations.

The community is not experiencing the benefits they were expecting. 

Overview of ESG impacts

+

+

+

+

+

-

-

-

-

-

Changes in material topics from previous years:

Data privacy, security, and protection remained unchanged as the top material topic. Rankings of the 
remaining topics have been changed based  on the materiality assessment refresh exercise that was 
undertaken in 2022. The following material topics may have been excluded from the materiality matrix, 
however, they are addressed as described below: 

- Infrastructure expansion and resilience: addressed within the broader digital innovation and 
   transformation topic. 

- Economic performance: addressed as part of stc’s efforts in sustainability and ESG including enhancement   
   of stc’s ESG ratings and management.  

- Responsible use of products and services: addressed within supply chain and procurement management. 
  
- Competitive behavior: addressed under business ethics and governance.

frameworks
ESG disclosure

[GRI 3-1] [GRI 3-2]

https://unglobalcompact.org/participation/report/cop/advanced/477683


33 34stc.com.sa stc.com.sa

SDG 11 – Sustain-
able Cities and 
Communities

SDG 12 – Respon-
sible Production 
and Consumption

SDG 13 – Climate 
Action

SDG 16 – Peace, 
justice and strong 
institutions

We deliver digital product and service 
solutions that help build sustainable cities 
and promote resilient communities.

We have a duty to our customers to 
produce goods and services that ensure 
their safety and wellbeing while reducing 
negative environmental impacts.

The greatest impact we can have on 
climate change is through our business 
contributions to SDG 4, SDG 9, SDG 11 and 
SDG 12. We’re on our path to net zero by 
2050. 

stc’s strong governance framework ensures 
the highest ethical behavior in everything 
that we do. It also creates the parameters 
for responsibility, accountability and 
decision-making.

SDG 8 – Decent 
work and eco-
nomic growth

SDG 9 – Industry, 
innovation and 
infrastructure

SDG 10 – Reduced 
Inequalities

Providing decent economic growth, skills 
development, and job creation is embedded 
in our business strategy to find dynamic 
and innovative digital solutions for our 
customers.

We have strong infrastructure expertise 
and drive innovation and communication 
technologies forwards, which is critical in 
addressing socio-economic challenges.

We reduce inequality internally through 
staff and community empowerment through 
accessibility and development schemes.

We have ensured that our corporate strategy is aligned with the national vision by incorporating key 
components of Saudi Vision 2030 which charts a sustainable path for KSA’s future. 

The vision highlights Kingdom’s importance on a global scale while providing insight into its unique 
challenges, culture, and opportunities.  

We aim to ensure that our sustainability efforts drive positive change and transition at the national 
and local level.

We also align with the national visions of the countries we operate in:  

In Kuwait, we have helped move the country towards achieving the Kuwait Strategic Vision 2035, which seeks digital 
transformation alongside the many goals set by the state. stc played a fundamental and vital role in accelerating this 
transformation process as the company’s acquisition of Quality-net and its subsequent transformation into “solutions 
by stc” created an active technical arm that helped in enabling the overall business sector and supported several local 
projects. Moreover, this move provided a wide range of digital solutions for companies, which included data centers, 
infrastructure support, and applications for companies. Additionally, stc introduced an IoT strategy that allowed companies 
to manage their resources more efficiently and make the most of their business models in Kuwait. 

In Bahrain, stc has contributed in supporting Bahrain’s Economic Vision 2030. In terms of the business sector, we developed 
a comprehensive range of information and communication technology products including cybersecurity, asset tracking, 
data hosting, and cloud services. In terms of carriers and operators, the company has succeeded in consolidating its 
position as an empowered company in this field by providing services to more than 400 national and international 
companies. We also enhanced customer service experiences across all points of contact to advance the digital 
transformation within the Kingdom of Bahrain to move towards becoming a more digitally enabled society.

dare 2.0 was developed in alignment with the three themes of Vision 2030

Vision 2030 themes dare 2.0 themes
stc has been a key contributorin the Kingdom 
with its continuous efforts towards achieving 
Vision 2030’s goals and aspirations.

A Vibrant Society digitize stc

Backbone of KSA’s telecom and digital infrastructure 
First 5G operator in KSA and largest fiber network 

Amplified connectivity within the Kingdom
5.5x Mobile broadband speed increase (Q2 2022 vs Q2 2019)

Best digital company in the MENA region
44th digital companies in the world by Forbes

Economic driver
SAR 67.4 Bn in revenue, 3rd largest company in KSA 

Strong enabler of local content
SR 22 Bn local procurement spending 

Leader in emerging tech and digital offerings
– stcPay | stcPlay | stcTV

Key supporter during COVID-19 pandemic
Connectivity and various digital solutions

A Thriving economy

accelerate performance

An Ambitious Nation

reinvent experience

expand scale and scope

Aligning with 
national priorities frameworks

ESG disclosureOur contribution 
to the SDGs

SDG 3 – Good 
health and well-
being

SDG Our contribution
Goal 
targets

Framework 
pillar

SDG 5 – Gender 
Diversity

SDG 4 – Quality 
Education

Ensuring that our staff, customers, and local 
communities are healthy helps drive our business 
forward by reducing costs and risks while also 
creating positive outcomes for general health and 
wellbeing in our community.

We treat everyone with respect and consideration 
at all times. Our company-wide policy applies best 
sustainability practices, including support for women 
empowerment in the labor market to ensure gender 
equality and more women in leadership roles.

By supporting quality, inclusive education 
and skills development, we contribute to a 
greater pool of talent for our own workforce 
and for the economy while improving 
educational outcomes in the Kingdom.

3.3, 3.4, 
3.8, 3.

Empowering 
our people

We have identified ten priority SDGs that are globally aligned yet locally relevant to our core 
operations and geographies, and reflect our business strategy. 

Priority SDGs

We continue to acknowledge that the 17 UN SDGs are interconnected; meaning that action in one 
area will affect outcomes in others and that development must balance social, economic, and 
environmental sustainability, with proven methods needed to govern this balance.  

After several years of working towards achieving these goals, we deeply understand that commitments 
and actions from everyone are necessary to reach these ambitious targets. We recognize our important 
role in transitioning towards a more sustainable future. As a result, we continue to be committed in 
supporting the SDGs and aim to ensure our business practices are in line with the goals to promote 
positive advances and avoid detrimental impacts on society and the environment. 

4.1, 4.3, 
4.4, 4.5

Enriching 
lives and 
experiences

5.1, 5.4, 
5.5, 5.a,
5.b, 5.c

Empowering 
our people

8.2, 8.3,
8.4, 8.5, 
8.6, 8.7, 
8.8

Enhancing 
economic 
impacts

9.1, 9.3, 
9.4, 9.5, 
9.b, 9.c

Enhancing 
economic 
impacts

10.2, 10.3, 
10.4

expanding 
access to 
technology and 
connectivity

11.3, 11.4, 
11.5, 11.a,
11.b

enriching lives 
and experiences

12.2, 12.4, 
12.5, 12.7

Advancing 
innovative digital 
opportunities

13.1, 13.2 Caring for the 
environment

16.5,16.6, 
16.7, 16.8, 
16.10,16.b

Caring for the 
environment



03

35 36stc.com.sa stc.com.sa

stc is committed to being a steward of the environment, and 
as part of this commitment, we seek to minimize direct 
environmental impacts associated with operational 
processes and indirect impacts stemming from company 
products and services. We strive to support our customers 
in reducing their own environmental impacts and aim to 
implement policies that will allow us to achieve net-zero 
carbon emissions before the middle of this century.

Environment

03



37 38stc.com.sa stc.com.sa

environment
Caring for the

Managing environmental issues is very important at stc, and we consider a wide range of areas to address, 
including energy use, responsible procurement, etc. 

stc KSA’s Technology and Quality Assurance (TQA department) is ISO 50001 certified for quality assurance 
activities surrounding energy management of stc technologies, as well as ISO 27001 and ISO 14001 certified 
for quality assurance regarding environmental management of all stc technologies. 

TQA overlooks all technologies within the entire company, which means that these certifications help 
stc Group as a whole to assess energy management, including lighting and cooling in buildings, as well 
as to assess the effectiveness of these energy efficiency policies within major  facilities  that support 
stc services, such as exchanges and data centers. Our TQA department is essential for evaluating stc’s 
company-wide resource management activities, facility efficiencies, and environmental practices that 
support efficiency improvements and positive environmental impacts, such as recycling and monitoring 
waste. 

We aim to fulfill all of our environmental and social commitments to our customers and the communities 
that we serve by reducing pollution, contamination, visual impacts, and unnecessary noise levels that 
may disturb normal coexistence. Our Environmental Policy Statement affirms our commitment to careful 
stewardship of the environment and underlines our compliance with relevant laws and regulations that 
apply to our business operations. 

Our path to net zero

Our priorities for addressing climate change

Actions, 
achievements & 
ambitions

- Joined the global movement of leading 
companies aligning their business with the 
Paris Agreement to reach net zero emis-
sions by no later than 2050, in line with the 
1.5° C scenario 

- Committed to adopting science-based 
targets

- Reduce scope 1 emissions by 50%

- Meet our science-based targets to reduce 
Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 47% from 
2019 baseline in alignment with ≤ 1.5°C of 
warming

- Identified scope 1 and 
scope 2 emissions bounda-
ries and impact  

- Explored renewable energy 
options 

- Signed first renewable energy pilot project 
contract for 17 sites across KSA 

- Developed scope 1 and scope 2 emissions 
baseline across stc KSA infrastructure

- Developed a robust and detailed GHG 
inventory

- Developed Science-based 
targets according to SBTi 
guidelines for ICT sector 

- Submitted 2030 scope 1 and 
scope 2 emissions to the 
SBTi for verification (May 
2023) 

- Improved emission data 
management procedure

Year 2019

2027

2030

2020

2023

2050

2021

2022

We acknowledge that climate change is one of the most difficult and serious challenges that humankind has ever faced 
and, given the fact that industrial CO2 is the biggest driver of this, our aim is to achieve net-zero carbon emissions as 
quickly and efficiently as possible within the parameters of our business. stc’s environmental strategy aims to promote 
environmental sustainability in all aspects of the company’s operations, in addition to the actions of our customers, 
suppliers, and business partners. 

As of 2022, ambitious targets have been set to reduce climate change impacts through our operations, products, and 
services. We are committed to adopting the Science Based Targets (SBTs) and have aligned our business practices and 
operations with the Paris agreement to reach net zero-carbon emissions before 2050. 

Our priorities framework establishes a clear, ambitious vision with measurable objectives to direct all departments and 
subsidiaries towards our shared goal of reaching net-zero. We recognize the unique opportunity that our reputation, 
technologies, and market position provide to enable wider sustainable leadership within and beyond the ICT sector: 
our ambition is not only to drive climate action through operational optimization and efficiencies, but also to influence, 
support, and collaborate with companies, customers, and communities to enable greater positive impact on the 
environment. 

Our priorities for addressing climate change framework:

Each pillar is supported by specific targets, KPIs, and initiatives with a detailed implementation plan for the period of 2023 – 2030. We recognize that our climate action journey will be iterative and will require robust lead-
ership, oversight, and governance, and, as such, pillar champions will support the Climate Strategy implementation.

climate change
Energy and 

Optimizing stc’s performance

Managing climate-related risks & 
financial impacts

Promote continuity and quality of information, ensure that 
carbon reduction commitments are achieved, and provide a 
foundation for improvement & system analyses.

Reduce climate impacts from materials, products, and services 
used or provided by stc and the company’s  value chain.

Assess and manage stc’s climate-related risks in a manner that 
future-proofs the company’s operations and ensures alignment 
with stakeholder expectations.

Empower stc’s partners and supply chain to influence climate 
action at the local and global scale.

- Climate permanence governance
- Scope 1 emissions management program
- Scope 2 emissions management program 

- Effective value chain 
- Sustainable customers
- Engaged supply chain

- Carbon enablement
- Climate risk evaluation
- Climate resilient assets & services

- Internal and external  
   empowerment

Developing eco-friendly products 
and solutions

Demonstrating climate 
leadership

Objective Programs Priority

- stc commitment to plant 1 
million  
   trees by 2030

- Achieve net-zero emissions

https://www.stc.com.sa/content/dam/groupsites/common/generic/pdfs/Environmental%20Position%20Statement.pdf


39 40stc.com.sa stc.com.sa

Energy consumption 

We understand the need for businesses around the world to rethink their entire production processes to shift towards 
more sustainable operations, and we aim to be a leader in this regard. With this in mind, we take an active role in managing 
energy consumption by promoting the use of digital solutions for our own business activities and for those of our 
customers. 

stc Group utilizes big data analytics to deliver actionable insights and  systems that help optimize  energy consumption 
and implement “green” solutions moving the company and all stakeholders, customers, and community members toward 
greater environmental responsibility. 

In 2022, we achieved a 16% reduction in our total electricity consumption for all stc KSA buildings, due in large part to the 
energy efficiency initiatives implemented throughout the previous year. While stc KSA did record an increase in diesel 
consumption, this was almost entirely due to the increased demand of our shuttle bus services in the HQ complex. We 
also achieved a 7% decrease in petrol consumption.

* stc KSA restated figures for years 2020 and 2021 for improved calculation methodologies.
** Energy intensity not available at a group level, but we are in the process of measuring all indicators at a group level and will disclose in next report.
*** Group column includes stc KSA, stc Bahrain, stc Kuwait, TAWAL, ccc, Channels, Sirar, Specialized, Intigral.

Entities included are stc KSA, stc Bahrian, 
stc Kuwait, TAWAL, ccc, Channels, Sirar, 
Specialized, Intigral 

* Group column includes stc KSA, stc Bahrain, stc Kuwait, TAWAL, ccc, Channels, Sirar, Specialized, Intigral.
** Base stations for stc KSA are not applicable as its under TAWAL.
*** sc KSA figures for years 2020 and 2021 restated for improved calculation methodologies.

stc KSA 
Energy consumption by 

infrastructure

stc Group 
Energy consumption by 

infrastructure

Exchanges Base stationData centers Data centers
Buildings BuildingsFleet Fleet

50%

2%

22%

21%

7%

Fuel 
consumption
(Liters)

Energy 
consumption 
in GJ

Energy 
intensity

Energy 
Consumption 

Electricity 
consumption 
from buildings

Energy 
consumption 
by telecom 
infrastructure

Total petrol consumption

Direct energy consumption 
(GJ)

Energy intensity 
(GJ/Petabyte)

Total electricity consumption from 
buildings (GJ)

Data centers (GJ)

Exchanges (GJ)

Total energy 
consumption (GJ)

4,499,238.63

173,354

283.3

880,246

455,163

1,450,268

1,905,431

33,327.47

2,785,677

2,959,031

-

4,770,225.46

174,460

450.9

4,451,959

174,804

413.5

4,983,332.63

2,924,725

9,835,559.92

2,921,054

10,033,319

2,695,610

642,553 541,442 908,224 698,805 608,893

479,746 570,583 455,163 507,283 629,401

1,390,648

1,870,395

1,289,386

1,859,969

1,450,268

4,638,295

1,390,648

8,707,849

1,289,386

8,631,603

47,504.99

2,512,948

2,687,407

81,952.40

2,401,411

2,576,215

58,753,740.47

2,813,655

5,738,380

53,623,861.98

6,671,801

9,592,855

46,485,324.40

6,747,750

9,443,359

- - 2,732,864 6,809,918 6,712,816

Total diesel consumption

Indirect energy consumption 
(GJ)

Total direct and indirect 
energy consumption (GJ)

Base stations (GJ)

stc KSA

stc KSA

stc Group

stc Group

2020

2020

2021

2021

2022

2022

2020

2020

2021

2021

2022

2022

Exchanges

Our targets

Challenge

We have committed to carbon neutrality in line with the goals of the Paris Agreement by 2050. In addition to this, we have 
the following ambitious climate targets against our 2019 baseline.

As we are expanding our scope and cascading the strategy to entire group, we are building the capacity of our teams 
to properly capture and measure environmental performance. We are also building partnerships to help us achieve our 
targets. In 2025, we aim to cascade our environmental strategy across entire group. 

50% Reduction in scope 1
absolute emissions by 2027

47% Reduction in Scope 1 & 2
absolute emissions by 2030
as per SBTi guidelines

Net-Zero emissions by 2050 
UNGC & GSMA Commitment

50% 47%
Net- 
Zero

6%

6%

13%
73%

stc’s drive to reduce its carbon footprint led them to explore energy-saving opportunities within their exchanges, 
resulting in the implementation of innovative solutions that optimized the energy consumption.

One of the most energy consuming systems at stc exchanges is the HVAC system. Finding the optimal set-point for 
the HVAC systems is a reasonable step in the energy optimization way. However, it was achieved by monitoring the 
temperatures, adjusting the set-points and utilizing the AHU and DX units to fit the site specifications and to meet 
ASHRAE specifications. Moreover, the utilization of the Direct Current Power Plants (DCPPs) were optimized by 
balancing the load on the modules to meet the recommended range to fit the exchange energy requirements with the 
full possible availability. Additionally, a huge number of lights were replaced with LED lights to enhance the energy 
efficiency.

All of these improvements implemented with zero capital expenditure (CAPEX) and contributed to an 11% reduction in the 
energy consumption of the exchanges compared to the year 2020.

[GRI 2-4]



41 42stc.com.sa stc.com.sa

Energy optimization for data centers 
Through our ambitious data center energy optimization project, we aim to decrease the electrical power consumed by 
cooling systems and improve the energy efficiency and power usage effectiveness (PUE) of stc’s data centers.

These goals are achieved by deploying Hot Aisle Containment (HAC) in all data halls, increasing computer room air 
handling (CRAH) temperature settings, and increasing chilled water temperature settings. This helps manage airflow 
within our data centers, which consequently lowers energy usage, cooling costs, and therefore operational costs.

We also ensure that we utilize efficient cooling and heat recovery processes within our data centers with smart sensors 
that are placed inside the Data Halls. These are integrated with our Building Management System (BMS) for the remote 
monitoring, CRAHs in the data hall are automated in team mode, which, in turn, controls the position of the valves as part 
of the desired temperature range. 

Other energy-optimizing practices we have installed include Variable Refrigerant Flow (VRF) technology in the corridor 
area and Variable Frequency Drives (VRF) for controlling flow discharge in the in secondary chilled water pumps, which 
regulate speed of flow as per demand from sensors.

 Sustainable considerations in new data centers:

As a result of our new sustainability considerations, we have seen a PUE improvement of between 25%-30% in 
new data centers compared to 2019.

In 2022, stc KSA utilized 70% of new data centers while 10% of old data centers were without load, which, 
alongside relatively less efficient infrastructure of old DCs, causes higher PUE records. 

However, it is worth mentioning that 5 of the new data centers as part of the New Era Infrastructure Data Centers 
have achieved 1.4 -  1.6 average PUE during testing and commissioning.

Looking ahead, we plan to complete six data centers by 2023. We also plan to install 265 kW solar at one of our 
data centers, which will contribute an estimated reduction of 261 t/year of carbon emissions. Please refer to the 
New Era Infrastructure Data Centers section to learn more.

Sourcing locally produced 
materials

Optimizing supply chain to 
minimize transport

Evaluating contractors based on 
whole lifecycle of infrastructure

Minimizing electrical cables 
through correct placement and 

routing 

Placing energy efficiency mandates 
on all power and cooling equipment

Data centers and 
exchnages

Number of exchanges

Power usage effectiveness 
(average PUE) of old data 

centers

Number of data centers 
owned by stc

Power usage effective-
ness (average PUE) of new 

data centers

215

2.09

-

1.82

13

1.68

224

2.05

-

1.81

13

1.61

223

2.24

-

2.10

13

1.63

8

-

2

NA

2

NA

9

-

2

NA

2

NA

11 

1.91

2

NA

2

NA

stc KSA stc Bahrain stc Kuwait

2020 2020 20202021 2021 20212022 2022 2022

* NA as in not applicable for Bahrain and Kuwait since no new data centers are in operations. 
** New data centers for stc KSA were in operation in 2022 so no previous data is available.

Restated figures due to improved calculation methodology

Number of base stations

Number of base stations 
powered by diesel

15,524

1,468

69 

788

15,524

1,269

69

1,072

16,106

1,045

69

1,051

Number of base stations powered 
by renewable energy

Number of base stations powered by 
other types of energy (Hybrid - single DG 

and battery)

Base stations – TAWAL 2020 2021 2022

Energy efficiency at tower sites
Our towers in Saudi Arabia are managed by TAWAL, the region’s first and largest telecom tower company. TAWAL 
provides leading integrated ICT infrastructure in KSA for over 16,000 telecom towers, and through TAWAL, we aim to 
boost infrastructure-sharing capabilities that will enable customers to achieve operational efficiencies, minimize 
expenses, and reduce our collective environmental impact. We also aim to improve operational excellence and 
accrue higher profits for all by enhancing tower sharing. 

This results from reduced capital expenses needed for network rollouts and lowered operating expenses for 
managing infrastructure at multiple sites. Tower sharing also provides additional benefits for congested urban areas, 
including minimizing infrastructure duplications and excessive network redundancies, as well as reducing visual 
pollution that usually results from dense equipment installations.   

Promoting energy efficiency is one of TAWAL’s strategic pillars, with a focus on reducing energy consumption by 
promoting efficient energy solutions for over 16,000 towers. 

In 2022, TAWAL successfully maintained ISO 14001:2015 certification for Environmental Management Systems, which 
was first achieved the previous year. TAWAL recorded around 20% avoidance of GHG emissions in 2022, and 30% 
cumulative versus the baseline. 

In Bahrain, we’re in the process of constructing 13 towers to improve network connection and Internet services.

Solar energy at stc buildings

Solar energy is one of the fastest growing renewable energy sources; as photovoltaic (PV) technology advances and 
production costs continue to decrease, we are steadfastly increasing the usage of solar energy throughout our HQ 
premises. 

In 2022, at stc KSA headquarters, two solar powered sites were in operation and five had completed construction but were 
not yet in operation. There will be a total of nine sites in 2023, with an average annual generation of 7 GWh for a total 
installed capacity of over 4.3MW.

Case study: Go-Green initiative
In 2022, we launched the Go-Green initiative to improve our green footprint of applications operations through 
increasing overall awareness about Green Technology Practices, IT Resource reclamation and Re-use, energy 
consumption reduction, and obtaining the 14001 Environmental Management System certification. By the end 
of 2022, we conducted our first awareness session on green IT and sustainability concepts. We also reallocated 
unused computer resources such as CPUs, cores, storage, etc to increase their lifetime and reduce procurement 
costs. For the energy reduction plans, we started our first step to reduce the uptime of more than 2,000 devices 
by 15%, which in turn reduces the overall electricity consumption. For our next phase in 2023, we plan to reduce 
uptime for more than 20K devices.

Renewable 
energy Number of solar powered sites 2 2 7 3 3 10

stc KSA stc Group

2020 2021 2022 2020 2021 2022

[GRI 2-4]



43 44stc.com.sa stc.com.sa

Renewable Energy Pilot Project

Case study: Reducing fuel emissions
TAWAL is committed to making a positive impact on the local community and ensure environmental sustainability. 
Reducing emissions and promoting green energy is a strategic contributor towards achieving this ambition.
As such, TAWAL worked on its fuel emission reduction to promote green energy initiative that covers the following 
aspects:

Case study: PV solar system for technical buildings in KSA  
We’re starting the installation the PV solar system at our technical buildings in Riyadh. We are installing PV solar 
panels across 7 different sites with annual production of 1.7 GWh and estimated CO2 emission reduction of over 960 
metric tons of emissions annually. 

Our renewable energy pilot project aims to install solar photovoltaic systems within the existing 
infrastructure of the KSA, including parking buildings, warehouses, sales outlets, and other physical 
assets in the built environment. This project, which was initiated in 2021 and is scheduled to be 
completed by 2024, will help pave the way for new energy models within critical infrastructure while 
also reducing carbon emissions by an estimated 8000 metric tons annually and generating over 14.2 
GWh of annual green energy. It falls under the framework of the Green Saudi Initiative, where the 
public and private sectors work together to accelerate the transition towards a green economy in the 
Kingdom. As of the end of 2022, 58% of planned construction has been completed for the project. 

As a result, TAWAL was able to achieve more than 30% reduction in emissions since its inception. TAWAL also 
achieved more than 30% reduction in the emission intensity on EPA basis.

Reduce GHG emissions: iden-
tify sources of emissions at 
the organizational level and 
promote alternative energy 
solutions (grid connectivity, 
hybrid, solar, etc.)

Promote green energy 
solutions: identify possible 
alternative energy solutions 
to push for efficient energy 
consumption and reducing 
emissions

Promoing tower sharing: avoid 
tower duplication by promot-
ing for more tower sharing 
amongst MNOs

Phase 1

9 sites

7,643 PV panels

 4,259 total installed (kW)

29,402 tCO2 total emissions reduction  30,167  tCO2 total emissions reduction 5,149,615 trees saved

9 sites

7,804 PV panels

 4,370 total installed (kW)

18 sites

 8,629 total installed (kW)

Approximately 8,088 tCo2 reduction 
annually

14,238,708 kWh annually 

Rooftops, parkings, buildings, data 
center, warehouse and outlet in Riyadh

Data centers and warehouses in Qassim, 
Makkah, Jeddah, Madinah, Dammam

15447 PV panels

Phase 2 and 3 Total

The risks and challenges associated with climate change are becoming increasingly real and visible within 
economies globally. As a result, the correlation between climate change and energy consumption has 
received increasing attention from policymakers over the past decade.  

As global energy consumption continues to expand to meet modern-day living demands, greenhouse 
gases (GHG) and especially carbon dioxide (CO2) levels are intensifying within our atmosphere, which 
is the primary contributing factor to climate change and global warming. A global response has been 
triggered to tackle the challenge of dangerous climate change. The frequency and severity of extreme 
weather events are increasing.  

Across the globe, we have witnessed storm events and forest fires causing unprecedented damage to 
infrastructure, as well as loss of human life and the destruction of ecosystems. Avoiding the worst impacts 
of climate change requires cutting carbon emissions in half by 2030. Therefore, since the climate crisis is 
a threat on the horizon; it requires urgent attention, at scale, today.

We are committed to playing our part. We are setting ambitious targets and taking necessary actions to 
manage and reduce carbon emissions from our own operations and throughout our value chain. 
stc has established an ambitious target to achieve net-zero emissions by 2050, committing to the science-
based targets initiative in 2019 as well as the United Nations Global Compact Business Ambition for 1.5°C. 
This is also reflected in the GSMA climate policy target, which stc aims to comply with. 

In 2022, stc committed to reducing scope 1 and 2 emissions by 47% compared to the 2019 baseline and have 
submitted its targets to the science-based targets initiative (SBTi) for validation on May 2023.  

As one of the first regional telecom operators to adopt science-based targets following the ICT sector 
pathway, stc will establish a comprehensive climate strategy and implementation plan to manage 
and monitor climate performance, gain competitive advantage, benefit from innovative products, and 
accelerate climate action in the region. As part of the climate strategy, stc has developed primary targets 
aligned to SBTi commitments and the ultimate goal of being net-zero by 2050.

GHG emissions

Scope 2 
44%

Scope 1 
17%

Scope 3 
39%

As we continue on the path to net-zero emissions by 2050, we plan to improve our oper-
ational efficiency and carbon output year over year. This began with identifying SBTs in 
2022, and will continue with subsequent ongoing publication of our progress. Our goal in 
providing continuous updates is not only to highlight our progress but also to spur others 
in the region to follow our lead.  

50%

reduction in scope 1 
absolute emissions 
by 2027

reduction in scope 1 
and 2 absolute 
emissions by 2030

Net zero 
emissions by 
2050

47% Net Zero

Categories measured: capital goods, purchased 
goods and services, business travel, use of sold 
products energy and fuel related activities.

Total Saving During PV 
Solar system lifespan

Annual PV system 
Production

Annual CO2 Emission 
Reduction

Total Roof Top 
Areas

Annual Cost  
Saving

% of PV System Contribution to 
The Total Consumption

6,719,281.9 SR

 1.7 GWh

1,206 metric tons

~6,085 m2

SAR 229,756 

7%

Annual Equivalent 
Tree Planting
19,944 trees 



45 46stc.com.sa stc.com.sa

Scope 1 carbon emissions (CO2)

Total Scope 1 carbon emissions 
(CO2)

10,528 203,382

569,640

773,022

203,182

1,175,974

1,379,156

187,217

1,174,589

1,361,807

439,518

450,046

10,595

396,487

407,083

10,616

378,889

389,506

-Scope 2 carbon emissions (CO2)

2020 2020

stc KSA stc Group

2021 20212022 2022

In 2022, TAWAL achieved a year-over-year reduction of 20% compared to 2021, driven largely by an 
aggressive push for onsite electrification. TAWAL also recorded a 25.6% improvement in emissions 
intensity compared to 2021 and has achieved cumulative GHG reductions of more than 30% since 
inception in 2019. 

Supporting afforestation in Bahrain

stc Bahrain’s “Trees for Life” campaign is a collaborative and nationwide initiative that supports the government of 
Bahrain’s national afforestation plans and sustainable initiatives within the Kingdom of Bahrain. This campaign was 
developed as a collaboration between stc Bahrain, the Supreme Council for Environment, the Ministry of Works, 
Municipalities Affairs, and Urban Planning. Trees for Life aims to support the Kingdom’s national afforestation 
plans to double the number of trees in Bahrain from 1.8 to 3.6 million trees by 2035, as part of its commitment to 
implementing sustainable development initiatives country-wide.

In 2022, stc Bahrain planted 7,000 trees in different locations around the southern areas of Bahrain, including 
specially-selected Al Ghaf trees, Sidr trees, and Al Gardh trees. These desert trees are known for their drought-
tolerance, which can remain green even in harsh desert environments.

stc Bahrain aims to plant 35,000 trees by 2023, reaching 25% of the Kingdom’s target, with the next phase of the 
program aiming to plant 50,000 trees.  

As part of the Crown Prince Mohammed Bin Salman’s tree-planting program “Let’s Make it Green” – and in alignment 
with the Saudi Green Initiative (SGI) – TAWAL launched its initiative to plant trees in cooperation with the National 
Center for Vegetation Cover and Combating Desertification, Vegetation Development Corporation “Murouj”, and 
through the national charity platform “Ehsan”. In 2022, TAWAL planted 1,500 trees, effectively reaching 4,500 trees in 
total since 2021.  

stc KSA is committed to planting 1 million trees by 2030. This initiative will start by planting 200,000 trees around the 
sites of communication towers in Taif Governorate, which will represent 20% of the group’s main commitment.

Our contribution to the “Let’s Make it Green” initiative

Water is a scarce and valuable resource in the MENA region, and stc is especially committed to increasing 
the efficiency of water use. Our business operations consume water mainly from water utility companies for 
domestic and firefighting uses, tankers for backup use, and wells for irrigation. Overall, our consumption 
principally comes in the form of sanitation and air-conditioning usage. 

In 2022, stc KSA’s water consumption remained relatively static; however, it is worth noting that stc KSA HQ 
commenced major construction activities over the past year and relocated some subsidiaries to the main 
campus. stc Bahrain, on the other hand, recorded a 66% reduction in water consumption, with more than 60% 
of gray water being re-used for agricultural irrigation. 

management
Water

Water 
consumption

Total water consumption (m3) 303,789 335,059297,087 623,808296,383 358,869

stc KSA stc Group

2020 20202021 20212022 2022

* Group figures include stc KSA, stc Bahrain, stc Kuwait, Channels, Specialized, ccc, and Sirar. Water consumption data for TAWAL, Channels, Aqalat and Intigral is not available.

1%

Fleet Fleet

Exchanges Exchanges

Data Centers Data Centers

Base Station

Buildings Buildings

3%

7%
7%

15%

70%

23%

22%

52%



47 48stc.com.sa stc.com.sa

Waste management

stc has implemented several policies to  manage and optimize the use of materials throughout their 
respective life cycles. These involve commitments to implementing lower impact activities and more effi-
cient materials in our purchases, aiming to select products made from recycled and recyclable materials 
whenever possible. 

Our SAWA rechargeable cards are made from 100% recyclable plastic, and we have also digitized our SIM 
process by introducing eSIM technology to replace physical SIM cards. This saves on plastics, CO2 emis-
sions, and logistical complications. In 2022, more than 1.2 million eSIM cards were newly issued through the 
mystc application.  

We also seek to minimize waste and limit the loss of materials through effective recycling, and responsibly 
disposing of equipment and e-waste through a partner in accordance with the regulations of the National 
Center for Environmental Compliance (NCEC). Our partner recycles and reuses stc’s AC radiators, cables, 
transformers, steel, cars, and e-waste. In 2022, stc KSA recycled 7,400 e-waste. At stc KSA, the Material 
Management sector signed an agreement with a local recycling company to recycle all disposed assets. 

Furthermore, we continued our paperless work environment initiative through the ‘go paperless’ program. 
This program has reduced paper waste by digitizing all internal transactions and automating paper-based 
transactions to reduce cost, improve sustainability, and improve overall operational excellence. stc KSA 
recorded a 55% and 91% reduction in paper consumption in comparison to 2021 and 2020, respectively.

In 2022, TAWAL recorded 1,250 metric tons of waste generated from both network activities and opera-
tional maintenance, of which 61% was recycled. TAWAL plans to fully launch a comprehensive recycling 
program in 2023.  

Waste

Materials  
consumption 

Total waste generated 
in HQ (t)

Paper consumption (t)

230

14.89*

4,080

895

350

3.04*

4,550

924

750

1.37

5,530

1,003

stc KSA

stc KSA

stc Group

stc Group

2020

2020

2020

2020

2021

2021

2021

2021

2022

2022

2022

2022

* Restated due to improved methodologies of tracking consumption.

As an infrastructure company, TAWAL generates waste from the use and deployment of steel structures,  
cables, fuel, oil filters, batteries, and other equipment. In 2022, TAWAL embarked on a project to avoid 
possible violations of local environmental regulations while promoting responsible waste handling. This 
was implemented to ensure that TAWAL complies with international best practices in terms of waste 
management and to become certified for waste recycling from a government-approved organization.

TAWAL subsequently formed a recycling and certification service agreement with an organization licensed 
by the General Authority of Meteorology and Environmental Protection to support with the following 
activities: 

1) Collection of disposable materials
2) Recycling of disposed materials
3) Ensure reusing (i.e. via selling services)
4) Certification services 

In 2022, a total weight of 984.5 metric tons was generated from more than 19,000 network assets, with more 
than 15,000 of these being recycled. Our target is to recycle at least 66% of our total network waste 
generated in 2023. 

Waste recycling and certification

stc KSA trade-in program

In 2022, stc KSA launched the trade-in program and the renewed devices program in cooperation with channels by 
stc. 

These programs allow customers to tarde-in or recycle their devices to reduce clutter, protect the environment, and 
earn stc account credit, while having their old device recycled or refurbished for further use. We then clean-up and 
repackage devices, re-selling them to other customers at an affordable price. 

More than 1,400 devices were collected as part of the trade-in program in 2022, and our target is to reach 110,000 
devices in 2023. 

[GRI 2-4]



49 50stc.com.sa stc.com.sa

stc strives to enrich the lives and experiences of employees, 
customers, and stakeholders through empowering people, 
improving customer experiences, and serving the communi-
ties in which the company operates. 

People are at the heart of everything we do, and because of 
this we aim to foster a culture at stc that values inclusivity, 
empowerment, and social progress. We champion diversity, 
equity, and inclusion by consciously and continually 
building a more diverse workforce, which extends our 
positive social impact well beyond our office walls. 

We are unequivocally committed to supporting and helping 
those who make our success possible by expanding access 
to innovative technologies, advancing digital opportunities, 
and empowering our people, all of which help to improve 
lives in both direct and indirect manner. 

Social

04



51 52stc.com.sa stc.com.sa

and experiences
Enriching lives

The products and services that stc provides, create an enormous and unique opportunity to enrich the lives of 
customers and stakeholders, and the way in which the company operates provides even more opportunities for the lives 
of employees to be enriched. This is possible by providing high-quality telecommunications and digital products and 
services that allow people to create, share, and utilize digital tools to make their professional and personal lives better. 

We also work tirelessly to make sure that all of our products and services are safe, easy to use, and promote the 
responsible use of technology. Our overarching goal is to achieve the highest levels of customer care and satisfaction, 
the highest levels of employee satisfaction, and to help close economic, social, and digital divides.

stc positions itself as a far-sighted organization which delivers exemplary quality of services in all forms to its 
Customers, Staff and Suppliers, supported through innovative & new technology solutions utilizing the power of digital 
transformation as one of digital champions and leaders in the region focused on innovation and evolution and continues 
thinking about future to make it, to stay ahead as a truly meaningful and purposeful organization. 

As organizations evolve, so do the strategies, structures and controls that they deploy.

stc corporate-based CEx & DT has been established as a cross functional entity to independently unify & maintain 
group-based Customer Experience & drive Digital Transformation strategy adaptation to Increase growth and enable 
CEx enhancements.

Now that a standardized strategy and customer experience journey concept has been established, we will be able 
to utilize a consistent and harmonized approach to drive customer centricity and help enrich lives and experiences 
through high-quality services and innovative digital products. We also aim to make our services safer and easier to 
use while promoting the responsible use of technology to go beyond customer expectations and help close economic, 
social, and digital divides. 

Our focus on the customer journey is necessary to deliver end-to-end, 360-degree view of customer interactions 
using all stc services and products throughout all communications channels such as telephone, web, marketing 
communications, service interactions, and different systems that contribute to customer service delivery. Studying 
these journeys allows us to improve our services and offerings from the perspective of the customer.

Customer relations and satisfaction

Corporate Customer Experience (CCEx) 

stc has worked diligently to position the company as a far-sighted organization that delivers exemplary quality of 
products and services, in all forms, to all its customers, staff, and suppliers. This has been accomplished through 
developing new and innovative technology solutions by utilizing the power of digital transformation as one of the 
foremost digital champions and leaders in the region. Focusing on innovation, digital evolution, and the future of 
technology has allowed us to lead the way as a truly meaningful and purposeful organization.  

As part of this forward-thinking approach, the strategies, structures, and controls deployed by stc have evolved 
and improved. We have recently established the Corporate-based Customer Experience (CCEx) and Digital 
Transformation (DT) cross-functional entities to independently unify and maintain group-based customer 
experiences and drive digital transformation strategy adaptation, increase growth, and enable CCEx enhancements.

Customer experience is constantly evolving and has rapidly become a cornerstone in many businesses. The global 
telecommunications industry has followed the lead of major retailers and other service industries, progressing from 
being technology-centric to more customer-centric, aligning digital services to ensure customer satisfaction and 
anticipate customer needs. In developing a customer-centric culture within stc, we are aiming to ensure that everything 
we do is driven by a focus on the customer. We are developing mechanisms to better understand our customers and 
identify suitable alternatives for their needs, if necessary.

Our ongoing commitment at stc Group is to continue developing customer centricity, accelerating the progress 
of digital transformation initiatives and ensuring that we deliver quality products and services to highly engaged 
customers.

Our Group CEX strategic themes is aligned with dare 2.0 strategy focusing on ‘Reinvent’ of the stc customer with a ho-
listic view for a seamless, personalized and sustainable experience.

Customer experience 

Corporate Customer Experience CCEx - strategic themes

Group commercial unit Group business unit Group wholesale unit Group markets unit

Unified CEx & DT strategy

E2E customer journey-base visibility & digitization

360 customer centric view & platform

Customer centric & digital culture

CEx & DT measures & indices

stc Group CEx & DT one view

Group CEx & DT

Instill digital mindset 
and unlock the potential 
of digital and analytical 
capabilities

Reimagine CEx modus operandi
Build an agile organization with the right capabilities to quickly adapt to 

changing market dynamics, 
standardize CEx approach and measurement

and leverage technology and advanced analytics capabilities to 
continuously enhance CEx

Activate seamless, frictionless and digital journeys
Simplify and digitize interactions; ensure consistency in experiences 

across touchpoints, segments and products

Instill a differentiated customer treatment
Tailor treatment plans optimized for each customer segment and 

enhance loyalty approach

Strengthen quality of service for core and growth services
Present a superior and consistent quality of service across all offerings

Engrain a CEx centric culture
Enable an empowered organization and infuse accountability for CEx 

related performance and achievements

Excite customers with a 
seamless, personalized 
and secure experience

Grow by expanding into selected growth pillars 
within digital services and core

Maximize shareholder 
returns by transforming 
costs and monetizing 
assets 
Connect our markets 
through leading next-
gen technology and 
digital offerings

Transform into an agile 
technology company and 
embrace new ways of 
working

Be the trusted partner-
of-choice for business in 
the region

Be a role model for 
sustainability and Group 
governance

Lead company-wide 
culture change be the 
employer of choice for 
top digital talent

dare 2.0 Strategic Objectives CEx Strategic Themes

R

A

I

S

E

R A I S E

D

A

R

E



53 54stc.com.sa stc.com.sa

Data center 1

Customer satisfaction and loyalty
Providing an excellent customer experience is the bedrock for increasing customer satisfaction and loyalty, as well as 
attracting new customers and retaining existing ones. With this, we are continuing our customer-centric transformation 
process, with a particular focus on improving the overall customer experience and strengthening the relationship 
between customers and our brand. 

We monitor the customer satisfaction index (CSI) and aim to collect information on the quality of our products and 
services as perceived by our customers. 

In 2022, stc KSA maintained an overall customer satisfaction rate of 82%. This was based on more than 3.7 million 
customer responses from a CSAT survey focused on customer satisfaction at different levels, helping us understand 
pain points and develop a roadmap to best-in-class customer experience. stc Bahrain and stc Kuwait recorded 78% and 
87%, respectively, showcasing improved satisfaction levels by 18% and 7%. 

We ensure clear and transparent communication with all customers by verifying that each customer has reviewed and 
understood the terms and conditions outlined within their respective contracts prior to proceeding with any requests, 
changes, account creations, or any other account modifications. Sales and marketing teams are trained to provide fair 
advice about our products and services. 

To ensure full visibility of agreements with customers, we train employees to explain all the terms and conditions prior 
to signing any document. We keep record of the contracts in our systems and share a copy with the customer. Our staff-
customer interactions are recorded for quality purposes. 

To ensure our customers feel recognized and listened to, we offer loyalty programs. Qitaf, our customer loyalty program, 
allows customers to collect points and exchange them with a set of rewards, either internal as free calls, SMS and data, 
or external rewards through Qitaf partners. Tamayouz is a program designed for special customers with exclusive offers 
and high-end personalized services. stc Rewards and Testahel are our loyalty programs in Bahrain and Kuwait allowing 
customers to redeem points for amounts spent on any of our services. 

We strive to swiftly manage potential conflicts of interest between stc and clients, offering advice in a fair and ethical 
manner while utilizing responsible marketing and sales techniques. Our Responsible Marketing Policy Statement 
confirms our commitment to ethical sales, transparent communication, and responsible marketing practices.  

We do our best to ensure our customers know their rights. In alignment with the Communications, Space & Technology 
Commission’s (CST) campaign, we have published two new sections that can be found on the stc website: “Customer 
Rights and Responsibilities” and “Complaint Processing Procedures” – both of which are positioned alongside 
explanatory texts covering  transparency principles related to all tariffs, rules, additional features, excluded services, 
commitments, fair use limits, and unit prices.

Managing conflicts of interest and responsible marketing

Customer complaints

Customer satisfaction

Call Center 
Productivity

Customer Complaints
Customer satisfaction rate

First Call Resolution 
(FCR) rate

Number of customer 
complaintsNumber of customers 

surveyed for satisfaction 
rate

79%

86

1,562

53%

92

67,026

83%

-

3,659,196

99%

-

82%

87

1,239

60%

96

79,061

80%

85

 2,227,713 

99%

10H  

81%

80

1,157

78%

96

83,238

87%

88

2,358,594

99%

11H

847,337 - -3,500,324 - -4,604,777 - -

stc KSA

stc KSA

stc KSA

stc Bahrain

stc Bahrain

stc Bahrain

stc Kuwait

stc Kuwait

stc Kuwait2020

2020

2020

2020

2020

2020

2020

2020

2020

2021

2021

2021

2021

2021

2021

2021

2021

2021

2022

2022

2022

2022

2022

2022

2022

2022

2022

* In 2021, stc changed methodology from monthly sample using CATI to transactional SMS survey to better measure the rate and avoid practitioner influence.
** Number of customers surveyed for stc Bahrain and Kuwait are not available but will be captured starting 2023.

* Data not available for stc Kuwait’s FCR for year 2020. 

Though we strive to provide satisfactory products and services at all times, we understand that there will always be 
some level of customer complaints for a variety of reasons. In an effort to solve these complaints effectively and satisfy 
each aggrieved customer, we utilize a systematic “complaints resolution” process. Complaints may be opened through 
several channels, including in-person at retail outlets, over the phone via call centers, and online through social media 
channels, mystc, and our official website. Each of these channels offer a troubleshooting feature that enables customer 
complaints to be dealt with in real time during a customer call or a digital transaction. 

Percentage of customer 
complaints resolved

Complaints resolution 
average time (Days)

100%

2.4

100%

7

100%

2 

100%

5.3

100%

1.9

99%

4.2

Case study: Using image recognition to improve customer satisfaction
In 2022, stc enabled image recognition to accelerate the process of resolving customer complaints by recognizing 
the damages from images raised by customers through image augmentation.

https://www.stc.com.sa/content/dam/groupsites/common/generic/pdfs/Responsible%20Marketing%20Position%20Statement.pdf
https://www.stc.com.sa/content/stc/sa/en/business/rights-responsibilities.html#:~:text=The%20right%20not%20to%20charge,about%20during%20the%20allowed%20duration.
https://www.stc.com.sa/content/stc/sa/en/business/support/complaints/complaint-handling-procedures.html#:~:text=Complaints%20will%20be%20processed%20within,an%20electronic%20or%20paper%20letter.
https://www.stc.com.sa/content/stc/sa/en/business/rights-responsibilities.html#:~:text=The%20right%20not%20to%20charge,about%20during%20the%20allowed%20duration.


55 56stc.com.sa stc.com.sa

stc’s code of ethics “Integrity takes us forward” is centered around our commitment to privacy, security, and protection 
of customer data. We take the safeguarding of customer information seriously and have governance processes in place 
to protect personal data and manage cybersecurity risks. The collection, use, and management of customer information 
is governed by strict privacy policies and the company complies with all relevant data privacy and security laws. 

Our Data Privacy and Security policy statement asserts our commitment to maintaining data privacy and security meas-
ures to protect our customers.

stc also helps customers and employees understand how personal information will be used through privacy notices. It 
has systems in place to properly handle personal data and mitigate privacy risks. We regularly maintain and upgrade sys-
tems for registering and retaining personal data. Any violation of data security is subject to our firm and rapid internal 
processes. We also utilize different controls to assure data security, including identity and access management (IAM), 
data classification, database activity monitoring, data leak prevention, data encryption, and digital rights management 
(DRM). Furthermore, stc’s suppliers and partners are required to have or to implement strict controls to protect personal 
data, including regular maintenance and upgrades to data security systems. 

 At stc, we understand that we have a clear responsibility to protect customer data from the emerging and increasing 
threats on data privacy and therefore, have established the Data Protection and Privacy (DPP) department in 2018 to 
carry out privacy and data protection activities within the company. Data governance is essential in our dare 2.0 strate-
gy and is driven by government regulations, industry standards, and industry best practices. Since DPP’s inception, the 
following has occurred: 

- Assessed 150 systems within stc against protection risks annually
- Implemented 4,900+ data protection technical controls across 160+ stc systems processing or storing sensitive data 
- Implemented 4,500+ business controls across stc departments
- Implemented 1600+ cyber security and remote access controls across stc so far 
- Defined and implemented  customer rights required by regulation through customer touch points, such as, but not limited to, the 

right to request a copy of your data via mystc app and the right to be informed via calls 
- Implemented privacy by design to ensure privacy concepts are imprinted within stc’s company DNA 
- Ensured strict privacy impact assessments prior to launching any product or service that utilizes personal data 
- Developed and updated 20+ data governance artifacts, such as, but not limited to, an internal privacy policy to ensure the privacy of 

stc customers and employees 
- Performed compliance validation for 90+ departments across stc and 137+ systems processing personal data to ensure their adher-

ence to privacy and protection controls 
- Carried out multiple awareness initiatives, such as, but not limited to, 20+ awareness messages, social media privacy campaigns 
- Achieved a 97% completion rate for data protection and privacy training by our employees 
- Handled 600+ data sharing requests in 2022 alone 
- Performed a compliance validation check for more than 18 systems across stc subsidiaries on systems processing stc customer data
- Included a session for data protection and privacy within the induction program for all new employees and CO-OP trainees 
- Conducted processing activities for 80+ departments across stc as required by law and related governmental regulations
- Adhered to the Personal Data Protection Laws to ensure ethical use of customer data and with consent, while protecting the privacy 

of our customers.
- Recorded and tracked customer personal data processing for purposes  with complete transparency.
- Established Data Stewardship function to ensure accountability and ownership of data to efficiently manage appropriate access 

and quality controls
- Conducted annual data privacy day with special privacy awareness campaigns and communications with activities to ingrain sus-

tainable privacy practices
- Conducted regular data privacy health check with proactive measure by anonymously engaging customer touch points like call 

centre and sales office to assess their privacy practices
- Linked privacy practices with HR to give punishments for violations by stc staff and partners
- Established a data privacy impact assessment PIA to conduct an evaluation before launching  any new products or services
- Encouraged sustainability in data movement, storage & retention practices by optimal use of physical resource e.g. disks, tapes and 

network use

Customer health and safety

+11 years of experience

3 strategic service centers

+6K customer experience repre-
sentatives

95% customer satisfaction 

24/7 operations

+60K training hours / year

+40 high profile clients

+100 dedicated quality evaluators

ccc in numbers:

Customer experience management services 

and protection
Data privacy, security

We give high priority to the health and safety of our customers and the communities we operate. We take all 
potential and actual risks very seriously and are committed by policy to ensuring the health and safety of our 
stakeholders through our operations. 

Customer complaints are managed through our customer support’s complaints resolution process. In all stc sites, 
we ensure compliance with all government regulations and Elctro Magnetic Field (EMF) requirements.

Through ccc by stc, we deliver local digitized customer experience management services based on international 
standards to strategically optimize operations, boost efficiency and enrich customer experiences. ccc helps 
clients enhance their entire customer experience lifecycle, enabling them to build relationships and improve 
engagements with customers and unlock new business value.   

Through ccc, we offer outsourcing solutions for various segments – government, semi-government, telecom, 
healthcare, retail and e-commerce, automotive, manufacturing and banking, and financial services. ccc’s services 
include end-to-end customer lifecycle management, contact center consulting, business process management 
as a service, and human resource outsourcing, covering the entire lifecycle of employee engagement. 

Today, ccc provides its services in eight different languages with more than 70 million interactions with 
customers via contact centers annually.

In recognition of delivering industry-leading solutions to businesses, in 2022 ccc was awarded the 
Company of the year best practice award and the Market Leadership best practice award by Frost 
and Sullivan. In 2022, ccc became the first and only Saudi company to receive COPC Outsource 
Service Provider (OSP) certification, which affirms our ongoing assurance of utilizing industry-
leading standards and benchmarks across our delivery and support processes.

https://www.stc.com.sa/content/stc/sa/en/personal/support/complaints/customer-support1.html
https://www.stc.com.sa/content/dam/groupsites/en/pdf/codeofethics_EN.pdf
https://www.stc.com.sa/content/dam/groupsites/common/generic/pdfs/Data%20Privacy%20and%20Security%20Position%20Statement.pdf


57 58stc.com.sa stc.com.sa

stc strictly emphasizes on proper data governance structure. Our Data Governance Council, chaired by the GM 
of Corporate Analytics Governance, steers the company-wide data governance programto focus on strategizing 
methods on methods to enable data quality and adhere to regulatory compliance. Similarly, our Data Govern-
ance Steering Committee, sponsored by the GCEO and chaired by the GCTO, acts as an advisory board and 
ensures that trusted data is delivered across stc Group. 

stc’s Data Governance Council includes representatives from 16 different business units across the company 
and reports to the Data Governance Steering Committee, which includes 20 VP-level representatives from 
these same 16  units. 

The council focuses on privacy through:
• Improved data quality using reactive and proactive methods to make system and business processes more 

efficient using Data Quality Health Index DQHI ( stc patented Intellectual Property framework ).
• Established stc data governance  maturity framework, that includes sustainability and privacy initiatives to 

increase stc’s maturity across data management. 
• Ingrained data privacy using robust  data access and sharing process to  ensure ethical, authorized and ap-

propriate use of data.
• Embedded data ethics within stc internal policy that seek to preserve the privacy, transparency and trust of 

customers, employees, and partners as one of the founding pillars of the Data Governance practice.

stc’s Data Protection and Privacy Framework sets out seven principles that all employees must respect, 
wherever they are in the world. These principles are: lawfulness, fairness, and transparency; purpose 
limitation; data minimization; accuracy; storage limitation; integrity and confidentiality (security); and 
accountability and governance. 

The framework covers policies and procedures relating to the privacy of personal information to address 
data classification, record management and retention and destruction of personal information. 
The framework is clearly communicated to all employees through mandatory training detailed in the 
following section. The data privacy and protection policy is clearly stated in our code of ethics and is 
published online. Employees who fail to comply with privacy policies and requirements face disciplinary 
actions. 

We will also be expanding our training to cover new areas in the digital and technological fields to include 
Advanced Artificial Intelligence (AI), Machine Learning (ML), Multi-Cloud and Edge Computing, Cyber Resil-
ience and Threat Intelligence, Intelligent Automation and Robotic Process Automation (RPA), Digital Ethics 
and Responsible AI. Our goal is to prepare our employees to support the direction of the company and stay 
ahead of the curve in the rapidly changing digital landscape.

Data privacy and protection training

Group-wide training is outlined below:
Data protection and privacy basic training

Data governance model

Data protection and privacy framework 

Group New
Markets

Unit

Group
Strategy

Unit

Group Chief
of Staff Unit

Group
Internal

Audit Unit

Group
Investment

Unit

Group
Carrier &

Wholesale
Unit

Group
Shared

Services
Unit

Group
Finance

Unit

Group
Commercial

Unit

Group
Regulatory

and
Compliance

Unit

Group
Human

Resources
Unit

Group CEO Group
Technology

Unit

Group
Business

Unit

Group Legal
& Risk Unit

120%

100%

80%

60%

40%

20%

0%

100% 96% 100% 100% 100% 100% 99% 99% 99% 100% 100% 98% 99% 98% 100%

Ensuring data security and respecting privacy regulations are our highest priorities, as our customers, employ-
ees, and other stakeholders expect their personal information to be protected with the utmost care. This is a 
responsibility we take with extreme seriousness.

In 2022, we provided mandatory data privacy and protection training for our employees and contractors, building 
on successful training sessions that were implemented in pervious years.  

Overall completion progress is 99%

95% and above 94% to 80% Less than 80%

Number of attendees to training 
courses in data protection and 

cybersecurity
9,789

13,267

855

2,928

11,068

34,207Number of hours of training in data 
protection and cybersecurity

Data security training 
– stc KSA 2020 2021 2022

Data Governance 
Steering Committee Data Governance Council

Our Privacy statement was formulated in accordance with the relevant laws and regulations to help customers understand the nature of 
data we collect and how this data is treated by stc. The statement applies to all sectors and business units in the Company. All Company 
staff, contractors, and vendors working either on a permanent or temporary basis are obliged to follow the outlined standards in the 
policy. 

In 2022, we updated the statement to cover the following aspects:  

- why we collect and use personal data 
- what personal data we collect and use
- how we collect personal data
- how long we store personal data  

The statement also covers data protection and disclosure details on the organizational and technical data protection and security 
measures and procedures – including internal audit, external audit, training of staff and contractors on privacy and reporting to our 
audit and data governance steering committees and regulatory authorities – to safeguard customer data from any unauthorized 
disclosure or processing. In addition, the policy includes customer rights, privacy information specific to website and mobile 
applications usage of cookies. 

The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia enacted the Personal Data Protection Law (PDPL) in 2021 by Royal Decree. The PDPL took effect on March 
2022 with a grace period of one year. We are currently updating our statement to comply with the new law and will add the right for 
customers to delete their personal data at any time they desire. We aim to publish the updated statement by 2023.

Data privacy statement



59 60stc.com.sa stc.com.sa

Data privacy, protection and security laws and regulations have become much more stringent in recent years, which has 
resulted in additional rules and obligations for companies when processing personal data. To ensure strict compliance 
and full alignment with these regulations, we conduct independent, external audits on data privacy and security at least 
once every two years. The Communication, Space and Technology Commission (CST) in Saudi Arabia audits stc on an 
annual and quarterly basis.

As part of our commitment to advancing Saudi Arabia’s tech landscape, stc KSA launched the Securi-
ty Pass Program, a cybersecurity assurance program that encourages suppliers to obtain a certificate 
of compliance with cybersecurity controls to ensure suppliers’ adherence to our stringent standards 
and encourage them to adopt cybersecurity best practices. Obtaining The Security Pass certificate is a 
prerequisite to signing any partnership contract with stc. This in turn will strengthen security by reducing 
third-party cybersecurity risks.

Data privacy and security audits

Suppliers’ cybersecurity assurance program

Frequency of 
information system 
audits

stc KSA

stc Kuwait

Intigral

Solutions

stc Bahrain

ccc

Sirar

channels

Specialized

TAWAL

> 100

10

4

-

2

5

3

4

2

1

3

100

200

1

3

2

2

2

2

5

2022

Internal External

Cybersecurity 

Cyberattacks and professional data hacks are becoming increasingly prevalent as sophisticated 
cyber-criminal organizations push the limits of digital security measures. This has led to a need for 
constant development, implementation, and review of security strategies for organizations of all sizes 
around the world. 

As an ICT company with critical infrastructure, applications, solutions, and telecom data, we have 
implemented a state-of-the-art cybersecurity strategy that ensures comprehensive protection of facilities, 
critical IT systems, and networks. Our Cybersecurity Synergy and Enablement Committee provides valuable 
input to top management on relevant topics, in addition to partnering with one of the top  consulting 
services for added measure. Protection against specific cyberattacks has been and remains to bean 
important part of the security standards across the entire stc Group of companies. 

Identification and Access 
Management (IAM): 
controls that make it possible 
for the right entities to use the 
right resources (applications or 
data) when they need to, without 
interference, using the devices 
they want to use. 

Data Leak Prevention: 
controls used for detecting and 
preventing data breaches, exfil-
tration, or unwanted destruction 
of sensitive data.

Some of the cybersecurity controls put in place by stc include:

Data Classification: 
data classification tags data 
according to its type, sensitivity, 
and value to the organization 
if altered, stolen, or destroyed, 
helping an organization to 
understand the value of its data, 
determine whether the data is at 
risk, and implement controls to 
mitigate risks. 

Encryption: 
translates data into another from 
(ciphertext), ensuring that only 
people with access to a decryp-
tion key or password can read it.

Database Activity Monitoring: 
a suite of controls that can 
be used to help identify and 
report fraudulent, illegal, or 
other undesirable behavior, 
with minimal impact on user 
operations and productivity. 

Digital Right Management 
(DRM): 
controls put in place to prevent 
users from accessing or using 
certain assets, allowing the or-
ganization to avoid legal issues 
that arise from unauthorized 
use .

Aqalat 1 -



61 62stc.com.sa stc.com.sa

10 cyber security awareness campaigns through which more than 65 awareness materials were 
communicated across different channels including: 

Online training assignment on a monthly basis for all stc employees and contractors
Conducted a phishing attack simulations periodically
Conducted a data privacy campaign, and training sessions to all employees with a total of 25 targeted ses-
sions

7 role- based awareness campaigns through which more than 39 awareness materials were communicated 
across different channels including:  

7 Phishing simulations campaigns for stc employees and contractors
95% Cyber Security Mandatory Course Completion Rate (for both stc employees and contractors) 

Security awareness campaigns rolled out in 2022 across KSA:

Security awareness campaigns rolled out in 2022 across Kuwait:

stc’s cybersecurity protocols have successfully achieved ISO 27001:2013 certification (ISMS system), which should 
provide additional confidence to customers and stakeholders regarding security controls and security posture improve-
ment.  

We are also an active GSMA member, contributing to standard reviews and revisions, as well as participating in the de-
velopment of new standards. stc proactively provides consultations and ideas for enhancements regarding documents 
and guidelines put forth during GSMA workshops, such as privacy and AI ethics.

Furthermore, our cybersecurity policies are aligned with industry-wide best practices, including  NIST, SANS, CSA, 
OWASP, Enisa, First.org, and CREST.

Our comprehensive cybersecurity is aligned with international standards and best practices and addresses cybersecu-
rity aspects related to our business environment. We review the policy on a regular basis. This policy covers 18 security 
domains to enable our business and ensure the protection of information assets in terms of confidentiality, integrity, 
and availability.

Protection against cyberattacks 
We perform various in-depth assessments to evaluate the security performance of stc’s IT infrastructure and provide 
assurance to customers and stakeholders. These assessments are separated into different categories, including: 

We also conduct various insurance assessments, such as mandatory security assessments before the launch of any new 
product and service. Should any findings uncover a potential issue, a remediation process is then triggered, along with 
strict SLA and a well-defined responsibility matrix.

We promote cybersecurity importance and awareness through various digital channels, such as social media posts, on-
line messages, online workshops, and live webinars for different groups, including Arabic and non-Arabic speakers, the 
elderly, and the disabled. 

Cybersecurity is part of our mandatory employee training. Please refer to Business Ethics section for more details on 
training program.  

In 2022, we conducted numerous cybersecurity campaigns on topics ranging from data privacy and security to phishing 
and ransomware that we shared with our employees, contractors, customers, and the public. All new staff members are 
encouraged to participate in cybersecurity training to gain a clearer understanding of stc’s policies and procedures 
surrounding this matter. 

Aligning with industry-wide best practices

Cybersecurity policy

Cyber security training and awareness

Rolled out a monthly awareness program to ensure that all employees are up to date with the latest security 
trends
Measured employees’ security sense and level of awareness through multiple phishing campaigns and 
observed a huge improvement in staff reaction towards phishing techniques  

Security awareness campaigns rolled out in 2022 across Bahrain:

Roles and responsibilities

Access control

Mobile devices Test data

Cybersecurity policy domains:

Cryptography

Teleworking

Asset management

Media handling

Information classification Cybersecurity incidents 
management

System acquisition, development, 
and maintenance 

Physical and environmental 
security 

Communications security

Operation security

Compliance Business continuityHuman resource security 

Supplier relationships

Vulnerability assessments

Penetration testing 

Risks assessments

Cyber resilience assessments

30 Infographics and motion graphics
4 Videos
3 On-site activities
18 Social media posts 
10 Others (sms, articles, sessions, screen savers, posters)

18 New hire on-boarding CS sessions 
1 Executives targeted phishing campaign
7 Special technology services awareness & targeted phishing campaign
2 Developers awareness sessions
2 Data center employees, awareness materials & sessions 
10 Knowledge transfer sessions for cybersecurity professionals including 
subsidiaries 

https://www.stc.com.sa/content/stc/sa/en/content-page/privacy.html


63 64stc.com.sa stc.com.sa

and development 
Community contribution

Working in collaboration with peers across the telecom and ICT sectors is crucial to create efficient frameworks, 
understand requirements, and develop solutions for serious challenges. Given this, stc is a member of several 
working groups, including the GSMA Malware Information Sharing Platform, GSMA security focus groups, World 
Economic Forum Cybersecurity and Digital Trust Platform, and the First.org Global Forum of Incident Response 
and Security Teams. 

Through our cybersecurity arm, Sirar, we focus on security advisory and advanced professional security services 
by developing cybersecurity platforms and managing additional security services. In 2022, Sirar was awarded the 
“Managed Security Service Provider Partner” award at the Fortinet Security Day held in Riyadh, solidifying its 
place as a leader in helping businesses effectively manage digital risks.

Case study: Contributing to Bahrain Vision 2030  
In-line with The Kingdom of Bahrain’s vision of becoming a digital hub, and to help address the rising cybersecurity challenges in the Middle East 
region, stc Bahrain, in cooperation with Sirar, rolled out new cybersecurity solutions to protect SMEs and other businesses within the Kingdom in 
2022.  

These solutions empower organizations to take control of their digital assets, revolutionizing web and email security and reflecting stc Bahrain’s 
strategy to utilize new technologies to empower the Kingdom’s digital transformation in a safe and effective way. They also help address the rising 
number of cybersecurity incidents in the region, which can reach as high as USD $6.93 million per data breach.

Case study: stc Kuwait’s Cybersecurity Services Program  
In 2022, stc Kuwait established the Managed Security Service Providers (MSSP) program, which provided Server Message Block protocols 
(SMBs) along with innovative and next-generation cybersecurity services to replace the previous deployments. This was done as part of the 
implementation of stc Kuwait’s strategic objective of being a one-stop cybersecurity solutions provider, with  services such as proof point mail 
protection, managed security services (MSS), awareness, and clean pipe service (DDoS protection) also being included in the program. 

Cybersecurity influence and memberships

Child online safety

stc is deeply committed to creating a safer online environment for children. We uphold child rights at all stages 
of our business operations, proactively offering and providing support for children and their parents to become 
responsible digital citizens. This includes up-to-date guidance and conversations about safe and responsible 
online conduct. 

Our TUBY application provides children a selection of age-appropriate educational and entertainment videos and 
includes enhanced security, enriched interface features, regularly updated content, parental controls for time and 
content, and safety features designed specifically for children.  

In addition to TUBY, stc’s direct billing services provide better controls for parents to use their postpaid monthly 
bill or prepaid credit balance to pay for one-time purchases or recurrent subscription services that provide 
children’s educational and entertainment services.

When it comes to community investment and development, stc follows the strategic objective of “enriching 
people’s lives” for better sustainability, which is a part of the company’s corporate strategy. Our community 
investment and development strategy is based on 6 key pillars: Education, Environment, Sports & Health, 
Entrepreneurship, Community Development and Youth Empowerment. Our Community Investment Policy 
Statement enables us to support issues that we believe are most relevant to our business and where we can make 
the most impact.

We constantly strive to keep our commitment of making the greatest possible positive impact by leveraging 
our key strengths as a leading telecom and ICT service provider, along with our incredible people and financial 
resources, to bolster support throughout the Gulf and MENA regions. Achieving these positive impacts requires 
having a clear idea of what they should encompass from the design stage onwards, and we measure our success 
not by the activities themselves, but by whether or not they achieved the stated goals. 

Our broad portfolio of community investments directly supports several UN SDGs and continues to advance 
progress towards the national visions of all the countries that stc operates within. Our community investment 
initiatives span various developmental areas such as education, healthcare, digital inclusion, technological 
innovations, caring for the environment, entrepreneurship, donations, sponsorships, and community investments.

We continuously monitor and measure the results of our ongoing community investment activities to guide plans 
on how to further improve our programs and maximize our positive impacts on local communities.

Total community investment More than SAR 
14 million 

More than SAR 
30 million 

More than SAR 
14 million 

Community investments 2020 2021 2022

Provides continuous, 
always on assessment 

of infrastructure 
Cybersecurity 

vulnerabilities and 
compliance posture.

402K
closed 

vulnerabilities

84.92% 
percentage 

of clean 
emails

785K 
vulnerabilities 

detected

15.08% 
percentage 
of blocked 

emails

Helps our customers 
prevent, detect and respond 

to the latest email-borne 
threats including spam, 

phishing, malware, zero-day 
threats, impersonation, and 
Business Email Compromise 

(BEC) attacks.

Prevents malicious traffic 
from entering an internal 

network of an organization. 
It is used by enterprises to 
protect their employees/
users from accessing and 

being infected by malicious 
web content (virus, malware, 

ad-ware, backdoors, etc…).

Sirar by stc

in 2022 in 2022

Vulnerability management, 
detection and responses

(VMDR) 
Email security Web security

in 2022

251.7 M 
Total 

number of 
transactions 
proceeded in 

sirar

2.398 M 
Total 

number 
of threats 
blocked in 

sirar266.6 GB 
Total number 

of policy traffic 
volume

* Excludes sponsorships and free services

https://www.stc.com.sa/content/stc/sa/en/content-page/parental-control.html
https://www.stc.com.sa/content/dam/groupsites/common/generic/pdfs/Community%20Involvement%20Position%20Statement.pdf
https://www.stc.com.sa/content/dam/groupsites/common/generic/pdfs/Community%20Involvement%20Position%20Statement.pdf


65 stc.com.sa

Over the last three years, stc contributed more than SAR 58 million towards community programs across remote and
underserved locations, with more than SAR 14 million contributed towards its community initiatives in 2022.

stc’s geographic social impact

Sponsorship 
stc’s approach to sponsorship is in line with the company’s Sponsorship Policy and Strategy for Relations and 
Partnerships focusing on evaluating potential sponsorships while assessing reputational and noncompliance risks.  
Furthermore, our sponsorship selection process is based on specific criteria that ensures selected initiatives are in 
line with our strategy, values, local market, target audience, vision, and objectives. Sponsorship allows us to support 
our sustainability objectives and endorse our core values in addition to extending our reach and raising brand 
awareness. In 2022 alone we sponsored 124 projects, the three most significant being MWC, LEAP and FII. 

stc KSA

stc Kuwait   

-

17

91

19

124

32

Sponsorship

Number of projects 
sponsored

2020stc Group 2021 2022

* stc Bahrain data is confidential.

66 stc.com.sa

Social development across stc Kuwait 
stc Kuwait actively supports local communities and their various social responsibility goals by 
participating in various initiatives with government agencies and private sector institutions. 
These initiatives are focused on empowering Kuwaiti society in key areas such as health, sports, 
education, entrepreneurship, and the environment, in line with Kuwait Vision 2035.   As part of this, 
we have launched several initiatives, such as the “Safe Education” campaign in cooperation with 
the Ministries of Education, Health, Interior, and Information, and the “Weyak” initiative to support 
local SMEs by enabling their digital transformation strategies. 

We are keen on continuing investing in the ongoing development of stc Kuwait’s human resource 
capabilities, which form the cornerstone of the company’s outstanding performance.  Through this 
dynamic department, education and development programs are delivered, including e-learning 
programs through recognized international organizations such as LinkedIn Learning and the 
“Creativity Academy” training academy to empower high-potential employees. 

stc Kuwait  follows a sponsorship approach that takes the national context of the country into 
account. In 2022, five sustainability campaigns were launched, each of which were promoted both 
internally and externally.  
 
In 2022, stc Kuwait launched #we_are_one campaign in line with the return to school decision. The 
primary focus was preventing bullying through a series of engaging initiatives that aim to uplift 
students as they begin to resume their studies.  

Social development across stc Bahrain 
stc Bahrain has worked diligently on spreading a culture of innovation beyond  customers as part 
of developing a broader social responsibility agenda. Several programs have been launched with 
this goal in mind, including the “Jussoor” program that empowers community service, the “Trees for 
Life” initiative that supports the Kingdom’s national reforestation plans, the “Kafu” program that 
highlights inspirational people during the holy month of Ramadan, and the “Fareej” initiative that 
helps families living in difficult conditions. stc Bahrain also worked on educating and developing 
Bahrain youth while providing unqiue opportunities for fresh graduates looking to enrich their 
careers inside and outside the company through its “ICT Generation” program.



67 68stc.com.sa stc.com.sa

Embedding a culture of purpose and giving
Volunteering program:

The ethos of volunteering is greatly aligned with stc’s values of dynamism, devotion, and drive, all of which 
contribute to stc’s vision. Through the volunteering program, we aim to embed a culture of purpose and 
giving, help meet the UN SDGs, and improve employee engagement and workplace wellbeing.

Our volunteering platform connects non-profit organizations with volunteers. These organizations can 
register and add volunteering opportunities, which can be seen and selected by employees.

In 2022, our employees recorded 10K volunteering hours.

Social impact:

385+ employee volunteers

10,000 volunteer hours

11 cities 

42 NGOs engaged

Empowering the third sector through digital services
The technical enablement program:

Social impact:

As part of enriching lives and experiences, as well as advancing digital opportunities, the technical ena-
blement program continued in 2022 to empower the non-profit sector by providing integrated services and 
advanced technical solutions for administrative, financial, and operational needs.
We provide 13 different digital cloud-based solutions through the platform: 

- Grant Management
- Gift cards (donation)
- Meetings Management
- Technical license

- Management & planning systems
- Events Management
- Developing websites
- Consultation

- Live lectures (webinar)
- Memberships and packages
- Training
- Online Store
- Elections Management Platform

324 beneficiary non-profit 
organizations

64 cities in KSA

768 digital solutions  

10,000 users 

Supporting the non-profit housing sector
Jood Eleskan:

Social impact:

An ongoing non-profit community initiative that started in mid-2020 during the height of the COVID-19 
pandemic, which aims to empower the non-profit housing sector by encouraging all stc employees, private 
individuals, and the public sector to provide a donation for families in need of housing. 

We used our digital communication channels – internally through the SMS messaging center and externally 
through social media accounts –to raise awareness and attract donations. By the end of 2022, we were able 
to collect SAR 3 million in donations to securing 17 homes for vulnerable families including access to free 4G 
connectivity to 7 homes for 12 months.

17 housing projects

11 cities 

102 beneficiaries

SAR 3 million investment

Supporting sustainable innovation while driving economic growth
impactU:

Social impact:

stc’s flagship start-up incubator, ImpactU, focuses on empowering entrepreneurs whose core business 
addresses sustainability-related solutions, such as improving environmental, health, and education outcomes. 

Through impactU, we provide training and consultancy in the field of social and environmental sustainability 
and entrepreneurship. We also provide access to co-working spaces and free services to social enterprises 
and startups.

Incubated start-ups overview:
-Mustadem: an agricultural company focused on sustainability in food value chains, enabling farmers with technology to transform the food  
  sector in Saudi Arabia.
-Karaz: an electronic platform that relies on IoT, AI, and data, providing a single destination for all diabetes related services.
-Axenda: an ecosystem that enables students to make better decisions based on data throughout their educational journey.
-Beaee: a one-stop shop for recycling, providing an integrated environmental experience, including awareness workshops for employees,    
  digital platform to link with factories, a rewards system, and organizing volunteer campaigns for employees.
-Shaguf: an EdTech startup providing interactive peer-to-peer learning system at universities.

2nd intake batch

5 incubated startups

SAR 100,000 seed investment

SAR 1.8 million total annual in-
vestment 

Our flagship community investment and development activities in 2022



Reducing digital divide while tackling e-waste disposal
e-waste recycling 

Social impact:

We seek to serve the digitally disadvantaged while simultaneously tackling the critical issue of e-waste 
disposal. The lifespan of typical electronic devices averages out to only three years; to avoid unnecessary 
disposal of electronic devices, we donate electronic devices to national non-profit organizations such as 
“Ertiqa” for proper recycling, refurbishment, and disposal.  

In 2022, we donated over 4,732 electronic devices to be recycled and refurbished for reuse and 7,400 since we 
started the program in 2021. Nearly 68 organizations, including non-profit associations, schools, and educa-
tional institutes, benefited from stc’s refurbished electronic devices.

4736 electronic devices recycled 
and refurbished for reuse

68 organizations benefited from 
refurbished devices

Digital inclusion for the elderly in remote areas
Smart truck – Education4All:

In a joint effort, stc and Huawei created the Education4ALL Digital Inclusion Action Plan. Through this initia-
tive, we aim to launch the smart truck project to reach out to remote areas and fill the gap between the elderly 
population and fast-developing digital technologies. 

The smart truck will be officially launched and operated in January 2023 and will include a digital classroom 
to be mobilized across the kingdom with the aim to provide elderly people with skills necessary to use digital 
applications and online services as well as protecting their data privacy and security. 

Social Impact Targets for 2023: 

>1,200 elderly beneficiaries 

11 rural areas

<120 digital awareness sessions

>90 trainers

69 70stc.com.sa stc.com.sa

Unlocking people’s limitless potential through our career enrichment program 

Building capacity for a sustainable future 

Career enrichment program:

Social Return on Investment Training program 

Social impact:

Social impact:

stc has developed strong long-term relationships with renowned international organizations, and we utilize 
these relationships by developing an extensive career enrichment program. 

This flagship program capitalizes on the extensive knowledge and capabilities these organizations have 
to offer, allowing employees and students to attend seminars, workshops, and other training courses to 
help unlock their full potential. stc employees can take particular advantage of skill building and practical 
experiences that are offered by our renowned partners, while young Saudi graduates can better prepare for 
their future careers through paid internships and financial empowerment.

We seek to give back to the community by sharing our expertise and creating a social return on investment 
and, in this spirit; we offer the SROI training program on our sustainability portal. 

This initiative aims to build capacity for stc employees, start-ups, and non-profit organizations by raising 
awareness of the Social Return on Investment (SROI) concept, resulting in sustainable changes through 
increased knowledge and skills. 

19 trainees participated in 
program

2 training courses

+10 non-profit and public sectors  

18 consultancy firms 
participated in program

35 trainees



Giving back to the local community
Ehsan platform donations

Social impact:

Ehsan is a national platform for charitable work launched by the Saudi Data and Artificial Intelligence 
Authority (SDAIA). The campaign is an extension of Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman’s interest in 
supporting and developing the charity sector by making every effort to organize it, enable its activities, and 
sponsor it to raise its contribution to the development of society. 

We seek to play our part through actively giving back to the local community and in 2022, we donated SAR 11 
million through the platform.  

SAR 11 million in donations

Utilizing our strengths to create sustainable value in society 
Educational support 

In cooperation with the Ministry of Human Resources and Social Development and Taalum, we seek to 
support students continuing their university education in the field of technology to ensure employment after 
graduating. 

In 2022, 15 students from different universities across the Saudi Kingdom benefited from this initiative. 

71 72stc.com.sa stc.com.sa

Turning assets into sustainable impact

e-health systems using artificial intelligence

Furniture donations project

Smart medical cameras 

Social impact: Social impact:

Social impact:

Launched in 2022 to donate furniture, reducing the need for new materials and improving the environmental 
impacts of both stc and the companies receiving the donations.  Since the launch of the initiative in 2022, we 
have aided the donation items of gently-used furniture passed on to 3 of our charity partners.

The smart medical camera initiative supports a breakthrough AI eye exam system that identifies and detects 
eye disease early. The smart cameras utilize digital technologies such as AI for retinal care in diabetic 
retinopathy. 

This initiative will bring expert surgical consultations closer to remote and underserved areas. 

It will also help utilize the time and skills of the best medical consultants in the Kingdom both wisely and 
accurately and provide excellent healthcare in an easy-to-access manner at lower prices.

449 pieces of furniture donated 15 students received educational 
support

2 smart cameras

3 NGOs have benefited 
from the donated furniture

2 medical centers 



73 74stc.com.sa stc.com.sa

technology and
connectivity

Expanding access to

Expanding access and availability of essential technologies is not just good for business, but also helps stc contribute 
to the overarching goal of moving towards a more sustainable future. Ensuring an equitable distribution of connectivity 
and other essential digital services and products is one of the best ways to pursue sustainable development, and we are 
focused on future economic and social advancement through increased digitization. 

We remain committed to providing a dependable, modern, sophisticated network with maximum accessibility and digital 
inclusion for urban and remote areas across the entire Gulf region and all communities that stc operates within. Our 
industry-leading wireless broadband services are key to serving rural and desert areas, while a combination of wireless 
and fixed services cover urban areas with unmatched reliability. We strongly believe in collaborating with the public and 
private sectors to ensure that everyone in society, regardless of their location or socio-economic status, can be served 
as a satisfied stc customer. 

Our Access to Communication policy statement affirms our commitment to adopting best-in class digital and 
communication infrastructure to ensure network efficiency, resilience and reliability, while promoting universal access 
to affordable digital and communications services.

As organizations and corporations continue to digitize their operations, we understand the need for effective and 
secure solutions and infrastructure. This is especially true for SMEs, which may find it more challenging to keep 
pace with the acceleration of digitization currently taking place. In an effort to support SMEs working in remote 
areas and promote connectivity that is more inclusive for all SMEs, we recently developed a point-to-point service to 
target customer groups far from network or fiber connections helping them access connectivity services and high-
speed internet that is essential for succeeding in the modern world. We also offer incentives for copper customers 
to transfer to fiber or wireless services to utilize higher network speeds and be a part of an enhanced customer 
experience.

Accessibility, connectivity and digital inclusion 

Supporting SMEs through digital technologies 

Connectivity and network coverage

Case study: Largest digital operations control center
stc recently launched  the largest integrated operating center in the MENA region, known as 
the digital operations control center. With an area of more than 42,000 m2, it offers a system of 
unparalleled digital services, with the capability of transmitting more than 8.4 terabits of data per 
second along submarine cables. Additionally, the center is the first in the MENA region to secure 
service systems, data transmission, and voice circuits using the latest available protection and 
distribution systems.

 We actively seek to reduce the digital divide by developing and expanding the critical ICT infrastructure 
needed to fulfil the national vision of the countries that we operate within. As part of our contribution to 
National Vision strategic frameworks, stc’s growing infrastructure contributes to the strategic frameworks 
of any national vision by supporting essential online services such as e-education, e-government, 
e-commerce, and e-health. More information on these services is available in the Advancing innovative 
digital opportunities chapter of this report. 

Through our trade-in program, we seek to renew and recycle devices to not only minimize the impact of 
products on the environment, but also to offer devices at affordable prices. We also participated in the 
CST’s e-waste recycling initiative by encouraging stc customers to donate their own devices and provide 
incentives such as a 5% discounted coupon from mystc store for customers who have donated.

Bridging the digital divide

We believe that the ability to connect to our services should not be limited by geography, and we strive to ensure 
our network covers more space every year. Our immediate goal is to further expand stc’s coverage and capacity 
within and around cities across Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, and Kuwait, including increasing the availability of high-speed 
broadband services and improving digital connectivity by enhancing the ICT infrastructure. With this vision, we 
have focused on fiber optics as a replacement for copper. This shift will in turn gears towards improved customer 
capacities at a technological level while consuming less energy.

https://www.stc.com.sa/content/dam/groupsites/common/generic/pdfs/Access%20to%20Communication%20Position%20Statement.pdf


75 76stc.com.sa stc.com.sa

Developing reliable and resilient infrastructure is vital in the expansion of access to technology and 
connectivity. We have worked hard to continuously evolve our network, capitalizing on the introduction of 
leading-edge technology by adopting KPIs for network resilience. These KPIs not only help ensure network 
optimization, but also underpin our commitment to deliver an excellent and uninterrupted user experience 
for all stc customers. 

Technologies such as 5G, artificial intelligence, augmented reality, IoT, and cloud services are used in stc’s 
innovative products and services, and are accelerating the pursuit of sustainability goals. With this, we 
provide impartiality and transparency in line with business sustainability to create the right environment 
for an open market concept that enriches the ecosystem in developing countries where all customers 
and partners – such as content providers, cloud providers, and international and national carriers – can 
communicate with each other.  

In 2022, stc Group announced the launch of Centre3 for the Middle East and North Africa. With an initial 
investment of 1 billion USD, Centre3 will include the installation of several highly efficient cables to meet 
the future requirements of cloud services, helping to ensure continuous availability of services through an 
advanced fiber optic network.

5G investments and creating infrastructure to boost network coverage are both key to realizing the national 
vision of Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, and Kuwait, all three of which are undergoing radical digital transformations 
led in large part by stc. 

In Saudi Arabia, we are the largest digital enabler with a 40% market share consisting of over 20 million 
mobile subscriptions, with a 5G population coverage of 40% since the launch of commercial services back 
in 2019.  In 2022, we shut down 3G spectrum services completely to pave the way for more developed system 
networks, which recently reached more than 1.5 million 5G subscribers with 7,000+ deployed sites across the 
Kingdom. 

In Kuwait, stc is pioneering the digital transformation with an upgraded 5G network named it FULL 5G as it 
takes 5G further to bring our customers more connectivity, speed, and digital capabilities than ever before. 
There are three distinct ways in which customers are given a fuller product:  full coverage, full speed, and 
full experience.  

In Bahrain, stc recently expanded 5G coverage to reach the entire nation, which enables full migration 
options for customers to go from 3G to 4G, and from 4G to 5G, before 3G services are discontinued. 

Another important launch by stc Group in 2022 was the Saudi Vision Cable, the first high-capacity sub-
marine cable ever deployed in the Red Sea. This cable is 1,160,000 meters (1,160 km) long and will provide 
seamless connectivity of up to 18Tbps per fiber pair, with a total of 16 fiber pairs through four landings in 
Jeddah, Yanbu, Duba, and Haql. It is also one of the main submarine cables linked to Centre3, connecting 
three continents and leveraging the strategic location of the Saudi Kingdom. Furthermore, the Saudi Vision 
Cable will provide better, more reliable internet services to meet the increasing demand for communica-
tions at the local, regional, and international levels. It will also allow all sectors to obtain high-speed inter-
net services, including education, healthcare, and business, which will in turn provide economic and social 
benefits.

In terms of tower infrastructure development, in 2022 TAWAL undertook several major projects, includ-
ing building new sites, upgrading existing sites, delivering colocation services, and offering in-building 
solutions (IBS). As a result, more than 150 sites were built and more than 600 colocations were delivered, 
causing an increase in tenancy ratio from 1.16 in 2021 to 1.19 in 2022. In addition, more than 4,400 5G upgrade 
sites were implemented, and the TAWAL SMART Tower Project has resulted in more than 1,800 fence locks, 
1,100 ODU locks, 1,500 shelter locks, 1,900 smart meters, 81 DC power meters, and 922 RMS (24 sites with full 
fledge RMS sensors) being implemented. 

As the leading wholesaler in the region, we offer national and international services over numerous cable 
systems and via its PoPs-extended network. Our national network covers all area of the Saudi Kingdom and 
is extended to link all neighboring countries including UAE, Bahrain, Kuwait, Jordan, Qatar, Yemen, Iraq and 
Oman, through diversified fiber links with various paths and capacities. stc’s self-healing national backhaul 
network and border crossing terrestrial fiber optics links represent the most resilient, reliable and cost 
effective connectivity in the region.

Reliable and resilient infrastructure and services 5G networks

Subsea cables: 
Existing 20 Tbps of capacity
13 fully landed subsea cables
+4 new subsea cables

Data centers 
Total of capacity 150 MW
Across KSA major cities
with 6 new centers

Network coverage

Percentage of 3G population 
coverage

Percentage of 4G 
population coverage

Percentage of 5G 
population coverage

98.00% 99.99% 100.00%98.00% 100.00% 100.00%- 100.00% 100.00%

93.90%

22.40%

100.00%

93.52%

100.00%

97.00%

93.99%  

34.60%  

100.00%

99.40%

100.00%

98.00%

98.00%

40.80%

100.00%

100.00%

100.00%

100.00%

stc KSA stc Bahrain stc Kuwait

2020 2020 20202021 2021 20212022 2022 2022



77 78stc.com.sa stc.com.sa

Industrial solution 
Optimize costs with 
intelligent warehouse 
operations that drive 
automation and trans-
parency

Logistics solutions 
Enhance connectivity 
and efficiency 
with smart Fleet 
Management solutions 
that elevate hardware, 
platforms, and 
analytics capabilities

Smart city solutions 
Augment sustainability 
and mobility through 
connected workforce 
and smart city 
solutions that are 
both customizable and 
secure

Technologies such as Internet of Things (IoT),  and artificial intelligence (AI), and big data have become the 
primary drivers of innovation. In 2022, we partnered with the Public Investment Fund (PIF) and launched a 
new company specialized in IoT (IoT Squared – IoT2) to deliver industry-leading IoT solutions.
 
Through IoT2, we aim to drive cost efficiencies, improve customer experiences and promote sustainability 
through innovative industrial, logistics and smart city solutions. 

We aim to have the best available network quality and work to drive mobile internet adoption within all 
communities where stc operates. It is clear that barriers still exist when it comes to mobile adoption, and 
this is especially true in rural areas and for people impacted by socio-economic status or physical impair-
ments. We continuously strive to improve connectivity for everyone in the countries that we operate within, 
especially rural areas that can benefit immediately from a geographical expansion of stc’s coverage.   

Companies are increasingly relying on cloud computing to store large amounts of data and carry out  
processes to increase agility, flexibility, and efficiency.  Cloud services offer a digital space to safely 
integrate networks, providing an instant, online, off-site access to critical information and greater control 
of business processes.  

stc’s cloud digital platform serves more than 3,000 different entities in the KSA government and private 
sector alone. This not only provides expansive digital bandwidth, but also helps eliminate costs that 
customers would otherwise have with running on-site data centers. With stc Marketplace, customers can 
change, customize and manage cloud infrastructure in any way that best works for them, including the 
following: 

- Customers can host their IT infrastructure on our site in a safe and secure environment, ensuring  
   availability and connectivity with 99.99% uptime guarantee
- Customers can build their own virtual machines in the cloud through virtual data centers 
- Customers can select from our software deployments for their virtual data centers
- Customers can run their business completely in the cloud without the need for hardware, software 
    licenses, or periodic updates 

In 2022, stc cloud infrastructure won the Glotel award in the Private Networks Perfection category and 
was shortlisted for the Layer 123 Cloud and Edge award. In addition to that, we also won the Middle East 
Technology Excellence Award 2022 for data center automation.  These accolades show that stc remains 
committed to offering companies the highest quality digital solutions that best meet their needs.   

In stc Kuwait, we launched several smart solutions, including Enterprise Smart Bus solution for schools and 
kids monitoring, Thermal Screening, Drones for Geospatial Intelligence and Precision Agriculture. Also, we 
launched the AI Video Analytics which helps users supervise, monitor and optimize enterprise business 
efficiency.

IoT, AI, and big data

Network quality and mobile adoption

Cloud

Network traffic

Network speed

Mobile subscribers 

Network traffic
Network traffic (petabytes)

Average mobile broadband 
download speed (Mbps)

Prepaid Subscribers  

M2M Subscribers 

Average mobile broadband 
upload speed (Mbps)

Postpaid Subscribers  

15,253

57.72

15,948,226  

658,134

19.16

4,905,625

222.46

58.32

2.6

1,228

9.00

-

17,810*

87.66

16,400,583

769,538 

20.24

5,159,471

273.46

64.90

4.16

1,406

43.00

-

20,364

113.58

17,622,470  

864,697  

19.61

5,377,265 

323.87

80.97

3.43

1,441

62.00

-

stc KSA

stc KSA

stc KSA

stc Bahrain

stc Bahrain

stc Kuwait

stc Kuwait

2020

2020

2020

2020

2020

2020

2020

2021

2021

2021

2021

2021

2021

2021

2022

2022

2022

2022

2022

2022

2022

* Restated due to improved calculation methodologies.

[GRI 2-4]



79 80stc.com.sa stc.com.sa

As part of our initiative to develop next-generation facilities, we are committed to building new data centers across each 
of the countries that we operate within. Our goal is to have these facilities incorporate enhanced energy efficiency and 
sustainability throughout the entire lifecycle of new mission critical infrastructure.  

In Saudi Arabia, we are in the process of building new data centers to serve the entire Saudi community with enhanced 
digital services. These new data centers will incorporate sustainability features in all aspects of construction and devel-
opment, from design and procurement to materials and construction.

In 2022, we continued the construction for Phase 3 of this project for the next-generation cloud-enabled data centers, 
and we set out plans to build new state-of-the-art data centers in Bahrain and Kuwait to host main internal 4G and 5G 
traffic. Through implementing energy efficiency technologies, we anticipate 25-30% reductions in energy costs and 
15-20% reductions in CO2 emissions. Some of these technologies that we plan to implement to achieve this goal in-
clude: power utilization efficiency (PUE), energy conservation opportunities, server efficiency, right-sizing, chiller plant 
optimization, thermal management, air flow management, humidity control, improved power chain and supplies, improved 
lighting, on-site generation, HAC solution, Highly efficient UPS, Highly efficient low water consumption cooling systems, 
emerging and proven technologies studies.

In 2022, stc KSA achieved uptime certification for design, testing, and commissioning TIER -III standards and TCOS (Gold) 
for three data centers.

In 2024-2025, we plan to construct three new data centers in addition to expanding the existing sites with a total capacity 
of 34.8+ MW for both new sites and expanded projects.

New Era Infrastructure Cloud-Native Data Center Program

Sustainability considerations in our data centers:

center3 21 Data Centers – 152 MW

Madinah

Ubhur

6 DC’S 
Western Region
Availability Zone

2 DC’S 
Northern Region
Availability Zone

e

3C’S 
Eastern Region 

Availability Zone

Dammam

DAM 052

DAM 071

Qassim
RDC46

RDC05

Junadreah

ITCC
Remal

Khurais

Nuzlah 1
Nuzlah 2

Makkah

Existing DC Under Construction DC Planned to be built

Rawabi
Mursalat

Baha

New Era Infrastructure Data Centers Project:

Phase & 
Total IT 
capacity

- Phase 1: Riyadh, Jeddah and Madinah data centers  

- Total IT capacity in MW: 19.2

- Phase 2: Qassim and Makkah data centers  

- Total IT capacity in MW: 9.6

Year 2018 - 2020 2019-2021

- Phase 3: Riyadh (3 sites), Dammam (2 sites), and Jeddah  

- Total IT Capacity in MW: 76.8

- Phase 4: Bahrain, Mursalat, and Ubhur (Jeddah), Aljouf, Albaha, Tabuk 

- Total IT Capacity in MW:27.6

2022 - 2023 

Q2 2023

JED 02

9 DC’S 
Central Region

Availability Zone

Tabouk Jouf

1 DC 
Southern Region
Availability Zone

e

Operations

Policy

Efficiency 
Achievement DesignTechnology

Procurement

Operational Sustainability

Policy Alignment

PUE Achievement

Corporate Alignment

Design EnhancementTechnoology R&D

Procurement Alignment

- Smart monitoring full 
coverage on all 
systems

- Energy monitoring 
throughout data center

- Optimized cooling - team-
work function

- Reduced PUE 
management

-  TCOS certification 
(operational 
sustainability)

- Consolidated CDP 
sustainability 
reporting

-  UN SGD’s
- Saudi national Vision 

2030
- Net Zero Emissions by 

2050
- Achieving Environmental 

Sustainability
- 5:C Corporate 

Sustainability Policy
- DARE 2.0 

- Power Usage 
Effectiveness Enhanced  
by 25-30%

- Average stc PUE before 
2019 was 2.0 

- NEIDC Target PUE = 1.5
- Achieved average PUE 

during testing & 
Commissioning = 1.4 
to 1.6 

- Initiate integrate solar 
program across stc 
building portfolio

- Shared activities 
between technology  
groups and 
operational teams 
with sustainability 
department

- Assign KPI’s to meet 
sustainability targets 

- Modular Construction - 
Prefab plug and play

- Grow on demand — 
optimizes use of  
material

- Minimized cable lengths 
(smart placement)

- Raised dined water 
temperatures, lower  
energy consumption

- Futureproof new builds 
for integrated solar 

- Integrated solar PV
- Hot aisle containment 

solution
- Highly efficient UPS’s
- Highly efficient low 

water consumption 
cooling systems

- Emerging & proven 
technologies studies 

stc

Strategy

- Energy efficient mandate 
on all power and cooling 
equipment

- Resourcing locally 
produced materials

- Contractor evaluation 
based on whole 
lifecycle of 
infrastructure

- Optimized supply chain 
to minimize transport 



81 82stc.com.sa stc.com.sa

stc strives to harness best-in-class digital capabilities and solutions to lead the digital transformation in the 
MENA region and beyond, helping to usher in a more prosperous, sustainable future.

We dare to push for the constant improvements in telecom industry standards, hence the apt title of our 
‘dare’ strategy. This flagship initiative has redefined the role of a telecom service provider, proving stc to 
be a digital enabler with the unparalleled ability amongst companies to not only enhance the customer 
experience, but also to enrich the lives of people in the communities that we serve.  This illustrates why 
digital transformation is at the core of our business and is the focus of all our products and services. 

Digital transformation is part of our company DNA, and our strategy for implementing this transformation is rooted in 
preparing the company for the future, enabling a better growth position as we move forward today’s evolving world. stc’s 
main core values, the three “D’s” (Dynamism, Devotion, and Drive), are the foundation on which our digital transformation 
journey is built. As we move towards the goal of being the undisputed leader in digital enablement within the region, 
we have put forth several initiatives to foster new ways of working and to better clarify the customer journey. We are 
constantly looking to develop tools, mechanisms, advanced analysis, and artificial intelligence programs to stimulate 
teamwork and innovation that will lead to new solutions for enriching the lives and experiences of our customers.  

Our commitment at stc Group is to expedite actions that improve customer centricity, speeding up the progress of digital 
transformation initiatives through customer journey mapping and making sure that everything we do delivers measurable 
quality to our customers. 

As the digital revolution continues to bring significant opportunities and threats across virtually all industries, there 
has been a natural expansion of customer experience towards digital transformation. With this in mind, stc’s 2030 Vision 
to guide digital transformation featured a strong focus on customer experience and time-to-market as key drivers, and 
the Corporate Customer Experience (CCEx) initiative was developed. This established a matrix with a dedicated digital 
transformation team to ensure all projects benefit from cross-organizational support, and a digital innovation center was 
also established with support from industry bodies and other partners. 

Our Group Transformation (DT) program is a strategic initiative that aims to build digital capabilities for stc Group 
and then utilize these capabilities, measure their business value, and ascertain their impact to drive organizational 
transformation and growth. This DT program is a part of the “d” pillar within stc’s dare 2.0 strategy. We aim to ensure 
its successful implementation by introducing a Digital Transformation Index, which includes a centralized workspace 
platform, digital KPIs, insights, and reports to drive both “digital transformation” and “change management” across stc.

Digital innovation and transformation

We are proud to be the leading digital enabler in the MENA region and have used this privileged position to 
develop smart cities and run mega events, including Formula 1 races, the Hajj pilgrimage, NEOM, and more.
stc built 5G network infrastructure for NEOM, Saudi Arabia’s smart city, accelerating the city’s digital 
ambitions to enable various forward-thinking technologies, such as Internet of Things (IoT), data analytics, 
virtual reality, augmented reality, smart homes, and autonomous vehicles.
 
Additionally, Solutions by stc will also help implement a new smart city strategy for Prince Mohammed Bin 
Salman’s non-profit city. This strategy focuses on mobility, sustainability, and security verticals, as well as a 
digital twin that integrates advanced technologies to create dynamic digital models to visualize the city in 
real-time.

Digital enabler for mega events and smart cities

Case study: Serving pilgrims during Hajj season
In an effort to better serve pilgrims, we elevated our network across all holy sites for the year 1443 Hajj season. We 
strengthened our network by increasing 5G coverage across 863 sites, adding 108 locations and increasing communication 
towers distributed over 141 new locations. Additionally, to ensure the best performance of the network we provided, 72 mobile 
vehicles to support coverage and increase capacity in various locations, and we  also developed communication towers across 
1754 sites, adding 18 towers to accommodate new technologies, upgrading 940 sites with 5G services, and equipping 138 sites 
with critical communication networks to support vital sectors. 

Furthermore, a detailed plan was put in place in cooperation with relevant authorities to provide rapid response times for 
emergencies, which included securing backup devices for mobile cabins, electric generators, spare mobile carts, and mobile 
carts to connect via satellite, as well as remote medical consultations and direct health examinations via the cloud.

Case study: Providing advanced digital technologies during Jeddah season
As the leading digital enabler and partner of Jeddah season, stc aimed to enhance the digital infrastructure and enrich the 
visitor experience by providing a suite of digital services for the event’s locations.

stc deployed a technical team of 200 specialists to supervise and maintain its technical services, and readied 64 locations 
to serve Jeddah season areas, offering the best 5G network possible to ensure that network coverage was able to meet the 
increased traffic. This was done by providing 12 circuits with a capacity of 12.75 GB and utilizing two vehicles for outdoor 
coverage. 

digital opportunities
Advancing innovative



83 84stc.com.sa stc.com.sa

Instill digital mindset and 
unlock the potential of digital 
and analytics capabilities

Excite customers with a 
seamless, personalized and 
secure experience

Grow by expanding into 
selected growth pillars within 
digital services and core

Maximize shareholder returns 
by transforming costs and 
monetizing assets 

Connect our markets through 
leading next-gen technology 
and digital offerings

Transform into an agile tech-
nology company and embrace 
new ways of working

Be the trusted partner-of-
choice for business in the 
region

Be a role model for sustaina-
bility and Group governance

Lead company-wide culture 
change be the employer of 
choice for top digital talent

dare 2.0 Strategic Objectives DT Strategic Themes

Elevate digital 
experience

Advance CX Centric Digital 
Transformation Strategy 

Target

TMforum defines big 4 factors of 
DT Strategy

DT startegy towards 2030 
vision

Case study: Digital Transformation (DT) program and FWD framework
As part of the Digital Transformation program, our proprietary FWD framework combines customer centricity 
with business value and technology capabilities to  re-imagine the customer journey. This framework is based on 
the Agile methodology and focuses on: 

      1. FWD Thinking: the innovative solution design process; and 
      2. FWD Doing, the way to implement changes in rapid rollouts of incremental values 

We have established Squads made up of cross-functional teams from both the business and technology sectors 
to ensure we deliver on this framework. Each Squad is composed of a Product Owner, Scrum Master, Business 
Analyst, Agile Coach, Customer Experience team (Customer Journey, Digital Experience, UI and UX Designers), 
Solution Architect, Domain Architects, Developers, and Testers. 

At stc, we perceive digital transformation as a key driver of sustainable development. Digital technologies can help 
achieve sustainability by optimizing costs, improving management efficiency, and improving productivity. We seek to 
accomplish these goals through the following: 

1. Adaptation of Devops/forward thinking: reduce developing time, improve time to market, less carbon output
2. Cloudification of the stc services portfolio: augment and synergize portfolio among the clusters, reuse and shar 

resources between clusters, targeting agility of service portfolio to meet market dynamics
3. Strategic themes:  focus on six dimensions that drive the evolution of the business/customer focus to maximize 

return on experience and minimize ecosystem impacts on the environment 
4. Operational excellence: use digital technologies to drive process improvement and automation, delivering cost 

savings and improved reliability and efficiency

Case study: Supporting the Saudi Data Community 
The Saudi Data Community (SDC) is one of the largest communities in Saudi Arabia, and it aims to share knowledge 
and expertise surrounding data and analytics. Each year, SDC conducts multiple workshops, events, and training ses-
sions to enable and build a future of Saudi data scientists and data experts. In 2022, stc sponsored the SDC to help 
share important knowledge and provide valuable expertise regarding  analytics. Throughout the year, the following 
initiatives were conducted by the SDC with the support of stc:

In support of all these initiatives and as part of our efforts to advance innovative digital opportunities for the 
community, stc provided mentors and experts to support the community projects at all stages of development.

Additionally, we also provided career consultation sessions, training sessions, and knowledge sharing sessions along 
the way. 

across Saudi Arabia with workshops 
in the field of data. More than 170 
people attended the data tour. 

to use open data and apply data 
science and engineering to develop 
8 AI projects. stc aimed to ensure 
open data for public usage to ben-
efit students, researchers and data 
enthusiasts. We published a website 
dedicated to sharing two datasets, 
with plans to share more in 2023.

across community members with 
more than 20,000 participants. This 
initiative also included a competi-
tion to award the winning projects 
that best serve the community. More 
than 200 projects were submitted 
across 26 different universities, with 
three winning projects announced 
at the end of the competition.Digital transformation towards sustainability

A data tour Open data day Sharing knowledge 

Customer-centric Digital transformation

Customer-centric experience drives operators’ digital transformation 

Customer-centric across 
the entire organization

Customer centric & 
outside-in visibility

Business is driven by 
data and anlytics

New digital maturity 
model

Automated self-care and 
self-service

Data sonic, business 
measures & customer 360 
view ccp

Leverage AI AI-based model

Cloud-based
Measuring benchmarks with 
enforced KPIs

Joined up, highly 
automated processes Holistic paradigm 

Platform-based and business 
models to monelize ecosystem

Linking digital CEx with business 
drivers to realize DT benefits

Standard IT platforms, not integrated 
specialist hardware and software stacks

Advancing digital 
opportunities, innovation & 
tranformation supporting 
sustainability

Business driven data 
analytics

Balance 4-focus Btz 
areas

Cloud-based unfilled 
platform

Customer experience centricity

Ability to identify the measures of DT 
outcomes from customer perspective

Choosing the right aprroach: integrated 
ecosystem

Customer centricity and culture change 
toward DT

Outside-in planning with flexible busi-
ness-based milestones

provision of an engaging experience where customers 
view the organization as their digital partner using 

their preferred channels of interaction. and Improve 
customer Experience through Digital Intelligence, 

optimal marketing opportunity & channel with 
personalized products, services and contextual plans 

for different customer segments.

Empower the stc Group with the ability strategically and 
effectively use data and information assets to maximize 

and realize business value.

Enable the ecosystem with technology capabilities 
to establish, maintain and continually transform an 
environment that supports the delivery of business 

objectives.

create a digital environment where everyone is willing 
and able to create business value. Introduce new 

collaboration tools, and adopt iterative and incremental 
development with constant feedback and visible 

progress; by adopting new ways of working across 
stc Group.

Create Open Digital ecosystems to avail the Flexibility, 
scalability, automation, high performance systems and 

improve workflow efficiency towards  relationships 
with customers, subsidiaries and partners eliminating  
steps in automation, more efficient, more accurate and 

for a lower cost  & minimizing the impact of TTM on 
Business Agility 

D

A

R

E

Elevate Digital 
experience Experience

Data
Driven insights

Technology
Adoption & TTM

Culture
- Digital Mindset

Operations 
Efficiency

Benefits & 
Impact

Definitive 
Digital Insight 
and Analysis

Agile & 
Flexible Digital 

Capabilities

Engrain a 
Digital Mindset  

& culture

Enable 
Frictionless 
ecosystem 



85 86stc.com.sa stc.com.sa

With millions of mobile subscribers, we rely on AI and data analytics to manage our increasingly dynamic business and 
connect with customers in a meaningful way, such as ensuring more substance and less spam for marketing purposes. . 
AI is also used throughout the organization to maximize revenue, reduce costs, improve decision making and efficiency, 
and create better experiences for both internal and external stakeholders. Additionally, AI is being used in conjunction 
with IoT and other emerging technologies to support climate action within stc and beyond, including the development 
of energy efficiency applications and social impact initiatives that promote climate benefits.  

In Saudi Arabia, about 12 million individuals are considered thin profiles, which limits financial entities, including credit 
bureaus, to build the right perception of these people’s financials and thus limits these individuals when trying to  
access financial services. With this in mind, we have been utilizing AI and big data to build an alternative credit scoring 
system to increase financial inclusion, which is defined as greater accessibility and affordability for financial products 
to meet the needs of individuals and businesses. Access to credit has the potential to close economic and social 
divides as well as drive economic growth. 

Several AI and IoT use cases are developed by Specialized by stc for the business, government, industrial and 
commercial sectors. Some of these use cases include smart IoT locks, smart roads and smart traffic lights. The 
smart road project uses advanced passive Radio Frequency Identifier (RFID) installed on vehicles’ license plates and 
distributed among readers across roads to monitor and manage congestion and car speed limits in addition to fast 
search for any vehicle in real time. The smart traffic light project is an AI platform to manage and control traffic lights in 
cases of emergency so that traffic lights automatically go green to offer clearer routes for ambulances, fire engines and 
police vehicles. This could also help reduce the risk of an accident caused by first responders driving through red lights.

and Internet of Things (AI + IoT)
Artificial intelligence 

We continuously seek to reinvent and digitize customer experiences. At stc KSA, we have defined digital 
communication channels and established a committee of stc representatives to analyze data, with stc’s commercial 
digital strategy focusing on creating new services and experiences that enable customers to fulfil their needs, digitize 
all processes, and radically address existing problems.  

Through our award-winning mystc app, we have digitized our customer services, allowing consumers to go further with 
greater ease and comfort. Through the app, customers can perform numerous activities and have access to a wide array 
of services and features, including a space to view and pay bills, order SIM cards, recharge or transfer balances, control 
all numbers registered under a given customer ID, and access specific statistics for call data and usage. 

In 2022, stc Kuwait fully revamped all digital touchpoints to provide a more integrated, seamless customer experience. 
As a result, several initiatives were implemented, including  customer experience unification across all digital channels,  
tailored offers based on data-driven customer behaviors and patterns, and resource optimization through the introduc-
tion of chatbots that manage 40% of incoming live chats.  

In addition, stc Bahrain utilized analytics and leveraged big data to support the subsidiary’s sales team and to better 
understand market dynamics and trends. Data science models were also used to enhance multiple sales-related cases, 
including a recommendation engine model to increase inbound and outbound sales, a mobile financing model to en-
hance device sales process and reduce bad debts, and a multi-channel optimization model to predict customer contact 
preferences in terms of channel and timing. 

and sales services 
Digitizing touch points 

Case study: Women and youth in AI
stc KSA is an enabler of females and youth within its advanced analytics department, with 52% of 
staff being female and 43%  youth. AI and data analytics are both highly competitive fields that are 
continuously evolving, which is why we ensure that our team is well equipped with the tools needed 
to succeed by providing them with different career development programs within consultancy, 
leadership, and a specialized program built specifically to satisfy the needs of the broad analytics 
domain.

Case study: AI in travel and tourism
Asir province in Saudi Arabia has become a popular destination for international tourism. In 
an effort to further boost this growing popularity, we utilized AI, computer vision, and Natural-
Language Processing (NLP) to develop an analysis tool that provides tourists insights and helps 
make data-supported decisions to drive tourism expansion.

Number of active users

mystc sales transactions

Unique clients served

Other sales transactions 
( SSM+SMS+outlet) without mystc*

Total subscriptions

8,490,000

60%

6,345,930

40%

23,420,562

9,460,371

52%

6,686,154

18%

23,638,622

9,541,323

52%

9,118,414

16%

27,665,581

mystc application

Sales transactions

2020

2020

2021

2021

2022

2022



Deep Links

From April 2022 Achieved For 2022 Planned in 2023 Planned in 2023

Digital interactions

34.5M 
Clicks

Meaningful 
insights

Customer 
experience

1.1B680K 
New Users

Analytics at use Gamification AI-based Chatbot

Reach Customer on 11 different 
channels to direct them to 
a relevant page of mystc to 
complete their journey

E2E Campaign 
Visibility

Better Content 
Discovery

Enhanced CEX

Harnassed analytics capabilities 
in 28 use-cause across products 
& services which benefited 
STC’s subscriber growth through 
better offers, enhanced customer 
experience, revenue increase of 
409M and retention worth 685M

Mini games for stc users when 
visiting mystc app. Winners are 
gratified and rewarded 
Games Created #3 
Platforms: iOS and Android

Natural language understanding 
based BOT to resolve customer 
queries on Bill Enquiry. It also 
indulges in small talk with users 
to engage with them even better 

- 8 Postpaid Billing queries  
   supported 
- Supports customer survey
- Languages: Arabic and English 
- Business managed bot training

87 88stc.com.sa stc.com.sa

We are a pioneering digital champion in the greater Gulf region. Our efforts in the areas of innovation and digital 
transformation have grown stc into a truly meaningful and purposeful organization. We offer a variety of services in the 
areas of communications, information technology (IT), cloud storage, and management of nearly everything digital, from 
media to cybersecurity and other advanced digital solutions. 

products and services
Innovative and digitized 

Designed to provide added conveniences, smart home technologies can remotely perform daily tasks such as setting 
thermostat levels, checking-in on loved ones, monitoring utility usage, and more. When adding these technologies it 
is recommended to identify what would best help the customer, and for that reason we provide onsite expert consulta-
tions for our customers to help them assess their potential service needs. We also continued to develop creative add-
ons and bundled them with fiber packages to enhance the customer experience. Some of these add-ons include Wi-Fi 
extender devices and smart home additions that enhance customer security and home control through IoT devices such 
as home surveillance cameras, door alarms, and controllers with affordable pricing options.

Smart home services

As part of our efforts to be the leading digital enabler in the region, in 2022 we continued to run our e-health services 
(virtual clinic, Tar’, EMI and Forun) to effectively help medical staff in hospitals and other health facilities,  providing 
accessibility and connectivity to healthcare through ensuring the continuity of remote work services. 
Our new Holo Doctor service is stc’s most recent digital medical solution, offering remote medical consultations by 
linking patients to doctors in the virtual Seha hospital. This service uses Holoportation technology, making patient-doc-
tor communication more similar to an in-person interaction as a3D image of the doctor is projected on a screen, giving 
a lifelike impression to the patient.

e-health products and services

Forun

Tari’

 48,732 

 2,825 

 54,084 

 9,988 

 50,110 

10,103 

Number of e-health services users 2020 2021 2022

e-sports and gaming platform 
There has been significant growth in the electronic gaming (e-gaming) sector in recent years, making it 
an independent technological economy in itself. stc seeks to expand its services along several new and 
unconventional paths to accommodate growing customer demands and needs. stcplay, our e-sports and 
gaming platform, provides casual and professional gamers access to online tournaments, content, and 
gaming merchants in one platform.  

This innovative platform is an incubated startup within stc and aims to access inorganic potential growth 
in digital platform gaming. stcplay is the number one gamer-engagement platform in the KSA, bringing all 
types of gamers, players, content creators, and influencers together. It offers gaming ecosystem service 
providers the opportunity to get connected with an engaged gamer base under one comprehensive digital 
user experience. 

Since the launch of stcplay, more than 5,000 online tournaments were created with more than 1.2 million 
registered users on the platform.

Social engagement 
experience:
Allows gamers to create their 
gaming profile, post UGC (user 
generated content), comment, 
like, and share, as well as the 
ability to follow users and ac-
counts by adding them to their 
gaming network. 

Online eSport tourna-
ments:
Enables users to create commu-
nity-level tournaments, select 
game and bracket types, assign 
prizes, set rules, and participate 
in these created tournaments to 
win prizes and show their skills 
in a specific game. 

Shop experience:
Allows users to buy digital 
gaming vouchers and have them 
delivered digitally by email/
SMS, and is alsoa sales channel 
for voucher providers to list 
their offerings.



89 90stc.com.sa stc.com.sa

Leading Fintech in Saudi Arabia

As we continue to successfully execute our dare strategy, we have further strengthened our position as 
an enabler of digital life. Our commitment to digital transformation is best shown with stcpay, widely 
recognized as the largest fintech creation and the first tech unicorn in Saudi Arabia and the Middle 
East. 

stcpay gives users complete control over their finances, with the ability to issue cards, transfer money, 
pay bills, and much more. The stcpay app enables instant money transfers to be sent to more than 
200 countries with ease, needing only a phone number to complete the transaction. In 2022, the new 
“Qattah” feature was added, allowing users to collect and split bills seamlessly. stcpay serves nearly 9.6 
million registered users, which is a testament to how the payment platform is evolving. 

Through stcpay we aim to reduce dependence on cash as the economy becomes increasingly digital. 
Looking ahead, we will seek to roll out the service to other countries in the MENA region and, eventually, 
around the world.

At stc, we aim to pave the way and empower students by providing them with access to educational platforms 
and content at the tip of their fingers through advanced innovative technologies. 

In 2022, stc continued the rollout of the Madrasaty e-schooling platform that was initially released the 
previous year. This beneficial platform enables parents to ensure online access for their children without any 
additional charges to their original data packages.  

Through Intigral, we offer world-class entertainment TV with best-in class content and consumer experience. Capitaliz-
ing on our technological capabilities, stc tv (a.k.a. Jawwy TV in markets outside KSA, Bahrain and Kuwait), the entertain-
ment-streaming platform, warrants an uninterrupted viewing experience with availability across all devices. 

This innovative platform provides access to digital products and services, direct carrier billing to various cards, and 
coupons from other stores, enabling customers to manage their plan in real-time. Furthermore, stc tv offers a wide range 
of local and international video-on-demand content at a fraction of the price of other major VOD platforms. In 2022, stc 
tv had more than 2.6 million subscribers with 58% growth year-on-year increase in viewership in 2022, garnering 210M+ 
hours views for both App and Home. 

In 2022, Intigral was recognized as the Most Innovative Digital Entertainment Solutions Brand in MENA for 2022 by Global 
Brands Magazine. The award recognizes Intigral’s outstanding commitment to innovation, quality, branding activities, 
and performance. Intigral was also recognized for its outstanding performance in the field of digital entertainment in 
the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, winning the Best Smart Service Platform and the Best VOD Service Provider in the 2022 
International Finance Awards.

e-education services

Entertainment platform



91 92stc.com.sa stc.com.sa

stc is constantly seeking to help young people gain the skills and experiences they need to help 
further boost the digital economy of Saudi Arabia. This ongoing goal precipitated our creation of 
InspireU, an incubator for early-stage digital companies. At InspireU, entrepreneurs are given the 
opportunity to learn the skills necessary to not only follow their dreams, but to help bolster the KSA 
digital economy.  

The program offers financing in the form of a seed grant worth up to SAR 100K, as well as 
access to partners within the stc network for start-ups in industries as diverse as gaming, real 
estate, logistics, financial technology, health and fitness, and transportation. We ensure young 
entrepreneurs have the right skills to succeed by providing access to the academy training program, 
mentorship opportunities, and extensive 1-on-1 coaching sessions for selected startups in each 
intake group.

economy through inspireU
Boosting the digital

Leveraged stc’s infrastructure to attract and foster elite startups for potential integration within the Group. 

Emphasize an integrated approach for internal and external value creation throughout stc.

Achievements in 2022:

Looking ahead, we plan to:

Incubated nearly 100 startups with a total valuation of almost 10 Billion SAR.

Expand the regional and global exposure of InspireU in the entrepreneurial ecosystem.

Added value to the Saudi economy by soft-landing international delegations and startups to be incubated.

Accelerate high-potential local and international startups with disruptive innovative solutions to maximize 
corporate value by launching two new strategic programs.

Fulfilled corporate needs and supported the Invest Saudi initiative by widening international boundaries through 
incubating global startups.

Enrich stc’s Corporate Fund and the Saudi investment  pipeline with strategically placed, best-in-class 
startups through InspireU’s new programsincubating global startups.

e.g. launching a special track in cybersecurity with Sirar and creating collaborations between a subsidiary and 
international startups.

Embrace and encompass the game development landscape by developing a strategic tripartite program 
international startups.

Uplift internal and external stakeholder experience through a comprehensive, innovative platform.

During the past calendar year we have provided unified training sessions to all incubated startups in 
different business areas through the InspireU academy training program. This is intended to ensure 
full understandability of the business environment which includes six academies: Readiness, Market, 
Technology, Commercial, Business, and Launch. We also ran full analyses of  business needs to offer 
consultations, individualized coaching sessions, and dedicated workshops with SMEs in specific areas 
from internal departments, stc partners, and subsidiaries.

Case study: InspireU and Sirar’s cybersecurity track
Due to the highly specialized nature of advanced cybersecurity technologies, a dedicated track was developed to 
ensure optimal utilization of SME expertise in Sirar by stc.  

In 2022, Sirar worked closely with selected startups to conduct high-level analyses set execution plans, perform 
consultation sessions, and create a mentorship program for all incubated startups. Specialized workshops were 
also conducted to highlight emerging trends in cybersecurity helping to strengthen market positions for the 
involved startups, as well as increasing their cybersecurity awareness and illuminating potential integration areas 
within selected startups to better utilize creative solutions.

Number of incubated startups

Investment to support digital 
innovation (SAR)

Jobs created through the 
start-ups

Mentorship opportunities

Percentage of women owned 
start-up or investees

Startup survival rate

Number of companies still 
operating after they’ve left the 

accelerator

27

100%

17

17

10

18%

> 1 billion since 2015 to date

100%

> 600,000 jobs created since 2015 to date

10

10

17

100%

17

16

InspireU 2020 2021 2022



93 94stc.com.sa stc.com.sa

our people
Empowering

Working within different countries, communities and cultures, we know that the different skills and approaches of our 
people are the key to success. Having a diverse workforce, fostering inclusion and representing the diversity of the com-
munities we serve are both ethical and business priorities. 

As an equal opportunity employer, we aim to provide an equal and inclusive work environment that attracts, develops, 
and retains the best individual talents. In addition to securing the safety and well-being of our workforce, we seek to 
create a work environment that enables people to thrive at stc. 

- Build a “Sustained People Advantage” in the market, whereby stc will be distinguished as a company that attracts and keeps diverse talents irrespec-
tive of their culture, gender nationality etc.

- Build a culture of inclusion through creating an environment where we all feel a sense of belonging.

- Drive “Cultural Accountability” amongst our employees to encourage them to demonstrate high levels of ownership to think 
and act in the manner necessary to achieve stc results.

- Work together to ensure that stc diversified employees at all levels feel valued, respected and included.

Diversity, equality and inclusion are placed at the heart of stc’s People strategy initiatives. The high value we place on 
diversity help us to continue making a difference in improving the inclusion balance amongst stc Group employees.
At stc, diversity drives progress. It strengthens our ability to innovate and contributes to our success in digital tech-
nology. We encourage employees to be their individual, curious and unique selves. We embrace diversity and recog-
nize that the success of our group depends on our ability foster an environment that promotes equity and cultivates 
inclusion.  

To this end, we will be further embedding diversity and inclusion into our broader human resources strategy at the 
Group level. Our leaders will continue to raise the bar on accountability towards diversity and inclusion. We are 
committed to leveling the playing field for all males and females in areas such as recruitment, promotion, leadership 
development and equal pay.

As a group, we span 3 different countries with more than 22,000 employees and together we seek to build one culture 
in which we care about one another and solidify a sense of belonging for also that all voices are heard to drive better 
business outcomes. To reflect our diversity and inclusion (D&I) commitment, we focus on three critical priority areas: 
women in leadership; culture and ethnicity; and inclusion of people with disability.

We strive to make decisions based on unbiased considerations. This is particularly relevant in HR processes such as 
recruitment, promotions, development, compensation and layoffs. To ensure no one holds implicit or unconscious 
biases, we aim to raise awareness of these biases and challenge them and thereby aim for equal treatment in our 
decision-making and design of processes.

The benefits of adapting a culture of inclusion cannot be overemphasized as stc continuously strives to create an 
environment where everyone feels a sense of belonging. Each year, we undertake initiatives to build a more inclusive 
work environment that will allow us to strengthen the grassroots of inclusion. Our GCEO and stc executives at the 
Group level are active counterparts to meeting our diversity and inclusion objectives. 

As such, we are working hand in hand with our counterparts to blend our collective efforts with actionable commit-
ments, which will enrich our Employee Value Propositions across the Group to:

Diversity, equality and inclusiveness 

Driving innovation
Continuous creativity is a key element of stc’s digital transformation strategy. We utilize research and development 
(R&D) and “experiment by doing” methodology to test the latest ideas and technologies before bringing them to life and 
getting them to market. We are committed to growing and evolving our R&D practices to improve efficiencies, enable 
innovative products and services, and instill a culture of innovation. 

In 2022, we established the state-of-the-art FWD Innovation Lab, which has become the epicenter of innovative ideation 
and co-creation for stc and beyond. In addition to hosting innovative events, the lab has also been used to organized 
extensive ideation sessions and, hackathons for use case development. As of December 2022, we made more than SAR 
42 million investments into R&D across stc Group.
 
Our catalyst project “Wholesale roaming settlements using block chain” at stc KSA innovation lab was declared a 
finalist in the 2022 TM Forum catalyst program.  

At TAWAL, we have developed several innovative use cases using AI including Arif and Yamama AI agents. The Arif 
AI Agent ensures that TAWAL sites are in optimal conditions in terms of design, usage, cost, and profit. Arif aims at 
minimizing the misuse of TAWAL towers by eliminating unauthorized site activities. The Yamama AI Agent closely 
monitors the performance of TAWAL’s assets and provides predictive and early warnings of any anticipated faults or 
malfunctioning. It also optimizes the scheduling of preventive maintenance by prioritizing sites with predicted outages.

* Innovation labs are located in stc KSA, Channels and TAWAL only. 

 Innovation

Investment in R&D and 
Innovation (million SAR)

Number of users of entre-
preneurship and innovation 

platform

17.05 

60

25.1

110

23.11 

140

29.01

190

29.85 

435

42.15

735

stc KSA stc Group

2020 20202021 20212022 2022



95 96stc.com.sa stc.com.sa

Data center 1

International standards certifying quality of workplace 
• ISO 9001 Quality Management system
• ISO 10667 Assessment
• ISO 29993 Learning services outside formal education
• ISO 40180 Digital Learningoup.

stc strives to attract the best talents with inclusivity in mind, bringing valuable talents with various backgrounds 
and expertise to meet its expanding scope and future ambitions. In 2022, the total number of stc Group employees 
reached more than 22,000. In 2022, no major layoffs took place. 

Number of employees 
(excluding trainees, 

students and 
outsourced staff)

Employees on a fixed term or 
temporary contract

Employees on an indefinite or 
permanent contract

Total  Full-Time Equivalent (FTE) 
Employees

<30

Women

Senior management

31-50

Men

Staff

Middle management

>50

13,704

1,739

11,965

13,704

13% 

5%

0.3%

78%

95%

88%

12%

9%

20,725

1,793  

13,708

15,967

14%

6%

1%

77%

94%

86%

13%

8%

12,900 

1,255

11,645

12,900

13% 

7%

1%

77%

93%

87%

12%

10%

15,967    

6,015

14,256

20,725

27%

17%

1%

66%

83%

87%

11%

7%

13,237

1,882

11,355

13,237

15%

9%

1%

74%

91%

86%

14%

11%

22,759

7,270

14,340

22,759

28%

19%

1%

65%

81%

86%

13%

7%

By age

By gender:

By employment Level:

* Group column includes stc KSA, stc Bahrain, stc Kuwait, Solutions, ccc, Sirar, Aqalat, Channels, Intigral, and TAWAL. However, breakdown by job category is not available for Aqalat.

Award winning work environment
stc Group and its subsidiaries, channels by stc and Solutions by stc attained 4 awards within the nationalization and 
work environment categories, during the second edition of the labor awards the Saudi the Ministry of Human Re-
sources and Social Development, after competing with 10,000 other private organizations.

In 2022, stc Group was recognized by the Saudi Ministry of Human Resources and Social Development (HRSD) for our 
efforts to promote nationalization and an excellent work environment. stc KSA received the working environment 
award for people with disabilities within the large and vast enterprises category, in addition to the Saudization award 
for nationalizing the communications and information technology sector. channels by stc won the nationalization 
award in the wholesale and retail trade sector, while Solutions by stc won the distinguished working environment 
award, within the large and oversize enterprises’ division.

Solutions by stc, Sirar by stc and TAWAL were recognized as part of the Best Workplaces in KSA 2022 by the Global 
Authority on Workplace Culture for  large and small and medium enterprises categories. stc Group was also listed 
as one of the Most Attractive Employers of 2022 for business and commerce based on Universum survey. We also 
received the “Best HR Analytics Strategy” award in the MENA region at the Future Workplace Awards 2022 by Informa 
Connect. 

We’re proud to be one of the top graduate employers of choice awarded by Universum. In 2022 and for the second 
year in a row, stc has been recognized as one of the Most Attractive Employers in Saudi Arabia. Every year, university 
students vote for their ideal employers in the country’s largest, most comprehensive and independent career related 
study – the Universum Talent Survey. Universum surveyes over 12,000 students in Saudi Arabia to provide insight on 
company characteristics they find most attractive in a potential employer as well as who they perceive to be their 
ideal employer. In 2021, stc was listed as one of the Top of Industry within Telecommunication and Networks by the 
Engineering/IT students, as Saudi Arabia’s Most Attractive Employers ranking. In 2022 Universum ranked stc as #9 
amongst Engineering/IT students, as Saudi Arabia’s Most Attractive Employer.

This was achieved due to many initiatives the group worked on, aiming to improve and develop the work environment, 
to become more flexible and attractive for professional talents.

Culture and ethnicity
Even though our nationalization rates are high, our workforce includes people from different ethnicity backgrounds 
and cultures. We pursue self-identification efforts to help us further understand our organizational structure as 
regards culture and ethnic representation. We seek to continuously listen and learn from our colleagues to ensure we 
solidify a welcoming and nurturing work environment.  

In 2022, we recorded 43 nationalities working together to achieve common goals.

Workforce 
profile

stc KSA stc Group

2020 20202021 20212022 2022

 Nationalities and regions

South African 0.02%

African 0.05%

European 0.33%

Euro Asian 0.01%

Asian 1.73%

North American 0.26%

South Asian 2.32%

Saudi 92.95% Other 0.04%

Australian 0.01%

Arab (non Saudi) 2.26%

Turkish 0.03%



Women in leadership  
Women at stc form an integral part of our business, and we not only value what they bring to the company, 
but we also seek to foster an environment that creates meaningful careers for women. 

One of the main challenges that stc faces is a shortage of available women to fill technical positions. With 
this in mind, stc developed a women council alongside several talent development programs with compet-
itive compensation. One such programs is the “Emerging leaders program” by stc Academy that aims to 
accelerate and transform the role of women in leadership positions at stc. Through a 10-weeks intensive 
training and hands-on experience in leadership that takes future leaders throughout several stages provid-
ed by renown local and international providers. 

Women employment

Number of new women 
employees

Women employment 
rate

Percentage of women 
in middle management

Percentage of women 
in senior management

34%

3%

0%

19%

6%

0%

26%

16%

9%

36%

31%

14%

25% 

10%

11%

37%

4%

3%

28%

7%

0%

26%

17%

9%

36%

33%

11%

38%

10%

12%

38%

6%

2%

32%

9%

0%

24%

17%

9%

37%

35.70%

0.00%

38%

10%

11%

stc KSA Solutions by stcstc Bahrain ccc stc Kuwait

2020 20202020 2020 20202021 20212021 2021 20212022 20222022 2022 2022

167 363 2,262 7215 825 1,676 12287 1113 1,785 12

Case study: The women council
The women council established in 2019 is one of the programs that aim to empower women and reinforce female participation in the 
workforce through creating the enabling environment and providing them with opportunities to develop their skills and capabilities. 
The council was established as an output of the hi-stc survey result. 

The council is chaired by the Group CEO, and meets regularly to discuss ways to improve women employees’ experience through 
increasing the numbers of women hiring, ensure a supportive physical environment as well as develop women capabilities through 
different programs. 
 
Case study: Women in STEM (WiSTEM)
In efforts to prepare more women for career opportunities in STEM and close the digital divide between men and women in STEM 
fields, stc Academy partnered with Udacity to offer 150 women in STEM scholarships to earn a business analytics nanodegree 
certificate. The program links STEM learning with sustainability, and is designed based on stc’s strategic learning requirements, to 
further equip women with the basic, yet essential knowledge and skills to make more data driven decisions.

Inclusion of people with disability 
As part of our commitment to fair employment and integrity in the workplace, we strive to create an inclusive culture 
that values all employees. Our Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) efforts integrate all employee segments to ensure they are 
included, respected, and empowered.

We collaborate with Qaderoon, the Business Disability Network, to assess how to best integrate persons with 
disabilities as equal and effective members of the workforce, which qualifies our facilities to obtain a harmonization 
certificate approved by the Ministry of Labor and Social Development, which helps us obtain Mowaamah certification 
declaring the adoption of best practices and standards in creating work environments suitable for people with 
disability.  At stc KSA, we have further equipped with disabled friendly featured such as accessible parking, wide-
doors, ramps, grab rails, etc.

In 2022, we launched the Employment Mapping initiative aimed to identify and specify all jobs that are suitable for
each type of disability to ensure we hire people in appropriate areas. By the end of the year, all jobs have been clearly
identifies and all existing people with disability have been mapped accordingly. The mapping process included 
an assessments of the physical environment, technologies needed for the job, communication required and HR 
practices. We commit ourselves to work together to ensure that employees – at all levels and locations – feel valued, 
respected and included.

Protecting labor rights 

Protecting labor rights is at the heart of our core values and principles.  Putting mechanisms, procedures, and 
policies in place that align with Saudi Arabia’s labor law that specifically and strictly prohibits violations of Labor laws 
as stated by the International Labor Organization (ILO) whom Saudi Arabia is a proud and active member. 

Through our Labor Committee, we seek to ensure labor rights are protected across stc and that people’s voices are 
heard on critical labor issues such as wages and working hours. The Labor Committee members, nominated by their 
colleagues, engage in negotiations with management to ensure good working relationships and protect labor rights. 
In 2022, stc had 18 nominated representatives from 5 different regions.  

Case study: International day of people with disability
In accordance with the International Day of People with Disabilities, we have conducted the second major event in 2022 and 
was the digital enabler for the 6th international conference on disability and rehabilitation hosted under the patronage of King 
Salman Bin Abdulaziz the event was attended by several high-profile figures and experts, with the participation of an inspiring 
number of people with disabilities.

Inclusion and diversity

Number of employees 
with disability 68 70   70 7867 75

stc KSA stc Group

2020 20202021 20212022 2022

97 stc.com.sa 98 stc.com.sa

In 2022, stc recorded the following in Saudi Arabia:
Total women headcount in 2022 is 4,414 (10% increase from 2021)
General Manager roles filled by women increased by 25% from 2021



stc’s Labor Committee chaired the national workers committee representing Saudi workers in the 
G20and international and Arab labor conferences and received recognition from the Minister of Human 
Resources and Social Development in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia on the committees efforts. 

In 2022, the labor committee rolled out a training program to TiP staff to raise awareness on of labor 
culture. By the end of the year, the labor committee conducted 12 training courses delivered to 201 
employees. 

Develop better working 
conditions and environments

Enhance productivity and labor 
output to achieve a balacne in 
the curve between employers and 
employees that strengthens the 
working relationship

Enhance training programs in 
both technical and 
administrative tracks

Objective of labor committee 

Summary of labor committee achievements in 2022

Historical statistics stc workers committee elections

Enhance socio-cultural awarness 
in the labor market

Develop better health and safety 
regulations in the working 
environments

Patient staff support initiative (cancer 
and kidney)

2004 2008 2011 2014 2018 2022
1st session

Number of 
employees eligible 
to vote

20670 18757 16750 14544 11628

Number of 
candidates

112 117 116 257 80

Number of 
votes

7015 6854 7567 6102 5659

Participation 
rate

33.94% 36.54% 45.23% 41.96% 48.67%

2nd  session 3rd session 4th session 5th session 6th session

Rolled out an initiative to improve the 
contract terms of operational employee

Promoting loyalty and labor culture 
through direct communication with 
employess

Adding many initiatives regarding media-
cal insurance for employess

Contribute to the success of the 
group’s strategies

An initiative to improve the work 
environment for employees with 
disabilities

1

4

2

5

3

6

Internal grievance reporting 
We are committed to protecting the rights of our people by providing them with effective internal control 
mechanisms. We have given our employees the confidence to speak up to ensure we are living our corporate values.
All stc employees are mandated to abide by the stc Code of Ethics highlighting stc’s Fair Employment Policy and 
respect of workplace diversity, prohibiting harassment, bullying and unfair employment practices in all their forms. 
Violations of these policies are strictly dealt with, and all employees are to report such violations through SPEAK-UP 
(whistleblowing) channel.  

stc aims to build trusted and safe environment to different employees segment and established the formal process 
and procedures to maintain the best culture for all employees. Thus, stc established the harassment committee and 
promote the Speak Up channel to encourage all the employees reporting any related incidents.

All grievances are handled in a professional and discrete manner with external supervision. The Business Partner 
leads the investigations in alignment with a Legal Representative. 

In addition to having a solid framework in place for grievances, we aim to reduce the total number of grievances that 
arise in the first place. We have dedicated two channels to answer all employee inquiries related to HR policies and 
procedures as well as issue tickets on our services. Tickets are issued to monitor and ensure closure of issues raised. 
We also continuously increase employees’ awareness on updated policies and procedures through emails and SMS 
notifications. 

Number of incidents reported 
(internal grievance system)

Percentage of these incidents 
addressed or resolved (internal 

grievance system)

1,263

100%

1,276

100%

1,116

100%

Incidents reported through internal 
incidents reporting – stc Group

2020 2021 2022

99 stc.com.sa 100 stc.com.sa



We focus on talent development and training of our people through designing, defining, and meeting 
training paths, development plans, and various training needs. We set annual and semi-annual plans to 
implement these training needs according to each individual employee-training track, which is imple-
mented by specialists with competence and knowledge in this area. We do all this through stc Academy 
and contracted qualified training companies in the fields of learning and development according to the 
highest technical specifications and efficiency. 

Learning and development activities are carried out using different methods, such as classroom and 
digital training, which are monitored and evaluated according to specific standards, methods, goals, 
and performance indicators that are followed to ensure effectiveness. Learning and development 
programs are implemented in accordance to the approved policy and procedures and learning and 
development are managed through the Learning Management System (LMS). In addition, the stc People 
sector is ISO- 29990 certified for “Learning services for non-formal education and training - Basic 
requirements for service providers” – a renowned international standard designed to enhance trans-
parency and allow comparison with learning services worldwide.

Talent management 

Training and development - stc Academy 
stc is at the forefront of the fourth industrial revolution and we’re right at the cutting edge of innovation. Our 
purpose is to prepare the next generation for a completely different technological reality. Our Training and 
Development Policy Statement sets our commitment to investing in both personal and professional development of 
our employees while maintaining equal opportunities. 

stc Academy provides world-class digital leadership and digital technology environment to enable the transformation 
of stc toward being a digital company. The trajectory of stc Academy is to become uniquely placed as a Centre of 
Excellence in the digital learning space and also to provide thought leadership to our group companies and external 
organizations within the Saudi Kingdom and GCC.

Through stc Academy, we: 

- Follow a customized learning approach and adopt best practices
- Design customized learning solutions to build targeted employee’s capabilities based on business needs
- Deliver tailored level learning solutions to uplift the capabilities on sector level based on top common 
   competencies, Jadara gaps, business customized need and business vendor engagement
- Partner with top training providers to support in delivering best learning solutions

Corporate leadership program Sectoral program

Digital Excellence Program (DEX) Strategic professional program

Strategic growth acceleration TiP

Continuous learning program Certificate based program

Leadership schools

stc Academy offerings:

stc Academy in numbers:

Training programs to drive innovation:

Professional schools

111 
Programs

4.6 
Satisfaction

12K+ 
Attendance

163 
Cohorts

127K+ 
Learning Hours

Corporate Leadership Program: Customized leadership program provided in partnership with IE Business School and targeting 3 levels: pre-section 
managers, section managers, and directors. The program aims to provide participants with needed managerial and leadership skills to excel in their 
careers and lead their teams efficiently.

Digital Excellence Program (DEX): Unique and customized journey of hybrid learning activities that focuses on trending technologies like AI, Robotics, 
Data, IoT, and smart city. This program is targeting mid-management and provided in partnership with global academic service providers.

Sectorial Programs: tailored level learning solutions aligned with business uplifting employees capabilities on sector level.

Knowledge Transfer Program (KTP): A program based on stc Group experts to transfer their knowledge & skills in specific domains through design 
efforts or by delivering learning solutions.

STRIVE: This technology program had been designed due to aggressive demand for new skills driven by stc dare2.0 and T&Ops raqami2.0 .The program 
had been customized and designed by the support of vendors who are the top in their fields. The program had been split into 5 tracks, which starts 
with training, being certified, then having the opportunity to be have real work experience (OJT).

SEED: SEED is a laser focused program as part of Operation Sector building capabilities initiative to attract national talents into the Infrastructure 
sector, enable mentality shift into more technical career opportunities, provide on hands-on experience and technology reflection.

101 stc.com.sa 102 stc.com.sa

https://www.stc.com.sa/content/dam/groupsites/common/generic/pdfs/Training%20and%20Career%20Development%20Position%20Statement.pdf
https://www.stc.com.sa/content/dam/groupsites/common/generic/pdfs/Training%20and%20Career%20Development%20Position%20Statement.pdf


Summer Training: Providing summer training for students covering different domains including data analytics, digital marketing, and artificial 
intelligence.

Innovation Hub: This project target stc existing employee, the training contents contains: infrastructure to be the foundation of innovation, AL/Cloud/
Network infrastructure, talent to be the land of cultivation, provider of innovative solution use cases like 5G in vertical industries, AR/VR for smart 
campus, AL for smart cities.

5G Lab: A program to cultivate 5G and ICT talents and uplift their skills through systematic specialized learning paths based on stc Data Center. Through 
the 5G lab, students are trained to be certified in 5G technology and able to build innovative projects using 5G technology. 

Virtual Skills Experience: Misk’s virtual work experiences platform provides realistic and unique opportunities for young individuals. Through this 
innovative platform, we offer the Cybersecurity Incident Response Analysis simulated virtual work experience. The virtual work experience program 
enables newly graduated Saudi youth to acquire labor market experiences and skills by completing short virtual tasks within programs presented in 
Arabic language that simulate the work environment. Through this experiences, applicants perform network process analysis, email analysis and policy 
development and complete n awareness campaign on cyber security.

Training

In Class

<30

National employeesTotal hours of training 
for employees

Senior management

Senior management

National employees

<30

Average hours of 
training / employee

eLearning

31-50 

Non-National 
employees

>50

Middle management

Staff

Middle management

Staff

Non-National 
employees

31-50

>50

37,728

12

73.2298,458

0.2

762

276,908

46,338

79

260,730

10

5.7

56.28

7

72

24,870

272,826

21,550

39,270

212,850

70,285

342,629

3,775

299,229

49,123

22.0

269,466 

37,537

298,440

40,522 

76,305 

214,322 

4,904

134

40449,160

28

697

427,548

201,435

38

444,256

26

22

18

42

38

60,150

388,313

21,612

219,579

28,146

54,264

558,024

2,342

483,071 

215,897 

27.5 

500,958

91,726

461,154

 72,152 

309,162 

 30,160

213,459

Men 22.8 28 37

91

42470,398

43

6905

445,260

143,733

40.3

256,939

Women 65.5 10 85.7

35

26

19

58

38

78,980

384,513

25,139

297,051

29,615

299,301

616,010

Men 257,659 293,580328,823 420,801382,675 502,318

12,931

541,906

173,123

27.1

316,709

Women 40,799 46,171120,337 134,42210,331 119,607

123,806

487,230

77,480

392,174

33,208

stc KSA

Training by type:

Average training hours by gender:

Average training hours by age:

Average training hours by nationality:

          Total hours of training for employees by gender  

Average training hours by job category:

Total hours of training for employees by job category:

Total hours of training for employees by nationality:

Total hours of training for employees by age:

Average training hours

stc Group

2020 20202021 20212022 2022

* Training average hours are only available for stc KSA due to different categorization across some entities - we are in the process of consolidating all system across group.

We seek to help employees improve their present job performance and prepares them for their next step in their 
future career path. To that end we provide professional development courses to increase employees skill sets to open 
up opportunities and career progression. We seek to accelerate advancement in the workplace by improving compe-
tencies and skills.  

Professional development courses are offered through stc Academy, digital libraries, and partnerships with prestig-
ious institutions both in class and virtual. In 2022, more than 233,500 professional development training hours were 
provided to employees.

Professional development at stc KSA 

Professional Development courses 59,291 174,286 56 16

Professional development – 
stc KSA Women

Total number of training hours Average number of training hours 

WomenMen Men

Youth development programs 
Through an attractive and an award winning work environment with unique incentives, and through internal youth 
empowerment programs, stc is making a stride in empowering the youth and increasingly including them within its 
workforce mix. 

With a growing population of young individuals graduating every year, there is an urgent need to integrate them into 
the job market to strike the right balance in representing young talent in the workforce. Our flagship talent develop-
ment programs help youth achieve their full potential by improving their knowledge, skills, and abilities.

103 stc.com.sa 104 stc.com.sa

Training

stc KSA

2020 2021 2022



105 stc.com.sa 106 stc.com.sa

Talent development flagship programs:

Aims to provide new 
graduates with a variety 
of job tasks, wide 
professional exposure and 
the opportunity to work at 
stc. TiP offers 11 different 
development tracks.

Talent Incubation Program
(TiP)

Uses mentoring, guidance, 
and facilitation to help 
talented stc staff learn. 
It focuses on developing 
participants in three 
areas: consultancy, 
innovation, and workforce 
performance.

Specialized Development 
Program (SDP)

Targets an exclusive group 
of employees to accelerate 
their development and 
growth thereby ensuring a 
robust leadership pipeline in 
stc and its subsidiaries.

High Potential Leadership 
Development Program (HiPo)

Specialist Development Program 
(SDP)

Talent Incubation Program (TIP)

High Potential (HiPo) Leadership 
Development Program

Cyber Security

Data Analytics

KFUPM Scholarship

42

217

-

-

-

-

68

300

57

17

28

16

179

899

100

17

26

15

Youth talent development 
programs – stc KSA 2020 2021 2022

Data for 2020 is not available for HiPo is not available. The cybersecurity, data analytics and KFUPM programs initiated in 2021 so no back data is available. 

Digitally empowering youth in Bahrain  
Through stc Bahrain’s flagship program “Jeel ICT” program, we offer cutting-edge digital training to Bahraini youth to enrich 
their digital capabilities as well as enhancing the digital labor market for the Kingdom. The program is a one-year highly 
intensive blended program offering six areas of focused development in ICT skills.  

By the end of the program’s third edition in 2022, ten Bahraini graduates between the ages of 20 and 23 joined stc Bahrain 
as a full-time employee. The past 2 editions of the program witnessed over 10,000 registrations, 19 graduates trained, and 15 
employed full time at stc Bahrain. The program has accepted students across universities in Bahrain such as the University 
of Bahrain, Royal University for Women, Bahrain Polytechnic, Ahlia University, and more.

Nationalization  
Reducing the number of unemployed national is a key and common element across the national visions of the 
countries we operate. We are committed to nationalization as part of our effort to improve economic empowerment 
of local communities.  

Our initiatives and programs that aid in supporting the recruitment and retention of national employees include 
nationalization targets for specific areas (such as enterprise architecture or strategy), a three-year strategic 
workforce plan program (with mandates to hire, develop and retain nationals in key roles), and talent programs for 
national employees, which cater to people with different goals.

Nationalization rate of senior 
management (%)

Nationalization rate among total 
workforce (%)

Number of women national 
employees

Total number of 
national employees

90.7

674

10,856

64

6   

273

51

55

128

91.78

827

10,688

64

 66 

268

53

52

129

92.98

1,020

10,558

65

68

261

51

53

133

92.6 602993.5  603197.7 6734

Nationalization

stc KSA stc Bahrain stc Kuwait

2020 2020 20202021 2021 20212022 2022 2022



107 stc.com.sa 108 stc.com.sa

Performance review 
Through our competency framework “JADARA”, we define the shared expectations of skills and performance across 
core leadership and functional competencies required by roles at stc. Following the competency assessments, we 
develop individual development plans tailored to each employee to bridge any competency gaps.  

We then manage and track the performance of our people through regular check-ins, annual performance reviews 
for each employee, and annual career development sessions for targeted, talented employees. Work performance of 
each stc employee is evaluated based on specific KPIs set at the beginning of each year.

Performance review

% of employees who received 
a performance development 

review

% of employees who received 
a career development review

100%

10%

100%

15%

100%

-

100%

11%

100%

20%

100%

-

100%

100%

100%

20%

100%

-

stc KSA stc Kuwait stc Bahrain

2020 2020 20202021 2021 20212022 2022 2022

Employee engagement 
We continue to enhance organizational health and culture within the Group. The “Good to Great” program features 
three main domains: culture, living values, and increasing stc Health. 

Our method involves using soft power to change minds and influence behaviors, with improvements monitored 
through the Hi-stc survey carried out by the Denison institute, which will benchmark stc Health to the top global 
1,000 organizations. This will lead to increasing stc Group performance measures such as profitability, growth, quality, 
and innovation. The scope for this program covers the entire group. 

The hi-stc (stc’s health index) is one of the principal tools used to measure employee engagement, motivation, 
affiliation and commitment to stc. The survey is carried out by Denison Institute to offer a global benchmark against 
1,000 global organizations. The scope of this program covers stc Group. It provides insights into employees’ views and 
has had a consistently high response rate. 

The surveys are anonymous. The outcomes of the survey are shared with leaders to identify strengths and areas of 
improvement in the work culture. We then develop waves of “waves of initiatives”, each focused on promoting the 
desired culture at stc, one that creates a healthy and attractive environment for all employees.  

Employee compensation and benefits 
We strive to provide competitive compensation and benefits. We aim to ensure that men and women are paid 
similarly on average for the same job. We provide our employees with many monetary and non-monetary benefits. 

Our long-term incentive program is a stock-based program offered to executives and is tied to performance. 
Currently this program applies to 1.3% of the total workforce. We also provide performance-based incentive pay 
scheme for all employees who exhibit high performance at work through excellence reward that aims to encourage 
achievement, disseminate the spirit of competition, and cement this culture among employees of the company.  

Non-sales employees receive annual bonus that is based on individual performance. Employees working in sales 
positions receive sales commissions on a quarterly basis. Employees receive an annual merit increase  based on 
performance, market movement and inflation rates.  

We offer our employees a wide range of benefits including car loans, home loans, child education support, childcare 
support, free mobile plans for employees and their families, thrift saving plans and many more. 

Employee attraction and retention 
Our goal is to attract, develop, and retain the best talent to fill stc positions. We also aim to ensure that the next gen-
eration of leaders are equipped with the tools, skills, and confidence to perform at the highest level. We aim to hire 
the right people for the right jobs, with succession plans in place to retain key employees.

stc health index (%)

Employee engagement (%)

Employees response rate (%)

82

89

83

82

89

87

82

89

88

Employee engagement 
– stc Group 2020 2021 2022

Case study: Cultural Champions Program at stc Kuwait
The Cultural Champions Program involves all stc Kuwait operations aiming to drive cultural change, help 
cultivate a positive work environment and introduce new ways to bring culture to life. The cultural champions 
receive the detailed report of the health index, and they will be working on the outcome of the information to 
provide initiative for the next year that focuses on enhancing the culture. 

As a result of having cultural champions, in 2022 stc Kuwait recorded its highest ever engagement rate in the Hi-
stc survey with remarkable increase in the health index score.

Assessment

- Assess the current   
organizational health 
index via Hi-stc 
survey results

- Identify the gaps and 
improvements

- Share Hi-stc 
sectorial results with 
all stakeholders and 
set a meeting with 
them

- Nominate champions 
for each respective 
sector 

- Conduct sessions 
with the champions to 
let them understand 
their role of of culture 
change

- Champions conduct 
focus group to validate 
Hi-stc report 

- Develop initiatives 
related to their sector 
health index gaps

- Consolidate 
champions and HR 
initiatives that are 
linked to the gaps 
identified 

- Categorize short/
long term objectives 
of the program 

- Develop a time frame 
for the consolidated 
initiatives 

- Present a high level 
presentation to the 
CEO with estimated 
cost for approval (if 
required) 

- All champions will be 
responsible to the 
initiate the initiatives 
approved for their 
respective sector 

- They will be taking a 
part in the change 

- Champions keep 
progress update 
with the HRBP and 
the CHRO/CEO 
(frequency TBD)

- Measure the impact 
of the completed 
initiatives via multiple 
tools and channels. 

- Reward champions 
participating in the 
initiatives 

- Compare Hi-stc 
results 2022/2021

Champions Consolidate Action Monitor Impact

Number of benefited employees 
from performance-based pay 11,353 11,162 10,827

Performance-based pay
and benefits – stc KSA 2020 2021 2022

Women

<30

Men

31-50

>50

Total new employee 
hires

323

173

4

490

509

289 

7  

729 

330

170

5

545

3,319 

1,383 

28

5,309  

475

231

9

762

3,491

1,542

34

5,766

167

313

213 

433 

215

370

1,990   

3,608 

287

522

2,275

4,190

New employee hires by gender

New employees by age

* Other companies include Channels, Intigral, Aqalat, Tawal, and Specialized.
** 2020 and 2021 data for stc Kuwait and other companies are not available, whereas 2020 data for ccc is not available.
* Data for ccc for 2020 are not available. Group figures include stc KSA, stc Bahrain, stc Kuwait Channels, Intigral, Aqalat, TAWAL, and Specialized.

Employee Hires

stc KSA stc Group

2020 20202021 20212022 2022

Roadmap of stc Champions Program 
Key next steps towards organizational health index enhancement



109 stc.com.sa 110 stc.com.sa

Turnover rate (%)

Number of employees 
who left the company

311 352 413

2.5 -

445

2.9 -

4,678 

3.54% -

4,371

Women

Men 293 412290 2,989 324 2,854

18 33 62 1,68989  1,630

<30

31-50

>50

230

7

323

8

180

23

1,406

43

193

9

1,384

20

74 114  149 3,229 211 2,967

Employee turnover

Turnover by gender

Turnover by age

* Group column includes stc KSA, Channels, Intigral, Aqalat, Tawal, and Specialized.
** total turnover rate at a group level is not available but we are in the process of unifying our internal systems to accurately measure performance. 

* Data not available for Channels, Aqalat, and Specialized.

Parental leave 
We want to make it easier for our employees to return to work after parental leave, which is why we support employ-
ees through generous parental leave options, childcare options, and assistance in finding nursing care for family 
members.

Our paid parental leave policy aligns with local labor laws of the countries we operate. Through our parental leave 
policy, women employees are entitled to maternity leave with full paid salary for 10 weeks to be distributed as desired 
beginning at maximum 4 weeks prior the probable due date as determined and approved by a licensed medical au-
thority. Men employees are able to take leave with full salary for three business days to enjoy within fifteen business 
days of the delivery date for their newborn child. 

In any instance, where a child is born with special needs, women employees are entitled to extend maternity leave for 
one month from expiry of the delivery leave period, with full salary, and are entitled to extend the leave for another 
additional month without salary. Women with kids in pre-school receive a childcare allowance on an annual basis to 
support in raising their child. Financial support is also offered for men and women with a newborn baby. Occupational health and safety 

Our primary workplace focus is on creating a positive safety culture based on principles of awareness, prevention, 
and care. The Management Commitment to Occupational Health and Safety policy statement affirms that stc’s 
top management commitment to occupational health and safety and outlines the safety responsibilities to ensure 
individual and organizational compliance with relevant health and safety laws, regulations, policies, and procedures. 

In 2022, we successfully obtained the ISO certification 45001: 2018 which is the highest accreditation for management 
systems of occupational health and safety. This accomplishment is a testament for our commitment to protect lives 
and assets. To ensure we instill a safety culture through the following: 

stc KSA

stc Kuwait

stc Bahrain

55 55 100% 100%684 684 100% 100%

3 3 100% 100%12 12 100% 100%

Sirar 3 3 100% 100%18 18 100% 100%

4 4 100% 100%8 8 75% 75%

Solutions 12 12 100% 100%68 68 100% 100%

Intigral 1 1 100% 100%14 14 100% 86%

Entity Women WomenWomen Women

Parental leave taken (#)

2022

Return to work when leave ends 
(#)

Return to work rate (%) Retention rate 
(%)

Men MenMen Men

We prioritize a safe and healthy work environment. This is not only intended to protect employees and 
contractors from injury and illness, but also to increase productivity, work quality, and raise employee and 
contractors morale. 
 
In protecting our people and providing a best practice environment that fosters innovation and loyalty, 
we focus on five main pillars: Occupational health and safety, financial wellbeing, health wellbeing, social 
wellbeing and work environment wellbeing.

and wellbeing 
Health, safety 

Safety induction program: Raise awareness of safety policy and procedure to establish and familiarize 
the workplace with a safety culture across employees and contractors.

Work permits: Before starting work, work permits must be approved based on the evaluation and compliance with submitted 
requirements from contractors.

Regular emergency evacuation drills: Held to improve staff response to emergencies and guarantee system 
effectiveness (fire drill) and ensures preparedness of the Emergency Response Team (ERT) and available systems in place.

Safety Awareness Campaigns: Conduct toolbox meetings with contractors on topics pertinent to 
safe work systems, and disseminate workplace safety instructions and guidelines through accessible stc media platforms.

Employee Turnover

stc KSA stc Group

2020 20202021 20212022 2022

ccc 101 101 100% 72%90 90 100% 78%

Intigral 1 1 100% 100%14 14 100% 86%

https://www.stc.com.sa/content/dam/groupsites/common/generic/pdfs/Management%20commitment%20to%20Occupational%20Health%20and%20Safety%20-%2002.20.2023.pdf


111 stc.com.sa 112 stc.com.sa

• National Examination Board in Occupational Safety and Health (NEBOSH) 
• Saudi Building Code (SBC)
• International Standards Organization (ISO) 
• National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 
• High Commission for Industrial Security (HCIS) Directives
• Adherence to all civil defense requirements

Risk assessment: Risk assessments, fire drills, inspections, and other proactive tasks and services are provided by the Rapid Response Team (RRT) (i.e. 
any emergency situations).

Fire Safety Risk Assessment: To reduce the dangers of fire and workplace safety by determining the risks and those who are at risk. Assess, get rid of, 
lessen, and safeguard against such dangers. The effectiveness and efficiency of the fire alarm and firefighting systems is periodically tested.

Online safety awareness: is published through the stc messaging center.

Safety Inspection: Conduct regular site visits to identify any potential risks to staff and occupants and to present strategies for mitigating such risks.

Safety Inspection: Conduct regular site visits to identify any potential risks to staff and occupants and to present strategies for mitigating such risks.

Safety Wardens and Safety Champions Safety workshops and training: To equip our employees with the knowledge and abilities necessary to carry out 
their duties in a manner that is both safe for them and their coworkers. 

Safety projects and space planning: Review project designs, approving them, and supervising projects to ensure that all drawings adhere to safety 
standards such as the Saudi Building Code (SBC) and the National Fire Protection Author (NFPA).

When an employee or contractor violates a specific workplace safety standard, regulation, policy, or rule, they are subjected to fines and penalties.
International and national standards and accreditation entities include:

Employee work-related 
fatalities 

Contractors work-
related fatalities

Employee total 
recordable injuries

Employee occupational 
illnesses

0

3

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

1

0

0

1

0

0 00 00 0

Heat stress events

Rate of fatalities as a 
result of work-related 

injury

Incident rate of 
recordable work-related 

injuries 

0

3

0

3

0

0

0

0

0

1

0

1

0 00 00 0

We constantly identify and assess any kind of hazard, including physical, chemical, biological, or of human factors, 
arising from materials, machinery and equipment, working environment, or personnel operation involved in the oper-
ations or services of stc Group.  

We carry out control measures that are reasonable, effective, and viable to reduce impacts to the safety and health of 
the personnel of the Group, contractors, and the relevant third parties. 

Our safety policies manual was stipulated specifically for the ongoing risk identification, assessment, and manage-
ment as well as the reduction of hazards, risks and incidents to the minimum. By policy, all workers are required to 
receive a copy of the policies manual, become familiar with its contents, and to outline how work activities will be 
completed safely. Contractors must create and submit all dedicated drawings that show the scope of work and risks 
with location of all equipment’s, systems and devices being used in the required location, Risk Assessments Control  
(RAC), Method of Procedure (MOP), “Risk Assessments & Method of Statement (RAMS)”.  

Before workers are allowed on site, the safety and security teams must provide clearance. The safety and security 
team conducts regular inspections as well as routine testing, measurement, and calibration of finished installations 
for all active systems, health and safety environment and passive systems. We identify risks, mitigation measures and 
clarify potential outcomes, and keep records of all suggestions and risk assessments for top management on the Risk 
Management Monitoring and Reporting Dashboard.  

We have processes in place for workers to report work-related hazards and hazardous situations. All workers can 
submit loss-incident reporting form to our Corporate Safety and Security Command Center (SSCC). The Incident 
Management Team (IMT) filters these forms and, if need be, escalates to the Incident/ Emergency Manager in accord-
ance with the safety and security escalation matrix. 

All stc employees, vendors, suppliers, contractors, subcontractors, and visitors are required to follow our Safety and 
Security Policy and Procedures and make sure that all accidents, incidents, dangerous occurrences, potential haz-
ards, and near misses are immediately reported to Safety Services so that necessary steps can be taken to reduce 
risks and protect people. 

We investigate work-related incidents, including the processes to identify hazards and assess risks relating to the in-
cidents, and determine corrective actions using the hierarchy of control*, and determine improvements needed in the 
occupational health and safety management system. We minimize risks to as low as reasonably practically possible 
(ALARP).  

We also conduct routine inspections at all corporate locations, produce safety reports, and record any infractions for 
all facilities. Every year, we conduct a risk analysis of all stc installations through Saudi Arabia. Additionally, we create 
safety and evacuation plans for all sites, record, track and take action on non-compliance reports using the Safety 
and Security Management System and provide safety training in accordance with stc’s specifications. 

Hazard identification, risk assessments and incidents investigation

Workplace-related 
fatalities/injuries

stc KSA stc Group

2020 20202021 20212022 2022



113 stc.com.sa

Emergency 
preparedness and 
safety indicants  

Total number of emer-
gency response drills 

conducted

Safety incident investi-
gations initiated

Safety incident investi-
gations completed

stc KSA stc Kuwait Aqalatstc Bahrain TAWAL Solutions channels

2020 2020 20202020 2020 2020 20202021 2021 20212021 2021 2021 20212022 2022 20222022 2022 2022 2022

211

0

-

-

1

-

-

20

1

0

10

0

-

-

220

1

-

-

1

1

1

14

1

0

11

0

-

-

139

0

3

0

1

0

2

25

1

0

11

4

234

0

0 - - 20 0 0 -1 - 1 14 0 0 -1 0 0 25 0 4 0

Working at heights 
At TAWAL, we outsource critical tower infrastructure through managed services providers. Our Managed Service 
Provider (MSP) has developed a Climbing and Working at Heights policy and all MSP employees have been well trained 
on the standards within that policy. These policies are binding on all persons working on height on our towers. 

Part of our Health, Safety and Security Policy specifically ensures that only subcontractors with the require 
certifications and expertise are allowed to climb TAWAL sites and work at heights. We make sure our key contractors 
have obtained official governmentally approved certification on “Working and Rescue at Height”. The scope of this 
certification includes fall hazard evaluation, elements and components of a fall, positioning and suspension system, 
rescue and retrieval system, fall arrest system, horizontal and vertical lifelines, body weight calculation, developing 
an emergency response plan. 

In 2022, a total of 755 hours were completed for employees who participated in various safety, security, health and 
sustainability campaigns, awareness and training sessions. Safety gears were purchased for use by our field staff and 
Health and Safety instructions including who and how to work at Tower heights have been pasted in our sites for our 
contractors compliance.

Promoting employee health wellbeing  
We are always searching for new methods to help us motivate our employees and increase company loyalty at stc. 
Currently, stc provides different services not covered by typical insurance policies, such as infertility treatments, 
obesity programs, special needs education allowances, and more. All these services are available through stc HUB.  

Furthermore, stc also provides other broader services such as seasonal influenza vaccines, blood drive campaigns, 
diabetes awareness campaigns, breast cancer awareness campaigns, and obesity competitions, all in an effort to 
promote prevention of illnesses and to put employee health first. 

Health and safety training  
 stc takes health and safety training very seriously, and dedicated courses are provided through stc Academy, our 
e-learning platform, to ensure that all employees are properly and adequately trained in these areas. 

In 2022,  the following major health and safety training and awareness campaigns were delivered to both stc 
employees and contractors: 

1. Safety training workshops: Equipped our staff with the skills as well as safety knowledge they need to carry out 
their duties in a manner that is both safe for them and their colleagues. 

2. Safety awareness campaigns: Toolbox meetings with contractors on  workplace safety delivered through 
accessible stc media channels.  

3. Employee and contractor safety induction programs: Raised awareness of safety policies and procedures to 
improve workplace safety culture. 

4. Regular emergency and fire drills: Instructed employees and residents on how to respond in an emergency, as 
well as ensured the Emergency Response Team stc takes health and safety training very seriously, and dedicated 
courses are provided through stc Academy, our e-learning platform, to ensure that all employees are properly and 
adequately trained in these areas.

Exposure to Electro Magnetic Field  
We ensure that all stc sites comply with all governmental regulations and requirements pertaining to electro-magnetic 
field exposure. We implement stringent measures to protect our employees from adverse illnesses associated with 
teleworking and the exposure to electro-magnetic fields (EMFs) through available medical assistance and first aid kits 
on-site, as well as ensuring that all teleworkers are provided with PPE and an occupational health and safety toolbox for 
EMFs.  

Attendees

Total training hours

762

728

4,276

3,900

195

195

1,797

1,800

Health and safety courses 
provided through stc Academy 

LMS– stc KSA Women

Employees

2022

Contractors

WomenMen Men

* Training increased tremendously for stc KSA in 2022 due to expanded training scope to include TSO, fire drills training and safety awareness.
** Group-wide data does not include stc Bahrain, Channels, ccc, Sirar, Specialized.

Our wellbeing program covers four main pillars: environmental/physical; health; social; and financial 
wellbeing. We raise awareness on these topics through several channels including lectures, SMS 
notifications, emails, and social activities.  

We promote a healthy lifestyle and a healthy environment through offering a selection of healthy 
restaurants and supermarkets inside the stc HQ complex, providing vending machines with salads and 
pharmaceutical supplies, raising awareness around physical activities such as marathons and social games 
for employees, and promoting ways to encourage an environmentally conscious and green workplace.
To ensure our employees are in good health, we continuously offer flu vaccine campaigns; Mental Health 
Awareness and blood drives, awareness sessions to explain medical insurance policies and conduct health 
days. 

We also make sure our employees enjoy healthy work-life balance to improve their social wellbeing. In 
2022, we revamped our HQ offices spaces and incorporated additional lounges, cafes, gaming areas so that 
employees can take brain breaks, collaborate and communicate together during break times.  

stc currently provides different non-occupational medical and healthcare services and coverages under 
“special need fund service” where we cover several medical conditions not covered by the insurance 
policy such as infertility treatments, obesity treatments, special need educations allowance and 8 more 
conditions.  

We take action to promote and support employees’ financial wellbeing not just by offering competitive 
compensation and benefits; we also provide lectures and awareness around managing finances. 

Employee wellbeing

114 stc.com.sa

Total hours of H&S 
training provided to 

employees

Average hours of health 
and safety training per 

employee 

1,200

0.10

4,370

-

9,734

0.78

10,531

-

28,000*

2.45

34,244

-

Health and safety 
training

stc KSA stc Group

2020 20202021 20212022 2022



We firmly believe that good corporate governance 
and ethical business conduct are essential for lasting 
and sustainable success. stc constantly strives 
for best governance practices that revolve around 
irreproachable business ethics, respecting human 
rights, and creating a sustainable supply chain.  

We also continue to deliver value to our stakeholders 
and contribute to the national vision of the countries 
we operate within by enhancing positive economic 
impacts through innovative products and services, as 
well as good governance practices.

Governance 
and Economic

05

115 stc.com.sa 116 stc.com.sa



with integrity
Doing business 

We pledge transparency, integrity, and accountability, with good governance permeating all aspects of our 
operations and business decisions. Ensuring that our stakeholders are treated with respect is one of our top 
priorities, and we strive to always protect their rights and interests.

stc is  committed as a whole to complying with all relevant laws and regulations to guide our robust corporate 
governance ecosystem, culture of compliance, and continuous improvement. This also applies to our risk 
management processes, which are in place to prevent corruption and ensure ethical operations throughout all 
of stc.

Our corporate governance framework consists of a clear strategy with well-defined goals and allocation of respon-
sibilities to ensure stc governance systems are efficient and highly effective.

stc Group is managed by a Board of Directors, which is composed of 11 members appointed by Shareholders General 
Assembly for a term not exceeding 3 years. Any shareholder is entitled to nominate themselves and/or one or more 
persons to be a member of the Board of Directors.

At the Board level, which is the highest governance body within the company several activities were conducted 
after the group operating model was launched in Q2 2022, including a review of the mandated Board activities, the 
delegation of strategic and financial authorities, and development of a decision rights framework to ensure a solid 
governance ecosystem across stc Group.

and transparency
Business ethics, governance,

Corporate governance

The Board of Directors is responsible for reviewing the ESG awareness, trends, risks, importance to the 
ICT sector, motives for adopting sustainability in its three main dimensions, and the growing interest in 
sustainability, as well as which major international companies have adopted ESG standards to achieve 
comprehensive management of performance and non-financial impacts. In addition, we also conducted a 
Board-level governance assessment for all governance practices affected by the KSA new companies law to 
ensure that stc is complying with the law and following the relevant governance best practices. Moreover, 
our Executive Management Sustainability Committee was formed in 2021 and was further empowered by the 
new group operating model in 2022 led by the group CEO.

Conducting business with integrity has always been at the heart of our company. We aim to exceed 
regional standards by utilizing the very best practices for transparency, integrity, accountability, and good 
governance. It is our aspiration to be the top industry leader in the region in terms of sustainability strategy 
and performance.

2020 2021 2022

Percentage of Board seats 
occupied by women

Number of women on the board 

Non-executive members of the 
Board of Directors

Executive members of the 
Board of Directors

Non-independent members of 
the Board of Directors

0

9

0

6

33%

3

18%

11

0

7 

36% 

4

18%

11

0

7 

36% 

4

Percentage of Board seats 
occupied by independent directors

Independent members of 
the Board of Directors

Board of Directors – 
stc Group

117 stc.com.sa 118 stc.com.sa



Our Board and Standing Committees are diverse, with members coming from a wide variety of industry and 
professional backgrounds, as well as with varied areas of expertise that are aligned with the needs of our 
business. stc’s Board actively promotes diversity and encourages developmental initiatives within senior 
management roles. In 2022, women made up 18% of our Board. 

The short-term incentives (STI) and Long-Term Incentives Program (LTIP) are designed to set the direction and 
motivate executives to drive short-term and long-term results in key areas of the business in accordance with 
stc values and behaviors.  

The Claw-back provision has been expanded to cover situations of misconduct and errors leading to financial 
re-statement. Enforcement of the provision is subject to local law. 

Below is a summary of stc internal Long-Term Incentives Program (LTIP) policy aspects related to claw-back: 

- Claw-back: Refers to the right of the company to retrieve/recover the invested or vested incentive.
- The LTI program shall have claw-back elements. 
- The Long-Term Incentives Program (LTIP) will be subject to the application of the elements contained in the 
   principle known as (Claw-backs), which relates to the terms of recovery or forfeiture.
- Claw-backs include work controls authorizing NRC in stc to forfeit or cancel invested or outstanding shares 
   for any of the below reasons: The principle known as (Claw-backs) work guideline that allows stc’s NRC to
   recover or cancel shares that are not eligible or that have been disbursed to the participant in the event that  
   any of the following reasons exist:

Received an award based on materially inaccurate publicly reported financial statements,

Received a reward based on publicly announced inaccurate financial statements,

Knowingly engaged in providing materially inaccurate information,

Materially violated any risk limits established or revised by senior management and/or risk management,

Engaged in gross misconduct,

Committing any act that violates the rules and regulations of behavior specified in the company,

Any act by which the NRC determines not to pay.

National and international recognition 
stc Group was honored locally and internationally with several awards in 2022, including the “ Best Corporate 
Governance System” award in KSA from World Finance Magazine, and “Best Corporate Governance System 
in the Telecommunication Sector – Middle East” from Ethical Boardroom Magazine. These awards reflect 
stc’s excellence and commitment in achieving sustainability through developing best-in-class governance 
practices, which is one of the strategic pillars of the company.

Group-wide compliance program: 
stc’s Compliance Program reports to the Board Audit Committee and, as part of regular reporting practices, 
the committee has oversight on ethical misconduct cases within the company.  

In line with our new operating model, stc is currently in the process of unifying the Compliance program 
across all group subsidiaries. As part of the activation of the Compliance Program across subsidiaries, 
the Compliance team organizes a half-day ethical leadership workshop for subsidiary leaders, including 
C-Suite Officers, General Managers, and Directors. This workshop not only covers the important role lead-
ers play in impacting ethical culture, but it also touches on important risk areas such as anti-corruption 
and gifts and hospitality.   

Our activation plan for 2022 required the entire Group to begin adoption of the stc code of ethics and align 
with stc Academy to ensure company employees have access to required integrity training. The Compli-
ance Program activation has commenced in four subsidiaries in 2022, with the intent of eventually engag-
ing the remaining subsidiaries in the same manner in 2023. 

Board diversity 

Claw back

Performance evaluation and remuneration

ESG Board oversight 

The Executive Management Sustainability Committee chaired by the group CEO develops, approves, and 
updates stc’s statement of purpose, values and mission, strategies, policies, and goals related to sustaina-
bility, with oversight from the Board of Directors. 

The Board Nomination and Remuneration Committee regularly reviews the Board’s composition with a 
focus on ensuring a diverse mix of backgrounds, skills, knowledge, and experience, as well as deep-rooted 
expertise in technology and telecommunications. Each year, the Board monitors and aims to improve its 
performance by conducting an annual performance review. The last annual performance review took place 
in October 2022.

Our executive long-term incentive plan policy addresses stock ownership guidelines and non-executive 
shareholder data, and the Performance Assessment Policy of the Board of Directors and Committees 
defines the rules and regulations associated with assessing performance to enhance objectives, fulfill 
requirements, apply best governance practices, and strengthen the Board’s effectiveness. 

stc is committed to ensuring the highest levels of transparency by publishing all legally required Corporate 
Governance documents and annual reports on its website (www.stc.com.sa), including the company’s Cor-
porate Governance Charter, the Board of Directors and Committees’ charters, strategic policies, board and 
executive remuneration, financial statements, and general assembly meeting minutes.

To evaluate performance across subsidiary boards, the “stc Subsidiaries Board Annual Assessment” is 
circulated for assessment. The objective behind this is to enhance performance across different aspects 
of each respective subsidiary board, including mandate and charter, delivery of mandate, and committee 
composition. 

By gender Women members of the Board of 
Directors 0

9

2

9

2

9Men members of the Board of 
Directors

Board diversity – stc Group 2020 2021 2022

119 stc.com.sa 120 stc.com.sa

By nationality

By age

Number of Board members that 
are Saudi 

Age less than 30

7

0

2

0

9

9 

0

2

5

6 

9 

0

2

5

6 

Number of Board members that 
are non-Saudi

Age 30-50

Age over 50

https://www.stc.com.sa/content/stc/sa/ar/personal/home.html


121 stc.com.sa 122 stc.com.sa

Business ethics

Integrity is at the heart of everything we do at stc. This is true for every transaction and every stakeholder 
interaction in every location that we do business. 

Our code of business ethics – entitled “Integrity takes us forward” – is aligned with stc’s core values of 
Dynamism, Devotion, and Drive, and ensures we hold ourselves and the way we do business to the highest 
ethical standards. It covers 16 specific integrity areas of risk, with each providing clear guidance and 
practical advice for our employees, customers, business partners, suppliers, and other stakeholders on stc 
and its representatives. 

stc Group’s Code, Anti-Corruption, and Fraud policies clearly prohibit facilitation of payments. These 
policies cover the entire group including its subsidiaries. 

Every employee at every level of stc, including suppliers, is bound by our code of business ethics. Our code 
of ethics training program is managed by stc Group for all subsidiaries across all areas of operation, and is 
being rolled out along with the new operating model to be finalized by 2023.

2020 2021 2022

Percentage of employees who 
signed a code of conduct 

declaration 
100% 100% 100%

stc Group

Business ethics training

Ethical issues affect how we do business with integrity, including how we treat others, use information, 
engage with employees, manage resources, approach sustainability, and impact the world around us.
All stc employees, including senior management and new staff members, are required to undergo a 
mandatory Basic Online Integrity course that introduces the stc code of ethics and stc’s commitment to 
integrity. This course includes a module on Anti-Corruption and outlines the expectations stc has from 
employees and employee responsibilities regarding the subject. All employees are also required to attend 
mandatory in depth Advanced Online Integrity courses on Anti-Corruption and Gifts and Hospitality. 

The training series covers 21 course modules, nine of which are mandatory for all stc employees, with the 
remaining modules assigned to employees based on their job profile and the level of risk exposure. 

Mandatory courses for all new employees to take during onboarding sessions and for all existing 
employees to take on annual basis or every 2-3 years

1. Basic online integrity training

2. Advance online integrity training
 
(21 course modules: 9 are mandatory for all employees and 12 are assigned to employees based on their job 
profile and risk exposure)

9 mandatory course modules:

Anti-Corruption
Communication
Conflict of Interest
Controllership
Fair Employment
Gifts and Hospitality
Health and Safety
Regulatory Excellence 
Speak Up Culture

12 assigned course modules depending on job profile and risk exposure:

Anti-Money Laundering
Supplier Relations
Sponsorship and Donations
Insider Trading
Fair Competition: Avoiding Improper Agreements
Fair Competition: Competitive Intelligence
Fair Competition: Interacting with Competitors
Fair Competition: Market Dominance and Abusive Conduct
Intellectual Property: Copyrights
Intellectual Property: Patents
Intellectual Property: Trademarks
Intellectual Property: Trade Secrets

https://www.stc.com.sa/content/dam/groupsites/en/pdf/codeofethics_EN.pdf


123 stc.com.sa 124 stc.com.sa

All stc Group employees completed the Basic Online Integrity Training course, and 1,671 contractors 
completed both the basic and advanced online integrity training. All (100%) of employees and contractors 
signed the Code of Ethics Acknowledgment, stating that they have read, understood, and will abide by the 
code.

The table below shows all ethical training courses provided to employees including part-time employees 
and contractors:

* Restated figure due to improved calculation methodology.
** Contractors training was not tracked in 2020. 
*** Cumulative figures - The Basic Online training was launched in 2020 and is required to be completed by all employees including new staff. 

2020 2021 2022

Number of full-time employees attend-
ed basic code of conduct training 11,361

-

100%

10,941*

665

100%

12,131

1,671

100%

Business ethics – stc Group

Number of contractors who attended 
the ethical conduct trainings

Percentage of employees who signed a 
code of conduct declaration

Employees 
(including 
part-time)

Contractors

Online/ 
Physical

Online

Academy LMS

Online 
Academy LMS

115,466 

30,414 

13,241 

3,030 

102,225 

27,384 

19,139 

4,649 

19,139 

-

140,877 

42,882 

140,877 

-

Location Women Women WomenMen Men Men

All ethical training courses (anti bribery, human rights, anti-corruption and business 
ethics, etc..) for 2022 – stc KSA

Total number of 
seats Training Entity 

Number of 
Total seats

Number of 
Total seats

Average 
number of training 

Raising the ethical bar  
Our Corporate Compliance sector ensures that compliance and ethical behaviors are continuously 
maintained across stc.  

As mandated by our audit committee and as per the Institute of Internal Audit (IIA) our Internal Audit sector 
audits all stc functions within three years cycle as mandated by the audit committee. Additionally, as per 
the standard of IIA ‘Institute of Internal Audit’, Internal audit sector considers and evaluates the potential 
for the occurrence of unethical behavior and fraud during the audit engagements and report it, if any.

The internal audit sector provides reasonable assurance through carrying out an independent validation 
and evaluation of the efficiency and effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems. 
Control functions (ERM, Compliance) are mainly responsible to monitor the risk and control environment in 
stc on continuous basis.

Compliance program: Prepare a comprehensive compliance program for all planned activities, implement policies and reviews, 
assess the key compliance risks, and train stc employees on the Code.
 

Training: Train and educate employees on compliance policies and risks and act as a focal point for answering employee 
inquiries regarding compliance and ethical issues.

Compliance assessment: Conduct compliance assessment to identify key compliance risks.

Compliance Monitoring: Follow up, evaluate and report the effectiveness of the compliance implementation 
program and report to the Executive Management.

Advisory, Risk Mitigation, Monitoring, and more.

stc is committed to establishing a work culture in which employees feel comfortable raising integrity 
concerns. 

Employees and stakeholders are encouraged to report all integrity concerns through the designated 
Speak Up channels. These channels include respective employee managers, interdepartmental 
managers, the stc HR team, the Legal Affairs team, and the Speak Up email (speak-up@stc.com.sa). 
Employees, suppliers or any external stakeholders’ integrity concerns can be raised anonymously by 
messaging the Speak Up email without disclosing personal information, allowing reporting without 
fear of reprisal. All concerns are treated seriously and dealt with in a professional manner.

stc regularly communicates with employees, through the available internal channels, to increase their 
awareness of the designated Speak Up channels. The importance of speaking up is also covered in 
detail in all Compliance and Ethics related training. 

The Business Integrity team reviews each allegation to ensure it is being raised in good faith and 
a preliminary assessment is undertaken to determine how each concern will be processed. If the 
concern is not one that fits the integrity criteria that the team has outlined, it will be redirected to the 
appropriate business unit or corporate function for resolution.  

Regardless of how the concern is defined, stc enforces a strict policy prohibiting retaliation against 
any person who makes a report in good faith or participates in a compliance investigation. Once 
investigations are completed, depending on the severity of their offense, employees may face 
repercussions ranging from a formal warning to termination. Disciplinary action is determined by 
considering all factors surrounding an incident and its consequences. If an employee is accused of 
wrongful conduct, they will have a fair and impartial opportunity to respond to the allegations before 
any determination is made with respect to the alleged wrongdoing.

stc has strict policies in place to prevent incidents of workplace discrimination and harassment. All 
employees across the company are required to abide by the stc code of ethics and, as per the code 
and Fair Employment Policy, stc respects the diversity of its workplace and prohibits harassment 
and bullying in any form. Violations of these policies are taken very seriously, and all employees are 
encouraged to report such violations through the aforementioned Speak Up process.  

Our Diversity and Inclusion team communicates regularly with employees using all available channels 
to increase awareness about harassment, bullying, and other similar topics. Leaders also visibly support 
a culture of inclusion; for example, the head of stc’s People sector, which essentially functions as the 
company’s HR department, was present during an important webinar organized by the Diversity and 
Inclusion team in 2022, where the topic of harassment was openly discussed. 

Our compliance councils provide senior-level leaders direct visibility related to compliance 
investigations, training, communication, and other compliance program elements within their 
respective sectors. These councils consist of each organization’s Chief Executive, their direct reports, 
representatives of other relevant departments, and members of the Corporate Ethics and Compliance 
team. 

Council sessions were conducted by the Corporate Ethics team with unit/sectors leadership (Chief, VP 
and GM levels) in Q3 and Q4 of 2022.

Internal compliance monitoring, reporting and whistleblowing

Our Compliance sector is responsible, as mandated in the Corporate Compliance Manual, to assist, 
support and facilitate Executive Management in effectively carrying out their responsibilities under
the Code. Such responsibilities include:

[GRI 2-4]



125 stc.com.sa 126 stc.com.sa

2020 2021 2022

Number of inquiries, complaints, 
or issues received by the legal and 

compliance office through an inter-
nal monitoring or reporting system

Percentage of inquiries, complaints, 
or issues received by the legal and 

compliance office through an inter-
nal monitoring or reporting system 

that were substantiated

Total number of confirmed incidents 
in which employees were dismissed 

or disciplined for corruption

Percentage of incidents raised 
related to human rights

523

89%

0

0%

405

60%

0

0%

532

95%

0

-

Internal compliance
monitoring, reporting and 
whistleblowing - stc KSA

* The group wide figures will be captured by 2024 once the compliance program is rolled out in full to all subsidiaries.

Anti-corruption

Our code of ethics, as along with stc’s anti-corruption and anti-fraud policies, clearly prohibit facilitation payments 
in all areas pertaining to the company, including all subsidiaries. These policies are aligned with Transparency 
International principles and business guidelines on anti-corruption, and they are subject to periodic reviews to ensure 
continuous alignment with global efforts to mitigate bribery, fraud, and corruption.  

Our anti-corruption policy statement affirms our commitment to conduct all business operations in an honest and 
ethical manner. We take a zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption and are committed to acting fairly, 
honorably, with integrity and honesty in all business dealings and relationships, wherever we operate.  

Our anti-corruption policy is aligned with Transparency International principles and business guidelines on anti-
corruption, and is subject to periodic reviews and will be further enhanced to align with global trends that effectively 
counter bribery, fraud and corruption challenges. 

In 2022, stc KSA recorded zero public legal cases regarding corruption brought against the organization or any 
employees. 

All employees, including senior management, are required to undergo mandatory integrity training that
covers anti-corruption principles and outlines stc’s expectations for employee responsibilities relating to this
topic. Every employee is also required to undergo mandatory, in-depth advanced online integrity training courses
on anti-corruption and gifts and hospitality. Refer to business ethics training section for more details.

2020 2021 2022

Number of public legal cases 
regarding corruption brought 
against the organization or its 

employees
0 0 0

Public legal cases regarding 
corruption  – stc Group

In 2022, we conducted several additional anti-corruption training sessions, including: 

- 5 Anti-Fraud and Corruption awareness sessions at stc Academy for 90 employees. 

- 3 broad training courses for all stc employees, in cooperation with Nazaha.   

- One major workshop out on by the anti-fraud department for 52 leaders, from GMs to directors, across 3 differ-
ent sectors. 

- Frequent live and WebEx training for external-facing employees to increase awareness on relevant risks areas in 
the stc code of ethics, particularly around anti-corruption and gifts and hospitality. 

2020 2021 2022

Number of employees attended 
training on anti-corruption

Percentage of employees 
attended training on 

anti-corruption

Percentage of governance 
body members that stc’s 
anti-corruption policies 

and procedures have been 
communicated to

11361

97%

0%

10,941

94%

100%

10,977

96%

100%

Anti-corruption training 
and communication – stc 

KSA

2020 2021 2022

Total number of employees that 
stc’s  anti-corruption policies 

and procedures have been 
communicated to

Percentage of business partners 
that stc’s anti-corruption policies 

and procedures have been 
communicated to

100%

100%

100%

100%

100%

100%

Anti-corruption 
communication - stc KSA

Entities excluded above (ccc, Channels, Sirar, Solution, Specialized and Tawal) are undergoing the Compliance Program and will have measurable KPIs by 2023.



127 stc.com.sa

Supply chain compliance: 
At stc, we are committed to doing business with integrity; this includes conducting business with suppliers 
who share stc’s commitment to integrity. We understand that the business practices and actions of a supplier 
may affect or reflect upon stc. Therefore, we require our suppliers to sign the supplier code of conduct, 
acknowledging that they have read and will comply with the Code.  

We also engage with suppliers on an annual basis to remind them of stc’s zero gift policy and encourage them 
to hold stc accountable and report any misconduct through stc Speak Up email - speak-up@stc.com.sa. Refer 
to the Supply Chain Management section for more information. 

Participation in anti-corruption initiatives:

Since 2019, stc has been a member 
of the World Economic Forum and 
Partnering against Corruption 
Initiative (PACI) ever since 2019 to 
undertake initiatives that address 
industry, regional, country or global 
issues tied to anti-corruption and 
compliance.

stc strives to promote the
implementation of the highest
standards in corporate governance
practices and, with this in mind, has
partnered with the PEARL Initiative,
the region’s leading business-led
non-profit organization promoting
a culture of corporate transparency
and accountability.

stc has been a part of Ethisphere’s 
Business Ethics Leadership Alliance 
(BELA),a 300+ member strong 
globally recognized organization of 
leading companies collaborating 
together to share best practices 
in governance, risk management, 
compliance and ethics, since 2020.

PACI PEARL Initiative BELA

As part of our approach to combat corruption, we work with the public and private sectors to support efforts to prevent 
corruption. We work closely with Nazaha, Saudi Arabia’s National Anti-Corruption Authority, and work in partnership 
with other entities to work towards improving behaviors, norms, and standards needed to sustain anti-corruption 
efforts. We also participate in several external anti-corruption initiatives, including:

Case study: Developing stc’s future ethical leaders: 
Leadership engagement is an important part of stc’s ethics and compliance program. At stc, leaders of all 
levels, starting from the Group CEO and his executive team, make every effort to uphold the highest ethical 
standards, thereby setting an example for every other employee to follow.
 
stc’s Compliance team and stc Academy have partnered together in developing stc’s future leaders, so that 
ethics and integrity become an integral part of their DNA as they develop in the organization. 

This partnership has resulted in a collaboration with Spain’s IE university where teams spent a few months 
working together to develop training content on ethical leadership tailored to the needs of specific audience 
groups. 

Participants included employees who will be taking up new section manager roles, managers who will be tak-
ing up director level roles and directors who will be moving to the next level of their career journey.  
The course content, adapted for each leader group, covered: Importance of ethics in business, International 
Corporate scandals, Reasons why people make bad ethical choices, Group discussion on ethical dilemmas, an 
interactive business simulation exercise, and the importance stc places on its commitment to integrity. 
From May to December 2022, we trained nearly over 330 future leaders through this program.

Case study: Leading Regional Anti-Corruption Awareness Efforts 
In collaboration with Pearl initiative, stc Group is leading an Anti-Cor ruption working group, consisting of other 
organizations in the Middle East. 

The working group has been set up to collectively address challenges in corporate governance and business 
integrity in the MENA region and will serve as a platform to build capacity in the region that drives effective 
practices in business integrity. 

The working group is in the process of engaging with the business community in the region to identify key anti-
corruption related deliverables that would help support the wider business community in the region to help drive 
collaborative engagement. 

The deliverables include resources such as toolkits and guidebooks on Business Integrity, Whistleblowing, Anti-
Corruption Training and other related topics, as well as face-to-face and online meetings, panel discussions and 
interactive sessions that will eventually benefit start-ups, SMEs and other companies in the region. 

Cast study: 18-Month Anti-Corruption Best Practices Program  
stc’s zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption is firmly rooted on a comprehensive policy that is applicable 
to all employees, shareholders, consultants, vendors contractors and any other party having a business relationship 
with stc.   

In order to strengthen our commitment to combatting corruption in the region, stc has entered into an agreement 
with the Pearl Initiative to develop an Anti-Corruption Best Practices program, to highlight corruption and the 
importance of accountability, and transparency in business operations.

Overall, the program would help to increase engagement and collaboration across industries in the Gulf region and 
facilitate knowledge sharing by 2023. 

Youth in the region would also benefit, as stc would be engaging with university students across the region to 
educate them on anti-corruption, business ethics and integrity practices through case study competitions and 
interactive discussions.

Compliance with laws and regulations

We rigorously comply with laws and regulations in the countries we operate. stc makes every effort to 
maintain positive and constructive relationships with all relevant regulators to ensure we can protect stc 
and shareholder rights, along with maintaining our competitive position and market share.

We monitor the recurrence of non-compliant cases and we aim to resolve root causes in instances of 
non-compliance. We routinely assess customer complaints to ensure proper resolutions and adherence to 
relevant regulatory complaint decisions. 

In 2022, stc Group recorded zero non-compliance incidents with laws and regulations in countries of 
operation. 

128 stc.com.sa

Participants Women Men

326 15% 85%

https://partnershub.stc.com.sa/cdn/phub/SOFT_REG_COC.pdf
mailto:speak-up@stc.com.sa


129 stc.com.sa 130 stc.com.sa

2020 2021 2022

Percentage of business units 
analyzed for risks related to 

corruption
100% 100% 100%

stc Group

Risk management

stc’s approach to risk involves taking a proactive and precautionary stance by being mindful of new trends, chal-
lenges, and threats to avoid risk beyond stc’s Risk Appetite whenever possible – and to ensure the business remains 
resilient and adaptable when it cannot be avoided. We proactively mitigate any impacts from risks as effectively as 
possible with a combination of readiness and responsiveness, which are both vital for success in this area.  

We have well-established risk management mechanisms in place, including stc’s ERM Policy, ERM Framework, Risk 
Appetite Guidelines, and Governance structures. Ongoing risks are identified across the organization through both 
the quarterly Risk Assessment and the ongoing Top Risks process. Stakeholder reporting leverages well-established 
structure such as the Risk Management Committee (RMC) and the Board Risk Committee (BRC), as well as the required 
Risk Management disclosures in stc’s Annual Report. 

Risk assessment activities that could adversely affect the organization’s performance, information, and compliance 
objectives are identified by the risk management team. This process aims to cover all risks faced by stc, along with  
identifying business strategies to maximize trade-offs between risks and rewards from internal and external factors. 
stc’s approach to achieving these results is to address measurable and non-measurable aspects of risks, and then 
weigh the costs of controls against the benefits they may provide. 

In 2022, stc KSA maintained our Business Continuity ISO22301:2019 certification and remained in compliance with 
ISO31000, as well as all related regulations issued by the the Ministry of Communications and Information Technology 
(MCIT), the Communications, Space & Technology Commission (CST), the National Risks Unit (NRU), the Cybersecurity 
Authority, and other relevant agencies. 

Cybersecurity Threats
The rise of advanced malware and DDOS 
botnets is reshaping the threat landscape 
and forcing enterprises to reassess how 
they protect themselves. This threat exists 
not only within stc but upstream through 
vulnerabilities in stc vendors and suppliers, 
and downstream, where vulnerabilities in 
stc may be leveraged by cyber-criminals to 
attack stc customers. Third-party access 
management is also a significant matter as 
we rely heavily on 3rd-party contractors with 
multiple incidents reported by stc.  

Data Privacy 
One of the biggest challenges faced by any 
organization is managing privacy as data 
volumes continue to grow and regulatory and 
customer scrutiny increases. It is now more 
important than ever to be clear on the privacy 
risks we face to handle PII, or an individual’s 
right to determine what kind of data can be 
collected, stored, protected, and can be shared 
with third parties.

The Group continues to strengthen the 
cybersecurity unit, internal systems and 
policies are developed, levels of security 
procedures are raised, awareness is intensified, 
and the effectiveness of information security 
plans is tested.

The Group has established robust Cyber 
Assurance practices adopted for information 
protection and asset management as well as 
installed advanced penetration testing and 
vulnerability management capabilities.

The Group has established a privacy framework 
containing policies and procedures relating 
to the privacy of personal information 
addressing data classification, record 
management, retention, and destruction as 
well as implemented technical solutions to 
set different permission levels for employees 
based on what PII they need to access, such as 
Public, Private, and Restricted Access.  

Category

Technology

Technology

Risks Mitigation Measures

Unfavorable Regulatory Changes Impacting 
our Current Business Model 
Regulations over our current obligations are 
increasing both in number, frequency, and 
impact and are evolving in their nature. The 
potential impact of these new regulations 
could have serious negative implications for 
stc’s profitability and market position and 
include penalties or financial liabilities.

Resilience following Disaster, Crisis or events 
impacting Business Continuity: 
Telcos have experienced significantly higher 
network demand globally during the crisis, with 
the initial lockdowns triggering reported traffic 
spikes. Partial or full-scale non-availability 
or quality degradation of ICT services was 
recorded due to telecom network failures 
or business support systems and other key 
systems. Key considerations were set including 
Disaster Preparedness Planning, Exchange 
equipment, undersea cable communications, 
and fibre-optic cable problems.

The Group studies the regulatory legislation 
on an ongoing basis, coordinates efforts 
with sectors related to it inside and outside 
the Group, and applies the best standards 
to ensure the provision of the best services 
to its clients in a manner that achieves the 
objectives of the national plans. A dedicated 
administrative organization is established 
for the regulatory affairs sector to contribute 
to enhancing the Group’s capabilities in the 
regulatory field.

The Group has established entity-wide written 
programs that address and validate the 
continuity of the institution’s mission-critical 
operations. We have certified the organization 
against ISO 22301:2019 and taken all required 
steps to comply with any relevant regulatory 
requirements.

The Group has proposed additional projects 
to strengthen disaster recovery (DR) systems 
to ensure business and services continuity, 
taking into account various possibilities. The 
Emergency Response Team oversees major 
contingency planning work and periodically 
conducts virtual experiments.

Category

Compliance

Technology

Risks Mitigation Measures

Supply chain disruptions:
Material shortages and supply risks to rare 
earth minerals and other key components for 
chip manufacturing may have far-reaching 
consequences for continued stc technology 
leadership, including our ability to provide 
essential services and next-generation 
mobility as well as meet the demands of 
infrastructure projects upon which we have 
engaged.

Strategy Implementation in a Dynamic Market 
In order to succeed in this highly competitive 
and dynamic environment, it is essential to 
have agile strategic development, mainte-
nance, and implementation processes capable 
of providing stc with a strategy for success, but 
also one with the agility to meet the demands 
of the markets in which we operate.

stc Group diversifies its supply chains so 
that it does not depend on limited numbers 
of suppliers, in addition to emphasizing in its 
contracts that the systems are compatible 
with each other regardless of the supplier. 
It also reviews the conditions of contracted 
companies and sets legislation to ensure that 
their financial and operational suitability with 
the Group’s requirements are aligned with 
technological development and the integrity of 
their business plans.  

The group Strategy is updated on a 3-yearly 
basis and refreshed annually to ensure that 
it remains current and relevant. The timing 
of the annual refresh and 3-yearly updates 
is flexible and in line with context, dynamics 
& stakeholders’ inputs inputs. We also have 
have conducted a 360-degree environmental 
scan (competition, industry trends, regulation, 
socio-economic and stc performance).

Operational

Corporate 

Business continuity: 
stc’s business continuity, data centers, mobile communications network, and other network infrastructure 
and facilities  – as well as the safety of its employees and customers – are among the most important 
priorities of the company. All of these areas have immediate and appropriate responses to deal with 
disaster and emergency incidents. 

We have long recognized the importance of having a solid business continuity strategy in place, 
particularly given our reach to customers. To that end, we carry out Business Continuity Plans (BCP) tests 
for critical operations systematically and periodically according to the business impact analysis (BIA) of all 
critical processes and systems in order to ensure the effectiveness of the plans developed. 

Achieving the ISO2230:2019 certification is evidence of our commitment to our stakeholders, customers 
and our people. Such best in class certifications are a testament to the diligent approach taken by the 
Group to implement protocols and guidelines to maintain all business-related operations.



131 stc.com.sa 132 stc.com.sa

Anti-competitive behavior:

At stc, we compete fairly by following applicable competition laws and regulations, as we believe fair competition 
provides the basis for a healthy and prosperous economy.

Our policies enable us to avoid anti-competitive, monopolistic practices while managing the associated legal 
risks at the same time. Our code of ethics highlights key commitments that help safeguard fair and competitive 
practices, all of which are supported by senior management and applied across the organization. We support the 
principle of fair competition and believe that It is the foundation on which a healthy and prosperous economy is 
based. stc Group competes fairly and complies with all applicable laws and regulations. Our mandatory code of 
ethics training series covers a module on Fair Competition and is provided to all employees.

In 2022, we remained an active participant in government consultations and regulatory processes, engaging with 
stakeholders to raise sustainable industry practices and ensure fair competition. We directly support the ambitions 
of the government to create more economic competitiveness.
No legal penalties were imposed on stc during 2022 regarding anti-competitive behavior or violations of anti-trust 
laws.

2020 2021 2022

Total amount of monetary losses 
as a result of legal proceedings 

associated with anticompetitive 
behavior regulations or violations of 

anti-trust laws (SAR)

0 0 0

Anti-competitive behavior 
– stc Group

Quality management 
With quality as one of its core objective, stc Group aims to achieve industry best quality in everything we deliver. 
To ensure our organization is adaptable, we deploy systems which enable us to remain competitive and grow in the 
evolving digital era such as the Quality Incident Report and Quality Audit System. Our systems are integrated for the 
purpose of process quality assurance across the organization. 

To ensure everyone at stc shares the same level of commitment to quality, in 2022 we launched the Quality Culture 
initiative “known as Qommunity” to raise awareness and to recognize the efforts and contributions of quality 
professionals by creating value to our internal customers, being innovative and improving our products and services. 
This will helps us meet environmental and social standards. 

In 2022, we also launched the stc process management system to align processes with our strategic goals, design 
and implement process architectures to help us manage processes effectively in line with customer journeys and 
experiences. The system was successfully launched and implemented and in 2023, we aim to onboard stc sectors and 
business units to fully utilize the system.

Respect for human rights is essential for any business, or individual, to operate with integrity, and it 
is vital when building a culture of trust. Proper policies aimed at addressing human rights strengthens 
investor and shareholder relations while simultaneously protecting brand reputation. It is also a 
fundamental aspect of operational risk management.  

Our Human Rights policy statement affirms our commitment to an inclusive and equitable workplace 
and is aligned to applicable laws and regulations in each jurisdiction we operate.

We follow national standards to ensure that our activities respect and promote human rights at all stc 
sites and facilities. In addition, we have extended our focus beyond stc’s internal operations to those 
of our suppliers, customers, and partners by encouraging them to make ethical decisions and choices 
regarding human rights.  

Our Supplier Code of Conduct explicitly prohibits practices such as child and forced labor while also 
expressly addressing topics such as diversity, non-discrimination, and job localization. With this, 
consideration for human rights has become an integral part of stc’s procurement process; all of our 
new suppliers are screened for human rights practices and all significant contracts that are awarded 
include human rights clauses. More information can be found in the Responsible and Sustainable 
Procurement section.

Human rights

2020 2021 2022

Total number of hours devoted to 
training on human rights-related 
policies or procedures that are 

relevant to operations

Percentage of employees trained 
in human rights-related policies 

or procedures that are relevant to 
operations

53,980

100%

40,724

100%

196,034

100%

Human rights training – 
stc KSA

Compliance with ILO labor standards 
On the 7th of December 2020, the Government of Saudi Arabia deposited with the International Labor Office the 
instruments of ratification for the Protection of Wages Convention, 1949 (No. 95) and the Hygiene (Commerce and 
Offices) Convention, 1964 (No. 120) . Both conventions have a crucial role in shaping a human-centered response to 
the COVID crisis. 

The ILO Protection of Wages Convention, 1949 (No. 95) sets out important protections for workers on one of the core 
aspects of their working conditions. In particular, the Convention aims at ensuring the regular payment of wages 
directly to the worker, without undue deductions, and the freedom of workers to dispose of their wages without 
limitations. They also lay down rules to protect the remuneration of workers in case of their employer’s insolvency.
 
The ratification of Convention No. 95 is thus an important step, representing a commitment to protect workers’ 
means of subsistence, which is of particular relevance in the current times of crisis, as recently again confirmed by 
the findings of the ILO Global Wage Report 2020-21. 

The Hygiene (Commerce and Offices) Convention, 1964 (No. 120) sets out occupational safety and health protections 
for workers in shops and offices, including basic standards for workplace layout and work-station arrangements, 
hygiene and sanitary facilities, and the availability of first aid. Its ratification represents an important commitment 
to the safety and health of workers.  

Conventions Source: ILO Both Conventions came into force on the 7th of December 2021, and thus, stc has assured 
full compliance throughout 2022 and and onward.

https://www.stc.com.sa/content/dam/groupsites/en/pdf/codeofethics_EN.pdf
https://www.stc.com.sa/content/dam/groupsites/common/generic/pdfs/Human%20Rights%20Position%20Statement.pdf
https://partnershub.stc.com.sa/cdn/phub/SOFT_REG_COC.pdf


133 stc.com.sa 134 stc.com.sa

economic impacts
Enhancing 

Our business plays a major role in the Saudi economy, with a significant direct economic impact. This occurs through 
the taxes we pay, the jobs we create, the skills we develop in our workforce, and our purchasing power, which supports 
many local suppliers. We also have a significant indirect economic impact, with our digital infrastructure and platforms 
fostering broader economic growth for the communities in which we operate. 

Over the past five years, the brand’s value has increased by almost 100%, from USD 6.2 billion in 2017 to USD 12.3 billion 
in 2022. This achievement results from the brand’s outstanding performance in maintaining its leadership position and 
enhancing its commercial strength in Saudi Arabia and the broader Gulf region.

In addition to being the most valuable, stc Group ranked among the fastest-growing brands in the region with a growth 
rate of 16.7%.

In 2022, stc topped the Kantar Brandz list of most valuable Saudi and Emirati brands for 2022 with $16 billion value (an 
increase of 66% from previous year). The increase in brand valuation was due to both the rollout of 5G, as well as the 
major diversification in our offerings to include digital payments and entertainment services.

We are one of the highest credit rating entity globally underpinned by our robust business and financial strength. 
Moody’s and S&P have assigned stc credit rating of “A1” (Positive Outlook) and “A” (Stable Outlook) respectively; whereas 
Tasneef, the Saudi credit rating agency has assigned stc highest local credit rating of “AAA”.

Our financial performance remained strong over the course of 2022, with improvement in all key financial metrics from 
the previous year. With a progressive financial performance and sustainable operational commitment, we have exceeded 
a historical revenue of SAR 67 billion and a net profit of more than SAR 12 billion for the year 2022, an increase of 7% and 
7.6%, respectively in comparison to 2021. 
 
With the new operating model, we ensure the group’s financial sectors fully comply with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRS) endorsed by SOCPA in accordance with Capital Market Authority (CMA) regulations.

In 2022, stc topped the Kantar Brandz list of most valuable Saudi and Emirati brands for 2022 with $16 billion value (an 
increase of 66% from the previous year). The increase in brand valuation was due to both the rollout of 5G, as well as the 
major diversification in our offerings to include digital payments and entertainment services.

Annual financial results for the year 2022

Total revenue Gross profit Operating profit

67.43 37.39 15.09
SAR billion

EPS

2.44
SAR billion

SAR billion SAR billion

7.02% 10.65% 14.93%

EBITDA

25.01
SAR billion

9.80%

Net profit

12.17
SAR billion

7.60%

2020 2021 2021-2022 
Trend2022

Total revenue

Net profit for the year

Net operating profits

EBITDA

Gross profit

Zakat and taxes

58,953,318

10,994,875

12,731,125

22,090,000

33,954,395

1,170,446

63,007,986 7.02%

11,311,342 7.60%

13,127,755 14.94%

22,840,600 9.80%

33,794,029 10.65%

1,040,366 4.11%

67,431,546

12,170,537

15,088,441

25,078,667

37,393,255

1,083,175

Direct economic 
value (thousand SAR) 

– stc Group

Engagement with investment community 

stc actively engages with the investors, which has led total foreign ownership to reach to 8.40% and reflects 17% 
growth in foreign ownership by the end of December 2022 compared to December 2021. Furthermore, we made new 
improvements regarding the stc Investor Relations application and the Investors page on the stc website, which were 
both modified based on international standards and best practices for IR.

We keep stc’s shareholders informed on the company’s business by participating in various events, including 
individual meetings, update calls, conferences, and official earnings calls. Moreover, the IR sector managed to 
increase the analysts’ coverage by 3 new coverages to reach 20 investment banks covering stc in 2022, with an 
increase of 18%

Business efficiency program (BEP)
Through the BEP, we actively manage cost efficiencies (both Capex and Opex) across stc to maximize Group’s total 
return on capital employed (ROCE). Since its inception in 2015, the BEP has generated multibillion dollar savings 
through several cost optimization initiatives, which led to notable improvement in company’s bottom-line, while it 
also helped to redirect some of the savings to reinvest in new technologies
 

*Results compared to the comparable period last year

https://www.stc.com.sa/content/stcgroupwebsite/sa/en/investors.html


135 stc.com.sa 136 stc.com.sa

Responsible and sustainable procurement

We expect our suppliers and business partners to conduct themselves in a manner that is consistent with our 
sustainability requirements and adhere to our principles on issues that we deem of the utmost importance, including 
safety, human rights, and environmental responsibility. 

Our Responsible Supply Chain policy statement affirms our commitment to maintaining and promoting responsible 
business practices with suppliers while advocating integrity and transparency in all our business dealings. 

Our supplier code of conduct is part of the contractual obligations for all suppliers that work with stc. 
This code mandates that each supplier must utilize or implement fair employment practices for their respective 
workforces by respecting the dignity, privacy, and rights of their employees and associated contractors, as well as 
refraining from unlawful discrimination, use of child or forced labor, exceeding applicable working time hours, and 
unfairly or inadequately compensating employees for their work.

Each supplier and contractor is individually screened by stc with regard to environmental and social issues as part 
of our broader supplier evaluation. We ensure suppliers with access to customer data comply with legally binding 
contractual terms and conditions, as well as commitments outlined in the Supplier Code of Conduct. 
All significant investment agreements and contracts include human rights clauses that have undergone intensive 
human rights screening.  

2020

2020

2021

2021

2022

2022

Percentage of new suppliers that 
were screened for environmental, 

labor, and human rights practices *

Percentage of significant 
investment agreements and 

contracts that include human 
rights clauses or that underwent 

human rights screening

New suppliers screened for social 
standards

Number of suppliers subject to 
assessments for sustainability 
impacts (supplier evaluations)

100%

100%

690

122

100%

100%

1197

173 

100%

100%

221

158

Supplier screening – 
stc KSA

Human rights in 
procurement processes 

– stc KSA

Responsible sourcing is a key priority when managing our supply chain. We believe that by ensur-
ing a responsible, ethical, and sustainable supply chain we will be creating positive environmental 
impacts and enhancing our overall economic performance.

Supply chain management

* All new suppliers are screened for environmental, labor and human rights standards.

Supplier qualification and monitoring
Accountability starts with pre-qualification for bidding, checks are then made on performance. We conduct regular 
screening to verify conformance with the supplier code, assess environmental and social performance, and check 
supplier mechanisms for protecting workforce health and safety.

Any non-compliance with ethical aspects, such as breach of confidentiality, unauthorized disclosure of intellectual 
property, or unauthorized disclosure of proprietary information, are taken very seriously as grounds for disqualifica-
tion or termination of the supplier relationship.

Supplier engagement 
We continue to improve our business practices and operations to manage risk while increasing productivity 
and efficiency within the supply chain. This is achieved through greater supplier engagement, ongoing suppli-
er recognition, and better sustainable procurement practices.  

There are two major annual events held by stc to remind suppliers of the importance they have in helping us 
achieve our strategy, which also details ESG requirements and key challenges within the ICT sector, as well as 
how partners can help address these challenges.  

Suppliers that positively influence our business are honored biennially in our Partner Day event. Sustainability 
considerations are taken into account for these recognitions. 

stc Group 10th partner day
In 2022, stc Group celebrated the 10th Partners Awards ceremony to celebrate the success achieved by the 
Group and its partners towards achieving stc’s strategy to develop the local content. 

During the event, stc Group honored its international and local partners with several awards, based on their 
commitment to developing local content, achieving a strong and sustainable economy, and localizing the ICT 
industry, by bringing international expertise and signing partnerships.  

In recognition of our partners’ efforts who have effectively contributed to the company’s strategic goals, we 
honored distinguished partners in the following categories: Partnership Awards in Digital Transformation 
Program, Award for Renewing Customer Experience, Award for International Digital Transformation, Interna-
tional Operational Excellence, International Customer Experience Renewal Award, and International Growth 
Contribution. Other awards were handed out under the “Rawafed Partner” category to recognize good efforts 
towards Local Industry Localization, Innovation, Small Medium Enterprises and Workforce Development. 

2020 2021 2022

Number of suppliers identified as 
having significant actual and 

potential negative impacts

Suppliers with which improvements 
were agreed upon after audit

Suppliers with which relationships 
were terminated after audit

Number of suppliers blocked for 
non-compliance with ethical 

aspects

34

6

0

0

41

7

2

2

52

9

5

5

Supplier audits and 
monitoring – stc KSA

https://www.stc.com.sa/content/dam/groupsites/common/generic/pdfs/Responsible%20Supply%20Chain%20Position%20Statement.pdf
https://partnershub.stc.com.sa/cdn/phub/SOFT_REG_COC.pdf
https://partnershub.stc.com.sa/cdn/phub/SOFT_REG_COC.pdf
https://partnershub.stc.com.sa/cdn/phub/SOFT_REG_COC.pdf


137 stc.com.sa 138 stc.com.sa

Local procurement spending

Our focus on local procurement spending has had a direct positive impact on the economies of the coun-
tries that we operate within, helping to create employment and develop infrastructure – both physical and 
digital – that benefits everyone in countries we operate.

2020 2021 2022

Total procurement spending 
(Billion SAR) 

Number of tier-1 suppliers 

Amount spent on local suppliers 
(Billion SAR) 

Percentage of total procurement 
spending on local suppliers

Number of local suppliers

Number of total suppliers

Number of foreign suppliers

22.6

78

19.4

86%

1,169

1,579

410

22.5

106

19

84%

1,191

1,556

365

22.1

171

21

93%

1,787

2,227

440

Procurement  

stc KSA

Total procurement spending 
(Billion SAR)

Number of tier-1 suppliers

Amount spent on local suppliers 
(SAR)

Percentage of total procurement 
spending on local suppliers

Number of SME suppliers engaged

Number of total suppliers

Number of local suppliers

Number of foreign suppliers

704.7

11

562.5

80%

153

268

189

79

828.2

8

688

83%

150

385

275

110

1571.58

11

1,485.92

95%

163

637

363

274

stc Bahrain

Total procurement spending 
(Billion SAR) 

Amount spent on local suppliers 
(Billion SAR) 

-

-

4

4,2

13

9,3

Number of tier-1 suppliers 

Percentage of total procurement 
spending on local suppliers

Number of local suppliers

Number of total suppliers

Number of foreign suppliers

-

-

99

39

40

-

99%

127

170

43

-

72%

147

196

49

Aqalat

Total procurement spending 
(Billion SAR) 

Amount spent on local suppliers 
(Billion SAR) 

Number of total suppliers

0.569

0.165

287

0.292

0.089

239

0.429

0.137

256

Intigral

Number of tier-1 suppliers 

Percentage of total procurement 
spending on local suppliers

Number of local suppliers

Number of foreign suppliers

24

29%

-

-

13

31%

27

212

20

32%

57

199

Total procurement spending 
(Billion SAR) 

Number of tier-1 suppliers 

Amount spent on local suppliers 
(Billion SAR) 

Percentage of total procurement 
spending on local suppliers

Number of local suppliers

Number of total suppliers

Number of foreign suppliers

149

-

130

87%

116

169

53

129

-

149

116%

109

146

37

140

-

112

80%

109

140

31

Specialized



139 stc.com.sa 140 stc.com.sa

2020 2021 2022

Total procurement spending 
(Billion SAR) 

Amount spent on local suppliers 
(Billion SAR) 

Percentage of total procurement 
spending on local suppliers

Number of local suppliers

Number of total suppliers

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

4.55

70%

3.17

419

668

Procurement  

Solutions

Number of foreign suppliers 249

* Data for ccc, stc Kuwait, and Channels are not available
** Procurement spending and local procurement are confidential for Sirar; Sirar was launched in 2021 so there is no data available for years 2020 and 2021.

Digitization of procurement processes

At stc’s main office, we have completely transitioned into a paperless environment in all areas. We use our 
internal stc system “HUB” in conjunction with the Oracle Procurement System to streamline and digitize 
procurement processes, resulting in 100% of biddings, work orders, and letter of awards now being paper-
less and the complete elimination of paper consumption related to procurement.  

Reduction of paper-based 
documents with the electronic procurement process 

2020

100%

2020

15%

2020

-

2020

-

2020

-

2020

100% 95% 50%

2020 2020 2020

-

2021

100%

2021

15%

2021

-

2021

-

2021

-

2021

100% 100% 80%

2021 2021 2021

100%

2022

100%

2022

15%

2022

80%

2022

90%

2022

90%

2022

100% 100% 95%

2022 2022 2022

100%

stc KSA TAWAL Solutions Sirar stc Kuwait stc BahrainSpecialized Aqalat Intigral

* Data for stc Bahrain, Channels, and ccc are not available.
** Tawal, Aqalat, and Solutions automated procurement processes in 2022.
*** Sirar was officially established in 2021 – no previous data is available.

2020 2021 2022

stc Group 219 185 213

Number of SME 
suppliers engaged 

* Includes stc KSA, Specialized and Aqalat. 

Total procurement spending 
(Billion SAR) 

Number of tier-1 suppliers 

Amount spent on local suppliers 
(Billion SAR) 

Percentage of total procurement 
spending on local suppliers

Number of local suppliers

Number of total suppliers

Number of foreign suppliers

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

0.86

-

0.843

98.%

588

196

116

TAWAL

Total procurement spending 
(Billion SAR) 

Amount spent on local suppliers 
(Billion SAR) 

Percentage of total procurement 
spending on local suppliers

Number of local suppliers

Number of total suppliers

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

154

45

199

Sirar

Number of foreign suppliers

Supporting SMEs  

In line with the national visions of the countries that we operate within, we support the participation of 
small and medium enterprises (SMEs) in our own procurement activities wherever we see fit.
We contribute to the development of local content by raising and developing standards for this sector’s 
role in the continued growth and diversification of the economy, including an agreement with the Gen-
eral Authority for Small and Medium Enterprises “Monshaat” to empower SMEs in the market. In 2022, we 
engaged with more than 200 Saudi SMEs. 



141 stc.com.sa 142 stc.com.sa

Maximizing local content – Rawafed  
Rawafed is an ambitious stc program that was launched in 2018 to maximize local content within the 
Saudi ICT sector by increasing overall contributions to the national economy. This program is built on 
four strategic pillars: Workforce Development, Digitization and Innovation, SME Support, and Industry 
Localization. 

To learn more about our Rawafed program, visit: https://www.stc.com.sa/content/dam/corporatesite/en/
generic/pdf/40740_stcc_rawafed_program_annual_report_2022_v3_eng.pdf

Rawafed strategy:

Some of the 2022 highlights include: 
• stc KSA Local Content score reached over 40%, which is 10% higher than the Local Content and  
        Government Procurement Authority (LCGPA) benchmark for Telecom and IT services 
• Leading more than 75 suppliers to perform a local content audit at company level, which  
        resulted in baselining local content for the entire industry  
• Promoting localization of important telecom equipment, such as fiber cables and towers

- Increase Saudization rate at key positions
- Empower women participation in ICT sector
- Drive suppliers to increase Saudization 
   through targets, KPIs and tracking

- Grow direct and indirect spend with SMEs 
   through SME development plans
- Establish direct partnerships with SMEs

- Develop local innovation plans with 
   strategic suppliers
- Foster innovation through sector focused 
   training and learning

- Support localizing manufactures & create
   new industries within KSA
- Attract suppliers to localize supply chain 
   and operations

Pillar

Workforce development

SMEs support

Digitalization
and innovation

Major 2022 achievements towards maximizing local content in KSA

Industry
localization

Objective

Launched Rawafed digital 
platform and launched sec-
ond Rawafed report 

Latest local content score 
is 40.75% in 2022 an increase 
from 39.28% in 2021*

Mega projects awarded 
through local content valued 
at 5 billion SAR

* Local Content Score is based on 2021 financial statement as per Local Content and Procurement Authority LCGPA instruction. For year 2022, the score will be available on Q3,2023.

2020 2021 2022

stc KSA local content score at 
entity level   

stc Group - local content score 
at entity level

-

-

39.28%  

36.56%  

40.75%  

38.21%  

Local content

* Local Content Score is based on 2021 financial statement as per Local Content and Procurement Authority LCGPA instruction. For year 2022, the score will be available on Q3,2023. 
** stc has appointed approved auditors by Local Content and Governmental Procurement Authority to identify local content score for the company. 

Industry localization opportunities

As part of our efforts to localize industry development, most of stc’s subscriber identity module (SIM) cards and fiber 
optics production now take place within the Gulf region. Alongside these efforts, we have created 10 strategic part-
nerships to further develop local content. 

Our Industry Localization Opportunities Catalogue proposes 27 types of products to be localized, which will help 
investors and other stakeholders in better understanding available investment opportunities, among other benefits. 
The expected five-year demand for these products will exceed SAR 6.5 billion. 

As an ICT leader and a major representative of the sector, stc’s Local Content Leadership Coordination Council 
conducted several workshops and sessions with investors, governmental entities, funds, and other councils to better 
align on strategic approaches, share expertise, and integrate efforts to bolster local content development and main-
tain sustainable growth. 

We also worked collaboratively with the LCGPA to issue the Mandatory List of National products, which is helping to 
lead the development of more local content and better position our supply chain for future success.  

Supply chain optimization
Our warehouse consolidation project initiated in 2018 has been one of our most effective supply chain optimization 
initiatives. The project was inspired by discussions with stakeholders on how to optimize logistics while simultane-
ously cutting costs and reducing our carbon footprint. We reviewed and redesigned our storage capacity, planning, 
distribution, processes and systems and then designed and initiated an implementation plan. 

Decisions on where to close and open warehouses took into consideration workload, warehouse infrastructure and 
geographical distribution and proximity. In 2022, we achieved our target of 7 warehouses  by closing warehouses in 
Najran and Tabuk. In our warehouses, we are applying the 5S approach to “clean and organize” the workplace. 

2020 2021 2022

Industry localization 
opportunities

- 27 27

Industry localization – 
stc KSA

Case study: Supporting local manufacturing in Saudi Arabia 
Through Rawafed, we seek to support the local manufacturing of mobile SIM cards and recharge cards. 
For the past ten years, the number of mobile SIM cards reached more than 45 million, and the number of 
recharge cards manufactured locally reached 3.6 billion.

https://www.stc.com.sa/content/dam/corporatesite/en/generic/pdf/40740_stcc_rawafed_program_annual_report_2022_v3_eng.pdf
https://www.stc.com.sa/content/dam/corporatesite/en/generic/pdf/40740_stcc_rawafed_program_annual_report_2022_v3_eng.pdf


Appendices06

143 stc.com.sa 144 stc.com.sa



145 stc.com.sa 146 stc.com.sa

Detailed stakeholder map
Appendix A

Employees Local communitiesCareer advancement. Recognition 
and rewards. Attractive benefits.
Safe and healthy working environ-
ment.
Empowerment and equal opportu-
nity.
Open communication channels with 
management.

Employment opportunities. Advanc-
ing social development. Enriching 
local human resources.
Partnerships on common social and 
environmental issues.
Addressing environmental risks and 
opportunities, including climate 
change.
Environmental stewardship.

Timely payments.
Open communication channels. 
Fair and transparent bidding 
procedures.
Access information about stc. 
New opportunities for interaction 
and engagement.

Partnerships for innovative 
products’ development. 
Collaborations for sustainable 
development. Partnerships for 
efficiency, productivity, and cost 
savings.

Strong balance sheet and healthy 
cash flow.
Consistent history of success and 
delivering growth in key metrics.
Solid market positioning. Dynamic 
risk analysis and management.
Strong brand image.
Reliable corporate governance.

Representation of stc’s 
sustainability efforts in 
international events. Partnerships 
for maximum positive 
impact. MOUs to solidify our 
commitments.

Friendly, personalized customer 
service. Clear, open and simplified 
communication. Competitive 
rates and fees.
Convenient access points. Inno-
vative products and services. Data 
and information security.

Inclusion of the academic sector in 
stc’s social investments efforts. Pro-
vision of tools and means for faculty 
and students to use technological 
advances in education, and utilize 
such technologies for good. Raise 
the awareness. Raise awareness 
of students and faculty on various 
topics including sustainability, tech-
nology, and communications. Alignment to national strategies 

and visions. Compliance with 
legal and regulatory requirements. 
Protecting the consumer.

• Succession planning
• Performance management and assessment
• Newsletters
• Training sessions and workshops
• stc Academy
• Website
• Intranet (stc Hub)

• Awareness social media campaigns
• Donations and sponsorships, including ‘Donating via SMS’
• Community outreach programs
• Empowering entrepreneurs and digital innovation: inspireU
• Employee volunteering
• Partnerships and cooperation

• Vendor Relationship Management System (VRMS)
• Vendor management team
• Annual meetings and sessions
• Rawafed program

• Impactful partnerships 
• Knowledge sharing 
• Training opportunities 
• Joint sponsorships
• Sustainable products’ development  

• stc annual report
• Open transparent channels of communication
   with shareholders
• Quarterly presentations
• Governance, risk, and compliance
• Committee meetings
• Website

• Partnerships on the SDGs 
• International representation 
• Events and sponsorships 

• Social media channels including Twitter and Facebook
• Customer feedback from: Your opinion matters
• Complaints handling unit, Customer service offices, mystc app
• stc live chat: mystc.com.sa
• Website

• Research & development 
• Case studies  
• Awareness raising and capability building 
• Events and sponsorships 

• Internal audit
• Risk and compliance committee
• Compliance unit
• External audit
• stc annual report

Stakeholders StakeholdersStakeholder expectations Stakeholder expectationsNature of engagement Nature of engagement 

Suppliers & Business 
Partners

Private sector

Investors & Shareholders International 
organizations 

Customers Academic

Regulators and 
governmental entities



GRI content Index
Appendix B

147 stc.com.sa 148 stc.com.sa

10

95

25, 118-120 

120

12

4, 5, 6

40, 42, 47, 78, 123

161

No external 
assurance

24, 117-119

10,11, 12

24, 25, 117-119

95

6

23

26

Conflict of interest policy 
https://www.stc.com.sa/
content/dam/groupsites/en/pdf/
ConflictInterestsPolicy-en.pdf

120

120 

100, 124

more information on Remuneration 
policies can be found in the Board 
Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee Charter document: 
https://www.stc.com.sa/content/
dam/groupsites/en/pdf/BoardNomi
nationRemunerationCommitteeCh
arter-en.pdf

Board Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee Charter document: 
Page 2, 5 in   
https://www.stc.com.sa/content/dam/
groupsites/en/pdf/BoardNominationRe
munerationCommitteeCharter-en.pdf

GRI 2: General 
Disclosures 2021

GRI 1 used: GRI 1: 
Foundation 2021

GRI 2: General 
Disclosures 2021

2-1 Organizational 
details

2-8 Workers who are 
not employees

2-2 Entities included 
in the organization’s 
sustainability reporting

2-9 Governance 
structure and 
composition

2-3 Reporting period, 
frequency and 
contact point

2-10 Nomination and 
selection of the highest 
governance body

2-4 Restatements of 
information

2-11 Chair of the highest 
governance body

2-5 External 
assurance

2-12 Role of the highest 
governance body 
in overseeing the 
management of impacts

2-6 Activities, value 
chain and other 
business relationships

2-13 Delegation of 
responsibility for 
managing impacts

2-7 Employees

2-14 Role of the 
highest governance 
body in sustainability 
reporting

2-17 Collective 
knowledge of the 
highest governance 
body

2-15 Conflicts of 
interest

2-18 Evaluation of the 
performance of the 
highest governance 
body

2-16 Communication 
of critical concerns

2-19 Remuneration 
policies

2-20 Process 
to determine 
remuneration

GRI standard/ 
other source

Page number(s), 
links and/or 
direct answer

Disclosure
Omission

Requirement(s) omitted Reason Notes/ Explanation 

General disclosures

GRI standard/ 
other source

Page number(s), 
links and/or 
direct answer

Disclosure
Omission

Requirement(s) omitted Reason Notes/ Explanation 

General disclosures

stc has reported in accordance with the GRI Standards for the period January 1st to December 31st, 2022.

For the Content Index - Essentials Service, GRI Services reviewed that the GRI content index is clearly presented, in a 
manner consistent with the Standards, and that the references for disclosures 2-1 to 2-5, 3-1 and 3-2 are aligned with 
the appropriate sections in the body of the report.

https://www.stc.com.sa/content/dam/groupsites/en/pdf/ConflictInterestsPolicy-en.pdf
https://www.stc.com.sa/content/dam/groupsites/en/pdf/BoardNominationRemunerationCommitteeCharter-en.pdf
https://www.stc.com.sa/content/dam/groupsites/en/pdf/BoardNominationRemunerationCommitteeCharter-en.pdf


149 stc.com.sa 150 stc.com.sa

Confidentiality 
constraints

stc does not publicly 
disclose this information 

28-31

106

7-9, 21, 22 34 

30,31

-

106
23

23

133, 133

54, 55

-

30, 31, 100, 124, 
129, 130

15

100, 124

29, 145, 146

128

98-99

GRI 2: General 
Disclosures 2021

GRI 3: Material Topics 
2021

GRI 3: Material Topics 
2021

GRI 202: Market 
Presence 2016

GRI 3: Material Topics 
2021

GRI 3: Material topics 
2021 

2-21 Annual total 
compensation ratio

stc does not publicly 
disclose this 
information 

Confidentiality 
constraints

3-1 Process to 
determine material 
topics

3-3 Management of 
material topics

2-22 Statement on 
sustainable development 
strategy

3-2 List of material 
topics

202-1 Ratios of standard 
entry level wage by 
gender compared to 
local minimum wage

202-2 Proportion of 
senior management 
hired from the local 
community

2-23 Policy 
commitments

2-24 Embedding 
policy commitments

3-3 Management of 
material topics

3-3 Management of 
material topics  

Not part of top 13 
material topics 
but addressed as 
part of stc’s efforts 
in sustainability 
and ESG including 
enhancement of 
stc’s ESG ratings 
and management 

2-25 Processes to 
remediate negative 
impacts

2-28 Membership 
associations

2-26 Mechanisms for 
seeking advice and 
raising concerns

2-29 Approach 
to stakeholder 
engagement

2-27 Compliance with 
laws and regulations

2-30 Collective bar-
gaining agreements

Material topics

Economic performance

Customer relations and satisfaction

 14, 64-93, 137-142

64, 73-93

14, 64-72 ,89-93, 
137-142

GRI 3: Material Topics 
2021

GRI 203: Indirect 
Economic Impacts 
2016

3-3 Management of 
material topics

203-1 Infrastructure 
investments and 
services supported

203-2 Significant 
indirect economic 
impacts

Accessibility and digital inclusion

137-142

137-142

GRI 3: Material Topics 
2021

GRI 204: Procurement 
Practices 2016

3-3 Management of 
material topics

204-1 Proportion of 
spending on local 
suppliers

29, 30, 123-127

29, 30

125

123-127

GRI 3: Material Topics 
2021

GRI 205: Anti-
corruption 2016

3-3 Management of 
material topics

205-1 Operations 
assessed for risks 
related to corruption

205-3 Confirmed 
incidents of corruption 
and actions taken

205-2 Communication 
and training about anti-
corruption policies and 
procedures

131

131

GRI 3: Material Topics 
2021

GRI 206: Anti-
competitive Behavior 
2016

3-3 Management of 
material topics

206-1 Legal actions 
for anti-competitive 
behavior, anti-trust, 
and monopoly 
practices

GRI standard/ 
other source

Page number(s), 
links and/or 
direct answer

Disclosure
Omission

Requirement(s) omitted Reason Notes/ Explanation 

General disclosures

GRI standard/ 
other source

Page number(s), 
links and/or 
direct answer

Disclosure
Omission

Requirement(s) omitted Reason Notes/ Explanation 

Talent management

Supply chain management

Business ethics and governance

Business ethics and governance



151 stc.com.sa 152 stc.com.sa

39-44

39, 40

39, 40

40

GRI 3: Material Topics 
2021

GRI 302: Energy 2016

3-3 Management of 
material topics

305-6 Emissions of 
ozone-depleting 
substances (ODS)

302-1 Energy consumption 
within the organization

Information unavailable/
incomplete

305-7 Nitrogen 
oxides (NOx), sulfur 
oxides (SOx), and 
other significant air 
emissions

302-2 Energy 
consumption outside 
of the organization

302-3 Energy 
intensity

47, 48

47

47

-

48

48

GRI 3: Material Topics 
2021

GRI 306: Waste 2020

3-3 Management of 
material topics

306-1 Waste generation 
and significant waste-
related impacts

306-3 Waste generated

306-4 Waste diverted 
from disposal

306-5 Waste directed 
to disposal

306-2 Management of 
significant waste-related 
impacts

39-44

39-44

302-4 Reduction of 
energy consumption

302-5 Reductions in 
energy requirements of 
products and services

31-46

39-46

31, 46

45

-

45

-

-

-

45

49

39-46

GRI 3: Material Topics 
2021

GRI 3: Material Topics 
2021

GRI 303: Water and 
Effluents 2018

GRI 305: Emissions 
2016

3-3 Management of 
material topics

3-3 Management of 
material topics

303-1 Interactions 
with water as a shared 
resource

305-1 Direct (Scope 1) 
GHG emissions

303-2 Management 
of water discharge-
related impacts

305-2 Energy indirect 
(Scope 2) GHG 
emissions

303-4 Water 
discharge

305-4 GHG emissions 
intensity

303-3 Water 
withdrawal

305-3 Other indirect 
(Scope 3) GHG 
emissions

303-5 Water 
consumption

305-5 Reduction of 
GHG emissions

Resource management

Energy and climate change

135

135

-

GRI 3: Material Topics 
2021

GRI 308: Supplier 
Environmental 
Assessment 2016

3-3 Management of 
material topics

308-1 New suppliers 
that were screened 
using environmental 
criteria

308-2 Negative 
environmental impacts 
in the supply chain and 
actions taken

Supply chain management

Information 
unavailable/
incomplete

Information 
unavailable/
incomplete

Information 
unavailable/
incomplete

Information 
unavailable/
incomplete

Information 
unavailable/
incomplete

Information 
unavailable/
incomplete

Information 
unavailable/
incomplete

This is work in 
prgress, we will 
consider including 
this in the upcoming 
sustainability reports.

This is work in 
prgress, we will 
consider including 
this in the upcoming 
sustainability reports.

This is work in 
prgress, we will 
consider including 
this in the upcoming 
sustainability reports.

This is work in 
prgress, we will 
consider including 
this in the upcoming 
sustainability reports.

This is work in 
prgress, we will 
consider including 
this in the upcoming 
sustainability reports.

This is work in 
prgress, we will 
consider including 
this in the upcoming 
sustainability reports.

This is work in 
prgress, we will 
consider including 
this in the upcoming 
sustainability reports.

This is work in 
prgress, we will 
consider including 
this in the upcoming 
sustainability reports.

108, 109

108, 109

108

109

GRI 3: Material Topics 
2021

GRI 401: Employment 
2016

3-3 Management of 
material topics

401-1 New employee hires 
and employee turnover

401-2 Benefits provided 
to full-time employees 
that are not provided to 
temporary or part-time 
employees

401-3 Parental leave

Talent management

159

159

GRI 3: Material Topics 
2021

GRI 402: Labor/
Management 
Relations 2016

3-3 Management of 
material topics

402-1 Minimum notice 
periods regarding 
operational changes

Talent management

GRI standard/ 
other source

Page number(s), 
links and/or 
direct answer

Disclosure
Omission

Requirement(s) omitted Reason Notes/ Explanation 

Energy and climate change

GRI standard/ 
other source

Page number(s), 
links and/or 
direct answer

Disclosure
Omission

Requirement(s) omitted Reason Notes/ Explanation 

Resource management



153 stc.com.sa 154 stc.com.sa

111, 112

110, 111

111

403-9 Work-related 
injuries

403-10 Work-related 
ill health

110-114

for more information on our commitment 
to Occupational health and safety, please 
visit our policy statement on Management 
commitment to Occupational Health and 
Safety position statement 
https://www.stc.com.sa/content/dam/
groupsites/common/generic/pdfs/
Management%20commitment%20to%20
Occupational%20Health%20and%20
Safety%20-%2002.20.2023.pdf

112, 113

110-114

112

114

110-114

113, 114

For more information on our commitment to 
cover all workers an occupational health and 
safety management system, please visit policy 
statement on  Management commitment to 
Occupational Health and Safety:
https://www.stc.com.sa/content/dam/
groupsites/common/generic/pdfs/
Management%20commitment%20to%20
Occupational%20Health%20and%20Safety%20
-%2002.20.2023.pdf

112, 113

GRI 3: Material Topics 
2021

GRI 403: 
Occupational Health 
and Safety 2018

3-3 Management of 
material topics

403-1 Occupational 
health and safety 
management system

403-2 Hazard 
identification, 
risk assessment, 
and incident 
investigation

403-4 Worker 
participation, 
consultation, and 
communication on 
occupational health 
and safety

403-6 Promotion of 
worker health

403-3 Occupational 
health services

403-5 Worker training 
on occupational 
health and safety

403-8 Workers 
covered by an 
occupational 
health and safety 
management system

403-7 Prevention 
and mitigation of 
occupational health and 
safety impacts directly 
linked by business 
relationships

Confidentiality 
constraints

stc does not publicly 
disclose this information 

102-107

103, 104

107

102, 104, 105, 107 

GRI 3: Material Topics 
2021

GRI 404: Training and 
Education 2016

3-3 Management of 
material topics

404-1 Average hours of 
training per year per 
employee

404-3 Percentage of 
employees receiving 
regular performance 
and career 
development reviews

404-2 Programs for 
upgrading employee 
skills and transition 
assistance programs

Talent management

95, 120

135, 136

124, 132

95, 120

135

124, 132

-

GRI 3: Material Topics 
2021

GRI 3: Material Topics 
2021

GRI 3: Material Topics 
2021

GRI 405: Diversity and 
Equal Opportunity 
2016

GRI 414: Supplier 
Social Assessment 
2016

GRI 406: Non-
discrimination 2016

GRI 405: Diversity and 
Equal Opportunity 
2016

3-3 Management of 
material topics

3-3 Management of 
material topics

3-3 Management of 
material topics

405-1 Diversity of 
governance bodies and 
employees

414-1 New suppliers that 
were screened using 
social criteria

406-1 Incidents of 
discrimination and 
corrective actions 
taken

405-2 Ratio of basic 
salary and remuneration 
of women to men

Supply chain management

Human rights

30, 31

Community Involvement policy statement
https://www.stc.com.sa/content/
dam/groupsites/common/generic/
pdfs/Community%20Involvement%20
Position%20Statement.pdf

30, 31

GRI 3: Material Topics 
2021

GRI 413: Local 
Communities 2016

3-3 Management of 
material topics

413-1 Operations with 
local community 
engagement, impact 
assessments, and 
development programs

413-2 Operations with 
significant actual and 
potential negative 
impacts on local 
communities

Community contribution and development

136414-2 Negative social 
impacts in the supply 
chain and actions taken

Information unavailable/
incomplete

Data privacy, security and protection

56-63

-

GRI 3: Material Topics 
2021

GRI 418: Customer 
Privacy 2016

3-3 Management of 
material topics

418-1 Substantiated 
complaints concerning 
breaches of customer 
privacy and losses of 
customer data

Information 
unavailable/
incomplete

This is work in 
prgress, we will 
consider including 
this in the upcoming 
sustainability 
reports.v

GRI standard/ 
other source

Page number(s), 
links and/or 
direct answer

Disclosure
Omission

Requirement(s) omitted Reason Notes/ Explanation 

Health, safety and wellness

GRI standard/ 
other source

Page number(s), 
links and/or 
direct answer

Disclosure
Omission

Requirement(s) omitted Reason Notes/ Explanation 

Diversity, equality and inclusivity 

https://www.stc.com.sa/content/dam/groupsites/common/generic/pdfs/Management%20commitment%20to%20Occupational%20Health%20and%20Safety%20-%2002.20.2023.pdf
https://www.stc.com.sa/content/dam/groupsites/common/generic/pdfs/Management%20commitment%20to%20Occupational%20Health%20and%20Safety%20-%2002.20.2023.pdf
https://www.stc.com.sa/content/dam/groupsites/common/generic/pdfs/Community%20Involvement%20Position%20Statement.pdf


155

stc.com.sa

156 stc.com.sa

Topic KPI codeCore Metric

Environment KPIs

Details and direct response

GSMA-ENV-01 Page 38

Page 46

Pages 39-43

Page 47, 
48, 70

Page 47, 48

Page 47, 48

GSMA-ENV-02 

GSMA-ENV-03

GSMA-ENV-04

GSMA-ENV-05

GSMA-ENV-06

Emissions

Energy 

Waste reduction

1.1 stc is committed to adopting science based targets in line with the 
goals of the Paris Agreement — to limit global warming to well below 2°C
above pre-industrial levels and pursue efforts to limit warming to 1.5°C
and to achieve net-zero emissions by 2050.

1.2.a 
Scope 1 carbon emissions in 2022: 187,217
Scope 2 carbon emissions in 2022: 1,174,589
1.2.b
we are currently tracking our scope 3 GHG emissions, and we will start 
disclosing our Scope 3 GHG emissions by 2024

1.3a  
Group total energy consumed (MWh) 2022: 9,443,359 GJ
1.3b 
Group total network energy consumed (MWh) 2022: 1,289,386 GJ

1.4a 
1,250 metric tons of waste generated from both network activities and 
operational maintenance, of which 61% was recycled. TAWAL by stc plans to 
fully launch a comprehensive recycling program in 2023.
1.4b 
Over 7,400 electronic devices recycled and refurbished for reuse.

1.5a 
750 tonnes in 2022
1.5b 
1,250 metric tons of waste generated from both network activities and oper-
ational maintenance
1.5c 
7,400 electronic devices to be recycled and refurbished for reuse.
1.5d All other waste (tonnes) per 1GB of data (not calculated per 1GB of data)
- 750 tonnes in 2022 

1.6a 
984.5 metric tons were generated from more than 19,000 network assets, 
with more than 15,000 of these being recycled. Also, 1,250 metric tons of 
waste generated from both network activities and operational mainte-
nance, of which 61% was recycled. 
1.6b 
7,400 e-waste recycled 
1.6c All other waste recycled 
- In 2022, stc KSA recycled 7,400 e-waste recycled.
- 984.5 metric tons were generated from more than 19,000 network assets

Science-based targets

Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions

Energy consumption

Materials repaired or used

Waste generated

Materials recycled

Reporting framework compliance table:

GSMA ESG Metrics for 
Mobile Industry

Appendix C

Page
number

Pages: 15, 
56-63

Page 23, 56

Page 63

GSMA-INT-01 

GSMA-INT-02

GSMA-INT-03

Data protection

Digital rights

Online safety

stc does not disclose these metrics but carefully measure, monitor, track 
our performance and also maintains robust data security strategies.
https://www.stc.com.sa/content/dam/groupsites/common/generic/pdfs/
Data%20Privacy%20and%20Security%20Position%20Statement.pdf

https://www.stc.com.sa/content/stc/sa/en/content-page/privacy.html

Customer data incidents

Digital rights policy

Online safety measures

Digital protection KPIs

Digital inclusion KPIs

Page 76

Page 69, 70, 
103-104

GSMA-INC-01 

GSMA-INC-02

GSMA-INC-03

Network coverage

Affordability

Digital skills

2.1 
3G coverage: In KSA, we shut down our 3G network to pave the way for 
more developed systems networks. In 2021 3G coverage was at 98%.
4G coverage (KSA): 98% 
5G coverage (KSA): 40.8%
In Kuwait and Bahrain, stc recorded 100% 5G coverage

2.2a 
Information not disclosed as per metric guideline. However, stc provide 
stc’s interest free installments, offers, discounts and other affordability 
inducing services. Also, stc has a policy statement stating that stc com-
mits to offer affordable rates and services. 
Link to policy statement: (https://www.stc.com.sa/content/dam/
groupsites/common/generic/pdfs/Access%20to%20Communication%20
Position%20Statement.pdf

Population covered by 
mobile network 

Device and subscription 
affordability

Digital skills program

Page 23, 135, 
136 

Page 135, 136

GSMA-SUP-01 

GSMA-SUP-02

Sustainable supply chain https://www.stc.com.sa/content/dam/groupsites/common/generic/pdfs/
Responsible%20Supply%20Chain%20Position%20Statement.pdf

https://www.stc.com.sa/content/stcgroupwebsite/sa/en/terms-and-poli-
cies/vendors.html

100% of suppliers screened against the sustainable procurement policy 
in 2022 

Sustainable procurement 
policy

Supplier assessments

Supply chain KPIs

https://www.stc.com.sa/content/dam/groupsites/common/generic/pdfs/Access%20to%20Communication%20Position%20Statement.pdf
https://www.stc.com.sa/content/dam/groupsites/common/generic/pdfs/Access%20to%20Communication%20Position%20Statement.pdf
https://www.stc.com.sa/content/dam/groupsites/common/generic/pdfs/Data%20Privacy%20and%20Security%20Position%20Statement.pdf
https://www.stc.com.sa/content/stc/sa/en/content-page/privacy.html
https://www.stc.com.sa/content/dam/groupsites/common/generic/pdfs/Responsible%20Supply%20Chain%20Position%20Statement.pdf
https://www.stc.com.sa/content/stcgroupwebsite/sa/en/terms-and-policies/vendors.html


ESG supplement 
Appendix D

We have an ongoing interaction with ESG rating agencies, also supporting the increasing requests by 
investors for greater transparency, more stakeholder engagement and stronger sustainability management. 
The primary goal of the 2022 ESG Supplement is to provide additional supporting information about stc’s 
ESG approach and performance on specific ESG material topics.

ESG  Metric

ESG  Metric

ResponsePage #

Page # Response

https://www.stc.com.sa/content/dam/groupsites/common/generic/pdfs/
Data%20Privacy%20and%20Security%20Position%20Statement.pdf

stc has established a privacy framework containing policies and  pro-
cedures relating to the privacy of  personal information address data  
classification, record management, retention, and destruction as well 
as  implemented technical solutions to set different permission levels 
for employees based on what PII they need to access, such as Public, 
Private, and Restricted Access.  
Data Privacy Council reports at board level via BAC. Reporting is con-
ducted quarterly to all board members. 
Detailed disclosure can be found in our Sustainability pages:
https://sustainability.stc.com.sa/#/

https://www.stc.com.sa/content/dam/groupsites/common/generic/pdfs/
Data%20Privacy%20and%20Security%20Position%20Statement.pdf

Cyber Security training and Data Protection & Privacy training are man-
datory courses for all new employees and are taken during onboarding 
sessions. These courses are also mandatory courses for all existing 
employees to take on an annual basis. 
Detailed disclosure can be found in our Sustainability pages:
https://sustainability.stc.com.sa/#/

In 2022, we evolved our community investment methodologies and 
policies to maximize our positive impact on the societies in which we 
are operate. In doing so, we aim to leverage our key strengths including 
technologies, broad reach, the incredible talent of our people and 
financial resources. The best way to complement our strengths in 
achieving a positive impact is to join hands and leverage our dedicated, 
specialized resources and partners in key priority areas including ed-
ucation, health, accessibility, climate change, and empowering youth, 
women, early stage entrepreneurs, and people at risk such as elderly 
people and low income households. In 2021 stc reached 1 million elderly 
people.
Detailed disclosure can be found in our Sustainability pages: https://
sustainability.stc.com.sa/#/

stc is regularly audited by external party on data privacy and security. 
The audits take place annually and are conducted by CST. 
The latest audit was completed in May 2022.  CST commission was 
established to regulate, monitor and empower the communications & 
IT sector as it is one of the most prominent sectors that support the 
development and prosperity of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.

stc has renovated and provided connectivity to low income households in 
22 provinces. 
Detailed disclosure can be found in our Sustainability pages:
https://sustainability.stc.com.sa/#/

Disclosure of a policy that governs all relevant 
business lines/subsidiaries in data privacy and 
security

- -

Introduction of an executive or board-level 
committee for data privacy and security

57

Disclosure of a statement that covers the 
rights provided to individuals regarding the 
control of their data, such as the right of 
access, rectification and deletion of data

-

Disclosure of training scope on data privacy 
and security provided to all stc employees 
including contractors

58

Disclosure of actions taken to include elderly 
people in accessibility programs such as 
special applications to enhance their access 
to communication services

70, 61

Disclosure of external independent audits on 
data privacy and security 

59

Disclosure of actions taken to include low-in-
come households in access to communication 
programs such as free WiFi access in public 
places

73, 74

Data Privacy and Security

Data Privacy and Security

Data Privacy and Security

Data Privacy and Security

Corporate Governance

Data Privacy and Security

Corporate Governance

Topic

Topic

157 stc.com.sa 158 stc.com.sa

stc is committed to providing a modern, sophisticated network with 
maximum accessibility and digital inclusion for urban and remote areas 
across the entire Kingdom by utilizing wireless broadband to serve rural 
and desert areas and a fixed/ wireless combination to cover urban areas. 

Detailed disclosure can be found in our Sustainability pages:
 https://sustainability.stc.com.sa/#/

Disclosure of the voting results including the percentage of approvals, 
rejections and abstentions (AR) can be found here:
https://www.stc.com.sa/content/dam/groupsites/common/generic/inves-
tors/investor-pdf/general-assembly-meeting-2022.pdf 

Disclosure of targets to implement access to 
communication and digital divide in emerging 
markets beyond current operations.

76

Disclosure of the voting results including 
the percentage of approvals, rejections and 
abstentions

-

Corporate Governance

Corporate Governance

Detailed disclosure can be found in our Sustainability report and our 
Sustainability pages: https://sustainability.stc.com.sa/#/

For this indicator we use the boundary as relevant for the jurisdiction in 
which stc is active. stc is fully compliant with regulations issued by the 
capital market authority (Article 13 in the implementing regulation of the 
companies law).

Moreover, we are capturing the shareholders voting by the Local Market 
platform (Edaa) for this matter, and this platform is owned by Saudi Tad-
awul Group, and mandatory to be used by all listed companies.

Detailed disclosure can be found in our Sustainability report and our 
Sustainability pages: https://sustainability.stc.com.sa/#/

Disclosure of audit committee members who 
meet MSCI’s standards for industrial expertise

161-164

Disclosure of proxy access that gives share-
holders the power to nominate a number of 
director candidates for inclusion in stc’s proxy 
materials

117

Disclosure of board members who meet MSCI 
standards for risk management expertise

161-164

Corporate Governance

Corporate Governance

Corporate Governance

For this indicator, we use the boundary relevant to jurisdiction in which 
stc is active. We are complying with corporate governance regulations is-
sued by capital market authority (article 48-B) with 3 out of 4 independent 
members and will consider it in the next board cycle.

stc LTIP Policy states that sustainability performance is incorporated in its 
current incentive pay policies.

Pay committee independent of management -

Disclosure of how sustainability performance 
is incorporated in incentive payment structure

108

Corporate Governance

Corporate Governance

Detailed disclosure can be found in our Sustainability report and our 
Sustainability pages: https://sustainability.stc.com.sa/#/

Disclosure of overall links between executive 
pay data links and economic/financial per-
formance

108Corporate Governance

https://www.stc.com.sa/content/dam/groupsites/common/generic/pdfs/Data%20Privacy%20and%20Security%20Position%20Statement.pdf
https://www.stc.com.sa/content/dam/groupsites/common/generic/pdfs/Data%20Privacy%20and%20Security%20Position%20Statement.pdf
https://sustainability.stc.com.sa/#/
https://sustainability.stc.com.sa/#/
https://sustainability.stc.com.sa/#/
https://sustainability.stc.com.sa/#/
https://sustainability.stc.com.sa/#/
https://sustainability.stc.com.sa/#/
https://www.stc.com.sa/content/dam/groupsites/common/generic/investors/investor-pdf/general-assembly-meeting-2022.pdf
https://sustainability.stc.com.sa/#/
https://sustainability.stc.com.sa/#/
https://sustainability.stc.com.sa/#/


Detailed disclosure can be found in our Sustainability report and our 
Sustainability pages: https://sustainability.stc.com.sa/#/

For this indicator, we use the boundary relevant to the jurisdiction in 
which stc is active. At stc, we have labor committee that reports direct-
ly to GCEO. Their role is to be the advocate of employees’ issues and 
they have direct access to the GCEO. The communication between the 
committee and the company is monitored by the HRSD.

For this indicator, we use the boundary relevant to the jurisdiction in 
which stc is active. At stc, we have labor committee that reports direct-
ly to GCEO. Their role is to be the advocate of employees’ issues and 
they have direct access to the GCEO. The communication between the 
committee and the company is monitored by the HRSD.

Detailed disclosure can be found in our Sustainability report and our 
Sustainability pages: https://sustainability.stc.com.sa/#/

For this indicator, we use the boundary relevant to the  jurisdiction in 
which stc is active.  As per HRSD decree No.50945, the company must 
send a notice including (study, justification...etc) of such action 60 days 
before the major layoff to HRSD and seek their input within 45 days of 
the notice.

Variable pay is linked to EBITDA and Revenue and any other business 
metrics - subject to management approval.

Disclosure on the number of years the exter-
nal audit firm has served the company

160

Disclosure of future-expected collective 
bargaining negotiations

98, 99

Disclosure of statement that covers stc’s 
position on collective agreements

98, 99

Disclosure of audit and non-audit fees 160

Disclosure of major layoffs events 95

Disclosure of the percentage of variable 
incentive pay that covers stc employees

108

Corporate Governance

Human Resources

Human Resources

Corporate Governance

Human Resources

Human Resources

159 stc.com.sa 160 stc.com.sa

Gross profit 37.39SAR billion / Total workforce 22,759

https://stevieawards.com/mena/solutions-stc-most-exemplary-em-
ployer
https://greatplacetowork.me/certified-organization/solutions-by-stc/
https://www.tahawultech.com/enterprise/stc-bahrain-wins-big-at-gcc-
best-employer-brand-awards/
https://www.arabnews.com/node/2199096/corporate-news

In 2021, stc initiated a new pilot project that aims to install an intercon-
nected solar photonic network with the existing infrastructure of the 
Kingdom.
Detailed disclosure can be found in our Sustainability report and our 
Sustainability pages: https://sustainability.stc.com.sa/#/

Detailed disclosure can be found in our Sustainability report and our 
Sustainability pages: https://sustainability.stc.com.sa/#/

Disclosure of employee productivity (Profit/
Employee)

108, 109

External recognition as employer of choice 
(last three years)

96

Disclosure of actions taken to mitigate 
greenhouse gases

38-45

Disclose science-based quantitative targets 
in its sustainability report

38

Human Resources

Human Resources

Environment

Environment

In 2021, we achieved a 27% reduction in our total electricity consump-
tion in all stc buildings, largely due to the energy efficiency initiatives 
implemented throughout the previous year. We also achieved a 22% 
decrease in total energy consumption. 
Detailed disclosure can be found in our Sustainability report and our 
Sustainability pages: https://sustainability.stc.com.sa/#/

We have two solar energy sites at stc HQ. In 2021 we generated 303.17 
MWh of energy saved 302 tCO2. 
Detailed disclosure can be found in our Sustainability report and our 
Sustainability pages: https://sustainability.stc.com.sa/#/

Detailed disclosure can be found in our Sustainability report and our 
Sustainability pages: https://sustainability.stc.com.sa/#/

Disclosure of actions taken towards energy 
consumption management and operational 
efficiency enhancement such as efficient 
cooling systems

41-34

Disclosure of actions taken to use clean 
sources of energy such as solar energy

40-45

Conduction of audits of all operations on 
ethical standards and anti-corruption at least 
once every three years

120, 123

Environment

Environment

Corporate Governance

In order to provide senior level leaders direct visibility about compli-
ance investigations, training, communication and other compliance 
program elements in their sector, compliance councils were set up 
within 4 sectors in Q4 last year. In 2022, the intention is to do this for 
all C-level executives. These councils consist of each organization’s 
Chief, their direct reports, representatives of other departments like 
Human Resources and members of the Corporate Ethics and Compli-
ance team. The councils meet on a frequent basis and help leaders 
drive engagement around Ethics and Compliance and thereby impact 
the integrity culture. 
Detailed disclosure can be found in our Sustainability report and our 
Sustainability pages: https://sustainability.stc.com.sa/#/

Employees and stakeholders are encouraged to report all integrity 
concerns through the designated speak up channel. 
Detailed disclosure can be found in our Sustainability report and our 
Sustainability pages: https://sustainability.stc.com.sa/#/

Evidence of a board-level committee or 
C-suite or executive committee to oversee 
ethics issues

119, 120, 123

Provision of evidence of having a formal anon-
ymous whistleblower system that includes 
legal protection

119, 124, 125

Corporate Governance

Corporate Governance

https://www.stc.com.sa/content/dam/groupsites/en/pdf/nomina-
tion-and-remuneration-policy-new-10-en.pdf

https://www.stc.com.sa/content/stcgroupwebsite/sa/en/investors/
general-assembly.html

 https://www.saudiexchange.sa/wps/portal/saudiexchange/hidden/
company-profile-main/!ut/p/z1/04_Sj9CPykssy0xPLMnMz0vMAfI-
jo8ziTR3NDIw8LAz83d2MXA0C3SydAl1c3Q0NvE30I4EKzBEKDM-
KcTQzMDPxN3H19LAzdTU31w8syU8v1wwkpK8hOMgUA-oskdg!!/?-
companySymbol=7010

Every employee at stc, at every level of the company (including 
suppliers), is bound by the code of ethics. All new employees who join 
stc are required to complete a Basic Online Integrity Training course, 
and 100% of employees and contractors have signed a Code of Ethics 
with acknowledgement, stating that they have read, understood, and 
will abide by the code. 
In late 2021, all stc contractors were provided with access to the 
company’s online learning management system and are required to 
complete the basic online integrity training by mid-2022. 
Detailed disclosure can be found in our Sustainability report and our 
Sustainability pages: https://sustainability.stc.com.sa/#/

Say on Pay & Remuneration of the Executive 
Management Policy

-

Minutes of the General Assembly -

Disclosure on non-executive shareholding 
data

-

Training programs on ethical standards that 
covers all employees including part-time and 
contractors

122, 123

Corporate Governance

Corporate Governance

Corporate Governance

Corporate Governance

Net telecommunication revenue base report 

Local content report    

Zakat and tax services                                                                           

Compliance with Article 71 from companies Law  

Solvency report 

Capital increase  

AUP Report on bad debt write off   

339,000  

840,000 

260,000  

132,000 

60,000  

40,000  

21,000  
  

Fees and costs of services provided to the company by its external auditors, EY, other than for the audit of the financial statements of the company for the year 2022: 

EY 

EY 

EY 

EY 

EY 

EY 

EY 

Audit firm 

TOTAL 1,697,500

Service Type Fees and Expenses (SAR)

External Auditor (incl. audit and non-audit fees)
Ernst & Young (EY) is a network of firms with more than 300,000 people providing the context and meaning for the work they do every day. They help digital pioneers fight 
data piracy, guide governments through cash-flow crises, unlock new medical treatments with data analytics, and pursue high quality audits to build trust in financial 
markets and business. In other words, working with entrepreneurs, companies, and entire countries to solve their most pressing challenges. Through their four integrated 
service lines:  

Assurance, Consulting, Strategy and Transactions, and Tax. With their deep sector knowledge, they help their clients capitalize on new opportunities, asses, and manage 
risks to deliver responsible growth. Their high-performing and multidisciplinary teams help them fulfill regulatory requirements, keep investors informed and meet 
stakeholder needs. 

Following is a statement of the audit fees and expenses related to services provided by the company’s external auditor, in addition to any other services provided by audit 
firms other than the Company’s external auditor during the year 2022.  

Name of Audit Firm and Partner Auditor: Ernst and Young, Saad M. AlKhathlan 
Number of Years Spent as the Auditor of the company: 8 years  
Total Audit Fees for the Year 2022 (SAR): 12,185,000

ESG  Metric ESG  MetricResponse ResponsePage # Page #Topic Topic

https://sustainability.stc.com.sa/#/
https://sustainability.stc.com.sa/#/
https://stevieawards.com/mena/solutions-stc-most-exemplary-employer
https://www.tahawultech.com/enterprise/stc-bahrain-wins-big-at-gcc-best-employer-brand-awards/
https://greatplacetowork.me/certified-organization/solutions-by-stc/
https://www.arabnews.com/node/2199096/corporate-news
https://sustainability.stc.com.sa/#/
https://sustainability.stc.com.sa/#/
https://sustainability.stc.com.sa/#/
https://sustainability.stc.com.sa/#/
https://sustainability.stc.com.sa/#/
https://sustainability.stc.com.sa/#/
https://sustainability.stc.com.sa/#/
https://sustainability.stc.com.sa/#/
https://www.stc.com.sa/content/dam/groupsites/en/pdf/nomination-and-remuneration-policy-new-10-en.pdf
https://www.stc.com.sa/content/stcgroupwebsite/sa/en/investors/general-assembly.html
https://www.saudiexchange.sa/wps/portal/saudiexchange/hidden/company-profile-main/!ut/p/z1/04_Sj9CPykssy0xPLMnMz0vMAfIjo8ziTR3NDIw8LAz83d2MXA0C3SydAl1c3Q0NvE30I4EKzBEKDMKcTQzMDPxN3H19LAzdTU31w8syU8v1wwkpK8hOMgUA-oskdg!!/?companySymbol=7010


No NoName NameAcademic 
Qualifications

Academic 
QualificationsMembership MembershipVocational 

Experience
Vocational 
Experience

Current 
Occupation

Current 
Occupation

Previous 
Occupation

Previous 
OccupationMembership Membership

MBA Bachelor in science 
marketing

PhD. Electrical 
Engineering

Bachelor of 
Accounting

Bachelor of 
Accounting

Master of 
Computer Science

MBA

MBA

Master of Science 
in Information 
Technology

MBA

Bachelor of 
Accounting

Vice President, Al 
Faisaliah Holding 
Group

Board Member, 
Shaker Group

stc CEO Principal Partner 
in Price 
Waterhouse, Saudi 
Arabia

Governor of the 
Public Pension 
Agency

GM, IT 
Infrastructure, GOSI

Chief of Staff and 
Advisor to PIF 
Governor

Managing Partner, 
OC&C Strategy 
Consultants.

Advisor to PIF 
Governor

Executive President 
of Micromax

CEO NCB 
Capital

Independent Independent

Non- executive 

/ non- independent

Independent

Non- executive 

/ non- independent

Non- executive 

/ non- independent

Non- executive 

/ non- independent

Non- executive 

/ non- independent

Non- executive 

/ non- independent

Non- executive

Independent

HRH Prince 
Muhammad bin 
Khaled Al-Abdullah 
Al-Faisal Al Saud

Mr. Jameel A. 
AlMulhem

H.E. Dr. Khaled H. 
Biyari

Mr. Walid Ibrahim 
Shukri

H.E. Mohammed 
Talal Al-Nahhas

Mr. Ahmed 
Mohammed Al-
Omran

Mr. Yazeed A. Al 
Humied

Mr. Arndt 
Rautenberg

Ms. Rania
M. Nashar

Mr. Sanjay Kapoor

Ms. Sarah J. AL- 
Suhaimi

Banking and 
administrative 
experience.

Administrative 
experience.

Associate 
Professor, King 
Fahd University 
of Petroleum and 
Minerals for 13 
years. 
Experience in 
business.

Administrative 
experience.

Banking, business 
development, and 
administration 
experience.

Administrative and 
information 
technology 
experience.

Experience in 
finance and admin-
istration.

Administrative 
experience.

Experience in 
banking and admin-
istration.

Administrative 
experience.

Finance and 
Investment 
experience.

Chairs the Board 
of Directors, 
the Executive 
Committee, and 
the Investment 
Committee.

Member of the 
Board of Directors 
and Chairs the 
Nomination and 
Remuneration 
Committee

Member of the 
Board of Directors 
and the Executive 
Committee

Member of the 
Board of Directors 
and the Risk 
Committee and 
Chairs the Audit 
Committee

Member of the 
Board of Directors 
and the Executive 
Committee

Member of the 
Board of Directors 
and the Risk 
Committee

Vice Chairman of 
the Board of Direc-
tors and a Member 
of the Executive 
Committee

Member of the 
Board of Directors 
and 
the Investment 
Committee

Member of the 
Board of Directors 
and Chairs the Risk 
Committee

Member of the 
Board of Directors 
and the Executive 
Committee

Member of the 
Board of Directors 
and the Investment 
Committee

Chairman, Al 
Faisaliah Holding 
Group

Managing Director 
of Takween Group

Assistant Secretary 
of Defense for 
Executive Affairs - 
Ministry of Defense

Member of several 
Boards and Com-
mittees

Governor of the 
General Organi-
zation for Social 
Insurance

GOSI 
Governor Assistant 
for IT Affairs

PIF, Deputy 
Governor, Head of 
MENA 
Investments

Founder and 
Managing partner 
of several 
companies

PIF, Head of 
Compliance and 
Governance 
Division

Consultant

Chairperson of 
Tadawul

1 9

2 10

3 11

4

6

5

7

8

161 stc.com.sa 162 stc.com.sa

Board and Committees members 
and their membership classification



163 stc.com.sa 164 stc.com.sa

Skills / Characteristics

Audit Committee Skills and Competences Matrix

Ammr Bin Khaled KurdiWaleed bin Ibrahim Shukri Khaled Bin Abdullah 
AlAngery Medhat Bin Fared Tawfeq

Business leadership

Male

Financial markets

International experience

Mainly non-executive role

Financial experts

Commercial

Female

Finance, Audit & Risk

(Full time) Executive position 
at other company

No Name

External Members of the Board Committees

Academic 
QualificationsMembership Vocational 

Experience
Current 

Occupation
Previous 

Occupation Membership

Bachelor of 
Accounting

Master Program 
Citibank Asia 
Pacific

PhD. in Accounting

Master of Science

Head of Private 
Banking and 
Lending Products, 
Samba Financial 
Group

Account Manager, 
Samba Financial 
Group

Executive Vice 
President of 
Business for 
DUSSUR

CEO, Saudi Kuwaiti 
Finance House

External Member

External Member

External Member

External Member

Mr. Khalid bin 
Abdullah Al Ankari

Mr. Medhat F. Tawfik

Dr. Ammr 
K. Kurdi

Eng. Tarek 
Abdulaziz 
Alrikhaimi

Technical and 
managerial 
experience in 
auditing

Professional and 
managerial expe-
rience in auditing, 
risk management

Accounting 
experience

Experience in 
financial, banking
services, risks 
management, 
operations, strategic 
planning
and projects 
management.

Audit Committee

Audit Committee

Audit Committee

Risk Committee

General Manager, 
Babel Al Khair 
Trading & Real 
Estate Est

Founder of IRSAA, 
Business Solutions 
an outsourcing 
company of 
Responsible for risk 
management and 
internal audit

CFO, Tawuniya

Independent 
Financial Advisor, 
Investment and 
Risk Management 
Advisor

1

2

3

4

MBA

Master of Business 
Economics Master 
of Business Law 
Master of Private 
Law

MBA

Head of the General 
Administration, 
Saudi Investments 
Public Investment 
Fund

Key Partner, Egon 
Zehnder

General manager of 
Training and 
Development, 
Aramco

External Member

External Member

External Member

Mr. Rashid 
I. Sharif

Mr. Johan Brand

Ms. Hoda 
M. Al- Ghoson

Experience in 
finance and
a member in several 
listed companies

Experience in 
leadership advisory

Experience in Human 
Resources

Investment  
Committee

Nomination and 
Remuneration 
Committee

Nomination and 
Remuneration 
Committee

CEO, SNB 
Capital and an 
Executive 
Member of the 
Board

Independent 
consultant in a 
leadership advisory 
company

Executive Director 
of Human Staff 
Resources and 
Training, Aramco

5

6

7



167 stc.com.sa 168 stc.com.sa

Sustainability@stc.com.sa
https://twitter.com/stc
https://www.linkedin.com/company/stc
https://www.facebook.com/stc/

Inquiries and feedback 

Inquiries, feedback or suggestions
are welcome at:

mailto:sustainability@stc.com.sa
https://twitter.com/stc
https://www.linkedin.com/company/stc
https://www.facebook.com/stc/