Report on Sustainability 2022


Report on 
Sustainability
2022



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   2

Table of contents

n Our approach 3

Message from our President and  4 
Chief Executive Officer

Q&A with our Chief Sustainability Officer 6

Syncrude integration  8

2021 ESG highlights 9

Transformation 11

n Environment 13

Climate change 14

Air quality 15

Waste management 17

Environmental incidents 18

Water stewardship 20

Tailings management 23

Land and reclamation 26

Biodiversity 28

n Social 30

Safety 31

Health and wellness 35

Workforce 37

Inclusion and diversity 39

Indigenous relations 41

Community investment 45

Human rights 47

n Governance 49

Ethics 50

Corporate governance 51

Risk management 54

Supply chain 56

n Appendix 58

About our report 59

ESG disclosure index 62

Performance data 63

Performance data footnotes 70

Independent practitioner’s assurance report 80

Advisories 85

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   3

To live Suncor’s purpose of providing trusted energy that enhances 
people’s lives while caring for each other and the Earth, our corporate 
strategy focuses on sustainable energy development, long-term 
thinking and becoming a net-zero company by 2050. 

 > Message from our President 
and Chief Executive Officer

 > Q&A with our  
Chief Sustainability Officer

 > Syncrude integration 
 > 2021 ESG highlights
 > Transformation

Our approach

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   4

Mark Little
President and  
Chief Executive Officer

Message from our President and Chief Executive Officer

In this, our 27th Report on Sustainability, we share how through our strategy we are taking 
action as an energy company to drive sustainability performance and resiliency for the long 
term – enabled by technology, collaboration and expanding lines of business – and guided 
by our purpose.

As we write this report, global events are reminding us of the importance of secure, 
reliable energy from a trusted source. For Suncor, meeting the world’s energy needs and 
demonstrating strong environmental and social performance – through sound, transparent 
governance (“ESG”) – go hand in hand. As a result, we are unwavering in our commitment to 
be an ESG leader.

Translating ambition into action
Key objectives of Suncor’s strategy are optimizing our base business while reducing costs 
and carbon emissions and expanding current businesses with low greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions, namely renewable fuels, low-carbon power and hydrogen. A strong base business, 
paired with our expertise, enables us to invest in energy efficiency, fuel-switching and carbon-
reduction initiatives to help us become a net-zero GHG emissions company by 2050.

Some of the actions we are taking to achieve these strategic objectives include replacing 
coke-fired boilers at Base Plant with significantly lower-emission cogeneration units; 
accelerating commercial scale deployment of carbon capture technology; partnering with 
ATCO to explore a world-scale hydrogen project in Alberta; and developing next generation 
renewable fuel technologies such as LanzaJet’s sustainable aviation fuel technology and 
Enerkem’s waste-to-fuels technology. We’re also providing consumers with choices to 
reduce their own carbon emissions through renewable fuels or electric charging stations on 
Canada’s Electric Highway™. Combined, these initiatives help reduce our emissions – and help 
others reduce theirs – while satisfying growing energy needs.

As an oil producer working 
to create economic, 
environmental and social 
opportunities to drive our 
company, communities, 
and customers forward, the 
need to connect long-term 
ambition with action is 
more urgent than ever. 
Mark Little 
President and Chief Executive Officer

™ Trademark of Suncor Energy Inc.

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   5

Message from our President and Chief Executive Officer

I am also very proud to help lead industry in its work to advance 
shared performance ambitions through collaboration. We’re taking 
unprecedented actions to galvanize industry efforts to reduce 
emissions by working with peers in the Pathways Alliance and with 
governments in a shared commitment to co-invest and accelerate 
progress. Together, these actions will help the Pathways Alliance 
steward emission reductions that demonstrate to the world what 
can be accomplished when those working in the same resource 
basin band together around a common net-zero cause. 

Looking at other aspects of environmental performance, we’ve 
made progress in key areas such as tailings and water use. We 
continue to treat tailings volumes at Base Plant and have reduced 
our total fluid tailings by 15% since 2010 through our holistic 
tailings management approach and permanent aquatic storage 
structure treatment process. Additionally, our water recycle rates 
are above 90% at Base Plant, Fort Hills and our in situ operations.

Caring for people 
Our operations have changed in the past five years, from the 
start-up of Fort Hills in 2018 to becoming operator of Syncrude 
in 2021. As our workforce and assets have grown, our focused 
approach to safety, as well as our processes and systems, 
continue to evolve. In the past, we have treated all incidents as 
preventable. We recognize incidents can and do happen. That’s 
why we’ve expanded our focus to include not only preventing 
serious events and learning from errors but also to having 
controls in place to prevent worst-case scenarios when incidents 
happen. Doing this effectively requires us to engage and learn 
with those closest to the work to find practical solutions and  
fail-safe measures. We continuously strive to improve our 
operational excellence as part of our efforts to keep people safe.  
A fatality at our Oil Sands Base Plant early this year underscores 
the vital importance of this work.

To strengthen operational excellence and safety performance, 
we realigned the organization in 2021 to conform with global 
best practices. The resulting insights prompted us to make key 
changes to strengthen our processes and to restructure our 
senior leadership to include more people with deep operational 
experience on the executive team.

A safe workplace is also an inclusive one where people feel inspired, 
trusted and supported so they can be, and bring, their best. We 
are thrilled to be recognized as one of Canada’s Best Diversity 

Employers for 2021 and 2022. This reflects progressively more 
women in leadership positions, with approximately one-third of our 
executive and management team being female. It also highlights 
the work of our Inclusion & Diversity (I&D) Council who set and 
champion our I&D strategy, which includes our eight employee-
inclusion networks.

Inclusion also extends to the way we engage with communities. 
A partnership we formed this past year is Astisiy, a historic 
collaboration between eight Indigenous communities and Suncor 
in the Regional Municipality of Wood Buffalo. Astisiy acquired a 
15% stake in the Northern Courier Pipeline. The pipeline, which 
connects the Fort Hills asset to Suncor’s East Tank Farm asset, 
is now operated by Suncor. The investment and agreement, 
unprecedented in this industry, is the result of deep collaboration 
among all partners. It is expected to provide long-term, stable 
revenues that will benefit the communities for decades to come.

Stronger together
This report shows what we have achieved – and where we need 
to do better. We are committed to openly and transparently 
disclosing our achievements, challenges and progress. New to 
our sustainability disclosure in 2022 is the expansion of Syncrude 
sustainability information as Suncor assumed operatorship at the 
end of 2021. We continue to learn and benefit from Syncrude’s 
ESG efforts over the years with Indigenous communities, 
the building of an inclusive workforce and an unwavering 
commitment to innovation.

Collaborating and co-investing with industry peers, governments 
and innovators; partnering with communities; and learning from 
one another reminds us that we can go further when we work 
together. I firmly believe leadership and progress cannot flourish 
in isolation. It is incumbent on business and governments to apply 
shared prosperity to accelerating progress toward the future we 
all want. Because when Canada’s energy industry succeeds – on all 
measures of performance – so does our nation.

Mark Little
President and Chief Executive Officer

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   6

Q&A with our Chief Sustainability Officer

You were recently appointed Suncor’s Chief Sustainability 
Officer and a Chief Climate Officer role was created. Why did 
Suncor make this change and what will this achieve?

We doubled up on senior leadership in this area because climate is 
core to our strategy. If you look at the six strategic objectives that 
underpin our strategy, climate shows up in five of them, so it’s huge 
for us. Being a part of the solution is crucial for us through the 
energy transition.

And this was a fortunate sequence of events for me. I learned so 
much in my previous decade working in the sustainability world. It 
profoundly influenced who I am, so it’s exciting to be a part of that 
again and to work with a great team within the Chief Sustainability 
Office. I’m also looking forward to working more closely with Martha 
Hall Findlay in her role as Chief Climate Officer.

But this isn’t just about one or two people. We’ve cared about 
climate change and improving our sustainability performance 
across the organization for decades, and this focus and perspective 
is embedded in the business and our strategy. We have fantastic 
employees who are committed to making a difference because they 
believe in our purpose – to provide trusted energy that enhances 
people’s lives while caring for each other and the Earth. I want to do 
everything I can to support them.

You previously served as Suncor’s Vice President for 
Sustainability and Communications. What do you see as the 
most significant change since that time? 

The world around us is shifting and there are two important 
areas that come to mind. The first is about reconciliation and 
relationships with Indigenous Peoples. The uncovering of 
unmarked children’s graves near former residential schools, as 
difficult as that is, is forcing us as Canadians to have different 
conversations and focus on the 94 calls to actions in the report of 
the Truth and Reconciliation Commission of Canada. 

What does that mean for Suncor? It’s a side-by-side walk with 
Indigenous Peoples in this country so we can find ways to align  
our interests. We also need to ask what we need to do, as  
non-Indigenous Canadians, to further reconciliation.

The second area is climate. It’s urgent and we need to do more. 
There’s also more willingness to collaborate to find solutions. The 
Pathways Alliance, an initiative of six companies representing 95% 
of Canada’s oil sands production, has pledged to reduce their 
GHG emissions to net zero by 2050, which is a great example. 
There’s a real focus on what we need to do collectively to provide 
the energy people need today while addressing the challenges of 
climate change.

Arlene Strom
Chief Sustainability Officer 
and General Counsel

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   7

What do you see as your biggest priority in the years ahead?

One of the Cree words I learned when I visited the Samson Cree 
Nation was Wahkohtowin, which describes the interconnection 
between people and natural systems. Whether it is water, emissions 
or reclamation, we can’t just separate sustainability into numbered 
silos. We must consider the natural system as a whole, which 
includes our reliance on it and our relationship with it. This principle 
should inform how we view sustainability performance.

Water, as an example, is very important to Indigenous communities, 
Canadians and Suncor. This is an area where we have made 
significant progress. Water is more than just a commodity. It 
holds a deep, spiritual meaning for Indigenous Peoples. This is an 
area where we must listen, understand and take action. I want to 
contribute to that process in a meaningful way.

In addition to listening to Indigenous communities, Suncor 
is expanding its partnerships and work with Indigenous 
businesses. Why is that important? 

You’ll see a lot of numbers documented in this report, whether it’s 
how much money we’ve spent with Indigenous-owned businesses 
or the number of agreements we’ve signed with First Nations. Those 
are metrics that tell us how well we are meeting our commitment 
to ensuring Indigenous communities benefit in meaningful ways 
from resource development. We’re proud of our partnerships, 
which include Thebacha, our partnership on the East Tank Farm; the 
Astisiy partnership with eight Indigenous communities, including five 
Métis communities in the Regional Municipality of Wood Buffalo, 
who have a 15% equity interest in the Northern Courier pipeline; 
and the partnership with the James Bay Cree in the PetroNor 
distribution network in northern Quebec. We also have more than 
61 Petro-Canada™ retail and wholesale marketing agreements with 
Indigenous communities across this country.

Setting targets and reporting metrics is important, but we also 
acknowledge this is a continual journey that has no end. Ultimately, 
this work is about people and building relationships, so we want to 
measure progress in a holistic way that includes numerical metrics 
as well as acknowledging the value of meaningful partnerships. 
Building on the oral tradition of Indigenous people, we can also 
draw on storytelling to help us understand the impact of this work. 

We’ll continue to look for more partnerships. I don’t know what or 
where they will be, but I do know we’ll approach these opportunities 
openly without preconceived notions.

What sustainability opportunities do you see now that 
Suncor is the operator for Syncrude?

The integration with Syncrude was a significant milestone for us in 
2021. It’s lifted both organizations. We are continuing to learn from 
each other and that’s going to make us stronger. Syncrude has 
done an amazing job in the sustainability area. Ten per cent of 
Syncrude’s employees are Indigenous, which is tremendous. 
Syncrude also has a proven track record with researching and 
developing new technologies. Both Syncrude and Suncor have a 
deep history of improving operations, which presents a huge 
opportunity to take the best from both worlds and further our 
progress on key issues that matter. It’s an exciting journey and I’m 
glad to be a part of it. I love to come to the office every morning 
because I get to work on these important challenges with a great 
team of people.

Q&A with our Chief Sustainability Officer

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   8

Syncrude integration 

Syncrude overview
On September 30, 2021, Suncor assumed operatorship of 
the Syncrude Joint Venture Project. This key milestone was a 
critical step in Suncor’s journey towards greater efficiencies and 
competitiveness across all our oil sands assets. Operatorship 
enables stronger regional integration and unlocks important 
synergies to drive progress in many key sustainability areas, such as 
greenhouse gas emissions, tailings and water management, land 
reclamation, health and safety, and value for local communities. 

Suncor and Syncrude are the original oil sands pioneers and 
have been at the forefront of the industry’s evolution for more 
than 50 years. The origins of Syncrude began in 1964 with the 
incorporation of Syncrude Canada Ltd. and then the establishment 
of the joint venture in 1965. Operations at the Mildred Lake site 
north of Fort McMurray began in 1978 and cumulative production 
now exceeds three billion barrels. In addition to the operatorship of 
Syncrude, Suncor holds a 58.74% ownership interest.

The Syncrude production process incorporates oil sands surface 
mining, followed by bitumen extraction, and then upgrading that 
bitumen into a high-quality, light, sweet crude oil through fluid 
coking, hydroprocessing, hydrotreating and re-blending. The 
final product, Syncrude Sweet Premium, is sent by pipeline to 
Edmonton-area refineries and to pipeline terminals, where it is 
shipped to refineries in Canada and the United States.

Syncrude has a track record of strong sustainability performance. 
This includes relationships forged through more than 45 years 
of Indigenous engagement within the Regional Municipality of 
Wood Buffalo. The operation has one of the highest Indigenous 
workforce representations in Canada, with more than 10% 
of employees self-identifying as Indigenous. Its cumulative 
procurement with Indigenous-owned businesses totals $5.7 
billion. Syncrude has also been certified eight times at the Gold 
Level of the Progressive Aboriginal Relations program of the 
Canadian Council for Aboriginal Business.

One of the largest operations in Canada’s oil sands, Syncrude has 
demonstrated strong progress in restoring areas disturbed by 
mining activities. So far, more than 5,050 hectares of land have 
been permanently reclaimed, with around 12 million tree and 
shrub seedlings planted. In 2008, Syncrude was the first oil sands 
operator to receive reclamation certification for an area planted in 
the early 1980s.

Syncrude has a long-standing commitment to research and 
development. Syncrude has invested more than $1.5 billion to 
date on research and development and ranks among the top 
investors in innovation in Canada. This expertise has translated 
into meaningful results, including the deployment of more than 

* For additional information on Syncrude data integration, refer to About our report in the Appendix.

$3 billion in technologies during the last decade alone to reduce 
and treat tailings for use in constructing reclamation landscapes.

Syncrude also shares Suncor’s strong focus on safety, reliability 
and operational excellence. As a long-standing participant in 
the Mining Association of Canada’s Towards Sustainable Mining 
program, the organization is regularly assessed on its performance 
related to key environmental and social risks, including such critical 
issues as tailings, climate, and health and safety. We anticipate 
that the integration of Suncor and Syncrude operations will build 
on our collective strength in all areas of sustainability and lead to 
further improvements and benefits for our workforce, facilities, 
communities and stakeholders.

Syncrude has disclosed its sustainability performance in reports 
for more than 30 years. In this report, key indicators from 
Syncrude are highlighted throughout the content. To provide an 
indication of past performance, historical data is included within 
the 2022 sustainability performance data document. As Suncor’s 
operatorship of Syncrude came into effect at the end of the third 
quarter in 2021, Syncrude data is not integrated into Suncor’s 
corporate-wide totals. The only exceptions are GHG and community 
investment data, which is represented as Suncor’s equity share and 
consistent with previous reports, and workforce and diversity data, 
which is fully integrated.*

Integrating Syncrude data into Suncor’s reporting systems and 
processes is a significant undertaking. This work is occurring 
throughout 2022 and Syncrude performance will be fully 
incorporated into Suncor’s data in next year’s report. 

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   9

2021 ESG highlights

Our purpose

To provide trusted 
energy that enhances 
people’s lives, while 
caring for each other 
and the Earth.

Our strategy

To be Canada’s leading energy 
company by growing our business 
in low greenhouse gas (GHG) 
fuels, electricity and hydrogen 
while sustaining and optimizing 
our existing hydrocarbon business 
and transforming our GHG 
footprint; all enabled by our 
expertise, long-life resources, 
integrated business model, strong 
connection to customers, and 
world-class environment, social and 
governance (ESG) performance.

• Grow returns on capital

• Be net zero by 2050

• Optimize our base business

• Expand low-emissions 
businesses

• Grow our customer 
connection

• Achieve world-class  
ESG performance

London

Mining, in situ and upgrading

Offshore operations

Refinery

Wind power project

Cogeneration

Renewable liquid fuels 

Petro-Canada™ electric vehicle 
charging network

Current pipelines

Pipeline under construction

Calgary
Victoria

Halifax

Denver

Toronto

Montreal

St. John’s

Fort McMurray

Edmonton

Vancouver

Our objectives

l 195 million barrels of oil equivalent 
of upstream production

l 343 million litres produced at 
Canada’s largest ethanol facility

l 157 million barrels of oil equivalent 
of refining throughput

l 23 million MWh of electricity from  
low-carbon cogen power generation

l 114,009 MWh of wind energy generated

l 57 Petro-Canada™ stations forming 
Canada’s Electric Highway™ –  
a coast-to-coast electric vehicle (EV)  
fast-charging network 

l 1.5 billion litres of renewable 
fuels blended

l $565 million in technology 
development, deployment and 
digitalization transformation

l ~15% of Canada’s produced 
hydrogen supply

™ Trademark of Suncor Energy Inc.

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   10

2021 ESG highlights

GHG
• 21.6 megatonnes CO2e absolute 

GHG scope 1 and 2 emissions 
(operational basis) 

• 28.5 megatonnes CO2e absolute 
GHG scope 1 and 2 emissions 
(equity basis)

• Pathways Alliance representing 
95% of Canada’s oil sands 
production is formed and sets 
net-zero ambition

• Objective to be a net-zero GHG 
emissions company by 2050

• Interim target of 10 Mt by 2030 
across our value chain

Water
• 33.2 million m3 freshwater 

consumption
• >90% water recycle rate at  

Base Plant, Fort Hills and  
in situ facilities 

Land
• 2,878 cumulative hectares 

reclaimed
• 5,053 cumulative hectares 

reclaimed at Syncrude

Tailings
• 1 surface reclaimed and 2 tailings 

ponds advancing to closure
• 15% reduction in fluid tailings 

inventories at Base Plant  
since 2010

All data and information represented is from 2021 unless otherwise stated. 
* Syncrude data is not integrated into Suncor’s corporate-wide totals. The only exceptions are GHG and community investment data, which is represented as Suncor’s equity 

share, and workforce and diversity data, which is fully integrated.

Supply chain
• 5,268 vendors 
• $9.5 billion spent on goods  

and services
• $1.47 billion spent with 

Indigenous businesses 

Economic
• $2.38 billion distributed to 

shareholders through dividends 
• $1.47 billion in royalties and 

taxes paid
• $3.90 billion spent on  

employee salaries, benefits and 
share-based compensation

• $2.30 billion in share buybacks

Corporate governance 
• 36% female representation on 

the board 
• Indigenous representation on 

the board since 2000 
• Carbon continues to be a 

principal risk with full board 
oversight 

• Climate performance share 
units introduced in 2022 to 
more directly link compensation 
to Suncor’s climate-related goal 
of net-zero emissions

Safety 
• Largest annual maintenance 

program in company history 
• Interventions made to  

strengthen safety performance

Workforce*
• 17,433 Suncor and Syncrude 

employees

Inclusion and diversity*
• 55% increase in Indigenous 

representation
• 22% female representation  

(29% management)
• Improved results in the  

2021 Great Place to Work® 
employee survey

Learning and development
• $19.5 million spent on training  

and development

Community investment
• $36 million in community 

investments
• 79,578 hours volunteered by 

Suncor employees in their  
local communities

Indigenous relations
• 85% employee completion of 

Indigenous web-based training 
• 61 Petro-Canada™ arrangements 

with Indigenous communities
• Astisiy partnership formed with  

8 Indigenous communities

Environment Social Governance

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   11

Transformation

Addressing climate change while providing low-emission sources 
of energy the world needs is a major challenge. It will require 
innovation across all parts of the energy system, from technology 
development and deployment and enabling infrastructure, to 
innovations in information technology, policy frameworks and more. 
All these pathways are required to transform our existing business 
as well as expand our sustainable energy offerings.

One of our strategic objectives is to optimize our base business, 
using technology and innovation to reduce costs and carbon 
emissions. In 2021, we invested approximately $565 million in 
technology development, deployment and digitalization 
transformation. We also invest in energy expansion projects – such 
as cogeneration, hydrogen and renewable fuels – to address 
climate change and provide low-emission sources of energy. We 
plan to allocate approximately 10% of our annual capital budget 
over the medium term (2022-2025) on investments that advance 
our low-carbon energy offerings. 

Strategic partnerships and investments
Suncor monitors global technology development to determine if, 
and when, an investment or partnership makes sense to advance 
and adapt our business. Sometimes we seek out these companies. 
Other times they contact us directly through our technology-
proposal portal. Where appropriate, and if aligned with our 
strategy, we may invest directly in a company or indirectly through 
a cleantech venture capital firm. We may also commit to be the 
first customer when technology ideas align with the needs of our 
operations or businesses. In addition to financial support, there 
are instances when we offer our technical expertise through formal 
roles or secondment positions with partner companies.

This type of technology development is carefully managed to 
ensure it provides economic and environmental benefits to Suncor. 
Our approach to strategic partnerships and collaborations is a key 
strategy in a world of fast-changing products and services.

Enerkem
Enerkem is a waste-to-renewable fuels and chemicals technology 
developer and producer. In addition to direct investments, we have 
seconded employees to Enerkem projects to provide operational 
support and increase operational discipline based on Suncor’s 
extensive experience. In 2020, Enerkem, Suncor and other partners 
announced construction plans for the Varennes Carbon Recycling 
facility in Quebec that will convert non-recyclable residual materials, 
as well as wood waste, into advanced biofuels and renewable 
chemicals. The facility is currently in the engineering development 
and early construction phase.

Evok Innovations 
Launched in 2016 through a partnership between Suncor, Cenovus 
Energy and the BC Cleantech CEO Alliance, Evok’s inaugural 
$100 million fund aimed to accelerate the development of critical 
energy-transition technologies across North America. Through 
the partnership, Evok invests in a global portfolio of innovative 
companies to address the most pressing and environmental 
challenges of the oil and gas industry. An important feature of Evok 
is the access provided to the end customers (Suncor and Cenovus) 
at an early stage in the life of the startup companies. The fund 
has made 16 investments in critical decarbonization technologies 
ranging from clean hydrogen and carbon-to-value to long-duration 
energy storage. Suncor announced a further investment in 2022 
for a second cleantech fund with Evok, focused on industrial 
companies working on decarbonization technologies. Along with 
additional funders, the $376 million fund will target early-stage 
investments across North America in key industrial decarbonization 
verticals, including carbon capture use and storage, low-carbon 
fuels, clean energy and grid innovations, mobility, advanced 
materials and circularity.

LanzaTech
LanzaTech’s carbon-recycling platform uses novel gas fermentation 
technology to convert carbon-rich off-gas or waste into fuels and 
chemicals. Suncor has partnered with LanzaTech for more than 
10 years to support the development of their patented technology 
portfolio for potential deployment within our existing operations as 
well as next-generation biofuel plants.

LanzaJet Inc.
LanzaJet Inc. (LanzaJet) will produce sustainable aviation fuel and 
renewable diesel using ethanol derived from waste streams. Suncor 
is a founding investor of LanzaJet alongside Mitsui & Co. and 
LanzaTech Shell and British Airways (International Airlines Group) 
also invested in LanzaJet in 2021. These investments will help build 
LanzaJet’s commercial biorefinery in Georgia, U.S., and establish 
LanzaJet as a global leader in renewable fuels production for the 
aviation sector.

Digitalization
We’re introducing digital tools, standardizing processes 
and applying advanced analytics to improve our business 
performance. Gathering and analyzing multiple data points 
and applying insights help us to run our operations more 
safely, reliably and profitably while reducing costs and 
environmental impacts.

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance

https://enerkem.com/
https://www.evokinnovations.com/
https://www.lanzatech.com/
https://www.lanzajet.com/


Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   12

Svante Inc.
Suncor invested in Vancouver-based Svante, a carbon-capture 
technology company, in early 2021. With support from Suncor 
and other companies, Svante is accelerating the commercial 
deployment of its technology to capture CO2 from heavy-emitting 
industries, such as cement, steel, and oil and gas production, at a 
lower cost than current methods.

Collaboration and engagement
Achieving leading environmental, social and governance (ESG) 
performance is no small feat and requires deep collaboration 
and investment in innovation and technology. The path forward 
requires significant collaboration between industry, academia 
and governments. Because we all have a role to play in the 
energy transition, Suncor is actively collaborating with different 
organizations to share knowledge and accelerate our industry 
forward. These include:

Canada’s Oil Sands Innovation Alliance
Suncor is a founding member of Canada’s Oil Sands Innovation 
Alliance (COSIA), an alliance of oil sands producers focused 
on accelerating the pace of improvement in environmental 
performance in Canada’s oil sands. By focusing on the 
environmental areas of greenhouse gases (GHG), land, tailings, 
water and monitoring, COSIA brings resources and people 
together to address specific environmental challenges and 
shorten innovation timelines across the oil sands industry. Suncor 
participates in many technology studies and joint industry projects. 
To date, COSIA’s combined efforts have resulted in more than 1,100 
environmental innovations valued at approximately $1.8 billion.

Pathways Alliance 
In 2021, Suncor and five other oil sands producers – Canadian 
Natural, Cenovus Energy, ConocoPhillips, Imperial and MEG 
Energy – launched the Oil Sands Pathways to Net Zero Alliance, 
which operates facilities representing 95% of Canada’s oil  
sands production.

In June 2022, three existing industry groups, including the Oil 
Sands Pathways to Net Zero Alliance, came together into a single 
organization called the Pathways Alliance. The new organization 
incorporates the Oil Sands Pathways to Net Zero Alliance, 
Canada’s Oil Sands Innovation Alliance (COSIA), created in 2012, 
and the Oil Sands Community Alliance (OSCA), created in 2013.

This new organization will enable a super-sizing of industry’s 
collaborative efforts, including the Pathways Alliance’s ambitious 
plan to achieve net zero GHG emissions by 2050, along with 
COSIA’s environmental innovation work focused on reducing 
industry’s impacts to air, water and land while accelerating tailings 
reclamation, and OSCA’s important work with communities near 
oil sands operations related to areas of socioeconomics. This new 
organization builds on 10 years of collaborative success within 
COSIA and adds industry’s significant efforts to reach net-zero. It 
also builds on OSCA’s long-standing commitment of being a 
collaborative partner in the community to help manage 
socioeconomic impacts and benefits.

Clean Resource Innovation Network 
Suncor is a leading member of the Clean Resource Innovation 
Network (CRIN), a pan-Canadian network focused on ensuring 
Canada’s energy resources can be sustainably developed and 
integrated into the global energy supply. The network unites oil and 
gas industry professionals, innovators, investors, startups, policy-
makers, incubators and accelerators, researchers and students 
to advance technologies aimed at improving our economic and 
environmental performance and with the potential for export to 
global markets. This emphasizes the potential impact our country 
can contribute to help address global challenges.

CRIN announced 27 finalists across three technology competitions 
in 2022, totalling $80 million in investments through the 
Government of Canada’s Strategic Innovation Fund. Six of these 
projects are led by Suncor, including a non-aqueous extraction 
project slated to receive $10 million.

Transformation

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance

https://svanteinc.com/
https://www.cosia.ca/
https://www.cosia.ca/
https://pathwaysalliance.ca/
https://cleanresourceinnovation.com/
https://cleanresourceinnovation.com/


Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   13

We believe a resilient environment and vibrant communities are 
foundational to business success. We operate our business in 
a manner that aims to minimize our impact on air, water, land, 
biodiversity and climate.

 > Climate change
 > Air quality
 > Waste management
 > Environmental incidents
 > Water stewardship
 > Tailings management
 > Land and reclamation
 > Biodiversity

Environment

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   14

Climate change

Be a net-zero greenhouse gas emissions company by 2050 
and substantially contribute to society’s net-zero goals
By 2030, reduce annual emissions by 10 megatonnes across our value chain

Reduce greenhouse gas emissions 
through base business improvements

Grow low-emissions energy businesses in 
renewable fuels, electricity and hydrogen

Work with others to reduce emissions

Addressing climate change and providing the secure and reliable energy the world needs 
requires investment, technological advancement, product innovation, regulatory support 
and collaborative partnerships.

In 2021, Suncor and five other oil sands producers, with operating 
facilities that represent 95% of Canada’s oil sands production, 
launched the Oil Sands Pathways to Net Zero Alliance. It’s ambition 
is to achieve net-zero greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from oil 
sands operations by 2050. The path forward is to reduce emissions 
by approximately 10% (of Canada’s 2019 total emissions) through a 
three-phased approach using multiple parallel pathways, including 
electrification, fuel substitution, energy efficiency, carbon capture, 
process improvements and the implementation of emerging 
technologies. This collaboration between the industry and the 
Canadian and Alberta governments is ambitious and 
unprecedented in Canada in size and scale.

We were the first oil and gas company in North America to 
declare support for the Task Force on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures in 2018 and we continue to work to align with its 
recommendations.

For more information and detailed performance data on how we’re 
addressing climate change and our perspective on the energy 
future, please read our 2022 Climate Report. 

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance

https://www.suncor.com/-/media/147BC3DF3E98469895D6C6D3081E13C6.pdf


Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   15

Air quality

We are committed to improving air quality and reducing air emissions near all our operations.

We monitor and manage our emissions toward protecting good air quality for our 
employees, contractors and local communities. Recognizing the importance of local 
airsheds for both people and the environment, we work to minimize emissions and odours 
through operational excellence, project design and technological advances that can 
improve our performance.

Compliance and monitoring
Our operations have controls and procedures to manage emissions. We also test and pilot 
new technologies to improve our understanding of air emissions.

We participate in provincial, state and regional government management framework 
programs to help oversee air quality and industrial emissions. We support air monitoring 
and data collection by independent organizations, such as the Wood Buffalo Environmental 
Association (WBEA). We also aim to provide timely availability of results to the public and 
regulatory agencies in all areas where we operate.

Collaboration 
We regularly engage with communities, stakeholders, governments and other external 
agencies to discuss odour management strategies and best practices. This includes 
collaborative industry efforts such as Canada’s Oil Sands Innovation Alliance (COSIA) 
to support research and test new technologies to monitor fugitive emissions. We also 
developed an enhanced air monitoring program, Commerce City – North Denver (CCND) Air 
Monitoring, in collaboration with existing air monitoring networks in the Commerce City and 
North Denver communities. Montrose Air Quality Services, a third-party team of engineers, 
scientists, analysts and technicians, runs CCND Air Monitoring and provides the community 
with easy-to-access information from sensors reporting in near real time, as well as through 
laboratory analysis and a mobile monitoring van.

Continuous improvement 
We have several initiatives at our sites to reduce releases of air pollutants, including 
investigating new technologies. Examples of technologies and measures that mitigate air 
emissions include:

• low nitrogen oxides (NOX) boilers and heaters 

• vapour recovery units to reduce volatile organic compounds (VOC) and hydrogen sulfide 
emissions 

• sulphur recovery units and scrubbers to reduce sulphur dioxide (SO2) emissions 

• leak detection and repair programs to manage and reduce fugitive emissions from 
equipment on site 

• VOC and total reduced sulphur annual monitoring plans to understand fugitive emissions 
from mining operations 

• selective catalytic reduction technology; to be implemented as part of Suncor’s Oil Sands 
Base Plant Coke Boiler Replacement Project to achieve lower NOX and SO2 emissions

• conversion of mine fleet engines to low NOX Tier 4 engines.

Regional air quality is monitored 
independently by the Wood Buffalo 
Environmental Association (WBEA) and 
the Ambient Air Technical Committee 
(AATC) subcommittee. Headquartered 
in Fort McMurray, Alberta, this multi-
stakeholder association operates the 
most integrated and intensive focus 
on air and terrestrial monitoring in 
any one area in Canada, with 17 air 
monitoring stations and 23 passive 
monitoring stations. WBEA is a working 
partner with the Environmental 
Monitoring and Science Division of 
Alberta Environment and Parks, which 
oversees the Oil Sands Monitoring 
(OSM) Program.

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   16

Air quality

Air quality performance 
Our key focus areas for air emissions monitoring and reductions include SO2, NOX and VOCs. 
We adopt the best available technology and processes to reduce emissions, with a focus 
on high utilization rates and operational excellence, and seek opportunities for continuous 
improvement. We also work closely with local communities and stakeholders to explore 
opportunities to improve air quality in the regions where we operate.

Sulphur dioxide
SO2 emissions originate from units in our upgrading and refining facilities. Other sources 
of SO2 include flaring and diverter stacks, which are used only during unit or plant upsets. 
Absolute SO2 emissions and intensity both decreased by approximately 8% in 2021 as a 
result of increased flue-gas desulfurization utilization rates at Base Plant when compared to 
2020. The increase in SO2 emissions from our in situ sites and refineries was offset by Base 
Plant, resulting in an overall Suncor-wide reduction of SO2 emissions. 

Over the last five years, our SO2 intensity has trended relatively consistent even with the 
startup of Fort Hills in 2018. Additionally, over the last number of years, Syncrude has 
demonstrated emissions reductions due to increased focus on technology and process 
improvements totalling $1.6 billion.

Nitrogen oxides
Sources of NOX emissions are the main and secondary stacks in our upgrader and mining 
equipment. Suncor operations resulted in relatively consistent absolute NOX emissions 
and NOX emissions intensity in 2021. While NOX emissions intensity remained flat at the 
Base Plant, in situ sites and refineries, NOX emissions intensity at Fort Hills increased due to 
reduced production rates from single-train operations in 2021. At Syncrude, absolute NOX 
emissions in 2021 also remained relatively consistent. 

From 2017 to 2019, NOX emissions intensity increased due to Base Plant operations. 
The emissions intensity then stabilized from 2019 to 2021. We expect a reduction in NOX 
emissions once the Base Plant Coke Boiler Replacement Project is fully operational and 
through the continued conversion of mine fleet engines with Tier 4 low NOX engines. 

Volatile organic compounds 
Sources of VOCs from our sites can include vehicles, operating units and industrial facilities, 
tailings facilities and mine faces. Annual surveys are conducted to track and measure 
emissions, and leaks identified in operating units are repaired in a timely manner. Volumes 
and intensities fluctuate annually and over longer periods of time based on variable 
meteorological conditions, ore composition and natural microbial activity in tailings facilities. 
Modelling methods are also continually being enhanced in order to improve data accuracy.

In 2021, Suncor’s VOC absolute emissions were 25% higher and VOC emissions intensity 
was 20% higher when compared to 2020, due to increased movement of tailings material 
between storage facilities at Base Plant. Syncrude’s VOC absolute emissions and emissions 
intensity were 17% and 19% higher respectively, primarily resulting from additional storage 
tank monitoring and mine face conditions.

SO2 emissions intensity 
(kg/BOE)

2017 2018 2019 2020 2021

Suncor total 0.07 0.06 0.06 0.07 0.07

Oil Sands Base Plant 0.11 0.13 0.11 0.14 0.11

Oil Sands Fort Hills -0 0.00 0.001 0.002 0.001

Oil Sands In Situ 0.00 0.00 0.01 0.01 0.01

E&P Terra Nova 0.001 0.001 0.001 0 -0

Refining and Logistics 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.04

Syncrude 0.31 0.34 0.25 0.21 0.24

NOx emissions intensity 
(kg/BOE)

2017 2018 2019 2020 2021

Suncor total 0.09 0.10 0.11 0.11 0.11

Oil Sands Base Plant 0.16 0.19 0.21 0.20 0.20

Oil Sands Fort Hills 0 0.09 0.08 0.08 0.11

Oil Sands In Situ 0.03 0.03 0.04 0.05 0.04

E&P Terra Nova 0.20 0.19 0.21 0 0

Refining and Logistics 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02

Syncrude 0.27 0.27 0.23 0.26 0.24

VOC emissions intensity 
(kg/BOE)

2017 2018 2019 2020 2021

Suncor total 0.08 0.08 0.06 0.08 0.10

Oil Sands Base Plant 0.14 0.17 0.13 0.14 0.20

Oil Sands Fort Hills 0 0.02 0.02 0.04 0.07

Oil Sands In Situ 0.004 0.004 0.004 0.004  0.004 

E&P Terra Nova 0.13 0.17 0.03 0 0

Refining and Logistics 0.02 0.03 0.02 0.03 0.03

Syncrude 0.13 0.13 0.06 0.09 0.11

Syncrude performance will be incorporated into Suncor 
corporate totals in the next reporting cycle. Refer to the  
2022 sustainability performance data document for Syncrude 
performance on a separate asset basis. For additional 
information about this chart and its data, please refer to 
performance data footnote #7. 

 0.08 0.08 0.06 0.08 0.10
 0.14 0.17 0.13 0.14 0.20
 – 0.02 0.02 0.04 0.07
 0.004 0.004 0.004 0.004  0.004
 0.13 0.17 0.03 – –
 0.02 0.03 0.02 0.03 0.03
 0.13 0.13 0.06 0.09 0.11

  Suncor total
  Oil Sands Base Plant
  Oil Sands Fort Hills
  Oil Sands In Situ
  E&P Terra Nova
  Refining and Logistics
 Syncrude

2017 18 19 21VOC emissions 
intensity
kg/BOE

2017 18 19 21

 0.09 0.10 0.11 0.11 0.11
 0.16 0.19 0.21 0.20 0.20
 – 0.09 0.08 0.08 0.11
 0.03 0.03 0.04 0.05 0.04
 0.20 0.19 0.21 – –
 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02
 0.27 0.27 0.23 0.26 0.24

  Suncor total
  Oil Sands Base Plant
  Oil Sands Fort Hills
  Oil Sands In Situ
  E&P Terra Nova
  Refining and Logistics
 Syncrude

NOX emissions 
intensity
kg/BOE

 0.07 0.06 0.06 0.07 0.07
 0.11 0.13 0.11 0.14 0.11
 – 0.000 0.001 0.002 0.001
 0.00 0.00 0.01 0.01 0.01
 0.001 0.001 0.001 – –
 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.04
 0.31 0.34 0.25 0.21 0.24

2017 18 19 21

  Suncor total 
  Oil Sands Base Plant
  Oil Sands Fort Hills
  Oil Sands In Situ
  E&P Terra Nova
  Refining and Logistics
 Syncrude

SO2 emissions 
intensity
kg/BOE

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Waste mitigation hierarchy

Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   17

Waste management

We closely manage all kinds of waste – whether generated at our operational sites or offices – to 
ensure they are properly handled and disposed of. This protects the environment and our people.

We apply a mitigation hierarchy and work with contractors, suppliers and waste receivers 
to improve waste management practices at our job sites. We also collaborate with industry 
peers to identify and act on shared waste management opportunities. In addition to 
complying with all regulatory waste material production, control and disposal requirements, 
we see waste recycling, reuse and recovery as an opportunity to generate economic, social 
and environmental benefits. 

Resource circularity
One of the ways we are working to reduce waste is by exploring opportunities to integrate 
the concept of a circular economy in our operations and across our value chain. Through this 
lens, we are examining how commodities flow through our own business, treating waste as 
design flaws that should be eliminated, and looking for efficiencies to reduce raw material 
consumption and improve environmental performance. Also, by reducing our environmental 
impacts through strategies such as growing our low-emissions energy portfolio and reducing 
greenhouse gas emissions in our base business, Suncor can play a valuable role in providing 
the additional energy needs associated with material circularity.

Waste performance
Our activities involve handling large volumes of different types of waste; construction materials 
and contaminated water constitute the largest volumes. Waste volumes, hazardous and 
non-hazardous, depend upon on-site activities, including periodic equipment maintenance, 
and may fluctuate annually. As we have assumed the operatorship of additional facilities, we 
have seen increased waste generation volumes. In 2021, some of our facilities experienced 
shutdowns and turnarounds, which increased waste generation in 2021 by 3% compared 
to 2020. We were, however, able to send 95,000 tonnes of waste off-site for recycling, reuse 
and recovery due to waste improvement projects throughout our operations in 2021. 

Most preferred

Least preferred

Avoid
by not 

generating 
waste

Reduce
waste generation by 
better management 

and material 
substitution

Reuse
in its original 

form

Recycle
or reprocess waste 

to incorporate it 
into a new product 

or new use

Recover
by extracting 

materials or energy 
from waste

Treat
by mitigating 

inherent hazard 
of the waste

Dispose
only if all other 

mitigation pathways 
were considered

Waste generated 
(thousand tonnes)

2017 2018 2019 2020 2021

Suncor total 2,123 2,486 2,420 2,682 2,764

Non-hazardous 1,124 1,503 1,371 1,676 1,745

Hazardous 999 983 1,049 1,006 1,019

Wastr recycled, reused 
or recovered (thousand 
tonnes)

2017 2018 2019 2020 2021

Suncor 71 96 152 82 95

Syncrude performance will be incorporated into Suncor 
corporate totals in the next reporting cycle. Refer to the  
2022 sustainability performance data document for Syncrude 
performance on a separate asset basis. For additional 
information about this chart and its data, please refer to 
performance data footnote #9.

2017 18 19 21Waste 
generated
thousand tonnes

 2,123 2,486 2,420 2,682 2,764
 1,124 1,503 1,371 1,676 1,745
 999 983 1,049 1,006 1,019

■ Suncor total 
 Non-hazardous 
 Hazardous 

2017 18 19 21Waste recycled,
reused or
recovered
thousand tonnes

 71 96 152 82 95  Suncor total

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   18

Environmental incidents

We are committed to operating our facilities safely and reliably. 
Suncor’s Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS) 
applies a systematic approach to manage our environment, health 
and safety commitments. It provides the framework for setting 
goals and targets, assessing compliance and driving continual 
improvement in performance.

Incident prevention 
We work to prevent incidents from occurring by implementing the 
following controls:

• asset reliability and integrity monitoring, preventive maintenance, 
and equipment inspection programs 

• monitoring equipment to automatically detect incidents to 
proactively manage events and releases 

• infrastructure, such as secondary containment, to mitigate spills 
from affecting sensitive environmental receptors 

• regular review of incident prevention processes and procedures

• equipment and technology designed for our different operating 
environments

• ongoing emergency management and environmental incident 
training.

These elements, combined with planning and risk assessments, 
help us to reduce the probability of an incident occurring. 

Environment emergency response
In addition to implementing systems to inspect and audit our 
facilities, Suncor has emergency response plans for all our locations. 
We conduct regular tabletop and emergency response training 
exercises, including on-water training exercises, as part of our 
emergency preparedness plans. We invite regulatory agencies and 
oil-spill response organizations to participate in these exercises. 

To complement our own response capability, we work with several 
spill-response organizations and other operators on an ongoing 
basis to build competency through shared knowledge, experience 
and resources.

Should an incident take place, we minimize the risk to the 
environment and human health by immediately implementing 
mitigating and remedial actions. We record and investigate 
incidents to determine the root cause, improve the internal critical 
controls and minimize the chance of recurrence.

In 2021, 579 emergency exercises and drills were completed 
across the entire organization.

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   19

Environmental incidents

Incident management and performance
Our spills and environmental incident reporting adheres to industry standards and 
regulatory requirements. We share best practices and knowledge across the organization 
to increase awareness, improve alignment with internal tools and processes, and mitigate 
the risks of future incidents. We are also upgrading our internal data management tools to 
enhance incident analysis.

There were 53 environmental incidents and non-compliance events at Suncor sites in 2021. 
We are managing the causes of these incidents and their environmental impact, as well as 
the impact on local communities and on our business. Incidents are promptly investigated 
and action plans are developed and implemented to ensure we apply and share learnings 
widely and work to mitigate or prevent future occurrences. This may include everything 
from implementing new technology to revising processes and updating maintenance or 
operating procedures.

We continue to focus on asset reliability, improving internal critical controls, monitoring with 
an aim to decrease spills, and when required, timely remediation. Across all Suncor sites, 
there were no spills deemed significant* in 2021; however, there were six hydrocarbon spills 
where more than one barrel reached the environment.

As part of Suncor Energy (U.S.A.) Inc.’s 
2020 settlement agreement with the 
Colorado Department of Public Health 
and Environment (CDPHE), we engaged 
Kearney – an independent, third-party 
expert – to investigate the root cause 
of our past emissions exceedances 
and identify refinery improvement 
opportunities. Based on these findings 
and recommendations, we developed an 
Improvement Plan that highlights what 
we have done so far and what we plan to 
do. It has two parts: 1) an Implementation 
Plan for actions required by the 
settlement agreement with CDPHE; and 
2) Voluntary Measures that are additional 
actions we are taking in response to 
Kearney’s other recommendations.

By upgrading the automatic shutdown 
systems for our gasoline production 
units, the Commerce City Refinery has 
completed the required elements from 
the 2021 Improvement Plan, enhancing 
safety for the surrounding community. 
The improved Fluidized Catalytic Cracking 
unit (FCC) automatic shutdown systems 
demonstrate the many steps we are taking 
to ensure safe and reliable operations at 
the Commerce City Refinery.

In addition to the required elements 
of the plan, we continue to honour our 
voluntary commitments by enhancing 
safety, reliability, training and culture at 
the refinery. Regular updates on this work 
can be found at suncor.com/ccr-report.

2021 environmental incidents and non-compliance

Environmental incidents and non-compliance 53

Significant spills 0

Reportable spills >1 bbl that reach the environment 6 

Syncrude performance will be incorporated into Suncor corporate totals in the next reporting cycle. Refer to the 
2022 sustainability performance data document for Syncrude performance on a separate asset basis. For additional 
information about this chart and its data, please refer to performance data footnote #11.

* Significant spills reflect unplanned or accidental release of material whose impact is either off property and takes longer than seven months to 
remediate, or is on property and takes one year or more to remediate or reclaim.

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance

https://can01.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.suncor.com%2Fen-ca%2Fwhat-we-do%2Frefining%2Fcommerce-city-refinery%2Four-improvement-plan&data=04%7C01%7Claking%40suncor.com%7C0c4e4e3d3de44a95c60608da1da29684%7C1aa5106811a64bd286461fff31a30ffc%7C1%7C0%7C637854881382340902%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000&sdata=AgrzKRd0N%2Bvz5bkcqONmjYDOy2i2QjVtJtac27%2BxaQ4%3D&reserved=0
https://can01.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.suncor.com%2Fen-ca%2Fccr-report&data=04%7C01%7Claking%40suncor.com%7C0c4e4e3d3de44a95c60608da1da29684%7C1aa5106811a64bd286461fff31a30ffc%7C1%7C0%7C637854881382340902%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000&sdata=W%2BBwpXMmFyZz0mAKDOS%2BPlfSeP8vdIQhTPury7gbrtw%3D&reserved=0


Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   20

Water stewardship

We believe water is a shared and precious resource that must be managed wisely. 

Reduce-reuse-release
For our oil sands operations in the Regional Municipality of Wood 
Buffalo (RMWB), a holistic approach to water management is 
necessary for the sustainable development of oil sands mines 
and our continued commitments to closure and reclamation. This 
approach would allow our mining operations the opportunity 
to optimize water management and focus efforts on water use 
reduction, and the recycle, reuse, removal and release of treated 
mine water. 

The ability to safely release water to the watershed is a critical 
component of an integrated water management approach. Water 
release is required to manage on-site water quantity and quality 
for all our operations. Storing mine water, which currently includes 
precipitation and runoff that comes into contact with our mining 
area on our sites, is not a sustainable long-term practice.

We are working with government, local communities and 
stakeholders to develop a policy and regulatory framework 
to safely release treated mine water from our oil sands sites. 
Integrated water management across the RMWB is key for oil 
sands water management and we are taking a collaborative 
approach to this work.

Responsible energy development means satisfying industry’s 
water requirements while maintaining a healthy ecosystem and 
functioning water cycle for current and future generations. We 
strive to always raise the bar on company-wide water performance 
and water management practices.

As water is an essential part of our operations, it’s important we 
find innovative ways to manage water effectively and efficiently 
across our business. This includes minimizing the withdrawal 
of fresh water from the watersheds where we operate; reusing, 
recycling and identifying opportunities to safely release water 
where possible; and safely storing water on our sites. The following 
principles guide our water management approach:

• Shared value of water

• Watershed management

• Reduce-reuse-release

• Integrated options analysis

Responsible water use is critical to the company, to neighbouring 
communities and to our stakeholders. It’s also crucial to achieving 
progressive reclamation and mine closure commitments.

Our internal issues management processes identify and help manage 
ecosystem, habitat and water-related risks and opportunities, including 
new or changing polices and regulations related to water.

Oil production
(mining and in situ)

Water sources
River water

Precipitation
Recycled wastewater

Groundwater

Most of our water needs are 
met by the reuse and recycling 
of water within our operations.

Heating Cooling RefiningPotable useCleaning

Treated water that meets regulatory 
criteria and approval is released to 
the environment via rivers, 
watersheds and disposal wells.

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   21

Technology and innovation
When it comes to advancing water-related technology, we continue to invest in research 
and technology development to increase efficiency (reduce and recycle) and optimize 
wastewater treatment. For example, we continue to reduce fluid tailings inventories at Base 
Plant through our holistic tailings management approach and permanent aquatic storage 
structure (PASS) treatment processes.

Pit lake technology mimics natural water bodies and is one of several solutions we are 
developing for water treatment. Choosing a technology for each site depends on the 
quality of water requiring treatment. Water quality differs based on factors such as the age 
of the mine and the type of ore and/or extraction process deployed. Our treatment focus 
is determined by the best available technology application and optimization of existing 
treatment options for our various sites and water types.

As we advance water treatment technologies, we’re sharing best practices and lessons 
learned with our industry peers through Canada’s Oil Sands Innovation Alliance (COSIA).

Monitoring
Environmental monitoring is critical, especially in measuring our effectiveness in water 
management. Our approvals require us to monitor our sites and assess ecosystem impacts 
in the watersheds where we operate. In addition to all of our site-specific monitoring, we 
also participate in the Oil Sands Monitoring (OSM) Program along with our oil sands peers, 
Indigenous communities and government stakeholders to conduct regional monitoring in 
the oil sands region of Alberta. The OSM Program began in 2012 and the oil sands industry 
provides $50 million annually to support the program’s activities. It is one of the largest 
regional environmental monitoring programs in North America and specifically focuses on 
tracking potential environmental impacts from oil sands facilities. The OSM Program also 
assesses potential cumulative environmental effects from oil sands development to help 
inform future monitoring, mitigation and management decisions.

Water performance
Mining
At our oil sands mines, our water management practices focus on minimizing Athabasca 
River water diversion, maximizing the recycling of process-affected water and minimizing 
the on-site storage of water. We continue to operate well below our annual water licences, 
withdrawing less water than we’re regulated to withdraw.

An operating site’s water performance is largely impacted by a facility’s design and 
configuration. Water performance at our mining sites in 2021 was mainly influenced by 
decreased annual precipitation rates in the Wood Buffalo region and increased water 
requirements for plant operations. In 2021, Base Plant freshwater consumption increased 
to 13.91 million cubic metres (Mm3). Freshwater consumption intensity increased by 9% to 
0.12 m3/BOE production at Base Plant. Fort Hills had relatively consistent absolute freshwater 
consumption year over year. Freshwater consumption intensity increased by 15% to  
0.31 m3/BOE production at Fort Hills due to decreased production, resulting from its single-
train operation in 2021. We will continue to explore opportunities to reduce water use.

Coke water treatment process
Syncrude has been successfully 
developing a tailings water treatment 
using petroleum coke, a byproduct of 
its upgrading process. The treatment is 
similar to using a home water filter. The 
coke, which is almost pure carbon, acts 
as a filter to remove constituents in the 
water, such as naphthenic acids. Field 
programs show the treated water will 
support aquatic life and can be released 
in a manner to ensure protection of 
downstream uses.

93% water recycle rates at Suncor’s 
Base Plant and Fort Hills mining 
operations.

Water stewardship

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   22

At Syncrude, 2021 freshwater consumption totalled 36.85 Mm3 with an intensity of  
0.36 m3/BOE. Syncrude uses a monthly score card to track water use in order to identify 
opportunities for reducing withdrawal of freshwater from the Athabasca River. In 2021, 
conservation projects reduced withdrawal requirements by approximately 3.15 Mm3. 
Approximately 85% of the water used in Syncrude’s plant operations was recycled from 
tailings facilities.

In Situ
The average water recycling rate at the Firebag and MacKay River in situ sites was approximately 
99% due to operational efficiencies and site water optimization. Water at these sites is drawn 
from recycled wastewater from our oil sands upgrading and utilities operations, surface 
runoff water collected within the facility boundaries and from groundwater wells. In 2021, 
both Firebag and MacKay River increased freshwater withdrawal and consumption due to site 
ramp-up requirements and various site activities. The total in situ freshwater consumption 
intensity of 0.02 m3/BOE in 2021 remained consistent with historic five-year performance. The 
amount of water released increased significantly, compared to 2020, to 3.03 Mm3 at Firebag 
due to operational requirements and the capacity at the site to receive water. Water release 
decreased at MacKay River due to more water being recycled or reused and because water 
was needed to restart the site after an unexpected operational incident in December 2019. 

Refining and Logistics
Our refineries use fresh water for heating and cooling. All refineries have unique 
requirements and considerations based on the watersheds in which they operate. In 
2021, relatively consistent downstream production, impacts from the pandemic and facility 
turnarounds led to similar freshwater absolute consumption and intensity values as 2020. We 
continue to explore and implement local initiatives that will result in more efficient water use, 
with less fresh water drawn from local water sources.

Freshwater consumption 
(million m3)

2017 2018 2019 2020 2021

Suncor total 22.40 46.52 51.60 31.04 33.24

Oil Sands Base Plant 15.18 14.94 13.43 12.46 13.91

Oil Sands Fort Hills 0 25.28 31.38 10.92 11.13

Oil Sands In Situ 1.17 1.05 1.25 0.85 1.74

Refining and Logistics 5.10 4.35 4.62 6.01 5.61

Renewable fuels and 
power

0.95 0.90 0.92 0.80 0.86

Syncrude 41.54 40.45 44.08 39.86 36.85

Freshwater consumption 
intensity (m3/BOE)

2017 2018 2019 2020 2021

Suncor total 0.07 0.14 0.15 0.10 0.11

Oil Sands Base Plant 0.13 0.14 0.11 0.11 0.12

Oil Sands Fort Hills 0 0.53 0.52 0.27 0.31

Oil Sands In Situ 0.02 0.01 0.02 0.01 0.02

Refining and Logistics 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.04

Renewable fuels and 
power

0.60 0.58 0.60 0.62 0.65

Syncrude 0.46 0.44 0.41 0.39 0.36

Syncrude performance will be incorporated into Suncor 
corporate totals in the next reporting cycle. Refer to the  
2022 sustainability performance data document for Syncrude 
performance on a separate asset basis. For additional 
information about this chart and its data, please refer to 
performance data footnote #8.

In 2021, both Suncor and Syncrude 
began reporting in accordance with 
the Mining Association of Canada’s 
Towards Sustainable Mining (MAC 
TSM) Water Stewardship protocol. 
This protocol is comprised of four 
focus indicators, which drive our 
performance: water governance, 
operational water management, 
watershed-scale planning and water 
reporting and performance indicators. 
All our mining operations achieved 
a AAA score for the watershed-scale 
planning indicator and an A score for 
the other three indicators in 2021.

Water stewardship

None of our assets operate in areas where there is high risk of water stress. However, 
Suncor’s Commerce City refinery in Colorado operates in a region that is classified as 
moderate risk, where water supply curtailment would require bringing in water by pipeline 
or truck. We continue to monitor the status of the basin while focusing on implementing 
industry-leading innovation at our facilities to reduce, reuse and release water.

We are always looking for ways to limit the amount of water we use, including the amount 
of freshwater directly withdrawn from local water sources. One way we manage water at our 
refineries is by upgrading and maintaining the existing wastewater treatment facilities. 

Exploration and Production
In our East Coast Canada operations, water is either produced offshore through desalination, 
or is transferred via vessel from St. John’s, Newfoundland. The Terra Nova floating 
production, storage and offloading vessel has been shut in since the end of 2019. In 2021, 
we restructured the Terra Nova project ownership and moved forward with the Asset Life 
Extension Project. We anticipate a safe return to operations before the end of 2022.

In 2021, approximately 39% of the total water used at the Edmonton Refinery was 
from recycled wastewater supplied from the Gold Bar Wastewater Treatment Plant 
in Edmonton.

2017 18 19 21Freshwater 
consumption
million m3

 22.40 46.52 51.60 31.04 33.24
 15.18 14.94 13.43 12.46 13.91
 – 25.28 31.38 10.92 11.13
 1.17 1.05 1.25 0.85 1.74
 5.10 4.35 4.62 6.01 5.61
 0.95 0.90 0.92 0.80 0.86

 41.54 40.45 44.08 39.86 36.85

 ■ Suncor total
  Oil Sands Base Plant
  Oil Sands Fort Hills
  Oil Sands In Situ
  Refining and Logistics
  Renewable Fuels 
  and Power
 Syncrude

2017 18 19 21Freshwater 
consumption
intensity
m3/BOE

 0.07 0.14 0.15 0.10 0.11
 0.13 0.14 0.11 0.11 0.12
 – 0.53 0.52 0.27 0.31
 0.02 0.01 0.02 0.01 0.02
 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.04
 0.60 0.58 0.60 0.62 0.65

 0.46 0.44 0.41 0.39 0.36

  Suncor total
  Oil Sands Base Plant
  Oil Sands Fort Hills
  Oil Sands In Situ
  Refining and Logistics
  Renewable Fuels 
  and Power
 Syncrude

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   23

Tailings management

Tailings reclamation requires continuous learning, collaboration and innovation.
We are committed to using world-leading practices to manage 
and reduce tailings at our oil sands mine sites. We currently treat 
more fluid tailings than we produce at Base Plant through our 
holistic tailings management approach and permanent aquatic 
storage structure (PASS) treatment process. We are also working 
to close several tailings facilities and increase treatment capacity at 
Syncrude and Fort Hills over the next few years. Our work to treat 
and dewater fluid tailings supports our reclamation and closure 
plans in the areas where we operate.

Our tailings technology improvements focus on fluid tailings 
treatment. Although sand separates quickly from the tailings to 
form coarse tailings deposits, smaller particles of clay and silt 
remain suspended in water and form fluid tailings, which could take 
decades to separate without being treated.

Fluid tailings – which make up less than 10% of tailings – are treated. 
Treatment can involve separating the suspended clay and silt 
(tailings) from the water. Tailings are removed, treated and/or left to 

settle and then capped with water. Treated tailings may be used 
for future reclamation as material for closure landscapes. Treating 
fluid tailings quickly and cost effectively, and safely releasing 
water from our sites, are critical steps in improving our overall 
reclamation performance.

Over 90% of tailings form coarse tailings deposits. We use the 
coarse tailings to backfill the mine and build structures. These 
tailings require no treatment before reclamation. Operational 
management systems are in place at Suncor and Syncrude to 
oversee and ensure the integrity of tailings dam structures.  
These systems emphasize:

• corporate accountability for tailings 

• effective operations integrity and governance

• robust dam safety management.

Integration of the Syncrude asset will enable more effective sharing 
of best practices across our mining and tailings operations.

Tailings management Treating and reclaiming tailings

Pit lakes

In situ facilities

Tailings pond

Water recycled and reused to our operations

Mining and upgrading facilities

(Steam assisted gravity drainage)

Coke capping and coarse tailings 
materials are used to construct terrestrial 
landscapes for reclamation and closure

Pit lakes and connected streams 
integrate the reclaimed areas to 
the surrounding environment. 
Base Mine Lake is a commercial 
Pit Lake demonstration with water 
capped tailings

Permanent Aquatic Storage Structure 
(PASS) rapidly dewaters fluid tailings 
and is an effective technology for 
creating a lake environment and 
accelerating reclamation. Lake Miwasin 
is an ongoing Pit Lake demonstration 
with PASS treated tailings

Tailings Reduction Operations (TRO) and 
Composite Tailings (CT) process result in solid 
materials that are used for reclamation while water 
left over is recycled. The Sandhill Fen watershed is 
being established on top of CT

Centrifuge technology spins fluid tailings in 
large vessels while flocculated fluid fine tailings 
(fFFT) uses low-energy mixing. Resulting clay 
materials are used in reclamation, while water 
recovered is recycled

Coarse tailings are comprised of the 
sand that remains after the bitumen 
has been removed. This is used to 
backfill mines, reclaim terrain and 
build natural landscapes

Wapisiw Lookout was the first tailings 
pond to be reclaimed to a trafficable 
surface in 2010

Coke capping

Mine

TRO™ and CT

Centrifuge and fFFT

Coarse tailings

Wapisiw Lookout

PASS

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   24

Regulatory requirements
Alberta Environment and Parks developed the Tailings Management 
Framework (TMF) within the Lower Athabasca Regional Plan to 
provide direction to manage fluid tailings volumes during and after 
mine operation. The Alberta Energy Regulator also implemented 
Directive 085: Fluid Tailings Management for Oil Sands Mining 
Projects, as a key part of TMF implementation, to minimize fluid 
tailings inventories through treatment and progressive reclamation 
during the life of a project. 

Our tailings management plans are aligned with the TMF and 
Directive 085. These plans incorporate what we’ve learned through 
implementing various treatment technologies and through sharing 
information and best practices with members of Canada’s Oil Sands 
Innovation Alliance (COSIA).

Dam safety and integrity
We take tailings dam safety seriously. Robust safety programs are 
in place to protect the integrity of tailings dam structures through 
extensive checks and balances for design, construction and 
monitoring. This includes a series of internal and external reviews.

We follow stringent requirements governing tailings and dam safety 
in Canada. Alberta regulators released the new Dam and Canal 
Safety Directive in 2018 with requirements for industry-leading 
practices for dam safety management. Our dam safety programs 
are world-class and consistent with the updated requirements in 
the Directive. The Directive requires operators to test dam breach 
emergency preparedness with external stakeholders. Industry is 
conducting regional tests with the Regional Municipality of Wood 
Buffalo’s Regional Emergency Operations Centre. Base Plant will 
conduct a regional test with external stakeholders in 2022, followed 
by Syncrude’s Mildred Lake operations in 2023.

Our tailings management and dam safety practices improve with the 
ongoing development of geotechnical engineering practices and 
industry-leading tailings and dam safety guidelines and regulations. 
We employ specialized and experienced engineers – referred to as 
geotechnical engineers of record – for each tailings facility and/or 
dam structure. These individuals are qualified to lead the design 
work of each area. They work in collaboration with internationally 
experienced design consultants, referred to as geotechnical 
designers of record. Independent external boards also review and 
critique the ongoing design, construction and operation of our 
tailings facilities several times a year. In 2021, our commitment in this 
area was recognized with the Canadian Dam Association Corporate 
Award, acknowledging our contributions to the industry, advancing 
state of practice, and innovation and leadership.

Engagement
Regularly engaging and working with Indigenous communities 
and stakeholders to review our approach and share progress 
and challenges is important to us. We also incorporate feedback 
into future engagement plans to improve information sharing. 
Annual engagement sessions are hosted and provide communities 
the opportunity to offer feedback on our approach to tailings 
management.

Technology
Finding ways to manage tailings is critical to reclamation planning 
and performance. What works for one operating area may not work 
for another due to site-specific conditions. A suite of technologies 
to manage tailings inventories has been implemented and more 
are being developed. At Base Plant, implementation of Tailings 
Reduction Operations (TRO™) in 2010 and the PASS fluid tailings 
treatment process has reduced fluid tailings volumes. Syncrude has 
made progress through technologies such as centrifuging and 
composite tailings as well as a commercial-scale pit lake 
demonstration.

We share our research and development findings with other 
operators through organizations such as COSIA to continuously 
improve tailings management.

Suncor and Syncrude have been externally verified as meeting 
the top level AAA and AA requirements respectively in the 
Mining Association of Canada’s Towards Sustainable Mining 
(MAC TSM) Tailings Management Protocol. Through our 
membership in the MAC TSM, we continue to monitor our 
alignment with the expectations outlined in the Global Industry 
Standard on Tailings Management.

Composite tailings
This technology combines fluid tailings with sand and gypsum. 
When placed in formerly mined areas, the tailings quickly settle 
and free up water. The area is then capped with sand and soil, 
supporting the development of landscapes for forests, wetlands 
and lakes. At Syncrude, the Sandhill Fen watershed is one 
example of a reclamation outcome using this process.

Tailings management

™ Trademark of Suncor Energy Inc.

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   25

Base Mine Lake
A global mining industry best practice is to transform former mine pits into lakes. 
Syncrude’s Base Mine Lake is the first commercial-scale demonstration pit lake that 
uses water-capped tailings technology. The technology includes filling the mine pit with 
fluid tailings, and then capping it with water to form a lake. An adaptive management 
approach is used to steward the lake towards the desired outcomes and is currently 
focused on removing residual bitumen mats on the tailings surface. Monitoring and 
research to date indicates that tailings are physically isolated beneath the water cap, and 
that the water quality in the cap is improving. A variety of biological communities are also 
developing, including algae, aquatic plants, zooplankton and macroinvertebrates. Through 
COSIA, learnings from this project are being shared with other mining operators.

Tailings performance
As our mining operations have expanded, the volume of fluid tailings has increased. 
We continue to manage and treat tailings. From 2010 to 2021, Suncor’s Base Plant and 
Syncrude operations treated approximately 247 million cubic metres of fluid tailings. Fluid 
tailings treatment in 2020 and 2021 was affected by pandemic restrictions, including the 
shutdown of one area earlier than planned. We continue to implement new technologies 
to increase treatment capacity in support of accelerated reclamation. We anticipate that 
integrating our mining operations will lead to further opportunities to share best practices 
for reducing fluid tailings volumes. 

We are leveraging learnings from Base Plant and Syncrude operations at Fort Hills. Although 
total volumes are increasing while the treatment area is opened in the first mining location, 
we expect to have a smaller fluid tailings inventory.

Since 2010, Base Plant has reduced overall 
tailings inventories by approximately 15%. 
Fluid tailings inventories peaked in 2010, 
and with total inventories shrinking, the 
Base Plant site is ahead of regulatory 
requirements.

Total fluid tailings volumes 
(million m3)

2017 2018 2019 2020 2021

Base Plant 300 273 263 273 268

Fort Hills 0 6 17 30 36

Syncrude 639 648 663 692 696

Annual treated tailings 
volumes (million m3)

2017 2018 2019 2020 2021

Base Plant 39 28 34 25 21

Fort Hills 0 0 0 0 0

Syncrude 9 9 16 7 6

For additional information about this chart and its data, please 
refer to performance data footnote #10.

Tailings management

All assets must manage annual precipitation that leads to increased water in storage 
facilities. Without effluent regulations that allow for the safe release of treated water, any 
additional water being added to existing inventory continues to require management. 
Despite the increase in stored water, we continue to focus on progressive reclamation and 
move toward mine closure by advancing more tailings facilities to closure in a safe and 
environmentally responsible way. As of 2021, we have one facility that has been surface 
reclaimed and five more advancing towards closure. One of those facilities is being drained 
and we anticipate it being removed from the landscape this decade. 

For additional information about this chart and its data, please refer to performance data footnote #10.

2010 2021

Base Plant Fort Hills Syncrude Base Plant Fort Hills Syncrude

Active 7 0 7 6 1 8

Inactive 1 0 0 3 0 0

Advancing to closure 1 0 0 2 0 3

Surface reclaimed 1 0 0 1 0 0

Base Mine Lake and wetland aerial

2017 18 19 21Total fluid 
tailings 
volumes
million m3

 300 273 263 273 268
 – 6 17 30 36
 639 648 663 692 696

  Base Plant
  Fort Hills
  Syncrude

2017 18 19 21Annual treated
tailings
volumes
million m3

 39 28 34 25 21
 – – – – –
 9 9 16 7 6

  Base Plant
  Fort Hills
  Syncrude

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   26

Land and reclamation

Energy development disturbs land. To help address this, we create and implement detailed 
reclamation plans to mitigate the impact of our operations. 

We focus on reducing the amount of land we disturb and 
facilitating the return of a biologically diverse landscape and 
naturally sustainable ecosystems. To do this, we are: 

• reducing the impact of our operations on the environment through 
scientific research and implementing best management practices

• collaborating with neighbouring companies to reduce the 
cumulative effects of development 

• progressively reclaiming disturbed lands no longer required to 
support operations

• working with industry peers and multi-stakeholder organizations 
on initiatives to conserve and reclaim habitat for birds, mammals, 
fish and other species 

• integrating traditional knowledge from Indigenous Peoples. 

How the land will be used following reclamation and closure is 
referred to as end land use. This is an important consideration 
throughout the life cycle of a project, from initial planning through 
to final reclamation*. This includes considerations such as what 
species to plant and when and where to plant them. Before 
developing a new mine or in situ project, our plans outline the life 
of the project through to reclamation and closure. We update plans 
regularly throughout the project and incorporate changes, new 
knowledge and technologies as they are developed.

The Alberta Energy Regulator must authorize reclamation and 
closure plans for all new projects in Alberta and approve updated 
plans as they are developed.

*  Once land is revegetated as per the reclamation plan, it is considered “reclaimed”. Only after reclaimed land meets the expectations of equivalent land capability and goes through 
an application and approval process with the regulator can it be certified and returned to the Crown.

Reclamation process

Before mining Mining After mining: Progressive reclamation

Soils saved 
and stored

Oil sands mining 
and tailings 
operations

Land forms 
take shape

Surface features 
formed

Soils replaced

Trees and other 
vegetation 

planted

Monitoring the 
growth of 

vegetation and 
return of wildlife

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   27

Land and reclamation

Reclamation performance
Mining
Since Suncor began Base Plant operations in 1967, the site has disturbed 22,466 hectares (ha) 
of land. We have reclaimed approximately 11% of the total land disturbance as of 
2021, bringing our cumulative land reclamation total to 2,446 ha. In 2021, we planted 
approximately 26,370 tree and shrub seedlings in reclamation areas at Base Plant, bringing 
the total cumulative seedlings planted to more than 9 million. With the mineable resource 
at Base Plant’s Millennium and North Steepbank Extension mines anticipated to be depleted 
in the next decade (2030s), we are adding detail to our plan for reclamation and closure of 
the site, which will include engagement with local Indigenous communities.

The Fort Hills site started production in 2018 and has disturbed 11,157 ha of land. Fort Hills is 
in the early stage of development with limited reclamation opportunities currently. We plan to 
progress reclamation as quickly as possible when areas are no longer required for operations.

Syncrude started operation in 1978 and has disturbed 31,455 ha. Since that time, 5,053 ha 
has been reclaimed, including 104 ha of land certified and returned to the Crown. This 
represents over 15% of the operation’s total disturbed land. In addition, approximately 
12 million tree and shrub seedlings have been planted. In 2021, more than 300 ha were 
reclaimed, and more than 961,000 seedlings planted. An additional 1,200 ha of reclaimed land 
are used for a wood bison ranch co-managed with the neighbouring Fort McKay First Nation.

Work has started to look at opportunities to learn from each other and to integrate Suncor 
and Syncrude approaches to reclamation. 

In Situ
Since our Firebag and MacKay River in situ sites began operating in 2004 and 2002 
respectively, they have disturbed a cumulative total of 2,031 ha with approximately 68 ha 
of land that have been permanently reclaimed and are being monitored. We received two 
reclamation certificates from the Alberta Energy Regulator in 2021 for borrow pits at our 
Firebag site, bringing the total cumulative number of hectares certified and returned to 
the Crown at the two projects to 16.5 ha. Following a significant planting program in 2021, 
we reclaimed another borrow pit to a mosaic of upland and wetland ecosites at Firebag. 
Seedlings were grown from locally sourced stock and included species of interest to 
Indigenous communities.

Bison 
Syncrude and the Fort McKay First Nation introduced 30 wood bison to a reclaimed 
area in 1993 to assess the capability of the landscape to support large mammals. Today, 
approximately 300 bison graze on three reclaimed areas within Syncrude operations, 
named Beaver Creek Wood Bison Ranch. Two of the areas are predominantly grassland; 
the third area is a boreal forest, with coniferous and deciduous trees, as well as local 
shrubs and grasses. The herd provides the opportunity to explore a valuable end land use 
for the reclaimed landscape, while supporting beneficial partnerships with Indigenous 
communities. It has also contributed to a genetic preservation project led by scientists from 
the University of Calgary, the University of Saskatchewan, the Canadian Food Inspection 
Agency, Parks Canada, the Government of the Northwest Territories and the Calgary Zoo.

Land distrubed (cumulative 
hectars)

2017 2018 2019 2020 2021

Suncor total 23,971 33,793 34,561 35,029 35,654

Oil Sands Base Plant 22,205 22,224 22,245 22,276 22,466 

Oil Sands Fort Hills 0  9,768  9,768 10,835 11,157 

Oil Sands In Situ 1,766 1,801 1,858 1,918 2,031

Syncrude 29,349 29,431 29,750 30,983 31,455

Land reclaimed (cumulative 
hectars)

2017 2018 2019 2020 2021

Suncor total 2,239 2,621 2,795 2,850 2,878

Oil Sands Base Plant 2,227 2,324 2,400 2,444 2,446

Oil Sands Fort Hills 0 276 360 370 362

Oil Sands In Situ 12 21 35 36 70

Syncrude 3,843 3,993 4,330 4,762 5,053

Syncrude performance will be incorporated into Suncor corporate 
totals in the next reporting cycle. Refer to the 2022 sustainability 
performance data document for Syncrude performance on a 
separate asset basis. For additional information about this chart 
and its data, please refer to performance data footnote #10.

A former Syncrude mining area reclaimed in the 1990s.

2017 18 19 21Land disturbed
cumulative hectares

  23,971 33,793  34,561  35,029  35,654
 22,205 22,224 22,245 22,276 22,466
 – 9,768 9,768 10,835 11,157
 1,766 1,801 1,858 1,918 2,031
 29,349 29,431 29,750 30,983  31,455

  Suncor total  
  Oil Sands Base Plant
  Oil Sands Fort Hills
  Oil Sands In Situ
 Syncrude

2017 18 19 21Land reclaimed
cumulative hectares

 2,239 2,621 2,795 2,850 2,878
 2,227 2,324 2,400 2,444 2,446
 – 276 360 370 362
 12 21 35 36 70
 3,843 3,993 4,330 4,762 5,053

  Suncor total  
  Oil Sands Base Plant
  Oil Sands Fort Hills
  Oil Sands In Situ
 Syncrude

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Mitigation hierarchy

Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   28

Biodiversity

We’re committed to preserving and promoting biodiversity in all areas where we work. This 
includes conserving habitat and reclaiming the landscape we’ve disturbed.

Our approach 
Throughout the life cycle of our projects, we seek to avoid, 
minimize, restore and/or offset impacts to biodiversity from our 
operations. We do this by: 

• incorporating the principles of the mitigation hierarchy, 
integrated land use and management planning processes into 
project design, operation, reclamation and closure

• using tools such as constraints mapping and wildlife sweeps 
to understand and ensure our development and construction 
activities avoid sensitive environmental areas and species 
potentially impacted by our activities 

• minimizing disturbances to the greatest extent possible while 
considering multiple factors 

• employing mitigations such as wildlife crossings, low-impact 
seismic, waste management procedures and managing  
human-wildlife interaction to reduce conflicts

• working internally, with industry peers and with multi-stakeholder 
organizations to monitor, conserve, restore and reclaim habitat 
for birds, mammals, fish and other species, including those at risk 
such as caribou.

Biodiversity monitoring and evaluation 
We monitor biodiversity in and around our oil sands operations and 
reclaimed sites in accordance with our regulatory commitments 
and aligned with broader regional initiatives. Reclaimed terrestrial, 
wetland and aquatic areas are monitored according to site-specific 
reclamation monitoring plans that assess the components of 
biodiversity, while vegetation regrows and ecosystems develop over 
time. This monitoring allows us to collect soil, vegetation, wildlife 
use and water quality information to support reclamation certificate 
applications once it’s determined requirements have been met. 
We further evaluate biodiversity across our sites through wildlife 
monitoring, conducted in accordance with approved site-level 

To protect both people and wildlife that use our sites and 
nearby areas, our internal Wildlife Standard describes the 
responsibilities of all on-site employees and contractors. This 
is supported by a wildlife committee with representatives from 
each of our operating sites coming together to discuss  
wildlife-related best practices.

Avoid
Before all else we 

aim to avoid or 
prevent impacts 

Minimize
If impacts cannot be 
avoided, we strive to 

minimize them 

Restore
We take action to 

address the negative 
impacts created by 

our activities 

Offset
Even after undertaking 
mitigative measures, 

there may still be 
residual impacts as a 
result of our activities

Potential
impacts

The mitigation hierarchy is a series of steps that are considered throughout the life cycle of a project in order to limit negative impacts from our activities on biodiversity. 
While the steps are considered sequentially and in advance of undertaking activities, site-specific conditions encountered may warrant revisiting the mitigation hierarchy 
to further avoid and/or minimize negative impacts to biodiversity features.

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   29

wildlife mitigation plans that include bird deterrents at ponds; 
the use of wildlife crossings over above-ground pipelines; and 
effectively managing human-wildlife interactions.

Through remote cameras, we’ve captured images of wildlife 
in reclaimed areas and in proximity to our oil sands operating 
sites. No endangered or critically endangered species from 
the International Union for Conservation of Nature Red List of 
Threatened Species have been identified within our operating areas 
in northern Alberta. Notable wildlife observed using reclaimed 
habitat on our sites include the Canadian Toad, Canada Warbler 
and Olive-sided Flycatcher.

In collaboration with our industry peers, stakeholders and 
regulatory agencies, we work with organizations such as the 
Alberta Biodiversity Monitoring Institute (ABMI), the Canada-Alberta 
Oil Sands Monitoring (OSM) Program and Canada’s Oil Sands 
Innovation Alliance (COSIA) to:

• mitigate and monitor the impacts of our operations 

• understand and reduce the cumulative effects of oil sands 
development 

• address regional biodiversity risk.

The OSM Program was formed out of a recognized need for a 
robust, reputable, and science and traditional knowledge-based 
monitoring system in the oil sands region. The program’s goal is 
to provide assurance to local communities, the province, the 
country and the international community that oil sands resources 
are being developed responsibly. As key funders, Suncor and 
Syncrude have significant interests in ensuring the program 
succeeds and believe we add value as the OSM Program aims to 
highlight key questions and pursues increased transparency, 
improved governance and meaningful stakeholder engagement. 

Under the OSM Program, the Terrestrial Biological 
Monitoring (TBM) theme area brings together multiple 
investigators and research programs to consider the 
relationship of oil sands development to biodiversity in 
a regional context. Through the TBM workplan, Suncor 
and Syncrude support programs such as the Monitoring 
Avian Productivity and Survivorship program – one way 
researchers monitor bird populations to assess the return 
of bird species to reclaimed land, as well as to gather 
demographic information that contributes to bird and 
habitat conservation continent-wide. Other aspects of the 
workplan incorporate monitoring technologies including 
wildlife cameras and acoustic recording units.

Biodiversity

Caribou recovery and conservation
In the oil sands region, complex combinations of natural- and 
human-caused factors have created landscape changes and 
indirectly increased predation, resulting in declining caribou 
populations. We recognize the importance of caribou recovery and 
conservation and have implemented initiatives designed to support 
this objective. For example, in 2021, a section of road at our Firebag 
site, within the Richardson caribou range, was decommissioned 
with the intention of returning the land to boreal forest caribou 
habitat to assist species recovery.

Suncor is a member of COSIA’s Regional Industry Caribou 
Collaboration joint industry project. The project works with 
academics, the Government of Alberta and the ABMI Caribou 
Monitoring Unit to co-ordinate restoration in priority areas, find 
new ways to improve biodiversity understanding and restore 
habitat throughout northeast Alberta. These efforts all play a role in 
caribou recovery.

Land conservation
Both Suncor and Syncrude believe in the value of multi-stakeholder 
approaches to address industry impacts on the environment.

For almost 20 years, Suncor has partnered with the Alberta 
Conservation Association through the Boreal Habitat Conservation 
Initiative to secure areas of intact boreal forest and wetlands that 
preserve biodiversity. We have done this by ensuring components 
of the larger boreal forest ecosystem have remained undisturbed. 
To date, we have helped secure more than 4,000 hectares (ha) of 
ecologically sensitive land across 43 different conservation sites in 
Alberta as voluntary offsets. 

In 2018, Syncrude joined the governments of Alberta and Canada, 
the Nature Conservancy of Canada and the Tallcree First Nation to 
create the Birch River Wildland Provincial Park, a conservation area of 
330,000 ha, located near Wood Buffalo National Park. This partnership 
helped create the world’s largest protected area of boreal forest and 
is intended to offset future Syncrude land disturbance.

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   30

Social

We’re working hard to have a safe and inclusive work environment, 
while also building and maintaining relationships with local 
communities, Indigenous Peoples and stakeholders.

 > Safety
 > Health and wellness
 > Workforce
 > Inclusion and diversity
 > Indigenous relations
 > Community investment
 > Human rights

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   31

Safety

Safety is our top priority. 
One of the primary ways we demonstrate this is through our 
commitment to operational discipline and our Operational 
Excellence Management System (OEMS). This system ensures we 
use standardized processes, data and tools to reduce risk, simplify 
work and improve performance. It drives how we do work every 
day so we keep people and the environment safe while delivering 
reliable and efficient results.

We are committed to the well-being of employees and contractors. 
We work to ensure everyone, regardless of role or title, feels 
psychologically safe. It’s important that our work environment is a 
place where people can confidently raise concerns, report hazards 
and encourage everyone to be a safety leader.

Our operations have changed in the past five years, from the start 
up of Fort Hills in 2018 to becoming operator of Syncrude in 2021. 
As our workforce and assets have grown, our focus on safety 
and our processes and systems continue to evolve. We recognize 
people make mistakes, and incidents can and do happen. We’ve 
expanded our focus to include not only preventing serious events 
and learning from errors, but also to having controls in place to 
minimize consequences when incidents happen.

Despite these processes and systems, fatalities occurred at 
Suncor’s Base Plant mining operations on January 13, 2021, and 
January 6, 2022. We are deeply saddened by the loss of these 
individuals. The first incident involved a bulldozer that fell through 
ice. The second incident occurred when a heavy haul truck 

rear-ended another heavy haul truck while they were both driving 
up a mine haul ramp. A fatality also occurred at Syncrude before 
Suncor assumed operatorship in the fall of 2021. On June 6, 2021, 
Syncrude emergency crews responded to an incident involving an 
employee operating an excavator at its Aurora site. Unfortunately, 
the employee was fatally injured despite emergency response 
efforts. These incidents underscore the critical importance of 
focusing on safety above all else.

An externally led safety assessment was launched in 2021. Lessons 
learned prompted organizational and process changes in the 
mine, tailings and drilling areas of our business. We continue 
to investigate all incidents with a focus on the actions required 
to prevent such devastating and unacceptable results from 
reoccurring. We are focused on ensuring that every person goes 
home from work at the end of every day.

Evolving our safety journey
Our safety journey is organized into five themes that collectively 
contribute to eliminating workplace fatalities. Rather than treating 
all incidents as preventable, this work balances preventing 
incidents, mitigating consequences and planning for effective 
recovery when systems fail. It’s human to make errors, so when 
errors do occur, we need to consider how to fail safely. Under this 
new approach, we are increasing engagement with our workforce 
to solve complex safety challenges, and design systems to mitigate 
serious harm when incidents do occur. 

ELIMINATE
FATALITIES

Prioritize work towards fatality 
prevention

Create leadership capacity

Stronger together: 
share, learn and build trust

Contractor management

Listen, share and apply 
knowledge to strengthen 
controls and mitigate risks

Learn with purpose

Assure effective controls for 
prevention and recovery

Resilience to fail safely

LEADERSHIP, TRUST & CULTURE

OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM

We all play a 
role in improving 
safety and being 
management 
system focused

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   32

Operational excellence and risk management 
To strengthen operational excellence and safety performance, and align with global best 
practices, we restructured the senior leadership team in 2021 to increase operational 
experience at the executive level and created a centralized Operational Risk Management 
(ORM) organization. 

In establishing the ORM team, we have heightened our risk management and OEMS 
support by consolidating key services into one function. These changes will improve our 
performance by providing operations with the necessary support, processes and tools they 
need to more effectively identify and manage risk.

Operational controls
We’re identifying and maximizing opportunities for safe work practices and procedures, 
regionally and company-wide. Audits and management reviews are in place to ensure our 
practices are effective and prevent the reoccurrence of similar incidents. This includes 
technology-enablement opportunities related to operational controls, such as electronic 
permitting systems at our sites. Frontline workers are helping create these new systems as 
we seek additional opportunities for standardizing how we work.

Emergency management
Effective emergency management is crucial in protecting people, property and the 
environment. All Suncor and Syncrude assets follow the principles of the international 
Incident Command System. This global system provides a standardized enterprise-wide 
approach to ensure effective and efficient response to incidents. It also aligns to the 
practices of governments, regulators and peers. All our operating sites follow a schedule 
of tabletop and field-based emergency drills. We followed this system to activate our 
pandemic response efforts.

Audits, assessments and management reviews are in place to evaluate the 
effectiveness of controls and to provide leadership with the data required to 
continuously improve the OEMS. An example of this is the Towards Sustainable 
Mining (TSM) program. As part of the program, Suncor and Syncrude complete 
internal verifications annually on our safety and health management system, as 
well as crisis management and communications planning. An independent external 
assessment occurs every three years. Results of these reviews are reported publicly 
on the TSM website.

Suncor’s and Syncrude’s health and safety 
management systems have been voluntarily 
externally audited under the Certificate 
of Recognition program for our Alberta 
assets. To be certified, third-party audits 
occur every three years, which include 
document reviews, employee interviews 
and site observations. Maintenance audits 
are required in the interim. Certification 
confirms the systems we have in place to 
protect our workers meet the provincial 
standards of Alberta Occupational Health & 
Safety and industry best practice.

Safety

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   33

Training
We are enhancing incident investigation training to embed findings in our work practices and 
implement mitigating actions. More than 97,500 hours were spent on environment, health 
and safety training in 2021 across the Suncor organization. This involved 165 control room 
operators who spent a total of 5,318 hours in formal simulator-facilitated training. Simulator 
training for mobile equipment operators and mine simulators is also used at a high rate.

Life Saving Rules
We see safety as having effective controls to protect workers from unplanned events and 
engage with our employees and contractors in safe work practices. Our company-wide Life 
Saving Rules support existing Suncor processes, programs and policies and are additional 
measures to protect employees and contractors. The 10 Life Saving Rules we follow align 
with the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers and Energy Safety Canada.

Health and safety performance
We undertook the largest annual maintenance program in our history in 2021 across our 
asset base, including a significant five-year planned turnaround at Oil Sands Base Plant 
Upgrader 2, significant turnaround activities at Syncrude and the biggest turnaround in 
Commerce City’s history. To ensure the safe execution of activities at this scale, as well as 
those on a day-to-day basis, we use both leading and lagging indicators to help us make 
the best-informed decisions for our people and facilities. We also ensure demonstrated 
leadership across the organization, effective corrective actions and application of  
lessons learned.

Process safety and loss of primary containment incidents
Our ongoing focus on asset reliability and monitoring has resulted in a decrease in releases 
in 2021 at Suncor facilities, with loss of primary containment (LOPC) events continuing to 
trend down year-over-year.

We are also progressing our application of critical process safety programs. This includes 
identifying instrumented safeguards; implementing and stewarding maintenance programs 
to achieve the required level of risk mitigation; and monitoring and reporting impacts to our 
operating parameters. Our ongoing focus on process hazard analysis and management 
of change ensures we keep an objective eye on reducing risks in our operating areas. We 
continue to advance our digital transformation and implement new digital technologies 
across the enterprise to improve safety, productivity and reliability, and to reduce costs.

We offer low-risk, hands-on training for 
new and existing control room operators 
to learn or update safety-critical skills 
by performing tasks in a simulated 
environment. Training allows operators to 
respond quickly and correctly, facilitating 
responses in high-stress or emergency 
conditions. The use of simulator training 
provides high-quality training not possible 
with job shadowing alone and provides 
development training for operators, 
leading to improved confidence and 
performance both for themselves and 
their teams as a result.

Loss of primary 
containment
Total #

2017 2018 2019 2020 2021

Tier 1 and 2 loss of primary 
containment events

46 45 39 40 36

Not all LOPC incidents are environmental in nature, but they are 
all related to process safety. LOPC is a lagging metric that we 
use to benchmark ourselves relative to the industry. Syncrude 
performance will be incorporated into Suncor corporate totals 
in the next reporting cycle. For additional information about this 
chart and its data, please refer to performance data footnote #12.

We continue to improve and strengthen 
pipe inspection plans to provide up-to-date 
health monitoring of our pipe conditions 
and life cycles. The robustness of our 
regulatory inspection programs ensures we 
continue to operate with an eye on safety 
above all else.

Safety

 46 45 39 40 36

17 18 19 20 21

Tier 1 and 2 events

Loss of primary
containment
Total #

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   34

Recordable Injury Frequency (RIF)
Suncor and Syncrude recorded a full year RIF of 0.35 and 0.50 respectively in 2021. Suncor 
has maintained a low RIF trend for the last five years. Syncrude experienced an increase 
compared to 2020. As we learn from our events, we continue to focus on injury prevention 
and determining root causes. For example, cut-resistant gloves have been introduced at 
many of our operations to reduce hand injuries.

Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF)
Suncor’s LTIF has remained stable over the past five years, while Syncrude’s performance 
improved in 2021. Like RIF, the main causes of injury continue to be slips, trips and falls, and 
line of fire* incidents. We have implemented programs to address these safety issues. They 
include enhanced awareness of safety processes, the use of personal protective equipment 
and reviewing hazards before starting activities.

Serious Injury and Fatality (SIF)
Suncor is focused on eliminating fatalities and serious injuries at the worksite. Our SIF 
program emphasizes the value of reporting, investigating and managing potential SIF 
incidents. It encourages learning and improved safety performance across our operations. 
The goal is to bring increased visibility to SIF exposures, enabling the organization to 
identify and address their precursors. We had four SIF events**, including one fatality and 
three life-altering serious injuries, at Suncor in 2021.

We recognize the five-year trend in SIF events. We expect the evolution of our enhanced 
guidelines and targeted safety initiatives will allow us to make significant progress in 
identifying and reducing SIF incident risks.

Recordable injury 
frequency
Injuries per 200,000 hours 
worked

2017 2018 2019 2020 2021

Suncor total 0.40 0.37 0.39 0.32 0.35

Syncrude total 0.45 0.47 0.44 0.31 0.50

AMSA 0.53 0.48 0.56 0.45 0.53

Energy Safety Canada 0.48 0.39 0.37 0.34 0

IOGP 0.19 0.20 0.18 0.14 0

Lost Time injury frequency
Injuries per 200,000 hours 
worked

2017 2018 2019 2020 2021

Suncor total 0.03 0.03 0.04 0.04 0.03

Syncrude total 0.07 0.07 0.05 0.12 0.08

AMSA 0.08 0.05 0.12 0.11 0.09

Energy Safety Canada 0 0 0 0 0

IOGP 0.05 0.05 0.05 0.04 0

Alberta Mine Safety Association (AMSA), International Association 
of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP) and Energy Safety Canada safety 
data is used for benchmarking purposes, and is based on the 
most recent and best available data sets. Syncrude performance 
will be incorporated into Suncor corporate totals in the next 
reporting cycle. For additional information about this chart and 
its data, please refer to performance data footnote #12.

Serious Injury and Fatality
# of events

2017 2018 2019 2020 2021

Suncor total 1 2 4 2 4

Syncrude performance will be incorporated into Suncor 
corporate totals in the next reporting cycle. For additional 
information about this chart and its data, please refer to 
performance data footnote #12.

  * Line of fire occurs when the path of a moving object or the release of hazardous energy intersects with an individual’s body.
** SIF events include the following incident types: 
   – fatalities 
   – any injury that requires immediate life-preserving rescue action, and if not applied immediately would likely result in the death of that person (life-threatening) 
   – any injury that results in permanent or long-term impairment or loss of an internal organ, body function, or body part (life-altering).

Safety

17 18 19 20 21

 0.03 0.03 0.04 0.04 0.03
 0.07 0.07 0.05 0.12 0.08
 0.08 0.05 0.12 0.11 0.09
 – – – – –
 0.05 0.05 0.05 0.04 –

Suncor total
Syncrude total
AMSA
Energy Safety Canada
IOGP

Lost Time 
Injury Frequency
Injuries per 200,000 
hours worked

17 18 19 20 21

 1 2 4 2 4Suncor total

Serious Injury 
and Fatality
# of events

 0.40 0.37 0.39 0.32 0.35
 0.45 0.47 0.44 0.31 0.50
 0.53 0.48 0.56 0.45 0.53
 0.48 0.39 0.37 0.34 –
 0.19 0.20 0.18 0.14 –

Suncor total
Syncrude total
AMSA
Energy Safety Canada
IOGP

17 18 19 20 21Recordable 
injury frequency
Injuries per 200,000 
hours worked

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance

https://abminesafety.ca/resources/stats
http://www.iogp.org
http://www.iogp.org
https://www.energysafetycanada.com/


Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   35

Health and wellness

The safety and well-being of our people is of the utmost importance. As such, we’re working 
to foster a culture that supports and enables everyone to be their best and contribute their 
best every day, in the workplace, at home and within their communities. 

Well-being isn’t one-dimensional. We take a holistic approach to wellness by understanding 
four interconnected elements of well-being – social, psychological, financial and physical – and 
their effect on overall health. We strive to foster a resilient and thriving workplace where we 
take care of each other and people feel safe and supported.

A focus on psychological safety and employee well-being 
Foundational safety principles, such as mind on task, can only be achieved when we are 
healthy and well, both physically and mentally. We continue to evaluate the needs of our 
team and provide support to focus on overall well-being, including psychological well-being. 
Indicators of psychological well-being include a person’s level of happiness, life satisfaction, 
contribution and positive mental health. These are critical components of being fit for duty. 
Those struggling with mental health issues can experience cognitive and physical fatigue, 
which can impair decision-making, decrease reaction time and attention to detail, and result 
in injury. 

Resources and support
Resources are available year-round, including counselling support, to help people manage 
their mental health and work safely. Through these tools and resources, we empower 
leaders and individuals to take responsibility for well-being and embed that mindset across 
the organization.

Our training programs and resources promote a psychologically safe environment and help 
break the stigma around mental health issues. One example is the Mindfulicity web-based 
program launched in 2020 and available to employees, their families and contractors. The 
program, which has 10 modules relating to mental health, helps people focus attention, 
emotions and sensations in the present, while creating a psychologically safe and inclusive 
space for all.

We also launched Working Mind training in 2021 across the company. This gives leaders the 
necessary tools to support their team, promote psychological well-being and reduce mental 
health stigma. By the end of 2021, 500 leaders had taken the training. We have partnered 
with the University of Calgary to conduct research into its effectiveness. 

We also support workers and their families through the Employee and Family Assistance 
Program (EFAP). EFAP is accessible 24 hours a day, and includes clinical counselling, work-
health-life services and professional advice. Counselling services can be booked online and 
are available in multiple languages and formats. We launched the Lifeworks Platform in 
2021 as part of EFAP. Lifeworks provides added resources and toolkits for each of the four 
elements of well-being. Syncrude also used these services. Syncrude employees will be 
integrated into Suncor’s health and wellness program in 2022.

An inclusive workplace is a physically and 
psychologically safe workplace. In addition 
to company-wide resources, members of 
Health and Wellness work with various 
employee inclusion networks to promote 
well-being among their members.

The pandemic has brought 
about so many more 
issues, not only at work 
but also in our day-to-day 
lives. Mental health is a 
complicated thing and the 
Mindfulicity modules break 
it down so it is easier to 
understand and talk about 
with others.
Darwin Storms 
Safety Coordinator

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   36

Responding to COVID-19
Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, our priority was keeping 
people safe. We focused on aligning with health recommendations 
in the jurisdictions where we operate. We were flexible and adapted 
to changing needs, conditions and protocols. We did this through: 

• establishing voluntary on-site vaccine clinics

• providing on-site and at-home rapid testing

• modifying and enhancing bussing, lodging and other work site 
safety protocols 

• supporting vaccine and rapid screening confidence in the 
community by partnering with groups such as 19 to Zero, Faster 
Together and the Creative Destruction Lab (CDL) Rapid Screening 
Consortium

• partnering with Immune Response Diagnostics, an affiliate of 
Toronto-based company International Point of Care, to launch 
Lumivi Diagnostics, a joint venture that provides COVID-19 rapid 
antibody tests.

Supporting the pandemic response, in August 2020 Suncor 
and 11 other companies formed the CDL Rapid Screening 
Consortium, a private-led, not-for-profit initiative with the 
goal of establishing a robust rapid screening system and 
implementation plan to share across Canada and then 
the world. The consortium, which also included Canada’s 
biggest airline and grocery chain as founding members, 
now includes 2,000 companies and organizations. More 
than 1.5 million tests have been completed, with Suncor and 
Syncrude conducting the most tests in the consortium. CDL 
work concluded in March 2022.

Health and wellness

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance

https://www.19tozero.ca/
https://fastertogether.ca/
https://fastertogether.ca/
https://www.creativedestructionlab.com/
https://www.cdlrapidscreeningconsortium.com/
https://www.cdlrapidscreeningconsortium.com/
https://www.cdlrapidscreeningconsortium.com/
https://www.cdlrapidscreeningconsortium.com/


Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   37

Workforce

A safe, talented and engaged workforce is key to our success. We believe to achieve our 
purpose and business objectives, we need the ongoing care of and for our people at all 
levels of the organization.

Workforce changes
Suncor has undergone significant changes to its workforce in recent years to improve 
efficiencies and our overall cost structure. Some of these changes included corporate 
restructuring and workforce reductions throughout 2021. An exit incentive program 
was also offered in 2021 to eligible employees to voluntarily leave the company. We also 
relocated our Mississauga and Oakville, Ontario, offices to Calgary, Alberta. 

Recruitment and development 
While we’re supporting the growth and development of the team today, we’re also planning 
for future workforce needs. We use an integrated workforce planning process to identify 
the skills and capabilities we anticipate needing across the company and hire locally where 
possible. This work allows us to strategize for and recruit the right balance of early talent, 
mid-career employees and senior contributors, ensuring our workforce meets our strategic 
needs now and in the future. We continue to monitor economic conditions to understand 
the labour market.

To build the skills and knowledge needed for careers in trades and operations, we partner 
with community and non-profit organizations as well as post-secondary institutions that 
offer training for our workforce. These organizations include Women Building Futures and 
CAREERS. We also offer opportunities to students through internships, co-op terms and an 
Indigenous Student Program. Due to the pandemic, student programs requiring site access 
were temporarily paused in 2021 to restrict access to essential workers only. 

Suncor became the operator of the 
Syncrude Joint Venture Project on 
Sept. 30, 2021, assuming an additional 
workforce of about 4,700 people. The 
operatorship drives greater efficiencies 
and competitiveness across all Suncor-
operated assets in the Regional 
Municipality of Wood Buffalo. Work 
is underway to integrate Syncrude 
employees into Suncor systems and 
compensation programs. 

Workforce
# of employees

2017 2018 2019 2020 2021

Full-time 12,389 12,317 13,004 12,489 12,087

Part-time 111 98 97 102 67

Temporary/casual 149 211 382 444 511

Long-term contractors 809 559 534 235 359

Syncrude – – – – 4,768

Employee hires and 
turnover
% of total workforce

2017 2018 2019 2020 2021

New hires 7.7 7.7 8.3 3.3 4.7

Employee turnover 5.8 6.0 4.8 4.6 6.6

The 2021 values reflect full integration of Syncrude’s workforce. 
For additional information about this chart and its data, please 
refer to performance data footnote #13.

17 18 19 20 21Workforce
# of employees

 12,389 12,317 13,004 12,489 12,087
 111 98 97 102 67
 149 211 382 444 511
 809 559 534 235 359
 – – – – 4,768

■ Full-time
■ Part-time
■ Temporary/casual
■ Long-term contractors
■ Syncrude

17 18 19 20 21

 7.7 7.7 8.3 3.3 4.7
 5.8 6.0 4.8 4.6 6.6

New hires
Employee turnover

Employee hires 
and turnover
% of total workforce

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance

https://womenbuildingfutures.ca/
https://www.careersnextgen.ca/


Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   38

Training, rewards and retention
We offer ongoing instructor-led training and self-led web-based training on a wide-variety 
of topics driven by our value of lifelong learning. This includes role-specific training, as well 
as company-wide and personal development training programs. 

We introduced an internal sustainability learning site in 2021, designed to support every 
employee as they enhance their knowledge and understanding of sustainability content and 
concepts. This on-demand sustainability learning resource further embeds the collective 
competency of our employees and enhances decision-making across the organization. 

Being purpose-driven and a leading energy company are key elements of our employee 
value proposition. With a comprehensive rewards package and diverse career opportunities, 
we attract, recruit and retain some of the most capable individuals in the industry. Our total 
rewards approach for employees is robust and includes competitive compensation, health 
and insurance benefits, career development, and pension and savings plans. Additional 
programs are also designed to enhance the quality of life for employees and their families, 
such as time-off programs, the employee and family assistance program, scholarships for 
dependent children and volunteer programs. 

Suncor challenged itself in 2021 to reflect on the evolving needs of employees around 
work and life balance and flexibility, leading to the introduction of two new guidelines 
for the workplace: The Hybrid Work Guidance, which gives office-based employees, work 
permitting, the flexibility to work from home up to two days per week, and the Flexible Dress 
Code Guideline, a new standard for office dress that reflects the organization’s trust and 
respect for the diversity and professionalism of employees.

A core component of the Suncor 
Blended Learning Strategy is peer 
training and mentoring. Each operator 
must attend a Train the Trainer program 
that prepares them for their role as 
a peer trainer, leading to improved 
confidence and performance and 
contributing to a workforce that is truly 
“Stronger Together”.

In 2021, there was a total of 350,000 hours 
of training and development, averaging 
24 hours per full-time equivalent (FTE) 
employee. The spend on these training 
and development programs averaged 
$1,500 per FTE employee. 

Workforce

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   39

Inclusion and diversity

To achieve our purpose, we must have a culture founded on trust and inclusion.

Suncor’s goal is to create a great place to work for all by creating a work environment that 
provides everyone with the opportunity to meaningfully contribute to the organization’s 
performance while feeling safe, valued and respected. This reflects a strongly held belief 
that organizational performance and social well-being are enhanced through a trust-
based and inclusive culture, and a diverse workforce.

Measuring our progress
We monitor our progress using the Great Place to Work® employee survey tool, which 
measures trust, inclusion and managerial effectiveness. Year-over-year results improved in 
2021 despite significant organizational change and pandemic disruption. The Trust Index 
score increased from 58% to 59%; the Inclusion Index score increased from 60% to 62%; 
and the Managerial Index score increased from 67% to 73%. Our goal is to achieve trust and 
inclusion index scores of 70% or higher and 80% or higher score for the Managerial Index.

Inclusion Index scores increased 1% and 6% for female and Indigenous employees 
respectively. We attribute these scores to ongoing employee and leader inclusion-oriented 
education and awareness building, the work of our Employee Inclusion Networks to create 
a sense of belonging, and our ongoing efforts to increase fairness by mitigating systemic 
bias in people processes.

Through voluntary self-identification, we also measure workforce representation for 
minority groups. Our aspiration is that our workforce representation mirrors the 
communities where we live and work.

For our executive leadership team, strengthening Suncor’s culture is one of the 
organization’s priorities for 2022 with a focus on:

• Leadership

• Employee education and involvement

• Programs, policies and practices

Leadership
Advancing inclusion and diversity involves ongoing alignment and development activities to 
ensure leaders at all levels understand expectations and have the necessary competencies. 
Leadership teams also leverage insights from the Great Place to Work® tool and diversity 
metrics to set goals and action plans that address barriers to an inclusive, fair and 
respectful workplace in their respective business areas.

Employee education and involvement
Many formal and informal learning opportunities are available to employees throughout 
the year. These include company-wide inclusion events; story-telling videos shared at events 
and meetings; lunch and learns and panel discussions; and programs covering topics such 
as unconscious bias, inclusive leadership and Indigenous cultural awareness. One type of 
event led by Suncor’s Inclusion and Diversity Council is Action for Inclusion: A conversation 
series. This quarterly event covers a variety of inclusion and diversity (I&D) themes to bring 
people together. For example, one call focused on intersectionality, in which two individuals 
explored common elements of their identity and lived experiences as Black and Indigenous 
men, and how that common ground calls them to support each other.

Inclusion, belonging and 
respect for diversity is for 
everyone – no matter our 
role, location, skill set, age, 
thinking style, gender, race, 
sexual orientation, culture…
and everything else that 
makes each of us unique. 
This is about how we treat 
each other every day, how 
we ensure our corporate 
programs and processes are 
fair and equitable, and how 
all of us can thrive at Suncor.
Ken Saunders 
Vice President, Engineering  
and Geoscience, and I&D Council Member

Launched in 2021, our Inclusion Starts 
With Me web-based training program 
highlights the importance of an inclusive 
and diverse workplace and how each of 
us can contribute to a great workplace 
for everyone. More than 400 employees 
have already completed the training. 
A Diversity, Inclusion and Belonging 
training course is also available to 
employees and contractors.

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   40

Suncor’s eight Employee Inclusion Networks are established by and for people with shared 
characteristics, ethnicities, interests or life experiences, and those interested in supporting 
and/or learning more about ways to build an inclusive workplace. The networks build a 
sense of belonging and community among members, and contribute to our ability to recruit 
and retain a diverse workforce. They also help inform the I&D strategy for the company, 
foster learning and build allyship. 

Programs, policies and practices
Suncor develops programs, policies and practices to enable fair and equitable access to 
opportunity, development, recognition and advancement for all. Our Equal Opportunity and 
Inclusion Policy and supporting Respectful Workplace Standard outline our commitment to 
eliminating discrimination; celebrating and supporting each person’s unique experiences 
and voices; and undertaking special efforts to attract diverse workers.

Workforce representation 
Organizational changes and the integration of Syncrude employees changed workforce 
representation in 2021. Suncor’s Indigenous representation increased to 5.3%, compared to 
3.4% in 2020 due to Syncrude’s high performance in this area. We are incorporating insights 
from Syncrude’s decades of experience as we revise a workforce strategy that continues to 
demonstrate corporate leadership and meets the expectations of Indigenous communities. 

Suncor workforce representation of visible minorities and persons with disabilities slightly 
decreased as Syncrude does not collect self-identification data of other minority groups. 

Integration and organizational changes have also influenced gender representation for 
individuals in management roles, with females representing 29% and males representing 
71%. While some progress was made in certain areas of workforce representation, there is 
still work to be done.

In recognition of Pride Month 2021, a permanent rainbow sidewalk was installed at our St. Clair Ethanol Plant in Ontario. 
The Progress Pride flag was also flown at all our operating sites throughout June.

Workforce representation
% of total workforce

2017 2018 2019 2020 2021

Indigenous Peoples 3.00 3.10 3.27 3.40 5.27

Visible minorities 14.70 12.60 11.81 12.88 8.96

Persons with disabilities 0.68 0.67 0.74 0.76 0.51

Workforce representation Female Male

All employees 22% 78%

Management 29% 71%

Board of Directors 36% 64%

The 2021 values reflect full integration of Syncrude’s workforce. 
For additional information about this chart and its data, please 
refer to performance data footnote #17.

Inclusion and diversity

Certain operating regions prohibit collecting information on gender; therefore, diversity data may not reflect our entire workforce due to data availability. Workforce diversity is 
calculated based on information provided voluntarily by employees. Indicators referring to ethnicity and disability reflect only those employees who have voluntarily self-identified.

17 18 19 20 2117 18 19 20 21

 3.00 3.10 3.27 3.40 5.27
 14.70 12.60 11.81 12.88 8.96
 0.68 0.67 0.74 0.76 0.51

Indigenous Peoples
Visible minorities
Persons with disabilities

Workforce
representation
% of total workforce

■ Male■ Female

78%

22%

All
employees

64%

36%

Board of
Directors

71%

29%

Management

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance

https://sustainability-prd-cdn.suncor.com/-/media/project/ros/shared/documents/policies/equal-opportunity-and-inclusion/equal-opportunity-and-inclusion-policy-en.pdf?la=en&modified=20201216022317&hash=39E34B8DDCAC500BAED4490102AAABFF54234B03&_ga=2.27412788.906589362.1649107941-1413179321.1590791103
https://sustainability-prd-cdn.suncor.com/-/media/project/ros/shared/documents/policies/equal-opportunity-and-inclusion/equal-opportunity-and-inclusion-policy-en.pdf?la=en&modified=20201216022317&hash=39E34B8DDCAC500BAED4490102AAABFF54234B03&_ga=2.27412788.906589362.1649107941-1413179321.1590791103


Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   41

Indigenous relations

Partnering with Indigenous communities is foundational to successful 
energy development. Suncor’s Calgary head office is located on 
Treaty 7 lands, the territory of the Blackfoot Confederacy (Siksika, 
Kainai, Piikani), Stoney Nakoda (Chiniki, Bearspaw, Wesley) and 
Tsuut’ina First Nations, and home to Métis Nation of Alberta, Region 3. 
We also operate and do business in many other Indigenous territories.

Our approach 
We seek to build and grow authentic and meaningful relationships 
with Indigenous Peoples that are mutually beneficial. Beyond 
commitments outlined in our policies, both Suncor and Syncrude 
have agreements with Indigenous communities near our operations, 
including the Regional Municipality of Wood Buffalo (RMWB) in 
Alberta and Sarnia, Ontario. These agreements reflect how we work 
together on a range of matters from project consultation to realizing 
the benefits of commercial and business opportunities, as well as 
supporting skills, employment and training programs. 

Permission to use this Blackfoot concept of the Medicine Wheel was  granted by Elder Casey Eagle Speaker

All employees and contractors, as well as our joint venture partners, 
are responsible for following our policies. Suncor’s Chief Executive 
Officer is accountable to the Board of Directors for ensuring that 
Suncor’s Stakeholder Relations and Indigenous Relations policies 
are implemented. 

Progressive Aboriginal Relations certification
One way we measure the effectiveness of our efforts is 
through the Canadian Council for Aboriginal Business 
Progressive Aboriginal Relations (PAR) program. Suncor 
and Syncrude have each certified at the highest level, Gold, 
multiple times with Suncor last certifying in 2020 and Syncrude 
in 2021. Both companies will recertify together in 2024. PAR is 
Canada’s only certification program focused on best practices 
in Indigenous relations.

Journey of Reconciliation
In 2021, what was previously our social goal evolved to become 
the Journey of Reconciliation. The Journey of Reconciliation 
reflects our continued transformation within the organization 
and in relationships with Indigenous Peoples. It represents our 
commitment to continue to learn about Indigenous culture and 
history with open hearts and minds, to stretch our perspectives, 
and build genuine relationships with Indigenous Peoples based 
on mutual trust and respect. The Journey of Reconciliation is 
fundamental to our purpose and supports our strategy of becoming 
a leader in sustainability and the energy transition.

Reconciliation is critical to healing and deepening relationships 
with Indigenous Peoples. We all have a role to play. We are 
taking an active and meaningful role as outlined by the Truth and 
Reconciliation Commission Call to Action #92. We believe it is the 
right thing to do from a societal and business standpoint. Including 
Indigenous perspectives brings about innovation and different 
ways of approaching our work. By building strong relationships 
with Indigenous communities, we earn the trust and respect of 
true partners that help propel our business and navigate the ever-
changing landscape.

Journey of Reconciliation

Permission to use this Blackfoot concept 
of the Medicine Wheel was granted by 

Elder Casey Eagle Speaker

Strengthening Indigenous 
workforce & inclusion

Partnering 
with

Indigenous
youth

Progressing the way
we think & act 

Valuing Indigenous
worldviews

Partnering
with

Indigenous
businesses

&
communitiesto build mutual trust

& respect with Indigenous
Peoples

In honour of the first National Day for Truth and Reconciliation on September 30, Suncor held a company-wide sharing circle attended 
by more than 5,000 people. Hosted virtually, the Journeys Employee Inclusion Network led the sharing circle in which Suncor’s 
executive leadership team and employees shared personal reflections about residential schools and the commitments they’re making 
as part of their reconciliation journey.

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance

https://www.suncor.com/en-ca/sustainability/indigenous-relations/indigenous-equity-partnerships-and-agreements
https://sustainability-prd-cdn.suncor.com/-/media/project/ros/shared/documents/policies/stakeholder-relations/2016-stakeholder-relations-policy-en.pdf?la=en&modified=20201216022321&hash=8B15D945E93F1F262EFAD8A00B97915C157560B7&_ga=2.106039243.918254743.1646063112-1413179321.1590791103
https://sustainability-prd-cdn.suncor.com/-/media/project/suncor/files/sustainability/canadian-aboriginal-relations-policy-en.pdf?la=en&modified=20210902051229&hash=EB5C4E55F60BBD4EE0DF3879E84863AA4F1FEE50&_ga=2.51332449.918254743.1646063112-1413179321.1590791103
https://www.ccab.com/programs/progressive-aboriginal-relations-par/
https://www.ccab.com/programs/progressive-aboriginal-relations-par/


Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   42

Valuing Indigenous worldviews
We continue to learn and understand Indigenous ways of knowing and being through 
training and experiential learning opportunities online and in-person. Our web-based 
training is available both internally and to the public on our website*.

We’re also working to integrate Indigenous perspectives and traditional knowledge in 
our operations where possible, supported through various advisory groups that include 
Indigenous Elders and community members. 

Honouring Indigenous languages is a part of reconciliation. New signs were installed at 
our various oil sands sites in the RMWB in 2021 that include greetings in Cree (Tân’si) and 
Dene (Edlânet’é). With blessings and prayers by local Elders, we also raised tipis (i.e. teepees) 
at our Edmonton Refinery and Fort Hills site. The tipis provide a safe and sacred place for 
learning, reflection or practising ceremony. Suncor has also gifted 12 tipis to communities, 
schools and sites in Alberta.

Elder Phillip Campiou spoke at the event in Edmonton. He shared that the three tripod 
poles that support all the other poles stand for humility, respect and obedience. The tripod 
brings balance to the tipi and the tipi brings balance to your life.

Partnering with Indigenous business and communities
It starts with open and honest relationship building to understand common interests and 
learn how we can partner together for mutual benefit. Meaningful participation requires the 
ability to understand each other’s desired outcomes, strengths and limitations. 

In 2021, Suncor and eight Indigenous communities – three First Nations and five Métis 
communities in the RMWB – formed the Astisiy partnership to purchase a 15% equity 
interest in the Northern Courier Pipeline asset with a value of approximately $1.3 billion. 
Suncor has also partnered with the Fort McKay and Mikisew Cree First Nations on the 
Thebacha Partnership (East Tank Farm Development), and is an equity partner in PetroNor, 
a James Bay Cree wholesale distributor. These equity partnerships provide a reliable and 
long-term source of income to the participating First Nations and Métis communities.

* Please note that we are changing our language from “Aboriginal” to “Indigenous” after consulting with Indigenous communities and employees. Some references still require updating. 
Thank you for your patience and understanding as we make these changes.

Employee training
% of total workforce

2017 2018 2019 2020 2021

Employee completion of 
Indigenous awareness 
web-based training

41 45 67 83 85

The 2021 values do not reflect Syncrude data. Work continues 
to expand training programs to Syncrude employees.

Astisiy
Astisiy is a historic partnership 
among Suncor and eight Indigenous 
communities. The 15% ownership in the 
Northern Courier Pipeline will provide 
long-term, stable revenues that will 
benefit the communities for decades to 
come. Astisiy is a Cree word that means 
“thread made from sinew,” which is used 
in Indigenous beading and for many 
other uses.

Indigenous relations

17 18 19 20 21

 41 45 67 83 85 ■ Employee completion
  of Indigenous 
  awareness web-based
  training

Employee
training
% of total workforce

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance

https://sites.suncor.com/WBT/aboriginal-relations/story_html5.html?_ga=2.162179452.1787640840.1655930875-664842988.1647898358
https://www.tcenergy.com/operations/natural-gas/northern-border-pipeline/


Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   43

Within our supply chain, our Indigenous Business Participation Strategy supports sourcing 
activity across the company. Working with local Indigenous businesses provides close and 
reliable talent and services. It also supports companies to invest revenues back into their 
communities. In 2021, 16% of Suncor’s overall spend and 27% of Syncrude’s overall spend 
were with Indigenous suppliers. Combined, this totalled more than $2.4 billion in procured 
materials and services. Both Suncor and Syncrude made significant progress in 2021, 
compared to 2020, with combined spend increasing year-over-year by approximately 54%. 
But we know it’s about more than the dollars spent, it’s also about a focus on employment 
and understanding the impact on communities.

Suncor’s work with Indigenous communities also remains strong through our Petro-Canada™ 
business. As of 2021, we have 61 Petro-Canada™ branded retail stations and wholesale 
marketing arrangements with First Nation and Métis communities.

Total Indigenous spend
$ millions

2017 2018 2019 2020 2021

Suncor 521 703 836 911 1,471

Syncrude 342 518 602 672 973

Syncrude performance will be incorporated into Suncor 
corporate totals in the next reporting cycle. For additional 
information about this chart and its data, please refer to 
performance data footnote #15.

Petro-Canada™ commissioned 
Indigenous artists to create murals at six 
locations across the country – Toronto, 
Ottawa, Montreal, Winnipeg, Calgary 
and Vancouver – with the sides of the 
stations as a canvas for the artists to 
share their experiences and history, 
and to reclaim their identity, language, 
culture and nationhood. The mural 
Connected was painted by Keegan 
Starlight, an artist from the Tsuut’ina 
Nation, west of Calgary, Alberta.

Indigenous relations

Strengthening Indigenous workforce and inclusion 
We want Suncor to be an inclusive and diverse work environment where everyone feels 
valued and respected. We believe this supports strong business performance, differentiates 
us in our communities and helps us to attract and retain Indigenous employees who 
want to build meaningful careers for the long term. As of 2021, Suncor and newly 
integrated Syncrude have 919 Indigenous employees, which equates to 5.3% Indigenous 
representation in our workforce based on voluntary self-identification. 

Indigenous workforce 
representation
% of total workforce

2017 2018 2019 2020 2021

Suncor 3.00 3.10 3.27 3.40 5.27

The 2021 values reflect full integration of Syncrude’s workforce. 
For additional information about this chart and its data, please 
refer to performance data footnote #17.

The Syncrude operation is a major employer of Indigenous peoples and has one of 
the highest workforce representations in Canada. In 2021, 10.6% of the Syncrude 
workforce were of self-declared Indigenous descent. Suncor is learning from 
Syncrude’s efforts in this area.

 3.00 3.10 3.27 3.40 5.27

17 18 19 20 21

Suncor

Indigenous
workforce
representation
% of total workforce

17 18 19 20 21

 521 703 836 911 1,471
 342 518 602 672 973

Suncor  
Syncrude 

Total Indigenous
spend
$ millions

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   44

Journeys, Suncor’s first employee inclusion network, continues to 
play an important role in supporting Indigenous employees to feel a 
sense of safety, pride and belonging within the company. Journeys has 
been pivotal in creating deep connections between Indigenous and 
non-Indigenous employees. The network hosts numerous events and 
cultural experiences throughout the year, including medicinal harvests, 
sharing circles and Indigenous Awareness Week events – inspiring 
employees to learn and take actions in reconciliation. 

Suncor’s Senior Indigenous Workforce Development Advisor 
manages skills, employment and training for Suncor’s agreements 
with Indigenous communities. The advisor also works on 
initiatives such as training-to-employment programs in areas 
where Suncor operates, and the Oil Sands Regional Workforce 
committee, led by the Oil Sands Community Alliance (OSCA), to 
take a regional approach to mentorship and careers for youth 
in the Wood Buffalo region. The advisor is a resource to advise 
leaders and employees on Indigenous culture, protocols and 
knowledge and co-leads Journeys. Employees can participate 
in our Indigenous Employee Mentorship Program, and our 
Indigenous Student Program provides students with meaningful 
work experience across our operations.

Indigenous relations

Partnering with Indigenous youth
Indigenous youth and their voices represent the future. The 
Indigenous Youth Advisory Council (IYAC) works with Suncor, the 
Suncor Energy Foundation (SEF), our Indigenous and Community 
Relations team, and various senior leaders to listen, share, reflect 
and act on issues of mutual interest that affect Indigenous 
communities and the lives of Indigenous youth. It also supports 
young Indigenous leaders in developing their leadership potential 
while providing opportunities to participate in the energy system. 
The IYAC further strengthened relationships with leaders in 2021 
through the formation of the IYAC Mentorship Program. The 
program focuses on reciprocal two-way mentorship between 
members of the SEF board and the IYAC. 

We also partner with Indigenous youth through post-secondary 
institutions across Canada. Since 2019, a member of Suncor’s 
Indigenous and Community Relations team in Sarnia, Ontario, has 
been part of a Lambton College planning committee, designing 
an Indigenous Outdoor Gathering Space for youth on campus. 
Indigenous members of the committee oversaw the entire process 

and provided valuable direction on the purpose and design of the 
space. Students at the college will use this space for ceremonies, 
learning and gathering year-round. It will also be a place where 
Indigenous and non-Indigenous students and members of the 
community can walk the reconciliation path together. Construction 
is expected to begin later this year.

In 2021, Indigenous Student Program participants helped Suncor celebrate National Indigenous Peoples Day by joining a panel where 
they shared inspiring stories and insights about who they are, their heritage and pride in being Indigenous.

A member of Journeys at a sage harvest at Nose Hill Park in Calgary, Alberta, which began 
with a smudging ceremony and a teaching at the Nose Hill Siksikaitsitapi Medicine Wheel.

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   45

Community investment

Suncor has always contributed to the communities where we operate. Suncor, Petro-Canada™ 
and Syncrude make direct investments to support social, economic and environmental 
solutions in those communities. 

This work is supported in large part by the programs of the Suncor Energy Foundation and 
the Petro-Canada CareMakers Foundation™. Suncor contributed almost $36 million in 2021 
to community, charitable and non-profit groups working on those solutions. 

The Suncor Energy Foundation
The Suncor Energy Foundation (SEF) embodies our purpose of caring for each other and 
the Earth by working directly with communities seeking solutions to challenges today 
and for generations ahead. We combine community and Suncor strengths to find social, 
economic and environmental solutions to complex challenges. To bring this work to life, we 
focus on three interconnected pillars: strategic funding priorities, social innovation capacity 
and community presence. SEF increased its donations in these areas to approximately $18 
million in 2021.

Strategic funding priorities
Our funding priorities reflect a commitment to combining community and Suncor strengths 
to find social, economic, and environmental solutions. Through our donation partnerships, 
we are learning from and with Indigenous Peoples and others to strengthen community 
while the world is going through an energy transition. We are collectively experiencing 
many changes. We believe Indigenous knowledge and community strengths will help us 
adapt for the well-being of all. 

Suncor total contributions
$ millions

2017 2018 2019 2020 2021

Contributions to charitable, 
non-charitable and 
community groups

27 29 33 36 36

Suncor’s total community investment contributions reflect our 
58.74% equity ownership of the Syncrude Project. For additional 
information about this chart and its data, please refer to performance 
data footnote #16.

Suncor Energy Foundation 
Donations
$ millions

2017 2018 2019 2020 2021

Suncor Energy Foundation 
(SEF)
donations

17 16 15 18 18

For additional information about this chart and its data, please 
refer to performance data footnote #16.

Indigenous Clean Energy (ICE) is an Indigenous-governed non-profit that builds capacity 
among Indigenous communities and Peoples to play a central and leading role in the 
energy transition. ICE forges collaborative relationships with energy companies, utilities, 
governments and other organizations that are advancing a net-zero future. ICE supports 
Indigenous community energy planning, renewable energy implementation and 
a spectrum of clean energy innovation initiatives. Their diverse array of programs 
also amplifies youth participation in clean energy and promotes energy-efficient 
community infrastructure and housing. ICE uses SEF support to deepen Indigenous 
leadership and participation in clean energy projects through more intensive 
collaboration, entrepreneurship, global outreach and innovative financing models.

Social innovation capacity 
We define social innovation as any initiative, product, process, program or design that 
challenges or changes society’s actions and beliefs. Successful social innovations create 
long-term transformative and positive results. As part of our strategy, we aim to build 
capacity for social innovation, including within Suncor. 

Community presence 
Suncor and SEF invest in local communities where we have operations across Canada and 
internationally. One example is our support for Youth Fusion/Fusion Jeunesse based in 
Quebec. This organization works with students in elementary and secondary schools to 
engage them in experiential learning.

Through COVID-19, the Banff Centre, 
faculty members from the systems thinking 
and leadership program, and SEF worked 
together to build a new entity called the 
Wolf Willow Institute to build on previous 
programs. The Institute will enable leaders 
and influencers to come together and 
develop leadership capacities to affect 
change in a complex world.

17 18 19 20 21

 27 29 33 36 36 ■ Contributions to 
  charitable, 
  non-charitable and 
  community groups

Suncor total
contributions
$ millions

17 18 19 20 21

 17 16 15 18 18 ■ Suncor Energy
  Foundation (SEF)
  donations

Suncor Energy
Foundation
Donations
$ millions

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance

https://www.suncor.com/en-ca/community-investment/foundation-and-corporate-giving
https://www.caremakers.ca/
https://www.suncor.com/en-ca/community/funding-priorities
https://indigenouscleanenergy.com/
https://www.suncor.com/en-ca/news-and-stories/our-stories/out-of-the-classroom-education
https://fusionjeunesse.org/en/home/
https://www.banffcentre.ca/
https://www.wolfwillow.org/


Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   46

We also offer employee engagement, volunteering and donation opportunities through 
our SunCares program. SunCares inspires employees to contribute to communities and 
supports the causes that are important to them.

Through SunCares, almost $6.8 million was contributed to communities in 2021, an increase 
from previous years due to an employee-focused Giving Tuesday campaign.

n	27% employees participated company-wide

n	80,000 hours volunteered by Suncor employees 
in the community

n	1,800 community organizations supported

Suncor is recognized as an  
Imagine Canada Caring Company for its 
leadership in community investment.

Community investment

Syncrude
Syncrude has helped support essential community services and initiatives for decades 
in the Regional Municipality of Wood Buffalo and beyond. Whether it is investing in local 
infrastructure, stocking the food bank or opening the doors to learning, Syncrude made a 
difference in the communities where employees live and work.

Syncrude donated approximately $5 million in 2021 to community organizations, bringing 
its total to more than $40 million since 2015. This also included donations through the 
Good Neighbours program (grants to non-profit organizations where employees volunteer 
and educational matching grants) and support to the United Way.

Petro-Canada CareMakers Foundation™
Since introducing the Petro-Canada CareMakers Foundation™ in 2020, we’ve made a 
difference in the lives of caregivers who are devoted to helping loved ones. The CareMakers 
Foundation™ creates awareness about family caregiving in Canada. We inspire Canadians to 
help by raising funds to enable and amplify the work of Canadian charitable organizations 
that support caregiving. 

In year one, Suncor contributed $2 million to the CareMakers Foundation. The Foundation 
receives contributions from Suncor, the proud owner of Petro-Canada™, as well as other 
corporate and individual donors. The Foundation awarded $1.7 million in national grants 
in 2021 and approved approximately $500,000 through local grants across nine provinces. 
Some of the foundation’s early successes include:

• launching online learning modules to educate Canadians about caregiving

• hosting an annual roundtable of experts and advocates to better understand the key 
issues facing caregivers every day

• raising funds through Suncor employee activities, Petro-Canada™ associates and all 
Canadians, including launching the national 19-Hour Care Commitment fundraiser.

As its profile grows among Canadians, the Petro-Canada CareMakers Foundation™ continues 
to demonstrate our purpose and complements our other community investment activities.

Syncrude total 
contributions
$ millions

2017 2018 2019 2020 2021

Contributions to charitable, 
non-charitable and 
community groups

6.2 6.2 6.4 5.5 4.9

For additional information about this chart and its data, please 
refer to performance data footnote #16.

It’s almost like you’re giving 
me a little raft, and now  
I know I won’t go under.
Participant in Circle of Care family caregiver 
support group, funded by Petro-Canada 
CareMakers Foundation™

17 18 19 20 21

 6.2 6.2 6.4 5.5 4.9 ■ Contributions to 
  charitable, 
  non-charitable and 
  community groups

Syncrude total
contributions
$ millions

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance

https://www.suncor.com/en-ca/community/suncares
https://www.imaginecanada.ca/en/caring-companies
https://www.caremakers.ca/


Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   47

Human rights

Suncor is committed to preserving and protecting internationally recognized human rights. 

We work to avoid infringing on the rights of individuals and groups. 
These rights include those set out in the United Nations Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour 
Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at 
Work. Our approach to human rights applies to all our business 
activities and extends to our business relationships. We are working 
to align our practices with the United Nations Guiding Principles 
on Business and Human Rights. Suncor also supports the United 
Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples and the 
Truth and Reconciliation Commission of Canada Calls to Action as a 

framework for reconciliation. We aim to achieve the intent of these 
protocols and principles.

Syncrude has policies related to business conduct, ethics, labour 
rights and Indigenous engagement. Work continues to integrate 
these in support of our human rights commitments. 

Our human rights guiding principles
Our human rights guiding principles focus on four areas: supply 
chain, communities, security and workforce.

Supply chain Communities

Our Supplier Code of Conduct (COC) highlights values important 
to Suncor. The COC:

• guides the standard of behaviour required of all suppliers, 
contractors, consultants and other third parties with whom 
we do business

• addresses topics such as safety, human rights, harassment, 
bribery and corruption, and confidential information, among 
others

• reinforces our focus on sustainable development and 
encourages our business associates to work with us to 
seek ways to reduce environmental impacts, support the 
communities in which we operate and collectively achieve 
economic growth.

Compliance with the COC is a standard requirement for all 
Suncor supply chain contracts.

Supplier Code of Conduct

We’re developing and maintaining positive, meaningful 
relationships with stakeholders, communities and Indigenous 
Peoples by:

• working to positively contribute to the communities where 
we operate 

• working with local stakeholders, communities and 
Indigenous Peoples to define an appropriate way to: 

 – share information 

 – consider interests and impacts 

 – incorporate feedback, at all stages, in a manner that 
respects local and traditional decision-making processes 

• working to minimize our impact on the environment and 
recognize its cultural significance to the communities where 
we operate 

• recognizing the unique legal and constitutional rights of 
Indigenous Peoples, including Treaty rights 

• seeking to understand and respecting Indigenous Peoples’ 
histories, customs, beliefs and traditions

• continuing our Journey of Reconciliation to progress the 
way we think and act to build mutual trust and respect with 
Indigenous Peoples

Canadian Aboriginal Relations Policy*

Stakeholder Relations Policy

* Suncor has started to transition its language from “Aboriginal” to “Indigenous” 
based on feedback from employees and Indigenous communities. Some 
references still require updates, including the Canadian Aboriginal Relations 
Policy and the Aboriginal Awareness web-based training.

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance

https://www.suncor.com/-/media/project/suncor/files/contractors-and-suppliers/existing-contractors/the-way-we-do-business-supplier-code-en.pdf?la=en-ca&modified=20201106181906&hash=671DEC60171FDF5725AB348F3885483A1E987BF2
https://www.suncor.com/-/media/project/suncor/files/sustainability/canadian-aboriginal-relations-policy-en.pdf?la=en-ca&modified=20210119163311&hash=9AA8FEFAD1AFE1B239CD255D9A9CA70EC1CD484E
https://www.suncor.com/-/media/4B19CC6367BA4AFDA6692BF4B2C706AF.pdf


Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   48

Security Workforce

We respect the human rights of our workforce and nearby 
communities, while maintaining the safety and security of our 
personnel, assets and operations: 

• Our security policies and guidelines honour the spirit of 
international human rights principles and the laws of the 
jurisdictions where we operate. 

We adhere to the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human 
Rights.

Corporate Security Policy

We are committed to advancing responsible labour practices. 
We treat our personnel with respect and dignity. We 
endeavour to provide an environment free from discrimination, 
harassment and violence: 

• Our employment policies adhere to all applicable domestic 
laws and are consistent with internationally accepted labour 
standards. These include: 

 – freedom of association and collective bargaining 

 – non-discrimination 

 – forced labour 

 – underage workers.

• We want our workplace to be an inclusive and diverse 
environment. This includes removing systemic and 
programmatic barriers to workplace participation and 
progression so individuals can fully contribute and pursue 
their potential. 

• We value safety above all else and believe it is everyone’s 
shared responsibility. 

• We champion the physical, psychological and social well-
being of our employees and communities. 

Equal Opportunity & Inclusion Policy 

Environment, Health & Safety Policy

As part of the Towards Sustainable Mining standards, 
Suncor and Syncrude undergo third-party assessments 
every three years and are confirmed to have processes in 
place that prevent child and forced labour.

Human rights

Access to remedy 
Engaging with communities is an important part of our approach to managing human rights and providing access to rectify, or remedy, a 
situation. We have regional-specific processes in place. Our Stakeholder Information Management System is Suncor’s primary database for: 

• documenting and reporting on consultation activities, legal requirements and commitments 

• recording stakeholder engagement activities to better understand interests and concerns 

• supporting institutional memory and other internal processes (e.g., grievances, complaints). 

We provide and facilitate access to remedies through the Suncor Integrity Hotline, which is available 24/7 to employees, contractors and the 
public. All reports are taken seriously and are investigated.

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance

https://www.suncor.com/-/media/6AB326001A3E4E18AA9563293690FBEA.pdf
https://www.suncor.com/-/media/3FDB6563C6F240AF802A4C99B0749267.pdf
https://sustainability-prd-cdn.suncor.com/-/media/project/suncor/files/contractors-and-suppliers/existing-contractors/environment-health-and-safety-policy-en.pdf?la=en&modified=20220419165626&hash=D23395D03F209D5080DA164D3E556EDE67FAAC27&_ga=2.48809510.1869960064.1652714839-659646221.1649712527
https://mining.ca/towards-sustainable-mining/protocols-frameworks/preventing-child-and-forced-labour/


Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   49

Governance

To live Suncor’s purpose of providing trusted energy, we embrace 
long-term thinking and strategies. With sound governance and 
committed leadership, we have created a strong foundation for 
resilient and sustainable energy development.

 > Ethics
 > Corporate governance
 > Risk management
 > Supply chain

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   50

Ethics

Acting with integrity is one of our core values and is embedded in every aspect of our business.

Our Compliance and Ethics Program fosters an ethical culture and raises awareness of our 
Standards of Business Conduct Code to mitigate corruption and other compliance risks. 
The Code sets out the basic rules, standards and behaviours that all Suncor employees, 
contractors and members of our Board of Directors must follow. It addresses a wide range 
of topics centring on ethical decision-making, including conflicts of interest, harassment, 
bribery, corruption, insider trading, competition, accounting and business controls. Our 
Program is designed to support the Code and promote a culture of integrity within Suncor 
that requires ethical conduct and compliance with the law. 

Suncor’s workforce must complete annual training about our Code and affirm that they’ve 
read The Way We Do Business and comply with the Code. The Way We Do Business 
summarizes all of Suncor’s policies, guidance and standards that make up the Code.

Our Equal Opportunity and Inclusion Policy highlights and reinforces Suncor’s commitment 
to providing an equal opportunity, non-discriminatory and inclusive work environment. Our 
Respectful Workplace Standard describes the requirements for supporting an inclusive and 
respectful work environment at Suncor.

We encourage people to raise concerns about suspected violations of our business conduct 
code with these teams/departments:

• Management 

• Legal – compliance

• Corporate Security

• Human Resources

• Internal Audit

People can also confidentially raise concerns through Suncor’s Integrity Hotline, available 
24/7 to employees, contractors and the public. All reports are taken seriously and 
investigated by our Corporate Security or Human Resources teams. Our report volume 
reflects a well-functioning reporting system and our efforts to increase awareness of the 
hotline throughout the organization.

Suncor’s program is mature and well-established. We monitor best practices and look 
for opportunities for improvement. Work continues to expand our program to Syncrude 
employees.

96% of employees completed the 
Annual Standards of Business Conduct 
training in 2021.

Suncor Integrity Hotline 
report volume
# of calls

2017 2018 2019 2020 2021

Report volume 159 180 204 179 220

Suncor Integrity Hotline report 
themes

Environment, Health and Safety 33%

People 26%

Business integrity 19%

Other 17%

Inquiries 5%

After Suncor took operatorship of Syncrude in September 
2021, their integrity hotline reports for the three months of 
operatorship in 2021 were included within Suncor’s total.

Suncor Integrity 
Hotline report 
volume
# of calls

 159 180 204 179 220 ■ Report volume

17 18 19 20 21

■ Environment, health and safety
■ People
■ Business integrity
■ Other
■ Inquiries

26%

17%

19%

33%

5%

Suncor
Integrity Hotline 

report themes

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance

https://sustainability-prd-cdn.suncor.com/-/media/project/suncor/files/who-we-are/business-conduct/2021-04-30-the-way-we-do-business-policy-en.pdf?modified=20210902045630&_ga=2.107293698.1260188299.1653948725-664842988.1647898358
https://www.suncor.com/-/media/3FDB6563C6F240AF802A4C99B0749267.pdf
https://sustainability-prd-cdn.suncor.com/-/media/project/suncor/files/who-we-are/business-conduct/2022-03-14-respectful-workplace-standard-en.pdf?modified=20220324012608&_ga=2.107293698.1260188299.1653948725-664842988.1647898358


Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   51

Corporate governance

Through sound governance and committed leadership, we have created a strong foundation 
to ensure our company’s resilience in energy development. Suncor’s commitment to robust 
governance is recognized by its first-place ranking amongst energy companies for seven 
years in a row in the Globe and Mail’s annual Board Games.

Our governance structure includes our Board of Directors and its committees, together with 
our executive team. 

The board’s responsibilities include governance, strategic planning and stewardship of 
Suncor, including identifying and mitigating principal risks such as carbon risk.

A diverse and experienced board 
Suncor’s board includes directors with a range of perspectives, insights and views on 
the issues affecting the organization. The board continuously assesses required skills 
and capabilities, and through the Governance Committee ensures a robust process for 
recruitment of new board members. In addition to ensuring depth of experience, we 
search for individuals from diverse backgrounds with regard to gender, members of visible 
minorities, Indigenous status, age, persons with disabilities, business and operational 
experience, professional expertise, personal skills, stakeholder perspectives, geographic 
background and other attributes. The company has a diverse and experienced board, with 
Indigenous representation for over two decades and 36% female directors.

Environment, social and governance
Environment, social and governance (ESG) is embedded in director recruitment, board 
evaluation and committee representation. The board’s skills matrix was revised in 2021 to 
separate “EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) and Social Responsibility” into two skills: 
“EHS” and “Social Performance.” 

Suncor’s board practices regarding performance evaluation and compensation consider 
ESG factors by:

• evaluating senior executive performance annually against well-defined goals that support 
and reinforce our business objectives, including ESG performance 

• considering our performance against enterprise-wide sustainability goals related to 
safety, environmental (including greenhouse gas (GHG) and social performance, to 
determine the annual incentive payment amounts for the Chief Executive Officer and the 
rest of the executive.

Executive compensation 
Executive compensation plans are a principal component of Board oversight. They 
are closely tied to our strategy, risk management, business objectives, sustainability 
and performance. Starting in 2022, a component of executive compensation will be 
determined by progress relative to the company’s climate initiatives. By linking long-term 
executive compensation to climate-related initiatives, we reinforce Suncor’s objective 
of attaining net-zero emissions by 2050. Vesting of the initial award will be based on 
progress from 2022 through 2024 toward our 2030 commitment to reduce annual GHG 
emissions by 10 megatonnes (Mt) across our value chain. The program is applicable to 
individuals in vice president or higher roles and is in addition to safety and sustainability 
measures included in the annual incentive plan.

For more information on the board’s 
skills, demographics and depth of 
experience see our  
2022 Management Proxy Circular.

2021 board diversity
Gender

Female 36%

Male 64%

2021 board diversity
Age

Under 60 55%

60 to 65 0%

Over 65 45%

For additional information about this chart and its data, 
please refer to performance data footnote #17.

2021 board diversity

■ Male■ Female

■ 60 to 65 ■ Over 65■ Under 60

64%

36%

Gender

45%
55%Age

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance

https://sustainability-prd-cdn.suncor.com/-/media/project/suncor/files/investor-centre/annual-report-2021/2022-management-proxy-circular-en.pdf?modified=20220224214656&_ga=2.178948589.892196643.1646248440-1413179321.1590791103


Senior/vice president representatives translate strategy into priorities and direct 
integration, prioritization, pace and governance for major enterprise programs 

ensuring focus on high value/high risk work

Cross-enterprise leader alignment and tactical translation of priorities

Vice president and general manager representatives establish  
and drive priorities on behalf of councils

Integrates key operational and functional accountabilities for maximum efficiency and 
effectiveness; sets strategic direction and vision; prioritizes funds for base business and energy 

transition. The ELT also includes a Chief Sustainability Officer and Chief Climate Officer.

Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   52

Suncor’s governance structure 
Through strong leadership and corporate structure, economic, 
environmental and social issues are evaluated holistically as part of 
Suncor’s strategic decision-making process. Governance starts with 
our board of directors and its committees, with clearly defined and 
distinct oversight roles to protect the interests of our shareholders 
and the best interests of the company as a whole. Governance is 
executed by our executive management team, which integrates key 
operational and functional accountabilities for maximum efficiency 
and effectiveness. The executive management team also includes 
a Chief Sustainability Officer and Chief Climate Officer who support 
our 25-plus years of dedication to improving sustainability and 
increasing transparency and reporting across Suncor.

Audit Committee
The Audit Committee monitors the effectiveness and integrity of 
the Corporation’s internal controls of Suncor’s business processes, 
including financial and management reporting systems and 
internal control systems. It monitors and reviews financial reports 
and other financial matters. The committee also selects, monitors 
and reviews the independence and effectiveness of external 
auditors, and the effectiveness of internal auditors, excluding the 
Operations Integrity Audit department (which is within the mandate 
of the Environment, Health, Safety and Sustainable Development 
(EHS&SD) Committee). Certain financial matters are also approved 
by this committee on behalf of the board.

Corporate governance

Environment, Health, 
Safety and Sustainable 

Development 
Committee

Human Resources 
and Compensation 

Committee

Audit 
Committee

Governance 
Committee 

Strategy
M

anagem
ent

Execution

Board of Directors

Councils

Networks

Forums

Executive Leadership Team (ELT)

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   53

Human Resources and Compensation Committee
The Human Resources and Compensation Committee oversees and manages matters 
relating to executive compensation, incentive plans and talent management. It directs 
executive compensation and the compensation guidelines that support Suncor’s overall 
business strategic objectives. The committee supports matters related to succession 
planning for the CEO and executive roles; oversees any significant compensation, pension 
and benefits programs for employees; and reviews industry, regulatory and compensation 
governance principles and their possible effect on Suncor’s human resources policies and 
practices. This is complemented by providing oversight of human capital management 
including culture, inclusion and diversity and employee engagement.

Governance Committee
The Governance Committee oversees and manages matters relating to Suncor’s corporate 
governance practices and principles. The committee assesses and makes recommendations 
with respect to the board’s compensation, structure, composition and processes. It 
evaluates the board’s effectiveness and facilitates director onboarding and the continuing 
education needs of the directors. It provides input on key strategic initiatives, long-range 
planning and budgeting, and key matters pertaining to corporate culture.

Environment, Health, Safety and Sustainable Development Committee
The Environment, Health, Safety and Sustainable Development (EHS&SD) Committee 
oversees and manages matters relating to environment, health, safety and sustainable 
development. The committee reviews Suncor’s Operational Excellence Management System 
– an overarching framework to manage operational risk – and makes recommendations to 
the board about Suncor’s strategies and policies on EHS&SD. It also reviews management’s 
performance and emerging trends and issues in the EHS&SD space to anticipate 
future challenges and position the company to minimize risks. The committee reviews 
management stewardship reports and the findings of significant external and internal 
environmental, health and safety investigations, assessments and audits. Disclosure on 
lobbying activities is also reviewed by the EHS&SD Committee.

Chief Climate Officer
Martha Hall Findlay was appointed 
Suncor’s first-ever Chief Climate Officer 
in the beginning of 2022. In this role, 
Martha plays a key role providing 
leadership both internally and 
externally for Suncor with respect to 
climate and energy. This appointment 
reflects the importance of managing 
climate risk and making progress 
towards our strategic objective to be 
net zero by 2050. 

Corporate governance

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   54

Risk management

Risk management is fundamental to achieving business goals and requires a culture of 
operational discipline.
We make data-informed, risk-based decisions guided by sustainability 
considerations. We are governed by our guiding principles for risk 
management. This requires ongoing identification, assessment, 
treatment and monitoring of risks inherent to our assets, activities 
and operations. Some risks are common to operations. Some are 
unique to Suncor. Our risk management program aligns with the 
International Organization for Standardization guidelines (the ISO 
31000 Risk Management – Guidelines), which have been adopted by 
the Standards Council of Canada. The guidelines provide principles, a 
framework and a process for managing risk.

Our risk management practice is governed by our risk 
management policy and supported through processes and tools, 
such as a risk matrix.

Identifying principal risks 
Principal risks have the potential to materially affect our ability to 
meet or support our strategic objectives. In the constantly evolving 
energy business, new risks can emerge while established risks 
can take on new forms or orders of magnitude. We manage the 
identification of new principal risks through our critical and principal 
risk processes. These risks are further outlined in our Annual 
Information Form, and include:

• carbon 

• commodity price 

• cumulative impact and pace of change 

• government and regulatory policy 

• digital and cybersecurity 

• major operational incident (safety, environmental and reliability) 

• market access (e.g., pipelines, rail and marine)

• strategic agility in the energy transition 

• tailings management, dam integrity and mine closure. 

Risk governance 
Suncor’s Board of Directors and Audit Committee are responsible for 
oversight of our principal risks and ensuring systems are in place to 
manage their impact. All principal risks are reported annually to the 
board and include details on what is being done to address the risks, 
how they are being monitored and any changes in the risk profile.

Each business unit and functional area mitigates and reports 
on critical risks in their areas of business. Risk oversight roles 
are assigned to manage identified risks and are supported by 
dedicated risk co-ordinators in each business area. Measures are 
in place to effectively implement and monitor risk management 
decisions.

Our 2021 Annual Information Form (dated February 23, 2022) 
provides an overview of risks to Suncor and its businesses. Carbon 
risk has been included as a principal risk since 2016. With climate-
related risks and opportunities featuring more prominently in our 
business planning and risk management activities, Suncor reframed 
its “portfolio development and execution” and execution risk in 2022 
to emphasize “strategic agility in the energy transition.” All principal 
risks undergo an annual review by the board’s Environment, Health, 
Safety and Sustainable Development Committee.

Risk assessment and evaluation 
We use a single risk-matrix tool to align the company on 
terminology and approach. We consistently assess risks in terms 
of magnitude of consequence and likelihood. The tool helps 
assign responsibility for different levels of residual risk. The 
consequences are based on the following five receptors on the 
risk matrix: 

• Health and safety 

• Environmental 

• Regulatory 

• Reputation 

• Financial impact 

We also use the matrix to evaluate emerging risks and their impact 
on the business. Examples of emerging risks include cybersecurity 
relating to supply chain, inflation and geopolitical developments.

Increased political and policy changes, activism and 
uncertainty about regulatory processes have added significant 
financial, social and climate risk to Suncor. To address these 
risks, we have an integrated policy and regulatory issues 
management process that takes a disciplined approach to 
managing these issues.

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   55

Operational Excellence Management 
System (OEMS) 
OEMS establishes the requirements to operate safely, reliably and 
cost efficiently to continually improve our performance. It further 
promotes: 

• systematic management of operational risk 

• achievement of our operational objectives 

• prevention and mitigation of environmental and social impacts 

• development and sharing of best practices. 

The management review cycle, with leadership engagement 
and support, ensures continual improvement and identification 
of material opportunities to progress. Our ISO 14001 and 9001 
certified facilities, primarily our refineries, are subject to verification 
audits. Internal assessment teams conduct a process-based audit 
focusing on significant aspects, risks and objectives required by the 
ISO 14001 standard. Suncor’s business units must conduct annual 
self-assessments against the requirements of the OEMS standard 
and are also subject to OEMS audits. 

Sustainability considerations in project 
development 
Integrating sustainability into project development helps us factor 
emerging policy, environmental and societal considerations into 
development decisions. Over time, this promotes organizational 
understanding of sustainability considerations and competencies, 
resulting in further opportunities for environmental and social 
performance improvements. It leverages technology and advances 
the sustainability mindset to drive toward our purpose.

Our governance framework ensures we embed sustainability 
considerations into planning and decision-making for new projects. 
We’re committed to improving environmental performance, 
thoughtful collaboration and meaningful stakeholder relationships 
that underpin our performance. Strategic guidance is further 
integrated into our investment evaluation process, which includes a 
focus on environmental, social and governance considerations, and 
supports our objectives.

Suncor’s strategic priorities drive decisions about our portfolio, 
consistent with project development and execution efforts. Our 
Asset Development Execution Model ensures collaboration and 
engagement early in the project development cycle and articulates 
multi-criteria requirements, including:

• early categorization and screening of environmental and social 
impact risks, as well as opportunities 

• differentiating development options based on alignment with 
strategic priorities, goals and establishing project-specific 
sustainability criteria through the concept selection process 

• incorporating sustainability risks into the project’s risk 
management process and identifying related enterprise risks or 
opportunities 

• defining project sustainability performance impacts that inform 
leadership decision-making 

• identifying opportunities for evaluating and deploying new 
technologies that help us achieve sustainability goals. 

Risk management

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   56

Supply chain

Driven by our purpose, we continue to integrate sustainability within our supply chain 
management and field logistics business.

Not only are we increasing the value to our business and generating mutual efficiencies 
with competitive businesses and suppliers, we are also addressing the environmental and 
social effects of our procurement decisions. The sustainability focus within our supply chain 
processes and partnerships supports Suncor’s purpose and demonstrates leadership in 
environmental and social governance.

We continue to partner with suppliers who share our values and align with our strategic 
objectives: seeking opportunities to reduce environmental impacts, supporting the 
communities where we work and live, and collectively contributing to economic growth. We 
engage with our suppliers on their sustainability performance by: 

• assessing sustainability performance as part of prequalification, awarding of work and 
ongoing supplier performance

• gathering data to understand the effects of our supply chain, which helps us make more 
informed decisions 

• evaluating sustainability risks and opportunities in our supply chain

• building relationships with like-minded suppliers to accelerate innovation and 
sustainability performance.

Sustainable development approach
To guide our decisions on who we work with, all businesses and suppliers must pre-qualify 
to provide services or materials to Suncor by answering a series of questions, including 
on sustainability. This allows us to assess if or how sustainability is embedded within 
their company. The questions address topics such as safety goals, Indigenous relations/
participation, climate change, human rights, inclusion and diversity, community investment 
and social innovation. Our Supply Chain Qualify and Select Supplier process follows the pre-
qualification process and helps inform purchasing decisions. 

To align with our sustainable development approach, all suppliers must comply with Suncor’s 
Supplier Code of Conduct. While codes of conduct (COC) across the industry are evolving, we 
are proud to be an energy industry leader in this space. We introduced a process in 2021 that 
asks suppliers if they have their own COC. If a company does not have one, it allows us to have 
a conversation and conduct education and awareness training on the importance of a COC.

Our progress 
Our suppliers are located across Canada and in 18 other countries around the world. 
Suncor and Syncrude together spent approximately $13.5 billion with suppliers in 2021, 
which means our sustainability reach can extend as far as our economic impact.

Working with our suppliers to understand social and  
environmental impacts 
We continue to engage with our key suppliers and industry partners to accelerate 
innovation and sustainability performance. Suncor and our key suppliers share best 
practices to achieve continuous improvement in sustainability performance throughout the 
value chain. These discussions also contribute to a different way of assessing our suppliers’ 
service offerings. Internally, there is increased awareness regarding opportunities to 
improve our social and environmental outcomes across the company.

Total supplier spend
$ billions

2017 2018 2019 2020 2021

Suncor 11.6 10.6 9.9 8.6 9.5

Syncrude 3.3 3.7 3.5 2.9 3.9

Syncrude performance will be incorporated into Suncor 
corporate totals in the next reporting cycle. Refer to the  
2022 sustainability performance data document for Syncrude 
performance on a separate asset basis. For additional 
information about this chart and its data, please refer to 
performance data footnote #15.

Engagement towards reducing 
scope 3 emissions
While we work to reduce our own GHG 
emissions, we want to work with suppliers 
to help reduce theirs. For example, a limited 
number of suppliers can produce pipe that 
meets Suncor high standards and technical 
specifications for drilling and completions 
pipe so collaboration is key to success. In 
2020, Suncor purchased over 5,000 tonnes 
of steel casing from Tenaris, all from the 
Tamsa facility in Mexico. Tenaris Tamsa is one 
of the leading manufacturers of seamless 
steel pipe and accessories for the energy 
industry and has been recognized as the 
first green building in the steel industry, 
also receiving LEED certification. Tenaris 
is committed to using a high proportion 
of recycled steel scrap in the metallic mix, 
carrying out investments to increase energy 
efficiency and the use of renewable energy 
for a portion of its energy requirements. 
They continue to pursue the highest 
environmental standards integrated into all 
management processes. Their 2030 goal of 
reducing CO2 intensity per ton of steel (scope 
1, 2 & 3) to 2018 levels demonstrates global 
leadership and supports Suncor’s emissions 
goals. For additional scope 3 disclosure, 
please see our 2022 Climate Report.

 11.6 10.6 9.9 8.6 9.5
 3.3 3.7 3.5 2.9 3.9
 ■ Suncor
  Syncrude

Total supplier
spend
$ billions

17 18 19 20 21

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   57

Working with Indigenous suppliers
Working with Indigenous suppliers is an important part of our supply chain. Our Indigenous 
Business Participation Strategy aligns teams across Suncor with our approach to meeting 
our commitments and supporting meaningful engagement, while ensuring agreements are 
mutually beneficial. To advance Indigenous business activities, we have a self-serve tool for 
employees to identify current and potential Indigenous suppliers. There is significant rigour 
around relationship management, annual priority setting, and introductory meetings with 
new Indigenous suppliers to discuss new service offerings and opportunities. Additional 
information on our work with Indigenous businesses and communities can be found 
starting on page 41.

Suncor and Syncrude together have spent more than $14 billion since the early 1990s 
with Indigenous businesses and suppliers across Canada. Suncor’s overall spend with 
Indigenous businesses increased to 16% in 2021 for a total of $1.5 billion. We have moved 
away from having an Indigenous spend goal to instead focus on shifting mindsets to 
understand that working with Indigenous suppliers is just how we do business. Making 
decisions through this lens allows us to maintain our commitments to advance Indigenous 
business, as well as focus on quality improvements that go beyond spend, such as 
employment and direct impact to communities.

Syncrude continues to spend and invest with Indigenous and local communities. In 2021, 
$973 million in services and supplies were procured directly from Indigenous-owned 
businesses, representing 27% of the operation’s annual purchasing. As part of the Syncrude 
integration with Suncor, we have now combined monthly stewardship with communities in 
the Wood Buffalo region. Additional work is underway as we work towards full integration 
by 2023.

We are seeing deeper engagement with 
Indigenous communities as part of their 
partnership agreements. An example is 
the significant capital investment that 
Mikisew Group of Companies, a majority 
owner in the Mikisew North American 
partnership, has made in heavy haul 
equipment. This investment provides 
various benefits, including the equipment 
being used within Suncor’s oil sands 
operations, strengthening involvement in 
the partnership and increased benefit for 
the community.

In 2021, members of the Suncor supply 
chain team participated in various 
industry discussions focused on economic 
reconciliation. They also met with more 
than 30 non-Indigenous suppliers to share 
Suncor’s Indigenous Business Participation 
Strategy to support other companies in 
developing their own Indigenous business 
participation strategy. As a leader in this 
space, it’s our responsibility to take others 
with us on this reconciliation journey.

Supply chain

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   58

 > About our report
 > ESG disclosure index
 > Performance data
 > Performance data footnotes
 > Independent practitioner’s 

assurance report
 > Advisories

Appendix

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   59

About our report

Our Report on Sustainability reflects our commitment to continually 
monitor and assess the impacts and benefits of our business, and 
effectively share these efforts. We value disclosure as a foundation 
for engagement and support efforts to drive consistency and 
comparability of sustainability performance data.

Scope 
We present our sustainability priorities and key performance metrics, 
reflecting consolidated company-wide data only for the assets we 
have operated for an entire calendar year (unless otherwise stated). 
More detailed facility and business segment performance, where 
applicable, is available on suncor.com. Suncor assumed operatorship 
of the Syncrude Project on September 30, 2021. Suncor’s equity 
interest of 58.74% does not change. In this year’s report, key 
indicators from Syncrude are highlighted throughout the content 
and included separately in the 2022 sustainability performance 
data document available for download on suncor.com. As Suncor’s 
operatorship of the Syncrude Project occurred at the end of the 
third quarter in 2021, Syncrude data is not integrated into Suncor’s 
corporate-wide totals. The only exceptions are equity greenhouse 
gases (GHG) and community investment data, which is represented 
as Suncor’s equity share and consistent with previous reports, and 
workforce and diversity data, which is fully integrated.

Our 2021 Annual Report provides financial performance and 
information about our business. 

Our 2022 Management Proxy Circular provides information 
regarding our Board of Directors and compensation practices.

Reporting period 
Performance data presented in this report reflects our activities 
from January 1 to December 31, 2021, unless otherwise stated. 
Where possible (or as appropriate) we’ve included historical data 
trends. The 2021 and historic data for Syncrude have been added 
and is available for download on suncor.com along with Suncor’s 
other assets within the 2022 sustainability performance data 
document. Information regarding events or activities in the first half 
of 2022 may also be included. Third-party review and assurance 
is completed by Ernst & Young LLP on selected performance 
indicators for the year ended December 31, 2021, driven by various 
reporting frameworks and sector disclosures. All assets, including 
Syncrude, have been assured for applicable KPIs. Refer to the  
2021 Independent practitioner’s assurance report. 

Restatements 
Historic numbers are sometimes adjusted due to, for example, 
changes in reporting principles, calculation errors, changes of 
calculation factors used by authorities, or re-classification of 
incidents after investigations. We restate historic numbers and 
explain the changes if the adjustment meets our restatement 
minimum threshold.

Reporting frameworks 
We use a number of reporting frameworks to identify and report on 
our material sustainability factors, including: 

• Global Reporting Initiative Standards – in accordance with 
universal and topic standards, and informed by oil and gas sector 
standards

• IPIECA – sector-specific sustainability reporting guidance for the 
oil and gas industry

• Sustainability Accounting Standards Board – industry-
specific standards

• Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosure – 
recommendations

• United Nations Global Compact – this report fulfils our 
Communication on Progress, and supports their 10 principles 
guiding our approach to sustainability

• United Nations Sustainable Development Goals – we 
support these 2030 global development priorities, and we share 
our perspectives on contributing to a number of the goals 
through our work. 

We are pleased to demonstrate 
our support for the United Nations 
Global Compact and its 10 principles, 
which guide our approach to human 
rights, labour, environment and anti-
corruption for all our operations.
Mark Little 
President and Chief Executive Officer

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance

https://sustainability-prd-cdn.suncor.com/-/media/project/suncor/files/investor-centre/annual-report-2021/2021-annual-report-en.pdf?modified=20220322152826&_ga=2.225209561.2125056757.1650291083-659646221.1649712527
https://sustainability-prd-cdn.suncor.com/-/media/project/suncor/files/investor-centre/annual-report-2021/2022-management-proxy-circular-en.pdf?modified=20220322153104&_ga=2.65162733.2125056757.1650291083-659646221.1649712527
https://sustainability-prd-cdn.suncor.com/-/media/project/ros/shared/documents/esg-disclosure-indexes/2022-esg-disclosure-index-en.pdf


Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   60

Materiality: Identifying sustainability 
priorities 
An important step in preparing our Report on Sustainability is 
reviewing the most relevant sustainability priorities for our business 
and those that matter most to our stakeholders. In 2022 we used 
the formal materiality assessment completed throughout 2020 to 
2021 as it accurately considered a broad range of perspectives. 
We appreciate all feedback and engagement we get from internal 
and external stakeholders as it provides an opportunity to evaluate 
our priority topics for our Report on Sustainability. Through 2020 
and 2021 we reviewed priorities for our report to define issues that 
are of relative significance to environmental, social, governance 
priorities and their impacts (both positive and negative) both to our 
business and to our stakeholders. The following internal practices 
were used to identify and assess sustainability priorities across our 
business and topics for our report. 

1. Input 

• Stakeholder engagement: Build and maintain relationships with 
local communities, Indigenous Peoples and stakeholders, and 
meaningfully consider: (i) their issues and concerns affected by 
our operations; and (ii) through their actions, affect our business. 

• Issues research: Conduct ad hoc issue research, peer 
benchmarking and review of previously identified priority 
sustainability topics. 

• Trends: Assess trends and conduct best practice analysis, 
including reporting best practices. 

2. Analysis 

• Rank and prioritize topics considering a range of perspectives 
internally and externally through surveys, workshops and 
knowledge sharing. 

• Evaluate in line with our annual enterprise risk management 
process. 

• Determine relevance, informed by a number of sustainability 
reporting frameworks.

3. Assessment 

• Prioritize topics, which could have a significant impact on 
Suncor’s business success or that would substantively influence 
the assessments and decisions of stakeholders over the next one 
to three years.

4. Ongoing engagement 

We operate in a complex environment with increasingly polarizing 
views about the energy industry. We believe that engaging with 
others will help us find solutions to our shared challenges.

We work to ensure Suncor is regarded as a Canadian business 
leader on all dimensions of sustainability – economic, 
environmental and social – so that we are a welcomed and 
influential participant and contributor to the energy system 
transformation.

To support our position as a Canadian business leader, we engage 
with a wide range of diverse stakeholders to consider their issues 
and concerns about our operations and the effects of proposed 
development. This includes working together to mitigate potential 
social, environmental and economic impacts, and ensuring that 
local communities benefit from development. We engage with 
stakeholders in multiple ways, including meetings, workshops 
and conferences. Not only does broad engagement support the 
operation of our base business, it also helps us to:

• assess our impacts and identify solutions 

• explore new business opportunities 

• support research, technology and innovation across the company 

• embed sustainability across our entire energy system.

We seek to engage with partners in an atmosphere of mutual 
respect, knowing there will be times when we work with partners 
that don’t support elements of our business or have different 
perspectives than ours. We welcome different opinions and 
perspectives that help us work toward the greater good and drive 
positive change. 

When it comes to our workforce, we believe in engaging our 
employees and building a culture where feedback is encouraged. 
Employee engagement is especially important in maintaining 
strong business delivery in times of change. 

About our report

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   61

Sustainability priorities 
Our stakeholders consider these priorities to be critically important, and, for our business to be successful, these priorities require 
innovative, strategic approaches and a commitment to operational excellence across all functions of our organization. 

About our report

• Climate change and energy transition 

• Safety 

• Indigenous relations

• Ethics

• Water stewardship 

• Tailings management 

• Innovation

• Environmental incidents 
• Land and reclamation 
• Air quality 
• Biodiversity
• Waste 

• Inclusion and diversity 
• Economic impact 
• Community relations 
• Employee attraction, 

retention and engagement
• Local employment 
• Labour relations 
• Human rights 

• Risk management
• Stakeholder engagement
• Corporate governance 
• Purpose 
• Supply chain 
• Market access 
• Public policy and lobbying

We identified other significant priorities and our performance or approach to these priorities is listed below and included throughout our 
report. Topics that were evaluated, but not reported on, are managed, tracked internally and monitored in the context of an ever-changing 
external landscape. Our approach to technology and innovation is a key theme of this report and is closely related to many of the priorities 
identified in our materiality assessment. 

Environment Social Governance

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   62

ESG disclosure index

Suncor participates in a number of environment, social and 
governance (ESG) frameworks and standards that help shape the 
content and materiality of the Report on Sustainability. Details on 
alignment and our responses are available for download in our 
ESG Disclosure Index. This document addresses the following: 
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards, IPIECA, Sustainability 

Accounting Standards Board (SASB), Task Force on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosure (TCFD), United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) 
and United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDG).

For more information please visit suncor.com.

Recognition in 2021

In 2021, Suncor received a 
rating of A in the MSCI ESG* 

Ratings assessment.

Suncor was recognized as being 
one of Alberta’s Top 70 Employers in 

2021 and 2022. 

Suncor was recognized as being 
one of Alberta’s Top 70 Employers 

in 2021 and 2022. 

CDP: Score of B for climate change and 
B- for water security disclosure in 2021. 
Suncor has been named a top reporter 

by the CDP for many years.

Suncor was recognized as one of 
Canada’s Best Diversity Employers 

in 2021 and 2022.

Suncor has been listed on the 
FTSE4Good Index since 2009.

Bloomberg’s Climate Transition Scores 
ranked Suncor among the top 10 

publicly traded oil and gas companies on 
preparedness for a low-carbon world.

Suncor has been honoured at 
the highest level for our work in 

Indigenous relations. In 2020, Suncor 
was re-certified at a gold level in 
Canadian Council for Aboriginal 

Business’s Progressive Aboriginal 
Relations program.

In 2021, the Transition Pathway 
Initiative assessed Suncor 

according to the management of its 
greenhouse gas emissions and of 

risks and opportunities related to the 
low-carbon transition.

Named to the Dow Jones Sustainability 
North American Index (DJSI), which 

marks 25 consecutive years on the DJSI. 
Additionally, Suncor was recognized as a 
2021 Sustainability Yearbook Member.

* The use by Suncor Energy Inc. of any MSCI ESG research llc or its affiliates (“MSCI”) data, and the use of MSCI logos, trademarks, service marks or index names herein, do not 
constitute a sponsorship, endorsement, recommendation, or promotion of Suncor Energy Inc. by MSCI. MSCI services and data are the property of MSCI or its information providers, 
and are provided ‘as-is’ and without warranty. MSCI names and logos are trademarks or service marks of MSCI.

Suncor was the recipient of the CDA 
Corporate Award recognizing the 

advancement of the state of practice, 
innovation and leadership, and 

contributions to the dam industry.

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance

https://www.suncor.com/


Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   63

Our sustainability performance data provides annual ( January 1 to December 31) environment, social, governance and economic data 
for 2021, with five-year performance trends where possible. Data reflects assets owned and operated by Suncor, as well as GHG data 
demonstrative of all Suncor equity assets, unless otherwise stated. Any data point that is accompanied by the (A) symbol was included in the 
scope of Ernst & Young LLP limited assurance engagement. See p. 78 for Ernst & Young LLP Independent practitioner’s assurance report on 
those data points. Performance data footnotes provide additional information for specific boundary conditions, changes in methodology, 
restatements and definitions, where applicable. Not all data is consistent with our 2021 Annual Report due to different reporting boundaries.

Additional information can also be downloaded on suncor.com.

Indicators – Suncor company totals 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021

Operational performance4

Operated total upstream and downstream net production
million m3/yr 48.53 53.95 55.85 47.54 49.27 (A)

Operated total upstream and downstream net production
million BOE/yr 305.24 339.33 351.28 299.02 309.92 (A)

Operated upstream processed volumes and net production
million m3 OE/yr 27.22 34.19 36.00 28.80 30.94 (A)

Operated upstream processed volumes and net production
million BOE/yr 171.21 215.05 226.40 181.15 194.63 (A)

Operated downstream net production
million m3 refined product/yr 27.98 26.92 27.57 25.25 24.97 (A)

Operated downstream net production
million BOE/yr 175.99 169.32 173.42 158.81 157.04 (A)

Equity total upstream and downstream net production
million BOE/yr 381.89 393.23 410.09 372.16 383.40

Equity upstream processed volumes and net production
million BOE/yr 251.88 268.98 285.22 254.36 266.79

Equity downstream net production
million BOE/yr 174.45 169.35 173.42 158.74 158.36

Ethanol production
million litres of ethanol product/yr 407.80 402.00 399.57 335.95 343.44

Wind energy generated
MWh 76,589 100,850 98,419 96,952 114,009

Renewable fuels blended
billion litres 1.12 1.13 1.14 1.44 1.54

Greenhouse gas (GHG) and energy5,6

Operated total GHG (scope 1 and 2) emissions
thousand tonnes CO2e

19,878 21,990 22,722 20,856 21,557 (A)

GHG (scope 1) emissions
thousand tonnes CO2e

18,509 20,577 21,377 19,565 20,159

GHG (scope 2) emissions
thousand tonnes CO2e

1,369 1,413 1,345 1,292 1,398

Operated total GHG emissions intensity
kg/BOE 63 62 62 66 66 (A)

Operated total GHG emissions intensity
g/MJ 10.3 10.0 10.1 10.9 10.9

Equity total GHG (scope 1 and 2) emissions 
thousand tonnes CO2e

25,945 27,997 28,997 27,703 28,452

Performance data

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance

https://www.suncor.com/


Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   64

Indicators – Suncor company totals 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021

Equity total GHG emissions intensity
kg/BOE 64 68 68 71 72

Equity total GHG emissions intensity
g/MJ 10.7 11.2 11.2 11.7 11.8

GHG (scope 3) emissions – Category 11 (Upstream production)
thousand tonnes CO2e

– – – 122,900 127,600

Energy use
million GJ 301.98 336.10 346.31 320.05 334.47

Direct energy use
million GJ 287.89 328.30 340.33 315.29 325.60

Indirect energy use
million GJ 14.08 7.78 5.98 4.76 8.87

Energy intensity
GJ/BOE 0.99 0.99 0.99 1.07 1.08

Cogeneration gross power generation
million MWh 5.09 7.24 7.03 7.09 6.34

Cogeneration net power export
million MWh 2.34 3.67 3.33 3.52 3.27

Air emissions7

SO2 emissions
thousand tonnes 20.51 20.50 20.78 21.93 20.15

SO2 emissions intensity
kg/BOE 0.07 0.06 0.06 0.07 0.07

NOX emissions
thousand tonnes 26.64 33.29 36.98 33.66 34.20

NOX emissions intensity
kg/BOE 0.09 0.10 0.11 0.11 0.11

VOC emissions
thousand tonnes 23.14 25.96 21.30 22.55 30.26

VOC emissions intensity
kg/BOE 0.08 0.08 0.06 0.08 0.10

PM10 emissions
thousand tonnes  – –  2.60 2.39 3.22

H2S emissions 
thousand tonnes  – –  0.05 0.04 0.03

Water use8 -  -  0.05 0.04 0.03

Water withdrawal
million m3 105.07 144.69 143.43 133.96 107.79 (A)

Surface water withdrawal
million m3 74.90 106.88 110.99 65.45 62.77

Groundwater withdrawal
million m3 2.26 3.13 3.92 4.41 5.49

Municipality/city/district water withdrawal
million m3 4.20 4.12 4.16 3.86 3.89

Treated wastewater withdrawal
million m3 1.60 1.52 1.74 2.48 0.42

Performance data

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   65

Indicators – Suncor company totals 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021

Industrial runoff water withdrawal
million m3 22.10 29.04 22.61 57.75 32.78

Water withdrawal intensity
m3/BOE 0.35 0.43 0.41 0.45 0.35 (A)

Water returned
million m3 65.99 77.44 77.10 77.35 63.23

Water consumption
million m3 39.07 67.24 66.33 56.61 44.56

Water consumption intensity
m3/BOE 0.13 0.20 0.19 0.19 0.14

Fresh water consumption
million m3 22.40 46.52 51.60 31.04 33.24

Fresh water consumption intensity
m3/BOE 0.07 0.14 0.15 0.10 0.11

Land disturbance and reclamation10

Total land disturbed
cumulative hectares 23,971 33,793 34,561 35,029 35,654 (A)

Total land reclaimed
cumulative hectares 2,239 2,621 2,795 2,850 2,878 (A)

Waste9

Total waste generated
thousand tonnes 2,123 2,486 2,420 2,682 2,764

Hazardous waste generated
thousand tonnes 999 983 1,049 1,006 1,019

Hazardous waste incinerated
thousand tonnes 3.54 4.14 3.46 3.04 2.72

Hazardous waste deep well injection
thousand tonnes 985 958 1,010 969 1,004

Hazardous waste landfilled
thousand tonnes 7.25 6.16 7.55 5.66 3.47

Hazardous waste otherwise disposed or treated
thousand tonnes 3.27 15.04 28.22 28.30 8.33

Non-hazardous waste generated
thousand tonnes 1,124 1,503 1,371 1,676 1,745

Non-hazardous waste incinerated
thousand tonnes 0.09 0.17 0.02 0.00 0.69

Non-hazardous waste deep well injection
thousand tonnes 987 1,315 1,174 1,596 1,647

Non-hazardous waste landfilled
thousand tonnes 135 179 184 76 95

Non-hazardous waste otherwise disposed or treated
thousand tonnes 1.62 9.71 13.08 4.06 2.62

Waste recycled, reused or recovered
thousand tonnes 71.00 96.18 151.82 82.37 94.77

Performance data

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   66

Indicators – Suncor company totals 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021

Environmental compliance11      

Environmental incidents and non-compliance
# – – – – 53

Significant spills
# 0 0 0 0 0

Significant spills volume
m3 0 0 0 0 0

Spills > 1 bbl that reach the environment

Total hydrocarbon and nonhydrocarbon
# – – – – 6

Total volume of hydrocarbon and nonhydrocarbon
m3 – – – – 360

Hydrocarbon only
# – – – – 6

Hydrocarbon only
m3 – – – – 360

Nonhydrocarbon only
# – – – – 0

Nonhydrocarbon only
m3 – – – – 0

Environmental regulatory fines
$ thousands 413 282 113 5,439 690

Economic14

Revenues and other income
$ millions 33,107 40,036 40,511 25,290 41,102

Operating, selling and general expense (OS&G)
$ millions 9,107 10,428 11,105 9,794 11,366

Employee costs
$ billions 3.20 3.30 3.60 2.80 3.90

Royalties and taxes paid
$ millions 1,489 1,695 2,555 933 1,470

Distribution to shareholders
$ millions 3,069 3,230 3,439 2,554 2,384

Economic value retained
$ millions 19,415 24,654 23,379 11,973 25,846

Enterprise value
$ billions 89 76 81 52 62

Capital and exploration expenditures
$ millions 6,551 5,406 5,558 3,926 4,555

Political donations
$ thousands 0 0 0 0 0

Supply chain15

Total supplier base
# 7,997 6,497 5,768 4,870 5,268

Performance data

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   67

Indicators – Suncor company totals 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021

Indigenous supplier base
# 55 85 88 104 110

Purchases of goods and services
$ billions 11.64 10.64 9.90 8.60 9.50

Total Indigenous supplier – spend
$ millions  521  703 836 911 1,471

Indigenous supplier – direct spend
$ millions 497 628 804 884 1,429

Indigenous supplier – indirect spend
$ millions  24 21 32 27 42

Community investments16      

Total contributions to charitable,  
non-charitable and community groups
$ thousands

26,557 28,980 32,941 36,278 36,119

Value of cash donations
$ thousands 25,466 27,843 32,747 32,411 35,065

Value of in-kind donations
$ thousands 291 1,137 187 3,867 1,054

Value of management cost donations
$ thousands 994 1,143 1,378 1,073 827

Suncor’s donation to the Suncor Energy Foundation (SEF)
$ thousands 16,600 18,455 20,255 19,000 24,000

SEF donations
$ thousands 16,649 15,817 15,143 17,637 17,956

Suncor’s donations to PetroCanada Caremakers 
Foundation™ (PCCF)
$ thousands

– – – – 2,000

SunCares Employee Program

Employee participation
% 27 26 29 34 27

Organizations supported
# 1,271 1,377 1,501 1,935 1,809

Value of Suncor and SEF donations
$ thousands 1,668 2,822 2,660 2,954 3,837

Value of employee personal donations
$ thousands 1,313 2,719 3,138 2,802 2,910

Volunteer hours
# 80,706 73,259 96,067 73,979 79,578

Health and safety12

Total lost time injury frequency
# per 200,000 hours worked 0.03 0.03 0.04 0.04 0.03

Employee lost time injury frequency
# per 200,000 hours worked 0.03 0.02 0.06 0.06 0.04

Contractor lost time injury frequency
# per 200,000 hours worked 0.04 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.02

Performance data

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   68

Indicators – Suncor company totals 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021

Total recordable injury frequency
# per 200,000 hours worked 0.40 0.37 0.39 0.32 0.35

Employee recordable injury frequency
# per 200,000 hours worked 0.30 0.30 0.39 0.29 0.43

Contractor recordable injury frequency
# per 200,000 hours worked 0.45 0.41 0.39 0.34 0.31

Serious injury and fatality
# of events 1 2 4 2 4

Fatalities
# 1 0 1 2 1 (A)

Loss of primary containment (tier 1 and 2)
# 46 45 39 40 36

Workforce13      

Suncor employees
# 12,649 12,626 13,483 13,035 17,433

Full-time employees
# 12,389 12,317 13,004 12,489 16,846

Part-time employees
# 111 98 97 102 76

Temporary/casual employees
# 149 211 382 444 511

Long-term contractors
# 809 559 534 235 921

Unionized workforce
% 32.80 33.20 31.58 31.78 24.00

New employee hires
% 7.70 7.70 8.25 3.34 4.68

Male new employee hires
% 76.90 69.70 73.01 73.79 73.53

Female new employee hires
% 23.10 30.30 26.99 25.52 23.04

Employee turnover
% 5.80 6.00 4.76 4.60 6.64

Male employee turnover
% 71.03 74.06 72.23 73.17 67.18

Female employee turnover
% 28.97 25.94 27.77 26.17 32.04

Diversity17

All Employees

Men
% 76.20 76.80 75.27 76.15 77.69

Women
% 23.80 23.20 24.58 23.71 22.25

Indigenous Peoples
% 3.00 3.10 3.27 3.40 5.27

Performance data

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   69

Indicators – Suncor company totals 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021

Visible minorities
% 14.70 12.60 11.81 12.88 8.96

Persons with disabilities
% 0.68 0.67 0.74 0.76 0.51

Age less than 30
% 8.81 7.96 8.48 7.53 7.59

Age 30-50
% 63.92 64.26 65.82 65.71 64.88

Age greater than 50
% 26.10 26.11 25.56 26.77 27.50

Management

Men
% 72.73 71.67 65.67 65.22 70.89

Women
% 27.27 28.33 34.33 34.78 29.11

Age less than 30
% – – – – 0.00

Age 30-50
% – – – – 36.71

Age greater than 50
% – – – – 63.29

Board of directors

Men
% 60.00 66.67 60.00 63.64 63.64

Women
% 40.00 33.33 40.00 36.36 36.36

Remuneration of women to men
% – – 97 97 96

Management
% – – 96 97 95

Individual contributor
% – – 97 96 96

Learning and development18

Total hours of training and development
# – – – –  347,624 

Average per full-time equivalent (FTE) employee
# – – – – 24

Total spend on training and development
$ millions – – – –  19.54 

Average per FTE employee
$ – – – –  1,500

Performance data

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   70

Performance data footnotes

1 Overview 

Performance data provided throughout our Report on Sustainability in tables and graphs provide annual ( January 1 to December 31) 
environmental, social, governance and economic data for 2021, with five-year trends, where possible. Note that corporate totals may 
not add up exactly due to rounding. These notes provide additional details on boundary conditions, and changes in methodologies, 
definitions, business segment structure changes or changes to historical data. We also implement our own internal guidelines and 
definitions for data gathering and reporting.

2 Reporting boundaries 

Other than royalties, which represent Suncor’s proportionate share of joint operations, environmental and social performance data is 
collected and reported for all facilities operated by Suncor (100%, not adjusted for Suncor’s ownership share), and our joint venture 
interests operated by other organizations are not included (with the exception of our GHG emissions data, which is now reported on 
an operational and equity basis). Facilities are subject to annual planned and unplanned maintenance activities, which may impact 
consistent year-over-year trends. Facilities that are purchased and subsequently operated by Suncor in the reporting year are not 
included totals unless owned or operated for the entire year (12 months).

3 Summary of business segments and operations included in performance data 

a. Suncor totals reflect consolidation of data where relevant and applicable. 

b. Upstream (Base Plant) includes Millennium and North Steepbank mining, extraction and integrated upgrading facilities, the integrated 
Poplar Creek cogeneration facility (owned and operated by Suncor as of 2015), and associated infrastructure for these assets, but does 
not include Syncrude. 

c. Upstream (Fort Hills). 

d. Upstream (Oil Sands in situ operations) data includes oil sands bitumen production from Firebag and MacKay River operations and 
supporting infrastructure.

e. Upstream Exploration and Production (E&P) includes:

• E&P Terra Nova floating production storage and offloading vessel situated off the east coast of Canada. Production at Terra Nova 
has been shut in since the fourth quarter of 2019. In 2021, Suncor and the Terra Nova joint venture owners finalized an agreement 
to move forward with the Asset Life Extension Project, which is expected to extend production life by approximately 10 years, and 
produce an additional 70 million barrels of oil for the partnership.

• Suncor holds non-operated interests in other Canadian and International E&P assets. Please visit www.suncor.com. 

f. Downstream (Refining and Logistics) includes refining operations in Montreal, Quebec, Sarnia, Ontario, Edmonton, Alberta, and Commerce 
City, Colorado Suncor previously operated a lubricants business in Mississauga, Ontario, which was sold February 1, 2017. 2017 performance 
data reflects this sale. Other assets include a petrochemical plant and sulphur recovery facility in Montreal, and product pipelines and 
terminals in Canada and the United States. Additional information about our downstream business is available at www.suncor.com.

g. Renewable Fuels and Power includes wind power facilities operated by Suncor, and in graphs are reported with the St. Clair Ethanol 
Plant, located in Ontario. 

h. Suncor assumed operatorship of the Syncrude Project on September 30, 2021. Suncor’s equity interest of 58.74% does not change. 
In this year’s report, key indicators from Syncrude are highlighted throughout the content and included separately in the 2022 
sustainability performance data document available for download on suncor.com. As Suncor’s operatorship of the Syncrude Project 
occurred at the end of the third quarter in 2021, Syncrude data is not integrated into Suncor’s corporate-wide totals. The only 
exceptions are GHG and community investment data, which is represented as Suncor’s equity share and consistent with previous 
reports, and workforce and diversity data, which is fully integrated. Syncrude data has been informed by GRI and SASB standards, and 
is reported in the detailed 2022 sustainability performance document available on suncor.com.  Not all required disclosures by GRI and 
SASB as described in the ESG Disclosure Index 2022 have been made for Syncrude as Suncor did not operate the Syncrude Project 
for the entire 2021 calendar year and its data is not incorporated into Suncor corporate-wide totals. Syncrude will be integrated into 
Suncor’s corporate-wide totals and aligned with the required standards in future sustainability disclosure.

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   71

4 Notes on operational performance and production

a. See “Advisories,” as barrels of oil equivalent and cubic metres of oil equivalent may be misleading indicators of value.

b. Oil Sands Base production is gross sweet and sour synthetic crude oil associated with mining, extraction and upgrading and includes 
unprocessed volumes. This may be different than production reported in our 2021 Annual Report.

c. Fort Hills production is partially upgraded bitumen associated with the paraffinic froth treatment process.

d. Syncrude production is Syncrude Sweet Premium (SSP) crude oil produced. Production of SSP crude oil becomes the property of 
Syncrude’s Joint Venture Participants at point of departure from the Syncrude plant.

e. In situ production is net bitumen sales associated with total plant saleable product.

f. East Coast (Terra Nova) production is the total amount of product sold, not flaring or internally produced fuel. Production at Terra Nova 
has been shut in since the fourth quarter of 2019. In 2021, Terra Nova operations remained a non-producing facility and in late 2021 
the FPSO underwent maintenance work prior to sailing to dry dock in Ferrol, Spain. A safe return to operations is anticipated before 
the end of 2022.

g. Refining and Logistics net production is reported on a business unit level, where transfers between our facilities have been removed 
from facility production totals.

h. St. Clair Ethanol Plant production is ethanol produced and converted to cubic metres of oil equivalent, on an energy basis.

i. Wind energy production is in megawatt hours, from Suncor-operated wind facilities (100% – not adjusted for ownership). 

j. Our refineries that blend ethanol into gasoline are Sarnia, Montreal, Commerce City and Edmonton.

k. Production data is inconsistent with our 2021 Annual Report due to different reporting boundaries.

5 Notes on greenhouse gas emissions (GHG)

5.1 GHG emissions factors

Emissions factors allow us to estimate GHG emissions from a unit of available activity data (e.g., quantity of fuel consumed or product 
produced). The metric we use in our Report on Sustainability for reporting GHG emissions is metric tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent 
(CO2e). This common unit for reporting GHGs represents volumes of gases that have been studied to have an impact on the global 
atmosphere. CO2e means that individual GHGs have been multiplied by their assessed global warming potential (GWP) compared to 
carbon dioxide (CO2). This report (and our 2015-2021 Reports on Sustainability) uses the 100-year GWPs issued by the Intergovernmental 
Panel on Climate Change’s (IPCC) fourth assessment report (2007), which aligns to several jurisdictions of GHG reporting, including 
Environment Canada and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). The major impacts of using the GWPs issued by the IPCC’s 
fourth assessment report will change and be updated with the latest assessment reporting coming out in 2022. 

5.2 Measuring potential GHG emission sources

As an integrated energy company spanning multiple jurisdictions, sectors and operations, we use several different externally developed 
and publicly accepted emission factor protocols to develop facility-specific emission calculation methodologies. We select the appropriate 
protocol for the site-specific fuel type and composition, emission source, facility or jurisdiction being considered. As required by 
regulators and verified by external auditors, we use internationally accepted GHG protocols and methodologies in determining our 
overall emissions profile.

In addition to using fuel-specific emission factors, some GHG emissions are calculated using process- or equipment-specific 
consumption rates in units such as run-hours, and not fuel volumes. Many of our sites have complicated processes that require specific 
emission factors and methodologies to accurately calculate their emissions.

Primarily, our sites use protocols and methodologies that are required by their operating jurisdiction. However, if no prescribed 
methodology is required, it may be necessary to use a combination of standardized methodologies at a single facility due to site and 
sector-specific details that may not be completely covered by a single standard or regulation. On occasion, more accurate emission 
factors – measured, calculated from compositional data or manufacturer-supplied – may be available for specific equipment. These are 
used whenever and wherever appropriate to ensure we gather the best-quality data and use the most accurate measures.

Performance data footnotes

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   72

Specific emission factors are calculated from actual measured data rather than applying generic estimated default factors as frequently 
as possible. In other cases, such as when calculating indirect emissions from externally purchased electric power, we use factors 
primarily from site-specific factors if available, secondarily where prescribed by regulation and finally, from published emission factors for 
remaining emission sources.

Due to the unique nature of each site, we have more than 1,400 standard emission factors in our Environmental Information 
Management System that are applied at different sites. This number does not include thousands of additional factors that are calculated 
daily for different fuels and sites based on fuel composition analysis. These factors give us data on real-time gas composition and the 
resulting carbon content. 

5.3 The role of regulation in GHG reporting 

Many jurisdictions have, or are in the process of developing, prescriptive regulations that specify which factors can be used. For 
example, the EPA and regulators in Western Climate Initiative jurisdictions such as Quebec and British Columbia all required operators 
to use specified factors for the 2021 reporting year. Alberta requires large emitting facilities to use the standard methodology and 
emission factors in the Technology Innovation and Emission Reduction Regulation (TIER). Each of our sites that report through the 
TIER successfully generated positive (approved) verifications for the 2021 reporting year at a reasonable level of assurance. Not all 
verifications are final at the time of the publication of this report.

5.4 GHG standard practices and methodologies

External agencies have developed industry-accepted standard methodologies that operators can choose to use in the absence of 
prescribed methods. The standard practices and methodologies we follow are widely accepted, well researched and documented so the 
numbers produced are verifiable by governments and third parties and are consistently applied from year to year.

A partial list of these standard methodologies and guidance documents includes:

• American Petroleum Institute (API) Compendium of Greenhouse Gas Emissions Methodologies for the Oil and Natural Gas Industry, 2009

• US EPA Mandatory Greenhouse Gas Reporting Rule

• IPCC Fourth Assessment Report, 2007

• World Business Council for Sustainable Development/World Resources Institute Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting 
and Reporting Standard, 2004

• Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 2006 Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories

• Western Climate Initiative (WCI) Design for the WCI Regional Program, July 2010

• Final Essential Requirements for Mandatory Reporting – Amended for Canadian Harmonization, 2011

• Western Climate Initiative (WCI) Final Essential Requirements of Mandatory Reporting: Amended for Canadian Harmonization, 2013 

• Alberta Greenhouse Gas Quantification Methodologies (Technology Innovation and Emission Reduction Regulation) (Version 2.2)

• Regulation respecting mandatory reporting of certain emissions of contaminants into the atmosphere 2021

• Canadian’s Greenhouse Gas Quantification Requirements (Greenhouse Gas Reporting Program), 2020

• Environment Canada National Inventory Report, 1990-2019

5.5 Additional GHG notes

a. GHG emissions are calculated using facility-specific and referenced methodologies accepted by the relevant jurisdictions where each 
facility is required to report GHG emissions. We follow each jurisdiction’s prescribed methodology, and if none exists then the most 
applicable and accurate methods available are used to quantify each emission source.

b. Absolute CO2e emissions represent the total scope 1 and 2 emissions with no credit taken for low-carbon power production. The 
power credit is calculated using the Suncor-operated cogeneration power exported to the Alberta grid and the intensity in which this 
power was generated. It is included to determine the GHG emissions intensities for our operated assets.

c. Absolute (total) GHG emissions are the sum of direct and indirect emissions.

• Operated absolute emissions represent 100% of operated assets.

• Equity absolute emissions are based on Suncor’s working interest for both operated and non-operated assets. 

Performance data footnotes

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   73

d. The Suncor-total intensity calculation incorporates net facility production, minus internal transfers, resulting in a production value 
reflective of our product sales to market. Suncor-total intensity will therefore not equal the weighted average of business unit intensities.

e. In situ (MacKay River) indirect emissions methodology reported since 2014 includes electricity purchased from the grid, purchased 
electricity and steam from the third-party TransCanada cogeneration units. Firebag cogeneration units are owned and operated 
by Suncor and therefore all cogen emissions contribute to total direct emissions, including emissions associated with generating 
electricity that is sold to the Alberta grid.

f. Direct (scope 1) GHG emissions are from sources that are owned or controlled by the reporting company. Refining and Logistics direct 
emissions do not deduct CO2 transfers to third parties, such as the food and beverage industries.

g. Indirect (scope 2) GHG emissions are energy-related emissions that are a consequence of our operations, but occur at sources owned 
or controlled by another company (e.g., purchases of electricity, steam, heat and cooling). Emissions are calculated based on actual 
supplier data where possible and published literature where supplier data is unavailable.

h. Indirect (scope 3) GHG emissions are our category 11, use of sold products.

i. Scope 3 emissions reported in the performance data section reflect Suncor’s emissions from category 11 specific to our “Upstream 
Production” only. Additional information on Suncor’s emissions from category 11 has been reported under the following categories in 
the 2021 Climate Report based on the following parts of our integrated business:

• Upstream production: The majority of the hydrocarbon volumes produced from Suncor operated and non-operated assets on a 
working interest basis must be processed into refined products, which are finally combusted. Bitumen production volumes from 
Firebag and Oil Sands mining have been adjusted to account for coke combusted and stored on site. Coke volumes sold to third 
parties for combustion have been included in this year’s report. Bitumen production volumes from all assets have been reduced 
by 6% to account for downstream asphalt production. GHG Emission Factors sourced from API Compendium of GHG Emissions 
Methodologies for the Natural Gas and Oil Industry, 2009 and GREET Model.

• Refinery throughput: Scope 3 GHG emissions for the Edmonton, Commerce City, Sarnia and Montreal refineries have been 
quantified based on the products each refinery produces on an annual basis, (i.e., gasoline, distillates and combustibles (propane, 
butane, coke and heavy fuel oil (HFO)). GHG Emission Factors sourced from API Compendium of GHG Emissions Methodologies for 
Oil and Natural Gas Industries, 2009.

• Branded sales: Sales of refined products to retail customers within Canada and the U.S.; wholesales are excluded. Renewable fuel 
volumes which are blended with the refined products have been subtracted from total volumes as renewable fuels do not have any 
scope 3 (category 11) GHG emissions.

j. Suncor’s GHG target is designed to encourage business choices that reduce Suncor’s emissions and the emissions in the global 
energy system. To support tracking our progress, Suncor developed a methodology that includes both direct emissions reductions 
from our operated assets and indirect reductions from the use of our products. Our GHG performance is reported on an operated and 
equity basis. Emissions data from our partners have not been verified, and are subject to change. Direct and indirect CO2e emissions 
are included for this report. No credit is taken for GHG reductions due to internally generated performance credits, purchased offsets, 
ethanol life-cycle GHG reductions or wind-generated offsets.

k. Suncor’s GHG data reflects our 58.74% equity interest in the Syncrude Project. Refer to the 2022 sustainability performance data 
document for Syncrude performance on a separate asset basis. We are in the process of aligning Syncrude and Suncor GHG 
calculations and methodologies.

6 Notes on energy consumption

a. Total energy is equal to the sum of direct and indirect energy. Electricity that is produced and sold to the provincial grids by oil sands and in 
situ cogeneration units and operated wind farms is converted to an equivalent amount in gigajoules and deducted from total energy use.

b. Direct energy is primary energy consumed on-site by Suncor-operated facilities.

c. Indirect energy includes imported electricity, steam, heating and cooling duty from third parties. The indirect energy calculation 
method credits operations for electricity exported to external users and/or other Suncor facilities.

Performance data footnotes

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   74

d. The energy intensity of the renewables business is based on energy input for ethanol production with wind energy production 
deducted from that total energy input.

e. Syncrude’s energy performance will be incorporated into Suncor corporate totals in the next reporting cycle. Refer to the  
2022 sustainability performance data document for Syncrude performance on a separate asset basis.

7 Notes on other air emissions

a. Air emissions data reported (NOX , SO2 and VOC) include point and non-point sources.

b. Suncor and Syncrude report to the Canadian National Pollutant Release Inventory annually. Suncor also reports to the U.S. Toxic 
Release Inventory annually. Additional information on performance can be found through these reporting mechanisms.

c. Graphs associated with SO2, NOX and VOC emissions intensity only include facilities that are material sources of these emissions for 
our business. Oil Sands and Syncrude estimation accuracy for VOC emissions intensity is greater than +/- 10% and limited by currently 
accepted methodology and measurement instruments.

d. Minor adjustments were made to 2020 SO2 emissions due to calculation corrections at the Sarnia refinery to better align with 
regulatory reporting. 

e. Syncrude air emissions performance will be incorporated into Suncor corporate totals in the next reporting cycle. Refer to the  
2022 sustainability performance data document for Syncrude performance on a separate asset basis.

8 Notes on water use and return

a. Total water withdrawal is the removal or purchase of water from any source, either permanently or temporarily. It is also referred to as 
water abstraction or water intake, and it includes both fresh and non-freshwater sources.

b. Total water return is the sum of effluents and other water leaving the organization’s boundary and released to surface water, 
groundwater (approved for deep disposal wells) or to third parties over the course of the reporting year.

c. Fresh water is characterized by a low total dissolved solids content for which limits are defined by regulation in the jurisdiction of 
Suncor and Syncrude activity. Where no regulatory definition of fresh water exists, we default to the Alberta Environment limit of fresh 
water having less than 4,000 mg/L of total dissolved solids.

d. Water consumption is the total water withdrawn minus water returned and reflects quantity of water used and not returned to its 
proximate source or no longer available in its original form.

e. Freshwater consumption and intensity graphs: Oil Sands Base Plant, Fort Hills and Syncrude in this graph do not include industrial 
runoff water, which is subject to annual variances based on precipitation. Withdrawal and consumption including industrial runoff 
volumes are shown in the performance data tables. Water measurement and estimation methodology on select Refining & Logistics 
operations is greater than +/- 10% uncertainty.

f. Freshwater consumption intensity is the volume of fresh water consumed (m3) per volume of barrels of oil equivalent (BOE).

g. Oil Sands Base Plant and Syncrude mining water withdrawal includes surface water, groundwater and industrial run off water as per 
regulatory withdrawal licences and are subject to annual variances based on precipitation. Water returned includes treated industrial 
wastewater and runoff from non-process areas that gets collected, diverted and eventually discharged to the environment (destination 
is the Athabasca River).

h. In Situ water withdrawal includes licenced groundwater wells, treated wastewater and industrial run off water.

i. Refining and Logistics surface water withdrawal sources and return destinations vary by refinery facility location.

j. Syncrude water performance will be incorporated into Suncor corporate totals in the next reporting cycle. Refer to the  
2022 sustainability performance data document for Syncrude performance on a separate asset basis.

9 Notes on waste management 

a. Waste volumes depend on site activities or periodic equipment maintenance and may fluctuate annually. 

Performance data footnotes

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   75

b. In Situ waste that is sent to deep well injection is primarily related to blowdown from our steam-assisted gravity drainage operations 
at Firebag, consisting of concentrated water impurities that accumulate during the steam generation process. This boiler feedwater is 
intentionally wasted from the boilers to avoid concentration of impurities during continuing evaporation of steam. Deepwell disposal 
methods of this nature are safe, viable and part of normal operating parameters and our operations are within the disposal limits for 
these waste streams (regulated by the Alberta Energy Regulator). Our operations also have exceptionally high water recycling rates, 
above regulated levels.

c. Hazardous waste is defined as hazardous, toxic, dangerous, listed, priority, special or some other similar term as defined by an 
appropriate country, regulatory agency or authority. Under regulatory law, wastes that, when present in quantities and concentrations 
that are high enough, pose a threat to human health or the environment if they are improperly stored, transported, treated or 
disposed. 

d. Non-hazardous waste is considered less harmful to the environment or human health as defined by an appropriate country, regulatory 
agency or authority. 

e. Syncrude waste volumes will be incorporated into Suncor corporate totals in the next reporting cycle. Refer to the 2022 sustainability 
performance data document for Syncrude performance on a separate asset basis.

10 Notes on land disturbance and reclamation/tailings 

a. Total land disturbed presented in the performance data table represents the total active footprint of our Base Plant mining operations, 
Fort Hills operations and approved in situ projects, and include the cumulative hectares for areas cleared of vegetation, soil disturbed, 
ready for reclamation, soils placed and permanently reclaimed. The categories used are consistent with reporting to the Alberta Energy 
Regulator in the annual reports. 

b. Land reclaimed is land that is no longer being used for mine or plant purposes or in situ production purposes and has been 
permanently or temporarily reclaimed. This value is a subset of the total active footprint. Reclamation is presented as a cumulative 
number; therefore, the total number of hectares reported from year to year may increase depending on whether reclamation has 
occurred or whether re-disturbance of previously reclaimed areas was required. Permanently reclaimed lands have met the authorized 
plans for soil placement and re-vegetation, but have not been certified by the Alberta Energy Regulator. Syncrude data reflects 
permanent reclamation only.

c. Mining and in situ reclamation data presented in the land and reclamation graphs: 

• Certified land is returned to the Crown and does not count toward the total active footprint.

• Disturbed means soil has been disturbed. 

• Cleared means vegetation has been removed and soils are intact. 

d. The dam safety regulation in Alberta is through the Water (Ministerial) Regulation and detailed in the Dam and Canal Safety Directive. 
The regulation and directive govern dam safety requirements for all dams and canals in the province, including defining dam 
classifications:

• Active is defined as in operation for either ongoing tailings management or progressing to closure.

• Inactive is defined as not in operation but not yet closed.

• Closed or reclaimed surface is defined as having completed closure activities but still owned by the operator. 

e. The fluid tailings volumetric estimate for 2020 is in alignment with Base Plant’s updated ready to reclaim targets approved by the 
Alberta Energy Regulator in the first quarter of 2021.

f. Syncrude total land reclaimed includes 104 hectares of land certified by the Government of Alberta and returned to the Crown. In 
the next reporting cycle, Syncrude performance will be incorporated into Suncor corporate totals. Refer to the 2022 sustainability 
performance data document for Syncrude performance on a separate asset basis.

g. Following a review of in situ land disturbed values, updates have been made to the 2017-2020 data to reflect the active footprint as 
stated in the definition above.

Performance data footnotes

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   76

11 Notes on environmental compliance 

a. The environmental incident and non-compliance metric replaces the metric in previous reports titled “Environmental non-compliance.” 
The updated metric includes all incidents previously reported as “environmental non-compliance” as well as an additional subset of 
incidents that corresponds to a lower threshold on Suncor’s risk matrix. 

b. Environmental incidents and non-compliance data represents incidents with higher environmental and regulatory risk that aligns with 
our risk matrix (defined by Suncor) and reflects at minimum an event triggering regulatory reporting or non-compliance.

c. Significant spills reflect the unplanned or accidental release of material whose impact is either off property and takes longer than 
seven months to remediate, or is on property and takes one year or more to remediate or reclaim. 

• In 2021, we added a new Environmental Compliance metric called “Reportable spills >1bbl reaching the environment” that includes a 
lower threshold for spills than the previously documented “Significant spills.”

• A reportable spill >1 bbl reaching the environment reflects an unplanned or accidental release of material with off-property impact 
or on-property impact requiring remediation or reclamation.

d. Both reportable spills >1bbl that reaches the environment and significant spills are subcategories of an environment incident and non-
compliance.

e. Based off IPIECA guidance, the following substances are in scope for reportable spills: hydrocarbon liquids, chemicals, produced water 
and other process-related non-hydrocarbons.

f. An incident is a reportable spill if it involved >1 bbl that reaches the environment based on substance type; however, an incident that is 
not a reportable spill would still be included as an environmental incident and non-compliance.

g. One of the incidents in the reportable spills >1bbl that reaches the environment category does not have a measurable volume; 
however, it was estimated to be greater than 1bbl and therefore was included in the incident total, but not the volume total. 

h. Environmental regulatory fines align to our risk matrix, and reflect financial penalties levied by the regulator, or the courts, and are 
paid in the reporting year as a result of a regulatory non-compliance or exceedance. Threshold for reporting is for fine, penalties or 
settlements >$10,000 CDN or USD.

• the year that a fine is paid does not necessarily correlate to the year that the incident occurred

• the environmental-related fines paid during the reporting period were due to violating water and air requirements

• fine total includes $118K victim surcharge

• not included in 2021 fine total: A $200K probation order was paid in 2020 in relation to a fine paid in 2021.

i. Compliance metric data was collected for the 2021 reporting year as of January 10, 2022. Previous years’ compliance data is not 
subject to restatement for the Report on Sustainability.

12 Notes on health and safety

a. All health and safety information reported in this filing is based on data as of January 21, 2022, except for serious injury and fatalities 
information, which are based on data as of March 11, 2022. Suncor-wide data does not include Syncrude data. The asset will be 
reported separately until there is a full year of operatorship.

b. Health and safety data are subject to restatement for a full year as events are updated and reclassified to ensure consistency and 
accuracy in publicly available information.

c. Downstream Refining and Logistics health and safety data includes our St. Clair Ethanol Plant. Our U.S. operations use the 
Occupational Health and Safety Administration definitions to classify their injuries, which differ slightly from Canadian standards.

d. Lost time injury is a work-related injury that results in lost days from work. Fatalities are included in lost time injuries. Frequency is 
calculated as the number of lost time injuries multiplied by 200,000 (based on 100 workers working full-time for one year) divided by 
the actual exposure hours. Prime contractor incident data is excluded from this metric.

Performance data footnotes

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   77

e. Recordable injury frequency is the number of recordable injuries (including medical treatment, restricted work access and lost time) 
multiplied by 200,000 (based on 100 workers working full-time divided by the actual exposure hours). This tells us how many people 
are injured for every 100 workers in a calendar year. Prime contractor incident data is excluded from this metric. 

f. Serious Injury and Fatality (SIF) events include the following incident types: fatalities; any injury that requires immediate life-preserving 
rescue action, and if not applied immediately would likely result in the death of that person (life-threatening); and, any injury that 
results in permanent or long-term impairment or loss of an internal organ, body function, or body part (life-altering).

g. Contractors refer to any organization, company or individual who provides goods and/or services to Suncor.

h. Fatalities are reported for employees and contractors (excluding prime contractors). The prime contractor for a work site is (a) the 
person in control of the work site, or (b) a person designated in writing by the person in control of the work site. Prime contractors 
have full care, custody and control, meaning they manage their own work and are responsible for maintaining safe working 
environments. 

• In 2017, a contractor was fatally injured when inside an excavation. In 2019, a contractor was fatally injured at Fort Hills. In 2020, two 
contractors were fatally injured at Fort Hills. In 2021, a contractor was fatally injured at Base Plant.

i. Process Safety Tier 1 and 2 Loss of Primary Containment (LOPC) events are unplanned or uncontrolled release of any material 
from primary containment resulting in consequences as specified by American Petroleum Institute Recommended Practice 754 
Second Edition, 2016, and International Association Oil & Gas Producers Report 456: Process Safety Recommended Practice on Key 
Performance Indicators Version 2.0, 2018. The LOPC data is a sum of Tier 1 and 2 LOPC events.

j. In 2020, two process safety tier 1 and 2 LOPC events were added due to reclassification. Therefore, we have restated the number of 
2020 process safety tier 1 and 2 LOPC events for the Suncor-wide performance data.

k. In 2021, following a review of historical incidents, SIF events from 2017 to 2020 were adjusted to better account for cases classified as 
“Life-Altering.”

13 Notes on workforce

a. New employee hires are any externally hired regular full-time or part-time employee whose permanent start date falls within the 
reporting period.

b. Employee turnover is the percentage of employees who leave Suncor under any circumstance in the reporting year. Only terminations 
are included for full-time and part-time employees.

c. Suncor employees include regular full-time, regular part-time, casuals and temporary employees. Leaves are not included.

d. Long-term contractors are individual workers engaged as contractors to support short-term, variable work and have been determined 
by the number of contractors holding a position at Suncor in the organizational structure. This would only include independent 
contractors, and exclude contract services, contract retailers and consultants.

e. Unionized workforce data is only applicable in areas where there is a unionized environment. This number reflects integration with 
Syncrude, which had no unionized workers. 

f. All workforce information reported in this filing is based on data as of December 31, 2021. The workforce data provided may not align 
with that in the 2021 Annual Report due to different methodologies. 

g. In 2021, Suncor became operator of the Syncrude asset and the additional Syncrude employees are reflected in our total employees.

14 Notes on economic performance 

a. Select economic figures have been calculated according to International Financial Reporting Standards. For complete disclosure of our 
financial information, see our 2021 Annual Report. 

b. Operating revenues and other income have been updated to be presented as gross revenues plus other income (loss), and 
excludes royalties.

Performance data footnotes

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   78

c. Operating, selling and general (OS&G) expenses are subject to historical restatements due to reclassifications within our income 
statement. Prior period amounts of OS&G expense have been reclassified to align with the current year presentation of transportation 
and distribution expense. Employee costs are reported in our annual report under OS&G and include salaries, benefits and share-
based compensation. A portion of employee costs are capitalized as part of fixed assets. 

d. Royalty expense and taxes paid include monies remitted to government, including income, property and other taxes, Crown royalties, 
and lease bonuses and rentals. For simplicity, royalty expense is provided, which may differ from when royalties are paid. 

e. Payments to providers of capital includes dividends paid on common shares and interest on debt.

f. Under GRI Standard 201-1, economic value retained reflects the direct economic value generated (revenues) minus economic 
value distributed (operating costs (including employee costs), royalty expense and taxes paid, payments to providers of capital and 
community investments). 

g. Enterprise value includes market capitalization from equity plus total debt (which includes short-term debt, current portion of long-
term debt, current portion of long-term lease liabilities, long-term debt and long-term lease liabilities), less cash and cash equivalents.

h. Capital and exploration expenditures include capitalized interest. 

i. As of June 1, 2016, Suncor no longer makes political contributions as a matter of policy, except in exceptional circumstances. Any such 
contributions will continue to be disclosed in this report.

15 Notes on supply chain 

a. Indigenous supplier-spend: 

• Direct spend is considered contracting work directly with an Indigenous business that includes those with a minimum of 51% 
ownership by Indigenous individuals or organizations. 

• Indirect spend is considered contracting with a non-Indigenous supplier who sub-contracts to an Indigenous business that is greater 
than or equal to 51% owned for work that is being performed on behalf of Suncor, contracting with an Indigenous supplier who has 
a minority ownership in a non-Indigenous business, or a non-Indigenous supplier who has a commercial agreement where revenue 
received from work being performed for Suncor goes back to the community. 

b. Values reported for Indigenous supplier revenues reflect amounts captured in our enterprise software data management system, 
minus 5% GST. 

c. Inclusion of contracts in the reporting year is based on the payment date, not the date of services rendered. 

d. The Indigenous supplier spend direct value for 2018 has been updated to reflect a corrected value.

e. All supply chain information reported in this filing is based on data as of December 31, 2021, aligned with internal stewardship 
reporting to ensure consistency and accuracy in publicly available information.

16 Notes on community investments

a. Value for community investment is calculated by Suncor and is generally unaudited except for donations made by the Suncor Energy 
Foundation (SEF) and the Petro-Canada CareMakers Foundation™ (PCCF). The SEF and PCCF are audited annually by KPMG. The value 
of total community investment includes cash, volunteer rewards and in-kind donations.

b. Value of management cost donations from 2015 to 2021 is for SEF only.

c. The SEF is limited to providing donations to registered Canadian charitable organizations, and Suncor’s contribution to SEF represents 
donations, operating budget and appropriate allocations to a reserve fund that protects multi-year commitments going forward.

d. Suncor launched a new SunCares employee program in 2017, and prior year data is not available. Suncor and SEF donations include 
corporate and volunteer rewards and matching donations. Employee personal donations include employee and retiree donations and 
donations made through the public SunCares Community Impact Portal.

Performance data footnotes

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   79

e. The Petro-Canada CareMakers Foundation™ (PCCF) was launched by Suncor, owner of Petro-Canada™, in November 2020. The PCCF 
is a registered public foundation, which engages in fundraising, awareness building and providing donations to registered charitable 
organizations who support family caregivers. Suncor’s contribution to PCCF represents donations only. At this time all operating costs 
for PCCF are paid by Suncor. See www.caremakers.ca. 

f. Syncrude community investment represents donations to registered charitable organizations and community groups only. Suncor’s 
total community investment contributions reflect our 58.74% equity ownership of the Syncrude Project. Refer to the 2022 sustainability 
performance data document for Syncrude performance on a separate asset basis.

g. The 2019 total contributions to charitable, non-charitable and community groups value has been updated to maintain consistent 
methodology year over year.

17 Notes on diversity 

a. Certain operating regions prohibit collecting information on gender; therefore, diversity data may not reflect our entire workforce due 
to data availability. Workforce diversity is calculated based on information provided voluntarily by employees. Indicators referring to 
ethnicity and disability reflect only those employees who have voluntarily self-identified. 

b. Management is classified as members of the management committee or members of the corporate committee, which is Vice 
Presidents (VPs) and above. 

c. All workforce information reported in this filing is based on data as of December 31, 2021. The workforce data provided may not align 
with that in the 2021 Annual Report due to different methodologies. 

d. In 2021, Suncor became operator of the Syncrude asset and the additional Syncrude employees are reflected in our employee 
diversity data.

e. Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men: 

• for the purpose of this calculation females are the numerator and males are the denominator 

• ratio only reflects full-time and part-time, salaried, and non-unionized employees 

• excludes unknown gender, and insufficient information from salary bands 

• salary band is used to calculate the ratio at each salary band level to group similarly paid individuals. A weighted average is applied 
to each salary band level to obtain the overall ratio for management and individual contributor categories 

• annual salary conversion was applied based on Finance department’s 2021 conversion rate.

Performance data footnotes

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   80

Independent practitioner’s assurance report

To the Management of Suncor Energy Services Inc. 

Scope 
We have been engaged by Suncor Energy Services Inc (“Suncor”) to perform a ‘limited assurance engagement,’ as defined by Canadian 
Standards on Assurance Engagements, hereafter referred to as the engagement, over the performance indicators detailed in the 
accompanying schedule (the “Subject Matter”) as of December 31, 2021 and for the year ended December 31, 2021, reported in Suncor’s 
2022 Report on Sustainability, 2022 Climate Report, and 2022 Sustainability Performance Data Document (the “Reports”).

Other than as described in the preceding paragraph, which sets out the scope of our engagement, we did not perform assurance 
procedures on the remaining information included in the Reports, and accordingly, we do not express a conclusion on this information.

Criteria applied by Suncor
In preparing the Subject Matter, Suncor applied the relevant guidance contained within Global Reporting Initiative (“GRI”) Sustainability 
Standards, the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (“SASB”) Standards, and internally developed criteria identified in the accompanying 
schedule and collectively referred to herein as the “Criteria”. The Criteria are further described in the ESG Disclosure Index 2022.

Suncor’s responsibilities
Suncor’s management is responsible for selecting the Criteria, and for presenting the Subject Matter in accordance with the Criteria, in all 
material respects. This responsibility includes establishing and maintaining internal controls, maintaining adequate records and making 
estimates that are relevant to the preparation of the subject matter, such that it is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud 
or error. 

EY’s responsibilities
Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the presentation of the Subject Matter based on the evidence we have obtained.

We conducted our engagement in accordance with the Canadian Standard for Assurance Engagements (‘CSAE’) 3000, Attestation Engagements 
Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information (‘CSAE 3000’), and the Canadian Standard on Assurance Engagements 3410, 
Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements (‘CSAE 3410’). These standards require that we plan and perform our engagement to 
obtain limited assurance about whether, in all material respects, the Subject Matter is presented in accordance with the Criteria, and to issue 
a report. The nature, timing, and extent of the procedures selected depend on our judgment, including an assessment of the risk of material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

 We believe that the evidence obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our limited assurance conclusion.

Our Independence and Quality Control
 We have complied with the relevant rules of professional conduct / code of ethics applicable to the practice of public accounting and related 
to assurance engagements, issued by various professional accounting bodies, which are founded on fundamental principles of integrity, 
objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour. 

 EY applies Canadian Standard on Quality Control 1, Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of Financial Statements, and 
Other Assurance Engagements, and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and 
procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements.

 

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   81

Description of procedures performed 
Procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable 
assurance engagement. Consequently, the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the 
assurance that would have been obtained had a reasonable assurance engagement been performed. Our procedures were designed to 
obtain a limited level of assurance on which to base our conclusion and do not provide all the evidence that would be required to provide a 
reasonable level of assurance.

Although we considered the effectiveness of management’s internal controls when determining the nature and extent of our procedures, 
our assurance engagement was not designed to provide assurance on internal controls. Our procedures did not include testing controls or 
performing procedures relating to checking aggregation or calculation of data within IT systems.

A limited assurance engagement consists of making enquiries, primarily of persons responsible for preparing the Subject Matter and related 
information, and applying analytical and other appropriate procedures.

Our procedures included:

• Conducting interviews with relevant personnel to obtain an understanding of the reporting processes and internal controls;

• Inquiries of relevant personnel who are responsible for, where relevant, observing and inspecting systems and processes for data 
aggregation and reporting in accordance with the Criteria;

• Assessing the accuracy of data, through analytical procedures and reperformance of select calculations, where applicable; and

• Reviewing presentation and disclosure of the Subject Matter in the Reports.

We also performed such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.

Inherent limitations 
Non-financial information, such as the Subject Matter, are subject to more inherent limitations than financial information, given the more 
qualitative characteristics of the Subject Matter and the methods used for determining such information. The absence of a significant 
body of established practice on which to draw allows for the selection of different but acceptable evaluation techniques which can result in 
materially different evaluation and can impact comparability between entities and over time. 

Conclusion
Based on our procedures and the evidence obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Subject Matter as 
of December 31, 2021 and for the year ended December 31, 2021, are not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Criteria.

June 22, 2022 
Vancouver, Canada

Independent practitioner’s assurance report

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   82

Criteria Subject Matter Suncor Report Scope(b) Reported Value 
for the year ended 
December 31, 2021

GRI Standard 
Applied(a)

SASB Standard 
Applied(a) 

Performance Indicator

GRI OG1 EM-EP-000.A Upstream processed volumes 
and net production

2022 Report on 
Sustainability,
2022 Climate Report

Company-wide 30.94 million m3 OE/yr

GRI OG1 EM-EP-000.A Downstream net production 2022 Report on 
Sustainability,
2022 Climate Report

Company-wide 24.97 million m3 OE/yr

GRI OG1 EM-EP-000.A Total upstream and 
downstream production

2022 Report on 
Sustainability,
2022 Climate Report

Company-wide 49.27 million m3 OE/yr

GRI OG1
GRI 305-2

EM-EP-110a.1
EM-RM-110a.1
EM-MM-110a.1

Greenhouse gas (GHG)  
Scope 1 emissions (operated)

2022 Report on 
Sustainability,
2022 Climate Report

Company-wide 20,159 thousand tonnes 
CO2e

GRI 305-2 Greenhouse gas (GHG)  
Scope 2 emissions (operated)

2022 Report on 
Sustainability,
2022 Climate Report

Company-wide 1,398 thousand tonnes 
CO2e

GRI 305-4 Operated total GHG emission 
intensity

2022 Report on 
Sustainability,
2022 Climate Report

Company-wide 66 kg/BOE

GRI 303-3 EM-EP-140a.1
EM-RM-140a.1
EM-MM-140a.1

Water withdrawal 2022 Report on 
Sustainability

Company-wide 107.79 million m3

GRI 303-3 EM-EP-140a.1
EM-RM-140a.1
EM-MM-140a.1

Water withdrawal intensity 2022 Report on 
Sustainability

Company-wide 0.35 m3/BOE

GRI 403-9 EM-EP-320a.1
EM-RM-320a.1
EM-mm-320a.1

Employee and contractor 
fatalities

2022 Report on 
Sustainability

Company-wide 1

Schedule 
Our limited assurance engagement was performed on the following performance indicators as of December 31, 2021 and for the year 
ended December 31, 2021, as indicated:

Independent practitioner’s assurance report

(a) Standard may include disclosure requirements for other performance indicators that are not within scope of this limited assurance engagement. Performance indicators that are 
in-scope have been detailed in this schedule.

(b) Company-wide values do not include Syncrude asset. Performance indicators for Syncrude are included separately in the 2022 Sustainability Performance Data Document.

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   83

(b) Company Wide values do not include Syncrude asset. Performance indicators for Syncrude are reported separately in the 2022 Sustainability Performance Data Document
(c) Syncrude data has been informed by GRI and SASB standards, and is reported in the detailed 2022 sustainability performance document. Not all required disclosures by GRI 

and SASB as described in the ESG Disclosure Index 2022 have been made for Syncrude as Suncor did not operate the Syncrude Project for the entire 2021 calendar year and 
its data is not incorporated into Suncor corporate-wide totals. Syncrude will be integrated into Suncor’s corporate-wide totals and aligned with the required standards in future 
sustainability disclosure.

Criteria Subject Matter Suncor Report Scope(b) Reported Value 
for the year ended 
December 31, 2021

GRI Standard 
Applied(c)

SASB Standard 
Applied(c) 

Performance Indicator

GRI OG1 EM-EP-000.A Upstream processed volumes 
and net production

2022 Sustainability 
Performance Data 
Document

Syncrude asset 16.49 million m3 OE/yr

GRI OG1 EM-EP-000.A Downstream net production 2022 Sustainability 
Performance Data 
Document

Syncrude asset N/A

GRI OG1 EM-EP-000.A Total upstream and 
downstream production

2022 Sustainability 
Performance Data 
Document

Syncrude asset 16.49 million m3 OE/yr

GRI OG1
GRI 305-2

EM-EP-110a.1
EM-RM-110a.1
EM-MM-110a.1

Greenhouse gas (GHG)  
Scope 1 emissions (operated)

2022 Sustainability 
Performance Data 
Document

Syncrude asset 12,476 thousand tonnes 
CO2e

GRI 305-2 Greenhouse gas (GHG)  
Scope 2 emissions (operated)

2022 Sustainability 
Performance Data 
Document

Syncrude asset 12 thousand tonnes CO2e

GRI 305-4 Operated total GHG emission 
intensity

2022 Sustainability 
Performance Data 
Document

Syncrude asset 120 kg/BOE

GRI 303-3 EM-EP-140a.1
EM-RM-140a.1
EM-MM-140a.1

Water withdrawal 2022 Sustainability 
Performance Data 
Document

Syncrude asset 69.09 million m3

GRI 303-3 EM-EP-140a.1
EM-RM-140a.1
EM-MM-140a.1

Water withdrawal intensity 2022 Sustainability 
Performance Data 
Document

Syncrude asset 0.67 m3/BOE

GRI 403-9 EM-EP-320a.1
EM-RM-320a.1
EM-mm-320a.1

Employee and contractor 
fatalities

2022 Sustainability 
Performance Data 
Document

Syncrude asset 1

Independent practitioner’s assurance report

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   84

(b) Company Wide values do not include Syncrude asset. Performance indicators for Syncrude are reported separately in the 2022 Sustainability Performance Data Document
(c) Syncrude data has been informed by GRI and SASB standards, and is reported in the detailed 2022 sustainability performance document. Not all required disclosures by GRI 

and SASB as described in the ESG Disclosure Index 2022 have been made for Syncrude as Suncor did not operate the Syncrude Project for the entire 2021 calendar year and 
its data is not incorporated into Suncor corporate-wide totals. Syncrude will be integrated into Suncor’s corporate-wide totals and aligned with the required standards in future 
sustainability disclosure.

(a) Standard may include disclosure requirements for other performance indicators that are not within scope of this limited assurance engagement. Performance indicators that are 
in-scope have been detailed in this Schedule.

(b) Company Wide values do not include Syncrude asset. Performance indicators for Syncrude are reported separately in the 2022 Sustainability Performance Data Document

Criteria Subject Matter Suncor Report Scope(b) Reported Value as at 
December 31, 2021

GRI Standard 
Applied(c)

SASB Standard 
Applied(c) 

Performance Indicator

GRI 304-1 EM-EP-160a.3
EM-MM-160a.3

Total land disturbed 2022 Sustainability 
Performance Data 
Document

Syncrude asset 31,455 cumulative hectares

GRI 304-1 EM-EP-160a.3
EM-MM-160a.3

Land reclaimed 2022 Sustainability 
Performance Data 
Document

Syncrude asset 5,053 cumulative hectares

Criteria Subject Matter Suncor Report Scope(b) Reported Value as at 
December 31, 2021

GRI Standard 
Applied(a)

SASB Standard 
Applied(a) 

Performance Indicator

GRI 304-1 EM-EP-160a.3
EM-MM-160a.3

Total land disturbed 2022 Report on 
Sustainability

Company-wide 35,654 cumulative hectares

GRI 304-1 EM-EP-160a.3
EM-MM-160a.3

Land reclaimed 2022 Report on 
Sustainability

Company-wide 2,878 cumulative hectares

Independent practitioner’s assurance report

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   85

Advisories

Forward-looking statements 
Suncor’s 2022 Report on Sustainability contains certain forward-looking statements and forward-looking information (collectively, “forward-
looking statements”) within the meaning of applicable Canadian and U.S. securities laws. Forward-looking statements in Suncor’s 2022 
Report on Sustainability include references to: The expectation that Suncor will be a net-zero greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions company by 
2050 and substantially contribute to society’s net-zero goals; the belief that a net-zero world and Suncor’s contribution to it will create value 
for our shareholders, customers and wider society; the expectation to learn and benefit from Syncrude’s environmental, social and 
governance (ESG) efforts over the years with Indigenous communities, the building of an inclusive workforce and an unwavering 
commitment to innovation; the expectation of sustainability opportunities emerging from Suncor as operator for Syncrude; the expectation 
that Syncrude performance will be fully incorporated into Suncor’s data in the 2023 report; the expectation that Syncrude’s development of 
petroleum coke tailings water treatment will produce treated water that will support aquatic life and can be released in a manner to ensure 
protection of downstream uses; the expectation of closing several tailings facilities and increasing treatment capacity at Syncrude and Fort 
Hills; the intention to offset future Syncrude land disturbance through a partnership with the Nature Conservancy of Canada and the Tallcree 
First Nation to create the Birch River Wildland Provincial Park; the expectation of the full integration of Syncrude’s workforce; the expectation 
that Suncor, Petro-Canada™ and Syncrude make direct investments to support social, economic and environmental solutions in 
communities; the belief that the company will sustain and optimize our base business while improving cost and carbon competitiveness; the 
belief that Suncor will grow low GHG emissions businesses that will materially contribute to earnings and cash flow; the expectation that we 
will grow our customer connection through new low-carbon products and services; the belief that Suncor will achieve world-class ESG 
performance and disclosure while being recognized as a leader in sustainability and the energy transition; the belief that Suncor continues 
to evolve its strategy so we can grow our company and strengthen our ability to deliver trusted energy that enhances people’s lives; the 
expectation that we will reach annual emission reductions of 10 Mt across our value chain by 2030; the belief that we will reach net-zero 
goals using multiple parallel pathways: electrification, fuel substitution, energy efficiency, carbon capture, process improvements and the 
implementation of emerging technologies and engaging with our customers and other stakeholders on emissions reductions; the 
expectation about our plans to partner with ATCO on a potential world-scale hydrogen project in Alberta; the expectation that our plans to 
increase our engagement with local communities and authorities will help provide timely, transparent and accessible information about our 
operations and the improvements we’re making to minimize our environmental impact and keep communities safe; the belief that we are 
shifting our culture toward greater inclusion, diversity and belonging at work and in the world around us; the belief that Suncor will grow its 
business in segments that are already integral to our business and that have the potential to improve the cost performance and margin 
capture of our base business while strengthening our environmental performance; the belief that we are moving in the direction of having 
global standards for improved sustainability disclosure and a simplification of the corporate reporting landscape; the belief in our goal to 
reduce emissions of our current operations and expand our energy offerings into low-emissions businesses to provide the energy the world 
needs; beliefs and expectations about Suncor’s goal to be net-zero emissions by 2050 and by 2030 reduce annual emissions by 10 Mt across 
our value chain; that Suncor strives to be an industry leader in sustainable energy development through continuous improvements in 
emissions, water use, land reclamation and biodiversity performance; the belief that addressing climate change and providing the low-GHG 
energy the world needs requires investment, technological advancement, product innovation, regulatory support and collaborative 
partnerships; that we work to align with the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures; that we’re working 
to reduce our emissions, and help others reduce theirs by satisfying growing energy needs; that Suncor is working to reduce air emissions 
from our operations, through operational excellence, project design and technology and the importance of this management; that we 
continue to test and pilot new technologies to grow our understanding of air emissions; the belief that by upgrading the automatic 
shutdown systems for our gasoline production units, the Commerce City Refinery has completed the required elements from the 2021 
Improvement Plan, enhancing safety for the surrounding community; the belief that moving towards a circular economy can be critical to 
supply chain security and environmental performance; that we work to prevent spills and releases and how this is done; that we are 
committed to continually improving our spill prevention and response capacity; the belief that due to the size and complexity of our 
operations we must continuously improve our reporting practices and strengthen mitigation efforts to further reduce the number and 
volume of spills; the belief that water is a shared and precious resource that must be managed wisely using a balanced, integrated and 
sustained approach; the belief that it is important to find ways to continuously improve our water use efficiency (including limited water 
withdrawals and optimizing recycling) and safely release water from our operations; the belief that our culture of operational discipline and 
continuous improvement guides how we manage our water use, reduce our impacts and protect the environment; the belief that water 
release is part of managing water responsibly and is critical to achieving successful reclamation and closure; the expectation that we will 
continue to explore and implement local initiatives that will result in more efficient water use; the expectation that we will continue to 

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   86

Advisories

monitor the status of the basis going forward while focusing on implementing industry-leading innovation at our facilities to reduce, recycle, 
reuse and return water; the belief that tailings reclamation requires continuous learning, collaboration and innovation; that we’re working to 
treat and dewater fluid tailings to support reclamation plans and support biodiversity in the areas where we operate; the expectation that 
industry regional tests will continue as annual events and that Suncor will conduct it’s first regional test with external stakeholders in the fall 
of 2022, followed by Syncrude Mildred Lake operations in 2023; the expectation to learn from each other and to integrate Suncor and 
Syncrude approaches to reclamation; that Suncor is committed to preserving and promoting biodiversity in all areas where we work; the 
belief that we are enhancing our incident investigation training to embed learnings in our work practices and implement mitigating actions; 
the expectation that Suncor fosters a culture of well-being that supports and enables our workforce to be their best and contribute their 
best every day, in the workplace, at home and within their communities; that we continue to evaluate the needs of our people and provide 
support to focus on overall well-being, including psychological wellness; that we are planning for future workforce needs; that we are 
working to create a more engaging and productive workplace; expectations and beliefs about planning for future workforce needs; that we 
are working to create an inclusive and diverse work environment where everyone feels respected, trusted, safe, supported and their 
opinions are valued; that we are working to build a more inclusive workplace and develop the skills to appropriately engage with Indigenous 
Peoples; that it is our goal is to create a great place to work for all by creating a work environment that provides everyone with the 
opportunity to meaningfully contribute to the organization’s performance while feeling safe, valued and respected; that the Journey of 
Reconciliation reflects our continued transformation within the organization and in relationships with Indigenous Peoples; the expectation 
that Suncor is putting more focus on what we’re learning and sharing those experiences through storytelling and building on the 
Indigenous oral tradition; the belief that Suncor’s inclusive and diverse work environment supports strong business performance, 
differentiates us in our communities and helps us to attract and retain Indigenous employees who want to build meaningful careers for the 
long term; that we aim to build capacity for social innovation in communities and within Suncor as part of our strategy; that with the goal to 
inspire Canadians to help, the CareMakers Foundation will work to raise funds to enable and amplify the work of charitable organizations in 
Canada; that we are working to align our practices with the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights; the belief that 
with a strong corporate governance structure and commitment to addressing ESG issues through diverse perspectives, Suncor is well-
positioned to be a sustainable energy company for years to come; the belief we have created a strong foundation for resilient and 
sustainable energy development; the belief that engaging with others will help us find solutions to our shared challenges; the belief that 
engaging with others will help us find solutions to our shared challenges; that we are working to ensure Suncor is regarded as a Canadian 
business leader on all dimensions of sustainability – economic, environmental and social; that we are a welcomed and influential participant 
and contributor to the energy system transformation; the strategic objective is to optimize our base business, using technology and 
innovation to reduce cost and carbon emissions; and the belief in engaging our employees and building a culture where feedback is 
encouraged; the belief that the Terra Nova Asset Life Extension Project is expected to extend production life by approximately 10 years, 
produce an additional 70 million barrels of oil for the partnership and return to operation before the end of 2022; the expectation of a 
reduction in NOX emissions once the Base Plant Coke Boiler Replacement Project is fully operational; the expectation of a smaller fluid 
tailings inventory; the anticipation that integrating our mining operations will lead to further opportunities to share best practices towards 
reducing fluid tailings volumes; the anticipation of a drained tailing facility being removed from the landscape this decade; the expectation of 
construction of an Indigenous Outdoor Gathering Space for youth to start later this year; the anticipation that the integration of Suncor and 
Syncrude operations will build on our collective strength in all areas of sustainability and lead to further improvements and benefits for our 
workforce, facilities, communities and stakeholders; the anticipation of mineable resource at Base Plant’s Millennium and North Steepbank 
Extension mines to be depleted in the next decade (2030s). 

Some of the forward-looking statements and information may be identified by words like “expected”, “anticipated”, “will”, “estimates”, “plan”, 
“scheduled”, “intended”, “believes”, “projected”, “indicates”, “could”, “focus”, “vision”, “mission”, strategy”, “goal”, “outlook”, “proposed”, “target”, 
“objective”, “continue”, “should”, “may”, “aim”, “strives”, “would”, “potential”, “committed”, “opportunity” and similar expressions. Forward-
looking statements are based on Suncor’s current expectations, estimates, projections and assumptions that were made by the company 
in light of information available at the time the statement was made and consider Suncor’s experience and its perception of historical 
trends, including expectations and assumptions concerning: the accuracy of reserves and resources estimates; the current and potential 
adverse impacts of the novel coronavirus pandemic; commodity prices and interest and foreign exchange rates; the performance of assets 
and equipment; capital efficiencies and cost savings; applicable laws and government policies; future production rates; the sufficiency 
of budgeted capital expenditures in carrying out planned activities; the availability and cost of labour, services and infrastructure; the 
satisfaction by third parties of their obligations to Suncor; the development and execution of projects; the receipt, in a timely manner, of 
regulatory and third-party approvals; assumptions relating to demand for oil, natural gas, distillates, gasoline, diesel and other energy 

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   87

sources; the development and performance of technology; population growth and dynamics; assumptions relating to long-term energy 
future scenarios; and Suncor’s carbon price outlook. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve 
a number of risks and uncertainties, some that are similar to other oil and gas companies and some that are unique to Suncor. Suncor’s 
actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by its forward-looking statements, so readers are cautioned not to 
place undue reliance on them. Risks, uncertainties and other factors that could influence the financial and operating performance of all of 
Suncor’s operating segments and activities include, but are not limited to, changes in general economic, market and business conditions, 
such as commodity prices, interest rates and currency exchange rates (including as a result of demand and supply effects resulting from 
the COVID-19 pandemic and the actions of OPEC and non-OPEC countries); fluctuations in supply and demand for Suncor’s products; 
the successful and timely implementation of capital projects, including growth projects and regulatory projects; risks associated with 
the development and execution of Suncor’s major projects and the commissioning and integration of new facilities; the possibility that 
completed maintenance activities may not improve operational performance or the output of related facilities; the risk that projects and 
initiatives intended to achieve cash flow growth and/or reductions in operating costs may not achieve the expected results in the time 
anticipated or at all; competitive actions of other companies, including increased competition from other oil and gas companies or from 
companies that provide alternative sources of energy; labour and material shortages; actions by government authorities, including the 
imposition or reassessment of, or changes to, taxes, fees, royalties, duties and other government-imposed compliance costs; changes to 
laws and government policies that could impact the company’s business, including environmental (including climate change), royalty and 
tax laws and policies; the ability and willingness of parties with whom Suncor has material relationships to perform their obligations to the 
company; the unavailability of, or outages to, third-party infrastructure that could cause disruptions to production or prevent the company 
from being able to transport its products; the occurrence of a protracted operational outage, a major safety or environmental incident, 
or unexpected events such as fires (including forest fires), equipment failures and other similar events affecting Suncor or other parties 
whose operations or assets directly or indirectly affect Suncor; the potential for security breaches of Suncor’s information technology and 
infrastructure by malicious persons or entities, and the unavailability or failure of such systems to perform as anticipated as a result of such 
breaches; security threats and terrorist or activist activities; the risk that competing business objectives may exceed Suncor’s capacity to 
adopt and implement change; risks and uncertainties associated with obtaining regulatory, third-party and stakeholder approvals outside 
of Suncor’s control for the company’s operations, projects, initiatives and exploration and development activities and the satisfaction of any 
conditions to approvals; the potential for disruptions to operations and construction projects as a result of Suncor’s relationships with labour 
unions that represent employees at the company’s facilities; our ability to find new oil and gas reserves that can be developed economically; 
the accuracy of Suncor’s reserves, resources and future production estimates; market instability affecting Suncor’s ability to borrow in the 
capital debt markets at acceptable rates or to issue other securities at acceptable prices; maintaining an optimal debt-to-cash-flow ratio; the 
success of the company’s marketing and logistics activities using derivatives and other financial instruments; the cost of compliance with 
current and future environmental laws, including climate change laws; risks relating to increased activism and public opposition to fossil 
fuels and oil sands; risks and uncertainties associated with closing a transaction for the purchase or sale of a business, asset or oil and gas 
property, including estimates of the final consideration to be paid or received; the ability of counterparties to comply with their obligations 
in a timely manner; risks associated with joint arrangements in which the company has an interest; the risk the company may be subject 
to litigation; the impact of technology and risks associated with developing and implementing new technologies; and the accuracy of cost 
estimates, some of which are provided at the conceptual or other preliminary stage of projects and prior to commencement or conception 
of the detailed engineering that is needed to reduce the margin of error and increase the level of accuracy. The foregoing important factors 
are not exhaustive. 

Suncor’s Management’s Discussion and Analysis for the first quarter of 2022 dated May 9, 2022, its Annual Information Form, and 
Annual Report to Shareholders, each dated February 23, 2022, and Form 40-F dated February 24, 2022 and other documents it files from 
time to time with securities regulatory authorities describe the risks, uncertainties, material assumptions and other factors that could 
influence actual results, and such factors are incorporated herein by reference. Copies of these documents are available without charge 
from Suncor at 150 6th Avenue S.W., Calgary, Alberta T2P 3E3, by calling 1-800-558-9071, or by email request to info@suncor.com or by 
referring to the company’s profile on SEDAR at sedar.com or EDGAR at sec.gov. Except as required by applicable securities laws, Suncor 
disclaims any intention or obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, 
future events or otherwise.

Advisories

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc.   |   Report on Sustainability 2022   |   88

Reclamation and revegetation plans
Reclaimed land is considered permanently reclaimed when landform construction and contouring, clean material placement (as required), 
reclamation material placement and revegetation has taken place. Land cannot be listed under permanent reclamation until revegetation 
has occurred that is reflective of the approved reclamation and revegetation plans.

BOEs and conversions
Certain natural gas volumes have been converted to barrels of oil equivalent (BOE) on the basis of one barrel of oil to six thousand cubic 
feet of natural gas. Any figure presented in boe may be misleading, particularly if used in isolation. A conversion ratio of one barrel of crude 
oil or natural gas liquids to six thousand cubic feet of natural gas is based on an energy-equivalency conversion method primarily applicable 
at the burner tip and does not necessarily represent a value equivalency at the wellhead. Given that the value ratio based on the current 
price of crude oil as compared to natural gas is significantly different from the energy equivalency of 6:1, utilizing a conversion on a 6:1 basis 
may be misleading as an indication of value. Cubic metres of oil equivalent are calculated on the basis of one BOE to 0.159 standard cubic 
metres. As cubic metres of oil equivalent are based on a conversion involving BOE, all values are subject to the same limitations as BOE, 
noted above.

Suncor
Suncor Energy Inc. has numerous direct and indirect subsidiaries, partnerships and joint arrangements (“affiliates”), which own and operate 
assets and conduct activities in different jurisdictions. The terms ‘‘we’’, ‘‘our’’, ‘‘Suncor’’, or ‘‘the company’’ are used herein for simplicity of 
communication and only mean that there is an affiliation with Suncor Energy Inc., without necessarily identifying the specific nature of the 
affiliation. The use of such terms in any statement herein does not mean that they apply to Suncor Energy Inc. or any particular affiliate and 
does not waive the corporate separateness of any affiliate.

Partnerships
The use of “partnership” throughout Suncor’s 2022 Report on Sustainability does not necessarily mean a partnership in the legal context.

Currency
Unless otherwise stated, references to “dollars” or “$” means Canadian dollars.

Advisories

Environment AppendixSocialOur approach Governance



Suncor Energy Inc. 
150 – 6 Avenue S.W. 
Calgary, Alberta, Canada T2P 3E3 
T: 403-296-8000

suncor.com

2022.08.15

http://suncor.com

	Our approach
	Message from our President and Chief Executive Officer
	Q&A with our Chief Sustainability Officer
	Syncrude integration 
	2021 ESG highlights
	Transformation

	Environment
	Climate change
	Air quality
	Waste management
	Environmental incidents
	Water stewardship
	Tailings management
	Land and reclamation
	Biodiversity

	Social
	Safety
	Health and wellness
	Workforce
	Inclusion and diversity
	Indigenous relations
	Community investment
	Human rights

	Governance
	Ethics
	Corporate governance
	Risk management
	Supply chain

	Appendix
	About our report
	ESG disclosure index
	Performance data
	Performance data footnotes
	Independent practitioner’s assurance report
	Advisories