FY22 Climate Change Disclosure


Climate Change 
Disclosure FY22

Bango Windfarm, NSW (Source: CWP Renewables)



Contents
Our strategic 
response to  
climate change 13

Impacts of climate 
change on our 
organisation 13

Testing resilience 
through climate-
related scenarios  14

Key studies and 
engagement 
undertaken in  
FY22  16

Our progress 
understanding 
financial impacts   18

Group financial 
statement 
climate-related 
considerations   18

Section 1: 
Introduction

Section 2: 
Governance

Section 5: 
Metrics and 
targets

Section 3: 
Strategy

Section 4:  
Risk 
management

Board oversight of 
climate change 11

Business  
governance of 
climate change 11

—Reporting suite—

FY22 Climate Change Disclosure1 

—(this report)

Our response to the Task Force on  
Climate-related Financial Disclosures’ (TCFD) 
recommendations.

FY22 Corporate Report2

The holistic performance of Transurban in 
FY22 including our Financial Statements and 
Sustainability Supplement.

FY22 Results Presentation

Management presentation of financial and 
non-financial results, including non-statutory 
analysis.

FY22 Sustainability Data1

Our progress against the UN Sustainable 
Development Goals and other sustainability 
performance data.

Corporate Governance Statement

Statement made in accordance with the ASX 
Corporate Governance Council’s Corporate 
Governance Principles and Recommendations 
(4th Edition). 

Tax Transparency Report

Overview of our corporate structure, approach 
to tax and tax position for FY21—available late 
August 2022.

Modern Slavery Statement

Overview of how we identify, manage and 
mitigate the specific risks of modern slavery in 
our operations and supply—available late 2022.

All available on our website 
transurban.com

1  Previously incorporated in our Sustainability Supplement
2  We have integrated some of our Sustainability Supplement into our FY22 Corporate Report. This approach 

provides additional information on our non-financial performance (including environmental, social and 
governance performance) and progress in achieving our Sustainability Strategy

Acknowledgement of Country
Transurban acknowledges the Traditional Owners of 
the lands across Australia—in particular where we 
own and operate toll roads—and we pay respect to 
Elders past, present and emerging. 

As caretakers and custodians of transportation 
in urban communities we have a deep respect for 
Indigenous communities and culture and seek to 
celebrate pride in Country through engagement 
with, and providing opportunities for, Aboriginal 
and Torres Strait Islander peoples. We also celebrate 
connection to Country through artwork and design 
elements in our infrastructure. 

To achieve our purpose—to strengthen communities 
through transport—we will continue to foster positive 
and sustainable relationships with all communities, 
while progressing our efforts to contribute to 
Australia’s reconciliation journey.

StrategyGovernance Metrics and targetsIntroduction Risk management

Climate change risk 
management  20

Managing strategic 
climate-related  
risks 22

Possible  
long-term climate-
related physical 
risk for asset 
components  28

Climate-related 
metrics  32

GHG and 
energy targets and 
progress on our 
transition to a low 
carbon economy 34

Climate Change 
Disclosure FY22 StrategyGovernance Metrics and targetsIntroduction Risk management

Climate Change 
Disclosure FY22

Climate Change 
Strategic Risk 
Themes and 
Framework 7

Summary of 
how we have 
addressed the TCFD 
recommendations  8

For best viewing experience 
download this report

http://transurban.com/CCD22
http://transurban.com/corporate-report-2022
http://transurban.com/fy22-results-presentation
https://insights.transurban.com/sustainability
http://transurban.com/corporate-governance-statement
http://transurban.com/tax-transparency-report
https://www.transurban.com/modern-slavery-fy22
http://transurban.com
http://transurban.com/CCD22


4 5

Executive summary

While many communities suffered major 
impacts, and there were subsequent 
broader economic effects, our infrastructure 
demonstrated resilience with all our road 
assets remaining open during this period.

FY22 has seen us advance the 
implementation of our Climate Change 
Framework with significant progress 
achieved in our two priority areas, namely: 
the transition to net zero1 and resilient 
infrastructure and operations. We have 
entered into renewable energy agreements 
across all Australian markets. In FY22, 56% 
of our electricity needs were met through 
renewable energy with our renewable 
electricity position increasing to 66% by 
the end of the period. Our understanding 
of physical climate change risks evolved 
as we reflected on the flooding events 
and conducted a desktop emergency 
management exercise focused on an 
extreme weather event for Sydney’s Hills M2 

Motorway. This has moved us closer to being 
able to estimate potential financial impacts 
and improved our confidence in the likely 
success of planned and proposed adaptation 
measures. We acknowledge that there may 
be potential material financial risks in the 
future associated with climate change. At this 
stage, we have identified potential climate-
related material impacts for the business 
and plan to quantify the potential financial 
impacts into FY23 and beyond. Our climate-
related risk procedures and supply chain 
engagement also improved over FY22.

Our Climate Change Risk and Adaptation 
Guideline standardises the approach to 
preparing asset-specific Climate Risk and 
Adaptation Management Plans (CRAMPs), 
ensuring consistency across markets and 
enhancing efficiency. We prepared CRAMPs 
for two Queensland assets – a tunnel and an 
open road. We chose Queensland assets as 
a priority as this market has higher overall 
levels of climate-related risks compared 
to other markets where we operate. The 
experience of preparing the CRAMPs has 
flagged the importance of understanding 
the resilience of adjacent road networks and 
feeders into our assets. This is a clear area of 
focus for us over the coming years.  

Through the CDP supplier engagement 
process, we surveyed our major suppliers 
(top 50 suppliers by spend, excluding 
those engaged for major projects) this 
year to better understand their progress 
in transitioning to a low carbon economy 
and the climate-related risks they face by 
geographic location. A high proportion, 

71%, of responding suppliers have active 
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emission reduction 
targets, with most either having or 
committed to setting, science-based GHG 
emission reduction targets. Some appear to 
understand the key transition and physical 
risks for their operations. Examples of 
transition risks cited included carbon pricing 
( Japan) and changes to environmental 
regulation ( Japan and Europe). Physical risks 
identified included extreme weather events 
(most geographies), rising temperatures 
( Japan) and bushfires (Australia). We will 
continue to work with our supply chain to 
evolve our appreciation of climate-related 
risks, their management approaches and 
impact on our operations and projects.

Five case studies with detailed information 
about how we are responding to transition 
and physical risks are provided in the 
Disclosure. They cover operational climate 
risk assessments for two Queensland assets, 
workshops on extreme weather events, an 
emergency management exercise on the 
Hills M2 Motorway, climate-related risks in 
our supply chain and how climate change 
has been considered in the design and 
construction of WestConnex’s M4-M5 Link 
Tunnels in Sydney.

Much remains to be done. However, we are 
confident our Climate Change Framework 
remains fit for purpose – as evidenced by 
this year’s metrics and target progress - and 
positions us well to respond to climate-
related threats and opportunities.

The significant and widespread 
flooding in South-East 
Queensland and New South 
Wales in February and 
March 2022 underscores the 
importance of robust and 
comprehensive climate change 
management for organisations 
like ours.

1   “Setting corporate net-zero targets aligned with meeting societal climate goals means (1) achieving a scale of value chain emissions reductions consistent with the depth of abatement at  
 the point of reaching global net-zero in 1.5˚C pathways and (2) neutralizing the impact of any residual emissions by permanently removing an equivalent volume of CO2.” (SBTi Corporate     
 Net -Zero Standard, 2021)

Forward looking statement disclaimer
This Disclosure contains forward looking 
statements, including, but not limited to plans, 
strategies and objectives of management; 
assumed long-term scenarios; potential global 
responses to climate change; regulatory and 
policy developments; the development of 
certain technologies; the potential effect of 
possible future events on Transurban’s assets 
and performance and internal management 
estimates and assessments of traffic 
expectations and market outlook.

Forward looking statements may be identified 
by the use of terminology, including, but not 
limited to, ‘anticipate’, ‘expect’, ‘forecast’, 
‘potential’, ‘target’, ‘intend’, ‘will’, ‘outlook’, 
‘aim’, ‘project’, ‘see’, ‘estimate’, ‘plan’, ‘objective’, 
‘believe’, ‘may’, ‘should’, ‘would’, ‘continue’ or 
similar expressions.

These statements discuss future expectations 
concerning the results of asset and/or financial 
conditions, or provide other forward looking 
information. In particular, such statements 
may include, but are not limited to, statements 
that relate to the purpose, goals, targets, plans 
and objectives of Transurban, assumptions 
made in respect to potential weather and other 
environmental transition scenarios, as well as 
statements about how we run our business, 
including how we engage with our stakeholders.

The forward looking statements in this 
Disclosure are based on the information 
available as at the date of this Disclosure and/or 
the date of Transurban’s planning processes or 
scenario analysis processes.

There are inherent limitations with scenario 
analysis and it is difficult to predict which, 
if any, of the scenarios might eventuate. 

Scenarios do not constitute definitive outcomes 
for Transurban. Scenario analysis relies on 
assumptions that may or may not be, or prove 
to be, correct and may or may not eventuate, 
and scenarios may be impacted by additional 
factors to the assumptions (including regulatory 
or other governmental changes, obligations 
or requirements) disclosed. Forward-looking 
statements are not guarantees of future 
performance and involve known and unknown 
risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of 
which are beyond the control of Transurban, 
its directors, officers, employees, agents and 
advisors that may cause actual results to differ 
materially from those expressed or implied in 
such statements. Transurban strongly cautions 
against reliance on any forward looking 
statements.

Except as required by applicable regulations 
or by law, Transurban does not undertake any 
obligation to publicly update or review any 
forward looking statements, whether as a result 
of new information or future events. Forward 
looking statements speak only as of the date 
of this Disclosure or the date planning process 
assumptions or scenario analysis assumptions 
were adopted, as relevant. Past performance 
cannot be relied on as a guide to future 
performance.

The views expressed in this Disclosure contain 
information that has been derived from 
publicly available sources that have not been 
independently verified. No representation 
or warranty is made as to the accuracy, 
completeness or reliability of the information. 
This Disclosure should not be relied upon as a 
recommendation or forecast by Transurban.

Climate Change 
Disclosure FY22 Climate change 

disclosure FY22

Climate Change 
Disclosure FY22StrategyGovernance Metrics and targetsIntroduction Risk management

Gateway Motorway in Queensland, with the Transurban 
Queensland team looking over Karawatha Forest 
(Source: Transurban)

StrategyGovernance Metrics and targetsIntroduction Risk management



7

6

Section 1: 
Introduction 

Figure 1: Climate Change Strategic Risk Themes & Framework

Climate Change Strategic Risk Themes

Opportunity 1 

Showcase our leadership in climate risk management to open new 
market opportunities, strengthen relationships with existing government 
partners, and capitalise on innovation

Opportunities

Opportunity 2 

Take proactive steps to reduce Scope 1, 2 and 3 greenhouse gas 
emissions and customer emissions, and transition to net zero

Threats

Threat 3

Macroeconomic and/or land use 
changes caused by government 
policies and regulations, and severe 
weather events, alter city travel 
patterns and toll road use impacting 
traffic models and revenue 

Threat 1

Unexpected changes to stakeholder 
expectations, government policies 
and regulations in relation to climate 
change create an unfavourable 
operating environment, impacting our 
reputation and financial performance

Threat 2

Increased incidence of 
severe weather events and 
average temperature affects 
lifecycle planning, disrupts 
operations, and increases 
operating costs

Threat 4

Access to and use of our roads 
and tunnels are impacted 
during extreme weather 
events and in periods of 
extended rain or heat

Resilient infrastructure and operations

Energy

Energy  
efficiency 
upgrades

Onsite 
renewables

Renewable 
energy 

agreements

Low-carbon 
supply chain

Low-carbon 
materials

Circular 
economy

Partnerships 
and 

engagement

Customer 
emissions

Customer 
engagement 
on fuel and 
emissions 
reduction

Support the 
uptake of 

zero-emission 
vehicles

Roadside 
regeneration

Improve 
vegetation and 

biodiversity 
within our 

alignments 

Green 
infrastructure

Climate risk 
integration

Embed  
relevant  
climate 

projections and 
associated risks 

(threats and 
opportunities) 

within  
processes  

and systems 

Asset and 
business 

adaptation

Scenario 
analysis 

Asset-specific 
Climate Risk 

and Adaptation 
Management 

Plans including 
adaptation 
pathways

TCFD  
alignment

Climate 
risk impact 

assessments

Integration with 
financial systems, 

processes and 
reporting

Ongoing review, 
monitoring and 

reporting 

Climate Change Framework

Transition to Net Zero

Training and capacity building 

This Climate Change Disclosure is 
structured around the four categories of 
the Taskforce on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD): governance, strategy, 
risk management, and metrics and targets. 
We have continued to address all 11 of the 
TCFD’s recommendations and have outlined 
the next steps we will be taking through to 
FY25 and beyond. A summary of how we 
have addressed the recommendations is 
outlined in Table 1 on the following page.

We considered the Intergovernmental Panel 
on Climate Change’s (IPCC) Sixth Assessment 
Report and the TCFD’s revised October 2021 
guidelines when preparing this Disclosure, 
and our associated response to the revised 
TCFD recommendations, and more broadly 
in relation to our climate change program. 
We will also consider the potential impacts 
of the proposed International Sustainability 
Standards Board’s (ISSB) first two standards 
for future Disclosures. KPMG have assured 
Table 1 and Table 4 of this Disclosure, to 
provide confidence in the veracity of key 
content.

Our Climate Change Framework (Figure 1 
below) applies to our Australian and North 
American operations and responds to 
our strategic climate-related risk themes 
including four strategic climate-related 
threats and two strategic climate-related 
opportunities. We continue to evolve our 
understanding of the ramifications arising 
from climate change, with additional 
information on our strategic response, and 
improved management of climate-related 
risks (threats and opportunities) included in 
this year’s Disclosure.

Governance

Twice-yearly updates provided to the ARC, 
Transurban Board and subsidiary Boards on 

climate-related aspects

Climate-related risk oversight by 
the Transurban Board’s ARC

Internal Climate Change Governance 
Committee provide additional oversight 

and guidance on business-wide 
implementation of the Framework

Climate change 
disclosure FY22

Climate Change 
Disclosure FY22 StrategyGovernance Metrics and targetsIntroduction Risk managementStrategyGovernance Metrics and targetsIntroduction Risk managementStrategyGovernance Metrics and targetsIntroduction Risk management

Climate Change 
Disclosure FY22



8 9

Table 1: Summary of how we have addressed the TCFD recommendations

Recommendations addressed FY22 summary Next steps in the short-term (FY23-FY25) Where this is addressed in our Disclosure

G
ov

er
na

nc
e

Disclose the organisation’s governance around 
climate-related risks and opportunities.

• Describe the Board’s oversight of climate-
related risks and opportunities 

• Describe management’s role in assessing 
and managing climate-related risks and 
opportunities

• We have reviewed and addressed the TCFD Implementation Guidance released in 
October 2021 for the Governance category.

• Climate-related risks covering both threats and opportunities are overseen by the Board 
of Directors via the Audit and Risk Committee (ARC). The ARC is updated at least twice 
each year on specific climate-related risks, emerging themes, and areas of progress. 

• Quarterly material risk reviews are undertaken encompassing all material risks 
including relevant climate-related threats and opportunities.

• Responsibility for climate-related risks applies to all areas of the business, however the 
strategic response and overall direction is managed between the Sustainability and Risk 
and Compliance teams, in addition to the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and other relevant 
members of Transurban’s Executive Committee.

• Our internal Climate Change Governance Committee provides additional oversight of 
climate-related initiatives, management priorities, and annual disclosure.

• Ongoing monitoring and reporting of performance metrics.

• Ongoing training/capacity building for Board and Governance 
Committee.

Section 2 Governance

2.1 Board oversight of climate change

2.2 Business governance of climate change

St
ra

te
gy

 

Disclose the actual and potential impacts of 
climate-related risks and opportunities on the 
organisation’s businesses, strategy, and financial 
planning where such information is material.

• Describe the climate-related risks and 
opportunities the organisation has identified 
over the short, medium, and long-term

• Describe the impact of climate-related risks 
and opportunities on the organisation’s 
businesses, strategy, and financial planning 

• Describe the resilience of the organisation’s 
strategy, taking into consideration different 
climate-related scenarios, including a 2°C or 
lower scenario

• We have reviewed and addressed the TCFD Implementation Guidance released in 
October 2021 for the Strategy category.

• Our Climate Change Framework addresses the threats and opportunities associated 
with the transition to net zero and the physical impacts of climate change and sets our 
strategic direction and implementation plan across short, medium, and long-term time 
horizons. 

• Climate-related threats and opportunities have been identified and consolidated into six 
high-level strategic risk themes and climate change (as a broad topic) is also considered 
as a broader strategic business risk. At this stage, materiality is determined by the 
potential long-term impacts, likelihood the risk will be realised, and relationship with our 
organisational strategy and financial systems. 

• We have considered each of the three climate change scenarios (aligned with RCP 2.6, 
4.5, 8.5) to understand the possible short, medium, and longer-term impacts to our 
operational assets. 

• We are working to identify potential material climate-related financial impacts to  
the business and further investigation is required to quantify the potential impacts  
from FY23. 

• Ongoing monitoring and review of strategic climate-related threats 
and opportunities.

• Further detailed investigation of the financial implications of material 
climate-related risks and opportunities in the longer-term time 
horizon will be explored from FY23.

Section 3 Strategy

3.1 Our strategic response to climate change

3.2 Impacts of climate change on our organisation

3.3 Testing resilience through climate-related scenarios 

3.4 Key studies and engagement undertaken in FY22

3.5 Our progress understanding financial impacts

3.5.1 Group financial statement climate-related considerations

Ri
sk

 M
an

ag
em

en
t

Disclose how the organisation identifies, 
assesses, and manages climate-related risks.

• Describe the organisation’s processes for 
identifying and assessing climate-related risks

• Describe the organisation’s processes for 
managing climate-related risks

• Describe how processes for identifying, 
assessing and managing climate-related risks 
are integrated into the organisation’s overall 
risk management. 

• We have reviewed and addressed the TCFD Implementation Guidance released in 
October 2021 for the Risk Management category.

• A business-wide Climate Risk and Adaptation Guideline has been developed to ensure a 
consistent and aligned approach when undertaking detailed investigations and inform 
asset-specific Climate Risk and Adaptation Management Plans (CRAMPs). The Guideline 
aligns with Transurban’s Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Framework, and details how 
to identify, assess and manage climate-related risks, including those with the potential 
to have a material impact on the business, to subsequently escalate appropriately for 
decision-making and proactive management.

• Climate-related risks are reviewed in accordance with our ERM Framework every 12-18 
months, or as otherwise required (dependent on asset-specific CRAMP outcomes, 
emerging TCFD guidance and frequency of evolving IPCC scientific findings).  

• On major construction and development projects, our contractors endeavour to 
undertake a climate change risk adaptation assessment, consider the impact of design 
and construction on the environment, and achieve sustainability performance ratings. 

• Climate-related threats and associated climate projections are considered as part of the 
organisation’s business resilience activities. In FY22 an emergency managment exercise 
on the Hills M2 Motorway was conducted which was based on an extreme weather 
event.

• Ongoing development of asset-specific CRAMPs to identify adaptation 
pathways to consider over time.

• Develop financial logic maps for asset-specific CRAMP assessments.

• Ongoing business resilience activities to include climate projections for 
extreme weather events. 

Section 4 Risk Management

4.1 Climate change risk management

4.2 Managing climate-related strategic risks 

4.3 Possible long-term climate-related physical risk for asset 
components

M
et

ri
cs

 a
nd

 T
ar

ge
ts

Disclose the metrics and targets used to assess 
and manage relevant climate-related risks 
and opportunities where such information is 
material.

• Disclose the metrics used by the organisation 
to assess climate-related risks and 
opportunities in line with its strategy and risk 
management process 

• Disclose Scope 1 and 2 (and Scope 3 if 
appropriate) GHG emissions and the related 
risks

• Describe the targets used by the organisation 
to manage climate-related risks and 
opportunities and performance against targets 

• We have reviewed and addressed the TCFD Implementation Guidance released in 
October 2021 for the Metrics and Targets category, with our current set of performance 
metrics aligning with our key strategic climate-related threats and opportunities.

• We have established scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG emission reduction targets for 2030 which 
have been verified by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) and are committed to 
achieving net zero by 2050.

• Our Disclosure includes Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions as well as customer emissions, 
related threats and opportunities, progress against emission reduction targets, and 
their management.

• Review and enhance our current set of performance metrics in line 
with TCFD guidance, Implementing the Recommendations of the  
TCFD 2021 Appendix 2, Cross-Industry Climate-Related Metric 
Categories.

Section 5 Metrics and Targets

5.1 Climate-related metrics

5.2 GHG and energy targets and progress on our transition

Climate Change 
Disclosure FY22 Introduction IntroductionIntroductionClimate change 

disclosure FY22

Climate Change 
Disclosure FY22 StrategyGovernance Metrics and targetsRisk managementStrategyGovernance Metrics and targetsRisk managementStrategyGovernance Metrics and targetsRisk managementStrategyGovernance Metrics and targetsRisk management



11

10

Section 2: 
Governance

2.1 Board 
oversight of 
climate change

Transurban’s Enterprise Risk Management 
(ERM) Framework guides the identification 
of climate-related threats and opportunities, 
which are overseen by the Board of Directors 
through the ARC. The ERM Framework 
outlines the methodology to identify, 
assess, and govern material physical and 
transition risk, and ensure the appropriate 
escalation for decision-making and proactive 
management where required. 

The ARC is updated twice-yearly through 
standard business and operational risk 
reporting on climate-related risks, areas of 
progress, emerging trends, and updates on 
climate-related issues. In FY22, updates were 
provided on the IPCC’s Sixth Assessment 
Report findings and progress against the 
Climate Change Framework. This Disclosure 
is reviewed by the Board of Directors 
through the annual corporate reporting 
process, as per our previous Disclosures 
reported in accordance with the TCFD 
recommendations since their release in 
2017. In March 2022 we held a Strategy Day 
for Transurban’s Board, and in May 2022 we 
held Investor Day, both of which considered 
the organisation’s transition to net zero and 
overall strategic direction. 

2.2 Business 
governance of 
climate change

The broad theme of climate change is 
considered a strategic driver of our business 
risks, and responsibility for climate-related 
risks applies to all areas of our business. The 
strategic response and overall direction are 
managed between the Sustainability and 
Risk teams, with additional oversight by the 
General Manager of Risk and Compliance, the 
General Manager of Corporate Affairs and 
Investor Relations, and the Chief Financial 
Officer (CFO). Asset-specific CRAMPs are 
developed for individual asset, climate-
related risks (threats and opportunities) and 
the associated adaptation pathways are 
managed by key stakeholders involved in the 
operations and maintenance of the asset. 
Figure 2 provides an outline of our business 
governance structure for climate change. 

Transurban’s cross-disciplinary Climate 
Change Governance Committee provides 
additional internal oversight of climate-
related initiatives, management priorities, 
emerging industry trends, and reporting on 
a quarterly basis. Dedicated resources are 
allocated to manage climate change across 
the organisation, including external specialist 
assistance.

There are a range of formal and informal 
communication channels used to share 
progress and understand the views of our 
investors. In FY22, Transurban’s 1H22 Results 
Investor presentation and Investor Day 
presented a range of related topics including 
future mobility trends focused on low or 
zero emission vehicles (ZEVs) and our ESG 
progress more broadly.

Executive Committee

Remuneration, People
and Culture Committee

Nomination
Committee

Audit and Risk
Committee

Executive CommitteeExecutive Committee

Board of Directors

Security holders

Chief Executive Officer

Board of Directors

Security holders

Board reserved powers and delegation of authority

Chief Financial OfficerChief Financial Officer

Climate Change Governance Committee

This includes internal members from legal, finance, risk and compliance, strategy, sustainability, traffic, 
business resilience, and investor relations

Asset Operations, Maintenance and Engineering Teams

Accountability, monitoring, implementation

Our People

Risk and 
Compliance

Corporate Affairs, Investor 
Relations and Sustainability 

Risk Team
Accountability, scenario 
and disruption analysis

Sustainability Team
Accountability, reporting, 
implementation

Figure 2: Climate Change Governance Structure 

Climate change 
disclosure FY22

Climate Change 
Disclosure FY22

Climate Change 
Disclosure FY22 StrategyGovernance Metrics and targetsIntroduction Risk managementStrategyGovernance Metrics and targetsIntroduction Risk managementIntroduction StrategyGovernance Metrics and targetsRisk management



13

12

Section 3: 
Strategy

3.1 Our strategic 
response to 
climate change

Transurban continues to evolve and 
mature our response to climate change, 
and manage the associated impacts across 
our operations, organisational strategy, 
financial planning, and major construction 
and development projects. We have made 
considerable progress in our low-carbon 
transition since committing to 2030 interim 
targets and our long-term 2050 net zero 
target in FY21. In FY22, 56% of our electricity 
needs were met through renewable 
energy with our renewable electricity 
position increasing to 66% by the end of 
the period. We have also continued our 
efforts in developing physical climate-related 
assessments across our assets and have 
begun to define the potential associated 
financial implications.

Our Climate Change Framework (Figure 1)
outlines the climate-related strategic risk 
(threats and opportunities) themes and 
direction to prioritise our efforts in the net 
zero transition, and ensure we operate 
resilient infrastructure into the future. The 
climate-related risk themes are consolidated 
into four threats and two opportunities, 
which capture the various climate-related risk 
themes identified by TCFD Implementation 
Guidance released in October 20213. These 
strategic threats and opportunities link to 
the broader strategic business direction 
and define a clear, top-down approach to 
help identify key external trends and drivers, 
and our potential exposure. Further detail 
and our progress against these threats and 
opportunities are outlined in Table 4. 

These commitments, targets and initiatives 
are underpinned by our business-wide 
Sustainability Strategy, which positions our 
business to make meaningful progress 
towards the United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals (UN SDGs). We have 
commitments in place over short, medium, 
and longer-term time horizons to ensure 
an orderly and effective transition. Figure 3 
summarises our priority areas for the business 
to manage climate-related physical and 
transition risk.

3.2 Impacts of 
climate change on 
our organisation

Transurban’s strategy is “By understanding 
what matters to our stakeholders, we create 
road transport solutions that make us a 
partner of choice.” Climate change is likely to 
affect our strategy to some extent, from a 
risk (threat and opportunity) perspective. 

Our infrastructure will likely face a range 
of climate-related physical risk drivers, 
both acute and chronic, which may lead 
to financial, operational, and service 
delivery impacts. In addition, transition risk 
impacts such as change in the regulatory 
environment, stakeholder expectations 
and broader disruption could lead to an 
unfavourable operating environment. A 
range of climate-related impacts have been 
considered across our organisation are being 
monitored as outlined in Table 2 below. 

A review of priority climate risk drivers for 
Transurban was undertaken in FY22 in order 
to understand these potential organisational 
climate-related risks and associated 
materiality. Materiality in this context has 
been determined by the potential long-
term horizon of the risk, likelihood the 
risk will be realised, and relationship with 
our organisational strategy and financial 
systems.

At this stage, in the short to medium-
term, we expect the potential impacts to 
our business to be largely influenced by 
acute physical events such as extreme 
weather, bushfire or flooding. Changes 
in stakeholder expectations and in the 
regulatory environment, and disruptions 
to the broader road networks across each 
of our markets caused by acute extreme 
weather events could also affect our 
business and operations to some extent. 
Our organisational strategy is not expected 
to be materially impacted across these time 
horizons; however further investigation is 
planned from FY23 to FY25 to confirm this 
and quantify potential impacts. 

3 TCFD Implementation Guidance 2021, Table A1.1 
4 TCFD Implementation Guidance 2021, Strategy  
   recommended Disclosure b) 

TCFD Impact 
category4 

Summary of potential organisational 
impact

Strategic climate-
related threat or 
opportunity where 
this is monitored

Products and 
services

• Continued escalation in fuel prices affecting 
customers.

• Cumulation of physical risk affecting customer 
access to our assets.

Threats 1, 3 and 4 and 
opportunity 1

Supply chain • Cumulation of physical and transition risk 
affecting our supply chain leading to increased 
cost of materials, product availability shortage, 
and delivery delays.

• Need for proactive engagement with supply chain 
to mitigate potential climate-related risks.

Threats 1 and 2, and 
opportunity 1

Adaptation 
and mitigation 
activities

• Increased maintenance and rectification cost for 
assets not designed for projected physical threats.

• Need for proactive engagement with external 
stakeholders such as government partners to 
enhance climate resilience. 

Threats 2 and 4, and 
opportunity 1

Investment in 
research and 
development

• Increased need for research and development; 
likely focused on the application of low-carbon 
materials.

Opportunity 1

Operations • Cumulation of physical threats affecting customer 
and staff health and safety.

• Increased operating cost due to changing 
environment (physical and transition).

Threat 2 and opportunity 2

Acquisitions or 
divestments

• Consideration of climate change as part of due 
diligence

Threat 1 and opportunity 1

Access to 
capital

• Need to demonstrate robustness and 
transparency of climate change commitments 
and asset resilience.

Opportunity 1

Table 2: Transurban’s response to the TCFD’s Impact Categories

Climate change 
disclosure FY22

Climate Change 
Disclosure FY22

Climate Change 
Disclosure FY22 StrategyStrategyStrategyGovernance Metrics and targetsIntroduction Risk management GovernanceIntroduction GovernanceIntroduction Metrics and targetsRisk management Metrics and targetsRisk management



14 15

Resilient 
Infrastructure 
& Operations

—Case study—

Emergency 
Management 
Exercise on the 
Hills M2

In March 2022, the Business Resilience 
team conducted an emergency 
management desktop exercise with 
the NSW Business. The exercise was 
based on an extreme weather event 
impacting the Hills M2 Motorway and 
the broader Sydney region. Using the 
climate projections identified in the Hills 
M2 Motorway CRAMP, the aim of the 
exercise was to provide an opportunity 

to rehearse the response to a major 
adverse weather event and to further 
understand potential consequences of 
a period of excessive high temperatures 
on the asset, the surrounding community 
and customers. The exercise included 
both tactical and strategic response 
management teams to establish 
immediate response activities, and plan 
for ongoing safety, operational, financial, 
and reputational impacts. The exercise’s 
objectives included:

• Review operational processes, including 
the notification, escalation, and 
activation protocols, between response 
management teams;

• Provide an opportunity for all parties 
to understand their role, as well as 
the roles of others during an extreme 
weather event; and

• Demonstrate preparedness and 
operational resilience as part of the Hills 
M2 Motorway CRAMP.

The complex scenario highlighted 
the importance of preparing the assets 
and response teams in the lead up to 
predicted extreme weather events 
and demonstrated the challenges of 
responding to a dynamic event, impacting 
multiple assets and communities.  

The potential impacts of climate change 
over a longer-term time horizon are more 
uncertain due to a range of variables, 
including climate projection confidence. 
Our organisation will likely be affected by 
both acute and chronic physical events, 
given these impacts are projected to be 
more severe and impactful over time. 
Further investigation is planned from FY23 
to understand the potential longer-term 
impacts such as increased extreme rainfall 
intensity and resultant flooding, sea level rise 
and storm surge. 

Broader network disruption is anticipated 
to arise. It is therefore important we continue 
to work with our government partners and 
key stakeholders to understand and respond 
to expectations and emerging requirements 
and continue to enhance our assets’ overall 
resilience. A detailed investigation of arterial 
road systems and other infrastructure which 
feed into our roads and tunnels, and their 
associated resilience, is planned from FY24 
to FY30. 

We recognise it is important to also 
consider the potential implications of the 
accumulation of events and the interrelation 
of different events, such as sea level rise 
and storm surge. These projected longer-
term impacts will continue to be assessed 
across the lifecycle of our assets through 
the implementation of infrastructure 
sustainability rating tools, ongoing 
climate risk and adaptation assessments, 
development of asset-specific CRAMPs, and 
continued stakeholder engagement. 

To ensure we capture the evolving climate 
science projections and emerging market 
and regulatory trends, continued climate-

related assessments and ongoing monitoring 
are required. This will be undertaken 
through the delivery of our Climate Change 
Framework (Figure 3) which shows our 
priorities for resilient infrastructure and 
operations across short, medium and longer-
term time horizons. 

There is continued momentum in the 
prominence of climate-related risks across 
the regulatory and legal environment, 
and we expect this trend to continue. 
We consequently realise the importance 
of our continued transition to net zero, 
integration of climate-related risk across 
our organisational pillars and strategy, and 
governance of independent sustainability 
performance ratings for assets to ensure 
ongoing transparency in our climate change 
risk management and disclosure. 

3.3 Testing 
resilience through 
climate-related 
scenarios 

Our 2030 decarbonisation targets are 
validated by the SBTi and align with limiting 
climate change to 1.5-degrees. Within the 
business, we use three climate scenarios 
associated with global temperature increases 
to test possible future conditions. A detailed 
review of the trends and key assumptions for 
each of the three scenarios was undertaken 

Scope 1 & 2 science-based emission reduction target: 
50% reduction by 2030
Transition to zero-emission Transurban fleet; contractor 
targets for fuel efficiency and transition to zero-emissions 
vehicles by 2030; pursue North American market 
renewable energy strategy; ongoing tunnel ventilation 
optimisation and lighting upgrades; and installation of 
more onsite renewables on a case-by-case basis

Scope 3 science-based emission reduction target: 
55% reduction in emissions intensity across major 
construction and development projects by 2030, 22% 
reduction in emissions intensity across purchased 
goods and services by 2030
Engage supply chain on commitments to renewable 
energy and science-based targets; increase availability 
and use of low-carbon and circular materials; enhance 
major project specifications; and industry engagement 
and partnerships

Ongoing climate-related risk and adaptation assessment reviews; monitoring of climate-related metrics; and 
reporting and governance

Scope 3 
does not include 

customer emissions. 
We are encouraging 

customers to  
reduce these through  

eco-driving and  
zero-emission vehicle 

uptake initiatives

Figure 3: Current and future climate-related risk management priorities  

FY23* FY24* FY30* FY50*

Scope 1 & 2 emission 
reduction target: 
Expected initiatives 
to reach Net Zero
100% renewable 
electricity use; and 
eliminate residual 
fuel usage through 
electrification across 
direct and contractor 
operations

Scope 3 emission 
reduction target: 
Expected initiatives 
to reach Net Zero
Electricity grid 
transition to 
renewables; 
accelerated uptake 
of low-carbon 
materials; supply chain 
minimum contract 
requirements; 
partnerships to drive 
sectoral transition; and 
carbon offset where 
residual emissions 
cannot be avoided

FY25*

Asset-specific Climate Risk and 
Adaptation Management Plans

The CRAMPs will include a risk and 
adaptation assessment, defined 
adaptation pathways, broad 
financial implications and triggers 
and thresholds

Broader road infrastructure assessment 
and enhancing resilience

Undertake an analysis of the broader arterial 
road system to understand potential hotspots 
which could impact our asset operations as 
a result of extreme weather events. Work 
with key external stakeholders to undertake 
mapping where our assets interface with 
others and encourage mitigation and 
adaptation (where applicable)

* Time horizons indicate EOFY and are not to scale
1 All GHG targets are relative to a 2019 base year

Cl
im

at
e 

Ch
an

ge
 F

ra
m

ew
or

k 
pr

io
ri

ty
 a

re
as

Transition  
to Net Zero1

Continued integration into business 
operations

Development of climate-related metrics across 
our asset lifecycle models and traffic models to 
continuously improve business resilience and 
future climate-related projections

Climate 
resilience 
training 
and 
capacity 
building

Develop and 
implement 
compulsory 
training 
module

Financial physical climate risk and 
adaptation assessment

Measure and quantify the identified  
long-term impacts of the climate-related 
risks and adaptation measures

FY23* FY24* FY30* FY50*FY25*

in FY22 to capture the most recent physical 
scientific findings by the IPCC, and the 
broader regulatory changes across the 
markets where we operate. Further work is 
required to consider the social cost of carbon 
(SCC) as defined by the IPCC within our 
scenarios.

We have considered each of the three 
climate change scenarios to understand the 
possible short, medium, and longer-term 
impacts to operational assets. The scenarios 
align with TCFD recommendations, the 
Australian government’s commitments to 
meet the United Nations’ Paris Agreement, 
and the IPCC’s Representative Concentration 
Pathways (RCP 2.6, 4.5, 8.5). Through 
implementation and use of each scenario, a 
consistent set of assumptions inform our risk 
assessment and management process and 
enable us to consider a full range of possible 
outcomes.

Importantly, each of the three climate 
scenarios also present opportunities across 
the various time horizons. These include 
asset efficiencies through improved design, 
sustainable finance, adoption of innovative 
technology, the use of low carbon materials, 
and uptake of zero emission vehicles. We 
will continue to explore the significance of 
these opportunities to enable our business 
and operations to drive longer-term positive 
change and strengthen our organisational 
resilience.

Example of scenario information provided to 
responding teams for the purposes of the exercise 
(Source: Bureau of Meteorology)

Climate Change 
Disclosure FY22 Climate change 

disclosure FY22

Climate Change 
Disclosure FY22StrategyGovernance Metrics and targetsIntroduction Risk management StrategyStrategyGovernanceIntroduction GovernanceIntroduction Metrics and targetsRisk management Metrics and targetsRisk management



16 17

3.4 Key studies 
and engagement 
undertaken in 
FY22

Several studies and engagement 
activities were conducted in FY22 to further 
understand potential organisational impacts 
associated with climate change. We continue 
to build our knowledge base on potential 
longer-term asset adaptation measures, and 
associated adaptation pathways to transition 
and enhance our resilience over time. 

An outline of the detailed assessments and 
engagement activities is provided below:

• Enterprise physical climate-related risk 
materiality assessment: We engaged a 
climate specialist to undertake a detailed 
review and assessment of priority climate 
risk drivers across our operational assets. 
The purpose was to understand potential 
materiality across the organisation 
associated with physical climate change 
impacts. This study will inform part 
of a broader financial climate-related 
assessment to be conducted from FY23, 
which will define key financial metrics 
associated with our organisation’s material 
climate-related risks. 

• Case studies reflecting on extreme 
climate events already experienced: An 
interactive workshop was held with key 
stakeholders from each Australian market 
to discuss how recent extreme weather 
events experienced in each region affected 
the operations and resilience of our assets. 
The outputs from each workshop informed 
where potential material risks could lie over 
the longer-term time horizon, and further 
support the enterprise physical climate risk 
materiality assessment (mentioned above).

• Climate scenario review: We undertook 
a detailed review of our three climate 
scenarios to capture the most recent 
physical scientific findings by the IPCC, 
the United Nations Climate Change 
Conference (COP26 summit) outcomes, 
and the broader regulatory changes 
across Australia and North America. Our 
scenarios align with RCP 2.6, 4.5 and 
8.5, and include characteristics such as 
carbon market and pricing, technology, 
stakeholders and regulation, and physical 
science. 

• Emergency management exercise on 
the Hills M2: Taking into consideration 
the outcomes of the climate risk and 
adaptation assessment developed in FY21 
for the Hills M2 Motorway, the Business 
Resilience team conducted an emergency 

—Case study—

Reflecting on extreme climate events experienced and 
asset resilience

Melbourne: Severe storm event
Climate event background: 

On 27 and 28 January 2022, 
thunderstorms brought strong winds, 
heavy rainfall, hail, and flash flooding 
to the western and central parts of 
Melbourne. Hailstones measuring three 
centimetres were reported, in addition to 
damaging lightning strikes causing power 
outages and flash flooding. 

Observed impacts on our assets and 
operations: 

Based on a workshop with market 
stakeholders in Victoria, the impacts of 
the severe storm event were discussed 
in terms of the asset performance and 
operations. The road and tunnel design 
were considered resilient to severe 
storm events due to design features 
such as drainage designed for large 
rainfall events. Severe storms impacted 
construction both directly and indirectly 
by generally generating delays. Impacts 
included reduced crane operations in 
severe winds and stop work and safe 
work orders onsite. These impacts 
however were not considered significant.

Direct impacts to operations observed 
during this storm event were mostly 
confined to flooding hotspots such as 
on-ramps, or where the assets joined 
other networks. The severe storm event 
produced minor operational impacts. 
Minor maintenance issues were also 
reported such as clearing fallen branches 
on the roadside. Despite the severity of 
lightning strikes and grid failures during 
the event, power outages were not 
problematic because the assets have 
dual feed power systems from different 
suppliers and back-up power networks 
capable of providing supply over an 
extended period.

Reflecting on the storm event and 
associated direct and indirect impacts, 
the group collectively noted minimal 
overall impact. 

Sydney: Black Summer 
bushfires
Climate event background: 

In December 2019 and January 2020, 
drought and a heatwave in Sydney 
saw temperatures reach around 45°C 
and create favourable conditions for 
persistent bushfires. Smoke and dust 
storms created poor air quality and 
reduced air quality and visibility in the 
area. As a result of these conditions 
persistent bushfires were generated 
which led to indirect impacts of smoke 
and dust storms causing poor air quality 
and reduced visibility in Sydney.

Observed impacts on our assets and 
operations: 

The compound event was discussed in a 
workshop held with market stakeholders 
in NSW. Significant pressure on the air-
conditioning units in Intelligent Transport 
Systems (ITS) equipment rooms on open 
road assets was noted, with the lifespans 
of these units known to be considerably 
reduced with excessive prolonged heat 
and increased workloads. On the Hills 
M2 and M5 Southwest, both open road 
motorways, near misses were reported 
from localised bushfires. There were no 
reported issues with the prolonged heat 
or drought on the geotechnical integrity 
of the assets, and landscaping was found 
to be resilient due to the hardy, drought-
tolerant Australian natives planted.

From an operational perspective, the 
excessive heat resulted in stop work 
orders and health and safety concerns for 
outdoor staff and contractors, particularly 
those involved in landscaping-related 
maintenance activities. There was also an 
increase in vehicle breakdown frequency 
during the peak heatwave events. 
Visibility was impacted by smoke haze 
and as a result speed restrictions were 
imposed for safety purposes.

Overall, the group noted there 
were impacts experienced across the 
assets due to the compound of events, 
predominantly for the open road assets. 
However, the controls in place ensured 
that the assets remained safe and 
operational. 

Brisbane: East-coast flooding 
event
Climate event background: 

A back-to-back La Niña event persisted 
throughout 2021 and into 2022 
generating above average rainfall across 
Greater Brisbane. A total of 792.9mm 
of rainfall was recorded in Brisbane 
City over 6 days from 23 to 28 February 
2022, which is 78% of the annual average 
rainfall. This rainfall led to significant river 
and creek level rises, causing extensive 
and significant flooding along the 
Brisbane River. 

Observed impacts on our assets and 
operations: 

A workshop was held with market 
stakeholders in Queensland to reflect on 
the extreme event experienced. Most of 
the reported impacts occurred during 
the acute period of intense rainfall in the 
last week of February 2022. Open road 
assets are designed for 1 in 100-year 
rainfall events, and tunnel assets for 1 in 
1000-year events. They were therefore 
largely resilient to this event. Geotechnical 
impacts to open road assets such as 
embankment slips were noted as the 
most significant. Low lying roadside 
cabinets were also inundated and full 
replacement was required post-event, 
which resulted in some minor cascading 
impacts to services and operations.

Pleasingly, all assets remained open 
and direct impacts on operations were 
relatively minor. The pumping systems 
proved to be effective where localised 
flooding was experienced, and some 
back-up tankers were deployed to 
prevent overflows.

Taking into consideration the scale 
and extreme intensity of the event, the 
group concluded that inundation impacts 
were relatively minor and short lived. A 
comprehensive internal post incident 
review was conducted to ensure both the 
resilience of the assets and future lessons 
learnt were captured.

CityLink, Melbourne (Source: Transurban)

Sydney CBD blanketed by smoke from bushfires 
(Source: BBC News, https://www.bbc.com/news/world-
australia-50468450)

One of Transurban’s assets, Go Between Bridge, 
showing the river level >4.25m RL which is considered 
a 1 in 100-year event (Source: Transurban)

management desktop exercise with the 
NSW Business based on the extreme 
weather projections for the asset. The 
scenario highlighted the importance of 
preparing the asset and response teams in 
the lead up to predicted extreme weather 
events and demonstrated the challenges 
of responding to a dynamic event.  

• Climate-related risk analysis across 
our supply chain: As a result of indirect 
engagement with our major suppliers,  
an analysis was conducted to understand 
the potential impacts of climate-related 
physical and transition risk across our 
supply chain. This will inform future 
engagement to define areas of opportunity 
and further risk mitigation with our 
suppliers.

• Infrastructure Sustainability (IS) 
Operations rating on the Hills M2 
Motorway: We have submitted an IS 
Operations Rating on the Hills M2, and are 
awaiting the final verified outcome. As part 
of the rating, a detailed climate risk and 
adaptation assessment was completed, 
and the highest possible score for the 
assessment was verified. This means that 
over 50% of the identified adaptation 
actions have been implemented in line with 
the time implementation thresholds, and 
the assessment aligned with all operational 
requirements of the IS Rating Scheme.

• Queensland open road and tunnel 
climate risk adaptation assessment: 
Detailed climate risk and adaptation 
assessments were undertaken on two 
Queensland assets to understand 
possible adaptation required across short, 
medium, and long-term timeframes. The 
assessments considered potential impacts 
on an open road (Gateway Motorway) 
and a tunnel asset (Legacy Way). Given 
the timing of when the assessments were 
conducted, integration of the February 
2022 flooding event was considered and 
reviewed during the process. 

• WestConnex M4-M5 Link Tunnel 
design and construction: A workshop 
and subsequent review was held with the 
WestConnex and the contractor (ASBJV) 
teams to discuss the climate-related risk 
and adaptation measures implemented 
on the M4-M5 Link tunnels from the 
design and construction phases of asset, 
prior to the asset becoming operational. 
The purpose of the workshop was to 
capture the applicable climate-related 
risks for integration into Transurban’s 
risk management system for ongoing 
monitoring by the WestConnex Operation 
and Maintenance team.  
 
 
(Continued on page 18)

Climate Change 
Disclosure FY22 Climate change 

disclosure FY22

Climate Change 
Disclosure FY22StrategyGovernance Metrics and targetsIntroduction Risk management StrategyStrategyGovernanceIntroduction GovernanceIntroduction Metrics and targetsRisk management Metrics and targetsRisk management



18

19

In the short-term, from FY23 to FY25, we 
will focus on continuing to develop asset-
specific CRAMPs across our Australian and 
North American markets, and start assessing 
the financial implications associated with the 
physical impacts of climate change. Through 
these assessments, we will enhance our 
current understanding of the longer-term 
impacts of climate change and potential 
financial impacts. Additional studies to 
determine the broader network impacts 
of extreme weather events, in line with the 
management priorities identified in our 
Climate Change Framework, are planned 
from FY24. 

3.5 Our progress 
towards 
understanding 
financial impacts 

Climate change poses both a threat 
and an opportunity to our business. It 
could therefore potentially have a range of 
impacts on our financial performance. The 
extent of financial impacts on our business 
relies on our organisational response to 
the various risks and associated adaption 
pathways identified, continued integration of 
climate-related risk with our operational and 
financial processes, and our effectiveness in 
capitalising on emerging opportunities. Our 
current understanding of climate-related 
financial risk is that climate change may have 
an impact on one or more of the TCFD’s 
four major financial categories (revenues, 
expenditures, assets and liabilities, and 
capital and financing) particularly over the 
long-term. We have previously mapped the 
potential climate-related financial impacts on 
our business against these categories. 

In FY22 we engaged a climate specialist to 
undertake a detailed review and assessment 
of priority climate risk drivers to understand 
the potential materiality across the 
organisation associated with physical climate 
change impacts. This study will inform a 
broader financial climate-related assessment 
to be conducted from FY23, which will 
define key financial logic maps and metrics 
associated with our material climate-related 
risks. 

As part of the study, we have mapped 
at a high-level the potential impact flow, 
intermediate implication, and associated 
outcomes which could affect our financial 

Increased 
instance of 
extreme rainfall

Flooding on 
Transurban roads 
and connecting 
arterials

Disruption for 
road users

Reduced 
toll road 
trips

Increased 
maintenance 
of drainage 

Figure 4: Example climate-related logic 
map for increased instance of extreme 
rainfall

processes. An example of a climate-related 
logic map is illustrated in Figure 4 for the 
risk of increased instance of extreme 
rainfall. In this example extreme rainfall 
could lead to financial impacts on revenue 
and maintenance costs and have two key 
financial reporting impacts on our financial 
statements: firstly, lower revenues and 
higher costs could impact the valuation of 
our concession assets and secondly, bringing 
forward expected maintenance activities 
could increase maintenance expense and 
maintenance provisions. We will continue to 
investigate these potential impacts in FY23 
and beyond.

3.5.1 Group financial statement 
climate-related considerations

We have considered the potential financial 
reporting impacts and disclosures related to 
climate change in our financial statements, 
with particular reference to the Australian 
Accounting Standards Board/International 
Accounting Standards Board Practice 
Statement 2 Making Materiality Judgements 
(PSA/PS 2) which summarises the best 
practice interpretation of materiality in the 
context of the financial statements.

In FY22 we have updated our largely 
qualitative consideration of the potential 
financial reporting impacts on the Group’s 
financial statements from the climate-
related financial risks identified, through 
analysis of the studies and engagement 
activities conducted during the period. 
We have analysed the actual impacts of 
severe weather events already experienced 
in respect to our various assets (refer to 
section 3.4 ). The research and discussions 
with external advisors to date indicate 
that the key potential impact areas may 
include impairment of assets, maintenance 
provisions, contingent liabilities as well as 
expenses.  

We note that our financial statements 
include assets and liabilities supported by 
cash flows that extend into the medium 
and long term, and climate change could 
have financial impacts particularly over the 
long-term that may impact our financial 
statements. Further work is required to 
better understand the potential financial 
impacts and therefore financial reporting 
impacts. We will also consider the potential 
impacts of the proposed ISSB’s first two 
standards for future Disclosures5.

As our understanding of financial impacts 
progresses into the future, we will also 
seek to embed climate-related data into 
the measurement of impacted financial 
statement line items.

Section 4:  
Risk 
management  

5 IFRS S1—General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information; IFRS S2—Climate-related  
  Disclosures

Climate Change 
Disclosure FY22 StrategyGovernance Metrics and targetsIntroduction Risk management

Climate change 
disclosure FY22StrategyGovernance Metrics and targetsIntroduction Risk management



20 21

4.1 Climate change risk management 
Climate change is considered a strategic 

business risk (refer to Corporate Report 
Governance and Risk management section). 
We identify and manage climate-related 
risks through our business-wide Climate 
Risk and Adaptation Guideline. Aligning with 
and supporting Transurban’s enterprise 
approach to risk management, the Guideline 
describes the process we use to identify, 
asses, manage, and escalate climate-related 
risks and document them in asset-specific 
CRAMPs which ensures we are operating 
as a business within our risk appetite. We 
continue to develop asset-specific CRAMPs 
for our operational assets in each market 
and have also integrated climate-related risk 
into our Strategic Asset Management and 
Operations Plan, as well as at a business 
and strategic level. These Plans are also 
integrated into our business resilience 
activities and enable teams to exercise and 
enhance their response to climate-based 
disruption events. A high-level summary of 
our climate change risk management process 
is outlined in Table 3 below.

Given climate-related risk continues to 
evolve, it is essential to monitor emerging 
trends, our climate-related metrics, changes 
across the regulatory environment and 
potential for disruption across our supply 
chains. A holistic review of our climate 
scenarios was undertaken in FY22, to ensure 
that assumptions and potential impacts 
remain up to date with the national and 
international trends, and latest physical 
climate science. 

Six strategic climate-related risk themes 
including four threats and two opportunities 
inform our Climate Change Framework 
(Figure 1). Climate-related operational risks, 
which apply to corporate services, our 
customer and asset teams, are identified, 
reviewed, and updated regularly. Business-
wide climate-related risks are reviewed every 
12-18 months or more regularly based on 
their potential consequence. 

For new assets, we endeavour to include 
contractual requirements to undertake a 
climate change risk assessment, consider 
the impact of design and construction 
on the environment, and achieve third-
party sustainability performance ratings. 
In Australia, all major construction and 
development projects are required to achieve 
at least an ‘Excellent’ IS rating through 
design and construction. The IS rating tool is 
facilitated by the Infrastructure Sustainability 
Council (ISC), and benchmarks best practice 
sustainability standards on infrastructure 
assets across planning, design, construction, 
and operation phases. Specific requirements 
for climate risk and adaptation are included 
in the tool, which drives projects to deliver 
innovative and resilient infrastructure under 
a worst-case scenario of approximately 
4-degrees of warming by 2100. In North 
America, we have committed to achieving 
‘Envision’ sustainability ratings from the 
Institute for Sustainable Infrastructure for two 
current major construction and development 
projects (Fredericksburg Extension and the 
495 Express Lanes Northern Extension).

Within our supply chain, we regularly 
engage with our major suppliers to 
disclose GHG emissions, reduction targets 
and outcomes via CDP, which provides a 
standardised approach to data collection 
including noting the physical and transition 
climate-related risk components. We have 
assessed our first round of responses  
in FY22 which are detailed on the  
following page.

By integrating climate-related threats and 
opportunities into our risk management 
approach, systems and processes, we are 
well positioned to anticipate, manage, and 
ultimately strengthen the resilience of our 
business into the future.

Key steps Description

1. Training and engagement Engage a multidisciplinary team. Where applicable, conduct a preliminary workshop to ensure consistent 
understanding of the climate change framework, supporting risk guidelines, and climate risk and adaptation 
identification process. 

2. Climate research Establish scope, context and criteria for climate risk assessment, and undertake relevant climate research 
aligned with climate scenarios across short, medium and long-term time horizons. Research historical and 
future climate data applicable to the scope of the assessment.

3. Plan Collate previous climate-related risk assessments which are applicable, and obtain relevant design, 
maintenance and operational information to conduct the risk assessment. 

4. Risk and adaptation 
identification

Complete a risk assessment in line with the ERM Framework, to identify the likelihood, impacts, consequence 
and risk rating in line with the climate projections from step 2. Conduct a workshop for both climate-related risk 
and adaptation to capture inherent and residual risk ratings.

5. Report Develop a Climate Risk and Adaptation Management Plan (CRAMP) based on the workshops and stakeholder 
engagement. The Plan should include adaptation pathways to implement the applicable actions and mitigation 
measures over different time horizons.

6. Monitoring and review Embed the CRAMP findings into Active Risk Manager (ARM) for ongoing monitoring and review by the applicable 
risk and action owners. Complete a review of strategic and operational climate-related risks every 12-18 months.

7. Audit and assurance Test and confirm identified control measures, where applicable. Undertake ongoing audits of broader risk 
management processes.

Table 3: Climate change risk management process

Climate Change 
Disclosure FY22 StrategyGovernance Metrics and targetsIntroduction Risk management

In FY22 we asked major suppliers 
(excluding our major construction and 
development projects) to participate in 
CDP supply chain reporting which provides 
a consistent climate change questionnaire 
for nominated suppliers. 

The results provided us with a detailed 
understanding of the extent of risk 
identification, mitigation, and management 
by our top 50 major suppliers and some 
of their climate-related physical and 
transition risks. A total of 56 climate-
related risks were identified by our 
suppliers who operate in the professional 
services, Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS) 
equipment, Information Technology (IT) 

Climate-related risk in our 
supply chain
To meet our interim scope 3 GHG emission reduction targets and  
long-term commitment to net zero GHG emissions and to ensure 
the resilience of our operations and business strategy, we seek to 
understand our suppliers’ commitments to GHG reduction and 
addressing climate-related risks.

services, telecommunications service, and 
engineering services sectors. The findings 
are shown in Figure 5 below, with climate-
related risks mapped against identified 
locations. The key geographical hotpots are 
highlighted below:

• Japan: suppliers identified physical 
risks relating to rising temperatures and 
extreme weather, and transition risks 
relating to carbon pricing and change in 
the regulatory environment.

• India: suppliers identified physical 
risks relating to increased severity and 
frequency of extreme events (namely 
cyclones, floods, and extreme heat) and 
variability in weather events.

• Europe: suppliers identified physical 
risk relating to increased severity 
and frequency of extreme weather 
events and transition risks relating to 
carbon pricing, enhanced reporting 
and regulation and reputational risks. 
Countries of focus include the United 
Kingdom, France, Spain, Poland, 
Germany, Italy, and the Netherlands. 

• Philippines: suppliers identified physical 
risks relating to increased severity and 
frequency of extreme weather events.

• Australia: suppliers identified physical 
risks relating to the increase of extreme 
weather events and bushfires, making 
reference to the Black Summer bushfires. 

This analysis will form part of our 
broader sustainable procurement program 
and supply chain climate-related risk 
management. 

Further engagement with our suppliers 
will continue over the coming years to 
review and enhance climate-related risk 
identification, and associated mitigation 
and adaptation where required.

Climate change 
disclosure FY22

—Case study—

India

IT services
Professional services

Singapore

Telecommunications 
services

Philippines

IT services
Professional services

Australia

Telecommunications 
services
Professional services

Taiwan

IT services

China

IT services
Telecommunications 

services

Japan

IT services
Telecommunications 
services

Europe

Electrical equipment
Professional services

UK

Engineering services

USA

Professional services

Chile

Engineering services

Bubble size equates to the accumulation of climate-related physical or transition risk Physical risk Transition risk

Figure 5: Supply chain climate-related risk in FY22

StrategyGovernance Metrics and targetsIntroduction Risk management

https://www.transurban.com/corporate-report-2022#page=88
https://www.transurban.com/corporate-report-2022#page=88


22 23

4.2 Managing strategic climate-related risks 
The strategic climate-related risk themes 

(threats and opportunities) and our 
responses are outlined in Table 4 below. 
The six themes represent our current 
understanding of the most material and 
relevant potential climate-related physical 
and transition impacts to our organisation 
and business operations across our three 
climate change scenarios. We consider 
possible impacts across different time 
horizons, the consequence and likelihood 
the risk will be realised, the relationship 

with our organisational strategy and 
financial systems, and the effectiveness 
of existing controls. Our management 
response provides commentary of the 
interdependencies across the strategic 
risk (threat and opportunity) themes, and 
the relevant financial category which could 
impact our financial processes. Each risk 
theme is supported by detailed control and 
management measures at the organisation 
and asset levels where applicable. 

Table 4: Our strategic climate-related risk response

Threats

Threat 1:  
Unexpected changes to stakeholder expectations, government policies and regulations in relation to climate change create an 
unfavourable operating environment, impacting our reputation and financial performance 

Current risk rating Medium

Relevant scenarios & 
timeframes

All scenarios (1.5°C, 2°C, 4°C)  
Medium-term

Relevant financial category* Revenues, expenditures, assets and liabilities, capital financing

Relevant climate-related 
risk category**

Acute and chronic physical risk, policy and legal, market, reputation

Potential business impacts • Changes to infrastructure approval and concession deed requirements.

• Increased capital expenditure and operating costs.

• Increased risk of litigation associated with emissions and our contribution to climate change.

• Introduction of more stringent lending requirements.

• Community concern related to emissions affect travel and choice of transport method.

• Global supply chain impacts from carbon pricing, extreme weather events, pandemics (such as COVID-19) and 
resource constraints.

Our management response • Interim (2030) and long-term (2050) GHG emission reduction targets in place. Example of progress against these 
targets in FY22 includes:

 – In FY22, 56% of our electricity needs were met through renewable energy with this increasing to 66% at the 
end of the period (all Australian markets now have renewable energy supply agreements in place); and

 – We continue to pursue opportunities to reduce embodied GHG emissions in materials such as concrete and 
asphalt across the lifecycle of our assets. 

• Continuing our sustainable procurement program and supplier engagement. We commenced annual reporting for 
our top 50 suppliers via the CDP – refer to the case study.

• Ongoing monitoring of environmental and climate-related litigation cases, and broader media and rhetoric such as 
greenwashing. 

• Continuing to benchmark major project and operational asset sustainability performance against robust, third-
party standards. In FY22 we submitted our first IS Operational rating (Hills M2 Motorway) and are awaiting the final 
verified outcome.

Short-term focus areas 
(FY23-FY25)

• Continue our decarbonisation agenda to meet emission reduction targets.

• Continue implementing the sustainable procurement program, including engagement on identified climate-related 
risk areas.

• Engage government partners and industry to understand potential future changes to climate-related policy and 
regulations and responses.

• Start investigating possible wider network impacts across the markets where we currently operate.

• Continue to monitor and refine our climate-related metrics.

Threat 2:  
Increase in incidence of severe weather events and average temperature affects lifecycle planning, disrupts operations, and increases 
operating costs

Current risk rating Medium

Relevant scenarios & 
timeframes

2°C and 4°C scenarios 

Medium to long-term

Relevant financial category* Revenues, expenditures, assets and liabilities    

Relevant climate-related 
risk category**

Acute and chronic physical risk, market   

Potential business impacts • Disruption to power supply, possibly leading to increased operating costs and increased likelihood of blackouts.

• Heat-related injuries affect employee/ contractor safety.

• Road user safety is affected in extreme weather events (water over road, reduced visibility). 

• Disruption to asset lifecycle, causing delays and possibly increasing funding allocation.

Our management response • Adhering to and implementing robust design standards in accordance with best practice and state-mandated 
specifications which address weather-related impacts. Refer to section 4.3 for further detail. 

• Continually monitoring asset performance, implementation of preventative and regular maintenance schedules, 
and ongoing asset inspections.

• Undertaking ongoing lifecycle planning processes for individual assets.

• Capturing existing and emerging risks and applying mitigation measures via our HSE management and risk 
management systems and processes. This includes development of asset-specific CRAMPs, and integration of 
identified risks and adaptation measures into the enterprise risk management software system, ARM.

• Applying our road safety approach which includes road safety action plans and performance measurement.

• Conducting climate-related risk reviews to ensure emerging trends, threats and opportunities are captured. 

Short-term focus areas 
(FY23-FY25)

• Continue the development of asset-specific CRAMPs, expected to be complete across our markets by FY24.

• Develop and implement a climate change training module in FY23 for relevant teams.

• Commence detailed financial impact assessment in FY23, based on the climate-related logic maps defined this year.

Threat 3:  
Macroeconomic/ land use changes, caused by climate policy, and severe weather events, alter city travel patterns, development 
opportunities, and toll road use impacting traffic models and revenue

Current risk rating Low

Relevant scenarios & 
timeframes

All scenarios (1.5°C, 2°C, 4°C)

Long-term

Relevant financial category* Revenues, expenditures, assets and liabilities    

Relevant climate-related 
risk category**

Acute and chronic physical risk, policy and legal, technology, market, reputation

Potential business impacts • Economic growth slows and affects future development/growth opportunities. 

• Reduction in long-term revenue as city travel patterns shift due to climate impacts. 

Our management response • Ongoing monitoring of travel patterns and patronage across the markets where we operate through our strategic 
traffic modelling capability.

• Ongoing monitoring of our valuation and project due diligence processes. 

• Continued tracking of national and global climate policies, changes to insurance and city planning, and the rate in 
which Australia and North America transition to renewables. 

Short-term focus areas 
(FY23-FY25)

• Commence detailed financial impact assessment in FY23, based on the climate-related logic maps defined this 
year; and

• Continue investigating and monitoring long-term transition and physical impacts across our asset operations. 

Climate Change 
Disclosure FY22 Climate change 

disclosure FY22

Climate Change 
Disclosure FY22 StrategyGovernance Metrics and targetsIntroduction Risk managementStrategyGovernance Metrics and targetsIntroduction Risk managementStrategyGovernance Metrics and targetsIntroduction Risk management



24 25

Threat 4:  
Access to and use of our roads and tunnels is impacted during extreme weather events and in periods of extended rain/heat

Current risk rating Medium

Relevant scenarios & 
timeframes

2°C and 4°C 

Medium to long-term

Relevant financial category* Revenues        

Relevant climate-related 
risk category**

Acute and chronic physical risk, reputation

Potential business impacts • Changes to toll revenue. 

• Changes to traffic patterns and forecasts.

• Impacts on customer safety.

Our management response • Ongoing implementation of asset-specific CRAMPs to identify potential hotspots on our operational assets.

• Ongoing monitoring of the development and implementation of resilience and adaptation plans for surrounding 
(non-Transurban) road and tunnel infrastructure.

Short-term focus areas 
(FY23-FY25)

• Further investigation of behaviour and travel pattern changes during extreme weather events and the surrounding 
(non-Transurban) road infrastructure’s level of resilience. 

• Continue to monitor and refine our climate-related metrics.

• Ongoing engagement and cooperation with government partners to help improve overall city resilience.

Opportunities

Opportunity 1: 
Showcase our leadership in climate-risk management to open new market opportunities, strengthen relationships with existing 
government partners, and capitalise on innovation opportunities

Current risk rating High

Relevant scenarios & 
timeframes

1.5°C scenario

Short to medium-term

Relevant financial category* Revenues, expenditures, assets and liabilities, capital financing

Relevant climate-related 
risk category**

Acute and chronic physical risk, energy sources, products and services, markets, resilience, resource efficiency

Potential business impacts • New market opportunities.

• Favourable lending rates.

• Increased trust and reputation with community and other key stakeholders. 

• Partnership opportunities for research and innovation.

Our management response • Implementing Transurban’s Sustainability Strategy which aligns with the UN SDGs which is driving transformative 
outcomes across the business (Strategy addresses opportunities including energy efficiency, GHG emission 
reduction, and climate risk management).

• Active engagement and partnering with our supply chain, government partners, and industry to enhance 
sustainability outcomes for our projects, assets, and communities.

• Continue to drive implementation of lower emission materials into the future via our role as a founding member of 
the Materials Embodied Carbon Leaders Alliance (MECLA).

• Strengthen asset resilience into the future through improved technologies and implementation strategies.

• Ongoing disclosure and engagement with our investors.

Short-term focus areas 
(FY23-FY25)

• Develop and implement a compulsory training module for relevant teams in FY23.

• Ongoing involvement with MECLA.

• Ongoing engagement and partnerships with our supply chain, government partners, and industry.

Opportunity 2: 
Take proactive steps to reduce scope 1, 2 and 3 greenhouse gas emissions and customer emissions, and transition to Net Zero

Current risk rating High

Relevant scenarios & 
timeframes

All scenarios (1.5°C, 2°C, 4°C) 

Short to medium-term

Relevant financial category* Revenues, expenditures, assets and liabilities, capital financing

Relevant climate-related 
risk category**

Acute and chronic physical risk, energy sources, products and services, markets, resilience, resource efficiency

Potential business impacts • Mitigate impacts associated with any carbon taxes and fluctuations in pricing.

• Reduce operating expenditures (energy).

• Demonstrated leadership in sustainability. 

• Improved trust and reputation with stakeholders.

Our management response • Energy reduction through progress towards our 10 in 10 target – In FY22 we completed several major energy 
efficiency initiatives bringing our total energy efficiency savings to 8.3%, reducing our annual energy consumption 
by 46,815 GJ. 

• In FY22, 56% of our electricity needs were met through renewable energy, with this increasing to 66% at the end of 
the period.

• Continuing to review and implement, where feasible, lower-carbon and circular materials on current and new 
assets.

• Continuing to commit to low-carbon materials on our major construction and development projects. For example, 
the WestConnex M4-M5 Link Tunnels project is using high supplementary cementitious material (SCM) content in 
concrete mixes. 

Short-term focus areas 
(FY23-FY25)

• Develop a corporate Low-carbon and Circular Materials Strategy to increase the use of low-carbon alternatives and 
reduce associated GHG emissions.

• Continue to implement energy efficiency initiatives and fleet transition to zero emission vehicles (ZEVs).

• Work to reduce customer emissions through encouraging uptake of ZEVs, promoting eco-driving practices and 
optimising our infrastructure.

*    Financial category aligns with the TCFD categories, based on high-level financial impact mapping 
** Climate-related threats have been mapped against the TCFD categories outlined in the TCFD Implementation Guideline 2021 Table A1.1, and climate-related opportunities have been     
     mapped against the TCFD Implementation Guideline 2021 Table A1.2

Climate Change 
Disclosure FY22 Climate change 

disclosure FY22

Climate Change 
Disclosure FY22 StrategyGovernance Metrics and targetsIntroduction Risk managementStrategyGovernance Metrics and targetsIntroduction Risk managementStrategyGovernance Metrics and targetsIntroduction Risk management



2626 27

Transurban’s major 
construction and development 
projects are required to 
undertake a climate-related 
risk assessment as part of 
the design and construction 
phases. 

Sydney’s M4-M5 Link Tunnels are the 
final component of WestConnex and 
feature twin tunnels between the New M4 
at Haberfield and the M8 at St Peters, and 
stub tunnels to Rozelle Interchange. 

A detailed climate-related risk and 
adaptation assessment was undertaken for 
the project to identify current and future 
adaptation actions and mitigate risks 
over the forecast useful life of the asset. 
Climate-related risks are being mitigated 
according to optimal scale and timing 
by considering distribution and severity. 
The adaptation pathways approach was 
adopted for risk treatment. To guide 
the selection of adaptation options 
AS5334:2013 Climate change adaptation 
for settlements and infrastructure – a risk-
based approach, was used. Considerations 
included:

• effectiveness and robustness of 
adaptation over the life of the 
infrastructure, including the flexibility to 
respond to changing climatic conditions;

• practicability of implementation 
including consideration of related 
operational and maintenance activities;

• economic efficiency of operation and 
ongoing maintenance; and

• greenhouse gas emission implications. 

During the design and construction 
phase, risks were mapped to design 
packages to identify adaptation options 
that could be applied during design and 
construction. For example, temperature 
and heatwave risks to tunnel equipment 
may have impacted four design packages: 
durability, ventilation equipment, 
instrumentation, and monitoring. 
The severity of risks was considered 
to understand their distribution and 
prioritisation for integration into the design.

The project has ultimately embedded 
a range of mitigation measures into 
the design of the asset, in line with the 
adaptation pathways approach. Design 
features implemented to enhance asset 
resilience include:

• Flood mitigation design features such 
as conservative groundwater infiltration 
measures, sump-and-pump redundancy 
and associated sizing to delay overflow, 
back-up power for emergency 
equipment, appropriately sized Gross 
Pollutant Traps for drainage systems, and 
the ventilation building floor level is set at 
appropriate flood levels to allow for the 
modeled climate scenarios.

• Durability assessment of the materials 
used to construct the tunnels. This 
included concrete reinforcement 
designed to prevent the initiation of 
corrosion and the use of non-reactive 
aggregates.

• Backup power and battery systems 
installed to cater for the event of a 
broader network power failure. For 
example, there are two uninterrupted 
power systems (UPS) provided for each 
substation. The UPS will also power 
emergency lighting and signage. 

Next steps:

When the M4-M5 Link Tunnels open 
to the public and become operational, 
the WestConnex risk, sustainability, and 
operational and maintenance teams 
will undertake a detailed review of the 
assessment.

 The climate-related risks and 
opportunities applicable to the operational 
phase of the asset will be integrated into 
our risk management system for continued 
monitoring and review. This is planned to 
occur in FY23.

WestConnex M4-M5 Link Tunnel 
design and construction

Campbell Road Ventilation Facility (Source: ASBJV)

 Operational sump pits for water management 
(Source: ASBJV)

High voltage power feeds for power redundancy 
(Source: ASBJV)

—Case study—

Queensland operational climate risk assessments 
Outline of assessment scope for 
operations: 

Queensland was identified as a priority 
market in FY22 to target our asset-
specific climate risk and adaptation 
assessment efforts. This is due to the 
extent and intensity of the various 
climate projections for the Brisbane 
region including increased intensity 
of storm events, variance of rainfall 
and sea level rise. The recent flooding 
event experienced in the Brisbane 
area in early 2022 (as mentioned in an 
earlier case study) was also integrated 
into the assessments given the timing, 
significance, and relevance of the event.

Legacy Way tunnel and Gateway 
Motorway, an open road asset, were 
investigated in detail, and a CRAMP 
developed for each of the two assets. 
The climate impacts considered included 
hot days and heatwaves, rainfall and 
flooding, bushfire weather, sea level rise, 
and cumulative climate change impacts, 
inclusive of transition risk. Detailed 
climate-related risk assessments were 
undertaken in line with RCP 8.5 to assess 
the worst-case scenario and ensure 
a high level of resilience across the 
Brisbane market. 

Building on the risk register and 
adaptation options identified, additional 
adaptation pathways workshops were 
undertaken to identify the optimal scale 
and timing of key adaptation actions, and 
to understand their potential thresholds  

 
 

and triggers for implementation over 
the operational life of the asset. The 
output of these workshops was two 
adaptation pathways, which determined 
adaptation action implementation across 
the short, medium, and longer-term time 
horizons, to incorporate flexibility into 
decision-making and account for future 
uncertainties. 

The adaptation pathways were:

• How can Transurban Queensland 
maintain a safe environment for 
customers and employees of the asset 
given the projected increases in the 
intensity of extreme weather events?

• How can Transurban Queensland 
maintain successful and profitable 
motorway operations in the face of 
accumulating physical impacts on the 
asset, namely the increase in intensity of 
extreme weather events?

Findings and next steps: 

Adaptation actions to address key risk 
areas have been developed to ensure 
that relevant and practical mitigation 
measures are implemented at a scale and 
timing that is appropriate, in response 
to defined thresholds and triggers. 
The effectiveness and progress of the 
adaptation pathways and associated 
adaptation actions will be reviewed as 
part of the annual risk review process for 
the market. We plan to develop asset-
specific CRAMPs for the remaining assets 
in the Queensland market during FY23. 

Adaptation actions to 
address key risk areas 
have been developed 
to ensure that 
relevant and practical 
mitigation measures 
are implemented at 
a scale and timing 
that is appropriate, in 
response to defined 
thresholds and triggers. 

Transurban Queensland Control 
Room (Source: Transurban)

Climate change 
disclosure FY22

Climate Change 
Disclosure FY22 StrategyGovernance Metrics and targetsIntroduction Risk managementStrategyGovernance Metrics and targetsIntroduction Risk management

Transurban Queensland Asset Maintenance engineers inspecting the 
flooded Inner City Bypass Breakfast Creek Tunnel following the Brisbane 

floods in February 2022. This Brisbane City Council asset is designed 
to flood when there is a rise in the water levels in the creek above the 
normal acceptable tide levels and the hydrostatic pressure increases 

putting abnormal pressure against the asset.  
(Source: Transurban) 

Climate Change 
Disclosure FY22 StrategyGovernance Metrics and targetsIntroduction Risk management

—Case study—



28 29

4.3 Possible long-term climate-related physical risk for asset 
components 

We have analysed possible long-term 
impacts across individual asset components 
using the most extreme climate projections 
aligned with a 4°C scenario and identified 
potential impacts likely to occur from now 
until 2100. The climate projections align 
with the latest data published by the IPCC 
and RCP 8.5 projection data. The analysis 
combines market-specific data which capture 
differences across asset locations and the 
broader markets where we operate. 

Our assets are designed and delivered 
in accordance with industry best practice 
and state-mandated specifications which 
address weather-related impacts. As a result, 
our assets have a strong level of resilience 
incorporated into their design. A long-term 
timeframe and extreme climate scenario 
have been used given the forecast useful life 
of infrastructure assets, our long operational 
concession periods, and the opportunity to 
capture and prepare for worst-case climatic 

changes. These potential long-term impacts 
and control measures will be incorporated 
into asset-specific adaptation plans over 
the coming years. Table 5 summarises 
the possible long-term impacts, current 
controls and any short-term actions required 
to better understand or manage each 
respective risk. This information informs 
our climate risk management process and 
broader Climate Change Framework.

Table 5: Potential long-term impacts and actions by asset component (4°C scenario aligned with RCP 8.5 projection data) 

Asset components

 Structures and surfaces

Summary of projections Potential impacts

Temperature increases 
Increase in average temperatures and more frequent 
occurrence of heat waves

• Accelerated deterioration of exposed surfaces and structures

Extreme weather events 
Increased intensity and volatility of storms including hail, 
lightning, wind, and rainfall

• Storm surge causing damage to structures and footings

• Accelerated deterioration of exposed surfaces and structures  

Drought 
Decrease in annual rainfall resulting in extended periods of 
drought and subsequent increase in fire danger

• Subsidence following drought reduces soil stability and impacts structures

• Potential fire damage to road surfaces

Sea level rise 
Rising sea levels as polar icecaps melt and thermal expansion 
occurs

• Increased salinity leads to corrosion of structures and materials

• Permanent inundation of footings and low-lying structures 

• Destabilisation due to scour

Snow and ice* 
Decrease in snow and ice storms due to warming temperatures • Permanent inundation of footings and low-lying structures

Examples of current controls • Existing design standards (for example design for 1 in 100-year flood)

• Operations, maintenance and engineering-related management plans, procedures, 
and systems in place for structural deterioration, changes, or disruption

• Preventative and regular maintenance schedules 

• Asset-specific lifecycle models

• Engineering inspections of structures

Actions for consideration over short and medium-term 
time horizons

Short-term:

• Progressively implement asset-specific adaptation plans (CRAMPs)

• Develop pavement strategy and incorporate climate projections

• Monitor the asset elements’ vulnerability to the climate context and incorporate into 
the asset lifecycle model

Medium-term:

• Explore opportunities for smart monitoring systems

* Applicable to our North American market only based on a preliminary assessment

Non-structural, roadside furniture and landscaping

Summary of projections Potential impacts

Temperature increases 
Increase in average temperatures and more frequent 
occurrence of heat waves

• Adverse impacts to plant health
• Accelerated wear of surface coatings (for example, paint and façade panels)

Extreme weather events 
Increased intensity and volatility of storms including hail, 
lightning, wind, and rainfall

• Landslides and erosion
• Damage to vegetation plantings
• Hail damage to roadside furniture 

Drought 
Decrease in annual rainfall resulting in extended periods of 
drought and subsequent increase in fire danger

• Landslides and erosion
• Adverse impacts to plant health 

Sea level rise 
Rising sea levels as polar icecaps melt and thermal expansion 
occurs

• Flooding and damage to vegetation

Snow and ice* 
Decrease in snow and ice storms due to warming temperatures • Damage to roadside furniture and landscaping

Examples of current controls • Management plans, inspections and preventative and regular maintenance schedules
• Investigations into alternative, more resilient construction materials
• Existing design standards which our assets are designed to
• Regular arborist reviews across vegetated areas
• CCTV camera and operator monitoring to track any damage

Actions for consideration over short and medium-term 
time horizons

Short-term:

• Progressively implement asset-specific adaptation plans (CRAMPs)
• Monitor the asset elements’ vulnerability to the climate context and incorporate into 

the asset lifecycle model

Medium-term:
• Continued investigations into alternative, more resilient construction materials

Drainage

Summary of projections Potential impacts

Temperature increases 
Increase in average temperatures and more frequent 
occurrence of heat waves

• Accelerated deterioration of exposed drainage surfaces and structures  

Extreme weather events 
Increased intensity and volatility of storms including hail, 
lightning, wind, and rainfall

• Reduced capacity of drains from rainfall and surrounding system overload 
• Localised flooding on the network 

Drought 
Decrease in annual rainfall resulting in extended periods of 
drought and subsequent increase in fire danger

• Sediment build up as average rainfall decreases 
• Potential fire damage to drainage surfaces and structures

Sea level rise 
Rising sea levels as polar icecaps melt and thermal expansion 
occurs

• Reduced capacity of drains because of water backflow

Snow and ice* 
Decrease in snow and ice storms due to warming temperatures • Reduced capacity of drains due to additional runoff and less frequent snow/ice events 

Examples of current controls • Existing design standards that account for a 1 in 100 year flood
• Incident response and road safety management processes 
• Preventative and regular maintenance schedules in place
• Engineering inspections in place

Actions for consideration over short and medium-term 
time horizons

Short-term:

• Progressively implement asset-specific adaptation plans (CRAMPs). This will consider 
the impact of flooding events and sea level rise on current drainage systems

• Monitor the asset elements’ vulnerability to the climate context and incorporate into 
the asset lifecycle model

Medium-term:

• Model longer-term impact associated with rainfall and extreme weather events 
across the broader networks 

Climate Change 
Disclosure FY22 Climate change 

disclosure FY22

Climate Change 
Disclosure FY22 StrategyGovernance Metrics and targetsIntroduction Risk managementStrategyGovernance Metrics and targetsIntroduction Risk managementStrategyGovernance Metrics and targetsIntroduction Risk management



30

31

Section 5: 
Metrics and 
targets

Asset components

Technology/electrical

Summary of projections Potential impacts

Temperature increases 
Increase in average temperatures and more frequent 
occurrence of heat waves

• Failure of equipment in extreme heat and due to temperature fluctuations

Extreme weather events 
Increased intensity and volatility of storms including hail, 
lightning, wind, and rainfall

• Failure of equipment due to blackouts or damage from lighting/power surge

Drought 
Decrease in annual rainfall resulting in extended periods of 
drought and subsequent increase in fire danger

• Potential fire damage to ITS components

Sea level rise 
Rising sea levels as polar icecaps melt and thermal expansion 
occurs

• Potential damage to ITS components

Snow and ice* 
Decrease in snow and ice storms due to warming temperatures • Potential damage to ITS components

Examples of current controls • Existing design standards and broader design considerations (for example, location 
of equipment being east or west facing)

• Ruggedised roadside equipment types are considered for newer installations

• Essential supplies for majority of our assets are backed by UPS and generators

• Temperature monitoring and automatic alarms are enabled at some mission critical 
systems such as tolling technical shelters

Actions for consideration over short and medium-term 
time horizons

Short-term:

• Progressively implement asset-specific adaptation plans (CRAMPs)

• Monitor the asset elements’ vulnerability to the climate context and incorporate into 
the asset lifecycle model

Medium-term:

• Consider design of critical roadside equipment to be more resilient to the impacts of 
lightning for future installations 

* Applicable to our North American market only based on a preliminary assessment

Climate Change 
Disclosure FY22

Climate Change 
Disclosure FY22 StrategyGovernance Metrics and targetsIntroduction Risk managementStrategyGovernance Metrics and targetsIntroduction Risk management



32 33

Trend

Up

Down
Same

Metric 
Unit of 
measure FY20 FY211 FY222 Trend

Metric 
type

Financial 
category Commentary

Threat 1: Climate change awareness and policies impact operation, reputation and financial performance

T 1.1 Degree of 
alignment with 
government 
partner climate 
change policies

Weak/
Moderate/ 
Strong

Strong Strong Strong Improve Assets and 
Liabilities

Well-aligned to the growing 
ambition in this area and support 
current government policy.

Threat 2: Severe weather affects assets lifecycle and disrupts operations 

T 2.1 Number 
of recordable 
heat-related 
injuries that 
have occurred 
(Transurban 
employees and 
contractors)2

Number 0 0 0 Monitor Assets and 
Liabilities

T 2.2 Weather-
related traffic 
incidents on 
operational 
assets3

Number 8 5 9 Monitor Assets and 
Liabilities

New metric included for FY22. 
Multiple severe weather events 
experienced such as major 
flooding in Queensland.

T 2.3 
Operational 
assets with 
current high-
level climate 
change risk 
assessments 

% 80% 100% 100% Monitor 
and 
improve

Assets and 
Liabilities

This metric refers to our business-
wide high-level climate risk 
assessment conducted in FY21, 
which captured operational assets 
at that time.

T 2.4  
Operational 
assets with a 
CRAMP in place

% 0% 5% 14% Monitor 
and 
improve

Assets and 
Liabilities

New metric included for FY22. This 
metric refers to detailed CRAMPs 
developed, which utilises the 
business-wide high level climate 
risk assessment conducted in 
FY21 (refer to metric T2.3). A 
CRAMP includes both a climate 
risk assessment and adaptation 
pathways for an asset. 

T 2.5 Major 
projects under 
construction 
with finalised 
climate 
change risk 
assessments

% 100% 100% 50% Monitor 
and 
improve

Assets and 
Liabilities

New metric added for FY22 
(previously reported in our SDG 
Progress Report). For FY22 this 
included West Gate Tunnel, the 
WestConnex M4-M5 Link Tunnels 
which have completed a detailed 
climate risk assessment as part of 
the IS Rating As Built submission, 
and Fredex and 495 Express Lanes 
in North America which plan 
to complete a detailed climate-
related risk assessment in FY23.

5.1 Climate-related metrics 
We use climate-related metrics and targets 

to provide transparency on what we monitor 
and the progress we are making towards 
mitigating climate-related risks. Other 
sustainability and environmental metrics 
(such as water use, road injury crash index, 
waste diversion from landfill) are referenced 
in Transurban’s Insights Hub. As we continue 
to progress against our Climate Change 
Framework and our approach to climate 

change evolves, we will continue to review 
and enhance our current set of performance 
metrics in line with TCFD guidance, 
Implementing the Recommendations of 
the TCFD 2021 Appendix 2, Cross-Industry 
Climate-Related Metric Categories. Further 
metrics may be added, and some may be 
changed or removed.

Metric 
Unit of 
measure FY20 FY211 FY222 Trend

Metric 
type

Financial 
category Commentary

Opportunity 1: Demonstrate sustainability leadership 

O 1.1 CDP 
score4 

Rating C A- B Improve Assets and 
Liabilities

CDP benchmarks increased in 
FY22.

O 1.2 
Cumulative 
weighted 
average 
Infrastructure 
Sustainability 
rating score5 

Points 80.2 76.5 76.5 Improve Assets and 
Liabilities

Equivalent to a ‘Leading’ rating 
average (≥ 75 points).

No new ratings awarded in FY22.

Opportunity 2: Reduce emissions and move towards carbon neutrality 

O 2.1 Scope 1 
emissions

tCO2e 4,391 4,598 5046 Improve Assets and 
Liabilities

Increase in Scope 1 emissions 
from fuel due to new assets. 

O 2.2 Scope 2 
emissions

tCO2e 135,426 191,743 101,346 Improve Assets and 
Liabilities

Significant decrease in scope 
2 emissions due to greater 
renewable energy use.

O 2.3 Scope 
1 and 2 
emissions 
intensity6

tCO2e/$m 
revenue

55.7 86.6 45.8 Monitor Assets and 
Liabilities

Significant decrease in emissions.

O 2.4 Scope 3 
emissions7

tCO2e 634,566 428,366 412,593 Improve Assets and 
Liabilities

Emissions decreased as 
some major construction and 
development projects were 
completed.

O 2.5 
Cumulative 
embodied 
GHG emission 
savings from 
major projects8 

tCO2e 304,000 644,000 644,000 Improve Assets and 
Liabilities

No change in major construction 
and development project 
materials and embodied emissions 
forecasts in FY22. Next revision 
expected in FY23.

O 2.6 
Cumulative 
materials 
savings from 
major projects8

Tonnes of 
concrete

58,000 234,000 234,000 Improve

Improve

Assets and 
Liabilities

No change in major construction 
and development project 
materials savings in FY22. Next 
revision expected with updated 
Infrastructure Sustainability rating 
completion of West Gate Tunnel 
and WestConnex M4-M5 Link 
Tunnels in FY23.

Tonnes of 
asphalt

204,000 209,000 209,000

Tonnes of 
aggregate

120,000 130,000 130,000

1 Metrics T3.1 and T3.2 have been removed in FY22 as they no longer remain applicable to the respective threats, and new metrics will be considered in FY23 in line with the TCFD guidance,  
   Implementing the Recommendations of the TCFD 2021 Appendix 2, Cross-Industry Climate-Related Metric Categories 
2 Heat-related injuries have remained zero over the past few years. With increasing temperatures, this will be monitored closely to capture the HSE impacts of extreme temperatures
3 Weather-related incident numbers based on reported incidents on our assets in Australia and North America through our HSE Reporting system
4 Transurban B grading is within the “Management” band in the CDP reporting scheme
5 Average verified IS Rating score of all projects to date, weighted by project capital cost. Design rating scores are replaced by As Built scores and may vary as each project moves through the  
   two-phase IS Rating process
6 To determine Scope 1 and 2 emissions intensity, total revenue has been extracted from the profit and loss statement in corresponding years
7 Scope 3 emissions include the impacts of our supply chain purchases, major project construction, as well as corporate Scope 3 emissions associated with fuel, electricity, waste and business  
   travel. Scope 3 emissions are expected to fluctuate year-on-year mostly with variation in construction activities, which are our largest Scope 3 emissions source
8 GHG savings and materials savings are from efficiencies in design and construction activity and the use of lower-embodied emission materials. Figures are based on Australian major project  
   IS ratings, which measure reductions achieved from a ‘Base Case’ (initial design) through to ‘Actual Case’ (final project with sustainability initiatives implemented). Figures reported in each year    
   are cumulative totals of all projects with completed ratings. Each project completes a ‘Design’ rating followed by an ‘As Built’ rating. Cumulative figures are updated to reflect the latest  
   available rating for each project

Table 6: Climate-related metrics and associated FY20 to FY22 trends1

Climate Change 
Disclosure FY22 Climate change 

disclosure FY22

Climate Change 
Disclosure FY22 StrategyGovernance Metrics and targetsIntroduction Risk managementStrategyGovernance Metrics and targetsIntroduction Risk managementStrategyGovernance Metrics and targetsIntroduction Risk management

https://insights.transurban.com/


34 35

5.2 GHG and energy targets and progress on our transition 
to a low carbon economy

Scope 1 and 2 emissions 
decreased 45% in FY22 
compared to FY21.

FY22 scope 1 and 2 emissions were 13% 
below 2019 levels with further reductions 
expected in FY23 as we continue to progress 
towards our science-based 50% GHG 
reduction target by 2030. To achieve our 
target we will continue to reduce energy 
consumption and transition to renewable 
energy.

Our 10 in 10 energy efficiency 
program has now delivered 
46,815 GJ of energy savings to 
date across existing assets.

In FY22 significant tunnel ventilation 
optimisation projects were completed across 
several assets bringing our total energy 
efficiency savings to 8.3%. We continue 
to deliver a pipeline of energy efficiency 
projects towards and beyond the 10% 
reduction target.

Two-thirds of our electricity 
needs were met from renewable 
energy in FY22.

Several of our renewable energy Power 
Purchase Agreements (PPAs) and renewable 
energy agreements became operational in 
FY22 along with entering new contracts for 
remaining Australian assets. We are now 
operating with more than 66% renewable 
electricity with further increases expected in 
FY23 as new contracts become operational. 
We continue to investigate renewable energy 
opportunities in the US.

35 of our top 50 major suppliers 
engaged in the CDP climate 
change disclosure process.

Half of our major suppliers reported active 
GHG targets with the majority committed 
to science-based targets within the next 
two years. Our most recently completed 
major project (WCX M8) was delivered with a 
construction phase carbon intensity of 127 
tCO2e/$M (30% below 2019 levels).

Scope 1, 2 and 3 
emission reduction 
targets

We have interim  
science-based and 
long-term GHG 
emission reduction 
targets and are 
reducing impacts 
associated with our 
direct operations and 
supply chain.

Our business
Achieve net zero across 
Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG 
emissions by 2050 
 
Reduce our absolute  
Scope 1 and 2 GHG 
emissions by 50% by  
2030 (tCO2e) 
 
Achieve 10% energy 
efficiency savings by 2023 
(2013 baseline), target 
savings 56,366 GJ

Our major 
projects
Reduce the carbon 
intensity across our major 
projects by 55% by 2030 
(Scope 3 tCO2e from major 
projects, per $M project 
capital cost)

Our supply 
chain
Reduce the carbon 
intensity of the goods 
and services we purchase 
from suppliers by 22% by 
2030 (Scope 3 tCO2e from 
supplier spending, per 
kilometre travelled on our 
roads as a measure of our 
business output)

10 in 10 energy efficiency 
progress

To date, over 25 energy efficiency projects 
have been implemented across our 
operations, delivering total annual energy 
savings of 46,815 GJ, or around 8.3% of our 
10% by 2023 energy efficiency target.

In FY22, several significant tunnel 
ventilation optimisation projects were 
completed. Tunnel ventilation systems 
require large amounts of power and 
typically account for more than 70% of total 
energy consumption. Utilising 3D modelling 
and simulations, our Advanced Data and 
Analytics Program team were able to 
optimise and fine tune ventilation systems 
for several Queensland tunnels’ response to 
updated traffic profiles, ensuring fans  
are only on when they need to be while 
ensuring strict air quality standards continue 
to be met.

“The results have been a real success story for 
the Queensland business and for showcasing 
the power of applying Advanced Analytics to 
drive efficiencies around our core operations” 
 – Sue Johnson, Group Executive, Queensland

As we approach the 2023 target year, we 
are committed to delivering our pipeline of 
energy efficiency projects and will continue 
to explore further opportunities beyond 
2023 aligned with asset lifecycle planning to 
drive further environmental and economic 
benefits.

Transitioning to renewable 
energy

Transitioning to renewable energy across 
all our markets is a key step towards 
achieving our interim 2030 science-based 
targets. In FY22 we reduced our GHG 
emissions by 45% from FY21 (13% below 
2019 levels) as our renewable energy PPAs 
began providing significant volumes of 
renewable energy.

Our second NSW PPA began providing 
renewable energy in June 2022, with our 
Sydney and Brisbane markets forecast to 
be more than 80% renewable from Q1FY23 
onwards. Our Melbourne market is currently 
50% renewable and we have committed 
to 100% renewable energy for CityLink 
from 2024 onwards. We are also exploring 
renewable energy opportunities in the US. 
FY23 will see further reductions in our GHG 
emissions as the Queensland and New South 
Wales PPAs operate for a full year.

Supply chain engagement
Transurban engages with major suppliers 

on GHG emissions reporting and reduction 
both directly and annually through the 
CDP Supply Chain program. CDP measures 
ongoing supplier engagement and progress 
towards GHG targets, with 35 of our top 50 
major suppliers disclosing in FY22. Half of 
our responding major suppliers reported 
active GHG targets with the majority either 

already having or committed to setting 
science-based targets within the next two 
years. Thirty-five per cent of the energy 
needs of disclosing suppliers was met from 
renewable energy. Insights gained from CDP 
disclosure inform our ongoing supply chain 
engagement strategy and pathway to our 
scope 3 reduction targets.

To achieve our scope 3 GHG reduction 
targets Transurban partners with 
government and industry to drive collective 
effort. We are a founding member of MELCA, 
an alliance of over 150 industry partners and 
government agencies, which aims to drive 
reductions in embodied carbon in Australia’s 
building and construction industry.

0

50,000

100,000

150,000

200,000

250,000

FY18 FY19 FY20 FY30FY21FY16 FY17 FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY27 FY28 FY29

 Figure 6: Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions forecast

Transurban Scope 1 and 2 BAU forecast Reduction pathway SBTi target

Em
is

si
on

s (
tC

O2
e)

 
0%

-2%

-4%

-6%

-8%

-10%

-12%

-14%

-16%

-18%

-20%

-4%

-8%

-4%

 Figure 7: Progress to 10% energy efficiency savings by 2023 (2013 baseline)

Complete    

0%

-2%

-4%

-6%

-8%

-10%

-12%

-14%

-16%

-18%

-20%

-4%

-8%

-4%

In progress   

0%

-2%

-4%

-6%

-8%

-10%

-12%

-14%

-16%

-18%

-20%

-4%

-8%

-4%
 Potentional opportunities

En
er

gy
 sa

vi
ng

s
Bango Windfarm, NSW (Source: CWP Renewables)

Climate Change 
Disclosure FY22 Climate change 

disclosure FY22

Climate Change 
Disclosure FY22 StrategyGovernance Metrics and targetsIntroduction Risk managementStrategyGovernance Metrics and targetsIntroduction Risk managementStrategyGovernance Metrics and targetsIntroduction Risk management



36

Australia

Melbourne (Head office) 
Tower Five, Collins Square 
Level 31, 727 Collins Street 
Melbourne, Victoria 3000

Sydney 
Level 9, 1 Chifley Square 
Sydney, New South Wales 2000

Brisbane 
Level 39, 300 George St 
Brisbane, Queensland 4000

Mailing address 
Locked Bag 28 
South Melbourne,  
Victoria 3205 
Phone +61 3 8656 8900 
Fax +61 3 8656 8585

United States of America

Transurban (USA) Inc. 
Suite T500, 7900 Westpark Drive 
Tysons, VA 22102 
Phone +1 571 419 6100

General enquiries 
Email corporate@transurban.com

transurban.com

Insights hub 

Visit our Insights hub to view 
our sustainability strategy, 
performance reporting 
and environmental and 
sustainability initiatives.  
insights.transurban.com

mailto:Corporate%40transurban.com?subject=Climate%20Disclosure%20Statement%202022
https://transurban.com/
http://insights.transurban.com