Truist 2022 Corporate Responsibility Report


Truist 2022 
Corporate  
Responsibility 
Report



  2

Table of contents 

6 A letter from our Chairman & CEO

9 Purpose and progress

14 Responsible business 

26 Clients

29 Financial inclusion

34 Community

51 Teammates

59 Diversity, equity, and inclusion

70 Technology and innovation

76 Environment



  3  3  3  3

Truist at a glance
Truist Financial Corporation has a purpose-driven culture 
dedicated to inspiring and building better lives and communities.

Top 10
 U.S. commercial bank

$555B
total assets

~15M
clients

Primarily regional 
businesses
• Commercial community banking

•  Retail and small business banking

• Wealth

Primarily national 
businesses
• Commercial real estate

• Consumer finance solutions

• Corporate and investment banking

• Mortgage

• Retail and wholesale insurance

• Wholesale payments Primarily 
regional  
businesses

Primarily 
national  
businesses

Scope
Data in this report primarily reflects calendar 
year 2022, which aligns with Truist’s fiscal year. 
Footnotes indicate any data reflecting a different 
time period, as well as any updates or new 
initiatives that occurred in early 2023. This report 
also contains plans and goals for future reporting 
and disclosure. Please note that some numbers are 
rounded for simplicity.

Reporting frameworks 
Truist’s approach to reporting and disclosure 
will generally follow the major ESG reporting 
frameworks, including:

• Sustainability Accounting Standards Board
(SASB)

• Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)

• World Economic Forum (WEF)

• CDP (formerly known as the
Carbon Disclosure Project)

• United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
(SDGs)

• Task Force on Climate-Related Financial
Disclosures (TCFD)

Additional disclosures may be informed by 
stakeholder engagement and inquiries, peer 
disclosures and best practices, and evolving 
disclosure requirements including those established 
by the leading reporting frameworks.

A commitment to transparency
We continue to improve and refine our processes 
for gathering and reporting Scope 1 and Scope 2 
greenhouse gas emissions as well as disclosing 
certain new Scope 3 categories.

In 2022, with the merger complete, Truist 
reconstructed our 2019 through 2022 greenhouse 
gas calculations from primary sources. This 
ensured that all properties were included once 
and had complete and consistent information. In 
addition, recalculating all years at once allowed 
Truist to incorporate the most recent emissions 
factors and methodologies.

External verification
Truist obtained third-party verification of its 
newly reconstructed 2019 through 2021 Scope 1, 
Scope 2, and certain 2021 Scope 3 greenhouse gas 
emissions. In addition, our 2022 Scope 1, Scope 2, 
and certain Scope 3 emissions were also third-party 
verified. The verifications were performed by Apex 
Companies and can be found in our  
2022 TCFD Report.

https://ir.truist.com/image/Truist2022TCFD.pdf
https://ir.truist.com/image/Truist2022TCFD.pdf


  4  4  4  4

Purpose 

To inspire and build 
better lives and 
communities

Mission

For clients

Provide distinctive, secure, and successful client 
experiences through touch and technology.

For teammates

Create an inclusive and energizing environment 
that empowers teammates to learn, grow, and have 
meaningful careers.

For stakeholders

Optimize long-term value for stakeholders through 
safe, sound, and ethical practices.

Values

Trustworthy

We serve with integrity.

Caring

Everyone and every 
moment matters.

One Team

Together, we can 
accomplish anything.

Success

When our clients win, 
we all win.

Happiness

Positive energy 
changes lives.

Purpose, 
mission,  
and values 
Purpose-driven culture
• Optimize long-term value for all stakeholders 

through safe, sound, and ethical practices

• Attract and retain top talent

• Continue strong sustainability progress

Exceptional company
• Top 10 U.S. commercial bank

• Comprehensive and diverse business mix with 
distinct capabilities in insurance, investment 
banking, digital/point-of-sale lending, and 
advice/industry expertise

 – Significant Integrated Relationship 
Management (IRM) potential

• Strong market shares in high growth footprint 
(South and Mid-Atlantic) with select national 
businesses

Investing in the future
• Further modernize technology stack

• Enhance client and teammate experience to 
drive client acquisition

• Enable convenient commerce and strengthen 
payments capabilities

• Fit-for-purpose approach (build, buy, partner)
 – Increase usage of Open Banking, APIs, and 
Truist Ventures

Leading financial performance
• Targeting strong growth and profitability, with 

lower volatility

• Disciplined risk and financial management

• Strong risk-adjusted capital position

To learn more, please visit our 
Annual Report by scanning this 
QR code or clicking this link.

  4  4  4  4

https://filecache.investorroom.com/mr5ir_truist/727/2022-Truist_Annual_Report.pdf


  5

Disclosure statement

This report covers only Truist's business and does not address the 
performance or operations of our suppliers, contractors, or partners. 
Statements regarding Truist’s objectives, plans, targets, and 
commitments are aspirational and may also be based on estimates 
and assumptions under developing standards that may change in the 
future; as such, no guarantees or promises are made that they will be 
met or successfully executed, and actual results may differ, possibly 
materially. Furthermore, data, statistics, and metrics included in this 
report are nonaudited estimates, are not necessarily prepared in 
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), 
continue to evolve, and may be based on assumptions believed to be 
reasonable at the time of preparation, but may be subject to revision. 
Except where noted, the information covered in this report highlights 
Truist’s performance and initiatives in fiscal year 2022. This report has 
not been externally assured or verified by an independent third party.

This report uses certain terms, including those that GRI or SASB refer 
to as “materially“ consistent with those standards, to reflect the key 
issues or priorities of Truist or its stakeholders. Used in this context, 
however, these terms are distinct from, and should not be confused 
with, the terms “material,“ “materially,“ and “materiality“ as defined 
by or construed in accordance with securities or other laws or as used 
in the context of financial statements and reporting required by laws 
and regulations. This report, which speaks only as of its date and is 
not required to be updated, is not comprehensive, and for that reason, 
should be read in conjunction with our most recent annual report on 
Form 10-K, subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and other 
filings made with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). 

This report contains certain forward-looking statements, including 
statements regarding our corporate responsibility and environmental 
and governance targets, goals, objectives, commitments, and 
programs and other business plans, initiatives, and objectives. These 
statements are typically accompanied by the words “anticipates,“ 
“believes,“ “estimates,“ “expects,“ “forecasts,“ “intends,“ “plans,“ 
“projects,“ “may,“ “will,“ “should,“ “would,“ “could,“ or other similar 
expressions. All such statements are intended to enjoy the protection 
of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by 

the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended. 
Forward-looking statements are based on management’s current 
expectations, estimates, projections, and assumptions. Especially 
with respect to the matters discussed in this report, these statements 
are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and 
uncertainties that are difficult to predict. Our actual future results, 
including the achievement of our targets, goals, objectives, or 
commitments, could differ materially from our projected results 
as the result of changes in circumstances, estimates that turn out 
to be incorrect, standards of measurement that change over time, 
assumptions not being realized, or other risks, uncertainties, and 
factors. Such risks, uncertainties, and factors include the risk factors 
discussed in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K, subsequent 
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and other filings made with the SEC, 
as well as with respect to our sustainability targets, objectives, and 
commitments outlined in this report or elsewhere, the challenges and 
assumptions that are either identified in this report or that we are 
unable to foresee at this time.

You should consider the forward looking statements in this report in 
conjunction with our annual report on Form 10-K and our quarterly 
reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K filed with 
the SEC now and in the future. Truist urges you to consider all of the 
risks, uncertainties, and factors identified above or discussed in 
such reports carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements 
in this report. Truist cannot assure you that the results reflected or 
implied by any forward-looking statement will be realized or, even if 
substantially realized, that those results will have the forecasted or 
expected consequences and effects. The forward-looking statements 
in this report are made as of the date of this report, unless otherwise 
indicated, and we undertake no obligation to update this report to 
reflect subsequent events or circumstances.

This report may contain links to other internet sites or references to third 
parties. Such links or references are not incorporated by reference to 
this report and we can provide no assurance as to their accuracy. The 
use or inclusion of the information is also not intended to represent 
endorsements of any products or services.



  6

A letter from our Chairman & CEO

A letter from 
our Chairman 
& CEO
At Truist, our purpose is to inspire and build better 
lives and communities, and we are delivering on 
that purpose every day. As corporate citizens 
and community partners, we have committed to 
managing our own resources wisely and to being 
responsible stewards of the resources entrusted 
to us. This includes using ethical and responsible 
business practices, managing climate risks, 
creating an inclusive culture where our teammates 
can thrive, and investing in organizations that 
create opportunities and access. We are creating a 
sustainable company that delivers long-term value 
for our stakeholders, and we are pleased to share 
our progress with you. 

Clients
From individual retail banking clients to business 
startups and global Fortune 500 corporations, 
Truist provides our clients with thoughtful products 
and advisory services driven by innovation and 
technology. Prioritizing client feedback, in 2022 
we developed new products designed to extend 
mainstream financial services and provide 
opportunities for savings, including Truist One 
Banking, which eliminates overdraft-related fees.

As a top-10 U.S. bank, Truist is committed to 
making it as easy as possible for clients to do 
business with us. Innovation and technology 
allow us to extend beyond physical locations and 
serve individuals and business clients of all sizes 
across all industries. Recent enhancements include 
improvements to our mobile app and digital 
banking experience, online bill pay, and paperless 
loan applications. For business clients interested 
in pursuing opportunities available in a green 
economy, Truist added sustainability advisory 
services in several lines of business and provides 
sustainability-linked loans. 

Communities
We believe all people and communities should have 
an equal opportunity to thrive. Truist’s community 
support includes volunteerism, philanthropy, and 
investments. In 2022, Truist teammates dedicated 
approximately 72,000 hours to volunteering in 
support of communities and causes they care about. 

Truist donated more than $122 million through 
the Truist Foundation, Truist Charitable Fund, 
Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) philanthropic 
grants, and donations made through the 
Commercial Community Bank. This giving made an 
impact on nonprofit organizations and programs 
in the areas of leadership development, economic 
mobility, thriving communities, and educational 
equity. Truist Foundation partnerships further focus 
on building career pathways to economic mobility 
and strengthening small businesses. 



  7

A letter from our Chairman & CEO

In 2022, Truist exceeded its commitment to 
invest $60 billion in communities we serve 
through our Community Benefits Plan (CBP). 
This three-year plan included holistic support for 
low- and moderate-income (LMI) borrowers and 
communities including:

• Support for home mortgage lending for LMI 
borrowers, LMI geographies, ethnically diverse 
borrowers, and/or majority-minority geographies 

• Lending to small businesses with annual revenues 
of $1 million or less

• Community development lending to support 
affordable housing development, small business 
growth, and nonprofits that support  
LMI communities

• Opening new branches in LMI and ethnically 
diverse neighborhoods

• Making qualified community investments under 
the Community Reinvestment Act, including 
qualified philanthropic giving 

• Expanding supplier diversity and promoting 
opportunities for small businesses and 
businesses owned by ethnically diverse 
entrepreneurs, women, and veterans

• Enhancing efforts to ensure our workforce is diverse

• Creating a Community Advisory Board to provide 
us with regular feedback to ensure we are aware 
of emerging issues and are meeting the needs of 
local communities.

Education and financial empowerment are 
cornerstones of our volunteer and philanthropic 
efforts. In partnership with EVERFI and through the 
launch of the mobile app in 2023, Truist expanded 
access to our free WORD Force childhood literacy 
platform for all children nationwide and reached 

more than 52,000 students in kindergarten through 
second grade during the 2021-22 academic year. 
Our Financial Foundations courses reached 243,000 
high school students approaching important 
milestones in young adulthood with helpful tools for 
budgeting and managing money. Truist also gave 
more than $20 million to historically Black colleges 
and universities (HBCUs) from 2020 through 2022.

When disaster strikes, timely responses and 
resources are critical for successful recovery. When 
Hurricane Ian hit Florida in late September, Truist 
sent four semitrucks loaded with provisions — 
including food, bottled water, and cleaning supplies 
— to impacted areas. Teammates volunteered 
to distribute items to families in need, while our 
business continuity team worked quickly to reopen 
bank branches and ATMs in cities such as Port 
Charlotte, Naples, and Fort Myers as soon as it was 
safe. Truist Foundation made grants to United Way, 
the American Red Cross, and other organizations 
to support both the response effort and future 
planning for preparation and resiliency. 

Teammates
Our teammates are our differentiator. We are 
committed to creating an inclusive and energizing 
environment that empowers every teammate to 
learn, grow, and have a meaningful career. In 2022, 
we increased our U.S. minimum wage to $22 per 
hour, which is among the highest in the industry. 
Together with related salary compression increases, 
the new wage positively affects 33,000 teammates, 
many of whom work in client-facing roles. 

Truist is honored to be named among America’s 
Best Employers for Diversity and America’s 
Best Employers for New Graduates by Forbes 
in 2022, and Truist was included in America’s 
Most Responsible Companies by Newsweek. 
Truist ranked fifth overall in the 2023 Most JUST 
Companies rankings from JUST Capital and CNBC. 

We embrace a culture of diversity, equity, and 
inclusion throughout the company. Our board of 
directors is 43% racially, ethnically, or gender diverse, 
and more than 17% of senior leadership roles were 
held by ethnically diverse teammates at the end of 
2022. Our Grow, Recruit, and Accelerate Development 
(GRAD) immersive experience creates new cohorts of 
high-performing diverse leaders across the company.

Climate and sustainability
Our climate and sustainability goals are clear: 
Build a sustainable and responsible company 
that delivers long-term value for stakeholders 
and collaborates with clients and communities in 
pursuing opportunities available in moving to a 
lower-carbon economy. 

In January 2022, Truist committed to achieving 
net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. 
We are already making progress toward a 35% 
reduction in both Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions 
and a 25% reduction in water consumption by 
2030. We continue to invest in more energy-
efficient LED lighting, HVAC systems, energy 
management and smart irrigation systems, new 
data centers that require less electricity, and other 
innovative technologies. 

As stewards of our clients' resources, Truist is 
responsible for managing risk, including climate 
risk. To that end, we have more fully integrated 
climate risk considerations into our Enterprise 
Risk Management framework and taxonomy, and 
we created a new Risk, Finance, and ESG Data 
Analytics Office to enhance data-driven decision-
making and productivity. 

The transition to a lower carbon economy presents 
many opportunities for Truist and our clients. We 
have expanded our sustainability advisory capacity 
and added other professional positions in Corporate 
& Investment Banking, Commercial Community 
Banking, Climate Risk, Supplier Diversity, and other 

functions across the enterprise. We are equipped 
to help clients envision a sustainable future and 
pursue strategies for achieving their goals.

My heartfelt thanks goes to our clients, 
communities, teammates, investors, and so many 
other stakeholders who bring dimension to our 
purpose; who hold us accountable; and who partner 
with us to create more equitable, inclusive, diverse, 
and sustainable communities. I’m profoundly 
optimistic about the opportunities that lie ahead. 
Truist’s work to inspire and build better lives and 
communities continues. We are grateful to be on 
this journey with you.

Bill Rogers
Chairman & CEO



  8  8  8  8

About this 
report 

Consistent with our purpose to inspire and build 
better lives and communities, Truist strives to be 
a good corporate citizen and community partner. 
This report details our commitments to clients, 
communities, teammates, and shareholders. As 
we seek to create a sustainable company that 
delivers long-term value, we remain focused 
on responsible and ethical business practices; 
sound governance; risk management; diversity, 
equity, and inclusion; sustainability; and fostering 
a corporate culture where teammates feel 
welcomed, feel valued, and can thrive.

In addition to this report, Truist provides other 
reports and resources to accommodate our various 
stakeholder audiences. These resources can be 
accessed using the QR codes on the right or by 
clicking on the hyperlinks. To ease navigation, we 
have created a separate resource that includes our 
ESG Disclosure Summary. 

Truist 2022 Annual Report

Truist 2022 CDP Climate 
Change Disclosure

Truist 2022 Climate 
Lobbying Summary

Truist Corporate  
Governance Guidelines

Truist 2022 ESG  
Disclosure Summary

Truist 2022  
Political Contributions

Truist Statement of  
Political Engagement

Truist 2021 Supplier 
Diversity Economic  
Impact Report

Truist 2022 TCFD Report

https://filecache.investorroom.com/mr5ir_truist/727/2022-Truist_Annual_Report.pdf
https://filecache.investorroom.com/mr5ir_truist/644/Truist%202022%20CDP%20Disclosure.pdf
https://filecache.investorroom.com/mr5ir_truist/681/truist-climate-lobbying-summary.pdf
https://ir.truist.com/download/Corporate+Governance+Guidelines+12-13-2022.pdf
https://ir.truist.com/image/Truist2022ESGDisclosureSummary.pdf
https://ir.truist.com/image/Truist2022PoliticalContributions.pdf
https://ir.truist.com/image/Truist2022StatementOfPoliticalEngagement.pdf
https://www.truist.com/content/dam/truist/us/en/documents/corp/supplier-diversity-report.pdf
https://ir.truist.com/image/Truist2022TCFD.pdf
https://ir.truist.com/image/Truist2022PoliticalContributions.pdf


Purpose  
and progress

Purpose
Building better lives and communities starts 
with creating a corporate culture that centers 
around inclusion and equity where everyone feels 
welcomed, heard, and appreciated for who they 
are. Truist invests in local communities through a 
combination of products and services, philanthropy, 
volunteerism, and other programs. These resources 
include support for small businesses, access to 
capital, financial education, early childhood literacy, 
affordable housing, and social services for low- to 
moderate-income and historically underserved 
individuals and communities.

Strong governance, risk management, ethical 
behavior, and transparent reporting and disclosure 
practices are central to responsible business. Truist 

  9

expects teammates to make decisions and conduct 
themselves in a manner consistent with our Code 
of Ethics. Truist’s board of directors and executive 
leadership team have ultimate responsibility and 
oversight of sustainability initiatives, and we 
continue to prioritize transparency as we refine our 
approach to reporting methodologies.

Truist takes an inclusive, balanced, and sustainable 
approach to pursuing environmental goals. This 
includes a commitment to lowering our own 
emissions and being stewards of resources while 
expanding sustainability advisory capabilities to 
help clients and communities interested in pursuing 
opportunities available in a lower carbon economy. 



  10

Purpose and progress

Progress
Truist is committed to being a good corporate citizen, and we 
are working to make Truist a more sustainable enterprise. We 
continue to partner with our clients and other stakeholders to 
understand their goals—and help them get where they want to 
go. These are some of our achievements in 2022.

Clients
• Introduced Truist One Banking, which is estimated to save consumers 

$300 million per year by 2024 along with other changes such as 
discontinued fees for returned items, negative account balances, and 
overdraft protection transfers. Truist One Banking includes:

 – Truist One Checking—No overdraft fees, a $100 negative balance 
buffer, five ways to waive monthly fees, and greater cash-back 
rewards on Truist credit cards

 – Truist Confidence Account—An alternative checkless account with 
no overdraft fees that brings more consumers into mainstream 
banking using Truist bill pay to send money at no cost

• Expanded the dealer network for Service Finance to provide more 
opportunities for sustainability-enhancing home improvement 
projects such as new windows and doors, insulation, and solar 
panels—which can save consumers energy and money

• Piloted a purpose-specific savings account called Brighter Savings 
for select LightStream customers, which helps consumers set aside 
funds for purchases such as a new vehicle

• Supported issuance of more than $14 billion of investment-grade 
sustainable bonds

• Made renewable energy direct capital commitments exceeding  
$1.5 billion

• Added more professionals with ESG and sustainability experience to 
provide advisory services for clients of the Commercial Community 
Bank and Corporate & Investment Bank

• Created more sustainability-focused roles in Climate Risk, Supplier 
Diversity, and other functions across the enterprise to support 
clients, suppliers, and Truist's own initiatives 

Community
• Exceeded our overall Community Benefits Plan commitment to invest 

or lend $60 billion to low- and moderate-income borrowers and in 
LMI communities over a three-year period that ended in 20221

• Made a $120 million commitment to strengthen small businesses, 
focusing on Black-, Latine-, and women-owned businesses

1. Truist is working on finalizing and validating CBP data, which may be subject to change.

• Awarded a $60 million New Markets Tax Credit allocation from the 
U.S. Treasury Department's Community Development Financial 
Institution (CDFI) Fund, bringing total allocations past $700 million

• Expanded access to our digital early literacy program, WORD Force, 
to all children nationwide in partnership with EVERFI

Teammates
• Raised our minimum wage to $22 per hour across the U.S.

• Achieved our aspiration of increasing ethnically diverse 
representation in senior leadership roles to 15% a year early. That 
figure was 17.2% as of the end of 2022, and we will continue to 
make progress—Truist has established new leadership aspirations 
to increase female representation by 15% and ethnically diverse 
representation by 20% by 2025

• Filled 60% of early career program and internship seats with diverse 
candidates in 2022

• Expanded our Grow, Recruit, and Accelerate Development (GRAD) 
program, which provides an immersive experience for high-performing 
diverse leaders to create more senior-level career pathways

• Proudly continued our commitment to various HBCUs through 
strategic partnerships, student recruitment, alumni engagement, 
infrastructure investment, and more

• Continued to use a qualitative scorecard that considers corporate 
responsibility and sustainability performance when evaluating 
executive compensation. This qualitative assessment of performance 
on strategic priorities represents 20% of an executive’s annual 
incentive performance (AIP) target award. In addition to such factors, 
the strategic priorities and categories on the qualitative scorecard 
used by the board Compensation and Human Capital Committee 
may include technology; risk and compliance; diversity, equity, and 
inclusion; and broader financial/market results



Environment and sustainability
• Established a goal of net zero greenhouse gas

(GHG) emissions by 2050

• Published 2021 ESG and CSR Report that disclosed:
– Scope 1, Scope 2, and certain categories of

Scope 3 GHG emissions
– SASB, GRI, CDP, United Nations SDGs, and

EEO-1 data

• Published the Truist 2022 Task Force on Climate-
Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Brief with
interim highlights

• Worked on the Truist 2022 TCFD Report,
scheduled to be published in the spring of 2023

• Published the Truist 2022 Climate Lobbying
Summary

• Published the Truist Social Bond Impact Report in
March 2022

• Achieved a score of B on our 2022 CDP Disclosure

• Added more professionals with analytic, climate
risk, and sustainability experience and expertise

• Created a new Risk, Finance, and ESG Data
Analytics Office that includes a framework for ESG
data to enhance decision making and productivity

• Named a chief resilience officer to build and lead
our resilience practice, including end-to-end
capabilities across business and operational
processes, technology, facilities, third parties,
and data1

1. Occurred in 2023

Recognition
• 2023 Newsweek ranking of America’s Most

Responsible Companies

• 2023 JUST Capital and CNBC Most Just
Companies—fifth place overall, an improvement
over the previous year

• 2022 JUST Capital Workforce Equity and
Mobility Ranking

• 2023 JUST Capital banking industry rankings—
second place, an improvement over the
previous year

• Included in the 2023 JUST Capital U.S. Large Cap
Diversified Index (JULCD)

• 2023 Top Corporation for Women Business
Enterprises from WBENC

• 2022 Forbes America’s Best Employers for Diversity

• 2022 Top 50 Employers Readers Choice by
Careers & the disABLED Magazine

• 2022 Top 50 Employers Readers Choice by Equal
Opportunity Magazine

• Fortune World’s Most Admired Companies

• A 2022 Best Place to Work for LGBTQ+ Equality

External collaborations
• In an effort to continue to listen and learn, Truist

collaborates with and participates in external
organizations. In recent years, Truist has:
– Joined the Partnership for Carbon Accounting

Financials (PCAF) and committed to assessing
and disclosing greenhouse gas emissions of
loans and investments

– Joined the Risk Management Association
(RMA) Climate Risk Consortium, which aims
to advance awareness of and address risks
relevant to climate change

– Joined the Ceres Company Network for
partnership and sector sharing aimed at
helping our clients and communities as we all
address climate change

  11

Purpose and progress

To learn more about the Truist 2022 TCFD 
Report, please scan the QR code.

https://ir.truist.com/image/Truist2022TCFD.pdf


  12

Stakeholder Priorities Assessment
As part of our ongoing commitment to stakeholder engagement, 
Truist periodically conducts a Stakeholder Priorities Assessment. 
This listening process invites stakeholders to identify and opine on 
topics they believe are most important to them and most impactful to 
Truist’s business. Consistent with best practices, Truist partnered with 
a global independent consultancy to refresh the Stakeholder Priorities 
Assessment. Priority topics were identified through a combination 
of the previous assessment, ongoing stakeholder engagement, and 
voluntary standards. The consultancy conducted interviews with key 
stakeholder groups including teammates and community leaders and 
conducted in-depth research to evaluate major trends, media, and 
issues impacting our sector across other stakeholder groups, including 
investors, peers, and clients. They aggregated and analyzed findings 
from each of these exercises to determine a list of priority topics, listed 
alphabetically on this page. Collectively, these insights inform our work 
as we inspire and build better lives and communities.

Truist Stakeholder Priorities

• Affordable Housing

• Board and Management
Governance

• Client Services and
Satisfaction

• Climate Change
(Climate Risk)

• Community Investment
and Involvement

• Corporate Strategy and
Capital Allocation

• Cybersecurity and
Data Privacy

• Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion

• Enterprise Risk Management

• Ethical Conduct

• Operational Sustainability

• Purpose and Culture

• Stakeholder Engagement

• Sustainable Finance
(Climate Opportunities)

• Talent Acquisition
and Retention

• Technology and Innovation

• Wealth and Income Inequality

Priority Definition

Affordable Housing Housing that is deemed affordable to those with a household income at or below the median.

Board and Management 
Governance 

Individuals who make up the board and management and their actions on behalf of the company or that could impact the company (e.g., “tone 
from the top“).

Client Services and Satisfaction Measurement that determines how well client needs and wants are being met through products and services.

Climate Change (Climate Risk) Climate change is a shift in worldwide weather phenomena associated with an increase in global average temperatures resulting in cascading 
social, economic, and environmental effects. Climate-related risk and opportunity management refers to an approach to decision making that 
seeks to promote sustainable development by reducing vulnerability, and a company's ability to manage risks and opportunities associated 
with direct exposure of its owned or controlled assets and operations to actual or potential physical impacts of climate change. Captures 
environmental and social topics/issues that may arise from operations disruptions due to physical impacts of climate change. 

Community Investment and 
Involvement

Demonstration of a company's commitment to its community by investment in advancing its initiatives including time, capital, or other 
resources. The process of working collaboratively with community groups to address topics/issues that impact the well-being of those groups 
by engaging the community through credible and transparent reporting, town hall meetings and collaborative decision making.

Corporate Strategy and Capital 
Allocation 

Capital allocation is part of corporate strategy and is a system of distributing financial resources to various sectors to increase efficiency and 
thereby maximize profits. Overall, it is management's goal to optimize capital allocation so that it generates as much wealth as possible for its 
shareholders.

Cybersecurity and Data Privacy Ensuring the security of key company digital assets and operations, including system operations, corporate IT systems, customer information, 
and more. Protecting customers' private data against malicious and deliberate attempts to breach the information system. Management of 
risks related to collection, retention, and use of sensitive, confidential, and/or proprietary customer or user data. Includes social topics/issues 
that may arise from incidents such as data breaches in which personally identifiable information (PII) and other user or customer data may be 
exposed. Addresses company strategy, policies, and practices related to IT infrastructure, staff training, record keeping, cooperation with law 
enforcement, and other mechanisms to ensure security of customer or user data.

Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion

Diversity means respect for and appreciation of differences in ethnicity, gender, age, national origin, disability, sexual orientation, education, 
and religion as well as diverse perspectives, work experiences, lifestyles, and cultures. Inclusion is a state of being valued, respected, and 
supported and ensuring the right conditions are in place for each person to achieve his or her full potential. Inclusion should be reflected 
in an organization's culture, practices, and relationships that are in place to support a diverse workforce, including anti-harassment and 
discrimination. In the context of civil rights law, unlawful discrimination refers to unfair or unequal treatment of an individual (or group) based 
on certain characteristics. Also includes social equity, investment and initiatives that center on addressing systemic societal topics/issues and 
creating equitable access to economic advancement.

Enterprise Risk Management
Company’s ability to effectively manage risk across the enterprise, including the ability to adapt to and mitigate the risk arising from emerging 
internal and external drivers.

Ethical Conduct

Includes purpose-driven and ethical conduct and a company's approach to managing risks and opportunities surrounding ethical conduct of 
business including fraud, corruption, bribery, and facilitation payments, fiduciary responsibilities, and other behavior that may have an ethical 
component. Sensitivity to business norms and standards as they shift over time, jurisdiction, and culture. Company's ability to provide services that 
satisfy the highest professional and ethical standards of the industry, avoiding conflicts of interest, misrepresentation, bias, and negligence through 
training employees adequately and implementing policies and procedures to ensure employees provide services free from bias and error.

Operational Sustainability

The responsible use and protection of the natural environment through conservation and sustainable practices, mitigating the impact of the 
company’s operations on the environment, and complying with rapidly evolving environmental regulations. The company's ability to identify 
and manage regulatory risk and ensure that an organization has internal controls that adequately measure and manage the environmental 
risks it faces.

Purpose and Culture
A company's culture informs the way its employees work. It is the combination of a predominant mindset, actions that all employees commit to 
every day, and the underlying processes, programs, and systems supporting how work gets done.

Stakeholder Engagement
Broader, more inclusive, and continuous process between a company and those potentially impacted by the encompassing range of activities 
and approaches.

Sustainable Finance
Sustainable finance refers to decisions in the financial sector that lead to more long-term investments in sustainable economic activities 
and projects.

Talent Acquisition and 
Retention

Having the right workforce and/or training to be able to provide products that respond to social/environmental trends. Attract and retain new 
talent (e.g., younger generations). The process and support systems in place to encourage employees to undergo various training programs to 
enhance and acquire knowledge and skills that support retention and reduce turnover.

Technology and Innovation Responsible use of innovation and technology to promote client experience, public interest, and advance opportunities.

Wealth and Income Inequality The extent to which income and wealth is evenly distributed across households and individuals, specifically with regard to underserved populations.

Purpose and progress



  13

Stakeholder 
engagement
Truist leverages a variety of forums and channels to connect with 
stakeholders including clients, community leaders, teammates, 
investors and analysts, suppliers, and government officials and 
regulators. Their perspectives help shape our approach. From a 
series of market visits across our footprint and meetings with 
investors, to listening sessions with teammates and conversations 
with community leaders—we listen and we respond. Our 2022 
stakeholder engagement included:

Clients
• Ongoing engagement including frequent meetings, calls, emails, and 

other contact

• Feedback from channels such as our contact center, live chat, email, 
in-person, and social media

• Voice of the Client surveys

• Client events

• Client meetings during executive leadership team market visits

• Personalized advice, thought leadership panels, and other 
educational content shared by our advisory services

• Communications such as branch operation updates

• Engagement with recipients of payment relief, small business loans, 
and other financing 

• Money and Mindset financial education events

• Responding to clients who experience disruptions or glitches during 
technology cutovers

• Complaint resolution process

Community
• Ongoing community outreach and support from community 

development managers and other teammates

• Philanthropic donations from Truist Foundation, Truist Charitable 
Fund, and other giving mechanisms including the Truist Together 
volunteerism platform and the Workplace Giving Campaign

• Quarterly meetings of the Community Advisory Board

• Community event and organization sponsorships

• Community listening sessions, and meetings during leadership team 
market visits

• Leadership summits for the historically Black colleges and 
universities (HBCU) community

• Numerous community-centric boards, such as regional advisory 
boards that include Truist clients who are leaders in their 
communities

• Teammate volunteerism and Lighthouse Project efforts

• Truist teammate service on local and national boards and committees 
of civic and nonprofit organizations

Teammates
• Annual engagement surveys and pulse surveys

• Semiannual Teammate Performance & Development Reviews with 
direct manager

• Quarterly town halls with leadership

• Frequent team meetings

• Ethics hotline available for teammate concerns

• Regular communications including operational updates, events, 
volunteer opportunities, benefits, DEI initiatives, cyber best 
practices, and other important teammate information

• Financial support from the Truist One Team Fund when teammates 
encounter hardships

Investors and analysts
• Ongoing shareholder engagement program including frequent 

meetings, calls, emails, and other contact 

• Annual shareholders meeting

• Fall Investor Outreach program

• Quarterly earnings webcasts and presentations

• Quarterly and annual SEC filings

• Investor roadshows and conferences

• Dialogue with shareholder proponents

• Engagement with proxy advisory firms

• Participation in analyst and industry conferences

Suppliers
• Annual Truist Tier2 Supplier Conference and other virtual events

• Onboarding and ongoing relationship support for suppliers

• Volunteer hours to support and educate minority-owned, diverse-
owned, and small business suppliers

• Thought leadership panels, articles, and other educational content by 
Truist corporate responsibility and sustainability professionals

• Ongoing meetings, virtual sessions, emails, calls, and other 
communication during the normal course of business

Government and regulators
• Ongoing engagement with local and national groups

• Participation in conferences and events

• Industry and trade association memberships

• Participation in congressional hearings, as invited

• CRA Examinations 

Purpose and progress



  14

Responsible 
business

Responsible business encompasses corporate 
governance, risk management, and ethical business 
practices. Our culture is built on a foundation 
of strong ethics and a proactive approach to 
identifying and managing risk. Truist endeavors to 
comply with all laws and regulations and considers 
stakeholder expectations. We strive to follow 
best practices for the financial services industry 
and prepare for emerging requirements that may 
develop as corporate landscapes evolve.

Every Truist teammate plays an important role 
in identifying and managing risk. Our board of 
directors and executive leadership prioritize 
enterprise risk management.



  15

Corporate governance of corporate 
responsibility 
Truist oversees corporate responsibility matters 
and climate risks at two levels—the board 
of directors and senior management—with 
extensive support from management committees, 
subcommittees, working groups, and functions 
across the enterprise that support sustainability 
and climate work.

Truist’s corporate governance structure is 
comprehensive but flexible, allowing us to 
respond to evolving needs, shifts in the regulatory 
environment, and emerging stakeholder interests. 
An important feature of the governance structure is 
a monitoring and escalation process for reviewing 
reputational, ESG, and climate risk, which includes 
oversight and management by the board and 
management-level committees.

Responsible business
Board roles and responsibilities
Truist’s board of directors has ultimate oversight 
of matters related to corporate responsibility, 
sustainability, and ESG disclosure, and assesses 
practices on an ongoing basis. The board 
receives regular updates and progress reports on 
these matters directly and through its standing 
committees. The board provides oversight to 
executive leadership to manage operational, 
financial, climate, and social risks, among others.

The board considers recommendations from its 
committees and management and makes important 
final decisions including the January 2022 decision 
to set a goal to achieve net zero greenhouse gas 
emissions by 2050. The board also approved our 
prior 2030 goals of reducing Scope 1 and Scope 
2 emissions by 35% each and reducing water 
consumption by 25%, all relative to 2019 as a 
baseline year. Additionally, the board approves the 
publication of our Corporate Responsibility Report 
and our TCFD Report.

Risk governance

Board committees

Executive committees

Risk program committees

Business unit risk committees

Risk capacity

Risk limits

Risk appetite

Risk exposure

Aggregation, integration, 
and correlation

Business unit risk ID  
and reporting

Firm-wide risk reporting

Risk profile

Board committee roles and 
responsibilities
The following board committees have specific 
corporate responsibility and sustainability 
responsibilities and oversight:

• Nominating and Governance Committee
oversees corporate responsibility matters
and reporting and, along with the Audit
Committee, reviews disclosure practices

• Risk Committee oversees risks including
climate-related risks

• Compensation and Human Capital Committee
responsibilities include input, monitoring,
and review of diversity, equity, and inclusion
activities and initiatives; teammate engagement; 
human capital strategy; and talent management

Management committee roles and 
responsibilities
Three management committees with 
responsibilities associated with corporate 
responsibility, sustainability, and ESG disclosure 
report up through the board committees: 
the Ethics, Business Practices, and Conduct 
Committee; the Enterprise Risk Committee; 
and the Disclosure Committee. The Disclosure 
Committee reviews disclosures made by Truist to 
its security holders or the investing community, 
including this report and our TCFD Report.

Process, governance, & oversight1

Industry-aligned bankers/  
relationship managers

Reputational risk diligence working groups 
(CIG, CCB + ad hoc)

Chief Risk Officer (Includes input from ethics 
officer & BU leadership/EL)

Ethics, Business Practices, & Conduct 
Committee

Nominating & Governance Committee

1. The committee, group, or individuals on the left oversee(s) the activities on the right.

Key responsibilities

Perform comprehensive risk diligence
Escalate based on identification of ESG risk diligence 

risk factors

Review individual situation 
Discussion of specific cases and potential  

resolutions during working group sessions 

Sole decision authority
Decision based on input from working group and 

ethics officer (as required)

Quarterly review of all activity
Recommended changes as necessary to inform 

evolution of strategy (quarterly)

Oversight of activities
Receives biannual reviews/updates



  16

Enterprise risk management
Truist’s Risk Management Organization is 
responsible for risk management oversight, 
measurement, monitoring, and reporting. These 
functions are led by our chief risk officer (CRO), 
who has direct access to our board of directors 
and executive leadership to communicate any 
risk issues—current or emerging—and the 
performance of risk management activities 
throughout the enterprise.

The CRO also chairs the Enterprise Risk 
Committee, which provides a fully integrated 
view of our eight primary risk types: Strategic, 
Compliance, Credit, Liquidity, Market, Operational, 
Technology, and Reputational. Climate-related 
risks are considered risk drivers and are thus 
integrated into these eight primary risks.

The Risk Management Organization established 
the following risk values, which guide day-to-day 
business activities:

• Managing risk is the responsibility of every 
teammate

• Proactively identifying risk and managing 
the inherent risks of their businesses is the 
responsibility of the business units

• Managing risk with a balanced approach that 
includes quality, profitability, and growth

• Utilizing sound and consistent risk management 
practices

• Thoroughly analyzing risk quantitatively and 
qualitatively

• Realizing lower cost of capital from high-quality 
risk management

Responsible business

Enterprise risk management 
framework
Truist has a moderate risk appetite, which 
optimizes the risk/return balance while 
maintaining the highest standards of safe, 
sound, and ethical practices. Truist has a 
culture of and commitment to prudent risk 
management that defines our business 
practices, including lines of defense against 
potential issues that may range from strategic 
or operational risk to market, credit, and 
liquidity risk. 

The enterprise risk management framework 
illustrates our enterprise risk management 
approach and three lines of defense to 
manage risk.

Culture
Tone at the top

Communicate organizational values, recognize 
appropriate behavior, monitor/assess risk 
culture, and promote our Code of Ethics

Effective challenge

Drive open communication, transparency, 
and escalation across three lines of defense, 
executive leadership, and board of directors

Risk escalation & individual accountability

Understand and manage risk in daily decision-
making through timely identification and 
escalation

Incentive & compensation

Emphasize appropriate behavior and conduct 
through alignment of training, performance 
management, and incentive compensation

Lines of defense
3rd line of defense

Audit services: Provides independent assurance 
that risks are properly governed, identified, 
assessed, and managed by the first and second 
lines of defense

2nd line of defense

Risk management organization: Provides 
independent oversight and challenge of risk 
management/taking activities of the first line 
of defense, and includes governance, guidance, 
establishing policy, and monitoring

1st line of defense

Business units: Ownership, strategy, execution, 
and accountability for identifying, assuring, 
controlling, mitigating, and communicating risk 
associated with business processes and decisions



  17

To learn more about the Truist 2022 TCFD 
Report, please scan the QR code.

Responsible business

Climate risk governance

Truist’s board oversees climate-related risks 
through the board Risk Committee and receives 
regular updates on corporate responsibility and 
sustainability from the Nominating and Governance 
Committee. The board considers climate-related 
issues in a wide range of business issues as well as 
operational, financial, disclosure, and other matters.

The ESG, Climate Risk, and Sustainability 
Committee recently evolved into an Executive 
Committee and expanded to include a broader set 
of leadership across the enterprise.

Truist’s Climate Risk Management team reports 
to the board Risk Committee quarterly. Truist 
promotes teammate understanding of risk 
management practices including through required 
annual enterprise risk training, which incorporates 
climate risk. 

Understanding the potential impacts of climate 
risk on our business and that of our clients, 
Truist has taken steps to more formally integrate 
identification and evaluation of climate risks into 
our Enterprise Risk Management framework, 
including business line and corporate-level 
processes to identify and assess both emerging and 
material risks.

The chart that follows illustrates Truist's ESG, 
climate risk, and sustainability governance. Truist's 
governance of these topics has enterprisewide 
support from each of the relevant lines of business. 
For more information on Truist’s climate-related 
activities, including expanded detail of Truist’s 
climate risk management activities and progress, 
please see the Truist 2022 TCFD Report. 

https://ir.truist.com/image/Truist2022TCFD.pdf
https://ir.truist.com/image/Truist2022TCFD.pdf


  18

ESG, climate risk, and sustainability governance at Truist

Truist Board of Directors and Committees

Board Risk Committee (BRC) Board Nominating and Governance Committee Board Audit Committee Compensation and Human Capital Committee

Executive Leadership & Executive Committees

Enterprise Risk Committee (ERC) Ethics, Business Practices, and Conduct Committee (EBPCC) Disclosure Committee Market Risk, Liquidity, and Capital Committee (MRLCC)

Management Committees & Working Group

ESG, Climate Risk, and Sustainability Committee

Climate Risk Working Group

Oversees data evaluation & acquisition, climate risk identification & assessment, 
climate scenario analysis, and enterprise risk management & credit risk integration

ESG Risk Public Affairs Working Group

Aligns enterprise public affairs activities related to corporate responsibility and 
sustainability including external reporting & public disclosure, investor relations, 
communications and marketing, and government relations

Net Zero & Sustainability Working Group

Aligns enterprise efforts to lower Truist’s emissions including measurement of 
greenhouse gas emissions & related target setting and coordinates operational 
sustainability initiatives in corporate real estate and procurement

ESG Business Enablement Working Group

Aligns efforts to capitalize on business opportunities including opportunities 
related to sustainable finance, ESG bond issuance activity, and corporate 
strategy integration

Risk Identification Committee

Risk Identification Working Group

Review and assessment of the risk inventory gathered from the company’s 
various risk identification activities

Business Unit Risk Committees

Identification and review of business unit specific risks and priorities

Horizon Risk Meeting

Identification and monitoring of emerging and long horizon risks

Risk, Finance, and ESG Data Management Committee

CIG Sustainable Finance Review Working Group

Monitors progress and escalates issues related to data needs within and across 
the Risk, Finance, and ESG organizations

Capital Committee

Capital Committee

Oversees internal capital assessment process & scenario design

Scenario Committee

Develops scenarios for Capital Adequacy, CECL, Climate Risk, and other 
macroeconomic forecasts

CIG Business Unit Risk Committee

CIG Sustainable Finance Review Working Group

Reviews and evaluates sustainable lending structures and opportunities

Operational Risk Management Committee

CIG Sustainable Finance Review Working Group

Reviews and evaluates sustainable lending structures and opportunities



  19

Environmental and Social Risk 
Framework

Truist’s Environmental and Social Risk Framework (ESRF) provides 
additional emphasis, context, and transparency about our approach 
to environmental and social risks, which may broadly impact 
our business. It is aligned with our Enterprise Risk Management 
Framework and its three lines of defense, which are shown on page 16.

Truist is committed to an inclusive and balanced approach to building 
relationships as we fulfill our corporate purpose of inspiring and 
building better lives and communities while also supporting the needs 
of our clients and other stakeholders.

As one of the largest domestic banks, Truist understands and respects 
the inherent responsibilities and opportunities of providing lending 
and other financial services that empower sustainability journeys for 
companies and organizations of all sizes and across many different 
industries. Driven by an inclusive and collaborative approach, Truist 
offers advisory services to help clients and other stakeholders identify 
their own goals and make progress on their decarbonization initiatives.

Truist has an ESRF that provides the structure through which we 
identify, assess, monitor, and escalate potential risks and emerging 
issues impacting the financial futures of our clients as part of our 
overarching Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) activities. These 
efforts are organized around eight risk categories: Strategic, 
Credit, Market, Liquidity, Compliance, Operational, Technology, and 
Reputational.

Assessing, monitoring, and escalating risk
Truist’s overall risk appetite is moderate, which optimizes risk and 
return while maintaining the highest standards of safe, sound, and 
ethical practices. We have processes and procedures in place for 
identifying, assessing, monitoring, and escalating risk matters as 
appropriate—including sensitivity analysis, scenario testing, and 
stress testing. For entities that may have elevated or higher levels of 
risk, Truist assesses risk in accordance with regulatory expectations as 
well as our own purpose, mission, and values. You can read more about 
our approach to climate risks and opportunities in the Truist 2022 
TCFD Report.

Governance practices
Truist’s governance practices provide oversight to this work, 
including at the board of directors and executive leadership levels as 
well as through numerous committees and working groups. You can 
read more about our governance practices on page 15 and see an 
illustrated chart on page 15 of this report.

Stakeholder engagement
We actively engage with stakeholders including clients, investors, 
teammates, regulators, and community members to listen to their 
needs, interests, concerns, and evolving expectations on a wide variety 
of issues including environmental, social, and governance matters. You 
can read more about Truist’s stakeholder engagement practices on 
page 13 of this report.

Due diligence
Truist takes an inclusive and balanced approach to performing due 
diligence as part of the relationship management process. Truist 
considers numerous factors in every client relationship including 
creditworthiness, financial strength, liquidity, operational stability, 
sustainability, and reputational risk.

Human rights
Truist has a culture of integrity and ethical business practices, and 
our assessment of financial risk may include elements such as human 
rights issues; supplier conduct; sustainability; diversity, equity, and 
inclusion (DEI); and other factors.

Truist has a Code of Ethics and believes that anti-bribery, anti-
corruption, labor, human rights, and safety practices are essential. 
Truist complies with all local laws and regulations.

Truist also has a Supplier Code of Conduct that sets specific 
expectations of our suppliers. Each supplier must ensure that 
no illegal, exploitative, or abusive conditions exist in their own 
operations or in their third-party operations, and Truist seeks 
to engage with suppliers who are environmentally and socially 
responsible. You can read more about our expectations for suppliers 
in the Truist Supplier Code of Conduct.

Looking ahead
Truist will continue to provide products, services, and advice to help 
stakeholders achieve their sustainability objectives. Truist remains 
committed to improving its own sustainability as part of our Enterprise 
Risk Management functions while also monitoring evolving regulations, 
emerging reporting standards, and peer group best practices.

Responsible business

https://ir.truist.com/image/Truist2022TCFD.pdf
https://ir.truist.com/image/Truist2022TCFD.pdf
https://www.truist.com/content/dam/truist/us/en/documents/truist-supplier-code-of-conduct.pdf


  20

Ethical culture
Truist’s Code of Ethics provides direction on 
how to apply our purpose, mission, and values to 
business conduct. It explains our responsibilities to 
various stakeholders and how to fulfill them. Major 
topics address fostering a respectful workplace, 
appropriately managing client relationships, and 
guidelines for outside activities and employment. 

Each year, our Ethics Office leads a rigorous review 
of the Code of Ethics. The process starts with a 
broad group of internal subject matter experts 
who provide feedback on possible additions, 
subtractions, and clarifications based on 
teammate experience over the prior year, as well 
as learnings from investigating and resolving any 
issues that have surfaced. The process ends with 
the Code of Ethics going before our Ethics, Business 
Practices, and Conduct Committee for review 
and to the board Nominating and Governance 
Committee for approval.

In 2022, Truist updated its Code of Ethics and 
made several changes, such as consolidating the 
Truist director, teammate, and senior financial 
officer codes into a single document for greater 
consistency and simplicity across the organization. 
We also expanded definitions and guidelines 
associated with conflicts of interest and outside 
employment, and reminded teammates that they 
should feel comfortable and empowered to speak 
up any time they have questions or concerns.

Truist requires annual Code of Ethics training for 
teammates, and all teammates must complete the 
training and sign an attestation acknowledging that 
they understand and will comply with the code. 
Teammates who join Truist later in the year must 
complete the training and attestation within 60 
days of their start date.

Truist reviews compliance with our Code of Ethics, 
and allegations of noncompliance are escalated 
for appropriate investigation. The Ethics Office 
regularly reviews all instances of code violation 
and reports summary data to the Ethics, Business 
Practices, and Conduct Committee and the board 
Risk Committee. Teammates who know of or 
suspect a code violation must report concerns 
promptly. Truist has a strict nonretaliation policy 
for any report made in good faith, and we are 
committed to protecting whistleblowers.

We learn from teammate complaints so we can 
improve for the future. In 2022, teammates asked 
for a more expeditious process for complaint 
investigations and, in response, Truist devoted more 
resources to shorten the investigative process.

Reputational risk assessment 
Reputational risk is a core component of Truist’s 
holistic approach to enterprise risk. Our Ethics 
Office has worked with business units to establish 
channels and processes for additional vetting of 
client opportunities, relationships, and transactions 
that have elements suggesting possible heightened 
reputational risk. Our banking and insurance lines of 
business consistently review individual situations for 
reputational risk, and those situations are escalated 
to Truist’s chief risk officer as appropriate.

The Ethics, Business Practices, and Conduct 
Committee reviews reputational risk activity 
quarterly, and the board Nominating and 
Governance Committee receives and reviews 
updates at least twice a year.

Responsible business



  21

Teammate training, compliance, and 
safety programs
Ongoing training helps teammates understand 
the expectations for ethical conduct and risk 
management. In addition to annual Code of 
Ethics training and attestation, Truist teammates 
are required to complete other training courses 
throughout the year. Topics include:

• Regulations—including regulations W, V, Z, and 
other relevant regulations and acts

• Financial crimes—including money laundering, 
sanctions, and fraud

• Cybersecurity and data privacy—including 
information protection, transparency, and control 
over data usage

• Consumer protection and financial product 
safety—including fair lending and compliance, 
preventing elder financial abuse, and preventing 
unfair, deceptive, and abusive acts or practices 

• Culture training—As part of onboarding, 
teammates take a course called Truist Culture 
Overview: Purpose, Mission, and Values 

• DEI training—Teammates take training 
programs about diversity, equity, and inclusion; 
anti-harassment; and identifying human 
trafficking or smuggling

• Enterprise risk—Truist has integrated climate 
risk curricula as part of enterprise risk training 
programs that most teammates are required 
to take.1 Teammates can learn more about 
climate and sustainability work through various 
channels such as quarterly cross-functional ESG 
Connect communications

• Business continuity and teammate safety—
including workplace violence prevention training, 
Truist emergency response preparedness, and 
robbery training for front-line workers

During 2022, teammates completed over 2.3 million 
course hours for various types of training.

 1 Executives and teammates in our insurance brokerage group receive other training.

Responsible business

Reporting teammate concerns
Truist encourages teammates to address work-
related questions, concerns, and suggestions 
with their managers as a starting point for solving 
problems. When concerns cannot be resolved 
through dialogue or a teammate is not comfortable 
engaging directly with their manager, we encourage 
the use of our Reporting Teammate Concerns 
website, which we continued to enhance during 
2022. This channel enables teammates to report:

• Potential teammate wrongdoing or internal fraud

• Business process gaps

• Cyber and information security incidents

The site provides a consolidated reporting form 
and automatically routes it to the appropriate team 
for review and investigation. An anonymous option 
is also available through the Anonymous Action 
Line. We remind teammates that acts of retaliation 
are violations of the Truist Code of Ethics and that 
if a teammate believes they have experienced 
or witnessed an act of retaliation, they should 
immediately contact HR Central.

The Ethics Office aggregates information on 
all completed cases and anonymizes them for 
confidentiality. Truist’s Enterprise Ethics Risk 
Teammate Concerns Reporting function evaluates 
teammate complaints as indicators of ethical and 
conduct risk. The reporting provides a consolidated 
view of metrics allowing for identification of early 
trends and ongoing monitoring. 

Teammate Concerns Reporting consists of an ethics 
heatmap that is compiled in partnership with the Risk 
Data and Reporting Office and is used to facilitate the 
Ethics Office Working Group (EOWG) discussion; and a 
Teammate Concerns Dashboard, which is an executive 
summary that reports indicators, trend analysis, and 
commentary derived from the EOWG discussion. The 
intended audiences for the reporting are primarily the 
EOWG; the Ethics, Business Practices, and Conduct 
Committee (EBPCC); and the Board Risk Committee 
(BRC) of the board of directors.

These processes have also provided Truist 
leadership with valuable insights to identify and 
address teammate concerns during the challenges 
of the COVID-19 pandemic, merger integration, 
return-to-work, and other issues. We believe 
teammates are comfortable using our reporting 
systems, and we encourage and empower them to 
also be part of the solution any time they identify a 
current or emerging risk.

Anti-money laundering, sanctions 
compliance, and anti-corruption 
practices
Truist has established and maintains an enterprise 
Anti-Money Laundering Program designed to 
ensure that, at a minimum, Truist and all of its 
subsidiaries are in compliance with applicable 
laws, rules, and regulations related to anti-money 
laundering and anti-terrorist financing initiatives. 
Among other relevant laws, the Anti-Money 
Laundering Program ensures that Truist complies 
with all applicable provisions of the Bank Secrecy 
Act, the USA Patriot Act, and sanctions-related 
regulations promulgated by the U.S. Department of 
the Treasury (Office of Foreign Assets Control).

Truist recognizes, and takes very seriously, 
its obligation to join with governmental and 
regulatory authorities and other members of the 
financial industry to help close off the financial 
channels that terrorists and money launderers use 
for their illicit purposes.

Truist also has programs that address anti-bribery 
and anti-corruption that include compliance with 
the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), which 
prohibits individuals and businesses from making 
corrupt payments to foreign officials; and the Bank 
Bribery Act (BBA), which prohibits corrupt acts in 
connection with bank business. 

Responsible sales and lending
Equal and fair treatment of credit applicants 
and existing borrowers is integral to Truist’s 
commitment to help clients achieve financial 
security and economic success. We affirmatively 
solicit credit applications from all segments of 
our communities and provide ongoing outreach 
activities to assure underrepresented consumers 
and business owners that credit is available on a fair 
and equitable basis. Our commitment to fairness 
and equity spans all marketing and outreach 
channels, including digital.

Truist provides resources and expertise to help 
low- and moderate-income (LMI) clients with ways 
to save and invest money, buy a first home, start 
a business, save for retirement, and achieve other 
financial goals. 



  22

Consumer fairness and protection
In our marketing and advertising, we strive to comply with all 
regulations about brand image, product accuracy, and message 
integrity. We prohibit unfair, deceptive, and abusive acts or practices 
(UDAAP), and in 2022 Truist elevated its UDAAP policy to Level 1, 
ensuring board level oversight.

Truist cares for vulnerable populations. Teammates are responsible for 
identifying and referring suspected cases of financial exploitation. We 
endeavor to prevent attempts by individuals to obtain or use a disabled 
or senior citizen’s funds, credit, assets, or property with the intent to 
benefit someone other than the owner of the property.

The security and privacy of our clients and their data is a top priority. 
Teammates must report suspicious behavior and suspected breaches 
of client data.

Responsible and diverse sourcing
We seek partnerships with suppliers of all sizes who share our 
commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion and to environmental 
sustainability in their business practices. Truist requires teammates to 
take and pass a supplier diversity course if they have roles related to 
supplier or third-party engagement, community, or enterprise inclusion.

The supplier diversity team establishes and tracks progress against our 
annual supplier diversity objectives. These include quarterly, annual, 
and year-over-year procurement spend (dollars and percentage) 
with small businesses and businesses owned by minorities, women, 
veterans, people with disabilities, and LGBTQ+ individuals.

We also track these businesses’ inclusion in sourcing projects. To 
ensure that we include diverse suppliers across our entire supply 
chain, we ask strategic suppliers to participate in our Tier2 program to 
understand whether and how much they are actively purchasing from 
diverse-owned, women-owned, and other diverse businesses over the 
life of their contracts.

More information about the organizations and impact of Truist’s supplier 
diversity programs, including our recognitions and awards in this area, 
can be found in the “Diversity, equity, and inclusion“ chapter of this 
report and on our Supplier Diversity site. 

Supply chain resiliency
Truist is a member of the Sustainable Purchasing Leadership Council 
(SPLC), a nonprofit organization whose members work together to 
create solutions and share best practices to build a more sustainable 
future through their procurement activities. Truist uses its membership 
in this organization to continue building out and integrating sustainable 
purchasing policies and frameworks.

In 2022, as part of a broader engagement, Truist worked with a third-
party consultant to illustrate approaches to calculate Scope 3 Category 
1 and 2 emissions. Truist is working to identify information sources, 
tools, and methods to incorporate sustainability into our sourcing and 
procurement functions.

Political engagement
Public policy has a significant impact on Truist’s business operations 
as well as those of our stakeholders. Truist participates in policy 
discussions on issues that support our interests. We sponsor employee 
political action committees (PACs), which allow teammates, corporate 
directors, and PAC advisory board members to voluntarily pool their 
financial resources to support candidates who support legislation 
that’s meaningful to us and our shareholders, clients, and communities. 
A detailed statement of political engagement and a list of 2022 PAC 
activity can be found here.

• Truist 2022 Statement of Political Engagement

• Truist 2022 Political Contributions

Responsible business

https://www.truist.com/who-we-are/suppliers
https://ir.truist.com/corporate-social-responsibility
https://ir.truist.com/download/Truist2022StatementOfPoliticalEngagement.pdf
https://ir.truist.com/image/Truist2022PoliticalContributions.pdf


  23

gCate ory owner

Cybersecurity

Weather & natural disasters

Technology

Financial crimes

Physical security

 Enterprise response framework

Financial systemic

Human resources

Responsible business

Core response capabilities 

Assess: current and/or emerging threats 
across the all-hazards threat spectrum

Assemble: designated enterprise response 
leaders commensurate with the level of 
perceived threat

Act: in accordance with ground-truth and 
situation-specific information to execute 
real-time decision making

Business continuity planning, resiliency, 
and crisis response
Truist leaders work across the enterprise to safeguard our teammates 
and property in the event of a business interruption. We have a 
multidisciplinary crisis planning and response team with the expertise to 
anticipate and respond to incidents of all kinds—including severe weather, 
security, cybersecurity, criminal behavior, and a wide range of other 
situations. Recently, we named a chief resilience officer to build and lead 
our resilience practice, including end-to-end capabilities across business 
and operational processes, technology, facilities, third parties, and data.

Our Enterprise Response Framework centralizes command, control, 
and coordination so we can effectively respond to and recover from 
such events. Its objectives include:

• Protecting the well-being of teammates

• Meeting client needs and expectations in a responsible manner

• Preserving Truist property and assets

• Fostering integrated response coordination

• Establishing and cultivating external engagements

• Minimizing disruption and loss

Truist's Executive Response Operations Center (EROC) provides the 
expertise and infrastructure capabilities for incidents that rise to 
the level of a corporate crisis to protect assets and assist teammates 
and clients. EROC members have the power to make key decisions 
and provide strategic direction. They communicate directly with the 
executive leadership team and align with Federal Financial Institutions 
Examination Council (FFIEC) guidance.

The Significant Incident Response Enterprise Notification (SIREN) is a 
mass system of notification that enables urgent assembly of the EROC 
during a crisis. SIREN uses email, text, phone, and other messaging 
formats to provide rapid communications of critical information for 
emergency preparedness and response.

To promote teammate safety and well-being on an ongoing basis, the 
Truist Workplace Safety and Security Focus Group brings together 
cross-functional stakeholders to ensure Truist has the highest level 
of safety and security measures for teammates, clients, and physical 
assets. The group is open and transparent about the current state 
of safety and security, identifies opportunities to improve Truist’s 
security posture, and oversees action plans for enhancements. Learn 
more about this in the “Clients“ chapter of this report. 

Cybersecurity and data privacy 
Cybersecurity and data privacy are of utmost importance. Every 
transaction and interaction must be secure and reliable, and all 
devices and technology tools must be easy to use. 

In an era of global digital connectedness, the frequency and 
sophistication of malicious activity continues to rise. We assess 
technology risks and have 24/7 monitoring of the evolving capabilities 
and novel tactics of cybercriminals and hackers. Truist has assembled a 
cross-functional team of cybersecurity professionals who are prepared 
and capable of responding immediately if anomalies or suspicious 
actions are detected. 

Truist has multiple layers of controls to protect client accounts, 
transactions, and personal information including passwords, PINs, 
multifactor authentication, monitoring for unusual or suspicious 
activity, fraud detection, and alerts.

In addition to security controls, Truist conducts training including 
tabletop exercises that simulate cybersecurity crises, giving our 
leaders and teammates a chance to demonstrate how they would 
respond if presented with an actual incident.

Truist is deeply committed to client privacy and, in early 2023, released 
the redesigned public-facing Truist Privacy page of our website 
including a new self-service Privacy Center portal so consumers can 
exercise their rights to understand what data we have about them, 
understand how we’re using it, and request that we correct or delete it. In 
line with our commitment to trust and privacy, we offer these rights and 
capabilities to all consumers—not just residents of regulated states.

https://www.truist.com/privacy


  24

The new Privacy Center was not only designed to 
comply with evolving privacy regulations but also 
to strengthen consumer trust in Truist’s ability to 
manage their personal information. It’s the one-
stop shop for everything related to privacy at Truist, 
offering a positive client experience, improved 
responsiveness, increased transparency and 
control, and information on how we use and protect 
personal data. Learn more about this in the “Clients“ 
chapter of this report. 

Board responsibility for cybersecurity 
and privacy
Our chief risk officer (CRO), chief technology risk 
officer (CTRO), and CISO provide the board and 
its committees with regular reports and updates 
regarding potential risks and threats related to 
information technology, information security, and 
cybersecurity. The board annually reviews and 
approves our information security program and 
related policies. 

The board’s Risk Committee receives cyber and 
IT updates from the CRO and CTRO and other 
senior leaders. The board’s Technology Committee 
reviews our technology policies, standards, and 
controls, and receives relevant updates from senior 
leaders including our chief information officer (CIO), 
chief technology officer (CTO), and chief data officer 
(CDO) as well as the CRO and CTRO regarding our 
practices, management, technology operations and 
functioning, and IT and cybersecurity risks.

Management responsibilities 
Truist has a Technology Management Committee that 
ensures our executive leadership team understands 
IT, information security, privacy, and cybersecurity 
risks and threats. Truist has a Technology Risk 
Outlook (TRO) function that assesses external forces, 
new issues and tactics, watch items, and potential risk 
implications so Truist can prepare for and proactively 
respond to emerging risks. The TRO helps Truist:

• Understand and anticipate IT, information 
security, and cybersecurity risk exposure

• Understand potential disruptors and their 
implications

• Improve risk-based decision making and make 
more informed decisions

• Take “next best actions“ 

Teammates strengthen frontline security 
Every teammate at Truist receives ongoing training 
and support to strengthen their knowledge of 
information technology, information security, 
privacy, and cybersecurity best practices. We 
provide required courses, online resources, helpful 
tips, alerts about new phishing and fraud tactics, 
and technology tools to help teammates enhance 
frontline security and reduce risk.

New teammates must complete the Truist 
Information Protection and Enterprise Privacy online 
courses within the first 30 days of employment. All 
teammates must recertify each year, and teammates 
who have been with Truist for more than a year can 
demonstrate their knowledge and test out of certain 
modules. The course includes:

• Realistic scenarios

• Role-playing for client-facing teammates  
and managers

• Hands-on information protection activities

Truist has a Teammate Education and Awareness 
Program that fosters a culture of security risk 
awareness while also informing people about new 
threats and tactics, and promoting positive behaviors 
and actions that can help minimize risk across the 
enterprise. The program also shares new or updated 
policies and standards, as well as security protection 
actions that teammates are expected to take.

We use several channels to reach teammates by 
their preferred method of communication, including 
online training courses; simulated phishing and phone 
scams; a monthly information security news bulletin; 
security alerts and advisories; articles, videos, 
and webinars; published policies and standards; 
awareness activities; and reference materials on our 
corporate intranet. Teammates are frequently tested 
to make them situationally alert for possible threats.

Throughout Truist, teams have “cyberchampions“ 
who join meetings about cyber issues and 
internal programs, and they in turn communicate 
with colleagues in their business area to share 
information and best practices.

Truist also publishes a monthly newsletter for 
teammates called “Staying Aware & Secure“ that 
provides cybersecurity tips, explains new threats, 
and covers topics such as:

• Phone scams at work and at home

• How to create stronger passwords and avoid 
using the same password for multiple accounts

• Data classification

• Malware and phishing scams

Data classification 
Properly classifying data and other information 
is an important component of information 
protection, and Truist has a formalized Data Risk 
Classification hierarchy to guide every teammate 
on this crucial activity.

We educate and train teammates about how to 
classify emails and documents using definitions, 
guidance, and specific examples, and offer a 
technology tool that helps teammates confirm or 
apply an appropriate data risk classification to help 
keep Truist data secure. Classifying emails and 
documents helps Truist:

• Add metadata, which provides behind-the-scenes 
information about the data or document such as 
who it was shared with

• Identify, locate, and track information throughout 
the Truist environment

• Apply additional security around information that 
is Restricted or Private

Responsible business



  25

Keeping clients informed
To support clients' own cybersecurity and data privacy needs, Truist 
provides clients with security awareness and information through 
our website, mobile app, email alerts, in-branch video segments, 
Contact Center hold messages, alerts on statement envelopes, and 
other channels. Topics include mobile security, phishing scams, fraud 
protection, identity theft, best practices for online security, and a wide 
range of other issues. 

Truist also supports national and global awareness events, such as the 
National Cybersecurity Alliance’s Cybersecurity Awareness Month and 
the American Bankers Association’s anti-phishing campaign. 

Cybersecurity and data privacy policy and reporting 
Truist has a corporate information security policy that addresses 
compliance with applicable laws and regulations so we can protect and 
preserve information and assets owned by or entrusted to us. The policy 
is informed by industry standards and frameworks, which we validate 
through internal and external assessments. 

Key among those legal requirements are Section 501(b) of the Gramm-
Leach-Bliley Act (GLBA) and the Interagency Guidelines Establishing 
Information Security Standards.

There are also cyber standards like the U.S. Department of Commerce's 
National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Cybersecurity 
Framework and ISO/IEC standards.

Our Corporate Cybersecurity department continuously monitors 
compliance with the corporate information security policy and its 
supporting standards, and the CISO reports to the board on these 
matters. Additionally, our corporate information security program 
is periodically assessed to ensure the effectiveness of key controls 
through:

• Technology risk and compliance assessments

• Audit/regulatory examinations

• Independent third-party evaluations

Industry involvement
Truist is actively involved in industry trade groups and organizations 
that are focused on cybersecurity, cyber intelligence, information 
security, fraud, financial market stability, resiliency, data aggregation, 
secure funds transfer, and cyber investigations, as well as cyber-focused 
committees of financial services organizations and trade groups.

Our participation in these industry groups helps us stay informed about 
emerging threats, share knowledge, learn about new technologies, and 
collaborate with peers. It also helps Truist anticipate, prepare for, and 
respond to new regulatory expectations, inform legislation intended 
to strengthen financial sector cybersecurity, and contribute to overall 
sector security.

Some of the organizations we’re involved with are the American 
Bankers Association, Bank Policy Institute, Financial Data Exchange, 
Financial Services—Information Sharing & Analysis Center, Financial 
Services Sector Coordinating Council, the International Association of 
Privacy Professionals, and the Future of Privacy Forum.

Many of our teammates in the cyber and privacy fields hold industry 
certifications and serve in leadership roles in these organizations, 
speak at significant industry and trade events, serve on federal and 
academic advisory committees, and are invited to contribute to 
important research reports on these topics.

Third party risk management 
Truist relies on third parties to augment resources and functions that 
allow us to adapt quickly to changes in the market, operations, or 
business needs. Truist has a Third Party Risk Management (TPRM) 
group that oversees this component of operational risk. Additionally, 
our Supplier Technology Risk Assessment program identifies, 
assesses, controls, and reports on technology risks associated with 
the use of third parties to deliver products and services to Truist. 
Teammates in this group also monitor domain and developing 
technologies and use cases to inform senior leaders about emerging 
risks. Truist continuously works on enhancements to ensure that our 
current assessment methodology effectively and actively identifies 
supplier technology risks and follows TPRM direction. 

Responsible business



  26

Clients

Truist thrives when our clients thrive. We are 
committed to providing superior products and 
services that are flexible enough to meet the unique 
needs, goals, and challenges of every client. 

Guided by the feedback and insights gained from 
interactions with clients, Truist is focused on 
innovation. From individual retail banking clients, 
to ambitious startups, to global Fortune 500 
corporations, Truist can provide thoughtful product 
solutions and advisory services.

Truist introduced several new products in 2022, 
including Truist One Banking, which eliminates 
overdraft fees; a new savings account for select 
LightStream clients; enhancements to our mobile 
app and digital banking experience; and deeper 
advisory services in several lines of business.



  27

Clients

Client experience is enhanced by teammate feedback
Many ideas for improving our products and services originate with 
the people who already use them the most: clients and teammates. 
We listen carefully and intently to the feedback and suggestions 
that are shared every day across our organization, and those ideas 
are often vetted, tested, and adopted. Teammate suggestions we’ve 
implemented recently include:

• A more efficient wire process that eliminated the bank-imposed wire 
limit and allowed for multi-profile access using a single ID & PIN, as well 
as an enhanced ACH process that removed ACH-Prefund Limits

• New callback features for client support, and added staff to reduce 
wait times

• Partial authorization for debit card use at point-of-sale to allow 
clients to make partial payments instead of declining the transaction

• Real-time mobile notification to clients if a hold is required on their 
deposit so they have better visibility on the exact funds available

• Introduction of Truist Trade, a new self-directed online trading 
platform for stocks, ETFs, and mutual funds1

1. Truist Trade is offered by Truist Investment Services, Inc. Services provided by the following affiliates of Truist Financial Corporation: Securities, brokerage accounts 
and insurance (including annuities) are offered by Truist Investment Services, Inc., an SEC registered broker-dealer, member FINRA, SIPC, and a licensed insurance 
agency. Investment advisory services are offered by Truist Advisory Services, Inc., an SEC registered investment adviser. Mutual Funds and Exchange-Traded-Funds 
(ETFs) values will fluctuate so that an investor’s shares, when sold, may be worth more or less than their original cost. ETFs trade like stocks on the open market, which 
in most cases involves a commission.

Truist One Banking 
Truist One Banking is our new flagship checking solution that expands 
financial inclusion and wealth creation for clients by reimagining 
everyday banking—and it’s a direct result of feedback from clients. 
With no overdraft fees and other enhancements, Truist One Banking is 
projected to help clients save more of their hard-earned money—$300 
million per year by 2024.

Truist One Banking includes:

• Truist One Checking
 – No overdraft fees
 – A $100 negative balance buffer
 – Five ways to waive monthly fees
 – Greater cash-back rewards on Truist credit cards

• Truist Confidence Account
 – An alternative checkless account with no overdraft fees
 – Make digital payments through Truist bill pay 

Digital banking
Truist frequently makes enhancements and upgrades to Truist.com, 
the Truist mobile app, and other elements of our digital banking 
experience. Truist delivered three times as many production releases 
across business, retail, and wealth as we did in all of 2021.

The average iOS and Android app store ratings for the Truist mobile 
app rose to 4.7 out of a possible score of 5 as of the end of 2022.

An assist from AI
In 2022, we introduced Truist Assist, a digital assistant that combines 
artificial intelligence technology and natural language processing 
to answer common questions and guide retail and wealth personal 
banking clients toward self-help solutions. Truist Assist is embedded 
within our contact centers for seamless transition to a teammate when 
a client needs a deeper level of support.

Making it fun to save for the future
In 2022, Truist acquired savings game pioneer Long Game, which led 
to the creation of an internal innovation group called Truist Foundry, 
which is explained in greater detail in the “Technology and innovation“ 
chapter of this report.

Truist Long Game is an award-winning app that changes the way 
people save and engage with their finances. The app uses prize-linked 
savings and gaming missions to motivate smart financial behaviors 
and incentivize long-term financial wellness.

Built on a modern architecture that aligns with Truist’s existing 
technology stack, Truist Long Game complements Truist Momentum, 
a workplace financial wellness program that educates, equips, and 
inspires employees of client companies to manage their money based 
on what matters most to them.

A new version of the Truist Long Game app was introduced in the 
spring of 2023, with enhanced gaming features and deeper integration 
with the Truist technology ecosystem.

T3 is our belief that  
Touch + Technology = Trust
Advanced and modern technology is one of our four 
strategic pillars. Truist is investing in the future by 
further modernizing our technology stack, enhancing 
the client and teammate experience, enabling convenient 
commerce and payment capabilities, and taking a fit-for-
purpose approach as we build, buy, or partner on leading 
technology platforms.



  28

Commercial Community Bank
Truist Commercial Community Bank strives to make 
banking easy for businesses of all sizes. We help 
clients bank with us how they want, where they 
want, and when they want by offering digital tools 
for efficient and fast self-service.

Truist takes a business life cycle advisory 
consultative approach to understand each client's 
aspirations, challenges, and opportunities—
then provide tailored solutions that meet their 
needs across every stage. Advisory services 
feature deep expertise in all phases of business—
including startup, mergers and acquisitions, risk 
management, and succession planning.

Truist offers Commercial Community Bank clients:

• Truist One View to consolidate banking 
applications in one place, including payments, 
receivables, fraud control, and reporting

• A digitized commercial loan portal and future 
onboarding ecosystem designed for increased 
flexibility, enhanced capabilities, and reduced 
touch points

• A full suite of cash management, insurance, 
corporate finance, wealth, and investment 
solutions

Integrated Relationship  
Management 
Across lines of business, teammates have a stronger 
focus on accelerating integrated relationship 
management (IRM) to enhance the service we 
provide clients and harvest post-integration value 
across the enterprise.

IRM empowers teammates to proactively suggest 
complementary or relevant services and products 
to clients with purpose and intention. For example, 
a nonprofit banking client that has used Truist 
for several credit facilities may benefit from 
opportunities to refinance tax-exempt bonds or 
finance real estate projects through Grandbridge 
Real Estate Capital LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary 
of Truist. 

IRM helps us grow and cultivate our relationship 
with clients from the early stage of deposits and 
payments through more complex needs such as 
loans, wealth, and advisory services. 

Throughout 2022, we held a series of events that 
brought teammates from our middle market, retail, 
and small business banking units together with 
executives and IRM leaders to discuss how we can 
better leverage relationships, services, and products 
across lines of business to deliver more value for our 
clients and help them achieve their goals.

Our teammates are excited about the expanded 
capabilities available to them and how they can 
help our clients win by seamlessly providing them 
the full depth and breadth of Truist’s capabilities 
through IRM.

Sustainability and ESG advisory 
Truist has added numerous sustainability and 
ESG advisory and other professional positions 
in investment banking, small business, supplier 
diversity, and many other functions across the 
enterprise. 

Acquisitions enhance client services
Truist has made several acquisitions that augment 
our financial services, insurance, and technology 
capabilities, and other products and services that 
we offer to clients. In addition to the Long Game and 
Zaloni Arena acquisitions discussed elsewhere in 
this report, Truist also selectively deployed capital 
to enhance our capability set and fill strategic gaps 
in our insurance offerings, including:

BankDirect Capital Finance—The nationwide 
premium finance company expands our property 
and casualty and life insurance offerings across a 
diversified national geographic footprint.

BenefitMall—The nation's largest benefits 
wholesale general agency offers medical, dental, 
life, vision, and long-term care benefits solutions 
to clients.

Kensington Vanguard National Land Services—
One of the country's largest independent 
full-service national title insurance agencies 
significantly expands our presence. We integrated 
our existing title operation, BridgeTrust Title, into 
the Kensington Vanguard platform.

Client privacy
Client privacy is important to Truist and, in January 
2023, we redesigned the public-facing Truist 
Privacy page of our website including our new self-
service Privacy Center, which serves as a one-stop 
shop for clients to learn more and exercise their 
rights regarding their personal information.

These privacy resources contain details about 
what personal information is collected by Truist, 
and allow clients to view, delete, or correct their 
personal information on file; limit the use of certain 
sensitive data associated with their identity; and 
manage preferences for marketing emails, phone 
calls, and affiliate sharing. Under most definitions, 

Truist does not sell data. We do, however, allow 
consumers to opt out of certain aspects of our data 
sharing that may qualify as “sales“ under California 
law. We additionally support the Global Privacy 
Control from browsers. Consistent with our focus 
on trust and privacy, we offer these rights and 
capabilities to all consumers, not just residents of 
regulated states.

All teammates are required to be knowledgeable of 
consumer privacy rights laws, and complete training 
each year. There is additional training provided to 
public-facing teammates to ensure proper support 
and handling of privacy-related requests.

Supporting accessibility
Truist is committed to making our offices, branches, 
digital tools, and access to client support accessible 
for all users, and our Inclusive Design and 
Accessibility Team considers diverse abilities when 
creating products and processes. Truist offers 
services including: 

• Braille, large print, and audio conversion for 
statements

• TDD/TTY services for clients with hearing 
impairments, and we accept calls made with 
Telecommunications Relay Services

• Designated accessible parking spaces at branches, 
curb cuts, ramps, and accessible entrances

• ATMs with headphone features, speech output, 
Braille labels and tactile markings, and accessible 
height and reach

Clients

https://www.truist.com/privacy
https://www.truist.com/privacy


  29

Financial 
inclusion

Truist’s commitment to equity extends beyond 
our internal culture into our communities. Our 
financial inclusion initiatives encompass products 
and services that expand access to capital for 
diverse-owned and small businesses, community 
investments, philanthropic support, and community 
programs that extend financial services broadly. 

Truist is committed to helping clients and 
prospective clients grow emergency savings 
through our partnership with Commonwealth, and 
achieve life goals like paying off a home mortgage 
or saving for retirement. We offer financial 

education for all ages, including Bank on Your 
Success courses and our Financial Foundations 
curriculum created in partnership with EVERFI.

Truist supports numerous philanthropic groups, 
nonprofits, Community Development Financial 
Institutions (CDFIs), and other organizations that 
foster financial inclusion. We also invest in new 
technology, products, and services that allow Truist 
to enhance its own offerings, such as gaming apps 
that encourage savings.



Eight 
principles 

Financial inclusion

Truist's efforts to advance financial inclusion are based on eight principles, which support 
the needs and financial well-being of clients, communities, and teammates. Truist offers 
products and services such as Truist One Banking, multicultural banking centers, financial 
education programs, and advisory services to make a difference for the individuals and 
organizations we serve.

1
Saving for emergencies

Save three months 
of living expenses 
in a separate, liquid 
emergency-only account. 

2
Budgeting and 
net worth

Create a budget based 
on your values. Calculate 
your net worth and work to 
grow it over time. 

3
Managing debt and 
credit score

Work to have a credit 
score above 720, borrow 
responsibly, and reduce 
consumer debt.

4
Protecting what matters

Work with accredited 
professionals to obtain 
appropriate insurance 
coverage and protect your 
personal information.

5
Investing and retirement

Invest at least 10% of your 
income for retirement. 

6
Owning or renting 
a home

Spend no more than 30% 
of your income on your 
total housing cost.

7
Developing career 
opportunities

Increase your income by 
developing your skills and 
professional relationships.

8
Giving back

Share your time, talents, 
and resources to make the 
world a better place. 

  30

Supporting communities
The Truist Community Benefits Plan lent or invested 
more than $60 billion with low- and moderate-income 
(LMI) borrowers and communities in the three years that 
ended in 2022.1 Significant CBP funding went toward:

• Mortgage lending for LMI borrowers, LMI
geographies, and ethnically diverse clients so more
consumers could buy homes

• Financial and technical support for small businesses

• Community Development Lending for affordable
housing and small business growth lending to
nonprofits that support LMI populations

• Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) investments and
philanthropic giving to programs and organizations
that address crucial community needs such as access
to affordable housing, healthcare, multigenerational
services, and workforce development

Read more about our CBP achievements on page 42.

1. Truist is working on finalizing and validating CBP data, which may be subject to change.

Supporting homeownership
Homeownership can be a valuable source of wealth 
creation, and purchasing a home is often one of the 
largest investments an individual or family will ever 
make. The path to first-time homeownership, as 
well as buying and selling homes, has become more 
challenging in the current market with rising interest 
rates and increasing housing prices. Truist is committed 
to working with LMI borrowers to navigate challenging 
market forces and make it easier to gain access to 
mortgage programs.

Truist offers affordable mortgage products, 
mortgage grants, first-time homebuyer programs, 
and partnerships with HUD-certified nonprofits that 
assist homebuyers, such as the National Urban League, 
Operation HOPE, and HomeFree USA. Our multicultural 
banking centers can assist clients with the translation of 
mortgage documents.



  31

In 2022, Truist expanded its Community 
Homeownership Incentive Program (CHIP), 
which makes down payment requirements 
more achievable and offers more relaxed credit 
requirements for certain qualified borrowers.

Truist also expanded its mortgage grant down 
payment assistance program to more medium- 
and small-sized markets, hired several dozen loan 
originators, and made changes to its originations 
and coverage model to support greater ethnically 
diverse and LMI homeownership.

Emergency savings program
Having sufficient savings for emergencies or 
unexpected expenses is a vital part of financial 
security, yet more than one-third of Americans can't 
cover an unexpected expense of $400, according to 
research from the U.S. government.1

Truist was the first major bank to join BlackRock’s 
philanthropic Emergency Savings Initiative (ESI) 
in 2021 to help financially vulnerable people 
become better prepared to handle unforeseen 
financial challenges. 

Under the BlackRock initiative, Truist and 
Commonwealth conducted a pilot program aimed at 
increasing emergency savings by offering rewards 
for opening savings accounts and making regular 
deposits. We also held a sweepstakes program 
called Start. Save. Win!, which gave monthly prizes 
of $500 or $100 while incentivizing additional 
savings. Each time a participant made a savings 
deposit of $25 (up to five per month), they earned a 
prize entry. 

1. https://www.federalreserve.gov/publications/files/2017-report-economic-well-being-us-households-201805.pdf

Participants in the six-month pilot program saved 
$37 million, and 25,000 households opened savings 
accounts. More than one-quarter of participants 
grew their savings by more than $400. Learn more 
about our partnership with Commonwealth and 
read a case study on the pilot program here.

Truist One expands mainstream 
banking 
Inspired by feedback from clients, we introduced 
Truist One Banking, a reimagined approach to 
mainstream banking that eliminates overdraft 
fees, provides a negative balance buffer, and offers 
bigger cash-back rewards on Truist credit cards.

We estimate that Truist One Banking will save 
consumers $300 million per year by 2024 along 
with other changes such as discontinued fees for 
returned items, negative account balances, and 
overdraft protection transfers. Learn more about 
Truist One Banking in the “Purpose and progress“ 
and “Clients“ chapters of this report.

Truist Money Account
For clients who prefer debit card-style accounts or 
want to manage a strict budget, the Truist Money 
Account offers the freedom of mobile deposits and 
direct deposits and no check cashing fees. Clients 
can avoid monthly maintenance fees by adding at 
least $500 per month.

Small personal loans
Truist offers small personal loans and lines of 
credit that can fit any budget and help with 
unexpected expenses.

Truist Ready Now loans offer easy online 
applications for low-cost loans ranging from $100 
to $1,000, and many clients can get funded the 

same day. Fixed monthly repayment terms are clear 
and easy to understand, with credit reporting that 
helps clients improve their credit history.

For larger capital needs, clients can apply for Truist 
personal loans with a $3,500 minimum and no 
origination fee.

Truist also offers personal lines of credit with 
a $5,000 minimum, and secured lines of credit 
starting at $25,000.

Support for small businesses
Truist offers numerous banking products and services 
tailored to the unique needs of small businesses, 
microbusinesses, startups, and small nonprofits. 

Truist recently enhanced its Dynamic Business 
Checking Account to offer access to a top-tier, 
Premier-level Truist One personal checking account 
for small business owners, which usually requires 
a monthly average balance of $100,000 and is now 
available to more clients with lower balances.

Truist also offers unsecured simple business loans 
of up to $50,000 to help qualified business owners 
easily and quickly access capital when they need it. 
Many loan approval decisions are made the same 
day, and funding often occurs the next day.

Beyond our banking and financial services 
products, we also offer educational webinars, 
workshops, and advice to entrepreneurs and 
small business owners. Truist’s philanthropic 
work supports numerous nonprofits, incubators, 
community organizations, and other groups that 
provide financial, technical, and mentoring support 
to small businesses.

Truist recently recognized small business owners 
who give back with a “Small Business, Big Heart“ 
campaign that salutes small business entrepreneurs 
who express care for their local communities.

Additional examples of Truist’s support for 
small businesses, such as the Truist Foundation 
Inspire Awards, can be found in the “Clients“ and 
“Communities“ chapters of this report.

$22 million for Where It Starts
In early 2023, Truist Foundation announced the 
creation of Where It Starts, a $22 million multiyear 
program to strengthen small businesses and open 
career pathways for ethnically diverse individuals 
and entrepreneurs.

Truist Foundation awarded grants to three anchor 
partners:

• $15.7 million to CAEL (the Council for Adult and
Experiential Learning)

• A $6.3 million joint grant to Living Cities and Main
Street America

CAEL will use the grant to advance education-
to-career pathways for adult learners and launch 
Where It Starts: Build Better Careers, a six-year 
initiative targeting underserved communities in 
Miami, Memphis, and Charlotte to create more 
career paths in professions and industries such as 
financial services that have been underrepresented 
in those communities.

Living Cities and Main Street America will lead a 
multiyear strategy called Where It Starts: Breaking 
Barriers to Business, which provides the tools, 
resources, and collaboration opportunities to 
break down local systemic barriers for small 
business owners.

Financial inclusion

https://buildcommonwealth.org/research/how-truist-used-prize-based-incentives-to-generate-37-million-in-savings/


Inclusive investing and access to capital
As part of our commitment to making investing more inclusive and 
creating more access to capital for diverse-owned businesses and 
small businesses, Truist, Truist Foundation, and the Truist Charitable 
Fund have made investments in:

• Venture capital funds such as Zeal Capital Partners and Aperture
Venture Capital, which focus their investing on diverse-owned
businesses

• Nonprofits such as Operation HOPE, which offers financial coaching,
educational content, and support as part of a 1 Million Black
Businesses Initiative

• Microfinance organization Grameen America, which provides
loans, financial training, and credit-building tools to Black women
entrepreneurs

• Numerous Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFIs)
such as Community First Fund, Entrepreneur Backed Assets Fund,
and CornerSquare Community Capital

• Sterling Capital Diverse Multi-Manager Active ETF (NYSE: DEIF), an
exchange-traded fund subadvised by a group of majority diverse-
owned asset managers

Multicultural banking 
Truist has a dedicated Multicultural Banking Office and relationships 
with more than 600 diverse and multicultural community partners 
such as ethnic chambers of commerce and educational organizations to 
ensure that we meet the specific needs of local communities.

We have expanded our multicultural banking centers, which are staffed 
by teammates who speak locally prevalent languages and offer certain 
documents such as mortgage loans in translated languages.

Truist now has 700 multicultural branches across our footprint that 
help us represent the cultures and languages of ethnically diverse 
communities and meet their unique needs. 

Each region operates a multicultural committee to discuss and respond 
to emerging and evolving needs of the local community, as well as to 
ensure we provide an inclusive and culturally sensitive experience for 
all clients. Multicultural banking leaders are deeply involved in local 
communities and serve as ambassadors and cultural influencers.

Bank on Your Success 
Truist offers Bank on Your Success financial education programs built 
around an immersive and practical experience that gives individuals 
and families the knowledge to make better financial decisions with 
confidence.

The Bank on Your Success curriculum is organized around the 
following modules:

• Banking and Budgeting Basics

• Budgeting During a Crisis

• Business Finance Basics

• Becoming a Homeowner

In 2022, Truist held 2,442 sessions of Bank on Your Success courses, 
which reached more than 50,607 individuals.

Financial education
Truist has long provided and supported financial education for people 
of all ages, including teenagers and elementary-aged students who 
are in their formative years of understanding economic concepts. We 
offer education programs for business owners and entrepreneurs, 
families, first-time homebuyers, employees of our clients, and our own 
teammates. Our financial education offerings include:

• Truist Momentum

• Truist Financial Foundations

• Money and Mindset podcast and blog

Truist also offers Long Game, a mobile app that encourages people to 
save money as they solve challenges.

Financial inclusion

HOPE carried forward
When Truist closed a retail bank branch in the Atlanta 
suburb of Tucker, our teammates looked for creative 
ways to repurpose the space.

Truist donated the Tucker branch to Operation HOPE, 
which is turning it into a community hub with offices, 
conference rooms, and flexible open spaces for 
educational discussions and group gatherings. HOPE 
Inside coaches will also have space to provide financial 
counseling and answer financial questions. 

The donation of the branch was part of Truist’s broader 
$20 million investment in Operation HOPE to support 
financial education and other major initiatives.

“We've accomplished significant impact through our 
partnership with Truist. The donation of this Tucker 
location will allow us to expand our footprint and provide 
much-needed financial education programs to more 
communities, more families, and more individuals,“ says 
John Hope Bryant, the founder, chairman, and CEO of 
Operation HOPE.

32

https://www.truist.com/who-we-are/diversity-equity-inclusion


  33

Truist Momentum

184,947
employees participated, including employees of client 
companies and Truist teammates

353 
companies participated

71% 
of participants have an emergency savings account

52% 
of participants use a budget

“When can we get the next session? 
LOVED IT!!!!!”

Employee from Cox Enterprises

“This course was very inspiring ... 
Becoming more financially aware 
for me is what I've been wanting for 
some time now.“ 

Employee from Coastal Beverage

Truist Momentum
Since its debut in 2015, Truist Momentum has helped millions of people 
become more financially secure and confident in their decision making. 

Truist Momentum teaches people to plan, prioritize, make decisions, 
and take action on financial matters that they value the most. For some, 
that may be developing a plan to save money for a down payment on 
their first home. For others, it may be figuring out a way to pay for 
college for their children. 

Regardless of how much money they make, people who have 
completed the Truist Momentum program say they have more active 
control over their finances, feel more confident about the decisions 
they make, and are more optimistic about their future.

Truist Momentum is also a great retention tool: Participants say they 
are happier with their employer, have a longer-term investment in 
working there, feel more engaged with their company, and have more 
confidence and joy in their personal lives. 

Money and Mindset
Truist develops and produces the Money and Mindset podcast and 
companion blog to explore the connection between finances and well-
being through practical advice and ways to rethink the sometimes 
complicated relationship people have with money. Money and Mindset 
helps people gain confidence in their financial decision making and 
personal priorities by demystifying complex financial concepts and 
long-term wealth creation strategies through approachable and easy-to-
follow discussions laced with humor and real-life examples.

Recent podcast topics include:

• Reasons you’re not investing (and how you can start)

• Your credit score: what it can (and can’t) do for you

• How to set yourself up for financial success in your 20s and 30s

• How to help your kids be good with money

• Do I need a financial advisor?

The podcast is co-hosted by Brian Ford, head of financial wellness at 
Truist, and Bright Dickson, a positive psychology teacher and coach. 
Episodes of the podcast, articles, and other resources can be found at 
truist.com/money-mindset. 

Truist Financial Foundations
It’s vital that high school students learn how to budget, save for the 
future, and manage debt at levels they can afford to repay—especially 
as they approach adulthood and independence. Truist Financial 
Foundations was created in partnership with EVERFI, and the program 
teaches these important concepts plus has a tuition assistance contest 
and community service projects for students.

During the 2021-22 school year, Financial Foundations reached 
243,032 students, which was 135% of the goal. There were more 
than 96,000 students in low- to moderate-income communities who 
participated in the program.

After taking the course, student financial knowledge assessment 
scores increased by 57%.

Truist and EVERFI gave a total of $10,000 in 529 college savings gift 
cards to three students who won a contest that invited them to express 
how they will put their financial knowledge and skills to work in their 
everyday lives.

Since its inception in 2010, Truist Financial Foundations has reached 
more than 1.5 million students who have completed nearly 5.9 million 
hours of learning.

Financial inclusion

“I think one of the first steps is to learn about money and finance early 
in life. I have made a point to tell my two younger brothers all the 
new things I learned from these lessons. To my surprise, they have 
actually enjoyed my little lessons.“ 

—West Virginia high school student

Financial Foundations for higher education
Truist also offers Financial Foundations online educational courses for 
higher education students and adults to enhance their decision making 
and understanding of topics such as how credit scores work, how to 
plan for loans and repayment terms, and how to budget your money. In 
2022, those websites had a combined 17,767 visitors.

https://www.truist.com/money-mindset


  34

Community

Truist’s philanthropy, volunteerism, Community 
Reinvestment Act commitments, and community 
programs are specific expressions of our 
commitment to inspire and build better lives 
and communities. Truist’s philanthropic support 
includes local nonprofits and initiatives, as well as 
national organizations with the scale and capacity 
to reach far beyond our operating footprint.

In 2022, Truist completed its $60 billion Community 
Benefits Plan commitment1 to support home 
mortgage lending for ethnically diverse and 
low- and moderate-income (LMI) borrowers and 

geographies; lending to small businesses with 
annual revenues of $1 million or less; enhanced 
community development lending, investments, 
and philanthropy; open new branches in LMI and 
majority-minority neighborhoods; increase supplier 
diversity; and intentionally create a more diverse 
workforce with more career advancement pathways 
for ethnically diverse and women teammates.

Truist has deep ties in the communities we 
serve. We will continue supporting projects, 
organizations, and initiatives that strengthen our 
social fabric and address the specific needs of 
communities and individuals.

1. Truist is working on finalizing and validating CBP data, which may be subject to change.



  35

Community

Philanthropic pillars
Truist and Truist Foundation collaborated with an 
array of stakeholders to establish five philanthropic 
pillars that guide our investments in communities:

• Career pathways—We support scalable programs
that build career pathways to economic mobility.

• Small businesses—We help strengthen small
businesses and entrepreneurial endeavors across
our communities.

• Leadership—We empower community leadership
and support high-quality, lifelong learning that is
affordable and accessible.

• Educational equity—We believe in the
development of educational learning platforms
aimed at eradicating literacy gaps and conditions
of poverty.

• Thriving communities—We support innovative
community development efforts that develop
and maintain affordable housing, create healthy
communities, and stimulate income equity.

Scope of support
Giving at Truist encompasses corporate 
philanthropy; Truist Foundation; Truist Charitable 
Fund; our Commercial Community Bank’s regional 
giving programs; the Community Reinvestment Act 
(CRA); teammate volunteerism; Lighthouse Project 
volunteerism; teammate giving to the One Team 
Fund, Workplace Giving Campaign, and matching 
gifts; the Truist Leadership Institute; and many 
other vehicles of support.

Truist engages with national, regional, and local 
nonprofits and independent foundations to 
identify the unique needs of local communities. 

Philanthropic grants are often coupled with 
additional grants from local community 
foundations, public-private partnerships, and other 
funding mechanisms that serve as force multipliers.

Truist, together with Truist Foundation and Truist 
Charitable Fund, made a $120 million commitment 
in 2022 to strengthen and support small 
businesses, focusing on Black, Latine, and women-
owned businesses, through debt and equity 
investments, as well as grants. 

Truist and its philanthropic affiliates provided over 
$46 million in grants, loans, and investments to 
organizations across the country—including $5 
million to the Entrepreneur Backed Assets Fund, $7 
million to support ethnically diverse and women-
owned businesses through Virginia Community 
Capital's Economic Equity Fund, and $5.5 million to 
Grameen America.

In late 2022, Truist received $60 million in New 
Markets Tax Credit (NMTC) allocation authority 
from the U.S. Treasury Department’s Community 
Development Financial Institutions (CDFI) Fund to 
provide loans and investments with lower interest 
rates and nontraditional terms to support projects 
that directly benefit local neighborhoods and small 
businesses. It was the 11th time Truist was selected 
as a recipient, with cumulative award allocations of 
$703 million.

$122M
Amount Truist donated through 
the Truist Foundation, Truist 
Charitable Fund, Community 
Reinvestment Act (CRA) 
philanthropic grants, and 
donations made through the 
Commercial Community Bank.



  36

Support for youth and families
Truist supports numerous philanthropies, 
programs, and local organizations that provide 
valuable services for youth and families to help 
them reach their full potential. We’re proud to 
partner with several national organizations that 
have strong local reach to support community 
needs and develop the next generation of leaders 
through education, after-school enrichment, 
financial education, and positive social influences.

Boys & Girls Clubs of America
Truist has a longstanding partnership with Boys & 
Girls Clubs of America to give teachers and mentors 
the funding and assistance needed to provide out-
of-school-time enrichment for children across the 
nation. In addition to providing a safe and nurturing 
environment for youth, Boys & Girls Clubs also 
provide wrap-around services that help school-
aged youth thrive.

Junior Achievement
Financial education and career exposure are 
an important part of how Truist supports 
generational prosperity in the communities we 
serve, and our work with Junior Achievement is a 
key component of that mission. Truist teammates 
spend many hours in the classroom explaining 
financial concepts and answering questions about 
personal finance and business.

Junior Achievement runs BizTown for elementary 
and middle school students to learn basic money 
management and investing concepts, practice 
business problem solving, and make decisions 
by stepping into the role of CEO, CFO, marketing 
director, or sales manager of their own company. 
Junior Achievement also runs Discovery Centers 

for middle school students and high school 3DE 
programs built around academic performance. 3DE 
is a reengineered high school experience developed 
by Junior Achievement to provide a more relevant, 
authentic, and experiential program to prepare 
students for the demands of tomorrow's economy.

City Year
With a focus on educational equity, in 2022 City 
Year received a grant of over $1.3 million from 
Truist Charitable Fund. Truist and City Year will 
advance educational equity by enabling teams 
of City Year AmeriCorps members to provide 
tutoring, mentoring, and support to students in 
systemically underresourced schools in eight 
cities: Columbia, SC; Dallas, TX; Washington, DC; 
Jacksonville, FL; Memphis, TN; Miami, FL; Orlando, 
FL; and Philadelphia, PA. Truist will build the leaders 
of tomorrow through leadership development 
and financial education training for AmeriCorps 
members. City Year will lead high-impact service 
projects to support financial education and help 
communities thrive.

YMCA
With its commitment to bridging the education gap 
for underserved children, our partnership with YMCA 
goes to the heart of Truist’s promise to help build 
better communities. Truist makes grants to numerous 
local YMCA chapters supporting child care, after-
school programs, sports camps and activities for 
children, fitness centers, and other adult enrichment 
classes that help millions of people live better lives.

United Way
United Way is one of the country’s oldest and most 
impactful charitable organizations focused on 
building more equitable and resilient communities. 
Truist Foundation’s support helps United Way 
advance its mission and expand programs that 
address education, career readiness and skills 
acquisition, academic enrichment, active living, 
financial knowledge, and financial stability.

Greater Cleveland Food Bank
NMTC proceeds were used to assist the Greater 
Cleveland Food Bank, a hunger relief organization 
in Northeast Ohio, in the development of a new 
197,000-square-foot warehouse distribution center.

The new facility allows GCFB to increase its 
total annual distribution of food from 45 million 
pounds in 2018 to 59 million pounds by 2029, thus 
increasing meals prepared on-site from 4,000 to 
8,000 and enabling GCFB to reach 300,000 clients 
annually. This project will create 30 temporary 
construction jobs and 64 permanent jobs.

Community



  37

Truist Foundation
While each community is unique, many communities 
experience similar needs, including opportunities 
to build wealth and promote economic mobility. 
Truist Foundation partners directly with nonprofits 
that help historically excluded communities create 
generational wealth through building career 
pathways to economic mobility. Focus areas include 
helping workers navigate employment resources; 
building the capacity of upskilling and reskilling 
programs; and increasing access to capital, technical 
assistance support, and mentorship programs.

PeopleFund Texas
Truist and Truist Foundation gave a combined 
$3.5 million to Austin-based PeopleFund, which 
runs a Small Business Accelerator program that 
helps ethnically diverse business owners access 
the capital and resources needed to grow their 
companies while building local and regional 
networks that foster economic mobility. Truist 
provided CRA and Community Development 
funding for a pilot program, which then 
transitioned to Truist Foundation for expansion in 
2022. Truist Community Capital made a $3 million 
low-interest loan to PeopleFund to help small 
businesses hit hardest by the pandemic.

Black Business Investment Fund Inc.
Truist Foundation and Truist Charitable Fund made 
a $2 million grant to Black Business Investment 
Fund Inc. (BBIF), a Community Development 
Financial Institution (CDFI) that fosters the creation 
and expansion of Black businesses. BBIF will use 
the investment to power ethnically diverse small 
business lending across Central Florida through its 
Revolving Loan Fund.

First Step Staffing
Truist Foundation made a $5 million multiyear 
grant to First Step Staffing, an Atlanta-based 
nonprofit that helps place individuals who 
are experiencing homelessness on the path to 
permanent housing and self-sufficiency through 
immediate employment and skills acquisition 
programs as well as support services such as 
transportation and mental health referrals.

Community First Fund
Truist Foundation made a $2.25 million grant to 
the Economic Justice Fund of the Community First 
Fund, which is a private and independent nonprofit 
Community Development Financial Institution 
(CDFI) in Philadelphia. Focus areas include helping 
workers navigate employment resources; building 
the capacity of upskilling and reskilling programs; 
and increasing access to capital, technical 
assistance support, and mentorship programs. The 
Community First Fund works alongside the Local 
Initiatives Support Corporation (LISC) Philadelphia, 
the Impact Loan Fund, the Philadelphia Industrial 
Development Corporation (PIDC), and numerous 
other organizations to provide entrepreneurs with 
access to loans that spur economic growth, create 
jobs, support affordable housing, provide access 
to healthy food, and revitalize communities. The 
organization also provides wraparound services 
such as business budgeting, capital projections, 
and personal household budgeting, and it offers 
a credit union to help individuals, families, and 
entrepreneurs achieve financial stability. 

Nashville Business Incubation Center
Truist Foundation made a $1.25 million commitment 
to the Nashville Business Incubation Center 
(NBIC), a nonprofit that cultivates the growth and 
development of local businesses owned by women, 
ethnically diverse entrepreneurs, and veterans.

The grant will provide tools, training, mentorships, 
and curriculum support for the RISE UP Academy, 
which works with women entrepreneurs, and 
will help the incubator expand to other cities 
in Alabama and Kentucky as well as in rural 
communities in Tennessee.

Center for Employment Opportunities
Truist Foundation provided a $1 million grant to 
the Center for Employment Opportunities (CEO) 
to advance its mission of empowering people 
who have been previously incarcerated, with the 
opportunity to achieve socioeconomic mobility by 
providing them with a second chance. As the largest 
reentry employment provider in the country, CEO 
provides immediate, effective, and comprehensive 
employment services to people returning home after 
incarceration. Participants can gain employable skills 
such as training for a commercial driver’s license, 
driver’s license reinstatement, and IT training.

Access to Capital for Entrepreneurs
Truist Foundation made a $3.75 million 
commitment to Access to Capital for Entrepreneurs 
Inc. (ACE) so the Georgia-based nonprofit can 
launch its Diverse, Equitable, and Inclusive Small 
Business Capital strategy.

ACE will provide capital, coaching, and 
connections to help borrowers create and grow 
sustainable businesses that will create and retain 
local jobs, especially in rural and underserved 
communities. The grant will also seed startup 
operations and infrastructure so ACE can expand 
into southern Georgia.

Truist Foundation  
by the numbers

$67.1M 
Truist Foundation giving in 2022

788
grants awarded

87% 
of recipients serve low- to moderate-income 
families1

76% 
of strategic partner grants serve African 
American/Black, Hispanic/Latine, Asian 
American/Pacific Islander, and multiracial 
individuals and families2

1. Based on nonprofits indicating that they serve predominantly (51% or more) LMI individuals.
2. Based on information from grantees that track this data (22% of grantees did not track this data). These figures include 

donations made to/from the One Team Fund, Truist's Matching Gift Fund, scholarships, and other avenues of giving.

Community



  38

Truist Foundation’s Inspire Awards
Furthering our commitment to encouraging 
ethnically diverse and women-owned small 
businesses, in 2022 Truist Foundation created the 
inaugural Inspire Awards to encourage innovative 
solutions that help small businesses thrive. 
Organized in partnership with Solve—an initiative of 
the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT)—
the Inspire Awards gave more than $1 million in 
grants and wraparound services to up-and-coming 
community nonprofits with programs that foster 
economic mobility in under-resourced communities.

More than 127 nonprofits around the U.S. 
submitted applications, and the top recipient 
was the Atlanta Wealth Building Initiative (AWBI), 
which was awarded a $250,000 grant to expand 
its community wealth building framework by 
bolstering Black businesses through research and 
data, growth and scale, workforce development and 
retention, and anti-displacement efforts.

Synergies Work garnered a second-place grant of 
$150,000 for its entry, which aims to bridge the gap 
between entrepreneurs with disabilities and the 
business community. Synergies Work’s program was 
admired by attendees at the award ceremony, who 
chose it for an Audience Favorite award, awarding 
the nonprofit another $75,000 in funding.

In addition to grants of $25,000 each to Beautiful 
Ventures, Black Wall Street AVL, Change Labs, 
Democracy at Work Institute, and Quality Care 
for Children, a wraparound support program was 
extended to all finalists in the months leading up to 
the ceremony, as well as the opportunity to attend 
a capacity-building retreat at the Truist Leadership 
Institute in 2023.

Community



  39

Responding to disaster
Truist is prepared to respond to and recover from extreme weather 
events such as Hurricane Ian and Tropical Storm Nicole, and we support 
communities and individuals who are impacted by these disasters. 
We also partner with national and local organizations that help 
communities prepare and build resiliency.

When Hurricane Ian swept through central Florida in September as a 
deadly Category 4 storm that caused extensive flooding, destroyed 
homes, and impacted businesses, Truist sent four semitrucks loaded 
with provisions for Hurricane Ian relief, including bottled water, 
nonperishable food, diapers, cleaning supplies, air mattresses, and 
personal hygiene products.

Truist offered the parking lots of bank branches as distribution locations, 
and teammates volunteered to distribute food, water, and essential items 
for families in need. Our business continuity team worked to ensure bank 
branches and ATMs in Port Charlotte, Naples, Fort Myers, and other 
impacted areas were operational and open as soon as it was safe. 

Truist Foundation made donations for relief and recovery totaling $1 
million in Florida and another $250,000 in South Carolina. In November, 
Truist Foundation donated $150,000 for relief and recovery efforts after 
Tropical Storm Nicole affected Florida and the Bahamas.

Earlier in 2022, Truist Foundation donated $1 million to the American 
Red Cross Annual Disaster Giving Program, which was designed to 
deploy assistance quickly to communities impacted by events such as 
Hurricane Ian. Those funds helped shelter and support thousands of 
families and individuals impacted by the storm.

In late 2022, Truist Foundation expanded its support for the American 
Red Cross with a $5 million grant to alleviate the impacts of natural 
disasters on vulnerable communities. In addition to financial assistance 
for families, improvements at emergency shelters, and more resources 
for casework advocates, the grant helps the Red Cross grow dedicated 
agile teams, expand local partnerships to amplify reach and impact, 
and provide grants and services to critical partners to build resilience.

Community



  40

Truist Charitable 
Fund by the numbers

$41.6M
Truist Charitable Fund giving in 2022

76 
grants awarded

86.8% 
of recipients serve low- to moderate-
income families1

1. Based on nonprofits indicating that they serve predominantly (51% or more) LMI individuals.

Community
Truist Charitable Fund
Created to support local charities, Truist Charitable Fund (TCF) is a 
donor-advised fund, administered by the Winston-Salem Foundation, 
to amplify support for our pillars of educational equity, leadership, and 
thriving communities. Truist Charitable Fund is committed to:

• Removing obstacles to affordable secondary and  
postsecondary education

• Giving underserved populations opportunities to learn, grow,  
and thrive

• Helping community leaders become better, more self-aware leaders 
and ensuring lifelong learning is affordable and accessible

• Building thriving communities with sustainable affordable housing, 
workforce development, and essential services

In 2022, Truist Charitable Fund awarded grants to organizations including:

Junior Achievement of Greater Washington
Truist Financial Corporation, Truist Charitable Fund, and Truist 
Foundation made a $1.45 million commitment to Junior Achievement 
of Greater Washington to support their financial knowledge initiatives, 
including JA Finance Park for middle school students. The program 
sets children up for lifelong success by giving them the knowledge and 
confidence to become more financially capable.

Goodwill Industries of Kentucky
Truist Charitable Fund and Truist Foundation provided a combined 
$500,000 to Goodwill Industries of Kentucky to help the nonprofit 
advance its mission of creating more pathways out of poverty for 
those in need.

Médicos Mission Fund
Truist Charitable Fund and Truist Foundation provided a total of 
$250,000 to Médicos Mission Fund, a Chattanooga, Tennessee-based 
nonprofit that combines cultural competency, economic transparency, 
logistical ease, and language support to bridge healthcare gaps. 
Médicos Mission Fund helps prevent ER visits while also helping 
patients navigate the healthcare system and seek support for mental 
health services.



Truist Commercial Community Bank
Truist Commercial Community Bank had $4.7 million in donations 
expense in 2022 to support initiatives such as affordable housing, 
creating healthy communities, and addressing income equality. Truist 
Commercial Community Bank supports local programs and initiatives 
such as Make-A-Wish local chapters and youth sports teams in local 
Truist markets. 

  41

Community

Community Development Managers
Truist has a team of dedicated Community Development 
Managers who have deep relationships with local 
community leaders, nonprofits, civic groups, and other 
organizations we partner with and serve. Community 
Development Managers gain valuable insights about the 
unique needs of local communities, as well as evolving 
issues and new needs that arise, and their feedback 
helps us deploy capital, philanthropic donations, and 
volunteerism in more impactful ways.

Community Reinvestment Act 
Truist recognizes the critical link between economic mobility and 
having access to banking and other financial services, especially in 
low- to moderate-income neighborhoods that have been historically 
overlooked and under-resourced.

We offer capital contributions, banking solutions, charitable donations, 
and volunteerism as outlined in the Community Reinvestment Act to 
support initiatives such as affordable housing, transportation, quality 
child care, job training, education programs, and access to broadband 
and Wi-Fi to strengthen the communities we serve.

By embracing the opportunity to help our neighbors, Truist continues to 
learn how to design and structure banking solutions that address needs 
in our local communities while also empowering future business growth 
and wealth accumulation. It’s another example of how Truist shows care 
for communities.

Financing for The Gallery at Smathers Plaza in Miami
Truist provided a $14.7 million community development loan for The 
Gallery at Smathers Plaza in Miami for new construction of affordable 
housing for elderly residents. The project is an eight-story midrise 
apartment building with 139 units targeted to very-low- and low-
income seniors who make 30-60% of the area median income.

Community development investment in Clarksville Pike 
in Nashville
Truist made a $38.2 million Low-Income Housing Tax Credit (LIHTC) 
community development investment to support the construction of 
Clarksville Pike, a five-building multifamily community in Nashville. 
The complex will have 250 affordable housing units, all of which will 
be reserved for residents who make 50%-80% of the median income in 
the area.

Lending to and investing in Fern Grove Apartments 
in Orlando
Truist provided a $23 million loan and an equity investment of $18.8 
million for the Fern Grove Apartments in Orlando. The project will add 
138 units of affordable housing restricted to seniors who are 55 and 
older and make 22%-70% of the area median income.

Community  
Reinvestment Act

$8.6M 
Truist CRA philanthropic giving in 2022



  42

Community Benefits Plan achievements 
When we decided to merge and create a Top 10 U.S. 
bank, our north star was a commitment to inspiring 
and building better lives and communities. Truist 
committed to a three-year Community Benefits 
Plan that would lend or invest $60 billion with 
ethnically diverse and low- and moderate-income 
borrowers and communities, and in majority- 
minority geographies. 

We held numerous listening sessions and gathered 
input from a diverse set of leaders deeply involved 
in local, regional, and national nonprofits; advocacy 
organizations; and CDFIs. Those insights helped 
ensure our investments and lending would address 
the specific challenges faced by those we serve as 
we drew up the blueprint that guided our efforts for 
the past three years.

Our Community Benefits Plan has been a 
comprehensive, stakeholder-informed effort to 
drive positive change in majority-minority and 
low-income areas throughout our footprint, and we 

often partnered with national, regional, and local 
organizations to leverage the impact of our giving 
and lending. 

Despite unprecedented and unpredictable changes 
that occurred across the globe during the past three 
years—starting with the global pandemic, sustained 
supply chain disruptions, geopolitical conflicts, rising 
inflation, and evolving economic conditions—Truist 
never lost sight of the promises we made.

Our Community Benefits Plan drew us closer to 
people in the communities we serve and expanded 
our understanding of what we can achieve as a 
merged enterprise with greater resources.

Truist will continue to build upon its Community 
Benefits Plan accomplishments in the years to 
come as we expand our sphere of influence to make 
positive and enduring changes in our communities. 
Truist remains deeply committed to supporting 
local nonprofits as well as partnering with national 
and regional organizations where we can combine 
resources and leverage our impact.

Community Advisory Board
Our Community Advisory Board includes leaders from numerous CDFIs and nonprofits across 
the country who provide valuable insights and feedback about the most pressing needs of their 
communities. Their input helps inform our decisions on lending and investments so we can 
directly address acute needs, gain clarity on emerging issues, and partner with local, regional, 
and national organizations to amplify our impact.

Truist has surpassed its overall Community Benefits Plan 
commitment.1 Over the past three years we have invested or lent:

Commitment Actual

$60B
Total Community Benefits Plan

$73.9B2

$31B
Home purchase mortgage loans to LMI borrowers, LMI geographies, ethnically 
diverse borrowers, and/or majority-minority geographies

$45.4B

$17.2B
Community Development Lending (CDL) to support the development of affordable 
housing, small business growth, and nonprofits that support the LMI community *3

$7.8B
Lending to small businesses to support the growth of businesses 
with revenues of $1 million or less

$8.3B

$3.6B
Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) Qualified Investments, of which 
$120 million will be designated for CRA-qualified philanthropic giving.

$4.5B

10%
Spend rate of total annual vendor spend with qualifying diverse suppliers, inclusive of 
women-, minority-, and veteran-owned businesses and small business vendors

16%

15
Number of branches in low- and moderate-income 
and/or majority-minority neighborhoods

16

1%
Increase in percentage of branches that are in LMI communities 

1.2%
1. These figures reflect Truist's CBP from January 1, 2020, through December 31, 2022. When this report was published, Truist was still finalizing and validating these figures, which may be subject to change.
2. Figure does not reflect total Community Development Lending, which was still being reviewed and validated at the time this report was published.
3. Truist continues to make progress on this commitment, and we anticipate meeting it. Due to the timing of the publication of this report, which doesn't align with the final review and validation for this 

category, Truist is unable to provide a figure at this time.

Community



  43

In 2022, Truist, Truist Foundation, and Truist 
Charitable Fund made a $120 million commitment 
to strengthen small businesses owned by women 
and ethnically diverse entrepreneurs. The national 
commitment includes loans, investments, and 
grants to organizations including:

• Virginia Community Capital

• Local Initiatives Support Corporation (LISC)

• Empower the Change

• Grameen America

• Entrepreneur Backed Assets Fund (EBA)

• Brightwood Capital SBIC III

• Asset Funders Network

• CommunityWorks

Truist Community Capital
Truist Community Capital financing instruments:

• Debt financing

• Low-Income Housing Tax Credit (LIHTC) investments

• New Markets Tax Credit (NMTC) investments

• Federal Home Loan Bank Affordable Housing Program

• Small Business Investment Company (SBIC) investments

• Community Development Financing

Affordable housing and job creation are fundamental to both long-term 
revitalization in historically overlooked communities and access to 
quality jobs and housing in high-opportunity areas. Truist Community 
Capital (TCC) deploys a ground-up approach to bring long-term support 
to those we serve. Through strategic loans and investments, TCC 
provides the cornerstones on which prosperous communities are built. 

Partnering with a wide range of developers, syndicators, and community 
development entities (CDEs), TCC supplies services and products like 
traditional debt financing, Low-Income Housing Tax Credit (LIHTC) 
investments, New Markets Tax Credit (NMTC) investments, Small 
Business Investment Company (SBIC) investments, and Federal Home 
Loan Bank Affordable Housing Program financing. Truist's Community 
Development Financing Initiative also distributes flexible, below-
market capital to underserved urban and rural populations that address 
foundational issues like homelessness, housing insecurity, healthcare, 
capital access for entrepreneurs, and access to healthy foods.

Empower the Change Fund
In 2022, TCC committed $15 million to Empower the Change Fund, a 
fund that deploys capital in underserved markets to support ethnically 
diverse business enterprises, to help address and close the racial 
wealth gap.

Created by Advantage Capital and the Business Consortium Fund of 
the National Minority Supplier Development Council (NMSDC), the 
Empower the Change Fund was founded to stimulate financial equity 
by identifying and funding entrepreneurs of color who are designing 
and building the products and services of the future. 

Providing loans that enable entrepreneurs to both grow their business 
and become supplier diversity partners for larger companies, Truist’s 
support helps the fund reach more entrepreneurs of color, deploy 
capital more efficiently, and remove obstacles and barriers to entry for 
ethnically diverse companies.

With more than $41 million in capital commitments from nine 
additional limited partners, Empower the Change Fund is making 
progress toward reaching its initial $150 million funding benchmark. 
Businesses the fund is currently funding include a Black-owned and 
operated IT company, a Black-owned natural supplement provider, 
and a Black-owned military, government, and commercial packaging 
products business.

Community

Truist Community Capital 
by the numbers

$2.1B
in total investments

330,000+
LMI community members served

12,000
affordable units created

2,220+ 
permanent jobs created



  44

Three Roots Capital
Truist Community Capital provided $2 million in debt funding to Three 
Roots Capital, which is based in Knoxville, Tennessee, and provides 
commercial debt, equity investments, loan options, and an array 
of financial education and training opportunities for underserved 
communities and ethnically diverse entrepreneurs across the state.

Part of Tennessee’s entrepreneurial community for more than two 
decades, Three Roots Capital’s track record of training, advising, 
investing in, and supporting ethnically diverse business owners made 
them a natural partner for Truist. 

Capital from Truist helps bolster Three Roots' ability to serve more 
Tennessee entrepreneurs by providing access to capital along with 
financial training courses designed to provide the assistance businesses 
need to grow and revitalize their communities.

Our partnership has also strengthened other aspects of the 
wraparound services provided by Three Roots Capital. Underserved 
residents now have a streamlined process for receiving state and 
federal tax incentives, expanded access to syndication capabilities for 
local businesses seeking to grow, and widened access to affordable 
housing that lets Three Roots Capital explore new methods of 
addressing the housing instability crisis.

Florida Community Loan Fund
Truist Community Capital provided $10 million in debt to the Florida 
Community Loan Fund (FCLF), which is the largest Community 
Development Financial Institution in the Sunshine State, to support re-
lending that expands access to capital for projects that strengthen local 
communities—such as affordable housing and inclusive gathering spaces.

FCLF has achieved more than $542 million in statewide lending toward 
projects totaling over $1 billion in construction costs and economic 
development since its founding.

In addition to supporting the creation or preservation of more than 
6,800 affordable housing units and 160 community facilities since its 
inception, FCLF serves 1.35 million Floridians each year and also supports 
wraparound services like healthcare, education, youth services, assistance 
for the unhoused, and access to healthy and fresh food. 

Truist capital supports FCLF’s ambitious programs like a $2.29 
million acquisition/rehab loan to Purpose Built Families Foundation 

to purchase a five-building transitional housing apartment complex 
for low-income veterans, and a $1.65 million revolving line of credit 
to Fort Lauderdale CDC, which is a community development catalyst 
that provides assistance to first-time homebuyers who earn a low to 
moderate income.

Entrepreneur Backed Assets Fund
To help remove systemic barriers to multigenerational wealth in 
marginalized communities, the Entrepreneur Backed Assets Fund’s 
mission is to open more avenues of funding and access to capital for 
small businesses.

Truist provided $5 million in debt to the EBA Fund so it can advance its 
objective of purchasing small business microloans from CDFIs, which 
frees up liquidity for relending to more entrepreneurs and projects.

EBA Fund’s innovative model eliminates timing mismatches in 
transactions that could lead to one or more parties walking away from the 
table—leaving entrepreneurs deprived of essential capital in the process. 
The EBA Fund’s approach further facilitates transactions by equipping 
each microloan sale with third-party risk rating and backup services that 
ensure banks and CDFIs that transactions are sound and feasible.

Truist's support provides additional capital to the EBA Fund, which 
allows EBA to purchase loans from CDFI microenterprise lenders. EBA 
acts as a clearinghouse to package and sell these loans to banks at a 
premium, which is shared with the CDFI to assist in their growth and 
continued support of small businesses

Virginia Community Capital
Virginia Community Capital is a CDFI that has worked to address the 
disproportionate impact of the coronavirus pandemic on ethnically 
diverse and women-owned businesses. Truist Community Capital 
provided $7 million in debt to support VCC’s Economic Equity Fund 
that was launched in 2021 so that the fund can deploy capital to serve 
more entrepreneurs in Virginia.

Truist’s support helps VCC provide flexible loans that facilitate 
business acquisition, debt refinancing, equipment financing, purchases 
of owner-occupied real estate, and the extension of lines of credit to 
ethnically diverse and women-operated businesses so more business 
owners across Virginia can survive—and thrive.

Community



  45

Affordable housing
Truist is devoted to creating and preserving affordable housing as a 
critical cornerstone of community revitalization. Truist makes loans 
and investments that support numerous affordable housing projects 
that enable low- to moderate-income families across the nation to 
live in safer and more secure communities for healthier and happier 
tomorrows. 

McAuley Station in Atlanta
Pennrose Properties has a vision to create a master-planned 
community with mixed-income housing that meets the health and 
financial needs of Atlanta’s residents.

McAuley Station (formerly called McAuley Park Phase I) is located in the 
historic Sweet Auburn neighborhood of Atlanta, not far from the shiny 
gold dome of the state capitol building as well as the birth home of civil 
rights leader Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. 

McAuley Station will have 170 units, and 94% of them will be reserved 
for families in marginalized communities earning 30%, 60%, and 
80% of the area median income. Adjacent to Mercy Care’s Decatur 
Street health clinic and near the MLK mass transit MARTA train 
station, McAuley Station residents will have more equitable access to 
healthcare that is affordable and walkable—which removes systemic 
barriers.

Truist Community Capital provided a $26 million construction loan 
and a $33 million LIHTC equity investment in the project. Truist 
also financed two phases of the expansion of Mercy Care’s adjacent 
federally qualified healthcare clinic through the New Markets Tax 
Credit (NMTC) program to increase their capacity to care for future 
neighbors.

McAuley Station’s proximity to a MARTA train station will help 
residents overcome transportation challenges so they can more easily 
get to and from work, grocery stores, schools, day cares, and after-
school programs, and visit loved ones living in the senior housing 
complex that is slated for construction in Phase II of the development. 

Reserve at Shiloh
In collaboration with Samaritan Housing of Fort Worth, Pivotal Housing 
Partners broke ground on an affordable housing venture called the 
Reserve at Shiloh that’s aimed at expanding low- to moderate-income 
housing in the Dallas-Fort Worth area of Texas.

Increases in income throughout the Metroplex area have driven the 
expansion in retail, industrial, mixed-use, multifamily, and single-family 
developments, threatening to price many long-term renters out of 
their homes. The Reserve at Shiloh counterbalances these economic 
shifts by providing housing that accommodates the circumstances of 
underserved and vulnerable residents within the community. 

As a mixed-income project, up to 74 of the 106 units at the Reserve at 
Shiloh will be set aside for families making 30%, 50%, and 60% of the 
area median income, with the remaining units rented out at market rates. 

Truist Community Capital provided a $12.8 million LIHTC investment, 
a $20 million construction loan, and an $11 million permanent loan 
through Grandbridge Real Estate Capital. Through the partnership with 
Samaritan Housing, the Reserve at Shiloh will also offer an array of 
services ranging from after-school support to healthcare resources.

Andrews Landing in Tampa
Andrews Landing is a 108-unit affordable housing community under 
construction in Tampa, Florida. The Vestcor Company is bringing this 
housing resource to a market where affordable options are limited. 
The property will include studio, one-bedroom, two-bedroom, and 
three-bedroom apartments, along with a fitness center, game room, 
business center club room as well as outdoor amenities in a five-story 
multifamily building.

Andrews Landing serves families earning 33%-60% of the area median 
income. Eight of the units serving those earning 33% of the area 
median income are being set aside for youth aging out of foster care.

Residents also will be offered services such as employment assistance, 
financial management, and homeownership opportunity programs. 

Truist Community Capital provided a $27.3 million LIHTC equity 
investment and a $20.6 million construction loan to support the 
development.

Community

Truist Community Development 
Enterprises and advisory board 
To help ensure that our neighbors have what they need 
when they need it most, Truist Community Development 
Enterprises (CDE) works closely with a Truist CDE 
Advisory Board that includes developers, community 
development entities, local governments, nonprofit 
leaders, and for-profit leaders to identify projects 
that will have a meaningful impact in underserved 
communities across the country.

The advisory board represents a wide range of 
populations, geographies, and industries to capture 
diverse and inclusive input, and the board is charged with 
providing feedback on the CDE’s plans and goals as well 
as insights on emerging needs in the community so we 
can fine-tune and enhance our lending, investments, and 
financial support.

Truist’s CDE is one of the most successful ones in the nation, 
and the recent NMTC allocation of $60 million was tied 
for the largest award made to any CDE this year. It brings 
Truist’s cumulative NMTC allocation past $700 million.



  46

To learn more about the Truist Social Bond 
Impact Report, please scan the QR code.

Renter Wealth Creation Fund 
Truist Community Capital was one of the early 
impact investors committed to the Renter Wealth 
Creation Fund LLC (RWCF), with a $10 million 
equity investment to support a first-of-its-kind real 
estate investment fund aimed at helping renters 
earn equity similarly to the way homeowners do.

RWCF’s groundbreaking initiative lets tenants in 
multifamily rental communities create wealth by 
participating in the financial benefits from their 
rent payments. Participants living in apartments for 
at least four years get a share in the equity upside 
when the building is sold—an approach to value 
sharing that mimics the homeowner experience and 
seeks to narrow one of the most substantial sources 
of the wealth gap.

Tenants can also earn cash back for things like 
signing a new lease, paying rent on time, or catching 
up on rent payments. RWCF works with Esusu to 
report positive actions like on-time rent payments to 
credit bureaus to strengthen renters’ credit scores.

Wake County Affordable Housing 
Preservation Fund
The Wake County Affordable Housing Preservation 
Fund (WAHPF) is a $61.5 million fund that works to 
keep marginalized families in their communities by 
providing or preserving stable, safe, and affordable 
housing throughout the greater Raleigh area in 
North Carolina.

Truist Community Capital provided $15 million to 
WAHPF administered by the Self-Help Ventures 
Fund, a nonprofit loan fund capitalized with grants 
and loans from foundations, governments, religious 
organizations, and corporations with a mission 
to maintain affordable housing for multifamily 
properties that are at risk of being turned into 
market-rate units.

Since 2010, Wake County has lost 59% of units with 
rent below $750 per month, and 40% of units with 
rent below $1,000. Faced with having their friends 
and neighbors priced out of the communities they 
call home, Wake County inaugurated the fund with 
a $10.5 million investment that was bolstered with 
an additional $4 million in capital provided by the 
City of Raleigh to fund the construction of new 
affordable housing. 

Following the fund's launch, efforts have quickly 
expanded to include the extension of below-market 
capital, enabling multifamily developers to preserve 
existing rental units. 

Truist’s support gave WAHPF and its partners 
the financial stability they needed to expand the 
program’s reach while also increasing the scope 
of the wraparound services such as technical 
assistance at no cost to the borrower, as well 
as services for residents and families that are 
overcoming housing instability such as access to 
Self-Help Credit Union accounts, credit builder 
loans that help increase FICO credit scores, and 
opportunities to refinance high-interest debt and 
enhance savings through Wealth Builder loans.

Truist Social Bond 
Using our Community Benefits Plan as 
a blueprint, the Truist Social Bond was 
engineered to provide a strong, flexible 
framework that maximizes the impact of 
our investments in the affordable housing 
space. With $1.25 billion in aggregate 
principal, our social bond supported 267 
developments to add 22,000 units of 
affordable housing across 22 states. While 
the bond is set to mature in 2027, many 
projects began taking shape in 2022.

Community

https://filecache.investorroom.com/mr5ir_truist/561/Truist_2021_Social_Bond%20Report_ADA.pdf
https://filecache.investorroom.com/mr5ir_truist/561/Truist_2021_Social_Bond%20Report_ADA.pdf


Investing in thriving and vibrant communities 
through sponsorships
Affordable housing, education, access to jobs, and safety net programs 
are the foundation of strong communities. A community’s character 
and vibrancy are often created and experienced through local venues 
and programs that enrich lives and promote a sense of community and 
belonging. Truist is proud to sponsor a variety of initiatives that enrich 
lives and strengthen the social fabric of our communities to help create 
a thriving sports and tourism industry that has a positive economic 
impact.

Showing care with the NFL
Truist is an Official Retail Bank of the NFL, and in 2022 we partnered 
with the NFL to support the needs of local communities in our footprint. 
Truist partnered with five NFL players and alumni to create a day of 
care in their respective communities. We took their day off and visited 
local small businesses, nonprofits, and community organizations.

At each stop, we left a donation or gift to create a little extra care—a 
total of $180,000. The partner players were:

• Greg Olsen - Charlotte

• Jaylen Waddle - Miami

• Younghoe Koo - Atlanta

• Demarcus Lawrence - Dallas

• Jalen Hurts - Philadelphia

University of Texas Athletics
Truist is the official retail bank of the University of Texas Athletics under 
a multiyear sponsorship that includes support for student-athletes, 
community outreach, and immersive interactive zones for fans.

On game days, Truist offers a skills test course on Bevo Boulevard just 
outside the stadium where the Longhorns play. Fans can demonstrate 
their skills in long snap, kicking, high jump, and throwing, and win 
prizes such as Truist-branded bags, towels, and other items.

As part of the partnership, Truist provides resources to the Student-
Athlete Growth and Education (SAGE) and 4EVER TEXAS programs, 
which help student-athletes identify opportunities for community 
service and civic engagement.

The sponsorship also includes the recently opened Moody Center, 
which is home to the University of Texas men’s and women’s basketball 
teams and a venue for concerts and other live entertainment. Truist has 
a deep relationship with the University of Texas Athletics and provided 
a portion of the construction loan for Moody Center.

Truist and the University of Texas recently worked together to refurbish 
a basketball court in Austin for a community in need. The court was 
designed similarly to the one at Moody Center to create excitement for 
local youth.

Virginia Tech “Writing HERstory“
Truist supported Virginia Tech in creating a digital content series 
for social media that spotlighted female athletes in Virginia Tech's 
athletics history, and their contributions to the school or team. The 

“Writing HERstory“ series was presented by Truist and celebrates the 
50th anniversary of Title IX, which prohibits sex-based discrimination 
in schools and education programs funded by the federal government.

Charlotte Knights “Fields for our Future“
“Fields for our Future“ is an annual event where the Charlotte Knights 
partner with Truist to help refurbish a local youth baseball field. Nearly 
40 volunteers helped repaint the dugout and outfield walls, spread 
gravel in fan viewing areas, resurface the field, and landscape the 
outfield. “It’s extremely exciting for us,“ says Kevin Garrison, President 
of Coul Oak Little League. “We improved the safety of the field and 
have the opportunity to grow our league.“

Atlanta Braves Home Run Market
Truist is a longtime sponsor of the Atlanta Braves Major League 
Baseball team, and in 2022 we activated our community corner 
space in the nearby restaurant and retail district called The Battery 
to create a market where local small businesses could sell their 
products to Braves fans on game days and other high-traffic days.

The Home Run Market featured more than 20 small businesses that 
sold handmade candles, jewelry, jigsaw puzzles featuring artwork 
by Black female artists, and custom ATL apparel. Participating 
businesses had a total of 1,400 transactions and generated more 
than $50,000 in combined revenue over 52 days.

Homers for Hank
Truist’s partnership with the Atlanta Braves includes Homers 
for Hank, a five-year program in which Truist makes a $755 
donation each time an Atlanta Braves player hits a home run 
during the season, in honor of the number of home runs by 
legendary player Henry “Hank“ Aaron.

Proceeds go to the Henry Louis Aaron Fund, which was created 
after his death in 2021 and supports scholarships for HBCU 
students and career development programs for HBCU alumni. 
Truist pledged at least $1 million to the fund, as well as funding 
for two full-time fellowships for diverse professionals who 
want to work for the Atlanta Braves organization. In 2022, Truist 
donated $184,975, and we are committed to supporting the 
program through the 2025 season.

  47

Community

https://hokiesports.com/news/2022/3/14/general-virginia-tech-athletics-launches-writing-herstory-campaign.aspx
https://www.truist.com/atlanta-braves#:~:text=%24755%20for%20every%20Braves%20homer,At%20home%20or%20away.
https://www.truist.com/atlanta-braves#:~:text=%24755%20for%20every%20Braves%20homer,At%20home%20or%20away.


  48

CommunityTeammates

2022 enterprise 
volunteerism

72K
hours1

2,317 
organizations

820 
teammates serving on boards

2022  
workplace giving 

$6,121,951
raised

2,057 
organizations benefiting

265
 United Way chapters supported

1. Enterprise volunteerism hours total does not include Lighthouse community service hours 
total on page 50.

Teammate giving and volunteerism
Truist offers numerous opportunities and paid 
time off for teammates to volunteer with charitable 
organizations and causes they care about. In 
addition to volunteer opportunities through Junior 
Achievement, United Way, Habitat for Humanity, and 
other organizations with national reach, teammates 
can also organize Lighthouse Project volunteer events 
and fundraisers to support local charities and projects 
that meet a specific need in their community.

Some teammates have specialized skills and 
experiences that can uniquely help people in their 
local community. Truist’s legal team started a pro 
bono program that includes free advice at legal 
clinics to help people restore driving rights, avoid 
eviction, seek to expunge minor offenses from their 
records, create wills, and meet other legal needs. 
Our pro bono team partners with Legal Aid of North 
Carolina, the Atlanta Volunteer Lawyers Foundation, 
Habitat for Humanity, and other groups to provide 
legal advice, guidance on paperwork that must 
be filed, insight on how the legal process works, 
and other information people need to restore their 
rights or address their needs. 

One Team Fund 
Truist created the One Team Fund as a way for 
teammates to show care and help each other when 
emergencies or unexpected financial expenses 
create hardships, and the Truist Foundation 
matches contributions to the fund to amplify the 
impact of every dollar donated. In 2022, 2,281 
teammates made donations totaling $351,005 
for the One Team Fund, and the Truist Foundation 
contributed $1,197,292 to the fund. There were 
887 grant requests awarded, and $1,118,866 
was awarded to help teammates recover from 
significant financial hardship as a result of a natural 
disaster or personal hardship.

Matching Gifts 
Truist offers a Matching Gifts program that allows 
teammates to request a 100% company match of up 
to $2,500 on gifts they make to eligible nonprofit, 
educational, and cultural organizations. In 2022, 
Truist made $2.2 million in matches to 1,968 
organizations to help teammates double the impact 
of their giving.

Community



  49

Pro bono help for those in need
When participants in Truist’s pro bono legal 
program saw members of their communities 
struggling with revoked driver’s licenses, eviction 
notices, and other routine legal matters, they put 
their legal knowledge to work volunteering with 
local nonprofit legal organizations to help people 
resolve these issues.

Lack of a driver’s license makes it harder to do 
everyday life tasks such as getting to work, bringing 
kids to school, getting groceries, and seeking 
medical care. Combining the efforts of teammates 
from Georgia, Virginia, and North Carolina, 
attorneys from Truist’s legal department organized 
and led free driver’s license restoration clinics to get 
friends and neighbors with suspended or revoked 
driver's licenses back in the driver’s seat. 

In partnership with law firms like Kilpatrick 
Townsend & Stockton LLP, Truist helped 
economically disadvantaged residents who’ve had 
their licenses revoked over unpaid fines and fees 
navigate the complex and expensive legal process 
of regaining transportation independence. 

Truist Leadership Institute 
For more than six decades, the Truist Leadership 
Institute has provided a one-of-a-kind leadership 
development experience for our teammates; 
professionals at major corporations, nonprofits, 
and civic organizations; and students, teachers, and 
administrators at schools and universities across 
the country.

In recent years we’ve expanded the reach of the 
Truist Leadership Institute’s proven methods to offer 
its programs—including Leadership Development, 

Change Management, Talent Strategy, and Employee 
Engagement—more widely to clients as well as 
business, academic, and community leaders.

Truist Leadership Institute hosted several notable 
events in 2022, including:

• Truist Ridley Leadership and Financial Education 
Academy, which brought 25 Black students 
from the University of Virginia to Charlotte to 
meet with Truist executives to learn more about 
possible careers in the financial services industry

• HBCU leadership summits for students and for 
chancellors

• A celebratory luncheon in Lexington, 
Kentucky to mark the 10th anniversary of the 
Kentucky Chamber of Commerce's work with 
its principals, more than 360 of whom have 
completed Mastering Leadership Dynamics for 
Educational Leaders from Truist Leadership 
Institute over the past six years Truist has 
partnered with the Chamber

Truist Leadership Institute held 113 programs in 
2022 that served 2,958 participants, with about $3.4 
million worth of program gifts in kind to educators 
and students. We worked with 56 partners on the 
Emerging Leaders Certification—11 of them were 
historically Black colleges and universities (HBCUs), 
and two were women's colleges. Truist Leadership 
Institute has cumulatively achieved 17,454 certified 
student enrollments.

Early childhood literacy with  
WORD Force
Truist has expanded WORD Force Universe, our in-
school digital reading program, to reach students 
nationwide through a new mobile app, WORD Force 
Reading Adventures. This new component makes the 
early literacy program accessible to kids where they 
are—at school, at home, and any place in between.

The game-like reading challenge takes children in 
kindergarten through second grade on a superhero 
adventure and teaches them phonological awareness 
such as rhyming, letter-sound matching, vocabulary, 
word building, and other fundamentals of reading.

Overseen by Truist Leadership Institute, our 
partnership with EVERFI dates back to 2010 
when we sponsored the fundamentals of financial 
education program in North Carolina schools. The 
digital course has reached over 1.5 million students 
cumulatively, and has grown into a nationwide 
initiative focused on increasing early literacy 
skills at no cost to schools, students, families, and 
community-based organizations.

For the 2021-2022 academic year, WORD Force has 
reached:

• 1,380 active schools, which is 138% of our goal of 
1,000 schools

 – 957 active LMI schools1 

• 52,554 active students, which is 131% of our goal 
of 40,000 students

 – 30,912 active LMI students1

Since 2020, WORD Force has cumulatively 
impacted 69,576 students.

As part of our multiphase plan for WORD Force, 
EVERFI began exploring how WORD Force impacts 
reading development. So far, they’ve gained 
valuable insights from an observational study of 
students’ phonological awareness skills, alphabet/
phonics knowledge, sentence structure complexity 
and variety, and storytelling/retelling skills—all of 
which appear to improve through WORD Force—
that will drive our ongoing efforts to build next-
generation tools for literacy education.

Truist teammates from branches and departments 
across the bank are also lending their support to 
ensure the continued success of the program—
bringing real-world, face-to-face support to our 
digital efforts.

1. A school is considered Low-to-Moderate Income (LMI) if at least 50% of students are eligible for free or reduced-price 
lunch programs. If the district or state does not report lunch program data to The National Center for Education Statistics 
(NCES), the school is considered LMI if it is classified as a Title I school.

In March 2022, Truist and EVERFI held the first in-
person WORD Force event at Oceanway Elementary 
School in Jacksonville, Florida. Teammates 
volunteered their time and led students through 
a series of fun, interactive activities to help them 
practice reading skills they learned during the 
course, and students read a few of the original 
stories they wrote during the event.

Truist and EVERFI are committed to continually 
expanding WORD Force, and we are aiming to reach 
more than 250,000 K-2 students by 2024.

The WORD Force Reading Adventures app is 
available on Google Play and the Apple App Store.

To learn more about WORD Force, 
please scan the QR code.

Community

https://www.truistwordforce.com/


Lighthouse Project 
by the numbers

9,000
teammates volunteered

21,500 
community service hours1

360
Lighthouse Projects

  50  50  50  501. Lighthouse Project community service hours are not included in enterprise volunteerism 
hour total on page 48.

Community

Lighthouse Project
Each year, teammates express their purpose and care by creating 
Lighthouse Project volunteer efforts that support nonprofits and 
causes that hold special meaning for them. Heading into their local 
communities to lend a hand to their neighbors and friends, in 2022 our 
teammates gave their time and energy to tackle social challenges and 
community needs that are not only close to our homes, but also close to 
our hearts.

Atlanta Lighthouse Project
Teammates in Atlanta partnered with Nicholas House to clean up around 
the facility and provide assistance with camp activities and meals for 
kids attending the camp.

The Wealth team also partnered with the nsoro Educational Foundation 
to support youth who are aging out of the foster care system and 
pursuing an education, careers, and future life skills. Teammates 
hosted a panel discussion about their own career journeys and held 
financial education breakout sessions on credit scores and credit card 
usage, and income/expense management. Truist also donated laptops 
and software.

Philadelphia Lighthouse Project
A team partnered with Cradles to Crayons to provide needed school 
supplies, which promotes equitable learning by empowering children 
to feel safe, valued, and ready to learn.

Orlando Lighthouse Project
Teammates worked with Reverse 180, a nonprofit that provides 
financial education to women 18 and older to help them transition into 
successful career women.

D.C./Baltimore Lighthouse Project
Teammates are assisting the Frontline Freedom Club to bring them one 
step closer to reaching their goal of providing access to classes and 
activities for people with intellectual and developmental disabilities.



  51

Teammates

Every teammate at Truist makes valuable 
contributions that help us show care for our clients, 
investors, communities, business partners, and each 
other. We strive to create a culture that empowers 
each teammate to do their best work as they learn 
and develop new skills that can help them reach their 
full potential and have meaningful careers.

Our teammates have demonstrated incredible 
dedication and selflessness as we've navigated 
challenges presented by the pandemic and our 
merger integration.

Caring for our teammates is a top priority for our 
leadership team as we are an employer of choice 
in the financial services industry. Truist works to 
attract professionals whose knowledge and skills 
align with our purpose to inspire and build better 
lives and communities.

Truist invests in learning and skill development, 
leadership development, benefits, savings 
programs, and volunteerism. We encourage 
teammates to connect their personal purpose and 
passions with their purpose at work because we 
believe that our impact is greater when we are 
aligned in our approach.



  52

A culture of 
purpose
We are committed to creating a lively and engaging 
environment where every teammate feels welcomed and valued 
for who they are. Our culture is inclusive and diverse, and 
empowers teammates to learn, grow, and develop new skills so 
they can have meaningful careers. 

People want to work and engage with companies whose values align 
with their own, and Truist cares about the issues that matter to our 
teammates. We believe every voice should be heard, and we want to 
learn about what is on the mind of every teammate.

We are supporting each teammate in finding ways to connect their 
personal purpose and passions with Truist’s purpose because we 
believe that purpose and performance are inextricably linked. 

We lead with empathy to create a space where everyone is empowered 
to push themselves to new achievements. We recognize that 
breakthrough ideas can come from anywhere, so we listen to everyone.

Teammates support and challenge each other in equal measure. We are 
all driven and encouraged to think innovatively, explore new ideas, and 
learn from failures and setbacks as we strive to do our best work.

Truist is committed to creating a culture where reward goes far 
beyond individual performance because our collective impact is 
greater when we all contribute. We believe that great work inspires 
great work, and teammates are incentivized to work toward our 
shared vision of transforming the financial services industry through 
programs such as our annual Teammate Performance Awards.

Engagement and culture surveys
Truist conducts an annual enterprisewide teammate engagement survey 
as well as occasional shorter pulse surveys to help us understand what’s 
working well and also identify areas where we can improve. We were 
delighted that teammate participation in the survey rose in 2022, and 
teammates shared more than 50,000 comments and insights.

The 2022 engagement survey included our first enterprisewide culture 
survey that helps us establish a baseline on how we are living our 
purpose, mission, and values. It also opens new pathways for us to 
embed our core values more deeply into our day-to-day work as we 
grow and mature after the merger integration. 

Some highlights of the engagement survey were:

• Teammates said they believe in Truist's purpose, mission, and values

• Teammates have strong relationships built on trust and care with 
their managers, each other, and their clients, exemplifying our values 
in their regular interactions

• Teammates feel like they accomplish something significant and 
meaningful with their work

Truist leadership teams learn a great deal from these surveys and take 
action based on this feedback. Recent initiatives include:

• A higher U.S. minimum wage

• A more digitized onboarding experience

• An expanded Teammate Giving program with year-round giving so 
teammates can express their personal purpose and support causes 
they are passionate about

Learnings from the culture survey prompted us to make some specific 
changes so we can better support teammates, such as:

• Introducing an action tool for leaders so they can develop specific 
plans for creating a stronger culture

• Supporting managers in changing their communication plans and 
styles, and scheduling more listening sessions with their teams

• Creating new mechanisms and touch points to support greater 
connection and collaboration as teammates are making calls, 
joining virtual meetings, and emailing each other to help foster more 
personal connections

Truist leadership also offers teammates the opportunity to express 
their voice and share feedback through:

• Annual Performance Reviews—These formal reviews guide 
meaningful conversations and create opportunities for candid 
and constructive feedback between teammates and their direct 
managers, and they include self-evaluations

• Manager check-ins—Teammates have regular check-ins and 
discussions with their direct managers, as well as informal 
conversations with peers and colleagues at all levels across lines of 
business

• CEO listening sessions—Truist CEO Bill Rogers and other members 
of the executive leadership team hold regular listening sessions with 
teammates. These two-way discussions with teammate groups allow 
us to talk about our purpose, ideas for strengthening our culture, 
workplace issues, innovation, strategy, and change

• Market visits—Our executive leadership team visited numerous 
cities across our footprint, and they met with teammates in each city 
to hear directly from them about their ideas for making Truist even 
more supportive of clients and an even better place to work, as well 
as their concerns in their professional and personal lives

Teammates



  53

• Business Resource Groups (BRGs)—Teammate-
led affinity groups with sponsorship from 
executive leadership that were created to support 
and serve as a voice for diverse teammates. Learn 
more about BRGs in the “DEI“ chapter. 

• Bright Ideas—An online community for 
teammates to share ideas and provide feedback 
to each other to create positive change

• Better Day Ambassadors—Representing the 
voice of teammates to help share information on 
engagement and experiences

Practical insights come out of these conversations. 
For example, we learned that some teammates are 
still grappling with managing family responsibilities 
as their children and others they care for experience 
occasional classroom shutdowns, quarantines, 
illness, and other challenges as the pandemic 
continues to evolve. Truist intentionally offers a wide 
range of work options to support teammates who 
encounter challenges and need to tend to personal 
and family commitments by allowing work-from-
home options, hybrid work, and other flexible 
work arrangements that let us come together as an 
engaged team regardless of physical location.

Living our purpose is more than a concept. 
Teammates live our purpose every day when we 
work together to create opportunities for positive 
interactions and show empathy for one another, 
our clients, and the communities we serve. Truist 
will continue to engage, provide opportunities for 
feedback, listen, and respond so teammates feel 
valued and respected. 

Innovations from teammate ideas
Teammates often notice opportunities to improve 
products and services; business processes; how 
we support and interact with the community and 
other stakeholders; and their own experience. 
Recent enhancements based directly on their 
feedback include:

• Teammate discretion to remove Paper Statement 
Fees when appropriate

• A more efficient wire process that eliminated 
a bank-imposed wire limitation and allows 
for multiprofile PINs, and modified pre-fund 
authority

• New callback features for client support, and 
added staff to reduce wait times

• Partial authorization for debit card use at point-
of-sale to allow clients to make partial payments 
instead of declining the transaction

• Real-time mobile notification to clients if a hold 
is required on their deposit so clients have better 
visibility on the exact funds available

• Introduction of Truist Trade, a new self-directed 
online trading platform for stocks, ETFs, and 
mutual funds1

1. Services provided by the following affiliates of Truist Financial Corporation: Securities, brokerage accounts and insurance 
(including annuities) are offered by Truist Investment Services, Inc., an SEC registered broker-dealer, member FINRA, 
SIPC, and a licensed insurance agency. Investment advisory services are offered by Truist Advisory Services, Inc., an SEC 
registered investment adviser. Mutual Funds and Exchange-Traded-Funds (ETFs) values will fluctuate so that an investor’s 
shares, when sold, may be worth more or less than their original cost. ETFs trade like stocks on the open market, which in 
most cases involves a commission.

Teammates



  54

New $22 minimum wage 
Last year, Truist increased the U.S. minimum 
hourly wage to $22, one of the highest in the 
industry. The increase is part of our Total Rewards 
program designed to demonstrate how much we 
care for and value our teammates. Together with 
related salary compression increases, the new 
wage positively affects approximately 33,000 
teammates, many of whom work in client-facing 
roles in branches and small business banking. 
These wage increases represent an estimated 
increase in personnel expense of $200 million, and 
are an important investment in our teammates that 
reflects our commitment to being an employer of 
choice, rewarding teammates for their positive 
impact on our clients, and building better lives and 
communities.

Since Truist announced the new minimum wage, 
turnover dropped 42% from the second quarter 
and our monthly turnover rates are the lowest 
since 2020. More candidates are interested in 
joining Truist, with website traffic to our career site 
jumping 45% from the second quarter to the third 
quarter and the number of applications rising 29% 
over that same period.

Supporting and enabling career journeys
Creating more pathways for career advancement 
helps Truist retain greater institutional knowledge, 
enhance long-term retention, and reduce turnover.

Truist offers a Career Discovery Hub where 
teammates can explore and research possible paths 
for career progression as well as ways to acquire 
new skills and experiences that can help them 
reach their full potential in their current roles. There 
are approximately 6,300 unique career profiles at 
Truist, and we believe that teammates can find any 

career growth experience they desire somewhere 
within our organization. Teammates can also update 
the career section of their profile in Workday to 
support their career ambitions.

Career advancement is important as we invest in 
our most valuable resource: our teammates. Truist 
has embraced a promote-from-within mentality 
as we identify and support teammates who 
demonstrate aptitude and attitude for leadership 
roles, career advancement, and growth in their 
existing roles. We offer numerous learning and 
development programs including:

• Development planning—Tools that help 
teammates set goals related to experience, 
education, and exposure

• Career coaching—Free resource to work with a 
certified coach to establish career goals and stay 
accountable for achieving them, in addition to 
resume reviews and internal networking 

• Manager-supported career development—Direct 
support from managers as teammates pursue 
advancement in their current roles or new roles 
within the organization

• Grow, Recruit, and Accelerate Development 
(GRAD)—Creating pathways to senior leadership 
positions for high-performing diverse teammates. 
Learn more about GRAD in the “DEI“ chapter

• Tuition and education assistance—Truist invests 
in teammate education that aligns with career 
goals, including a traditional track and future 
skills track in which teammates can pursue formal 
degrees, microdegrees, and certifications

 – In 2022, Truist provided over $2 million in 
education assistance

• Truist Leadership Institute—Many Truist 
teammates, from middle managers on up to 
executives, are now expected to complete Truist 
Leadership Institute’s Conscious Leadership 

curriculum within three years; teammates can also 
take elective leadership development classes to 
acquire new skills and support their career journeys

• Leadership and Professional Development 
Journeys—Truist Learning and Development 
offers a number of self-directed development 
journeys for teammates and leaders throughout 
the enterprise, from individual contributors to 
senior leaders. These development journeys build 
practical skills in areas such as decision making 
and effective collaboration while remaining 
grounded in Truist’s purpose, mission, and values

• Truist Momentum—This program offers 
teammates financial wellness education through a 
self-directed online learning center, plus personal 
financial management tools and personalized 
financial coaching so people can make better 
decisions at work and at home

Truist also offers performance management 
support through ongoing coaching conversations 
that give teammates the knowledge and insights 
they need to grow in their roles and make 
meaningful contributions. Two-way conversations 
between teammates and their managers help 
ensure that everyone understands the expectations 
and aspirations for performance at the individual, 
team, and enterprise levels so they can lean in 
and do their best work. Teammates are eligible 
for increases in wage/salary as part of our annual 
performance review process.

Truist filled 60% of early 
career program and 
internship seats with 
diverse candidates in 2022.

Teammate volunteerism 
Volunteering is one of the most direct ways 
teammates can demonstrate care for people 
and communities. Truist teammates are 
energized by working alongside community 
members to inspire and build better lives 
and communities.

Truist offers teammates paid time off so 
they can give their time and lend their skills 
to a wide range of charities, nonprofits, 
and other organizations and causes that 
they are passionate about. Teammates can 
also organize Lighthouse Project volunteer 
events for causes they are passionate 
about, and Truist offers matching gifts for 
donations teammates make to charities 
they support. Teammates also show care 
for each other through donations to the One 
Team Fund, which makes grants directly to 
teammates who have unexpected expenses 
or emergencies that qualify for fund grants. 
Learn more about these programs in the 
“Teammates“ chapter of this report.

Teammates



Recruiting talent 
Truist recruits talented teammates at all stages 
of their careers and encourages them to build 
lasting and meaningful careers at Truist. We 
recently revamped our Careers site on Truist.com, 
recruiting materials, profile on Glassdoor, and 
social media campaigns to better demonstrate 
why Truist is a great place to work. We encourage 
teammates to share their experiences with friends 
and acquaintances in their professional and social 
networks, talk about their everyday lives at Truist, 
and tell people how and where they find purpose in 
their work.

Truist devotes extensive resources to recruiting and 
attracting talent, including:

• Enhancements to Truist’s Careers site and job 
postings on professional platforms such as 
LinkedIn

• Hundreds of job fairs and recruiting events 
at universities, and specialty career fairs for 
students in fintech, engineering, accounting, 
cybersecurity, and other financial services 
professions

• Participation in career fairs hosted by 
professional organizations or academic Greek 
societies that support diverse groups such as 
ethnically diverse people, women, veterans, 
people with disabilities, and people who are 
neurodiverse

• Outreach, job fairs, and mock interviews with 
students at historically Black colleges and 
universities (HBCUs)

• Events at Truist Leadership Institute that include 
on-site career coaching and interviews, plus off-
site events where the Truist Leadership Institute 
partners with other organizations

Truist also enhanced our digital onboarding 
journey for new hires, with an interactive guided 
tour for managers and teammates. Truist provides 
integrated learning through the onboarding journey 
by delivering the right content at the right time to 
help teammates get acclimated to their new roles 
and learn about our company.

Internal mobility and advancement
Truist is also committed to developing and retaining 
talented teammates, and we have a detailed plan 
and numerous programs in place to invest in and 
expand our leadership pipeline for greater gender, 
ethnic, racial, generational, veteran, and LGBTQ+ 
representation, and for people from other diverse 
backgrounds. Truist also offers teammates a 
leadership development journey, which is a self-
directed experience for acquiring new skills and 
enhancing leadership capabilities. 

  55

Teammates

https://careers.truist.com/


Teammate benefits 
and well-being

Truist defines six areas of well-being and provides 
benefits and resources to support eligible teammates:

Physical well-being

Mental well-being

Financial well-being

Career well-being

Community well-being

Social well-being

Teammates

Physical well-being
Medical, dental, and vision insurance plans—Up to five medical 
plan options and two dental and vision plan options are available for 
teammates and their spouse/domestic partners and children

Tax-advantaged accounts—Tax-advantaged accounts allow 
teammates to use pretax dollars for healthcare, child care expenses, 
and parking or transit expenses that aren’t covered by any other 
benefit plan

• Health Care Flexible Spending Account (FSA)—Teammates can set 
aside pretax money to pay for healthcare expenses

• Limited Use Health Care FSA—Available to participants in the high-
deductible healthcare plan, funds can be used for eligible healthcare 
expenses such as dental and vision that aren’t covered by insurance 
and aren’t medical expenses

• Health Savings Account (HSA)—Teammates can use pretax dollars to 
pay for qualifying healthcare expenses

• Dependent Care FSA—Teammates can use pretax money to pay for 
qualified dependent care expenses such as after-school care

• Mass Transit and Parking Transit Spending Account (TSA)—Any 
benefits-eligible teammate can use the Mass Transit TSA and/
or Parking TSA to set aside pretax money to pay for work-related 
transportation and/or parking expenses, respectively

  56



  57

Scripta—This prescription pricing research 
service seeks the lowest prices to help teammates 
and their doctors choose the best medications for 
the best price, and creates monthly personalized 
savings reports

Life insurance—Truist offers comprehensive life 
insurance, including:

• Term life—Truist provides basic term life insurance 
coverage equal to a teammate's Benefits Annual 
Rate (BAR) at no cost to them up to $1,000,000

• Dependent life insurance—Teammates can elect 
coverage for their spouse/domestic partner and/
or dependent children

• Accidental death and dismemberment insurance—
Teammates can choose coverage in addition to 
term life and dependent life insurance, and benefit 
is paid to a designated beneficiary or beneficiaries 
if a teammate dies as a result of an accident, while a 
prorated amount is paid for certain dismembering 
injuries such as the loss of an arm, a leg, or sight

Disability insurance—This program prevents a 
lapse in pay if a teammate is out of work due to a 
non-work-related illness or disability

Supplemental benefits—Truist offers additional 
benefits including:

• Accident—Pays a benefit for a wide variety of 
services such as ambulance transportation and 
emergency room visits, and the amount depends 
on treatment and injuries

• Critical illness—Offsets the financial impacts of 
critical illnesses such as heart attack, stroke,  
or cancer

• Hospital indemnity insurance—Offsets the 
financial impacts of critical illnesses such as heart 
attack, stroke, or cancer that require hospital visits

Family building benefits—Inspired in part by 
conversations with teammates in our Business 
Resource Groups, Truist offers enhanced services 
and benefits to support teammates who need help 
having a baby or growing their family, including:

• Medical care and resources for couples or 
individuals who need help having a baby through 
fertility treatments or surrogacy

• Adoption benefit of up to $10,000

• Reproductive health support including care 
advocates and coaches

Life Force—Our premier wellness program rewards 
efforts toward developing and maintaining a 
healthy lifestyle

Fitness centers and virtual fitness—In addition 
to onsite fitness centers at certain locations that 
all active teammates are eligible to use, Truist also 
offers virtual fitness services such as live group 
exercise classes, on-demand recordings, one-on-
one fitness coaching goal setting, and a library of 
digital resources that includes well-being trackers, 
mindfulness strategies, and recipes

CarePlus Mobile Health—This mobile app allows 
teammates and their spouse or domestic partner to 
view personal health information, incentive awards, 
and healthy activities

Gap in Care Program—Helps identify missing care 
needs based on claims and best practices, and will 
remind teammates to close those gaps and reward 
them for doing so

Virta Health—Medically supervised research-
backed treatment that can help reverse Type 2 
diabetes and prediabetes, and support long-term 
weight loss through nutritional counseling, diabetes 
management support, and medical care through a 
secure telemedicine platform

Case management program—A benefit of the 
Truist Well-Being Program, a case manager 
will reach out to provide guidance in managing 
a teammate’s health and help them navigate 
treatment and coverage options. The program 
includes a one-time $250 cash incentive to 
participate, and another one-time $250 cash 
incentive if they complete their case management 
care plan

Joint and muscle health—Prevent or treat pain 
through virtual physical therapy with assistance 
from a licensed physical therapist, offered at no 
cost to teammates, spouses/domestic partners, 
and dependents aged 13+ participating in select 
health plans

Workplace health, safety, and well-being—
Truist watches guidelines from the U.S. Centers 
for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) as 
well as federal, state, and local government 
recommendations as we work to minimize the 
risk of illness and disease transmission, and 
communicate with teammates through regular 
updates called Together Safely and Teammate 
News. Truist helps keep teammates and our 
working environment safe and secure through:

• Education, training, and awareness:
 – Safeguarding security devices, keys, access 
cards, and alarm codes

 – Preventing and detecting various types of crime
 – Reporting suspicious activity
 – Workplace violence prevention and response

• Inclement weather and natural disaster 
preparedness, including teammates alerts 
through our Significant Incident Response 
Enterprise Notification (SIREN) system during 
emergency situations

• Resources such as American Red Cross Get Help 
website, the Employee Assistance Program, and 

the Truist One Team Fund

Mental well-being
Support for mental health—Mental health services 
for depression, suicidal ideations, intimate partner 
abuse and violence, and many other issues that 
impact the well-being of our teammates

Counseling services at health centers—Teammates 
in Georgia and North Carolina can meet with licensed 
behavioral health specialists for confidential free 
counseling sessions in person or virtually

Guidance resources—Immediate support for 
mental well-being, including self-service topics 
and access to experts across a range of professions 
to help with emotional, work-life balance, legal, 
financial guidance, and other needs

myStrength by Teladoc—A flexible and 
comprehensive digital program with proven tools, 
including one-on-one coaching and dedicated 
support for issues such as stress, depression, and loss 
of sleep that is tailored to teammates’ unique needs

Calm app—The app is offered to teammates 
at a discount and includes hundreds of guided 
meditations, breathing programs, gentle stretching 
exercises, a library of Sleep Stories, and exclusive 
music tracks for relaxation, focus, and sleep to build 
resilience

Mindful Moments—During team meetings, 
teammates can schedule a virtual Take10 Break to 
pause and refocus

Mental well-being podcast—This podcast is 

Teammates



  58

created by an internal team and offers content and 
resources to support mental well-being

Financial well-being
401(k)—Access to a broad range of investment 
funds with contributions matched 100% by Truist 
on the first 6% deferred and immediate vesting of 
the employer match for nearly all teammates

Pension—The Truist Financial Corporation Pension 
Plan rewards teammates for career longevity and 
helps them accumulate income to supplement 
retirement

Truist Momentum—Available for teammates and 
their spouses/domestic partner and children, 
Truist Momentum inspires, educates, and equips 
teammates to achieve financial confidence. 
Teammates who complete the first two phases of 
the program for the first time can earn up to $750.

Fidelity—Teammates can open a 529 college 
savings account to save for education expenses 
such as tuition, rent, food, and books, and access 
educational tools from Fidelity

Guidance resources—Access to certified public 
accountants, certified financial planners, guidance 
consultants, and other financial professionals

One Team Fund—Provides short-term help to bridge 
financial gaps and cover unexpected expenses such 
as natural disasters or family emergencies

Truist Scholarship Program—Truist teammates 
with children in their junior year (11th grade) of high 
school can apply for the $1,500 Truist Scholarship 
for college undergraduate study. Teammates can 
also apply for one of the 60 annual Jim and Jane 
Wells Scholarships for $2,000 toward tuition.

Truist Student Debt Program—Eligible teammates 
can convert up to seven vacation days into a 

contribution toward their student debt. Teammates 
continue to make monthly student loan payments, 
and Truist will make an extra payment on their 
behalf using the contribution, which saves on 
principal and interest and will reduce the amount of 
time it takes teammates to pay off their loans.

Teammate banking offerings—Personalized and 
confidential assistance for all banking needs with 
exclusive benefits

Employee stock purchase plan—Teammates 
can purchase TFC stock at a 15% discount, up to 
$25,000 each year

Time off—Truist offers eligible teammates 
generous time off, including:

• Eleven paid holidays per year

• Two to five weeks of vacation per year depending 
on years of service and title, with an option to 
purchase 12 more days of vacation

• An option to carry over up to 40 hours of vacation 
into the following year

• One to five days of service recognition for every 
five-year anniversary milestone

• Two weeks of sick time per year
 – Plus up to 30 medical leave of absence days 
for a family illness including a child, spouse, 
domestic partner, or parent1

• Eight hours of well-being time per year

• Three weeks of paid military time off with 
supplemental pay up to one year

• Up to two weeks of bereavement time off

• Sixteen hours of Community/Dependent 
Education Involvement time off

• Eight hours off for Lighthouse Project volunteer 
work

• Time off for jury duty and voting

• Time off for COVID vaccination and recovery

• Sixteen weeks of paid maternity leave1

• Six weeks of paid parental leave1

1. Enhanced benefits in 2023.

Career well-being
Career coaching—Free individualized professional 
advice to support teammates on their career journey

Career Discovery Hub—This innovative tool 
helps teammates learn more about the Truist 
work ecosystem through the lens of their skills 
and interests. Teammates can list their job 
aspirations and skill sets, and the Hub uses artificial 
intelligence to suggest paths for career discovery, 
including access to all Truist career profiles, open 
roles, and available networking connections with 
teammates.

Growth and development planner—A tool that 
helps teammates map out a plan for career growth 
through education, exposure, and experiences

Education assistance program—Teammates can 
get reimbursed for a maximum of $5,250 per 
calendar year for qualifying education programs

LinkedIn Learning—Online access to thousands 
of on-demand courses for unlimited access to 
professional development and skills acquisition

Truist Leadership Institute—Inspired by 
psychology and neuroscience, the Truist Leadership 
Institute offers experience for senior-level leaders 
of all skill sets so they can become stronger and 
more self-aware in their roles

Truist Learning & Development—Offers a range 
of self-directed professional and leadership 
development offerings, in areas ranging from 
building self-awareness to fostering innovation, 
from which teammates can choose

Community well-being
Volunteerism—Teammates are given 16 hours of 
paid time off to volunteer and give back to their 
local communities

Lighthouse Projects—Teammates are given 8 
hours of paid time off for Lighthouse Projects 
that support causes and organizations they are 
passionate about 

Truist Together—This one-stop shop coordinates 
volunteer efforts, the Workplace Giving Campaign, 
matching gifts, and the Truist One Team Fund

Matching Gifts—Teammates can request company 
matches of up to $2,500 per calendar year on gifts 
they make to nonprofit organizations

Social well-being
Business Resource Groups—There are eight 
teammate-led affinity Business Resource Groups 
that are open to all teammates who want to learn or 
show support as they gain a deeper understanding, 
respect, and appreciation for our differences, as 
well as our commonalities and shared goals

Better Day Ambassadors—These teammate 
leaders represent the voice of peers and provide 
valuable feedback and insights on the teammate 
experience and engagement

Truist Alumni Community—This forum was created 
to help our alumni connect and stay in touch as they 
remain part of our history and growth

myPurpose—Program that encourages teammates 
to recognize each other for actions and behaviors 
that support our goals by sending each other 
e-cards and badges, and earning purpose points 
that can be redeemed for awards they choose 

Teammates



  59

Diversity, equity, 
and inclusion

At Truist, the pursuit of better drives us every 
day as we fulfill our purpose to inspire and build 
better lives and communities. We are committed 
to diversity, equity, and inclusion and believe in the 
power of what we can achieve together. 

We want to ensure equitable access to resources 
and growth opportunities for clients, community 
organizations, suppliers, and other stakeholders. As 
an organization, we provide resources to support 
programs that enable economic mobility, education, 
and greater access to capital. 

Truist constantly explores and embraces 
opportunities for advancing DEI across our 
workforce, business, and communities—setting 
and achieving both short- and long-term DEI 
aspirations. Our commitments include increasing 
ethnic and gender diversity at leadership levels, 
diverse teammate recruitment and career 
advancement, increasing spending with diverse-
owned and small businesses, pay equity reviews, a 
new higher U.S. minimum wage of $22 per hour, and 
much more.



Investing 
in our 
teammates

  60

Diversity, equity, and inclusion

Truist takes pride in corporate citizenship and is committed to being 
both a valued employer and provider. Truist works closely with 
teammates, clients, and other stakeholders to understand their goals 
and invest in their success. Commitments and outcomes for 2022 
include:

Named Dominica Groom 
our new chief inclusion and 
diversity officer 

She brings nearly 20 years of 
experience driving innovation 
and leading global DE&I, change 
management, communications, 
and marketing platforms at 
major global companies and 
organizations.

• Increased ethnically diverse representation in senior leadership 
roles to 17.2% as of the end of 2022, which built upon our previous 
aspiration of 15% that we achieved earlier than expected

• Established new leadership aspirations to increase female 
representation by 15% and ethnically diverse representation by 20% 
by 2025 

• Remained committed to HBCU talent

• Achieved BRG membership of 18.8% of total teammate population in 
2022, with a growth aspiration of 25% by 2025

• Received a 100% rating on the Human Rights Campaign’s Corporate 
Equality Index, which is a benchmarking tool on corporate 
policies, practices, and benefits pertinent to lesbian, gay, bisexual, 
transgender, and queer employees

• Created a new team within CCB to lead the CCB Diverse Segments 
Development efforts to help diverse businesses grow and increase 
our penetration throughout our footprint. This team will focus on 
developing a holistic strategy to deliver the full capabilities of Truist 
to diverse business owners, starting with ethnically diverse-owned 
and women-owned businesses

DEI Councils
We strategically advance DEI across the enterprise by embedding 
specific DEI Councils across the lines of business and function areas. 
The councils are led by teammates who help develop and execute our 
companywide DEI strategy while also helping to unveil emerging needs 
and opportunities.

The councils have also been instrumental in creating dedicated DEI 
Champion roles, where teammates are positioned to work directly with 
leaders and collaborate with the DEI office to further drive the platform 
and deliver substantive impact. 

Self-identification
To foster an inclusive culture where all feel comfortable bringing 
their authentic selves to work, teammates are invited to self-identify 
and include their preferred pronouns in email signatures and in 
internal directories.

Diversity on Truist's board of directors
• Of our 21 directors, 43% are either racially, ethnically, 

or gender diverse:
 – Seven are women, representing 33% of our board
 – Four are Black, comprising almost 20% of our board
 – One is Hispanic



  61

Teammate listening
Truist hosted numerous listening sessions 
throughout the year to foster candid and courageous 
conversations across all levels on important 
topics such as social justice, race, and economic 
uncertainty. This dialogue helped to shape the 
evolution of our DEI commitments and strategy.

Training
Truist provides DEI training to all teammates to 
continually reinforce the foundations of inclusivity 
within the company culture. Truist also provides 
additional DEI training opportunities to managers. 
As an example, in the fall, all people managers 
completed our Equity in Performance and 
Development training, which helps to enhance 
the ability of leaders to serve as role models and 
advocates of diversity, equity, and inclusion.

Recruiting a diverse workforce
Truist seeks to attract, hire, and promote 
teammates from different ethnicities, 
backgrounds, cultures, identities, and experiences 
for all positions throughout the enterprise, from 
entry to senior leadership levels.

We are committed to supporting each teammate 
so they can pursue a fulfilling career journey and 
reach their full potential in a culture that values 
and fosters inclusivity, respect, idea sharing, and 
collaboration. We believe that our differences make 
us stronger and more innovative.

Truist’s dedicated diversity recruiting team 
endeavors to increase the representation of diverse 
teammates in key positions, and they use recruiting 
tools, professional networks, job fairs, and many 
other strategies to identify and pursue diverse talent.

We have formed strategic partnerships with 
organizations like Women in Technology and the 
National Association of Black Accountants, and we 
work with diverse-owned/operated recruiting firms 
to source top talent. We also look for opportunities to 
share the Truist story, culture, and reputation as an 
employer of choice as we recruit top talent for full- 
time and part-time positions as well as internships.

Truist has an influencer strategy wherein we 
network with diverse executives and employees 
with high potential across industries to introduce 
them to Truist. We also stay in touch with 
prospective teammates who may have initially 
chosen a job elsewhere, in the hope that we might 
reconnect with them at another interval in their 
career when they are interested in making a change 
and bringing new skills and talents to Truist.

Truist has policies and practices aimed at creating 
diverse applicant pools for job opportunities. We 
provide a diverse candidate slate and use diverse 
interviewing panels to ensure a welcoming, inclusive 
experience. We engage with organizations focused 
on ethnic and racial diversity, LGBTQ+ inclusion, 
disability inclusion, veterans, and women, and we 
proactively reach out to universities that serve 
diverse student populations. Truist partners with a 
host of organizations to ensure a diverse pipeline. 

Internal mobility and advancement
Truist is also committed to developing and retaining 
talented teammates, and we have a detailed plan and 
numerous programs in place to invest in and expand 
our leadership pipeline for greater representation 
for teammates of different genders, ethnicities, 
races, and ages; LGBTQ+ teammates; teammates 
who are veterans; and teammates of other diverse 
backgrounds. Learn more about our initiatives in the 
“Teammates“ chapter of this report. The pages that 
follow detail some of the ways we work to enhance 
diversity, equity, and inclusion for our teammates.

GRAD program
The Grow, Recruit, and Accelerate 
Development (GRAD) Internal Network 
Experience is one way we support diverse 
internal talent and get them ready for 
leadership roles. Teammates develop and 
implement strategic improvement plans 
for Truist to help them gain the knowledge, 
resources, and tools that will prepare them 
for senior-level roles. Participants receive 
leadership training, one-on-one career 
coaching, and reimbursement for obtaining 
graduate-level degrees if they haven’t 
already.

GRAD Internal Network Experience

• 77.5% ethnically/racially diverse

• 57.5% female

Additionally, the GRAD Cohort Accelerator 
Program is a nine-month experience 
for diverse external talent that offers a 
comprehensive and immersive cross-
functional experience to work on strategic 
projects and priorities identified by our 
Executive Leadership team.

GRAD Cohort Accelerator Program

• 90% ethnically/racially diverse

• 50% female

Truist has already seen a positive trend 
for career mobility and has transitioned 
numerous GRAD teammates into key 
leadership roles within the organization. 
Read more about the GRAD program here. 

Diversity, equity, and inclusion

https://www.truist.com/grad-program


  62

Accessibility 
Our teams consider diverse abilities, backgrounds, 
and experiences when building processes and 
platforms so all teammates can access tools they 
need. We also have an Accommodations Team that 
works to find the right workplace accommodations 
for our teammates with disabilities. 

Truist offers an inclusive and accessible 
environment for our teammates and clients with 
disabilities, as well as for those caring for loved 
ones with disabilities. Our commitment extends 
to Truist offices, branches, client care, and digital 
tools as we strive to enable all users to access 
content regardless of disability, or the method or 
tools needed to access the content. We help provide 
accessibility by:

• TDD/TTY services for clients who are Deaf or 
hard of hearing, and accepting calls made with 
Telecommunications Relay Services

• Designated accessible parking spaces at 
branches, curb cuts, and accessible entrances

• ATMs with headphone features, speech output, 
Braille labels and tactile markings, and accessible 
height and reach

• Ensuring our Inclusive Design and Accessibility 
Team considers diverse abilities, experiences, 
and characteristics when building our processes, 
products, and methods

• An Empathy Lab that explores the experiences 
of people with disabilities, including cognitive, 
physical, and visual disabilities, to understand 
how our services can better meet the needs of 
stakeholders

• An Accommodations Team that works with 
teammates to find the right workplace 
accommodations for our teammates with 
disabilities or medical needs

• Inclusive hiring programs to ensure a diverse 
talent pipeline by partnering with organizations 
such as the Center for the Visually Impaired/
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, 
Disability Rights Advocates, and Disabled 
American Veterans

• Requiring third-party vendors to meet the same 
level of standards for inclusive and accessible 
client experiences that we follow for services we 
provide directly

• Designing learning content that meets Web 
Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 
standards for an AA rating 

Our teammates play a key role in expanding 
awareness, understanding, and support through the 
Disability@Truist Business Resource Group, which 
hosted multiple awareness events during National 
Disability Employment Awareness Month in 
October. Teammates also spend time volunteering 
in our communities with various disability advocacy 
groups, such as the Down Syndrome Association, 
the Autism Society, Diversified Opportunities, 
GiGi's Playhouse, the Georgia Center of the Deaf 
and Hard of Hearing, Autism Speaks, the Next Move 
Program, Dream On 3, Operation Smile, and more.

Diversity, equity, and inclusion



  63

Supporting equity 
for teammates

Equitable pay
We have established practices to drive equity in 
our performance ratings and assessments, and we 
analyze multiple factors in talent review data to 
help ensure equitable outcomes that lead to a fair 
and inclusive workplace. In 2022, Truist conducted 
our annual pay equity review. We identified a small 
number of teammates—about 1%— who were 
earning less than expected when compared to 
peers, and we adjusted compensation immediately. 
We plan to continue conducting our pay equity 
review on an annual basis.

New $22 minimum wage
Truist increased our minimum wage to $22 per 
hour, which is among the highest in the industry. 
This higher compensation is part of our broader 
Total Rewards program, which positions Truist as 
an employer of choice that also supports and values 
career longevity.

Increased equity in benefits
Truist offers a broad suite of benefits, including 
family building benefits, that are aimed at a diverse 
and inclusive workforce. For more information, see 
our Benefits site.

Business Resource Groups
Truist has eight teammate-led     that help foster 
an atmosphere of inclusion, play a critical role in 
helping us deliver on our purpose, and help move 
us from better to best. BRG members have the 
opportunity to:

• Connect with teammates across the enterprise at 
all levels

• Develop a deeper understanding, respect, and 
appreciation of diversity through a variety of 
events and activities

• Further purpose-driven volunteerism with 
community partners and teammates

• Organically develop mentor and  
mentee relationships

• Strengthen professional skill sets

BRGs develop and execute annual plans to deliver 
meaningful events, activities, and resources to 
participating teammates. Cross-BRG collaboration 
is becoming an increasing focus, where 
intersectionality not only drives greater inclusivity, 
but also broadens BRG reach and impact

BRGs support career progress
Our BRGs also hosted the Career Development and 
Skills Series, a highly requested continuation of a 
2021 initiative. Enterprise leadership participated 
and discussed the importance of career development 
and the future of the workplace. The series included:

• Career development planning

• Career coaching

• Resources for learning new skills

• Building your brand

• Building your career community

Diversity, equity, and inclusion

https://benefits.truist.com/


  64  64  64  64

BRGs by the 
numbers

8 
BRGs

138
regional chapters

10,419 
members across all BRGs

18.8% 
teammate participation in BRGs

528 
BRG activities in 2022

Some of our 2022 BRG events:
• Asian American@Truist sponsored the Richmond International 

Dragon Boat Festival, with 65 teammates participating. The 
event benefited Sports Backers, a nonprofit helping to engage 
underserved populations and build innovative and active culture

• Bold@Truist held a series of events to celebrate HBCUs, and the 
North Florida chapter held a tailgate party at the homecoming 
game at Edward Waters University (EWU) in Jacksonville, Florida. 
This event benefited and celebrated the university and launched a 
partnership with EWU to provide financial knowledge sessions for 
all student athletes

• Disability@Truist was the presenting sponsor for the Upstate 
Carolina Adaptive Golf Night, an event serving individuals with 
physical and cognitive disabilities, including veterans with these 
disabilities, to champion equal opportunities and grow inclusion

• Generations@Truist hosted a generational panel about  
personal career paths and career growth featuring Chairman 
and CEO Bill Rogers

• Juntos@Truist supported the Hispanic League as naming sponsor for 
their 30th annual Fiesta, which celebrates the culture, contributions, 
and achievements of Hispanic and Latine people

• Pride@Truist was a presenting sponsor at Charlotte Pride, with 
teammates helping create programs and activities to affirm, enrich, 
empower, and make visible the lives of LGBTQ+ people

• Serve@Truist teammates helped a veteran get a mortgage-free 
home, participated in a 9/11 Heroes Run, and supported the Blue 
Ridge Honor Flight

• Women@Truist presented at the Women & Equality Forum in 
Norfolk, Virginia, and they helped ethnically diverse entrepreneurs 
improve their business skills through a Truist-sponsored pitch 
competition in Charlotte, North Carolina. Teammates presented 
strategies to power entrepreneurs, grow skills that have value in 
corporate America, strengthen salary and benefits negotiations, 
and uplift women in leadership

  64

Diversity, equity, and inclusion



  65

Investing in our 
communities
Support for HBCUs
Truist actively invests in and recruits talent from 
historically Black colleges and universities (HBCUs). 
We nurture our longstanding relationships with 
these organizations and participate in career fairs, 
development workshops, networking events, and 
sponsorships, and provide scholarships and other 
forms of financial aid. Truist has:

• Proudly continued our commitment to various 
HBCUs through strategic partnerships, student 
recruitment, alumni engagement, infrastructure 
investment, and more

• Hosted a two-day HBCU Student Leadership 
Summit for dozens of Black students, and a 
separate summit for HBCU chancellors

• Given more than $20 million to HBCUs from 2020 
to 2022. A few highlights included:

 – A $3 million grant to the Thurgood Marshall 
College Fund, the largest organization 
representing the Black college community, 
to fund scholarships for students from 
underserved communities

 – A $3 million grant to Johnson C. Smith 
University as part of an $80 million drive 
through the Charlotte Mayor’s Racial Equity 
Initiative

 – A $1 million commitment to the Henry Louis 
Aaron Fund over five years and funding for 
fellowship positions for diverse professionals 
who want to work for the Atlanta Braves 
organization

HBCU Leadership Summit
The Truist Leadership Institute hosted 
the second annual “Focus on the Future“ 
HBCU Leadership Summit to help HBCU 
chancellors think strategically about 
their business models and frameworks to 
become more financially stable, sustainable, 
and relevant in their fundraising, corporate 
partnerships, and growth plans.

Diversity, equity, and inclusion

“Thank you for sharing these two powerful 
and impactful presentations from the 
HBCU Leadership Summit. Grateful to 
Truist for the invitation.“

President at Shaw University

“The knowledge I acquired has radically 
changed how I should leverage my role as 
vice president for academic affairs.“

Vice President at Rust College

“I am still sitting in your Leadership 
Institute and am blown away from the 
past two days. What energy and joy I have 
from attending. I intend to share so many 
wonderful thoughts with my colleagues 
and new president when I get home. You 
and your team did an outstanding job. This 
may be my favorite event thus far in 2022, 
and it will be hard to top. Thank you for all 
you do.“

Executive at Kentucky State University

“Thank you for an invaluable experience 
at the HBCU summit. The robust 
conversations and the models and 
strategies discussed were outstanding!“

Executive Vice President at Stillman College

Diversity In Tech Summit
Truist hosted the HBCU Diversity In Tech Summit 
on the campus of Virginia Union University. The 
event attracted over 700 in-person and virtual 
attendees, including a governor and a congressional 
representative.

Truist teammates moderated sessions featuring 
students from Virginia HBCUs, major organizations 
and government officials, as well as shared 
our commitment to HBCU advancement and 
talent recruitment. Truist also provided $5,000 
scholarships to 10 students.

Celebration Bowl
Truist sponsored the 2022 Celebration Bowl, an 
HBCU postseason college football championship 
game featuring top HBCU conference teams. 
This sponsorship presented a great opportunity 
to showcase Truist's commitment to HBCUs to 
thousands of loyal HBCU supporters and fans.

During the weekend festivities, the Truist mortgage 
team hosted financial education sessions for 
HBCU and high school students that focused on 
topics such as budgeting, credit management, and 
the benefits of homeownership as a pathway to 
creating wealth. 

Homers for Hank
The Homers for Hank program honors Hank 
Aaron’s commitment to education and supporting 
children in chasing their dreams. Truist committed 
to donating $755 to the Henry Louis Aaron Fund 
for every home run an Atlanta Braves player hits 
through the 2025 season, at home and away, 
regular and post-season. Every. Home. Run.

Donated funds are used to provide scholarships for 
HBCU students, career development programs for 
students and alumni, and other initiatives in honor 
of Hank Aaron's legacy.



  66

Supporting the arts
At our Charlotte headquarters, the Truist Center 
Art Program features original commissioned and 
noncommissioned work by artists. More than one-
third of the artists are ethnically diverse, while 
more than half are women. Some artists have 
familial connections to or grew up in countries 
including Costa Rica, Colombia, Panama, Germany, 
and Zambia. The artwork includes diverse 
mediums such as textiles, metal, wood, fiber, 
ceramic, and paint, and the collection reflects 
the richness of the various life experiences and 
backgrounds of the artists.

Expanding connectivity
In 2022, Truist Foundation made a $10 million 
grant to Connect Humanity, a nonprofit that 
advances equity among historically marginalized 
communities by closing the digital divide that 
leaves behind some people in communities of color, 
low-income geographies, and rural communities.

Lack of internet connection makes it even more 
challenging for people to apply for remote jobs and 
new openings that are almost exclusively posted 
online, apply for licenses and other credentials to 
start a business, build a website, or apply for loans.

Connect Humanity is using the grant to lay the 
groundwork to expand existing models that 
encourage local ownership of the internet within 
communities to bring higher-speed internet at 
lower prices to benefit the community and expand 
economic opportunity.

Building for diverse, equitable 
communities
Truist endeavors to create more equitable access to 
capital and resources that help advance economic 
mobility and positively impact society. In addition 
to offering banking products and services that 
elevate historically underserved clients, Truist 
also supports numerous nonprofits, Community 
Development Financial Institutions (CDFIs), 
Minority Depository Institutions (MDIs), and 
other organizations that in turn inject capital into 
local projects, small businesses, diverse-owned 
businesses, and locally led initiatives.

Those efforts are described in greater detail in the 
“Community,“ “Clients,“ and “Financial Inclusion“ 
chapters of this report. Highlights in recent years 
include:

• Operation HOPE—Truist invested $20 million 
in Operation HOPE to create more pathways for 
Black aspiring business owners to start and grow 
businesses. Operation HOPE aspires to support 
1 million Black-owned businesses by 2030 by 
offering online self-guided courses that cover 
writing a business plan, raising capital, financial 
management, marketing, and purpose.

• Grameen America—Truist supports this nonprofit 
microfinance organization that helps women 
living in poverty create small businesses to 
provide for their families. Grameen America’s 
10-year goal is to provide $1.3 billion in loans, 
financial training, and asset- and credit-building 
tools to 80,000 Black women entrepreneurs by 
the end of this decade.

• Charlotte Mayor’s Racial Equity Initiative—Truist 
supports the Mayor’s Racial Equity Initiative 
in Charlotte, which will invest $250 million to 
address inequities and remove barriers through 
four key workstreams: investing in Charlotte’s six 

“Corridors of Opportunity“ neighborhoods, closing 
the digital divide and establishing a Center for 
Digital Equity, transforming Johnson C. Smith 
University into a leading career-focused HBCU, 
and encouraging businesses and organizations 
to commit to advancing more ethnically diverse 
leaders.

Inspire Awards
Truist Foundation partnered with the 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology’s Solve 
initiative to create the Inspire Awards in 2022 
to encourage innovative ideas that help small 
businesses become more resilient and sustainable. 
The pitch competition was opened to nonprofits 
that support ethnically diverse and women-owned 
small businesses to help them plan, market, and 
grow their businesses. The winner received a 
$250,000 award to bring their idea to life, and 
runner-up teams also received cash awards. Learn 
more about the Inspire Awards in the “Community“ 
chapter of this report.

Diversity, equity, and inclusion



  67

Investing in our clients 
Truist is committed to offering clients more 
investment strategy options by working with an 
increased number of funds that are owned and/or 
managed by diverse populations. 

The centerpiece of that work is led by our Truist 
Wealth Diverse Asset Manager Practice, which 
helps bring more inclusive investment offerings 
across global markets. These strategies are either 
significantly owned and/or managed by women, 
racially and ethnically diverse individuals, those 
identifying as LGBTQ+, veterans, and the uniquely 
abled. About 29% of the active investment 
strategies on our bank fiduciary platform are 
owned or led by diverse managers, which brings us 
close to our goal of 30%.

Sterling Capital Diverse Multi-Manager 
Active ETF 
Truist and our wholly owned subsidiary Sterling 
Capital Management LLC, a registered investment 
adviser, launched the Sterling Capital Diverse Multi-
Manager Active ETF (NYSE: DEIF) in late 2021. This 
actively managed exchange-traded fund seeks to 
deliver long-term capital appreciation by combining 
the expertise of majority diverse-owned asset 
managers into a single investment vehicle. The three 
diverse-owned subadvisers of the fund are Boston 
Common Asset Management, GQG Partners, and 
EARNEST Partners. Truist committed $100 million in 
investment capital to DEIF when it launched.

While 2022 was a challenging year in which broad 
equity and fixed income indices saw negative 

returns, Sterling’s approach of utilizing distinct 
and complementary strategies in the construction 
of DEIF assisted in its relative performance. As of 
Dec. 31, 2022, DEIF posted a -5.74% return since 
inception (Dec. 13, 2021), compared with -16.63% 
for its benchmark, the Russell 1000®, over the same 
time period.

For standardized performance and important 
disclosure information, please visit this link for 
Sterling DEIF.

Operation HOPE coaches
Through our partnership with Operation HOPE, Truist 
is 68% toward its goal in equipping 1,000 Truist 
branches with financial coaches who help clients 
learn about and solve everyday financial challenges.

Coaches offer one-on-one sessions and group 
workshops on topics such as access to mainstream 
credit, how to accelerate savings, debt reduction, how 
to start a business, and paths to homeownership.

Truist completed 214 volunteer hours toward 
our goal of 1,000 volunteer hours in support of 
Operation HOPE’s 1 Million Black Businesses 
(1MBB) volunteer initiative.

Equitable practices for identification
Truist changed certain practices for client 
identification requirements to make them more 
equitable, such as acceptance of Native American 
tribal identification and alternative identification 
methods for Amish clients.

Diversity, equity, and inclusion

https://sterlingcapital.com/investments/exchange-traded-funds/deif/


  68

Investing in our suppliers

Enhancing our supplier diversity
Truist relies on many third-party suppliers, vendors, 
and contractors for a variety of goods and services 
at our branches and offices across the country.

Our sourcing and supply management processes 
ensure we select and engage with third-party 
suppliers, vendors, and contractors whose values 
are aligned with ours and who can help us:

• Satisfy our business needs and requirements

• Obtain the best quality goods and services

• Minimize risk to our clients and communities

• Leverage our buying power

• Advance diverse and small business supplier 
inclusion

Truist is a member of the Sustainable Purchasing 
Leadership Council (SPLC), which strives to 
find solutions and share best practices to build 
a sustainable future through the power of 
procurement. Suppliers must abide by our Supplier 
Code of Conduct, which provides general guidance 
about the standards of integrity and business 
conduct for suppliers working with Truist.

Diverse business inclusion
Through qualified and innovative diverse 
businesses, our value-added supplier partnerships 
enhance our client experience, strengthen our 
operations, and enrich our communities. Truist’s 
supplier diversity program seeks to engage with 
and provide supply chain opportunities to qualified 
suppliers who are certified as owned by minorities, 
women, veterans, people with disabilities, and 

LGBTQ+ individuals as well as small businesses and 
members of the following organizations:

• Disability:IN

• National LGBT Chamber of Commerce (NGLCC)

• National Minority Supplier Development Council 
(NMSDC)

• National Veteran Business Development Council 
(NVBDC)

• National Veteran-Owned Business Association 
(NaVOBA)

• Small Business Administration (SBA)

• United States Hispanic Chamber of Commerce 
(USHCC)

• US Pan Asian American Chamber of Commerce 
(USPAACC)

• Women’s Business Enterprise National Council 
(WBENC)

Truist is also an active member of the Financial 
Services Roundtable for Supplier Diversity (FSRSD) 
and the Sustainable Purchasing Leadership Council 
(SPLC), and leverages the thought leadership of 
these organizations to enhance and support its 
supplier diversity and sustainability goals.

Investing in middle-market business to 
support supplier diversity
Truist is a limited partner and co-investor in Project 
Black, LP, a new private equity initiative of Ariel 
Investments LLC that seeks to make investments in 
Black- and Latine-owned middle-market businesses.

Project Black will leverage $1.45 billion in 
commitments to put more capital in the hands of 
mid-sized companies with $100 million to $1 billion 
in revenue. 

Companies that receive investments from the 
fund are expected to be transformed into Minority 
Business Enterprise (MBE) certified companies that 
can scale and serve as Tier1 suppliers to Fortune 
500 companies.

Truist Tier2 program
Truist has a robust Tier2 program that further 
enhances the value that diverse suppliers can bring 
to our supply chain when direct sourcing with these 
vendors is not an option. Truist strongly encourages 
its strategic suppliers to subcontract with qualified 
certified diverse suppliers in the performance of 
their primary contractual obligations.

Truist hosts an annual Tier2 Supplier Diversity 
Business Summit where diverse businesses are 
invited to take part in educational workshops, 
training, and matchmaking meetings for potential 
business opportunities with Truist and its 
strategic suppliers. 

In 2022, Truist hosted its first hybrid summit with 
an in-person reception at its Charlotte headquarters 
building, which drew more than 100 participants. 
The reception was followed by a two-day virtual 
program with more than 500 attendees and 
presentations by executive leaders at Truist, Ariel 
Alternatives, Business Consortium Fund, Minority 
Business Development Agency, National Minority 
Supplier Development Council, US Pan Asian 
American Chamber of Commerce, National LGBT 
Chamber of Commerce, and Advantage Capital.

In 2022, Truist’s supplier diversity team and internal 
partners participated in several national and local 
diverse supplier conferences and events to engage 
with diverse businesses and share knowledge, 
information, and procurement opportunities. The 
Truist team also shared best practices and thought 
leadership as conference speakers, panelists, 
and sponsors of these events to provide valuable 
support to the diverse business community.

Truist supplier diversity teammates also mentored 
diverse businesses through select regional and 
national diverse business advocacy organizations to 
help these businesses scale and grow. As a result of 
our leadership and advocacy with this community, 
Truist received the following recognition:

• National Minority Supplier Development Council
 – Forefront 50 corporate recognition

• National Business Inclusion Consortium
 – Best-of-the-Best Award for Corporate Inclusion

• Greater Women’s Business Council
 – TOP Corporation Recognition
 – VOICE Award
 – Buyer of the Year Award for a teammate in 
sourcing

A Truist supplier diversity manager and 
community development manager planned and 
participated in the first annual West Virginia 
Supplier Diversity Forum in partnership with the 
West Virginia Women’s Business Center; the West 
Virginia State University (an HBCU) Economic 
Development Center; and Advantage Valley, an 
economic development authority. The free virtual 
forum helped minority-owned small businesses 
learn how to:

• Obtain Women’s Business Enterprise (WBE) or 
Minority Business Enterprise (MBE) certifications

• Research and prepare for supplier procurement 
opportunities

• Finance business growth

Advantage Valley received a grant from Truist 
to offer mini-grants for up to 20 qualifying 
businesses to help offset the costs of obtaining 
WBE or MBE certifications, and grant recipients 
will also receive business planning assistance 
through partner agencies.

Diversity, equity, and inclusion



Truist 2022 supplier 
diversity spending

Supplier diversity goals

16%
2022 spend with diverse suppliers vs. 10% goal  
in year 3 of Community Benefits Plan

43%
2022 RFx inclusion vs. 30% goal 

Spend breakdown
Total diverse spend: $858.5 million1

Minority-owned businesses: $675.3 million

Women-owned businesses: $69.1 million

Small businesses: $198.5 million

Veteran-owned businesses: $538.7 million

LGBTQ+-owned businesses: $3.0 thousand 

Disability-owned businesses: $2.4 million

1. Some categories have overlap, such as a woman-owned small business that may appear in two categories.

Diverse supplier breakdown

Supplier diversity Vendor count

African American 13

Asian American 6

Asian Pacific American 5

Asian Subcontinent American 6

Hispanic American 23

Native American 1

Diverse technology suppliers

  69

Diversity type Vendor count

Minority Business Enterprises 
(MBEs) 

12

Total diverse technology 
vendors

93

Diversity, equity, and inclusion

1,206
support and capacity building 
volunteer hours2

2. Including time spent on nonprofit boards and one-on-one mentoring and coaching with small businesses and entrepreneurs



  70

Technology 
and innovation

Truist believes that Touch + Technology = Trust

We invest heavily in innovative technology 
architecture, modernized tech stacks, cloud 
computing, automation, security, artificial 
intelligence augmentation, and features 
enhancements that improve the user experience for 
clients across the enterprise. 

Whether they are transferring funds, withdrawing 
cash, refinancing a mortgage, or borrowing 
money for a business expansion, clients must 
have confidence in the security and simplicity of 
interacting with their bank.

In 2022, Truist encountered some challenges, 
delays, and costs while adopting a best-of-both 
technology stack during our merger integration. 
We have worked diligently to resolve and overcome 
those issues, and the final result was worth it—our 
cloud-native solutions and fully agile mindset allow 
us to lean into the future of banking.



  71

Technology and innovation

State-of-the-art technology
Every dollar we invest in technology yields benefits for many years into the 
future as we make it easier and more enjoyable to do business with Truist.

Our technology strategy is anchored 
in four tenets: 

Simple

Secure

Reliable

Intelligent

We solicit feedback from clients, teammates, and 
other stakeholders for enhanced features or new 
capabilities they would like to see. Our cross-
discipline teams use analytics, behavior science, 
artificial intelligence, and other tools to develop 
innovative solutions that propel our business 
forward.

Truist’s technology infrastructure leverages 
reusable modular architecture to increase speed 
and greater automation that reduces risk, increases 
efficiency, and enhances speed to market.

Resiliency is crucial, and our multifaceted data 
center strategy creates redundancy and a 
continuous availability mindset. We make ongoing 
investments in cybersecurity, and we are constantly 
monitoring for emerging threats.

Delivering a better experience for clients is a 
priority, and Truist delivered three times as many 
production releases across business, retail, and 
wealth as we did in all of 2021.

We improved payments capabilities, provided clients 
with more data-driven insights and opportunities, 
and continue to invest in innovative authentication 
technologies for greater security. Learn more about 
Truist Assist, Truist Trade,1 and other enhancements 
in the “Clients“ chapter of this report.

For teammates, Truist has automated or 
reengineered processes to simplify operations, 
modernized and rationalized applications that 
teammates use, and introduced more collaboration 
tools that drive connectivity across our workforce. 

1. Truist Trade is offered by Truist Investment Services, Inc. Services provided by the following affiliates of Truist Financial 
Corporation: Securities, brokerage accounts and insurance (including annuities) are offered by Truist Investment Services, 
Inc., an SEC registered broker-dealer, member FINRA, SIPC, and a licensed insurance agency. Investment advisory 
services are offered by Truist Advisory Services, Inc., an SEC registered investment adviser. Mutual Funds and Exchange-
Traded-Funds (ETFs) values will fluctuate so that an investor’s shares, when sold, may be worth more or less than their 
original cost. ETFs trade like stocks on the open market, which in most cases involves a commission.

Much of our tech innovation happens at the 
Innovation & Technology Center (ITC) inside the 
47-story building that houses Truist headquarters 
in Charlotte, North Carolina. The ITC was designed 
to foster creativity and bold thinking, with breakout 
rooms and meeting spaces that have movable walls; 
client journey rooms for focused research; a Reality 
Lab to experiment with and test virtual reality 
and augmented reality tools; a makerspace where 
teammates can build physical prototypes; and the 
Truist Care Center, to put teammates who answer 
client calls in the center of our creative universe. 

Technology and sustainability
Another benefit of our significant investment in 
technology and digital transformation is a reduced 
demand for paper. Digital banking services, 
paperless statements, online loan applications, 
and digital bill pay help reduce paper consumption 
while also bringing more people into mainstream 
banking, supporting economic mobility, and 
advancing diversity, equity, and inclusion.

Increasing reliance on digital services does increase 
the need for digital infrastructure. Please read more 
about our efforts to improve the efficiency of our 
data centers on page 80 of the Environment section 
of this report.

Touch + Technology = Trust



  72  72

Technology and innovation

Truist 
Foundry 

When Truist acquired savings platform Long 
Game and its talented team of engineers and other 
professionals in the spring of 2022, we parlayed 
that purchase into a new internal innovation group 
we call Truist Foundry.

Truist Foundry acts as a startup within Truist that 
creates digital solutions to drive transformation, 
growth, and market leadership in a rapidly changing 
world. The team is agile, uses data-driven design, 
and chooses projects with near-term time horizons 
for speed to market.

Truist Foundry has a cross-disciplinary team of about 
50 teammates from design, product, engineering, 
operations, and other backgrounds, bringing diverse 
experience from across the technology ecosystem: 
blockchain, virtual reality, security, and business 
analytics, to name a few.

We charged the team with a deceptively simple 
order: be bold, and develop and test new ideas.

Truist Foundry embraces the freedom of failing 
fast and failing forward. They begin with an idea, 
explore by understanding internal needs and market 
potential, develop a concept, create or design 
prototypes, test, and iterate—and then decide 
whether to keep developing the idea or abandon it.

The Truist Foundry team is working on numerous 
projects across many of our lines of business, and 
their innovative thinking has positively impacted 
many other workstreams across Truist. We also take 
a retrospective approach to learn from every idea 
that doesn’t advance.

Truist Foundry has also been working on revamping 
the app that is now called Truist Long Game. 

The new version of the Truist Long Game app 
was introduced in the spring of 2023, and it 
enhances financial well-being and knowledge by 
encouraging people to save more money through 
fun activities and rewards. It also creates a stickier 
relationship between clients and their bank. When 
a player completes a financial action such as 
making a deposit into their savings account, they 
earn coins for completing financial “missions“ that 
are good for their financial lives. Those coins can 
be used to win cash.



  73

Truist 
Ventures
Another way Truist 
invests in innovative 
and emerging 
technology is through 
our venture capital arm, 
Truist Ventures.

SecureSave
Truist led an $11 million strategic funding round 
in SecureSave, a purpose-built platform that helps 
people create larger emergency savings to become 
more financially stable. 

Co-founded by personal finance 
advocate and New York Times 
bestselling author Suze Orman, 
Devin Miller, and Bassam Saliba, 
SecureSave works with employers 
to create employer-sponsored 

emergency savings accounts that can help 
employees withstand unexpected costs or events 
such as job loss.

SecureSave accounts help employees avoid 
penalties for things such as early withdrawals from 
their 401(k)s or costly alternatives like loans or 
credit card debt when they encounter unexpected 
financial emergencies.

Most employers have greater than 50% participation 
when they offer SecureSave to their workers. 
SecureSave helps reduce stress and enhance on-the-
job performance by empowering people to create 
their own economic safety nets. 

Truist offers SecureSave as a benefit to our own 
teammates as part of the Truist Momentum 
workplace financial wellness program that inspires, 
educates, and equips employees to manage their 
money based on what matters most to them.

“Partnering with Truist has been a great experience 
and brings a clear advantage to our business. We 
are grateful to have such a mission-aligned and 
supportive partner. As we interact with various parts 
of the organization, it is refreshing how they too are 
focused on a singular mission, while working to make 
the world for their customers and community a better 
place,“ said Miller, co-founder and CEO of SecureSave.

Greenwood
Truist Ventures made a follow-on investment in a 
$45 million funding round for Greenwood, a digital 
banking platform for Black and Latine individuals 
and small business clients.

Founded by a group of Black entrepreneurs and 
business leaders, Greenwood’s mission is to 
recirculate wealth in ethnically diverse communities 
by partnering with ethnically diverse depository 
institutions to generate deposits and expand 
lending capacity.

The Atlanta-based company’s 
investors include entertainer 
Michael Render (who performs 
as “Killer Mike“), former Atlanta 
mayor Andrew Young, Bounce 
TV founder Ryan Glover, D’Rita 

and Robbie Robinson of investment firm Pendulum 
Holdings, and entrepreneur and investor Paul Judge 
of Panoramic Ventures.

The funding will accelerate Greenwood’s vision 
of closing the racial wealth gap and providing the 
tools and education needed to empower ethnically 
diverse communities to build generational wealth. 

“Truist has been an amazing partner from day one 
for Greenwood. Our corporate cultures are very 
similar in that both organizations are authentically 
sincere to assist in closing the wealth gap that 
exists in America,“ said Ryan Glover, founder and 
chairman of Greenwood.

Greenwood’s banking platform already has 
more than 100,000 customers, and its combined 
community—including Atlanta social and 
professional networking club The Gathering Spot, 
A3C, and Valence—is over 1 million people.

Future\Perfect Ventures
Truist Ventures made an 
investment in Future\Perfect 
Ventures Fund III, an early-stage 
venture capital fund founded 
by Jalak Jobanputra to support 
blockchain innovation and the 

decentralized ecosystem. It was Truist Ventures’ 
first investment in a fund led by a female general 
partner, and the first institutional investment for 
Future\Perfect.

Since 2014, FPV has partnered with more than 
50 startups in blockchain, Internet of Things 
(IoT), artificial intelligence, and other emerging 
technologies.

Jobanputra was formerly the director of Emerging 
Market Mobile Investments at Omidyar Network, a 
philanthropic-focused capital fund started by Pierre 
Omidyar, co-founder of eBay. She started her career 
as a media, tech, and telecom investment banker in 
New York City and London.

“Future\Perfect Ventures was formed in 2014 
to invest in the leading edge of fintech, and we 
are honored to have Truist as an anchor limited 
partner in our third fund,“ Jobanputra said. “Truist's 
team have consistently proven that a large bank 
can play an important role in introducing new 
ideas and technological innovation to the retail 
and business communities, and they share our 
mission of expanding financial inclusion to create 
a more prosperous future for all. The FPV team 
and portfolio benefit from the insights and market 
leadership of Truist, and we provide a perspective 
to Truist teams on how to incorporate new 
technologies into their product offerings.“

Technology and innovation



 74

Stratyfy
Truist Ventures made a co-
investment in Stratyfy, a female-
led startup that brings transparent 
machine learning solutions 
to credit and risk decisions to 
promote inclusive finance.

Stratyfy’s Probabilistic Rules Engine allows 
financial institutions to drive revenue and 
efficiencies as they build, test, deploy, and optimize 
more precise underwriting and fraud models. Their 
AI-driven technology empowers teams to better 
explain complex decisions; self-check models to 
ensure they meet even the strictest regulatory 
standards; and detect any inherent bias so they 
can provide more equitable access to capital with 
greater profitability. 

New York-based Stratyfy was co-founded by CEO 
Laura Kornhauser, a former derivatives executive 
and investment banker at J.P. Morgan, and Chief 
Data Scientist Dmitry Lesnik. Truist Ventures made 
the co-investment in Stratyfy alongside Zeal Capital 
Partners, which in 2021 closed an oversubscribed 
Zeal Fund I to make inclusive investments in 
diverse-owned startups.

“Stratyfy is where AI meets IQ. We bring real, human 
understanding to the complex decisions businesses 
make every day,“ Kornhauser said. “This goes 
beyond helping financial institutions make better 
decisions and create new business opportunities, 
but also helps solve more foundational, systemic 
issues like bias and unequal access to credit. 
That’s why our partnership with a mission-driven 
institution like Truist is so important—together 
we can use transparent, people-first Stratyfy 
technology to improve the lives of their customers 
and strengthen entire communities.“

Zaloni
In August 2022, Truist announced the acquisition of 
key strategic assets of Zaloni™, an award-winning 
automated data governance and analytics platform 
founded by Chief Product Officer Ben Sharma and 
led by CEO Susan Payne Cook.

Zaloni Arena is built on a machine 
learning platform that delivers 
scalable solutions that bring 
efficiency to complex data 
environments for companies in 
banking and financial services, 

aviation and transportation, telecommunications, 
and many other sectors.

Arena rapidly and securely delivers trusted data for 
advanced analytics and artificial intelligence and 
machine learning (AI/ML) using an intelligent and 
collaborative data catalog, automated governance, 
and unified observability to reduce IT costs and 
accelerate time to insight.

Truist identified the Zaloni Arena platform as an 
investment that will help it deliver better financial 
experiences and advance its strategy. Zaloni's 
offshore team in India will continue serving current 
customers while also providing technology delivery 
services to Truist.

“Truist had already committed to Zaloni’s Arena 
software platform for the management and 
governance of their enterprise data assets,“ said 
Cook. “Truist Ventures further solidified the 
relationship as a strategic partner and served as a 
trusted advisor for us to become an integral part of 
Truist’s Enterprise Data Office vision and charter. It 
really was a perfect match.“

Current portfolio

Fund investments

Acquisitions

Technology and innovation



Technology and innovation

Inspiring innovation at Truist 
Leadership Institute
Another way Truist pursues innovative ideas, 
thought leadership, and academic research is 
through the Truist Leadership Institute. 

Rooted in the study and application of 
neuropsychology and grounded in science, the 
Truist Leadership Institute’s mission is to apply 
behavioral science to strengthen the foundation 
of educational and training programs in order to 
create competent, confident, and self-aware leaders 
that can build better tomorrows. 

In recent years we’ve expanded the reach of the 
Truist Leadership Institute’s proven methods 
to offer its programs—including Leadership 
Development, Change Management, Talent 
Strategy, and Employee Engagement—more 
widely to clients as well as business, academic, and 
community leaders.

Truist Leadership Institute has also been taking a 
more active role in research and thought leadership, 
and in 2022 the institute published its first Truist 
Purple PaperSM, titled “The new world of talent.“ The 

paper explores the psychology of today’s American 
worker amid the so-called Great Resignation 
and era of “quiet quitting,“ with evidence-based 
research and usable insights for leaders of 
companies of all sizes.

To meet rapidly growing demand, we are doubling 
the size of the Truist Leadership Institute campus 
in Greensboro, North Carolina, and constructing a 
second building that’s slated to open in the spring 
of 2024. The campus expansion will provide a 
state-of-the-art building for seminars, flexible 
meeting spaces, 64 guest rooms for overnight 
stays, an on-site bar and restaurant, and enlarged 
green spaces. Please see the “Environment“ chapter 
of this report to learn more about the sustainability 
features of the expansion.

To learn more about the Truist 
Leadership Institute, please 
scan the QR code.

  75  75  75  75

https://www.truistleadershipinstitute.com/content/dam/truistleadershipinstitute/us/en/documents/whitepaper/new-worker-psychology.pdf
https://www.truistleadershipinstitute.com/
https://www.truistleadershipinstitute.com/


  76

Environment

Truist is committed to building a more sustainable 
company that delivers long-term value for 
shareholders.

We are offering more sustainability-linked financing 
and products to clients, and partnering with clients 
and other stakeholders to provide advice and share 
our knowledge.

We have made progress on our initiatives to reduce 
greenhouse gas emissions, conserve energy and 
water, reduce the use of virgin materials and 
resources, recycle and reuse material, and invest 
in technology and other innovations that propel us 
forward on our sustainability journey.



  77  77  77

Climate action and 
accomplishments

Truist approaches climate change through 
collaboration and inclusion as we meet clients 
where they are and partner with them as they 
address their own risks and opportunities on their 
sustainability journeys.

 

 

 

 

Environment

To learn more about the Truist 
TCFD Report, please scan the 
QR code. 

• We work internally across our own lines of 
business and externally across numerous 
industries that our clients operate in as well as 
the financial services sector to ensure that we 
adopt and enhance best practices so we can 
amplify the positive impact of our products, 
services, and advice.

• We recognize that some clients or industries are 
in different stages of their sustainability journey, 
and we embrace the diversity of approaches and 
timelines as we provide support with a client-
first mindset. 

Truist has enhanced external collaboration and 
inclusion by:

• Joining the Partnership for Carbon Accounting 
Financials (PCAF) and committing to assess and 
disclose GHG emissions of loans and investments

• Joining the Risk Management Association’s 
Climate Risk Consortium, which aims to advance 
awareness of and address risks relevant to 
climate change

• Planting more than 1 million trees through a 
partnership between American Forests and 
Truist's LightStream loan program

• Joining the Ceres Company Network for 
partnership and sector sharing aimed at helping 
our clients and communities as we all address 
climate change

Truist takes an inclusive and balanced approach to 
pursuing environmental and sustainability goals, 
with a commitment to lowering our own emissions 
and being responsible stewards of resources.

Our progress toward becoming a more sustainable 
enterprise includes:

• Setting a goal for net zero greenhouse gas 
emissions by 2050

• Pursuing our first-generation sustainability 
targets (set before our net zero announcement) 
that use 2019 as the baseline, including:

 – 35% reduction in Scope 1 emissions by 2030
 – 35% reduction in Scope 2 (location-based) 
emissions by 2030

 – 25% reduction in water consumption by 2030 at 
locations where Truist receives a water bill

• Disclosing data on our 2022 greenhouse gas 
emissions1

 – Scope 1: 14,535 metric tons of CO2 equivalent 
(MT CO2e)

 – Scope 2 (location-based): 154,289 MT CO2e
 – Scope 3: 

 • Category 3 (fuel- and energy-related 
activities): 60,196 MT CO2e

 • Category 6 (business travel): 25,723 MT CO2e

• Consistent involvement and focus from the 
executive leadership team and board of directors 
on sustainability and climate-related activities, 
including direct engagement in setting our goal of 
net zero emissions by 2050

• Optimizing our real estate portfolio, which has 
reduced associated consumption of energy, water, 
and other resources

• Investing in energy management systems, more 
efficient HVAC, LED lighting, smart irrigation 
systems, and other technology

• Securely shredding and recycling paper to divert 
it from landfills and protect customer information

• Choosing flooring made with recycled content

• Supporting the circular economy by purchasing 
remanufactured furniture

• Enhancing disclosure of our progress on climate-
related risks and opportunities, including:
– Publishing a brief report on progress related 

to the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD) in late 2022 as we worked 
on a more comprehensive TCFD Report that 
discloses full-year data and aligns the timing 
with the rest of our corporate reporting work in 
the spring of 2023

– Publishing a second public CDP response as 
Truist in July 2022 to disclose the risks and 
opportunities of climate change

– Publishing this Truist 2022 Corporate 
Responsibility Report, which is our third 
sustainability report as Truist

– Publishing a 2022 Climate Lobbying Survey

• More fully integrating climate risk into our 
Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) framework

• Advancing our work on sector-level analysis as we 
make progress toward target setting

• Adding professionals with analytics, climate risk, 
and sustainability experience and expertise across 
lines of business and in our second line of defense

• Launching Truist's CCB Sustainability Advisory 
Team, which provides clients with relevant 
content and capital structure insights to grow their 
businesses in an ever-changing world. The team 
reinforces our strategic advisory approach by 
bringing industry expertise to our clients through 
our community-focused banking teams

• Creating a new Risk, Finance, and ESG Data 
Analytics Office whose charter includes 
providing a framework for ESG data that will 
enhance productivity and inform data-driven 
decision making 

1 In 2022, with the merger complete, Truist reconstructed our 2019 through 2022 greenhouse gas calculations from 
primary sources, including clean property and utility records. This reconstructed database ensured that all properties were 
included once and had complete and consistent information. In addition, recalculating all years at once allowed Truist to 
incorporate the most recently published emissions factors and global warming potentials.

https://ir.truist.com/image/Truist2022TCFD.pdf
https://ir.truist.com/image/Truist2022TCFD.pdf


  78

Sustainable finance 
Truist seeks opportunities to share our financial 
services knowledge, products, and services across 
a variety of topics including ESG and climate 
change. We meet clients where they are in their 
decarbonization journeys and partner with them to 
help them achieve their sustainability goals.

We offer several financing channels to work with 
clients in supporting their transitions to lower-
carbon products, services, production processes, 
and other elements of their operations.

Sustainability in capital markets 
In 2022, Truist provided a wide range of capital 
markets and asset-backed securities (ABS) services 
that support or advance our clients’ sustainability 
work, including:

• Supporting the issuance of $14 billion in 
investment-grade sustainability-themed bonds

• Serving as active bookrunner on $1.2 billion  
of bonds

Truist was honored to be named a 2022 Bank of the 
Year in GlobalCapital’s US Securitization Awards, 
which recognizes our work as a market leader in 
serving the needs of first-time and repeat issuers in 
a variety of asset classes.

Truist also won the Deal of the Year award from 
GlobalCapital for our role in a $173 million asset-
backed securities transaction for Greenworks 
Lending by Nuveen.

• The 2021 green bond transaction was a debt 
offering backed by commercial property assessed 
clean energy (CPACE), which is a financing 
structure that lets building owners borrow money 
for energy efficiency, renewable energy, and 
other projects and make repayments through an 
assessment on their property tax bill

• The financing arrangement is tied to the property 
even if it's sold, which creates long-term 
investment incentives in building performance

• Truist served as the structuring agent and 
joint bookrunner for the transaction, and the 
bonds were marketed as green bonds based 
on the Green Bond Principles published by the 
International Capital Market Association (ICMA)

Renewables
Truist provided more than $1.5 billion in direct 
capital commitments in 2022 to support renewable 
energy projects.

Truist ESG bond framework 
To support environmental and social initiatives, 
Truist developed an ESG Bond Framework that 
addresses the four core components of the ICMA 
Green Bond Principles, Social Bond Principles, and 
Sustainability Bond Guidelines regarding:

• The use of funds

• Project selection and evaluation processes

• Management of proceeds

• Reporting

Truist was the first U.S. regional bank to issue a social 
bond, which we did in 2021 with $1.25 billion in 
aggregate principal. Proceeds from the bond were 
used primarily for affordable housing projects, many 
of which had positive environmental impacts from 
adaptive reuse of older or outdated buildings such as 
warehouses and the installation of energy-efficient 
HVAC and appliances.

For more information on our inaugural social 
bond, please see the Truist Social Bond Impact 
Report, published in March 2022, and our ESG 
Bond Framework.

Environment
Truist Community Capital
Truist Community Capital provides loans and 
investments to developers, syndicators, CDFIs, 
community development entities, and other 
businesses or organizations that are focused on 
community revitalization and job creation in both 
urban and rural areas.

Truist Community Capital provides debt financing, 
LIHTC, NMTC, and SBIC products, and leads many 
projects that help revitalize communities and make 
a positive impact on the environment through 
adaptive reuse of abandoned or outdated buildings, 
brownfield reclamation projects, rehabilitation 
of poorly maintained buildings, obtaining LEED 
certification for renovations and improvements, 
and other sustainable initiatives that create jobs 
and stimulate the local economy.

Truist LightStream
Consumers are increasingly interested in making 
their homes more sustainable, and LightStream's 
2022 home improvement survey found that 93% of 
homeowners want to be environmentally conscious 
with their home projects.

Truist offers LightStream loans that can be used 
to purchase electric vehicles or home chargers; 
solar power and other home improvement projects 
that enhance energy efficiency; or sustainability 
improvements such as window replacements or 
new insulation. These unsecured loans are offered 
at competitive rates with no fees, and funds can 
even be received the same day an application is 
made when all considerations are met. 

LightStream loans are virtually paperless, and 
more than 95% of LightStream clients get digital 
statements. Thanks to a unique partnership 
with American Forests, Truist plants a tree for 
every LightStream loan we make to celebrate our 
paperless process. In 2022, LightStream planted 
nearly 800 acres of trees through American Forests.

Since the program's inception in 2013, we have 
planted more than 1 million trees. Along with 
supporting wilderness sites across the U.S., more 
than 30% of these trees are planted as part of efforts 
to restore habitats and help mitigate the extinction 
of endangered species, including the whitebark pine, 
which is threatened by non-native fungal diseases, 
wildfires, insects, and climate change.

Service Finance 
Since acquiring Service Finance LLC in 2021, we 
have expanded point-of-sale lending to more 
than 15,526 dealers so homeowners can access 
competitive financing for energy-efficient home 
improvements such as installing solar panels, 
replacing windows and doors, replacing roofs, 
upgrading HVAC systems, or installing electric 
vehicle charging stations.

Service Finance loans for 2022

•   HVAC: $1.3 billion

•   Window/Door: $500 million

•   Roofing: $400 million

•   Remodeling: $600 million

•   Solar: $400 million

•   Other: $400 million

$3.6B

11%

11%

36%

11%

14%
17%

https://filecache.investorroom.com/mr5ir_truist/561/Truist_2021_Social_Bond Report_ADA.pdf
https://filecache.investorroom.com/mr5ir_truist/561/Truist_2021_Social_Bond Report_ADA.pdf
https://filecache.investorroom.com/mr5ir_truist/415/Truist Sustainable Financing Framework.pdf
https://filecache.investorroom.com/mr5ir_truist/415/Truist Sustainable Financing Framework.pdf


Sustainability within Truist’s operations
Truist is committed to making our own operations 
more sustainable as we reduce our carbon footprint, 
conserve resources, and look for more ways to 
recycle or reuse materials.

We have partnerships with external events and 
organizations that are environmentally focused, 
such as Biketoberfest, an urban bicycle adventure 
that benefits Sustain Charlotte and raised 
more than $80,000 in 2022. Truist teammates 
volunteered at the event and handed out tote bags 
made from upcycled banners that were used during 
our rebranding, which diverted 30 tons of material 
from going to landfills. 

Following are some of Truist’s initiatives that 
helped reduce our environmental impact in 2022:

Reducing our real estate footprint
Truist continues to proactively optimize our 
commercial real estate footprint by closing 
branches and office locations. In addition to 
yielding operational savings, these closures also 
reduce the associated energy consumption and 
water usage. 

In 2022, Truist closed 412 branches and reduced 
its non-branch footprint by 2.2 million net square 
feet. Since Truist's inception, we have closed 827 
branches and reduced non-branch space by more 
than 6.8 million net square feet.

Concurrently, Truist has opened new branches in 
low- and moderate-income and majority-ethnically 
diverse neighborhoods, as we committed to doing, 
and increased the percentage of overall branch 
networks serving LMI communities since the 
merger. Truist is also adding new features and 
services at branches to enhance diversity, equity, 
and inclusion (DEI) and financial inclusion, such 
as our 700 multicultural branches that are staffed 
by teammates who speak multiple languages and 
offer translated documents. We also offer financial 
coaching services at no cost at 600+ branches 
through our partnership with Operation HOPE.

LEED certification pursuits
Issued by the U.S. Green Building Council, 
Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design 
(LEED) certification is the most widely used green 
building certification program, and it provides a 
framework for encouraging more energy efficient 
and sustainable buildings.

The Truist Leadership Institute in Greensboro, North 
Carolina, was our first LEED Certified® building.

We are doubling the size of the Truist Leadership 
Institute with a second building that’s under 
construction and is scheduled to be completed 

in 2024. 

The building features MERV 13 air filtration 
systems with ultraviolet light that kills germs, and 
large windows and doors that can be opened during 
mild weather for fresh air and to minimize the need 
for heating and cooling.

The campus expansion will provide a state-of-the-
art building for seminars, flexible meeting spaces, 
64 guest rooms for overnight stays, an on-site bar 
and restaurant, and green spaces for sustainability 
and nature. Truist is seeking LEED Silver® 
certification for the new North Building, which will:

• Be built with locally sourced materials as much 
as possible

• Use LED lighting and high-efficiency HVAC 
systems

• Minimize water usage

• Minimize consumables

• Offer recycling bins throughout the facility

Paper shredding and recycling
Truist encourages teammates to use digital 
documents instead of paper when feasible to 
minimize our consumption of paper, and we 
offer teammates easy access to secure paper 
shredding services for documents that are ready 
to be securely recycled.

In 2022, Truist shredded and recycled 16,150,250 
pounds (7,326 metric tons) of paper. That’s about 
the same weight as the amount of copper in 260 
Statue of Liberty monuments.

Energy conservation
Building upon an ongoing effort to invest in energy 
management systems and more efficient HVAC 
and LED lighting, in 2022 Truist spent $5 million 
at over 150 locations on LED lighting and energy 
management systems. We also invested over 

By the numbers
The positive environmental impact 
equivalencies from Truist’s secure shred 
program

Greenhouse gases 
38,034 metric tons of CO2 avoided

8,560 gas-powered cars off the road  
per year

Solid waste
646,010 pounds of solid waste avoided

50,690 trash bags avoided

Water
15,342,747 gallons of water preserved

23 Olympic swimming pools

Energy
23,902,523 kWh of energy saved

97,095 residential refrigerators operated 
per year

Wood
32,301 fresh green tons preserved

193,804 trees preserved

Environment

 79



  80

$500,000 in HVAC optimization and smart irrigation projects.

Data center decommissioning
Truist decommissioned two obsolete enterprise data centers and a 
third smaller data center, and migrated those workloads to new data 
centers that are more energy efficient. Truist is also deploying newer 
generation IT equipment such as servers and mainframes that have 
higher-efficiency power supplies, further reducing the energy required 
to perform a unit of workload task.

Refrigerant management program
In 2022, Truist launched a comprehensive refrigerant management 
program to improve tracking of refrigerant usage and identify 
equipment that uses refrigerants with higher global warming potential 
(GWP). The program also introduced training focused on measures 
for minimizing refrigerant loss and encouraging the adoption of lower 
GWP refrigerants to ready the Truist portfolio for the transition to 
next-generation refrigerants. As a result of this program, Truist will be 
able to quantify its 2022 refrigerant usage and better implement its 
strategy to reduce this source of Scope 1 greenhouse gas emissions in 
the coming years. 

Chiller optimization
In 2022, Truist implemented a chiller optimization project and 
retro-commissioning effort, both of which emerged from ASHRAE 
level-2 energy audits performed in 2021. We continued this energy 
audit cycle in 2022, and the resulting projects help keep larger 
administrative buildings running efficiently while also driving down 
energy consumption.

Repurposed and remanufactured furniture
In 2022, Truist supported the circular economy by buying recycled, 
reused, and remanufactured materials. 

When we moved to a different office location in Dallas, we embraced 
a sustainable furniture program and bought previously used and 
remanufactured furniture, including workstations, chairs, filing 
cabinets, and conference room tables. In addition to reducing the total 
cost of the project, creating demand for remanufactured furniture 
supported domestic jobs, kept much of the original material out of a 

Environment
landfill, and reduced the need for new raw materials.

The environmental benefits of the Dallas remanufactured furniture 
program were equivalent to:

• 18,330 pounds of CO2 avoided

• 20,148 pounds of landfill waste avoided

• 260 American houses powered for one day from the energy savings

Truist has also partnered with the MillerKnoll rePurpose Program and 
InstallNET to donate and reuse more than 927,000 pounds (about 464 
tons) of furniture that it no longer needs. Nearly all of the furniture 
was given to several dozen nonprofits, schools, community centers, 
and other organizations that could use the furniture as-is, and the rest 
was given to firms to remanufacture, allowing for reuse by others. This 
diverted waste from landfills and allowed charities to focus more of 
their funds on advancing their missions. 

Environmental benefits and equivalencies of Truist's donations to the 
MillerKnoll rePurpose Program1 include:

• 912,507 pounds reused

• 14,756 pounds resold

• 140 houses worth of CO2 emissions from electricity use for one year

Recycled content in flooring
Truist conducted a flooring change-out branding initiative at its retail 
locations in 2022 and chose to use flooring made with recycled content 
to help divert material from landfills and reduce our carbon footprint. 
In the first three quarters of 2022, the vendor reported that purchasing 
these products had the following impacts:

• 227,466 pounds of material diverted from landfills by using recycled 
content instead of virgin material

• 729 metric tons of carbon emissions avoided, which is equivalent to:
 – 156 cars off the road for one year
 – 92 houses worth of energy use for one year
 – 2,446 acres of forest required to sequester that much carbon

Since 2019, Truist’s purchases of flooring products with recycled 
content have kept more than 1 million pounds of material out of landfills.

1. https://www.hermanmiller.com/better-world/sustainability/repurpose-program

https://www.hermanmiller.com/better-world/sustainability/repurpose-program/


  81

Planning for severe weather events  
and building resiliency 
Truist has a long history of planning for and 
responding to natural disasters and severe  
weather events.

Truist has internal teams that work on protecting 
our physical assets, such as branches and corporate 
offices, as well as business continuity plans for 
possible disruptions to data centers and other 
operations facilities. We also plan for events 
outside of our control such as prolonged outages 
of energy grids or telecommunications networks. 
Learn more about our business continuity planning 
in the “Responsible business“ chapter of this report.

We also understand the value of immediate 
response in the face of crisis, and the value 
of preparation and infrastructure to help 
communities become more resilient and ready to 
respond when disaster strikes. To further these 
goals, in 2022, the Truist Foundation provided 
a $5 million grant to the American Red Cross 
to increase their and their partners’ capacity to 
respond to disasters. For more information, please 
see page 39 of the “Community“ chapter.

Teammates volunteer on 
environmental projects
Another way Truist shows care for our local 
environments and communities is through 
teammate volunteerism. 

Our teammates participated in dozens of volunteer 
events across our footprint to clean up parks and 
playgrounds, build outdoor classroom spaces at 
schools, work on neighborhood beautification 
projects, plant and harvest fresh fruits and 
vegetables, rebuild infrastructure, remove graffiti, 
spread mulch, and improve water runoff and 
drainage, and many other projects that support a 
healthy environment.

Environment



  82

Published April 2023
For questions about Truist’s corporate 
responsibility and sustainability program,  
please contact:

Tori Kaplan 

chief corporate responsibility and  
sustainability officer

Tori.S.Kaplan@truist.com

mailto:Tori.S.Kaplan%40truist.com?subject=

	Truist 2022 Corporate Responsibility Report
	Table of contents
	A letter from our Chairman & CEO
	Purpose and progress
	Responsible business
	Clients
	Financial inclusion
	Community
	Teammates
	Diversity, equity, and inclusion
	Technology and innovation
	Environment