UOB Sustainability Report 2022 - Building the Sustainable Future of ASEAN


UOB Sustainability Report 2022

Building the Sustainable Future of ASEAN



About This Report

In aligning with the GRI Standards, we have applied the 
following reporting principles: 

• Accuracy;
• Balance;
• Clarity;
• Comparability;
• Completeness;
• Sustainability context;
• Timeliness; and
• Verifiability.

This report is externally assured against the GRI Standards 
for sustainability reporting. The assurance, provided by 
Ernst & Young LLP, validates the accuracy and reliability of 
figures and statements in this report that are related to the 
subject matters agreed as per the Assurance Statement. 
The assurance is in accordance with International Standard 
on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 Other Than Audits 
or Reviews of Historical Financial Information. The scope 
of work and conclusions can be found in the Assurance 
Statement on page 154 to 168. 

This report should be read in conjunction with the  
UOB Annual Report 2022 and other related disclosures. 
Throughout the report, links to the relevant resources are 
provided for the convenience of our readers. 

Unless otherwise stated, this report covers the period 
from 1 January to 31 December 2022 and includes 
all UOB divisions, and banking and investment 
management subsidiaries within the Group. The report 
is published on 23 March 2023 and is available online at  
www.UOBgroup.com. No copies were printed. 

All figures in this report are in Singapore dollars unless 
otherwise specified. Certain figures in this report may not 
add up to the respective totals due to rounding. 

We welcome your feedback and suggestions at 
Sustainability@UOBgroup.com. 

United Overseas Bank Limited (UOB) has been committed to 
creating long-term value for our customers, our colleagues 
and our communities since 1935. In building a sustainable 
business over time and across borders, we engage our 
stakeholders constructively and regularly. This enables 
us to align our strategies with what is important to them 
and for them to have a deeper appreciation of how we 
contribute to enterprise, innovation and economic growth 
across the region. 

In this UOB Sustainability Report 2022, our seventh annual 
report, we explain our sustainability approach, objectives 
and performance in the context of the year’s operating 
environment. We also share how we create value for our 
stakeholders over the short, medium and long term, which 
is integral to our corporate purpose. 

This report is approved by the UOB Board of Directors and 
is prepared in accordance with: 

• the Singapore Exchange (SGX) Securities Trading Limited 
Mainboard Listing Rules 711A and 711B on Sustainability 
Reporting, as well as Practice Note 7.6 Sustainability 
Reporting Guide issued in June 2016;

• the SGX Core ESG Metrics published in December 2021;
• the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards 2021 by 

the Global Sustainability Standards Board;
• the GRI G4 Financial Services Sector Disclosures document 

issued in 2008 and refreshed in May 2013;
• the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) 

Financials Sector Standards on Commercial Banks, 
Consumer Finance and Mortgage Finance published 
in October 2018; 

• the Monetary Authority of Singapore’s (MAS) Green 
Finance Industry Taskforce’s Financial Institutions 
Climate-related Disclosure Document published in  
May 2021;

• the MAS Guidelines on Environmental Risk Management 
for Banks published in December 2020;

• the Guidelines on Responsible Financing issued in 
October 2015 (revised June 2018) by The Association 
of Banks in Singapore; and 

• the Recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-
related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) issued in June 2017 
and updated in October 2021. 

This report also serves as our Communication on Progress 
(CoP) for the United Nations Global Compact.

Please scan the QR code to view the UOB Annual Report 2022.

1U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Contents

Overview
3 Our 2022 Snapshot
4 Deputy Chairman and CEO’s Statement
6 Our Commitment to Net Zero

Our Approach
10 Sustainability Strategy
14 Sustainability Governance
16 Stakeholder Engagement
18 Material ESG Factors

Drive Growth Sustainably
24 Economic Contributions
26 Sustainable Banking

Keep Customers at the Centre
56 Fair Dealing
59 Data Privacy and Governance
62 Customer Experience
66 Financial Inclusion

Develop Professionals of Principle
71 Talent Development and Inclusion
79 Workplace Safety, Health and Well-being

Uphold Corporate Responsibility 
85 Governance and Risk Culture
89 Regulatory Compliance
93 Information Security
95 Direct Environmental Impact
102 Sustainable Procurement
104 Community Stewardship

Appendix
111 Sustainability in Numbers
124 Climate Scenario Analysis Methodology
128 Recognition and Awards
130 Memberships
131 GRI Content Index
139 SASB Index
142 TCFD Index
143 UN SDGs Index
149 UNGC Ten Principles Index
150 Glossary
154 External Assurance

2U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Overview

Our 2022 Snapshot

Drive Growth Sustainably

Net zero by 2050
commitment made  

for six sectors

$25 billion
in total sustainable 

financing to 
corporates 

UOB Sustainability 
Compass

rolled out to help SMEs 
kickstart their  

sustainability journey

$10 billion
in total assets under 

management in  
ESG-focused 
investments

UOB Transition 
Finance Framework

established to 
support companies in 

decarbonisation

Keep Customers at the Centre

91%
of customer complaints 

resolved within 
established standards

Zero 
material issues in 
relation to data 

confidentiality and 
privacy

UOB SME app
launched for SMEs 

to transact and gain 
personalised insights 

on an interactive 
dashboard

The Greentech 
Accelerator

launched to connect 
SMEs and corporates 
to green innovations

75%
digitally-enabled 

individual customers 
with monthly active 

rate of 38%

1 Excludes employees from Citigroup in Malaysia and Thailand, where relevant.

Develop Professionals of Principle1

37%
of our senior 

management are 
women

94%
of our colleagues  

hired locally

790,000  
square feet 

of total office space 
transformed into 

high-performance 
workplaces

SG Clean 
certification
achieved for all 

our buildings and 
branches in Singapore

$26 million
invested in employee 

training and 
development

Uphold Corporate Responsibility

Best Risk 
Management – 

Gold  
received at the 

Singapore Corporate 
Awards 2022

Zero
cases of significant  
non-compliance in 
relation to bribery, 
corruption or fraud 

Carbon neutrality
maintained for our 

operational footprint

$9 million
in monetary and 

in-kind contributions 
raised for the 

community

Zero
material information 

security incidents

3U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Overview

Deputy Chairman and CEO’s Statement

Sustainability is a strategic area on which we are focusing 
our efforts to create real impact, as part of our promise to 
do right by our stakeholders. It is fundamental to UOB’s 
corporate purpose and we want to be a responsible 
financial steward to help individuals, companies and 
communities build the future of ASEAN.

Forging our net zero future

In 2022, we saw progress in climate action around the world 
as more countries and companies set targets to achieve 
net zero carbon emissions. Even as topics such as climate 
change and net zero take centre stage, global events have 
brought home the importance of issues including food and 
energy security, and supply chain resilience.

At UOB, we have laid out a comprehensive roadmap 
for our net zero commitment and targets for six focus 
sectors in the energy and built environment ecosystems.  
These sectors are critical to the transition of the economies 
and industries in Southeast Asia. They also account for 
60 per cent of our corporate lending portfolio and the 
majority of our Scope 3 financed emissions.  

We are also mindful that as we pursue decarbonisation,  
we need to ensure a just transition for continued 
socioeconomic growth in our region, given the diverse 
economic and social needs. 

To these ends, we have adopted internationally-recognised 
regional pathways relevant to our key markets. This will 
enable us to help drive an orderly and just transition so that 
lives and livelihoods can continue to improve, particularly 
in our home region.

Driving growth sustainably

It is critical that we support our customers in sustainable 
development. 

In 2022, we launched the UOB Transition Finance Framework 
with the aim to help companies in carbon-intensive,  
hard-to-abate sectors with their transition plans.  
We actively promote green and sustainability-linked  
finance to our corporate clients seeking growth 
opportunities. We are well on track to achieve our 
sustainable finance portfolio target of $30 billion by 2025.

Small- and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) are the 
bedrock of our economies, but they also need the most 
help in their sustainable transition. To support them,  
we rolled out the UOB Sustainability Compass to offer 
SMEs a customised, step-by-step guide on starting and 
advancing their sustainability journeys. For individuals, 
we help UOB EVOL cardholders to offset their household 
electricity carbon footprint when they charge their utilities 
bills to their credit card.  

We also made progress in addressing climate-related 
risks and opportunities against our Task Force on  
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) adoption 
roadmap. In this year’s Sustainability Report, we have 
enhanced our disclosures on climate-related risks, including 
our improved stress testing modelling for physical and 
transition risks.

Keeping customers at the centre

The FinLab, our innovation accelerator, continues to play 
its role to connect SMEs in the region to digital solution 
providers in areas such as business transformation and 
sustainability innovation. The Greentech Accelerator, 
a global programme launched in 2022, helps address 
companies’ environmental-related needs. It also supports 
innovative greentech solution providers in terms of funding, 
advisory, mentorship and networking opportunities.

With customers’ interests at the heart of all that we do,  
we focus on creating positive experiences for them. During 
the year, we introduced an Auto-Save feature on the TMRW 
digital banking app in Indonesia to help our customers 
earn higher interest on their savings account balances.  
This is powered by artificial intelligence and machine 
learning, technologies that we leverage while ensuring the 
principles of fairness, ethics, accountability and transparency. 

4U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Overview

Across the region, we introduced a new branch concept, 
Wellness@UOB, to engage customers through mental and 
physical wellness activities. This is part of our ongoing 
branch transformation to provide personalised services 
focused on our customers’ holistic wellness.

Developing professionals of principle

We introduced The UOB Way in 2022 to strengthen our 
people culture and to build employee pride. It embodies 
our people philosophy of care, growth and trust, so our 
people feel included, recognised and valued for their 
diverse strengths and contributions. 

As part of expanding our talent pool to tap on a wider set 
of valuable skills and experience, our Gig+U employment 
scheme supports retirees and women who have left the 
workforce to take on flexible work.

Training and development are key to UOB’s care for our 
people’s professional and personal growth. In 2022,  
we launched the Group Technology and Operations (GTO) 
Academy for our 5,000-strong GTO workforce to be upskilled 
and certified. It adds to our existing suite of functional 
academies and Group-wide learning and development 
programmes that focus on building competencies for 
the future.

Even as we recover from the pandemic, hybrid ways of 
working offer a dynamic work environment that supports 
work-life balance for our people. As at the end of 2022, 
we have transformed a total of 790,000 square feet of 
office space into high-performance workplaces, where 
productivity, agility and ergonomics are key to ensuring 
that our people can perform at their best.

Upholding corporate responsibility 

At UOB, strong risk management and business ethics 
are the building blocks on which we stand firm in our 
stewardship role to safeguard our customers’ assets, 
to drive socioeconomic growth and to contribute to the  
well-being of the community and the environment. 

We maintained operational carbon neutrality in 2022. 
This was a result of ongoing efforts to reduce energy 
consumption and to use renewable energy sources, 
supplemented by carbon offsets to address a small 
balance of our carbon emissions. Eight of our wholly-owned 
buildings are certified green and we will continue our work 
to achieve the recognition for all UOB buildings by 2030.  

We resumed holding an in-person UOB Global Heartbeat 
Run/Walk event in 2022. This annual flagship event, where 
our colleagues and their families, as well as our customers 
come together to raise funds for the underprivileged,  
was well attended. During the year, we clocked close to  
45,000 hours of volunteering and raised more than  
$9.2 million in monetary and in-kind contributions across 
the Group.

Building the sustainable future of ASEAN

We are making good progress in our integration of 
Citigroup’s consumer banking businesses in Indonesia, 
Malaysia, Thailand and Vietnam. This transformational 
deal expanded our retail operations and enabled us to 
create greater value for our enlarged base of seven million 
customers to date. We are also strengthening our regional 
capabilities with new local sustainability offices being set 
up across our banking subsidiaries. 

To deepen the awareness and competencies of our more 
than 28,000 colleagues, we rolled out a Group-wide 
Sustainability 101 training module, available in local 
languages in our key markets. This will be followed by 
structured and tailored training based on the needs of 
different business and support units.

Transformative change in sustainability can only take place 
when there are ambitious, coordinated and collective 
efforts across all levels of government, economy and 
society. It is our responsibility to build a sustainable 
future for generations to come. At UOB, we want to create 
meaningful value and positive impact for the people around 
us, by working with our colleagues, customers and other 
stakeholders. I believe that we can, and we will, catalyse 
and enable change.
 

Wee Ee Cheong
Deputy Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

February 2023

Deputy Chairman and CEO’s Statement

5U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Overview

Our Commitment to Net Zero

Asia, particularly Southeast Asia, is one of the areas most vulnerable to climate 
change. As a leading financial institution operating in this region, UOB is steadfast 
in being a positive force in the fight against climate change. Our commitment to 
net zero by 2050 is grounded in the need for a just transition that continues to 
support socioeconomic growth and improve energy access across the diverse 
economies in the region, in tandem with decarbonisation.

Our commitment and targets
As a start, we have covered two key carbon-emitting ecosystems, namely energy and the built environment. These span 
six focus sectors that are material contributors to greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions regionally and account for about 
60 per cent of UOB’s corporate lending portfolio.

The six sectors are among the most important for decarbonisation. In particular, oil, gas and coal, which are the supply of 
fossil fuels, are responsible for 73 per cent of direct emissions globally. The power, automotive, real estate and steel sectors, 
through downstream usage of electricity, passenger cars, iron, steel and buildings, account for 67 per cent of emissions 
arising from fossil fuel combustion. Our targets in these sectors reflect our ambition to facilitate this change end to end. 

Energy

Built Environment

Power Automotive Oil and gas

Real estate Construction Steel

Emissions baseline and targets
kgCO2/MWh

2020
0

100

200

300

400

500
473

365

142

7
2025 2030 2035 2040 2045 2050

-61% 
by 2030

-98% 
by 2050

Reduction target NGFS REMIND 
(regional)

2021 baseline

Emissions baseline and targets
gCO2 /vehicle-km

2020
0

40

80

120

160 144

128

54

0
2025 2030 2035 2040 2045 2050

-58% 
by 2030

-100% 
by 2050

Reduction target IEA NZE (global)2021 baseline

No new project financing for upstream 
oil and gas projects approved for 
development after 2022

Emissions baseline and targets
kgCO2/m2

0

20

40

60

80

100

120

2020 2025 2030 2035 2040 2045 2050
Reduction target CRREM (regional)2021 baseline

87

101

56

3

-36% 
by 2030

-97% 
by 2050

0

5

10

15

20

25

30

35

2020 2025 2030 2035 2040 2045 2050
Reduction target NGFS GCAM 

(regional)
2021 baseline

25

18

4

25

-31% 
by 2030

-85% 
by 2050

Emissions baseline and targets
tCO2 /$ million

Note on reference pathways:
• NGFS REMIND: Network for Greening the Financial System’s Regional Model of Investment and Model Development
• IEA NZE: International Energy Agency’s Net Zero Emissions by 2050
• CRREM: Carbon Risk Real Estate Monitor
• NGFS GCAM: Network for Greening the Financial System’s Global Change Assessment Model
• MPP: Mission Possible Partnership 

Emissions baseline and targets
tCO2 /tonne

0.0

0.4

0.8

1.2

1.6

2.0

2020 2025 2030 2035 2040 2045 2050
Reduction target MPP Tech 

Moratorium 
(global)

2021 baseline

1.89

1.42

0.14

1.77

-20% 
by 2030

-92% 
by 2050

6U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Overview

We are guided by the science in setting our net zero targets and have based our targets on internationally-recognised 
climate models. In consideration of structural differences across the region, we have extracted regional pathways for 
some targets that represent fair contributions of our key markets. 

Our approach is in line with the guidance from the Glasgow Financial Alliance for Net Zero (GFANZ) on how financial 
institutions should set targets and use sectoral pathways in alignment with the Paris Agreement and the 1.5°C global 
warming trajectory outlined by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. We have applied standards by the 
Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF) to account for the GHG emissions associated with our financed 
portfolio. Our data selection priority is also in line with PCAF’s guidance, with limited deviations where necessary to 
reflect the reality of emissions data availability.

Our Commitment to Net Zero

Our principles for prioritising sectors

Emissions materiality
Focus on ‘brown’ sectors with highest GHG emissions and criticality for achieving climate goals1

Portfolio materiality
Cover sectors representing a significant portion of UOB’s corporate loan book, where we have the 
greatest potential to effect change

3

Sector abatement horizon
Focus on sectors with largest expected decline in GHG emissions in coming years2

Our five-step approach to target-setting

For our focus sectors, we:

1. calculated emissions at the company-level 
for each of our clients;

2. aggregated our clients’ emissions to create 
a UOB sector average weighted by our 
exposure to each of those clients;

3. projected those emissions, taking into 
account the company’s plans, national 
commitments and possible technological 
developments;

4. established reference scenarios with a 
science-based pathway to net zero by 
2050; and

5. set targets for 2030 and 2050 that bridge 
the gap between our projections and the 
reference scenario after quantifying the set 
of portfolio actions we will need to take.

Current UOB 
sector portfolio

2021 2030 2040 2050

Target

Emissions 
scope 
defined 
by GHG 
Protocol, 
2020-2050F

Company-level 
emissions  
aggregated to  
sector portfolio-
level

2
Set targets that 
bridge the gap 
between baseline 
projections and 
reference scenarios5

Reference 
scenarios are used 
to develop views 
on required targets4

Current 
emissions 
calculated at 
company-level1

Sector portfolio 
emissions 
are projected 
forward3

Illustrative 
reference scenario

Illustrative UOB 
projected emissions

Individual company Aggregated portfolio 
emissions

7U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Overview

Our Commitment to Net Zero

Our decarbonisation commitment is contingent on:

• our clients achieving fully their decarbonisation 
strategies and transition plans;

• industries evolving to meet full-stated government plans, 
such as the phase-out of internal combustion engine 
vehicles and the adoption of electric vehicles; and

• power grid decarbonisation occurring in line with 
national energy plans, which will have an impact on 
Scope 2 emissions in other sectors, especially real estate.

As a commercial bank, we see our role as a catalyst and 
enabler to influence the real economy towards net zero. 
We are embedding our net zero targets in our business 
strategies and operations as we actively engage our 
clients across the region, to support them on setting their 
net zero plans or on making their existing net zero plans 
more ambitious, as well as through transition financing.  
We will also direct more financing towards green projects 
and activities, and away from those that emit the  
most carbon.  

We seek to expand the scope of our targets to include new 
sectors and sub-sectors as data and climate scenarios 
become available.

Memberships

• Member of the Net-Zero Banking Alliance

• Member of GFANZ

Find Out More 

  UOB’s commitment to net zero

   Sustainable Banking

8U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2

https://www.uobgroup.com/sustainability/forging-our-net-zero-future.html
https://www.uobgroup.com/uobgroup/about/story/responsible-tax-management.page


Our Approach
10 Sustainability Strategy
14 Sustainability Governance
16 Stakeholder Engagement
18 Material ESG Factors

9U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Our Approach

Sustainability Strategy

At UOB, our sustainability strategy is underpinned by our corporate purpose 
and mirrors our business approach of balancing growth with responsibility.  
Our strategy takes into account the influence and impact our decisions and actions 
may have on our stakeholders and the environment. It also ensures that we remain 
economically relevant through managing environmental, social and governance 
(ESG) risks and opportunities practically and in line with market realities. 

Board statement on sustainability

The Board is committed to building on the Bank’s 
rich heritage to continue creating long-term value 
for all its stakeholders. It guides Management 
in prioritising, formulating and driving the 
sustainability strategy.

Together with Management and with feedback 
from external stakeholders, the Board considers and 
identifies the material ESG risks and opportunities 
that are relevant to the long-term success of  
the Bank. 

The Board is cognisant of national agendas 
and stays updated on sustainability-related 
developments. It recognises the important role of 
financial institutions in facilitating action against 
climate change and customers’ transition to more 
sustainable businesses and solutions. These are 
taken into account when shaping the sustainability 
strategy of the Bank, ensuring that the Bank is 
responding effectively to developments in the 
market and stakeholders’ expectations.

The Bank’s values of Honour, Enterprise, Unity and 
Commitment underpin UOB’s sustainability strategy. 
They will continue to guide its people, policies 
and processes to ensure the long-term interests 
of its stakeholders are met and the performance 
of UOB sustained.

In our focus on creating sustainable value for our 
stakeholders, we align our long-term business strategies 
with their interests. We believe in sustainable development 
that meets the needs of the present without compromising 
the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. 
This entails respect for the environment, human rights, 
labour rights, decent work and economic growth, data 
privacy and business ethics. To ensure that our programmes 
and initiatives take root and grow, we comply with the  
ESG-related laws and regulations in each of our key markets.

Our Group Sustainability Framework supports business 
decision-making at all levels by providing guidance on 
how to manage sustainability-related risks and business 
opportunities in the context of direct and indirect impact 
to the environment, society and the economy. Underpinned 
by various relevant policies which define our commitments 
and guide our approach to conducting business in a 
sustainable manner, the Group Sustainability Framework 
is reviewed annually and approved by our Board. 

We are guided by five principles that act as a compass for 
how we address the material risks and opportunities which 
may impact our customers, colleagues, investors, suppliers 
and the communities in which we operate. As one of Asia’s 
largest banks, UOB has a duty to contribute to the region’s 
long-term economic, social and environmental well-being. 
We also recognise that good corporate governance is 
essential for embedding sustainable business practices 
across the Group. This long-term, responsible approach 
is our heritage and is central to our business strategy 
and activities.

10U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Our Approach

Sustainability Strategy

Our guiding principles

Forge a sustainable future with our customers
Engage our customers proactively to influence their sustainability practices for greater 
long-term resilience

1

Pragmatic and progressive
Implement sustainability programmes to manage ESG risks and opportunities sensibly, 
in line with market and competitive realities

3

Aligned to business strategy and stakeholder interests
Stay economically relevant by pursuing sustainable growth strategies

2

Regulatory compliance as the baseline
Align our sustainability approach with ESG policies and guidelines of governments in 
our key markets

4

Values-driven
Based on our longstanding and distinct values

5

Just as our business strategy hinges on doing what is right 
for our customers, our sustainability strategy informs our 
engagement with our stakeholders and how we can help 
them in their own practices for positive outcomes in the 
long run. We are cognisant of the direct environmental 
and social impact of our own operations and have set 
objectives and targets toward mitigating this impact.  
We are also aware that our lending and funding activities 
have significant potential to affect the environment, 

society and the economy indirectly, in both positive 
and negative ways. Therefore, we are constantly 
enhancing our mechanisms to ensure our customers 
and suppliers comply with all applicable local, national 
and international legislations, including those intended 
to safeguard environmental and social well-being.  
Further, we encourage them to adopt suitable best 
practices that are aligned with internationally-recognised 
guidelines, codes and standards.

11U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Our Approach

Sustainability Strategy

Our sustainability strategy

Promote United Nations Sustainable Development Goals with our stakeholders

Rooted in our values of Honour, Enterprise, Unity and Commitment

Drive Growth 
Sustainably

•  Contribute 
economically to 
the progress of our 
communities

•  Embed environmental, 
social and governance 
risk in our approach to 
risk management

•  Integrate social 
and environmental 
considerations into our 
credit evaluation and 
approval processes

• Adopt and promote 
climate-resilient 
practices to support 
our customers in their 
transition to a low 
carbon economy

•  Develop and provide 
sustainable financing 
and sustainable 
investment solutions

• Protect customer data 
and privacy through 
secure and robust 
systems and practices

•  Ensure Fair Dealing

•  Create intuitive and 
impactful customer 
experiences

•  Make banking simpler, 
smarter and safer 
through ethical use of 
technology and data

• Make banking more 
accessible and 
inclusive

• Support businesses 
across all stages of 
growth

•  Develop high-
performing teams 
and future-focused 
individuals

• Promote work-life 
harmony

•  Encourage 
volunteerism and 
advocacy for social 
and environmental 
causes

• Ensure employee 
engagement and 
satisfaction

• Ensure workplace 
health, safety and 
well-being

•  Embrace diverse 
abilities and strengths

• Maintain highest 
standards of 
governance and risk 
culture

•  Ensure regulatory 
compliance

•  Protect the financial 
system against abuse

•  Incorporate 
sustainability 
principles into our 
procurement practices

• Manage direct 
environmental impact 
and encourage 
environmental 
stewardship

• Champion social 
development in 
art, children and 
education

Keep Customers 
at the Centre

Develop Professionals 
of Principle

Uphold Corporate 
Responsibility

We refine our sustainability strategy continually through 
engaging internal and external stakeholders, including 
employees, regulators, investors and customers. We also  
consider global issues, aligning ourselves with the  

United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs), 
as well as our stakeholders’ expectations in appreciation 
of what is material to them and the context of the countries 
in which we operate. 

12U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Our Approach

Alignment with the UN SDGs and Global Compact
The UN SDGs, or Global Goals, set the global agenda for 
sustainable development by 2030 and call for action by 
both the public and private sectors. UOB’s strategy and 
reporting are aligned with the 17 UN SDGs. 

We recognise that while UOB is better placed to contribute 
directly to a sub-set of the Global Goals, the broadening 
scope of our sustainable financing, responsible investing 
and impact investment activities and their corresponding 
positive impact enable us to align with all the Global Goals.

UOB also became a participant of the United 
Nations Global Compact in 2021. As a signatory, we 
support the Ten Principles of the Global Compact in 
the areas of human rights, labour, environment and  
anti-corruption. We are committed to integrating 
these principles into our culture, business strategy and  
daily operations.

Sustainability Strategy

UOB Sustainable Bond Framework

The UOB Sustainable Bond Framework, launched in  
March 2021, governs the issuance of any debt instruments, 
by UOB and our banking subsidiaries, in relation to our 
financing of green and social projects that contribute to 
the UN SDGs.

The framework covers:

• green bonds to finance and/or to refinance eligible 
green assets;

• social bonds to finance and/or to refinance eligible 
social assets; or

• sustainability bonds to finance and/or to refinance a 
mix of eligible green assets and eligible social assets.

It is in line with:

• the International Capital Market Association Green Bond 
Principles, Social Bond Principles and the Sustainability 
Bond Guidelines; and

• the ASEAN Green Bond Standards, Social Bond 
Standards and Sustainability Bond Standards.

Sustainalytics, an independent ESG research, ratings and 
analytics firm, provided the Second Party Opinion on the 
UOB Sustainable Bond Framework.

In July 2022, we published our first UOB Sustainability 
Bond Allocation and Impact Report to provide details 
of our US$1.5 billion sustainability bond issued in  
April 2021. The report shared the allocation of proceeds 
and the asset portfolio’s distribution by geography  
and sector as at 31 March 2022, as well as the positive 
impact generated.

Ernst & Young LLP provided the independent limited assurance 
for both the UOB Sustainable Bond Framework and the  
UOB Sustainability Bond Allocation and Impact Report.

13U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2

https://www.uob.com.sg/investor-relations/assets/pdfs/investor/capital-funding/sustainable-bond-framework-final.pdf
https://www.uob.com.sg/investor-relations/assets/pdfs/investor/capital-funding/sustainable-bond-framework-second-party-opinion.pdf
https://www.uob.com.sg/investor-relations/assets/pdfs/investor/capital-funding/sustainable-bond-framework-second-party-opinion.pdf
https://www.uob.com.sg/investor-relations/assets/pdfs/investor/capital-funding/sustainability-bond-allocation-and-impact-report-july-2022.pdf
https://www.uob.com.sg/investor-relations/assets/pdfs/investor/capital-funding/sustainability-bond-allocation-and-impact-report-july-2022.pdf


Our Approach

Sustainability Governance 

Sustainability is the responsibility of all UOB employees. As part of our commitment 
to sustainable and responsible growth, we identify, assess and manage social 
and environmental risks, challenges, impact and opportunities. This is carried out 
within a robust governance framework, underpinned by policies and guidelines 
that define our commitment and guide our approach to conducting business.

Similar structures are set up within banking subsidiaries to ensure that our sustainability strategy and objectives are 
effectively being implemented in our markets. In addition, the management teams of the UOB entities are responsible 
for appraising the relevant sustainability issues in their respective domains and for taking appropriate steps to ensure 
that customers and suppliers also meet relevant policy requirements, wherever applicable.

Further, we are setting up a Sustainability Advisory Panel to provide external perspectives and independent advice to 
our Board and Management on various aspects of our sustainability strategy, targets and initiatives. This approach 
will enable us to benefit from different areas of expertise and best practice ideas.

Our governance structure

Board of Directors

Board level

Executive Committee 
(Exco)

Management Executive Committee
(MEC)

Group Sustainability Committee
(GSC)

UOB’s Board of Directors, through the Exco, and the MEC review 
long-term business and organisational goals and provide the 
strategic direction for the Bank’s sustainability practices, including 
those addressing climate change-related issues. They review, 
determine and oversee the management and monitoring of the 
Bank’s material environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors 
and their scope, as well as evaluate relevant key performance 
indicators. They also review and approve relevant disclosures.

The MEC supports the Exco in matters related to sustainability 
and provides strategic direction for the Bank’s sustainability 
practices in line with the strategy approved by the Board.

The GSC is a senior management committee that reports directly to 
the MEC on sustainability matters. This ensures that ESG matters 
are given due consideration in all aspects of our operations. 

The GSC members represent the Bank’s business and support units 
whose activities have the potential to impact the environment, 
society and the economy positively and negatively. 

The GSC reviews material ESG factors, identifies risks and 
opportunities, sets goals and targets, evaluates emerging issues, 
collates and assesses relevant data, and monitors the progress 
of sustainability-related programmes and initiatives.

14U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Our Approach

Sustainability Governance 

Training

In 2022, we rolled out mandatory Sustainability 101 training 
for all our employees globally. The e-learning module is 
available in local languages for colleagues in our key 
markets. As at 31 December 2022, close to 100 per cent 
of our employees completed the training. From 2023,  
all new joiners are required to complete the training within 
one month of their onboarding.

During the year, all our Board directors also completed 
the requisite training on sustainability, including the 
Environmental, Social and Governance Essentials 
module under the Singapore Institute of Directors’ Listed 
Entity Directors Programme, as well as climate change 
issues and net zero. Our Board and Management also 
received training on anti-money laundering/countering 
the financing of terrorism and sanctions, anti-fraud,  
anti-bribery and anti-corruption.

Find Out More 

  Corporate Governance, UOB Annual Report 2022

  TCFD reporting

Remuneration

Our employees’ remuneration is linked to our sustainability 
performance. Variable pay pool is based on the performance 
against the Group’s Balanced Scorecard, which includes 
ESG risk as part of the Group Risk Appetite Statement, as 
well as sustainability-related key performance indicators 
(KPIs). Sustainability metrics are also integrated into 
the KPIs and appraisal process for colleagues from  
relevant functions.

15U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2

https://www.uobgroup.com/AR2022/documents/Corporate-Governance.pdf


Our Approach

Stakeholder Engagement 

Constructive dialogue and collaboration with our stakeholders are important to 
UOB creating and maintaining meaningful and mutually-beneficial relationships. 
Through continual stakeholder engagement, we are informed of changing trends, 
developments and expectations, thereby keeping ourselves open to possibilities 
and focused on staying relevant to our stakeholders. 

We regularly seek our stakeholders’ views and expectations through conversations, collaboration and research.  
By taking an inclusive approach, we hope they in turn will have a deeper understanding of our purpose, practices and 
performance. This approach contributes to our continual review of our strategy, policies and programmes. In addition, 
we also carefully consider feedback from institutional investors and analysts, regulators and non-governmental 
organisations (NGOs) regarding the environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors that are material to the Bank.

Customers 
• Interactions at branches (ongoing) 
• Face-to-face meetings (ongoing)
• Contact Centre services (ongoing)
• Post-transaction customer surveys (ongoing) 
• Marketing and advertising campaigns (ongoing) 
• Website and social media channels and campaigns 

(ongoing) 
• Events and seminars, including workshops on 

sustainability (as and when appropriate) 

Colleagues 
•  CEO communications to all colleagues on regular 

and topical subjects (quarterly, and as and when 
appropriate) 

•  Head of Group Human Resources’ communications 
to all colleagues on employee-related initiatives  
(as and when appropriate)

• One-on-one sessions with managers (regularly) 
•  Online and mobile employee portal with informative,  

collaborative and social features (ongoing) 
• Performance reviews (half-yearly) 
• Employee engagement surveys (annually) 
• Town hall meetings (annually) 
• Training and workshops (ongoing)
• ‘Speak Up’ initiative for colleagues to raise issues for 

action and resolution (ongoing) 

Community 
•  Support of national movements to build inclusive 

communities (ongoing) 
• Fundraising events (annually) 
• Regional art competitions (annually) 
•  Collaborations with customers, business partners, 

art institutions, social service organisations and 
Community Development Councils (ongoing)

•  Art roadshows and outreach programmes (as and 
when appropriate)

• Education programmes for children (ongoing) 
• Financial literacy programmes (as and when 

appropriate) 
•  Donations in cash or in kind to support causes 

related to art, children and education (as and when 
appropriate)

• Employee volunteerism (ongoing)

Suppliers
• Requests for quotations and proposals 

(as and when appropriate) 
• Vendor briefings (as and when appropriate) 
• Purchase agreements (as and when appropriate) 
• Performance reviews (annually or prior to  

contract expiry)

16U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Our Approach

Stakeholder Engagement 

Media 
• News releases and media statements (ongoing) 
• In-person and online conversations (ongoing) 
• Media briefings and conferences (as and when 

appropriate)
• Media interviews (as and when appropriate) 
• Social media platforms (ongoing) 
•  Economic and market research reports and white 

papers (as and when appropriate)

NGOs
•  Face-to-face meetings and conference calls  

(as and when appropriate) 
• Conferences and seminars (as and when appropriate) 
• Cooperation in joint programmes (ongoing)

Other financial institutions,  
and industry and trade associations
• Participation in industry associations (ongoing) 
• Industry-wide workgroups and meetings (as and 

when appropriate)
• Forums and conferences (as and when appropriate)

Governments and regulators
• Regular meetings and engagement (as and when 

appropriate) 
• Consultations with regulatory bodies (as and when 

appropriate) 
• Annual and sustainability reports (annually) 
• Audit reports (ongoing)

Investors and analysts 
• Financial reporting and results briefings (quarterly) 
• Periodic meetings with rating agencies (at least once 

a year) 
• General meetings with shareholders (annually) 
• Annual and sustainability reports (annually)
• SGXNet announcements (as and when appropriate)
• Presentations, conferences and roadshows (ongoing) 
• UOB Corporate Day (annually) 
• Feedback from analyst surveys (ongoing)
•  Feedback from institutional investors and analysts  

on our ESG performance (ongoing)

17U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Our Approach

Material ESG Factors

UOB’s most significant impacts on the economy, environment and society are 
reflected in our material environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors. 
We conduct materiality assessments and stakeholder consultations on a continual 
basis to ensure that these material factors are in context of our operating 
environment, business and operations, as well as regulatory and stakeholder 
expectations. 

Materiality assessment

In 2022, we embarked on a materiality assessment exercise with our key stakeholder groups, both internal and 
external, to gather their feedback on the ESG factors most important to UOB and that have the greatest impact 
on them. We adopted an integrated approach of analysing both quantitative and qualitative research to gain a 
holistic overview of stakeholder expectations. Through surveys and one-on-one interviews, we prioritised factors 
that are critical to the continued success of our business and sustainable development of the wider community. 
Increasingly interconnected, our material ESG factors inform our strategic decision making and guide us in our 
practices, stakeholder engagement and reporting. 

Undertaken by an independent third party, the materiality 
assessment showed that critical and essential elements 
of banking, including regulatory compliance, information 
security, data privacy, governance and risk culture, remained 
at the top of our stakeholders’ radar. 

Sustainable banking and direct environmental impact 
rose both in terms of importance and impact, reflecting 
stakeholder expectations of UOB, our business and 
operations amid the growing call for climate action.  
In addition, we saw greater focus on social impact, 
particularly regarding workplace safety, health and  
well-being and community stewardship.  

Stage What we did

Identify and  
review

Advised by an independent sustainability consultancy, we conducted stakeholder mapping to 
identify our key stakeholder groups, including our Board and senior management, employees, 
investors and analysts, as well as customers.

Following a review of the material ESG factors reported in 2021, we grouped factors of common 
key themes within our operating context and streamlined them from 22 to 14 material factors. 
This was to ensure clearer articulation of what matters to us and our stakeholders, and to 
make information more accessible.

Prioritise Through online surveys, stakeholders were asked to score the 14 ESG factors based on 
significance and impact. Qualitative feedback from one-on-one interviews was also taken 
into consideration in developing our materiality matrix. Based on the importance to UOB 
and impact on our stakeholders, we categorised the ESG factors into Critical, Very Important 
and Important.

The material ESG factors and materiality matrix were reviewed and approved by our  
Group Sustainability Committee, Management Executive Committee and Board. 

18U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Our Approach

Material ESG Factors

Materiality matrix

Very Important CriticalImportant

Community stewardship

Direct environmental impact

Sustainable procurement

Financial inclusion

Workplace safety,  
health and well-being

Customer experience

Talent development and inclusion

Economic contributions

Sustainable banking

Information security

Regulatory 
compliance

Drive Growth Sustainably Keep Customers at the Centre Develop Professionals of Principle Uphold Corporate Responsibility

Governance and 
risk culture

Fair Dealing

Data privacy 
and governance

Im
pa

ct

Importance

19U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Our Approach

Material ESG Factors

Material ESG 
factor

Impact 
boundary

Priority Strategic objectives Interested 
stakeholders

Key responses and/or value creation in 2022 

Drive Growth Sustainably

Economic 
contributions

■ Critical • Contribute economically to the 
progress of our communities

• Distributed $8.5 billion in payments that flowed 
to stakeholders, such as colleagues, suppliers, 
investors, authorities and local communities

• Supported job creation, with 93.9 per cent local 
employee representation 

Sustainable 
banking

■ Critical • Embed ESG risk in our 
approach to risk management

• Integrate social and 
environmental considerations 
into our credit evaluation and 
approval processes

• Adopt and promote climate-
resilient practices to support 
our customers in their 
transition to a low carbon 
economy

• Develop and provide 
sustainable financing and 
sustainable investment 
solutions

• Committed to net zero by 2050, including the 
support of our clients in their decarbonisation

• Enhanced our responsible financing sector 
policies in oil and gas, thermal coal and animal 
protein

• Extended $25 billion in total sustainable 
financing to corporates

• Rolled out the UOB Transition Finance 
Framework to support clients in hard-to-abate 
sectors

• Piloted the Green and Sustainable Deposits 
solution to help clients contribute to positive 
impact through their funds

• Launched the UOB Sustainability Compass 
to help small- and medium-sized enterprises 
(SMEs) kickstart their sustainability journey

• Enabled UOB EVOL cardholders in Singapore 
to offset their household electricity carbon 
footprint 

• Channelled $10 billion in total assets under 
management to ESG-focused investments

Keep Customers at the Centre

Fair Dealing ■ Critical • Ensure Fair Dealing • Resolved at least 90 per cent of customer 
complaints within the established standards

• Reviewed UOB TMRW Design Principles to 
ensure no dark patterns are used

• Promoted financial literacy actively among 
the public through the media and community 
outreach

Data privacy  
and 
governance

■ Critical • Protect customer data and 
privacy through secure and 
robust systems and practices 

• Protect the financial system 
against abuse

• Maintained zero material issues in relation to 
data confidentiality and privacy

• Enhanced our processes and controls to ensure 
continued robustness and relevance 

▲ Impact outside the organisation ■ Impact within and outside the organisation ● Impact within the organisation

Customers Colleagues Governments and regulators

Investors and analysts

Suppliers

Non-governmental 
organisations  

Community

Other financial institutions, and 
industry and trade associations Media

20U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Our Approach

Material ESG Factors

Material ESG 
factor

Impact 
boundary

Priority Strategic objectives Interested 
stakeholders

Key responses and/or value creation in 2022 

Customer 
experience

■ Critical • Create intuitive and impactful 
customer experiences

• Make banking simpler, smarter 
and safer through ethical use 
of technology and data

• Launched UOB SME app to help SMEs transact  
and gain personalised insights on an 
interactive dashboard

• Achieved 75 per cent digitally-enabled 
individual customers with a monthly active rate 
of 38 per cent

• Launched Auto-Save savings feature on TMRW 
digital banking app in Indonesia for customers 
to earn higher interest on their account 
balances

Financial 
inclusion

■ Important • Make banking more accessible 
and inclusive

• Support businesses across all 
stages of growth

• Launched The Greentech Accelerator to connect 
SMEs and corporates to green innovations

• Opened about 600 Shariah-compliant 
bank accounts for university students in 
Malaysia, providing them access to financial 
management tools, free Takaful protection 
cover and other banking services

• Continued to support businesses promoting 
access to finance and uplifting communities 
living at the ‘Base of Pyramid’ through our Asia 
Impact Investment Funds

Develop Professionals of Principle

Talent 
development 
and inclusion

● Critical • Develop high-performing 
teams and future-focused 
individuals

• Ensure employee engagement 
and satisfaction

• Embrace diverse abilities  
and strengths 

• Invested $25.9 million in employee training and 
development programmes

• Expanded our Gig+U programme to include 
women in addition to retirees

• Employed colleagues from 49 nationalities 
across the Group

• Supported employment for 30 people with 
disabilities at the UOB Scan Hub in Singapore

Workplace 
safety, health 
and  
well-being

● Critical • Promote work-life harmony
• Ensure workplace health, 

safety and well-being

• Transformed a total of 790,000 square feet  
in office space into high-performance 
workplaces

• Achieved SG Clean certification for all our 
buildings and branches in Singapore

• Supported colleagues in Shanghai, China with 
various care measures during the pandemic

▲ Impact outside the organisation ■ Impact within and outside the organisation ● Impact within the organisation

Customers Colleagues Governments and regulators

Investors and analysts

Suppliers

Non-governmental 
organisations  

Community

Other financial institutions, and 
industry and trade associations Media

21U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Our Approach

Material ESG Factors

Material ESG 
factor

Impact 
boundary

Priority Strategic objectives Interested 
stakeholders

Key responses and/or value creation in 2022 

Uphold Corporate Responsibility

Governance 
and risk 
culture

■ Critical • Maintain highest standards of 
governance and risk culture

• Maintained a majority independent Board and 
had two female directors

• Launched the Risk Culture and Conduct 
e-Handbook to inculcate and reinforce risk 
culture principles among our colleagues

Regulatory 
compliance

■ Critical • Ensure regulatory compliance
• Protect the financial system 

against abuse

• Maintained zero cases of significant  
non-compliance in relation to bribery, 
corruption or fraud 

• Helped our customers prevent fraud losses of 
more than $11.6 million

Information 
security

■ Critical • Protect customer data and 
privacy through secure and 
robust systems and practices 

• Make banking simpler, smarter 
and safer through ethical use 
of technology and data

• Protect the financial system 
against abuse

• Maintained zero material information security 
incidents 

• Registered with the Singapore Infocomm 
Media Development Authority’s SMS Sender ID 
Registry to protect consumers from the surge in 
SMS-related scams

• Joined the Advisory Panel of Cyber Youth 
Singapore (CYS) and joined the CYS SEED 
Sponsorship Programme 

Direct 
environmental 
impact

■ Very 
Important

• Manage direct environmental 
impact and encourage 
environmental stewardship

• Maintained operational carbon neutrality for 
our Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions

• Remained on track to achieve our 2030 
reduction targets for energy use intensity  
and Scope 2 emissions intensity 

• Achieved green building certifications for eight 
of our 14 wholly-owned buildings 

Sustainable 
procurement

■ Important • Incorporate sustainability 
principles into our 
procurement practices

• Had 98 per cent of suppliers in Singapore 
acknowledge our Group Supplier  
Sustainability Principles

• Established the Sustainable Procurement 
Guidelines to minimise negative ESG impacts 
from Corporate Real Estate Services’ procured 
products and services 

Community 
stewardship

■ Very 
important

• Champion social development 
in art, children and education

• Encourage volunteerism and 
advocacy for social and 
environmental causes

• Encourage environmental 
stewardship

• Raised more than $9.2 million in monetary and 
in-kind contributions for communities in need

• Clocked more than 44,800 hours of 
volunteering, averaging 1.6 hours per employee 
across the Group

▲ Impact outside the organisation ■ Impact within and outside the organisation ● Impact within the organisation

Customers Colleagues Governments and regulators

Investors and analysts

Suppliers

Non-governmental 
organisations  

Community

Other financial institutions, and 
industry and trade associations Media

22U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Drive Growth  
Sustainably
24 Economic Contributions
26 Sustainable Banking

23U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Drive Growth Sustainably

Economic Contributions

UOB’s global network spans 19 countries and territories, with our economic 
contributions including payments to stakeholders such as our colleagues, suppliers, 
investors, authorities and local communities. The manner in which our economic 
value is distributed has the potential to impact the economy and society at large. 

Our approach

We contribute to the wider economy by creating jobs 
for employees, sourcing from suppliers of products and 
services, supporting local communities, promoting inclusive 
financing, and paying taxes to governments and dividends 
to shareholders. 

To create long-term value for all our stakeholders, we have 
frameworks, policies, guidelines and procedures in place 
to ensure that we remain responsible and disciplined in 
how we drive growth. Among these is our approach to 
responsible tax management. 

UOB is committed to complying with the tax laws and 
regulations across the countries and territories in which 
we operate. We file our tax returns accurately and in a 
timely manner, and fulfil our tax obligations appropriately.

UOB takes a low tolerance approach towards tax risk.  
Tax risk is managed through the Tax Risk Management  
and Governance Framework which is based on the  
following principles:

• Undertake transactions which are grounded in 
commercial realities; 

• Consistently consider tax implications before 
implementing our business plans; 

• File our tax returns accurately and in a timely manner, 
and fulfil our tax obligations appropriately; 

• Employ experienced and qualified in-house tax 
professionals; and 

• Seek professional advice from third-party advisers 
and consult with tax authorities on transactions with 
significant tax uncertainty.

The Group Chief Financial Officer has oversight of tax 
responsibilities with support from the Head of Group Tax. 

Find Out More 
UOB's approach to responsible tax management

Our targets 

 Maintain zero material cases of non-compliance 
with regard to tax management.

   This was achieved in 2022. 

 Maintain local procurement spend above  
85 per cent to support local suppliers. 

    Purchases from local suppliers accounted for  
92.8 per cent of our total purchases in 2022. 

 Maintain local employee representation above  
90 per cent. 

    Local employee representation was 93.9 per cent  
in 2022. 

24U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2

https://www.uobgroup.com/uobgroup/about/story/responsible-tax-management.page


Drive Growth Sustainably

Economic Contributions

2022 highlights

Memberships

• Chair of The Association of Banks in Singapore’s Standing Committee on Tax

• Member of the Asia Securities Industry & Financial Markets Association 

In 2022, we generated total income of 

$11.6 billion, 
of which we distributed $8.5 billion in payments that flowed to stakeholders, such as 
colleagues, suppliers, investors, authorities and local communities.

These included 

$1.2 billion 
accrued in income tax;

$3.0 billion 
in employee compensation 
and benefits;

$2.2 billion 
in purchases from more than 
8,400 suppliers;

$2.1 billion 
in dividends to shareholders.

$9.2 million
in monetary and in-kind contributions 
to the community; and

CONTRIBUTION TO THE UN SDGs

25U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Drive Growth Sustainably

Sustainable Banking

UOB is committed to helping businesses advance responsibly and enabling 
sustainable lifestyles through the provision of sustainable banking products, 
from financing to investments. We also address the environmental, social and 
governance (ESG) risks and opportunities of our business, including those in relation 
to climate change. This enables us to support our customers in the transition to 
a net zero economy and in turn, improve the resilience of our portfolio.

Our approach

UOB has embedded sustainability in our long-term business strategy, aligning with the United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals (UN SDGs), the Paris Agreement and national goals of the jurisdictions in which we operate.  
As we push forward on our journey in building the sustainable future of ASEAN, we are committed to managing  
ESG risks prudently. We recognise that we have an important role to play in helping shape responsible actions from 
our customers through our financing and investing activities, as well as the banking solutions we offer.

Responsible financing
Established in 2015, our Group Responsible Financing Policy 
integrates the principles of The Association of Banks in 
Singapore (ABS) Guidelines on Responsible Financing into 
our credit evaluation and approval processes, and applies 
to all borrowing customers of Group Wholesale Banking 
and to the Bank’s capital market underwriting activities. 
The policy is guided by our Group Environmental Risk 
Management (ENRM) Framework and embedded within 
UOB Group’s corporate credit policy. It is reviewed annually 
and approved by the Group Credit Committee under the 
oversight of the Board Risk Management Committee. 

Our responsible financing sector policies set out mandatory 
requirements and recommendations on managing the 
ESG risks of our lending portfolio in areas such as human 
rights, labour and working conditions, pollution prevention, 
resource efficiency, community health and safety, as well 
as biodiversity conservation. These risks are applicable 
throughout the financing life cycle.

Guiding principles  
and prohibitions

ESG-related credit  
approval process

ESG risk  
assessment process

ESG risk  
monitoring process

UOB Group 
Responsible 

Financing Policy

Guided by the UOB Group Environmental 
Risk Management Framework

26U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2

https://abs.org.sg/industry-guidelines/responsible-financing
https://abs.org.sg/industry-guidelines/responsible-financing


Drive Growth Sustainably

Sustainable Banking

Our responsible financing journey

Establishing Improving Strengthening and evolving

2015
–

2016
2017

–
2018

2019
–

2021
2022

Key milestones

•  Launched the Group 
Responsible Financing 
Policy.

•  Began to incorporate  
ESG clauses into Letters  
of Offer.

•  Enhanced ESG monitoring 
and reporting to improve 
oversight of potential 
controversies.

•  Implemented ESG risk 
classification to better 
manage ESG risk in 
portfolio.

•  Adopted the ABS Haze 
Diagnostics Checklist 
as transboundary haze 
pollution shrouded the 
region.

•  Strengthened due 
diligence process with 
enhanced checklist 
and climate-related 
questions.

•  Tightened our stance 
in thermal coal mining, 
coal-fired power and 
palm oil sectors. 

•  Established the Group 
ENRM Framework and 
published responsible 
financing sector policies. 

•  All employees in relevant 
roles completed an 
industry-wide e-learning 
module on responsible 
financing.

•  Announced our net 
zero commitment and 
targets for six sectors, 
including committing 
to exit financing for the 
thermal coal sector by 
2039 and to cease new 
project financing for 
upstream oil and gas 
projects approved for 
development after 2022.

•  Adopted the ABS 
Environmental Risk 
Questionnaire (ERQ) to 
further strengthen our 
approach on climate 
risk assessment and 
engagement with 
corporate customers 
on the identification of 
environmental risks and 
sustainable financing 
opportunities.

•  Conducted Group-wide 
ESG risk assessment 
capacity-building 
workshops with a strong 
focus on climate risk 
management.

27U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Drive Growth Sustainably

Sustainable Banking

We review our portfolio’s ESG risk exposure periodically. As at 31 December 2022, all applicable borrowers underwent 
the ESG risk assessment with relevant risks adequately managed and mitigated. 

In 2022, there were 24 borrowers under heightened monitoring due to ESG concerns, of which 11 were escalated. 
These accounted for less than one per cent of our total non-bank loan portfolio. We also exited relationships with 
two borrowers due to ESG considerations. 

ESG assessment performed in 2022

8,000+
customers were assessed

400+
customers required enhanced 
ESG due diligence

<1%
of our total non-bank loan 
portfolio was under heightened 
ESG monitoring

Portfolio exposure
We did not have a significant concentration in any of the 
eight ESG-sensitive sectors defined by the ABS Guidelines 
on Responsible Financing, namely agriculture, forestry, 
chemicals, infrastructure, defence, mining and metals,  
energy from fossil fuels and waste management. Collectively, 
these sectors accounted for approximately nine per cent 
of our total loan portfolio.

in relation to total non-bank loans

<1%
exposure to palm oil sector

<0.1%
exposure to thermal coal 
mining sector

Exposure to coal-fired power generation versus 
renewable energy 
(in relation to total non-bank loans)

0.20%

0.15%

0.10%

0.05%

0.00%

Coal-fired power plants Renewable energy

2019 2020 2021 2022

28U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2

https://abs.org.sg/industry-guidelines/responsible-financing
https://abs.org.sg/industry-guidelines/responsible-financing


Drive Growth Sustainably

Sustainable Banking

Find Out More 

  UOB's Group ENRM Framework, Group Responsible Financing Policy and sector policies

Equator Principles (EP) – Managing environmental and social risks

UOB is a signatory to the EP, a risk management framework used by financial institutions globally for determining, 
assessing and managing environmental and social risks in projects. The EP requirements are integrated into 
our Group Responsible Financing Policy for Group-wide implementation.

Since the adoption of the EP in August 2021 till the end of 2022, we were mandated to finance seven EP 
transactions, all of which were project finance transactions. 

No. Project name Sector Country Category Year of financial close

1 Project Augustus Mining Indonesia A 2022

2 Project Sharon Oil & Gas Australia B 2021

3 North East Link PPP Project Infrastructure Australia B 2022

4 Large-scale Solar 4 (LSS4) Project Power Malaysia B 2022

5 Perak Tengah LSS4 Project Power Malaysia B 2022

6 Juru 15MW Power Malaysia B 2022

7 Thailand Residential Rooftop 
Project

Power Thailand C 2022

Note: 
• Category A – Projects with potential significant adverse environmental and social risks and/or impacts that are diverse, irreversible or 

unprecedented.
• Category B – Projects with potential limited adverse environmental and social risks and/or impacts that are few in number, generally 

site-specific, largely reversible and readily addressed through mitigation measures.
• Category C – Projects with minimal or no adverse environmental and social risks and/or impacts.

29U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2

https://www.uobgroup.com/uobgroup/sustainability/responsible-financing.page


Drive Growth Sustainably

Sustainable Banking

Financing businesses’ sustainable growth
UOB supports businesses in the transition to a low carbon 
economy, helping them to stay relevant and competitive 
for the long term. To help simplify access to sustainable 
financing for companies looking to build resilient businesses, 
we have in place sustainable finance umbrella frameworks 
that are aligned to internationally-recognised standards, 
principles and guidelines, including the Loan Market 

Association/Asia Pacific Loan Market Association Green 
Loan Principles and Sustainability Linked Loan Principles. 

These frameworks, which obtained independent  
second-party opinions, set out the eligible projects or 
activities that qualify for green and sustainability-linked 
loans and bonds, trade finance and other retail banking 
products. 

Smart City 
Sustainable 
Financing 
Framework

Supports companies contributing to the creation of sustainable and smart cities 
through the following:

Sustainable 
Finance 
Framework for 
Green Building 
Developers and 
Owners

Covers both green and sustainability-linked financing for global real estate financing 
across eight asset classes:

Data Centres Restaurants Hospitals Residential OfficesRetailHotels Industrial

Renewable 
Energy

Green Building 
Comstruction

Energy 
Efficiency

Climate Change 
Adaptation

Water 
Management

Waste 
Management

Green 
Transport

Supports companies in the 3Rs (renew, reuse and reduce) businesses.

Potential applications:

Green Financing 
Framework 
for Circular 
Economy 

Plastics Recycling Metals Recycling Electronics Recycling Product as a Service Circular Designs

30U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Drive Growth Sustainably

Sustainable Banking

Green and 
Sustainable  
Trade Finance  
and Working  
Capital  
Framework

Supports the needs of companies for shorter term financing (<1 year) using a  
‘principles-based’ approach.

Eligibility:

Pure-play green companies 
or green projects

Companies with recognised, sustainable 
industry certifications

Supports the transition of the energy intensive, fossil fuels/brown sectors and  
‘hard-to-abate’ sectors.

Transition 
Finance 
Framework

Oil, Gas &  
Chemicals

Carbon Capture 
and Storage (CCS)/

Carbon Capture, 
Utilisation and 
Storage (CCUS) 

Transportation  
and Logistics

Fossil Fuels 
Power 

Generation

Metals &  
Mining

Carbon Credits/
Offsets

Under these frameworks, we provide a suite of sustainable 
financing solutions, particularly three ecosystem solutions 
designed to meet the end-to-end needs within specific 
sectors, to support our clients in capturing opportunities 
that contribute to the UN SDGs. 

In 2022, we extended $8.2 billion in sustainable financing 
to corporates, bringing our total portfolio to $25.0 billion 
as at the end of the year. 

U-Solar
Launched in 2019, U-Solar is Asia’s first integrated financing 
platform that connects businesses and individuals to 
service providers to drive the development and adoption 
of solar power.

Available in Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore and Thailand, 
U-Solar simplifies access to sustainable financing for 
solar project developers, engineering, procurement and 
construction contractors, and leading equipment suppliers. 

Residential, commercial and industrial end-users can also 
take up financing solutions for solar panel installations 
and maintenance. 

Since launch, U-Solar has benefitted more than  
200 companies and 1,700 homeowners, helping to reduce 
more than 359,000 tonnes of greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions, equivalent to more than 77,000 passenger 
cars taken off the road for a year or almost six million tree 
seedlings grown over 10 years. 

U-Energy
Launched in 2020, U-Energy is Asia’s first integrated  
financing platform that drives the development and adoption 
of energy efficiency projects for buildings and homes. 

Available in Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore and Thailand, 
U-Energy connects energy service companies (ESCOs) 
with end-customers to offer solutions for common energy 
efficiency projects. With our flexible green financing 

31U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Drive Growth Sustainably

Sustainable Banking

options, building owners can opt for a direct purchase 
or the ‘energy-as-a-service’ model. For homeowners, UOB 
offers a zero per cent interest instalment plan of up to 
three years when UOB credit cards are used as the mode 
of payment for their energy efficiency retrofitting projects. 

Across the region, we have a total of 31 ESCO partners 
collectively promoting greater efficiency in energy 
consumption.

Amping up U-Energy with M&V

In 2022, UOB extended $10.8 million of green loans 
to support Measurement & Verification (M&V) 
in two energy efficiency retrofitting projects for 
the upgrading of the air-conditioning system in 
Singapore’s Changi Airport. Upon completion, the 
upgraded system will achieve 30 per cent increase in 
energy efficiency, equivalent to a reduction of more 
than 6,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide-equivalent in 
GHG emissions annually. This works out to energy 
savings of approximately 15.8 gigawatt-hours (GWh) 
per year, or the energy consumed by around 3,500 
four-room flats over a year. 

The green loans were provided under Enterprise 
Singapore’s Enterprise Financing Scheme-Green. 
M&V was also one of the partners that joined 
UOB’s U-Energy 80GWh Energy-Saving Race, 
which encourages building owners to take on green 
financing for their energy efficiency projects. 

U-Drive
Launched in 2021, U-Drive is our integrated green financing 
solution for the electric vehicle (EV) ecosystem. It connects 
the EV value chain – from automotive brand owners, dealers 
and EV charging infrastructure providers to end-users,  
helping to drive the development and adoption of green 
transportation. 

Available in Singapore and Thailand, U-Drive provides a 
comprehensive range of green banking facilities, including 
term loans, trade financing, dealer stock financing and 
end-user financing of EVs and charging equipment.  
Beyond financing, we also offer foreign direct investment 
advisory to EV original equipment manufacturers seeking 

Launch of U-Drive in Thailand

In 2022, we launched U-Drive in Thailand, with 
partners including EV distributor, Rêver Automotive, 
as well as EV charging infrastructure providers,  
Big Phaisan Project, Energy Absolute, Espro Noodoe 
and Schneider Electric.

With green loan facilities from UOB, Rêver Automotive 
was also able to have greater working capital 
flexibility in managing its sales and inventory.  
The company further tapped on our distributor 
financing programme so that its dealers could obtain 
UOB’s loans more easily for their purchase of EVs.

“We are pleased to work with UOB Thailand  
as our key financial partner as we enter 
the passenger EV space in Thailand.  
The financing support under U-Drive has 
enabled us to meet our working capital 
needs more effectively for greater speed 
to market.”

Mr Pratarnwong Phornprapha
Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Rêver Automotive

to expand into ASEAN, as well as work with dealers 
and charging infrastructure providers to offer exclusive 
packages to end-customers.

Our efforts to promote and support the EV sector are in line 
with our target to reduce the carbon emissions intensity 
of our automotive portfolio by 58 per cent by 2030.

Find Out More 

  UOB’s sustainable financing solutions for businesses 

32U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2

https://www.uobgroup.com/uobgroup/sustainable-financing.page


Drive Growth Sustainably

Sustainable Banking

Enabling consumers’ sustainable  
lifestyle choices 
Individuals also have a role in contributing to sustainable 
development. Being sustainable is a way of life – how we 
live, work, play, learn, commute, interact and connect.  
As such, we offer a range of sustainable banking solutions 
to help our customers create positive impact through their 
everyday choices. 

Our Secured Loans Green Product Framework and Eligibility 
Guide, which we co-created with Sustainalytics, guide the 
development of new sustainable banking solutions for 
individual customers, particularly secured loan products, 
and set the criteria for green classification. Launched in 
2022, the framework currently applies in UOB’s key ASEAN 
markets and is reviewed on an annual basis.

We offer green home and car loans to help consumers take 
up more environmentally-friendly options in their purchases. 

For example, the UOB Go Green Home Loan is designed to 
help homebuyers in Singapore lower their ownership costs 
when purchasing a property awarded with the Green Mark 
certification from the Building and Construction Authority 
Singapore. Green home loans accounted for almost  
10 per cent of total home loan sales in Singapore in 2022. 

As part of our U-Drive programme, we also offer the 
UOB Go Green Car Loan, bundled with three renewable 
energy certificates (RECs), in Singapore for the purchase of 
electric cars. In 2022, we awarded 378 RECs, equivalent to 
more than 154 tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions being 
absorbed by close to 7,700 raintrees.

We also collaborated with SP Group to offer new customers 
three months of free charging (capped at 500 kilowatt-hours) 
at SP Mobility’s public charging points. Green car loans 
contributed to 15 per cent of total car loan sales in 2022. 

Drawing from our success in offering green home and 
car loans in Singapore, we are studying the feasibility of 
launching similar programmes in our regional markets. 
For example in Vietnam, we entered a partnership 
with an EDGE-certified property development to offer  

zero-interest loans until handover of the units. We also 
offer preferential loan packages to finance electric and 
hybrid cars, disbursing about VND2.6 billion in 2022. 

The UOB EVOL Card is ASEAN’s first bio-sourced credit card 
which enables customers to enjoy cashback and privileges 
at eco-conscious merchants. Each UOB EVOL Card:

• is made of 82 per cent plant-based polylactic acid 
material from non-edible corn;

• saves 4.48 grams of polyvinyl chloride (PVC); and

• produces 10 grams less in carbon dioxide emissions.

Through our partnership with SP Group, UOB EVOL 
cardholders can also offset their household electricity 
carbon footprint for free by charging their utilities bills to 
their credit card.

In addition, we launched the Sustainable Banking feature 
within our UOB TMRW digital banking app in 2022 
to help our customers in Singapore easily access our 
range of green solutions and deals, as well as to receive  
eco-friendly tips for greener lifestyle choices. 

33U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Drive Growth Sustainably

Sustainable Banking

Facilitating sustainable investments
Ensuring sustainable investing practices is part of our 
fiduciary duty to our customers. We integrate considerations 
into our research, selection and investment processes 
as part of managing risks and optimising returns for the 
long term. 

Our Sustainable Investing Working Group oversees 
the integration of ESG considerations into the way we 
select providers, provide investment advice, develop our 
investment strategies, and set standards for our product 
due diligence. The process is rooted in our Risk-First wealth 
advisory approach, which helps our customers protect 
their assets before building their wealth.

Our range of sustainable investment products for our 
wealth management customers include unit trusts, 
structured products and equities, and green bonds.  
We partner reputable product specialists to screen, score, 
provide and monitor sustainable investment products.  
To this end, product providers must have operationalised 
policies and processes in place and/or adopt or align to 
globally-recognised standards such as the UN-supported 
Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), Taskforce on 
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), Sustainability 
Accounting Standards Board (SASB) and CDP. In working 
with these specialists, we ensure that we incorporate 
robust and industry-leading criteria and methodologies 
when identifying sustainable investment solutions.

As at the end of 2022, our assets under management (AUM) 
in ESG-focused investment products were $815.5 million.

Unit trusts
In the selection of ESG-focused unit trusts, we take into 
consideration:

• the fund manager’s expertise in managing ESG 
portfolios;

• the incorporation of ESG factors in the fund’s investment 
process; and

• the ability of the fund manager to perform well against 
its benchmark and peers. 

The unit trusts we offer in Singapore include bond funds, 
multi-asset funds and equity funds:

• United Smart Sustainable Singapore Bond Fund;

• United Sustainable Credit Income Fund;

• United Sustainable Equity Solution Fund;

• UOBAM Sustainable Equity Indonesia;

• AB Sustainable Global Thematic; 

• Allianz Global Sustainability Fund;

• BlackRock GF ESG Multi-Asset;

• BNP Paribas Energy Transition; 

• BNP Paribas Sustainable Thematic Select; and

• Schroder ISF Global Climate Change Equity.

Structured products and equities
We offer structured notes linked to the equities of companies 
with strong ESG ratings, focusing on themes that may impact 
the global economy and which are often environmental or 
social in nature. These also include companies that aim to 
help protect the environment by supporting clean energy 
and resource conservation projects.

Bonds
We offer green bonds selected from the Bloomberg Barclays 
MSCI Global Green Bond Index, which has been voted 
the best index for the fifth year running by Environmental 
Finance, a leading news and analysis service for sustainable 
investing and green financing. The index ensures proper 
screening and monitoring of the use of proceeds, as well 
as adherence to industry-standard Green Bond Principles. 
Index constituents are rigorously assessed on the ongoing 
environmental impact of the projects, among other factors, 
for which the green bond proceeds are used.

34U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Drive Growth Sustainably

Sustainable Banking

We also screen green bonds using our internal risk 
assessment framework to assess their financial 
fundamentals, including probability of default, fair value 
and technical analysis indicators. The additional layer of 
screening ensures that we only offer our customers the 
highest-quality green bonds for the best risk-adjusted 
rewards and stable cash flow outcomes.

Find Out More 

  UOB’s sustainable banking solutions for consumers 

UOB Asset Management (UOBAM) –  
Enabling accessible sustainable investments
UOBAM is UOB’s wholly-owned subsidiary that develops, 
manages and offers unit trusts across Asia. As an active 
asset manager, UOBAM believes that we have a fiduciary 
duty to allocate capital into sustainable investments and 
to be active owners of investments.

UOBAM is a signatory to the UN-supported PRI, the 
Singapore Stewardship Principles for Responsible Investors, 
as well as a member of the Asia Investor Group on Climate 
Change (AIGCC). This reflects our commitment and purpose 
to creating value for our investors and communities as 
well as helping them achieve their sustainable investment 
goals and aspirations.

In addition to our ENRM Framework, we have in place 
our Sustainable Investment Framework, which guides the 
incorporation of ESG considerations into our fundamental 
analysis and investment approach across asset classes via:

• integration – explicitly and systematically including ESG 
issues in investment analysis and decisions to better 
manage risks and improve returns of investments; and

• screening – applying filters to lists of potential 
investments to rule companies in or out of contention 
for investment, based on best-in-class and negative 
screening approaches.

We use various ESG data and metrics, including ratings 
provided by independent research agencies and other 
relevant information, such as news reports, to assess if 
particular ESG factors may be material to a company and 
result in any positive or negative impacts. To derive the 
company’s real-time ESG performance, UOBAM will then 
employ our proprietary ESG evaluation model to weigh the 
significance of these data sets, conducting appropriate 
sector-specific adjustments as needed.

The framework also includes our Environmental Policy, 
which incorporates environmental-related risks in our 
investment decision-making processes. Recognising that 
Asia remains heavily reliant on conventional sources of 
energy and there is a need for an orderly and just transition, 
our policy sets the following requirements:

• exclusion of companies that derive ≥20 per cent of 
their revenue from thermal coal mining and/or power 
generation, and do not have transition plans; and

• limitation to 10 per cent of total portfolio weight for 
companies that derive ≥20 per cent of their revenue 
from thermal coal mining and/or power generation 
but have policies and initiatives in place to transition 
to cleaner energy sources.

Beyond climate change, we consider issues including water 
risk, deforestation and biodiversity loss, labour rights and 
human rights as part of our holistic ESG assessment. 

Active Ownership
Our Active Ownership Policy facilitates our engagement 
with portfolio companies, proxy voting and escalation 
strategies. We engage companies on a range of thematic 
and material ESG issues that can affect them in the long run 
and ensure that they are well prepared to mitigate these 
issues. Equipped with deep and insightful understanding 
of the region’s unique economic, political, and social 
landscapes, our regional and local ESG teams are able to 
engage companies effectively on ESG themes, issues and 
controversies. We also encourage them to improve the 
quality of their disclosures and monitor their sustainability 
progress, which in turn enables us to continually build on 
our insights and enhance our overall scoring methodology. 

We also work closely with other stakeholders as needed 
to enhance the efficacy of our engagement efforts.  
For example, we participate actively in AIGCC’s initiatives, 
including the Asian Utilities Engagement Programme, 
Engagement and Policy Working Group, Physical Risks and 
Resilience Working Group and Paris Aligned Investment 
Working Group, stepping up our collaborations to drive 
climate action. 

In 2022, we engaged 19 per cent of our portfolio companies 
in our ESG-focused funds.

In addition, in Singapore, we work with the Institutional 
Shareholder Services (ISS) Proxy Exchange on proxy voting, 
taking into consideration internationally-recognised, 
sustainability-related standards in support of ESG resolutions. 

35U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2

https://www.uob.com.sg/personal/solutions/sustainable-solutions.page


Drive Growth Sustainably

Sustainable Banking

While we have authorised ISS to vote on our behalf, we 
retain full discretion over all voting decisions and reserve 
the right to vote contrary to the recommendations of ISS. 

Governance
UOBAM’s sustainability governance structure provides 
oversight and accountability on the implementation of 
our ENRM Framework, Sustainable Investment Framework, 
Environmental Policy and Active Ownership Policy, all of 
which are reviewed annually.

Regional Sustainability Group
• Reports to Group CEO and Board on sustainable 

investing matters 

• Coordinates the regional implementation of 
sustainable investment mandates and initiatives

• Comprises Sustainability Chairs and Champions 
from regional offices

Local Sustainability Group
• Monitors and reports progress of sustainability 

mandates and initiatives

Sustainability Offices
• Integrates ESG investment methodology 

• Implements sustainability initiatives

Group CEO

UOBAM Board of Directors
• Reviews long-term business and organisational 

goals

• Provides strategic direction of sustainability 
practices and investments

Our strong network of ESG analysts provide us the capacity 
to further our sustainability capabilities and drive innovative 
sustainability solutions locally that are suitable to each 
market.

Find Out More 

  UOBAM’s Sustainable Investment and Active Ownership approach

UOB Venture Management (UOBVM) – 
Supporting portfolio companies in creating 
positive impact
UOBVM is UOB’s wholly-owned subsidiary focused on 
providing private equity investments to privately-held 
companies mainly in Southeast Asia and Greater China. 
UOBVM is firmly committed to responsible investment 
practices in relation to our fund management activities, 
having integrated ESG considerations into our investment 
approach since 2004. 

A signatory to the UN-supported PRI and the Operating 
Principles for Impact Management, UOBVM carefully 
assesses ESG risks pre-investment to help our portfolio 
companies identify potential issues and mitigating action 
plans, which are then tracked post-investment in line with our 
ESG Policy. We take a proactive approach to encouraging 
our portfolio companies to improve their consideration of 
ESG risks and factors, providing necessary advisory and 
support to help them realise this objective. We also focus 
on capacity building, honing our internal expertise and 
working closely with our investors and stakeholders to 
enhance collective capabilities. 

Our ESG Policy is reviewed periodically and approved by 
UOBVM’s ESG Committee under the oversight of the Board 
of UOBVM.

In 2022, UOBVM established the ENRM Framework in 
compliance with the MAS Guidelines on Environmental Risk 
Management for Asset Managers. This framework covers 
the governance, policies and control processes to manage 
material environmental risks in relation to UOBVM’s private 
equity activities. 

We conduct annual ESG training for our investment 
professionals to ensure that they are kept updated on 
our framework, policy and processes, as well as the latest 
industry developments and best practices.  

As at 31 December 2022, UOBVM’s AUM in ESG-focused and 
social impact funds, including the ASEAN China Investment 
Funds (ACIF) and the Asia Impact Investment Funds (AIIF), 
amounted to more than $1.4 billion.

In 2022, we completed the build-up of our dedicated 
ESG network across all investment offices in Singapore, 
Indonesia, Malaysia, Taiwan, Thailand and Vietnam.  

36U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2

https://www.uob.com.sg/personal/solutions/sustainable-solutions.page
https://www.uobam.com.sg/sustainability/sustainable-investment-and-active-ownership-approach.page
https://www.mas.gov.sg/regulation/guidelines/guidelines-on-environmental-risk-management-for-asset-managers
https://www.mas.gov.sg/regulation/guidelines/guidelines-on-environmental-risk-management-for-asset-managers


Drive Growth Sustainably

Sustainable Banking

ASEAN China Investment Funds (ACIF)
Now in the fifth series, the ACIF invest in promising private companies across ASEAN and China to unlock their growth 
potential, focusing on the themes of Industry 4.0, happiness, well-being, technology and green technology/supply chain. 

Supporting healthcare self-reliance 

An ACIF portfolio company, PT Etana Biotechnologies 
Indonesia (Etana) develops and provides high-quality, 
affordable and innovative biopharmaceutical products 
to treat a range of metabolic, autoimmune and other 
major life-threatening diseases, including cancer. Etana 
works proactively with major hospital groups, doctors’ 
associations and Indonesia’s national pharmaceutical 
licensing agency and social health programme to 
ensure that people from all walks of life have access to  
life-saving and life-enhancing drugs that were previously 
unavailable or difficult to access across the archipelago. 

In 2022, Indonesian President Joko Widodo officiated 
the opening of Etana’s high-end biopharmaceutical 
factory. The factory will produce essential biological 
drugs and vaccines to meet domestic needs and 
support the Indonesian government’s goal of 
healthcare self-reliance. For example, as the first 
pharmaceutical company in ASEAN to have mRNA 
technology, Etana will manufacture the first locally- 
produced COVID-19 mRNA vaccine in Indonesia.  
The company has also successfully licensed for sale 
in Indonesia a monoclonal antibody drug for cancer 
treatment, made available at affordable prices.  

37U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Drive Growth Sustainably

Sustainable Banking

Asia Impact Investment Funds (AIIF)
Focusing on double bottom-line returns, the AIIF support companies that generate positive social outcomes and financial 
returns by improving the well-being and livelihoods of the ‘Base of Pyramid’ (BoP) communities (referring to people living 
on US$3,000 or less a year). Some of the key impact sectors that the AIIF focus on include access to finance, education, 
agriculture and healthcare. As at 31 December 2022, around 25 million low-income individuals1 benefitted from the 
positive impact generated by the AIIF’s portfolio companies since our investments.

Driving positive social impact through education

Invested by both the ACIF and AIIF, Ruangguru Pte 
Ltd (Ruangguru) is a leading technology-enabled 
education provider in Indonesia that aims to provide 
improved access to quality and affordable education for 
students and working professionals across Indonesia. 
The company’s digital learning platforms also provides 
affordable education to students in Thailand and 
Vietnam.

As at the end of 2022:

• More than 20 million students from low-income 
families benefitted from Ruangguru’s online learning 
content; and

• More than 32 per cent of working professionals saw 
an increase in income, while more than 23 per cent  
were promoted or secured a better job, after 
completing Ruangguru’s skill development and 
work preparation programmes.

The Ruangguru Academy Scholarship programme is 
targeted at students who dropped out of school due 
to financial or other issues. The customised tutoring 
programme assists these students to obtain the high 
school-equivalent Paket C diploma, continue with 
tertiary education and/or acquire new skills to enter 
the workforce. 

''Ruangguru holds an important role in my 
study and my journey to enrol in public 
university. Ruangguru is a bridge that 
allowed me to reach my dream, which 
is to get accepted in the faculty of law.  
Thank you Ruangguru for accompanying me 
as I continue to strive and move forward."

Mr Sandi Kurniawan

Growing up, Sandi did not know how to read and write. 
After moving to Jakarta, he joined a community learning 
centre to catch up on his education. His grit won him 
the Ruangguru Academy Scholarship and exclusive 
online tutoring for the public university entrance test. 
Sandi has since successfully enrolled in the Semarang 
State University’s law faculty.

1 Figures have not been pro-rated for the portion of UOBVM’s contribution and are based on data reported by the portfolio companies.

38U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Drive Growth Sustainably

Sustainable Banking

Enabling the largest vocational 
training platform for farmers

An AIIF portfolio company, Shenzhen Tiantian 
Xuenong Network Technology Co., Ltd (TTXN) 
provides quality, affordable agricultural training for 
farmers across China through its e-learning platform. 
There are more than 80 commercial crops covered 
across 50,000 courses, ranging from micro, short 
five-minute videos to extensive programmes that 
award professional certificates and qualifications. 
Through these courses, the company provides famers 
with access to practical skills in areas including 
crop cultivation, pest control and fertilisation.  
With enhanced cultivation and farming skills, 
farmers can improve their production and in turn, 
their livelihoods and incomes.

Our targets

 Build a sustainable finance portfolio of $30 billion 
by 2025.

   We achieved $25.0 billion as at the end of 2022. 

 Ensure all relevant colleagues are trained in 
responsible financing, sustainable finance and 
climate change risks and opportunities by 2023 to 
support our customers in the transition to net zero.

    Majority of our colleagues in relevant roles 
across the Group completed capacity-building 
programmes on sustainable finance and climate 
change risk assessment in 2022.

 Broaden our physical risk assessment in 2023 as part 
of our continued efforts to strengthen our approach 
on climate scenario analysis and stress testing.

2022 highlights

Co-leading industry efforts in managing 
environmental risk
In support of the transition to a low carbon economy, 
UOB co-led industry efforts on the development of the 
ABS ERQ in 2022. It is the first industry standard that sets 
a consistent baseline for banks in Singapore to engage 
corporate clients on environmental risk issues and to 
collect relevant data. We have integrated the ERQ in our 
Group-wide ESG risk assessment process to further drive 
the engagement with our corporate clients in line with 
our net zero commitment and targets. 

Enhancing our responsible financing  
sector policies
Our sector policies set out the Bank’s mandatory ESG 
requirements and recommendations for our clients. In 
2022, we further enhanced our sector-specific positions 
in the following three sectors:

Animal protein
We will not provide financing to companies 
involved in 

• fishing with the use of explosives or 
cyanide; and 

• conducting illegal, unreported and 
unregulated (IUU) fishing or using vessels 
known to have conducted IUU fishing. 

Thermal coal
We commit to exit financing for the thermal 
coal sector by 2039.

Oil and gas (O&G)
We commit to no new project financing 
for upstream O&G projects approved for 
development after 2022.

39U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Drive Growth Sustainably

Sustainable Banking

Supporting clients in their net zero transition
Companies in carbon-intensive, fossil fuel-based and hard-to-abate sectors face many challenges in their decarbonisation 
journeys. As such, in 2022, we launched the UOB Transition Finance Framework (TFF) to help companies – project 
owners, contractors, suppliers, buyers and users – in these sectors access financing for their energy transition plans 
in the following areas:

Operational 
Efficiency
Energy efficiency and emissions 
reduction measures via:

• Waste heat recovery
• Co-generation systems
• Flare gas recovery
• Vapour recovery systems

Business  
Pivot
•  Switch from fossil fuels  

to low carbon fuels, e.g. 
biofuels, liquefied natural  
gas (LNG), hydrogen and 
ammonia 

•  Switch from fossil fuel-based  
energy production to renewable 
energy production

1

2

Climate Change  
Mitigation
•  Carbon capture and storage 

(CCS) or carbon capture, 
utilisation and storage (CCUS)

•  Provision of CCS/CCUS services 
to third parties

Voluntary Carbon 
Credits
•  Support the purchase, sale 

or trading of carbon credits 
or carbon neutral products 
to offset companies’ residual 
emissions

•  Support generation and 
trading of voluntary carbon 
credits

3

4

Recovered flare 
gas/ vapour

Four key themes of 
decarbonisation 

activities

The UOB TFF is our fifth sustainable finance umbrella framework. Like our other frameworks, it was developed with 
support from the Monetary Authority of Singapore’s (MAS) Green and Sustainability-Linked Loans Grant Scheme. ISS,  
an internationally-recognised second party opinion provider, reviewed and ensured that the TFF is aligned with globally-
accepted market principles, including International Capital Market Association’s Climate Transition Finance Handbook.

40U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2

https://www.icmagroup.org/sustainable-finance/the-principles-guidelines-and-handbooks/climate-transition-finance-handbook/


Drive Growth Sustainably

Sustainable Banking

Notable sustainable financing deals 

• Dual tranche HK$8 billion two-year and  
CNH3 billion three-year social bond offering by 
Hong Kong Mortgage Corporation, the world’s 
first social bond issuance denominated in 
both Hong Kong dollars and offshore Chinese 
yuan (acted as joint lead manager and joint 
bookrunner)

• Series of green bonds in US dollars, Singapore 
dollars and offshore Chinese yuan issued by 
Agricultural Bank of China, Bank of China and 
Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (acted 
as joint lead manager and joint bookrunner)

• US$100 million five-year digital sustainability-
linked bond by Singtel, Singapore’s largest 
foreign currency digital bond (acted as lead 
manager)

• US$150 million sustainability-linked loan to 
Formosa Ha Tinh, UOB’s largest sustainable 
financing deal in Taiwan to date

• Green and sustainable trade finance to Kimly 
Construction through Doxa Connex, an online 
procurement-to-pay platform

Helping companies make positive impact 
through Green and Sustainable Deposits
In 2022, we piloted our Green and Sustainable Deposits 
solution with GIC. The solution is designed to help our 
corporate and institutional clients channel their funds to 
projects and activities with positive impact. Deposits will  
be deployed to loans that support green real estate,  
renewable energy, energy efficiency, smart city infrastructure 
and the circular economy under UOB's sustainable finance 
frameworks.

Clients with significant deposits will receive an impact 
report that highlights the use and impact of their funds, 
which will in turn enable them to quantify their contributions 
to sustainable development. 

Providing direction for SMEs through the  
UOB Sustainability Compass
For many small- and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), 
implementing sustainability in their business can be a 
big challenge. To help SMEs kickstart their sustainability 
journey, we launched the UOB Sustainability Compass, 
through which companies only need to complete a short 
questionnaire to receive a customised, step-by-step 
guide on how to set up sustainable business models and 
practices. They will also receive information on regulations, 
standards and certifications that affect their sectors, 
as well as sustainable financing solutions to take their 
business to the next stage of growth. 

“As one of the largest transportation providers 
in Singapore, we are aware of the urgent need 
to address carbon emission levels and evolve 
our business strategies to achieve sustainability 
goals. ...Through the UOB Sustainability 
Compass, we have generated our company’s 
sustainability report in under five minutes, with 
comprehensive insights on our ESG journey.”

Ms Voo Choon Ling
Deputy Managing Director, Woodlands Transport

41U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Drive Growth Sustainably

Sustainable Banking

Offering more sustainable fund solutions across 
the region
UOBAM continued to promote sustainable investing with 
the launch of ESG-focused unit trusts in various markets 
in 2022. These included:

• EAFE Plus Fund (Malaysia)
  A retail concentrated growth fund with ESG 

considerations that are firmly built into the broader 
process of fundamental analysis with the aim to 
maximise long-term returns.

• United Sustainable Thematic Select Fund (Thailand)
  A retail fund, launched in collaboration with BNP 

Paribas, which invests in multi-asset global sustainable 
equity and sustainable bond funds.

•  United Global Sustainable Infrastructure Equity 
(Thailand)

  A retail fund focusing on equity securities of companies 
related to infrastructure businesses around the world 
and with guidelines for sustainable business practices 
by diversifying investments into various regions.

• United Vietnam ESG Equity Fund (Vietnam)
  First ESG open-ended fund in Vietnam specialising 

in listed companies with good ESG profiles. The fund 
focuses on stocks that adopt the ESG standards,  
make strong commitments and focus on driving 
sustainable development. 

As at the end of 2022, UOBAM’s total AUM in ESG-focused 
funds were $8.2 billion.

Training and building internal capacity
Strengthening our internal capacity on ESG risk management 
remains a key focus. All colleagues in relevant roles are 
trained on our Group Responsible Financing Policy and 
processes via mandatory training and annual capacity 
building programmes. 

In 2022, we conducted a series of Group-wide Responsible 
Financing Training Workshops focusing on climate risk 
management and UOB’s own ESG risk management 
processes and requirements. The workshops formed 
an important training component to support the 
implementation of the ABS ERQ and received strong 
participation from approximately 1,800 colleagues in 
relevant roles across the region. 

The Board and Management, including the Group 
Sustainability Committee (GSC), also received training 
on areas such as climate change and net zero to stay 
updated on key developments.  

During the year, UOBAM’s Sustainability Academy also 
launched the Essentials of Climate Investing course offered 
by Robeco and training on net zero and climate change risks 
and opportunities, with the aim to deepen understanding 
of how investments play a role in climate action.

Engaging stakeholders to drive collective action
We continue to engage with our stakeholders, including 
customers, colleagues, regulators, investors, community 
and non-governmental organisations, to keep abreast 
of evolving expectations and industry developments.  
This enables us to ensure deeper integration of sustainability 
considerations into our strategy and programmes.

During the year, we continued our active involvement in 
the MAS Green Finance Industry Taskforce (GFIT) and 
supported the development of a series of sustainable 
finance e-learning courses by ABS and the Asia Sustainable 
Finance Initiative (ASFI) Academy. 

We also remained active in knowledge exchange through 
various sustainability and related events, such as the  
UN Climate Change Conference (COP 27), Point Zero Forum, 
Singapore Fintech Festival and Asia Risk Congress. We also 
held a forum titled ‘Innovating for a Sustainable Tomorrow’, 
bringing together business leaders and key decision makers 
to discuss the impact of global and regional trends on 
decarbonisation within the real economy.

In addition, UOBAM participated in various events, 
collaborating with organisations such as the Singapore 
Exchange Academy, GRESB, Tiger Brokers, Malaysia’s 
Joint Committee on Climate Change, Universiti Brunei 
Darussalam, InvesNow, Thaipublica, Soochow University 
and UOB Kay Hian on seminars to share insights into 
sustainable investing.

42U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Drive Growth Sustainably

Sustainable Banking

TCFD reporting

Climate change is one of the most complex and defining 
issues of our time and there is a critical need for the 
world to reach net zero by 2050 in alignment with the 
Paris Agreement and the 1.5°C trajectory outlined by the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). As a 
leading financial institution in the region, we are committed 
to strengthening our portfolio resilience and to being a 
positive force in the fight against climate change.

Governance
Board’s oversight of climate change-related 
issues
Climate change is a priority for our senior leaders.  
As part of UOB’s sustainability governance structure,  
our Board provides oversight of climate change-related 
issues through the Executive Committee (Exco), with 
support from our Management and relevant business units.  
The Board receives twice-yearly updates on climate-related 
topics. These include, but are not limited to, regulatory 
developments, internal policies, direct environmental 
impact through our operations, indirect impact through 
our financing and investment activities, our initiatives 
to support our customers on their sustainability journey,  
as well as sustainability reporting disclosures.

Other Board Committees may also receive reports related to 
climate change-related risks and opportunities that come 
under their respective charters. The Board and relevant 
Board Committees consider climate change-related risks 
and opportunities in the context of our guiding principles 
and sustainability strategy pillars.

Climate change-related issues are integrated into the 
following sustainability governance mechanisms: 

• strategy review;

• guidance on major plans of action;

• review and guidance on risk management policies;

• monitoring of implementation and performance of 
objectives;

• oversight of progress against goals and targets for 
addressing climate change-related issues; and

• review and approval of climate change-related 
disclosures in our annual reporting.

Amid the growing call for companies to demonstrate their 
prudent management of climate risk as well as demonstrate 
their commitment to net zero emissions by 2050,  
UOB announced our net zero commitment in October 2022  
with endorsement from our Board. As part of this process, 
the Board reviewed and approved the principles for 
sector prioritisation, including emissions materiality, 
abatement horizon and portfolio materiality for each 
of the six sectors, namely power, automotive, O&G,  
real estate, construction and steel. 

Management’s role in addressing climate 
change-related issues
The Management Executive Committee (MEC) supports 
the Exco on climate change-related matters and provides 
strategic direction for our sustainability practices. The 
MEC is responsible for:

• guiding the development of ESG-related policies, 
including those related to climate change;

• managing and monitoring climate change-related risks 
and opportunities; and

• overseeing the progress, performance and reporting 
on climate change-related issues.

The GSC, which comprises senior management from 
business and support units across the Bank, identifies 
climate-related risks and opportunities and assesses 
emerging issues. The wide representation ensures that 
climate change-related issues – whether identified by 
ourselves, investors, customers, regulators and other 
stakeholders – are integrated into our decision-making, 
and addressed at the highest levels.

In 2022, the GSC provided the Exco updates on our 
sustainability strategy in the following areas:

• emerging climate change issues;

• UOB’s direct environmental impact;

• enhancements to the Group Responsible Financing 
Policy; and

• our roadmap on implementing the TCFD 
recommendations to support our customers and other 
stakeholders in sustainable development. 

43U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Drive Growth Sustainably

Sustainable Banking

Implementing action to address climate  
change-related issues
The TCFD working group, which was established in 
2019 under the GSC, is a cross-functional working group 
responsible for reporting and driving the implementation 
of disclosures in line with TCFD recommendations.

Together with the GSC, the working group ensures that UOB 
maintains a robust and integrated platform for governing, 
implementing and monitoring climate change-related 
targets and strategies. The working group comprises 
senior representatives who have specific responsibilities 
in the implementation of our overall sustainability 
strategy to address climate change-related issues.  
These representatives are from:

• Group Risk Management;

• Group Corporate Sustainability Office;

• Group Strategy and Transformation;

• Group Wholesale Banking;

• Group Retail;

• Group Finance and Corporate Services; and

• UOB’s key overseas subsidiaries.

We are also guided by our Group Sustainability Framework, 
which is implemented through relevant policies and 
guidelines, including our Group Responsible Financing Policy  
that governs our review and approval of customer 
transactions in environmentally- and/or socially-sensitive 
sectors. Our financing teams work with customers to address 
climate change-related challenges and opportunities, 
and when necessary, also work in collaboration with  
non-governmenal organisations, certification bodies and 
other mutual stakeholders. 

Internally, to manage our direct environmental impact, our 
Corporate Real Estate and Services unit has a specialised 
energy and sustainability team that works to mitigate 
our environmental footprint and to realise our green 
building targets. Our Sustainable Procurement Working 
Group oversees our indirect impact by ensuring that 
material suppliers act in compliance with our Group Supplier 
Sustainability Principles. In addition, we have dedicated 
environment specialists that work full-time on our initiatives 
in the relevant business units, ensuring ownership of the 
Bank’s sustainability goals across our organisation.

Find Out More 

 Sustainability Governance

 Direct Environmental Impact

 Sustainable Procurement

Strategy
Climate risks, both transition and physical, can manifest 
through various risk drivers and materialise at different time 
horizons. As one of the regions most at risk to climate change 
globally, ASEAN is vulnerable to the growing intensity and 
magnitude of extreme physical weather events. 

While chronic physical risk is expected to materalise in 
the long term, acute physical risk is event-driven and may 
manifest in the shorter term, evidenced by the physical risk 
events witnessed in the past few years such as the severe 
floods in Malaysia and Thailand. 

The economic, environmental and social impacts 
resulting from climate change threaten to undo decades 
of developmental progress. As climate mitigation and 
adaptation measures scale up, these may also result in 
unintended consequences. Notably, while phasing out 
fossil fuels is a critical step to curb temperature rise,  
it may threaten energy security if implemented too abruptly. 

44U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Drive Growth Sustainably

Sustainable Banking

Key climate-related risks and potential impact identified over various time horizons

Classification Risk drivers Examples of potential impacts Expected time 
horizon

Transition risk Policy and 
legal

• Policy or regulatory 
changes to mitigate 
climate change 
impacts and to 
encourage shift 
towards renewable 
energy sources. E.g. 
implementation 
of carbon pricing, 
tighter energy 
efficiency standards 
and more stringent 
regulation of 
products and 
services

• Exposure to 
environmental 
litigations 
amid increased 
stakeholder 
expectations

Policy changes such as the phase-out 
of internal combustion engine vehicles 
and single-use plastics, or the Extended 
Producer Responsibility that could lead 
to structural business disruption and loss 
of competitiveness of our clients 

Short / medium 
term

Growing adoption of carbon 
pricing in the region may increase 
operating cost, particularly for heavy 
emitters, potentially leading to credit 
deterioration of our clients

Short / medium 
term

Development of regional and national 
Green Taxonomies may restrict heavy 
emitters’ access to funding

Short / medium 
term

Technology Technological 
improvements or 
innovations may lead 
to rapid changes in 
costs of production, 
competitiveness, 
and demand-
supply dynamics of 
certain sectors and 
necessitate the  
write-off of existing 
assets and increased 
capital expenditure

Technological advances have improved 
the viability and cost competitiveness 
of green technologies, such as electric 
vehicles and solar/wind energy, which 
could disrupt demand for fossil fuel-
based businesses and trigger early  
write-offs

Short / medium 
/ long term

Investment in technology, and research 
and development expenditure 
to reduce emission or to improve 
energy efficiency could stress the 
balance sheets of affected clients

Short / medium 
/ long term

45U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Drive Growth Sustainably

Classification Risk drivers Examples of potential impacts Expected time 
horizon

Transition risk Market Increased volatility and 
uncertainty in market 
trends and signals 
caused by changing 
customer behaviours, 
increased cost of raw 
materials, etc.

Shift in consumer preferences towards 
more sustainable products and services 
could lead to demand destruction for 
higher-carbon businesses and increased 
costs to adapt to market trends

Short / medium 
term

Sourcing restrictions for carbon-intensive 
raw materials and surge in demand for 
critical minerals needed for EV batteries 
could lead to increased volatility and 
costs

Short / medium 
term

Reputation Increased expectations 
and scrutiny from 
consumers, regulators, 
communities and 
other stakeholders on 
climate and emissions 
reduction

Reduced demand for products/services, 
availability of funding to stigmatised 
sectors and our counterparties, as well 
as the ability to attract/retain talent

Short / medium 
/ long term

Banks may face heightened scrutiny 
and reputational impact from financing/ 
investing in unsustainable businesses, 
insufficient progress in meeting 
emissions reduction commitment and 
greenwashing

Short / medium 
/ long term

Litigations associated with 
greenwashing or misrepresentation of 
green/sustainability credentials

Short / medium 
/ long term

Physical risk Acute Increased severity and 
frequency of extreme 
weather events, 
such as heat waves, 
typhoons, floods and 
bushfires

More frequent and severe climate events, 
such as floods and droughts, in ASEAN 
could disrupt operations and damage 
physical assets, resulting in lower 
revenues, increased recovery/insurance 
costs and asset value impairment

Short / medium 
/ long term

Increased frequency and severity of 
heat waves could have wide-ranging 
economic effects including damage to 
infrastructure, crop failure and lower 
labour productivity

Short / medium 
/ long term

Chronic Long-term shift in 
climate patterns, 
such as temperature 
rise, sea level rise 
and sustained lower 
average precipitation

Shifts in climate, such as rainfall 
patterns, rising temperatures and sea 
levels could result in reduced crop 
outputs, affecting food production and 
security, as well as deterioration in living 
and working conditions

Long term

Decrease in asset values in vulnerable 
regions, such as coastal areas in ASEAN 
that are susceptible to flooding

Long term

Note on materialisation timeline:
Short term: <3 years; Medium term: 3-10 years; Long term: >10 years

Sustainable Banking

46U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Drive Growth Sustainably

Sustainable Banking

To better assess our portfolio resilience under various plausible outcomes, we continued to strengthen our capability in 
climate scenario analysis, building on our efforts over the past few years. We partnered an internationally-recognised 
consultancy to enhance our methodology to holistically assess the impact of both transition and physical risks on 
borrowers’ financial performance, taking into consideration the differentiated responses and drivers for different 
sectors (See Appendix – Climate Scenario Analysis Methodology).  

Our assessment covered the following long-term scenarios referencing the 2021 Network for Greening the Financial 
System (NGFS) Phase II scenarios:

Orderly Transition Disorderly Transition No Additional Policies

NGFS reference Net zero 2050 scenario Delayed transition scenario Current policies scenario

Stringent climate policies 
and innovation that limit the 
impact of physical risks and 
allow for gradual economic 
adjustment

Concerted climate policy 
actions will commence only 
in 2031 causing an abrupt 
structural shift in the global 
economy. Physical risk will be 
slightly elevated but remain 
limited overall

Due to business as usual, 
the materialisation of acute 
and chronic physical risks 
will result in permanent 
impact on both labour and 
capital productivity, and 
consequently on economic 
output

Transition risks Moderate Moderate to high Limited

Nature of transition Early and orderly Delayed and disorderly Only policies in place as at 
the end of 2021

Physical risks Limited Limited High

The scenarios were applied on our Corporate, Sovereign, 
Banks, Retail Mortgage and Auto portfolios, which 
accounted for more than 90 per cent of UOB’s total 
exposures. In particular, the assessment for our Corporate 
portfolio focused on six sectors most relevant to climate 
risk, namely fossil fuels, utilities, heavy industries, building 
and construction, transportation and agriculture2.  
Top borrowers in each of these sectors were subject to 
bottom-up analyses using granular data such as production 
outputs, business mix and detailed asset locations.  
Using our credit rating models, the financial impact under 
each scenario on the borrowers’ credit rating was simulated. 

Overall, average change in projected credit risk profile 
of our assessed portfolios over time was not significant 
across all the three scenarios. Stress impact was mainly 
contributed by some sectors in the Corporate portfolio, 
notably O&G and agriculture, triggered by the transition 
pathways under the ‘Orderly Transition’ and ‘Delayed 
Transition’ scenarios.  

While we saw relatively milder impact under the  
‘No Additional Policies’ scenario, this could be due to the 
assessment horizon until 2050 that does not cover the 
second half of this century, when impacts from physical risks 
are expected to be more pronounced. In addition, this may 
also be attributed to data, scenarios and methodological 
limitations, with climate scenario analysis still relatively 
nascent despite significant progress made the past  
few years. 

2  Sectors identified in “A climate stress-test of the financial system”, by Battiston et al, 27 March 2017. These were also adapted by the MAS in the 
2022 Industry-wide Stress Test exercise.

47U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2

https://www.nature.com/articles/nclimate3255


Drive Growth Sustainably

Sustainable Banking

Scenario analysis results for our Corporate portfolio by sector

Projected impact of climate change on credit risk profiles  
of Corporate sectors 

UOB’s corporate exposure  
as at December 2022

41%

36%

7%

6%

7%

2%

1%

Lower Higher

Building and construction

Other sectors

Heavy industry

Transportation

Utilities (Power generation)

Agriculture

Fossil fuels (O&G)

Orderly Transition Disorderly Transition No Additional Policies

In recognition of the common industry challenges associated 
with climate risk assessment such as data availability,  
we will continue to work with regulators, industry 
associations, consultants and climate specialists to progress 
collectively to a more robust approach as methodologies 
and tools evolve and mature.

As a responsible lender, we are cognisant of the key role we 
play to help channel the resources needed and to support 
our clients in seizing climate-related opportunities on their 
decarbonisation journey. In October 2022, we published 
our net zero commitment, detailing key opportunities for 
us to support our customers in building a sustainable 
ASEAN through a just and equitable transition to a low 
carbon future.

Relative impact (projected 2050 probability of default as a multiplier 
of 2021 level)

48U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2

https://www.uobgroup.com/sustainability/forging-our-net-zero-future.html


Drive Growth Sustainably

Sustainable Banking

We identified climate opportunities across six focus sectors in two key carbon-emitting ecosystems – energy and built 
environment. These opportunities have already materialised in some markets and are expected to continue growing 
as more segments of the economy start decarbonising in the medium to long term. 

Identified climate-related opportunities across sectors

Ecosystem Focus sector Opportunities

Energy Power Working with power generation companies and equipment manufacturers 
to adopt decarbonisation targets and increase financing for new renewable 
energy projects

Automotive Working with equipment manufacturers, dealers, and financial leasing companies 
to support EV supply chains and increase financing for EV-focused businesses 
and activities

O&G Working with companies in hard-to-abate sectors to finance renewable energy, 
low emissions fuel alternatives, emissions reduction technologies, efficiency 
improvements in refining and other processes

Built 
environment 

Real estate Working with property developers, operators, investment companies and real 
estate investment trusts (REITs) to encourage the adoption of energy efficiency 
standards for buildings and to finance more energy-efficient buildings and 
installation of renewable energy and energy efficiency retrofits

Construction Working with companies engaged in construction and demolition to encourage 
the deployment of low-carbon construction processes, to improve their emissions 
intensity profile and to finance installation of on-site renewable energy 

Steel Supporting crude steel and fabricated metal producers and traders to encourage 
the shift towards electric arc furnace production methods, to research and 
develop new technologies and to improve plant efficiencies

To harness these opportunities, we will increase our engagement with our clients on climate change and transition, 
as well as develop tools to facilitate better monitoring and reporting as part of our net zero commitment. 

Find Out More 

  UOB’s commitment to net zero

49U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2

https://www.uobgroup.com/sustainability/forging-our-net-zero-future.html


Drive Growth Sustainably

Sustainable Banking

Risk management
Climate risks are complex and transverse in nature, and may potentially translate into known financial risk types for 
banks including credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk and operational risk. We have assessed the various climate risk 
transmission channels using either a qualitative or quantitative approach, and considered potential credit risk impact 
to be the most material. 

Climate risk is identified, assessed, managed and monitored through our Group ENRM Framework, which is approved 
by the Board Risk Management Committee. 

In 2022, no material climate-related financial losses were incurred, either through our corporate lending activities or 
damage to the Bank’s assets and associated business disruptions. Minor physical damages were adequately insured.  

Climate risk assessment

Secondary 
risk

Transition risk Physical risk

Short term 
(<3 years)

Medium term  
(3-10 years)

Long term 
(>10 years)

Short team 
(<3 years)

Medium term  
(3-10 years)

Long term 
(>10 years)

Credit

Market

Liquidity

Operational

Legend:
Low Moderate High

We manage credit risk associated with climate and ESG 
risk through our Group Responsible Financing Policy, 
which covers risk identification, assessment, mitigation 
and monitoring. Sectors with inherently higher ESG risk 
are subject to enhanced due diligence with sector-specific 
requirements. Based on our climate scenario analysis, the 
impact of transition and physical risk was not expected 
to be material in the short term, but may manifest more 
prominently in the longer term.

Banks may be exposed to market risk arising from the 
increase in volatility in investments and potential declines 
in valuations, due to impacts from severe physical climate 
events and shifts in investor preferences, particularly in 
carbon-intensive sectors. However, the short-dated nature 
of such exposures suggest that the impact is likely to be 
contained. Our trading desks conduct stress testing daily 
using scenarios depicting various climate events. These 
scenarios have a horizon of 10 days as trading activities 
are reactive to short-term market movements and portfolio 
exposures are rebased frequently.

Liquidity risk stems from the inability to raise funds 
to meet the Bank’s obligations due to various factors 
including those relating to climate change. Acute physical 
risk events may cause widespread physical damage 
and lead to a surge in client’s deposit withdrawals to 
finance damage repair and demand for emergency loans.   
In addition, decarbonisation of the economy over time 
may lead to difficulty in liquidating liquid assets issued by  
carbon-intensive corporates held by the Bank. However, 
this portfolio forms a limited part of our overall liquid 
assets. UOB manages both short-term and long-term 
liquidity implications of climate risk through stress testing.

Extreme weather events may also result in operational 
risk through disruptions to business continuity, due to 
adverse impact on the Bank’s infrastructure, systems, 
processes and employees. The risk is particularly relevant 
to UOB given our footprint in ASEAN, a region commonly 
associated with elevated physical risk. To mitigate this, 
our key critical facilities are equipped with high resiliency 
and critical systems are built with high availability. 

50U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Drive Growth Sustainably

Sustainable Banking

UOB’s business continuity plans set out the recovery 
strategies, action plans and resources needed following 
a crisis to recover critical business processes within an 
expected timeframe and to a planned acceptable level 
that minimises significant impact to the Bank, as well as 
to restore our operations to normalcy. We have in place a 
Business Continuity Management and Crisis Management 
Framework, and recovery efforts are overseen by a Business 
Continuity Management Task Force that reports directly 
to the Group Recovery Plan’s Crisis Management Team 
headed by our Group CEO.

Banks have generally made more progress in integrating 
environmental risk, including climate risk, into credit and 
reputational risk management processes and less so in 
other risk areas3. As such, we will continue to strengthen 
our understanding of the manifestations of climate risk 
in non-credit risk types and will direct our efforts towards 
strengthening our risk management approach. This includes 
progressing towards quantitative assessments of potential 
climate risk impacts over longer time horizons.

We expect that as climate risk becomes increasingly 
mainstream, methodology, data quality and availability will 
continue to improve, leading to more accurate and insightful 
assessment outcomes in the future. We are committed 
to continuing our engagement with regulators, industry 
associations and climate specialists, as well as actively 
participating in and supporting various initiatives such as 
the ASFI, the MAS Project Greenprint and the MAS GFIT  
to improve our capabilities in climate risk management.

Further, as our business and operations span multiple 
jurisdictions, we will closely monitor international 
developments such as the UN Climate Change Conference,  
the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision’s (BCBS) 
initiative on climate risk management, as well as 
new initiatives by the NGFS and local regulators.  
This will enable us to stay ahead of potential new regulatory 
requirements and to keep abreast of best industry risk 
management practices.

Management of wider 
environmental and nature risks

Scientific research suggests that climate change and 
nature loss are intertwined and cannot be addressed 
independently. Climate change events such as rise in 
temperature and changes in precipitation patterns 
have a range of impacts on nature4. The importance 
of nature and its health is increasingly recognised, 
particularly as half of the global economic activity is 
assessed to be moderately or highly dependent on 
natural capital or the world’s stock of natural assets.  

For example, the building and construction sector, 
one of the major emitters globally, depends heavily 
on nature to provide materials for building such as 
sand, iron ore for steel, and limestone for cement. 
Therefore, there is increased urgency to address 
nature loss alongside efforts to support the global 
transition to net zero. 

In 2022, UOB, together with several financial 
institutions in Singapore, participated in a pilot study 
organised by Global Canopy on the implementation of 
the Taskforce on Nature-related Financial Disclosures 
(TNFD) beta framework within the palm oil sector. 
Insights into the current practices, barriers and 
challenges experienced during the pilot contributed 
to further refinement of the framework. 

3 Source: Information Paper on Environmental Risk Management (Banks), MAS, May 2022, and Climate-related financial risks – measurement 
methodologies, BCBS, April 2021. 

4 Source: Integrating climate and nature: The rationale for financial institutions, University of Cambridge Institute for Sustainability Leadership, 2022. 

51U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2

https://globalcanopy.org/wp-content/uploads/2022/08/TNFD-GC-report_finalAUG.pdf
https://globalcanopy.org/wp-content/uploads/2022/08/TNFD-GC-report_finalAUG.pdf
https://www.mas.gov.sg/-/media/MAS-Media-Library/publications/monographs-or-information-paper/BD/2022/Information-Paper-on-Environmental-Risk-Management-Banks.pdf
https://www.bis.org/bcbs/publ/d518.htm
https://www.bis.org/bcbs/publ/d518.htm
https://www.cisl.cam.ac.uk/files/integrating_climate_and_nature_the_rationale_for_financial_institutions.pdf


Drive Growth Sustainably

Sustainable Banking

Metrics and targets
In 2022, we established our financed emissions baseline, 
setting science-based targets and commitments for six 
focus sectors. Our approach is in line with the guidance 
from the Glasgow Financial Alliance for Net Zero (GFANZ) 
and we have applied standards by the Partnership  
for Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF) to account 
for the greenhouse gas emissions associated with our  
financed portfolio. 

Energy

Power
Reduce emissions intensity by 61% by 2030 
and 98% by 2050

Automotive
Reduce emissions intensity by 58% by 2030 
and net zero by 2050

Oil and gas
No new project financing for upstream 
oil and gas projects approved for 
development after 2022

Built Environment

Real estate
Reduce emissions intensity by 36% by 2030 
and 97% by 2050

Construction
Reduce emissions intensity by 31% by 2030 
and 85% by 2050

Steel
Reduce emissions intensity by 20% by 2030 
and 92% by 2050

In determining our clients’ emissions, three key design 
decisions were made:

1. Emissions metric
  With our goal to achieve net zero and to support 

sustainable growth, our primary objective is to support 
more economic output for lower emissions. As such, our 
targets are to reduce emissions intensity, or reduced 
emissions per unit of sector output.

  Where possible, we have used physical-based emissions 
intensity metrics, such as emissions per tonne of crude 
steel produced for the steel sector, and per square metre 
of floor space for the real estate sector, to reflect the 
direct relationship between the emissions-generating 
activity and the resulting emissions. Where data on 
physical activities were not available, for instance within 
the construction sector, we have used a revenue-based 
emissions intensity metric in this initial target-setting 
exercise. For fossil fuels, we have set policy restrictions 
rather than targets, in recognition that the path to 
net zero for these sectors is more about a managed  
phase-down and less about reducing emissions 
intensity. There is also the critical priority to limit 
new supply so that price incentives for the switch to 
alternatives are maintained. 

  These approaches are tailored to our selected sectors 
and we are supporting net zero through our portfolio 
by making progress against our targets.

2. Value chain inclusion
  Within each of our selected sectors, we focus on 

the parts of the value chain that generate the most 
emissions and where we have the most material 
exposure and influence on the emissions level.  
These decisions are made on a sector-by-sector 
basis, taking into account what is practical. In some 
instances, we have focused on areas that have the 
best available data; in others we have focused only 
on certain parts of the value chain in order to maintain 
comparability within the sector and with the available  
reference scenarios.

52U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Drive Growth Sustainably

Sustainable Banking

3. Emissions scope 
  We have focused on the most material scopes of 

emissions for each sector and the emissions within 
the control of the clients for which we are setting 
targets, while ensuring that the scope included in our 
baseline is the same as defined by the science-based  
reference scenarios.

  After we have calculated the emissions data for each 
client, we aggregated the data to form an overall 
sector-level emissions baseline based on the weight 
of the exposure in our portfolio:

 

where i is a borrower or investee company in each sector.

Emissions  
intensity

Emissions  
intensityi

x=
Exposurei

Total sector portfolio exposure
i

When creating the weighted averages, we aggregate the 
emissions data at an overall sectoral level and include the 
following products in the calculation of exposure:

• business lending;

• specialised lending, including project finance;

• investment securities; and

• debt capital markets underwriting.

Selecting reference scenarios
To understand the required levels of emissions intensity 
reductions, we have relied on science-based models that 
chart out the most credible pathways to net zero by 2050 
across sectors and countries. These are from Integrated 
Assessment Models, including International Energy 
Agency Net Zero Emissions by 2050 Scenario (IEA NZE),  
NGFS – REMIND and NGFS – Global Change Assessment 
Model (GCAM), or specialised industry research bodies 
such as Carbon Risk Real Estate Monitor (CRREM) for the 
real estate sector and Mission Possible Partnership (MPP) 
for the steel sector.

We have considered the appropriate and best available 
pathway on a sector-by-sector basis and in view of the 
following:

• ensuring scientific credibility and alignment with  
1.5°C warming by 2050;

• ensuring an appropriate level of regional granularity 
for our portfolio. As we operate across Southeast Asia, 
we need to ensure that we select pathways that are 
realistic and fair for the emerging economies in which 
we operate as well as the developed countries we serve. 
Where possible, we have derived a region-specific net 
zero pathway that extract the scientific projections for 
our markets;

• ensuring the right level of sector granularity, especially 
in highly heterogenous sectors such as real estate,  
for which we have adopted an industry-specific 
pathway; and

• adopting pathways that assume continued economic 
growth and which do not overly rely on reduced growth 
or unrealistic assumptions around carbon removal to 
achieve net zero by 2050.

We recognise that the science of sector-based prescriptions 
towards net zero is an emerging and uncertain field.  
Of the scenarios we consider, the steel reference scenario 
from MPP was published in late 2021, while the IEA NZE 
scenario was published in mid-2021.

As actual circumstances and government policies shift, 
or when technologies come to the fore or fail to deliver 
the impact expected, new reference pathways will likely 
be needed.

Our approach will need to evolve with the science.  
To ensure comparability, we will continue to report against 
the targets until there is a pressing need for new reference 
pathways. This will likely happen several times between 
now and 2050.

Find Out More 

  UOB’s commitment to net zero

53U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2

https://www.uobgroup.com/sustainability/forging-our-net-zero-future.html


Drive Growth Sustainably

Sustainable Banking

CONTRIBUTION TO THE UN SDGs

Recognition and awards

• Maintained our leading position among ASEAN banks 
on the Worldwide Fund for Nature’s Sustainable Banking 
Assessment 2022

• Best Bond Adviser in ASEAN at The Asset Triple A 
Country Awards for Sustainable Finance 2022

• Best Wealth Manager for Impact Investing, Asia and 
Singapore at the The Asset Triple A Private Capital 
Awards 2022

• ESG Program of the Year – Silver at Asian Banking & 
Finance Retail Banking Awards 2022

• Environmental Products House of the Year – UOBAM 
at the Energy Risk Asia Awards 2022 

• Best Institutional House and Best Investor Education 
in Brunei at Asia Asset Management Best of the  
Best Country Awards 2022

Membership

• Signatory to the Net-Zero Banking Alliance 

• Member of the GFANZ

• Signatory to EP

• Member of the MAS GFIT’s Risk Management Workstream  
and Green and Sustainable Trade Finance Solutions 
Working Group

• Supporter of the TCFD

• Collaborated in the ASFI

• Signatory of UN PRI – UOBAM, UOBVM and UOB Global 
Capital

• Supporter of the Singapore Stewardship Principles for 
Responsible Investors – UOBAM and UOBVM

• Participant of WWF RESPOND – UOBAM

• Member of the Investment Management Association 
of Singapore – UOBAM

• Member of the AIGCC – UOBAM

• Member of the Greennode Technical Advisory Group, 
an ESG bond database initiated by the Singapore 
Exchange and Temasek – UOBAM 

• Member of the Ceres’ Valuing Water Finance Initiative 
 – UOBAM

• Member of Bank Negara Malaysia’s Joint Committee 
on Climate Change – UOBAM  

• Member of Bank Negara Malaysia’s Climate Change 
Principle-Based Taxonomy Implementation Group  
– UOBAM  

• Secretary-general and member of the Association of 
Investment Management Companies (Thailand)’s ESG 
Committee – UOBAM 

• Member of the Brunei Capital Market Associations  
– UOBAM 

• Signatory of the Operating Principles for Impact 
Management – UOBVM

54U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2

https://www.ceres.org/water/valuing-water-finance-initiative


Keep Customers 
at the Centre
56 Fair Dealing
59 Data Privacy and Governance
62 Customer Experience
66 Financial Inclusion

55U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Keep Customers at the Centre

Fair Dealing

At UOB, we put our customers first and it is on this foundation that we have 
developed our business and will continue to grow. What is not right for our 
customers is not right for us. Fair Dealing is at the heart of every decision and 
recommendation that we make at UOB. This is achieved through conscious and 
concerted efforts across our entire franchise.

Our approach

The principles of Fair Dealing reflect UOB’s time-tested 
values of Honour, Enterprise, Unity and Commitment, and 
are not bound by business or geography. In particular,  
our value of Honour underpins our commitment to delivering 
the five Fair Dealing Outcomes as set out in the Monetary 
Authority of Singapore’s (MAS) Guidelines on Fair Dealing. 
From the boardroom to our branches, we put our customers 
and their financial goals first by: 

Offering products and services 
that are suitable for them;

Dealing with feedback in an 
independent, effective and 
prompt manner.  

Providing clear, relevant and timely 
information so that customers can 
make informed financial decisions; and

Ensuring our employees give 
quality advice and appropriate 
recommendations;

We embed these principles in the way we design our 
investment products and services, our marketing and sales 
strategies and approaches, through to our after-sales 
care. By consistently putting these principles into practice, 
we provide suitable financial services and solutions to 
customers and ensure long-term business sustainability.

Fair Dealing is the responsibility of everyone at UOB, 
regardless of our individual roles. This duty is embodied in 
the UOB Code of Conduct. We have in place frameworks, 
policies and guidelines to ensure that we always aim for 
and achieve the Fair Dealing Outcomes. 

The Group Policy for Financial Advisory Services and Sale of 
Investment Products is an overarching policy that dictates 
the minimum standards on our provision of financial 
advisory services and the sale of investment products, 
including but not limited to: 

• competency of sales representatives; 

• due diligence for product suitability;

• fair and transparent disclosures to customers on areas 
such as key product and investment risks, as well as 
relevant fees, charges and penalties; and

• guidelines for product information and advertisements 
to ensure clarity, relevance and fairness.

Reviewed and approved by the Operational Risk 
Management Committee on an annual basis, the policy 
ensures that we have a consistent practice for dealing with 
our customers fairly. 

The Fair Dealing Guidelines Committee (FDGC), comprising 
senior management appointed by our Chief Executive 
Officer, is responsible for ensuring Fair Dealing Outcomes 
for our customers. The Board and Management provide 
oversight through the Board Risk Management Committee 
and the Risk and Capital Committee respectively.

56U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2

https://www.uobgroup.com/uobgroup/about/story/commitment-fair-dealing.page
https://www.uobgroup.com/uobgroup/about/story/commitment-fair-dealing.page
https://www.uobgroup.com/uobgroup/about/story/commitment-fair-dealing.page
https://www.uobgroup.com/sustainability/code-of-conduct.html


Keep Customers at the Centre

Under the FDGC’s leadership and guidance, the Bank has 
been, over the years, proactively driving the implementation 
of various new and/or improved controls and process 
refinement initiatives aimed at improving the standards 
of achieving Fair Dealing Outcomes. These include: 

• mandatory training on MAS Fair Dealing for all 
employees; 

• regular ‘Tone from the Top’ communications to reinforce 
the importance of embracing Fair Dealing principles 
in all that we do; 

• the UOB Customer Commitments Awards programme 
to recognise colleagues who uphold and fulfil our 
customer commitments; 

• the Art of Service Recovery Programme, which aims 
to equip employees with the skillsets to address  
customers’ concerns effectively, to deliver service 
recovery and in turn, increase customer satisfaction; and

• the MAS Fairness, Ethics, Accountability and 
Transparency (FEAT) and Fair Dealing Outcome Five 
Workshop, which brings together cross-functional 
teams from across the Group to discuss key insights 
into customer concerns and to proactively identify 
service gaps and improvement areas.

UOB is committed to complying with all laws and  
regulations, including those pertaining to environmental, 
social and economic impact, product and service information 
and labelling, as well as marketing communications which 
includes advertising, promotion and sponsorship. In 2022, 
there was no material fine, penalty or sanction imposed 
on the Bank for non-compliance in relation to any of the 
above areas. 

Fair Dealing

Practising Fair Dealing at 
Group Wholesale Banking 
and Global Markets

Group Wholesale Banking and Global Markets (GM)  
are responsible for developing and providing 
customised financial products and treasury solutions 
across asset classes to help customers meet their 
investment, liability and risk management needs. 

In ensuring Fair Dealing, dealers and sales 
representatives adhere to the Foreign Exchange 
(FX) Global Code, which sets out global principles 
of good FX practices that promote the integrity and 
effective functioning of the wholesale FX market.

GM dealers and sales representatives are also 
guided by the Singapore Guide to Conduct and 
Market Practices for the Wholesale Financial 
Markets, also commonly referred to as “The Blue 
Book”, which aims to foster high conduct standards 
and practices to ensure fair and equitable 
relationships among market participants.

In addition to the MAS Fair Dealing training, regular 
training sessions on product due diligence and 
client suitability assessments are held for sales 
representatives. Designed for non-accredited 
investors, the client suitability assessment process 
enables sales representatives to identify and 
understand the customer’s profile and investment 
objectives, before providing recommendations on 
any financial and investment products. This is to 
help customers make informed investment decisions.

57U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2

https://www.globalfxc.org/fx_global_code.htm
https://www.globalfxc.org/fx_global_code.htm
https://www.mas.gov.sg/regulation/guidance/the-singapore-guide-to-conduct-and-market-practices-for-the-wholesale-financial-markets
https://www.mas.gov.sg/regulation/guidance/the-singapore-guide-to-conduct-and-market-practices-for-the-wholesale-financial-markets
https://www.mas.gov.sg/regulation/guidance/the-singapore-guide-to-conduct-and-market-practices-for-the-wholesale-financial-markets


Keep Customers at the Centre

Fair Dealing

Our targets

 Maintain 100 per cent completion of mandatory 
training on MAS Fair Dealing by employees. 

   This was achieved in 2022.

2022 highlights

Avoiding dark patterns in our  
digital banking services
As more of our customers increasingly use digital banking 
channels, we recognise the importance of treating our 
customers fairly and avoiding the use of dark patterns.  
Dark user experience patterns are interfaces that subtly 
trick users, either deliberately or accidentally, into doing 
things they do not mean to do.

In 2022, the TMRW Digital Group conducted awareness 
training on what dark patterns are and how to identify 
and prevent them. The team updated the UOB TMRW 
Design Principles to avoid dark patterns in customer 
communications and in the naming of products and 
features. 

In addition, we monitor customer complaints and feedback 
to identify instances where customers think they may be 
subject to dark patterns. This enables us to continuously 
enhance our solutions and features.

We maintain our customers’ trust in us by ensuring that our 
products and services are clear and fair, and are designed 
with our customers’ interests at heart. 

Sharing financial tips through the media
To promote financial literacy among the public, we 
frequently share financial tips through channels such 
as mainstream media and social media. In 2022, UOB 
hosted a ‘Rethink Your Wealth’ series in The Sunday Times 
in Singapore to address consumers’ questions about 
managing their finances. 

The fortnightly series featured topics such as: 

• financial awareness and literacy for the young; 

• importance of investing early for greater financial 
stability; 

• addressing one’s financial fears as a part of good 
money management;

• common financial planning mistakes;  

• personalisation of investment portfolios to suit risk 
appetites and financial goals; and

• wealth protection in an inflationary and rising interest 
rate environment.

Promoting financial literacy in China
In conjunction with the World Consumer Rights Day on  
15 March 2022, the Customer Experience and Advocacy 
team hosted a series of activities in China aimed at helping 
the public deepen their financial knowledge. For example, 
we organised a community outreach session for an elderly 
community in Shanghai, distributing educational materials 
and explaining in person how they can evaluate the  
credibility of a fundraising activity or an investment company. 

Our colleagues also helped the elderly learn how to 
identify potential risks and scams simply by scanning a 
QR code by UOB China to watch anti-scam videos and to 
obtain anti-scam advisory. More than 200 senior residents 
received the materials and scanned our QR code to obtain 
more information.
 

CONTRIBUTION TO THE UN SDGs

58U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2

https://www.straitstimes.com/business/invest/concerned-about-inflation-experts-help-ease-your-biggest-money-concerns-in-new-series


Keep Customers at the Centre

Data Privacy and Governance

Protecting personal data and privacy is integral to how we conduct business at 
UOB. As digital economies expand beyond borders and innovative uses of data 
develop, it becomes increasingly important to recognise and respect the privacy 
and rights of our customers. We safeguard the confidentiality and security of 
our customers’ information by implementing robust privacy measures, meeting 
industry best practices and complying with relevant laws and regulations. 
Through these efforts, we ensure that data privacy is embedded in the services 
we provide and in every aspect of our operations.  

Our approach

Data protection is interwoven into various UOB policies 
and guidelines, which apply Group-wide and are approved 
by senior management committees. They include the  
UOB Code of Conduct, reviewed annually by the Bank’s 
Human Resources Committee, as well as the following 
policies reviewed annually by the Operational Risk 
Management Committee (ORMC):

• the Group Information Technology Security Management 
and Cyber Resiliency Policy; 

• the Group Operational Risk Management Policy; and 

• the Enterprise Data Governance Policy.

In Singapore, we also have in place the Personal Data  
Protection Policy, which sets out the structure for 
compliance with the Singapore Personal Data Protection 
Act 2012. This policy is reviewed annually by the ORMC.  
Further, the Guidelines on Responding to Personal Data 
Breaches and the Standard Operating Measures for  
Data Leakage Crisis/Non-Crisis Management provide 
the Bank with a roadmap for handling data breaches. 
Similar policies and guidelines are implemented in 
our subsidiaries in relevance to local regulations and 
compliance requirements.

Our policies and processes reflect our respect of our 
customers’ interests and preferences. We are committed 
to honouring their privacy rights, including providing: 

• channels for feedback such as email, online contact 
forms and phone hotline; 

• access to and correction of personal data, as well as 
issue resolution. 

We also have processes in place to ensure timely resolution 
of grievances.

UOB’s Privacy Notices, privacy and security practices and 
the contact details of the Bank’s Data Protection Officer 
are publicly available online on the UOB Privacy and 
Security webpage.

Through regular mandatory training, we ensure that our 
people understand the importance of upholding data privacy 
and are kept abreast of the Bank’s policies and processes.

UOB’s Personal Data Protection 
Policy Principles

• Personal data must only be collected and used 
for purposes the customer has consented to, 
or as may be permitted by law;

• Personal data is used responsibly in accordance 
with our ethical standards and corporate values;

• Access and disclosure are subject to strict 
controls;

• Integrity and security of personal data are 
paramount; and

• Personal data that is no longer required for 
legal or business purposes must be anonymised 
or destroyed, in accordance with document 
retention policies.

Find Out More 

 Customer Experience

 Information Security

59U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2

https://www.uobgroup.com/sustainability/code-of-conduct.html
https://www.uobgroup.com/uobgroup/privacy/index.page
https://www.uobgroup.com/uobgroup/privacy/index.page


Keep Customers at the Centre

Data Privacy and Governance

Data protection at all levels

Line data protection officers at functional and 
business levels in Singapore and locally-appointed 
officers at overseas locations report to the Franchise 
Data Protection Officers in Singapore, who in turn 
report to the ORMC. These officers ensure compliance 
with local regulations and Group requirements, as 
well as assist in the investigation of alleged breaches 
as and when required. 

Group Operational Risk Management, as well as 
the Data Protection Office under Group Legal, 
review any incidents and consider whether the 
incidents need to be reported and/or affected 
persons notified. Breach reporting and data leakage 
protocols are clear, and are designed to ensure 
timely breach management and mitigation of harm 
to data subjects. Post-incident action plans are 
pursued to closure to address any weaknesses in 
process that resulted in the incidents.

Data ethics and quality 
UOB’s Enterprise Data Governance and Quality team 
from the Data Management Office (DMO) governs 
the data life cycle from creation and consumption 
to eventual deletion. This function brings together 
subject-matter experts from across UOB to focus on 
the continual improvement of data health, powered 
by innovations in processes and technology.

Our multi-disciplinary Data Ethics taskforce formulates 
and guides the integration of the Monetary Authority 
of Singapore’s (MAS) Fairness, Ethics, Accountability 
and Transparency (FEAT) principles in the design and 
validation of the Bank’s key artificial intelligence (AI) 
and analytical models.

UOB’s Data Management Committee provides 
oversight on data quality and data governance 
and privacy initiatives. This committee comprises 
senior representatives from DMO, Group Technology 
and Operations, Group Compliance, Group Risk 
Management, Group Human Resources, Group 
Finance and Corporate Services, as well as the 
business segments and functions. 

Our targets

 Complete the operationalisation of the MAS FEAT 
principles across the Group by 2023.

 Maintain zero material issues in relation to data 
confidentiality and privacy.

   This was achieved in 2022. 

2022 highlights

UOB is a founding member of the MAS Veritas Consortium, 
which was set up to strengthen internal governance 
around the financial industry’s application of AI and the 
management and use of data. Following the release of 
the MAS FEAT principles, UOB collaborated with the MAS 
and its partners to develop the methodology to assess 
Fairness in Veritas Phase 1 through a use case on credit 
risk scoring. 

The methodology was extended to cover all FEAT principles 
in Veritas Phase 2 and UOB was one of the financial 
institutions that developed the Ethics and Accountability 
assessment methodology, applying it to customer marketing 
and insurance fraud detection. UOB is also a lead member 
in MAS’ initiative to develop the open-source toolkit to 
facilitate the adoption of the Veritas Fairness methodology.

In 2022, we incorporated the Veritas Phase 2 methodology 
and the Fairness open-source toolkit into our Data Ethics 
Governance processes. We also showcased the integration 
of these processes in Veritas Phase 3.

To ensure continued robustness and relevance to the 
developing global regulatory landscape, emerging data 
privacy laws and internal business sensitivities, we also: 

• enhanced the External Data Sharing Guidelines,  
in alignment with The Association of Banks in 
Singapore’s (ABS) Data Sharing Handbook to govern 
and facilitate the process for the Bank’s data sharing 
with ecosystem partners; 

• enhanced the Cross-border Data Management 
Guidelines, which governs and facilitates the process 
for the Bank’s internal cross-border data management 
in accordance with banking regulations, privacy laws, 
country regulations and business confidentiality;

60U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Keep Customers at the Centre

• tightened the breach reporting process to ensure 
that appropriate attention is given to data leakage 
incidents, especially in circumstances where there may 
be significant impact on the Bank or our customers; 

• included the enforcement of data governance controls 
under the Key Risk and Control Self-Assessment 
programme; 

• incorporated Data Protection by Design into our system 
development methodology process;

• implemented a centralised online portal for personal 
data breach reporting, assessment and monitoring; 
and

• improved our processes for the maintenance of the 
Bank’s personal data inventory. 

In 2022, we organised briefings for our people to raise 
their awareness of data privacy and protection laws,  
as well as escalation protocols for data breaches. 

We also conducted training sessions and workshops that 
were tailored to business and support units’ specific job 
functions and activities.  

During the year, there were no legal proceedings taken 
against UOB in respect of any data privacy breach, nor 
any fine or other sanction imposed on the Bank by the 
Singapore Personal Data Protection Commission (PDPC). 
We made all notifications to the PDPC on time.

Data Privacy and Governance

Recognition and awards

• Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) Cross Border 
Privacy Rules certification, with UOB as the first bank in 
Singapore to be awarded. We are also the only bank 
to be awarded both the Data Protection Trustmark 
and the APEC Cross Border Rules certifications by the 
Infocomm Media Development Authority of Singapore. 

Memberships

• Founding member of the MAS Veritas Consortium

• Chair of the ABS Standing Committee on Data 
Management

• Chair of the ASEAN Bankers’ Association Interoperable 
Data Taskforce and led a taskforce in creating the 
ASEAN Banking Interoperable Data Framework, which 
aims to facilitate cross-border data flow among ASEAN’s 
banks in a safe and secure manner

CONTRIBUTION TO THE UN SDGs

61U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2

https://www.imda.gov.sg/How-We-Can-Help/Cross-Border-Privacy-Rules-Certification/CBPR-Certified-Organisations
https://www.imda.gov.sg/How-We-Can-Help/Cross-Border-Privacy-Rules-Certification/CBPR-Certified-Organisations
https://www.imda.gov.sg/-/media/Imda/Files/Programme/DPTM/DPTM-Certified-Organisations.pdf?la=en&hash=1AEC2EDE87681ED26698F8A30D544B23


Keep Customers at the Centre

Customer Experience

UOB is committed to doing what is right for our customers, who are at the core of 
our business. Through our omni-channel approach, we seek to meet their diverse 
needs, using technologies such as artificial intelligence (AI) and data analytics, 
to gain better insights into their preferences and to provide highly personalised 
solutions. By actively engaging our customers, we can create positive experiences, 
foster deeper trust with them and remain relevant and competitive. 

Our approach

At UOB, we offer our customers choices in how they bank 
with us, whether it is at our branches or through our  
self-banking, internet or mobile banking channels.  
To make banking seamless, simpler, smarter and safer for 
them, we invest continually in our technology capabilities 
such as AI and data analytics. We also employ an array of 
methods to understand better our customers’ needs and 
preferences, and how they use our products and services. 

Ensuring customer satisfaction 
Our Group Customer Experience and Advocacy function 
monitors key performance indicators and metrics relating to 
customer experience at both the strategic and operational 
levels. Regular updates are presented to the Group Chief 
Executive Officer (CEO), country CEOs, senior management 
as well as relevant committees such as the Fair Dealing 
Guidelines Committee, the Operational Risk Management 
Committee and the Board Risk Management Committee. 
These updates relate to customers’ Net Promoter Scores 
(NPS) for Group Retail, Group Wholesale Banking and 
Global Markets, Contact Centre and our branches, as 
well as customer complaint indicators and end-to-end 
service measures.

We actively listen to customers across the life cycles of 
our products and services. Through our Voice of Customer 
programmes and activities, we manage customer insights 
and testing to improve customer satisfaction and loyalty. 

We have cross-functional teams in place to develop, 
refine and implement improvement initiatives using the 
consolidated customer insights drawn from internal and 
external sources. UOB’s Art of Service Recovery Programme 
equips our colleagues with the skills to resolve customer 
complaints and to turn challenging situations into positive 
outcomes. We conduct a review and root-cause analysis 
for every customer feedback that we receive. With the help  
of the relevant business and/or support unit, we address 
the concerns of each customer and identify areas for 
improvement. 

Our continuous improvement is also guided by the NPS and 
Customer Satisfaction Score, which are tracked throughout 
the year. Through industry surveys such as the Customer 
Satisfaction Index of Singapore (CSISG) and findings 
from our external consultants, we are able to obtain an 
independent gauge of the level of satisfaction among 
our customers as well as their changing needs. We use 
information and insights from these sources to enhance 
the customer experience and to develop products and 
services that enable us to serve our customers better. 

In 2022, we:

• achieved mean Customer Experience (CX) scores of 
8.3 for Group Wholesale Banking and Global Markets, 
and 8.2 for Group Retail; 

• improved our NPS from 38.0 per cent to 45.9 per cent 
for Group Retail; and 

• improved our CSISG score to 75.1 from 74.7 in the previous 
year, with UOB ranked first among peer banks.

62U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Keep Customers at the Centre

Our targets

 Maintain 75 per cent digitally-enabled individual 
customers with a monthly active rate of more than 
35 per cent.

    We achieved 75 per cent digitally-enabled 
individual customers with a monthly active rate 
of 38 per cent in 2022.

 Maintain mean CX scores for Group Retail, Group 
Wholesale Banking and Global Markets of above 7.0,  
based on a zero to 10-point scale.

    We achieved mean scores of 8.3 for Group 
Wholesale Banking and Global Markets, and 
8.2 for Group Retail.

 Continue to resolve at least 90 per cent of general 
customer complaints within five days across  
the Group. 

    This was achieved across all our seven key  
markets in 2022, with 91 per cent of complaints in  
Singapore resolved within the established 
standards. 

2022 highlights

Incorporating wellness into our branch experience
We launched Wellness@UOB in 2022 to imbue the 
banking experience with a focus on holistic wellness for 
our customers. In Singapore, we launched six wellness 
concept branches, at which our customers can enjoy 
access to wellness activities, from health screenings to 
yoga classes. We also have branch colleagues who are 
Wellness Advocates, trained to provide basic wellness 
guidance to our customers. During the year, more than 
10,000 customers visited our wellness booths, and we 
interacted with more than 1,000 attendees at our monthly 
wellness events. 

Beyond Singapore, we also held wellness activities such 
as health screenings, financial wellness talks and yoga 
classes at our branches in Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand 
and Vietnam. 

Customer Experience

63U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2

https://www.uob.com.sg/personal/solutions/wellness/index.page


Keep Customers at the Centre

Customer Experience

Enhancing our branch services through our 
new feedback platform
In 2022, we launched a digital platform at our branches 
in Singapore to gather customer feedback in real time.  
Customers can scan a QR code at the counter to 
provide immediate feedback on their branch experience.  
The platform creates dynamic questionnaires, with questions  
contextualised and customised to customers’ preceding 
responses. It enables us to obtain more insightful and 
actionable feedback on each customer experience, 
and in turn to address any potential areas of concern 
more effectively. We also tap such customer insights to 
design the experience journey for new branch models.  
We plan to roll out this initiative progressively at our 
branches in other countries.  

Delivering personalised solutions and  
insights through UOB TMRW
UOB TMRW is our all-in-one digital banking app built 
around our customers’ needs to enable them to bank,  
to pay and to play. In 2022, we rolled out a suite of enhanced 
features and services, such as dynamic login screens, easier 
navigation and customisable visual themes in Singapore. 

In Indonesia, we launched Auto-Save, an AI-driven, 
automated and self-adjustable savings feature on the 
TMRW digital banking app. The first of its kind in ASEAN, 
Auto-Save leverages machine learning models to analyse 
and predict customers’ transactions and spending patterns, 
so as to identify and sweep surplus cash automatically 
into their saving accounts. With this feature, customers 
can earn higher interest while ensuring sufficient balances 
in their current accounts for any required transactions. 

Auto-Save is powered by the advanced AI and data 
analytics solutions of our long-term partner, Personetics, 
whom we also work with on delivering personalised 
insights to our customers on our digital banking app.  
In 2022, we served more than 113 million personalised 
insights across the region, 55 per cent more than 2021.

Find Out More 

  Personalising Banking for Every Unique Customer, UOB Annual Report 2022

Driving digital connectivity for businesses across 
the region 
In 2022, we made a significant push to support our 
corporate clients through digital solutions, such as  
UOB Infinity and the new UOB SME app. 

UOB Infinity
UOB Infinity is our online banking platform for companies, 
on which they can manage their banking needs, transact 
and track payments in real time, all on a single platform. 
To date, UOB Infinity has been rolled out in 10 markets.

In Singapore and Hong Kong, we also rolled out financial 
supply chain management (FSCM) capabilities so that  
our corporate clients can connect digitally with their 
suppliers, buyers and distributors to exchange and to 
validate trade documents, and in turn obtain financing 
quickly and smoothly. This feature will be launched 
progressively in other countries. 

“FSCM on UOB Infinity has empowered us to 
undertake a series of transactions seamlessly.  
It has also digitalised our financial management 
processes, enabling faster input and exchange 
of information. The automated processing of 
our invoices and requests has led to faster 
turnaround time. We look to achieve further 
digitalisation in the future.”

Ms Michelle Fang
Finance Director, CR Construction Company

UOB SME app
We launched the UOB SME app in Singapore, Malaysia 
and Vietnam in 2022 to help small- and medium-sized  
enterprises (SMEs) transact on the go securely.  
Through the app, SMEs can access solutions including 
financing, as well as business management tools that help 
them achieve greater efficiency in areas such as human 
resources, payroll, logistics and digital marketing.

64U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2

https://www.uobgroup.com/AR2022/personalising-banking-for-every-unique-customer.html


Keep Customers at the Centre

SMEs will also be able to view their cash flow data on an 
interactive dashboard, set personalised foreign currency 
watchlists with instant alerts, and obtain customised 
insights and information on relevant industry events.  
The UOB SME app can also be accessed on desktop. 

“Being in the retail industry means that my 
business is more susceptible to movement 
restrictions and border closures, as we have 
seen in the pandemic in the last two years.  
I am always on the go, managing multiple shop 
outlets. With the UOB SME app, I can view my 
cash flow on an interactive dashboard that 
shows the last six months of my business’ 
performance. Having my cash flow position 
readily available provides me with greater 
control, and therefore confidence, in making 
decisions for my business.” 

Mr Kelvyn Chee 
CEO and Founder, Decks 

Customer Experience

Find Out More 

   Connecting Businesses to Frontiers in ASEAN and Beyond,  
UOB Annual Report 2022

  Financial Inclusion

Recognition and awards

• Ranked third in ASEAN (excluding Singapore) and second 
in Singapore on Coalition Greenwich’s Greenwich Share 
Leader 2022 league table for Asian Large Corporate 
Trade Finance; also recognised as a Greenwich Quality 
Leader in Indonesia  

• Best Customer Experience among banking and 
insurance brands on Forrester’s 2022 Singapore 
Customer Experience Index (CX Index™) 

• Best Hybrid Customer Experience – Branch at  
The Digital Banker’s Digital CX Awards 2022

• Best Digital Bank in Southeast Asia, Singapore and 
Thailand at The Digital Banker’s Global Retail Banking 
Innovation Awards 2022

• Most Innovative Digital Bank in Indonesia, Singapore 
and Thailand at the International Finance Awards 2022

Memberships 

• Founding member of SGTradex, a data exchange that 
facilitates the digitalisation of supply chains

CONTRIBUTION TO THE UN SDGs

65U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2

https://www.uobgroup.com/AR2022/connecting-businesses-to-frontiers-in-asean-beyond.html
https://www.uobgroup.com/AR2022/connecting-businesses-to-frontiers-in-asean-beyond.html


Keep Customers at the Centre

Financial Inclusion

Even as education standards and income levels continue to rise with growing 
affluence, many individuals and businesses, particularly in Southeast Asia,  
still lack access to affordable financial products and services. UOB is committed 
to empowering the underbanked and underserved through digital innovation 
and customer education. The rapid advances in technology and prevalent use of 
mobile banking have also driven the need for digital financial inclusion so that 
various segments of the community can progress together.

Our approach

UOB is committed to making our banking products and 
services accessible and affordable to consumers and 
businesses across segments. We do this through our close 
to 500 branches and offices, owned and shared network 
of more than 1.1 million self-service banking machines 
(including automated teller machines (ATMs)), as well as 
digital banking channels. We seek to be holistic in our 
approach to financial inclusion, taking into consideration 
the unique socioeconomic factors in each of our markets. 

Across UOB, our colleagues are equipped with the skills 
and knowledge to serve the needs of a diverse customer 
base, including those who may be physically or visually 
impaired. In Singapore, we continue to innovate and 
optimise our services while actively engaging senior citizens 
to help them learn about and use digital banking solutions.  
In Malaysia, we offer Islamic banking solutions to help meet 
the local demand for Shariah-compliant financial services. 

We also support businesses across all stages of growth.  
To help small- and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) access 
bank financing, we harness technology to assess their 
creditworthiness and to process loans more quickly and 
accurately. In addition, through UOB Venture Management’s 
(UOBVM) private equity financing, we facilitate better 
access to finance for micro-entrepreneurs.

Advocating digital financial inclusion

As the digitalisation of financial services continues, it is 
important that no one is excluded in their day-to-day 
lives from the benefits and opportunities provided by 
technology. However, the fast pace of technological 
advancement has resulted in some groups of people 
being left behind. We actively engage our customers 
and the wider community, especially senior citizens, 
to help them become digitally ready and understand 
how digital banking products and services can make 
their lives more convenient. 

1. Equipping employees with digital skills
 •  We have enrolled more than 1,000 branch 

colleagues in the Career Conversion Programme, 
which we launched in 2017 in collaboration 
with Workforce Singapore and The Institute 
of Banking and Finance Singapore.

 •  About 90 per cent of branch colleagues in 
Singapore have completed the programme 
and deepened their digital skillsets.

2. Educating customers on the use of digital services
 •  Digital Advocates at our branches in Singapore 

are on-site to guide less digitally-savvy 
customers on how to use the UOB TMRW app 
for their daily banking activities.  

 •  We help educate our customers on the latest 
scam tactics and share tips on how they can 
protect themselves. 

3. Offering resources for digital readiness efforts
 •  We work with the Infocomm Media Development 

Authority and other partners to promote digital 
awareness and adoption in Singapore.

66U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Keep Customers at the Centre

Financial Inclusion

Supporting SMEs in accessing bank financing 
and in digitalisation
Access to bank financing can be a challenge for many 
SMEs and UOB has in place various solutions to address 
this funding gap. We also support SMEs on their growth 
journey through digital transformation and sustainability 
innovation programmes offered by The FinLab, our 
innovation accelerator. 

UOB Business Loan
Offered in Singapore, the UOB Business Loan is available to 
locally-incorporated companies with less than three years 
in operation or with low sales turnover. It offers a short 
tenor cash advance loan or a longer tenor working capital 
loan, and the entire application process is digital and 
straight-through to offer companies ease and convenience 
when seeking funding. 

UOB BizMerchant
UOB BizMerchant is a small-ticket financing solution for 
online businesses operating on e-commerce platforms, 
such as Lazada, Sendo, Shopee and Qoo10, and which 
may not be able to access bank financing due to a lack 
of financial records for credit assessment. Our credit 
underwriting engine applies analytics to gain insights 
into the business’ transactions and credit behaviour.  
In addition to the digital application process, we offer a 
pre-qualified programme to reduce the turnaround time 
for loan approvals. As at the end of 2022, close to 1,000 
SMEs in Indonesia, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam 
benefitted from UOB BizMerchant, with our total loans 
amounting to $15 million. 

UOB BizSmart 
UOB BizSmart is a suite of integrated business solutions that 
enables SMEs to automate their key operating processes, 
from accounting and inventory management to online sales 
and marketing. By linking their UOB BizSmart Account to 
their UOB bank account, SMEs can reconcile their financial 
transactions and obtain insights into their projected 
cash positions, top customers, suppliers and account 
receivables and payables on the UOB SME app. As at 
the end of 2022, more than 28,000 SMEs in Indonesia, 
Malaysia, Singapore and Thailand benefitted from  
UOB BizSmart since its launch in 2016. 

Sustainability Innovation Programme (SIP)
Launched in 2021, The FinLab’s SIP aims to promote greater 
awareness and adoption of sustainable business practices, 
especially in energy efficiency and decarbonisation, 
among SMEs. More than 400 SMEs participated in the 
2022 programme and learnt more about how they could 

tap technology and leverage UOB’s ecosystem solutions,  
U-Solar, U-Energy, and U-Drive, for more sustainable  
business practices.

The Greentech Accelerator (GTA)
Launched in 2022 by The FinLab, the GTA focuses on 
supporting high-growth greentech solution providers 
by connecting them to SMEs and corporates to solve 
problem statements in the areas of energy efficiency,  
zero-waste supply chain, carbon management and reporting.  
More than 150 applications from more than 40 countries 
were received for the three-month programme, with  
12 greentech firms qualifying for total funding of up to 
$150,000 for commercialisation of their solutions.  

Find Out More 

  The FinLab 

Offering Shariah-compliant financing –  
an alternative to conventional banking
At its core, the purpose of Islamic banking is to generate 
equitable, fair returns, with activities guided by the 
virtues of Shariah that promote ethical, communal and  
socially-responsible values. It is a viable alternative to 
conventional banking in many parts of the world. Since the  
launch of the Islamic Banking Window in Malaysia in 2016,  
we have been offering Islamic banking products and 
services, including:

• banking solutions and subsidised digital business 
solutions to small businesses;

• green and sustainable banking solutions to medium 
and large companies;

• trade and foreign currency solutions for companies’ 
cross-border transactions;

• BancaTakaful solutions with fire or property protection 
coverage for both individuals and businesses; and

• worksite marketing solutions for companies and their 
employees, covering complimentary Takaful coverage 
for account holders, and special rates for fixed deposits 
and home financing packages. 

67U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2

https://thefinlab.com/


Keep Customers at the Centre

Financial Inclusion

We also support Bank Negara Malaysia’s vision for Value-based Intermediation, which promotes good banking 
practices and encourages sustainable consumer behaviours. 

In 2022, we opened about 600 accounts for university students, providing them access to financial management 
tools, free Takaful protection cover from RM1500 to RM10,000, and other free banking services. We also engaged 
about 2,000 participants in financial literacy initiatives to share knowledge on financial management and how to 
combat financial scams.

UOB Venture Management (UOBVM) – Supporting access to finance via portfolio companies
UOBVM's Asia Impact Investment Funds (AIIF) seek to contribute to poverty alleviation and to improve the livelihoods 
of those at the ‘Base of Pyramid (BoP)’ living on US$3,000 or less a year. 

One of the AIIF’s key target areas is access to finance, focusing on high-growth companies in Southeast Asia that 
promote financial inclusion for marginalised groups, such as smallholder farmers and women micro-entrepreneurs. 
Through the efforts of AIIF’s portfolio companies, more than 1.63 million low-income individuals have gained better 
access to finance to build or invest in agricultural activities or small businesses.

How microfinance supports women-led entrepreneurship

Amartha, an AIIF portfolio company, was founded in 2010 as an impact-driven microfinance marketplace 
providing access to capital for the underserved or unbanked women micro-entrepreneurs in Indonesia’s rural 
communities. As at the end of 2022, Amartha supported more than 1.47 million women in their businesses across 
51,000 villages in the country.

Beyond lending, Amartha also offers services such as Amartha Plus, an online platform that empowers communities 
with group buying and connects them with e-commerce platforms for better prices. In addition, Amartha has 
developed an Inclusive Finance Framework to improve financial literacy and financial planning skills of its 
borrowers, with the aim to provide financial products such as savings accounts, micro-insurance and micro-leasing  
over time to help them in financial management. 

"I don't want to work for myself; I want my neighbours and children to feel the impact 
I’ve made."
Ms Siti 

Siti’s cloth-weaving business in Klaten, Central Java
Siti’s passion is to design woven fabrics, having learnt the skill of weaving from 
her late mother. Motivated to improve her family’s income, she was determined 
to open a cloth-weaving business. Siti was introduced to Amartha by her children 
and received funding to kickstart her business.

Assisted by five women from her neighbourhood, Siti can produce up to 400 pieces  
of woven cloth every month. She accepts orders for Muslim uniforms, written 
batik and woven jackets. Other than fabrics, Siti also designs her own looms.

Siti has the same mission as Amartha, which is to help more women in her neighbourhood uplift their livelihoods. 
Every week, she teaches weaving to the women in her area, with a number of them even opening their own 
weaving businesses and ordering looms made by Siti.

Find Out More 

 UOB Venture Management – Supporting portfolio companies in creating positive impact 

68U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Keep Customers at the Centre

Financial Inclusion

Our targets

 Maintain 100 per cent completion of the ‘Cultivating a 
Diverse & Service Inclusive Workplace’ and ‘Managing 
a Diverse Service Environment’ courses by branch 
colleagues in Singapore.

   This was achieved in 2022.

2022 highlights

Bringing the mobile branch to our customers  
in Thailand

Launched in 2022, our mobile branch in Thailand was 
set up to increase customer accessibility to our banking 
services beyond our brick-and-mortar bank branches in 
the country. Moving across different community, residential 
and workplace locations every few months, the mobile 
branch supports outreach to new individual customers. 
After customers open an account with UOB, they can 
access our digital banking services conveniently.

Making investing simpler and smarter for  
retail investors
In 2022, UOB Asset Management (UOBAM) launched 
the SimpleInvest Solution in Malaysia with the aim to 
reduce the barrier of entry for retail investors and to 
provide them with an opportunity to start investing from 
as low as RM1,000 into UOBAM’s trademark funds.  

The SimpleInvest Solution consists of two unique, actively-
managed funds, namely the United Simple Income Select 
and United Simple Growth Select, which are tailored to suit 
investors with different risk appetites and financial goals. 

In Singapore, we also enhanced the UOBAM Invest  
mobile app, which now enables retail investors to invest 
in up to 10 personalised portfolios depending on their 
financial goals, risk appetite and investment horizon. 
These portfolios are dynamically generated and it only 
takes as little as $1 for investors to start investing using the 
app. Investors can also benefit from UOBAM’s investment 
expertise and risk-based approach that are trusted by 
institutional investors. 

Recognition and awards 

• Highly Acclaimed, Best ATM Innovation at The Digital 
Banker's Global Retail Banking Innovation Awards 2022

• Best Robo Advisory Initiative Winner at The Digital 
Banker's Global Retail Banking Innovation Awards 2022

CONTRIBUTION TO THE UN SDGs

69U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2

https://www.uobam.com.sg/uobaminvest/individual/index.html
https://www.uobam.com.sg/uobaminvest/individual/index.html


Develop  
Professionals  
of Principle
71 Talent Development and Inclusion
79 Workplace Safety, Health and Well-being

70U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Develop Professionals of Principle

Our people are our greatest asset and we are dedicated to empowering our colleagues 
to make a positive difference. We do this by building an inclusive organisation that 
encourages the best from our colleagues, and by developing them through professional 
development programmes. This way, we also ensure that we attract and retain talent 
with the right skillsets and values.

Our approach

Our people are key to UOB's performance and success.  
To help them stay relevant, competitive and fulfilled,  
we are committed to an environment where our people 
feel recognised and valued. Guided by The UOB Way,  
our culture fosters the principles of care, growth and trust 
for our people. 

Every employee has a responsibility to uphold the  
UOB Code of Conduct, through which we impress upon 
all colleagues the importance of maintaining the highest 
professional and ethical standards in their interactions with 
customers, colleagues and members of the communities 
in which we operate. The Code of Conduct is available 
in local languages for our colleagues in our key markets.

UOB is an equal opportunity employer and our approach 
to diversity and inclusion is an important element in our 
strategy to attract, to develop and to retain talent for the 
Group. Diversity provides our organisation with the ability 
to draw upon different experiences and perspectives,  
and fosters innovative thinking to solve business challenges 
for sustainable growth. Under our Recruitment Policy,  
we practice non-discriminatory hiring, with all hiring 
decisions based on each individual’s merit and suitability 
for the role in accordance with business needs, job 
requirements and qualifications. 

Respect of human rights is central to a safe and harmonious 
working environment in which all our colleagues are 
encouraged to develop their skills and rewarded on the 
basis of individual and team performance. We sharpen 
our people’s skillsets and mindsets through a wide range 
of technical and personal development programmes,  
and offer internal career opportunities and access to 
coaching as essential components of our approach to 
creating a dynamic and engaged workforce.

Our Human Resources Policy sets out the principles for 
managing various aspects of human resource management, 
such as:

• strategy and planning;

• hiring;

• performance management;

• talent management;

• learning and development; and

• career development.

The policy is reviewed annually and approved by the 
Human Resources Committee.

Find Out More 

 Workplace Safety, Health and Well-being

Talent Development and Inclusion                                                                       

71U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2

https://www.uobgroup.com/sustainability/code-of-conduct.html


Develop Professionals of Principle

Our Code of Conduct and upholding human rights

UOB is committed to building a safe, nurturing and 
inclusive workplace where all colleagues are treated 
respectfully, professionally and are given equal 
opportunity based on merit. We promote work-life 
harmony and an environment free from discrimination, 
bullying and harassment. We also take guidance from 
internationally-accepted human rights principles and 
standards such as Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 
United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and 
Human Rights and International Labour Organization 
Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at 
Work, including those relating to non-discrimination, 
child labour, forced labour, freedom of association and 
collective bargaining. 

Our expectations of our people are laid out in our 
values-based UOB Code of Conduct, which prohibits 
any kind of discrimination, bullying or harassment, 
whether based on a person’s race, ethnicity, gender, 
gender identity or expression, colour, creed, religion, 
national origin, nationality, citizenship, age, disability, 
marital status, sexual orientation, culture, ancestry, 
veteran status, socio-economic status or any other 
legally-protected characteristic. 

Upon joining UOB, all new colleagues are informed of, 
and sign up to, their obligations and rights under the 
Code. All colleagues are also required to refresh their 
knowledge and to renew their commitment to our Code 
each year. We help deepen their understanding and 
embed the practice of our Code through frequent and 
interactive communications across the organisation.  

The UOB Code of Conduct is reviewed annually and 
updated to stay relevant with the times and to address 
regulatory requirements and policy changes. It is 
approved by the Human Resources Committee.

Freedom of association 
We respect our colleagues’ lawful right to freedom of 
association and collective bargaining. Our approach 
is to maintain mutually-trusted and respectful relations 
with employee unions. We hold regular meetings with 
union representatives to understand and to address 
their concerns and expectations. 

In Singapore, we engage three unions, namely the 
Banking and Financial Services Union, The Singapore 
Bank Employees’ Union and The Singapore Manual & 
Mercantile Workers’ Union. We engage four unions in 
Malaysia (National Union of Bank Employees, Sarawak 
Bank Employees’ Union, Sabah Bank Employees’ Union 
and Association of Bank Officers Peninsular Malaysia) 
and one in Indonesia (Serikat Pekerja United Overseas 
Bank).

The collective bargaining agreements we have with 
the unions cover wages and working conditions such 
as working hours, retirement age and re-employment, 
shift work, allowances, transport reimbursement, leave 
benefits, medical benefits, insurance benefits and 
grievance procedures.

Colleagues who can be represented by unions include: 

• all employees in Indonesia; 

• Officer II or below in Malaysia; and 

• Senior Officer or below in Singapore. 

As at the end of 2022, the proportions of bargainable 
employees unionised in Singapore, Malaysia and 
Indonesia were 9.5 per cent, 88.2 per cent and  
22.2 per cent respectively.

Talent Development and Inclusion                                                                       

72U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2

https://www.uobgroup.com/sustainability/code-of-conduct.html


Develop Professionals of Principle

Talent Development and Inclusion                                                                       

Championing diversity and inclusion
At UOB, diversity spans gender, culture, ethnicity, nationality, experience and skillsets. Creating and maintaining a 
supportive work environment in which every individual can succeed in their career is a critical part of our strategy in serving 
the needs of our diverse customer base. Across the Group, there are 49 nationalities represented by our colleagues.

We foster a family-friendly culture through supporting our 
employees who are parents. Our care measures (may differ 
in certain markets based on local requirements) include:

Leave
• maternity leave of up to 16 weeks;

• shared parental leave of up to four weeks, in addition 
to paternity leave of up to 10 days;

• infant care no-pay leave of up to six days;

Facilities
• dedicated nursing rooms, which are fully equipped, 

including security access for greater privacy; and

Apparel
• branch apparel that cater to colleagues with specific 

needs, for instance those who are pregnant or are 
required to don customary modest clothing. 

Promoting gender diversity across the Group*

Total workforce

Women

61.3%
Men

38.7%
New hires

Women

57.6%
Men

42.4%
Senior management

Women

37.2%
Men

62.8%
*Excludes employees from Citigroup in Malaysia and Thailand

73U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Develop Professionals of Principle

We value people who can contribute their skills and 
experience, as part of our inclusive people strategy.  
Our gig employment model in Singapore, Gig+U, enables 
retirees and women who have left the workforce to take on 
flexible work that suits their needs and work-life priorities. 
Employees hired under Gig+U receive equal pay and enjoy 
the same benefits such as leave entitlements and medical 
insurance coverage as their peers with similar roles in the 
Bank, subject to their employment status.

Since 2013, we have been championing disability inclusion 
through the UOB Scan Hub in Singapore — our centre 
for digitising documents from various functions. At UOB 
Scan Hub, 35 per cent of our colleagues are persons with 
disabilities and we create meaningful employment and 
career opportunities based on their abilities. We continue 
to partner Autism Resource Centre (ARC) and SPD in 
Singapore in a structured training programme for persons 
with disabilities to ensure that work processes and office 
environments are suited for their needs.

We were once again recognised by Bloomberg in its  
2023 Gender-Equality Index (GEI) as one of Singapore’s 
best inclusive workplaces. The Bloomberg GEI recognises 
companies worldwide that demonstrate commitment to 
advancing an inclusive workplace through their policies, 
workforce representation and transparency in gender-related  
practices. UOB was one of only six companies in Singapore 
to be represented in the 2023 Bloomberg GEI.

Talent Development and Inclusion                                                                       

Managing employee performance
UOB is committed to fostering a meritocratic and 
high-performance workplace culture. Our integrated 
performance management framework, PEAK (Plan, Engage, 
Appraise, Keep Track), reinforces our UOB values of Honour, 
Enterprise, Unity and Commitment. 

1

23

4

Plan

EngageAppraise

Keep 
Track

The PEAK framework is designed to support career 
development by assessing and rewarding performance 
in an objective and fair manner. Using the PEAK framework, 
colleagues consult their managers to establish their 
business and personal development goals at the start of the 
year. Managers then hold PEAK performance discussions 
with their team members throughout the year to review their 
progress against agreed key performance indicators (KPIs)  
and to address their challenges. 

In 2022, all eligible permanent employees1 were assessed 
through performance appraisals against agreed KPIs and 
job-related competencies. 

1 Eligible permanent employees exclude new hires with less than six months of service, employees on extended leave, and employees who have 
resigned, among others.

74U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Develop Professionals of Principle

Our PEAK process is supplemented by: 

• the Performance and Development Council (PDC), 
where at the end of each year, senior management 
discuss employees’ performance and development 
needs in a fair and transparent manner. They focus 
on performance calibration, assessment of employee 
potential, promotion endorsements and development 
recommendations. Employees then receive feedback 
on areas for improvement to support their professional 
growth and career development; and 

• 360˚ feedback, through which direct reports, peers and 
internal stakeholders provide anonymous feedback 
on the appraisee for important but hard-to-measure 
behaviours such as values, collaboration and employee 
development. Applying to First Vice Presidents and 
above, this exercise enables the PDC to gain a more 
holistic view of each employee they are assessing.

Developing talent and leaders
UOB has several core learning and development 
programmes to help our people develop the technical 
and leaderships skills they will need to have successful 
careers. These include:

• the Leadership Acceleration Programme, which 
provides high-potential high performers with leadership 
development and executive coaching, job rotations 
and strategic project assignments, senior management 
exposure and opportunities to accelerate their career 
within the organisation; 

• the UOB Leadership Academy, which delivers a blend 
of experiential and application-based learning for 
our high-performing talents in collaboration with 
leading global business schools such as Columbia, 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Tuck.  
In 2022, 335 colleagues successfully completed  
UOB Leadership Academy courses;

• the Leadership Right By You programme, our flagship 
leadership and managerial skills programme covering 
courses for individual contributors, first line managers 
and managers of managers;

• the Better U programme, an upskilling programme 
accredited by The Institute of Banking and Finance 
Singapore (IBF) that is designed to equip employees 
with knowledge and competencies to stay relevant 
and thrive in an ever-changing environment. In 2022, 
we extended specialist learning tracks on Project 
Management, Data Analytics and Artificial Intelligence 
to all eligible colleagues across the Group — a target 
that we had set to achieve in 2023; and

Talent Development and Inclusion                                                                       

• the Management Associate Programme, an 18-month 
programme that provides fresh graduates with 
opportunities to build their skills across the organisation 
through:

 – job rotations, including regional rotation and 
exposure;

 – training in areas including financial management, 
leadership, personal effectiveness, and risk 
management and controls; and

 – a mentoring and buddy programme that helps in 
their understanding of UOB and for career advisory.

We also support career mobility through our:

• Career Conversion Programme, which is open to 
colleagues in Group Channels and Digitalisation, Group 
Finance, Wholesale Operations Readiness Centre, 
Digital Human Resources, Human Resource Operations 
and Talent and Development. To date, close to 1,500 
colleagues participated in the programme; and

• Pivot Programme, which offers reskilling opportunities for 
colleagues to move to roles within the organisation that 
may be in greater demand or be of greater relevance. 
The 12-month programme enables participants to 
undergo comprehensive reskilling through on-the-job  
and structured training to facilitate a successful 
transition to a new role. 

In addition, we provide our people with access to more 
than 8,000 online courses through our collaboration with 
LinkedIn Learning and other course providers.  

In 2022, we invested a total of $25.9 million in training our 
people across the Group.

75U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Develop Professionals of Principle

Talent Development and Inclusion                                                                       

Measuring employee engagement 
As part of monitoring the sentiment of our colleagues 
towards UOB, and by extension their belief, belonging and 
trust levels, we conduct annual engagement surveys. In an 
overwhelmingly positive sign, we achieved our strongest 
engagement scores in 2022 since measurement began in 2017.  
Average engagement levels increased four percentage 
points in 2022 compared with the previous year.

Our targets

 Achieve at least an average of six training days per 
employee across the Group each year.

    We achieved an average of 7.9 training days  
in 2022.

 Achieve 50 per cent year-on-year increase in the 
number of Singapore colleagues attending at least one  
Better U programme or workshop in 2023.

2022 highlights

In 2022, we launched The UOB Way, our commitment to 
nurturing an environment where our people feel recognised 
and valued. It guides the policies and programmes that we 
create to ensure that they are focused on engagement and 
culture, learning and development, career planning and 
progression, flexible work arrangement, fair compensation 
and rewards, among other people-related matters.

Why

Building the future of ASEAN

How

Honourable  |  Enterprising  |  United  |  Committed

People Philosophy

Care       |       Growth       |       Trust

Helping more people return to work  
through Gig+U
During the year, we expanded our Gig+U programme 
to include women in addition to retirees. As part of the 
expansion, we opened up 200 jobs in Singapore that are 
suited to women who require more flexibility at work due to 
familial responsibilities. These include full- and part-time 
jobs as well as gig work in UOB’s various business units. 
We also collaborate with Mums@Work, an established 
career portal which pairs women looking for flexi-work with 
potential employers, to ensure that these new hires are 
well-supported when they restart their careers with UOB.

“It takes an organisation like UOB to invest, 
to trust and to provide a platform for women 
like me to catapult back into the workforce. 
The support extended by the hiring teams, the 
flexibility in policy and the confidence building 
through training and coaching has helped me 
hit the ground running. Personally, as a mum 
returning to work, it has not only made me 
dream big but I also know that I can achieve 
my dream.”

Ms Felicia Fernandes
UOB Thomson Road Branch

In addition to Gig+U, we offered re-employment 
opportunities to 208 colleagues, including 146 women, 
in Singapore who were eligible for retirement. Since the 
start of the programme in 2014, we have re-hired 1,436 
colleagues, including 836 women. 

76U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Develop Professionals of Principle

Talent Development and Inclusion                                                                       

Creating a diverse and inclusive workplace
In 2022, UOB Scan Hub celebrated its 10th anniversary, with 
more than 100 senior leaders, community partners and 
UOB Scan Hub employees gathering for this significant 
milestone, including the sustained employment of people 
with disabilities — from six in 2013 to 30 in 2022.

Promoting inclusive hiring among our clients

UOB’s The Unlimited programme connects businesses 
in Singapore to inclusive hiring as a sustainable 
business solution. The programme is supported by 
our partnership with SG Enable and social service 
agencies, including ARC, Movement for the Intellectually 
Disabled (MINDS) and SPD. It informs our corporate 
clients about alternative sources of talent, and offers 
advice on minor job accommodations within office 
environments and business processes that are suited 
to the needs of persons with disabilities.

In 2022, we hosted an event for 35 companies across 
various sectors to share with them the benefits of 
inclusive hiring, and how they can get started on this 
journey through The Unlimited programme. Two in three 
companies that attended the session indicated ‘yes’  
to adopting inclusive hiring and UOB has since scoped 
a total of 40 job vacancies with our clients. 

Since the launch of The Unlimited programme in 2019, 
we engaged more than 200 companies in Singapore 
and are continuing to support our clients closely as 
they move towards inclusive hiring as a sustainable 
manpower solution for the long term.

In addition, we regularly share the business benefits 
of inclusive employment at partner forums to raise 
awareness among business leaders and members of 
the public. Such events included ‘The Greater Good 
For All (Milestones Celebration of the Movement for 
Normalising Diversity and Inclusion)’ masterclass 
organised by Human Capital Singapore and SG Enable, 
with President Halimah Yacob as the Guest of Honour.

Our commitment to disability-inclusive employment 
was recognised when we received the Enabling Mark 
(Platinum) accreditation from SG Enable — the only 
financial institution out of six organisations to receive 
the highest tier of accreditation. 

Find Out More 

  The Unlimited

77U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2

https://www.uob.com.sg/theunlimited/index.html


Develop Professionals of Principle

Talent Development and Inclusion                                                                       

Deepening our people’s capabilities  
and competencies
In 2022, we launched the Group Technology and Operations 
(GTO) Academy for our 5,000-strong technology and 
operations workforce to be upskilled and certified as part 
of their learning journey.

We also rolled out a 12-month Technology Development 
Programme for 75 fresh graduates and young professionals 
in Singapore to gain skills in areas such as cybersecurity, 
software and information technology infrastructure 
through practical on-the-job training with formal classroom 
studies. Conducted in partnership with the Infocomm 
Media Development Authority, this programme is open 
to all graduates (with or without technology experience) 
from universities, polytechnics and Institutes of Technical 
Education. Upon completion of the programme, participants 
will receive industry-recognised certifications in areas 
such as DevOps, Oracle Certified JAVA programmer and 
Information Technology Infrastructure Library. 

During the year, we also embarked on a six-month pilot of 
a new learning experience platform that we aim to launch 
Group-wide by early 2024. More than 3,000 employees are 
participating in the pilot to help improve the effectiveness 
of our digital learning capabilities.

Promoting pride and sustainability
In 2022, UOB launched our sharpened corporate purpose, 
which helps to support the Bank’s three strategic focus 
areas for future growth: Connectivity, Personalisation 
and Sustainability. This included a brand refresh that saw 
branch uniforms replaced with a new extensive range of 
UOB apparel, made from sustainable materials such as 
recycled polyester and manufactured by ethically-certified 
suppliers. 

In support of a circular economy, we upcycled or recycled 
more than 10,000 retired uniforms from Indonesia, Malaysia, 
Singapore and Thailand into useful merchandise, such as 
tote bags and pouches, for charity sales. In Singapore, 
the apparel were repurposed into lifestyle items such as 
small pouches and laptop bags and sold internally to  
colleagues, with the proceeds donated to children 
in need at the ARC Children’s Centre. In Thailand, the 
apparel were turned into eco-friendly art installations, 
with surplus materials donated to the Office of Social 
Development’s Bangkok Metropolitan Administrator 
Vocational Training Schools to support sewing and 
fashion courses for the unemployed and those from a  
disadvantaged background.

Recognition and awards

• One of only six Singapore firms included in the  
2023 Bloomberg GEI 

• Enabling Mark (Platinum) accreditation from SG Enable
• IBF Inspire Award by the IBF
• Silver for both Diversity and Inclusion, and HR Innovation 

at the HR Excellence Award 2022 by Human Resources 
Online

• Winner of HR Asia Best Companies to Work For In Asia 
2022 – Singapore Edition 

•  Talent Management and Organization with Best 
Employee Relations awards at the Global HR Excellence 
Awards 2022 

•  Excellence in Talent Management at the Retail Banker 
International Awards 2022

Memberships

• Member of IBF
• Member of Singapore National Employers Federation

CONTRIBUTION TO THE UN SDGs

78U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Develop Professionals of Principle

Workplace Safety, Health and Well-being

As a responsible employer, we recognise that safe and healthy working conditions 
are a globally-recognised human right and are committed to providing a workplace 
environment where our colleagues can perform at their best. Taking care of our 
people’s well-being also enables us to improve our overall productivity, drive our 
performance and retain our talent for sustainable growth. 

Our approach

At UOB, the safety and well-being of our colleagues, 
customers, contractors and tenants are central to our 
operations and DNA. We take guidance from the Singapore 
Workplace Safety and Health (WSH) Act, and the United 
Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights 
and the International Labour Organization Conventions in 
our approach to maintaining a safe and healthy working 
environment. 

Group Corporate Real Estate Services is responsible for 
safeguarding our workplace from physical and operational 
risk, and works with internal stakeholders through various 
policies and guidelines, including:

• the Group Physical Security Policy, which mandates the 
measures and actions that are to be taken to ensure a 
safe and secure environment that withstands a wide 
range of physical security threats; 

• the Group Facilities Management and Safety Policy, 
which sets out the required actions for: 

 – facility management for preventative, reactive and 
planned repairs and maintenance; 

 – pandemic and infectious diseases management; 
and

 – adherence to our environment-related commitment 
and targets; and

• local guidelines and operational manuals in relation 
to workplace safety and health. 

The Group-wide policies are reviewed annually and 
approved by the Operational Risk Management Committee. 
In addition, our Group Operational Risk Management Policy 
requires business and support units to report workplace 
safety and health incidents in their respective markets,  
as well as investigations to identify the root causes of  
reported workplace safety and health incidents, and to 
develop corrective action plans to prevent future occurrences. 

Business and support units that identify workplace safety 
and health as a key operational risk must assess the 
effectiveness of controls to mitigate risks during the annual 
Key Risk and Control Self-Assessment (KRCSA) exercise. The 
combination of incident reporting and KRCSA facilitates 
the prompt identification and rectification of ineffective 
workplace safety and health controls.

The UOB Code of Conduct also requires every employee 
to comply with all relevant health and safety laws and 
guidelines, and promptly report any condition at the 
workplace that may pose a health, safety or environmental 
hazard. For example, our facilities management portal 
enables employees, workers, and tenants in Singapore 
and Thailand to report facility-related issues.

Further, under our Human Resources Policy, we are 
committed to providing our people with inclusive and 
flexible work arrangements so that they can better manage 
their work-life needs.

Find Out More 

 Talent Development and Inclusion

Building conducive and high-performance 
workplaces
We take practicable measures to reduce risks and to ensure 
the safety and health of our colleagues, customers, as well 
as contractors and all who work within UOB-owned and 
managed buildings. These measures include:

• communicating all relevant health and safety procedures 
that we have in place;

• reviewing our buildings’ emergency response plans 
which stipulate the relevant actions to be taken to 
protect and evacuate building occupants under 
different emergency scenarios;

79U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2

https://www.uobgroup.com/sustainability/code-of-conduct.html


Develop Professionals of Principle

• conducting and reviewing appropriate contractors’ 
risk assessments to identify and minimise any sources 
of risk; and

• setting out workplace safety and health requirements 
for all vendors, suppliers and contractors working 
at our premises and construction sites. They must 
comply with all applicable laws and regulations, 
conduct appropriate risk assessments and complete 
all required training for the employees as required  
by local legislation.

By providing a high-performance environment focused 
on ergonomics and comfort, we create workplaces 
that enable collaboration, innovation, productivity and 
personal well-being. Through our studies to understand 
user patterns and utilisation rates, we continually gather 
feedback to frame our approach to creating optimal 
and agile working environments. As at the end of 2022, 
we transformed 790,000 square feet of office space 
in Hong Kong, Malaysia, Singapore and Thailand into  
high-performance workplaces. 

As more of our employees globally returned to the office in 
endemic COVID-19 living, we continue to ensure cleanliness 
and high-quality air, water and surfaces at our workplaces. 
We treated all high-touch points in the common areas of 
our wholly-owned buildings, branches and automated 
teller machines with a commercial-grade, self-disinfecting  
anti-microbial coating, which helped to provide  
long-term protection against viruses and minimises risk 
of transmission. Through our efforts, we achieved the  
SG Clean certification for all our buildings and branches 
in Singapore, a target that we set in 2021 for 2022. 

We are implementing the following workplace design 
principles progressively across our owned buildings, offices 
and branches:

• flexible designs to improve space efficiency, to support 
diversified needs and to create resilient workplaces 
that meet different working requirements; and

• ergonomic furniture to enhance employees’ physical 
comfort at work.

Workplace Safety, Health and Well-being

Caring for the well-being of our people
We demonstrate the care we have for our people through 
our total employee wellness approach:
 
1. Physical wellness
 We invest in the physical wellness of our colleagues 

by providing avenues for them to maintain a healthy 
lifestyle. The support we provide includes comprehensive 
medical and lifestyle benefits for our employees and their 
dependents, as well as privileges through partnerships 
with leading healthcare and lifestyle providers.

2. Mental wellness
 We believe in creating a workplace environment where 

there is open dialogue and support to foster a positive 
state of mental health. Our frequent and regular Mental 
Wellness Days provide our colleagues with various 
tools and skills to manage their own mental health.

3. Financial wellness
 We seek to equip our colleagues with financial 

management fundamentals and strategies through 
financial literacy talks and workshops.

4. Intellectual wellness
 We provide avenues for our colleagues to explore 

potential hobbies to stimulate their mind and  
self-enhancement activities to improve their personal lives.

As a progressive and caring employer with a long-term 
focus, we aim to offer a dynamic workplace with more 
balanced ways of working that enables our people to 
fulfil their personal responsibilities. Our flexible work 
arrangements include:

• hybrid working so that colleagues in eligible roles can 
have the flexibility to work from home or at a location 
other than the assigned workplace within the city of 
their work location. More than half our colleagues across 
the Group have benefitted from hybrid working, with 
average engagement levels increasing four percentage 
points in 2022 compared with the previous year;

• Flexi2 for full-time employees to take two hours paid 
time-off from work every month to attend to their 
personal matters;

80U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Develop Professionals of Principle

Workplace Safety, Health and Well-being

• staggered work hours for full-time employees to adjust 
their start- and end-of-day work times to suit their 
professional and personal commitments; and

• shortened working hours on Fridays for employees to 
start their weekends earlier. 

We also offer part-time work to support employees with 
multiple responsibilities, such as mothers, part-time  
students and those with eldercare commitments, to 
continue working with us. 

“2022 was a challenging year for me.  
After losing my mother the year before, I became 
the primary caregiver for my father who had 
undergone an operation. On top of that, I was 
supporting my daughter for her exams. 

“I am fortunate for the support from my 
manager to work part-time for six months. 
This arrangement enabled me to balance my 
work and family needs, and gave me the space 
needed to look after my physical and mental 
health while attaining job satisfaction.” 

Ms Tang Shi Min
Group Technology and Operations

We also invest in the health and wellness of our people 
through our healthcare framework, Healthy Employees, 
Active Lifestyles (HEAL). It comprises three key components:

• Core coverage, which covers basic medical coverage 
and health screening;

• CARE, which offers reimbursements for various 
healthcare and wellness expenses; and 

• Supplementary coverage, which covers options for 
alternative treatment and additional assistance, 
including complimentary counselling helplines to help 
colleagues manage stress.  

Our targets 

 Achieve the Singapore Building and Construction 
Authority-Health Promotion Board (BCA-HPB) Green 
Mark for Healthier Workplaces (GMHW) certifications 
for all new and renovated commercial offices by 2025.

    We received three GMHW certifications in 2022.

 Convert another 180,000 square feet of high-
performance workplaces across UOB key buildings 
in Singapore by 2025. 

    We transformed 790,000 square feet of office 
space in Hong Kong, Malaysia, Singapore and 
Thailand into high-performance workplaces as 
at the end of 2022.

81U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Develop Professionals of Principle

2022 highlights 

During the year, we completed the installation of enhanced 
facial recognition readers with thermal scanners on 
the turnstiles in all of our wholly-owned and managed 
buildings in Singapore, and headquarters in Malaysia 
and Thailand, meeting the target we set in 2021 for 2022.  
This enables contactless access for all our colleagues, 
tenants and registered visitors into our properties,  
while the biometric identity authentication-based access 
eliminates the risk of unauthorised use of other people’s 
passes. Additional features such as facial recognition with 
mask-wearing can also be turned on in the event of local 
regulations or requirements. 

Workplace Safety, Health and Well-being

In recognition of our preparedness in the areas of physical 
security, fire safety and in ensuring our colleagues’ 
workplace safety and health, we received Outstanding 
Individual Awards at the National Safety and Security 
Watch Group Award Ceremony 2022 for four of our 
buildings in Singapore, namely UOB Plaza 1, UOB Plaza 2,  
UOB Alexandra Building and UOB Tampines Centre.  
The awards were presented by the Singapore Police Force 
and Singapore Civil Defence Force.

Continuing to provide care during COVID-19
During the COVID-19 lockdown in Shanghai, China in 2022, 
many people were not allowed to leave their homes or 
neighbourhoods, while a number of our colleagues stayed 
at UOB Plaza for two months to ensure the continuity of 
the Bank’s operations in the city. To support our colleagues 
and to ensure their mental wellness during these times, 
we engaged professional coaches and therapists from 
Octave Institute to conduct various wellness courses online, 
including sound healing, meditation, breathing exercises 
and flow yoga. These courses were designed to help relieve 
colleagues’ stress and instill a positive mindset. We also 
made available other courses in areas such as healthy 
eating, social connection and physical fitness.

“I am truly grateful for having the opportunity 
to participate in the Bank’s COVID-19 care 
courses. I feel empowered and the courses are 
effective in managing stress, reducing anxiety 
and bringing peace of mind. For some courses, 
colleagues across functions even gathered 
during their lunchtime to share, learn, reflect 
and appreciate how to focus on ‘here and now’ 
while preparing for ‘far and future’.” 

Ms Susan Shi Wei
Wholesale Banking Business Management, UOB China

82U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Develop Professionals of Principle

Workplace Safety, Health and Well-being

Recognition and awards

• One Platinum and two GoldPLUS Green Mark for Healthier 
Workplaces awards for UOB-owned and managed 
offices in Singapore

• National Safety and Security Watch Group Outstanding 
Individual Awards for UOB Plaza 1, UOB Plaza 2,  
UOB Alexandra Building and UOB Tampines Centre

• Best Workplace Practices Award at the Global HR 
Excellence Awards 2022 

• Great Place to Work Certification 2022 for UOB China

Memberships

• Member of the Safety and Security Watch Group by the 
Singapore Police Force and Singapore Civil Defence 
Force  

CONTRIBUTION TO THE UN SDGs

83U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2

https://www.greatplacetowork.cn/certified-companies/


Uphold Corporate  
Responsibility
85 Governance and Risk Culture
89 Regulatory Compliance
93 Information Security
95 Direct Environmental Impact
102 Sustainable Procurement
104 Community Stewardship

84U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Uphold Corporate Responsibility

Governance and Risk Culture

Strong governance and robust risk culture are crucial to organisational success, 
value creation and sustainability. We are committed to upholding the highest 
ethical and corporate governance standards, and to ensuring that emerging 
risks are identified, assessed, escalated and addressed in a timely manner. 
In establishing and maintaining a culture of accountability, responsibility and 
ethical behaviour and practices, we safeguard the long-term interests of,  
and create value for, our stakeholders. 

Our approach

UOB’s strong corporate governance and risk culture 
are built on our values of Honour, Enterprise, Unity 
and Commitment, and are core to the Group’s broader 
organisational culture. Our corporate governance is based 
on a partnership between our Board and Management, 
supported by a system of comprehensive risk frameworks, 
policies, methodologies, tools and processes by which 
we operate, measure and manage material risks and 
opportunities. We evaluate our governance approach and 
risk frameworks regularly, and revise them if necessary, 
to ensure that they are up to date, relevant and aligned 
with best practices.

Our Corporate Governance Framework sets out the 
relationships among our Board, Management, shareholders 
and other stakeholders. It provides the processes and 
structures through which the objectives of the Bank are met, 
and the means of attaining those objectives and monitoring 
performance. The framework applies to UOB, and may be 
adapted by our banking subsidiaries in accordance with 
their respective local legal and regulatory requirements 
and expectations.  

Our Corporate Governance Framework

Corporate 
Governance

Management 
committees

Board  
leadership

Internal 
controls

External 
assurance

Regulatory 
requirements  

and guidelines

Frameworks, 
policies, guidelines

 and procedures

85U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Uphold Corporate Responsibility

Governance and Risk Culture

Our Board provides entrepreneurial leadership and 
strategic direction to the Bank. It also provides leadership 
in promoting corporate governance, with the support of 
our Management. The Board sets the Tone from the Top 
the desired organisational culture and values of the Bank, 
and inculcates an appropriate risk culture. It also considers 
sustainability issues and material environmental, social and 
governance factors in formulating the Bank’s strategies.

The Board Risk Management Committee (BRMC) assists 
the Board in overseeing the management of risks and 
the inculcation of an appropriate risk culture. It approves 
the Group Risk Culture and Conduct Risk Framework,  
which sets out the governance structure for maintaining a 
strong risk culture and managing the conduct risk of the Group.  
The framework ensures that the risk culture and conduct risk 
of the Group are systematically monitored and assessed, 
and the areas of concern proactively addressed. In addition, 
our risk culture and conduct risk dashboard provides senior 
management and the BRMC with an overview of the state 
of risk culture across the Group.

To promote awareness of and to instill risk culture across 
the Group, we:

• require all employees to complete, on an annual basis, 
a mandatory UOB Risk Culture e-learning module,  
as well as training aimed at reinforcing risk-focused 
conduct in areas such as the UOB Code of Conduct, 
anti-money laundering, operational and security risks, 
financial crime prevention, information security and cyber 
risk awareness, and the UK Bribery Act;

• require key business and support units to conduct a 
self-assessment annually to evaluate the risk culture 
within each of their units; 

• feature senior leaders and their views frequently on 
risk culture, as well as case studies and lessons learnt 
on our intranet;

• ensure consistent Bank-wide communications through 
in-person meetings, discussion groups and internal 
bulletins to foster deeper understanding and practice 
of risk management across the organisation;

• include risk management-related questions in our 
employee engagement survey to gauge the understanding 
of the prevailing risk culture across the Group; and

• survey senior management committees to assess their 
openness and robustness to challenges and their 
considerations of risks in their decision-making process.

We also ensure that through our ‘Speak Up’ channels 
and the UOB Whistle-blowing Policy, our colleagues 
can share their views or raise matters of potential 
concern in a secure manner without fear of reprisal.  
All reported cases are investigated and resolved.  
Group Audit tracks the status of all whistle-blowing cases 
and reports them to the Board through the Audit Committee 
every quarter. 

Board independence and diversity
Comprising a majority of independent and non-executive 
directors, our Board collectively possesses skillsets, 
expertise and experience that span across industries, 
professions, markets, cultures and the public and private 
sectors, providing diversity in thought and opinion.

When appointing or re-appointing directors, our Board 
is guided by our Board Diversity Policy, which promotes 
diversity in various dimensions including age, gender, 
industry expertise, domain or functional expertise, 
tenure, board independence, cultural ethnicity and  
international experience. 

Annually, each director is assessed on his/her independence, 
fitness and propriety to hold office, and performance.

Find Out More 

  Corporate Governance, UOB Annual Report 2022

  Risk Management, UOB Annual Report 2022

  Regulatory Compliance

86U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2

https://www.uobgroup.com/investor-relations/corporate-governance/index.html
https://www.uobgroup.com/AR2022/documents/Corporate-Governance.pdf
https://www.uobgroup.com/AR2022/documents/Risk-Management.pdf


Uphold Corporate Responsibility

Governance and Risk Culture

Our targets

 Maintain a majority independent Board.
    This was achieved in 2022, with 70 per cent  

of directors on the Board being independent.

 Ensure at least one female director on the Board. 
    This was achieved in 2022, with 20 per cent  

(two out of 10) of directors on the Board  
being female.

2022 highlights

To further reinforce our risk culture among our colleagues, 
in 2022, we launched the Risk Culture and Conduct 
e-Handbook. It outlines the expectations of our people 
to understand and uphold our risk culture principles,  
as well as our individual and collective responsibilities to 
the Bank and our stakeholders. The handbook is available 
to all employees via our intranet.

Our risk culture principles

Encouraging awareness, 
engagement and consistent 
behaviour in every employee

Enforcing robust risk governance 

Balancing growth with stability

Ensuring accountability for all our 
risk-based decisions and actions

As part of setting the Tone from the Top, our senior 
management regularly reinforces the importance of a 
strong risk culture. One of the events during the year 
was a fireside chat where our Group Chief Risk Officer,  
Mr Chan Kok Seong, shared about UOB’s risks and 
controls with colleagues from Group Retail. At the session,  

UOB Thailand also organised a virtual risk culture festival 
for colleagues to deepen their understanding of risk 
culture through fun-filled learning such as different games 
on topics such as information security and good market 
conduct practices.

he stressed the importance of maintaining a robust risk 
culture that supports UOB's strategic objectives and 
reputation, as well as managing risks in the First Line  
by business and support unit colleagues.

87U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Uphold Corporate Responsibility

Governance and Risk Culture

Recognition and awards

• Best Risk Management — Gold in the Large Market Cap 
category at the Singapore Corporate Awards 2022

• Ranked fourth among Singapore publicly-listed 
companies (General Category) on the Singapore 
Governance and Transparency Index 2022

• Ranked second among Singapore publicly-listed 
companies, and was among the Top 20 ASEAN  
publicly-listed companies and ASEAN Asset Class 
Singapore on the ASEAN Corporate Governance 
Scorecard 2021*

Memberships

• Member of The Association of Banks in Singapore’s 
Culture and Conduct Steering Group

*  The ASEAN Corporate Governance Awards are held once in every two years. The results of the 2021 assessment were released in 2022.

CONTRIBUTION TO THE UN SDGs

88U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Uphold Corporate Responsibility

Regulatory Compliance

Financial crimes undermine fair competition, impede innovation, raise costs and 
pose serious legal and reputational consequences. Such threats, if not anticipated 
and addressed, could severely undermine both the integrity and trust of the 
financial system. Banks play an integral role in ensuring the stability and security 
of the financial system. In this regard, UOB is committed to upholding the highest 
ethical standards, through complying with local laws and regulations, as well as 
preventing financial crime such as insider trading, bribery, corruption, fraud and 
money laundering. This helps to ensure that UOB remains a source of stability, 
security and strength for our stakeholders.

Our approach

Led by our values, UOB is committed to safeguarding the 
interests of our stakeholders, including regulators, and to  
maintaining the trust that they place in us. Regulatory 
compliance is our top priority and we respect and comply 
with the laws and regulations in the countries and territories 
in which we operate. 

We closely monitor regulatory and industry developments 
and actively engage with regulators, policymakers, and law 
enforcement agencies, as well our internal stakeholders 
such as our senior management committees and Board for 
regular updates. We ensure that we have in place robust 
protocols and processes to address evolving regulatory 
requirements, which include identifying, assessing, 
monitoring and managing regulatory compliance risks. 

To protect the integrity of the financial system and its 
users, UOB continually assesses, adjusts and strengthens 
our policies, processes and systems to enhance our ability 
to mitigate risks of financial crime. 

The UOB Code of Conduct lays down the principles of 
personal and professional conduct and the requirement 
for all employees to uphold the highest ethical standards. 
We have a zero tolerance policy to breaches of the  
UOB Code of Conduct. All employees are required  
to complete online learning modules and assessment, as 
well as annual refresher training on: 

• the UOB Code of Conduct; 
• insider trading and market misconduct;
• Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA);

• Common Reporting Standard (CRS);
• anti-money laundering/countering the financing of 

terrorism (AML/CFT) and sanctions; 
• United Kingdom (UK) Bribery Act 2010; and 
• fraud awareness. 

All Board directors, Management Executive Committee and 
Management Committee members also receive regular 
training on AML/CFT and sanctions, anti-bribery and 
anti-corruption, and anti-fraud.

Employees, business associates and the public are 
able to report any concerns of suspected or actual 
wrongdoing confidentially and securely, without fear of 
reprisal, through our whistle-blowing channels. They may  
call our whistle-blowing hotline, email or call the  
Head of Group Audit, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman 
of the Board Audit Committee or Chairman of the Board.  
The UOB Whistle-blowing Policy is reviewed annually and 
approved by the Board Audit Committee. 

Prohibiting insider trading
All employees are required to adhere to the UOB Group Staff 
Trading Policy, which prohibits insider trading. The policy 
is reviewed annually and approved by the Operational 
Risk Management Committee (ORMC). 

UOB has in place a pre-trade clearance system that 
requires employees, who may reasonably be expected to 
have access to inside information, to make declarations 
and to seek approval before dealing in securities or 
executing their trades on any stock exchanges. In addition,  
Group Compliance regularly reviews securities transactions 
to detect potential violations. Non-adherence to the policy 
may subject an employee to disciplinary action. 

89U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2

https://www.uobgroup.com/sustainability/code-of-conduct.html
https://www.uobgroup.com/investor-relations/corporate-governance/index.html


Uphold Corporate Responsibility

Regulatory Compliance

Ensuring customer tax compliance
Under the provisions of United States’ (US) tax law, FATCA, 
non-US financial institutions are required to identify and 
report information on assets held by US persons and  
non-cooperative entities and individuals to the US Internal 
Revenue Service. Many countries, including Singapore, have 
intergovernmental agreements with the US to facilitate 
the reporting required under FATCA. 

The CRS requires financial institutions in participating 
jurisdictions to identify, to collect and to report to the 
authorities annually the tax residency information of 
customers from jurisdictions with which agreements to 
exchange information are in place.

UOB is committed to complying with the provisions of 
FATCA and CRS, and to ensuring that the Group meets 
all applicable requirements in all jurisdictions in which 
we operate. Our FATCA and CRS governance frameworks 
are reviewed annually and approved by the Board Risk 
Management Committee. In addition to online learning, 
employees are kept informed of updates to the frameworks 
via email. 

Upholding high AML/CFT and sanctions standards
The UOB AML/CFT and Sanctions Framework aims to detect 
and to prevent the risks associated with money laundering, 
terrorist financing and sanctions. The framework includes 
programmes relating to risk assessment, employee training, 
customer due diligence, transaction monitoring, as well 
as investigating and reporting of potential suspicious 
activity to relevant regulatory bodies. We also have in 
place dedicated Group and Country Money Laundering 
Reporting Officers (or other similar roles as required by 
local regulators).

We require all employees to comply with UOB’s  
Group AML/CFT and Sanctions Policy, as well as applicable 
laws. The policy is reviewed annually and approved by the  
Anti-Money Laundering Committee, which comprises senior 
management and oversees the management of AML/CFT 
and sanctions risks for the Group. 

We regularly review our framework, policies, procedures, 
programmes and transaction monitoring systems to ensure 
their robustness and compliance with regulatory requirements. 
The framework and the associated programmes are also 
audited by our internal and external auditors.

We also continue to invest in our people, systems, processes 
and tools, adopting advanced data analytics to ensure 
that our risk surveillance capabilities can effectively detect, 
deter and prevent money laundering and other financial 
crime activities. 

Preventing bribery and corruption
UOB adopts a strong stance against bribery and corruption 
and the UOB Code of Conduct specifies zero tolerance to 
bribery and corruption in all forms. 

UOB is subject to the anti-bribery laws of all the countries 
in which we operate, including certain laws with broad 
extraterritorial effect. It is important that all our employees 
and business associates comply, both in letter and in spirit, 
to such laws including: 

• the Singapore Prevention of Corruption Act (1960), 
• the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act 1977; 
• the UK Bribery Act 2010; and
• the Australian Criminal Code.
 
Both corporates and individuals can potentially be 
prosecuted for giving or receiving bribes. Commission of 
offences can occur even if our employees are not physically 
present in the US, UK or Australia. A summary of these 
laws is available to all employees on our intranet, MyUOB.

Under our Policy on Managing Legal Risks, business and 
support units are required to identify, assess, monitor and 
report legal risks, including corruption risks, which may 
arise in their respective scope of work and/or business. 
This policy applies Group-wide, and is reviewed annually 
and approved by the ORMC. Group Legal provides 
advisory support for compliance with anti-bribery and 
anti-corruption laws, as well as for the management of 
any identified risk. 

90U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2

https://www.uobgroup.com/sustainability/code-of-conduct.html


Uphold Corporate Responsibility

With respect to customer relationships, we regularly review 
and communicate applicable anti-corruption policies and 
procedures, including ensuring the inclusion of specific 
terms and conditions and/or contractual provisions where 
required. We require our employees, contractors, vendors, 
third parties and other stakeholders to be aware of and to 
comply diligently with our anti-bribery and anti-corruption 
provisions. We review our training module on anti-bribery 
and anti-corruption annually to ensure that the content 
is aligned with our overall objectives.  

Preventing fraud
UOB proactively manages fraud risks and has a governance 
framework and measures in place to address risks across our 
branches, internet banking, and mobile banking channels. 

The Group Integrated Fraud Management (IFM) unit, 
supported by dedicated IFM teams in our overseas 
subsidiaries, oversees the management of fraud risk 
across geographies, driving collaboration across functions 
for an integrated anti-fraud approach. 

The Board Risk Management Committee provides corporate 
governance oversight of fraud risk under the Group Fraud 
Risk Management Framework, while the Group Fraud Risk 
Management Policy is reviewed annually and approved 
by the ORMC.  

Regulatory Compliance

Our fraud management strategy 

The Group Fraud Risk Management Framework 
lays out the roles and responsibilities of the  
First Line with oversight by the Second Line and 
assurance by the Third Line. The framework covers 
six pillars, namely:

• prevention; 
• detection; 
• response;

• resolution
• remediation; and 
• reporting.

All First Line business and support units receive 
structured training on fraud awareness to 
strengthen our capabilities in detecting internal 
and external fraud.

We invest continually in fraud monitoring and detection 
systems and measures across the Group Security 
Operations Centre, Digital Banking, IFM and Retail Fraud 
Risk Management teams. Fraud risks are also assessed as 
part of UOB’s annual Key Risk and Control Self-Assessment 
exercise. 

To help protect our customers against fraud, we conduct 
fraud awareness briefings and fraud risk management 
training for our frontline colleagues. Our branch colleagues 
are equipped with the SPOT (Sense, Probe Tactfully, Observe 
and Take Action/Inform) checklist, developed jointly by 
IFM, Group Channels and Digitalisation and the Anti-Scam 
Command of the Singapore Police Force (SPF). As the first 
line of defence, our colleagues are guided by the checklist 
on how to identify telltale signs of customers who may be 
victims of scams and how to prevent them from suffering 
losses. Advisories on latest fraud trends and prevention tips 
are also available on MyUOB for all employees.

Through frequent customer communications via email and 
on our website, mobile banking app, automated teller 
machines and social media channels, we also promote 
greater customer awareness of prevailing fraud scams. 
Such communications include:

• scam alerts;
• educational videos; and
• updates on new security measures.

Find Out More 

   UOB’s approach to responsible tax management

   UOB’s approach to correspondent banking AML compliance

91U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2

https://www.uobgroup.com/uobgroup/about/story/responsible-tax-management.page
https://www.uobgroup.com/uobgroup/about/story/approach-to-correspondent-banking-aml-compliance.page


Uphold Corporate Responsibility

Regulatory Compliance

Our targets

 Maintain zero material issues raised by regulators 
related to financial crime compliance.

    There were no reported cases of significant non-
compliance with relevant anti-bribery/corruption 
laws nor confirmed cases of bribery or corruption, 
and no material losses as a result of legal 
proceedings or card-related fraud in 2022.

 Maintain 100 per cent completion by all eligible 
employees of mandatory e-learning on AML/CFT 
and sanctions, fraud awareness, anti-bribery and 
anti-corruption.

    This was achieved in 2022. 

2022 highlights

Our frontline colleagues have found the SPOT checklist 
very useful in combating fraud. In 2022, they successfully 
helped our customers to prevent fraud losses of more 
than $11.6 million. Among them are colleagues from 
the UOB Hougang MRT Station branch in Singapore.  
Mr Joshua Wee, the branch manager, and his team stopped 
an elderly customer from transferring more than $80,000 
to a fraudster who asked for monetary help to release a 
parcel held in transit. 

In recognition of the efforts by Mr Wee and his team, 
he was presented an individual Community Partnership 
Award by the SPF Commercial Affairs Department (CAD).  
In total, UOB received six individual and two organisational 
Community Partnership Awards for extending assistance 
to scam victims and recovering their funds, as well as 
prompt scam reporting to the Singapore Anti-Scam Centre. 
Our Group Chief Risk Officer also awarded 98 colleagues 
with certificates of appreciation during the year for their 
contribution to prevent fraud. 

UOB’s strong stance in fraud and scam prevention was 
acknowledged when the IFM team was invited to share our 
knowledge and best practices with the SPF and Corrupt 
Practice Investigation Bureau (CPIB). To ensure that we 
continued to enhance our capabilities, during the year we 
also invited the CAD, Criminal Investigation Department 
(CID) and the National Crime Prevention Council (NCPC) to 
provide training for our colleagues in Singapore. We also 
stayed updated on emerging trends by attending seminars 
and conferences on scam awareness and prevention,  
as well as corruption.

Stopping a phishing attempt in 
Indonesia

In Indonesia, we helped protect a Corporate Banking 
client from a phishing attempt after realising a 
difference between a remittance payment advice 
and the beneficiary account number. The Corporate 
Banking, Wholesale Banking Business Management 
and Cash Management teams worked together 
to ensure that the transaction was cancelled 
successfully, liaising closely with the correspondent 
bank and providing continual updates to the client. 
Their efforts paid off with the funds returned to 
the client’s bank account.

Recognition and awards

• Community Partnership awards — two organisation and 
six individual awards — by the SPF CAD, in recognition of 
our efforts in fraud prevention

• Plaque from the Deputy Commissioner of Police 
(Investigation & Intelligence) at the 8th Alliance of 
Public PrivAte Cybercrime sTakeholders (APPACT) 
networking session, in recognition of our contributions 
and collaboration with the Singapore Police Force to 
fight cybercrime

Memberships

• Steering Committee Member of the Anti-Money 
Laundering/ Countering the Financing of Terrorism 
Industry Partnership (ACIP) in Singapore

• Member of the Anti-Corruption Partnership Network 
(ACPN) set up by the CPIB

• Corporate alliance member of the Association of Certified 
Fraud Examiners (ACFE), the world’s largest anti-fraud 
organisation

• Active member of APPACT set up by the Cybercrime 
Command of Singapore Police Force

• Member of The Association of Banks in Singapore’s 
Standing Committee for Fraud

CONTRIBUTION TO THE UN SDGs

92U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Uphold Corporate Responsibility

Information Security

Technology is integral to UOB providing our customers with borderless, reliable 
and efficient services and solutions. We are committed to protecting our data 
and assets, including customer data, by monitoring, detecting and responding 
to potential cybersecurity risks and threats.

Our approach

At UOB, we continually strengthen our defences, upgrade 
our security capabilities and enhance our operating models 
in view of the dynamic cyber threat landscape. We also 
partner regulators and industry associations, including 
the Monetary Authority of Singapore and The Association 
of Banks in Singapore (ABS), and leading cybersecurity 
providers on exchange of knowledge and best practices 
to ensure that we keep pace with market developments. 

To protect our data and assets, we have in place Group-wide  
cybersecurity policies and guidelines that ensure that 
cybersecurity risks are identified and managed in a 
consistent way across the Group. These include:

• the Group Technology Risk Management Framework 
and Policy; and

• the Group Information Technology Security Management 
and Cyber Resiliency Policy.

These policies are reviewed annually and approved by 
the Operational Risk Management Committee. 

Recognising that everyone plays a role in data protection 
and cybersecurity, we regularly train our people on 
information security and cybersecurity risks. We keep our 
people informed of developments, share best practices 
with them and conduct activities such as phishing 
simulations and internal cybersecurity training to raise their 
awareness and to assess their understanding, vigilance 
and susceptibility to cybersecurity threats.

There were no material information security incidents 
reported in 2022.

Our targets

 Maintain 100 per cent completion of mandatory 
information security training by employees across 
the Group. 

    This was achieved in 2022.

2022 highlights

In 2022, we updated our information and cybersecurity (ICS)  
strategy that guides our enhancing of ICS capabilities 
across people, processes and technology over a  
three-year timeframe, as we continue to mitigate 
cybersecurity threats proactively. 

We also registered with the Singapore Infocomm Media 
Development Authority’s SMS Sender ID Registry as 
part of the collective efforts among regulators, law 
enforcement, public and private sector organisations to 
protect consumers from the surge in SMS-related scams. 
Through these efforts, we contribute to the security and 
stability of the financial system and help to build trust 
in the banking environment. As we advance our digital 
capabilities, we will continue to increase our investments 
in our cyber resilience and security. 

As part of deepening our internal capabilities, we organised 
the Cybersecurity Awareness Month across the Group 
in October 2022. With the theme of ‘Working as one 
to secure our information’, the month-long programme 
highlighted the importance of cybersecurity and shared 
best practices on preventing cybersecurity incidents through 
webinars, e-learning modules and quizzes. We also held a  
‘Security Scavenger Hunt’ to encourage learning while 
having fun. 

93U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Uphold Corporate Responsibility

Information Security

To support the building of Singapore’s technology talent 
pipeline, we joined the Advisory Panel of Cyber Youth 
Singapore (CYS), a youth-led non-profit organisation, 
during the year. We also became a platinum sponsor 
of the CYS SEED Sponsorship Programme to help fund 
various initiatives including mentorship and volunteering 
programmes over the next five years.

In Singapore, we also continued to support The Institute of 
Banking and Finance’s Technology in Finance Immersion 
Programme through providing work attachments for  
mid-career talent to transition into a technology career 
path and to develop their cybersecurity skills and  
knowledge further.

Memberships 

• Chair of the ABS Standing Committee on Cyber Security

• Participant in the Financial Services Information Sharing and Analysis Center, a global cyber intelligence sharing 
community, to help strengthen the industry’s collective defence against cyber attacks

• Member of the CYS Advisory Panel

CONTRIBUTION TO THE UN SDGs

94U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Uphold Corporate Responsibility

Direct Environmental Impact

We are committed to conserving resources and reducing carbon emissions for 
the well-being of our stakeholders and future generations. We are also cognisant 
of the direct environmental impact resulting from our operations across our 
network. As our business continues to grow, we seek to mitigate our carbon 
footprint by building a more energy- and resource-efficient real estate portfolio 
and encouraging environmental stewardship at the workplace.

Our approach

Our direct impact on the environment results primarily 
from consuming resources, including energy, water, paper, 
and other supplies. The waste products resulting from 
the production, transport, consumption, and disposal of 
our resources include greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, 
wastewater and office waste. As such, we concentrate our 
efforts on energy conservation and resource management 
through optimisation, digitalisation and workflow 
automation, and stay committed to managing our premises 
efficiently in alignment with industry best practices and 
leading green building certification standards.  

We also seek to contribute to the Singapore Green Plan 2030  
and the Singapore Green Building Masterplan, and to 
meet the mandatory sustainability standards for the built 
environment in the markets in which we operate.

Energy conservation and resource management
We work actively to achieve measurable reductions in 
energy and resource consumption by adopting new and 
efficient technologies to upgrade our current systems.  
In 2022, we continued to deploy smart lighting systems 
with highly-efficient light-emitting diodes (LED), as well 
as smart lift destination control systems which help to 
enhance operational efficiency, reduce waiting time and 
electricity consumption. We also continued to improve 
the energy efficiency of our existing data centres through 
energy conservation measures, such as retrofitting our 
air-conditioning systems and adopting more efficient 
Uninterruptable Power Systems (UPSs).

Green building certifications
To achieve holistic sustainability performance for our 
properties, we use leading green building certification 
schemes, such as the Singapore Building and Construction 
Authority’s (BCA) Green Mark, for our newly-acquired 
or retrofitted buildings and office spaces. This helps 
to benchmark the green efforts of our Group portfolio 
wherever applicable. We received our first BCA Green 
Mark Certification in 2013. 

We adhere to the requirements of the latest green building 
rating criteria including the BCA Green Mark 2021 for the 
design of systems in our buildings. In addition, we are 
conducting a feasibility study for energy conservation 
measures for a typical UOB branch, with the aim of scaling 
such solutions across our branches regionally and in turn, 
expedite our decarbonisation plans.

95U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Uphold Corporate Responsibility

Renewable energy

We will switch to clean energy  
sources through:

We are adding more sustainability 
features across our buildings including:

We will support carbon emissions 
reduction programmes such as:

More efficient LED lighting 
systems 

Smart building sensors to 
manage lighting and lifts 
optimally 

Upgraded air-conditioning 
systems with lower energy 
use

Virtual Power Purchase 
Agreements from projects  
such as solar

Solar energy and  
solar cooker projects

Renewable Energy Certificates 
(RECs) in projects, such as solar, 
wind and geothermal

Nature-based projects

Biomass waste-to-energy 
projects 

Energy efficiency Carbon offsets

Achieving carbon neutrality 
In 2021, UOB became the first Singapore bank to achieve operational carbon neutrality for our own footprint, including 
our Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 (business air travel) emissions. We are committed to maintaining our carbon neutrality 
as we move towards a low carbon economy. In this regard, we have established a decarbonisation roadmap for our 
real estate portfolio through the deployment of energy conservation measures, use of renewable energy and power 
purchase agreements (PPAs), and carbon offsets. We are also looking into identifying and measuring the other 
categories of our Scope 3 emissions.

Direct Environmental Impact

Our long-term roadmap to maintaining carbon neutrality

Renewable energy
We have stepped up our efforts in procuring from 
renewable sources the electricity we consume across 
our network. As a consumer, we aim to contribute, over 
the mid to long term, to additional renewable generation 
capacity in the region via PPAs or virtual PPAs (VPPAs).  
For energy consumption in our home market, Singapore,  
we are exploring VPPAs, bundled with RECs, with renewable 
energy developers that have projects in countries such as 
Singapore, Indonesia, Malaysia and Australia. Where PPAs 
and VPPAs are not feasible or available, we will purchase 
unbundled RECs to address our electricity consumption. 

In 2022, we purchased and redeemed a total of 133,300 solar  
and wind RECs from mainland China, Hong Kong, Indonesia, 
Malaysia, Thailand and Vietnam to address 100 per cent  
of our electricity consumption in all our key markets.  
All the purchased RECs are certified by the International 
Renewable Energy Certificate (I-REC) or Tradable Instrument 
for Global Renewables (TIGR) standards. To create demand 
for renewable energy within the markets in which we 
operate, we purchased local RECs whenever possible. 
Exceptions were applied to Singapore and Malaysia, 
where RECs were procured from Vietnam due to a limited 
supply of local RECs. Specifically for Malaysia, additional 
RECs were procured from Vietnam on top of local RECs. 

96U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Uphold Corporate Responsibility

Carbon offsets
We aim to reduce energy consumption and use renewable 
energy to mitigate the majority of our operational carbon 
emissions. However, we recognise that there will be  
hard-to-abate emissions (in particular Scope 1 and Scope 3  
emissions) which may only be addressed through the 
use of carbon offsets. We seek to ensure that the carbon 
offsets we purchase are real, quantifiable, additional, 
permanent and registered with international standards.

In 2022, we purchased and retired 10,906 carbon offsets 
to address our Scope 1, residual Scope 21 and Scope 3  
(business air travel) emissions. As part of our commitment 
to advancing the renewable energy sector in the region, 
we sourced carbon offsets from a solar power project in 
Vietnam certified by the Verified Carbon Standard, as well 
as solar cooker and biomass waste-to-energy projects in 
mainland China, certified by the Gold Standard and the 
Verified Carbon Standard respectively.

The solar cooker project facilitates the transition of burning 
coal for cooking to clean solar cookers at Funiushan in 
Henan province, China. This improves both indoor and 
outdoor air quality, and eliminates carbon emissions from 
the cooking process.

Direct Environmental Impact

Our targets

 Maintain operational carbon neutrality for our Scope 1,  
Scope 2 and Scope 3 (business air travel) emissions.

    This was achieved in 2022.

 Achieve green building certifications for all key 
wholly-owned UOB buildings by 2030. 

    As at the end of 2022, eight out of 14 buildings 
have been certified as green buildings with four 
BCA Green Mark Platinum awards, three Green 

New green building certifications 

In 2022, the FEB Building in Singapore received two 
BCA Green Mark Platinum awards for its holistic 
sustainable performance and healthier workplace. 

Our China headquarters, UOB Plaza Shanghai, also 
received the LEED Platinum award, the first-ever  
LEED certification for our wholly-owned buildings. 
The award recognises the building’s sustainable 
features, including energy-efficient LED lighting, lift 
and pantry boiler systems, good indoor air quality 
as verified by a third-party auditor, sub-metering 
for major water usage, garbage bins to facilitate 
waste classification and recycling, a semi-outdoor 
sky garden and a paved garden on the ground floor.

We will continue to work towards developing highly 
sustainable workplaces that drive inclusiveness and 
enhance well-being beyond sustainability.

Mark GoldPLUS awards and one LEED Platinum 
award. We expect UOB Plaza Shanghai in China 
to achieve BCA Green Mark certification in 2023.

 Achieve 14 per cent reduction in energy use  
intensity by 2030, with 2018 as baseline.

    On track in 2022.

 Achieve 14 per cent reduction in Scope 2 emissions 
intensity by 2030, with 2018 as baseline. 

    On track in 2022. 

2022 highlights

During the year, we continued:

• the deployment of energy-efficient lighting systems 
for our properties in Singapore, Indonesia, Thailand, 
Vietnam and mainland China. Our efforts in 2022 
resulted in estimated energy savings of 1,187,820 
kilowatt-hours (kWh), equivalent to powering 250 
four-room flats in Singapore for a year2; and 

• the installation of 14 more electric vehicle (EV) charging 
points at our buildings, which led to a total of 26 EV 
charging points as at the end of 2022.  

1 Residual Scope 2 are emissions left after the offset by the RECs. For 2022, this primarily arose from our overseas branches’ Scope 2 GHG emissions.
2 According to the Energy Market Authority Singapore, the average monthly electricity consumption of a Singapore four-room housing flat ranges 

from 354 to 396 kWh. We used 396kWh/month for the estimation.

97U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Uphold Corporate Responsibility

During the year, we started to deploy in Malaysia, Singapore 
and Thailand our workspace booking system that enables 
our employees to reserve workspaces at UOB’s office 
premises or amenities. The digital system also captures 
office usage patterns which help us to improve system 
performance further.

In addition, we established the Corporate Real Estate 
Services Guidelines on Mechanical and Electrical Design 
and Specification, Sustainable Design and Operation. 
These guidelines were developed with reference to best 
practices and solutions available in Singapore to ensure 
that renovation projects for our buildings across the region 
meet high sustainability standards while complying with 
local legislations.  

Beyond maintaining operational carbon neutrality for 
our Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 (business air travel) 
emissions, in 2022, we partnered with DHL to reduce our 
carbon footprint for our international shipping activities.  
With assistance from DHL, we tracked our shipment 
activities, qualified their carbon emissions, and offset the 
generated emissions through purchase of carbon credits 
generated by projects accredited by the internationally-
recognised Gold Standard. 

Direct Environmental Impact

Managing our environmental footprint

Purchased grid electricity
Our energy consumption across the region reduced by  
2.3 per cent as compared with 2018, totalling  
135.3 gigawatt-hours (GWh). Overall energy use 
intensity, measured in kWh per square metre (m2) of 
floor space, improved by 14.2 per cent over the same 
period. Excluding data centres, the energy use intensity 
of our offices and branches reduced by 16.7 per cent.  
The improvement was attributed to low occupancy rates 
in certain key markets as employees returned gradually 
to the office amid recovery from the pandemic, as well as 
the move to our new headquarter buildings in Malaysia 
and Thailand, which are more energy efficient. 

Purchased grid electricity (GWh)  and  
energy use intensity (EUI) (kWh/m2) 

2020 2021 20222018

64.4

24.4

24.2

19.4

6.0

65.9

22.8

20.8

18.7

5.7 2.3
2.6

62.9

17.8

5.9

21.3

19.2

63.1

21.2

5.3

20.6

22.5

Singapore
Indonesia
Thailand

EUI excluding data centres

Malaysia
Greater China
Vietnam and overseas branches

EUI including data centres

138.4 133.9 129.4 135.3

254.4
230.8

218.4
249.5

174.5
159.8 157.3

188.8

98U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Uphold Corporate Responsibility

Direct Environmental Impact

GHG emissions
Our Scope 2 emissions reduced by 3.3 per cent to  
69.3 thousand tonnes of carbon dioxide-equivalent (tCO2e) 
when compared with 2018. Our overall emissions intensity 
(measured in kilogram (kg) of CO2-equivalent per m2 of 
floor space) reduced by 14.9 per cent over the same period. 
Excluding data centres, the emissions intensity of our office 
and branches decreased by 17.4 per cent.

Waste recycled and disposed
Our data for 2022 and 2021 cover all branches and offices 
in our key markets, including estimates from sites where 
we could not obtain actual data. Compared with 2018,  
waste collected in 2022 increased 47.4 per cent, attributed 
to the expanded reporting scope, as well as employees’ 
gradual return to office amid recovery from the pandemic. 
Of the 2,585 tonnes of waste generated in 2022,  
32.5 per cent was recycled and 33.6 per cent was processed 
at waste-to-energy incineration plants. Overall waste 
disposal intensity (measured in kg of waste per m2 of floor 
space) improved by 37.8 per cent over the same period.  

10.3

71.7

GHG Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions (thousand tCO2e) 
and GHG emissions intensity (kgCO2e/m2)

82.0 70.3 71.6 79.1

1.5

4.3 5.8

66.6
69.3

0.6

68.8

Scope 1 (Stationary combustion, refrigerant, etc.)
Scope 2 (Electricity purchase)
Scope 3 (Business air travel)
Scope 2 GHG emissions intensity excluding data centres
Scope 2 GHG emissions intensity including data centres 

2020 2021 20222018

4.0

102.0

131.7

94.0

128.2

86.8

119.1

84.3

112.1

Waste recycled and disposed (tonnes)  
and waste intensity (kg/m2)

Waste recycled
Waste landfill

Waste incinerated
Overall waste intensity

2020 2021 20222018

609

259

886

668

733

751

839

878

868

618

311

611

1,754 1,540 2,153 2,585

4.4

3.6
2.7 2.8

99U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Uphold Corporate Responsibility

Water usage
Data for 2022 include water withdrawal from well sources in water-stressed regions, primarily in Java, Indonesia,  
one of our key markets. We installed several water meters, deriving the usage of 12,800 m3 from well water sources 
within this region and are considering alternatives to this practice in Indonesia. 

Our water consumption in 2022 decreased by 5.8 per cent to 497,600 m3 when compared with 2018. Overall water 
consumption intensity (measured in m3 of water per m2 of floor space) improved by 21.3 per cent over the same period. 
On a year-on-year basis, water consumption in 2022 increased due to employees’ gradual return to office amid 
recovery from the pandemic. 

Direct Environmental Impact

173.2

96.0

113.9

65.0
19.3

Water usage (thousand m3) and
water usage intensity (m3/m2)

2020 2021 20222018

141.1

18.1

93.5

68.5

80.6

2.8

179.4

15.2
18.1

89.2

97.0

97.9

219.2

89.4

123.1

75.9

20.8

528.4 467.4 404.6 497.6

Singapore

Thailand

Malaysia

Vietnam and overseas branches
Indonesia Greater China

Water usage intensity (m3 water per m2 floor space) 

Note: Data for 2022 includes overseas branches

18.9

0.7
0.8

1.0

0.9

277.5

Water usage (thousand m3)  
by withdrawal sources

2020 2021 20222018

247.2
335.2

528.4 467.4 404.6 497.6

Non water-stressed region (municipal)
Water-stressed region (municipal)
Non water-stressed region (well water)
Water-stressed region (well water)
Water usage intensity

327.6

193.1

189.9

157.5

156.8

0.3
12.8

100U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Uphold Corporate Responsibility

Direct Environmental Impact

Methodology and adjustments 
We continually seek to apply the most appropriate 
methodologies to report relevant environmental data. 
Resource consumption and waste data pertaining to our 
business operations are based on our providers’ invoices 
and information. 

Our Scope 1, 2 and Scope 3 emissions are derived 
in accordance with the most recent directives of the  
GHG Protocol Corporate Standard, developed by the 
World Resources Institute and the World Business Council 
for Sustainable Development. Global Warming Potential 
factors are based on the Intergovernmental Panel on 
Climate Change Fourth Assessment Report.  

Purchased paper
We purchased a total of 1,354 tonnes of paper in 2022,  
33.8 per cent less than 2018. Our sustainably-sourced paper, 
including FSC 100%, FSC mix and PEFC-certified paper, 
made up 38.4 per cent of the total amount. 

Purchased paper  
(tonnes)

FSC-certified or equivalent
Non FSC-certified or equivalent

2020 2021 20222018

570

1,074

520

834

619

1,161

2,045 1,779 1,644 1,354

586

1,459

The reported Scope 1 and Scope 2 data include our 
offices, branches and data centres across our Group.  
Our methodology excludes UOB-owned spaces with leased 
tenants, known as downstream leased assets. Scope 1 and 
Scope 2 emissions are calculated based on location-based 
GHG conversion factors from international standards by 
the United Kingdom Department for Environment, Food 
and Rural Affairs (DEFRA) and the International Energy 
Agency (IEA) respectively. 

Scope 2 emissions are the main component of our  
emissions profile, arising from our purchase of grid 
electricity and outsourced data centres. We report both the 
location-based and market-based emissions in this report.  
In addition, we report emissions derived from air travel 
undertaken by employees for business purposes. Scope 3  
includes our business air travel emissions. 

When the Bank acquires or divests any property within the 
year, we include the property’s full-year energy consumption 
and Scope 2 GHG emissions when computing intensity 
figures for annualisation purpose. This methodology, 
revised in 2021, was an enhancement to the data reported 
for the previous years, where data was included in the 
calculation only if the acquired or divested property 
altered the individual country’s baseline by more than  
one per cent. The revised methodology includes all 
properties and provides more accurate energy and  
GHG emissions intensity figures for our operations. 

Waste data for 2018 to 2020 included only UOB-owned 
buildings. Data since 2021 include both owned buildings 
and leases spaces. For leased spaces where we could 
not obtain actual data, we established waste unit rates 
based on the actual waste data from branches and offices 
within each market. These waste unit rates were then 
extrapolated for sites without actual data.

UOB completed the acquisition of Citigroup’s consumer 
banking businesses in Malaysia and Thailand in November 
2022, and in Vietnam in March 2023. The acquisition in 
Indonesia is expected to be completed by the end of 2023. 
We will incorporate the relevant Citigroup data upon full 
system integration within each market. 

CONTRIBUTION TO THE UN SDGs

101U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Uphold Corporate Responsibility

Sustainable Procurement

Sustainable procurement is key to responsible business practices. As we continue 
to deepen our presence across the region, we seek to align our procurement 
activities with our environmental, social and governance (ESG) goals in a manner 
consistent with our values. We support suppliers who are committed to strong 
corporate governance, regulatory compliance, human rights, ethical labour 
practices, environmental well-being, and who provide a safe and healthy work 
environment for their workers. 

Our approach

Our approach to addressing the ESG risks and effects of 
our operations extends to the procurement of products 
and services from suppliers, which include any third party, 
company or individual that provides a product or service 
to us. Many of our purchases from suppliers are related to 
corporate services, real estate, information systems and 
manpower management. 

We understand that there are ESG risks associated with our 
suppliers’ activities and that the risks will vary depending 
on their sector, size and location. These include risks 
related to modern slavery and human trafficking within 
our supply chain.

To reduce the environmental and social risks and impact 
associated with our sourcing activities, we expect our 
suppliers to adhere to the standards set out in our  
Group Supplier Sustainability Principles (GSSP). The GSSP 
cover three key areas:

• corporate governance and compliance, 

• labour and human rights; and 

• environment, health and safety. 

Suppliers are expected to notify us promptly of any 
deviations from the GSSP. If a supplier is found to be 
non-compliant, we will request the supplier to present an 
improvement plan if one is not already in place.

We are not aware of any violations or significant ESG risks 
by any supplier in 2022.

102U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2

https://www.uobgroup.com/investor-relations/assets/pdfs/investor/sustainability/uobgroup-supplier-sustainability-principle.pdf


Uphold Corporate Responsibility

Our targets 

 Have 90 per cent of our material suppliers in Singapore 
acknowledge our GSSP.

    We achieved 98 per cent in 2022.

2022 highlights 

In 2022, we established the Sustainable Procurement 
Guidelines (SPG) for our Corporate Real Estate Services 
(CRES) unit, which supplements the GSSP with more detailed 
implementation specifications and guidance. Through the 
SPG, we seek to minimise the direct and indirect negative 
ESG impacts resulting from CRES’ procured products and 
services in alignment with our sustainability strategic 
objectives. Starting from Singapore, we aim to roll out 
the SPG progressively to the other markets in which we 
operate, where applicable.

Sustainable Procurement

•  Suppliers shall provide equal 
opportunity for all their 
employees regardless of gender,  
religion, race, ethnicity, national 
origin, age, disability and sexual 
orientation.

•  Suppliers shall ensure that 
no child, involuntary or 
forced labour is used in their 
operations.

•  Suppliers shall provide fair pay 
and working conditions for 
employees.

•  Suppliers shall promote a work 
environment free of physical, 
sexual or other forms of 
harassment, where employees 
are treated with respect and 
dignity.

Labour and 
Human Rights

•  Suppliers shall comply with all 
applicable local and national 
laws and regulations in the 
jurisdictions in which they 
operate.

•  Suppliers shall  conduct 
themselves ethically and morally 
at all times.

•  Suppliers shall not engage in 
bribery, facilitation payments, 
corruption, fraud or other 
prohibited business practices.

Corporate 
Governance and 
Compliance

•  Suppliers shall provide a safe 
and healthy work environment 
for their employees in line with 
their health and safety policy.

•  Suppliers shall implement an 
effective environmental policy 
and/or have an environmental 
management system or plan 
to manage natural resource 
scarcity issues and to mitigate 
the environmental risks, impacts 
and dependencies of their 
products and/or services.

Environment, 
Health and 
Safety

Group Supplier Sustainability Principles

CONTRIBUTION TO THE UN SDGs

103U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Uphold Corporate Responsibility

UOB is committed to supporting the social development of the communities in 
which we operate through art, children and education. We believe these to be 
essential for the quality and progress of society. Over many decades, our efforts 
across the region have supported the young, especially the underprivileged,  
as well as those with special needs and with untapped talent. 

Community Stewardship

Our approach

At UOB, our corporate social responsibility (CSR) efforts across the Group come together under the UOB Heartbeat 
CSR programme, which aims to create sustainable good for more caring and inclusive societies through the '3Ps' of 
corporate philanthropy, stakeholder partnerships and employee participation. 

How we give back

Participation
We unite as one in giving our time, 
skills and service to help build strong, 
inclusive and caring communities.  
We promote volunteerism that creates 
a sense of belonging for our colleagues 
and helps improve the lives of others.

Partnerships
We maximise our corporate giving 
by connecting and collaborating 
with partners for greater reach and 
impact. They include customers, 
business partners, vendors, community 
development councils, as well as 
institutions and artists who participate 
in our art competitions.

Philanthropy
We are committed to helping improve 
lives and strengthen social fabric 
through financial and non-financial 
contributions such as donations in cash 
or in kind, sponsorships, scholarships 
and the purchase of goods and services 
from charities.

Our focus areas

Children: Developing the young to their 
full potential
As children are the future, our efforts focus 
on helping them have a strong head start 
in life, inspiring them to express themselves 
and nurturing their talent as individuals.

Art: Championing Southeast Asian art 
and ink art
Art connects people, broadens minds, 
enriches lives and strengthens societal 
bonds. With our Asian heritage and 
longstanding support of Southeast  
Asian art and ink art, we aim to nurture 
the next generation of great artists from 
the region.

Education: Laying the foundation for 
the future
Education is essential for the progress 
of a country, its economy and its people.  
We support learning opportunities for young  
minds, help bridge the digital divide, and 
develop the leaders of tomorrow.

Our UOB Group CSR Policy ensures that all our CSR activities are conducted in a concerted and distinctive manner that 
enables sustainable growth for the community. The policy is reviewed annually and approved by the Group Human 
Resources Committee to ensure that our CSR activities are aligned with UOB’s strategic direction and the needs of 
the community. 

104U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Uphold Corporate Responsibility

Community Stewardship

Our targets 

 Achieve an average of 1.75 volunteer hours  
per employee per year across the Group in 2023.

    We achieved more than 44,800 hours of  
volunteering in 2022, which was close to a  
40 per cent increase from the previous year, 
and averaged 1.6 hours per employee across  
the Group. 

 Contribute at least $2 million to support the social 
development of art across Asia in 2023.

   We contributed more than $2.6 million in 2022.

 Equip at least 8,000 students with digital literacy 
skills and/or digital learning tools in 2023.

    We equipped 7,311 youths with digital learning 
skills and tools through the UOB My Digital Space 
programme across seven markets in 2022.

2022 highlights

Every year, we bring together our colleagues, customers and 
partners to make a positive difference to our communities. 
In 2022, we raised more than $9.2 million in monetary and 
in-kind contributions for communities in need across the 
markets in which we operate. 

Championing Southeast Asian art and ink art
We believe art plays an important role in fostering social 
inclusiveness and have been supporting artists across Asia 
for more than four decades. In particular, we champion 
Southeast Asian art through our flagship UOB Painting of 
the Year (POY) competition. Inaugurated in 1982, the annual  
art competition is the longest-running in Singapore and 
one of the most prestigious in Southeast Asia. Since then,  
it has uncovered and nurtured more than 1,000 outstanding 
artists across Singapore, Indonesia, Malaysia and Thailand.

The 2022 UOB Southeast Asian POY award was won by  
Mr Chomrawi Suksom from Thailand for his artwork 
titled Dystopia, which depicts the present world that 
is undergoing constant developments and changes, 
affected by geopolitics, natural disasters, pandemics and  
social issues. 

105U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Uphold Corporate Responsibility

Community Stewardship

Supporting budding artists 

We launched the 2022 UOB POY competition 
with the ‘Wall of Aspirations’, a 7.5 metre-long 
community-painted wall mural at the inclusive 
community space, Enabling Village, in Singapore. 
Ms Denise Phua, Mayor of Central Singapore District,  
Mr Wee Ee Cheong, UOB Deputy Chairman and  
Chief Executive Officer, UOB POY artists and budding 
artists from The Little Arts Academy’s Mini Monet 
advanced visual arts programme contributed to 
the painting of the mural, which commemorates the 
realising of dreams by artists, including those with 
special needs.

In recognition of our long-term commitment to art, we were 
presented the National Arts Council’s Distinguished Patron 
of the Arts Award in Singapore for the 18th year in 2022. 

Connecting through differentiated  
art experiences
In 2022, we pushed the boundaries of art and digital to 
extend the reach of art in new ways to the community:

• debuted ‘SkyArtverse by UOB’ in Decentraland, the 
first immersive art theme park in the metaverse, 
showcasing all 37 winning artworks from the  
2022 UOB POY competition across the four markets; 

• partnered with Art Jakarta 2022 as the Lead Partner  
to showcase artworks by 10 UOB POY artists,  
including 2021 UOB POY (Indonesia) country winner, 
Ms Meliantha Muliawan, who created an experiential 
environmental art space that encouraged the use of 
creativity, sensibility, and imagination for children to 
learn more about biodiversity through educational 
workshops; and

• collaborated with the Hong Kong Palace Museum on 
the inaugural Art in Ink Festival that experimented with 
the use of augmented reality and film screenings for 
visitors to experience the beauty of Chinese ink art. 

106U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Uphold Corporate Responsibility

Amplifying our giving efforts 
More than 15,000 colleagues, customers and beneficiaries 
rallied for the 2022 UOB Global Heartbeat Run/Walk,  
our flagship fundraising and volunteerism programme,  
to help improve the lives of disadvantaged children and 
families. 

We raised a record of more than $2.3 million for  
26 beneficiaries globally to provide them with essential 
food supplies and digital learning support. In Singapore, 
more than $1.6 million was raised for beneficiaries 
supported by Food From the Heart, Children’s Wishing Well,  
the President’s Challenge 2022 and Care Community 
Services Society.

Together with our Commercial Banking clients in Singapore, 
we also raised close to $1.9 million at our annual  
Lunar New Year fundraiser to support The Business Times  
Budding Artists Fund, The Straits Times School Pocket 
Money fund, the Central Singapore Community Development 
Council (CDC) as well as the UOB-Singapore Management 
University Asian Enterprise Institute.

Community Stewardship

Across the region, our colleagues actively participated in 
community outreach programmes. In 2022, we: 

• launched Heartbeat@Heartlands in Singapore,  
through which our branch colleagues volunteered with 
social service agencies within their vicinity to engage 
with beneficiaries and the community. Activities included 
scam awareness workshops, financial literacy and 
reading workshops, UOB branch tours and grocery 
shopping trips with children from disadvantaged 
families. More than 1,810 beneficiaries were engaged 
through this programme, which will be expanded 
across the region;

• contributed VND100 million ($5,737) to Vietnam 
Fatherland Front, a voluntary organisation dedicated 
to supporting poverty alleviation and the social 
development of Vietnam; and

• raised more than $95,290 in cash and in-kind donations 
through various fundraising activities, to help meet 
the pandemic recovery needs of various community 
segments, particularly families, the elderly and the 
sick, in Hong Kong. 

107U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Uphold Corporate Responsibility

Bridging the digital divide
UOB supports programmes that develop the minds 
of children, particularly those from disadvantaged 
backgrounds and with special needs. By enhancing the 
well-being of children and developing them to their full 
potential, we help build strong and inclusive communities. 

The UOB My Digital Space (MDS) is our flagship 
regional education programme that is designed to 
help disadvantaged students by equipping them with 
digital tools and skills, and connecting them to wider 
learning opportunities. In 2022, the programme benefitted  
7,311 youths across the region through a series of digital 
literacy workshops and the sponsorship of 1,322 digital 
devices.

Singapore
We donated decommissioned UOB-owned laptops and 
colleagues’ used personal laptops, tablets and smart 
phones to children in need across social service agencies. 
We also sponsored all refurbishment costs for these 
devices prior to donation. Our efforts provided children 
with access to learning from home, while giving used 
devices a new lease of life and reducing the amount of 
e-waste sent to landfills.

We also continued our partnership with Central Singapore 
CDC on Season 2 of UOB My Digital Bootcamp. Close to 
1,300 children between 10 and 12 years old, including those 
from disadvantaged backgrounds, went through a two-day  
experimental and hands-on programming ‘mission’, picking 
up digital-making skills and learning opportunities in areas 
such as coding, robotics and 3D mapping. 

Community Stewardship

Indonesia
In partnership with GANARA Art, we provided digital 
devices, internet data and art kits to 100 children from 
underprivileged families. The children were able to engage 
in remote learning, including learning how to use art as a 
medium to express themselves.

Malaysia
We refurbished and donated 370 laptops to public schools,  
benefitting at least 500 students from the bottom  
40 per cent of the Malaysian household income group. 
We also donated 15 new laptops to equip disadvantaged 
children for their digital learning journey.

Thailand
We refurbished and donated 441 digital devices and 
accessories to The Mirror Foundation as part of the 
‘Computer for Children (C4C)’ initiative. This enabled 
more than 400 children living in rural areas to continue 
their education with the help of digital tools, comprising 
of computers, keyboards, mouse and printers.

China
We designed a digital classroom for a primary school 
in Chongqing, China, installing LED screens, centralised 
control systems for electricity and audio, as well as  
fast-speed internet connection. This new digital classroom 
is aimed at providing students with access to a wider 
range of educational materials.

108U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Uphold Corporate Responsibility

Promoting environmental stewardship
We continued to support a range of initiatives to cultivate 
the adoption of more environmentally-sustainable practices 
among our colleagues and the wider community.

In Singapore, we engaged close to 200 students from 
disadvantaged backgrounds through the UOB Heartbeat 
Eco-Excursions, an experiential outdoor learning programme 
to educate children on environmental sustainability.  
UOB employee volunteers also participated in the activities, 
which included guided tours and hands-on workshops 
on biodiversity conservation, food sustainability and 
renewable energy.

Community Stewardship

As part of our ‘Waste to Wonder’ sustainability programme 
in Thailand, we turned 4,070 kilograms of paper and used 
red packets into three recyclable cardboard furniture 
sets, comprising tables and stools, for donation to 
the Wattrisamakkee School. The students also learnt 
about the upcycling process and deepened their  
environmental awareness. 

In China, we repurposed 8,000 used plastic bottles, as part 
of our ‘Do Good Do Green’ programme, to create T-shirts 
and reusable tote bags for our 2022 UOB Heartbeat  
Run/Walk event.

Recognition and awards

• Pinnacle Award, the highest accolade awarded by the 
Community Chest in Singapore, as well as the Charity 
Platinum Award and the Volunteer Partner Award

• Distinguished Patron of the Arts Award by the National 
Arts Council in Singapore 

• Champion of Good 2022 recognition conferred by 
the National Volunteer and Philanthropy Centre in 
Singapore

• People’s Association Community Spirit Award —
Excellence by the Central Singapore CDC

• Excellence in Corporate Social Responsibility — Silver 
at the Marketing Interactive’s Excellence Awards 2022 

• Award for Arts Sponsorship by the Hong Kong Arts 
Development Council

• Best CSR Bank in Indonesia at the International Finance 
Awards 2022 

• Best Bank for CSR in Indonesia at the Asiamoney  
Best Bank Awards 2022 

• Best Social Responsibility of Brand at the 12th China 
Philanthropy Festival 2023

• Certificate of Recognition at The Saigon Times  
CSR Awards 2022

CONTRIBUTION TO THE UN SDGs

109U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Appendix
111 Sustainability in Numbers
124 Climate Scenario Analysis Methodology
128 Recognition and Awards
130 Memberships
131 GRI Content Index
139 SASB Index
142 TCFD Index
143 UN SDGs Index
149 UNGC Ten Principles Index
150 Glossary
154 External Assurance

110U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Appendix

Sustainability in Numbers1, 2

2022 2021  2020  2019  2018 

Economic Contributions

Financial highlights ($ million) 

Total operating income  11,575 9,789 9,176 10,030 9,116

Dividends to shareholders   2,089 1,741 1,990 2,180 2,052

Operating expenses  5,281 4,313 4,184 4,472 4,003

Employee compensation and benefits  3,001 2,602 2,501 2,716 2,447

Profit before tax   5,785 4,937 3,536 5,174 4,826

Profit after tax3   4,573 4,075 2,915 4,343 4,008

Income tax4   1,202 850 606 812 805

Income tax as a percentage of profit before tax (%)   20.8 17.2 17.1 15.7 16.7

Procurement spend5 

Total purchases ($ million) 2,195 1,786 1,776  1,888  1,645 

Purchases from local suppliers (%)  92.8 93.7 94.0  93.8  93.5 

Sustainable Banking

Lending profile ($ billion) 

Loans to small businesses  11.5 11.7 11.3  10.4  10.0 

Loans to medium businesses  53.7 57.0 51.2  50.6  46.0 

Loans to large businesses  146.1 142.7 122.2  109.0  107.6 

Loans to individuals  108.2 99.4 96.7  98.6  98.1 

Retail banking activities6

Value of checking and savings accounts ($ billion)  83.0 96.8 90.1 –  – 

Value of loans – excluding mortgage and revolving 
credit loans ($ billion) 

13.3 14.0 13.1 –  – 

Value of mortgage loans – residential and 
commercial7 ($ billion) 

85.7 82.1 81.1  –  – 

Weighted average loan-to-value ratio of mortgage 
loans (%) 

54.0 56.4 57.9 –  – 

1 Unless otherwise stated, all reported numbers are at Group level.      
2 Data for 2018 to 2021 may not be available for newly-included metrics. Dashes denote that data are unavailable. 
3 Relates to the amount attributable to equity holders of the Bank.      
4 Income tax  for  the year ended 31 December 2019 was stated as $813 million  in  the UOB Annual Report 2019, and was  restated  in  the UOB 

Annual Report 2020 due to rounding.      
5 Comprises  data  from  our  seven  key  markets  in  Singapore,  Indonesia,  Malaysia,  Thailand,  Vietnam and Greater China  (including  mainland 

China and Hong Kong).      
6 Comprises data covering individual customers served under Group Retail. Data for 2021 and 2020 have been restated to conform with 2022's 

presentation.     
7 Our standardised mortgage loan pricing packages are available to any customer who meets our loan eligibility requirements.   

  

111U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Appendix

2022 2021  2020  2019  2018 
Sustainable financing 

Total green and sustainability-linked loans  
as at 31 December ($ billion) 

25.0 16.8 11.3  6.6 – 

Green and sustainability-linked loans extended 
during the year ($ billion) 

8.2 5.5 4.7  1.0 – 

Renewable energy generated by projects financed 
(GWh)8

555.6 279.5 157.4  –  – 

Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions avoided through 
financing of renewable energy (thousand tCO2e)9

359.0 142.0 77.3  –  – 

Sustainable investing ($ million) 

UOB Personal Financial Services10

Transaction volume in ESG-focused investment 
products 

663.9 1,020.2 408.0 –  – 

Assets under management (AUM) in ESG-focused 
investment products as at 31 December

815.5 782.6 185.5 –  – 

UOB Asset Management

AUM in ESG-focused funds as at 31 December 8,213 6,701 781 –  – 

Percentage of portfolio companies engaged on ESG 
topics (%)

19.0 20.0 13.0  10.4  – 

UOB Venture Management 

AUM in ESG-focused and social impact funds  
as at 31 December11

1,441 1,296 1,105 1,043 953

Total number of low-income individuals reached 
through AIIF investee companies as at 31 December 
(cumulative) (in millions)12

25 19 16  12  8

Customer Experience

Digital banking

Digitally-enabled retail customers (% of individual 
customer base)13

75 69 64 –  – 

Digitally-active retail customers (% of individual 
customer base)14

38 36 32 –  – 

Customer experience and advocacy 

Number of customer compliments  108,010 99,391 65,936  82,967  58,426 

Percentage of complaints relating to the sale of 
investment and insurance products (%) 

0.19 0.06 0.11  0.12  0.09 

Sustainability in Numbers

8 In accordance with the Global GHG Accounting and Reporting Standard for the Financial Industry, published by the Partnership for  
Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF), an attribution factor or ratio is applied when calculating the amount of solar energy generated so that only  
UOB’s share in the total financing of each project is included.

9 GHG conversion factors are sourced from the International Energy Agency (IEA).
10 Data for 2020 to 2021 were restated to reflect updates in computation methodology.
11 Figures comprise mainly the ASEAN China Investment Funds (ACIF) and the Asia Impact Investment Funds (AIIF).
12 Figures have not been prorated for the portion of UOB Venture Management’s contribution, and are based on data reported by the portfolio 

companies. Data for 2018 and 2019 were restated to reflect updated scope.
13 Refer to customers with an online banking account.
14 Refer to customers with more than one online banking login per month. 

112U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Appendix

Sustainability in Numbers

2022 2021  2020  2019  2018 
Financial Inclusion

Access to financial services 

Number of branches  430 440 467  476  469 

Number of automated teller machines (ATMs)15 1,672 1,436 1,572  1,653  1,669 

Number of contactless ATMs16 562 548 508  509  382 

Number of ability ATMs17 16 16 18  20  20 

Amount of non-performing loans qualified 
to programmes designed to promote small businesses 
($ million)18

330.2 341.7 264.0 276.6 – 

Talent Development and Inclusion

Employee profile19, 20

Total number of employees (including employees  
from Citigroup)

28,659 – – – –

Total number of employees (excluding employees 
from Citigroup)

25,644 24,346 25,466 26,872 26,153

Number and percentage (%) of employees by gender

Male 
9,915 

(38.7%)
9,362 

(38.5%)
9,855 

(38.7%) 
10,510 
(39.1%) 

10,102 
(38.6%) 

Female 
15,729 

(61.3%)
14,984 
(61.5%)

15,611 
(61.3%) 

16,362 
(60.9%) 

16,051 
(61.4% ) 

Total 
25,644 
(100%)

24,346 
(100%)

25,466 
(100%) 

26,872 
(100%) 

26,153 
(100%) 

Number and percentage (%) of employees by employment type and gender

Full-time male 
9,912 

(38.7%)
9,356 

(38.4%)
9,854 

(38.7%) 
10,508 
(39.1%) 

10,100 
(38.6%) 

Full-time female 
15,699 

(61.2%)
14,949 

(61.4%)
15,573 

(61.2%) 
16,319 

(60.7%) 
16,008 
(61.2%) 

Part-time male 
3  

(<0.1%)
6 

 (<0.1%)
1  

(<0.1%) 
2  

(<0.1%) 
2  

(<0.1%) 

Part-time female 
30  

(<0.1%)
35 

(<0.1%)
38 

(<0.1%) 
43 

(<0.1%)  
43 

(<0.1%)  

15 Includes shared network of ATMs with OCBC in Singapore.
16 Data for 2021 were restated to correct a computation error. 
17 Ability ATMs are designed to provide visually-impaired customers with audio assistance. 
18 Data for 2019 to 2021 were restated to reflect the change from Singapore-only data to Group-wide data.
19 Includes full-time and part-time permanent and fixed-term contract employees.
20 The acquisition of Citigroup's consumer banking businesses in Malaysia and Thailand was completed in November 2022. Figures computed for 

2022 excluded relevant Citigroup data for better comparison purpose.  

113U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Appendix

Sustainability in Numbers

2022 2021  2020  2019  2018 
Number and percentage (%) of employees by employment contract and gender

Permanent male 
9,661 

(37.7%)
9,097 

(37.3%)
9,551 

(37.5%)
10,090 
(37.5%)

9,694 
(37.1%)

Permanent female 
15,310 

(59.7%)
14,603 

(60.0%)
15,189 

(59.6%)
15,821 

(58.9%)
15,454 
(59.1%)

Contract male
254 

(1.0%)
265  

(1.1%)
304 

(1.2%)
420 

(1.6%)
408 

(1.5%)

Contract female
419  

(1.6%)
381  

(1.6%)
422  

(1.7%)
541 

(2.0%) 
597 

(2.3%)

Number and percentage (%) of employees by employment contract and country

Permanent

Singapore
9,612 

(37.5%)
8,850 

(36.4%)
9,219 

(36.2%)
9,504 

(35.4%)
9,072 

(34.7%)

Indonesia
3,217 

(12.5%)
3,231 

(13.3%)
3,579 

(14.1%)
3,793 

(14.1%)
3,824 

(14.6%)

Malaysia
5,072 

(19.8%)
4,924 

(20.2%)
5,026 

(19.7%)
5,189 

(19.3%)
5,102 
(19.5)

Thailand
4,731 

(18.4%)
4,552 

(18.7%)
4,745 

(18.6%)
5,055 

(18.8%)
4,954 

(18.9%)

Vietnam
569 

(2.2%)
438 

(1.8%)
431  

(1.7%)
470 

(1.7%)
369 

(1.4%)

Greater China
1,328 

(5.2%)
1,284 

(5.3%)
1,318 

(5.2%)
1,453 

(5.4%)
1,390 

(5.3%)

Overseas branches
442 

(1.7%)
421  

(1.7%)
422  

(1.7%)
447 

(1.7%)
437  

(1.7%)

Contract

Singapore
444 

(1.7%)
386 

(1.6%)
440 

(1.7%)
554  

(2.1%)
573 

(2.2%)

Indonesia
90  

(0.4%)
84  

(0.3%)
107 

(0.4%)
151  

(0.6%)
220 

(0.8%)

Malaysia
64  

(0.2%)
70  

(0.3%)
59  

(0.2%)
112  

(0.4%)
76  

(0.3%)

Thailand
9  

(<0.1%)
12  

(<0.1%)
18 

(<0.1%)
24 

(<0.1%)
24 

(<0.1%)

Vietnam
13  

(<0.1%)
24  

(0.1%)
17  

(<0.1%)
5  

(<0.1%)
0  

(0%)

Greater China
40  

(0.2%)
57  

(0.2%)
73  

(0.3%)
111  

(0.4%)
111  

(0.4%)

Overseas branches
13  

(<0.1%)
13  

(<0.1%)
12  

(<0.1%)
4  

(<0.1%)
1 

 (<0.1%)

114U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Appendix

2022 2021  2020  2019  2018 
Number of workers who are not employees21

Agency contract workers 3,269 1,604 1,456 1,271 1,245

Outsourced services workers 499 – – – –

Percentage of local employment (%)22 93.9 94.5 94.7  94.2  94.9 

Percentage of senior management23 hired locally by country (%)

Singapore 91.9 – – – –

Indonesia 93.5 – – – –

Malaysia 91.5 – – – –

Thailand 92.0 – – – –

Vietnam 50.0 – – – –

Greater China 73.9 – – – –

Overseas branches  70.6 – – – –

Percentage of employees by age group and gender (%)

<30 years old 

Male  35.4 34.3 34.5 36.6 35.9

Female  64.6 65.7 65.5 63.4 64.1

30-50 years old 

Male  39.5 39.5 39.8 39.9 39.3

Female  60.5 60.5 60.2 60.1 60.7

>50 years old 

Male  38.4 38.0 38.8 39.4 40.1

Female  61.6 62.0 61.2 60.6 59.9

Overall average age 

Male  40.1 40.2 39.0 38.4 38.4

Female  39.8 39.7 38.6 37.8 37.6

Total 39.9 39.9 38.8 38.0 37.9

Percentage of employees by grade23 and gender (%)

Senior management 

Male  62.8 63.7 65.1 64.9 65.3

Female  37.2 36.3 34.9 35.1 34.7

Middle management 

Male  48.6 48.3 48.4 48.6 48.2

Female  51.4 51.7 51.6 51.4 51.8

21 Data as at 31 December 2022. Agency contract workers refer to individuals who are employed by third-party employment agencies to provide 
services to UOB on a temporary basis, while outsourced services workers refer to those employed by third-party companies providing professional 
services to UOB. Data collection for agency contract workers was expanded in 2022, while data for outsourced services workers were not available 
for 2018 to 2021.

22 Local employees are citizens or permanent residents of the country in which they are employed. 
23 Senior management refers to Managing Directors and Executive Directors; middle management refers to Senior Vice Presidents, First Vice 

Presidents and Vice Presidents; executives refer to Assistant Vice Presidents, Managers and Senior Officers. 

Sustainability in Numbers

115U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Appendix

2022 2021  2020  2019  2018 
Percentage of employees by grade23 and gender (%)

Executive

Male  35.4 35.4 36.1 37.5 37.3

Female  64.6 64.6 63.9 62.5 62.7

Adminstrative

Male  27.7 28.3 28.3 28.8 28.9

Female  72.3 71.7 71.7  71.2  71.1

Percentage of employees by grade and age group (%)

Senior management 

<30 years old 0 0 0 0 -

30-50 years old 37.3 40.2 45.6 48.0 -

>50 years old 62.7 59.8 54.4 52.0 -

Middle management 

<30 years old 0.7 0.7 0.7 1.0 -

30-50 years old 76.4 76.9 78.9 80.3 -

>50 years old 22.9 22.4 20.4 18.7 -

Executive 

<30 years old 23.5 22.1 24.5 28.7 -

30-50 years old 64.1 65.5 64.6 61.7 -

>50 years old 12.5 12.4 10.9 9.6 -

Administrative 

<30 years old 25.4 24.5 28.5 33.5 -

30-50 years old 61.5 62.2 59.2 55.5 -

>50 years old 13.1 13.3 12.3 11.0 -

Number and percentage (%) of management employees by gender

Male supervisors or managers 
2,236 

(46.9%)
2,140 

(46.5%)
2,352 

(45.4%) 
2,438 

(47.3%) 
2,432 

(47.0%) 

Female supervisors or managers 
2,529 

(53.1%)
2,465 

(54.5%)
2,831 

(54.6%) 
2,718 

(52.7%) 
2,743 

(53.0%) 

Male Management Committee members
17  

(77.3%)
18  

(81.8%)
17  

(81.0%)
16  

(80.0%)
16  

(76.2%)

Female Management Committee members
5  

(22.7%)
4  

(18.2%)
4  

(19.0%)
4  

(20.0%)
5  

(23.8%)

Number and percentage (%) of new employee hires by gender 

Male 
2,648 

(42.4%)
1,415 

(44.4%)
823 

(45.0%) 
2,657 

(43.2%) 
3,099 

(42.9%) 

Female 
3,596 

(57.6%)
1,774 

(55.6%)
1,006 

(55.0%) 
3,489 

(56.8%) 
4,121 

(57.1%) 

Total 
6,244 

(100%)
3,189 

(100%)
1,829 

(100%) 
6,146 

(100%) 
7,220 

(100%) 

Sustainability in Numbers

23 Senior management refers to Managing Directors and Executive Directors; middle management refers to Senior Vice Presidents, First Vice 
Presidents and Vice Presidents; executives refer to Assistant Vice Presidents, Managers and Senior Officers. 

116U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Appendix

2022 2021  2020  2019  2018 
New employee hire rate by gender (%) 

Male  26.7 15.1 8.4 25.3 30.7

Female  22.9 11.8 6.4 21.3 25.7

Number and percentage (%) of new employee hires by age group

<30 years old 
2,661 

(42.6%)
1,528 

(47.9%)
934 

(51.1%)
3,036 

(49.4%)
3,735 

(51.7%)

30-50 years old 
3,367 

(53.9%)
1,567 

(49.1%)
833 

(45.5%)
2,751 

(44.8%)
3,132 

(43.4%)

>50 years old 
216  

(3.5%)
94  

(3.0%)
62  

(3.4%)
359 

(5.8%)
353 

(4.9%)

New employee hire rate by age group (%)

<30 years old  63.4 39.6 20.3 51.6 62.6

30-50 years old  19.7 9.5 4.9 15.8 18.6

>50 years old  5.0 2.3 1.6 10.1 10.5

Number and percentage (%) of new employee hires by country

Singapore
3,059 

(49.1%)
1,470 

(46.1%)
815 

(44.6%)
2,441 

(39.7%)
2,704 

(37.4%)

Indonesia
529 

(8.5%)
298 

(9.3%)
258 

(14.1%)
891 

(14.5%)
1,154 

(16.0%)

Malaysia
1,041 

(16.5%)
555 

(17.4%)
329 

(18.0%)
939 

(15.3%)
1,069 

(14.8%)

Thailand
1,007 

(16.1%)
457 

(14.3%)
225 

(12.3%)
1,277 

(20.7%)
1,601 

(22.2%)

Vietnam
271  

(4.3%)
168 

(5.3%)
89  

(4.9%)
225 

(3.7%)
189 

(2.6%)

Greater China
254  

(4.1%)
180 

(5.7%)
82  

(4.4%)
323 

(5.3%)
431 

(6.0%)

Overseas branches
83  

(1.3%)
61  

(1.9%)
31  

(1.7%)
50  

(0.8%)
72  

(1.0%)

New employee hire rate by by country (%)

Singapore 30.4 15.9 8.4 24.3 28.0

Indonesia 16.0 9.0 7.0 22.6 28.5

Malaysia 20.3 11.1 6.5 17.7 20.6

Thailand 21.2 10.0 4.7 25.1 32.2

Vietnam 46.6 36.4 19.9 47.4 51.2

Greater China 18.6 13.4 5.9 20.7 28.7

Overseas branches 18.2 14.1 7.1 11.1 16.4

Sustainability in Numbers

117U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Appendix

2022 2021  2020  2019  2018 
Number and percentage (%) of employee attrition by gender24

Male
1,923 

(42.0%)
1,765 

(44.3%)
1,330 

(46.1%)
1,890 

(41.3%)
2,174 

(41.5%)

Female
2,657 

(58.0%)
2,218 

(55.7%)
1,558 

(53.9%)
2,688 

(58.7%)
3,068 

(58.5%)

Total
4,580 

(100%)
3,983 

(100%)
2,888 

(100%)
4,578 

(100%)
5,242 

(100%)

Employee attrition rate by gender (%)24, 25

Male  19.9 19.4 13.9 18.7  22.4 

Female  17.4 15.2 10.3 17.0  19.9

Number and percentage (%) of employee attrition by age group24

<30 years old 
1,457 

(31.8%)
1,293 

(32.5%)
1,059 

(36.7%)
1,841 

(40.2%)
2,126 

(40.6%)

30-50 years old 
2,755 

(60.2%)
2,346 

(58.9%)
1,573 

(54.4%)
2,420 

(52.9%)
2,738 

(52.2%)

>50 years old 
368 

(8.0%)
344 

(8.6%)
256 

(8.9%)
317  

(6.9%)
378  

(7.2%)

Employee attrition rate by age group (%)24, 25

<30 years old  36.2 35.3 24.2 33.4 38.3

30-50 years old  16.3 14.4 9.3 14.1 16.6

>50 years old  9.1 9.1 7.3  9.8 12.3

Overall 18.3 16.8 11.7  17.7 20.8

Number and percentage (%) of employee attrition by country24

Singapore
2,040 

(44.5%)
1,740 

(43.7%)
1,070 

(37.0%)
1,606 

(35.1%)
1,860 

(35.5%)

Indonesia
507 

(11.1%)
618 

(15.5%)
458 

(15.9%)
696 

(15.2%)
757 

(14.4%)

Malaysia
847 

(18.5%)
618 

(15.5%)
479 

(16.6%)
733 

(16.0%)
801 

(15.3%)

Thailand
811 

(17.7%)
620 

(15.6%)
534 

(18.5%)
1,140 

(24.9%)
1,343 

(25.6%)

Vietnam
139 

(3.0%)
136 

(3.4%)
124 

(4.3%)
154 

(3.4%)
89  

(1.7%)

Greater China
188 

(4.1%)
204 

(5.1%)
188 

(6.5%)
190 

(4.2%)
314 

(6.0%)

Overseas branches
48  

(1.0%)
47  

(1.2%)
35  

(1.2%)
59  

(1.3%)
78  

(1.5%)

24 Include all voluntary and involuntary attrition among permanent employees only.      
25 Data for 2018 to 2020 were restated to correct marginal errors in calculation.     

Sustainability in Numbers

118U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Appendix

2022 2021  2020  2019  2018 
Employee attrition rate by country (%)24

Singapore 21.2 19.7 11.6 16.9 20.5

Indonesia 15.8 19.1 12.8 18.3 19.8

Malaysia 16.7 12.6 9.5 14.1 15.7

Thailand 17.1 13.6 11.3 22.6 27.1

Vietnam 24.4 31.1 28.8 32.8 24.1

Greater China 14.2 15.9 14.3 13.1 22.6

Overseas branches 10.9 11.2 8.3 13.2 17.8

Training spend26 

Total investment ($ million)  25.9 23.3 19.6  31.1  26.0 

Average investment per employee ($)  1,011.1 955.4 771  1,157.8  992.3 

Average investment per trainee ($)  855.0 948.4 686.0  1,111.0  916.0 

Average training hours per employee by grade and gender

Senior management  31.8 26.7 32.0  35.5  33.4 

Male 30.9 25.2 31.2  34.7  32.3 

Female 33.2 29.2 33.4  36.9  35.6 

Middle management  44.1 40.9 44.2  48.5  39.3 

Male 43.3 41.4 43.0  50.3  39.0 

Female 44.8 40.4 45.2  46.8  39.5 

Executive  59.2 53.2 52.0  58.8  48.2 

Male 57.6 55.8 51.2  64.8  51.5 

Female 60.2 51.8 52.5  55.1  46.2 

Administrative  66.0 62.2 51.8  44.5  50.2 

Male 55.8 49.5 50.5  43.0  47.4 

Female 69.9 67.3 51.6  45.1  51.3 

Overall

Male 50.9 48.5 47.4  55.5  46.3 

Female 57.9 52.2 50.3  50.5  46.1 

Parental leave 

Number of employees who took maternity leave  496 517 247  509  -

Number of employees who took paternity leave  201 183 172  206  -

One-year retention rate of returning mothers (%)27 82.3 86.1 76.6  85.0 -

Workplace Safety, Health and Well-being

Number of recordable work-related injuries  5 8 2  9  10 

Rate of recordable work-related injuries28 0.02 0.03 0.01  0.03  0.03 

24 Include all voluntary and involuntary attrition among permanent employees only.      
26 Includes total training costs as well as any subsidies or grants given. 
27 Percentage of employees who remained in the organisation at least one year after returning from maternity leave. 
28 Refers to the number of reportable injuries per 100 full-time workers and is calculated as: (N/H) x 200,000, where N=number of injuries,  

H=total hours worked by all employees in the year. 

Sustainability in Numbers

119U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Appendix

2022 2021  2020  2019  2018 
Direct Environmental Impact20, 29

Energy consumption30

Fuel consumption from non-renewable sources (GJ)

Diesel  1,861.6 1,934.3 – – –

Petrol  39,273.9 37,407.6 – – –

Natural gas  5,263.8 6,276.2 – – –

Steam  823.9 1,579.4 – – –

Fuel consumption from non-renewable sources (GWh)  13.1 13.1 – – –

Purchased grid electricity (GWh)

Singapore   63.1 62.9 65.9  63.6  64.4 

Indonesia   20.6 21.3 22.8 24.4   24.4 

Malaysia   21.2 17.8 18.7  19.3  19.4 

Thailand   22.5 19.2 20.8  24.6  24.2

Vietnam  0.6 0.6 – – –

Greater China   5.3 5.9 5.7 5.8 6.0

Overseas branches   2.0 1.7 – – –

Total  135.3 129.4 133.9  137.7  138.4 

Purchased Renewable Energy Certificates  
(RECs) (GWh)31

 133.3 127.7 – – –

Energy use intensity (kWh per m2 of floor space) 

Excluding data centres   157.3 159.8 174.5 182.8 188.8

Including data centres   218.4 230.8 249.5 251.9 254.4

Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (thousand tCO2e)30, 32

Scope 133

Refrigerants 2.5 1.1 – – –

Fuel combustion 0.3 0.4 – – –

Owned/leased vehicles 2.9 2.8 – – –

Total 5.8 4.3 – – –

Sustainability in Numbers

20 The acquisition of Citigroup’s consumer banking businesses in Malaysia and Thailand was completed in November 2022. Figures computed for 
2022 excluded relevant Citigroup data for better comparison purpose.  

29 Data for 2018 to 2020 were restated due to the refinement of our data collection methodologies and for consistency of application across the 
Group. 

30 Comprises data from our operations in Singapore, Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand, Vietnam, Greater China (including mainland China and Hong Kong)  
as well as overseas branches, unless otherwise stated. Data for Vietnam and overseas branches were included from 2021 onwards. Data collection 
for fuel consumption and Scope 1 GHG emissions across the Group started in 2021.    

31 RECs were redeemed for our key markets (Singapore, Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand, Vietnam and Greater China).
32 Emissions factors are converted to CO2 equivalent, which includes CO2, CH4 and N2O factors, using the UK Department for Business, Energy & 

Industrial Strategy (DEFRA) - 2022 v1.1 (AR4 Applied) for fugitive gas and stationary fuels emissions, and the IEA 2022 v1.1 (AR4 Applied) for grid 
electricity generated emissions.     

33 Scope 1 emissions include direct carbon emissions from vehicle fleet diesel and petrol consumption, natural gas and steam from our overseas 
branches, backup diesel generators, and fugitive gas emissions from refrigerants including R-22, R-32, R-134, R410a and R407c.  
   

120U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Appendix

Sustainability in Numbers

2022 2021  2020  2019  2018 
Scope 2 location-based

Singapore  24.2 24.3 25.5  24.6  24.9 

Indonesia  15.9 16.3 17.4 18.7 18.7 

Malaysia  13.8 11.8 12.4  12.8  12.9 

Thailand  10.6 8.9 9.7  11.4  11.3

Vietnam 0.4 0.4 – – –

Greater China  3.3 3.8 3.7  3.7  3.9 

Overseas branches  1.1 1.0 - - -

Total  69.3 66.6 68.8  71.3  71.7 

Scope 2 market-based34

Total 1.1 1.0 68.8 71.3 71.7

Scope 335

Air travel36  4.0 0.6 1.5  11.6  10.3 

Total Scope 1, Scope 2 market-based and Scope 3  10.9 6.0 70.3 82.9 82.0

Carbon offsets retired  10.9 6.0 – – –

GHG emissions intensity (kg CO2e per m2 of floor space)30

Scope 2 location-based excluding data centres  84.3 86.8 94.0  99.1  102.0

Scope 2 location-based including data centres  112.1 119.1 128.2 130.4 131.7

Scope 1 and 2 location-based including data centres 121.1 126.7 131.0 151.7 150.7

Waste (tonnes)37

Total 2,585 2,153 1,540 2,115 1,754

Recycled

Plastics and other waste38 40 66 3 3 15

Electronic equipment39 66 46 43 6 14 

Paper and cardboard  733 556 573 527 580

Total  839 668 618 537 609

30 Comprises data from our operations in Singapore, Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand, Vietnam, Greater China (including mainland China and Hong Kong)  
as well as overseas branches, unless otherwise stated. Data for Vietnam and overseas branches were included from 2021 onwards. Data collection 
for fuel consumption and Scope 1 GHG emissions across the Group started in 2021.

34 Residual emissions not offset by RECs, primarily arising from overseas branches' Scope 2 GHG emissions.
35 The method used takes into account the impact of radiative forcing, as well as well-to-tank emissions resulting from the production and 

transportation of fuels.      
36 Includes domestic and international air travel in our key markets (Singapore, Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand, Vietnam and Greater China) 

and South Korea. Data for Vietnam and South Korea were included from 2021 and 2022 respectively. Data for other overseas branches were 
excluded as they are assessed to be immaterial. The data is computed using the distance-based method, in accordance to the ticket class, 
using data from the UK Department for Environment, Food & Rural Affairs (DEFRA) - 2022.     

37 Comprises data from our operations in Singapore, Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand, Vietnam and Greater China (including mainland China and 
Hong Kong). Data for branches and offices in our key markets were included from 2021 onwards. Data for overseas branches were excluded as 
they were assessed to be immaterial.      

38 Data for other waste include diverted wet waste from our operations in mainland China since 2021.
39 Data for 2022 comprise our key markets (Singapore, Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand, Vietnam, Greater China (including mainland China and 

Hong Kong), while data for 2021 comprise Singapore, Malaysia and mainland China. Data for 2018 to 2020 comprise only Singapore.  
   

121U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Appendix

Sustainability in Numbers

2022 2021  2020  2019  2018 
Disposed

Landfilled  878 733 311 320 259

Waste-to-energy incineration  868 751 611 1,258  886

Total 1,746 1,484 922 1,578 1,145

Overall waste disposal intensity  
(kg of disposed waste per m2 of floor space) 

2.8 2.7 3.6 6.1 4.4

Water consumption (thousand m3)40

Total  497.6 404.6 467.4 567.3 528.4 

Overall water consumption intensity  
(m3 of water per m2 of floor space)

0.8 0.7 0.9 1.0 1.0

Third-party water withdrawal

Singapore   179.4 141.1 173.2  224.4  219.2 

Indonesia 

Non-water-stressed region 13.3 80.6 96.0  112.2  89.4 

Water-stressed region 71.5 - - - -

Malaysia   97.0 68.5 65.0  81.8  75.9 

Thailand 

Non-water-stressed region  3.9 93.5 113.9 129.6 123.1

Water-stressed region  85.3 - - - -

Vietnam 4.0 2.8 - - -

Greater China 15.2 18.1 19.3 19.3 20.8

Overseas branches   14.9 - - - -

Total   484.4 404.6 467.4 567.3 528.4 

Groundwater withdrawal

Indonesia 

Non–water–stressed region  0.3 –  –  –  – 

Water–stressed region  12.8 –  –  –  – 

Thailand 

Non–water–stressed region  – –  –  –  – 

Water–stressed region  – –  –  –  – 

Total  13.2 –  –  –  – 

40 Comprises data from our operations in Singapore, Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand, Vietnam, Greater China (including mainland China and  
Hong Kong) as well as overseas branches. Data for Vietnam and overseas branches were included from 2021 and 2022 respectively.  
Data for 2022 include a breakdown of municipal water and well water withdrawal amounts, in both water-stressed and non-water-stressed areas.  
Only Indonesia and Thailand were identified with areas with water stress. Water stress was assesed using World Resources Institute's Aqueduct 
Water Risk Atlas tool, which defines 'stress' as more than 40 per cent at risk. We have only identified our operational assets located within 
Indonesia's Java province (water-stressed region) that are still withdrawing water from well sources.    
 

122U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Appendix

Sustainability in Numbers

2022 2021  2020  2019  2018 
Purchased paper (tonnes)41

FSC-certified or equivalent42 520 570 619 755 586

Non-FSC-certified or equivalent 834 1,074 1,161 1,503 1,459

Total 1,354 1,644 1,779 2,259 2,045

Community Stewardship 

Monetary contributions ($ million)  9.2 6.2 6.3  5.4  5.1 

Average volunteer hours per employee43 1.6 1.3 0.7  2.2  2.0 

41 Comprises data from our operations in Singapore, Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand, Vietnam and Greater China (including mainland China and 
Hong Kong). Data for Vietnam were included from 2021 onwards. Includes office paper (for printers) and non-office paper (pre-printed envelopes 
and letterheads) used at our offices and branches.    

42 Includes FSC 100%, FSC mixed and PEFC-certified paper.     
43 Volunteer hours were lower in 2021 and 2020 as a result of COVID-19-related restrictions.      

123U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Appendix

Climate Scenario Analysis Methodology

Our approach

We employ climate scenario analysis models to assess the 
impact of both transition and physical climate risk on our 
risk profile and business strategies, as well as resilience 
of our corporate borrowers to financial losses under a 
range of outcomes. These models translate the transition 
risk impacts of policy and legal changes, technological 
advancements and demand-supply shifts associated with 
a particular climate scenario to key financial drivers of 
a business. At the same time, impacts of acute physical 
events, such as floods, typhoons, heat waves, cold waves 
and forest fires, and chronic climate pattern changes, such 
as sea level rise and land subsidence, are converted into 
additional business costs and expenses. We used this 
bottom-up approach, which enables us to holistically 
assess climate risk impacts at the individual borrower 
level, to conduct the climate stress test as part of the 
Monetary Authority of Singapore’s 2022 Industry-wide  
Stress Test exercise.

We have developed four sector-specific models and one 
general emissions model. The sector-specific models are 
designed to incorporate more differentiated dynamics 
across real economy sectors. For example, power is typically 
produced and distributed in national or regional-level 
markets, thus subject to more localised dynamics. Its price 
and production volume tend to be more controlled in  
fully-regulated markets, such as Malaysia and Indonesia, 
while sensitive to competitive forces in unregulated markets, 
such as Singapore.  

In addition to requisite data on borrowers’ financials, 
carbon emissions (Scopes 1, 2 and 3), carbon prices and 
asset locations, sector-specific models therefore require 
further data inputs such as fuel mix, generation volume, 
electricity price and market electricity capacity in the case 
of companies in the power generation sector. 

Climate stress test models used in various sectors

Sector-specific models

Oil and 
gas

Power 
generation

Palm oil Steel

General emissions model

The general emissions and sector-specific models share 
a common underlying assessment methodology. In these 
models, the abovementioned data sets are used to 
project the climate risk impact on borrowers’ financials 
under various climate scenarios via key financial drivers.  
The financial impact would then be translated into changes 
in the borrowers’ credit rating over the forecast time 
horizon up to 2050. Due to data challenges, this bottom-up  
modelling is performed for a representative sample of 
borrowers from each industry segment and the insights 
derived from the analysis are then extrapolated to the 
rest of the borrowers in the sector.  

Agriculture

Construction

Transportation

Heavy industry

124U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Appendix

Climate Scenario Analysis Methodology

Climate scenario assessment methodology

Establishment of assumptions
(such as dependencies, pass-throughs)

Scenario 
selection and 
adjustment

Transition 
risk scenarios

Physical 
risk scenarios

Key drivers Scenario-adjusted 
financial statements

Bottom-up analysis of select samples

Counterparty’s financial, 
operational and 
emissions profile

Volume Income statement

Unit cost

Price

Capital expenditure

Asset value

Cost of downtime

Reinstatement  
expenses

Credit rating per 
UOB’s internal 
rating model

Scenario-adjusted 
Probability of 
Default (PD) 

(final model output)

Balance sheet

Cash flow 
statement

2

4

3
Portfolio 

extrapolation

7

5 6

1

Inputs

Calculation

Risk estimates

Step 1: Selection of climate scenarios and corresponding 
scenario variables
Climate scenarios are typically constructed using scientific 
data and methodologies by reputable international 
organisations, such as the Network for Greening the Financial 
System (NGFS), the International Energy Agency (IEA) and 
the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC),  
that facilitate better comparability and consistency  
across industries.
 
Each climate scenario is a simplified representation of how 
the global economy would evolve under a set of climatic 
conditions, economic and climate policy assumptions.  

A transition risk scenario provides the range of information 
and parameters needed to assess the impact of the 
transition to a low carbon economy, such as the trajectory of 
gross domestic product (GDP), inflation, property prices by 
geography, and market dynamics such as energy demand 
and supply of resources. A physical risk scenario defines 
possible climate consequences resulting from increased 
greenhouse gas emissions such as the likelihood, frequency 
and magnitude of climate events and patterns.  

125U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Appendix

Step 2:  Determination of assumptions
General and sector-specific model assumptions are 
determined by subject-matter experts and supported by 
available literature and market insights. Generally, we 
assume that companies will react rationally to economic 
and market conditions introduced by scenarios so as to 
minimise cost and to remain competitive and profitable. 
For example, companies would seek to pass through any 
cost increases to the extent possible depending on the 
price elasticity of demand of the sector it operates in.  
They are also assumed to distribute profits in excess of the 
amount required for reinvestment to their shareholders. 

Step 3: Counterparty data collection
Financial, emissions and activities data of sampled 
companies are obtained from various sources, prioritising 
information directly acquired from our customers. Where 
direct information is not available, proxies or secondary 
data from credible third-party data providers serve as 
alternatives.

Step 4: Projection of scenario-adjusted financial drivers 
Changes in the key financial drivers are projected based 
on the counterparty’s starting position and the expected 
impact on its business as per the scenario. For example, 
the models incorporate the effects of:

• carbon tax increase on a company’s cost of production 
due to its direct emissions and indirectly through carbon 
tax pass-through from their upstream supply chain,  
which in turn impacts the price and volume of goods sold;

• changes in consumption patterns on the volume of 
demand;

• investment needed to decarbonise on borrowers’ 
balance sheet strength, which determines its ability 
to grow; and

• damage and disruption due to climate physical hazards 
on the company’s revenue and operational costs.

Step 5: Development of scenario-adjusted financial 
statements based on key drivers
Financial statements, including balance sheet, income 
statement and cash flow statement, are then stressed 
based on changes in the key financial drivers. 

Step 6: Counterparty’s credit rating using UOB’s internal 
credit rating models
Credit rating for each sampled counterparty over the 
forecast horizon is obtained using the stressed financial 
statements.

Step 7: Extrapolation of bottom-up analysis results to 
the wider portfolio
Due to its data-intensive nature, the bottom-up analysis 
is not expected to cover the entire portfolio. Instead, it is 
used to generate results for select samples in each sector. 
Insights from the bottom-up stress-testing analysis are 
used to identify the sector-specific risk drivers, which are 
then used to extrapolate the stress-testing analysis to the 
remaining companies in the portfolio.

Methodology limitations

While the methodology for climate scenario analysis has 
progressed rapidly in the last few years, it is still at a 
relatively nascent stage of development and the scarcity 
of data and modelling limitations remain key challenges. 
In particular:

• Scenario design: Our analysis was conducted based 
on the second phase of climate scenarios and 
parameters developed by NGFS, which had yet to 
incorporate the latest data and physical impacts.  
In addition, as the parameters were insufficiently 
granular, further assumptions were needed to 
better reflect localised conditions and sub-sector 
differentiation. In recognition of the limitations, 
NGFS has been proactively improving and updating 
its scenarios since launch and, in September 2022, 
published the third edition of its climate scenarios.  
The latest NGFS scenarios will be able to provide  
greater sector granularity and cover projected  
GDP losses from certain extreme weather events,  
with focus on cyclones and river floods, in addition to 
chronic physical risk.

Climate Scenario Analysis Methodology

126U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Appendix

• Long-term assessment horizon: To account for the 
long-term build-up of climate impacts, climate scenario 
analysis extends to a time horizon of 30 years, which 
is much longer than in traditional stress tests, as well 
as a typical business planning horizon. This introduces 
a higher degree of complexity and uncertainty 
from potential changes in the pace of technology 
advancement, geopolitical and demographic shifts 
and occurrence of climate tipping points. In addition, 
credit rating and natural catastrophe models are 
calibrated to forecast over the short term and not over 
the decades-long time horizon required for climate 
scenario analysis.

• Incorporation of second-round effects: Scenario 
analysis does not capture potential non-linearities 
and second-round effects, such as losses borne by 
insurance companies and costs of adaptation measures 
introduced to limit losses. This may therefore understate 
the climate exposure and vulnerabilities.

Climate Scenario Analysis Methodology

• Data availability and quality: Data limitations, 
especially for small- and medium-sized enterprises, 
restrict the ability to scale up the analysis to cover more 
customers. The resulting bias towards larger borrowers 
may have implications on the portfolio extrapolation. 
Even for some large corporates, emissions, energy 
and land use data required for climate stress-testing  
are scarce.

We expect continued focus in this area with the Financial 
Stability Board calling for greater cross-border cooperation 
on scenario design, modelling approaches, data and 
developing guidelines for scenario analysis. We will 
continue to collaborate closely with the industry and 
regulators to address these limitations and progressively 
strengthen our climate risk scenario analysis approach. 

127U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Appendix

Recognition and Awards

CPA Australia, National University of Singapore Business School’s  
Centre for Governance and Sustainability  

(NUS CGS), and Singapore Institute of Directors (SID)
ASEAN Corporate Governance Scorecard 2022,  

ASEAN Asset Class Singapore, ASEAN Top 20 publicly-listed companies,  
Singapore Top 3 publicly-listed companies

Asia Asset Management
Best of the Best Country Awards 2022 
•  Best Investor Education and Best Institutional House  

in Brunei

Asian Banking & Finance
Retail Banking Awards 2022 
• Silver for ESG Program of the Year 

Asiamoney 
Best Bank Awards 2022
• Best Bank for CSR in Indonesia

Bloomberg
2023 Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index

Building and Construction Authority 
Green Mark for Healthier Workplaces Awards 2022
•  One Platinum and two GoldPLUS Green Mark for  

UOB-owned and managed offices in Singapore

Central Singapore Community Development Council
Excellence for People’s Association Community Spirit Award 

China Philanthropy Festival 2023
Best Social Responsibility of Brand

Coalition Greenwich
Greenwich Quality Leader in Indonesia  

Greenwich Share Leader 2022 league table for  
Asian Large Corporate Trade Finance
•  Ranked third in ASEAN (excluding Singapore) and  

second in Singapore

Community Chest
• Pinnacle Award
• Charity Platinum Award 
• Volunteer Partner Award

CPA Australia, NUS CGS and SID
Singapore Governance and Transparency Index (SGTI) 2022 
•  Fourth among Singapore publicly-listed companies  

(General Category)

Energy Risk
Asia Awards 2022
•  Environmental Products House of the Year for  

UOB Asset Management

The Asset
 Triple A ESG Corporate  

Awards 2022,  
Jade Award

Stewardship Asia Centre
Steward Leadership 25 (2022)

National Volunteer &  
Philanthropy Centre

Champion of Good 2022

SID and The Business Times
Singapore Corporate Awards 2022,  

Gold for Best Risk Management Award 
for Singapore-listed Companies  
in Large Market Cap category 

128U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Appendix

Forrester
Singapore Customer Experience Index (CX Index™) 2022  
•  Best Customer Experience among banking and 

insurance brands

Great Place to Work
Great Place to Work Certification 2022 for UOB China

Hong Kong Arts Development Council
Award for Arts Sponsorship

HR Asia Media
Best Companies to Work For In Asia 2022  
(Singapore Edition)

Human Resources Online
HR Excellence Award 2022 
• Silver for Diversity and Inclusion, and HR Innovation

Infocomm Media Development Authority
•  Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Cross Border  

Privacy Rules certification

• Data Protection Trustmark certification

International Finance
 Most Innovative Digital Bank in Indonesia,  
Singapore and Thailand 2022

Marketing Interactive
Excellence Awards 2022
•  Silver for Excellence in Corporate Social 

Responsibility

National Arts Council
Distinguished Patron of the Arts Award

Retail Banker International
Excellence in Talent Management 2022

SG Enable
The Enabling Mark (Platinum) accreditation 

Singapore Police Force (SPF) 
• Community Partnership Awards (Individual)

• Community Partnership Awards (Organisation)

•  Plaque received from the Deputy Commissioner of 
Police (Investigation & Intelligence) at the  
8th Alliance of Public PrivAte Cybercrime sTakeholders 
networking session

SPF and Singapore Civil Defence Force
National Safety and Security Watch Group Outstanding 
Individual Awards for UOB Plaza 1, UOB Plaza 2,  
UOB Alexandra Building and UOB Tampines Centre

The Asset
Triple A Private Capital Awards 2022 
•  Best Wealth Manager for Impact Investing in Asia 

and Singapore

Triple A Country Awards for Sustainable Finance 2022
• Best Bond Adviser in ASEAN 

The Digital Banker
Digital CX Awards 2022
• Best Hybrid Customer Experience – Branch

Global Retail Banking Innovation Awards 2022  
•  Highly Acclaimed, Best ATM Innovation Award
•  Best Robo Advisory Initiative 
•  Best Digital Bank in Southeast Asia, Singapore  

and Thailand

The Institute of Banking and Finance Singapore (IBF)
IBF Inspire Award 2022

The Saigon Times 
CSR Awards 2022
• Certificate of Recognition 

World HRD Congress
Global HR Excellence Awards 2022  
•  Awards for Talent Management, Best Workplace 

Practices and Organisation with Best Employee 
Relations

Recognition and Awards

ESG ratings

 CDP  
Climate Change 

B  
(2021: C)

S&P Global  
ESG Score 

58 
(2021: 58)

MSCI  
ESG Rating 

AA 
(2021: AA)

 Sustainalytics  
ESG Risk Rating 
19.8 (Low Risk) 

(2021: 19.7)

129U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Appendix

Memberships

• Advisory Panel for Cyber Youth Singapore  
– Member 

• Alliance of Public PrivAte Cybercrime sTakeholders  
– Active member

• Anti-Money Laundering/Countering the Financing of 
Terrorism Industry Partnership in Singapore  
– Steering Committee member 

• Anti-Corruption Partnership Network 
– Member

• ASEAN Bankers’ Association Interoperable  
Data Taskforce  
– Chair

• Asia Investor Group on Climate Change  
– Member  
(UOB Asset Management (UOBAM))

• Asia Securities Industry & Financial Markets 
Association – Member 

• Asia Sustainable Finance Initiative  
– Collaborator

• Association of Certified Fraud Examiners  
– Corporate Alliance member 

• Association of Investment Management Companies 
(Thailand)’s ESG Committee  
– Secretary-general and member (UOBAM)

• Bank Negara Malaysia’s Climate Change  
Principle-Based Taxonomy Implementation Group  
– Member (UOBAM)

• Bank Negara Malaysia’s Joint Committee on  
Climate Change  
– Member (UOBAM)

• Brunei Capital Market Associations  
– Member (UOBAM)

• Ceres’ Valuing Water Finance Initiative  
– Member (UOBAM)

• Equator Principles 
– Signatory

• Financial Services Information Sharing and  
Analysis Center  
– Participant

• Glasgow Financial Alliance for Net Zero  
– Member 

• Greennode Technical Advisory Group  
– Member (UOBAM) 

• Investment Management Association of Singapore  
– Member (UOBAM)

• Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) Green Finance 
Industry Taskforce 
° Risk Management Workstream   
 – Member

 °  Green and Sustainable Trade Finance Solutions 
Working Group   
– Member

• MAS Veritas Consortium  
– Founding member

• Net-Zero Banking Alliance  
– Signatory

• Operating Principles for Impact Management  
– Signatory (UOB Venture Management (UOBVM))

• Safety and Security Watch Group  
– Member

• Principles for Responsible Investment  
– Signatory (UOBAM, UOBVM and UOB Global Capital) 

• SGTradex  
– Founding member

• Singapore National Employers Federation  
– Member

• Singapore Stewardship Principles for  
Responsible Investors  
– Supporter (UOBAM and UOBVM)

• Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures  
– Supporter 

• The Association of Banks in Singapore 
° Chair

 ° Culture and Conduct Steering Group  
  – Member
 ° Standing Committee on Cyber Security  
  – Chair
 ° Standing Committee on Data Management  
  – Chair
 ° Standing Committee on Fraud  
  – Member
 ° Standing Committee on Tax  
  – Chair

• The Institute of Banking and Finance Singapore 
– Member

• United Nations Global Compact 
– Signatory

• World Wildlife Fund RESPOND  
– Participant (UOBAM)

130U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Appendix

GRI Content Index

GRI Standard/ 
Other source

Disclosure Disclosure reference and/or response

General disclosures

GRI 2: General 
Disclosures 2021

2-1 Organisational details • UOB Annual Report 2022: About UOB (Page 4-7, 163)

2-2 Entities included in the 
organisation’s sustainability 
reporting

• About This Report (Page 1)
• UOB Annual Report 2022: Notes to the Financial 

Statements (Page 163-165), International Network 
(Page 254-259)

UOB completed the acquisition of Citigroup's consumer 
banking businesses in Malaysia and Thailand in November 
2022. We have included relevant information arising from 
the acquisition in our reporting, with the exception of data in 
relation to employees and our direct environmental impact. 

2-3 Reporting period, frequency  
and contact point

• About This Report (Page 1)

2-4 Restatements of information • Sustainability in Numbers (Page 111-123)

2-5 External assurance • External Assurance (Page 154-168)

2-6 Activities, value chain and  
other business relationships

• UOB Annual Report 2022: About UOB (Page 4-7)
• Economic Contributions (Page 24-25)
• Sustainable Procurement (Page 102-103) 

There were no significant changes during the  
reporting period.

2-7 Employees • Sustainability in Numbers (Page 113-119)

2-8 Workers who are not employees • Sustainability in Numbers (Page 115)

2-9 Governance structure and 
composition

• Sustainability Governance (Page 14)
• UOB Annual Report 2022: Board of Directors  

(Page 12-16), Corporate Governance (Page 94-123)

2-10 Nomination and selection of 
the highest governance body

• UOB Annual Report 2022: Corporate Governance 
(Page 99-104)

2-11 Chair of the highest  
governance body

• UOB Annual Report 2022: Corporate Governance 
(Page 99)

2-12 Role of the highest 
governance body in overseeing the 
management of impacts

• UOB Annual Report 2022: Corporate Governance 
(Page 95)

• Sustainability Strategy (Page 10)
• Sustainability Governance (Page 14)
• Material ESG Factors (Page 18)
• Sustainable Banking (Page 43-44)
• Governance and Risk Culture (Page 85-86)

Statement of use United Overseas Bank Limited (UOB) has reported in accordance with the  
GRI Standards for the period 1 January 2022 to 31 December 2022.

GRI 1 used GRI 1: Foundation 2021

Applicable GRI Sector Standard(s) Not applicable

131U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Appendix

GRI Content Index

GRI Standard/ 
Other source

Disclosure Disclosure reference and/or response

2-13 Delegation of responsibility for 
managing impacts

• UOB Annual Report 2022: Corporate Governance 
(Page 94-123)

• Sustainability Governance (Page 14)
• Sustainable Banking (Page 43-44)
• Governance and Risk Culture (Page 85-86)

2-14 Role of the highest governance 
body in sustainability reporting

• Sustainability Governance (Page 14)
• Material ESG Factors (Page 18)
• Sustainable Banking (Page 43-44)

2-15 Conflicts of interest • UOB Annual Report 2022: Corporate Governance 
(Page 97-99)

2-16 Communication of critical 
concerns

• UOB Annual Report 2022: Corporate Governance 
(Page 97-99)

2-17 Collective knowledge of the 
highest governance body

• UOB Annual Report 2022: Corporate Governance 
(Page 96, 104)

• Sustainability Governance (Page 14-15)

2-18 Evaluation of the performance 
of the highest governance body

• UOB Annual Report 2022: Corporate Governance 
(Page 102-103)

2-19 Remuneration policies • UOB Annual Report 2022: Corporate Governance 
(Page 104-111)

• Sustainability Governance (Page 15)

2-20 Process to determine 
remuneration

• UOB Annual Report 2022: Corporate Governance 
(Page 104-111)

2-21 Annual total compensation 
ratio

We do not disclose this due to confidentiality 
constraints.

2-22 Statement on sustainable 
development strategy

• Deputy Chairman and CEO's Statement (Page 4-5)
• Sustainability Strategy (Page 10)

2-23 Policy commitments • Sustainable Banking (Page 26-54)
• Fair Dealing (Page 56-58)
• Data Privacy and Governance (Page 59-61)
• Talent Development and Inclusion (Page 71-78)
• Workplace, Safety Health and Well-being (Page 79-83)
• Governance and Risk Culture (Page 85-88)
• Regulatory Compliance (Page 89-92)
• Information Security (Page 93-94)
• Sustainable Procurement (Page 102-103)
• UOB Annual Report 2022: Corporate Governance 

(Page 119)

2-24 Embedding policy 
commitments

132U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Appendix

GRI Content Index

GRI Standard/ 
Other source

Disclosure Disclosure reference and/or response

2-25 Processes to remediate 
negative impacts

• Stakeholder Engagement (16-17)
• Fair Dealing (Page 56-58)
• Data Privacy and Governance (Page 59-61)
• Customer Experience (Page 62-64)
• Talent Development and Inclusion (Page 72, 76)
• Workplace Safety, Health and Well-being (Page 79)
• Governance and Risk Culture (Page 86)
• Regulatory Compliance (Page 89-91)

2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice 
and raising concerns

2-27 Compliance with laws and 
regulations

• Fair Dealing (Page 56-58)
• Data Privacy and Governance (Page 59-61)
• Regulatory Compliance (Page 89-92)

2-28 Membership associations • Memberships (Page 130)

2-29 Approach to stakeholder 
engagement

• UOB Annual Report 2022: Corporate Governance 
(Page 118)

• Stakeholder Engagement (Page 16-17)
• Material ESG Factors (Page 18)

2-30 Collective bargaining 
agreements

• Talent Development and Inclusion (Page 72)

Material topics

GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021

3-1 Process to determine material 
topics

• Material ESG Factors (Page 18-19)

3-2 List of material topics

Economic Contributions

GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021

3-3 Management of material topics • Economic Contributions (Page 24-25)

GRI 201: 
Economic 
Performance 
2016

201-1 Direct economic value 
generated and distributed

• Economic Contributions (Page 24-25)
• Sustainability in Numbers (Page 111)

GRI 204: 
Procurement 
Practices 2016

204-1 Proportion of spending on 
local suppliers

• Economic Contributions (Page 24)
• Sustainability in Numbers (Page 111)

GRI 207: Tax 2019 207-1 Approach to tax • Stakeholder Engagement (Page 16-17)
• Economic Contributions (Page 24-25) 207-2 Tax governance, control, and 

risk management

207-3 Stakeholder engagement and 
management of concerns related 
to tax

207-4 Country-by-country reporting UOB submits country-by-country reporting (CbCR) to 
the Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore, as well as in 
country(ies) where there are no Multilateral Competent 
Authority Agreement with Singapore to exchange  
CbCR Reports.

133U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Appendix

GRI Content Index

GRI Standard/ 
Other source

Disclosure Disclosure reference and/or response

Sustainable Banking

GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021

3-3 Management of material topics • Sustainable Banking (Page 26-54)

GRI 201: 
Economic 
Performance 
2016

201-2 Financial implications and 
other risks and opportunities due to 
climate change

GRI 203: Indirect 
Economic 
Impacts 2016

203-1 Infrastructure investments 
and services supported

• Sustainable Banking (Page 29-32)

203-2 Significant indirect economic 
impacts

• Sustainable Banking (Page 26-54)

GRI 413: Local 
Communities 
2016

413-1 Operations with local 
community engagement, impact 
assessments, and development 
programmes

• Sustainability Strategy (Page 13)
• Sustainable Banking (Page 26-29, 35-39, 42, 45-51)
• Regulatory Compliance (Page 89)

GRI G4 Financial 
Services Sector 
Disclosures: 
Product Portfolio

FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for 
business lines by specific region, 
size (e.g. micro/SME/large) and  
by sector

• Sustainability in Numbers (Page 111)
• UOB Annual Report 2022: Financial Highlights  

(Page 30-31)

FS7 Monetary value of products 
and services designed to deliver 
a specific social benefit for each 
business line broken down by 
purpose

• Sustainable Banking (Page 30-39)
• Sustainability in Numbers (Page 111-113)

FS8 Monetary value of products 
and services designed to deliver a 
specific environmental benefit for 
each business line broken down by 
purpose

GRI G4 Financial 
Services Sector 
Disclosures: 
Active Ownership

FS10 Percentage and number of 
companies held in the institution’s 
portfolio with which the reporting 
organisation has interacted on 
environmental or social issues

• Sustainable Banking (Page 35)
• Sustainability in Numbers (Page 112)

FS11 Percentage of assets 
subject to positive and negative 
environmental or social screening

• Sustainable Banking (Page 26-29, 34-36)

134U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Appendix

GRI Standard/ 
Other source

Disclosure Disclosure reference and/or response

Fair Dealing

GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021

3-3 Management of material topics • Fair Dealing (Page 56-58)

GRI 206: Anti-
competitive 
Behaviour 2016

206-1 Legal actions for  
anti-competitive 
behaviour, anti-trust,  
and monopoly practices

There were no complaints in connection with  
anti-competitive behaviour in Singapore or other 
international locations in which UOB operates. UOB has  
also not breached any applicable anti-trust and 
monopoly legislation in Singapore or overseas during 
the reporting period.

GRI 417: 
Marketing and 
Labeling 2016 

417-1 Requirements for product and 
service information and labeling

• Fair Dealing (Page 56-58)

417-2 Incidents of non-compliance 
concerning product and service 
information and labeling

417-3 Incidents of non-compliance  
concerning marketing communications

Data Privacy and Governance

GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021

3-3 Management of material topics • Data Privacy and Governance (Page 59-61)

GRI 418: 
Customer Privacy 
2016

418-1 Substantiated complaints 
concerning breaches of customer 
privacy and losses of customer data

• Data Privacy and Governance (Page 60)

Customer Experience

GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021

3-3 Management of material topics • Customer Experience (Page 62-65)

Financial Inclusion

GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021

3-3 Management of material topics • Financial Inclusion (Page 66-69)

GRI G4 Financial 
Services Sector 
Disclosures: Local 
Communities

FS13 Access points in low-populated 
or economically disadvantaged 
areas by type

FS14 Initiatives to improve access to 
financial services for disadvantaged 
people

GRI Content Index

135U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Appendix

GRI Standard/ 
Other source

Disclosure Disclosure reference and/or response

Talent Development and Inclusion

GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021

3-3 Management of material topics • Talent Development and Inclusion (Page 71-78)

GRI 202: Market 
Presence 2016

202-2 Proportion of senior 
management hired from the local 
community

• Sustainability in Numbers (Page 115)

GRI 401: 
Employment 2016

401-1 New employee hires and 
employee turnover

• Sustainability in Numbers (Page 116-119)

401-3 Parental leave • Sustainability in Numbers (Page 119)

GRI 404: Training 
and Education 
2016

404-1 Average hours of training per 
year per employee

• Sustainability in Numbers (Page 119)

404-2 Programmes for upgrading 
employee skills and transition 
assistance programmes

• Sustainability Governance (Page 15)
• Sustainable Banking (Page 42)
• Talent Development and Inclusion (Page 75, 78)
• UOB Annual Report 2022: Fostering Employee Pride 

through Care, Growth and Trust (Page 87-89)

404-3 Percentage of employees 
receiving regular performance and 
career development reviews

• Talent Development and Inclusion (Page 74-75)

GRI 405: Diversity 
and Equal 
Opportunity 2016

405-1 Diversity of governance 
bodies and employees

• Talent Development and Inclusion (Page 71-74)
• Governance and Risk Culture (Page 86-87)
• Sustainability in Numbers (Page 113-117) 

As at 31 December 2022, our Board of Directors comprised 
77.8 per cent men and 22.2 per cent women. All of them 
were above 50 years old.

GRI 407: 
Freedom of 
Association 
and Collective 
Bargaining 2016

407-1 Operations and suppliers 
in which the right to freedom 
of association and collective 
bargaining may be at risk

• Talent Development and Inclusion (Page 72)

GRI Content Index

136U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Appendix

GRI Standard/ 
Other source

Disclosure Disclosure reference and/or response

Workplace Safety, Health and Well-being

GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021

3-3 Management of material topics • Workplace Safety, Health and Well-being  
(Page 79-83)

GRI 403: 
Occupational 
Health and 
Safety 2018

403-1 Occupational health and 
safety management system

• Workplace Safety, Health and Well-being  
(Page 79-80, 82)

403-2 Hazard identification, 
risk assessment, and incident 
investigation

403-3 Occupational health services

403-6 Promotion of worker health • Workplace Safety, Health and Well-being  
(Page 79-82)403-7 Prevention and mitigation 

of occupational health and safety 
impacts directly linked by business 
relationships

Governance and Risk Culture

GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021

3-3 Management of material topics • Governance and Risk Culture (Page 85-88)
• UOB Annual Report 2022: Corporate Governance 

(Page 94-123), Risk Management (Page 124-143)

Regulatory Compliance

GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021

3-3 Management of material topics • Regulatory Compliance (Page 89-92)

GRI 205: Anti-
corruption 2016

205-1 Operations assessed for  
risks related to corruption

205-2 Communication and training 
about anti-corruption policies and 
procedures

205-3 Confirmed incidents of 
corruption and actions taken

• Regulatory Compliance (Page 92)

Information Security

GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021

3-3 Management of material topics • Information Security (Page 93-94)

Direct Environmental Impact

GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021

3-3 Management of material topics • Direct Environmental Impact (Page 95-101)

GRI 302: Energy 
2016

302-1 Energy consumption within 
the organisation

• Direct Environmental Impact (Page 95-98, 101)
• Sustainability in Numbers (Page 120)

302-3 Energy intensity

302-4 Reduction of energy 
consumption

GRI 303: Water 
and Effluents 
2018

303-5 Water consumption • Direct Environmental Impact (Page 100-101)
• Sustainability in Numbers (Page 122)

GRI Content Index

137U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Appendix

GRI Standard/ 
Other source

Disclosure Disclosure reference and/or response

GRI 305: 
Emissions 2016

305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG 
emissions

• Direct Environmental Impact (Page 96-99, 101)
• Sustainability in Numbers (Page 120-121)

305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG 
emissions

305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG 
emissions

305-4 GHG emissions intensity

GRI 306: Waste 
2020

306-1 Waste generation and 
significant waste-related impacts

• Direct Environmental Impact (Page 99, 101)
• Sustainability in Numbers (Page 121-122)

306-2 Management of significant 
waste-related impacts

• Talent Development and Inclusion (Page 78)
• Direct Environmental Impact (Page 99, 101)
• Sustainability in Numbers (Page 121-122)

306-3 Waste generated • Direct Environmental Impact (Page 99, 101)
• Sustainability in Numbers (Page 121-122) 

UOB does not generate hazardous waste in our 
operations and as such, does not divert any from nor 
direct to disposal.

306-4 Waste diverted from disposal

306-5 Waste directed to disposal

Sustainable Procurement

GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021

3-3 Management of material topics • Sustainable Procurement (Page 102-103)

GRI 407: 
Freedom of 
Association 
and Collective 
Bargaining 2016

407-1 Operations and suppliers 
in which the right to freedom 
of association and collective 
bargaining may be at risk

• Sustainable Procurement (Page 102)

Community Stewardship

GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021

3-3 Management of material topics • Community Stewardship (Page 104-109)

GRI 203: Indirect 
Economic 
Impacts 2016

203-2 Significant indirect economic 
impacts

GRI 413: Local 
Communities 
2016

413-1 Operations with local 
community engagement, impact 
assessments, and development 
programmes

GRI 415: Public 
Policy 2016

415-1 Political contributions We are politically neutral and have a longstanding 
policy of not making contributions to political parties or 
campaigns in any country in which we operate. In 2022, 
we did not make any contributions to or spending for 
political campaigns, political organisations, lobbyists 
or lobbying organisations.

GRI Content Index

138U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Appendix

Sustainability Accounting Standards Board 
(SASB) Index1

Indicator Code Disclosure reference and/or response  

SASB FN-CB: Commercial Banks

Data Security

FN-CB-230a.1 (1) Number of data breaches, (2) percentage 
involving personally identifiable information, 
(3) number of account holders affected

• Data Privacy and Governance (Page 60)
• Information Security (Page 93)

There were no material issues related to data 
confidentiality and privacy, and information security 
during the reporting period.

FN-CB-230a.2 Description of approach to identifying and 
addressing data security risks

• Sustainability Strategy (Page 12)
• Material ESG Factors (Page 20, 22)
• Data Privacy and Governance (Page 59-61)
• Information Security (Page 93-94)

Financial Inclusion & Capacity Building

FN-CB-240a.1 Amount of loans qualified to programmes 
designed to promote small businesses2 

• Financial Inclusion (Page 67)

FN-CB-240a.2 Amount of non-performing loans qualified 
to programmes designed to promote small 
businesses2

• Sustainability in Numbers (Page 113)

FN-CB-240a.4 Number of participants in financial literacy 
initiatives for unbanked, underbanked, or 
undeserved customers

• Fair Dealing (Page 58)
• Financial Inclusion (Page 68)
• Community Stewardship (Page 107)

Incorporation of Environmental, Social, and Governance Factors in Credit Analysis

FN-CB-410a.1 Commercial and industrial credit exposure,  
by industry

•  UOB Annual Report 2022: Notes to the 
Financial Statements (Page 237-238)

FN-CB-410a.2 Description of approach to incorporation of 
ESG factors in credit analysis

• Sustainable Banking (page 26-29)

Business Ethics

FN-CB-510a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result 
of legal proceedings associated with fraud, 
insider trading, anti-trust, anti-competitive 
behaviour, market manipulation, malpractice, 
or other related financial industry laws or 
regulations

• Regulatory Compliance (Page 92)
• GRI Content Index (Page 135)

There were: 
• no reported cases of significant non-

compliance with relevant anti-bribery/
corruption laws;

• no confirmed cases of bribery/corruption;
• no complaints in connection with anti-

competitive behaviour; 
• no breaches of any applicable anti-trust and 

monopoly legislation; and 
• no material losses as a result of associated 

legal proceeds 
during the reporting period.

  1 Certain SASB Standards metrics are specific to United States regulations. These were assessed for relevance to UOB’s business and activities.  
In this report, we omit metrics that are not directly applicable to the local context. However, we will review the latest SASB Standards and 
reconsider the scope of our reporting on an annual basis.

  2 Metric has been adjusted for relevance to UOB’s business context.

139U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Appendix

Indicator Code Disclosure reference and/or response  

FN-CB-510a.2 Description of whistle-blower policies  
and procedures

• UOB Annual Report 2022: Corporate 
Governance (Page 119)

• Governance and Risk Culture (Page 86)
• Regulatory Compliance (Page 89)

Systemic Risk Management

FN-CB-550a.1 Global Systemically Important Bank (G-SIB) 
score, by category

• UOB Annual Report 2022: Capital 
Management (Page 144-145)

FN-CB-550a.2 Description of approach to incorporation of 
results of mandatory and voluntary stress 
tests into capital adequacy planning,  
long-term corporate strategy, and other 
business activities

• UOB Annual Report 2022: Risk Management 
and Capital Management (Page 124-144)

Activity Metrics

FN-CB-000.A Value of checking and savings  
personal accounts2 

• Sustainability in Numbers (Page 111)

FN-CB-000.B Value of retail loans, excluding  
mortgage and revolving credit loans2

SASB FN-MF: Mortgage Finance

Lending Practices

FN-MF-270a.3 Total amount of monetary losses as a 
result of legal proceedings associated with 
communications to customers2 

• Fair Dealing (Page 57)

There was no material fine, penalty or sanction 
imposed on UOB for such non-compliance 
during the reporting period. 

Discriminatory Lending

FN-MF-270b.1 Weighted average Loan-to-Value
(LTV) ratio of mortgages issued2 

• Sustainability in Numbers (Page 111)

FN-MF-270b.2 Total amount of monetary losses as a 
result of legal proceedings associated with 
discriminatory mortgage lending

Our standardised mortgage loan pricing 
packages are available to any customer who 
meets our loan eligibility requirements. 

FN-MF-270b.3 Description of policies and procedures 
for ensuring non-discriminatory mortgage 
origination

Activity Metrics

FN-MF-000.B Value of mortgage loans – residential and 
commercial2

• Sustainability in Numbers (Page 111)

Sustainability Accounting Standards Board 
(SASB) Index

2 Metric has been adjusted for relevance to UOB’s business context.

140U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Appendix

Indicator Code Disclosure reference and/or response  

SASB FN-CF: Consumer Finance

Customer Privacy

FN-CF-220a.2 Total amount of monetary losses as a 
result of legal proceedings associated with 
customer privacy

• Data Privacy and Governance (Page 60)
• Information Security (Page 93)

There were no material issues related to data 
confidentiality and privacy, and information security 
during the reporting period.

Data Security

FN-CF-230a.1 (1) Number of data breaches, (2) percentage 
involving personally identifiable information, 
(3) number of account holders affected

• Data Privacy and Governance (Page 60)
• Information Security (Page 93)

There were no material issues related to data 
confidentiality and privacy, and information 
security during the reporting period.

FN-CF-230a.2 Card-related fraud losses from (1) card-not-
present fraud and (2) card-present and other 
fraud

• Regulatory Compliance (Page 92)

There were no material losses as a result of 
card-related fraud during the reporting period.

FN-CF-230a.3 Description of approach to identifying and 
addressing data security risks

• Sustainability Strategy (Page 12)
• Material ESG Factors (Page 20, 22)
• Data Privacy and Governance (Page 59-61)
• Information Security (Page 93-94)

Selling Practices

FN-CF-270a.5 Total amount of monetary losses as a result 
of legal proceedings associated with selling 
and servicing of products

• Fair Dealing (Page 57)

There was no material fine, penalty or sanction 
imposed on UOB for such non-compliance during 
the reporting period. 

Sustainability Accounting Standards Board 
(SASB) Index

141U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Appendix

Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures 
(TCFD) Index

TCFD recommendations Disclosure reference (page)

Governance

a. Describe the board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities. 14-15, 43

b.   Describe management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related 
risks and opportunities.

14-15, 43-44

Strategy

a.   Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organisation  
has identified over the short, medium, and long term.

44-49

b.   Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the 
organisation’s businesses, strategy, and financial planning.

6-8, 44-49, 96-98

c.   Describe the resilience of the organisation’s strategy, taking into 
consideration different climate-related scenarios, including a 2°C  
or lower scenario.

47-48

Risk Management

a.  Describe the organisation’s processes for identifying and assessing  
climate-related risks.

26-28, 39, 50-51, 124-127

b.  Describe the organisation’s processes for managing climate-related risks. 39, 50-51

c.   Describe how processes for identifying, assessing, and managing  
climate-related risks are integrated into the organisation’s overall  
risk management.

50-51

Metrics and Targets

a.  Disclose the metrics used by the organisation to assess climate-related risks 
and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk management process.

6-8, 52-53, 96-99

b.   Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if appropriate, Scope 3 GHG emissions, and 
the related risks.

6, 99, 120-121

c.   Describe the targets used by the organisation to manage climate-related 
risks and opportunities and performance against targets.

6-8, 52-53, 96-99

142U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Appendix

United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 
(UN SDGs) Index

Global Goals Global Targets toward which we can align our efforts Material ESG factor 

1  No Poverty 1.1 Eradicate extreme poverty for all people 
everywhere

• Sustainable Banking

1.2 Reduce the proportion of men, women and 
children living in poverty 

• Community Stewardship

1.4 Ensure equal rights to economic resources, basic 
services, natural resources, appropriate new 
technology and financial services, including 
microfinance

• Sustainable Banking
• Financial Inclusion
• Community Stewardship

1.a Ensure significant mobilisation of resources to 
provide adequate and predictable means for 
programmes and policies to end poverty in all  
its dimensions

• Sustainable Banking
• Financial Inclusion

2  Zero Hunger 2.1 Ensure access by people, in particular the poor 
and people in vulnerable situations, to safe, 
nutritious and sufficient food

• Community Stewardship

2.3 Double agricultural productivity and incomes of 
small-scale food producers through knowledge 
and financial services

• Financial Inclusion

2.4 Ensure sustainable food production systems and 
implement resilient agricultural practices

• Sustainable Banking

2.a Increase investment in rural infrastructure, 
agricultural research and extension services, 
technology development and plant and livestock 
gene banks in order to enhance agricultural 
productive capacity in developing countries

• Financial Inclusion

3   Good Health 
and Well-being

3.4 Reduce premature mortality from non-communicable 
diseases through prevention and treatment and to 
promote mental health and well-being

• Workplace Safety, Health  
and Well-being

• Community Stewardship

3.8 Achieve health coverage and access to quality 
essential healthcare services and access to 
safe, effective, quality and affordable essential 
medicines and vaccines for all

• Financial Inclusion
• Workplace Safety, Health  

and Well-being

3.b Support the research and development of 
vaccines and medicines for the communicable and 
non-communicable diseases

• Financial Inclusion

3.c Increase health financing and the recruitment, 
development, training and retention of the health 
workforce in developing countries

• Sustainable Banking

143U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Appendix

United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 
(UN SDGs) Index

Global Goals Global Targets toward which we can align our efforts Material ESG factor 

4   Quality 
Education

4.1 Ensure, equitable and quality primary and 
secondary education 

• Sustainable Banking

4.3 Ensure equal access to affordable and quality 
technical, vocational and tertiary education

• Sustainable Banking

4.4 Increase the number of youth and adults who 
have relevant skills, including technical and 
vocational skills, for employment, decent jobs and 
entrepreneurship

• Sustainable Banking
• Talent Development and 

Inclusion 
• Workplace Safety, Health  

and Well-being
• Community Stewardship

4.5 Eliminate gender disparities in education and 
ensure equal access to all levels of education and 
vocational training for the vulnerable, including 
persons with disabilities and children in vulnerable 
situations

• Talent Development and 
Inclusion

• Community Stewardship

4.6 Ensure more youth and adults achieve literacy  
and numeracy 

• Sustainable Banking
• Community Stewardship

4.7 Ensure learners acquire knowledge and skills 
needed to promote sustainable development, 
including, among others, through education for 
sustainable development

• Talent Development  
and Inclusion

• Community Stewardship

5  Gender Equality 5.1 End all forms of discrimination against all women 
and girls everywhere

• Talent Development and 
Inclusion

• Sustainable Procurement

5.4 Recognise and value unpaid care and domestic 
work through the provision of public services, 
infrastructure and social protection policies, 
and promote shared responsibility within 
the household and the family as nationally 
appropriate

• Talent Development  
and Inclusion

5.5 Ensure full and effective participation and equal 
opportunities for women at all levels of decision-
making in political, economic and public life

• Sustainable Banking
• Financial Inclusion
• Talent Development and 

Inclusion
• Governance and Risk Culture

6   Clean Water 
and Sanitation

6.3 Improve water quality by reducing pollution, 
halving the proportion of untreated wastewater 
and increasing recycling and safe reuse globally

• Sustainable Banking

6.4 Increase water-use efficiency across all sectors 
and ensure sustainable withdrawals and supply of 
freshwater to address water

• Direct Environmental Impact

6.5 Implement integrated water resources 
management at all levels

• Direct Environmental Impact

144U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Appendix

United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 
(UN SDGs) Index

Global Goals Global Targets toward which we can align our efforts Material ESG factor 
6.a Expand international cooperation and capacity-

building support to developing countries in water- 
and sanitation-related activities and programmes, 
including water harvesting, desalination, water 
efficiency, wastewater treatment, recycling and 
reuse technologies

• Sustainable Banking

7   Affordable and 
Clean Energy

7.2 Increase share of renewable energy in the global 
energy mix 

• Sustainable Banking
• Direct Environmental Impact

7.3 Double global rate of improvement in energy 
efficiency to double 

• Sustainable Banking
• Direct Environmental Impact

7.a Enhance international cooperation to facilitate 
access to clean energy research and technology 
and promote investment in energy infrastructure 
and clean energy technology

• Sustainable Banking
• Direct Environmental Impact

7.b Expand infrastructure and upgrade technology in 
order to supply modern and sustainable energy 
services for all in developing countries

• Sustainable Banking

8   Decent Work 
and Economic 
Growth

8.2 Achieve higher levels of economic productivity 
through diversification, technological upgrading 
and innovation, including through a focus on high-
value added and labour-intensive sectors

• Sustainable Banking
• Workplace Safety Health  

and Well-being
• Information Security

8.3 Promote development-oriented policies to 
support productive activities, decent job creation, 
entrepreneurship, creativity and innovation, and to 
encourage the formalisation and growth of micro-, 
small- and medium-sized enterprises, including 
through access to financial services

• Economic Contributions
• Financial Inclusion
• Talent Development and 

Inclusion

8.4 Improve global resource efficiency in consumption 
and production, and decouple economic growth 
from environmental degradation upgrading and 
innovation

• Sustainable Banking
• Direct Environmental Impact
• Sustainable Procurement

8.5 Achieve full and productive employment and 
decent work for all women and men, including for 
young people and persons with disabilities, and 
equal pay for work of equal value

• Economic Contributions
• Sustainable Banking
• Financial Inclusion
• Talent Development and 

Inclusion
• Workplace Safety, Health  

and Well-being

8.6 Reduce the proportion of youth not in employment, 
education or training

• Community Stewardship

8.7 Eradicate forced labour, end modern slavery and 
human trafficking and secure the prohibition and 
elimination of the worst forms of child labour

• Sustainable Banking
• Sustainable Procurement

145U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Appendix

United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 
(UN SDGs) Index

Global Goals Global Targets toward which we can align our efforts Material ESG factor 
8.8 Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure 

working environments for all workers
• Sustainable Banking
• Talent Development and 

Inclusion
• Workplace Safety, 

Health and Well-being
• Sustainable Procurement

8.10 Strengthen capacity of domestic financial 
institutions to encourage and expand access to 
banking, insurance and financial services for all

• Economic Contributions
• Sustainable Banking
• Fair Dealing
• Financial Inclusion

9   Industry, 
Innovation and 
Infrastructure

9.1 Develop quality, reliable, sustainable and resilient 
infrastructure to support economic development 
and human well-being

• Sustainable Banking
• Data Privacy and Governance
• Customer Experience
• Workplace Safety,  

Health and Well-being
• Direct Environmental Impact
• Community Stewardship

9.2 Promote inclusive and sustainable industrialisation • Sustainable Banking

9.3 Increase access to small-scale industrial and 
other enterprises to financial services, including 
affordable credit, and their integration into value 
chains and markets

• Sustainable Banking
• Financial Inclusion

9.4 Upgrade infrastructure and retrofit industries to 
make them sustainable, with increased resource-
use efficiency and greater adoption of clean and 
environmentally-sound technologies and industrial 
processes

• Sustainable Banking
• Direct Environmental Impact

9.a Facilitate sustainable and resilient infrastructure 
development through enhanced financial, 
technological and technical support 

• Sustainable Banking

10   Reduced 
Inequalities

10.2 Empower and promote social, economic and 
political inclusion of all, irrespective of age, 
sex, disability, race, ethnicity, origin, religion or 
economic or other status

• Sustainable Banking
• Financial Inclusion
• Talent Development  

and Inclusion

10.3 Ensure equal opportunity and reduce inequalities 
of outcome

• Talent Development  
and Inclusion

10.4 Adopt policies, especially fiscal, wage and social 
protection policies, and progressively achieve 
greater equality

• Talent Development  
and Inclusion

10.5 Improve the regulation and monitoring of global 
financial markets and institutions and strengthen 
the implementation of such regulations

• Governance and Risk Culture
• Regulatory Compliance

10.b Encourage official development assistance and 
financial flows, including foreign direct investment, 
to where the need is greatest

• Sustainable Banking

146U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Appendix

Global Goals Global Targets toward which we can align our efforts Material ESG factor 

11   Sustainable 
Cities and 
Communities 

11.2 Provide access to safe, affordable, accessible and 
sustainable transport systems for all

• Sustainable Banking

11.3 Enhance inclusive and sustainable urbanisation 
and capacity for participatory, integrated and 
sustainable human settlement planning and 
management 

• Sustainable Banking

11.4 Strengthen efforts to protect and safeguard the 
world’s cultural and natural heritage

• Sustainable Banking
• Community Stewardship

11.6 Reduce adverse per capita environmental impact 
of cities, including by paying special attention 
to air quality and municipal and other waste 
management

• Sustainable Banking
• Financial Inclusion
• Direct Environmental Impact

12   Responsible 
Consumption 
and Production

12.2 Achieve sustainable management and efficient 
use of natural resources

• Direct Environmental Impact

12.5 Reduce waste generation through prevention, 
reduction, recycling and reuse

• Sustainable Banking
• Community Stewardship

12.6 Encourage companies, especially large and 
transnational companies, to adopt sustainable 
practices

• Sustainable Banking
• Sustainable Procurement

12.7 Promote sustainable procurement practices in 
accordance with national policies and priorities

• Sustainable Procurement

12.8 Ensure that people have the relevant information 
and awareness for sustainable development and 
lifestyles in harmony with nature

• Sustainable Banking
• Talent Development and 

Inclusion
• Community Stewardship

13  Climate Action 13.1 Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to 
climate-related hazards and natural disasters in 
all countries

• Sustainable Banking

13.2 Integrate climate change measures into policies, 
strategies and planning

• Sustainable Banking

13.3 Improve education, awareness-raising and human 
and institutional capacity on climate change 
mitigation, adaptation, impact reduction and early 
warning

• Sustainable Banking
• Direct Environmental Impact
• Community Stewardship

14   Life Below 
Water

14.1 Prevent and reduce marine pollution of all kinds, 
in particular from land-based activities, including 
marine debris and nutrient pollution

• Sustainable Banking

15  Life on Land 15.a Increase financial resources to conserve and 
sustainably use biodiversity and ecosystems

• Sustainable Banking

United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 
(UN SDGs) Index

147U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Appendix

Global Goals Global Targets toward which we can align our efforts Material ESG factor 

16   Peace, Justice 
and Strong 
Intuitions 

16.2 End abuse, exploitation, trafficking and all forms 
of violence against and torture of children

• Sustainable Procurement

16.3 Promote the rule of law at the national and 
international levels and ensure equal access to 
justice for all

• Regulatory Compliance

16.4 Reduce illicit financial and arms flows, strengthen 
the recovery and return of stolen assets and 
combat all forms of organised crime

• Regulatory Compliance
• Information Security

16.5 Reduction in corruption and bribery in all their 
forms

• Regulatory Compliance
• Sustainable Procurement

16.6 Develop effective, accountable and transparent 
institutions at all levels

• Fair Dealing
• Data Privacy and Governance
• Customer Experience
• Governance and Risk Culture
• Regulatory Compliance
• Information Security
• Direct Environmental Impact
• Sustainable Procurement

16.10  Ensure public access to information and protect 
fundamental freedoms

• Data Privacy and Governance
• Information Security

17   Partnership for 
the Goals

17.1 Strengthen domestic resource mobilisation, 
including through international support to 
developing countries, to improve domestic 
capacity for tax and other revenue collection

• Economic Contributions

17.8 Operationalise the technology bank and science, 
technology and innovation capacity-building 
mechanism and enhance the use of enabling 
technology

• Customer Experience

17.16 Enhance global partnership for sustainable 
development, complemented by partnerships 
that mobilise and share knowledge, expertise, 
technology and financial resources, to support 
the achievement of the sustainable development 
goals

• Sustainable Banking
• Data Privacy and Governance
• Financial Inclusion
• Talent Development and 

Inclusion
• Workplace Safety, 

Health and Well-being
• Regulatory Compliance
• Information Security

17.17 Encourage and promote effective public,  
public-private and civil society partnerships, 
building on the experience and resourcing 
strategies of partnerships

• Sustainable Banking
• Data Privacy and Governance
• Financial Inclusion
• Talent Development and 

Inclusion
• Regulatory Compliance
• Information Security
• Community Stewardship

United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 
(UN SDGs) Index

148U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Appendix

United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Ten Principles

UNGC Ten Principles Material ESG factor/Reference
Human Rights
Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of 

internationally-proclaimed human rights
• Sustainability Strategy
• Sustainable Banking
• Sustainable Procurement 
• Talent Development and 

Inclusion 
• Workplace Safety,  

Health and Well-being
Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights 

abuses
• Sustainable Banking
• Sustainable Procurement 
• Talent Development and 

Inclusion 
• Workplace Safety,  

Health and Well-being
Labour
Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association 

and the effective recognition of the right to collective 
bargaining

• Sustainability Strategy
• Talent Development and 

Inclusion
Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory 

labour
• Sustainable Banking
• Sustainable Procurement 
• Talent Development and 

Inclusion
Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour • Sustainable Banking

• Sustainable Procurement 
• Talent Development and 

Inclusion
Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment 

and occupation
• Talent Development and 

Inclusion
Environment
Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to 

environmental challenges
• Sustainability Strategy
• Sustainable Banking
• Sustainable Procurement 
• Direct Environmental Impact

Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental 
responsibility

• Sustainable Banking
• Community Stewardship

Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of 
environmentally-friendly technologies

• Sustainable Banking 

Anti-Corruption
Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, 

including extortion and bribery
• Sustainability Strategy
• Regulatory Compliance
• Governance and Risk Culture

149U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Appendix

Glossary

Anti-money laundering (AML)
Combating of money laundering, which refers to the  
process of masking financial proceeds from criminal  
conduct such that these proceeds appear to have 
originated from legitimate source(s).

Asia Sustainable Finance Initiative (ASFI) 
A multi-stakeholder forum, incubated by World Wide Fund 
for Nature Singapore, that aims to harness and amplify the 
power of the finance sector to create low carbon, climate 
resilient economies that deliver on the United Nations 
Sustainable Development Goals and the Paris Agreement.

Brown sectors
High carbon-emitting sectors.

Carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e)
The common metric used to compare emissions from the 
various types of greenhouse gases. Different greenhouse 
gases have different potential for global warming.  
By converting all greenhouse gases to the common measure 
of tonnes of CO2e, companies are able to be consistent 
in their measurement and comparison. For example,  
one tonne of methane would be equal to about 25 tonnes 
of CO2e, because it has a global warming potential that is 
approximately 25 times that of one tonne of carbon dioxide.

Climate change and global warming 
The increase in the average temperature of the Earth’s 
climate system, apparent since the mid- to late-20th century. 
Climate change is attributed primarily to the higher amounts 
of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere resulting from the 
burning of fossil fuels, the production of industrial products, 
livestock farming, crop fertilisation and deforestation.  
The gases trap heat in the atmosphere and are expected 
to have a variety of effects on the planet, including sea 
level rise, droughts and severe weather events. 

Corruption 
The abuse of entrusted power for private gain. 

Credit risk
The risk of loss arising from failure by a borrower or 
counterparty to meet its financial obligations when they 
are due.

Carbon Risk Real Estate Monitor (CRREM)
A research project funded by the European Union that 
aims to address the downside risk of climate change in 
the real estate sector by providing appropriate science-
based carbon reduction pathways at building, portfolio 
and company levels and financial risk assessment tools 
to manage carbon mitigation strategies.

Customer Satisfaction Score (CSS) 
The measurement that determines how satisfied  
customers are with our products and services and their 
overall satisfaction based on recent interactions with  
the Bank, on a scale of zero to 10. 

Financial inclusion 
Programmes and initiatives that help individuals and 
businesses access useful, appropriate and affordable 
financial products and services that meet their needs 
(for example transactions, payments, savings, credit and 
insurance) and that are delivered in a responsible and 
sustainable way. 

Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) 
An international non-profit organisation that promotes 
responsible management of the world's forests via timber 
certification.

Fraud 
An act with an element to deceive or conceal facts. Fraud 
is not restricted to monetary or material benefits. 

Glasgow Financial Alliance for Net Zero (GFANZ)
A global coalition of leading financial institutions committed 
to accelerating the decarbonisation of the economy.

Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards 
A set of internationally-recognised standards that 
help businesses, governments and other organisations 
communicate and report their risks and impacts for 
environmental, social and economic topics. 

Global warming potential 
A measure of the amount of heat a greenhouse gas is able 
to trap in the atmosphere relative to carbon dioxide gas. 

Green bonds
Debt instruments with proceeds specifically earmarked 
for climate and environmental projects.

150U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Appendix

Green Finance Industry Taskforce (GFIT)
A taskforce convened by the Monetary Authority of 
Singapore to establish and propose the taxonomy for 
Singapore-based financial institutions by identifying 
activities that can be considered green or transitioning 
towards green.

Green loans
Any type of loan instrument made exclusively to finance or 
to re-finance, in whole or in part, new and/or existing green 
projects, in alignment with the Loan Market Association/
Asia Pacific Loan Market Association (LMA/APLMA) Green 
Loan Principles. 

Green trade facilities 
Any trade and/or working capital facilities made to finance 
or to re-finance, in whole or in part, new and/or existing 
green themes and activities and/or relevant industry 
certifications that are deemed, in alignment with the  
Loan Market Association/Asia Pacific Loan Market 
Association (LMA/APLMA) Sustainability-linked Loan 
Principles. 

Greenhouse gas emissions 
Gaseous pollutants that absorb infrared radiation and trap 
heat in the atmosphere. The primary greenhouse gases are 
carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, hydrofluorocarbons, 
perfluorocarbons and sulphur hexafluoride. 

Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol)
An international standard created by the World Resources 
Institute and the World Business Council for Sustainable 
Development to categorise greenhouse gases into Scope 
1, 2 and 3 emissions based on the source.

Hard-to-abate sectors
Carbon-intensive sectors that face immense challenges 
in decarbonisation due to a lack of technologies or  
high costs.

Impact investing 
The deployment of capital in companies with the deliberate 
intention of generating positive social and/or environmental 
benefits alongside, and as a means of, achieving positive 
financial returns. 

Glossary

Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 
(IPCC)
The United Nations body for assessing the science related 
to climate change.

Islamic/Shariah banking 
A system of banking that complies with Islamic law 
(Shariah). The underlying principles that govern Islamic 
banking are sustainable circulation of wealth, transparency, 
stability, assurance of justice and protection of wealth. In 
generating profit, Islamic banking transactions are based 
on trading activities and interest-bearing transactions 
are prohibited. 

Liquidity risk
The risk that arises from the inability to meet financial 
obligations, or to fund increases in assets as they fall due.

Location-based emissions 
Emissions calculated based on the average emissions 
intensity/factors of the grids on which the energy 
consumption occurs. 

Market-based emissions 
Emissions calculations that reflect or include emissions 
from electricity that the user entity has chosen to purchase, 
for example, contractual arrangements under which the 
organisation procures power from specific suppliers or 
any external sources, such as renewable energy. 

Market risk
The risk of loss from movements in the market rates or 
prices (such as changes in interest rates, foreign exchange 
rates, equity prices, commodity prices and credit spreads) 
of the underlying asset. It includes interest rate risk in 
the banking book which is the potential loss of capital 
or reduction in earnings due to changes in the interest 
rates environment.

Material environmental, social and governance 
(ESG) factors 
Environmental, social and governance, as well as 
economic, factors can impact the risk and return profile 
of financing and investment decisions, as well as internal 
operations. Such factors are considered by investors 
and other stakeholders in assessing and measuring the 
sustainability of a company and its business activities.  
The same factors are considered, in turn, by the company to 
ensure that stakeholders abide by its values and principles. 

151U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Appendix

Material supplier 
A new, existing or re-contracted supplier that performs a 
material outsourcing activity which, if disrupted, has the 
potential to impact business operations significantly or the 
ability to manage risks effectively. Material suppliers for UOB  
also include those that supply goods and/or services to 
the Bank with an annual spend of $5 million or more. 

Materiality assessment
The methodology by which material ESG factors are 
identified and assessed to have an impact on business 
and influence on stakeholder decision-making. 

Microfinancing 
The provision of financial services to individuals, households 
and micro-enterprises that are normally excluded from 
conventional banking services. 

Mission Possible Partnership
A network of companies, as well as their financiers, customers 
and suppliers, that drives industrial decarbonisation across 
the value chains of the resource and transport sectors.

Network for Greening the Financial System 
(NGFS)
A group of central banks and supervisors that exchanges 
experiences, shares best practices, contributes to the 
development of environment and climate risk management 
in the financial sector, and mobilises mainstream finance 
to support the transition toward a sustainable economy.

Net-Zero Banking Alliance (NZBA)
The flagship climate initiative under the United Nations 
Principles for Responsible Banking that was set up to 
accelerate science-based climate target setting and 
develop common practice.  

Net Promoter Score (NPS) 
A metric used to measure the likelihood of a customer 
recommending a company’s brand, product or service to 
others. The NPS is an established worldwide metric used to 
measure customer loyalty and to predict business growth. 

Operational risk
The risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal 
processes, people and systems or from external events. Such 
loss may be in the form of financial loss or other damage, 
for example, loss of reputation and public confidence that 
will impact our creditability and/or ability to transact, to 
maintain liquidity and/or to obtain new business. 

Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials 
(PCAF)
A global partnership of financial institutions that works to 
develop and implement a harmonised approach to assess 
and disclose the greenhouse gas emissions associated 
with their loans and investments.

Physical risk 
Physical risks can be acute or chronic. Acute physical risks 
refer to those that are event driven, including increased 
severity of extreme weather events, such as cyclones and 
wildfires. Chronic physical risk arises from longer-term 
shifts in climate patterns such as rising sea levels with 
time horizon typically spanning decades. Physical risks 
can result in financial losses due to direct damage to 
assets and indirect impact from supply chain disruption. 

Programme for the Endorsement of Forest 
Certification (PEFC)
An international, non-profit, non-governmental organisation 
which promotes sustainable forest management through 
independent third party certification.

Responsible financing 
The integration of ESG factors into credit and risk evaluation 
process for financing activities. 

Sustainability Accounting Standards Board 
(SASB) 
An independent non-profit organisation that sets standards 
to help guide corporations in their disclosure of financially 
material sustainability information to investors. 

Social bonds
Debt instruments used to finance or refinance social 
projects whose purpose is to address a common problem 
and help those most vulnerable.

Scope 1 greenhouse gas emissions 
Direct emissions that originate from operations or assets 
which are owned or controlled by the organisation including 
on-site generation of electricity, steam or heat in equipment, 
travel in cars and other vehicles owned or controlled 
by the company and hydrofluorocarbons emitted from 
refrigeration or air-conditioning equipment. 

Glossary

152U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Appendix

Glossary

Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions 
Indirect emissions resulting from the generation of grid 
electricity, heat or steam by an outside organisation, 
such as an electricity provider, but which is utilised by the 
reporting organisation. 

Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions 
All other indirect emissions which occur at sources the 
organisation neither owns nor controls. Scope 3 emissions 
can result from business travel in non-company vehicles, 
especially commercial planes; employees commuting in 
non-company vehicles, as well as the activities of suppliers, 
customers and contractors. 

Sustainable development 
Development that meets the needs of the present without 
compromising the ability of future generations to meet 
their own needs. This entails respect for the environment, 
human rights, labour rights, decent work and economic 
growth, data privacy and business ethics. 

Sustainability-linked loans 
Any type of loan instrument and/or contingent facility 
(such as bonding lines, guarantee lines or letters of credit) 
which incentivise the borrower to achieve pre-determined 
sustainability performance objectives. The borrower’s 
sustainability performance is measured using sustainability 
performance targets, which can include key performance 
indicators, external ESG ratings or equivalent metrics which 
measure improvements in the borrower’s sustainability profile. 

Task Force on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD) 
Industry-led initiative established by the Financial Stability 
Board in 2015 at the request of the G20 to develop a set of 
voluntary climate-related financial risk disclosures which 
can be adopted by companies so that those companies 
can inform investors and other members of the public 
about the risks they face related to climate change. The 
recommendations of the TCFD are organised around four 
pillars, namely governance and management, strategy, 
management of climate change-related risks and metrics 
and targets in place to address the impacts. 

Taskforce on Nature-related Financial 
Disclosures (TNFD) 
Risk management and disclosure framework for 
organisations to report and act on evolving nature-related 
risks, with the ultimate aim of supporting a shift in global 
financial flows away from nature-negative outcomes and 
toward nature-positive outcomes. 

Transition risk 
Transition risks arise from the process of adjustment 
towards a low carbon economy which could result in 
financial and non-financial impacts. Impact is expected 
to materialise in a shorter time horizon with the speed and 
magnitude of transition dependent on changes in public 
policies, technological developments, shifts in consumer 
preferences and investor sentiment. 

United Nations-supported Principles for 
Responsible Investment (PRI) 
Six principles that serve as a global standard for 
responsible investing. They also provide guidance to 
financial institutions on the integration of ESG factors in 
the investment process and in active ownership. 

United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) 
An initiative to encourage companies to align their 
strategies and operations with ten principles in the areas of 
human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption, 
and to advance progress against the United Nations 
Sustainable Development Goals. 

United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs) 
Also known as the Global Goals, they were adopted by 
the United Nations Member States in 2015 and form the 
core of the 2030 Agenda, a universal call to action for 
governments, businesses and civil society to end poverty, 
protect the planet and ensure peace and prosperity for 
all people by 2030.

153U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Appendix

External Assurance

United Overseas Bank Limited (“UOB”)        22 March 2023

Independent Limited Assurance Statement in connection with the Subject Matter 
included in the UOB Sustainability Report 2022

To the Management of UOB

Scope
We have been engaged by United Overseas Bank Limited ("UOB") to perform a ‘limited assurance engagement’, as 
defined by International Standards on Assurance Engagements, here after referred to as the engagement, to report 
on UOB’s Sustainability Report 2022’s GRI disclosures (the “Subject Matter”) as set out in the Subject Matter and 
Criteria section below as of 15 December 2022 for the period from 1 January 2022 to 31 December 2022 (“FY2022”) 
(“the Report”).

Subject Matter and Criteria
The criteria (“The Criteria”) for our assurance evaluation are as follows:

• Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting Standards (“GRI Standards”).

The Subject Matter is set out in the table below:

GRI Standards Disclosures

No GRI Standards Disclosures Sub-indicators under “shall” requirement  
(referenced as per GRI Standards)

Scope

1 201- 1 Direct economic 
value generated 
and distributed

a) Direct economic value generated and distributed 
(EVG&D) on an accrual basis, including the basic 
components for the organization’s global operations 
as listed below. If data are presented on a cash basis, 
report the justification for this decision in addition to 
reporting the following basic components:

 i)   Direct economic value generated: revenues;

 ii)   Economic value distributed: operating costs, 
employee wages and benefits, payments to providers 
of capital, payments to government by country, and 
community investments;

 iii)  Economic value retained: ‘direct economic value 
generated’ less ‘economic value distributed’.

Group1

b)  Where significant, report EVG&D separately at country, 
regional, or market levels, and the criteria used for 
defining significance.

2.1 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 
201-1, the reporting organization shall, if applicable, 
compile the EVG&D from data in the organization’s 
audited financial or profit and loss (P&L) statement, or 
its internally audited management accounts.

1  “Group” under the Audit scope comprises Singapore and UOB’s six key markets (Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand, Vietnam, mainland China and 
Hong Kong), and overseas branches (Australia, Brunei, Canada, India, Japan, Myanmar, Philippines, South Korea, Taiwan, United Kingdom, USA).

154U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Appendix

No GRI Standards Disclosures Sub-indicators under “shall” requirement  
(referenced as per GRI Standards)

Scope

2 202-2 Proportion 
of senior 
management hired 
from the local 
community

a) Percentage of senior management at significant 
locations of operation that are hired from the local 
community.

Group

b) The definition used for ‘senior management’.  

c) The organization’s geographical definition of ‘local’. 

d) The definition used for ‘significant locations of 
operation’.

2.2 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 
202-2, the reporting organization shall calculate this 
percentage using data on full-time employees.

3 205-2 Communication 
and training about 
anti-corruption 
policies and 
procedures

a) Total number and percentage of governance body 
members that the organization’s anti-corruption policies 
and procedures have been communicated to, broken 
down by region.

Group

b) Total number and percentage of employees that the 
organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures 
have been communicated to, broken down by employee 
category and region.

d) Total number and percentage of governance body 
members that have received training on anti-corruption, 
broken down by region.

e) Total number and percentage of employees that have 
received training on anti-corruption, broken down by 
employee category and region.

4 302-1 Energy 
consumption within 
the organization

a) Total fuel consumption within the organization from 
non-renewable sources, in joules or multiples, and 
including fuel types used.

Group

b) Total fuel consumption within the organization from 
renewable sources, in joules or multiples, and including 
fuel types used.

c)  In joules, watt-hours or multiples, the total:
 i. electricity consumption;
 ii. heating consumption;
 iii. cooling consumption;
 iv. steam consumption.

d) In joules, watt-hours or multiples, the total:
 i. electricity sold;
 ii. heating sold;
 iii. cooling sold;
 iv. steam sold.

e) Total energy consumption within the organization, in 
joules or multiples. 

f) Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or 
calculation tools used. 

g) Source of the conversion factors used.

External Assurance

155U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Appendix

External Assurance

No GRI Standards Disclosures Sub-indicators under “shall” requirement  
(referenced as per GRI Standards)

Scope

2.1 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 
302-1, the reporting organization shall:

2.1.1 Avoid the double-counting of fuel consumption, when 
reporting self-generated energy consumption. If the 
organization generates electricity from a non-renewable 
or renewable fuel source and then consumes the 
generated electricity, the energy consumption shall be 
counted once under fuel consumption;

2.1.2 Report fuel consumption separately for non-renewable 
and renewable fuel sources;

2.1.3 Only report energy consumed by entities owned or 
controlled by the organization;

2.1.4 Calculate the total energy consumption within the 
organization in joules or multiples using the following 
formula: 

 Total energy consumption within the organization = 
Non-renewable fuel consumed + Renewable fuel 
consumed + Electricity, heating, cooling, and steam 
purchased for consumption + Self-generated electricity, 
heating, cooling, and steam which are not consumed - 
Electricity, heating, cooling, and steam sold.

5 302-3 Energy intensity a) Energy intensity ratio for the organization. Group

b) Organization-specific metric (the denominator) chosen 
to calculate the ratio.

c) Types of energy included in the intensity ratio; whether 
fuel, electricity, heating, cooling, steam, or all.

d) Whether the ratio uses energy consumption within the 
organization, outside of it, or both.

2.5 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 
302-3, the reporting organization shall:

2.5.1 Calculate the ratio by dividing the absolute energy 
consumption (the numerator) by the organization-
specific metric (the denominator);

2.5.2 If reporting an intensity ratio both for the energy 
consumed within the organization and outside of it,  
report these intensity ratios separately.

156U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Appendix

No GRI Standards Disclosures Sub-indicators under “shall” requirement  
(referenced as per GRI Standards)

Scope

6 302-4 Reduction 
of energy 
consumption

a) Amount of reductions in energy consumption achieved 
as a direct result of conservation and efficiency 
initiatives, in joules or multiples.

Group

b) Types of energy included in the reductions; whether fuel, 
electricity, heating, cooling, steam, or all. 

c) Basis for calculating reductions in energy consumption, 
such as base year or baseline, including the rationale 
for choosing it. 

d) Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or 
calculation tools used.

2.7 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 
302-4, the reporting organization shall: 

2.7.1 Exclude reductions resulting from reduced production 
capacity or outsourcing; 

2.7.2 Describe whether energy reduction is estimated, 
modeled, or sourced from direct. If estimation or 
modeling is used, the organization shall disclose the 
methods used. 

7 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) 
GHG emissions

a) Gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions in metric tons of 
CO2 equivalent.

Group

b) Gases included in the calculation; whether CO2, CH4, 
N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all.

c) Biogenic CO2 emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent.

d) Base year for the calculation, if applicable, including:
 i.   the rationale for choosing it;
 ii.  emissions in the base year;
 iii.  the context for any significant changes in emissions 

that triggered recalculations of base year emissions.

e) Source of the emissions factors and the global warming 
potential (GWP) rates used, or a reference to the GWP 
source.

f) Consolidation approach for emissions; whether equity 
share, financial control, or operational control.

g) Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or 
calculation tools used.

2.1 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 
305-1, the reporting organization shall:

2.1.1 Exclude any GHG trades from the calculation of gross 
direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions;

External Assurance

157U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Appendix

No GRI Standards Disclosures Sub-indicators under “shall” requirement  
(referenced as per GRI Standards)

Scope

2.1.2 Report biogenic emissions of CO2 from the combustion 
or biodegradation of biomass separately from the 
gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions. Exclude biogenic 
emissions of other types of GHG (such as CH4 and 
N2O), and biogenic emissions of CO2 that occur in 
the life cycle of biomass other than from combustion 
or biodegradation (such as GHG emissions from 
processing or transporting biomass).

8 305-2 Energy indirect 
(Scope 2) GHG 
emissions

a) Gross location-based energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG 
emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent.

Group

b) If applicable, gross market-based energy indirect  
(Scope 2) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 
equivalent.

c) If available, the gases included in the calculation; 
whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all.

d) Base year for the calculation, if applicable, including:
 i.   the rationale for choosing it;
 ii.  emissions in the base year;
 iii.  the context for any significant changes in emissions 

that triggered recalculations of base year emissions.

e) Source of the emissions factors and the global warming 
potential (GWP) rates used, or a reference to the GWP 
source.

f) Consolidation approach for emissions; whether equity 
share, financial control, or operational control.

g) Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or 
calculation tools used.

2.3 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 
305-2, the reporting organization shall:

2.3.1 Exclude any GHG trades from the calculation of gross 
energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions;

2.3.2  Exclude other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions that are 
disclosed as specified in Disclosure 305-3;

2.3.3 Account and report energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG 
emissions based on the location-based method, if it 
has operations in markets without product or supplier-
specific data; 

2.3.4 Account and report energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG 
emissions based on both the location-based and 
market-based methods, if it has any operations in 
markets providing product or supplier-specific data in 
the form of contractual instruments.

External Assurance

158U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Appendix

No GRI Standards Disclosures Sub-indicators under “shall” requirement  
(referenced as per GRI Standards)

Scope

9 305-3 Other indirect 
emissions (Scope 3) 
emissions

a) Gross other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions in metric 
tons of CO2 equivalent.

Group

b) If available, the gases included in the calculation; 
whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all.

c) Biogenic CO2 emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. 

d) Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions categories and 
activities included in the calculation.

e) Base year for the calculation, if applicable, including:
 i.   the rationale for choosing it;
 ii.  emissions in the base year;
 iii.  the context for any significant changes in emissions 

that triggered recalculations of base year emissions.

f)  Source of the emissions factors and the global warming 
potential (GWP) rates used, or a reference to the GWP 
source.

g) Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or 
calculation tools used.

2.5 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 
305-3, the reporting organization shall:

2.5.1 Exclude any GHG trades from the calculation of gross 
other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions; 

2.5.2 Exclude energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions from 
this disclosure. Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 
are disclosed as specified in Disclosure 305-2;

2.5.3 Report biogenic emissions of CO2 from the combustion 
or biodegradation of biomass that occur in its value 
chain separately from the gross other indirect  
(Scope 3) GHG emissions. Exclude biogenic emissions 
of other types of GHG (such as CH4 and N2O), and 
biogenic emissions of CO2 that occur in the life cycle of 
biomass other than from combustion or biodegradation 
(such as GHG emissions from processing or transporting 
biomass).

External Assurance

159U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Appendix

No GRI Standards Disclosures Sub-indicators under “shall” requirement  
(referenced as per GRI Standards)

Scope

10 305-4 GHG emissions 
intensity 

a) GHG emissions intensity ratio for the organization. Group

b) Organization-specific metric (the denominator) chosen 
to calculate the ratio.

c) Types of GHG emissions included in the intensity ratio; 
whether direct (Scope 1), energy indirect (Scope 2), and/
or other indirect (Scope 3).

d) Gases included in the calculation; whether CO2, CH4, 
N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all. 

2.7. When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 
305-4, the reporting organization shall: 

2.7.1 Calculate the ratio by dividing the absolute GHG 
emissions (the numerator) by the organization-specific 
metric (the denominator); 

2.7.2 If reporting an intensity ratio for other indirect (Scope 
3) GHG emissions, report this intensity ratio separately 
from the intensity ratios for direct (Scope 1) and energy 
indirect (Scope 2) emissions. 

11 306-4 Waste diverted 
from disposal

a) Total weight of waste diverted from disposal in metric 
tons, and a breakdown of this total by composition of 
the waste.

Group

b) Total weight of hazardous waste diverted from disposal 
in metric tons, and a breakdown of this total by the 
following recovery operations:

 i.   Preparation for reuse;
 ii.  Recycling; 
 iii. Other recovery operations.

c) Total weight of non-hazardous waste diverted from 
disposal in metric tons, and a breakdown of this total by 
the following recovery operations: 

 i.   Preparation for reuse; 
 ii.  Recycling; 
 iii. Other recovery operations. 

d) For each recovery operation listed in Disclosures 306-4-b 
and 306-4-c, a breakdown of the total weight in metric 
tons of hazardous waste and of non-hazardous waste 
diverted from disposal: 

 i.  Onsite; 
 ii. Offsite. 

External Assurance

160U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Appendix

External Assurance

No GRI Standards Disclosures Sub-indicators under “shall” requirement  
(referenced as per GRI Standards)

Scope

e) Contextual information necessary to understand the 
data and how the data has been compiled. 

2.2 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 
306-4, the reporting organization shall:

2.2.1 Exclude effluent, unless required by national legislation 
to be reported under total waste; 

2.2.2 Use 1000 kilograms as the measure for a metric ton.

12 306-5 Waste directed to 
disposal

a) Total weight of waste directed to disposal in metric 
tons, and a breakdown of this total by composition of 
the waste. 

Group

b) Total weight of hazardous waste directed to disposal 
in metric tons, and a breakdown of this total by the 
following disposal operations: 

 i.   Incineration (with energy recovery); 
 ii.  Incineration (without energy recovery); 
 iii. Landfilling; 
 iv. Other disposal operations. 

c) Total weight of non-hazardous waste directed to 
disposal in metric tons, and a breakdown of this total by 
the following disposal operations: 

 i.   Incineration (with energy recovery); 
 ii.  Incineration (without energy recovery); 
 iii. Landfilling; 
 iv. Other disposal operations. 

d) For each disposal operation listed in Disclosures 306-5-b 
and 306-5-c, a breakdown of the total weight in metric 
tons of hazardous waste and of non-hazardous waste 
directed to disposal: 

 i.  Onsite; 
 ii. Offsite. 

e) Contextual information necessary to understand the 
data and how the data has been compiled.

2.4 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 
306-5, the reporting organization shall:

2.4.1 Exclude effluent, unless required by national legislation 
to be reported under total waste;

2.4.2 Use 1000 kilograms as the measure for a metric ton.

161U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Appendix

External Assurance

No GRI Standards Disclosures Sub-indicators under “shall” requirement  
(referenced as per GRI Standards)

Scope

13 401-1 New employee 
hires and employee 
turnover

a) Total number and rate of new employee hires during the 
reporting period, by age group, gender and region.

Group 

b) Total number and rate of employee turnover during the 
reporting period, by age group, gender and region.

14 404-1 Average hours of 
training per year 
per employee

a) Average hours of training that the organization’s 
employees have undertaken during the reporting  
period, by: 

 i.  gender;  
  ii. employee category. 

Group

15 404-3 Percentage 
of employees 
receiving regular 
performance 
and career 
development 
review

a) Percentage of total employees by gender and by 
employee category who received a regular performance 
and career development review during the reporting 
period.

Group

16 405-1 Diversity of 
governance bodies 
and employees

a) Percentage of individuals within the organization’s 
governance bodies in each of the following diversity 
categories: 

 i.   Gender; 
 ii.   Age group: under 30 years old, 30-50 years old, over 

50 years old; 
 iii.  Other indicators of diversity wherever relevant (such 

as minority or vulnerable groups).

Group

b) Percentage of employees per employee category in 
each of the following diversity categories: 

 i.  Gender; 
 ii.   Age group: under 30 years old, 30-50 years old, over 

50 years old; 
 iii.  Other indicators of diversity wherever relevant  

(such as minority or vulnerable groups). 

162U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Appendix

External Assurance

UOB Management’s responsibilities
UOB Management is responsible for selecting The Criteria, and presenting the Subject Matter in accordance with  
The Criteria, in all material respects. This responsibility includes establishing and maintaining internal controls, 
maintaining adequate records, and making estimates that are relevant to the preparation of the Subject Matter 
information, such that it is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

EY’s responsibilities
Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on the Subject Matter based on the procedures we 
performed and evidence we obtained.

We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements 
3000 (“ISAE 3000”) issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board, and the terms of reference 
for this engagement as agreed with UOB on 15 December 2022. Those standards require that we plan and perform 
our engagement to obtain limited assurance about whether, in all material respects, the Subject Matter is presented 
in accordance with The Criteria, and to issue a report. The nature, timing, and extent of the procedures selected 
depend on our judgment, including assessment of the risk of material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

We believe that the evidence obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our limited assurance 
conclusions.

Our independence and quality control
We have maintained our independence and confirm that we have met the requirements of the Accounting and Corporate 
Regulatory Authority (“ACRA”) Code of Professional Conduct and Ethics for Public Accountants and Accounting Entities 
(“ACRA Code”), which is founded on the fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and 
due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour.

EY also applies International Standard on Quality Control 1, Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews 
of Financial Statements, and Other Assurance and Related Services Engagements, and accordingly maintains a 
comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with 
ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements.

Description of procedures performed
Procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing from, and are less in extent 
than for, a reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently, the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance 
engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had a reasonable assurance 
engagement been performed. Our procedures were designed to obtain a limited level of assurance on which to base 
our conclusion and do not provide all the evidence that would be required to provide a reasonable level of assurance.

Although we considered the effectiveness of management’s internal controls when determining the nature and 
extent of our procedures, our assurance engagement was not designed to provide assurance on internal controls.  
Our procedures did not include testing controls or performing procedures relating to checking aggregation or 
calculation of data within IT systems.

A limited assurance engagement consists of making enquiries, primarily of persons responsible for preparing the 
Subject Matter and related information, and applying analytical and other appropriate procedures. 

163U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Appendix

External Assurance

Our procedures included:

1. Inquiries with UOB’s Sustainability teams to
 a. Understand principal business operations, 
 b. Appreciate key sustainability issues and developments, 
 c. Map out information flow for sustainability reporting and the relevant controls, 
 d. Identify data providers with their responsibilities, and 
 e. Recognise the likelihood of possible manipulation of sustainability information and data.

2. Virtual meetings with UOB’s data stakeholders and management.

3.  Process walk-through of systems and processes for data aggregation and reporting, with relevant personnel to 
understand the quality of checks and control mechanisms, assessing and testing the controls in relation to the 
Subject Matter in the Report.

4.  Interviews with employees and management in UOB (Group Corporate Sustainability Office, Group Human Resources, 
Group Finance, Group Legal, Group Compliance, Group Risk Management, Group Strategic Communications and 
Brand, and Group Corporate Real Estate Services) to understand key sustainability issues related to the select 
indicators and processes for the collection and accurate reporting of performance information.

5.  Obtaining of documentation through sampling methods to verify assumptions, estimations and computations 
made by management in relation to the Subject Matter in the Report.

6.  Checking that data and statements had been correctly transcribed from corporate systems and/or supporting 
evidence, into the Report.

7. Obtaining of third-party reports and confirmations in relation to the Subject Matter in the Report.

8. Relying on UOB’s management representation letter on the Subject Matter in the Report.

We also performed such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.

Conclusion
Based on our procedures and the evidence obtained, we are not aware of any material modifications that should 
be made to the Subject Matter as of 22 March 2023 for the year ended 31 December 2022 in order for it to be in 
accordance with The Criteria.

Restricted use
This report is intended solely for the information and use of the Management of UOB and is not intended to be and 
should not be used by anyone other than those specified parties.

Ernst & Young LLP

Signed for Ernst & Young LLP by
Praveen Tekchandani
Partner, Climate Change and Sustainability Services
Singapore
22 March 2023

164U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Appendix

External Assurance

United Overseas Bank Limited (“UOB”)        22 March 2023

Independent Limited Assurance Statement on UOB’s Greenhouse Gas (“GHG”) 
Emissions Statement

To the Management of UOB

Scope
We have undertaken a ‘limited assurance engagement’ of the accompanying GHG Emissions Statement of  
United Overseas Bank Limited ("UOB")'s Sustainability Report 2022 as set out in the Subject Matter and Criteria section 
below as of 15 December 2022 for the period from 1 January 2022 to 31 December 2022 (“FY2022”) (“the Report”).

Subject Matter and Criteria
The criteria (“The Criteria”) for our assurance evaluation are as follows:

• GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard for GHG inventories; and 
• ISO 14064-3: 2019 Specification with guidance for the validation and verification of GHG assertions. 

The Subject Matter is set out in the table below:

Greenhouse Gas Emissions Disclosures

No Greenhouse Gas Emissions Coverage Scope 

1 Direct (Scope 1)  
GHG emissions

•  Direct emissions from sources owned or controlled by UOB 
(e.g. stationary combustion emissions, fugitive emissions, 
mobile combustion emissions):

 • Generation of Scope 1 emissions: 5.783 thousand tCO2e
1

Group2

2 Energy indirect (Scope 2)  
GHG emissions

•  Indirect emissions from electricity consumption and 
purchased cooling3:

 •  Generation of Scope 2 emissions (location-based):  
69.313 thousand tCO2e

 •  Generation of Scope 2 emissions (market-based)4:  
1.135 thousand tCO2e

Group

3 Other indirect (Scope 3) 
emissions5

•  Indirect emissions from domestic and international air 
travel undertaken by employees for business purposes 
from, to or within Singapore, Indonesia, Malaysia, 
Thailand, Vietnam, mainland China, Hong Kong and  
South Korea:

 • Generation of Scope 3 emissions: 3.987 thousand tCO2e

Group

1 tCO2e refers to the tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent. Carbon dioxide equivalent is a standard unit for calculating GHGs such as carbon dioxide 
or methane in a common unit.

2 “Group” under the Audit scope comprises Singapore and UOB’s six key markets (Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand, Vietnam, mainland China and 
Hong Kong), and overseas branches (Australia, Brunei, Canada, India, Japan, Myanmar, Philippines, South Korea, Taiwan, United Kingdom, USA).

3 Exclude Scope 2 emissions for UOB-owned spaces that are leased to tenants (downstream assets).
4 UOB retired 133,297 Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs) for 2022. Scope 2 emissions (market-based) are residual emissions left after the offset 

by RECs. For 2022, this primarily arose from overseas branches’ Scope 2 GHG emissions. 
5 The assurance scope for other indirect (Scope 3) emissions only covers domestic and international air travel by employees. It does not include 

other categories of Scope 3.

165U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Appendix

No Greenhouse Gas Emissions Coverage Scope 
4 Total GHG emissions •  Total Scope 1, Scope 2 (location-based), Scope 3 

emissions: 79.083 thousand tCO2e
•  Total Scope 1, Scope 2 (market-based), Scope 3 emissions: 

10.905 thousand tCO2e

Group

5 Carbon credits6 • Amount of carbon credits retired: 10.905 thousand tCO2e –

UOB Management’s responsibilities
UOB Management is responsible for selecting The Criteria, and for presenting the Subject Matter in accordance 
with The Criteria, in all material respects. This responsibility includes establishing and maintaining internal controls, 
maintaining adequate records and making estimates that are relevant to the preparation of the GHG statement,  
such that it is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. 

EY’s responsibilities
Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on the Subject Matter based on the procedures we 
performed and evidence we obtained. 

We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with International Standard for Assurance Engagements 
on Greenhouse Gas Statements (“ISAE 3410”), and the terms of reference for this engagement as agreed with UOB on 
15 December 2022. Those standards require that we plan and perform our engagement to obtain limited assurance 
about whether, in all material respects, the Subject Matter is presented in accordance with The Criteria, and to issue 
a report. The nature, timing, and extent of the procedures selected depend on our judgment, including an assessment 
of the risk of material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. 

We believe that the evidence obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our limited assurance 
conclusion.

Our independence and quality control
We have maintained our independence and confirm that we have met the requirements of the Accounting and Corporate 
Regulatory Authority (“ACRA”) Code of Professional Conduct and Ethics for Public Accountants and Accounting Entities 
(“ACRA Code”), which is founded on the fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and 
due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour.

EY also applies International Standard on Quality Control 1, Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews 
of Financial Statements, and Other Assurance and Related Services Engagements, and accordingly maintains a 
comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with 
ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements.

External Assurance

6 One carbon credit equals one metric tonne of carbon dioxide equivalent prevented from being emitted into the atmosphere (emissions avoidance/
reduction) or removed from the atmosphere. The carbon credits are certified under the Gold Standard (“GS”) and Verified Carbon Standard (“VCS”). 
While EY confirmed that the carbon credits have been obtained and retired by UOB, EY has not taken any action against the provider of these carbon 
credits and expresses no opinion as to whether the offset credits will result in an actual reduction in carbon dioxide equivalent.

166U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Appendix

Description of procedures performed
Procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing from, and are less in extent 
than for, a reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently, the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance 
engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had a reasonable assurance 
engagement been performed. Our procedures were designed to obtain a limited level of assurance on which to base 
our conclusion and do not provide all the evidence that would be required to provide a reasonable level of assurance.

Although we considered the effectiveness of management’s internal controls when determining the nature and 
extent of our procedures, our assurance engagement was not designed to provide assurance on internal controls.  
Our procedures did not include testing controls or performing procedures relating to checking aggregation or 
calculation of data within IT systems.

The Greenhouse Gas quantification process is subject to scientific uncertainty, which arises because of incomplete 
scientific knowledge about the measurement of GHGs. Additionally, GHG procedures are subject to estimation (or 
measurement) uncertainty resulting from the measurement and calculation processes used to quantify emissions 
within the bounds of existing scientific knowledge.

A limited assurance engagement consists of making enquiries, primarily of persons responsible for preparing the 
Subject Matter and related information, and applying analytical and other appropriate procedures.

Our procedures included:

1. Inquiries with UOB’s Sustainability teams to
 a. Understand principal business operations, 
 b. Appreciate key GHG accounting-related issues and developments, 
 c. Map out information flow for GHG reporting and the relevant controls, 
 d. Identify data providers with their responsibilities, and 
 e. Recognise the likelihood of possible manipulation of GHG accounting-related information and data.

2. Virtual meetings with UOB’s data stakeholders and management.

3.  Process walk-through of systems and processes for data aggregation and reporting, with relevant personnel to 
understand the quality of checks and control mechanisms, assessing and testing the controls in relation to the 
Subject Matter in the Report.

4. Interviews with employees and management in UOB (Group Corporate Sustainability Office and Group Corporate 
Real Estate Services) to understand key GHG accounting-related issues related to the select indicators and processes 
for the collection and accurate reporting of performance information.

5. Obtain documentation through sampling methods to verify assumptions, estimations and computations made by 
management in relation to the Subject Matter in the Report.

6. Checking that data and statements had been correctly transcribed from corporate systems and/or supporting 
evidence, into the Report.

7. Obtaining of third-party reports and confirmations in relation to the Subject Matter in the Report.

8. Relying on UOB’s management representation letter on the Subject Matter in the Report.

We also performed such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.

External Assurance

167U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



Appendix

Conclusion
Based on our procedures and the evidence obtained, we are not aware of any material modifications that should 
be made to the Subject Matter as of 22 March 2023 for the year ended 31 December 2022, in order for it to be in 
accordance with The Criteria.

Restricted use
This report is intended solely for the information and use of the Management of UOB and is not intended to be and 
should not be used by anyone other than those specified parties.

Ernst & Young LLP

Signed for Ernst & Young LLP by
Praveen Tekchandani
Partner, Climate Change and Sustainability Services
Singapore
22 March 2023

External Assurance

168U O B  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 2 2



United Overseas Bank Limited
Company Registration No.: 193500026Z

Head Office
80 Raffles Place
UOB Plaza
Singapore 048624
Tel (65) 6222 2121
Fax (65) 6536 7712

www.UOBgroup.com

facebook.com/uob
linkedin.com/company/uob
instagram.com/uobgroup
youtube.com/uob


	UOB Sustainability Report 2022
	About This Report
	Contents
	Our 2022 Snapshot
	Deputy Chairman and CEO’s Statement
	Our Commitment to Net Zero
	Our Approach
	Sustainability Strategy
	Sustainability Governance
	Stakeholder Engagement
	Material ESG Factors

	Drive Growth Sustainably
	Economic Contributions
	Sustainable Banking

	Keep Customers at the Centre
	Fair Dealing
	Data Privacy and Governance
	Customer Experience
	Financial Inclusion

	Develop Professionals of Principle
	Talent Development and Inclusion
	Workplace Safety, Health and Well-being

	Uphold Corporate Responsibility
	Governance and Risk Culture
	Regulatory Compliance
	Information Security
	Direct Environmental Impact
	Sustainable Procurement
	Community Stewardship

	Appendix
	Sustainability in Numbers
	Climate Scenario Analysis Methodology
	Recognition and Awards
	Memberships
	GRI Content Index
	SASB Index
	TCFD Index
	UN SDGs Index
	UNGC Ten Principles Index
	Glossary
	External Assurance