Contents
1. Directors, O!cers and Professional Advisers 4

2. Results at a Glance/Key Performance Indices 5

3. Group Financial Highlights 6

4. Corporate Profile and Strategy 9

5. Notice of Annual General Meeting 22

5. Awards 24

6. Founder and Chairman’s Statement 26

7. Chief Executive O!cer’s Review 30

8. Board of Directors 34

9. Directors’ Report 42

10. Statement of Corporate Responsibility 50

01

11. Corporate Governance Report 52

12. Report of the Independent Consultant to the Board of Directors on their Appraisal 67

13. Corporate Responsibility and Sustainable Banking Practices 68

14. Independent Auditor’s Limited Sustainability Assurance Report 74

Governance & Sustainability

02

15. Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities in Relation to the Financial Statements 84

16. Report of the Audit Committee 85

17. Independent Auditor’s Report 86

18. Consolidated and Separate Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income 94

19. Consolidated and Separate Statements of Financial Position 95

20. Consolidated and Separate Statement of Changes in Equity 96

21. Consolidated and Separate Statements of Cash Flows 98

22. Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements 102

Financials

03

23. Value Added Statement 242

24. Five Year Financial Summary 244

25. Share Capital History 248

26. Forms 249

Other National Disclosures

04
2



en t n nn e o t e e e 2022

4

Co o te n o t on

01



COMPANY SECRETARY Michael Osilama Otu

REGISTERED OFFICE  Zenith Bank Plc
 Zenith Heights
 Plot 84/87, Ajose Adeogun Street,
 Victoria Island, Lagos

AUDITOR  PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) Chartered Accountants 
 Landmark Towers, 5B Water Corporation Road
 Victoria Island,
 Lagos

REGISTRAR AND TRANSFER OFFICE  Veritas Registrars Limited (formerly Zenith Registrars Limited)
 Plot 89 A, Ajose Adeogun Street,
 Victoria Island,
 Lagos

Directors

Jim Ovia, CFR. Chairman

Prof. Chukuka Enwemeka** Non-Executive Director

Mr. Je"rey Efeyini** Non-Executive Director

Mr. Chuks Emma Okoh* Non-Executive Director

Mr. Gabriel Ukpeh Non-Executive Director/Independent

Engr. Mustafa Bello Non-Executive Director

Dr. Al-Mujtaba Abubakar, MFR Non-Executive Director/Independent

Dr. Omobola Ibidapo-Obe Ogunfowora Non-Executive Director/Independent

Dr. Peter Olatunde Bamkole* Non-Executive Director/Independent

Dr. Ebenezer Onyeagwu Group Managing Director/CEO

Dr. Adaora Umeoji,OON**** Deputy Managing Director

Mr. Umar Shuaib Ahmed*** Executive Director

Dr. Temitope Fasoranti Executive Director

Mr. Dennis Olisa*** Executive Director

Mr. Henry Oroh Executive Director

Mrs Adobi Nwapa* Executive Director

Mr. Akindele Ogunranti* Executive Director

*Appointed to the Board e"ective 12 April 2022
**Retired from the Board e"ective 1 July 2022
***Retired from the Board e"ective 28 December 2022
****Retired from the Board e"ective 24 February 2023

4

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Directors, O!cers and Professional Advisers



Financial Highlights

Results at a Glance/ Key Performance Indices

5

In millions of Naira 31-Dec-22 31-Dec-21 % Change 

Income statement Highlights

Interest and similar income  540,166  427,597 26%

Net interest income  366,627  320,804 14%

Impairment charge (123,252) (59,932) 106%

Operating income  624,342  569,907 10%

Operating expenses (339,692) (289,533) 17%

Pro!t before tax  284,650  280,374 2%

Pro!t after tax  223,911  244,558 -8%

Earnings Per Share (N)  7.14  7.78 -8%

Balance sheet Highlights

Gross loans and advances  4,123,966  3,501,878 18%

Customers' deposits  8,975,653  6,472,054 39%

Total assets  12,285,629  9,447,843 30%

Shareholders' fund  1,378,940  1,279,662 8%

Key ratios 

Return on average equity (ROAE) 16.8% 20.4% -18%

Return on average assets (ROAA) 2.1% 2.7% -22%

Net Interest Margin (NIM) 7.3% 6.7% 9%

Cost of funds 1.9% 1.5% 27%

Cost of risk 3.2% 1.9% 68%

Cost-to-income 54.4% 50.8% 7%

Liquidity ratio 75.0% 71.6% 5%

Loan to deposit ratio 45.9% 54.1% -15%

Capital adequacy ratio (CAR) 1.93% 21.0% -6%

Non-performing loans 4.30% 4.19% -53%



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

Marginal growth of 2% in PBT attributable to significant 
impairment charge on the back of debt restructuring 
programme in Ghana. 

 

 

 

 

 

0

50

100

150

200

250

300

2018 2019 2020 2021 2022

232 243 256
280 285

Profit before tax - Group (N'bn)

Profit after tax dropped by 8% due to increase in 
income tax expense from the Nigerian operations. 

 

 

 

 

 

0

50

100

150

200

250

2018 2019 2020 2021 2022

193
209

231 245
224

Profit after tax - Group (N'bn)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

0.00%
10.00%
20.00%
30.00%

2018 2019 2020 2021 2022

23.80% 23.80% 22.40% 20.40% 16.80%
3.30% 3.40% 3.10% 2.70% 2.10%

ROAE/ROAA

ROAE ROAA

Return on Average Equity (RoAE) and Return on Average Asset (RoAA) dropped year-on-year on the back of 
drop in profit after tax (PAT),  increased shareholders’ funds and total assets. 
 

6

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Group Financial Highlights



2.60

2.80

3.00

3.20

2018 2019 2020 2021 2022

2.80 2.80

3.00
3.10

3.20

i i en  (N)

Total deposits grew by 39% (N2, 0 bn) reflecting public 
confidence in the enith brand. The funding mix was also 
rebalanced towards more stable retail deposits. 

0
1 000
2 000
3 000
4 000
5 000
6 000
7 000
8 000
9 000

2018 2019 2020 2021 2022

3 690
4 262

5 340

6 472

8 976

ota  epo it  - Group (N'bn)

0

2 000

4 000

6 000

8 000

10 000

12 000

14 000

2018 2019 2020 2021 2022

5 956 6 347

8 481
9 448

12 286

ota  a et  - Group (N'bn)

Total assets grew by 30% (N2,838bn) to close at 
N12.3trn enhancing the Group’s revenue generating 
capacity. 

hareholders’ funds grew year-on-year by 8% 
to N1,3 9bn providing adequate buffer for 
business expansion. 

0
200
400
600
800

1000
1200
1400

2018 2019 2020 2021 2022

816
942

1 117
1 280

1 379

ota  are o er ' fun  - Group 
(N'bn)

onsistent growth in dividend per share reflecting the Group’s 
ability to deliver superior returns to shareholders.  

2.60

2.70

2.80

2.90

3.00

3.10

3.20

2018 2019 2020 2021 2022

2.80 2.80

3.00

3.10

3.20

i i en  (N)

7



8

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Group Financial Highlights



Introduction
Zenith Bank Plc has continued to win accolades 
both on the local and international fronts. 
Zenith Bank was recently named the Bank 
of the year by The Banker, Financial Times of 
London.

Zenith Bank is an international bank with 
operations in the United Kingdom, United Arab 
Emirates and three other West African countries 
apart from Nigeria, namely: Ghana, Sierra 
Leone, and The Gambia. In Nigeria, we have a 
strong franchise and reputation anchored on 
three pillars: people, technology, and service. 

Within thirty-two years of its existence, Zenith 
Bank has demonstrated resilience irrespective 
of the business/economic cycle and witnessed 
growth in virtually all areas. Its growth is 
driven principally by strategic business focus 
and a robust risk management framework. 
The group has a stable and experienced 
management team that is well positioned for 
strong execution, leading to significant market 
share opportunities. The combined intellectual 
capital and dedication of the sta", Management 
and Board have shaped Zenith Bank into the 
world-class institution that it is today.

Over the years the Zenith Bank brand has 
become synonymous with leadership in 
the use of Information and Communication 
Technology (ICT) in banking and general 
innovation in the Nigerian banking industry.

The Bank has e!ciently deployed its 
competitive edge of excellent customer 
services, size, brand name, branch network 
and  customer reach, stable management as 
well as motivated workforce, strong capital and 
liquidity base in order to e"ectively compete in 
the Nigerian banking landscape. Today, Zenith 
Bank is easily associated with the following 
attributes in the Nigerian banking industry:

9

Service

Technology

People At Zenith Bank , Our people are our most 
valuable asset. we attract, motivate and 
retain a highly talented pool of people from 
diverse backgrounds.

Technology is  the core of the business 
strategy of Zenith Bank. We depoly global 
best innovative technology infrastructure.

For us at Zenith Bank, the customer is the 
reason we are in business, and this is not a 
mere mantra. Exceptional service delivery is 
at the centre of our operations.

Corporate Profile & Strategy



Highly Skilled Personel

Innovation

Good !nancial performance

Stable and dedicated management team

Leadership in the use of Information
and Communication Technology

Strategic distribution channels

Robust risk management framework

“To 
build the 
Zenith brand 
into a reputable
international !nancial 
institution recognized 
for innovation, superior 
customer service and 
performance while 
creating premium value 

for all stakeholders”.

“ 

establish 
a presence in all 
major economic
and !nancial centres 
in Nigeria, Africa and 
indeed all over the world; 
creating premium value 
for all stakeholders”.

. Integrity

. Professionalism

.  Excellence

.  Ethics

.  Commitment
·  Transparency
·  Service

Our Vision Our Mission Our Value

10

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Corporate Profile & Strategy



Zenith Bank Group is a customer centric, innovation and 
technology enabled financial services organisation that is 
geared towards surpassing its customers’ expectations. Zenith 
has clearly defined its strategic business focus and that forms 
basis of resource allocation.

The Group operations are managed through the following:
 Core business segments
 Operations outside Nigeria
 Operations in other sectors 

a) Core Business Segments

The Bank’s core business segments provide a broad range of 
banking products and services  to both corporate and retail 
customers. 

These business activities are conducted through the following 
business units:
 Institutional and Investment Banking
 Corporate Banking
 Commercial/SMEs
 Retail Banking
 Public Sector Banking

Institutional and Investment Banking

The Institutional and Investment Banking Unit (the “IIBU”) 
manages the Group’s business relationship with other banks, 
financial institutions, multilateral agencies, securities houses, 
insurance companies, asset management companies and other 
non-bank finance companies, private equity and venture funds. 
The IIBU also assists individuals, corporations, and governments 
in  raising capital by underwriting and/or acting as the client’s 
agent in the issuance of securities as well as assisting companies 
in mergers and acquisitions processes.

The unit through its Treasury sub unit provides ancillary services 
such as market- marking, derivatives trading, fixed income 
instruments, foreign exchange, commodities and equity 
securities and manages the group’s correspondent banking 
relationships. The Treasury sub-group works closely with 
branches and various business focus groups as well as corporate 
customers and pension funds to deliver currency and fixed 
income solutions tailored specifically for their requirements. The 

Treasury sub-group focuses on creating wealth while mitigating 
interest rate and foreign exchange risks for the Zenith Group and 
its customers. It o"ers the Group’s customers a broad array of 
money market and foreign exchange services that enable them 
to carry out their business operations locally and internationally. 
The Treasury sub-group’s activities are carried out through 
subsidiary four units: the Liability and Deposit Management 
Unit, Bonds Trading Unit, Foreign Currency Trading Unit and the 
Correspondent Banking Unit.

Corporate Banking

The Group’s Corporate Banking business unit o"ers a wide 
variety of services to multinationals, large local conglomerates 
and corporate clients. The unit is focused on providing superior 
banking services and customized banking products to the top 
tier of the market. It is primarily focused on attracting, building 
and sustaining strong enduring relationships with its target 
market through the provision of innovative solutions together 
with excellent customer services to meet clients’ banking needs.

It also looks at promoting the businesses of these corporate 
clients through the provision of services to the various 
stakeholders within the value chain of these corporate clients. 
This is aimed at building long-term relationships and partnership 
with our clients.

Business Focus

11



Within Corporate Banking, industry specific desks or sub-units 
exist to facilitate the e!cient and e"ective management of the 
relationships with the unit’s corporate customers. These sub-
units include;

i) Transport and Aviation,
ii) Conglomerates
iii) Breweries & Beverages 
iv) Oil and Gas
v) Power, Infrastructure and Construction.
vi) Telecommunications and Fintechs

Commercial/SMEs

The Commercial/SME unit focuses on all small, medium and 
micro enterprises (MSMEs), and other commercial businesses 
which also includes all unincorporated entities (such as societies, 
clubs, churches, mosques etc).

It o"ers loans and advances in the form of overdrafts, 
import finance lines, term loans and leases to the customers 
especially those involved in the sales and distribution of fast 
moving consumer good items and key distributors to major 
manufacturing companies. Credit facilities o"ered by the unit are 
priced higher than those extended to corporate or institutional 
banking customers in order to compensate for the relatively 
higher risk.

The Group o"ers a wide range of generic banking services 
and products to meet the needs of the customers in this sub-
sector. These include various lending and deposit products 
such as working capital lines (overdraft, invoice discounting, 
invoice/contract financing, stock financing, etc), lease finance 
lines, Bonds and Guarantee lines, current account, domiciliary 
accounts and fixed deposit accounts. Ancillary services rendered 
to this sub-sector include; local drafts issuance, local inter/intra 
bank funds transfers payroll services, bill payments, safe custody, 
duty/tax payments and remittances and so on. The group aims 
to build a value chain synergy between this sub-sector and the 
corporate banking clients thereby promoting businesses across 
the various business units.

SME grow my business

The Group’s MSME business has continued to grow on the 
upward trajectory.

MSMEs remain the growth engine of any developing economy 
especially, contributing significantly to the Nigerian GDP.  MSMEs 
therefore provide a huge base to deliver value innovation and 
o"er compelling propositions and engagements for business 
growth and contribute more to National Development.

To achieve these and thereby fulfill this renewed commitment to 
support smaller businesses, the bank is collaborating with service 
providers, digital and technology companies in partnerships 
that focus on addressing the major challenges of this sector 
providing digital skills and sector-based trainings, o"ering 
business solutions and tools that help businesses find customers 
and build loyalty, access to business loans in a swifter manner as 
well as earn savings from discounted business expenses.
  
These in addition to the adoption of our customized SME 
card, enrollment on our electronic channels of Zenith Mobile 
App, Corporate Internet Banking and e-collection solutions 
gradually sets the tone for small businesses to commence own 
digital transformation, at their pace.

Also, within the year, leveraging on our partnership with Google, 
Zenith Bank trained 590 SME business owners in two separate 
cohorts on di"erent subjects including – business growth 
strategies; digital marketing; increasing your sales, e"ective 
financial planning and pitching for success and certificates were 
duly awarded. In another collaborative e"orts with Google, we 
visited 10 Universities within the year, where final year students 

12

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Corporate Profile & Strategy



were taught the act of entrepreneurship, brand building and how 
to own and run a successful enterprise and staying productive 
online In partnership with VISA, we launched the Zenith Bank 
SME Visa Business Card, a customized card solution embedded 
with several o"erings including Business Expense Management, 
Card Controls features and other merchant solution o"erings.

Within the year, we also launched our SME Arena, an avenue 
where platform owners and solution providers can showcase 
their various o"erings to Zenith SME Business communities. We 
hope to build the SME Arena into a huge market place to serve 
as a catalyst to achieve the Bank’s objective as a leading SME 
Bank in Nigeria.

Retail Banking

The Group’s strategic objective is to become the leading retail 
bank in Nigeria. To this end, our key strategic drivers are; customer 
engagement and value innovation. The Group provides retail 
banking products and services through its extensive branch 
network and ever widening array of digital channels driven by 
cutting edge technology. The Group’s retail strategy includes 
categorizing the retail market into two major broad segments 
namely; PRESTIGE (rich and a#uent) and WAVE (retail a#uent, 
core middle, and mass).
 
These two broad segments drive the Group’s design of retail 
deposits products and services which range from standard 
to specialized savings, current, domiciliary and investment 
accounts.

Specialized products include the Zenith Children Accounts 
(ZECA), Individual Current and Savings Accounts, Easysave 
Classic and Premium Accounts (financial inclusion customers), 
Aspire Savings Accounts  (tertiary institution students), Timeless 
Accounts (senior citizens) and Platinum and Gold Current 
Accounts (high net worth individuals) etc.

Also, the Group o"ers a wide range of digital products and 
services such as internet banking, mobile banking services 
(mobile app), *966 EazyBanking, Zenith Scan to Pay, EazyMoney 
etc. Furthermore, the Group o"ers other channels such as ATMs, 

cards and POS terminals which have been designed to meet 
the ever-changing needs of the retail segment of the banking 
industry.

In addition, the Group o"ers credit products including personal 
loans, advances, mortgages, asset finance, and credit cards 
through our traditional channels. 

The Group recognizes that attracting, winning and retaining 
this segment of customers is through the development of 
customer value propositions (CVPs) unique to each customer 
sub-segment. To ensure e"ective delivery of these CVPs through 
branches as well as through digital channels, the Group employs
advanced analytics to identify micro segments and customer 
spending patterns. Also, in order to maximize customer 
acquisition, customer growth and customer retention, the 
Group constantly carries out environmental scanning and 
closely monitors key trends in the retail industry.

The Bank has deployed agency banking services across the 36 
states as well as 774 Local Government Areas of the federation 
to ensure the bank has a touch point at every location in the 
country. The Bank has on-boarded about 93,257 agents as at 
31st December 2022. This is to service mostly customers who 
might not be able to visit a bank  branch because of distance. 
These agents provide access to basic financial services such 
as account opening, cash-in, cash-out, bills payments and 
electronic transfers.

Also, the Group collaborates with selected Fintechs and Micro 
Finance Banks to make the Group’s innovative products and 
services available to their customers and vice versa.

The Group regularly reviews its retail strategies to ensure e!cient 
execution with a view to tracking key retail performance metrics 
on the journey to becoming the leader in the retail space in an 
ever-changing banking landscape.

The Group will continue to leverage on cutting edge technology 
to deliver best in class retail products and services that will 
be adapted to the digital demands of retail customers. The 
Group will also continue to enable market leading capabilities, 
developing best-in-class digital products and solutions as well 
as increasing speed to market supported by agility of innovation.

Public Sector Banking

The Public Sector Group (PSG) provides services to meet the 
banking needs of all tiers of government (Federal, State and 
Local Governments), ministries, departments and agencies, The 
focus of the PSG business is all institutions operating under the 
auspices of Government, including those within the executive, 
legislative and judiciary branches, and at the Federal, State and/
or Local Government levels. Some of the products and services 
o"ered to the public sector include revenue collection schemes, 
cash management, deposit and investment, electronic payroll 

13



systems, o"shore remittances and foreign exchange and project 
finance.

b)          Operations outside Nigeria

The Group’s overseas subsidiaries carry out banking operations, 
providing traditional banking products and services tailored 
to meet the needs of those customers who are either located 
in countries where the subsidiaries are based or who have 
a business presence in such locations. Each of the Group’s 
overseas subsidiaries act as intermediary between the financially 
surplus and deficit units in their locations, o"ering a wide range 
of products and services to attract deposits and extend loans 
and advances. The Group’s overseas subsidiaries include the 
following:

Zenith Bank UK Limited

Zenith Bank UK Limited (“Zenith UK”) leverages on trade and 
investment flows  between Nigeria and Europe to intermediary 
banking services which include post shipment finance, back-
to-back letters of credit, standby letters of credit and contract 
guarantees. Zenith UK also provides facilities for working capital 
and capital expenditure directly to Nigerian borrowers through 
participation in syndicated loans. The subsidiary acts as the 

contact point for correspondent banking relationships with 
Nigerian and other West African banks by providing facilities for 
letter of credit  confirmation and treasury products.

The operational mandate of Zenith UK also enables it to source 
deposits from institutions such as parastatals, corporate and 
institutional counterparties to support its funding needs. 
Through e"ective treasury management, Zenith UK trades 
in fixed income instruments which include government and 
institutional bonds and certificates of deposit. Zenith UK also has 
a wealth management unit which is dedicated to  o"ering long-
term investment advisory and wealth management solutions to 
its customers.

Zenith Bank West African Subsidiaries

Zenith Bank (Ghana) Limited, Zenith Bank (Sierra Leone) 
Limited and Zenith Bank (The Gambia) Limited make up our 
West African subsidiaries. They provide comprehensive trade 
services to major global corporations and medium sized 
enterprises operating in the region. With the support of the 
parent company and Zenith UK which operate an account with 
Citigroup, the West African subsidiaries have both a global reach 
and local market knowledge which allows them to provide 
high quality importing and exporting intermediary services to 
to their respective customers. Solutions are customized to each 
subsidiary’s customers’ needs, integrating letters of credit and 
other trade finance alternatives or products for an end-to-end 
trade proposition.

The West African subsidiaries source deposits from retail, 
corporate and institutional customers to support their respective 
funding needs. Each subsidiary also lends to customers in 
di"erent sectors of their respective economies, through term 
loans, short term overdrafts, trade finance facilities and bonds 
and guarantees. Investment in fixed income instruments such as 
treasury bills, government and corporate bonds also form part 
of the banking activities carried out by each of the West African 
subsidiaries.

14

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Corporate Profile & Strategy



c)          Operations in other sectors 

The Group’s Pension Custodian services business is conducted 
through Zenith Pension Custodians Limited (“Zenith Pensions”) 
which o"ers pension management and custodian services to 
pension funds administrators (PFAs). As at 31 December 2022, 
total funds under its custody amounted to approximately N6,266 
trillion. Zenith Pensions has 132 funds under its custody. The 
main service o"erings provided by Zenith Pensions include; 
collecting pension contributions, paying beneficiaries from their 
respective retirement saving accounts, safe keeping of assets, 
managing real estate assets of the funds under its custody and 
the settlement of transactions in financial investments such as 
equities, bonds, and treasury bills. Zenith Pensions also provides 
administrative and record-keeping services to the funds under 
its custody on a day-today basis.

Zenith Nominees Limited provides nominees, trustees, 
administrators, and executorship services for non-pension 
assets. It started operations in 2018. As at 31 December 2022, 
total funds under its custody amounted to approximately N514 
billion

Strategic objectives 
and service delivery

The strategic objectives of Zenith Bank remains the continuous 
improvement of its capacity to meet the customers’ changing 
and increasing banking needs as well as sustain high quality 
growth in a volatile business environment through:

 Strategic and continuing investment in branch network 
expansion to reach out to existing and potential 
customers where digital technology alone is not 
adequate to meet this.

 Increasing investment in technology infrastructure that 
brings banking services to all nooks and crannies of the 
nation with the use of agents ensuring our banking 
services can reach the last mile.

 Continuous investment and deployment of state of the 
art technology and ICT platform

 Continue to seek, employ and retain the best personnel 
available

 Continuous investment in training and re- training of our 
personnel

 Maintain and reinforce our core customer service 
delivery charter

 Sustain strong profitability and ensure adequate Return 
on Equity (ROE)

 Remain conservative but innovative
 Sustain strong balance sheet size with adequate liquidity 

and capital base
 Sustain our brand and premium customer services
 Cautious and synergistic global expansion
 Remain customer service focused
 Continuous emphasis on use of technology as a 

competitive tool
 Maintain strong risk management and corporate 

governance practices Locally, branches will continue 
to be located at commercial business districts in all the 
state of  the federation, taking into consideration the 
existence of the following:

 Commercial activities, enough to ensure  that the branch 
breaks even within a year.

 Synergistic loop based on business line (i.e. ensuring that 
the branches are located in areas having similar business 
lines to facilitate needed synergy).

 Convenience to our customers.

Our international outlook will focus on consolidating our 
presence in our selected African and European markets while 
we continue to evaluate opportunities in other markets as well.

The key strategies that will be used to drive our vision and 
mission are as follows:

1. Continue to deliver superior and tailor- made service 
experience to all our customers at all times

2. Continue to develop deeper and broader relationship 
with all clients and strive to understand their individual 
and industry peculiarities with a view to developing 
specific solutions for each segment of our customer 
base

3. Continue to expand our operations by adding new 
distribution channels especially in the digital space

4. Consolidate our leadership as a banking service provider 
in Nigeria by continuing to build on long standing 
relationships, capabilities and the strength of our brand 
and reputation to drive our international business 
network expansion

5. Continually enhance our processing and systems 
platforms to deliver new capabilities and improve 
operational e!ciencies and achieve economies of scale.

15



6. Maintain strong risk management and corporate 
governance culture

7. Ensure proper pricing of our products and services
8. Increase our market share of retail banking customers 

and deploy our E-business tools and enhanced customer 
service

9. Develop compelling customer value proposition (CVP) 
for our various customer segments that ensures we can 
optimize our average revenue per customer.

10.  Continuous investment in technology infrastructure that 
is essential to support our growing retail customer base 
and further strengthen our existing payment platforms  
to increase digital banking and respond appropriately to 
the cashless policy necessitated by the naira redesign.

11. Increasing corporate finance activities to boost fee 
income.

12. Leveraging on our existing branch network to drive our 
product delivery and deposit liability growth.

13. Leveraging on our understanding of specific trade and 
correspondent banking requirements to drive business 
relationships with banks and financial institutions in the 
West African sub region to encourage them to use our 
foreign subsidiaries for businesses they are currently 
transacting with other banks.

14. Generating more foreign exchange to support our 
trade business by focusing on non-oil export customers’ 
business in view of the Central Bank of Nigeria’s initiative 
to generate $200 billion from non-oil exports in three to 
five years.

15. Continue its leadership of the corporate banking 
business in its chosen territories, ensuring our customers 
receive best-in-class services and maximize returns of all 
stakeholders.

16. Our foreign subsidiaries will target companies that 
currently have trade partners in Nigeria and other 

locations where we have presence across the globe and 
process their trade transactions through the Zenith Bank 
network. This approach is aimed at encouraging cross 
border marketing and the routing of a portion of their 
international trade transactions through the Group. 
The idea is to demonstrate to the local companies that 
their relationship with Zenith Bank in their country and 
dealing with Zenith Bank in another country will be 
mutually beneficial.

 “Our Strategic Plan is part of a process of our development, 
and attempts to engender a commitment to continuous 
improvement, by focusing and harnessing the energies 
of    everyone in the group. We believe that the concepts 
of strategic readiness, life-long learning and community 
engagement encourage and support quality in all 
aspects of the Bank’s performance.”

17. Investment in core banking infrastructure and other 
banking systems infrastructure to position the bank for 
the future as it expands and grows its business across 
the commercial and retail segments.

18. The lending businesses in all our subsidiaries will focus 
primarily on international and export trade transactions. 
It will involve discounting international trade bills 
for companies and also providing short-term credits 
to financial institutions that use the bank as their 
correspondent bank.

During the year the Bank hosted its second edition of the 
Zenith Bank Tech fair on the 22nd and 23rd November 2022, 
with the theme, “Future Forward 2.0”. The major objective of the 
tech fair is to provide global and local technology brands the 
platform to showcase their leading and disruptive technologies. 
The Technology fair comprised of 3 major events namely, 
presentations and discussions by participants, tech exhibitions, 
and hackathon (christened “Zecathon”).

16

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Corporate Profile & Strategy



The strategic objectives of the Group in the next five 
years include:
 to be amongst and remain one of the top 

tier  banks in Africa in terms of profitability, 
balance sheet size, risk assets quality, 
financial stability, and operational e!ciency.

 Exploring viable market entry/expansions 
into European and Sub-saharan African 
markets to further provide a bridge/platform 
for consummating our existing customers’ 
transactions across Africa and Europe while 
also acquiring new customers in the new geographical regions.

 Creating a digital one-stop payment ecosystem that can service the payments and collection needs of our teaming MSMEs in 
the Sub-Saharan African markets.

 The Group will look to strengthen its retail banking business by consolidating on its retail banking transformation exercise 
which has significantly grown its retail banking revenue, deposit liabilities and risk assets and continue to obtain a significant 
share of the retail banking industry in Nigeria.

 Improving its capacity to meet its customers’ changing and increasing banking needs as well as sustain high quality growth 
despite the volatile business  environment.

Enhancing the Group’s internal operating systems to reduce costs

The Group expects to continue its drive to deploy the latest innovations in banking technology in order to maintain its position at the 
forefront of the changing banking landscape in Nigeria. In addition, the Group will aim to enhance its systems and internal procedures, 
in order to be able to improve its levels of customer service by delivering improved operational capabilities and e!ciencies, whilst at 
the same time achieving economies of scale.

The Group’s increased deployment of digital channels and agency banking means more customers are able to carry out banking 
transactions without visiting its branches, thereby reducing operating costs. From an internal operating perspective, the Group has 
automated most of the operational activities, such as cheque confirmation and clearing processes, account opening processes, credit 
administration process and internal audit processes. These automated processes have started yielding results in the form of reduced 
turnaround times in all operational activities as well as a reduction in operating costs.

In addition to the above, other strategies that have been adopted to streamline our cost include: 

Business Locations

As at 31 December 2022, the geographical spread of the Group’s business locations is as follows:

Geographical Locations Branches Cash Centres Non-Banking Operations

Federal Republic of Nigeria  396 155 3

Republic of Ghana 30 10                      -   

United Kingdom 2             -                        -   

Sierra Leone 7 1                      -   

The Gambia 7 7 -

China Representative O!ce                  1   - -

Total 443 173 3

Market and 
business strategy

17



As shown above, the Group also has 188 o"- site locations, 
strategically located in various commercial centres around 
Nigeria and the African countries in addition to its network 
of branches. These o"-site locations comprise small business 
o!ces such as kiosks/cash o!ces and are located in the airports, 
university campuses, large shopping malls or the premises of 
core customers of the Group. These o"-site locations only o"er 
deposit taking services and would eventually diminish in number 
as the CBN fully implements several cashless policies such as 
the e Naira launched in October 2021. However, we expect an 
increase in e-centres where various electronic transactions can 
be consummated as well as agents for its financial inclusion 
customers.

ATM network

The Group has a total of 2,108 ATM at strategic locations such as 
airports, university campuses, large shopping malls and premises 
of large manufacturing firms employing large  numbers of 
workers. Due to collaboration and shared services arrangements 
which the Bank has with other banks, ATM cards issued by the 
Bank are accepted by the ATM machines of other institutions.

Collaborating with training companies to redesign our training 
needs into  an electronic format that allows it to be deployed 
electronically to all our sta" (by so doing  de-emphasizing  
classroom and physical trainings) and thereby improving 
e!ciency and lowering training costs, power and energy costs. 
The Bank also collaborates with other card issuing agencies to 
o"er internationally recognised cards, such as MasterCard, Visa 
and Verve, in di"erent currencies to their customers.

Distribution Channels

Other distribution channels which the Group uses include 
electronic and digital channels which o"ers products and 
services, including electronic fund transfers at points of sale 
(POS), telephone banking, internet banking, visa telebanking, 
mobile banking, agency banking and the Group’s call centres. 
Furthermore, in addition to being able to use its branches, 
ATMs and the network of third party ATMs available throughout 
Nigeria under arrangements between the Bank and third party 

vendors, the Group’s customers are currently entitled to use 
the Bank’s card products to pay for goods and services at trade 
service outlets throughout Nigeria and also online shopping.
The Group has invested significantly in software which enables 
electronic product platforms to interface with core banking 
applications, hardware to enable data storage and to improve 
processing speed and in training of its IT sta". [The Group has also 
developed electronic delivery systems in order  to implement 
multiple delivery channels to its  customers, including its ATM 
networks, on mobile devices and over the internet.] The Group’s 
range of internet and mobile banking products and services 
o"er customers services such as collections and remittances of 
bills (including utility bills), real time internet banking, purchase 
of mobile phone airtime, funds transfers, cheque requisitions and 
confirmations, balance enquiries, transfer of/ receipt of funds 
between Visa Credit Cards and Prepaid Cards, and statement 
services.

Specific electronic products o"ered by the Group include:

 Zenith Scan to Pay – This is a quick response (QR) code 
solution which involves customers scanning merchants 
QR displayed in their stores or on their websites using a 
smart device.

 *966*911# – This is a distress code to be dialed by 
Zenith customers to automatically block their accounts 
where customers’ smart phones has been stolen or 
privacy details have been compromised.

 *966*60# – This allows you to perform other self service. 
These include retrieve card PIN, Block Cards, manage 
card less withdrawal, select preferred USSD account 
to debit, perform transaction above N100k via USSD 
subject to signing an indemnity, activate agent banking 
activities i.e cash in and cash out and perform USSD on 
POS.

 
 USSD on POS – This allows customers to make 

payments at merchant stores using *966# EazyBanking 
even without their payment cards (debit, credit, prepaid)

18

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Corporate Profile & Strategy



 Corporate i-Bank - a secure online solution that allows 
corporate customers to carry- out banking transactions 
on the internet.

 Zenith Payroll (Branch i-Bank) – automates  the 
[end-to-end] payroll process of the Group’s customers 
which eliminates the manual processes involved in the 
generation of monthly payroll while also remitting funds 
electronically to sta" accounts. The platform provides, 
database backup, payroll reports, customization option, 
secure payment authorization and salary payments.

 Xpath (Customised Branch Collections) allows 
customers to collect or receive remittance from their 
key distributors and customers through any branch 
of the Group. The platform also enables customers to 
capture specific information relating to their account. 
Other features of the product include the   provision of 
electronic receipts, PIN Vending and direct integration.

 Internet Banking - a real-time solution that    provides 
customers with access to their account 24 hours a day, 7 
days a week via the internet. 

 GlobalPay - a convenient, flexible and secure platform 
for receiving payments through the internet. This 
platform accepts  multi-currency transactions and also 
provides online transaction monitoring capabilities; and  
Electronic Multicard – this product enables merchants 
to receive payments from customers when they use 
a bank card issued either by the Group or another 
institution recognised by the Group on this platform. 
The platform provides additional benefits to customers 
as it enables merchants to accept payment after banking 
hours, provides online transaction monitoring, can be 
customised to capture specific data and provides an 
alternative mode  of payment.

 The Zenith Bank Virtual Card - The Zenith Bank Virtual 
Card is specifically designed for web transactions and 

can be  used to shop online (accepted locally and 
internationally), pay bills and subscriptions etc. The 
Zenith Bank virtual card can be used over Internet 
Banking and the USSD platform (*966#).

 Visa Telebanking – this innovative o"ering on the 
bank’s website allows customers to transfer/receive 
funds between Visa Credit and Prepaid Cards. It provides 
real time option for funds transfer between di"erent 
parties and allows you to use your Visa Card account 
online.

 *966# EazyBanking - is a convenient, fast, secure, and 
a"ordable way to access your bank account 24 hours a 
day, 7 days a week through your mobile phone without 
internet data and is available to all individual account 
holders with any phone that runs on the GSM platform 
and runs with debit cards.

 Aspire Lite is a new product specifically designed for 
customers who are between 16 - 25years and are willing 
to open an Aspire account but unable to provide the 
necessary documents (valid ID/Admission letter/school 
ID).

 Wallet on CEVA is an additional service to agency 
banking platform. Customers without BVN are allowed 
to open wallet and perform banking transactions. The 
services are available are; withdrawal on wallet, and 
deposit on wallet at agent locations. As an industry 
leader in Digital Finance, the Bank launched the Zenith 
Intelligent Virtual Assistant (ZiVA), an upgraded Mobile 
App and the ‘Pay with Transfer on POS’ in response to the 
markets demands and the ever changing lifestyles of our 
customers.

19



 The Zenith Intelligent Virtual Assistant (ZiVA) 

enables banking services to be o"ered on WhatsApp, 
and subsequently across other social media platforms.  
It leverages artificial intelligence to provide transactional 
and support services to customers of the bank such 
as bills payment, funds transfer, account opening, 
balance check, dispute log and other value-added 
services. ZiVA is designed for existing and prospective 
individual account holders, who today have adopted 
the WhatsApp platform as preferred destination for 
online banking services. It is a reliable, convenient, and 
more “personal” medium of performing basic banking 
transactions, on their mobile devices. The launch is a 
response by the bank to banking on social media. 

 The Zenith Mobile App was more 
recently upgraded to include 
features that make banking more 
interactive, intuitive, seamless, 
exciting, and productive. Life really 
has become mobile. The market 
keeps experiencing a significant 
movement in terms of volume 
of transactions on the mobile 
applications. The mobile 
have become an everyday 
necessity, and banks are 
constantly raising the bars. 

Most of the mobile banking applications have become 
full-fledged and service mobile banking powerhouses. 
They provide many of the same banking services as a 
brick and mortar bank without the long queues and 
long waits.

 The enhanced Zenith Mobile boast of Customers 
Personal finance manager (PFM), editable profile page, 
forex calculator and a lifestyle page amongst other 
interesting and exciting new features.

 Pay with Transfer on POS’ terminal is an industry 
first, pioneered by the Bank in 2021. This leverages the 
advantage in the market today where customers have 
adopted transfers as a faster means of making payments 
for goods and services, person to person and person to 
business. The POS typically today allows for only card 
payments on the terminals. 

 SME Arena is a one stop shop for business owners to 
enjoy product and services, discounted o"erings from 
selected partners from SME Arena 

 
 SME Business Card is a debit card that help SMEs 

distinguish personal expenses from business expenses. 
It also o"ers discounted prices at select merchant 
locations.

 Net Pos 2-in-1 is a portable dual function android 
device that acts as a mobile phone and means of card 
payment collections for SMEs. However, this service 
enables transfers to the POS and a receipt is generated 
afterwards as proof of payment, thus eliminating dispute 
situations of non-receipt or confirmation of payment for 
goods and services at merchant’s locations. This service 
is cardless and contactless payment, keeping with the 
realities of our time which the COVID 19 pandemic has 
thrown at the market.

20

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Corporate Profile & Strategy



... THË ÏDËÅL WÅŸ TØ SÅVË FØR ŸØÜR ÇHÏLD’S FÜTÜRË.
PRODUCT FEATURES & BENEFITS

www.zenithbank.com/zecaOther National Disclosures04



22

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Thirty-Second Annual 
General Meeting of Zenith Bank Plc will hold virtually via www.
zenithbank.com/32AGM at 9.00 a.m. on Tuesday the 2nd day of 
May, 2023 to transact the following business:

ORDINARY BUSINESS

1.  To present and consider the Bank’s Audited Accounts for 
the financial year ended 31st December, 2022, the Reports 
of the Directors, Auditors and Audit Committee thereon.

2. To declare a final dividend.

3. To approve the appointment of the following Directors:

(a) Peter Olatunde Bamkole as Independent 
Non-Executive Director

(b.) Mr. Chuks Emma Okoh as Non-Executive Director

(c.) Mrs. Adobi Stella Nwapa as Executive Director

(d.) Mr. Anthony Akindele Ogunranti as Executive Director

 The appointment of the Directors have been approved by 
the Central Bank of Nigeria.

 The Profile of the aforementioned Directors are available in 
the Annual Report and also on the Bank’s website at www.
zenithbank.com.

4. To re-elect the following Directors who retire by rotation at 
this meeting

(i) Dr. Omobola Ibidapo-Obe Ogunfowora

(ii)  Mr. Gabriel Ukpeh

(iii)  Dr. Temitope Fasoranti

5. To authorize the Directors to fix the remuneration of the 
Auditors.

6. To disclose the remuneration of Managers of the bank.

7. To elect members of the Audit Committee.

SPECIAL BUSINESS

8.  That Dr. Al-Mujtaba Abubakar, MFR, who has attained the 
age of 70 years since the last general meeting be re-elected 
as an Independent Non-Executive Director of the bank.

9.  To consider and if thought fit, to pass the following as 
ordinary resolution:

 “That the remuneration of the Directors of the Bank for the 
year ending December 31, 2023 be and is hereby fixed at 
N30 million only” for each Director.

 Dated this 31st day of March, 2023.

NOTES:

1 . PROXY: 

 A member of the company entitled to attend and vote 
at the general meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy in 
his stead. All instruments of proxy should be completed, 
stamped and deposited at the o"ce of the Company’s 
Registrars, Veritas Registrars Limited, 89A, Ajose 
Adeogun Street, Victoria Island, Lagos State not later 
than 24 hours before the time of holding the meeting. 
Additionally, Shareholders may nominate any of the 
Directors as proxy.

 Note however that a proxy need not be a member of the 
company.

Notice of Annual General Meeting



23

2  Virtual Meeting Link

 Further to the signing into law of the Business 
Facilitation (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, which 
allows public companies to hold meetings 
electronically, this AGM would be held virtually. 
The Virtual Meeting Link for the Annual General 
Meeting which will be live-streamed at www.
zenithbank.com/32AGM, will also be available on 
the Company’s website at www.zenithbank.com 
and other social media platforms for the bene!t of 
Shareholders.

3.  Closure of Register of Members

 The Register of Members and Transfer Books of 
the Company will be closed on April 17th, 2023, 
to enable the Registrar prepare for the payment of 
dividend.

4.  Dividend Warrants

 If approved, dividend warrants for the sum of 
N2.90K for every share of 50K (bringing the total 
dividend for the !nancial year ended December 
31, 2022 to N3.20K) will be paid via e-mandate on 
the 2nd May, 2023, to shareholders whose names 
are registered in the register of members at the 
close of business on the 14th day of April, 2023. 
Shareholders are advised to forward particulars 
of their account details to the Registrar to enable 
direct credit of their dividend on same day. Note 
however, that holders of the Company’s Global 
Depository Receipts listed on the London Stock 
Exchange will receive their dividend payments 
after the local payment date.

5.  Audit Committee

 In accordance with Section 404(6) of the 
Companies and Allied Matters Act, 2020, any 
shareholder may nominate another shareholder 
for appointment to the Audit Committee.

 Such nomination should be in writing and should 
reach the Company Secretary at least 21 days 
before the Annual General Meeting.

6.  Rights of Shareholders/Securities’ Holders to ask Questions 

 Shareholders/Securities’ Holders have a right to ask questions 
not only at the Meeting, but also in writing prior to the Meeting, 
and such questions must be submitted to the Company on or 
before the 28th day of April, 2023.

7.  Unclaimed Dividend Warrants and Share Certi!cates

 Shareholders are hereby informed that a number of share 
certi!cates and dividend warrants have been returned to the 
Registrars as “unclaimed”. A list of all unclaimed dividend will 
be circulated with the Annual Report and Financial Statements. 
Any member a#ected by this notice is advised to write to or call 
at the o"ce of the Bank’s Registrars, Veritas Registrars Limited, 
Plot 89A, Ajose Adeogun Street, Victoria Island, Lagos during 
normal working hours.

8.  E-Dividend

 Notice is hereby given to all shareholders to open bank 
accounts for the purpose of dividend payment in line with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) directives.

 Detachable application forms for e-dividend and e-bonus 
are attached to the Annual Report to enable all shareholders 
furnish the particulars of their bank accounts/CCS details to the 
Registrars as soon as possible.

9.  Pro!le of Directors 

 The pro!le of all Directors are available for viewing on the 
bank’s website, www.zenithbank.com.

 This Notice supercedes our earlier Notice on this.

By Order of the Board

MICHAEL OSILAMA OTU, ESQ.
Company Secretary/General Counsel
Plot 87, Ajose Adeogun Street
Victoria Island, Lagos



Best Corporate Governance ‘Financial Services’ AfricaEthical Boardroom
To all our esteemed Customers   and S h a r e h o l d e r s , your  continuous support,  patronage and  loyalty  to  the Zenith Brand made the achievement of the awards possible in 2022.

Bank of the Year, NigeriaThe Banker

Best Commercial Bank, NigeriaInternational Banker Best Innovation in Retail Banking, NigeriaInternational Banker

Bank CEO of the YearBusinessDay Newspaper

24

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Awards



Biggest Bank in Nigeriaby Tier-1 Capital The Banker Best Bank in NigeriaGlobal Finance

Best Corporate Governance  Best Corporate Governance, NigeriaWorld Finance Best Commercial Bank, NigeriaWorld Finance

Best Innovation in Retail Banking, NigeriaInternational Banker
Best Company in Technology for DevelopmentSERAS Awards

Best Company in Work Place PracticeSERAS AwardsBank of the YearNew Telegraph Newspaper Retail Bank of the YearBusinessDay Newspaper
25



Dear Esteemed Shareholders, Guests, and 
Ladies and Gentlemen,

I am delighted to welcome you to the 32nd 
Annual General Meeting of our Bank and 
to present to you the Annual Report and 
Financial Statements for the Financial year 
ended December 31st, 2022.

Before I proceed, I want to express my 
sincere appreciation to all of you for 
your continued unwavering loyalty and 
commitment to our Bank. Your continued 
support has been instrumental to the Bank’s 
sterling performance since its inception.

The year 2022 was challenging in many 
respects, with significant global and 
domestic economic developments that 
impacted our business in several ways. 
However, Zenith Bank responded well, 
adapting our strategies to leverage 
available opportunities while creating 
value for all our stakeholders. Against this 
background, I will review the economic and 
financial environment within which our 
Bank operated during the fiscal year under 
review.

MACROECONOMIC REVIEW 

The Nigerian economy continued to 
maintain a positive growth trend in 2022, 
albeit at a slower pace than in 2021, since 
exiting recession in 2020. According to the 
National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), Gross 
Domestic Product (GDP) grew by 3.10 per 
cent in 2022, lower than the 3.40 per cent 
recorded in 2021. Specifically, GDP grew 
by 3.11 per cent in Q1 2022, 3.54 per cent 
in Q2 2022, 2.25 per cent in Q3 2022, and 
3.52 in Q4 2022. The slower pace of growth 
is attributable to the base e"ects of the 

JIM OVIA, CFR
Founder and Chairman

26

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022
Bo

ar
d 

of
 D

ire
ct

or
s



recession and the challenging economic conditions that 
have impeded productive activities.

Available statistics from the NBS show that the non-
oil sector, comprising Telecommunication, Trade, and 
Agriculture, which grew by 4.84 per cent, was the major 
driver of the positive growth recorded in 2022. This rate 
was higher by 0.4 percentage points compared to the 
4.44 growth rate recorded in 2021. In real terms, the non-
oil sector contributed 94.33 per cent to the nation’s GDP 
in 2022, higher than the 92.76% reported in 2021. The oil 
sector, on the other hand, contracted by 19.22 per cent, 
indicating a decrease of 10.92 percentage points relative 
to the 8.30 per cent recorded in 2021. The performance of 
the sector was a"ected by the lingering impact of muted 
domestic oil production, which stood at an average daily 
output of 1.34 million barrels per day (mbpd), lower than 
the average daily production of 1.50 mbpd recorded in 
2021. The sector contributed 5.67 per cent to the total 
real GDP in 2022, down from the 7.24 per cent recorded 
in 2021. Aggregate GDP stood at NGN199,336,043.78 
million in nominal terms in 2022, higher than the 
NGN173,527,662.34 million recorded in 2021.

In 2022, the Consumer Price Index (CPI), which measures 
inflation, showed an upward trend. This was caused by 
disruptions in the supply of food products, increased 
import costs due to persistent currency depreciation, 
ongoing conflicts in eastern Europe, and a general increase 
in production costs due to high energy prices. According 
to the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), the headline 
index steadily rose to 21.47 per cent in November 2022 
before easing to 21.34 per cent in December 2022. The 
index averaged 18.85 per cent in 2022 compared to 16.95 
per cent recorded in 2021. Although headline inflation 
showed signs of moderation in December 2022, it 
remained significantly above the growth-aiding threshold 
of 6-9 per cent set by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) 
and reached multi-decade highs in many other countries.
To rein in inflation and maintain price stability globally, 
central banks across economies embarked on a rapid 
and synchronised tightening of monetary conditions not 
seen over the past five decades. On the domestic front, 
the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) of the CBN raised 

the benchmark interest rate, Monetary Policy Rate (MPR), 
four consecutive times to 16.5 per cent. The committee 
also increased the Cash Reserve Requirement (CRR) 
by 500 basis points to 32.5 per cent. These hikes were 
aimed at reducing the negative real interest rate gap and 
inflationary pressure. However, other monetary policy 
parameters were held constant, with the asymmetric 
corridor around the MPR retained at +100/-700 basis 
points and the Liquidity Ratio (LR) maintained at 30 per 
cent.

Despite significant fluctuations, global oil prices 
experienced a second straight year of gains in 2022. 
U.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) and Brent crude oil 
averaged $95.73/b and $100.61/b, respectively. The first 
half of the year saw a price surge as Russia’s invasion of 
Ukraine disrupted global crude flows, with Brent reaching 
its highest price since 2008 at $139.13/b. However, central 
bank interest rate hikes in the second half of the year 
caused prices to cool down and raised concerns about 
a recession. Brent gained about 10 per cent for the year, 
following a 50 per cent increase in 2021, while U.S. WTI 
rose nearly 7 per cent in 2022, after a 55 per cent gain in 
the previous year.

The foreign exchange market continued to experience 
pressure in 2022. This was largely due to the high demand 
for dollars, a rising global inflation rate, and a decline in 
forex inflow from foreign capital flows, remittances, and oil 
exports. As of December 2022, the exchange rate stood at 
NGN461.1/$1 at the Investors’ and Exporters’ (I&E) Window, 
while banks continued to sell foreign currencies to retail 
customers following the ban of Bureau De Change (BDC) 
Operators by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). To manage 
demand pressure and maintain exchange rate stability, 
the CBN continued to implement its managed-floating 
exchange rate regime with regular interventions in the 
foreign exchange market.

Consequently, Nigeria’s foreign exchange reserves 
significantly depleted in 2022, according to data from 
the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). The country’s foreign 
reserves closed at $37.08 billion, having declined by $3.44 
billion from $40.52 billion at the beginning of the year. 

 Founder And Chairman’s Statement

27



Slower forex inflow from foreign capital flows, remittances, 
and oil exports contributed to the decline in Nigeria’s 
stock of foreign reserves.

During the year under review, the Federation Account 
Allocation Committee (FAAC) disbursed NGN11.69 trillion 
as allocations to the three tiers of government. This figure 
represents a 43.6% increase compared to the NGN8.14 
trillion shared in the preceding year, attributable to 
improved government oil and non-oil revenue receipts.

Despite dire macroeconomic conditions and global 
volatility, the Nigerian Exchange (NGX) closed 2022 with a 
positive return. For investors in the Nigerian stock market, 
2022 represents an improvement over 2021 in terms of 
nominal price appreciation. Specifically, the All-Share Index 
(ASI) appreciated by 19.98%, rising from 42,716.44 index 
points at the start of the year to 51,251.06 index points by 
year-end. Market capitalisation also recorded a 25.20 per 
cent appreciation, closing at NGN27.915 trillion, up from 
NGN22.297 trillion at the start of the year. During the year, 
the market faced challenges such as foreign investors’ exit 
due to scarcity of foreign exchange and aggressive hikes 
in the Monetary Policy Rate (MPR), among others.

FINANCIAL RESULTS

The year 2022 presented several challenges for operators in 
the Nigerian banking industry due to various supervening 
factors in the global and domestic environment. However, 
despite these challenges, we were able to leverage 
inherent opportunities within the business environment 
to record a performance that further attests to our 
resilience as a brand. The result is a manifestation of the 
remarkable financial health of the Bank and the Group.

The Group’s gross earnings grew by 24 per cent from 
NGN 765.56 billion in 2021 to NGN 945.55 billion in 2022. 
Profit-Before-Tax (PBT) rose by 2 per cent from NGN 280.37 
billion in 2021 to NGN 284.65 billion in 2022, while Profit-
After-Tax (PAT) fell by 8 per cent from NGN 244.56 billion 
in 2021 to NGN 223.91 billion in 2022. Total deposits were 
NGN 8.97 trillion for the year ended December 31st, 2022, 
representing a 38.7 per cent increase over the previous 
year’s figure of NGN 6.47 trillion. During the same period, 

the Bank’s total assets grew by 30 per cent from NGN 9.45 
trillion to NGN 12.28 trillion, while shareholders’ funds rose 
by 7.76 per cent from NGN 1.28 trillion to NGN 1.38 trillion.

DIVIDEND

At Zenith Bank, we remain committed to consistently 
delivering superior returns to our highly esteemed 
shareholders by ensuring that a significant portion of our 
profit is set aside for you. Despite the macroeconomic 
headwinds, we declared and paid an interim dividend of 
30 kobo per share in the course of the 2022 financial year. 
We hereby propose a final dividend of NGN 2.90 per share. 
If approved, this will bring the total dividend for the year 
ended December 31st, 2022, to NGN 3.20 per share.

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 

In 2022, Zenith Bank appointed Mrs. Adobi Stella Nwapa 
and Mr. Anthony Akindele Ogunranti as Executive 
Directors, while Mr. Peter Olatunde Bamkole and Mr. 
Chuks Emma Okoh were appointed as Independent 
Non-Executive Directors and Non-Executive Director, 
respectively. These appointments were approved by the 
Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) e"ective April 12th, 2022. 
Meanwhile, two Executive Directors, Mr. Ummar Shuaib 
Ahmed and Mr. Dennis Olisa retired from the Board on 
December 28th, 2022, following the expiration of their 
tenure.

INVESTMENT IN TECHNOLOGY 

Zenith Bank remains committed to setting the pace 
in financial technology. As such, we have invested 
significantly in new technologies and digital solutions, 
in line with our commitment to creating value for our 
esteemed customers through innovative products and 
solutions that cater to their diverse needs.

CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 

Zenith Bank is committed to building a more balanced, 
fairer, and inclusive economy, which is why we continue 
to internalise sustainability principles in our business 
operations and investment decisions, in line with global 

28

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022
Bo

ar
d 

of
 D

ire
ct

or
s



best practices. In 2022, we made considerable progress 
in this regard, bearing in mind our role in accelerating 
the achievement of the United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs).

Our Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives are 
targeted at health, education, women and youth 
empowerment, sports development, and public 
infrastructure enhancement. In the course of the year, we 
invested NGN1.671 billion in these focus areas across the 
country. We believe that institutions’ social investments, 
contributions to inclusive economic growth and 
development, as well as improvements in the physical 
environment, all constitute the balanced scorecard. As 
a testament to our achievements in this aspect, Zenith 
Bank won the awards for “Best Company in Technology for 
Development” and “Best Company in Workplace Practice” 
at the 2022 Sustainability, Enterprise, and Responsibility 
Awards (SERAs).

MACROECONOMIC OUTLOOK 

The outlook for the domestic and global economy 
remains uncertain amid the heightened global recession 
risk. The Nigerian economy is expected to continue to 
grow through 2023 but at a subdued pace. The World 
Bank expects a 2.9 per cent expansion, while the CBN 
forecasts a 3.03 per cent growth rate. Headwinds to 
growth remain persistent high inflation, perennial scarcity 
of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS), high energy prices, the 
rising cost of debt servicing, and deteriorating fiscal 
balances, among others. The Federal Government of 
Nigeria (FGN) 2023 budget has an aggregate expenditure 
estimate of NGN21.83 trillion, representing a 27 per cent 
increase compared to the NGN17.13 trillion budget for 
the 2022 fiscal year. The budget is predicated on crude 
oil production estimate of 1.69 million barrels per day, an 
exchange rate of NGN435.57/$1, real GDP growth of 3.75 
per cent, and an inflation rate of 17.16 per cent. The budget 
deficit is estimated at about NGN11.34 trillion and will be 
financed mainly by new borrowings totalling NGN8.80 
trillion, NGN206.18 billion from Privatization Proceeds, and 
NGN1.77 trillion drawdowns on loans secured for specific 
development projects.

On the global front, the outlook of the global economy 
in the short to medium-term remains clouded by 
uncertainties associated with lingering headwinds from 
the Russia-Ukraine conflict and the residual impact of 
the COVID-19 pandemic. Also, the growth outlook is 
dampened by tightening global financial conditions with 
elevated shocks to foreign capital flows, the high level 
of corporate and public debt with a heightened risk of a 
global financial meltdown, and the high level of inflation 
across several economies. Overall, the economic prospect 
in 2023 remains that of cautious optimism.

APPRECIATION 

The year 2022 was a challenging but successful year for 
us as a Bank. Our superior performance recorded in the 
year was made possible by the collective e"orts of all 
our stakeholders. I am grateful to our customers for their 
steadfast loyalty, our sta" and Management for their 
dedication and commitment, and our Board for continually 
guiding the Bank along the path of sustained growth and 
prosperity. I welcome you to the 2023 financial year with 
the firm assurance of continued excellent performance by 
our Bank.
Thank you.

JIM OVIA, CFR 
Founder and Chairman

29

 Founder And Chairman’s Statement



Dear shareholders, I am pleased to welcome you to the 
32nd Annual General Meeting of our Bank. 

The global economy was beset by a range of 
challenges in 2022 that disrupted growth expectations. 
These included rising food and energy costs due to the 
Russia-Ukraine conflict, the sentiments associated with 
election cycles, and monetary policy tightening. As a 
result, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) estimated 
global economic growth of 3.4 per cent in 2022, down 
45.2 per cent from 6.2 per cent in 2021.

On the domestic front, the Nigerian economy 
maintained a positive trajectory in 2022, albeit at a 
slower pace, after exiting recession in 2020. The National 
Bureau of Statistics (NBS) reported that Gross Domestic 
Product (GDP) grew by 3.10 per cent in 2022, a decline 
of 8.8 per cent from the 3.4 per cent growth recorded 
in 2021. Economic performance was hampered by 
weak oil inflationary pressures, production, insecurity, 
and flooding that inhibited agricultural productivity in 
several states of the federation. Additionally, tightening 
global financial conditions and recession fears limited 
the flow of investment into key sectors of the economy.

One of the macroeconomic challenges the Central 
Bank of Nigeria (CBN) had to respond to in 2022 was 
maintaining price stability, with the inflation rate 
climbing to 21.34 per cent as at December 2022. The 
inflation was caused by a disruption in food production 
activities, the Russia-Ukraine conflict, and an uptick in 
importation costs. The Monetary Policy Committee 
(MPC) of the CBN raised the Monetary Policy Rate 
(MPR) four consecutive times to 16.5 per cent while 
increasing the Cash Reserve Requirement (CRR) by 
500 basis points to 32.5 per cent. In a bid to rein in 
spiralling inflation, the CBN increased the interest 
rates on its intervention loans to 9 per cent from 5 per 
cent. The CBN also redesigned the Naira and updated 
cash withdrawal limits to gain control of currency in 
circulation and deepen the nation’s cashless policy. 

Amidst the headwinds to growth in the past year, 
we remained dedicated to creating value for our 
customers through our innovative suite of products 
and services. We supported clients across various 
sectors of the economy to weather the uncertain 

Group Managing Director/Chief Executive O!cer
      DR. EBENEZER ONYEAGWU

30

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022
Bo

ar
d 

of
 D

ire
ct

or
s



business environment while enabling them to achieve 
their growth ambitions. Our services played a vital role 
in stabilising small businesses, helping them with post 
pandemic recoveries and positioning them for growth. 
Additionally, our interventions provided a platform for 
businesses to network and access emerging opportunities. 
The Bank successfully held its 7th Annual Export Seminar, 
a flagship platform for canvassing and initiating trade 
policies while facilitating engagement between the key 
stakeholders in the Non-oil Export Sector. The Zenith 
Bank Tech Fair 2022, themed Future Forward 2.0, featured 
enriching presentations, panel discussions, the Zecathon, 
and exhibitions. The Bank is committed to incubating 
and mentoring the laureates that come through its digital 
entrepreneurship initiatives to ensure their growth.

All the success we recorded in the past financial year 
was only possible with the synergy between our people, 
technology infrastructure, and innovative services. Our 
highly talented team is committed to sustained innovative 
initiatives for continued value creation for our customers. 
We are relentless in delivering excellent services, which 
is one of the Bank’s hallmarks. Zenith Bank believes that 
technology is an enabler of business, both for us and our 
clients. Consequently, we are making robust investments in 
our technology infrastructure to make it fit for the future. We 
are implementing a migration to a new enterprise software 
architecture as part of our digital transformation initiative as 
we strive to maintain our leadership in the digital financial 
services space. Through our investments in technology, we 
are confident that we will maintain our ability to innovate 
and deepen our overall digital payments suite and o"erings, 
creating omni channels for digital service delivery.

As a testament to our outstanding accomplishments in 2022, 
Zenith Bank received several domestic and international 
awards and recognition. These awards include Bank of the 
Year, Nigeria (The Banker); Biggest Bank in Nigeria by Tier-1 
Capital (The Banker); Best Bank in Nigeria (Global Finance 
Magazine); Best Commercial Bank, Nigeria (World Finance); 
Best Corporate Governance, Nigeria (World Finance); Best 
Commercial Bank, Nigeria (International Banker); Best 
Corporate Governance Financial Services Africa (Ethical 
Boardroom); Bank of the Year (New Telegraph Newspaper); 
Best Company in Technology for Development (SERAs); and 
Best Company in Work Place Practice – SERAs.

As a leading financial institution, we remain committed to addressing 
the challenges confronting society, as espoused in the Sustainable 
Development Goals of the United Nations and the Paris Agreement. 
The Bank has integrated sustainability principles and standards into its 
business operations and investment decisions because we subscribe 
to the principle of the Triple Bottom Line: People, Planet, and Profit. We 
strongly believe that businesses should strive to deliver positive social, 
environmental, and economic impact. We are poised to deepen our 
sustainable banking practices and commitments.

The outlook for the global economy and Nigeria is cautiously optimistic 
despite concerns about the trajectory of the Russia-Ukraine conflict 
and the risk of a global financial contagion due to financial fragilities in 
the United States and Switzerland. In its January 2023 World Economic 
Outlook Update report, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) noted 
that the global outlook is less gloomy than its October 2022 forecast, 
representing a turning point, with growth bottoming out and inflation 
declining. The IMF expects that global growth will slow from 3.4 per 
cent in 2022 to 2.9 per cent in 2023 due to e"orts to rein in inflation 
and the Russia-Ukraine conflict, which are expected to weigh on 
economic activities. Against this backdrop, the IMF projects that the 
Nigerian economy will grow by 3.2 per cent in 2023, up by 0.2 per 
cent from its October 2022 forecast. The Nigerian economy is also 
expected to benefit from robust commodities trade and dynamic 
consumer goods and services markets in 2023, although there are 
downside risks, including high inflation, power supply challenges, and 
deteriorating fiscal balances.

Overall, we are optimistic about the future, and Zenith Bank is well-
positioned to take advantage of emerging growth opportunities. 
We will continue to make the necessary investments and sustain 
our sound risk management and corporate governance practices 
that have given us an edge as we create enduring value for all our 
stakeholders.

Thank you.

DR. EBENEZER ONYEAGWU 
Group Managing Director / CEO

31

GMD/CEO’s Review





4

es ts t n ee e o n e n es

Board of Directors



Jim Ovia, CFR is the founder and chairman of Zenith Bank 
Plc, one of Africa’s largest banks with over $26.64 billion 
in assets and shareholders’ funds of US$2.99 billion as 
at December, 2022. Zenith Bank is a global brand listed 
on the London Stock Exchange and the Nigerian Stock 
Exchange. In addition to major operations in Nigeria 
and other West African countries, the Bank has sizeable 
operations in London and Dubai.

Jim Ovia, CFR is the founder and chancellor of James 
Hope University Lekki, Lagos which was recently 
approved by the National Universities Commission 
(NUC) to o"er postgraduate degrees in business 
courses. James Hope University will commence 
academic activities in September 2023.

Through his philanthropy – the Jim Ovia Foundation 
– he has shown the importance he accords good 
education. In support of the Nigerian youth, Jim Ovia 
Foundation o"ers scholarships to indigent students 
through the Mankind United to Support Total Education 
(MUSTE) initiative. Most of the beneficiaries of Jim Ovia 
Foundation scholarship are now accountants, business 
administrators, lawyers, engineers, doctors etc.

He is the author of “Africa Rise And Shine”, published by 
ForbesBooks. The book which encapsulates Zenith Bank’s 
meteoric rise, details the secrets of success in doing 
business in Africa.

He is an alumnus of the Harvard Business School (OPM), 
University of Louisiana (MBA), and Southern University, 
Louisiana, (B.Sc. Business Administration).

Jim Ovia, CFR is a member of the World Economic Forum 
Community of Chairpersons, and a champion of the 
Forum’s EDISON Alliance.

In recognition of Jim Ovia’s contributions to the economic 
development of Nigeria, in 2011 the Federal Government 
of Nigeria honoured him with Commander of the Order 
of the Niger, CON. 

Also, in 2022, the Federal Government of Nigeria 
honoured him with Commander of the Federal Republic, 
CFR.

JIM OVIA, CFR
Founder and Chairman

34

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022
Bo

ar
d 

of
 D

ire
ct

or
s



Dr. Ebenezer Onyeagwu was appointed Group Managing 
Director/CEO of Zenith Bank Plc on the 1st of June 2019. He is 
a seasoned banker and an astute financial strategist with over 
three decades of banking experience. He is an alumnus of 
Auchi Polytechnic, Delta State University Nigeria, the University 
of Oxford, England and Salford Business School, University of 
Salford, Manchester, United Kingdom. At the University of Oxford, 
he obtained a Postgraduate Diploma in Financial Strategy and 
a certificate in Macroeconomics while he received a Masters 
Degree in Financial Services Management from the University 
of Salford. He also holds an MBA from Delta State University, 
Abraka. He undertook extensive executive-level education in 
Wharton Business School of the University of Pennsylvania, 
Columbia Business School of Columbia University, the Harvard 
Business School of Harvard University in the United States. In 
March 2023, the University of Nigeria, Nsukka – Nigeria’s first 
indigenous university, honoured him with the Doctor of Business 
Administration degree during the 50th convocation ceremony 
of the university.

Before joining Zenith Bank Plc, he worked at Citizens International 
Bank Limited between 1991 and 2002. He joined Zenith Bank Plc 
in 2002 as a Senior Manager in the Internal Control and Audit 
Group of the bank. His professionalism, competence, integrity 
and commitment to the objectives of the bank saw him rise 
swiftly between 2003 and 2005, first, as Assistant General 
Manager, then Deputy General Manager, and eventually, General 
Manager of the bank. In these capacities, he handled strategies 
for new business and branch development, management of risk 
assets portfolios, treasury functions, strategic top level corporate, 
multinationals and public institutional relationships, among 

others. He was appointed Executive Director of the bank in 2013, 
responsible for Lagos and South-South Zones as well as strategic 
groups/business units of the bank, including Financial Control 
& Strategic Planning, Treasury & Correspondent Groups, Human 
Resources Group, Oil & Gas Group, and Credit Risk Management 
Group.

Dr. Onyeagwu was named Deputy Managing Director of the 
bank in 2016. In that capacity, he deputised for the Group 
Managing Director and Chief Executive O!cer with direct 
oversight of the bank’s Financial Control and Strategic Planning, 
Risk Management, Retail Banking, Institutional and Corporate 
Banking Portfolios, Information Technology Group, Credit 
Administration, and Treasury & Foreign Exchange Trading. Dr 
Onyeagwu is the Chairman of Zenith Pensions Custodian Limited 
and Zenith Nominees Limited. He is also on the Board of Zenith 
Bank (UK) Limited, FMDQ Holdings Plc and Lagos State Security 
Trust Fund (LSSTF). Dr. Onyeagwu is a member of the International 
Monetary Conference (IMC), Wall Street Journal CEO Council, and 
member of the African Trade Gateway Advisory Council of the 
Africa Export-Import Bank (Afreximbank). He also served on the 
board of Zenith Bank Ghana Limited, Zenith General Insurance, 
Zenith Securities Limited, Zenith Assets Management Company, 
Zenith Medicare Limited, and Africa Finance Corporation (AFC).
Dr. Onyeagwu is a Fellow (FCA) of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN), a Fellow of Nigerian Institute 
of Management (NIM), The Chartered Institute of Bankers of 
Nigeria (CIBN), Institute of Credit Administrators (ICA) and 
Senior Associate Member, Risk Management Institute of Nigeria 
(RIMAN).

      DR. EBENEZER ONYEAGWU
Group Managing Director/Chief Executive O!cer

35



Deputy Managing Director
DAME (DR.) ADAORA UMEOJI, OON

With over 20 years of cognate banking and broad executive 
management experience, Dame (Dr.) Adaora Umeoji, OON rose 
through the ranks to her current position. 

She is an alumnus of Harvard Business School; she holds a 
Bachelor’s degree in Sociology from the University of Jos, a 
Bachelor’s degree in Accounting and a first-class honours in 
Law from Baze University Abuja. She also holds a Master of Laws 
from the University of Salford, United Kingdom, and a Master in 
Business Administration (MBA) from the University of Calabar. 
She is a graduate of the Advanced Management Program (AMP) 
from Harvard Business School, a graduate of the Global Banking 
Program from Columbia Business School and holds a doctorate 
in Business Administration from Apollos University, USA. Her 
dissertation was on inspirational leadership and her findings 
have been recognized as a major contribution to leadership and 
people management. 

She attended the strategic thinking and management 
programme at Wharton Business School, USA, and holds a 
Certificate in Economics for Business from the prestigious 
MIT Management Sloan School and a Certificate in Leading 
Global Businesses from Harvard Business School, USA.  

She is a fellow of notable professional bodies including the 
Chartered Bankers Institute of London, the Chartered Institute 
of Bankers of Nigeria, the Institute of Credit Administration, the 
Institute of Certified Public Accountants of Nigeria, the Institute 
of Chartered Meditators & Conciliators, and the Institute of 
Chartered Secretaries & Administrators of Nigeria, among others. 
She has presented lead papers at major academic conferences 
and symposia. She was a keynote speaker at the Zenith Global 
Economic Forum held in New York City, USA where she delivered 
a thought-provoking lecture on Financing Growth Drivers in the 
Nigerian Economy. 

Dame (Dr.) Adaora Umeoji, OON has at di"erent times participated 
in high-level Bankers’ meetings with impactful contributions 
towards the advancement of the banking industry, national 
economic growth and development. She has delivered several 
motivational speeches at strategic sessions aimed at mentoring 
youths and managers, especially banking professionals. 

Beyond banking, Dame (Dr.) Adaora Umeoji, OON supports 
research and learning on inspirational leadership, mentorship, 
talent development, collaboration, change and adaptability, 
strategic thinking, innovation and creativity, amongst others. 

She promotes the Pink Breath Cancer Care Foundation which 
supports several healthcare programs within the six geopolitical 
zones of Nigeria. 

She has won numerous awards for excellence and creativity in 
management. Her contribution towards improving humanity 
has been recognized by various organizations including the 
Nigerian Red Cross. 

As a result of her passion for promoting professionalism in 
the banking industry and improving the well-being of the 
less privileged, Dr. Adaora Umeoji, OON founded the Catholic 
Bankers Association of Nigeria (CBAN), a platform she uses to 
promote ethical banking and service to humanity. 

Dame (Dr.) Adaora Umeoji, OON is a Peace Advocate of the 
United Nations (UN-POLAC), a Lady of the Order of Knights of 
St. John International (KSJI), and was recently awarded a Papal 
Knight of the Order of St. Sylvester by His Holiness Pope Francis.

In 2022, the Federal Government of Nigeria honoured her with 
O!cer of the Order of the Niger, OON, as a recognition of her 
contributions to nation-building. 

36

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022
Bo

ar
d 

of
 D

ire
ct

or
s



Mr. Ukpeh is an internationally acclaimed consultant in business 
strategy, risk management, process re-engineering and financial 
services, who was, until recently, a Senior Partner and Risk Quality 
Leader for Africa at PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC).

He is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria 
with over thirty five (35) years experience in Financial Audit and 
Reporting, as well as a member of the Institute of Taxation of 
Nigeria.

A graduate of accounting, he holds Graduate Diploma in Business 
Administration from the University of Warwick, Coventry, United 
Kingdom. He obtained a Master of Science (M.Sc) Degree 
in Contemporary Accounting from the Leeds Metropolitan 
University, UK in 2009.

He worked with PwC, an International Business auditing and 
consulting firm for over thirty five (35) years, and as a Partner 
for over 20 years led, directed, planned and managed the audit, 
accounting, and consulting assignments for numerous financial 
institutions, multinationals and local companies, including most 
major banks in Nigeria.

Non-Executive Director
GABRIEL UKPEH

Engr. Mustafa Bello graduated with B.Engr. (Civil Engineering), 
from the Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Zaria in 1978 with 
Second Class Upper Division and won the Shell prize for best 
project and thesis for Faculty of Engineering in 1978.

He served in the Directorate of Quartering and Engineering 
Service (Nigerian Army) between 1978 / 1979 and later joined 
the Niger State Housing Corporation between 1980 and 1983 as 
a Senior Civil Engineer.

He served as a cabinet Minister of the Federal Republic of 
Nigeria as the Federal Minister of Commerce between 1999 
and 2002.  He was subsequently appointed Executive Secretary/
Chief Executive O!cer of the Nigerian Investments Promotion 
Commission (NIPC) between November 2003 and February 
2014.

He is currently the Chairman of Invest-in-Northern Nigeria 
Limited, a special purpose vehicle for the economic and social 
transformation of the Northern Nigerian Economy.

He has been involved in several projects in Nigeria including 
CAC on-line project in 2002, developed WTO consistent Trade 
Policy for the Federal Republic of Nigeria etc.

He has attended several conferences, missions and meetings 
and represented the Federal Government of Nigeria.

Non-Executive Director
ENGR. MUSTAFA BELLO

37



38

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022
Bo

ar
d 

of
 D

ire
ct

or
s

Non-Executive Director

Dr. OMOBOLA IBIDAPO-OBE          
OGUNFOWORA

Dr. Al-Mujtaba Abubakar is currently the Managing Director of Apt 
Pensions Funds Managers Limited.

He is a graduate of the Leeds Polytechnic, UK. He is a renowned 
Chartered Accountant and a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of Nigeria.

Dr. Abubakar has extensive and tremendous experience in the 
financial services industry, audit and consulting. He worked with 
the firm of Akintola Williams Deloitte between January 2000 
and November 2008, and rose to become the Partner and Board 
Member of West Africa sub-region. Prior to this, he had served on 
the Board of several financial institutions in Nigeria.

He has attended several management and leadership training 
programmes and conferences both within and outside the country.

He brings to the Board of the bank tremendous track record in Risk 
Management, Credit & Marketing, Auditing and very outstanding 
leadership skills.

In 2022, the Federal Government of Nigeria honoured him with 
Member of the Federal Republic.

Non-Executive Director
DR. AL-MUJTABA ABUBAKAR, MFR

Dr. Omobola Ibidapo-Obe Ogunfowora, a Legal Practitioner and 
Corporate Governance Practitioner, graduated LLB (Hons) from the 
Cardi" Law School, United Kingdom and obtained LLM from the 
same University.  

She obtained a Master’s degree (MRes) from the Queen Mary 
University of London, United Kingdom in 2010 and subsequently 
advanced to the Middlesex University, London, United Kingdom for 
her Doctorate degree and graduated with PhD in Competition Law.

Dr. Ibidapo-Obe Ogunfowora was a Law Lecturer at the University 
of Lagos, Nigeria where she lectured at the Department of 
Commercial and Industrial Law.

She has been a Legal Counsel with Olusola Ibidapo-Obe & Co., Legal 
Practitioners for almost two decades and also a Dispute Resolution 
Compliance Specialist with Ombudsman Services, United Kingdom. 

She had previously worked as a Research Assistant with the Lagos 
State Judiciary between February 2003 and August 2004.

She is a Non-Executive Director with Barton Schools, Lagos, Nigeria, 
where she is responsible for overseeing the long term development 
of the schools and provide strategic advisory services to ensure 
sustainability of the schools.

Dr. Ogunfowora is a Corporate Governance Practitioner.



39

Dr. Peter Olatunde Bamkole graduated with B.Sc (Hons) 
Mechanical Engineering from the University of Greenwich, 
London, United Kingdom in 1984, holds an Executive MBA 
from IESE Spain/Lagos Business, Lagos (1999) and a PhD in 
Entrepreneurship and Innovation from International School of 
Management, Paris in 2022. 

Dr. Bamkole joins the Board of Zenith Bank Plc with robust 
experience spanning several sectors including oil and gas, public 
utilities, and executive education.

He worked as in African Petroleum Plc between 1985 and 1986 
as a Technical Sales and Services Engineer, north and with Elf Oil 
Nigeria now Total Nigeria Plc between October 1986 and April 
1996.

He also served as an Assistant General Manager with Lagos State 
Water Corporation between 1996 and 2002.  Dr. Bamkole has 
been with the Pan-Atlantic University since January 2003 where 
he served as the pioneer Director of the Enterprise Development 
Centre of the University. He was appointed the Chief Operating 
O!cer of Pan-Atlantic University in January, 2023. 

He is currently serving in the following capacities:
• Advisory Board Chair of International Breweries Foundation.
• Board Chair of Nigeria Climate Innovation Center.
• BOT Chair, Global Entrepreneurship Network, Nigeria.
• Board member of AIFA Reading Society.
•  Member, Lagos State Science, Research and Innovation 

Council (LASRIC).
• Board Member, Novare Real Estate Companies in Nigeria

Non-Executive Director
CHUKS EMMA OKOH

Mr. Okoh graduated from the University of Nigeria, Nsukka, (BSc) 
in 1987 with several academic laurels to his credit including the 
overall best graduating student in Accounting. 

He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of 
Nigeria (FCA) with over thirty (30) years cognate experience in 
the Banking industry & Telecommunications sector. 

Mr. Okoh has varied experience spanning the areas of Finance, 
Internal Audit, Risk Management, Compliance, Operations & 
Strategic Management. 

He comes with deep insight and has distinguished himself 
in various leadership roles and is a recipient of several Service 
Excellence & Exceptional Performance awards from the financial 
services sector and the telecommunication sector.

Mr. Okoh has attended various management development 
programmes at renowned educational Institutions including 
Cranfield University School of Management, UK and INSEAD, 
France.

He is an Alumnus of the prestigious Wharton Business School, 
University of Pennsylvania, USA and Lagos Business School.

Independent Non-Executive Director
DR. PETER OLATUNDE BAMKOLE



40

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022
Bo

ar
d 

of
 D

ire
ct

or
s

Dr. Temitope Fasoranti is a seasoned banker with over three decades of 
experience in the Nigerian financial services industry. He is an alumnus of the 
Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU) Ile-Ife, where he received a Bachelor’s 
Degree in Economics (1988), a Master’s Degree in Economics (1991) and a 
Doctor of Philosophy Degree (PhD) in Economics. 

He worked in FBN Merchant Bankers from 1991 to 1997 before joining Zenith 
Bank in 1997. Prior to his appointment as Executive Director in December 
2017, he was a General Manager/Group Zonal Head overseeing several 
branches and zones in Lagos State, including Ikeja Zone, Apapa Zone, Ilupeju 
Zone, and South-West region. He also served as the Group Head of strategic 
business units in the head o!ce, including Oil & Gas, Conglomerate Group, 
and Agriculture Desk. 

Dr. Fasoranti’s experience spans Treasury Management, Corporate Finance, 
Corporate Banking, Risk Management and Retail Banking. He is also vastly 
experienced in managing Fintech relationships, with competences in cards, 
electronic banking and payment systems. 

He currently oversees Retail Marketing, Trade Services, Credit Risk and 
Management Group, Research, Card Services, Contact Centre, Digital 
Marketing, Diaspora Banking, ESettlement and a host of core marketing 
groups. He is responsible for driving the Bank’s Retail and Fintech strategy. 
He has also received executive-level education and attended several 
international courses and programmes, including Changing The Game: 
Negotiation and Competitive Decision Making (Harvard Business School), 
Creating and Leading High-Performance Teams (The Wharton School, 
Pennsylvania, USA), and Developing Strategy for Value Creation (London 
Business School). 

Dr. Fasoranti is a member of the Nigerian Economic Society (NES), Nigerian 
Institute of Management (NIM), the Institute of Credit Administration, and 
an honorary member of the Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN). 
He sits on the board of Zenith Pensions Custodian Limited. And was recently 
appointed a member of the MasterCard Africa Leadership Council. 

DR. TEMITOPE FASORANTI
Executive Director

Henry Oroh holds a Bachelor’s Degree in Accounting from the University of 
Benin, Edo State and an MBA from the Lagos State University as well as an 
LLB Degree from the University of London. He is a Fellow of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN) and an honorary member of the 
Chartered Institute of Bankers (CIBN), Nigeria.

He has over two decades of banking experience. He began his banking 
career in 1992 at Citibank where he served for seven (7) years in Operations, 
Treasury and Marketing.

He joined Zenith Bank in February 1999 and has worked in various Groups and 
Departments within the Zenith Group O!ce. His expertise spans Operations, 
Information Technology, Treasury, Marketing, including the Manufacturing, 
Food and Beverages, Pharmaceuticals, Oil and Gas, Public Sector, Consumer, 
as well as Corporate Banking and Business Development.

In April 2012, he was seconded to Zenith Bank Ghana Limited as an Executive 
Director and became the Managing Director/ Chief Executive in February 
2016, where he successfully spearheaded the phenomenal growth of the 
Zenith Brand both within the Ghana market and the West African sub-region.

Henry has attended several Leadership Programmes and Executive 
Management Courses at the Harvard Business School, Columbia Business 
School, New York, University of Chicago, University of Pennsylvania, HEC Paris, 
JP Morgan Chase, UK and the Lagos Business School.

He brings to the Board of Zenith Bank Plc strong competencies in Credit & 
Marketing, Operations, Information Technology, Treasury and impressive 
Leadership skills.Executive Director

HENRY OROH



41

Executive Director
ADOBI NWAPA

Mrs. Adobi Stella Nwapa holds a Bachelor’s Degree (BA) in History 
from Imo State University, a Master’s in Public Administration (MPA) 
from Strayer University, Houston-Texas, a Master’s in Business 
Administration (MBA) from Jack Welch Management Institute and 
an honorary doctorate in Business Administration (DBA) from Abia 
State University. She has attended several local and international 
courses and programmes, including Leading Change and 
Organisational Renewal (Harvard Business School), Key Executive 
Programme (Harvard Business School), World Finance/Winning 
Negotiation Strategies (HSM Americas), Developing Strategies 
for Value Creation (London Business School) and the Senior 
Management Programme (Lagos Business School).

She is a Fellow of several institutes, including the Institute 
of Management Consultants (IMC), the Institute of Credit 
Administration (ICA), the Institute of Chartered Management 
Accountants (ICMA) and the Institute of Management Specialists 
(IMS), United Kingdom. She is also a member of the Nigeria 
Institute of Management (NIM) and an honorary member of the 
Chartered Institute of Bankers (HCIB). 

Mrs. Nwapa comes to the board of Zenith Bank Plc with over thirty 
years’ cognate experience in banking, being a pioneer sta" of 
the Bank since 1990.  She has held several senior management 
positions in the Bank, including business development and branch 
and zonal management, and treasury. Until her appointment as 
Executive Director, she was General Manager and Group Zonal 
Head of Ikoyi Zone as well as Group Head of Diaspora Banking. 

Executive Director
ANTHONY AKINDELE OGUNRANTI

Mr. Ogunranti Akindele is a consummate professional banker 
with expertise across Banking Operations, Corporate, Commercial, 
Retail and Branch Banking, Multilaterals, Power & Infrastructure, Oil 
& Gas, Public Sector, Structured Trade & Project Finance, as well as 
General Management.

He holds a B.Sc. (Hons) in International Relations from the Obafemi 
Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, an MBA in Marketing, and M.Sc. in 
Banking and Finance, University of Ibadan. He has attended 
the Moody’s Credit Academy, UK, the Executive Development 
Program (EDP), Wharton Business School, USA and the Leading 
Change and Organizational Renewal Program (LCOR) at Harvard 
Business School, USA.

Mr. Ogunranti joined Zenith Bank Plc in 2004 as a Senior Manager 
and has held various leadership positions in the bank. He was 
General Manager Corporate Banking; Power and Infrastructure 
Sector; Apapa and Ikeja Zones. Prior to his appointment as 
Executive Director, he served as the MD/CEO, Zenith Bank Ghana 
Limited, where he led the Bank to achieve outstanding results. 
Under his leadership, the bank received several laurels and awards, 
notable among which was the Bank of the Year 2020 and the Best 
Bank in Ghana 2021. He was also a two-time winner of the CEO of 
The Year Award (Banking Category) in Ghana.

He is currently a member of the Board of Africa Finance Corporation 
(AFC), and was until his appointment a Member of the Executive 
Committee of the Ghana Association of Bankers (GAB) and a 
Member of the Governing Council, of the National Banking 
College, Ghana.  He was also conferred with the Distinguished 
Alumnus Award 2021, by the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife.

He is an Honorary Senior Member of Chartered Institute of Bankers 
of Nigeria (HCIB), Honorary Fellow Chartered Institute of Credit 
Management, Ghana (FCICM) and a Member Nigeria Institute of 
Management (MNIM).



The directors present their report on the a"airs of ZENITH BANK PLC (“the Bank”), together with the financial statements and the 
independent auditor’s report for the year ended 31 December 2022.

1.  Legal form

The Bank was incorporated in Nigeria under the Companies and Allied Matters Act as a private limited liability company on 30 May,1990. 
It was granted a banking licence in June 1990, to carry on the business of commercial banking and commenced business on June 16, 
1990. The Bank was converted into a Public Limited Liability Company on 20 May 2004. The Bank’s shares were listed on the floor of the 
Nigerian Stock Exchange on 21 October 2004. In August 2015, the Bank was admitted into the premium Board of the Nigerian Stock 
Exchange. The Bank is also listed on the London Stock Exchange.

There have been no material changes to the nature of the Group’s business from the previous year.

2. Principal activities and business review

The principal activity of the Bank is the provision of banking and other financial services to corporate and individual customers. Such 
services include obtaining deposits from the public, granting of loans and advances, corporate finance and money market activities.

The Bank has six subsidiary companies namely, Zenith Bank (Ghana) Limited, Zenith Pensions Custodian Limited, Zenith Bank (UK) 
Limited, Zenith Bank (Sierra Leone) Limited, Zenith Bank (The Gambia) Limited and Zenith Nominees Limited. During the year, the Bank 
opened three new branches and no branch was closed.

As at 31 December 2022 the Group had 446 branches, 166 cash centers; 2,108 ATM terminals; 233,024 POS terminals and 21,832,175 
cards issued to its customers. (31 December 2021: 443 branches, 188 cash centers, 2,086 ATM terminals, 163,398 POS terminals and 
14,743,191 cards issued).

3. Operating results

Gross earnings of the Group increased by 23.5% and profit before tax increased by 1.5% . Highlights of the Group’s operating results for 
the period under review are as follows:

31-Dec-22 31-Dec-21

N' Million N' Million

Gross earnings 945,554 765,558

Profit before tax 284,650 280,374

Income tax expense (60,739) (35,816)

Profit after tax 223,911 244,558

Non- controlling interest (139) 156

Pro!t attributable to the equity holders of the parent 224,050 244,402

Appropriations  

Transfer to statutory reserve 35,419 44,686

Transfer to credit risk reserve 73,458 19,580

Transfer to retained earnings and other reserves 115,173 180,136

224,050 244,402

Basic and diluted earnings per share (Naira) 7.14 7.78

42

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Directors’ Report for the Year Ended 31 December, 2022



4.  Dividends

The Board of Directors, pursuant to the powers vested in it by the provisions of section 426 of the Companies and Allied Matters Act 
(CAMA 2020) of Nigeria, proposed a final dividend of N2.90 per share which in addition to the N0.30 per share as interim dividend 
amounts to N3.20 per share (2021: Interim dividend of N0.30 per share), final dividend of N2.80 and a total dividend per share of N3.10 
from the retained earnings account as at 31 December 2022. This will be presented for ratification by the shareholders at the next 
Annual General Meeting.

Payment of dividends is subject to witholding tax rate of 10% in the hands of qualified recipients.

5.  Directors’ shareholding

The direct and indirect interests of directors in the issued share capital of Zenith Bank Plc as recorded in the register of directors 
shareholding and/or as notified by the directors for the purposes of sections 301 and 302 of the Companies and Allied Matters Act 
(CAMA 2020) and the listing requirements of the Nigerian Stock Exchange is as follows: 

Interests in shares Number of Shareholding

31 December, 2022 31 December, 2021

Director Designation Direct Indirect Direct Indirect

Jim Ovia, CFR. Chairman / Non-Executive Director 3,546,199,395 1,528,304,916 3,546,199,395 1,525,904,916

Prof. Chukuka Enwemeka Non-Executive Director** 127,137 127,137 -

Mr Je"rey Efeyini Non Executive Director** 541,690 - 541,690 -

Mr. Chuks Emma Okoh Non-Executive Director* 102,697 - - -

Mr Gabriel Ukpeh Non Executive Director 32,660 - 32,660 -

Engr. Mustafa Bello Non Executive Director / Independent - - - -

Dr Al-Mujtaba Abubakar, MFR Non Executive Director / Independent - - - -

Dr Omobola Ibidapo-Obe Ogunfowora Non Executive Director / Independent - - - -

Dr Peter Olatunde Bamkole Non Executive Director / Independent - - - -

Dr Ebenezer Onyeagwu Group Managing Director 82,176,078 - 65,062,844 -

Dr Adaora Umeoji, OON. Deputy Managing Director**** 68,873,169 1,710,123 68,873,169 1,710,123

Mr Umar Shuaib Ahmed Executive Director*** 19,082,031 14,077,343

Dr Temitope Fasoranti Executive Director 13,075,000 11,075,000

Mr Dennis Olisa Executive Director*** 16,770,000 14,125,000

Mr Henry Oroh Executive Director 9,964,127 9,964,127

Mrs Adobi Nwapa Executive Director* 11,008,206 8,449,206

Mr Akindele Ogunranti Executive Director* 2,764,005 764,005

* Appointed to the Board e"ective 12 April 2022

**Retired from the Board e"ective 1 July 2022

***Retired from the Board e"ective 28 December 2022

****Retired from the Board e"ective 24 February 2023

43



The indirect holdings relate to the holdings of the director in the underlisted companies:
• Jim Ovia, CFR: (Institutional investors Ltd, Lurot Burca Ltd, Jovis Nigeria Ltd, Veritas Registars Ltd, Quantum Zenith Securities Ltd)
• Adaora Umeoji, OON: (Palais Vendome Limited)

6. Directors’ Remuneration

The Bank ensures that remuneration paid to its Directors complies with the provisions of the Code of Corporate Governance issued by 
its regulators.

In compliance with Section 34(5) of the Code of Corporate Governance for Public Companies as issued by Securities and Exchange 
Commission, the Bank makes disclosure of the remuneration paid to its directors as follows:

Type of package Fixed Description Timing

Basic Salary - Part of gross salary package for Executive Directors only. Reflects the banking industry 
competitive salary package and the extent to which the Bank’s objectives have been 
met for the financial year.

Paid monthly during
the financial year.

Other allowances - Part of gross salary package for Executive Directors only. Reflects the banking industry 
competitive salary package and the extent to which the Bank’s objectives have been 
met for the financial year.

Paid at periodic intervals 
during the financial year.

Productivity bonus -Paid to executive directors only and tied to performance of the line report. It is also a 
function of the extent to which the Bank’s objectives have been met for the financial 
year.

Paid annually in arears.

Director fees - Paid annually on the day of the Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’) to Non-Executive 
Directors only.

Paid annually on the day 
of the AGM.

Sitting allowances - Allowances paid to Non-Executive Directors only, for attending Board and Board 
Committee Meetings.

Paid after each Meeting.

7. Changes on the Board

The following changes to the board occured during the year.

(i) Mr. Chuks Emma Okoh, FCA was appointed as non-executive director, e"ective 12 April 2022
(ii) Mr. Peter Olatunde Bamkole was appointed Independent non-executive director, e"ective 12 April 2022
(iii) Mrs. Adobi Nwapa and Mr Akindele Ogunranti were appointed as executive directors, e"ective 12 April 2022
(iv) Prof. Chukuka Enwemeka and Mr Je"rey Efeyini retired from the Board e"ective 1 July 2022
(v) Mr. Umar Shuaib Ahmed and Mr Dennis Olisa retired from the Board with e"ect from 28 December,2022
(vi) Engr. Mustapha Bello was reclassified from INED to NED with e"ect from 19 December 2022.

8. Directors’ interests in contracts

For the purpose of section 303(1) and (3) of Companies and Allied Matters Act of Nigeria, (CAMA 2020), all contracts with related parties
during the year were conducted at arm’s length. Information relating to related parties transactions are contained in Note 38 to the
financial statements.

9. Acquisition of own shares

The shares of the Bank are held in accordance with the Articles of Association of the Bank. The Bank has no beneficial interest in any of its
shares.

10. Property and equipment

Information relating to changes in property and equipment is given in Note 26 to the financial statements. In the opinion of the 
directors, the market value of the Group’s property and equipment is not less than the value shown in the financial statements. 

44

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Directors’ Report for the Year Ended 31 December, 2022



11. Shareholding analysis

The shareholding pattern of the Bank as at 31 December 2022 is as stated below:

Share range No. of Shareholders Percentage of Shareholders Number of holdings Percentage Holdings (%)

1-10,000 540,735 83.7619 % 1,594,624,498 5.08 %

10,001 - 50,000 79,892 12.3756 % 1,652,248,795 5.26 %

5,001 - 1,000,000 23,183 3.5911 % 3,968,693,955 12.64 %

1,000,001 - 5,000,000 1,341 0.2077 % 2,745,286,982 8.74 %

5,000,001 - 10,000,000 174 0.0270 % 1,227,788,415 3.91 %

10,000,001 - 50,000,000 170 0.0263 % 3,688,327,472 11.75 %

50,000,001 - 1,000,000,000 65 0.0101 % 11,691,005,260 37.24 %

Above 1,000,000,000 2 0.0003 % 4,828,518,410 15.38 %

645,562 100 % 31,396,493,787 100 %

The shareholding pattern of the Bank as at December 31, 2021 is as stated below: 

Share range No. of Shareholders Percentage of Shareholders Number of holdings Percentage Holdings (%)

1-10,000 539,921 83.8432 % 1,595,654,831 5.08 %

10.001 - 50.000 79,676 12.3727% 1,644,838,601 5.24 %

50.001 - 1.000.000 22,690 3.5235 % 3,846,174,546 12.25 %

1,000,001 - 5,000,000 1,252 0.1944 % 2,625,604,697 8.36 %

5,000,001 - 10,000,000 184 0.0286 % 1,276,980,061 4.07 %

10,000,001 - 50,000,000 168 0.0261 % 3,610,190,362 11.50 %

50.000.001 - 1.000.000.000 72 0.0112 % 11,968,532,279 38.12 %

Above 1,000,000,000 2 0.0003 % 4,828,518,410 15.38 %

643,965 100 % 31,396,493,787 100 %

12. Substantial interest in shares

According to the register of members as at 31 December, 2022, the following shareholders held more than 5% of the issued share 
capital of the Bank.

Number of 
Shares Held

Number of 
Shares Held

Jim Ovia, CFR 3, 546,199,395 11.29 %

According to the register of members at 31 December 2021, the following shareholders held more than 5% of the issued share capital 
of the Bank.

Jim Ovia, CFR 3, 546,199,395 11.29 %

45



13. Donations and charitable gifts

The Bank made contributions to charitable and non-political organisations amounting to N1,671 million during the year ended 31 
December 2022 (31 December 2021: N4,372 million).

The beneficiaries are as follows:
 

31 December 2022
N’ Million

Various charity organizations 522

Various state government infrastructure/security trust funds 331

Various educational institutions 171

Various sport organizations 159

Various conferences and seminars 63

Various health/medical initiatives 54

2022 Microsoft o"ce secured productive enterprise 22

CFA society of Nigeria 20

Ikorodu peace initiative 20

Shared agency network expansion facility(SANEF) 11

FINTECH association of Nigeria 10

University of Lagos alumni association 8

Nigerian content development management board 8

Nigerian bar association 5

Other donations individually below N5million 267

1,671

14. Events after the reporting period
 
On 14 February 2023, the Group exchanged N123.6bln (GHS 2,675,754,659 ) of its existing Government of Ghana bonds for a series 
of new bonds with maturity dates commencing from 2027 to 2038 under the Ghana Domestic Debt Exchange Programme. The new 
bonds were successfully settled on the 21st of February 2023 and have been allotted on the Central Securities Depository. The e"ect of 
the exchange on impairment of the existing bonds at 31 December 2022 was duly recognised in the consolidated financial statements. 
See disclosure in note 4.1
 
15. Group’s strategy against the impact of Covid-19

The Group has considered the impact of Covid-19 on its business operations and has put in place appropriate safeguards to minimize 
negative impact of Covid-19 pandemic on its business.
The Group continues to make adjustments to the way and manner in which it renders banking and other financial services to its 
customers in order to cope with the challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic. Critical areas of the bank’s business and operation 
which are closely monitored via-a-vis the threat of posed Covid-19 are;

a.  Protection of the bank’s cash flow, 

b.  Protection of the bank’s human resources and, c. Enhancement of the digital & electronic platforms of the bank to facilitate fast 
and seamless banking services to its customers.

46

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Directors’ Report for the Year Ended 31 December, 2022



Protection of the Group’s Cash #ow

In order to protect the cashflow of the Group and prevent a drop in the Group’s earnings, profit and asset quality, the Group has 
adopted the following strategies:

 Continuous engagement and monitoring of the bank’s customers in key sectors in order to understand their business progression 
and recovery in the post pandemic era.

 Engaging of the bank’s customers in key sectors of the economy to better understand their current challenges and provide e"ective 
and bespoke actions to alleviate their hardships while preserving shareholders’ funds.

 Continuous adoption of a complete and integrated approach to risk management that is driven from the Board level to the 
operational activities of the bank.

 Continuous review of the bank’s loan book in order to closely monitor all assets and liabilities classes and ensure that the bank has 
su!cient liquidity to meet its financial obligations.

 Developing and testing several stress scenarios to assess the bank’s liquidity,capital adequacy and earning capacity in a period of 
post pandemic economic recovery.

 Update to the bank’s Expected Credit Loss (ECL) model in order to appropriately captures forward looking macro-economic indices 
which incorporates e"ects of covid-19.

In updating its ECL model, the Group leveraged on guidance from the International Accounting Standard Board (IASB) and the Financial 
Reporting Council of Nigeria (FRCN) circular “Covid-19 and its impact on the financial reporting of entities in Nigeria, guidance for 
preparers of financial statements during Covid-19 period”.

Protection of the Group’s Human Resources 

The Group has put in place measures to protect its employees, customers and other stakeholders of the bank. Some of the measures 
are:
 Setting a clear direction and communicating this e"ectively to all sta" and other stakeholders in accordance with our Business 

Continuity Plan (BCP). The Group continues to encourage electronic self-services for our traditional banking services,while most 
meetings are held virtually except in exceptional situations.

 Constant review and strengthening of the Group’s Business Continuity Plan (BCP) to reflect the current and potential impacts of 
Covid- 19 pandemic.

The Group also continues to encourage flexible working condition among its employees. Consequently, the Group has made significant
investment in IT infrastructure that facilitates remote working condition. To complement this, the group increased investment in IT and
Cyber Security infrastructure to enable it meet the increasing digital needs of our customers while protecting its organization and 
customers from all cyber security threats.

Enhancement of the Digital & Electronic Platforms of the Group

The Group continues to enhance the capabilities of its digital and electronic banking channels. This is to ensure seamless processing of 
the huge volumes of digital transactions being processed on the bank’s channels.

47



16. Disclosure of customer complaints in !nancial statements for the year ended 31 December 2022

Description Number Amount claimed Amount refunded

In millions of Naira 31-Dec-22 31-Dec-21 31-Dec-22 
N’m

31-Dec-21 
N’m

31-Dec-22 
N’m

31-Dec-21 
N’m

Pending complaints brought forward 166,314 83,899 57,515 62,988 13 13

Received Complaints 475,499 307,537 17,577 35,227 1,982 -

Resolved Complaints 472,016 225,122 43,253 40,700 22,373 7,012

Unresolved Complaints 169,797 166,314 31,839 57,515 - -

17. Human resources

(i) Employment of disabled persons

The Group maintains a policy of giving fair consideration to the application for employment made by disabled persons with due regard 
to their abilities and aptitude. The Group’s policy prohibits discrimination against disabled persons in the recruitment, training and 
career development of its employees. In the event of members of sta" becoming disabled, e"orts will be made to ensure that their 
employment continues and appropriate training arranged to ensure that they fit into the Group’s working environment.

(ii)  Health, safety and welfare at work

The Group enforces strict health and safety rules and practices at the work environment, which are reviewed and tested regularly. The
COVID-19 pandemic also presented an opportunity for the Group to enhance its health and safety protocols in all its operating locations. 
The Group has retained Hospitals use by sta" and immediate family members.

Fire prevention and fire-fighting equipment are installed in strategic locations within the Group’s premises, while occassional fire drills 
are conducted to create awareness amongst sta".

The Group operates both a Group Personal Accident and the Workmen’s Compensation Insurance covers for the benefit of its 
employees. It also operates a contributory pension plan in line with the Pension Reform Act.

(iii) Employee training and development

The Group ensures, through various fora, that employees are informed on matters concerning them. Formal and informal channels are 
also employed in communication with employees with an appropriate two-way feedback mechanism.

In acordance with the Group’s policy of continuous development, training facilities are provided in well-equipped training centres. 
These are complemented by on-the-job training. 

48

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Directors’ Report for the Year Ended 31 December, 2022



{iv)  Gender analysis of sta#

The average number of employees of the Bank during the year by gender and level is as follows:

a.     Analysis of total employees Gender Number Gender Percentage

Male Female Total Male Female

Employees 3,378 3,322 6,700 50% 50%

3,378 3,322 6,700 50% 50%

b.     Analysis of Board and top management sta$ Gender Number Gender Percentage

Male Female Total Male Female

Board members

(Executive and Non-executive directors) 10 3 13 77% 23%

Top management sta" (AGM-GM) 65 30 95 68% 32%

75 33 108 69% 31%

c.     Further analysis of board and top management sta$ Gender Number Gender Percentage

Male Female Total Male Female

Assistant general managers 42 21 63 67% 33%

Deputy general managers 15 8 23 65% 35%

General managers 8 1 9 89% 11%

Board members (Non-executive directors) 6 1 7 86% 14%

Executive directors (excluding MD and DMDs) 3 1 4 75% 25%

Deputy managing director - 1 1 -% 100%

Managing director/CEO 1 - 1 100% -%

75 33 108 69 % 31 %

18.  Auditors

The auditors, Messrs. Pricewaterhousecoopers, having satisfied the relevant corporate governance rules on their tenure in o!ce, have
indicated their willingness to continue in o!ce as auditors to the Bank. In accordance with section 401 (2) of the Companies and Allied
Matters Act of Nigeria 2020, therefore, the auditors will be reappointed at the next annual general meeting of the Bank without any 
resolution being passed.

By order of the Board

Michael Osilama Otu (Esq.) 
Company Secretary
January 26, 2023
FRC/2013/MULTI/00000001084

49



In line with the provision of S. 405 of CAMA 2020, we have reviewed the audited financial statements of the bank for the 
year ended 31 December 2022 and based on our knowledge confirm as follows: 

(i) The audited financial statements do not contain any untrue statement of material fact or omit to state a material fact, which 
would make the statements misleading.

(ii) The audited financial statements and all other financial information included in the statements fairly present, in all material 

respects, the financial condition and results of operation of the bank as of and for the year ended 31 December 2022.

(iii) The bank’s internal controls has been designed to ensure that all material information relating to the bank and its subsidiaries is 
received and provided to the Auditors in the course of the audit.

(iv) The bank’s internal controls were evaluated within 90 days of the financial reporting date and are e"ective as of 31 December 
2022.

(v) That we have disclosed to the bank’s Auditors and the Audit Committee the following information:

(a) there are no significant deficiencies in the design or operation of the bank’s internal controls which could adversely 
a"ect the bank’s ability to record, process, summarise and report financial data, and have discussed with the auditors any 
weaknesses in internal controls observed in the cause of the Audit.

(b) there is no fraud involving management or other employees which could have any significant role in the bank’s internal 
control.

(vi) There are no significant changes in internal controls or in other factors that could significantly a"ect internal controls 
subsequent to the date of this audit, including any corrective actions with regard to any observed deficiencies and material 
weaknesses.

26 January 2023 

     
   

Mukhtar Adam, PhD
Chief Financial O!cer 

FRC/2013/MUL Tl/00000003196

Dr. Ebenezer Onyeagwu
Group Managing Director / CEO
FRC/2013/ICAN/00000003788

 

Statement of Corporate Responsibility for the Financial Statements 
for the Year Ended 31 December 2022

50



Governance & Sustainability

02



1. Introduction

 Zenith Bank conducts its business in line with the highest 
level of Corporate Governance and best practice.  The 
Group’s governance practices which is replicated across 
its subsidiary companies are constantly reviewed to 
ensure that we keep pace with global standards as well 
as changes occasioned by the dynamics in the business 
environment.

2 The Directors and other key personnel

 During the period under review, the Directors and other 
key personnel of the Bank complied with the following 
Codes of Corporate Governance, which the Bank 
subscribes to:

 (a)  The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) issued Code of 
Corporate Governance for Banks and Discount Houses in 
Nigeria 2014.  

(b)  The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) issued 
Code of Corporate Governance for public companies.  

(c)  The National Code of Corporate Governance for Public 
Companies which became e"ective in January, 2019.

 In addition to the above Codes, the Bank complies with 
relevant disclosure requirements in other jurisdictions 
where it operates.

3. Shareholers

 The Bank has a diverse shareholding structure with no 
single ultimate individual shareholder holding more than 
12% of the bank’s total shares.

4. Board of directors

 The Board has the overall responsibility for setting 
the strategic direction of the Bank and also oversight 
of senior Management.  It also ensures that good 
Corporate Governance processes and best practices are 
implemented across the Bank and the group at all times.

 The Board of the Bank consists of persons of diverse 
discipline and skills, chosen on the basis of professional 
background and expertise, business experience and 
integrity as well as knowledge of the bank’s business.

 Directors are fully abreast of their responsibilities and 
knowledgeable in the business and are therefore able to 
exercise good judgment on issues relating to the Bank’s 
business.  They have on the basis of this acted in good 
faith with due diligence and skill and in the overall best 
interest of the company and relevant stakeholders during 
the period of review.

 The Board has a Charter which regulates its operations.  
The Charter, recently reviewed, has been forwarded to 
the Central Bank of Nigeria in line with the CBN Code of 
Corporate Governance. 

5. Board structure

 The Board is made up of a Non-Executive Chairman, Six 
(6) Non-Executive Directors and Six (6) Executive Directors 
including the GMD/CEO.  Four (4) of the Non-Executive 
Directors are Independent Directors, appointed in 
compliance with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) circular 
on Appointment of Independent Directors by Banks.

-
 The Group Managing Director/Chief Executive is 

responsible for the day to day running of the Bank and 
oversees the group, assisted by the Executive Committee 
(EXCO).  EXCO comprises the Executive Directors, Deputy 
Managing Director, as well as the Group Managing 
Director/Chief Executive as its Chairman.

6. Responsibilities of the Board

 The Board is responsible for amongst others:
a) reviewing and approving the Bank’s strategic plans for 

implementation by management;

52

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Corporate Governance Report for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



b) review and approving the Bank’s financial Statements;
c) reviewing and approving the Bank’s financial objectives, business plans and budgets, including capital allocations and 

expenditures;
d) monitoring corporate performance against the strategic plans and business, operating and capital budgets;
e) implementing the Bank’s succession planning;
f ) approving acquisitions and divestitures of business operations, strategic investments and alliances and major business 

development initiatives;
g) approving delegation of authority for any unbudgeted expenditure;
h) setting the tone for and supervising the Corporate Governance Structure of the Bank, including corporate structure of the Bank 

and the Board and any changes and strategic plans of the Bank and the Group;
i) Assessing its own e!ectiveness in fulfilling its responsibilities, including monitoring the e!ectiveness of individual directors.

The membership of the Board during the year is as follows:

Board of Directors

Name Position Date of Appointment

Jim Ovia, CFR      Chairman April 2, 2014

Prof. Chukuka Enwemeka Non-Executive Director June 23, 2010**

Mr Je!rey Efeyini Non-Executive Director June 23, 2010 **

Mr Chuks Emma Okoh Non-Executive Director April 12, 2022*

Mr Gabriel Ukpeh Independent Non Executive Director February 24, 2016

Engr. Mustafa Bello Non-Executive Director December 29, 2017

Dr Al-Mujtaba Abubakar, MFR Independent Non Executive Director August 1, 2019

Dr Omobola Ibidapo-Obe Ogunfowora Independent Non Executive Director June 30, 2021

Dr Peter Olatunde Bamkole Independent Non Executive Director April 12, 2022*

Dr Ebenezer Onyeagwu Group Managing Director/ Chief Executive O"cer April 24, 2013

Dr Adaora Umeoji, O0N Deputy Managing Director October 9, 2012****

Mr Umar Shuaib Ahmed Executive Director October 19, 2016***

Dr Temitope Fasoranti Executive Director December 29, 2017

Mr Dennis Olisa Executive Director December 29, 2017***

Mr Henry Oroh Executive Director August 1, 2019

Mrs Adobi Nwapa Executive Director April 12, 2022*

Mr Akindele Ogunranti Executive Director April 12, 2022*

* Appointed to the Board e!ective 12 April 2022
**Retired from the Board e!ective 1 July 2022
***Retired from the Board e!ective 28 December 2022
****Retired from the Board e!ective 24 February 2023

The Board meets at least every quarter but may hold extra-ordinary sessions to address urgent matters requiring the attention of the 
Board.

7. Roles of Chairman and Chief Executive

The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and no one individual combines the two positions. The Chairman’s 
main responsibility is to lead and manage the Board to ensure that it operates e!ectively and fully discharges its legal and 
regulatory responsibilities. The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information 

53Governance & Sustainability



to enable the Board take informed decisions and 
provide advice to promote the success of the Bank. 
The Chairman also facilitates the contribution of 
Directors and promotes e"ective relationships and 
open communications between Executive and 
Non-Executive Directors, both inside and outside 
the Boardroom.:

 The Board has delegated the responsibility for the 
day-to-day management of the Bank to the Group 
Managing Director/Chief Executive O!cer, who is 
supported by Executive Management. The Group 
Managing Director executes the powers delegated 
to him in accordance with guidelines approved by 
the Board of Directors. The Executive Management 
is accountable to the Board for the development 
and implementation of strategies and policies. 
The Board regularly reviews group performance, 
matters of strategic concern and any other matter 
it regards as material.

8. Director Nomination Process

 The Board Governance Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee is charged with the 
responsibility of leading the process for Board 
appointments and for identifying and nominating 
suitable candidates for the approval of the Board.

 With respect to new appointments, the committee 
identifies, reviews and recommends candidates for 
potential appointment as Directors.

 In identifying suitable candidates, the Committee 
considers candidates on merit against objective 
criteria and with due regard to diversity on the 
Board, including gender as well as the balance and 
mix of appropriate skills and experience.

 Shareholding in the Bank is not a criterion for the 
nomination or appointment of a Director. The 
appointment of Directors is subject to the approval 
of the shareholders and the Central Bank of Nigeria.

9.  Induction and continuous training

 Upon appointment to the Board and to Board 
Committees, all Directors receive an induction 
tailored to meet their individual requirements.

 The induction, which is arranged by the Company 
Secretary, may include meetings with senior 
management sta" and key external advisors, 
to assist Directors in acquiring a detailed 

understanding of the Bank’s operations, its strategic plan, its 
business environment, the key issues the Bank faces, and to 
introduce Directors to their fiduciary duties and responsibilities.

 The Bank attaches great importance to training its Directors 
and for this purpose, continuously o"ers training and education 
from onshore and o"shore institutions to its Directors, in order 
to enhance their performance on the Board and the various 
committees to which they belong.

10. Board Committees

 The Board carries out its oversight functions using its various 
Board Committees. This makes for e!ciency and allows for a 
deeper attention to specific matters for the Board.

 Membership of the Committees of the Board is intended to 
make the best use of the skills and experience of non-executive 
directors in particular.

 The Board has established the various Committees with well 
defined terms of reference and Charters defining their scope of 
responsibilities in such a way as to avoid overlap or duplication of 
functions.

 The Committees of the Board meet quarterly but may hold 
extraordinary sessions as the business of the Bank demands.

 The following are the current standing Committees of the Board:

10.1.    Board credit committee

The Committee is currently made up of seven (7) members 
comprising four (4) non-Executive Directors and three (3) 
Executive Directors of the Bank. The Board Credit Committee is 
chaired by a non-Executive Director who is well versed in credit 
matters. The Committee considers loan applications above the 
level of Management Credit Committee. It also determines the 
credit policy of the Bank or changes therein.

The membership of the Committee during the period is as 
follows:

Mr. Gabriel Ukpeh - Chairman
Engr. Mustafa Bello
Mr. Chuks Emma Okoh
Dr. Al- Mujtaba Abubakar, MFR
Dr. Ebenezer Onyeagwu
Dame (Dr) Adaora Umeoji, OON
Dr. Temitope Fasoranti

54

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Corporate Governance Report for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



Terms of reference

 To conduct a quarterly review of all collateral security 
for Board consideration and approval;

 To recommend criteria by which the Board of 
Directors can evaluate the credit facilities presented 
from various customers;

  To review the credit portfolio of the Bank;

 To approve all credit facilities above Management 
approval limit;

 To establish and periodically review the Bank’s credit 
portfolio in order to align organizational strategies, 
goals and performance;

 To evaluate on an annual basis the components of 
total credit facilities as well as market competitive 
data and other factors as deemed appropriate, 
and to determine the credit level based upon this 
evaluation;

 To make recommendations to the Board of 
Directors with respect to credit facilities based upon 
performance, market competitive data, and other 
factors as deemed appropriate

 To recommend to the Board of Directors, as 
appropriate, new credit proposals, restructure plans, 
and amendments to existing plans;

 To recommend non-performing credits for write-o" 
by the Board;

 To perform such other duties and responsibilities as 
the Board of Directors may assign from time to time.

10.2. Sta$ Welfare, Finance and General Purpose 
Committee

This Committee is made up of Eight (8) members: four (4) 
non Executive Directors and four (4) Executive Directors. 
It is chaired by a nonexecutive Director. The Committee 
considers large scale procurement by the Bank, as 
well as matters relating to sta" welfare, discipline, sta" 
remuneration and promotion.

The membership of the Committee during the period is as 
follows:

Mr. Chuks Emma Okoh – Chairman
Mr. Gabriel Ukpeh
Dr.. Omobola Ibidapo-obe Ogunfowora
Dr.Peter Olatunde Bamkole
Dr. Ebenezer Onyeagwu
Dr. Adaora Umeoji
Mr. Henry Oroh
Mrs.Adobi Stella Nwapa

Terms of reference

 Approval of large scale procurements by the Bank 
and other items of major expenditure by the Bank;

 Recommendation of the Bank’s Capital Expenditure 
(CAPEX) and major Operating Expenditure (OPEX) 
limits for consideration by the Board;

 Consideration of management requests for branch 
set up and other business locations;

 Consideration of management request for 
establishment of o"shore subsidiaries and other 
o"shore business o!ces;

 Oversight responsibility with respect to the Bank 
and its subsidiary companies relating to material and 
strategic financial matters, including those related 
to investment policies and strategies, merger and 
acquisition transactions, financings, and structure 
including debts and equity securities, and credit 
agreements;

 Consider the Group’s financial risk management and 
major insurance program

 Overall tax planning activities and related 
developments;

 Consider the ratings from Credit rating agencies.
 Consideration of the dividend policy of the Bank 

and the declaration of dividends or other forms of 
distributions and recommendation to the Board;

 Consideration of capital expenditures, divestments, 
acquisitions, joint ventures and other investments, 
and other major capital transactions;

 Consideration of senior management promotions as 
recommended by the GMD/CEO;

 Review and recommendations on recruitment, 
promotion, and disciplinary actions for senior 
management sta";

 To discharge the Board’s responsibility relating to 
oversight of the management of the health and 
welfare plans that cover the company’s employees;

 Review and recommendation to the Board, 
salary revisions and service conditions for senior 
management sta", based on the recommendation 
of the Executives;

 Oversight of broad-based employee compensation 
policies and programs;

55Governance & Sustainability



 10.3. Board risk management Committee

 The Board Risk Management Committee has oversight 
responsibility for the overall risk assessment of various 
areas of the Bank’s operations and compliance.

 The Chief Risk O!cer , the chief information security o!cer 
and the Chief Inspector have access to this Committee 
and make quarterly presentations for the consideration 
of the Committee. Chaired by Engr. Mustapha Bello (a 
Non-Executive Director), the Committee’s membership 
comprises the following:

 Engr. Mustapha Bello – Chairman
 Dr. Peter Olatunde Bamkole
 Dr.Omobola Ibidapo-Obe Ogunfowora
 Dr. Al-Mujtaba Abubakar, MFR
 Mr. Umar Shuaib Ahmed*
 Dr. Ebenezer Onyeagwu
 Mr. Dennis Olisa*
 Mr.Anthony Akindele Ogunranti

 *Retired from the board e"ective 28 December 2022

 Terms of reference

 The primary responsibility of the Committee is 
to ensure that sound policies, procedures and 
practices are in place for the risk-wide management 
of the Bank’s material risks and to report the results 
of the Committee’s activities to the Board of 
Directors;

 Design and implement risk management practices, 
specifically provide ongoing guidance and support 
for the refinement of the overall risk management 
framework and ensuring that best practices are 
incorporated;

 Ensure that management understands and accepts 
its responsibility for identifying, assessing and 
managing risk;

 Ensure and monitor risk management practices, 
specifically determine which enterprise risks are 
most significant and approve resource allocation 
for risk monitoring and improvement activities, 
assign risk owners and approve action plans;

 Periodically review and monitor risk mitigation 
progress and periodically review and report to the 
Board of Directors:

(a) the magnitude of all material business risks;

(b) the processes, procedures and controls in place to 
manage material risks; and

(c) the overall e"ectiveness of the risk management 

process;
 To ensure the implementation of the approved 

cyber security policies, standards and delineation 
of cybersecurity responsibilities.

  To ensure that cybersecurity processes are 
conducted in line with the business requirements, 
applicable laws and regulation.

 To engage the Chief Information Security O!cer 
(CISO) whose duties includes amongst others – 
responsibility for the implementation of approved 
cybersecurity policies and standards as well as to 
focus on the Bank-wide cybersecurity activities and 
the mitigation of cybersecurity risks in the Bank.

 Facilitate the development of a comprehensive risk 
management framework for the Bank and develop 
the risk management policies and processes and 
enforce its compliance;

 To perform such other duties and responsibilities 
as the Board of Directors may assign from time to 
time.

 10.4. Board audit and compliance Committee

 The Committee comprises Non-Executive Directors only 
and is chaired by - Dr. Al-Mujtaba Abubakar, who is well 
experienced and knowledgeable in financial matters. The 
Chief Inspector and Chief Compliance O!cer have access 
to this Committee and make quarterly presentations for 
the consideration of the Committee.

 The Committee’s membership comprises the following:

 Dr. Al-Mujtaba Abubakar – Chairman
 Mr. Gabriel Ukpeh
 Engr. Mustafa Bello
 Dr.Peter Olatunde Bamkole
 Dr. Omobola Ibidapo-Obe Ogunfowora

 Committee’s terms of reference

 The Board Audit and Compliance Committee have the 
following responsibilities as delegated by the Board of 
Directors:

  Ascertain whether the accounting and reporting 
policies of the Bank are in accordance with legal 
requirements and acceptable ethical practices;

 Review the scope and planning of audit 
requirements;

 Review the findings on management matters 
(Management Letter) in conjunction with the 
external auditors and Management’s responses 
thereon;

56

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Corporate Governance Report for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



  Keep under review the e"ectiveness of the Bank’s 
system of accounting and internal control;

  Make recommendations to the Board with regard 
to the appointment, removal and remuneration of 
the external auditors of the Bank

  Authorize the internal auditor to carry out 
investigations into any activities of the Bank which 
may be of interest or concern to the Committee;

 Assist in the oversight of compliance with legal 
and other regulatory requirements, assessment of 
qualifications and independence of the external 
auditors and performance of the Bank’s internal 
audit function as well as that of the external 
auditors;

 Ensure that the internal audit function is firmly 
established and that there are other reliable means 
of obtaining su!cient assurance of regular review 
or appraisal of the system of internal control in the 
Bank;

 Oversee management’s processes for the 
identification of significant fraud risks across 
the Bank and ensure that adequate prevention, 
detection and reporting mechanisms are in place

 On a quarterly basis, obtain and review reports 
by the internal auditor on the strength and 
quality of internal controls, including any issues or 
recommendations for improvement, raised during 
the most recent control review of the Bank;

 Discuss and review the Bank’s unaudited quarterly 
and annual financial statements with management 
and external auditors to include disclosures, 
management control reports, independent reports 
and external auditors’ reports before submission to 
the Board, in advance of publication

 Meet separately and periodically with management, 
the internal auditor and the external auditors, 
respectively;

 Review and ensure that adequate whistle - blowing 
procedures are in place and that a summary of 
issues reported is highlighted to the Board, where 
necessary;

 Review with external auditors, any audit scope 
limitations or problems encountered and 
management responses to them;

 Review the independence of the external auditors 
and ensure that they do not provide restricted 
services to the Bank;

 Appraise and make recommendation to the Board 
on the appointment of internal auditor of the Bank 
and review his/her performance appraisal annually;

 Review the response of management to the 
observations and recommendation of the Auditors 
and Bank regulatory authorities;

 Agree Internal Audit Plan for the year annually with 
the Internal auditor and ensure that the internal 
audit function is adequately resourced and has 
appropriate standing within the Bank;

 Review quarterly Internal Audit progress against 
Plan for the period and review outstanding Agreed 
Actions and follow up

 To develop a comprehensive internal control 
framework for the Bank and obtain assurances on 
the operating e"ectiveness of the Bank’s internal 
control framework;

 To establish management’s processes for the 
identification of significant fraud risks across 
the Bank and ensure that adequate prevention, 
detection and reporting mechanisms are in place;

 To work with the Internal Auditor to develop the 
Internal Audit Plan for the year and ensure that the 
internal audit function is adequately resourced to 
carry out the plan;

  To review periodically the Internal Audit progress 
against Plan for the year and review outstanding 
Agreed Actions and follow up;

 To review the report of the Chief Compliance O!cer 
as it relates to Anti-Money Laundering policies of 
the Bank and other law enforcement issues;

 The Chief Inspector and the Chief Compliance 
O!cer makes quarterly presentation to the 
Committee, in addition to reporting to the Group 
Managing Director. The Chief Inspector and the 
Chief Compliance O!cer also have unrestricted 
access to the Chairman of the Committee;.

 To perform such other duties and responsibilities 
as the Board of Directors may assign from time to 
time.

 10.5. Board governance, nomination and 
remuneration Committee

 The Committee is made up of six (6) Non-Executive 
Directors and one of the Non-Executive Directors chairs 
the Committee.

 The membership of the Committee is as follows:
 Dr.Omobola Ibidapo-Obe Ogunfowora – (Chairman)
 Engr. Mustafa Bello
 Mr. Gabriel Ukpeh
 Dr. Al-Mujtaba Abubakar MFR
 Dr. Peter Olatunde Bamkole
 Mr. Chuks Emma Okoh

57Governance & Sustainability



 Committe’s terms of reference

 To determine a fair reasonable and competitive 
compensation practices for Executive o!cers 
and other key employees of the Bank which are 
consistent with the Bank’s objectives;

  Determining the quantum and structure of 
compensation and benefits for Non-Executive 
Directors;Executive Directors and senior 
management of the Group;

 Ensuring the existence of an appropriate 
remuneration policy and philosophy for Executive 
Directors, Non-Executive Directors and sta" of the 
Group;

 Review and recommendation for Board ratification, 
all terminal compensation arrangements for 
Directors and senior management;

 Recommendation of appropriate compensation 
for Non-Executive Directors for Board and Annual 
General Meeting consideration;

 Review and approval of any recommended 
compensation actions for the Company’s Executive 
Committee members, including base salary, annual 
incentive bonus, long-term incentive awards, 
severance benefits, and perquisites;

 Review and continuous assessment of the size and 
composition of the Board and Board Committees, 
and recommend the appropriate Board structure, 
size, age, skills, competencies, composition, 
knowledge, experience and background in line 
with needs of the Group and diversity required to 
fully discharge the Board’s duties;

 Recommendation of membership criteria for the 
Group Board, Board Committees and subsidiary 
companies Boards;

 Identification at the request of the Board of 
specific individuals for nomination to the Group 
and subsidiary companies Boards and to make 
recommendations on the appointment and 
election of New Directors (including the Group 
MD) to the Board, in line with the Group’s approved 
Director Selection criteria;

 Review of the e"ectiveness of the process for the 
selection and removal of Directors and to make 
recommendations where appropriate;

 Ensuring that there is an approved training policy 
for Directors, and monitoring compliance with the 
policy;

 Review and make recommendations on the 
Group’s succession plan for Directors and other 
senior management sta" for the consideration of 
the Board;

 Regular monitoring of compliance with Group’s 

code of ethics and business conduct for Directors 
and sta";

 Review the Group’s organization structure and to 
make recommendations to the Board for approval;

  Review and agree at the beginning of the year, of 
the key performance indicators for the Group MD 
and Executive Directors;

  Ensure that the Group has a succession policy 
and plan in place for the Chairman of the Board, 
the MD/CEO and all other EDs, NEDs, and Senior 
Management positions to ensure leadership 
continuity in the Group;

 Review and makerecommendations on the 
recruitment, promotions and disciplinary actions 
for Executive Management level personnel;

 Ensure that board evaluation reports of subsidiaries 
are formally discussed and documented as a way 
of radiating sound governance practices across the 
Group;

 Ensure annual review or appraisal of the 
performance of the Board is conducted. This 
review/appraisal covers all aspects of the Board’s 
structure, composition, responsibilities, individual 
competencies, Board operations, Board’s role in 
strategy setting, oversight over corporate culture, 
monitoring role and evaluation of management 
performance and stewardship towards shareholders 
etc;.

 10.6. Audit Committee of the Bank

 The Committee is established in line with section 404(2) 
(CAMA 2020). The Committee’s membership consists of 
three (3) representatives of the shareholders elected at the 
Annual General Meeting (AGM) and two (2) Non-Executive 
Directors. The Committee is chaired by a shareholder’s 
representative. The Committee meets every quarter, but 
could also meet at any other time, should the need arise.

 The Chief Inspector, the Chief Financial O!cer, as well 
as the External Auditors are invited from time to time to 
make presentation to the Committee.

 All members of the Committee are financially literate.

 The membership of the Committe is as follows:

 Shareholders’ representative

 Mrs. Adebimpe Balogun – (Chairman)
 Prof (Prince) L.F.O Obika
 Mr. Michael Olusoji Ajayi

58

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Corporate Governance Report for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



 Non-Executive Directors / Director’s Representatives
 Dr. Al-Mujtaba Abubakar
 Engr. Mustafa Bello

 Committe’s terms of reference

  To meet with the independent auditors, chief 
financial o!cer, internal auditor and any other Bank 
executive both individually  and/or together, as the 
Committee deems appropriate at such times as the 
Committee shall determine to discuss and review;

  The Bank’s quarterly and audited financial 
statements, including any related notes, the 
Bank’s specific disclosures and discussion 
under “Managements Control Report” and the 
independent auditors’ report, in advance of 
publication;

 The performance and results of the external and 
internal audits, including the independent auditor’s 
management letter, and management’s responses 
thereto;

  The e"ectiveness of the Bank’s system of internal 
controls, including computerized information 
systems and security; any recommendations by 
the independent auditor and internal auditor 
regarding internal control issues and any actions 
taken in response thereto; and, the internal control 
certification and attestation required to be made in 
connection with the Bank’s quarterly and annual 
financial reports;

  Such other matters in connection with overseeing 
the financial reporting process and the maintenance 
of internal controls as the committee shall deem 
appropriate;

  To prepare the Committee’s report for inclusion in 
the Bank’s annual report;

 To report to the entire Board at such times as the 
Committee shall determine.

 10.7. Executive committee (EXCO)

 The EXCO comprises the Group Managing Director, 
Deputy Managing Director as well as all the Executive 
Directors. EXCO has the GMD/CEO as its Chairman. The 
Committee meets weekly (or such other times as business 
exigency may require) to deliberate and take policy 
decisions on the e"ective and e!cient management of 
the Bank. It also serves as a first review platform for issues 
to be discussed at the Board level.

 EXCO’s primary responsibility is to ensure the 
implementation of strategies approved by the Board, 
provide leadership to the Management team and ensure 
e!cient deployment and management of the Bank’s 

resources. Its Chairman is responsible for the day-to-day 
running and performance of the Bank.

 10.8. Other Committee

 In addition to the afore-mentioned committees, the Bank 
has in place, other standing management committees. 
They include:
a) Management Committee (MANCO)
b) Assets and Liabilities Committee (ALCO)
c) Management Global Credit Committee(MGCC)
d) Risk Management Committee (RMC)
e) Information technology (IT) steering committee
f ) Sustainability Steering Committee (SSC)
g) Information Security Steering Committee

a) Management Committee (MANCO)

 The Management Committee comprises the senior 
management of the Bank and has been established to 
identify, analyze, and make recommendations on risks 
arising from day-to-day activities. They also ensure that 
risk limits as contained in the Board and Regulatory 
policies are complied with. Members of the management 
committee make contributions to the respective Board 
Committees and also ensure that recommendations 
of the Board Committees are e"ectively and e!ciently 
implemented. They meet weekly and as frequently as the 
need arises

b) Assets and Liabilities Committee (ALCO)

 The ALCO is responsible for the management of a variety of 
risks arising from the Bank’s business including market and 
liquidity risk management, loan to deposit ratio analysis, 
cost of funds analysis, establishing guidelines for pricing 
on deposit and credit facilities, exchange rate risks analysis, 
balance sheet structuring, regulatory considerations 
and monitoring of the status of implemented assets 
and liability strategies. The members of the Committee 
include the Group Managing Director, Executive Directors, 
the Treasurer, the Head of Financial Control, Group Head, 
Risk Management Group and a representative of the 
Assets and Liability Management Unit. A representative of 
the Asset and Liability Management Department serves 
as the secretary of this Committee.

 The Committe meets weekly and as frequently as the 
need arises.

c) Management Global Credit Committee(MGCC)

 The Management Global Credit Committee is 

59Governance & Sustainability



responsible for ensuring that the Bank complies with 
the credit policy guide as established by the Board. The 
Committee also makes contributions to the Board Credit 
Committee. The Committee can approve credit facilities 
to individual obligors not exceeding in aggregate a sum 
as pre-determined by the Board from time to time. The 
Committee is responsible for reviewing and approving 
extensions of credit, including one-obligor commitments 
that exceed an amount as may be determined by the 
Board. The Committee reviews the entire credit portfolio of 
the Bank and conducts periodic assessment of the quality 
of risk assets in the Bank. It also ensures that adequate 
monitoring of performance is carried out. The secretary of 
the committee is the Head of the Credit Administration 
Department.

 The Committee meets weekly or such other times 
depending on the number of credit applications to be 
considered. The members of the Committee include the 
Group Managing Director, the Executive Directors and all 
divisional and group heads.

d) Risk Management Committee (RMC)

 This Committee is responsible for regular analysis and 
consideration of risks other than credit risk in the Bank. 
It meets [at least once in a month or as the need arises] 
to review environmental and other risk issues and 
policies a"ecting the Bank and recommend steps to be 
taken. The Committee’s approach is entirely risk based. 
The Committee makes contributions to the Board Risk 
Management Committee and also ensures that the 
Committee’s decisions and policies are implemented. The 
members of the Committee include the Group Managing 
Director, two Executive Directors, the Chief Risk O!cer 
and all divisional and group heads.

e) Information Technology (IT) steering committee

 The Information Technology (IT) Steering Committee 
is responsible for amongst others, development of 
corporate information technology (IT) strategies and plans 
that ensure cost e"ective application and management of 
resources throughout the organization.

 Membership of the committee is as follows:

 1. The Group Managing Director/Chief Executive O!cer;
 2.  Two (2) Executive Directors;
 3.  Head of Treasury
 4.  Head of Trade Services
 5. Marketing Groups Representatives
 6. Chief Inspector;

 7. Chief Risk O!cer;
 8. Chief Compliance O!cer
 9. Chief Information Security O!cer (CISO)
 10.  Head of IT;
 11.  Head of Infotech - Software;
 12.  Head of Infotech - Enginering;
 13.  Head of Card Services;
 14.  Group Head of Operations
 15.  Group Head of IT Audit;
 16.  Head of e-Business
 17.  Head of Investigation

 The committee meets monthly or as the need arises.

f) Sustainability Steering Committee (SSC)

 This Committee is responsible for regular analysis and 
review of sustainable Banking policies and practices within 
the Bank to ensure compliance with globally acceptable 
economic, environmental and social norms.

 The Bank, recognizing that every institution is as strong 
as the strength of its relationship and that the ability to 
nurture existing relationships and develop new ones will 
invariably play a significant role in the financial stability 
of the organization. Therefore, the Bank believes that 
an organization must forge a closer relationship with 
its stakeholders, including customers, employees, local 
communities, suppliers, among others, to ensure triple 
bottom line profit.

 The Committee present quarterly reports to the Board 
Risk Management Committee and also ensures that the 
Committee’s decisions and policies are implemented. 
The members of the Committee include representatives 
from various marketing and operations departments and 
groups within the Bank as well as the CSR and Research 
Group. 

g) Information Security Steering Committee 

 The information security steering committee is responsible 
for the governance of the cybersecurity programme. The 
Committee is also responsible for providing oversight and 
ensure alignment between information security strategy 
and company objectives. Assessing the adequacy of 
resources and funding to sustain and advance successful 
security programs and practices for identifying, assessing, 
and mitigating cybersecurity risks across all business 
functions. The Committee review company policies 
pertaining to information security and cyberthreats, 
taking into account the potential for external threats, 

60

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Corporate Governance Report for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



internal threats, and threats arising from transactions with 
trusted third parties and vendors. Review of privacy and 
information security policies and standards and review 
the ramifications of updates to policies and standards as 
well as establish standards and procedures for escalating 
significant security incidents to the ISSC, Board, other 
steering committees, government agencies, and law 
enforcement agencies, as appropriate.

 MEMBERSHIP OF THE COMMITTEE

 The Information Security Steering Committee shall be 
comprised of: 

 1. Group Managing Director / CEO 
 2. Executive Directors 
 3. Chief Information O!cer 
 4. Chief Inspector 
 5. Chief Risk O!cer(CRO)
  6. Chief Financial O!cer(CFO) 
 7. Head of InfoTech - Software 
 8. Head of InfoTech – Engineering 
 9. Group Head Retail 
 10. Chief Information Security O!cer(CISO)
 11. Head of IT Audit 
 12. Information Security O!cer 
 13. Head of Risk Management 
 14. Head of Card Services 
 15. Representatives of Marketing Group

11. Policy on trade in the Bank’s securities

 The Bank has in place a policy on trading on the Bank’s 
Securities by Directors and other key personnel of the 
Bank. This is to guide against situations where such 
personnel in possession of confidential and price sensitive 
information deal with Bank’s securities in a manner that 
amounts to insider trading.

12 Relationship with shareholders

 Zenith Bank maintains an e"ective communication with 
its shareholders, which enables them understand our 
business, financial condition and operating performance 
and trends. Apart from our annual report and accounts, 
proxy statements and formal shareholders’ meetings, 
we maintain a rich website (with suggestion boxes) that 
provide information on a wide range of issues for all 
stakeholders.

 Also, a quarterly publication of the Bank and group 
performance is made in line with the disclosure 

requirements of the Nigeria Stock Exchange. The Bank has 
an Investors Relations Unit which holds regular forum to 
brief all stakeholders on operations of the Bank. 

 The Bank also, from time to time, holds briefing sessions 
with market operators (stockbrokers, dealers, institutional 
investors, issuing houses, stock analysts, mainly through 
investors conference) to update them with the state of 
business. These professionals, as advisers and purveyors 
of information, relate with and relay to the shareholders 
useful information about the Bank. The Bank also regularly 
briefs the regulatory authorities, and file statutory returns 
which are usually accessible to the shareholders.

13. Directors remuneration policy

 The Bank’s remuneration policy is structured taking into 
account the environment in which it operates and the 
results it achieves at the end of each financial year. It 
includes the following elements:

 Non-Executive Directors

• Components of remuneration is annual fee and 
sitting allowances which are based on levels of 
responsibilities.

• Directors are also sponsored for training programmes 
that they require to enhance their duties to the Bank.

• During the year under review, in addition to other 
programmes ,all Directors attended the CFT/AML 
training programme to keep them abreast of recent 
trends in CFT and money laundering.

Executive Directors

 The remuneration policy for Executive Directors considers 
various elements, including the following:

• Fixed remuneration, taking into account the level 
of responsibility, and ensuring this remuneration is 
competitive with remuneration paid for equivalent 
posts in Banks of equivalent status both within and 
outside Nigeria.

• Variable annual remuneration linked to the 
Zenith Bank financial results. The amount of this 
remuneration is subject to achieving specific 
quantifiable targets, aligned directly with 
shareholders’ interest.

61Governance & Sustainability



MONITORING COMPLIANCE WITH CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE

Chief Compliance O"cer

The Chief Compliance O!cer monitors compliance 
with money laundering requirements and 
the implementation of the Code of Corporate 
Governance of the Bank. He reports to the Board 
through the the Executive compliance o!cer(ECO).

The Chief Compliance O!cer and the Company 
Secretary forward regular returns to the Central 
Bank of Nigeria on all whistle-blowing reports and 
also on corporate governance compliance.

 Whistle Blowing Procedures

 The Bank has a whistle-blowing procedure that 
ensures anonymity for whistle-blowers. The Bank 
has a direct link on the Bank’s website, provided for 
the purpose of whistle-blowing.

 Internally, the Bank has a direct link on its intranet for 
dissemination of information, to enable members 
of sta" report all identified breaches of the Bank’s 
Code of Corporate Governance. All reports are 
investigated and necessary sanctions applied for 
breache.

 Codes of Coduct

 The Bank has a Code of Professional Conduct for 
Employees and third parties, which all members of 
sta" as well as vendors and contractors subscribe to 
upon assumption of duties signing onto transactions 
with the Bank. The Bank also has a Code of Conduct 
for Directors.

14. Foreign Subsidiaries Governance Structure

 The Bank as at 31 December 2022 has four (4) foreign 
subsidiaries, two (2) local subsidiaries and one (1) 
representative o!ce. Their activities are governed 
by the foreign subsidiaries governance structure put 
in place by the Group Head O!ce to ensure e!cient 
and e"ective operations. The framework establishes 
the scope, method of performance management, 
periodic reviews and feedback mechanism for 
operating within the local laws in their jurisdiction.

 The activities of the subsidiaries are closely 
monitored by Zenith Bank Plc using the following 
strategies: 

 Liaison and Oversight Function
 
 The Foreign Subsidiaries Department is charged with the 

responsibility of overseeing the growth and implementation 
of the Bank’s global expansion strategy into new territories/
regions. The Department serves as an interface between the 
Bank and its o"shore subsidiaries. It also provides guidance on 
how to optimize synergy within the Group. Reports from the 
Group is presented to the Board at its quarterly meetings.

 Representation on the Subsidiary Board

 Zenith Bank Plc exercises control over the subsidiaries by 
maintaining adequate representation on the Board of each 
subsidiary. The representatives are chosen on the basis of 
professional competencies, business experience and integrity 
as well as knowledge of the Bank’s business.

 The Board of Directors of the subsidiaries are responsible for 
reviewing and approving the strategic plans and financial 
objectives as well as monitoring the corporate performance 
against these objectives.

 Local Board and Board Committee

 To ensure that the activities of the subsidiaries reflects the 
same values, ethics, controls and processes, Zenith Bank Plc is 
represented by at least one (1) non-executive director in the 
local board and board committee of each foreign subsidiary. 
These directors provide e"ective oversight function over 
each subsidiary and ensure that there is consistency with the 
strategic direction of the Bank. They also act as a link with the 
parent board at the Group Head O!ce in Nigeria.

 Subsidiary Board Committees

 The Subsidiary Board meets at least every quarter and exercises 
oversight function on the business of each location through the 
following committee structure.

• Board Credit Committee which is charged with the 
responsibility of considering the approval of new loans 
and renewal of existing ones above the threshold set for 
the Management Credit Committee. It also determines 
the credit policy or changes therein.

• Board Risk Management Committee which has oversight 
responsibility for the overall risk management of various 
areas of the Bank’s operations and compliance. This 
includes advising the Board on risk-related matters arising 
from its business.

• Board Audit and Compliance Committee is responsible 
for the review of accounting and reporting policies to 
ensure compliance with regulatory and financial reporting 
requirements. The Board, through the committee exercise 

62

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Corporate Governance Report for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



oversight on the Compliance and AML/CFT activities 
of the Bank. Overall, it monitors the e"ectiveness of 
the Bank’s system of internal control to safeguard its 
assets for shareholders.

• Board Governance, Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee (BGNRC) saddled with the responsibility 
of determining a fair, reasonable and competitive 
renumeration structure for senior management of 
the Bank as well as administering the Governance 
structure for the Bank.

• Board Sta" Welfare, Finance & General Purpose 
Committee has the responsibility of approving large 
scale procurements by the Bank, as well as matters 
relating to sta" welfare, discipline, sta" remuneration 
and promotion.

 Management of Subsidiaries

 Zenith Bank Plc appoints one of its senior management 
sta" to act as the Managing Director of each subsidiary. 
Other key sta" are seconded to assist the managing 
director in the supervision of critical departments of the 
Bank.

 The objective of this management structure is to 
ensure that the core values and principles of the Zenith 
Bank brand are instilled seamlessly across its o"shore 
subsidiaries. It also o"ers the Group an opportunity to 
adopt a uniform culture of best practices in the area of 
corporate governance, technology, controls and customer 
service excellence.

 Monthly and Quarterly Reports

 The subsidiaries furnish Zenith Bank Plc with monthly 
and quarterly reports on their business and operational 
activities. These reports covers the subsidiaries’ financial 
performance, risk assessment, regulatory and compliance 
matters amongst others. The reports are analyzed and 
presented to Executive Management and the Group 
Board of Directors for decision making and fulfilment of its 
oversight function.

 Group Performance & Strategy Review/Budget 
Session

 The Managing Directors and senior management team of 
the respective Subsidiaries of the Bank attend the annual 
Group’s Performance & Strategy Review/Budget Session 
during which their performances are analyzed and 
recommendations made towards achieving continuous 
improvement in financial, social and environmental 
performance. The annual budget of the subsidiaries are 
discussed at this session. This session also serves as a 

forum for sharing business ideas, tapping into identified 
synergy within the Group and disseminating information 
on relevant best practices that could enhance our 
sustained growth in the Banking landscape.

 Annual Internal Control Audit

 The Internal Control & Audit Department of Zenith Bank 
Plc carries out an annual audit of each of the o"shore 
subsidiaries in line with the Group’s Annual Audit 
Programme. This audit exercise covers all operational 
areas of the subsidiaries and the outcome is discussed 
with Executive Management at the home o!ce for timely 
intervention on identified lapses. It is important to note 
that this exercise is distinct from the daily operations audit 
carried out by the respective internal audit unit within the 
subsidiaries 

 Annual Loan Review/Audit 

 This audit is carried out by the Loan Review & Monitoring 
Unit of Zenith Bank Plc. The core areas of concentration 
during this audit exercise include asset quality assessment, 
loan performance, review of security pledged, loan 
conformity with credit policy, documentation check and 
review of central liability report among others 

 Group Compliance Function 

 Zenith Bank Plc is committed to complying with 
regulatory requirements in all locations where it operate. 
To this end, The Bank’s Compliance Group monitors 
ongoing developments in the regulatory environment of 
each location where it operates and ensuring compliance 
with same. This include conducting periodic compliance 
checks on each subsidiary annually to ascertain 
compliance with local banking laws and regulations.

 Report of External Auditors

 In line with global best practices and regulatory 
guidelines, the Bank undertake review of Management 
letters from external Auditors on periodic audit of the 
subsidiary companies. This is to ensure that all exceptions 
are complied with and for implementation of the Auditors’ 
recommendations.

15. Complaints Management Policy

 The Bank has put in place a complaints management 
policy framework to resolve complaints arising from 
issues covered under the Investments and Securities Act, 
2007 (ISA). This can be found on the Bank’s website.

63Governance & Sustainability



16. Schedule of board and board committees meeting held during the period 

The table below shows the frequency of meetings of the Board of directors, board committees and members’ attendance at these 
meetings during the year under review.

Directors Board Board credit 
committee

Finance & general 
purpose committee

Board governance,
Nomination and 

remuneration committee

Board risk 
management 

committee

Board audit and
Compliance 
committee

Attendance / Number of Meetings 7 4 4 4 4 4

Jim Ovia, CFR 7 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A

Mr. Je"rey Efeyini** 4 2 N/A 2 2 2

Prof. Chukuka S.Enwemeka** 4 2 2 N/A 2 N/A

Mr.Gabriel Ukpeh 7 4 4 4 N/A 4 

Engr.Mustafa Bello 7 2*** N/A 4 4 4

Dr. Al-Mujtaba Abubakar, MFR 7 4 N/A 4 4 4

Dr. Omobola Ibidapo-Obe Ogunfowora 7 N/A 4 2 ** 2 ** 4

Mr Peter Bamkole* 4 N/A 2 2 2 2

Mr Chuks Emma Okoh* 4 2 2 2 N/A N/A 

Dr. Ebenezer Onyeagwu 7 4 4 N/A 4 N/A

Dr.Adaora Umeoji, OON 7 4 4 N/A N/A N/A

Mr. Umar Shuaib Ahmed ***: 7 N/A N/A N/A 4 N/A

Dr. Temitope Fasoranti 7 4 N/A N/A N/A N/A

Mr. Dennis Olisa**** 7 N/A N/A N/A 4 N/A

Mr. Henry Oroh 7 N/A 4 N/A N/A N/A

Mrs Adobi Nwapa* 4 N/A 0 N/A N/A N/A

Mr. Akindele Ogunranti* 4 N/A N/A N/A 2 N/A

Note:

* - Appointed to the Board e"ective 12 April,2022  ** - Retired from the Board with e"ect from July 1,2022

*** - Reconstitution of Board Committees, e"ective July 2022 **** - Retired from the Board with e"ect from 28 December, 2022

N/A - Not Applicable (Not a Committee member)

Dates for Board and Board Committee meetings held within the year to 31 December 2022

Board 
meetings

Board credit
committee

meeting

Finance and
general purpose

committee

Board risk and
audit committee

meeting

Board audit and
compliances

committee meeting

Board governance,
nominations and

remuneration committee

Audit committee
meeting of the

bank

27-Jan-22 26-Jan-22 25-Jan-22 25-Jan-22 25-Jan-22 25-Jan-22 25-Jan-22

09-Mar-22

06-Apr-22

28-Apr-22 27-Apr-22 27-Apr-22 26-Apr-22 26-Apr-22 26-Apr-22 26-Apr-22

28-Jul-22 27-Jul-22 26-Jul-22 26-Jul-22 26-Jul-22 26-Jul-22 27-Jul-22

21-Oct-22 19-Oct-22 19-Oct-22 19-Oct-22 19-Oct-22 19-Oct-22 19-Oct-22

28-Dec-22

17. Audit Committee

The table below shows the frequency of meetings of the audit committee and members’ attendance at these meetings during the year
under review.

64

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Corporate Governance Report for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



Number of meetings held during the year:

Members Number of Meetings attended

Mrs. Adebimpe Balogun (SR) 4

Prof. (Prince) L.F.O Obika (SR) 4

Mr. Michael Olusoji Ajayi (SR) 4

Engr. Mustafa Bello (INED)* 4

Dr. Al-mujtaba Abubakar (NED)* 3

Mr. Gabriel Ukpeh (INED)* 1

SR - Shareholders representative

INED- Independent Non-Executive Director

NED- Non-Executive Director

* Changes arising from AGM Resolution

65Governance & Sustainability



0The



67

Report of the Independent Consultant to the Board of Directors of Zenith Bank PLC. On 
their Appraisal for the Year Ended 31 December 2022. 

In compliance with the guidelines of Section 2.8.3 of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) 
Revised Code of Corporate Governance for Banks in Nigeria Post Consolidation (“the CBN 
Code”) and Section 14.1 of the Nigerian Code of Corporate Governance 2018 (“NCCG”), 
Zenith Bank Plc. (“Zenith Bank” or “the Bank”) engaged KPMG Advisory Services to carry 
out an appraisal of the Board of Directors (“the Board”) for the year ended 31 December 
2022. The CBN Code mandates an annual appraisal of the Board with specific focus on the 
Board’s structure and composition, responsibilities, processes and relationships, individual 
director competencies and respective roles in the performance of the Board.  

We have performed the procedures agreed with Zenith Bank in respect of the appraisal of 
the Board in accordance with the provisions of the CBN Code and the NCCG. These 
procedures, which are limited in scope but sufficient for the Board’s objectives in line with 
the Codes, are different in scope from an external audit. Consequently, no opinion is 
expressed by us on the activities reported upon.  

Our approach to the appraisal of the Board involved a review of the Bank’s Board papers 
and minutes, key corporate governance structures, policies and practices. This included the 
review of the corporate governance framework and representations obtained from 
questionnaires and interviews with members of the Board and Senior Management.  

On the basis of our review, the Bank’s corporate governance practices are largely in 
compliance with the key provisions of the Codes of Corporate Governance mentioned 
above. A specific recommendation has been proffered to assist in enhancing the Bank’s 
governance disclosure. This has been articulated and included in our detailed report to the 
Board. 

Olumide Olayinka 
Partner and Head Advisory  
FRC/2013/ICAN/00000000427 
17 February 202  3



68

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Corporate Governance Report for the Year Ended 31 December 2022

W ithin thirty-two years, Zenith Bank has consistently demonstrated resilience irrespective of the business/
economic cycle and has witnessed growth in all areas. This growth has been driven primarily by a strategic 
business focus and a conservative business model. The group boasts of a stable and experienced management 
team that is well-positioned for strong execution, leading to significant market share opportunities.

For this year’s report, we have adopted a dynamic approach that seeks to incorporate as many existing and emerging ESG frameworks 
and reporting guidelines that apply to a business of our kind, locally and globally. While maintaining fundamental alignment with the 
GRI Standards, we have included many other frameworks in the report. These include Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), the 
Nigerian Sustainable Banking Principles, the Nigerian Exchange - Sustainability Disclosure Guidelines, UN Women’s Empowerment 
Principles, and partly the Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. The report highlights our progress, 
challenges, and aspirations as we continue to advance our journey as sustainable finance leaders.

Sustainability Strategy and Management
 Our sustainability journey began over a decade and a half ago and has remained a vital aspect of our corporate identity, significantly 
defining our business model and strategy. We have been leading in shaping and adopting sustainability regulations and frameworks 
within our industry and the broader corporate space. We are committed to upholding the highest possible sustainability standards 
and practices.

& SUSTAINABLE 
BANKING PRACTICES

Corporate 
Responsibility



69Governance & Sustainability

At Zenith Bank, we understand that the sustainability of our 
operations is directly related to the sustained value we create 
for our people, investors, and society. We strive to be a trusted 
partner that is better, simpler, and faster in meeting the needs 
of our stakeholders, thereby creating long-term value for 
our employees, investors, customers, suppliers, regulators, 
the community, and the environment. As a member of the 
United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), we are committed to 
driving progress towards the achievement of the Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) of the United Nations. We recognise 
that we have a critical role to play, through our operations, in 
promoting sustainable development.

In line with the SDGs, Zenith Bank is committed to improving 
the socioeconomic conditions of the communities where 
we do business. Our social initiatives are geared towards 
eradicating extreme poverty, encouraging skills development 
and capacity building, creating employment, and supporting 
the government’s e"orts to achieve inclusive growth and 
development, in line with the development priorities of the 
Federal Government of Nigeria as communicated in economic 
development plans and policies.

Ethical Leadership 
At Zenith Bank, we set high standards for accountability, 
transparency, integrity, compliance, service delivery, and ethical 
behaviour in line with our mission: to build the Zenith brand 
into a reputable international financial institution recognised 
for innovation, superior performance, and creation of premium 
value for all stakeholders. Our governance structures, corporate 
standards, and business principles ensure that sustainability is 
integrated into everything we do.

We are committed to strong ethical business conduct and 
leadership to strengthen our culture of accountability and 
honest dealings with all our stakeholders. The Bank’s Ethical 
Code, Code of Business Conduct, Employee Handbook, and other 
relevant internal policies and procedures underpin our stance 
on promoting a culture of accountability, honesty, and ethical 
conduct. Zenith Bank promotes a workplace where employees 
feel empowered to speak up and report any concerns regarding 
unethical behaviour.

Our commitment to ethical governance and an inclusive 
workplace starts at the top. Our directors and top executives 
come from diverse cultural, professional, and educational 

backgrounds. The collective experience and knowledge of our 
top management and board members add a wide range of 
skills and qualifications towards the stewardship of the Bank’s 
business, culture, and strategy.

Local Communities and Social Investments
Investing in local communities is a significant aspect of Zenith 
Bank’s commitment to society. We support a wide range of 
activities within our areas of operation across the 36 states of 
Nigeria, focusing on initiatives that will improve the quality of life, 
including that of the vulnerable and disadvantaged. We identify 
community needs through engagement, physical assessments, 
and national emergencies to define our contributions and make 
lasting impacts on people’s lives, empowering communities and 
settling immediate needs.



70

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Corporate Responsibility & Sustainabl Banking Practices

Zenith Bank invested NGN1.671 billion in Corporate Social 
Responsibility (CSR) in 2022, representing about 0.75% of our 
Profit After Tax (PAT). We remain one of the largest spenders 
on social investment in the Nigerian corporate space. Our CSR 
endeavours focus on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 
of the United Nations and include security, healthcare, education 
and skills development, sports development, youth & women 
empowerment, and public infrastructure development.

Security:  Security is a fundamental need of our communities, 
and in 2022, we invested NGN331 million in our various 
partnerships with local communities, federal, state and local 
governments, and other relevant agencies to preserve public 
peace and ensure a crime-free environment. Zenith Bank won 
awards for achievements in this area of sustainability.

Sports: In 2022, Zenith Bank invested approximately NGN159 
million in sports development, supporting initiatives such 
as title sponsorship of the Zenith Bank Delta State Principal’s 
Cup, Zenith Bank Headmasters’ Cup, and various Zenith Tennis 
Championships held at Ikoyi Club and Lagos Country Club.

Health:  We continue to champion SDG3 (Good Health 
and Well-being), and in 2022, Zenith Bank invested about 
NGN54 million towards various medical interventions for low-
income individuals faced with various life-threatening medical 
conditions.

Education: In rea!rmation of our commitment to the 
development of the nation’s education sector, Zenith Bank 

expended approximately NGN171 million towards educational 
initiatives in 2022. Our investments in the education sector 
include donations to the educational endowment fund of St. 
Saviour’s School, Ikoyi, and the 2022 Microsoft O!ce Specialist 
World Championship sponsorship. Zenith Bank continues to pay 
great attention to championing SDG4 (Quality Education).

Risk Management Framework
Zenith Bank recognises the importance of a robust risk 
management framework to ensure resilience and business 
continuity and preemptively identify, assess, and mitigate 
risks inherent in its business processes. The risk management 
function of the Bank aligns with best practices standards and 
includes policies, procedures, processes, internal controls, 
tools, capabilities, and decision-making methods that ensure 
the mitigation of risks and compliance with extant regulations. 
Zenith Bank has made significant progress in its Environmental, 
Social, and Governance (ESG) policies and practices, which have 
had a tremendous impact on its customers’ businesses, including 
suggestions for corrective action plans and Environmental 
Impact Assessment (EIA) certification. The Bank has enhanced its 
credit process by ensuring all credit undergoes ESG assessment, 
and it conducts enhanced due diligence on its credit customers 
to ensure compliance with E&S conditions in their o"er 
letters. Zenith Bank is committed to continually improving 
its risk management function by training and educating its 
employees on ESG investing on an ongoing basis to develop 
their competency in ESG risk practices and promote sustainable 
investment.



71Governance & Sustainability

Environmental Sustainability and 
Carbon Footprint Management
Zenith Bank is dedicated to managing its 
environmental impact and supporting 
transition to a low-carbon economy. The 
Bank’s operational strategy aligns with 
global sustainability goals, including 
the 2015 Paris Climate Agreement, Task 
Force on Climate-Related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD), and Sustainable 
Development Goal 13 (Climate Action). 
Zenith Bank continuously monitors, 
reviews, and sets environmental targets 
to manage its carbon footprint and 
overall environmental impact. The Bank 
has implemented eco-friendly practices, 
such as seeking alternative energy 
sources and adopting a resource e!ciency approach, to achieve 
its targets while tracking its Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions. 
The Bank’s environmental and social risk management system 
includes assessing prospective and ongoing projects for E&S 
risks before approval, prioritising reducing GHG emissions 
through improved energy e!ciency, sourcing carbon-e!cient 
assets, optimising digital solutions, reducing business trips, and 
minimising emissions by third parties. Zenith Bank is committed 
to achieving net-zero greenhouse emissions by 2050 and will 
continue to explore opportunities to reduce its environmental 
impact and adopt carbon-friendly 
technologies in its operations.

Our Workforce 
Zenith Bank is proud to have a diverse 
and inclusive workplace fostering 
collaboration, innovation, and growth. 
Our workforce is made up of a mix of 
young aspiring professionals, established 
leaders, and experts in their respective 
fields. We value this mix of talents and 
are committed to attracting the best 
brains within the Nigerian labour market. 
As of December 31, 2022, our total 
active workforce (both permanent and 
temporary sta" ) stood at 9,040 of which 
53.96% were female, and 46.04% were 
male. We believe that having a diverse 
and inclusive workforce promotes 

representation of a wide range of voices and perspectives, 
leading to better decision-making, innovation, and overall 
business success. In recognition of our e"orts, the Bank was 
awarded the Best Company in Workplace Practice at the 2022 
SERAS Awards.

Human Rights 
Zenith Bank is committed to respecting human rights and 
upholding the best practices on labour standards, as outlined by 
the UN Global Compact, United Nations Principles on Business 



72

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

and Human Rights, and the United Nations Environment 
Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP-FI). We strongly condemn 
discrimination against employees or third parties based on age, 
gender, religion, ethnic group, disability, or political views. We do 
not condone any form of child labour or forced labour in our 
business operations. Our employees receive training on human 
rights, and we have a platform for reporting and investigating 
cases of human rights violations. We also consider human 
rights aspects in our supply chain and financing activities by 
conducting E&S impact assessments on our financed projects, 
ensuring that they have no human rights violations. The 
community members in financed project areas can report 
any violation of human rights through the designated public 
liaison o!ce and other available channels. In 2022, 75% of our 
employees received training on human rights.

Women Empowerment 
At Zenith Bank, we are dedicated to creating a business 
environment that is free of gender bias and promotes the 
participation of women in economic and business activities. To 
this end, we o"er the Z-Woman Business Package, designed to 
address the unique needs of women-owned businesses. The 
package provides loans of up to NGN10 million at low-interest 
rates, free digital skills training, and free exhibition stands at 

Zenith Bank events, among other benefits, to help women 
grow their businesses and increase sales. We provide equal 
opportunities for all employees to participate and compete 
at all levels of our organisation. In 2022, 53.96% of our active 
employees and 31% of our sta" in top management positions 
were women. Our employees also receive training on women’s 
rights courses through our e-learning module, including Women 
in Leadership: Mastering Key Leadership Competencies and 
Women in Leadership: Moving Beyond Gender Roles as a Leader.

Financial Inclusion
As a leading financial institution, Zenith Bank is committed to 
supporting the financial inclusion of underserved and unbanked 
communities. Lack of support or access to financial services is a 
significant barrier for these communities, and we recognise our 
duty to support the development of more sustainable financial 
futures for our clients, employees, and communities.

We have played a crucial role in promoting financial inclusion 
through SME funding and developing financial inclusion 
products. Our retail banking services have been instrumental 
in empowering the unbanked. We aim to promote financial 
inclusion by developing products and services that meet the 
needs of our customers and improve access and use of financial 

Corporate Responsibility & Sustainabl Banking Practices



73Governance & Sustainability

services in rural communities. We also conduct educational 
workshops and awareness campaigns to increase financial 
literacy in these communities.

Zenith Bank Financial Literacy & World Savings Day 
Celebration
We have partnered with the apex bank, the Central Bank of 
Nigeria, to mark Financial Literacy Day and World Saving Days 
with students from schools across states in Nigeria. This employee 
volunteering initiative provided an avenue for the Bank and 167 
employees to impact young persons with basic financial literacy 
knowledge. Also, the benefitting students were gifted with 
corporate branded items such as knapsacks, liquid flasks, food 
flasks, towels, water bottles, raincoats, watch sets, drawing sets, 
notebooks, pen, and pencil sets, kiddies lunch bags, etc. In 2022, 
a total of 2,311 male students and 3,262 female students were 
impacted by the Financial Literacy Day Celebration. Similarly, 
a total of 3,400 male students and 3,946 female students were 
impacted by the World Savings Day Celebration.

Talent Development
At Zenith Bank, professional and personal development for 
our employees is a core factor, as we believe employees can 
deliver e!cient service to our clients and customers when 
they are adequately equipped with the right skills. Our training 

curriculum comprises control, interpersonal, leadership, and 
technical training for all our employees, delivered through 
physical and online sessions. This training helps employees to 
adopt new work methodologies and approaches, enhance 
capabilities, and improve collaborative skills and leadership 
techniques. In 2022, employees had training on anti-corruption, 
health and safety, ESG investing, human rights, leadership 
development, banking processes, basic emergency response 
and first aid, and fire safety. A total of 283,014.88 hours were 
expended on training 6,514 employees. We invested a total of 
NGN727,630,626.46 in specialised employee training in 2022, 
representing a 25.25% increase compared to the 2021 spending. 
Sustainability, environment, and social risk management 
sessions are integrated into our anti-money laundering and 
operational risk management training. As part of our strategy to 
increase sustainability awareness among our people, we publish 
and circulate weekly “Sustainability Titbits,” Safety Nuggets, 
“Sustainability Lifestyle Tips,” and “Sustainability Headlines” to all 
our employees via email.

Reporting 
Zenith Bank is committed to sustainability reporting as a 
signatory to the Central Bank of Nigeria’s Nigerian Sustainable 
Banking Principles (NSBP), a member of the United Nations Global 
Compact and the United Nations Environment Programme’s 
Finance Initiative (UNEP-FI). A standalone Sustainability Report 
is published annually to demonstrate the Bank’s economic, 
environmental, and social progress in the financial year, 
incorporating the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) and Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability reporting guidelines. 
Additionally, Zenith Bank sends biannual progress reports to the 
CBN and annual reports to the International Finance Corporation 
(IFC), United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), PROPARCO, and 
the African Development Bank (AfDB), among others.

Conclusion 
At Zenith Bank, we understand that creating value for our people, 
investors, and society is directly related to the sustenance of 
our operations. Therefore, we are committed to being a trusted 
partner that is better, simpler, and faster in meeting the needs 
of our stakeholders, creating long-term value for our employees, 
investors, customers, suppliers, regulators, the community, and 
the environment. We will continue to drive sustainability at the 
highest level of our business, factoring environmental, social, 
and governance dimensions of our operations. This includes 
our products, services, investment decisions, and stakeholder 
relationships.



 
 
 

 

PricewaterhouseCoopers Chartered Accountants 
Landmark Towers, 5B Water Corporation Road, Victoria Island, Lagos, Nigeria 
T: +234 1 271 1700, www.pwc.com/ng                   TIN: 01556757-0001        BN: 958268 
 
Partners: S Abu, O Adekoya, T Adeleke, W Adetokunbo-Ajayi, S Adu, E Agbeyi, A Akingbade, UN Akpata, O Alakhume, A Atitebi, C Azobu, A Banjo,  

E Erhie, K Erikume, M Iwelumo, H Jaiyeola,T Labeodan, U Muogilim, C Obaro, C Ojechi, U Ojinmah, O Oladipo, W Olowofoyeku, P Omontuemhen,  
O Osinubi, T Oyedele, O Ubah, C Uwaegbute, Y Yusuf 

Independent Auditor’s Limited Sustainability Assurance Report on the Selected 
Sustainability Information in Zenith Bank Plc’s Sustainability Report for the year ended 31 
December 2022 

To the Directors of Zenith Bank Plc. 

We have undertaken a limited assurance engagement in respect of the selected sustainability information, 
as described below, and presented in the 2022 Sustainability Report of Zenith Bank Plc. for the year ended 
31 December 2022. This engagement was conducted by a multidisciplinary team including economic, 
social and environmental assurance specialists with relevant experience in sustainability reporting. 

Subject Matter 

You have engaged us to provide a limited assurance conclusion in our report on the following selected 

sustainability information, marked with on the relevant pages in the sustainability report for the year 
ended 31 December 2022. The selected sustainability information in the table contained in this opinion 
have been prepared in accordance with the reporting criteria that accompanies the sustainability 
information on the relevant pages of the Report (the accompanying reporting criteria). 

Zenith Bank Plc. Management’s responsibility 

The Management of Zenith Bank Plc. is responsible for the selection, preparation and presentation of the 
selected sustainability information in accordance with the accompanying reporting criteria as set out in the 
Sustainability Report (the “Reporting Criteria”). 

This responsibility includes: 

• Identification of the stakeholder requirements, material issues, commitments with respect to 
sustainability performance, and  

• Design, implementation and maintenance of internal control relevant to the preparation of the 
Sustainability performance data so that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or 
error. 

• Determining the appropriateness of the measurement and reporting criteria in view of the intended 
users of the selected sustainability information and for ensuring that those criteria are publicly 
available to the report users. 

 
 
 

 

PricewaterhouseCoopers Chartered Accountants 
Landmark Towers, 5B Water Corporation Road, Victoria Island, Lagos, Nigeria 
T: +234 1 271 1700, www.pwc.com/ng                   TIN: 01556757-0001        BN: 958268 
 
Partners: S Abu, O Adekoya, T Adeleke, W Adetokunbo-Ajayi, S Adu, E Agbeyi, A Akingbade, UN Akpata, O Alakhume, A Atitebi, C Azobu, A Banjo,  

E Erhie, K Erikume, M Iwelumo, H Jaiyeola,T Labeodan, U Muogilim, C Obaro, C Ojechi, U Ojinmah, O Oladipo, W Olowofoyeku, P Omontuemhen,  
O Osinubi, T Oyedele, O Ubah, C Uwaegbute, Y Yusuf 

Independent Auditor’s Limited Sustainability Assurance Report on the Selected 
Sustainability Information in Zenith Bank Plc’s Sustainability Report for the year ended 31 
December 2022 

To the Directors of Zenith Bank Plc. 

We have undertaken a limited assurance engagement in respect of the selected sustainability information, 
as described below, and presented in the 2022 Sustainability Report of Zenith Bank Plc. for the year ended 
31 December 2022. This engagement was conducted by a multidisciplinary team including economic, 
social and environmental assurance specialists with relevant experience in sustainability reporting. 

Subject Matter 

You have engaged us to provide a limited assurance conclusion in our report on the following selected 

sustainability information, marked with on the relevant pages in the sustainability report for the year 
ended 31 December 2022. The selected sustainability information in the table contained in this opinion 
have been prepared in accordance with the reporting criteria that accompanies the sustainability 
information on the relevant pages of the Report (the accompanying reporting criteria). 

Zenith Bank Plc. Management’s responsibility 

The Management of Zenith Bank Plc. is responsible for the selection, preparation and presentation of the 
selected sustainability information in accordance with the accompanying reporting criteria as set out in the 
Sustainability Report (the “Reporting Criteria”). 

This responsibility includes: 

• Identification of the stakeholder requirements, material issues, commitments with respect to 
sustainability performance, and  

• Design, implementation and maintenance of internal control relevant to the preparation of the 
Sustainability performance data so that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or 
error. 

• Determining the appropriateness of the measurement and reporting criteria in view of the intended 
users of the selected sustainability information and for ensuring that those criteria are publicly 
available to the report users. 

74



Pr
ic

ew
at

er
ho

us
eC

oo
pe

rs
 C

ha
rt

er
ed

 A
cc

ou
nt

an
ts

 
La

nd
m

ar
k 

To
w

er
s,

 5
B

 W
at

er
 C

or
po

ra
ti

on
 R

oa
d,

 V
ic

to
ri

a 
Is

la
nd

, L
ag

os
, N

ig
er

ia
 

T:
 +

23
4 

1 
27

1 
17

00
, w

w
w

.p
w

c.
co

m
/n

g 
   

   
   

   
   

   
TI

N
: 0

15
56

75
7-

00
01

   
  B

N
: 9

58
26

8 

Pa
rtn

er
s:

S 
Ab

u,
 O

 A
de

ko
ya

, T
 A

de
le

ke
, W

 A
de

to
ku

nb
o-

Aj
ay

i,
S 

Ad
u,

 E
 A

gb
ey

i,
A 

Ak
in

gb
ad

e,
 U

N
 A

kp
at

a,
 O

 A
la

kh
um

e,
A 

At
ite

bi
, C

 A
zo

bu
, A

Ba
nj

o,
 

E
Er

hi
e,

 K
 E

rik
um

e,
M

 Iw
el

um
o,

 H
 J

ai
ye

ol
a,

T 
La

be
od

an
, U

 M
uo

gi
lim

, C
 O

ba
ro

, C
 O

je
ch

i,
U

 O
jin

m
ah

, O
 O

la
di

po
, W

 O
lo

w
of

oy
ek

u,
 P

 O
m

on
tu

em
he

n,
 

O
O

si
nu

bi
,T

 O
ye

de
le

, O
 U

ba
h,

C
 U

w
ae

gb
ut

e,
 Y

 Y
us

uf

Fo
cu

s 
A

re
a

Ze
ni

th
 B

an
k 

In
di

ca
to

rs
Su

b 
H

ea
di

ng
 in

 
Su

st
ai

na
bi

lit
y 

R
ep

or
t

R
ep

or
tin

g 
C

rit
er

ia
 (G

R
I/N

SB
Ps

)
U

pd
at

ed
Pe

rf
or

m
an

ce
 re

su
lt 

st
at

em
en

t(
as

 w
ou

ld
 b

e 
st

at
ed

 in
 

th
e 

fin
al

 s
us

ta
in

ab
ili

ty
 re

po
rt

)

Pa
ge

 
nu

m
be

r

So
ci

al

1.
To

ta
l

em
pl

oy
ee

s 
by

ge
nd

er
(n

um
be

r a
nd

pe
rc

en
ta

ge
)

La
bo

ur
 R

el
at

io
ns

G
R

I 4
05

-1
D

iv
er

si
ty

 o
f g

ov
er

na
nc

e 
bo

di
es

 a
nd

 
em

pl
oy

ee
s

N
SB

P-
4

W
om

en
’s

 e
co

no
m

ic
 e

m
po

w
er

m
en

t

N
SE

 P
rin

ci
pl

e 
5:

Bu
si

ne
ss

es
 s

ho
ul

d 
pr

om
ot

e 
th

e 
w

el
lb

ei
ng

 o
f 

al
l e

m
pl

oy
ee

s.

O
ur

 to
ta

l a
ct

iv
e

w
or

kf
or

ce
 s

to
od

 a
t

9,
04

0
(

 
 

 
) a

s
at

31
D

ec
em

be
r2

02
2,

 o
ut

 
of

 w
hi

ch
 4

,8
78

 (5
3.

96
%

)w
er

e
fe

m
al

e,
w

hi
le

4,
16

2
(4

6.
04

%
)w

er
e

m
al

e.

48

2.
To

ta
l B

oa
rd

an
d 

to
p

m
an

ag
em

en
t

st
af

f (
nu

m
be

r
an

d 
pe

rc
en

ta
ge

in
 g

en
de

r
re

pr
es

en
ta

tio
n)

D
iv

er
si

ty
 a

nd
 

Eq
ua

l 
O

pp
or

tu
ni

ty

G
R

I 4
05

-1
D

iv
er

si
ty

 o
f g

ov
er

na
nc

e 
bo

di
es

 a
nd

 
em

pl
oy

ee
s

N
SB

P-
4

W
om

en
’s

 e
co

no
m

ic
 e

m
po

w
er

m
en

t

N
SE

 P
rin

ci
pl

e 
5:

Bu
si

ne
ss

es
 s

ho
ul

d 
pr

om
ot

e 
th

e 
w

el
lb

ei
ng

 o
f a

ll 
em

pl
oy

ee
s.

In
20

22
, w

e 
ha

d 
12

 m
al

es
 a

nd
 3

 
fe

m
al

es
on

 o
ur

 B
oa

rd
 o

f D
ire

ct
or

s,
re

pr
es

en
tin

g 
80

.0
0%

 m
al

e 
an

d 
20

.0
0%

 fe
m

al
e.

 

A
s

at
31

 D
ec

em
be

r 2
02

2,
 3

1.
68

%
(3

2)
of

ou
r t

op
 m

an
ag

em
en

t s
ta

ff
(o

f A
ss

is
ta

nt
 G

en
er

al
 M

an
ag

er
 a

nd
ab

ov
e 

le
ve

l) 
w

er
e 

fe
m

al
e 

w
hi

le
68

.3
2%

 (6
9)

 w
er

e 
m

al
e.

 
 

 
 

 
 

50

75

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022



         

Fo
cu

s 
A

re
a 

Ze
ni

th
 B

an
k 

In
di

ca
to

rs
 

Su
b 

H
ea

di
ng

 in
 

Su
st

ai
na

bi
lit

y 
R

ep
or

t 

R
ep

or
tin

g 
C

rit
er

ia
 (G

R
I/N

SB
Ps

) 
U

pd
at

ed
 P

er
fo

rm
an

ce
 re

su
lt 

st
at

em
en

t (
as

 w
ou

ld
 b

e 
st

at
ed

 in
 

th
e 

fin
al

 s
us

ta
in

ab
ili

ty
 re

po
rt

) 

Pa
ge

 
nu

m
be

r 

3.
 E

m
pl

oy
ee

 
tra

in
in

g 
an

d 
de

ve
lo

pm
en

t 
(n

um
be

r, 
pe

rc
en

ta
ge

 o
f 

to
ta

l e
m

pl
oy

ee
 

an
d 

na
ira

 
am

ou
nt

) 

Ta
le

nt
 

D
ev

el
op

m
en

t 
G

R
I 4

01
-1

 
Av

er
ag

e 
ho

ur
s 

of
 tr

ai
ni

ng
 p

er
 y

ea
r 

 N
SE

 P
rin

ci
pl

e 
5:

 B
us

in
es

se
s 

sh
ou

ld
 

pr
om

ot
e 

th
e 

w
el

lb
ei

ng
 o

f a
ll 

em
pl

oy
ee

s.
 

A 
to

ta
l o

f 2
83

,0
14

.8
8 

ho
ur

s 
w

er
e 

ex
pe

nd
ed

 o
n 

tra
in

in
g 

by
 6

,5
14

 
ac

tiv
e 

pe
rm

an
en

t e
m

pl
oy

ee
s 

as
 

31
st

 D
ec

em
be

r 2
02

2.
 

52
 

4.
 E

m
pl

oy
ee

 
tu

rn
ov

er
 ra

te
 

(n
um

be
r a

nd
 

pe
rc

en
ta

ge
) 

Em
pl

oy
ee

 
R

ec
ru

itm
en

t a
nd

 
tu

rn
ov

er
 

G
R

I 4
01

 -1
  

N
ew

 e
m

pl
oy

ee
 h

ire
s 

an
d 

em
pl

oy
ee

 tu
rn

ov
er

 
 N

SE
 P

rin
ci

pl
e 

5:
 B

us
in

es
se

s 
sh

ou
ld

 
pr

om
ot

e 
th

e 
w

el
lb

ei
ng

 o
f a

ll 
em

pl
oy

ee
s.

 

In
 2

02
2,

 th
e 

ba
nk

 w
el

co
m

ed
 3

,2
78

 
ne

w
 e

m
pl

oy
ee

s 
(p

er
m

an
en

t &
 

co
nt

ra
ct

) w
hi

le
 1

,7
89

 p
er

m
an

en
t 

an
d 

co
nt

ra
ct

 w
or

ke
rs

 e
xi

te
d 

th
e 

co
m

pa
ny

. 

49
 

5.
 E

m
pl

oy
ee

 w
ho

 
ha

ve
 

un
de

rg
on

e 
tra

in
in

g 
on

 
fig

ht
in

g/
co

m
ba

ti
ng

 fi
na

nc
ia

l 
cr

im
e 

(n
um

be
r 

an
d 

pe
rc

en
ta

ge
 

of
 to

ta
l 

em
pl

oy
ee

) 

An
ti-

C
or

ru
pt

io
n 

an
d 

An
ti-

M
on

ey
 

La
un

de
rin

g 

G
R

I 2
05

 - 
2 

C
om

m
un

ic
at

io
n 

an
d 

tra
in

in
g 

ab
ou

t a
nt

i-
co

rr
up

tio
n 

po
lic

ie
s 

an
d 

pr
oc

ed
ur

es
 

 N
SE

 P
rin

ci
pl

e 
1 

Bu
si

ne
ss

es
 s

ho
ul

d 
co

nd
uc

t a
nd

 g
ov

er
n 

th
em

se
lv

es
 w

ith
 e

th
ic

s,
 tr

an
sp

ar
en

cy
 a

nd
 

ac
co

un
ta

bi
lit

y 

6,
04

2 
em

pl
oy

ee
s,

 re
pr

es
en

tin
g 

90
.1

3%
 o

f o
ur

 a
ct

iv
e 

pe
rm

an
en

t 
em

pl
oy

ee
s,

 re
ce

iv
ed

 tr
ai

ni
ng

 o
n 

an
ti-

co
rr

up
tio

n 
an

d 
an

ti-
m

on
ey

 
la

un
de

rin
g 

in
 2

02
2.

 

28
 

76



         

Fo
cu

s 
A

re
a 

Ze
ni

th
 B

an
k 

In
di

ca
to

rs
 

Su
b 

H
ea

di
ng

 in
 

Su
st

ai
na

bi
lit

y 
R

ep
or

t 

R
ep

or
tin

g 
C

rit
er

ia
 (G

R
I/N

SB
Ps

) 
U

pd
at

ed
 P

er
fo

rm
an

ce
 re

su
lt 

st
at

em
en

t (
as

 w
ou

ld
 b

e 
st

at
ed

 in
 

th
e 

fin
al

 s
us

ta
in

ab
ili

ty
 re

po
rt

) 

Pa
ge

 
nu

m
be

r 

6.
 A

na
ly

si
s 

of
 

H
um

an
 R

ig
ht

s 
an

d 
no

n-
di

sc
rim

in
at

io
n 

po
lic

ie
s 

an
d 

pr
ac

tic
es

 
(n

um
be

r)
. 

H
um

an
 R

ig
ht

s 
As

se
ss

m
en

t 
G

R
I 4

12
-1

 
O

pe
ra

tio
ns

 th
at

 h
av

e 
be

en
 s

ub
je

ct
 to

 
hu

m
an

 ri
gh

ts
 re

vi
ew

s 
or

 im
pa

ct
 a

ss
es

sm
en

t 
 N

SB
P 

3 
H

um
an

 R
ig

ht
s 

 N
SE

 P
rin

ci
pl

e 
1 

Bu
si

ne
ss

es
 s

ho
ul

d 
co

nd
uc

t a
nd

 g
ov

er
n 

th
em

se
lv

es
 w

ith
 e

th
ic

s,
 tr

an
sp

ar
en

cy
 a

nd
 

ac
co

un
ta

bi
lit

y 
 N

SE
 P

rin
ci

pl
e 

7:
 B

us
in

es
se

s 
sh

ou
ld

 
re

sp
ec

t a
nd

 p
ro

m
ot

e 
hu

m
an

 ri
gh

ts
. 

In
 2

02
2,

 8
41

.6
7 

ho
ur

s 
w

er
e 

sp
en

t 
on

 tr
ai

ni
ng

 b
y 

5,
05

0 
pe

rm
an

en
t 

st
af

f o
n 

va
rio

us
 a

sp
ec

ts
 o

f h
um

an
 

rig
ht

s.
 T

hi
s 

re
pr

es
en

ts
 7

5.
33

%
 o

f 
ou

r a
ct

iv
e 

pe
rm

an
en

t e
m

pl
oy

ee
s.

 

61
 

En
vi

ro
nm

en
ta

l 

7.
 

En
er

gy
 

co
ns

um
pt

io
n 

pa
tte

rn
 w

ith
in

 
th

e 
or

ga
ni

sa
tio

n 

En
vi

ro
nm

en
ta

l 
Pe

rfo
rm

an
ce

 a
t 

Ze
ni

th
 B

an
k 

 

G
R

I 3
02

-1
 

En
er

gy
 c

on
su

m
pt

io
n 

w
ith

in
 th

e 
or

ga
ni

sa
tio

n 
 N

SB
P 

2 
 

O
ur

 B
us

in
es

s 
op

er
at

io
ns

: E
nv

iro
nm

en
ta

l 
an

d 
so

ci
al

 fo
ot

pr
in

t 
 N

SE
 P

rin
ci

pl
e 

9 
Bu

si
ne

ss
 s

ho
ul

d 
re

sp
ec

t, 
pr

ot
ec

t, 
an

d 
m

ak
e 

ef
fo

rts
 to

 re
st

or
e 

th
e 

en
vi

ro
nm

en
t. 

In
 2

02
2,

 th
e 

to
ta

l a
m

ou
nt

 o
f 

el
ec

tri
ci

ty
 p

ur
ch

as
ed

 fr
om

 th
e 

na
tio

na
l g

rid
 w

as
 8

,5
27

,4
19

 k
W

h.
 

Th
e 

to
ta

l v
ol

um
e 

of
 d

ie
se

l u
se

d 
to

 
ru

n 
Ze

ni
th

 B
an

k’
s 

ge
ne

ra
to

rs
 w

as
 

2,
36

9,
84

9.
00

 li
tre

s 

45
 

8.
 

C
ar

bo
n 

fo
ot

pr
in

t 
m

ea
su

re
m

en
t 

an
d 

m
an

ag
em

en
t 

En
vi

ro
nm

en
ta

l 
Pe

rfo
rm

an
ce

 a
t 

Ze
ni

th
 B

an
k 

G
R

I 3
05

-1
 

D
ire

ct
 (s

co
pe

 1
) G

H
G

 e
m

is
si

on
 

G
R

I 3
05

 - 
2 

En
er

gy
 In

di
re

ct
 (G

H
G

 e
m

is
si

on
 

 G
R

I-3
: 

O
th

er
 In

di
re

ct
 (s

co
pe

 3
) G

H
G

 e
m

is
si

on
 

In
 2

02
2,

 th
e 

to
ta

l a
re

a 
co

ve
re

d 
in

 
th

e 
ex

te
rn

al
 c

ar
bo

n 
fo

ot
pr

in
t a

ud
it 

co
nd

uc
te

d 
by

 V
4 

Ad
vi

so
rs

 s
to

od
 a

t 
12

,9
38

.5
 m

2 . 
G

H
G

 e
m

is
si

on
s 

at
 

ou
r H

ea
d 

O
ffi

ce
 w

as
 1

.2
 tC

O
2e

/m
2  

in
 2

02
2,

 in
di

ca
tin

g 
a 

9.
09

%
 

de
cr

ea
se

 fr
om

 1
.1

 tC
O

2e
/m

2  i
n 

45
 

77

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022



         

Fo
cu

s 
A

re
a 

Ze
ni

th
 B

an
k 

In
di

ca
to

rs
 

Su
b 

H
ea

di
ng

 in
 

Su
st

ai
na

bi
lit

y 
R

ep
or

t 

R
ep

or
tin

g 
C

rit
er

ia
 (G

R
I/N

SB
Ps

) 
U

pd
at

ed
 P

er
fo

rm
an

ce
 re

su
lt 

st
at

em
en

t (
as

 w
ou

ld
 b

e 
st

at
ed

 in
 

th
e 

fin
al

 s
us

ta
in

ab
ili

ty
 re

po
rt

) 

Pa
ge

 
nu

m
be

r 

 N
SB

P 
2 

 
O

ur
 B

us
in

es
s 

op
er

at
io

ns
: E

nv
iro

nm
en

ta
l 

an
d 

so
ci

al
 fo

ot
pr

in
t 

 N
SE

 P
rin

ci
pl

e 
9 

Bu
si

ne
ss

 s
ho

ul
d 

re
sp

ec
t, 

pr
ot

ec
t, 

an
d 

m
ak

e 
ef

fo
rts

 to
 re

st
or

e 
th

e 
en

vi
ro

nm
en

t. 

20
21

. 

78



 
 
 

 

PricewaterhouseCoopers Chartered Accountants 
Landmark Towers, 5B Water Corporation Road, Victoria Island, Lagos, Nigeria 
T: +234 1 271 1700, www.pwc.com/ng                   TIN: 01556757-0001        BN: 958268 
 
Partners: S Abu, O Adekoya, T Adeleke, W Adetokunbo-Ajayi, S Adu, E Agbeyi, A Akingbade, UN Akpata, O Alakhume, A Atitebi, C Azobu, A Banjo,  

E Erhie, K Erikume, M Iwelumo, H Jaiyeola,T Labeodan, U Muogilim, C Obaro, C Ojechi, U Ojinmah, O Oladipo, W Olowofoyeku, P Omontuemhen,  
O Osinubi, T Oyedele, O Ubah, C Uwaegbute, Y Yusuf 

Inherent Limitations 

Non-financial performance information is subject to more inherent limitations than financial information, 
given the characteristics of the subject matter and the methods used for determining, calculating, sampling 
and estimating such information. The absence of a significant body of established practices on which to 
draw allows for the selection of different but acceptable measurement techniques that can result in 
materially different measurements and can impact on comparability. Qualitative interpretation of relevance, 
materiality and the accuracy of data are subject to individual assumptions and judgements. The precision of 
different measurement techniques may also vary. Furthermore, the nature and methods used to determine 
the information, as well as the measurement criteria and the precision thereof, may change over time. 

Our Independence and Quality Control 

We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the International Ethics 
Standards Board for Accountants (IESBA) issued by the International Federation of Accountants, which is 
founded on the fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, 
confidentiality and professional behaviour. 

The firm applies the International Standard on Quality Control 1 (ISQC 1), and accordingly maintains a 
comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding 
compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory 
requirements. 

Assurance provider’s responsibility  

Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the sustainability report based on conducting a limited 
assurance engagement. We performed our limited assurance engagement in accordance with International 
Standard on Assurance Engagements (revised), Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of 
Historic Financial Information (ISAE 3000). This standard requires that we comply with ethical requirements 
and that we plan and perform the engagement to obtain limited assurance about whether the subject matter 
information is free from material misstatement. 

Our assurance engagement involves performing procedures to obtain sufficient appropriate evidence about 
the sustainability report which is the subject of our assurance engagement. The procedures selected 
depend on our professional judgement, including an identification of areas where a material misstatement 
of the subject matter information is likely to arise whether due to fraud or error. In our identification, we 
considered internal control relevant to management’s preparation of the sustainability report in order to 
design procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances. 

A limited assurance is substantially less in scope than a reasonable assurance engagement in relation to 
both risk assessment procedures, including an understanding of internal control, and the procedures 
performed in response to the assessed risks. The procedures we performed were based on our 
professional judgement and included inquiries, observation of processes followed, inspection of documents, 
analytical procedures, evaluating the appropriateness of qualification methods and reporting policies, and 
agreeing or reconciling with underlying records. 

Given the circumstances of the engagement, and performing the procedures listed above, we: 

79

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022



 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

• Interviewed management to obtain an understanding of the internal control environment, risk 
assessment process and information systems relevant to the sustainability reporting process; 

• Inspected documentation to corroborate the statements of management in our interviews; 
• Tested the processes and systems to generate, collate, aggregate, monitor and report the selected 

sustainability information; 
• Performed a controls walkthrough of identified key controls; 
• Inspected supporting documentation on a sample basis and performed analytical procedures to 

evaluate the data generation and reporting processes against the reporting criteria; 
• Evaluated the reasonableness and appropriateness of significant estimates and judgements made 

by Management in the preparation of the selected sustainability information; and 
• Evaluated whether the selected sustainability information presented in the report are consistent 

with our overall knowledge and experience of sustainability management and performance at the 
Bank. 

The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing and are less in 
extent than for a reasonable assurance engagement. As a result, the level of assurance obtained in a 
limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained 
had we performed a reasonable assurance engagement. Accordingly, we do not express a reasonable 
assurance opinion about whether the Bank’s sustainability information have been prepared, in all material 
respects, in accordance with the accompanying Bank’s reporting criteria. 

We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our 
conclusion. 

Limited Assurance Conclusion 

Based on procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained, and subject to inherent 
limitations outlined elsewhere in this report, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that 
the selected sustainability information as set out in the subject matter paragraph above for the year ended 
31 December 2022 are not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria.   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 80



 

 

 

Other Matters

The maintenance and integrity of Zenith Bank’s website is the responsibility of Zenith Bank’s Directors. Our 
procedures did not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly we accept no responsibility for 
any changes to either the information in the Report or our independent assurance report that may have 
occurred since the initial date of presentation on Zenith Bank’s website.

Our work has been undertaken to enable us to express a limited assurance conclusion on the selected 
sustainability information to the Directors of the Bank in accordance with the terms of our engagement, and 
for no other purpose. We do not accept or assume liability to any party other than the Bank for our work, for 
this report, or for the conclusion we have reached.

For: PricewaterhouseCoopers                

13 April 2023
Chartered Accountants 
Lagos, Nigeria
Engagement Partner: Edafe Erhie
FRC/2013/ICAN/00000001143 

81

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022



ZIVA 
“07040004422"

i



Governance   Sustainability02
Financials

03



The Directors accept responsibility for the preparation of the consolidated and separate financial statements that give a 
true and fair view in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and in the manner required by the 
Companies and Allied Matters Act, (CAMA 2020) of Nigeria, Financial Reporting Council of Nigeria Act, 2011, the Banks and 
Other Financial Institutions Act, (BOFIA),2020 relevant Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Guidelines and Circulars. 

The Directors further accept responsibility for maintaining adequate accounting records as required by the Companies 
and Allied Matters Act, (CAMA 2020) of Nigeria and for such internal control as the directors determines necessary to 
enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatements whether due to fraud or error. 

The Directors have made assessment of the Bank and Group’s ability to continue as a going concern and have no reason 
to believe that the Bank and the Group will not remain a going concern in the period ahead. 

SIGNED ON BEHALF OF THE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS BY:

  _________________________    _________________________
 Mr. Jim Ovia, CFR   Dr. Ebenezer Onyeagwu  
 Chairman   Group Managing Director / CEO
 FRC/2013/CIBN/00000002405   FRC/2013/ICAN/00000003788
 January 26, 2023   January 26, 2023
 

84

Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities in Relation to the Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



In compliance with Section 359(6) of the Companies and Allied Matters Act of Nigeria (2020), Cap C20 LFN 2004, we have 
reviewed the consolidated and separate financial statements of Zenith Bank Pie for the year ended 31 December, 2022 
and hereby state as follows: 

1. The scope and planning of the audit were adequate in our opinion;

2. The accounting and reporting policies of the Group and Bank conformed with the statutory requirements and 
agreed ethical practices;

3. The Internal Control and Internal Audit functions were operating e"ectively; and

4. The External Auditor’s findings as stated in the management letter are being dealt with satisfactorily by the 
management.

5. Related party transactions and balances have been disclosed in note 38 to the Financial Statements in accordance 
with requirements of the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) 
directives as contained in the Prudential Guidelines for Deposit Money Banks in Nigeria and Circular on Disclosure 
of Insider -Related Credits in Financial Statements BSD/1/2004.

Dated January 25, 2023.

Mrs. Adebimpe Balogun
Chairman, Audit Committee
FRC/2017/CITN/00000017467

MEMBERS OF THE COMMITTEE
Shareholders’ Representative
1.  Mrs Adebimpe Balogun -      Chairman
2.  Professor Leonard F.O. Obika
3.  Mr. Michael Olusoji Ajayi 

Directiors’ Representative
Directors’ Representatives
1.  Engr. Mustafa Bello
2. Dr. AI-Mujtaba Abubakar MFR

85Financials

Report of The Audit Committee for the Year Ended 31 December, 
2022  



86



87Financials

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022



88



89Financials

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022



90



91Financials

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022



USSD Merchant 
ome ew eat e

e
4 ... and lots more.

Pay with Transfer Notes



Notes



Group Bank

In millions of Naira Note(s) 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021

Interest and similar income 6 540,166 427,597 448,174 340,388

Interest and similar expense 7 (173,539) (106,793) (153,019) (82,718)

Net interest income 366,627 320,804 295,155 257,670

Impairment charge on financial and non-financial instruments 8 (123,252) (59,932) (61,896) (56,175)

Net interest income after impairment loss on !nancial and non-
!nancial instruments

243,375 260,872 233,259 201,495

Net income on fees and commission 9 132,795 103,958 110,098 84,185

Trading gains 11 212,678 167,483 201,645 171,469

Other operating income 10 35,494 37,594 49,790 53,266

Depreciation of property and equipment 26 (26,630) (25,305) (24,519) (23,204)

Amortisation of intangible assets 27 (3,678) (3,779) (3,045) (3,064)

Personnel expenses 37 (86,412) (79,885) (68,475) (61,123)

Operating expenses 12 (222,972) (180,564) (204,703) (165,857)

Pro!t before tax 284,650 280,374 294,050 257,167

Income tax expense 13a (60,739) (35,816) (59,457) (24,034)

Pro!t for the year after tax 223,911 244,558 234,593 233,133

Other comprehensive income:

Items that will never be reclassi!ed to pro!t or loss:

Fair value movements on equity instruments at FVOCI 8,109 5,599 8,109 5,599

Items that are or may be reclassi!ed to pro!t or loss:

Foreign currency translation di"erences for foreign operations (28,768) 8,485 - -

Fair value movements on debt securities at FVOCI (6,602) (2,227) - -

Other comprehensive(loss)/ income for the year net of taxation (27,261) 11,857 8,109 5,599

Total comprehensive income for the year 196,650 256,415 242,702 238,732

Pro!t (loss) attributable to:

Equity holders of the parent 224,050 244,402 234,593 233,133

Non controlling interest (139) 156 - -

Total comprehensive income attributable to:

Equity holders of the parent 196,981 256,245 242,702 238,732

Non controlling interest (331) 170 - -

Earnings per share 

Basic and diluted (Naira) 14 7.14 7.78 7.47 7.43

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated and separate financial statements.

94

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Consolidated and Separate Statement of Profit or Loss and Other 
Comprehensive Income for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



Group Bank

In millions of Naira Note(s) 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021

Assets

Cash and balances with central banks 15 2,201,744 1,488,363 2,102,394 1,397,666

Treasury bills 16 2,246,538 1,764,946 2,206,668 1,577,647

Assets pledged as collateral 17 254,663 392,594 254,565 357,000

Due from other banks 18 1,302,811 691,244 1,132,796 518,053

Derivative assets 19 49,874 56,187 48,851 57,476

Loans and advances 20 4,013,705 3,355,728 3,735,676 3,099,452

Investment securities 21 1,728,334 1,303,725 622,781 477,004

Investment in subsidiaries 22 - - 34,625 34,625

Deferred tax asset 24 18,343 1,837 - -

Other assets 25 213,523 168,210 193,792 152,326

Property and equipment 26 230,843 200,008 214,572 177,501

Intangible assets 27 25,251 25,001 23,958 23,542

Total assets 12,285,629 9,447,843 10,570,678 7,872,292

Liabilities

Customers' deposits 28 8,975,653 6,472,054 7,434,806 5,169,199

Derivative liabilities 33 6,325 14,674 6,040 15,170

Current income tax payable 13 64,856 16,909 61,655 14,241

Deferred tax liabilities 24 16,654 11,603 15,911 11,596

Other liabilities 29 568,559 487,432 546,347 427,876

On-lending facilities 30 311,192 369,241 311,192 369,241

Borrowings 31 963,450 750,469 999,580 769,395

Debt securities issued 32 - 45,799 - 45,799

Total liabilitles 10,906,689 8,168,181 9,375,531 6,822,517

Capital and reserves

Share capital 34 15,698 15,698 15,698 15,698

Share premium 35 255,047 255,047 255,047 255,047

Retained earnings 35 625,005 607,203 494,429 466,249

Other reserves 35 482,377 400,570 429,973 312,781

Attributable to equity holders of the parent 1,378,127 1,278,518 1,195,147 1,049,775

Non-controlling interest 35 813 1,144 - -

Total shareholders' equity 1,378,940 1,279,662 1,195,147 1,049,775

Total liabilities and equity 12,285,629 9,447,843 10,570,678 7,872,292

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated and separate financial statements.

The financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 26th January 2023 and 
signed on its behalf by:

Jim Ovia, CFR. 
(Chairman) 

FRC/2013/CIBN/00000002406

Dr. Ebenezer Onyeagwu 
(Group Managing Director & Chief Executive O"cer) 

FRC/2013/ICAN/00000003788

Mukhtar Adam, PhD 
(Chief Financial O"cer) 

FRC/2013/MUL Tl/00000003196 

Consolidated and Separate Statement of Financial Position as at 31 
December 2022

95Financials



G
ro

up

In
 m

ill
io

n
s 

o
f N

ai
ra

 
N

o
te

s
Sh

ar
e 

ca
p

it
al

Sh
ar

e 
p

re
m

iu
m

 
Fo

re
ig

n
 

cu
rr

en
cy

 
tr

an
sl

at
io

n
re

se
rv

e

Fa
ir 

va
lu

e 
re

se
rv

e
St

at
u

to
ry

 
re

se
rv

e
SM

IE
IS

re
se

rv
e

C
re

d
it

 r
is

k 
re

se
rv

ee
 

Re
ta

in
ed

 
ea

rn
in

g
s

To
ta

l 
N

o
n

- 
co

n
tr

o
lli

n
g

 
in

te
re

st
 

To
ta

l e
q

u
it

y 

1 
Ja

nu
ar

y 
20

21
15

,6
98

25
5,

04
7

45
,0

58
42

,1
01

23
1,

30
7

3,
72

9
2,

26
6

52
1,

29
3

1,
11

6,
49

9
97

4
1,

11
7,

47
3

Pr
ofi

t f
or

 th
e 

ye
ar

-
-

-
-

-
-

-
24

4,
40

2
24

4,
40

2
15

6
24

4,
55

8

O
th

er
 C

om
pr

eh
en

si
ve

 in
co

m
e:

Fo
re

ig
n 

cu
rre

nc
y 

tr
an

sla
tio

n 
di
"e

re
nc

es
-

-
8,

47
1

-
-

-
-

-
8,

47
1

14
8,

48
5

Fa
ir 

va
lu

e 
m

ov
em

en
ts

 o
n 

eq
ui

ty
 in

st
ru

m
en

ts
-

-
-

5,
59

9
-

-
-

-
5,

59
9

-
5,

59
9

Fa
ir 

va
lu

e 
m

ov
em

en
ts

 o
n 

de
bt

 se
cu

rit
ie

s
-

-
-

(2
,2

27
)

-
-

-
-

(2
,2

27
)

-
(2

,2
27

)

To
ta

l c
om

pr
eh

en
si

ve
 in

co
m

e 
fo

r t
he

 Y
ea

r
-

-
8,

47
1

3,
37

2
-

-
-

24
4,

40
2

25
6,

24
5

17
0

25
6,

41
5

  T
ra

ns
fe

r b
et

w
ee

n 
re

se
rv

es
 

35
-

-
-

-
44

,6
86

-
19

,5
80

(6
4,

26
6)

-
-

-

Tr
an

sa
ct

io
ns

 w
ith

 o
w

ne
rs

 o
f t

he
 P

ar
en

t 

D
iv

id
en

ds
 

40
-

-
-

-
-

-
-

(9
4,

22
6)

(9
4,

22
6)

-
(9

4,
22

6)

Ba
la

nc
e 

at
 3

1 
D

ec
em

be
r 2

02
1

15
,6

98
25

5,
04

7
53

,5
29

45
,4

73
27

5,
99

3
3,

72
9

21
,8

46
60

7,
20

3
1,

27
8,

51
8

1,
14

4
1,

27
9,

66
2

1 
Ja

nu
ar

y 
20

22
15

,6
98

25
5,

04
7

53
,5

29
45

,4
73

27
5,

99
3

3,
72

9
21

,8
46

60
7,

20
3

1,
27

8,
51

8
1,

14
4

1,
27

9,
66

2

Pr
ofi

t f
or

 th
e 

ye
ar

-
-

-
-

-
-

-
22

4,
05

0
22

4,
05

0
(1

39
)

22
3,

91
1

O
th

er
 C

om
pr

eh
en

si
ve

 in
co

m
e:

-
-

-
-

-
-

-
-

-
-

-

Fo
re

ig
n 

cu
rre

nc
y 

tr
an

sla
tio

n 
di
"e

re
nc

es
-

-
(2

8,
57

6)
-

-
-

-
-

(2
8,

57
6)

(1
92

)
(2

8,
76

8)

Fa
ir 

va
lu

e 
m

ov
em

en
ts

 o
n 

eq
ui

ty
 in

st
ru

m
en

ts
-

-
-

8,
10

9
-

-
-

-
8,

10
9

-
8,

10
9

Fa
ir 

va
lu

e 
m

ov
em

en
ts

 o
n 

de
bt

 se
cu

rit
ie

s
-

-
-

(6
,6

02
)

-
-

-
-

(6
,6

02
)

-
(6

,6
02

)

To
ta

l c
om

pr
eh

en
si

ve
 in

co
m

e 
fo

r t
he

 y
ea

r
-

-
(2

8,
57

6)
1,

50
7

-
-

-
22

4,
05

0
19

6,
98

1
(3

31
)

19
6,

65
0

Tr
an

sf
er

 b
et

w
ee

n 
re

se
rv

es
 

35
-

-
-

-
35

,4
19

-
73

,4
58

(1
08

,8
76

)
-

-
-

Tr
an

sa
ct

io
ns

 w
ith

 o
w

ne
rs

 o
f t

he
 P

ar
en

t 

D
iv

id
en

ds
 

40
-

-
-

-
-

-
-

(9
7,

37
1)

(9
7,

37
1)

-
(9

7,
37

1)

Ba
la

nc
e 

at
 3

1 
D

ec
em

be
r 2

02
2

15
,6

98
25

5,
04

7
24

,9
53

46
,9

80
31

1,
41

1
3,

72
9

95
,3

04
62

5,
00

5
1,

37
8,

12
7

81
3

1,
37

8,
94

0

Ze
ni

th
 B

an
k 

Pl
c 

An
nu

al
 R

ep
or

t D
ec

em
be

r 3
1,

 2
02

2

Co
ns

ol
id

at
ed

 a
nd

 S
ep

ar
at

e 
St

at
em

en
t o

f C
ha

ng
es

 in
 E

qu
ity

 fo
r t

he
 Y

ea
r E

nd
ed

 3
1 

D
ec

em
be

r 2
02

2

96



In
 m

ill
io

ns
 o

f N
ai

ra
 

N
o

te
s

Sh
ar

e 
ca

p
it

al
 

Sh
ar

e 
p

re
m

iu
m

 
Fa

ir 
va

lu
e 

re
se

rv
e 

St
at

u
to

ry
 re

se
rv

e 
SM

IE
IS

 
re

se
rv

e 
C

re
d

it
 r

is
k 

re
se

rv
e 

Re
ta

in
ed

 
ea

rn
in

g
s 

To
ta

l 
eq

u
it

y 

Ba
nk

Ba
la

nc
e 

at
 1

 Ja
nu

ar
y 

20
21

%&
,'
()

25
5,

04
7

40
,0

23
20

8,
44

3
3,

72
9

-
38

2,
29

2
90

5,
23

2

Pr
ofi

t f
or

 th
e 

ye
ar

-
-

-
-

-
-

23
3,

13
3

23
3,

13
3

O
th

er
 C

om
pr

eh
en

si
ve

 in
co

m
e:

Fa
ir 

va
lu

e 
m

ov
em

en
ts

 o
n 

eq
ui

ty
 in

st
ru

m
en

ts
-

-
5,

59
9

-
-

-
-

5,
59

9

To
ta

l c
om

pr
eh

en
si

ve
 in

co
m

e 
fo

r t
he

 y
ea

r
-

-
5,

59
9

-
-

-
23

3,
13

3
23

8,
73

2

Tr
an

sf
er

 b
et

w
ee

n 
re

se
rv

es
35

-
-

-
34

,9
71

-
20

,0
16

(5
4,

98
7)

-

D
iv

id
en

ds
40

-
-

-
-

-
-

(9
4,

18
9)

(9
4,

18
9)

Ba
la

nc
e 

at
 3

1 
D

ec
em

be
r 2

02
1

15
,6

98
25

5,
04

7
45

,6
22

24
3,

41
4

3,
72

9
20

,0
16

46
6,

24
9

1,
04

9,
77

5

Ba
la

nc
e 

at
 1

 Ja
nu

ar
y 

20
22

15
,6

98
25

5,
04

7
45

,6
22

24
3,

41
4

3,
72

9
20

,0
16

46
6,

25
0

1,
04

9,
77

6

Pr
ofi

t f
or

 th
e 

ye
ar

-
-

-
-

-
-

23
4,

59
3

23
4,

59
3

O
th

er
 C

om
pr

eh
en

si
ve

 in
co

m
e:

Fa
ir 

va
lu

e 
m

ov
em

en
ts

 o
n 

eq
ui

ty
 in

st
ru

m
en

ts
-

-
8,

10
9

-
-

-
-

8,
10

9

To
ta

l c
om

pr
eh

en
si

ve
 in

co
m

e 
fo

r t
he

 y
ea

r
-

-
8,

10
9

-
-

-
23

4,
59

3
24

2,
70

2

Tr
an

sf
er

 b
et

w
ee

n 
re

se
rv

es
35

-
-

-
35

,1
89

-
73

,8
95

(1
09

,0
84

)
-

D
iv

id
en

ds
40

-
-

-
-

-
-

(9
7,

33
0)

(9
7,

33
0)

Ba
la

nc
e 

at
 3

1 
D

ec
em

be
r, 

20
22

15
,6

98
25

5,
04

7
53

,7
31

27
8,

60
2

3,
72

9
93

,9
11

49
4,

42
9

1,
19

5,
14

7

Th
e 

ac
co

m
pa

ny
in

g 
no

te
s a

re
 a

n 
in

te
gr

al
 p

ar
t o

f t
he

se
 c

on
so

lid
at

ed
 a

nd
 se

pa
ra

te
 fi

na
nc

ia
l s

ta
te

m
en

ts
.

97Notes



For the year ended 31 December Group Bank

In millions of Naira Note(s) 2022 2021 2022 2021

Cash #ows from operating activities 

Profit before tax for the year 284,650 280,374 294,050 257,167

Adjustments for: 

Net impairment loss on financial and non-financial instruments 8 123,252 59,932 61,896 56,175

Unrealised fair value change in trading bond, bills and derivatives 44(xii) 90,046 (94,564) (88,394) (97,873)

Depreciation of property and equipment 26 26,630 25,305 24,520 23,204

Amortisation of intangible assets 27 3,679 3,779 3,045 3,064

Dividend income 10 (2,223) (2,754) (17,148) (19,186)

Foreign exchange revaluation gain 10 (25,201) (25,537) (25,320) (26,012)

Write-o" of Intangible 27 - 2,454 - 2,454

Interest income 6 (540,166) (427,597) (448,174) (340,388)

Interest expense 7 173,539 106,793 153,019 82,718

Gain on sale of property and equipment 10 (2,563) (78) (2,451) (69)

Gain on sale of financial instruments 10 - (251) - -

Modification Loss 44 (xvi) - (353) - -

Gain on lease derecognition 44 (xvili) (2,028) - (2,025) -

(50,477) (71,791) (46,983) (58,746)

Changes in operating assets and liabilities:

Net increase in loans and advances 44(iii) (543,005) (536,014) (502,442) (409,303)

Net (increase) decrease in other assets 44 (viii) (59,586) 1,362 (55,735) 6,896

Net increase in treasury bills (FVTPL) including bills pledged 44(iib) (76,101) (97,724) (78,553) (95,938)

Net (increase)/decrease in investment securities including bonds pledged (FVTPL and FVOCI) 44(i) (254,630) (160,011) 138 33,389

Net (increase)/decrease in restricted balances (cash reserves) 44(x) (418,711) 80,525 (419,705) 95,418

Net decrease/ (increase) in due from banks with maturity greater than three months 44(vii) (15,661) 139,061 (21,065) 75,556

Net increase in customer deposits 44(iv) 2,362,290 1,091,293 2,153,832 823,850

Net increase/(decrease) in Other liabilities 44(V) 48,387 (225,060) 84,480 (180,330)

 992,506 221,641 1,113,967 290,792

Interest received from operating activities 44 (xiiia) 354,722 286,640 302,324 253,341

Interest paid 44(xi) (143,859) (107,051) (128,805) (83,695)

Tax paid 13 (24,247) (15,045) (7,728) (2,581)

Net cash #ows generated from operations 1,179,122 386,185 1,279,758 457,857

Cash #ows from investing activities

Purchase of property and equipment 44(xivb) (67,245) (34,109) (64,357) (31,584)

Proceeds from Sale of property and equipment 44(vi) 3,207 448 2,671 437

Purchase of intangible assets 27 (4,130) (14,884) (3,461) (14,361)

Additions to treasury bills 44(iia) (3,060,163) (2,652,094) (2,968,565) (2,346,839)

Disposal of treasury bills 44(ii$) 2,833,003 2,449,816 2,679,567 2,056,995

Interest received from treasury bills and investment securities 44 (xiiib) 88,416 78,970 71,700 41,492

Acquisition of Right of Use Asset 44(xiva) (2,281) (240) (2,031) (150)

Additions to other Investment securities 44(XV) (559,328) (300,852) (206,285) (159,577)

Disposal of other Investment securities 44(i) 403,066 230,056 65,448 75,928

Proceeds from sale of financial instruments 10 - 251 - -

Dividends received 10 2,223 2,754 17,148 19,186

Net cash from investing activities (363,232) (239,884) (408,165) (358,474)

98

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Consolidated and Separate Statement of Cash Flows for the 
Year Ended 31 December 2022



In millions of Naira                    Group Bank

Note(s) 2022 2021 2022 2021

Cash #ows from !nancing activities

Repayment of debt securities Issued (46,071) - (46,071) -

Cash inflow from long term borrowings 31 1,243,614 712,420 1,279,743 693,944

Repayment of long term borrowings 31 (1,135,414) (860,123) (1,154,340) (826,805)

Cash inflow from onlending facility 30(b) - 14,482 - 14,482

Repayment of onlending facility 30(b) (59,470) (33,011) (59,470) (33,011)

Repayment of principal for lease liability 44(v) (4,011) (2,802) (2,927) (2,007)

Unclaimed dividend received 44(xvii) 1,117 612 1,117 612

Dividends paid to shareholders 40 (97,371) (94,226) (97,330) (94,189)

Net cash used in !nancing activities (97,606) (262,648) (79,278) (246,974)

Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents
718,284 (116,347) 792,315 (147,591)

Analysis of changes in cash and cash equivalents : 
        

Cash and cash equivalent at the beginning of the year 1,134,519 1,208,520 776,574 882,683

(decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents 718,286 (116,347) 792,315 (147,591)

E"ect of exchange rate movement on cash balances 87,955 42,346 88,297 41,482

Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 41 1,940,758 1,134,519 1,657,186 776,574

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated and separate financial statements.

99Financials



Let us partner with you on  your journey to s ess. 

with C



Statement of Directors Responsibilities Notes



1.  General information

Zenith Bank Plc (the “Bank”) was incorporated in Nigeria 
under the Companies and Allied Matters Act as a private 
limited liability company on May 30, 1990. It was granted 
a banking licence in June 1990, to carry on the business of 
commercial banking and commenced business on June 16, 
1990. The Bank is domiciled in Nigeria and was converted 
into a Public Limited Liability Company on May 20, 2004. The 
Bank’s shares were listed on October 21, 2004 on the Nigerian 
Stock Exchange. In August 2015, the Bank was admitted into 
the Premium Board of the Nigerian Stock Exchange.

The registered o!ce address of the company is Plot 84/87 
Ajose Adeogun street, Victoria Island, Lagos.

The principal activity of the Bank is the provision of banking 
and other financial services to corporate and individual 
customers. Such services include granting of loans and 
advances, corporate finance and money market activities.

The Bank has six subsidiary companies namely, Zenith Bank 
(Ghana) Limited, Zenith Pensions Custodian Limited, Zenith 
Bank (UK) Limited, Zenith Bank (Sierra Leone) Limited, Zenith 
Bank (The Gambia) Limited and Zenith Nominees Limited. 
The Bank also has a representative o!ce in China in addition 
to operating a branch of Zenith Bank (UK) Limited in the 
United Arab Emirates.

The consolidated and separate financial statements for 
the year ended 31 December 2022 comprise the Bank 
and its subsidiaries (together referred to as “the Group” 
and individually as “Group entities”) and the separate 
financial statements comprise the Bank. The consolidated 
and separate financial statements for the year ended 31 
December 2022 were approved and authorised for issue by 
the Board of Directors on 26 January 2023. The directors have 
the power to amend and re-issue the financial statements

The Group does not have any unconsolidated structured 
entity.

2.0(a) Changes in accounting policies

Except as noted below, the Group has consistently applied 
the accounting policies as set out in Note 2(b) to all periods 
presented in these consolidated and separate financial 
statements.

The Group has adopted the following new standards  and 
amendments including any consequential amendments to 
other standards with initial date of application of January 1, 
2022.

(i) Property and Equipment: Proceeds before intended use – 
Amendments to IAS 16

The amendment to IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment (PP&E) 
prohibits an entity from deducting from the cost of an item of PP&E 
any proceeds received from selling items produced while the entity 
is preparing the asset for its intended use. It also clarifies that an 
entity is ‘testing whether the asset is functioning properly’ when 
it assesses technical and physical performance of the asset. The 
financial performance of the asset is not relevant to this assessment. 
Entities must disclose separately the amounts of proceeds and costs 
relating to items produced that are not an output of the entity’s 
ordinary activities. This amendment does not have an impact on the 
Group Financial statements.

(ii) Reference to the Conceptual Framework –    
Amendments to IFRS 3

Minor amendments were made to IFRS 3 Business Combinations to 
update the references to the Conceptual Framework for Financial 
Reporting and to add an exception for the recognition of liabilities 
and contingent liabilities within the scope of IAS 37 Provisions, 
Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets and Interpretation 21 
Levies. The amendments also confirm that contingent assets should 
not be recognised at the acquisition date. 

There has been no change in the Group structure within the period 
as such this amendment does not have an impact on the Group 
financial statements.

(iii)  Onerous Contracts – Cost of Ful!lling a Contract   
Amendments to IAS 37

The amendment to IAS 37 clarifies that the direct costs of fulfilling a 
contract include both the incremental costs of fulfilling the contract 
and an allocation of other costs directly related to fulfilling contracts. 
Before recognising a separate provision for an onerous contract, the 
entity recognises any impairment loss that has occurred on assets 
used in fulfilling the contract.

This amendment does not have an impact on the Group Financial 
statements.

(iv) Annual Improvements to IFRS Standards 2018–2020

The following improvements were finalised in May 2020:

• IFRS 9 Financial Instruments – clarifies which fees should 
be included in the 10% test for derecognition of financial 
liabilities.

• IFRS 16 Leases – amendment of illustrative example 13 to 
remove the illustration of payments from the lessor relating 
to leasehold improvements, to remove any confusion about 
the treatment of lease incentives.

102

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



• IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial 
Reporting Standards – allows entities that have 
measured their assets and liabilities at carrying amounts 
recorded in their parent’s books to also measure any 
cumulative translation di"erences using the amounts 
reported by the parent. This amendment will also apply 
to associates and joint ventures that have taken the 
same IFRS 1 exemption.

2.0(b) Changes in accounting policy following IFRS 
IC agenda discussions

No Agenda decisions issued by the IFRS IC had an impact on 
the group financial statements for the year ended 31 December 
2022

2.0(c)  IBOR reform disclosure

Overview

A reform of major interest rate benchmarks is being undertaken 
globally, including the replacement of some interbank o"ered 
rates (IBORs) with alternative nearly risk-free rates (referred to as 
‘IBOR reform’).

Zenith Bank has assessed and quantified its exposure to IBORs 
on its financial instruments that will be reformed as part of this 
market-driven initiative. 

Over the course of the transition, the IBOR reform has had 
operational, risk management, legal and accounting impacts 
across all of our business lines. From the management point of 
view, the financial risk is limited mainly to interest rate risk.

Zenith Bank established a cross-functional IBOR Transition 
Working Group to manage its transition to alternative rates. The 
objectives of the Working Group include evaluating the extent 
to which the entity’s financial assets and liabilities reference 
IBOR cash flows, developing and executing a structured plan 
for the transition and how to manage communication about 
IBOR reform with clients and counterparties. The Working 
Group reports periodically to the Board and ALCO to support 
the management of interest rate risk and provide relevant 
information for key decisions relating to the IBOR reform. The 
Working Group aslo collaborates with other business functions 
as needed.

No newly originated floating-rate loan or instrument referenced 
IBOR from 1 January 2022 

However, the Bank is still in the process of negotiating the 
replacement rate for IBOR legacy contracts with rates that 
ceased as at 31 December 2022. The IBOR transition working 

group is working closely with the business teams to amend the 
contractual terms to replace the IBOR rate. The sections below 
contain details of all of the financial instruments that the Group 
holds at 31 December 2022 which reference IBOR and have not 
yet transitioned to alternative interest rate benchmark.
.
There are no derivatives benchmarked to IBOR as at period end.

(i)  Non-derivative !nancial assets 

Zenith Bank’s IBOR exposures on floating-rate loans to  customers 
is predominantly USD LIBOR. For these assets, Zenith Bank is in the 
process of reforming them to the Secured Overnight Financing 
Rate (‘SOFR’). This also consists of a change to the underlying 
calculation methodology. SOFR is a broad measure of the cost 
of borrowing cash overnight collateralised by U.S. Treasury 
securities in the repurchase agreement (repo) market. This rate 
is robust, is not at risk of cessation, and it meets international 
standards. It is produced by the New York Federal Reserve Bank 
in cooperation with the O!ce of Financial Research.

The publication of the one week and two-month USD LIBOR 
ceased on December 31, 2021 and all other USD LIBOR tenors 
(e.g., overnight, one month, three-month, six-month and twelve-
month) will cease after June 30, 2023 (applicable to legacy 
contracts only). 

Zenith Bank has revised its internal treasury and risk management 
systems to support the transition to SOFR. During the course 
of the transition, Zenith Bank’s IBOR Transition Working Group 
established policies for amending the interbank o"ered rates 
on existing floating-rate loan portfolio indexed to IBORs. Loan 
products will be amended in a uniform way, while syndicated 
products, will be amended in bilateral negotiations with 
syndicated loan partners.

The IBOR Transition Working Group is monitoring the progress of 
transition from IBORs to SOFR by reviewing the total amounts of 
impacted contracts. Zenith Bank also considers that a contract 
is not yet transitioned to an alternative benchmark rate when 
interest under the contract is indexed to a benchmark rate that 
is still subject to IBOR reform,(referred to as an ‘unreformed 
contract’).

The following tables show the total amounts of unreformed non-
derivative financial assets as at 31 December 2022. The amounts 
of these assets are shown at their gross carrying amounts.

103Notes



In millions of Dollars USD LIBOR USD LIBOR

31 Dec 2022  Carrying Value at
31 Dec 2022

 Of which have yet to be 
transitioned as at 31 Dec 2022

Carrying Value at
31 Dec 2021

Of which have yet to be
transitioned as at 31 Dec 2021

Loans and advances to customers

Multilateral loans 1,228 873 2,883 2,883

1,228 873 2,883 2,883

(ii)  Non-derivative !nancial liabilities

Zenith Bank has floating-rate liabilities indexed to USD LIBOR. The IBOR Transition Working Group and Zenith Bank’s treasury team are in 
discussions with the counterparties of the Banks financial liabilities to amend the contractual terms in response to IBOR reform.

The following tables show the total amounts of unreformed non-derivative financial liabilities as at 31 December 2022. The amounts 
shown in the table are the carrying amounts.

In millions of Dollars USD LIBOR USD LIBOR

31 Dec 2022  Carrying Value at
31 Dec 2022

 Of which have yet to be 
transitioned as at 31 Dec 2022

Carrying Value at
31 Dec 2021

Of which have yet to be
transitioned as at 31 Dec 2021

Borrowings

Multilateral Borrowings 397 67 805 805

397 67 805 805

(d)  Signi!cant accounting policies

Except as noted in Note 2.0(a), the Group has consistently applied the following accounting policies to all periods presented in these 
consolidated and separate financial statements, unless otherwise stated.

(e) Standards issued but not yet e$ective

 The following standards and interpretations had been issued but were not mandatory for annual reporting year ended on 31 December 
2022. The Group has not early adopted the underlisted standards in preparing the financial statements as it plans to adopt them at their 
respective e"ective dates if applicable.

(i) Classi!cation of Liabilities as current or non-current - Amendments to IAS 1

 The narrow-scope amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements clarify that liabilities are classified as either 
current or noncurrent, depending on the rights that exist at the end of the reporting period. Classification is una"ected by 
the expectations of the entity or events after the reporting date (eg the receipt of a waiver or a breach of covenant). The 
amendments also clarify what IAS 1 means when it refers to the ‘settlement’ of a liability.

 The amendments could a"ect the classification of liabilities, particularly for entities that previously considered management’s 
intentions to determine classification and for some liabilities that can be converted into equity.

 They must be applied retrospectively in accordance with the normal requirements in IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in 
Accounting Estimates and Errors.

 In May 2020, the IASB issued an Exposure Draft proposing to defer the e"ective date of the amendments to 1 January 2023.
 
 The e"ective date is 1 January 2023.

 This amendment is not expected to have a significant impact on the group financial statement.

104

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



(ii) Disclosure of Accounting Policies – Amendments 
to IAS 1 and IFRS Practice Statement 2

          The IASB amended IAS 1 to require entities to 
disclose their material rather than their significant 
accounting policies. The amendments define what is 
‘material accounting policy information’ and explain 
how to identify when accounting policy information 
is material. They further clarify that immaterial 
accounting policy information does not need to 
be disclosed. If it is disclosed, it should not obscure 
material accounting information. To support this 
amendment, the IASB also amended IFRS Practice 
Statement 2 Making Materiality Judgements to 
provide guidance on how to apply the concept of 
materiality to accounting policy disclosures.

 The e"ective date is 1 January 2023.

 This amendment is not expected to have a significant 
impact on the accounting policies disclosed in the 
financial statement.

iii) De!nition of Accounting Estimates – 
Amendments to IAS 8

 The amendment to IAS 8 Accounting Policies, 
Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors clarifies 
how companies should distinguish changes in 
accounting policies from changes in accounting 
estimates. The distinction is important, because 
changes in accounting estimates are applied 
prospectively to future transactions and other future 
events, but changes in accounting policies are 
generally applied retrospectively to past transactions 
and other past events as well as the current period.

 The e"ective date is 1 January 2023.
 
 This amendment does not have an impact on the 

Group financial statements.

iv) iv) Deferred Tax related to Assets and Liabilities 
arising from a Single Transaction – Amendments 
to IAS 12

 The amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes require 
companies to recognise deferred tax on transactions 
that, on initial recognition, give rise to equal amounts 
of taxable and deductible temporary di"erences. 
They will typically apply to transactions such as leases 
of lessees and decommissioning obligations and 
will require the recognition of additional deferred 
tax assets and liabilities. The amendment should 
be applied to transactions that occur on or after 

the beginning of the earliest comparative period 
presented. In addition, entities should recognise 
deferred tax assets (to the extent that it is probable 
that they can be utilised) and deferred tax liabilities 
at the beginning of the earliest comparative period 
for all deductible and taxable  temporary di"erences 
associated with:

• right-of-use assets and lease liabilities, and
• decommissioning, restoration and similar 

liabilities, and the corresponding amounts 
recognised as part of the cost of the related 
assets.

• The cumulative e"ect of recognising these 
adjustments is recognised in retained earnings, 
or another component of equity, as appropriate.

 The e"ective date is 1 January 2023.

 The impact of this amendment on the Group’s 
financial statements is currently under assessment.

2.1 Basis of preparation

(a) Statement of compliance

 The financial statements are prepared in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS) 
ººand in the manner required by the Companies and 
Allied Matters Act of Nigeria, the Financial Reporting 
Council of Nigeria Act, the Banks and other Financial 
Institutions Act of Nigeria, and relevant Central Bank of 
Nigeria circulars.

(b) Basis of measurement
 
 The financial statements have been prepared under 

the historical cost convention with the exception of the 
following:

• Financial assets and liabilities measured at 
amortised cost;

• Derivative financial instruments which are 
measured at fair value; and

• Non-derivative financial instruments, carried 
at fair value through profit or loss, or fair value 
through OCI are measured at fair value.

(c) Use of estimates and judgements

 The preparation of financial statements in conformity 
with IAS 34 requires the use of certain critical accounting 
estimates. It also requires management  to exercise its 

105Notes



judgement in the process of applying the Group’s 
accounting policies. The areas involving a higher degree 
of judgment or complexity, or areas where assumptions 
and estimates are significant to the consolidated and 
separate financial statements are disclosed in Note 4.

2.2 Basis of Consolidation

(a) Subsidiaries

 Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. The 
Group controls an entity if it is exposed to, or has the 
rights to variable returns from its involvement with 
the entity and has the ability to a"ect those returns 
through its power over the entity. The Group reassesses 
whether it has control if there are changes to one or 
more elements of control. This includes circumstances 
in which protective rights held become substantive and 
lead to the Group having control over an investee.

 The financial statements of subsidiaries are consolidated 
from the date the Group acquires control, up to the date 
that such e"ective control ceases.

 Changes in the Group’s interest in a subsidiary that do 
not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity 
transactions (transactions with owners).

 When the proportion of the equity held by Non 
Controlling Interests (NCIs) changes, the carrying 
amounts of the controlling and NCIs are adjusted 
to  reflect the changes in their relative interests in the 
Subsidiary. Any di"erence between the amount by 
which the non-controlling interest is adjusted and  
the fair value of the consideration paid or received 
is recognised directly in equity and attributed to the 
Group.

 Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised 
gains on transactions between companies within the 
Group are eliminated on consolidation.

 Unrealised losses are also eliminated in the same manner 
as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is 
no evidence of impairment. Accounting  policies of 
subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to 
ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the 
Group.

 In the separate financial statements, investments in 
subsidiaries are measured at cost less accumulated 
impairment.

(b) Loss of Control

 On loss of control, the Group derecognises the assets and 
liabilities of the subsidiary, any related non-controlling 
interests and the other components of  equity relating 
to a subsidiary. Any surplus or deficit arising on the loss 
of control is recognised in profit or loss. If the Group 
retains any interest in the  previous subsidiary, then such 
interest is measured at fair value at the date that control 
is lost. Subsequently, that retained interest is accounted 
for as  an equity-accounted investee or as a financial 
asset depending on the level of influence retained.

(c) Associates

 Associates are all entities over which the Group 
has significant influence but not control, generally 
accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 
50% of the voting rights. Investments in associates are 
accounted for using the equity method of accounting 
and are initially recognised at cost. The Group’s 
investment in associates includes goodwill identified on 
acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment loss.

 The Group’s share of its associates’ post-acquisition 
profits or losses is recognised in profit or loss, and its 
share of post-acquisition movements in reserves are 
recognised in reserves. The cumulative post-acquisition 
movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of 
the investment. When the Group’s share of losses in an 
associate equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, 
including any other unsecured receivables, the Group 
does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred 
obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.

2.2 Basis of Consolidation

 Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group 
and its associates are eliminated to the extent of the 
Group’s interest in the associates. Unrealised losses 
are also eliminated unless the transaction provides 
evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred. 
Accounting policies of associates have been changed 
where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies 
adopted by the Group.

(d) Non-controlling interests

 Non-controlling interests are measured at their 
proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net 
assets at the acquisition date. Changes in the Group’s 
interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of 
control are accounted for as equity transactions.

106

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



2.3 Translation of foreign currencies

 Foreign currency transactions and balances

(a) Functional and presentation currency

 Items included in the financial statements of each of 
the Group’s entities are measured using the currency 
of the primary economic environment in which the 
entity operates (functional currency). The parent entity’s 
functional currency (Nigerian Naira) is adopted as the 
presentation currency for the separate and consolidated 
financial statements. Except as otherwise indicated, 
financial information presented in Naira has been 
rounded to the nearest million.

(b) Group companies
 
 The results and financial position of all the Group entities 

(none of which has the currency of a hyper-inflationary 
economy) that have a functional currency di"erent 
from the presentation currency are translated into the 
presentation currency as follows:

(i) assets and liabilities for statement of financial 
position presented are translated at the closing rate 
at the reporting date;

(ii) income and expenses for each statement of profit or 
loss and other comprehensive income are translated 
at average exchange rates (unless this average is not 
a reasonable approximation of the cumulative e"ect 
of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in 
which case income and expenses are translated at 
the rate on the dates of the transactions); and

(iii) all resulting exchange di"erences are recognised in 
other comprehensive income and presented within 
equity as foreign currency translation reserves.

 On the disposal of a foreign operation, the Group 
recognises in profit or loss the cumulative amount 
of exchange di"erences relating to that foreign 
operation. When a subsidiary that includes a 
foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold, 
the Group re-attributes the proportionate share of 
the cumulative amount of the exchange di"erences 
recognised in other comprehensive income to the 
non-controlling interests in that foreign operation. 
In the case of any other partial disposal of a foreign 
operation, the Group reclassifies to profit or loss 
only the proportionate share of the cumulative 

amount of exchange di"erences recognised in other 
comprehensive income.

 Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the 
acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and 
liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the 
closing rate at the reporting date.

(c) Transactions and balances

 Foreign currency transactions are translated into the 
functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing 
at the dates of the transactions or valuation  where items 
are re-measured. Foreign exchange gains and losses 
resulting from the settlement of such transactions and 
from the translation at periodend exchange rates of 
monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign 
currencies are recognised in profit or loss.

 Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated 
in foreign currencies that are measured at historical 
cost are translated to the functional currency using  
the exchange rate at the transaction date, and those 
measured at fair value are translated to the functional 
currency at the exchange rate at the date that the 
fair value was determined and are recognised in the 
profit or loss. When a gain or loss on non-monetary 
item is recognised in other comprehensive income, 
any exchange component of that gain or loss shall be 
recognised in other comprehensive income. Conversely, 
when a gain or loss on a non-monetary item is 
recognised in profit or loss, any exchange of that gain or 
loss shall be recognised in profit or loss.

 Translation di"erences on equities measured at fair value 
through other comprehensive income are included in 
other comprehensive income and

 transferred to the fair value reserve in equity.

 Foreign currency gains and losses on intra-group loans 
are recognised in profit or loss unless settlement of 
the loan is neither planned nor likely to occur in the 
foreseeable future, in which case the foreign currency 
gains and losses are initially recognised in the foreign 
currency translation reserve in the  consolidated financial 
statements. Those gains and losses are recognised in 
profit or loss at the earlier of settling the loan or at the 
time at which the foreign operation is disposed. 

2.4 Cash and cash equivalents

 For the purposes of the statement of cash flow, cash 
and cash equivalents comprise balances with original 
maturities of three (3) months or less than three months 

107Notes



from the date of acquisition that are subject to an insignificant 
risk of changes in their fair value, and are used by the Group 
in the management of its short-term commitments. They 
include cash and non-restricted balances with central banks, 
treasury bills and other eligible bills, amounts due from other 
banks and short-term government securities.

2.5 Financial instruments

(a) Initial recognition and measurement

 Financial instruments are recognised initially when the 
Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the 
instruments. 

 Financial instruments carried at fair value through profit or 
loss are initially recognised at fair value with transaction costs, 
which are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of the 
financial instruments, being recognised immediately through 
profit or loss. Financial instruments that are not carried at fair 
value through profit or loss are initially measured at fair value 
plus transaction costs that are directly attributable to the 
acquisition or issue of the financial instruments.

 Financial instruments are recognised or de-recognised on the 
date the Group settles the purchase or sale of the instruments 
(settlement date accounting).

(b)  Subsequent measurement

 Subsequent to initial measurement, financial instruments are 
measured either at amortised cost or fair value depending on 
their classification category.

(c) Classi!cation

(i) Financial assets 

 Subsequent to initial recognition, all financial assets within the 
Group are measured at:

• Amortised cost;
  
• Fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI); 

or

• Fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL)

 The Group’s financial assets are subsequently measured at 
amortised cost if they meet both of the following criteria and 
are not designated as at FVTPL:

• Hold to collect’ business model test - The 
asset is held within a business model whose 
objective is to hold the financial asset in other 
to collect contractual cash flows; and

• ‘SPPI’ contractual cash flow characteristics test. 
The contractual terms of the financial asset 
give rise to cash flows that are solely payments 
of principal and interest (SPPI) on the principal 
amount outstanding on a specified date. 
Interest in this context is the consideration 
for the time value of money and for the credit 
risk associated with the principal amount 
outstanding during a particular period of time.

 Debt instruments are measured at amortised cost 
by the Group if they meet both of the following 
criteria and are not designated as at FVTPL:

• ‘Hold to collect and sell’ business model 
test: The asset is held within a business 
model whose objective is achieved by both 
holding the financial asset in order to collect 
contractual cash flows and selling the financial 
asset; and

• ‘SPPI’ contractual cash flow characteristics test: 
The contractual terms of the financial asset 
give rise on specified dates to cash flows that 
are solely payments of principal and interest 
on the principal amount outstanding.

 All other financial assets including equity 
investments are measured at fair value.

 A financial asset is classified and measured at fair 
value through profit or loss (FVTPL) by the Group if 
the financial asset is:

•  A debt instrument that does not qualify to be 
measured at amortised cost or FVOCI;

• An equity investment which the Group has 
not irrevocably elected to classify as at FVOCI 
and present subsequent changes in fair value 
in OCI;

• A financial asset where the Group has elected 
to measure the asset at FVTPL under the fair 
value option.

108

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



(ii) Financial liabilities

 Financial liabilities are either classified by the Group as:
• Financial liabilities at amortised cost; or

• Financial liabilities as at fair value through profit or 
loss (FVTPL).

 Financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost by 
the Group unless either:

• The financial liability is held for trading and is 
therefore required to be measured at FVTPL, or

• The Group elects to measure the financial liability at 
FVTPL (using the fair value option).

(iii) Financial guarantees contracts and loan 
commitments

 A financial guarantee contract is a contract that requires 
the Group (issuer) to make specified payments to 
reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because a 
specified debtor fails to make payment when due in 
accordance with the original or modified terms of a debt 
instrument.

 Loan commitments’ are firm commitments to provide 
credit under pre-specified terms and conditions. Financial 
guarantees issued or commitments to provide a loan at 
a below-market interest rate are initially measured at fair 
value. Subsequently, they are measured at the higher of 
the loss allowance determined in accordance with IFRS 9 
(see note 3.2.18) and the amount initially recognised less, 
when appropriate, the cumulative amount of income 
recognised in accordance with the principles of IFRS 15.

 The Group has issued no loan commitments that are 
measured at FVTPL.

 Liabilities arising from financial guarantees and loan 
commitments are included within provisions.

 The Group conducts business involving commitments 
to customers. The majority of these facilities are set-o" by 
corresponding obligations of third parties. Contingent 
liabilities  and commitments comprise usance lines and 
letters of  credit.

 Usance and letters of credit are agreements to lend to a 
customer in the future subject to certain conditions. An 
acceptance is an undertaking by a bank to pay a bill of 
exchange drawn on a customer.

 Letters of credit are given as security to support the 
performance of a customer to third parties. As the Group 
will only be required to meet these obligations in the 
event of the Customer’s default, the cash requirements 
of these instruments are expected to be considerably 
below their nominal amounts.

 
 Contingent liabilities and commitments are initially 

recognized at fair value which is also generally equal 
to the fees received and amortized over the life of the 
commitment. The carrying amount of contingent 
liabilities are subsequently measured at the higher of 
the present value of any expected payment when a 
payment under the contingent liability has become  
probable and the unamortised fee.

Business model assessment

The Group assesses the objective of a business model in which 
an asset is held at a portfolio level because this best  reflects 
the way the business is managed, and information is provided to 
management. The information  considered includes:

 the stated policies and objectives for the portfolio and 
the operation of those policies in practice. In particular, 
whether management’s strategy focuses on earning 
contractual interest revenue, maintaining a particular 
interest rate profile, matching the duration of the 
financial assets to the duration of the liabilities that are 
funding those assets or realising cash flows through the 
sale of the assets;

 how the performance of the portfolio is evaluated and 
reported to the Group’s management;

 the risks that a"ect the performance of the business 
model (and the financial assets held within that business 
model) and its strategy for how those risks are managed;

 how managers of the business are compensated (e.g. 
whether compensation is based on the fair value of the 
assets managed or the contractual cash flows collected); 
and

 the frequency, volume and timing of sales in prior 
periods, the reasons for such sales and its expectations 
about future sales activity. However, information about 
sales activity is not considered in isolation, but as part 
of an overall assessment  of how the Group’s stated 
objective for managing the financial assets is achieved 
and how cash flows are realised.

109Notes



 Financial assets that are held for trading or 
managed and whose performance is evaluated 
on a fair value basis are measured at FVTPL 
because they are neither held to collect 
contractual cash flows nor held both to collect 
contractual cash flows and to sell financial assets.

Assessment of whether contractual cash #ows are 
solely payments of principal and interest

For the purposes of this assessment, ‘principal’ is defined 
as the fair value of the financial asset on initial recognition. 
‘Interest’ is defined as consideration for the time value 
of money and for the credit risk associated with the 
principal amount outstanding during a particular period 
of time and for other basic lending risks and costs (e.g. 
liquidity risk  and  administrative costs), as well as profit 
margin.

In assessing whether the contractual  cash flows are 
SPPI, the Group considers the contractual terms of the 
instrument.  This includes assessing whether the financial 
asset contains a contractual term that could change 
the timing or amount of contractual cash flows such 
that it would not meet this condition. In making the 
assessment, the Group considers:

 contingent events that would change the 
amount and timing of cash flows;

 terms that limit the Group’s claim to cash flows 
from specified assets (e.g. non-recourse loans); 
and features that modify consideration of the 
time value of money (e.g. periodical reset of 
Interest rate).

The Group holds a portfolio of long-term fixed-rate loans 
for which the Group has the option to propose to revise 
the interest rate at periodic reset dates. These reset rights 
are limited to the market rate at the time of revision. The 
borrowers have an option to either accept the revised 
rate or redeem the loan at par without penalty. The 
Group has determined that the contractual cash flows 
of these loans are SPPI because the option varies the 
interest rate in a way that is consideration for the time 
value of money, credit risk, other basic lending risks and 
costs associated with the principal amount outstanding.

Reclassi!cations

Financial assets are not reclassified subsequent to their 
initial recognition, except in the period after the Group 
changes its business model for managing financial assets.

(d) Derecognition

 (i) Financial assets

 The Group derecognises a financial asset when the contractual 
rights to the cash flows from the financial asset expire (see also 
(e)), or it transfers the rights to receive the contractual cash flows 
in a transaction in which substantially all of the risks and rewards 
of ownership of the financial asset are transferred or in which 
the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all of the 
risks and rewards of ownership and it does not retain control of 
the financial asset.

 On derecognition of a financial asset, the di"erence between the 
carrying amount of the asset (or the carrying amount allocated 
to the portion of the asset derecognised) and the sum of (i) the 
consideration received (including any new asset obtained less 
any new liability assumed) and (ii) any cumulative gain or loss 
that had been recognised in OCI is recognised in profit or loss.

 Any cumulative gain/loss recognised in OCI in respect of equity 
investment securities designated as at FVOCI is not recognised 
in profit or loss on derecognition of such securities. Any interest 
in transferred financial assets that qualify for derecognition that 
is created or retained by the Group is recognised as a separate 
asset or liability.

 The Group sometimes enters into transactions whereby it 
transfers assets recognised on its statement of financial position, 
but retains either all or substantially all of the risks and rewards 
of the transferred assets or a portion of them. In such cases, 
the transferred assets are not derecognised. Examples of such 
transactions are securities lending and sale-and-repurchase 
transactions.

 When assets are sold to a third party with a concurrent total 
rate of return swap on the transferred assets, the transaction is 
accounted for as a secured financing transaction similar to sale-
and-repurchase transactions, because the Group retains all or 
substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership  
of such assets.

 In transactions in which the Group neither retains nor transfers 
substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership of a 
financial asset and it retains control over the asset, the Group 
continues to recognise the asset to the  extent of  its continuing 
involvement, determined by the extent to which it is exposed to 
changes in the value of the transferred asset.

 In certain transactions, the Group retains the obligation to 
service the transferred financial asset for a fee. The transferred 
asset is derecognised if it meets the derecognition criteria. 
An asset or liability is recognised for the servicing contract if 
the servicing fee is more than adequate (asset) or is less than 

110

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



adequate (liability) for performing the servicing.

(ii) Financial liabilities

 The Group derecognises a financial liability when its 
contractual obligations are discharged or cancelled, or 
expire.

(e) Modi!cations of !nancial assets and !nancial 
liabilities

 Financial assets

 If the terms of a financial asset are modified, then the 
Group evaluates whether the cash flows of the modified 
asset are substantially di"erent.

 
 If the cash flows are substantially di"erent, then the 

contractual rights to cash flows from the original 
financial asset are deemed to have expired. In this case, 
the original financial asset is derecognized (see (d)) and 
a new financial asset is recognised at fair value plus any 
eligible transaction costs. Any fees received as part of 
the modification are accounted for  as follows: - fees that 
are considered in determining the fair value of the new 
asset and fees that represent reimbursement  of eligible 
transaction costs are included in the initial measurement 
of the asset; and - other fees are included in profit or   
loss as part of the gain or loss on derecognition.

 If cash flows are modified when the borrower is 
in financial di!culties, then the objective of the 
modification is usually to maximize recovery of the 
original contractual terms rather than to originate a new 
asset with substantially di"erent terms. If the Group plans 
to modify a financial asset in a way that would result in 
forgiveness of cash flows, then it first considers whether 
a portion of the asset should be written o" before the 
modification takes place (see below for write o" policy). 
This approach impacts the result of the quantitative 
evaluation and means that the derecognition criteria are 
not usually met in such cases.

 If the modification of a financial asset measured at 
amortised cost or FVOCI does not result in derecognition 
of the financial asset, then the Group first recalculates the 
gross carrying amount of the financial asset using the 
original e"ective interest rate of the asset and recognises 
the resulting adjustment as a modification gain or loss in 
profit or loss. For floating-rate financial assets, the original 
e"ective interest rate used to calculate the  modification  
gain or loss is adjusted to reflect current market terms at 
the time of the modification. Any costs or fees incurred 
and fees received as part of the modification adjust 

the gross carrying amount of the modified financial 
asset and are amortised over the remaining term of the 
modified financial asset.

 If such a modification is carried out because of financial 
di!culties of the borrower (see (2.9)), then the gain 
or loss is presented together with impairment losses 
for stage 1 facilities, for stage 2 and 3 the modification 
gain or loss is disclosed separately. In other cases, it is 
presented as interest income calculated using the 
e"ective interest rate method.

 Financial liabilities

 The Group derecognises a financial liability when its terms 
are modified and the cash flows of the modified liability 
are substantially di"erent. In this case, a new financial 
liability based on the modified terms is recognised at 
fair value. The di"erence between the carrying amount 
of the financial liability derecognised and consideration 
paid is recognised in profit  or loss. Consideration paid 
includes non-financial assets transferred, if any, and the 
assumption of liabilities, including the new modified 
financial liability.

 If the modification of a financial liability is not accounted 
for as derecognition, then the amortised cost of the 
liability is recalculated by discounting the modified 
cash flows at the original e"ective interest rate and the 
resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss. For 
floating-rate financial liabilities, the original e"ective 
interest rate used to calculate the modification gain or 
loss is adjusted to reflect current market terms at the 
time of the modification. Any costs and fees incurred are 
recognised as an adjustment  to the carrying amount 
of the liability and amortised over the remaining term 
of  the modified financial liability by re-computing the 
e"ective interest rate on the instrument.

(f) O$setting

 Financial assets and financial liabilities are o"set and 
the net amount presented in the statement of financial 
position when, and only when, the Group currently has 
a legally enforceable right to set o" the amounts and it 
intends either to settle them on a net basis or to realise 
the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.

 Income and expenses are presented on a net basis only 
when permitted under IFRS, or for gains and losses 
arising from a group of similar transactions such as in 
the Group’s trading activity.

111Notes



(g) Amortised cost measurement

 The amortised cost of a financial asset or liability is the 
amount at which the financial asset or liability is measured 
at initial recognition, minus principal repayments, plus or 
minus the cumulative amortisation using the e"ective 
interest rate method  of any di"erence between the initial 
amount recognised and the maturity amount, minus any 
reduction for impairment.

(h) Fair value measurement

 ‘Fair value’ is the price that would be received to sell an 
asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction 
between market participants at the measurement date 
in the principal or, in its absence, the most advantageous 
market to which the Group has access at that date. The 
fair value of a liability reflects its non-performance risk.

 The best evidence of the fair value of a financial instrument 
at initial recognition is the transaction price – i.e. the fair 
value   of the consideration given or received. However, in 
some cases the initial estimate of fair value of a financial 
instrument on initial recognition may be di"erent from its 
transaction price. If this estimated fair value is evidenced 
by comparison with  other observable current market 
transactions in the same instrument (without modification 
or repackaging) or based on a valuation technique whose 
variables include only data from observable markets, 
then the di"erence is recognised in profit   or loss on 
initial recognition of the instrument. In other cases, the 
fair value at initial recognition is considered to be the 
transaction price and the di"erence is not recognised in 
profit or loss immediately but is recognised over the life 
of the instrument on an appropriate basis or when the 
instrument is redeemed, transferred or sold, or the fair 
value becomes observable.

 If an asset or a liability measured at fair value has a bid 
price and an ask price, then the Group measures assets 
and long positions at a bid price and liabilities and short 
positions at an ask price. Where the Bank has positions 
with o"setting risks, mid market prices are used to 
measure the o"setting risk positions and a bid or ask price 
adjustment is applied only to the net open position as 
appropriate.

 The fair value of a demand deposit is not less than the 
amount payable on demand, discounted from the first 
date on which the amount could be required to be paid.

 The Group recognises transfers between levels of the 
fair value hierarchy as of the end of the reporting period 
during which the change has occurred.

 Subsequent to initial recognition, the fair value of a 
financial instrument is based on quoted market prices 
or dealer price quotation for financial instruments. If a 
market for a financial instrument is not active, then the 
Group establishes fair value using a valuation technique. 
Valuation techniques include using recent arm’s length 
transactions between knowledgeable, willing parties 
(if available), reference to the current fair value of other 
instruments that are substantially the same, discounted 
cash flow analyses and option pricing models. The 
chosen valuation technique makes maximum use of 
market inputs, relies as little as possible on estimates 
specific to the Group, incorporates all factors that 
market participants would consider in setting a 
price, and is consistent with accepted economic 
methodologies for pricing financial instruments. Inputs 
into valuation techniques reasonably represent market 
expectations and measures of the risk-return factors 
inherent in the financial instrument.

 See note 3.5 on fair valuation methods and 
assumptions.

(i) Assets pledged as collateral

 Financial assets transferred to external parties and 
which do not qualify for de-recognition are reclassified 
in the statement  of financial position from treasury 
bills and investment securities to assets pledged 
as collateral, if the transferee has received the right 
to sell or re-pledge them in the event of default 
from agreed terms. Assets pledged as collateral are  
initially recognised at fair value, and are subsequently 
measured at amortised cost or fair value as appropriate. 
These transactions are performed in accordance with 
the usual terms of securities lending and borrowing.

(j) Assets under repurchase agreement

 Assets under repurchase agreement are transactions 
in which the Group sells a security and simultaneously 
agrees to repurchase it (or an asset that is substantially 
the same as the one sold) at a fixed price on a future 
date. The Group continues to recognise the securities 
in their entirety in the statement of financial position 
because it retains substantially all of the risks and 
rewards of ownership. The cash consideration received 
is recognised as a financial asset and a financial liability 
is recognised for the obligation to pay the repurchase 
price. Because the Group sells the contractual rights to 
the cash flows of the securities, it does not have the 
ability to use the transferred assets during the term of 
the arrangement.

 

112

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



2.6 Derivative instruments

 Derivatives are initially recognized at fair value on the 
date on which the derivative contract is entered into and 
are subsequently remeasured at fair value. All derivatives 
are carried as assets when fair value is positive and as 
liabilities when fair value is negative.

 The method of recognizing the resulting fair value 
gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is 
designated and qualifies as a hedging instrument, and 
if so, the nature of the item being hedged. The Group 
designates certain derivatives as Hedges of the fair value 
of recognized assets or liabilities or  firm commitments 
(fair value hedges).

 The Group documents, at the inception of the hedge, 
the relationship between hedged items and hedging 
instruments, as well as its risk management objective 
and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. 
The Group also documents its assessment, both at 
hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether 
the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are 
highly e"ective in o"setting changes in fair values or 
cash flows of hedged items.

(a) Fair Value Hedge

 Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are 
designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded 
in the statement of profit or loss, together with changes 
in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are 
attributable to the hedged risk. 

 The Bank discontinues hedge accounting in any of the 
following circumstances:

• The hedging instrument is not, or has ceased to be, 
highly e"ective as a hedge

• The hedging instrument has expired, is sold, 
terminated, or exercised

• The hedged item matures, is sold, or repaid
• The forecast transaction is no longer deemed 

highly probable

• The Bank elects to discontinue hedge accounting 
voluntarily

Derivatives that do not qualify for Hedge Accounting  

Certain derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting. 
Changes in the fair value of any derivative not designated 

in a hedging relationship are recognized immediately in 
profit or loss and are included in Trading gains/(losses). 

2.7 Impairment

 The Group recognises loss allowances for ECL on the 
following financial instruments that are not measured at 
FVTPL:

 Financial assets that are debt instruments;

 Lease receivables;

 Financial guarantee contracts issued; and

 Loan commitments issued.

 No impairment loss is recognised on equity    
investments.

 The Group measures loss allowances at an amount   
equal to lifetime ECL, except for the following, for    
which they are measured as 12-month ECL:

 Debt investment securities that are determined to have 
low credit risk at the reporting date; and

 Other financial instruments on which credit risk has not 
increased significantly since their initial recognition.

 12-month ECL are the portion of ECL that result from 
default events on a financial instrument that are possible 
within the 12 months after the reporting date. Financial 
instrument for which a 12-month ECL is recognised are 
referred to as ‘stage 1 financial instruments’.

 Life-time ECL are the ECL that result from all possible 
default events over the expected life of the financial 
instrument. Financial instruments for which a lifetime 
ECL is recognised but which are not credit-impaired are 
referred to as ‘Stage 2 financial instruments’.

 Financial instruments for which lifetime ECL is 
recognised which are credit impaired are referred to as 
‘Stage 3 financial instruments”.

 Loss allowances for other assets and lease receivables 
are always measured at an amount equal to lifetime ECL.

 The Group considers debt investment securities to have 
low credit risk when its credit risk rating is equivalent to 
the globally understood definition of ‘investment grade’ .

113Notes



2.7.1 Measurement of ECL

 ECL are a probability-weighted estimate of credit    
losses. They are measured as follows:

 Financial assets that are not credit-impaired at the 
reporting date: as the present value of all cash shortfalls 
(i.e. the di"erence between the cash flows due to the 
entity in accordance with the contract and the cash 
flows that the Group expects to receive);

  Financial assets that are credit-impaired at the reporting 
date: as the di"erence between the gross carrying 
amount and  the present value of estimated future cash 
flows;

 Undrawn loan commitments: as the present value of the 
di"erence between the contractual cash flows that are 
due to the Group if the commitment is drawn down and 
the cash flows that the Group expects to receive; and

 Financial guarantee contracts: the expected payments 
to reimburse the holder less any amount that the Group 
expects to recover.

 There has been no change in estimation techniques 
from prior year. Also, significant assumptions made 
during the year can be seen in note .1

Reversal of Impairment and Backward Transfer Criteria

When the Group has measured the loss allowance for a financial 
instrument at an amount equal to lifetime ECL in the previous 
reporting period but determines at the current reporting date 
that criteria for recognizing the lifetime ECL is no longer met 
i.e. cured, the Group measures the loss allowance at an amount 
equal to 12-month ECL at the current reporting date.

However, the Group observes the following backward transfer 
criteria (probationary period) to monitor if the criteria for 
recognizing the lifetime ECL has decreased significantly before 
the backward transfer can be e"ected on the credit rating of the 
customer.

90 days probationary period to move a financial instrument from 
Lifetime ECL not credit-impaired (Stage 2 financial instruments) 
to 12 months ECL (Stage 1 financial instruments)

90 days probationary period to move a financial instrument from 
Lifetime ECL credit-impaired (Stage 3 financial  instruments) to 
Lifetime ECL not impaired (Stage 2 financial instruments)

180 days probationary period to move a loan from Lifetime ECL 
credit-impaired (Stage 3 financial instruments) to 12 months ECL 
(Stage 1 financial instruments).
 
The Group also considers other qualitative criteria where 
necessary.

Impairment gains arising from backward transfers will be 
recognized as part of ‘impairment losses on financial instruments.’

2.7.2 Credit-impaired !nancial assets

At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether financial 
assets carried at amortised cost are credit-impaired referred  to as 
‘Stage 3 financial instruments. A financial asset is ‘credit-impaired’ 
when one or more events that have a detrimental impact on the 
estimated future cash flows of the financial asset have occurred.

Evidence that a financial asset is credit-impaired includes the 
following observable data:

 Significant financial di!culty of the borrower or issuer;

 A breach of contract such as a default or past due event;

 The restructuring of a loan or advance by the Group on 
terms that the Group would not consider otherwise;

 It is becoming probable that the borrower will enter 
bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation; or

 The disappearance of an active market for a security 
because of financial di!culties.

A loan that has been renegotiated due to a deterioration in the 
borrower’s condition is usually considered to be credit- impaired 
unless there is evidence  that the risk of not receiving contractual 
cash flows has reduced significantly and there are no other 
indicators of impairment. In addition, a loan that is overdue for 
90 days or more is considered impaired.

In making an assessment of whether an investment in sovereign 
debt is credit-impaired, the Group considers the following 
factors.

 The market’s assessment of creditworthiness as reflected 
in the bond yields.

 The rating agencies’ assessments of creditworthiness.
 The country’s ability to access the capital markets for 

new debt issuance.

114

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



 The probability of debt being restructured, resulting in 
holders su"ering losses through voluntary or mandatory 
debt forgiveness.

 The international support mechanisms in place to 
provide the necessary support as ‘lender of last resort’ to 
that country,  as well as the intention, reflected in public 
statements, of governments and agencies to use those 
mechanisms. This includes an assessment of the depth 
of those mechanisms and, irrespective of the political 
intent, whether there is the capacity to fulfil the required 
criteria.

2.7.3 Presentation of allowance for ECL in the 
statement of !nancial position

Loss allowances for ECL are presented in the statement of 
financial position as follows:

 Financial assets measured at amortised cost: as a 
deduction from the gross carrying amount of the assets;

 Loan commitments and financial guarantee contracts: 
generally, as a provision;

 Where a financial instrument includes both a drawn 
and an undrawn component, and the Group cannot 
identify the ECL  on the loan commitment component 
separately from those on the drawn component: the 
Group presents a combined loss allowance for both 
components. The combined amount is presented as a 
deduction from the gross carrying amount of the drawn 
component. Any excess of the loss allowance over the 
gross amount of the drawn component is presented as 
a provision and;

 Debt instruments measured at FVOCI, no loss allowance 
is recognised in the statement of financial position 
because the carrying amount of the asset is their fair 
value. However, the loss allowance is disclosed and 
recognised in the fair value reserve.

2.7.4 Write-o$ policy

The Group writes o" a loan balance when the Group’s credit 
department determines that the loan is uncollectable and had 
been declared delinquent and subsequently classified as lost. 
This determination is made after considering information such as 
the continuous deterioration in the customer’s financial position, 
such that the customer can no longer pay the obligation, or that 
proceeds from the collateral will not be su!cient to pay back the 
entire exposure. 

Board approval is required for such write-o". For insider-related 
loan (loans by the Bank to its own o!cers and directors), CBN 
approval is required. The loan recovery department continues 
with its recovery e"orts and any loan subsequently recovered is 
treated as other income.

Loans and debt securities are written o" (either partially or in full) 
when there is no realistic  prospect of recovery.

This is generally the case when the Group determines that the 
borrower does not have assets or sources of income that could 
generate su!cient cash flows to repay the amounts  subject to 
the write-o". However, financial assets that are written o" could 
still be subject to enforcement activities in order to comply 
with the Group’s procedures for recovery of amounts due. The 
outstanding contractual amount of assets written o" during the 
year ended 31 December 2022 was N74.1billion (31 December 
2021: N42.5 billion). The Group still seeks to recover amounts it is 
legally owed in full, but which have been written o" due to no 
reasonable expectation of full recovery.

2.8 Reclassi!cation of !nancial instruments

Financial assets are required to be reclassified in certain rare 
circumstances among the amortised cost, FVOCI and FVTPL 
categories. When the Group changes its business model for 
managing financial assets, the Group reclassifies all a"ected 
financial assets in accordance with the new model. 

The reclassification is applied prospectively from the 
reclassification date. Accordingly, any previously recognised 
gains, losses or interest are not reinstated. Changes in the 
business model for managing financial assets are expected to 
be very infrequent.

2.9 Restructuring of !nancial instruments

Financial instruments are restructured when the contractual 
terms are renegotiated or modified or when an existing 
financial instrument is replaced with a new one due to financial 
di!culties of the borrower. Restructured loans represent loans 
whose repayment periods have been extended due to changes 
in the business dynamics of the borrowers. For such loans, the 
borrowers are expected to pay the principal amounts in full 
within extended repayment period and all interest, including 
interest for the original and extended terms.

2.10 Collateral

The Group obtains collateral where appropriate, from customers 
to manage their credit risk exposure to the customers. The 
collateral normally takes the form of a lien over the customer’s 
assets and gives the Group a claim on these assets for customers 
in the event that the customer defaults.

115Notes



The Group may also use other credit instruments, such as derivative contracts in order to reduce their credit risk.

Collateral received in the form of securities and other non-cash assets is not recorded on the statement of financial position. Collateral 
received in the form of cash is recorded on the statement of financial position with a corresponding liability see note 3.2.7(a(i)

In certain cirumstances, property may be repossessed following the foreclosure on loans that are in default. These repossessd collateral 
are sold as soon as practicable. Repossessed properties are measured at the lower of carrying amount of the related loan and fair value 
less cost to sell and reported within ‘Other asset’.

2.11 Property and equipment

Property and equipment are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. Historical 
cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items. Where significant parts of an item of property 
and equipment have di"erent useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items (major components) of property and equipment.

Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable 
that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. All 
other repairs and maintenance are charged to profit or loss during the financial year in which they are incurred.

Property and equipment are depreciated on the straight line basis to their residual values over the estimated useful lives of the assets. 
Land is not depreciated.

Depreciation is calculated on a straight line basis to write down the cost of property and equipment to their residual values over their 
estimated useful lives as follows:

Item

Land (Not depreciated)

Motor vehicles 4 years

O!ce equipment 5 years

Furniture and fittings 5 years

Computer equipment 3 years

Buildings 50 years

Leasehold improvement Over the remaining lease period

Aircraft 25 years

Right of use assets Lower of lease term or the useful life for the specified class of item

Depreciation is included in profit or loss.

Work in progress consists of items of property and equipment that are not yet available for use. Work in progress is carried at cost 
less any required impairment. Depreciation starts when assets are available for use. An impairment loss is recognised if the asset’s 
recoverable amount is less than cost. The asset is reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the 
carrying amount may not be recoverable. Once the items are available for use, they are transferred to relevant classes of property and 
equipment as appropriate.

Property and equipment are derecognized on disposal, or when no future economic benefits are expected from their use or disposal.

Gains and losses on disposal are determined by comparing proceeds with carrying amount. These are included in profit or loss.

Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reassessed at each reporting date and adjusted if appropriate.
 

116

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



Borrowing Costs

Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition 
or construction of a qualifying asset is capitalized as part of 
the cost of the asset. Other costs relating to borrowings which 
the group undertakes in the normal course of business are 
expensed in the period which they are incurred.

2.12 Intangible assets 

Computer software

Software that is not integral to the related hardware acquired 
by the Group is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation 
and accumulated impairment losses.

Costs associated with maintaining computer software 
programmes are recognised expenses as they are incurred.  
Development costs that are directly attributable to the design 
and testing of identifiable and unique software products 
controlled by the Group, are recognised as intangible assets 
when the following criteria are met:

(i) it is technically feasible to complete the software 
product so that it will be available for use;

(ii) management intends to complete the software 
product and use or sell it;

(iii) there is an ability to use or sell the software product;
(iv) it can be demonstrated how the software product will 

generate probable future economic benefits

(v) adequate technical, financial and other resources 
to complete the development and to use/sell the 
software product are available

(vi) the expenditure attributable to the software product 
during its development can be reliably measured.

Subsequent expenditure on computer software is capitalised 
only when it increases the future economic benefits embodied 
in the specific asset to which it relates.

Amortisation is recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line 
basis over the estimated useful life of the software, from the 
date that the asset is available for use since this most closely 
reflects the expected pattern of consumption of the future 
economic benefits embodied in the asset. The estimated 
useful life for computer software is 5 years. Amortisation 
methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each 
financial period-end and adjusted if appropriate. 

Intangible assets are derecognized on disposal or when no future 
economic benefits are expected from their use or disposal.

2.13 Impairment of non-!nancial assets

The carrying amounts of the Group’s non-financial assets, other 
than deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each reporting date to 
determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any 
such indication exists, then the asset’s recoverable amount is 
estimated. For intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives 
or that are not yet available for use, the recoverable amount is 
estimated each period at the same time.

An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an 
asset or its Cash  Generating Unit (CGU) exceeds its estimated 
recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an 
asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing 
value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted  to 
their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects 
current market assessments of the time value of money and the 
risks specific to the asset or  CGU. For the purposes of assessing 
impairment, assets that cannot be tested individually are grouped 
together into the smallest group of assets that generates cash 
inflows from continuing use that are largely independent of the 
cash flows of other assets or CGU.

The Group’s corporate assets do not generate separate cash 
inflows and are utilised by more than one CGU. Corporate assets 
are allocated to CGUs on a reasonable and consistent basis and 
tested for impairment as part of the testing of the CGU to which 
the corporate asset is allocated.

Impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss. Impairment 
losses in respect of CGUs are allocated first to reduce the carrying 
amount of any goodwill allocated to the CGU (group of CGUs) and 
then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the CGU 
(group of CGUs) on a pro rata basis.
 
Impairment losses recognised in prior periods are assessed at each 
reporting date for any indications that the loss has decreased or 
no longer exists. An impairment loss is reversed if there has been 
a change in the estimates used to  determine the recoverable 
amount. An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the 
asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that 
would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, 
if no impairment loss had been recognised. An impairment loss in 
respect of goodwill is not reversed.

117Notes



2.14 Leases

A. Group / Bank as a lessee

 Leases, under which the Bank possess a contract that 
conveys the right to control the use of an identified 
asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration 
is disclosed in the Bank’s statement of financial position 
and recognized as a leased asset. 

 The major lease transaction wherein the Group/Bank is 
lessee relates to the lease of Bank’s branches 

 To assess whether a contract conveys the right to control 
the use of an identified asset for a period of time, the 
Bank assesses whether, throughout the period of use, it 
has both of the following:

(a) the right to obtain substantially all of the economic 
benefits from use of the identified asset, and

(b) the right to direct the use of the id entified asset.

The Group has elected not to recognize right-of-use assets and 
lease liabilities for some leases of low value assets. The Group 
recognizes expenses associated with these leases as an expense 
on straight line basis over the lease term.

The Group presents right-of-use assets as a separate class under 
‘property and equipment’. The Group presents lease liability in 
other liabilities in the statement of financial position.

The Group recognizes a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at 
the lease commencement date. The right-of-use asset is initially 
measured at cost, and subsequently at cost less any accumulated 
depreciation and impairment losses, and adjusted for certain 
remeasurements of the lease liability.

The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the 
lease payments that are not paid at the commencement date, 
discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease or, if that 
rate cannot be readily determined, the Group’s incremental 
borrowing rate. Generally, the Group uses its incremental 
borrowing rate as the discount rate.

The lease liability is subsequently increased by the interest cost 
on the lease liability and decreased by lease payment made. It 
is remeasured when there is a change in future lease payments 
arising from a change in an index or rate, a change in the 
estimate of the amount expected to be payable under a residual 
value guarantee, or as appropriate, changes in the assessment of 
whether a purchase or extension option is reasonably certain to 
be exercised or a termination option is reasonably certain not to 
be exercised.

The Group has applied judgement to determine the lease term 
for some lease contracts in which it is a lessee that include 
renewal options. The assessment of whether the Group is 
reasonably certain to exercise such options impacts the lease 
term, which significantly a"ects the amount of lease liabilities 
and right-of-use assets recognized.

2.15 Provisions

Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal 
or constructive obligation as a result of past events and it is 
probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic 
benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable 
estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made. 
Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future 
cash flows using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current 
market assessments of the time value of money and, where 
appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.

A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group has 
approved a detailed formal plan, and the restructuring either 
has commenced or has been announced publicly. Future 
operating costs or losses are not provided for. A provision for 
onerous contracts is recognised when the expected benefits 
to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the 
unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract. 
The provision is measured at the present value of the lower  of 
the expected cost of terminating the contract and the expected 
net cost of continuing with the contract. Before a provision is 
established, the Group recognises any impairment loss on the 
assets associated with that contract.

Contingent liabilities are possible obligations that arise from 
past events whose existence will be confirmed only by the 
occurrence, or non-occurrence, of one or more uncertain 
future events not wholly within the Group’s control. Contingent 
liabilities are not recognised in the financial statements but are 
disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.

The Group recognises liability for a levy not earlier than when the 
activity that triggers payment occurs. Also, the Group accrues 
liability on levy progressively only if the activity that triggers 
payment occurs over a period of time. However, for a levy that 
is triggered upon reaching a minimum threshold, no liability is 
recognised before the specified minimum threshold  is reached.

2.16 Employee bene!ts

(a) Post-employment bene!ts

The Group operates a defined contribution plan.

A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which 
the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity. The 

118

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further 
contributions if the fund does not hold su!cient assets to pay  
all employees the benefits relating to employee service in the 
current and prior periods. For defined contribution plans, the 
Group makes contributions on behalf of qualifying employees to 
a mandatory scheme under the provisions of the Pension Reform 
Act. The Group has no further payment obligations once the 
contributions have been paid. The contributions are recognised 
as employee benefit expense when they are due. Prepaid 
contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a 
cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available. 
For entities operating in Nigeria, the contribution by employees 
and the employing entities are 8% and 10% respectively of 
the employees’ basic salary, housing and transport allowances. 
Entities operating outside Nigeria contribute in line with the 
relevant pension laws in their jurisdictions.

(b) Short-term bene!ts

Short-term benefits consist of salaries, accumulated leave 
allowances, profit share, bonuses and any  non-monetary 
benefits.
Short-term employee benefits are measured on an undiscounted 
basis and are expensed as the related services are provided. They 
are included in personnel expenses in the profit or loss.
 
A liability is recognised for the amount expected to be paid 
under short-term cash benefits such as accumulated leave and 
leave allowances if the Group has a present legal or constructive 
obligation to pay this amount as a result of past services provided 
by the employee and the obligation can be measured reliably.

(c) Termination bene!ts

The Group recognises termination benefits as an expense 
when the Group is demonstrably committed, without realistic 
possibility of withdrawal, to a formal detailed plan to either 
terminate employment before the normal retirement date, or 
to provide termination benefits as a result of an o"er made to 
encourage voluntary redundancy. The Group settles termination 
benefits within twelve months and are accounted for as short-
term benefits.

2.17 Share capital and reserves

(a) Share issue costs

Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares 
or options or to the acquisition of a business are shown in equity 
as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.

(b) Dividends on ordinary shares

Dividends on ordinary shares are recognised in equity in the 
period in which they are approved by the Bank’s shareholders. 
Dividends for the period that are declared after the end of the 
reporting period are dealt with in the subsequent events note.

(c) Share premium

Premiums from the issue of shares are reported in share premium.

(d) Statutory reserve

Nigerian banking regulations require the Bank to make an 
annual appropriation to a statutory reserve. As stipulated by 
The Banks and Other Financial Institutions Act (BOFIA) 2020, an 
appropriation of 30% of profit after tax is made if the statutory 
reserve is less than the paid-up share capital and 15% of profit 
after tax if the statutory reserve is greater than the paid-up share 
capital.

(e) SMIEIS reserve

The SMIEIS reserve is maintained to comply with the Central 
Bank of Nigeria (CBN) requirement that all licensed banks set 
aside a portion of the profit after tax in a fund to be used to 
finance equity investments in qualifying small and medium 
scale enterprises. Under the terms of the guideline (amended 
by CBN letter dated 11 July 2006), the contributions will be 10% 
of profit after tax and shall continue after the first 5 years but 
banks’ contributions shall thereafter reduce to 5% of profit after 
tax. The small and medium scale industries equity investment 
scheme reserves are non-distributable. Transfer to this reserve is 
no longer mandatory.

(f) Statutory reserve for credit risk

The Nigerian banking regulator requires the Bank to create 
a reserve for the di"erence between impairment provision 
determined in line with the principles of IFRS and impairment 
provision determined in line with the prudential guidelines 
issued by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). This reserve is not 
available for distribution to shareholders.

(g) Retained earnings

Retained earnings comprise the undistributed profits from 
previous periods which have not been reclassified to  any 
specified reserves.

(h) Fair value reserve

Comprises fair value movements on equity instruments and 
debt securities carried at FVOCI.

119Notes



(i) Foreign currency translation reserve

Comprises exchange di"erences resulting from the translation 
to Naira of the results and financial position of Group companies 
that have a functional currency other than Naira.

2.18 Recognition of interest income and 
expense

E$ective interest rate

Interest income and expense are recognised in profit or loss 
using the e"ective interest method. The ‘e"ective interest rate’ is 
the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments 
or receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument 
to:

 the gross carrying amount of the financial asset; or
 the amortised cost of the financial liability.

When calculating the e"ective interest rate for financial 
instruments other than purchased or originated credit-impaired 
assets, the Group estimates future cash flows considering all 
contractual terms of the financial instrument, but not ECL. For 
purchased or originated credit impaired financial assets, a credit 
adjusted e"ective interest rate is calculated  using estimated 
future cash flows including ECL.

The calculation of the e"ective interest rate includes transaction 
costs and fees and points paid or received that are an integral 
part of the e"ective interest rate. Transaction costs include 
incremental costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition 
or issue of a financial asset or financial liability.

Amortised cost and gross carrying amount

The ‘amortised cost’ of a financial asset or financial liability is 
the amount at which the financial asset or financial liability is 
measured on initial recognition minus the principal repayments, 
plus or minus the cumulative amortisation using  the e"ective 
interest method of any di"erence between that initial amount 
and the maturity amount and, for financial assets, adjusted for 
any expected credit loss allowance.

The ‘gross carrying amount of a financial asset’ is the amortised 
cost of a financial asset before adjusting for any expected credit 
loss allowance.

Calculation of interest income and expense

The e"ective interest rate of a financial asset or financial liability is 
calculated on initial recognition of a financial asset or a financial 
liability. In calculating interest income and expense, the e"ective 

interest rate is applied to the gross carrying amount of the asset 
(when the asset is not credit impaired) or to the amortised cost 
of the liability. The e"ective interest rate is revised as a result of 
periodic re-estimation of cash flows of floating rate instruments 
to reflect movements in market rates of interest.

However, for financial assets that have become credit-impaired 
subsequent to initial recognition, interest income is calculated 
by applying the e"ective interest rate to the amortised cost of 
the financial asset. If the asset is no longer credit- impaired, then 
the calculation of interest income reverts to the gross basis.

For financial assets that were credit-impaired on initial 
recognition, interest income is calculated by applying the credit- 
adjusted e"ective interest rate to the amortised cost of the asset. 
The calculation of interest income does not revert to a gross 
basis, even if the credit risk of the asset improves. 

For information on when financial assets are credit-impaired, see 
Note 2.7.2.

Presentation

Interest income calculated using the e"ective interest method  
presented  in the consolidated and separate statement of profit 
or loss includes only interest on financial assets and financial 
liabilities measured at amortised cost and FVTOCI.
 
Interest expense presented in the consolidated and separate 
statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income 
includes only interest on financial liabilities measured at 
amortised cost.

Interest income and expense on all trading assets and liabilities 
are considered to be incidental to the Group’s trading operations 
and are presented together with all other changes in the fair 
value of trading assets and liabilities in net trading income (see 
Note 2.20).

2.19 Fees, commission and other income

Fee and commission income and expense that are integral to 
the e"ective interest rate on a financial asset or financial liability 
are included in the e"ective interest rate (see Note 2.18).

Other fee and commission income – including account servicing 
fees, fees on electronic products, sales commission, placement 
fees and syndication fees – is recognised as the related services 
are performed. If a loan commitment is not expected to result 
in the draw-down of a loan, then the related loan commitment 
fee is recognised on a straight-line basis over the commitment 
period.

A contract with a customer that results in a recognised financial 

120

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



instrument in the Group’s financial statements may be partially in the 
scope of IFRS 9 and partially in the scope of IFRS 15. If this is the case, 
then the Group first applies IFRS 9  to separate and measure the part 
of the contract that is in the scope of IFRS 9 and then applies IFRS 15 
to the residual.

Other fee and commission expenses relate mainly to transaction and 
service fees, which are expensed as the services are received.
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive income is 
established. Usually, this is the exdividend date for quoted equity 
securities. Dividends are presented in net trading gains, or other income 
based on the  underlying classification of the equity investment.

Dividends on equity instruments designated as at FVOCI that clearly 
represent a recovery of part of the cost of the investment are presented 
in OCI.

Income on cash handling relates to services provided to customers in 
processing cash withdrawal and deposits above the regulated limit, 
provided by the Central Bank of Nigeria. Income is recognised as the 
service is provided.

Fees and commission income are recognised at point in time and over 
time. Fees recognised over time relate to credit related fees (concerning 
participation fee and invoice discounting), guarantee fees, corporate 
finance fees, account maintenance fees and fees on electronic 
products charged monthly. Fees recognised at a point in time relate 
to credit related fees other than those recognised over time, account 
maintenance fee, auction fees, commission on agency and collection 
services, fees on electronic products (recognised at point in time), 
foreign currency transaction fees and foreign withdrawal charges.

2.20 Net Trading gains

Net trading gain comprises gains less losses relating to trading assets 
and liabilities and includes all fair value changes, interest, dividends 
and foreign exchange di"erences.

2.21 Operating expense

Expenses are decreases in economic benefits during the accounting 
period in the form of outflows, depletion of assets or incurrence of 
liabilities that result in decrease in equity, other than those relating to 
distributions to equity participants.

Expenses are recognized on an accrual basis regardless of the time 
of spending cash. Expenses are recognized in the income statement 
when a decrease in future economic benefit related to a decrease in 
an assets or an increase of a liability has arisen that can be measured 
reliably. Expenses are measured at historical cost.

Only the portion of cost of a previous period that is related to the 
income earned during the reporting period is recognized   as an 

expense. Expenses that are not related to the income 
earned during the reporting period, but expected to 
generate future economic benefits, are recorded in the 
financial statement as assets. The portion of assets which 
is intended for earning income in the future periods shall 
be recognized as an expense when the associated income 
is earned. 

Expenses are recognized in the same reporting period 
when they are incurred in cases when it is not probable to 
directly relate them to particular income earned during the 
current reporting period and when they are not expected 
to generate any income during the coming years.

2.22 Current and deferred income tax

Income tax expense comprises current tax (company 
income tax, tertiary education tax national information 
technology development agency levy and Nigeria Police 
Trust Fund levy) and deferred tax. It is recognised in profit 
or loss except to the extent that it relates to a business 
combination, or items recognised directly in equity or in 
other comprehensive income.

The Bank had determined that interest and penalties 
relating to income taxes, including uncertain tax 
treatments, do not meet the definition of income taxes, 
and therefore are accounted for under IAS 37 Provisions, 
Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.

(a) Current tax

Current tax comprises the expected tax payable or 
receivable on the taxable income or loss for the year, and 
any  adjustment to tax payable or receivable in respect of 
previous years.

The amount of current tax payable or receivable is the 
best estimate of the tax amount expected to be paid or 
received that reflects uncertainty related to income taxes, if 
any. It is measured using tax rates enacted or substantively 
enacted at the reporting date and is assessed as follows:

 Company income tax is computed on taxable 
profits.

 Tertiary education tax is computed on assessable 
profits.

 National Information Technology Development 
Agency levy is computed on profit before tax.

 Nigeria Police Trust Fund levy is computed on net 

121Notes



profit (i.e. profit after deducting all expenses and taxes 
from revenue earned by the company during the year).

 National Agency for Science and  Engineering 
 Infrastructure is computed on profit before tax.

(b) Deferred tax

Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary di"erences 
between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for 
financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation 
purposes. Deferred tax is not recognised for: – temporary 
di"erences on the initial recognition of assets or liabilities  in a 
transaction that is not a business combination and that  a"ects 
neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss; – temporary 
di"erences related to investments in subsidiaries, associates and 
joint arrangements to the extent that the Bank is able to control 
the timing of the reversal of the temporary di"erences and it is 
probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future; and  
taxable temporary di"erences  arising on the initial recognition 
of goodwill.

Deferred tax assets are recognised for unused tax losses, unused 
tax credits and deductible temporary di"erences to the extent 
that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available 
against which they can be used. Future taxable profits  are 
determined based on the reversal of relevant taxable temporary 
di"erences.

If the amount of taxable temporary di"erences is insu!cient 
to recognise a deferred tax asset in full, then future taxable 
profits, adjusted for reversals of existing temporary di"erences, 
are considered, based on the business plans of the Company. 
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and 
are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the 
related tax benefit will be realised; such reductions are reversed 
when the probability of future taxable profits improves.

Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed at each 
reporting date and recognised to the extent that it has become 
probable that future taxable profits will be available against 
which they can be used.

Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to be 
applied to temporary di"erences when they reverse, using tax 
rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date, and 
reflects uncertainty related to income taxes, if any. 

The measurement of deferred tax reflects the tax consequences 
that would follow from the manner in which the Company 
expects, at the reporting date, to recover or settle the carrying 
amount of its assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets and 
deferred tax liabilities are o"set if there is a legally enforceable 
right to o"set the current tax liabilities against the current tax 

assets and they relate to taxes levied by the same tax authority 
on the same taxable entity or on di"erent tax entities, but they 
intend to settle current   tax liabilities and assets on a net basis 
or their tax assets and liabilities will be realized simultaneouslyt.

2.22 Earnings per share

The Group presents basic and diluted earnings per share (EPS) 
for its ordinary shares. Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the 
profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Bank by 
the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding 
during the period. Where there are shares that could potentially 
a"ect the numbers of share issued, those shares are considered 
in calculating the diluted earnings per share. There is currently 
no share that could potentially dilute the total issued shares.

2.23 Segment reporting

An operating segment is a component of the Group engaged 
in business activities from which it can earn revenues, whose 
operating results are regularly reviewed by the Board in order 
to make decisions about resources to be allocated to segments 
and assessing segment performance. The Group’s identification 
of segments and the measurement of segment results are based 
on the Group’s internal reporting to management.

2.24 Fiduciary activities

The Group acts as trustees and in other fiduciary capacities  
through its subsidiaries, Zenith Pensions Custodian Limited  and 
Zenith Nominees that results in the holding or placing of assets 
on behalf of individuals, trusts, retirement benefit plans and 
other institutions. These assets and income arising thereon are 
excluded from these financial statements, as they are not assets 
of the Group. The fees earned on these activities are recognised 
as assets based fees.

2.25 Deposit for outstanding investment in 
AGSMEIS

The Agri-Business/Small and Medium Enterprises Investment 
Scheme is an initiative of Banker’s committee of Nigeria. 
The contributed funds are meant for supporting the Federal 
Government’s e"ort at promoting agricultural businesses as well 
as Small and Medium Enterprises. In line with this initiative, the 
Bank will contribute 5% of Profit After Tax yearly to the fund.

122

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



3. Risk management

3.1 Enterprise Risk Management

The Zenith Bank Group adopts an integrated approach to risk 
management by bringing all risks together under a limited 
number of oversight functions. The Group addresses the 
challenge of risks comprehensively through the Enterprise Risk 
Management (ERM) Framework by applying practices that are 
supported by a governance structure consisting of Board- level 
and executive management committees.

As part of its risk management policy, the Group segregates duties 
between market-facing business units and risk management 
functions while management is governed by well-defined 
policies, which are clearly communicated across the Group.

Risk related issues are taken into consideration in all business 
decisions and the Group continually strives to maintain a 
conservative balance between risk and revenue consideration. 
Continuous education and awareness of risk management has 
strengthened the risk management culture across the Group.

3.1.1 Risk Management Philosophy/Strategy

The Group considers sound risk management practice to be the 
foundation of a long lasting financial institution.
a. The Group adopt a holistic and integrated approach to 

risk management and therefore, brings all risks together 
under one or a limited number of oversight functions.

b. Risk management is a shared responsibility. Therefore, 
the Group aims to build a shared perspective on risks 
that is grounded in consensus.

c. There is clear segregation of duties between market-
facing business units and risk management functions.

d. Risk Management is governed by well-defined policies 
which are clearly communicated across the Group.

e. Risk related issues are taken into consideration in all 
business decisions.

3.1.2 Risk Appetite

The Group’s risk appetite is reviewed by the Board of Directors 
annually, at a level that minimizes erosion of earnings or 
capital due to avoidable losses or from frauds and operational 
ine!ciencies.

The Group’s risk appetite describes the quantum of risk that 
the Group would assume in pursuit of its business objectives at 

any point in time. The Group uses this risk appetite definition in 
aligning its overall corporate strategy, its capital allocation and 
risks.

The Group sets tolerance limits for identified key risk indicators 
(“KRIs”), which served as proxies for the risk appetite for each 
risk area and business/support unit. Tolerance levels for KRIs are 
jointly defined, agreed upon by  the  business/support units and 
subject to annual reviews.

3.1.3 Risk Management Approach

The Group addresses the challenge of risks comprehensively 
through an enterprise-wide risk management framework and  
a risk governance policy by applying leading practices that 
are supported by a robust governance structure consisting of 
Board-level and executive management committees. The Board 
drives the risk governance and compliance  process through 
its committees. The Board audit and compliance committee 
provides oversight on the systems of internal control, financial 
reporting and compliance. The Board credit committee reviews 
the credit policies and approves all loans above the defined 
limits for Executive Management. The Board Risk Committee sets 
the risk philosophy, policies and strategies as  well as provides 
guidance on the various risk elements and their management. 
The Board Risk Control Functions are supported by various 
management committees and sub committees (Global Credit 
committee and Management Risk committee) that help it 
develop and implement various risk strategies. The Global Credit 
committee manages the credit approval and documentation 
activities. It ensures that the credit policies and procedures are 
aligned with the Group’s business objectives and strategies. The 
Board Risk committee drives the management of the financial 
risks (Market, Liquidity and Credit Risk), operational risks as well 
as strategic and reputational risks.

In addition, Zenith Group manages its risks in a structured, 
systematic and transparent manner through a global risk policy 
which embeds comprehensive risk management processes into 
the organisational structure, risk measurement and monitoring 
activities. This structure ensures that the Group’s overall risk 
exposures are within the thresholds set by the Board.
 
The key features of the Group’s risk management policy are:

a. The Board of Directors provides overall risk management 
direction and oversight;

b. The Group’s risk appetite is approved by the Board of 
Directors;

c. Risk management is embedded in the Group as an 
intrinsic process and is a core competence of all its 
employees;

123Notes



d. The Group manages its credit, market, operational 
and liquidity risks in a coordinated manner within the 
organisation;

e. The Group’s risk management function is independent 
of the business divisions; and

f. The Group’s internal audit function reports to the 
Board Audit and compliance Committee and provides 
independent validation of the business units’ compliance 
with risk policies and procedures, and the adequacy and 
e"ectiveness of the  risk management framework on an 
enterprise-wide basis.

The Group continuously modifies and enhances its risk 
management policies and systems to reflect changes in markets, 
products and international best practices. Training, individual 
responsibility and accountability, together with a disciplined and 
cautious culture of control, are an integral part of the Group’s 
management of risk.

The Board of Directors ensures strict compliance with relevant 
laws, rules and standards issued by the industry regulators and 
other law enforcement agencies, market conventions, codes 
of practices promoted by industry  associations  and internal 
policies.
The compliance function, under the leadership of the Chief 
Compliance O!cer of the Bank, has put in place a robust 
compliance framework, which includes:

a. Comprehensive compliance manual detailing the roles 
and responsibilities of all stakeholders in the compliance 
process:

b. Review and analysis of all relevant laws and regulations, 
which are adopted into policy statements to ensure 
business is conducted professionally;

c. Review of the Bank’s Anti-Money Laundering Policy in 
accordance with changes in the Money Laundering 
Prohibition Act 2011 and Anti-Terrorism Act 2011 as 
amended; and

d. Incorporation of new guidelines in the Bank’s “Know 
Your Customer” policies in line with the increasing global 
trend as outlined in the Central Bank of Nigeria’s Anti-
Money Laundering/Combating Finance of Terrorism 
Compliance Manual.

3.1.4 Methodology for Risk Rating

The risk management strategy is to develop an integrated 
approach to risk assessments, measurement, monitoring and 

control that captures all risks in all aspects of the Group’s activities.
All activities in the Group have been profiled and the key risk 
drivers and threats in them identified. Mitigation and control 
techniques are then determined to tackle each of these threats. 
The Board has strategically implemented risk policies and 
procedures using techniques that addresses its risk appetite. 
Techniques employed in meeting these objectives culminate   in 
the following roles for the risk control functions of the Group:

a. Develop and implement procedures and practices that 
translate the Board’s goals, objectives, and risk tolerances 
into operating standards that are well understood by 
sta";

b. Establish lines of authority and responsibility for 
managing individual risk elements in line with the 
Board’s overall direction;

c. Risk identification, measurement, monitoring and 
control procedures;

d. Establish e"ective internal controls that cover each risk 
management process;

e. Ensure that the Group’s risk management processes are 
properly documented;

f. Create adequate awareness to make risk management a 
part of the corporate culture of the Group;

 
g. Ensure that risk remains within the boundaries 

established by the Board; and

h. Ensure that business lines comply with risk parameters 
and prudent limits established by the Board;

The CBN Risk Management Guidelines prescribes quantitative 
and qualitative criteria for the identification of significant 
activities and sets a threshold of contributions for determining 
significant activities in the Bank and its subsidiaries. This practice 
is essentially to drive the risk control focus of financial institutions.

Zenith Bank applies a mix of qualitative and quantitative 
techniques in the determination of its significant activities under 
prescribed broad headings. The criteria used in estimating the 
materiality of each activity is essentially based on the following:

a. The strategic importance of the activity and sector;

b. The contribution of the activity/sector to the total assets 
of the Bank;

c. The net income of the sector; and

d. The risk inherent in the activity and sector.

124

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



Risk management structures and processes are continuously 
reviewed to ensure their adequacy and appropriateness for  the 
Group’s risk and opportunities profile as well as with changes in 
strategy, business environment, evolving thoughts and trends in 
risk management.

3.1.5 Risk management strategies under the 
current economic conditions

The Nigeria Gross Domestic Product (GDP) grew by 3.52 per 
cent in the fourth quarter of 2022 on a year-on-year basis. The 
performance of the GDP in the fourth quarter of 2022 was 
driven mainly by the services sector, which recorded a growth 
of 5.69 per cent and contributed 56.27 per cent to the aggregate 
GDP. The acceleration chiefly reflected the agricultural sector 
gaining steam and growing 2.0%. The aggregate GDP stood at 
N56.76 trillion in nominal terms in Q4, 2022. This improvement 
is reflected in the banking sector’s earnings and profitability 
which appreciated in 2022, driven by broader adoption of digital 
channels post-lockdowns, a mild upswing in industry OPEX, and 
a slightly improved cost-to-income ratio.

Zenith Bank’s principal strategy is aimed at promoting growth 
and profitability of banking activities. The Bank adopted an 
integrated approach to risk management by bringing all risks 
together under a controlled oversight functions. Risk culture 
permeates the entire organization and the tone at the top 
is impeccable. Risk challenges are addressed through the 
Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Framework supported by a 
governance structure consisting of board level and executive 
management committees.

The Bank’s risk appetite is the core instrument used in aligning 
the overall corporate strategy, capital allocation and risk. The 
Bank has a comprehensive risk appetite framework linked to 
its corporate strategy and risk culture. As part of the Bank’s risk 
appetite framework, Risk Control Self-Assessment is conducted 
frequently. This assessment provides details on risk tolerance per 
risk category for each business/department across the entire 
bank. It also includes a nature of the threat, controls/mitigants, 
residual impact and early warning mechanisms for each risk.

The Bank has both qualitative and quantitative indicators 
which are drawn from its existing risk management framework. 
There are several risk related frameworks and policies for both 
financial and non-financial risks. Macro-economic and market-
based indicators are also used to proactively show and monitor 
negative trends, which may harm the Bank. The thresholds for the 
indicators were determined based on regulatory requirements 
(CBN), the Bank’s risk appetite and global good practice. The Bank 
is conservative as far as risk taking is concerned. As a result, the 
risk appetite is set at a level that minimizes erosion of earnings 
or capital due to avoidable losses or from frauds and operational 
ine!ciencies.

3.2 Credit Risk

Credit risk  is the risk of a financial loss if an obligor does not fully 
honour its contractual commitments to the Group.  Obligors 
may be borrowers, issuers, counterparties or guarantors. Credit 
risk is the most significant risk facing the Bank in the normal 
course of business. The Bank is exposed to credit risk not only 
through its direct lending activities and transactions but also 
through commitments to extend credit, letters of guarantee, 
letters of credit, securities purchased  under reverse repurchase 
agreements, deposits with financial institutions, brokerage 
activities, and transactions carrying a settlement risk for the Bank 
such as irrevocable fund transfers to third parties via electronic 
payment systems.

The Group has robust credit standards, policies and procedures 
to control and monitor intrinsic and concentration risks through 
all credit levels of selection, underwriting, administration and 
control. Some of the policies are:

a. Credit is only extended to suitable and well identified 
customers and never where there is any doubt as to the 
ethical standards and record of the intending borrower;

b. Exposures to any industry or customer will be 
determined by the regulatory guidelines, clearly defined 
internal policies, debt service capability and balance 
sheet management guidelines;

c. Credit is not extended to customers where the source 
of repayment is unknown or speculative, and also where 
the destination of funds is unknown. There must be clear 
and verifiable purpose for the use of the funds;

d. Credit is not given to a customer where the ability 
of the customer to meet obligations is based on the 
most optimistic forecast of events. Risk considerations 
will always have priority over business and profit 
considerations

e. The primary source of repayment for all credits must be 
from an identifiable cash flow from the counterparty’s 
normal business operations or other financial 
arrangements. The realization of security remains a fall 
back option;

f. A pricing model that reflects variations in the risk 
profile of various credits to ensure that higher risks are 
compensated by higher returns is adopted;

g. All insiders’ related credits are limited to regulatory and 
strict internal limits and are disclosed as required; and

125Notes



h. The consequences for non-compliance with the credit policy 
and credit indiscipline are communicated to all sta" and  are 
implemented.

3.2.1 Credit Metrics and Measurement Tools

Zenith Bank and its subsidiaries have devoted resources and 
harnessed their credit data to develop models that will  improve 
the determination of economic and financial threats resulting from 
credit risk. Before a sound and prudent credit decision can be taken, 
the credit risk engendered by the borrower or counterparty must 
be accurately assessed. This is the first step in processing credit 
applications. As a result, some key factors are considered in credit risk 
assessment and measurement: These are:

a. Adherence to the strict credit selection criteria, which 
includes defined target market, credit history, the capacity 
and character of customers;

b. Credit rating of obligor;

c. The likelihood of failure to pay over the period stipulated in 
the contract;

d. The size of the facility in case default occurs; and

e. Estimated Rate of Recovery, which is a measure of the portion 
of the debt that can be recovered through realisation of 
assets and collateral should default occur.

3.2.2 Credit Rating Tools

The principal objective of the credit risk rating system is to produce a 
reliable assessment of the credit risk to which the Group is exposed. 
As such, all loans and indirect credits such as guarantees and bonds as 
well as treasury investments undergo a formal credit analysis process 
that would ensure the proper appraisal of the facility.
 
(a) Loans and advances and amounts due from banks

Each individual borrower is rated based on an internally developed 
rating model that evaluates risk based on financial, qualitative and 
industry-specific inputs. The associated loss estimate norms for each 
grade have been developed based on the experience of the Bank and 
its various subsidiaries.

In order to allow for a meaningful distribution of exposures across 
grades with no excessive concentrations on the Group’s borrower-
rating and its facility-rating scale, the Group maintains the under listed 
rating grade, which is applicable to both  new and existing customers.

Zenith Group 
Rating

Description of the grade

AAA Investment Risk (Extremely Low Risk)

AA Investment Risk (Very Low Risk)

A Investment Risk (Low Risk)

BBB Upper Standard Grade (Acceptable Risk)

BB Lower Standard Grade (Moderately High Risk)

B Non-Investment Grade (High Risk)

CCC Non-Investment Grade (Very High Risk)

CC Non-Investment Grade (Extremely High Risk)

C Non-Investment Grade (High Likelihood of 
Default)

D Non-Investment Grade (Lost)

Unrated Individually insignificant (unrated)

(b) Other debt instruments

 With respect to other debt instruments, the Group 
takes the following into consideration in the 
management of the associated credit risk:

(i) Internal and external research and market 
intelligence reports; and

(ii) Regulatory agencies reports
 
In addition to the above, we have put in place limits 
structure which is monitored from time to time in order to 
limit our risk exposures on these securities.

Control mechanisms for the credit risk rating system

Zenith’s credit risk rating system is reviewed periodically 
to confirm that the rating criteria and procedures are 
appropriate given the current portfolio and external 
conditions. Hence, in accordance with the Groups model 
risk policy, all models that materially impact the risk rating 
process are reviewed.

Furthermore, the ratings accorded to customers are 
regularly reviewed, incorporating new financial information 
available  and the experience in the development of the 
banking relationship. The regularity of the reviews increases 
in the case of clients who reach certain levels in the 
automated warning systems. The rating system is currently 
undergoing external  review with a view to enhancing its 
robustness.

3.2.3 Credit Processes

Zenith operates a centralised credit approval process 
system. Credits are originated from the branches/business 

126

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



groups   and subjected to reviews at various levels before they 
are presented along with all documents and information defined 
for the proper assessment and decision of Credit to the Global 
Credit Committee for consideration. All Credits presented for 
approval are required to be in conformity with the documented 
and communicated Risk Acceptance Criteria(RAC).

As part of credit appraisal process, the Group will have to review 
the following:

a. Credit assessment of the borrower’s industry, and 
macro-economic factors;

b. The purpose of credit and source of repayment;

c. The track record / repayment history of borrower;

d. Assess/evaluate the repayment capacity of the borrower;

e. The proposed terms and conditions and covenants;

f. Adequacy and enforceability of collaterals; and

g. Approval from appropriate authority.
 

3.2.4 Group Credit Risk Management

Zenith’s approach in managing credit risk is a key element in 
achieving its strategic objective of maintaining and further 
enhancing its asset quality and credit portfolio risk profile. The 
credit standards, policies and procedures, risk methodologies 
and framework, solid structure and infrastructure, risk monitoring 
and control activities enable the Group to deal with the 
emerging risks and challenges with a high level of confidence 
and determination.

The framework for credit risk assessment at Zenith is well-defined 
and institutionally predicated on:

a. Clear tolerance limits and risk appetite set at the Board 
level, well communicated to the business units and 
periodically reviewed and monitored to adjust as 
appropriate;

b. Well-defined target market and risk asset acceptance 
criteria;

c. Rigorous financial, credit and overall risk analysis for each 
customer/transaction;

d. Regular portfolio examination in line with key 
performance indicators and periodic stress testing;

e. Continuous assessment of concentrations and 
mitigation strategies;

f. Continuous validation and modification of early 
warning system to ensure proper functioning for risk 
identification;

g. Systematic and objective credit risk rating methodologies 
that are based on quantitative, qualitative and expert 
judgment;

h. Systematic credit limits management which enables 
the Bank to monitor its credit exposure on daily basis at 
country, borrower, industry, credit risk rating and credit 
facility type levels;

i. Solid documentation and collateral management 
process with proper coverage and top-up triggers and 
follow-ups;   and

j. Annual and interim individual credit reviews to ensure 
detection of weakness signs or warning signals and 
considering proper remedies.

The credit processes are supplemented by sectoral portfolio 
reviews, which focus on countries, regions or  specific  industries 
as well as multiple stress testing scenarios. These are intended to 
identify any inherent risks in the portfolios resulting from changes 
in market conditions and are supplemented by independent 
reviews from our Group Internal Audit.

3.2.5 Group Credit Risk Limits

The Group applies credit risk limits, among other techniques 
in managing credit risk. This is the practice of stipulating a 
maximum amount that the individual or counterparty can 
obtain as loan. Internal and regulatory limits are strictly adhered 
to. Through this, the Group not only protects itself, but also in 
a sense, protects the counterparties from borrowing more than 
they are capable of repaying.

The Group focuses on its concentration and intrinsic risks and 
further manages them to a more comfortable level. This is very 
important due to the serious risk implications that intrinsic and 
concentration risk pose to the Group. A thorough analysis of 
economic factors, market forecasting and prediction based on 
historical evidence is used to mitigate these risks.

The Group has in place various portfolio concentration limits 
(which are subject to periodic review). These limits are closely 
monitored and reported on from time to time.

127Notes



The Group’s internal credit approval limits for the various authorities levels are as indicated below.

Zenith Group Rating Approval limit (% of Shareholders’ Fund)

Board Credit Committee N3.5 billion and above (Not exceeding 20% of total shareholders’ fund)

Management Global Credit Committee Below N3.5 billion

These internal approval limits are set and approved by the Group Board and are reviewed regularly as the state of a"airs of the Group 
and the wider financial environment demand.
 
3.2.6 Group Credit Risk Monitoring

The Group’s exposures are continuously monitored through a system of triggers and early-warning signals aimed at detecting 
symptoms, which could result in deterioration of credit risk quality. The triggers and early-warning systems are supplemented by facility 
utilisation and collateral valuation monitoring together with a review of upcoming credit facility expiration and market intelligence 
to enable timely corrective action by management. The results of the monitoring process are reflected in the internal rating process 
through quarterly review activities.

Credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis with formal weekly, monthly and quarterly reporting to keep senior  management aware 
of shifts in credit quality and portfolio performance along with changing external factors such as economic and business cycles.

The capabilities of the credit review team is continuously enhanced in order to improve the facility monitoring activity and assure 
excellent quality Risk Assets Portfolio across the Group.

A specialised and focused loan recovery and workout team handles the management and collection of problematic credit facilities.

3.2.7 (a) Credit Risk Mitigation, Collateral and other Credit Enhancements

The Group’s approach to controlling various risks begins with optimizing the diversification of its exposures. Zenith uses a variety of 
techniques to manage the credit risk arising from its lending activities. These  techniques  are set out in the Group’s internal policies 
and procedures. They are mainly reflected in the application of various exposure limits: credit concentration limits by counterparty and 
credit concentration limits by industry, country, region and type of financial instrument.

Enforceable legal documentation establishes Zenith’s direct, irrevocable and unconditional recourse to any collateral, security or other 
credit enhancements.

(i) Collateral Security

A key mitigation step employed by the Group in its credit risk management process includes the use of collateral securities to secure 
its loans and advances as alternative sources of repayment during adverse conditions. All major credit facilities to our customers are 
to be secured and the security instruments and documentations must be perfected and all conditions precedent must be met before 
drawdown or disbursement is allowed. Collateral analysis includes a good description of the collateral, its value, how the value was 
arrived at, and when the valuation was made. It is usually necessary to review the potential adverse changes in the value of collateral 
security for the foreseeable future.

Collateral securities that are pledged must be in negotiable form and usually fall under the following categories:

a. Real estate, plant and equipment collateral (usually all asset or mortgage debenture or charge), which have to be registered 
and enforceable under Nigerian law;

b. Collateral consisting of inventory, accounts receivable, machinery equipment, patents, trademarks, farm products, general 
intangibles, etc. These require a security agreement (usually a floating debenture) which has to be registered and, must be 
enforceable under Nigerian law;

c. Stocks and shares of publicly quoted companies;

128

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



d. Domiciliation of contracts proceeds;
e. Documents of title to goods such as shipping documents consigned to the order of Zenith Bank or any of its subsidiaries;

f. Letter of lien; and

g. Cash collateral.

Collateral securities are usually valued and inspected prior to disbursement and on a regular basis thereafter until full repayment of 
the exposure. We conduct a regular review of all collateral documentation in respect of all credits in the Bank and specific gaps in 
the collateral documentation addressed immediately. Borrowers are required to confirm adherence to covenants including periodic 
confirmation of collateral values  which are used by the Bank to provide early warning signals  of collateral value deterioration. Periodic 
inspections of physical collateral are performed where appropriate and where reasonable means of doing so are available.

The type and size of collateral held as security for financial assets other than loans and advances are usually a function of the nature 
of the instrument. Our debt securities, treasury and other eligible bills are normally unsecured but our comfort is on the issuer’s credit 
rating, which is the Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) and other sovereigns.

As part of its Credit risk management strategy, the bank emphasizes on the robustness of its credit analysis and diagonsis prior to 
disbursment of loans and advances to its customers.

The bank closely monitors the performance of its loans and advances. Once a loan shows sign of credit deterioration, the bank works 
closely with the customer to salvage the situation and ensure recoverability of its loans.

Fore closure of collateral is usually the last measure adopted by the bank in the realization of its funds.

Details of collateral pledged by customers against the carrying amount of loans and advances as at 31 December 2022 are as follows:

Group Bank

In millions of Naira Total exposure Fair Value of collateral Total exposure Fair value of collateral

Secured against real estate 319,203 312,265 270,935 208,068

Secured by shares of quoted companies 54,851 26,620 54,851 26,620

Cash Collateral, lien over fixed and floating assets 2,318,640 1,856,751 2,162,646 1,678,280

Unsecured 1,431,271 - 1,350,373 -

Total Gross amount 4,123,966 2,195,636 3,838,805 1,912,968

ECL Allowance (110,261) - (103,129) -

Net carrying amount 4,013,705 2,195,636 3,735,676 1,912,968

129Notes



Group 

31 December 2022 Term loan Overdrafts Onlending Total 

Disclosure by Collateral 

Property/Real estate 243,975 47,653 20,637 312,264

Equities 18,656 7,964 - 26,620

Cash Collateral, lien over fixed and floating assets 1,266,931 152,207 437,613 1,856,751

Grand total: Fair value of collateral 1,529,562 207,824 458,250 2,195,635

Grand total: Gross loans 2,982,808 450,649 690,509 4,123,966

Grand total: ECL Allowance (62,315) (39,864) (8,082)                (110,261)

Grand total: Net amount 2,920,493 410,785 682,427 4,013,705

Grand total: Amount of overcollaterization/(undercollaterization) (1,390,931) (202,961) (224,177) (1,818,070)

31 December 2022 Term loan Overdrafts Onlending Total 

Against 12 months ECL loans and advances 

Property/Real estate 129,049 33,870 18,912 181,831

Equities 18,233 3,484 - 21,717

Cash Collateral, lien over fixed and floating assets 732,826 137,584 436,790 1,307,200

Fair value of collateral 880,108 174,938 455,702 1,510,747

Gross loans 2,078,669 373,017 687,421 3,139,107

ECL Allowance (15,224) (6,238) (8,039) (29,501)

Net amount 2,063,445 366,778 679,382 3,109,606

Grand total: Amount of overcollaterization/(undercollaterization) (1,183,337) (191,840) (223,681) (1,598,859)

31 December 2022 Term loan Overdrafts Onlending Total 

Against lifetime ECL not credit-impaired loans and advances

Property/Real estate 107,255 6,127 1,652 115,034

Equities 423 2,270 - 2,693

Cash Collateral, lien over fixed and floating assets 529,067 8,713 - 537,779

Fair value of collateral 636,745 17,110 1,652 655,506

Gross loans 876,633 26,786 1,975 905,394

ECL Allowance (34,523) (830) (17) (35,370)

Net amount 842,110 25,955 1,958 870,023

Grand total: Amount of overcollaterization/(undercollaterization) (205,365) (8,845) (306) (214,516)
 

31 December 2022 Term loan Overdrafts Onlending Total 

Against lifetime ECL credit-impaired loans and advances

Property/Real estate 7,671 7,656 73 15,400

Equities - 2,210 - 2,210

Cash Collateral, lien over fixed and floating assets 5,038 5,911 823 11,772

Fair value of collateral 12,709 15,777 896 29,382

Gross loans 27,507 50,845 1,113 79,465

ECL Allowance (12,569) (32,796) (25) (45,390)

Net amount 14,938 18,049 1,088 34,075

Grand total: Amount of (undercollaterization)/overcollaterization (2,229) (2,273) (192) (4,693)

130

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



Bank 

31 December 2022 Term loan Overdrafts On lending Total 

Disclosure by Collateral 

Property/Real estate 154,805 32,625 20,637 208,067

Equities 18,656 7,964 - 26,620

Cash Collateral, lien over fixed and floating assets 1,097,502 143,165 437,613 1,678,280

Grand total: Fair value of collateral 1,270,963 183,754 458,250 1,912,967

Grand total: Gross loans 2,720,843 427,453 690,509 3,838,805

Grand total: ECL Allowance (57,904) (37,143) (8,082) (103,129)

Grand total: Net amount 2,662,939 390,310 682,427 3,735,676

Grand total: Amount of overcollaterization/(undercollaterization) (1,391,976) (206,556) (224,177) (1,822,709)

31 December 2022 Term loan Overdrafts Onlending Total 

Against 12 months ECL loans and advances 

Property/Real estate 39,976 22,321 18,912 81,209

Equities 18,233 3,484 - 21,717

Cash Collateral, lien over fixed and floating assets 563,397 128,600 436,790 1,128,787

Fair value of collateral 621,606 154,405 455,702 1,231,713

Gross loans 1,822,213 352,845 687,421 2,862,479

ECL Allowance (11,812) (5,418) (8,039) (25,269)

Net amount 1,810,401 347,427 679,382 2,837,210

Grand total: Amount of overcollaterization/(undercollaterization) (1,188,795) (193,022) (223,680) (1,605,497)

31 December 2022 Term loan Overdrafts Onlending Total 

Against lifetime ECL not credit-impaired loans and advances

Property/Real estate 107,158 6,104 1,652 114,914

Equities 423 2,270 - 2,693

Cash Collateral, lien over fixed and floating assets 529,067 8,713 - 537,780

Fair value of collateral 636,648 17,087 1,652 655,387

Gross loans 871,125 26,645 1,975 899,745

ECL Allowance (33,524) (800) (17) (34,341)

Net amount 837,601 25,845 1,958 865,404

Grand total: Amount of overcollaterization/(undercollaterization) (200,953) (8,758) (306) (210,017)

31 December 2022 Term loan Overdrafts Onlending Total 

Against lifetime ECL credit-impaired loans and advances

Property/Real estate 7,671 4,199 73 11,943

Equities - 2,210 - 2,210

Cash Collateral, lien over fixed and floating assets 5,038 5,852 823 11,713

Fair value of collateral 12,709 12,261 896 25,866

Gross loans 27,505 47,962 1,113 76,580

ECL Allowance (12,568) (30,926) (25) (43,519)

Net amount 14,937 17,036 1,088 33,061

Grand total: Amount of overcollaterization/(undercollaterization) (2,228) (4,775) (192) (7,195)

131Notes



Details of collateral pledged by customers against carrying amount of loans and advances as at 31 December 2021 are as follows:

In millions of Naira Group Bank

31 December 2020 Total exposure Fair Value of collateral Total exposure Value of collateral 

Secured against real estate 463,049 350,232 418,264 286,414

Secured by shares of quoted companies 7,249 3,785 7,249 3,785

Cash collateral, lien over fixed and floating assets 1,283,489 1,016,994 1,239,790 952,128

Unsecured 1,748,091 - 1,572,670 -

Total Gross amount 3,501,878 1,371,011 3,237,973 1,242,327

ECL Allowance (146,150) - (138,521) -

Net carrying amount 3,355,728 1,371,011 3,099,452 1,242,327

Group

31 December 2021 Term loan Overdrafts On lending Total 

Disclosure by Collateral

Property/Real estate 298,867 36,437 14,928 350,232

Equities 1,653 2,132 - 3,785

Cash Collateral, lien over fixed and floating assets 639,798 74,542 302,654 1,016,994

Grand total: Fair value of collateral 940,318 113,111 317,582 1,371,011

Grand total: Gross loans 2,522,278 439,459 540,141 3,501,878

Grand total: ECL Allowance (77,487) (63,176) (5,487) (146,150)

Grand total: Net amount 2,444,791 376,283 534,654 3,355,728

Grand total: Amount of overcollaterization/(undercollaterization) (1,504,473) (263,172) (217,072) (1,984,717)

31 December 2021 Term loan Overdrafts On lending Total

Against 12 months ECL loans and advances 

Property/Real estate 85,481 18,540 14,918 118,939

Equities 1,652 7 - 1,659

Cash Collateral, lien over fixed and floating assets 397,277 62,551 299,605 759,433

Fair value of collateral 484,410 81,098 314,523 880,031

Gross loans 1,771,887 326,517 501,946 2,600,350

ECL Allowance (12,942) (3,642) (5,222) (21,806)

Net amount 1,758,945 322,875 496,724 2,578,544

Grand total: Amount of overcollaterization/(undercollaterization) (1,274,535) (241,777) (182,201) (1,698,513)

 
31 December 2021 Term loan Overdrafts On lending Total 

Against lifetime ECL not credit-impaired loans and advances

Property/Real estate 204,345 4,448 - 208,793

Cash Collateral, lien over fixed and floating assets 222,147 6,826 2,589 231,562

Fair value of collateral 426,492 11,274 2,589 440,355

Gross loans 686,225 30,808 37,674 754,707

ECL Allowance (26,239) (542) (257) (27,038)

Net amount 659,986 30,266 37,417 727,669

Grand total: Amount of overcollaterization/(undercollaterization) (233,494) (18,992) (34,828) (287,314)

132

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



31 December 2021 Term loan Overdrafts On lending Total 

Against lifetime ECL credit-impaired loans and advances

Property/Real estate 9,041 13,447 10 22,498

Equities - 2,126 - 2,126

Cash Collateral, lien over fixed and floating assets 20,375 5,166 460 26,001

Fair value of collateral 29,416 20,739 470 50,625

Gross loans 64,166 82,134 521 146,821

ECL Allowance (38,306) (58,992) (8) (97,306)

Net amount 25,860 23,142 513 49,515

Grand total: Amount of overcollaterization/(undercollaterization) 3,556 (2,403) (43) 1,110

Bank

31 December 2021 Term loan Overdrafts On lending Total 

Disclosure by Collateral

Property/Real estate 245,732 25,754 14,928 286,414

Equities 1,653 2,132 - 3,785

Cash Collateral, lien over fixed and floating assets 586,499 62,975 302,654 952,128

Grand total: Fair value of collateral 833,884 90,861 317,582 1,242,327

Grand total: Gross loans 2,278,613 419,219 540,141 3,237,973

Grand total: ECL Allowance (73,557) (59,478) (5,486) (138,521)

Grand total: Net amount 2,205,056 359,741 534,655 3,099,452

Grand total: Amount of overcollaterization/(undercollaterization) (1,371,172) (268,880) (217,073) (1,857,125)

31 December 2021 Term loan Overdrafts On lending Total 

Against 12 months ECL loans and advances 

Property/Real estate 32,962 11,844 14,920 59,726

Equities 1,653 7 - 1,660

Cash Collateral, lien over fixed and floating assets 343,977 50,999 299,605 694,581

Fair value of collateral 378,592 62,850 314,525 755,967

Gross loans 1,530,854 312,155 501,947 2,344,956

ECL Allowance (9,312) (3,000) (5,222) (17,534)

Net amount 1,521,542 309,155 496,725 2,327,422

Grand total: Amount of overcollaterization/(undercollaterization) (1,142,950) (246,305) (182,200) (1,571,455)

 

31 December 2021 Term loan Overdrafts On lending Total 

Against lifetime ECL not credit-impaired loans and advances

Property/Real estate 203,728 4,432 - 208,160

Cash Collateral, lien over fixed and floating assets  222,147 6,810 2,589 231,546

Fair value of collateral 425,875 11,242 2,589 439,706

Gross loans 684,547 30,773 37,674 752,994

ECL Allowance (25,942) (472) (257) (26,671)

Net amount 658,605 30,301 37,417 726,323

Grand total: Amount of overcollaterization/(undercollaterization) (232,730) (19,059) (34,828) (286,617)

133Notes



31 December 2021 Term loan Overdrafts On lending Total 

Against lifetime ECL credit-impaired loans and advances

Property/Real estate 9,040 9,477 10 18,527

Equities - 2,126 - 2,126

Cash Collateral, lien over fixed and floating assets 20,375 5,167 460 26,002

Fair value of collateral 29,415 16,770 470 46,655

Gross loans 63,211 76,290 522 140,023

ECL Allowance (38,304) (56,004) (8) (94,316)

Net amount 24,907 20,286 514 45,707

Grand total: Amount of overcollaterization/(undercollaterization) 4,508 (3,516) (44) 948

(ii)  Balance Sheet Netting Arrangements   
     
      Risk reduction by way of current account set-o" is recognised for exposures to highly rated and creditworthy customers. 

Customers are required to enter into formal agreements giving Zenith Bank Plc the right to set-o" gross credit and debit 
balances in their nominated accounts to determine the Groups net exposure. Cross-border set-o"s are not permitted.

(iii)     Guarantees and Standby Letters of Credit  
 
            Guarantees and Standby Letters of Credit are perceived to have comparable level of credit risk as loans and advances. 

In accordance with the Group’s credit policies, banks and creditworthy companies and individuals with high net worth 
are accepted as guarantors, subject to credit risk assessment. Furthermore, Zenith Bank Plc only recognises unconditional 
irrevocable guarantees or standby letters of credit provided they are not related to the underlying obligor.

3.2.7  (b) Maximum Exposure to Credit Risk Before Collateral Held or Credit Enhancements
 
The Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk at 31 December 2022 and 31 December 2021 respectively, are represented by the 
net carrying amounts of the financial assets,  with the exception of financial and other guarantees issued by the  Group for which 
the maximum exposure to credit risk are represented by the maximum amount the Group would have to  pay if the guarantees are 
called on (refer to note 39 Contingent liabilities and commitments).

Maximum exposure to credit risk - Financial instruments not subject to impairment

The following table contains an analysis of the maximum credit risk exposure from financial assets not subject  to  impairment as at 
31 December 2022.

Group Bank

In millions of Naira Maximum exposure to credit risk Maximum exposure to credit risk

Trading assets

- Treasury bills 1,243,038 1,243,038

- Investment in securities 12,442 10,560

- Derivatives Asset -Hedging Instrument 20,052 20,052

- Derivatives Asset-Non Hedging Instrument 29,822 28,799

- Assets pledged as collateral 26,287 26,189

134

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



The following table contains an analysis of the maximum credit risk exposure from financial assets not subject  to  impairment as at 
31 December 2021
    Group    Bank

In millions of Naira Maximum exposure to credit risk Maximum exposure to credit risk

Trading assets

- Treasury bills 824,222 823,891

- Investment in securities 22,338 11,897

- Derivatives Assets 56,187 57,476

- Assets pledged as collateral 234,687 199,093

Maximum exposure to credit risk - Financial instruments subject to impairment

The following table contains an analysis of the maximum credit risk exposure from financial assets subject to impairment as at 31 
December 2022.

Group Bank

In millions of Naira Maximum exposure to credit risk Maximum exposure to credit risk

Financial assets measured at amortised cost

- Balances with central bank 2,116,307 2,036,327

- Treasury bills 1,003,500 963,630

- Investment in securities 788,133 518,338

- Assets pledged as collateral 228,375 228,375

- Loans and advances to customers 4,013,705 3,735,676

- Due from banks 1,302,811 1,132,796

- Other financial assets 193,465 176,289

Financial assets measured through other comprehensive income

- Investment in securities 833,849 -

O$ balance sheet exposures 1,024,218 906,014

 

The following table contains an analysis of the maximum credit risk exposure from financial assets subject to impairment as at 31 
December 2021

Group Bank

In millions of Naira Maximum exposure to credit risk Maximum exposure to credit risk

Financial assets measured at amortised cost

- Balances with central bank 1,404,286 1,341,767

- Treasury bills 940,723 753,756

- Investment in securities 654,185 379,533

- Assets pledged as collateral 157,907 157,907

- Loans and advances to customers 3,355,728 3,099,452

- Due from banks 691,244 518,053

- Other financial assets 148,821 134,794

Financial assets measured through other comprehensive income

- Investment in securities 541,629 -

O$ balance sheet exposures 1,108,856 924,176

135Notes



3.2.8 Concentration of Risks of Financial Assets with Credit Risk Exposure 

The Group monitors concentrations of credit risk by geographical location and by industry sector. An analysis of concentrations of 
credit risk at 31 December 2022 and 31 December 2021 respectively is set out below:

(a)   Geographical sectors

The following table breaks down the Group’s main credit exposure at their carrying amounts, as categorised by  geographical 
region at 31 December 2022 and 31 December 2021 respectively. For this table, the Group has allocated exposures to regions 
based on the regions the counterparties are domiciled. Other financial assets included in the table below represents other assets 
excluding prepayment.

In millions of Naira Group Bank

31 December 2022 Nigeria Rest of Africa Outside Africa Nigeria Rest of Africa Outside Africa

Balances with central bank 2,036,327 79,980 - 2,036,327 - -

Treasury bills 2,227,845 18,695 - 2,206,669 - -

Assets pledged as collateral 254,564 98 - 254,564 - -

Due from other banks 6,435 20,393 1,275,983 14,565 3,057 1,115,174

Investment securities 584,599 229,474 820,373 514,092 14.804 -

Derivative Asset - Hedging Instrument 20,052 - - 20,052 - -

Derivative Asset-Non Hedging Instrument 28,786 13 1,023 28,785 13 1

Other financial assets 105,249 17,884 70,331 104,867 1,262 70,159

Total 5,263,857 366,537 2,167,710 5,179,921 19,136 1,185,334

Financial Guarantees

Usance 276,481 - - 276,481 - -

Letters of credit 341,290 22,065 - 279,791 - -

Performance bond and  guarantees 329,167 55,215 - 323,824 1,042 24,876

Total 946,938 77,280 - 880,096 1,042 24,876

In millions of Naira Group Bank

31 December 2021 Nigeria Rest of Africa Outside Africa Nigeria Rest of Africa Outside Africa

Balances with central bank 1,341,768 62,518 - 1,341,767 - -

Treasury bills 1,671,640 93,305 - 1,577,647 - -

Assets pledged as collateral 357,000 35,594 - 357,000 - -

Due from other banks - 49,158 642,086 - 7,663 510,390

Investment securities 460,456 239,155 518,541 390,917 513 -

Derivative instruments 55,223 698 266 55,223 1,437 816

Other financial assets 115,095 15,049 18,677 115,333 1,178 18,283

Total 4.001,182 495,477 1,179,570 3,837,887 10,791 529,489

Financial Guarantees

Usance 195,354 - - 195,354 - -

Letters of credit 493,180 59,574 1,732 398,605 - -

Performance bond and  guarantees 343,238 17,239 4,155 335,833 - -

Total 1,031,772 76,813 5,887 929,792 - -

Gross loans and advances to customers and the impairment allowance per geographical region as at 31 December 2022

Carrying amounts presented in the table below is determined as gross loans less impairment allowances.

136

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



In millions of Naira Group Bank

31 December 2022 Loans and advances to customers Loans and advances to customers

Gross loans Impairment Allowance Carrying amount Gross loans Impairment Allowance Carrying amount

South South Nigeria 277,548 (5,380) 272,168 277,548 (5,380) 272,168

South West Nigeria 3,136,204 (92,036) 3,044,168 3,090,175 (91,124) 2,999,051

South East Nigeria 158,058 (1,822) 156,236 158,058 (1,822) 156,236

North Central Nigeria 148,610 (3,738) 144,872 148,610 (3,738) 144,872

North West Nigeria 53,605 (671) 52,934 53,605 (671) 52,934

North East Nigeria 110,809 (394) 110,415 110,809 (394) 110,415

Rest of Africa 133,599 (5,122) 128,476 - - -

Outside Africa 105,534 (1,098) 104,435 - - -

4,123,966 (110,261) 4,013,705 3,838,805 (103,129) 3,735,676

31 December 2021

South South Nigeria 366,246 6,774 359,515 366,246 6,774 359,472

South West Nigeria 2,445,088 126,734 2,357,697 2,444,975 126,733 2,318,242

South East Nigeria 128,638 1,279 127,478 128,638 1,279 127,359

North Central Nigeria 111,570 2,740 109,177 111,570 2,740 108,830

North West Nigeria 75,430 453 74,977 75,430 453 74,977

North East Nigeria 151,683 763 110,571 111,114 542 110,572

Rest of Africa 121,152 6,016 115,622 - - -

Outside Africa 102,071 1,391 100,691 - - -

3,501,878 146,150 3,355,728 3,237,973 138,521 3,099,452

(b)  Industry sectors 

Gross loans and advances to customers per industry sector as at 31 December 2022

Carrying amounts presented in the table below are determined as gross loans less impairment allowances.

In millions of Naira Group Bank

31 December 2022 Loans and advances to customers Loans and advances to customers

Gross loans Impairment Allowance Carrying amount Gross loans Impairment Allowance Carrying amount

Agriculture 265,213 (5,853) 259,359 251,306 (5,722) 245,584

Oil and gas 931,045 (59,309) 871,737 912,505 (58,641) 853,864

Consumer Credit 120,345 (14,382) 105,963 94,448 (13,183) 81,265

Manufacturing 1,254,050 (10,774) 1,243,276 1,190,640 (8,039) 1,182,601

Real estate and construction 136,403 (2,784) 133,619 134,017 (2,700) 131,317

Finance and insurance 72,959 (667) 72,292 37,181 (280) 36,901

Government 529,942 (1,679) 528,263 488,286 (539) 487,747

Power 67,143 (566) 66,577 67,016 (565) 66,451

Transportation 116,856 (3,286) 113,570 98,529 (3,158) 95,371

Communication 26,218 (317) 25,900 21,790 (142) 21,648

Education 15,146 (257) 14,889 14,501 (229) 14,272

General Commerce 588,646 (10,386) 578,268 528,586 (9,931) 518,655

4,123,966 (110,261) 4,013,705 3,838,805 (103,129) 3,735,676

137Notes



In millions of Naira Group Bank

31 December 2021 Loans and advances to customers Loans and advances to customers

Grossloans Impairment Allowance Carrying amount Gross loans Impairment Allowance Carrying amount

Agriculture 227,237 8,931 218,306 212,587 8,571 204,016

Oil and gas 782,412 55,273 727,139 756,936 54,418 702,518

Consumer Credit 199,129 15,124 184,005 170,239 13,064 157,175

Manufacturing 848,478 5,408 843,070 826,275 5,035 821,240

Real estate and construction 109,143 1,668 107,475 105,760 1,580 104,180

Finance and insurance 5,996 158 5,838 8,562 83 8,479

Government 509,021 2,375 506,646 472,151 1,597 470,554

Power 67,132 4,830 62,302 66,649 4,825 61,824

Transportation 176,747 1,236 175,511 162,688 990 161,698

Communication 59,111 22,410 36,701 52,126 22,316 29,810

Education 11,542 136 11,406 10,579 133 10,446

General Commerce 505,930 28,601 477,329 393,421 25,909 367,512

3,501,878 146,150 3,355,728 3,237,973 138,521 3,099,452

Group
Financial assets excluding loans and advances per industry sector as at 31 December 2022

 In millions of naira Balances with 
central bank 

Treasury 
bills

Assets 
pledged as 

collateral

Due from 
other banks

Investment 
securities

Derivative  
Hedging 

instruments

Derivatives 
Non  

Hedging 
instruments

Other 
!nancial 

assets 

31 December 2022

Government 2,116,307 2,246,947 254,583 - 1,623,788 20,052 27,579 -

Manufacturing - - - - 8,279 - 1,206 -

Finance and 
Insurance

- - 98 1,302,886 42,454 - 1,037 222,439

Communication - - - - 22,163 - - -

Gross amount 2,116,307 2,246,947 254,681 1,302,886 1,696,684 20,052 29,822 222,439

Impairment 
allowance

- (408) (19) (75) (62,233) (28,973)

Carrying amount 2,116,307 2,246,539 254,662 1,302,811 1,634,451 20,052 29,822 193,466

Financial assets excluding loans and advances per industry sector as at 31 December 2021

31 December 2021 
In millions of naira

Balances 
with central 

bank 

Treasury bills Assets 
pledged as 

collateral

Due from 
other banks

Investment 
securities

Derivative 
instruments

Other 
!nancial 

assets 

Government 1,404,285 1,765,760 392,792 - 1,148,302 56,187 10,274

Manufacturing - - - - 16,771 - -

Finance and Insurance - - - 691,968 17,208 - 148,472

Communication - - - - 39,637 - -

Gross amount 1,404,285 1,765,760 392,792 691,968 1,221,918 56,187 158,746

Impairment allowance - (815) (198) (724) (3,766) - (9,925)

Carrying amount 1,404,285 1,764,945 392,594 691,244 1,218,152 56,187 148,821

138

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



Bank
Financial assets excluding loans and advances per industry sector as at 31  December 2022

In millions of naira Balances with 
central bank 

Treasury 
bills

Assets 
pledged as 

collateral

Due from 
other banks

Investment 
securities

Derivative  
Hedging 

instruments

Derivatives 
Non  

Hedging 
instruments

Other 
!nancial 

assets 

31 December 2022

Government 2,036,327 2,206,707 254,583 - 463,676 20,052 27,563 -

Manufacturing - - - - 6,238 - 1,222 -

Finance and 
Insurance

- - - 1,132,871 39,601 - 14 205.157

Communication - - - - 21,966 - - -

Gross amount 2,036,327 2,206,707 254,583 1,132,871 531,481 20,052 28,799 205,157

Impairment 
allowance

- (39) (18) (75) (2,583) - - (28,868)

Carrying amount 2,036,327 2,206,668 254,565 1,132,796 528,898 20,052 28,799 178,289

Financial assets excluding loans and advances per industry sector as at 31 December, 2021

31 December 2021

In millions of naira Balances 
with central 

bank 

Treasury 
bills

Assets 
pledged as 

collateral

Due from 
other banks

Investment 
securities

Derivative  
Hedging 

instruments

Derivatives 
Non  

Hedging 
instruments

Other 
!nancial 

assets 

Government 1,341,767 1,578,042 357,198 - 321,262 - 50,772 10,274

Manufacturing - - - - 15,512 - 4,190 -

Finance and Insurance - - - 518,111 15,685 - 2,514 134,355

Communication - - - - 39,637 - - -

Gross amount 1,341,767 1,578,042 357,198 518,111 392,096 - 57,476 144,629

Impairment allowance - (395) (198) (58) (666) - - (9,835)

Carrying amount 1,341,767 1,577,647 357,000 518,053 391,430 - 57,476 134,794

3.2.9  Credit quality analysis

Group

31 December 2022 

Credit rating - 12 month ECL: All !nancial assets excluding loans and advances

In millions of naira Balances with 
central bank 

Treasury 
bills

Assets 
pledged as 

collateral

Due from 
other 

banks

Investment 
securities

Derivative
Asset - 

Hedging
Instrument

Derivative
Asset -Non

Hedging
Instrument

Other 
!nancial 

assets 

AAA to A 2,036,327 2,206,975 254,583 1,128,219 1,283,859 - 312 133,177

BBB to BB 2,994 37,723 - 89,328 197,408 20,052 27,266 25,152

CCC to C - - - 3,057 10,354 - - 45,498

Unrated 76,986 2,249 98 82,283 205,060 - 2,245 18,612

Gross amount 2,116,307 2,246,947 254,681 1,302,887 1,696,681 20,052 29,823 222,439

ECL - impairment - (408) (19) (75) (62,233) - - (28,973)

Carrying amount 2,116,307 2,246,539 254,662 1,302,812 1,634,448 20,052 29,823 193,466

139Notes



Loans and Advances

Term loan Overdrafts On lending Total 

12 months ECL 2,078,669 373,017 687,421 3,139,107

Lifetime ECL not credit impaired 876,633 26,786 1,975 905,393

Lifetime ECL credit impaired 27,507 50,845 1,113 79,465

Gross loans and advances 2,892,808 450,648 690,509 4,123,965

Less allowance for impairment

12 - months ECL (15,224) (6,238) (8,039) (29,501)

Lifetime ECL not credit impaired (34,523) (830) (17) (35,370)

Lifetime ECL credit impaired (12,569) (32,796) (25) (45,390)

Total allowances for impairment (62,316) (39,864) (8,081) (110,275)

Net loans and advances 2,920,493 410,783 682,428 4,013,690

Credit rating for loans and advances with 12 month ECL

Loans and Advances

Term loan Overdrafts On lending Total 

A 692,565 99,827 263,526 1,055,918

AA 357,588 147,369 20,559 525,516

B 69,895 1,299 - 71,194

BB 735,922 104,682 403,336 1,243,940

BBB 10,658 - - 10,658

CC 46 - - 46

CCC - - - -

Below C - - - -

Unrated 211,996 19,840 - 231,836

Gross amount 2,078,669 373,017 687,421 3,139,107

ECL-Impairment (15,239) (6,251) (8,039) (29,530)

Carrying amount 2,063,430 366,766 679,382 3,109,578

       
Bank

31 December 2021

Credit rating - 12 month ECL: All financial assets excluding loans and advances

In millions of 
naira

Balances with 
central bank 

Treasury 
bills

Assets 
pledged as 

collateral

Due from 
other banks

Investment 
securities

Derivative
Asset - 

Hedging
Instrument

Derivative
Asset -Non

Hedging
Instrument

Other 
!nancial 

assets 

AAA to A 2,036,327 2,206,707 254,583 957,055 480,352 - 312 133,162

BBB to BB - - - 170,984 51,129 20,052 27,265 26,478

CCC to C - - - 3,057 - - - 45,493

Unrated - - - 1,775 - - 1,222 24

Gross amount 2,036,327 2,206,707 254,583 1,132,871 531,481 20,052 28,799 205,157

ECL - impairment - (39) (18) (75) (2,583) - - (28,868)

Carrying amount 2,036,327 2,206,668 254,565 1,132,796 528,898 20,052 28,799 176,289

140

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



Loans and Advances

Term loan Overdrafts On lending Total 

12 months ECL 1,822,213 352,845 687,421 2,862,479

Lifetime ECL not credit impaired 871,125 26,645 1,975 899,745

Lifetime ECL credit impaired 27,505 47,962 1,113 76,580

Gross loans and advances 2,720,843 427,452 690,509 3,838,804

Less allowance for impairment

12 - months ECL (11,812) (5,418) (8,039) (25,269)

Lifetime ECL not credit impaired (33,524) (800) (17) (34,341)

Lifetime ECL credit impaired (12,568) (30,926) (25) (43,519)

Total allowances for impairment (57,904) (37,144) (8,081) (103,129)

Net loans and advances 2,662,939 390,308 682,428 3,735,675

Loans and Advances

Term loan Overdrafts On lending Total 

A 692,565 99,827 263,526 1,055,918

AA 357,588 147,369 20,559 525,516

B 9 968 - 977

BB 772,051 104,682 403,336 1,280,069

BBB - - - -

C - - - -

CC - - - -

CCC - - - -

Below C - - - -

Gross amount 1,822,213 352,846 687,421 2,862,480

ECL-Impairment (11,812) (5,418) (8,039) (25,269)

Carrying amount 1,810,401 347,428 679,382 2,837,211

Group

31 December 2021 

Credit rating: All financial assets with credit exposure excluding loans and advances

In millions of 
naira

Balances with 
central bank 

Treasury 
bills

Assets 
pledged as 

collateral

Due from 
other banks

Investment 
securities

Derivative
Asset - 

Hedging
Instrument

Derivative
Asset -Non

Hedging
Instrument

Other 
!nancial 

assets 

AAA to A 1,404,285 1,765,760 392,792 263,051 856,410 - 56,187 90,351

BBB to BB - - - 84,147 175,600 - - 38,530

Below B - - - 1,055 5,487 - - -

Unrated - - - 343,715 184,421 - - 29,865

Gross amount 1,404,285 1,765,760 392,792 691,968 1,221,918 - 56,187 158,746

ECL - impairment - (815) (198) (724) (3,766) - - (9,925)

Carrying amount 1,404,285 1,764,945 392,594 691,244 1,218,152 - 56,187 148,821

Loans and Advances

141Notes



In millions of naira Term loan Overdrafts On lending Total 

12 months ECL 1,771,887 326,517 501,946 2,600,350

Lifetime ECL not credit impaired 686,225 30,808 37,674 754,707

Lifetime ECL credit impaired 64,166 82,134 521 146,821

Gross loans and advances 2,522,278 439,459 540,141 3,501,878

Less allowance for impairment

12 - months ECL 12,942 3,642 5,222 21,806

Lifetime ECL not credit impaired 26,239 542 257 27,038

Lifetime ECL credit impaired 38,306 58,992 8 97,306

Total allowances for impairment 77,487 63,176 5,487 146,150

Net loans and advances 2,444,791 376,283 534,654 3,355,728

Credit rating for loans and advances with 12 month ECL

Loans and Advances

Term loan Overdrafts On lending Total 

A 658,120 56,707 170,443 885,270

AA 218,817 150,950 77,029 446,796

B - - - -

BB 634,892 7,654 4,841 647,387

BBB 850,174 126,942 287,309 1,264,425

C 12,084 25,526 485 38,095

CC 1,546 1,971 - 3,517

CCC 35,575 21,168 - 56,743

Below C 18,013 28,598 34 46,645

Unrated 93,057 19,943 - 113,000

Gross amount 2,522,278 439,459 540,141 3,501,878

ECL-Impairment (77,487) (63,176) (5,487) (146,150)

Carrying amount 2,444,791 376,283 534,654 3,355,728
 
Bank

31 December 2021

Credit rating - 12 month ECL: All financial assets excluding loans and advances

In millions of 
naira

Balances with 
central bank 

Treasury 
bills

Assets pledged 
as collateral

Due from 
other banks

Investment 
securities

Derivative 
instruments

Other !nancial 
assets 

AA to A 1,341,767 1,578,042 357,198 228,273 367,261 4,003 90,349

AA to A - - - - - - -

BBB to BB - - - 286,175 24,835 50,772 38,529

CCC to C - - - 1,056 - - -

Unrated - - - 2,607 - 2,701 15,751

Gross amount 1,341,767 1,578,042 357,198 518,111 392,096 57,476 144,629

ECL - impairment - (395) (198) (58) (666) - (9,835)

Carrying amount 1,341,767 1,577,647 357,000 518,053 391,430 57,476 134,794

142

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



Loans and Advances

In millions of Naira Term loan Overdrafts On lending Total 

12 months ECL 1,529,907 311,567 501,946 2,343,420

Lifetime ECL not credit impaired 684,547 30,419 37,674 752,640

Lifetime ECL credit impaired 64,159 77,233 521 141,913

Gross loans and advances 2,278,613 419,219 540,141 3,237,973

Less allowance for impairment

12 - months ECL 9,312 3,000 5,221 17,533

Lifetime ECL not credit impaired 25,942 474 257 26,673

Lifetime ECL credit impaired 38,303 56,004 8 94,315

Total allowances for impairment 73,557 59,478 5,486 138,521

Net loans and advances 2,205,056 359,741 534,655 3,099,452

Loans and Advances

Term loan Overdrafts On lending Total 

A 687,816 56,707 170,443 914,966

AA 218,817 150,950 77,029 446,796

BB 634,892 7,654 4,841 647,387

BBB 672,929 126,676 287,309 1,086,914

C 12,084 25,526 485 38,095

CC 1,546 1,971 - 3,517

CCC 32,523 21,168 - 53,691

Below C 18,006 28,567 34 46,607

Unrated - - - -

Gross amount 2,278,613 419,219 540,141 3,237,973

ECL-Impairment (73,557) (59,478) (5,486) (138,521)

Carrying amount 2,205,056 359,741 534,655 3,099,452
 

3.2.10  Amounts Arising from ECL 

For inputs, assumptions and techniques used for estimating impairment see accounting policy in note 2.7 

3.2.11  Amounts arising from ECL

Corporate exposures Retail exposures All exposures

–Information obtained during periodic review of customer files – 
e.g. audited financial statements, management accounts, budgets 
and projections.
Examples of areas of particular focus are: gross profit margins, 
financial leverage ratios, debt service coverage, compliance with 
covenants, quality of management, senior management changes
 Data from credit reference agencies, press articles, changes 

in external credit ratings
 Quoted bond and credit default swap (CDS) prices for the 

borrower where available
 Actual and expected significant changes in the political, 

regulatory and technological environment of the borrower 
or in its business activities

– Internally collected data 
on customer behaviour 
– e.g. utilisation of credit 
card facilities
 A"ordability metrics
 External data from 

credit reference 
agencies, including 
industry-standard 
credit scores

– Payment record – this 
includes overdue status as well 
as a range of variables about 
payment ratios
 Utilisation of the 

granted limit
 Requests for and 

granting of forbearance
 Existing and forecast 

changes in business, 
financial and economic 
conditions

143Notes



The Group allocates each exposure to a credit risk grade based 
on a variety of data that is determined to be predictive of the 
risk of default and applying experienced credit judgement. 
Credit risk grades are defined using qualitative and quantitative 
factors that are indicative of risk of default. These factors vary 
depending on the nature of the exposure and the type of 
borrower.

Credit risk grades are defined and calibrated such that the risk 
of default occurring increases exponentially as the credit risk 
deteriorates so, for example, the di"erence in risk of default 
between credit risk grades 1 and 2 is smaller than the di"erence 
between credit risk grades 2 and 3.

Each exposure is allocated to a credit risk grade at initial 
recognition based on available information about the borrower. 
Exposures are subject to ongoing monitoring, which may result 
in an exposure being moved to a di"erent credit risk grade.

3.2.12  Internal portfolio segmentation

Credit risk grades are a primary input into the determination 
of the term structure of PD for exposures. The Group collects 
performance and default information about its credit risk 
exposures analysed by jurisdiction or region and by type of 
product and borrower as well as by credit risk grading. For 
some portfolios, information purchased from external credit 
reference agencies is also used. The credit risk grades are 
reviewed quarterly.

The Group employs statistical models to analyse the data 
collected and generate estimates of the remaining lifetime PD 
of exposures and how these are expected to change as a result 
of the passage of time.

This analysis includes the identification and calibration of 
relationships between changes in default rates and changes in 
key macro-economic factors as well as in-depth analysis of the 
impact of certain other factors (e.g. forbearance experience) on 
the risk of default. For most exposures, key macro-economic 
indicators include: GDP growth, benchmark interest rates and 
unemployment. For exposures to specific industries and/or 
regions, the analysis may extend to relevant commodity and/
or real estate prices.

Based on advice from the Group Market Risk Committee and 
economic experts and consideration of a variety of external 
actual and forecast information, the Group formulates a ‘base 
case’ view of the future direction of relevant economic variables 
as well as a representative range of other possible forecast 
scenarios (see discussion below on incorporation of forward-
looking information). The Group then uses these forecasts to 
adjust its estimates of PDs.

In determining the ECL for other assets, the Group applies the 
simplified model to estimate ECLs, adopting a provision matrix, 
where the receivables are grouped based on the nature of the 
transactions, aging of the balances and di"erent historical loss 
patterns, to determine the lifetime ECLs. Receivables relate 
to amounts due for the provision of services to the Banks’ 
customers. The provision matrix estimates ECLs on the basis of 
historical default rates, adjusted for current and future economic 
conditions (expected changes in default rates) without undue 
cost and e"ort.

3.2.13  Signi!cant increase in credit risk 

At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there has 
been a significant increase in credit risk for exposures since initial 
recognition by comparing the risk of default occurring over 
the remaining expected life from the reporting date and the 
date of initial recognition. The criteria for determining whether 
credit risk has increased significantly depends on quantitative, 
qualitative as well as backstop indicators. The credit risk of a 
particular exposure is deemed to have increased significantly 
since initial recognition if, based on the Group’s quantitative 
modelling, the credit rating is determined to have deteriorated 
since initial recognition by more than a predetermined range. 
This in turn increases the probability of default of these facilities 
as a lifetime ECL is now used in estimating ECL. Using its expert 
credit judgement and, where possible, relevant historical 
experience, the Group may determine that an exposure has 
experienced a significant increase in credit risk based on 
particular qualitative indicators that it considers are indicative 
of such and whose e"ect may not otherwise be fully reflected 
in its quantitative analysis on a timely basis.

As a backstop, the Group considers that a significant increase in 
credit risk occurs no later than when an asset is more than 30 
days past due. Days past due are determined by counting the 
number of days since the earliest elapsed due date in respect 
of which full payment has not been received. Due dates are 
determined without considering any grace period that might 
be available to the borrower.
 
If there is evidence that there is no longer a significant increase in 
credit risk relative to initial recognition, then the loss allowance 
on an instrument returns to being measured as 12-month ECL. 
Some qualitative indicators of an increase in credit risk, such as 
delinquency or forbearance, may be indicative of an increased 
risk of default that persists after the indicator itself has ceased to 
exist. In these cases, the Group determines a probation period 
during which the financial asset is required to demonstrate 
good behaviour to provide evidence that its credit risk has 
declined su!ciently. When contractual terms of a loan have 
been modified, evidence that the criteria for recognising 
lifetime ECL are no longer met includes a history of up-to-date 
payment performance against the modified contractual terms.

144

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



Generally, facilities with loss allowances being measured as 
Life-time ECL not credit impaired (Stage 2) are monitored for a 
probationary period of 90 days to confirm if the credit risk has 
decreased su!ciently before they can be migrated from Life- 
time ECL not credit impaired (Stage 2) to 12-month ECL (Stage 
1) while credit-impaired facilities (Stage 3) are monitored for a 
probationary period of 180 days before migration from Stage 3 
to 12-month ECL (Stage 1).

The Group monitors the e"ectiveness of the criteria used to 
identify significant increases in credit risk by regular reviews 
(quarterly) to confirm that:

 the criteria are capable of identifying significant 
increases in credit risk before an exposure is in default;

 the criteria do not align with the point in time when an 
asset becomes 30 days past due; and

 there is no unwarranted volatility in loss allowance 
from transfers between 12-month PD (stage 1) and 
lifetime PD (stage 2).

3.2.14  Modi!ed !nancial assets

The contractual terms of a loan may be modified for a 
number of reasons, including changing market conditions, 
customer retention and other factors not related to a current 
or potential credit deterioration of the customer. An existing 
loan whose terms have been modified may be derecognised 
and the renegotiated loan recognised as a new loan at fair 
value in accordance with the accounting policy set out in the 
accounting policy.

The Group renegotiates loans to customers in financial 
di!culties (referred to as ‘forbearance activities) to maximise 
collection opportunities and minimise the risk of default. 
Under the Group’s forbearance policy, loan forbearance is 
granted on a selective basis if the debtor is currently in default 
on its debt or if there is a high risk of default, there is evidence 
that the debtor made all reasonable e"orts to pay under the 
original contractual terms and the debtor is expected to be 
able to meet the revised terms.

The revised terms usually include extending the maturity, 
changing the timing of interest payments and amending 
the terms of loan covenants. Both retail and corporate 
loans are subject to the forbearance policy. The Board audit 
and compliance Committee regularly reviews reports on 
forbearance activities.

For financial assets modified as part of the Group’s forbearance 
policy, the estimate of PD reflects whether the modification 
has improved or restored the Group’s ability to collect interest 
and principal and the Group’s previous experience of similar 
forbearance action. As part of this process, the Group evaluates 

the borrower’s payment performance against the modified 
contractual terms and considers various behavioural indicators.

Generally, forbearance is a qualitative indicator of a significant 
increase in credit risk and an expectation of forbearance may 
constitute evidence that an exposure is credit-impaired/in 
default. A customer needs to demonstrate consistently good 
payment behaviour over a period of time before the exposure 
is no longer considered to be credit-impaired/in default or 
the PD is considered to have decreased such that the loss 
allowance reverts to being measured at an amount equal to 
12- month ECL.

3.2.15  De!nition of default

The Group considers a financial asset to be in default when;

 the borrower is unlikely to pay its credit obligations 
to the Group in full, without recourse by the Group to 
actions such as realising security (if any is held); or

 the borrower is past due more than 90 days on any 
material credit obligation to the Group. Overdrafts 
are considered as being past due once the customer 
has breached an advised limit or been advised of a 
limit smaller than the current amount outstanding. In 
assessing whether a borrower is in default, the Group 
considers indicators that are:

 qualitative - e.g. breaches of covenant;
 quantitative - e.g. overdue status and non-payment 

on another obligation of the same issuer to the Group; 
and

 based on data developed internally and obtained from 
external sources.

 
Inputs into the assessment of whether a financial instrument 
is in default and their significance may vary over time to reflect 
changes in circumstances.

The definition of default largely aligns with that applied by the 
Group for regulatory purposes except where there is regulatory 
waiver on specifically identified loans and advances.

3.2.16 Incorporation of forward-looking 
information

The Group incorporates forward-looking information into 
both its assessment of whether the credit risk of an instrument 
has increased significantly since its initial recognition and its 
measurement of ECL. Based on advice from the Group Market 
Risk Committee and economic experts and consideration of a 
variety of external actual and forecast information, the Group 
formulates a ‘base case’ view of the future direction of relevant 
economic variables as well as a representative range of other 
possible forecast scenarios. This process involves developing 

145Notes



two or more additional economic scenarios and considering the relative probabilities of each outcome. External information 
includes economic data and forecasts published by governmental bodies and monetary authorities in the countries where the 
Group operates, supranational organisations such as the OECD and the International Monetary Fund, and selected private-sector 
and academic forecasters.

The base case represents a most-likely outcome while the other scenarios represent more optimistic and more pessimistic outcomes. 
Periodically, the Group carries out stress testing of more extreme shocks to calibrate its determination of these other representative 
scenarios. 

The Group has identified and documented key drivers of credit risk and credit losses for its financial assets and, using an analysis 
of historical data, has estimated relationships between macro-economic variables and sectorial historical loan performance. The 
macroeconomic variables considered include GDP growth rate, Inflation rate, Exchange rate, Crude oil production, Crude oil price, 
Monetary policy rate, Prime lending rate, and Government revenue.

However, from the statistical analysis of the various macroeconomic variables, the results infer that the key drivers vary across the 
di"erent sectors and this necessitated the sectors to be grouped into three (3) segments.

The macroeconomic variables used across the di"erent segments are as follows:

   Segment 1 Oil and Gas portfolio

  Macroeconomic Variables Adopted - GDP rate and Crude Oil production

  Segment 2 Consumer Credit, Finance & Insurance, General Commerce, Public Sector, Information, Manufacturing

   Macroeconomic Variables Adopted- Exchange rate and Prime lending rate.

   Segment 3 Agriculture, Art and ntertainment, Education, Transportation, Utility, Industry Retail Others, Industry Retail Sta".

   Macroeconomic Variables Adopted- Inflation and Exchange rate.

The economic scenarios used as at 31 December 2022 included the following key indicators for Nigeria for the years ending 31 
December 2023 to 2027 sourced majorly from Nigerian bureau of statistics and Central Bank of Nigeria

2023 2024 2025 2026 2027

GDP growth rate % Base 2.9 Base 3.0 Base 2.0 Base 2.0 Base 2.50

Inflation rate forecast % Base 17.10 Base 13.0 Base 9.50 Base 9.50 Base 9.50

Prime lending rate (%) Base 21 Rasp 18.3 Rasp 18.3 Rasp 18.3 Rasp 18.3

Exchange rate (NGN / USD) Base 432.50 Base 475 Base 575 Base 575 Base 625

Crude oil production (Million Barrels per day- mbpd) Base 1.89 Base 1.92 Base 1.92 Base 1.92 Base 1.92

Crude Oil Price ($ Per Barrels) Base 100 Base 88 Base 85 Base 85 Base 85

Government Revenue (NGN trillions Base 3.726 Base 3.671 Base 3.671 Base 3.671 Base 3.671

Monetary policy rate Base 12.5% Base 13.5% Base 13.5% Base 13.5% Base 13.5%

Please note that the Macroeconomic variables for 2025 and beyond are the forecast at the end of 2024.

The Bank held the forecast constant from the end of 2024 because they believe that they cannot reliably estimate above 2024, given 
the expected change in government in 2023.

Predicted relationships between the historical loan performance of the Bank’s portfolio and the macroeconomic variables has been 
developed by analysing historical data over the past 5 years. The result of this analysis in addition to a 5 year forecast was used to 
determine the scalars used in adjusting ECL

146

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



3.2.17  Measurement of ECL

The key inputs into the measurement of ECL of financial assets 
(treasury bills, assets pledged as collateral, due from other 
banks, loans and advances and investment securities) are the 
term structure of the following variables:

  probability of default (PD);
 loss given default (LGD)
  exposure at default (EAD)

ECL for exposures in stage 1 (12-months ECL) is calculated by 
multiplying the 12-months PD by LGD and EAD. Lifetime ECL 
is calculated by multiplying the lifetime PD by LGD and EAD.

These parameters are generally derived from internally 
developed statistical models and other historical data and 
they are adjusted to reflect forward-looking information as 
described above.

PD is an estimate of the likelihood of default over a given 
time horizon, which are calculated based on statistical rating 
models, and assessed using rating tools tailored to the various 
categories of counterparties and exposures. These statistical 
models are based on internally compiled data comprising 
both quantitative and qualitative factors. Where it is available, 
market data may also be used to derive the PD for large 
corporate counterparties. If a counterparty or exposure 
migrates between rating classes, then this will lead to a change 
in the estimate of the associated PD. The methodology of 
estimating PD is discussed in note 3.2.12.

LGD is the magnitude of the likely loss if there is a default. 
The Group estimates LGD parameters based on the history 
of recovery rates of claims against defaulted counterparties. 
The LGD models consider the structure, collateral, seniority 
of the claim, counterparty industry and recovery costs of any 
collateral that is integral to the financial asset. LGD estimates 
are recalibrated for di"erent economic scenarios and, for 
lending, to reflect possible changes in the economies. They 
are calculated on a discounted cash flow basis using the 
e"ective interest rate as the discount.

EAD represents the expected exposure in the event of a 
default. The Group derives the EAD from the current exposure 
to the counterparty and potential changes to the current 
amount allowed under the contract including amortisation. 
The EAD of a financial asset is its gross carrying amount at the 
time of default. For lending commitments, the EAD includes 
the amount drawn, as well as potential future amounts that 
may be drawn under the contract, which are estimated based 
on historical observations and forward-looking forecasts. For 
financial guarantees, the EAD represents the amount of the 
guaranteed exposure when the financial guarantee becomes 

payable. For some financial assets, EAD is determined by 
modelling the range of possible exposure outcomes at various 
points in time using scenario and statistical techniques.
 
As described above, and subject to using a maximum of a 
12-month PD for financial assets for which credit risk has not 
significantly increased, the Group measures ECL considering 
the risk of default over the maximum contractual period 
(including any borrower’s extension options) over which 
it is exposed to credit risk, even if, for risk management 
purposes, the Group considers a longer period. The maximum 
contractual period extends to the date at which the Group has 
the right to require repayment of an advance or terminate a 
loan commitment or guarantee.

For overdrafts and revolving facilities that include both a 
loan and an undrawn commitment component, the Group 
measures ECL over a period longer than the maximum 
contractual period if the Group’s contractual ability to demand 
repayment and cancel the undrawn commitment does not 
limit the Group’s exposure to credit losses to the contractual 
notice period. These facilities do not have a fixed term or 
repayment structure and are managed on a collective basis. 
The Group can cancel them with immediate e"ect but this 
contractual right is not enforced in the normal day-to-day 
management, but only when the Group becomes aware of 
an increase in credit risk at the facility level. This longer period 
is estimated taking into account the credit risk management 
actions that the Group expects to take and that serve to 
mitigate ECL. These include a reduction in limits, cancellation 
of the facility and/or turning the outstanding balance into a 
loan with fixed repayment terms.

Where modelling of a parameter is carried out on a collective 
basis, the financial instruments are grouped on the basis of 
shared risk characteristics that include:

  instrument type
  credit risk grading
  collateral type
  Past due information
  date of initial recognition
  remaining term to maturity
  industry
  geographic location of the borrower

The groupings are subject to regular review to ensure that 
exposures within a particular group remain appropriately 
homogeneous.

147Notes



3.2.18  Loss allowance

The following tables show reconciliations from the opening to the closing balance of the loss allowance by class of financial 
instrument. Comparative amounts for 2021 represent allowance account for credit losses and reflect measurement basis under 
IFRS 9.

Group

31 December 2022 31 December 2021

In millions of Naira 12-month ECL 12-month ECL

Treasury bills at amortised cost

Balance at 1 January 815 1,575

Impairment Charge/(writeback) (see note 8) (400) (781)

Foreign exchange and other movements - 21

Foreign exchange and other movements (8) -

Closing balance 407 815

Gross amount 1,003,908 941,538

31 December 2022 31 December 2021

In millions of Naira 12-month 
ECL

Lifetime ECL 
not credit 
impaired

Lifetime 
ECL credit 
impaired

Total 12-month 
ECL

Lifetime ECL 
not credit 
impaired

Lifetime 
ECL credit 
impaired

Total

O$ balance sheet exposure

Balance at 1 January 2,375 20 3,221 5,616 1,591 20 3,221 4,832

Transfer to lifetime ECL not credit-impaired

Transfer to lifetime ECL credit-impaired

Impairment/(write back) (see note 8) 3,436 45 (2,483) 998 784 - - 784

Closing balance 5,811 65 738 6,614 2,375 20 3,221 5,616

Gross amount 1,010,968 1,056 12,194 1,024,218 908,566 14,591 6,635 929,792

31 December 2022 31 December 2021

In millions of Naira 12-month ECL 12-month ECL

Assets pledged as collateral at ammortised cost

Balance at 1 January 198 355

Impairment Charge/(writeback) (see note 8) (181) (158)

Foreign exchange and other movements - 1

Closing balance 17 198

Gross amount 228,492 158,105

148

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



31 December 2022 31 December 2021

In millions of Naira 12-month
ECL

Lifetime ECL 
not credit
impaired

Lifetime 
ECL credit
impaired

Total 12-month 
ECL

Lifetime ECL 
not credit- 

impaired

Lifetime
ECL credit-

impaired

Total

Loans and advances to customers at 
amortised cost

Balance at 1 January 25,672 26,032 94,445 146,149 23,400 8,703 108,211 140,314

- Transfer to 12-month ECL 1,650 (689) (961) - 2,911 (1,309) (1,602) -

- Transfer to lifetime ECL not credit-
impaired

(314) 1,675 (1,361) - (475) 28,546 (28,071) -

- Transfer to lifetime ECL credit-impaired (613) 327 286 - (301) (27,762) 28,063 -

Net remesurement of loss allowance (see 
note 8)

4,154 7,671 26,518 38,343 - - - -

New financial assets originated or 
purchased

- - - - 137 17.854 30,882 48,873

Derognized assets other than write o" - - - - - - - -

Write-o" - - (74,077) (74,077) - - (42,508) (42,508)

Foreign exchange and
other movements

(1,049) 354 540 (155) - - (530) (530)

Closing balance 29,501 35,370 45,390 110,260 25,672 26,032 94,445 146,149

Gross amount 3,139,107 905,393 79,465 4,123,966 2,600,350 754,707 146,821 3,501,878

31 December 2022 31 December 2021

In millions of Naira 12-month
ECL

Lifetime ECL 
not credit
impaired

Lifetime ECL 
credit

impaired

Total 12-month 
ECL

Total

Investment securities at amortised
cost and fair value through OCI

- - - - - -

Balance at 1 January 3,766 - - 3,766 773 773

Impairment Charge/(writeback) (see
note 8)

(371) 10,649 52,464 62,742 2,993 2,993

Foreign exchange and other
movements

(72) (742) (3,456) (4,270) - -

Closing balance 3,323 9,907 49,008 62,238 3,766 3,766

Gross amount 1,400,136 90,253 195,605 1,685,994 657,957 657,957

31 December 2022 31 December 2021

In millions of Naira 12-month ECL 12-month ECL

Other !nancial assets

Balance at 1 January 9,925 2,141

Transfer to 12-month ECL - -

Impairment Charge/(writeback) (see note 8) 19,037 7,781

Foreign exchange and other movements 11 3

Closing balance 28,973 9,925

Gross amount 168,692 117,858

149Notes



31 December 2022 31 December 2021

In millions of Naira 12-month ECL 12-month ECL

Due from other banks

Balance at 1 January 724 58

Impairment/(write back) (see note 8) (649) 666

Foreign exchange and other movements - -

Closing balance 75 724

Gross amount 1,302,886 691,968

Bank

31 December 2022 31 December 2021

In millions of Naira 12-month ECL 12-month ECL1

Treasury bills at ammortised cost

Balance at 1 January 395 676

Impairment Charge/(writeback) (see note 8) (356) (281)

Closing balance 39 395

Gross amount 963,669 754,151

31 December 2022  31 December 2021

In millions of Naira 12-month 
ECL

Lifetime ECL 
not credit 
impaired

Lifetime 
ECL credit 
impaired

Total 12-month 
ECL

Lifetime ECL 
not credit 
impaired

Lifetime 
ECL credit 
impaired

Total

O$ balance sheet exposure

Balance at 1 January 2,375 20 3,221 5,616 1,591 20 3,221 4,832

Impairment/(write back) (see note 8) 2,112 45 (2,482) (325) 784 - - 784

Closing balance 4,487 65 739 5,291 2,375 20 3,221 5,616

Gross amount 893,456 367 12,191 906,014 908,566 14,591 6,635 929,792

31 December 2022 31 December 2021

In millions of Naira 12-month ECL 12-month ECL

Assets pledged as collateral at amortised cost

Balance at 1 January 198 355

Impairment Charge/(writeback) (see note 8) (179) (158)

Closing balance 19 197

Gross amount 228,394 158,105

150

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



31 December 2022 31 December 2021

In millions of Naira 12-month
ECL

Lifetime ECL 
not credit
impaired

Lifetime 
ECL credit
impaired

Total 12-month 
ECL

Lifetime 
ECL not 

credit- 
impaired

Lifetime
ECL credit-

impaired

Total

Loans and advances to customers at amortised cost

Balance at 1 January 17,578 26,628 94,315 138,521 16,931 8,702 107,233 132,866

- Transfer to 12-month ECL 1,399 (438) (961)            - 810 (509) (301)            -

- Transfer to lifetime ECL not credit-impaired (310) 1,671 (1,361) - (464) 28,226 (27,762) -

- Transfer to lifetime ECL credit-impaired (613) (107) 720 - (301) (27,762) 28,063 -

Net remeasurement of loss allowances (see 
note 8)

7,215 6,587 24,627 38,429 602 17,971 29,784 48,357

Impairment Charge (see note 8) - - - - - - - -

Write-o"s - - (73,821) (73,821) - - (42,702) (42,702)

Foreign exchange and other movements - - - - - - - -

Closing balance 25,269 34,341 43,519 103,129 17,578 26,628 94,315 138,521

Gross amount 2,862,479 899,746 76,580 3,838,805 2,343,420 752,640 141,913 3,237,973

31 December 2022 31 December 2021

In millions of Naira Lifetime ECL not credit-impaired Lifetime ECL not credit-impaired

Other !nancial assets

Balance at 1 January 9,835 2,046

Impairment Charge (see note 8) 19,033 7,789

Closing balance 28,868 9,835

Gross amount 150,690 144,629

The above loss allowance is not recognised in the statement of financial position because the carrying amount of debt 
investment securities at FVOCI is their fair value.

31 December 2022 31 December 2021

In millions of Naira 12-month ECL 12-month ECL

Due from other Banks

Balance at 1 January 58 58

Impairment/(write back) (see note 8) 17 -

Closing balance 75 58

Gross amount 1,132,871 518,111

31 December 2022 31 December 2021

In millions of Naira 12-month
ECL

Lifetime ECL 
not credit
impaired

Lifetime 
ECL credit
impaired

Total 12-month 
ECL

Lifetime ECL 
not credit- 

impaired

Lifetime
ECL credit-

impaired

Total

Investment securities at mortised cost and fair value through OCI

Balance at 1 January 666 - - 666 755 - - 755

Impairment Charge (see note 8) 611 - 1,306 1,917 (90) - - (90)

Closing balance 1,277 - 1,306 2,583 666 - - 666

Gross amount 518,217 - 2,703 520,920 380,199 - - 38,019,900

151Notes



Significant changes in the gross carrying amount of financial assets that contributed to changes in the loss allowance were 
as follows:

Group 
31 December 2022 31 December 2021

Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3

In millions of Naira 12-month
ECL

Lifetime ECL not 
credit impaired

Lifetime 
ECL credit 
impaired

Total 12-month 
ECL

Lifetime ECL not 
credit- impaired

Lifetime
ECL credit-

impaired

Total

Treasury bills at mortised cost

Gross carrying amount at 1 January 941,538            -            - 941,538 880,957            -            - 880,957

Financial assets derecognised during 
the period other than write-o"s

(2,741,441)            -            - (2,741,441) (2,054,917)            -            - (2,054,917)

Changes in mortised cost value (190,521)            -            - (190,521) 111            -            - 111

New financial assets originated or 
purchased

2,994,157 177            - 2,994,334 2,115,387            -            - 2,115,387

Closing gross carrying amount 1,003,732 177            - 1,003,910 941,538            -            - 941,538
 

31 December 2022 31 December 2021

Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3

In millions of Naira 12-month
ECL

Lifetime ECL not 
credit impaired

Lifetime 
ECL credit 
impaired

Total 12-month 
ECL

Lifetime ECL not 
credit- impaired

Lifetime
ECL credit-

impaired

Total

O" balance sheet exposure

Gross carrying amount at 1 January 1,093,246 14,591 6,635 1,114,472 599,927            -            - 599,927

Transfers:

Transfer from stage 1 to stage 2 (1,315) 1,315            -            - (14,591)            14,591            - -

Transfer from stage 1 to stage 3 (1,960)            - 1,960            - (6,635)            - 6,635 -

Financial assets derecognised during 
the period other than write-o"s

(388,847) (15,528) (1,834) (406,208) (194,947)            -            - (194,947)

New financial assets originated or 
purchased

309,843 679 5,433 315,954 709,492            -            - 709,492

Closing gross carrying amount 1,010,968 1,056 12,194 1,024,218 1,093,246 14,591 6,635 1,114,472

31 December 2022 31 December 2021

In millions of Naira Stage 1 Stage 2

In millions of Naira 12-month ECL 12-month ECL

Assets pledged as collateral at amortised cost

Gross carrying amount at 1 January Transfers: 158,105 227,283

Financial assets derecognised during the period other than write-o"s (127,558) (122,884)

Changes in amortised cost value 907 (535)

New financial assets originated or purchased 196,941 54,241

Closing gross carrying amount 228,395 158,105

152

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



31 December 2022 31 December 2021

Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage  3

In millions of Naira 12-month
ECL

Lifetime ECL 
not credit
impaired

Lifetime 
ECL credit
impaired

Total 12-month 
ECL

Lifetime ECL 
not credit- 

impaired

Lifetime
ECL credit-

impaired

Total

Loans and advances to customers at amortised cost

Gross carrying amount at 1 January Transfers: 2,600,349 754,708 146,821 3,501,878 2,160,991 570,746 187,605 2,919,342

Transfer from stage 1 to stage 2 (89,454) 89,454 -             - (66,388) 66,388 -             -

Transfer from stage 1 to stage 3 (14,268) - 14,268 - (17,593) - 17,593 -

Transfer from stage 2 to stage 3 - (2,682) 2,682 - - (39,210) 39,210 -

Transfer from stage 3 to stage 2 - 2,550 (2,550) - - 37,703 (37,703) -

Transfer from stage 2 to stage 1 43,018 (43,018) - - 23,742 (23,742) - -

Transfer from stage 3 to stage 1 1,644 - (1,644) - 7,218 - (7,218) -

Financial assets derecognised during the period 
other than write- o"s

(1,078,237) (20,231) (19,307) (1,117,775) (937,772) (19,235) (15,076) (972,083)

New financial assets originated or purchased 1,676,055 124,612 13,016 1,813,683 1,430,151 162,058 - 1,592,209

Write-o"s - - (73,820) (73,820) - - (37,590) (37,590)

Foreign exchange and other movements - - - - - - - -

Closing gross carrying amount 3,139,107 905,393 79,466 4,123,966 2,600,349 754,708 146,821 3,501,878

31 December 2022 31 December 2021

Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage  3

In millions of Naira 12-month
ECL

Lifetime ECL 
not credit
impaired

Lifetime 
ECL credit
impaired

Total 12-month 
ECL

Lifetime ECL 
not credit- 

impaired

Lifetime
ECL credit-

impaired

Total

Investment Securities at amortised cost and fair value through OCI

Gross carrying amount at 1 January Transfers: 1,199,579 - - 1,199,579 868,437 - - 868,437

Transfer from stage 1 to stage 2 (53,680) 53,680 -             - - - - -

Transfer from stage 1 to stage 3 (148,204) - 148,204 - - - - -

Transfer from stage 2 to stage 3 - (4,024) 4,024 - - - - -

Financial assets derecognised during the period 
other than write- o"s

(69,857) (4,402) - (74,259) (154,128) - - (154,128)

Changes in amortised cost value (10,942) - - (10,942) 34,940 - - 34,940

New financial assets originated or purchased 483,240 45,000 43,377 571,617 450,331 - - 450,331

Foreign exchange and other movements - - - - - - - -

Closing gross carrying amount 1,400,136 90,523 195,605 1,685,995 1,199,580 - - 1,199,580

31 December 2022 31 December 2021

In millions of Naira Stage 1
12-month ECL

Lifetime ECL not 
credit-impaired

Stage 2
12-month  ECL

Lifetime ECL not 
credit-impaired

Other !nancial assets

Gross carrying amount at 1 January Transfers: - 117,857 - 151,709

New financial assets originated or purchased - 50,835 - -

Financial asset derecognised during the year - - - (33,852)

Foreign exchange and other movements - - - -

Closing gross carrying amount of assets
subject to simpli!ed approach

- 168,692 - 117,857

153Notes



31 December 2022 31 December 2021

In millions of Naira Stage 1
12-month ECL

Stage 1
12-month  ECL

Due from other banks

Gross carrying amount at 1 January Transfers: 691,968 810,552

Financial assets derecognised during the year other than write-o"s (91,034) (118,584)

New financial assets originated or purchased 701,952 -

Foreign exchange and other movements - -

Closing gross carrying amount 1,302,886 691,968

Bank
31 December 2022 31 December 2021

In millions of Naira Stage 1
12-month ECL

Total Stage 1
12-month ECL

Total

Treasury bills at amortised cost

Gross carrying amount at 1 January Transfers: 754,151 754,151 695,898 695,898

Financial assets derecognised during the year other than write-o"s (2,554,055) (2,554,055) (1,990,231) (1,990,231)

Changes in amortised cost value (190,521) (190,521) 63 63

New financial assets originated or purchased 2,954,094 2,954,094 2,048,421 2,048,421

Closing gross carrying amount 963,669 963,669 754,151 754,151

31 December 2022 31 December 2021

Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage  3

In millions of Naira 12-month
ECL

Lifetime 
ECL not 

credit
impaired

Lifetime 
ECL credit
impaired

Total 12-month 
ECL

Lifetime 
ECL not 

credit- 
impaired

Lifetime
ECL 

credit-
impaired

Total

O" balance sheet exposure

Gross carrying amount at 1 January Transfers: 908,566 14,591 6,635 929,792 459,001 - - 459,001

Transfer from stage 1 to stage 2 (1,304) 1,304 -             - (14,591) 14,591 - -

Transfer from stage 1 to stage 3 (1,957) - 1,957 - (6,635) - 6,635 -

Transfer from stage 3 to stage 2 - - - - - - - -

Financial assets derecognised during the 
period other than write-o"s

(310,594) (15,528) (1,834) (327,956) - - - -

New financial assets originated or purchased 298,745 - 5,433 304,178 470,791 - - 470,791

Closing gross carrying amount 893,456 367 12,191 906,014 908,566 14,591 6,635 929,792

31 December 2022 31 December 2021

In millions of Naira Stage 1
12-month ECL

Stage 2
12-month  ECL

Assets pledged as collateral at amortised cost

Gross carrying amount at 1 January Transfers: 158,105 227,283

Financial assets derecognised during the year other than write-o"s (127,558) (122,884)

Changes in amortised cost value 907 (535)

New financial assets originated or purchased 196,943 54,241

Closing gross carrying amount 228,397 158,105

154

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



31 December, 2022 31 December, 2021

Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage  3

In millions of Naira 12-month
ECL

Lifetime ECL 
not credit
impaired

Lifetime 
ECL credit
impaired

Total 12-month 
ECL

Lifetime ECL 
not credit- 

impaired

Lifetime
ECL credit-

impaired

Total

Loans and advances to customers at amortised cost

Gross carrying amount at 1 January Transfers: 2,343,421 752,640 141,912 3,237,973 2,012,000 578,481 182,182 2,772,663

Transfer from stage 1 to stage 2 (85,122) 85,122 -             - (53,296) 53,296 -             -

Transfer from stage 1 to stage 3 (14,266) - 14,266 - (8,904) - 8,904 -

Transfer from stage 2 to stage 3 - (2,670) 2,670 - - (29,193) 29,193 -

Transfer from stage 3 to stage 2 - 2,537 (2,537) - - 37,703 (37,703) -

Transfer from stage 2 to stage 1 42,999 (42,999) - - 6,866 (6,866) - -

Transfer from stage 3 to stage 1 1,644 - (1,644) - 3,179 - (3,179) -

New financial assets originated or purchased 1,652,040 125,347 13,025 1,790,412 1,168,387 138,454 - 1,306,841

Financial assets derecognised during the year other 
than write-o"s

(1,078,237) (20,231) (17,293) (1,115,761) (784,811) (19,235) - (804,046)

Write-o"s - - (73,820) (73,820) - - (37,485) (37,485)

Foreign exchange and other movements - - - - - - - -

Closing gross carrying amount 2,862,479 899,746 76,579 3,838,804 2,343,421 752,640 141,912 3,237,973

31 December, 2022 31 December, 2021

Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage  3

In millions of Naira 12-month
ECL

Lifetime ECL 
not credit
impaired

Lifetime 
ECL credit
impaired

Total 12-month 
ECL

Lifetime ECL 
not credit-

impaired

Lifetime
ECL credit-

impaired

Total

Investment securities at mortised cost

Gross carrying amount at 1 January Transfers: 380,199 - - 380,199 208,973 - - 208,973

Transfer from stage 1 to stage 3 (2,703) - 2,703 - - - - -

Financial assets derecognised during the year other 
than write-o"s

(9,263) - - (9,263) - - - -

Changes in mortised cost value (16,683) - - (16,683) - - - -

New financial assets originated or purchased 166,667 - - 166,667 171,226 - - 171,226

Foreign exchange and other movements - - - - - - - -

Closing gross carrying amount 518,217 - 2,703 520,920 380,199 - - 380,199

31 December 2022     31 December 2021

In millions of Naira Stage 1
12-month ECL

Stage 2
Lifetime ECL not 
credit-impaired

Stage 1
12-month ECL

Stage 2
Lifetime ECL not 
credit-impaired

Other !nancial assets

Gross carrying amount at 1 January Transfers: - 92,747 - 145,347

Financial assets derecognised during the
period other than write-o"s

- 57,943 - (52,600)

New financial assets originated or purchased - - - -

Closing gross carrying amount of assts
subject to simpli!ed approach

- 150,690 - 92,747

155Notes



31 December 2022 31 December 2021

In millions of Naira Stage 1
12-month ECL

Stage 2
12-month  ECL

Due from other banks

Gross carrying amount at 1 January Transfers: 518,111 532,435

Financial assets derecognised during the period other than write-o"s (16,651) (14,324)

New financial assets originated or purchased 631,410 -

Closing gross carrying amount 1,132,870 518,111

Summary of loss allowance by class of financial instruments also showing ECL coverage ratio as at 31 December 2022 . 

Group

Gross Carrying Amount ECL Provision ECL Coverage Ratio

Financial Statement Items  
In millions of Naira 

Stage 1 Stage 2 
Lifetime 

ECL

Stage 3 Total Stage 1 Stage 2 
Lifetime 

ECL

Stage 3 Total Stage 1 Stage 2 
Lifetime 

ECL

Stage 3 Total

% % % % 
On-balance sheet items 

Assets pledged as collateral 228,492 - - 228,492 17 - - 17 0.01 - - 0.01

Treasury bills 1,003,908 - - 1,003,908 407 - - 407 0.04 - - 0.04

Loans and advances to 
customers at amortised cost

3,139,107 905,393 79,465 4,123,965 29,501 35,370 45,390 110,261 0.94 3.91 57.12 2.67

Debt investment securities at 
mortised cost and FVOCI

1,400,136 90,253 195,605 1,685,994 3,323 9,907 49,008 62,238 0.24 - - 3.69

Other financial assets measured 
at amortised cost

- 168,692 - 168,692 - 28,973 - 28,973 - - - -

Due from other Banks 1,302,886 - - 1,302,886 75 - - 75 0.01 - - 0.01

Subtotal 7,074,529 1,164,338 275,070 8,513,937 33,323 74,427 94,398 202,148 0.47 6.41 34.32 2.37

O$-balance sheet items

  

Loans and  other credit  related  commitments 

Letters of credit 363,328 - 27 363,355 2,743 - 27 2,770 0.75 - 100.00 0.76

Usance Financial guarantee and 
similar contracts

275,723 4 754 276,481 1,794 - 133 1,927 0.65 - 17.64 0.70

Performance bonds and 
guarantees

372,609 363 11,410 384,382 1,015 - 40 1,055 0.27 - 0.35 0.27

Undrawn overdraft balance 78,901 7,896 2,952 89,749 260 65 538 863 0.33 0.82 18.22 0.96

Subtotal 1,090,561 8,263 15,143 1,113,967 5,812 65 738 6,615 0.53 0.79 4.87 0.59

Total 8,165,090 1,172,601 290,213 9,627,904 39,135 74,492 95,136 208,763 0.48 6.35 32.78 2.17

* The Group adopted the simplified approach in estimating the ECL for other financial asset. Under this approach, all ECL 
allowance are lifetime ECL.

156

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



Bank

Gross Carrying Amount ECL Provision ECL Coverage Ratio

Financial Statement Items  
In millions of Naira 

Stage 1 Stage 2 
Lifetime 

ECL

Stage 3 Total Stage 1 Stage 2 
Lifetime 

ECL

Stage 3 Total Stage 1 Stage 2 
Lifetime 

ECL

Stage 3 Total

% % % % 
On-balance sheet items 

Assets pledged as collateral 228,394 - - 228,394 19 - - 19 0.01 - - 0.01

Treasury bills 963,669 - - 963,669 39 - - 39 - - - -

Loans and advances to 
customers at amortised cost 

2,862,479 899,746 76,580 3,838,805 25,269 34,341 43,519 103,129 0.88 3.82 56.83 2.69

Debt investment securities at 
amortised cost 

518,217 - 2,703 520,920 1,277 - 1,306 2,583 0.25 - - 0.50

Other financial assets 
measured at amortised cost

- 150,690 - 150,590 - - 28,868 28,868 - 19.16 - 19.16

Due from other Banks 1,132,871 - - 1,132,871 75 - - 75 0.01 - - 0.01

Subtotal 5,705,630 1,050,436 79,283 6,835,349 26,679 34,341 73,693 134,713 0.47 3.27 92.95 1.97

O$-balance sheet items

Loans and  other credit  
related  commitments 

Letters of credit 279,764 - 27 279,791 2,415 - 27 2,442 0.86 - 100.00 0.87

Usance Financial guarantee 
and similar contracts

275,723 4 754 279,791 1,794 - 133 1,927 0.65 - 17.64 0.70

Performance bonds and 
guarantees

337,969 363 11,410 349,742 19 - 40 59 0.01 - 0.35 0.02

Undrawn overdraft balance 78,901 7,896 2,952 89,749 260 65 538 863 0.33 0.82 18.22 0.96

Subtotal 972,357 8,263 15,143 995,764 4,488 65 738 5,291 0.46 0.79 4,87 0.53

Total 6,677,987 1,058,699 94,426 9,831,113 31,167 34,406 74,431 140,004 0.47 3.25 78.82 1.79

*The Group adopted the simplified approach in estimating the ECL for other financial asset. Under this approach, all ECL allowance are lifetime ECL.

Summary of loss allowance by class of financial instruments also showing ECL coverage ratio as at 31 December 2021

157Notes



Group
Gross Carrying Amount ECL Provision ECL Coverage Ratio

Financial Statement Items  
In millions of Naira 

Stage 1 Stage 2 
Lifetime 

ECL

Stage 3 Total Stage 1 Stage 2 
Lifetime 

ECL

Stage 3 Total Stage 1 Stage 2 
Lifetime 

ECL

Stage 3 Total

Financial Statement Items   In millions of Naira 
On-balance sheet items

% % % % 

Assets pledged as collateral 158,105 - - 158,105 198 - - 198 0.13 - - 0.13

Treasury bills 941,538 - - 941,538 815 - - 815 0.09 - - 0.09

Loans and advances to 
customers at amortised cost

2,600,350 754,707 146,821 3,501,878 25,672 26,032 94,445 146,149 0.99 3.45 64.33 4.17

Debt investment securities at 
amortised cost 

657,957 - - 657,957 3,766 - - 3,766 0.57 - - 0.57

Other financial assets 
measured at amortised cost

- 158,746 - 158,746 - 9,925 - 9,925 - 6.25 - 6.25

Due from other Banks 691,968 - - 691,968 724 - - 724 0.10 - - 0.10

Subtotal 5,049,918 913,453 146,821 6,110,192 31,175 36,134 94,445 161,754 0.62 3.96 64.33 2.65

O$-balance sheet items

Loans and  other credit  related  commitments 

Letters of credit 546,957 7,503 25 554,485 1,470 3 - 1,473 0.27 - - 0.27

Usance Financial guarantee 
and similar contracts

188,345 5,378 1,632 195,355 1,253 - 1,632 2,885 0.67 - 100.00 1.48

Performance bonds and 
guarantees

357,944 1,710 4,978 364,632 24 - 19 43 0.01 - 0.38 0.01

Undrawn overdraft balance 125,944 10,045 1,941 137,930 807 116 292 1,215 0.64 1.15 15.04 0.88

Subtotal 1,219,190 24,636 8,576 1,252,402 3,554 119 1,943 5,616 0.29 0.48 22.66 0.45

Total 6,269,108 938,089 155,397 7,362,594 34,729 36,253 96,388 167,370 0.55 3.86 62.03 2.27

*The Group adopted the simplified approach in estimating the ECL for other financial asset. Under this approach, all ECL allowance are lifetime ECL.

Bank
Gross Carrying Amount ECL Provision ECL Coverage Ratio

Financial Statement Items  
In millions of Naira 

Stage 1 Stage 2 
Lifetime 

ECL

Stage 3 Total Stage 1 Stage 2 
Lifetime 

ECL

Stage 3 Total Stage 1 Stage 2 
Lifetime 

ECL

Stage 3 Total

% % % % 

On-balance sheet items

Assets pledged as collateral 158,105 - - 158,105 197 - - 197 0.12 - - 0.12

Treasury bills 754,151 - - 754,151 395 - - 395 0.05 - - 0.05

Loans and advances to 
customers at amortised cost 

2,343,420 752,640 141,913 3,237,973 17,534 26,673 94,315 138,522 0.75 3.54 66.46 4.28

Debt investment securities at 
amortised cost 

380,199 - - 380,199 666 - - 666 0.18 - - 0.18

Other financial assets measured 
at amortised cost

- 144,629 - 144,629 - 9,835 - 9,835 - 6.80 - 6.80

Due from other Banks 518,111 - - 518,111 58 - - 58 0.01 - - 0.01

Subtotal 4,153,986 897,269 141,913 5,193,168 18,850 36,508 94,315 149,673 0.45 4.07 66.46 2.88

158

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



Gross Carrying Amount ECL Provision ECL Coverage Ratio

Financial Statement Items  
In millions of Naira 

Stage 1 Stage 2 
Lifetime 

ECL

Stage 3 Total Stage 1 Stage 2 
Lifetime 

ECL

Stage 3 Total Stage 1 Stage 2 
Lifetime 

ECL

Stage 3 Total

% % % % 

O$-balance sheet items
Gross Carrying Amount ECL Provision ECL Coverage Ratio

Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total

Loans and  other credit  related  commitments  

Letters of credit 391,076 7,503 25 398,604 1,470 3 - 1,473 0.38 0.04 - 0.37

Usance Financial guarantee and 
similar contracts

188,345 5,378 1,631 195,354 1,253 - 1,632 2,885 0.67 - 100.06 1.48

Performance bonds and 
guarantees

329,145 1,710 4,978 335,833 24 - 19 43 0.01 - 0.38 0.01

Undrawn overdraft balance 125,944 10,045 1,941 137,930 807 116 292 1,215 0.64 1.15 15.04 0.88

Subtotal 1,034,510 24,636 8,575 1,067,721 3,554 119 1,943 5,616 0.34 0.48 22.66 0.53

Total 5,188,496 921,905 150,488 6,260,889 22,404 36,627 96,258 155,289 0.43 3.97 63.96 2.48

* The Group adopted the simplified approach in estimating the ECL for other financial asset. Under this approach, all ECL allowance are lifetime 
ECL.

3.2.19 Restructuring Policy

Loans with renegotiated terms are loans that have been restructured because the Group has made concessions by agreeing 
to terms and conditions that are more favorable for the customer than these provided by the Group initially. The Group 
implements restructuring policy in order to maximize collections opportunities and minimize the risk of default.

The Group’s credit committee may, from time to time, grant approval for restructuring of certain facilities due to the following 
reasons:

(a). Where the execution of the loan purpose and the repayment are no longer realistic in light of new cash flows;

(b). To avoid unintended default arising from adverse business conditions;

(c). To align loan repayment with new pattern of achievable cash flows;

(d). Where there are proven cost over runs that may significantly impair the project repayment capacity;

(e). Where there is temporary downturn in the customer’s business environment;

(f ). Where the customer’s going concern status is NOT in doubt or threatened; and

(g). The revised terms of restructured facilities usually include extended maturity, changing timing of interest payments 
and amendments to the terms of the loan agreement.

3.3 Market risk

Market risk is the risk of potential losses in both on- and o"-balance sheet positions arising from movements in market prices. 
Market risks can arise from adverse changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity prices, commodity prices and 
other relevant factors such as market volatilities.

The Group undertakes activities which give rise to some level of market risks exposures. The objective of market risk 
management activities is to continuously identify, manage and control market risk exposure within acceptable parameters, 
while optimizing the return on risks taken.

159Notes



3.3.1 Management of market risk

The Group has an independent Market Risk Management unit which assesses, monitors, manages and reports on market risk 
taking activities across the Group. The Group enhances its Market Risk Management Framework on a continuous basis. The 
operations of the unit is guided by the mission of “inculcating enduring market risk management values and culture, with a 
view to reducing the risk of losses associated with market risk-taking activities, and optimizing risk-reward trade-o".”

The Group’s market risk objectives, policies and processes are aimed at instituting a model that objectively identifies, measures 
and manages market risks in the Group and ensure that:

(a). The individuals who take or manage risk clearly understand it;

(b). The Group’s risk exposure is within established limits;

(c). Risk taking decisions are in line with business strategy and objectives set by the Board of Directors;

(d). The expected payo"s compensate for the risks taken; and

(e). Su!cient capital, as a bu"er, is available to take risk.

The Group proactively manages its market risk exposures in both the trading and non-trading books within the acceptable 
levels.

The Group’s market risks exposures are broadly categorised into:

(i) Trading Market Risks - These are risks that arise primarily through trading activities and market making activities. These 
activities include position-taking in foreign exchange and fixed income securities (Bonds and Treasury Bills).

(ii) Non Trading Market Risks -These are risks that arise from assets and liabilities that are usually on the books for a longer 
period of time, but where the intrinsic value is a function of the movement of financial market parameter.

Group
At 31 December 2022 At 31 December 2021

   In millions of Naira Note Carrying Amount Trading Non-trading Carrying 
Amount

Trading Non-
trading

Assets

Cash and balances with central bank 15 2,201,743 - 2,201,743 1,488,363 - 1,488,363

Treasury bills 16 2,246,540 1,243,038 1,003,500 1,764,945 824,222 940,723

Assets pledged as collateral 17 254,662 26,287 228,375 392,594 234,687 157,907

Due from other banks 18 1,302,811 - 1,302,811 691,244 - 691,244

Derivative Asset • Hedging Instrument 19 20,052 20,052 - - - -

Derivative Asset -Non Hedging Instrument 19 29,822 29,822 - 56,187 56,187 -

Loans and advances 20 4,013,705 - 4,013,705 3,355,728 - 3,355,728

Investment securities 21 1,728,331 12,442 1,715,889 1,303,726 22,338 1,281,388

Other financial assets 25 193,465 - 193,465 148,821 - 148,821

Liabilities 193,465

Customer deposits 28 8,975,653 - 8,975,653 6,472,054 - 6,472,054

Derivative liabilities 33 6,325 6,325 - 14,674 14,674 -

Other financial liabilities 29 545,938 - 545,938 455,776 - 455,776

On-lending facilities 30 311,192 - 311,192 369,241 - 369,241

Borrowings 31 963,450 - 963,450 750,469 - 750,469

Debt securities issued 32 - - - 45,799 - 45,799

160

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



Bank

At 31 December 2022 At 31 December 2021

  In millions of Naira Note Carrying 
Amount

Trading Non-trading Carrying 
Amount

Trading Non-
trading

Assets

Cash and balances with central bank 15 2,102,394 - 2,102,394 1,397,666 - 1,397,666

Treasury bills 16 2,206,669 1,243,038 963,630 1,577,647 823,891 753,756

Assets pledged as collateral 17 254,564 26,189 228,375 357,000 199,093 157,907

Due from other banks 18 1,132,796 - 1,132,796 518,053 - 518,053

    Derivative Asset • Hedging Instrument 19 20,052 20,052 - - - -

   Derivative Asset -Non Hedging Instrument 19 28,799 28,799 - 57,476 57,476 -

Loans and advances 20 3,735,676 - 3,735,676 3,099,452 - 3,099,452

Investment securities 21 622,780 10,560 612,220 477,004 11,897 465,107

Other financial assets 25 176,289 - 176,289 134,794 - 134,794

Liabilities

Customer deposits 28 7,434,806 - 7,434,806 5,169,199 - 5,169,199

Derivative liabilities 33 6,040 6,040 - 15,170 15,170 -

Other financial liabilities 29 526,945 - 526,945 409,103 - 409,103

On-lending facilities 30 311,192 - 311,192 369,241 - 369,241

Borrowings 31 999,580 - 999,580 769,395 - 769,395

Debt securities issued 32 - - - 45,799 - 45,799

3.3.2 Measurement of Market Risk

The Group adopts Non-VAR (Value-at-risk) approach for quantitative measurement and control of market risks in both trading and 
non-trading books. The Non -VAR (Value at risk) measurements includes: Duration; Factor Sensitivities (Pv01), Stress Testing, Aggregate 
Open Position etc. The measured risks are therefore monitored against the pre-set limits on a daily basis. All exceptions are investigated 
and reported in line with internal policies and guidelines.

Limits are sets to reflect the risk appetite that is approved by the Board of Directors. These limits are reviewed, at least, annually or at 
a more frequent interval. Some of the limits include; Net Open Position (NOP- for foreign exchange); Aggregate Control Limits (for 
Securities); Management Action Trigger (MAT); Duration; Factor Sensitivities (Pv01); Permitted Instrument and Tenor Limits; Holding 
Period and O" Market Rate Tolerance limit.

Stress testing is an important risk management tool that is used by the Group as part of its enterprise-wide risk management. It is the 
evaluation of the Group’s financial position under severe but plausible scenarios to assist in decision- making. Stress testing provides 
the Group with the opportunity to spot emerging risks, uncover weak spots and take preventive action. It also alerts management 
to adverse unexpected outcomes related to a variety of risks and provides an indication of how much capital might be needed to 
absorb losses should large shocks occur. The Group adopts both single factor and multifactor stress testing approaches (sensitivity 
and scenario based) in conducting stress testing within the risk areas of liquidity, foreign exchange, interest rate, market and credit 
risks. Stress testing is conducted both on a regular and ad-hoc basis in response to changing financial, regulatory and economic 
environment/circumstances.

3.3.3 Foreign exchange risk

Fluctuations in the prevailing foreign currency exchange rates can a"ect the Group’s financial position and cash flows - ‘on’ and ‘o" ’ 
balance sheet. The Group manages part of the foreign exchange risks through designating part of its derivatives for hedge accounting 
purposes and trading other basic derivative products. The risk is also managed by ensuring that all risks taken by the Group are within 
approved limits. In addition to adherence to regulatory limits, Zenith Group established various internal limits (such as non-VAR 
models, overall Overnight and Intra-day positions), dealer limits, as well as individual currency limits among others limits which are 
monitored by the Market Risk Department on a regular basis. These limits are set with the aim of minimizing the Group’s risk exposures 

161Notes



to exchange rates volatilities to an acceptable level.The Group’s transactions are carried out majorly in four (4) foreign currencies with 
a significant percentage of transactions involving US Dollars.

The Bank’s risk appetite is the level of risk that the Bank would assume in achieving its business objectives at any point in time. This 
appetite is reviewed annually by the Board of Directors at a level that minimizes depletion of earnings and capital due to avoidable 
foreign exchange fluctuations. The Bank’s strategy is to manage all material foreign exchange risks associated with highly probable 
forecast transactions, firm commitments and monetary items denominated in foreign currencies using derivative products such as 
forwards, futures and foreign currency swaps.

Group

The table below summarizes the Group’s exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk at 31 December 2022 and 31 
December 2021. Included in the table are the Group’s financial instruments at carrying amounts, categorised by currency.

In millions of Naira

At 31 December 2022 Naira Dollar GBP Euro Others Total

Assets

Cash and balances with central bank 2,089,869 18,937 4,181 4,957 83,799 2,201,744

Treasury bills 2,227,845 - - - 18,695 2,246,540

Assets pledged as collaterals 254,565 - - - 98 254,663

Due from other banks 110 1,133,525 62,355 75,185 31,637 1,302,811

Derivative assets-hedging instruments - 20,052 - - - 20,052

Derivative assets-non hedging instruments 326 29,351 - - 145 29,822

Loans and advances to customers 2,212,928 1,615,146 14,087 77,477 94,066 4,013,704

Investment securities 628,850 861,522 96,955 35,155 105,852 1,728,333

Other financial assets 77,095 100,899 227 33 15,210 193,464

Liabilities

Customer’s deposits 6,185,521 2,084,960 202,842 135,821 366,511 8,975,655

Derivative liabilities 374 5,806 - - 145 6,325

Other financial liabilities 430,582 86,339 1,176 10,996 16,845 545,938

On-lending facilities 311,192 - - - - 311,192

Borrowings - 963,450 - - - 963,450

Debt securities issued - - - - - -

As at 31 December 2022, the Group had outstanding SWAP transactions with various counterparties. The SWAP transactions creates 
for the Group both a right to receive US dollar of the notional SWAP amount at di"erent maturities and an obligation to deliver NGN of 
the notional SWAP amount at di"erent maturity. The total USD receivables at various maturity dates is USD 1.66 billion while the Naira 
payable at various maturities is N714 Billion:

162

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



In millions of Naira

At 31 December 2021 Naira Dollar GBP Euro Others Total

Assets

Cash and balances with central bank 1,383,059 4,689 1,877 9,436 89,302 1,488,363

Treasury bills 1,671,658 - - - 93,287 1,764,945

Assets pledged as collaterals 357,000 - - - 35,594 392,594

Due from other banks 414 507,060 49,479 82,801 51,220 691,244

Derivative assets-non hedging instruments 4,003 51,557 184 1 442 56,187

Loans and advances to customers 1,845,837 1,301,543 23,439 59,872 125,037 3,355,728

Investment securities 501,224 545,517 43,550 22,632 190,803 1,303,726

Other financial assets 11,035 123,896 - 18 13,872 148,821

Liabilities

Customer’s deposits 4,062,040 1,626,142 163,580 116,701 503,591 6,472,054

Derivative liabilities 3,820 9,475 - 470 909 14,674

Other financial liabilities 256,532 135,804 578 9,252 53,610 455,776

On-lending facilities 369,241 - - - - 369,241

Borrowings - 750,469 - - - 750,469

Debt securities issued - 45,799 - - - 45,799

The Group’s exposure to foreign currency risk is largely concentrated in the US Dollar. Movement in exchange rate between 
the US Dollar, and the Nigerian Naira a"ects reported earnings through revaluation gain or loss and statement of financial 
position size through increase or decrease in the revalued amounts of assets and liabilities denominated in US Dollars.

The table below shows the impact on the Group’s profit or loss and statements of financial position size if the exchange 
rate between the US Dollars, and Nigerian Naira had increased or decreased by 9% (31 December 2021: 6%, with all other 
variables held constant.

31 December 2022 31 December 2021

US Dollar e"ect of 9% (31 December 2021:6%) up or (down) movement on profit 
before tax and statement of financial position size (in millions of Naira)

68,926 32,351

US Dollar e"ect of 9% (31 December 2021: 6%) up or (down) movement on profit 
before tax and statement of financial position size (in millions of Naira)

68,926 32,351

US Dollar e"ect of 9% (31 December 2021: 6%) up or (down) movement on OCI and 
statement of financial position size (in millions of Naira)

8,042 4,895

US Dollar e"ect of 9% (31 December 2021: 6%) up or (down) movement on OCI and 
statement of financial position size (in millions of Naira)

8,042 4,895

163Notes



Bank

The table below summarizes the Bank’s exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk at 31 December 2022 and 31 December 2021. 
Included in the table are the Bank’s financial instruments at carrying amounts, categorised by currency.

In millions of Naira
At 31 December 2022 Naira Dollar GBP Euro Others Total

Assets

Cash and balances with central bank 2,086,532 10,420 3,208 2,235 - 2,102,395

Treasury bills 2,206,669 - - - - 2,206,669

Assets pledged as collaterals 254,565 - - - - 254,565

Due from other banks 10,020 1,032,923 23,240 56,122 10,490 1,132,795

Derivative assets-hedging instruments - 20,052 - - - 20,052

Derivative assets-non hedging instruments 326 28,328 - - 145 28,799

Loans and advances to customers 2,212,764 1,481,680 657 38,569 2,005 3,735,675

Investment securities 593,312 15,364 - 14,103 - 622,779

Other financial assets 75,387 100,813 55 33 - 176,288

Liabilities 7.434.807

Customer’s deposits 6,172,467 1,175,734 15,222 65,964 5,420 7,434,807

Derivative liabilities 299 5,596 - - 145 6,040

Other financial liabilities 429,971 77,361 1,176 10,996 7,440 526,944

On-lending facilities 311,192 - - - - 311,192

Borrowings - 999,580 - - - 999,580

As at 31 December 2022, the Group had outstanding SWAP transactions with various counterparties. The SWAP transactions 
creates for the Bank both a right to receive US dollar of the notional SWAP amount at di"erent maturities and an obligation 
to deliver NGN of the notional SWAP amount at di"erent maturity. The total USD receivables at various maturity dates Is USD 
1.66 billion while the naira payable at various maturities Is 714 billion.

In millions of Naira
At 31 December 2021 Naira Dollar GBP Euro Others Total

Assets

Cash and balances with central bank 1,382,751 3,703 1,846 9,367 - 1,397,667

Treasury bills 1,577,647 - - - - 1,577,647

Assets pledged as collaterals 357,000 - - - - 357,000

Due from other banks - 458,061 8,542 51,111 339 518,053

Derivative Asset -Non Hedging Instrument 4,003 52,847 184 1 441 57,476

Loans and advances to customers 1,845,837 1,222,657 60 22,756 8,142 3,099,452

Investment securities 462,071 14,933 - - - 477,004

Other financial assets 11,275 123,501 - 18 - 134,794

Liabilities

Customer’s deposits 4,062,040 1,019,434 17,072 67,828 2,825 5,169,199

Derivative liabilities 3,820 10,438 - 470 442 15,170

Other financial liabilities 256,490 135,804 578 9,252 6,979 409,103

On-lending facilities 369,241 - - - - 369,241

Borrowings - 769,395 - - - 769,395

Debt securities issued - 45,799 - - - 45,799

164

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



The Banks exposure to foreign currency risk Is largely concentrated in US Dollar. Movement In exchange rate between the US 
Dollar, and the Nigeriar Naira a"ects reported earnings through revaluation gain or loss and statement of financial position 
size through increase or decrease in the revalued amounts of assets and liabilities denominated in US Dollars. The Group’s 
closing and average Dollar rate as at 31 December 2022 was N461.1 USD and N428 96/USD respectively..

The table below shows the impact on the Bank’s profit and statement of financial position size if the exchange rate between 
the US Dollars, and Nigerian Naira had increased or decreased by 6% (31 December 2021: 9%), with all other variables held 
constant.

In millions of Naira 31 December 2022 31 December 2021

US Dollar e"ect of 9% (31 December 2021: 6%) up or (down) movement on profit 
before tax and balance sheet size

68,927 28,047

US Dollar e"ect of 9% (31 December 2021: 6%) up or (down) movement on profit 
before tax and statement of financial position size (in millions of Naira)

68,927 28,047

US Dollar e"ect of 9% (31 December 2021: 6%) up or (down) movement on OCI and 
statement of financial position size (in millions of Naira)

8,042 4,895

US Dollar e"ect of 9% (31 December 2021: 6%) up or (down) movement on OCI and 
statement of financial position size (in millions of Naira)

8,042 4,895

3.3.3.1 Foreign exchange risk

A fair value hedge is used to hedge a change in the fair value of an asset or liability or an unrecognized firm commitment that is 
attributable to a particular risk and could a"ect the profit or loss or other comprehensive income.
The Bank manages the foreign currency risk on a group basis and items that are subject to the same risk are managed together. The 
Bank has designated its foreign currency borrowings and term deposits as hedged items in a formal hedge relationship for accounting 
purposes.

a) Hedged item: The Bank has hedged the NGN/USD spot exchange rate risk arising from the translation of recognized foreign currency 
borrowings (see note 31) and term deposits (see note 28) denominated in United States Dollars (USD) to NGN. This risk is due to the 
sustained depreciation of the Naira against the Dollar, leading to revaluation losses.

b) Hedging instrument The Bank has designated the spot component of its currency swaps with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) as 
the hedging instrument in the hedge relationship for accounting purposes.

c) Hedge ratio :The Bank has defined the hedge ratio as the actual ratio between the hedged item and hedging instruments. This is the 
ratio that the Bank uses for risk management purposes, which is appropriate for purposes of hedge accounting. The proportion of the 
hedging instrument designated in the hedge relationship is in line with the defined hedge ratio of 1:1.

d) Hedge e"ectiveness: An economic relationship between a hedged item and hedging instrument exists where the values of the 
hedged item and hedging instrument will typically move in opposite directions in response to movements in the hedged risk. The 
Bank’s assessment is that gains and losses on the derivatives attributable to the spot component will continue to move in the opposite 
direction to the hedged items. The currency swap derivatives transaction was to “sell USD, buy NGN” at inception and “buy USD, sell 
NGN” at the forward date. A foreign currency gain is recognised if the Naira depreciates, and a loss recognised if it appreciates. For 
the hedged items - foreign currency liabilities, a foreign currency gain is recognised if the Naira appreciates, and a loss recognised if it 
depreciates. Therefore, management has assessed that there is an economic relationship between the hedging instrument and the 
hedged item as they will generally move in the opposite direction.

The designated amounts and currency denomination for the hedge instruments and hedge items are also closely aligned. The Bank 
determines hedge e"ectiveness at the inception of the hedge relationship, and through quarterly prospective e"ectiveness assessments. 
Sources of ine"ectiveness include; timing di"erences between the settlement dates of the hedged item and hedging instruments, 
credit risk of the Bank and its counterparty to the forward contract, and the use of existing currency swaps at the designation dates.

165Notes



In millions of Naira Bank

Total exposure to foreign exchange risk- fair value hedge

- Interest bearing borrowings
- Term deposits

271,705
100,453

The Bank’s accounting policy for its fair value hedges is set out in note 2.6 Further information about the hedging derivatives 
used by the Bank is provided below as at 31 st of December 2022: 
 
In millions of Naira

At 31 December 2022 Risk Category Average 
Strike Price

Nominal
Amount of 

Hedging
Instrument

Carrying
Amount of

Hedging
Instrument

Changes in fair 
value used for 

calculatingHedging
ine"ectiveness

Line Item in the statement 
of financial position where 
the hedging instrument is 

located

Hedge Type: Fair Value hedge
Number Assets Assets

CBN Currency Swap Foreign 
Exchange risk

430 346,918 20,052 40,632 Derivative assets

In millions of Naira

At 31 December 2022 Risk Category Carrying amount of  
hedged item

Change in fair value
for calculating hedge

ine"ectiveness

Line Item In the statement of 
financial position where the 

hedging instrument is located

Hedge Type: Fair Value hedge Liabilities

Foreign exchange risk on 
foreign currency interest 
bearing borrowing

Foreign Exchange risk 271,705 (24,830) Borrowings

Foreign exchange risk on term 
deposits

Foreign Exchange risk 100,453 (14,760) Customer’s deposits

In millions of Naira

At 31 December 2022 Hedge 
ratio

E"ectiveness
recognized in 

profit or loss

Hedge ine"ectiveness
recognized in profit 

or loss

Line item inprofit or loss
that includeshedge

ine"ectiveness

Fair Value hedge

Foreign exchange risk - 93% 39,590 1,042 Trading gains

The notional contract amounts of the hedging instruments indicate the balance of designated hedging instruments at the reporting 
date. This balance fluctuates over the hedging period in line with the amortizing nature of the hedged items.

The following table shows the profile of the timing of the nominal amount of the hedging instrument

In millions of Naira At 31 December 2022

Up to 1 month 1-3 months 3-6 months 6-12 months

Derivative assets - Hedging
Gross settled

Receivable 614 - 95,466 250,838

Payable (614) - (95,466) (250,838)

166

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



3.3.4 Interest Rate Risk

The Group is exposed to a considerable level of interest rate risk especially on the banking book (i.e. the risk that the future cash flows 
of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates). The Group has a significant portion of its liabilities 
in non-rate sensitive liabilities. This helps it in minimizing the impact of the exposure to interest rate risks. The Group also enjoys some 
form of flexibility in adjusting both lending and deposits rates to reflect market realities.

Group

The table below summarizes the Group’s interest rate gap position:

At 31 December 2022

In millions of Naira Note Carrying Amount Rate sensitive Non rate sensitive

Assets

Cash and balances with central banks 15 2,201,743 - 2,201,743

Treasury and other eligible bills (Amortized cost) 16 1,003,501 0 1,003,501

Assets pledged as collateral (Amortised cost) 17 228,474 - 228,474

Due from other banks 18 1,302,811 - 1,302,811

Derivative Asset - Hedging Instrument 19 20,052 - 20,052

Derivative Asset -Non Hedging Instrument 19 29,822 - 29,822

Loans and advances to customers 20 4,013,705 870,276 3,143,429

Investment securities (Amortized cost and Fair value through OCI) 21 1,715,889 - 1,715,889

Other financial assets 25 193,465 - 193,465

10,709,462 870,276 9,839,186

Liabilities

Customer deposits 28 8,975,654 3,145,312 5,830,342

Derivative liabilities 33 6,324 284 6,040

Other financial liabilities 29 545,938 - 545,938

On-lending facilities 30 311,192 - 311,192

Borrowings 31 963,450 292,215 671,234

Debt securities issued 32 - - -

10,802,559 3,437,811 7,364,746

Total interest rate gap (93,097) (2,567,535) 2,474,440
 The table shows the maturity profile of financial instruments that are rate sensitive.

At 31 December 2022

In millions of Naira Up to 1 
month

1 - 3 
months 

3 - 6 
months 

6 - 12 
months 

Over 1 
year

Total rate 
sensitive

Assets

Loans and advances to customers 40,139 607,695 43,640 30,958 147,844 870,276

40,139 607,695 43,640 30,958 147,844 870,276

Liabilities

Customer deposits 2,854,186 104,666 37,739 62,615 86,106 3,145,312

Borrowings - 240,529 51,685 - - 292,214

2,854,186 345,195 89,424 62,615 86,106 3,437,525

Total interest repricing gap (2,814,047) 262,500 (45,784) (31,657) 61,738 (2,567,250)

167Notes



Impact of interest rate sensitivity on cash #ows - Liabilities:

For its liabilities, the group is primarily exposed to changes in interest rate on variable borrowings. Impact on cash flow due to +/- 1 
bps movement in Libor (holding all other variables constant) has been estimated to be N73 million.

At 31 December 2021

In millions of Naira Note Carrying Amount Rate sensitive Non rate sensitive

Assets

Cash and balances with central banks 15 1,488,363 - 1,488,363

Treasury and other eligible bills (Amortized cost) 16 940,723 - 940,723

Assets pledged as collateral (Amortised cost) 17 157,907 - 157,907

Due from other banks 18 691,244 - 691,244

Derivative assets 42 - - -

Loans and advances to customers 20 3,355,728 1,539,700 1,816,028

Investment securities (Amortized cost and Fair value through OCI) 21 1,195,814 - 1,195,814

Other financial assets 25 148,821 - 148,821

7,978,600 1,539,700 6,438,900

Liabilities

Customer deposits 28 6,472,054 1,194,221 5,277,833

Derivative liabilties 32 - - -

Other financial liabilities 29 455,776 - 455,776

On-lending facilities 30 369,241 - 369,241

Borrowings 31 750,469 352,332 398,137

Debt securities issued 32 45,799 - 45,799

8,093,339 1,546,553 6,546,786

Total interest repricing gap (114,739) (6,853) -

The table shows the maturity profile of financial instruments that are rate sensitive. 

In millions of Naira 

At 31 December 2021 Up to 1 
month

1 - 3 
months 

3 - 6 
months 

6 - 12 
months 

Over 1 
year

Total rate 
sensitive

Assets

Loans and advances to customers 524,255 39,430 155,212 36,113 784,690 1,539,700

524,255 39,430 155,212 36,113 784,690 1,539,700

Liabilities 1,194,221

Customer deposits 1,194,221 - - - - 1,194,221

Borrowings 42,739 278,768 9,606 21,219 - 352,332

1,236,960 278,768 9,606 21,219 - 1,546,553

Total interest repricing gap (712,705) (239,338) 145,606 14,894 784,690 (6,853)

168

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



Group

Interest rate sensitivity showing fair value interest rate risk

In millions of Naira 31 December 2022 31 December 2021

Financial assets at FVPL 

Treasury bills 1,243,038 824,222

Government bonds 12,442 22,338

Assets pledged as collateral 26,189 234,687

Total 1,281,669 1,081,247

Impact on income statement:

Favourable change at 5% reduction in interest rate (2021:2%) 64,083 21,625

Unfavourable change at 5% increase in interest rate (2021:2%) (64,083) (21,625)

FVOCI investment securities 

Government bonds 833,849 541,629

Impact on other comprehensive income statement: 

Favourable change at 1% reduction in interest rate (2021: 2%) 8,338 10,833

Unfavourable change at 1% increase in interest rate (2021: 2%) (8,338) (10,833)

The management of interest risk against interest rate gap limits is supplemented by monitoring the sensitivity of the Group’s financial 
assets and liabilities to various scenarios. Interest rate movement a"ects reported income by causing an increase or decrease in net 
interest income and fair value changes.

Bank
The table below summarizes the Bank’s interest rate gap position:

At 31 December 2022

In millions of Naira Note Carrying Amount Rate sensitive Non rate sensitive

Assets

Cash and balances with central banks 15 2,102,394 - 2,102,394

Treasury and other eligible bills (Amortized cost) 16 963,630 - 963,330

Assets pledged as collateral 17 228,376 - 228,376

Due from other banks 18 1,132,796 - 1,132,796

Derivative Asset - Hedging Instrument 19 20,052 - 20,052

Derivative Asset -Non Hedging Instrument 19 28,799 - 28,799

Loans and advances to customers 20 3,735,676 558,051 3,177,625

Investment securities (Amortized cost and Fair value through OCI) 21 612,220 - 612,220

Other financial assets 25 176,289 - 176,289

9,000,232 558,051 8,444,881

Liabilities

Customer deposits 28 7,434,806 2,673,518 4,761,287

Derivative liabilities 32 6,040 - 6,040

Other financial liabilities 29 526,945 - 526,945

On-lending facilities 30 311,192 - 311,192

Borrowings 31 999,580 292,215 707,365

Debt securities issued 32 - - -

9,278,563 2,965,733 6,312,829

Total interest rate gap (278,331) (2,407,682) 2,132,052

169Notes



The table below shows the maturity profile of financial instruments that are rate sensitive.

At 31 December 2022 Up to 1 
month

1 - 3 
months 

3 - 6 
months 

6 - 12 
months 

Over 1 
year

Total rate 
sensitive

In millions of Naira

Assets

Loans and advances to customers 922 557,129 - - - 558,051

922 557,129 - - - 558,051

Liabilities

Customer deposits 2,673,518 - - - - 2,673,518

Borrowings - 240,529 51,685 - - 292,214

2,673,518 240,529 51,685 - - 2,965,732

Total interest rate gap (2,672,596) 316,600 (51,685) - - (2,407,681)

Impact of interest rate sensitivity on cash flows - Liabilities:

For its liabilities, the group is primarily exposed to changes in interest rate on Libor based borrowings. Impact on cash flow due to +/- 
9 bps movement in Libor (holding all other variables constant) has been estimated to be N157 million.

At 31 December 2021 Note Carrying Amount Rate sensitive Non rate sensitive

In millions of Naira

Assets

Cash and balances with central banks 15 1,397,666 - 1,397,666

Treasury and other eligible bills (Amortized cost) 16 753,756 - 753,756

Assets pledged as collateral 17 157,907 - 157,907

Due from other banks 18 518,053 - 518,053

Derivative assets 42 54,476 - 54,476

Loans and advances to customers 20 3,099,452 1,253,615 1,845,837

Investment securities (Amortized cost and Fair value through OCI) 21 477,004 - 477,004

Other financial assets 25 134,794 - 134,794

6,593,108 1,253,615 5,339,493

Liabilities

Customer deposits 28 5,169,199 1,194,221 3,974,978

Derivative liabilities 29 15,170 - 15,170

Other financial liabilities 13 409,103 - 409,103

On-lending facilities 30 369,241 - 369,241

Borrowings 31 769,395 341,463 427,932

Debt securities issued 32 45,799 - 45,799

6,777,907 1,535,684 5,242,223

Total interest rate gap (184,799) (282,069) 97,270

170

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



The table below shows the maturity profile of financial instruments that are rate sensitive.

At 31 December 2021 Up to 1 
month

1 - 3 
months 

3 - 6 
months 

6 - 12 
months 

Over 1 
year

Total rate 
sensitive

In millions of Naira

Assets

Loans and advances to customers 469,345 - 120,847 17,064 646,359 1,253,615

469,345 - 120,847 17,064 646,359 1,253,615

Liabilities

Customer deposits 1,194,221 - - - - 1,194,221

Borrowings 42,739 267,899 9,606 21,219 - 341,463

1,236,960 267,899 9,606 21,219 - 1,535,684

Total interest repricing gap (767,615) (267,899) 111,241 (4,155) 646,359 (282,069)

Bank

Interest rate sensitivity showing fair value interest rate risk

In millions of Naira 31 December 2022 31 December2021

Financial assets at FVPL 

Treasury bills 1,243,038 823,891

Government bonds 10,560 11,897

Assets pledged as collateral 26,189 199,093

Total 1,279,787 1,034,881

Impact on income statement:

Favourable change at 5% reduction in interest rate(2021: 2%) 63,989 20,698

Unfavourable change at 5% increase in interest rate(2021: 2%) (63,989) (20,698)

The management of interest risk against interest rate gap limits is supplemented by the monitoring of the sensitivity of the 
Group’s financial assets and liabilities to various scenarios. Interest rate movement a"ects reported income by causing an increase 
or decrease in net interest income and fair value changes.

The e"ect of 500 basis points movement on profit is considered moderate and we do not expect all the rates to move at the 
same time and in the same direction. This risk can largely be handled by the flexibility in the changing/adjusting rates on loans 
and deposits.

3.3.5 Equity and commodity price risk

The group is exposed to equity price risk as a result of holding non-quoted equity investments. Unquoted equity securities held by 
the group is composed mainly of the following:

(i) 7.795% equity holding in African Finance Corporation (AFC) valued at N86.6 billion and cost N40 billion.

(ii) 3.6% equity holding in Nigerian Interbank Settlement Scheme (NIBBS) valued at N1.75 billion and cost N50 million

(iii) 2.31% equity holding in FMDQ holdings pic valued at N2.90 billion.

(iv) 0.79% equity holding in Unified Payment Services (UPS) valued at N105.9 million

(v)   0.02% equity holdings in AFREXIM valued N266.4 million.

171Notes



The AFC is a private sector-led investment bank and development finance institution which has the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) as 
the single major shareholder (42.39%) with other African financial institutions and investors holding the remaining shares. The AFC 
operates a US Dollar-denominated statement of financial position and provides financing in this currency.

NIBSS was incorporated in 1993 and is owned by all licensed banks including the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). The Company is 
responsible for handling inter-bank payments, funds transfer and settlement, and it also operates the Nigerian Automated Clearing 
System (NACS).

The Group does not deal in commodities and is therefore not exposed to any commodity price risk. The sensitivity analysis of unquoted 
equity is stated in section 3.5 (c).

3.4 Liquidity risk

Liquidity risk is the potential loss arising from the Group’s inability to meet its obligations as they fall due or its inability to fund 
increases in assets without incurring unacceptable cost or losses. Liquidity risk is not viewed in isolation, because financial risks are not 
mutually exclusive and liquidity risk is often triggered by consequences of other bank risks such as credit, market and operational risks.

3.4.1 Liquidity risk management process

The Group has a comprehensive liquidity risk management framework that ensures that adequate liquidity, including a cushion 
of unencumbered and high quality liquid assets is maintained at all times, to enable the Group withstand a range of stress events, 
including those that might involve loss or impairment of funding sources.

The Group’s liquidity risk exposure is monitored and managed by the Asset and Liability Management Committee (ALCO) on a regular 
basis. This process includes:

a. Projecting cash flows and considering the level of liquid assets necessary in relation thereto;

b. Monitoring balance sheet liquidity ratios against internal and regulatory requirements;

c. Maintaining a diverse range of funding sources with adequate back-up facilities;

d. Managing the concentration and profile of debt maturities;

e. Monitoring deposit concentration in order to avoid undue reliance on large individual depositors and ensure a satisfactory 
overall funding mix;

f. Maintaining up-to-date liquidity and funding contingency plans. These plans identify early indicators of stress conditions and 
describe actions to be taken in the event of di!culties arising from systemic or other crises while minimizing any adverse 
long-term implications for the business;

g. Regular conduct of stress testing, coupled with testing of contingency funding plans from time to time.

The Maximum Cumulative Outflow has remained positive all through the short tenor maturity buckets. Assessments are carried out 
on contractual basis. These reveal very sound and robust liquidity position of the Group.

The Group maintains liquid assets and marketable securities adequate, within regulatory limits, to manage liquidity stress situation.

3.4.2 Stress testing and contingency funding
 Stress testing

The Group considers di"erent liquidity risk mitigation tools, including a system of limits and liquidity bu"ers in order to be able to 
withstand a range of di"erent stress events and adequately diversify funding structure and access to funding sources. Those events 
are regularly reviewed and monitored by the Asset and Liability Committee (ALCO). Alternative scenarios on liquidity positions and on 
risk mitigants are considered. In line with standard risk management practice and global best practice, the Group:

172

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



(a). Conducts on a regular basis appropriate stress tests so as to;

(i) Identify sources of potential liquidity strain; and
(ii) Ensure that current liquidity exposures continue to conform to the liquidity risk tolerance established by the board.
 

(b). Analyses the separate and combined impact of possible future liquidity stresses on:

(i) Cash flows;

(ii) Liquidity position; and

(iii) Profitability.

The Board and the Asset and Liability Committee (ALCO) regularly review the stresses and scenarios tested to ensure that their nature 
and severity remain appropriate and relevant to the Bank. These reviews take into the account the following;

a. Changes in market condition;

b. Changes in the nature, scale or complexity of the Bank’s business model and activities; and

c. The Group’s practical experience in periods of stress.

The Group considers the potential impact of idiosyncratic Institution-Specific, market-wide and combined alternative scenarios while 
carrying out the test to ensure that all areas are appropriately covered. In addition, the Group also considers the impact of severe 
stress scenarios.

Contingency Funding Plan

The Group maintains a contingency funding plan which sets out strategies for addressing liquidity. The Plan:

a. outlines strategies, policies and plans to manage a range of stresses;

b. establishes a clear allocation of roles and clear lines of management responsibility;

c. is formally documented;

d. includes clear invocation and escalation procedures;

e. is regularly tested and the result shared with the ALCO and Board;

f. outlines that Group’s operational arrangements for managing a huge funding run;

g. is su!ciently robust to withstand simultaneous disruptions in a range of payment and settlement;

h. outlines how the Group will manage both internal communications and those with its external stakeholders; and

As part of the contingency funding plan process, the Group maintains committed credit lines that can be drawn in case of liquidity 
crises. These lines are renewed as at when due.

3.4.3 Funding approach

Our sources of liquidity are regularly reviewed by both the ALCO and the Treasury Group in order to avoid undue reliance on large 
individual depositors and to ensure that a satisfactory overall funding mix is maintained at all times. The funding strategy is geared 
toward ensuring e"ective diversification in the sources and tenor of funding. The Group however places greater emphasis on demand 
and savings deposits as against purchased funds in order to minimize the cost of funding.

173Notes



As part of the management of liquidity risk arising from financial liabilities, the Group holds liquid assets comprising cash and cash 
equivalents, and debt securities issued by sovereigns, which can be readily sold to meet liquidity requirements. In addition, the Group 
maintains agreed lines of credit with other banks.

(a)  Exposure to liquidity risk

The key measure used by the Group for managing liquidity risk is the ratio of net liquid assets to deposits from customers. For this 
purpose, ‘net liquid assets’ includes cash and cash equivalents and investment-grade debt securities for which there is an active and 
liquid market less any balances with foreign banks and regulatory restricted cash. Customers’ deposit excludes deposit denominated 
in foreign currencies. Details of the reported Group ratio of net liquid assets to deposits from customers at the reporting date and 
during the reporting period were as follows.

Group Bank

31 December 2022 31 December 2021 31 December 2022 31 December 2021

At year end 75.00% 71.19% 67.00% 59.73%

Average for the year 63.00% 70.43% 64.00% 57.96%

Maximum for the year 75.00% 72.18% 67.00% 61.14%

Minimum for the year 56.00% 68.72% 62.00% 52.37%

(b) Liquidity reserve 

The table sets out the component of the Group’s liquidity reserve. These are liquid instruments the Group uses to settle short 
term or current obligations.

In millions of naira 31 December 2022 31 December 2021

Group Gross value Gross value

Cash and balances with central banks 452,135 157,466

Treasury bills 2,246,946 1,765,760

Balances with other banks 1,302,886 668,425

Investment securities 660,485 1,123,565

Assets pledged as collaterals - -

Total 4,662,452 3,715,216

Bank

Cash and balances with central banks 407,487 127,465

Treasury bills 2,206,707 1,578,042

Balances with other banks 1,132,871 432,139

Investment securities 383,973 293,733

Assets pledged as collaterals - -

Total 4,131,038 2,431,379

174

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



(c) Financial assets available to support funding

The table below sets out the availability of the Group’s financial assets to support future funding  

Group At 31 December 2022 At 31 December 2021

In millions of Naira Note Encumbered Unencumbered Total Encumbered Unencumbered Total

Cash and balances with central banks 15 1,749,608 452,136 2,201,744 1,330,897 157,466 1,488,363

Treasury bills 16 - 2,246,540 2,246,540 - 1,764,945 1,764,945

Assets pledged as collateral 17 254,662 - 254,662 392,594 - 392,594

Due from other banks 18 115,315 1,187,496 1,302,811 23,543 667,701 691,244

Loans and advances 20 1,770 4,011,935 4,013,705 - 3,355,728 3,355,728

Investment securities 21 - 1,728,331 1,728,331 - 1,303,726 1,303,726

Other financial assets 25 - 193,464 193,464 - 148,821 148,821

Group At 31 December 2022 At 31 December 2021

In millions of Naira Note Encumbered Unencumbered Total Encumbered Unencumbered Total

Bank

Cash and balances with central banks 15 1,694,907 407,488 2,102,395 1,275,201 122,465 1,397,666

Treasury bills 16 - 2,206,669 2,206,669 - 1,577,647 1,577,647

Assets pledged as collateral 17 254,564 - 254,564 357,000 - 357,000

Due from other banks 18 115,315 1,017,481 1,132,796 85,972 432,081 518,053

Loans and advances 20 - 3,735,676 3,735,676 - 3,099,452 3,099,452

Investment securities 21 - 622,780 622,780 - 477,004 477,004

Other financial assets 25 - 176,829 176,829 - 134,794 134,794

(d) Financial assets pledged as collateral

The total financial assets recognized in the statement of financial position that have been pledged as collateral for liabilities as at 31 
December 2022 and 31 December 2021 are shown above. Financial assets are pledged as collateral as part of sales and repurchases, 
borrowing transaction and collection agency transactions under terms that are usual for such activities.

The Group does not hold any financial assets accepted as collateral that the Group is permitted to sell or re-pledge in the absence of 
default.

3.4.4 Liquidity gap analysis

The table below presents the cash flows of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities and other liabilities by their remaining contractual 
maturities at the statement of financial position date. The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows, 
whereas the Group manages the inherent liquidity risk based on expected undiscounted cash flows.

The Group’s loan disbursement processes are centralized and controlled by Credit Risk Management Group (CRMG) of each banking 
subsidiary. All loan commitments advised to customers in o"er letters are contingent on the satisfaction of conditions precedent to 
draw down and availability of funds. Additionally, the Group retains control of drawings on approved loan facilities, through a referral 
method, where any such drawings must be sanctioned before it is processed. This ensures that the Group’s commitments on any loan 
is to the extent of the drawn amount at any point in time.

175Notes



The liquidity analysis of lease liability is disclosed in note 29c.

Group

 At 31 December 2022 Note Up to 1 
month

1 - 3 
months 

3 - 6 
months 

6 - 12 
months 

Over 1 year Gross nominal 
inflow/ (outflow) 

Carrying 
amount 

In millions of Naira

Assets 

Non-derivative assets 

Cash and balances with central banks 15 463,163 938 - - 1,697,512 2,161,613 2,201,743

Treasury bills 16 323,828 460,101 613,895 1,028,194 - 2,426,016 2,246,540

Assets pledged as collateral 17 4,595 85,164 35,375 21,161 302,153 448,448 254,663

Due from other banks 18 1,263,202 28,666 11,375 - - 1,303,243 1,302,811

Loans and advances to customers 20 981,044 557,865 511,134 592,972 1,776,619 4,419,634 4,013,710

Investment securities 21 70,368 234,430 211,719 141,728 1,524,161 2,182,407 1,728,449

Other financial assets 25 168,268 713 30 76 54,575 223,662 194,791

3,274,467 1,367,876 1,383,529 1,784,130 5,355,020 13,165,022 11,942,707

 At 31 December 2022 Note Up to 1 
month

1 - 3 
months 

3 - 6 
months 

6 - 12 
months 

Over 1 year Gross nominal 
inflow/ (outflow) 

Carrying 
amount 

Liabilities

Non-derivative liabilities

Customer’s deposits 28 8,183,517 402,334 202,080 113,935 84,476 8,986,342 8,975,654

Other financial liabilities 29 396,598 124,131 385 9,569 16,503 547,186 545,938

On-lending facilities 30 2,771 23,000 18,092 29,871 276,278 350,012 311,192

Borrowings 31 35,146 225,342 370,726 229,298 130,980 991,491 963,449

7,187,769 495,526 381,958 320,194 504,624 10,875,031 9,377,460

Derivative Asset - Hedging Instrument 19

Gross settled: 

Receivable 614 - 95,466 250,838 - 346,918 20,052

Payable (614) - (95,466) (250,838) - (346,918) 20,052

Derivative Asset -Non Hedging Instrument

Gross settled: 

Receivable 135,645 66,063 104,297 134,410 - 440,421 29,822

Payable (105,614) (27,258) (63,881) (134,400) - (331,169) 29,822

Net settled 13 13 48 252 - 326 326

Derivative liabilities 33

Gross settled: 

Receivable 22,659 27,243 731 - - 50,633 6,325

Payable 43,405 58,114 39,781 - - 141,300 6,325

Net settled - 11 46 242 - 299 299

176

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



 At 31 December 2021 Note Up to 1month 1 - 3 months 3 - 6 months 6 - 12 months Over 1 year Gross nominal 
inflow/(outflow) 

Carrying amount 

In millions of Naira

Assets

Non-derivative assets

Cash and balances with central banks 15 157,466 - - - 1,330,897 1,488,363 1,488,363

Treasury bills 16 331,777 386,797 458,851 621,404 - 1,798,829 1,764,945

Assets pledged as collateral 17 6,724 7,255 108,864 152,604 309,561 585,008 392,594

Due from other banks 18 645,651 22,336 1,853 3,902 17,583 691,325 691,244

Loans and advances to customers 20 1,254,367 300,139 281,086 237,561 1,360,162 3,433,315 3,355,728

Investment securities 21 30,197 157,472 121,644 168,247 1,302,303 1,779,863 1,303,726

Other financial assets  25 117,750 105 - - 40,888 158,743 148,821

2,543,932 874,104 972,298 1,183,718 4,361,394 9,935,446 9,145,421

 At 31 December 2021 Note Up to 1month 1 - 3 months 3 - 6 months 6 - 12 months Over 1 year Gross nominal 
inflow/(outflow) 

Carrying amount 

Liabilities

Non-derivative liabilities

Customer's deposits 28 5,911,598 268,589 118,299 113,528 61,261 6,473,275 6,472,054

Other financial Liabilities 29 334,843 97,795 544 10,576 20,027 463,785 455,776

On-lending facilities 30 2,408 2,036 3,128 6,418 442,932 456,922 369,241

Borrowings 31 62,078 211,953 189,444 264,864 28,814 757,153 750,469

Debt securities issued 32 - - 47,231 - - 47,231 45,799

6,310,977 580,373 358,646 395,386 553,034 8,198,366 8,093,339

Derivative assets 19

Gross settled:

Receivable 202,006 169,887 304,628 350,156 - 1,026,677 52,874

Payable (190,367) (153,433) (297,946) (339,275) - (981,021) 52,874

Net settled 870 1,296 777 370 - 3,313 3,313

Derivative liabilities 33

Gross settled:

Receivable 99,580 81,216 81,011 13,359 - 275,166 10,167

Payable (460,439) (412,973) (27,726) (13,611) - (914,749) 10,167

Net settled 158,159 121,745 (69,492) (205,906) - 4,506 4,506

177Notes



Bank   

 At 31 December 2022 Note Up to 1month 1 - 3 months 3 - 6 months 6 - 12 months Over 1 year Gross nominal 
inflow/(outflow) 

Carrying amount 

In millions of naira

Assets

Non-derivative assets

Cash and balances with central banks 15 407,488 - - - 1,694,907 2,102,395 2,102,394

Treasury bills 16 317,767 444,309 603,408 1,020,587 - 2,386,071 2,206,669

Assets pledged as collateral 17 4,595 85,066 35,375 21,161 302,153 448,350 254,565

Due from other banks 18 1,131,783 1,380 - - - 1,133,163 1,132,796

Loans and advances to customers 20 956,681 498,681 475,411 569,863 1,671,708 4,172,344 3,735,676

Investment securities 21 8,653 10,367 57,518 28,407 962,816 1,067,761 622,780

Other financial assets  25 150,690 - - - 54,467 205,157 176,289

2,977,657 1,039,803 1,171,712 1,640,018 4,686,051 11,515,241 10,231,169

Liabilities
Non-derivative liabilities

Customer's deposits 28 6,921,203 314,782 166,668 42,783 - 7,445,436 7,434,806

Other financial Liabilities 29 385,106 124,060 282 9,439 16,034 534,921 526,945

On-lending facilities 30 2,771 23,000 18,092 29,871 276,278 350,012 311,192

Borrowings 31 35,146 225,342 384,559 251,594 130,980 1,027,621 999,580

Debt securities issued 32 - - - - - - -

7,344,226 687,184 569,601 333,597 423,292 9,257,990 9,272,523

 At 31 December 2021 Note Up to 1month 1 - 3 months 3 - 6 months 6 - 12 months Over 1 year Gross nominal 
inflow/(outflow) 

Carrying amount 

Derivative Asset - Hedging 
Instrument

    19 

Gross settled:

Receivable 614 - 95,466 250,838 - 346,918 20,052

Payable (614) - (95,466) (250,838) - (346,918) (20,052)

Derivative Asset - Non Hedging 
Instrument

    19

Gross settled:

Receivable 135,651 66,063 104,297 134,410 - 440,421 28,799

Payable (105,620) (27,258) (63,881) (134,410) - (331,169) 28,799

Net settled 13 13 48 252 - 326 326

Derivative liabilities                                      33

Gross settled:

Receivable 22,659 27,243 731 - - 50,633 5,741

Payable 43,405 58,114 39,781 - - 141,300 5,741

Net settled - 11 46 242 - 299 299
 

178

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



 At 31 December 2021 Note Up to 1month 1 - 3 months 3 - 6 months 6 - 12 months Over 1 year Gross nominal 
inflow/(outflow) 

Carrying amount 

In millions of naira

Assets
Non-derivative assets

Cash and balances with central banks 15 122,465 - - - 1,275,201 1,397,666 1,397,666

Treasury bills 16 287,459 274,343 454,208 591,367 - 1,607,377 1,577,647

Assets pledged as collateral 17 6,724 7,255 108,864 152,536 275,790 551,169 357,000

Due from other banks 18 509,885 4,283 - 3,902 - 518,070 518,053

Loans and advances to customers 20 1,199,643 260,927 246,931 218,826 1,222,092 3,148,419 3,099,452

Investment securities 21 20,676 5,681 8,504 23,683 739,387 797,931 477,004

Other financial assets  25 103,636 105 - - 40,888 144,629 134,794

2,250,488 552,594 818,507 990,314 3,553,358 8,165,261 7,561,616

Liabilities
Non-derivative liabilities

Customer's deposits 28 5,083,367 75,982 8,111 2,786 86 5,170,332 5,169,199

Other financial Liabilities 29 287,950 97,634 544 10,576 12,884 409,588 409,103

On-lending facilities 30 2,408 2,036 3,128 6,418 442,932 456,922 369,241

Borrowings 31 62,078 200,950 219,239 264,864 28,814 775,945 769,395

Debt securities issued 32 - - 47,231 - - 47,231 45,799

5,435,803 376,602 278,253 284,644 484,716 6,860,018 6,762,737

 At 31 December 2021 Note Up to 1month 1 - 3 months 3 - 6 months 6 - 12 months Over 1 year Gross nominal 
inflow/(outflow) 

Carrying amount 

Derivative Assets
    
19

Gross settled:

Receivable 183,399 105,119 267,385 402,905 - 958,808 53,473

Payable (172,082) (101,564) (260,841) (393,450) - (927,937) 53,473

Net settled 870 1,986 777 370 - 4,003 4,003

Derivative liabilities                                      33

Gross settled:

Receivable 72,203 112,517 60,007 - - 244,727 11,350

Payable (432,890) (443,252) (6,040) - - (882,182) 11,350

Net settled 832 1,978 736 323 - 3,819 3,819
 

179Notes



The amounts in the tables above and below have been compiled as follows.

Type of !nancial instrument Basis on which amounts compiled

Non-derivative financial liabilities and financial assets

Issued financial guarantee contracts

Derivative financial liabilities and financial assets

Undiscounted cash flows, which include estimated interest payments.

Earliest possible contractual maturity. For issued financial guarantee contracts, 
the maximum amount of the guarantee is allocated to the earliest period in 
which the guarantee could be called.

Contractual undiscounted cash flows. The amounts shown are the gross 
nominal inflows and outflows for derivatives that have simultaneous gross 
settlement (e.g. forward exchange contracts and currency swaps) and the net 
amounts for derivatives that are net settled.

The Group’s expected cash flows on some financial assets and financial liabilities vary significantly from the contractual cash 
flows. 

As part of the management of liquidity risk arising from financial liabilities, the Group holds liquid assets comprising cash 
and cash equivalents, and debt securities issued by sovereigns, which can be readily sold to meet liquidity requirements. In 
addition, the Group maintains agreed lines of credit with other banks and holds unencumbered assets that are eligible for use 
as collateral with central banks (these amounts are referred to as the ‘Group’s liquidity reserves’).

Residual contractual maturities of o$-balance sheet exposures.

Group

     At 31 December, 2022 Carrying 
amount 

Less than 3 
months 

3 -6 months 6 - 12 
months 

1 to 5 Years More than 5 
years 

In millions of Naira 

Financial guarantees 

Usance 276,481 20,056 239,026 17,399 - -

Letters of Credit 363,355 58,461 273,698 23,577 7,619 -

Performance bonds and Guarantees 384,381 71,184 99,505 144,771 51,272 17,650

Total 1,024,217 149,701 612,229 185,747 58,891 17,650

     At 31 December, 2021 Carrying 
amount 

Less than 3 
months 

3 -6 months 6 - 12 
months 

1 to 5 Years More than 5 
years 

In millions of Naira 

Financial guarantees 

Usance 195,354 8,211 119,994 67,149 - -

Letters of Credit 554,486 55,399 451,019 47,782 455 -

Performance bonds and Guarantees 364,632 44,099 57,286 68,951 109,700 84,427

Total 1,114.,477 107,709 628,299 183,882 110,155 84,477

180

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



Bank

     At 31 December, 2022 Carrying 
amount 

Less than 3 
months 

3 -6 months 6 - 12 
months 

1 to 5 Years More than 5 
years 

In millions of Naira 

Financial guarantees 

Usance 276,481 20,056 239,026 17,399 - -

Letters of Credit 279,791 33,202 235,279 11,310 - -

Performance bonds and Guarantees 349,741 73,320 74,684 134,513 49,574 17,650

Total 906,013 126,578 548,989 163,222 49,574 17,650

     At 31 December, 2021 Carrying 
amount 

Less than 3 
months 

3 -6 months 6 - 12 
months 

1 to 5 Years More than 5 
years 

In millions of Naira 

Financial guarantees 

Usance 195,354 8,211 119,994 67,149 - -

Letters of Credit 398,605 462 359,581 38,562 169 -

Performance bonds and Guarantees 335,833 41,604 50,746 68,916 89,971 84,427

Total 929,792 50,277 530,321 174,627 90,140 84,427

3.5 Fair value of !nancial assets and liabilities

IFRS 7 specifies a hierarchy of valuation techniques based on whether the inputs to those valuation techniques are observable 
or unobservable. Observable inputs reflect market data obtained from independent sources; unobservable inputs reflect the 
Group’s market assumptions. These two types of inputs have created the following fair value hierarchy.

(i) Level 1: Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.

(ii) Level 2: Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either 
directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).

(iii) Level 3: Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).

This hierarchy requires the use of observable market data when available. The Group considers relevant and observable market 
prices in its valuations where possible.

181Notes



3.5.a Classi!cation of !nancial assets and liabilities and fair value hierarchy 

Group

The table below sets out the Group’s classification of each class of its financial assets and liabilities and fair value heirachy.

At 31 December, 2022

In millions of Naira Note Carrying Value Total Fair value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3

Assets 

Carried at FVTPL: 

Treasury bills 16 1,243,039 1,243,039 129,703 1,113,336 -

Investment securities (Fixed income) 21 12,441 12,441 11,455 825 -

Derivative Asset - Hedging Instrument 19 20,052 20,052 - 20,052 -

Derivative Asset -Non Hedging Instrument 19 29,822 29,822 - 29,822 -

Asset pledged as collateral 17 26,287 26,287 9,997 16,290 -

Carried at FVOCI:

Equity securities (unquoted) 21 93,883 93,883 - - 93,883

Debt securities 32 833,549 833,549 833,549 - -

Carried at amortized cost:

Treasury bills 16 1,003,501 1,002,865 835,073 167,792 -

Assets pledged as collateral 17 228,376 228,394 222,646 5,749 -

Investment securities 21 794,422 762,668 465,654 194,226 102,788

Liabilities  

Carried at FVTPL

Derivative liabilities 33 6,325 6,325 - 6,325 -

The carrying values of the following assets and liabilities are assumed to be their fair values:

• The carrying values of the following assets and liabilities (which are measured at amortized cost) are assumed to be their 

approximate fair values:

• Cash and balances with central banks

• Due from other banks

• Other financial assets

• Loans and advances to customers

• Customers deposits

• Other financial liabilities

• On-lending

• Borrowings

• See additional disclosures on valuation methods in Note 3.5d

182

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



At 31 December, 2021

In millions of Naira Note Carrying Value Total Fair value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3

Assets 

Carried at FVTPL: 

Treasury bills 16 824,222 824,222 270,914 553,308 -

Investment securities (Fixed income) 21 22,338 22,338 16,548 5,790 -

Derivative Asset -Non Hedging Instrument 19 56,187 56,187 - 56,187 -

Asset pledged as collateral 17 234,687 234,687 33,340 201,347 -

Carried at FVOCI:

Equity securities (unquoted) 21 85,574 85,574 - - 85,574

Debt securities 32 541,629 541,629 541,629 - -

Carried at amortized cost:

Treasury bills 16 940,723 935,838 599,325 336,513 -

Assets pledged as collateral 17 157,907 163,406 161,228 2,178 -

Investment securities 21 654,185 655,481 437,731 217,750 -

Liabilities  

Carried at FVTPL

Derivative liabilities 33 14,647 14,647 - 14,647 -

Carried at Amortised cost

Debt securities issued 32 45,799 46,656 46,656 - -

Bank

The table below sets out the Bank’s classification of each class of its financial assets and liabilities. 

At 31 December, 2022

In millions of Naira Note Carrying Value Total Fair value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3

Assets 

Carried at FVTPL: 

Treasury bills 16 1,243,038 1,243,038 129,703 1,113,336 -

Investment securities (Fixed income) 21 10,560 10,560 10,433 127 -

Derivative Asset - Hedging Instrument 19 20,052 20,052 - 20,052 -

Derivative Asset -Non Hedging Instrument 19 28,799 28,799 - 28,799 -

Asset pledged as collateral 17 26,189 26,189 9,899 16,290 -

Carried at FVOCI:

Equity securities (unquoted) 21 93,883 93,883 - - 93,883

Carried at amortized cost:

Treasury bills 16 963,630 963,669 795,877 167,792 -

Assets pledged as collateral 17 228,376 228,394 222,646 5,749 -

Investment securities 21 518,337 501,399 442,388 59,011 -

Liabilities  

Carried at FVTPL

Derivative liabilities 33 6,040 6,040 - 6,040 -

183Notes



The carrying values of the following assets and liabilities are assumed to be their fair values:

• Cash and balances with central banks

• Due from other banks 

• Other financial assets

• Loans and advances to customers

• Customers deposits

• Other financial liabilities

• On lending 

• Borrowings

• See additional disclosures on valuation methods in Note 3.5 

31 December 2021

In millions of Naira Note Carrying Value Total Fair value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3

Assets 

Carried at FVTPL: 

Treasury bills 16 823,891 823,891 270,914 552,977 -

Investment securities (Fixed income) 21 11,897 11,897 11,799 98 -

Derivative Asset -Non Hedging Instrument 19 57,476 57,476 - 57,476 -

Asset pledged as collateral 17 199,093 199,093 33,340 165,753 -

Carried at FVOCI : 

Equity securities (Unquoted) 21 85,574 85,574 - - 85,574

Treasury bills 16 753,756 748,633 589,834 158,799 -

Assets pledged as collateral 17 157,908 163,406 161,228 7,178 -

Investment securities 21 379,533 377,323 340,274 37,049 -

Liabilities  

Carried at FVTPL :

Derivative liabilities 33 15,170 11,076 - 15,170 -

Carried at amortized cost:

Debt securities issued 32 45,799 46,656 46,656 - -

184

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



3.5.b  Financial instruments measured at fair value- Reconciliation of level 3.

Group and Bank

In millions of Naira

At 1 January 2021 3,912

Transfer due to non-availability of observable data 21 76,063

Gain recognised through other comprehensive income of equity investments 5,599

At 31 December, 2021 85,574

Reconciliation of Level 3 items 

At 1 January 2022 85,574

Addition 21 200

8,109

At 31 December 2022 93,883

In current year, there was no transfer between fair value hierachy( 2021:there was a transfer between fair value heirarchy from level 2 
to level 3,due to the absence of observable market data).

3.5.c  Level 3 fair value measurements

(i) Unobservable inputs used in measuring fair value

The table below sets out information about significant unobservable inputs used at 31 December 2022 and 31 December 2021 in 
measuring financial instruments categorized as level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.

Type of !nancial instrument Fair values at 31 December, 2021 Valuation technique Signi!cant unobservable input

Unquoted equity investment N93.85 billion Equity DCF model. -     Cost of equity.

-     Terminal  growth rate.

Risk premium is determined by adding country risk premium to the product of market premium and equity beta.

(ii) The e$ect of unobservable inputs on fair value measurements

Although the Group believes that its estimates of fair value are appropriate, the use of di"erent methodologies or assumptions 
could lead to di"erent measurements of fair value. For fair value measurement in Level 3, changing one or more of the 
assumptions would have the following e"ects.

In millions of Naira At 31 December 2022 
The lowest and highest values if the cost of equity and terminal growth rate decrease or increase by 1% 

and 0.25%respectively

Lowest value Highest value Actual value

AFC 85,303 93,554 89,359

FMDQ 2,217 2,622 2,402

NIBSS 1,521 1,825 1,660

UPSL 281 306 293

AFREXIM 111 118 114

185Notes



The table below shows the e"ect of changes in cost of equity and terminal growth rate on other comprehensive income.

In millions of Naira 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021

E"ect of 1% decrease in cost of equity and 0.25% increase in terminal growth rate 4,897 1,126

E"ect of 1% increase in cost of equity and 0.25% decrease in terminal growth rate (4,394) (1,099)

3.5.d  Fair valuation methods and assumptions

(i) Cash and balances with central banks

 Cash and balances with Central banks represent cash held with Central banks of the various jurisdictions in which the 
Group operates. The fair value of these balances is their carrying amounts.

(ii) Due from other banks

 Due from other banks represents balances with local and correspondence banks, inter-bank placements and items in 
the course of collection. The fair value of the current account balances, floating placements and overnight deposits are 
their carrying amounts.

(iii) Treasury bills, assets pledged as collateral and investment securities

 Treasury bills represent short term instruments issued by the Central banks of the jurisdiction where the Group has 
operations. The fair value of treasury bills and bonds are determined with reference to quoted prices (unadjusted) in 
active markets for identical assets.

 The fair values of quoted equity securities are determined by reference to quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets 
for identical instruments. The fair value of the unquoted equity is determined on the basis of the discounted cashflow 
methodology which takes into account the discounted stream of estimated future income and free cashflows of the 
investment. Subsequently, the percentage holding of the Bank is then applied on the derived company value. Where 
available the fair value of unquoted equity is determined using recent market observable data.

(iv) Loans and advances to customers

 Loans and advances are carried at amortized cost net of provision for impairment. The estimated fair value of loans and 
advances represents the discounted amount of amortised cost balance net of provision for impairment. The balance is 
discounted at current market rates to determine the fair value.

(v) Other !nancial assets/!nancial liabilities

 Other financial assets/financial liabilities represent monetary assets, which usually have a short recycle period and as 
such, whose fair values approximate their carrying amount.

(vi) Customer deposits, on-lending and borrowings

 The estimated fair value of deposits with no stated maturity, which includes non-interest-bearing deposits, is the 
amount repayable on demand.

(vii) Derivatives

 The Group uses widely recognised valuation models for determining the fair value of common and simple financial 
instruments, such as interest rate and currency swaps that use only observable market data and require little 
management judgement and estimation. Observable prices or model inputs are usually available in the market for 
listed debt and equity securities, exchange-traded derivatives and simple OTC derivatives such as interest rate swaps. 
Availability of observable market prices and model inputs reduces the need for management judgement and estimation 

186

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



and also reduces the uncertainty associated with determining fair values. Availability of observable markets prices and 
inputs varies depending on the products and markets and is prone to changes based on specific events and general 
conditions in the financial markets.

3.6 Capital management

The strategy for assessing and managing the impact of our business plans on present and future regulatory capital forms an 
integral part of the Group’s strategic plan. Specifically, the Group considers how the present and future capital requirements 
will be managed and met against projected capital requirements. This is based on the Group’s assessment and against the 
supervisory/regulatory capital requirements taking account of the Group business strategy and value creation to all its 
stakeholders.
The Group prides itself in maintaining very healthy capital adequacy ratio in all its areas of operations. Capital levels are 
determined either based on internal assessments or regulatory requirements. The Group maintained capital levels above the 
regulatory minimum prescribed in all its operating jurisdictions.

The Group’s Capital Adequacy is reviewed regularly to meet regulatory requirements and standard of international best practices. 
The Group adopts and implements the decisions necessary to maintain the capital at a level that ensures the realisation of the 
business plan with a certain safety margin.

The Group undertakes a regular monitoring of capital adequacy and the application of regulatory capital by deploying internal 
systems based on the guidelines provided by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and the regulatory authorities of the subsidiaries 
for supervisory purposes.

The Group has consistently met and surpassed the minimum capital adequacy requirements applicable in all areas of operations.

Most of the Group’s capital is Tier 1 (Core Capital) which consists of essentially share capital and reserves created by appropriations 
of retained earnings.

Banking subsidiaries in the Group, which are not incorporated in Nigeria, are directly regulated and supervised by their local 
banking regulators and are required to meet the capital requirement directive of the local regulatory jurisdiction. The Group 
meet all capital requests from these regulatory jurisdictions and determines the adequacy based on its expansion strategies 
and internal capital assessments.

The Group’s capital plan is linked to its business expansion strategy, which anticipates the need for growth and expansion in its 
branch network and IT infrastructure. The capital plan su!ciently meets regulatory requirements as well as providing adequate 
cover for the Group’s risk profile. The Group’s capital adequacy remains strong and the capacity to generate and retain reserves 
continues to grow.

The Group will only seek additional capital where it finds compelling business need for it and with the expectation that the 
returns would adequately match the e"orts and risks undertaken.

The following sources of funds are available to the Group to meet its capital growth requirements:

a. Profit from Operations: The Group has consistently reported good profit, which can easily be retained to support the 
capital base.

b. Issue of Shares: The Group has successfully assessed the capital market to raise equity and debt. With such experiences, 
the Group is confident that it can access the capital market when the need arises.

c. Bank Loans (long term/short term): In 2014 financial year, Zenith Bank commenced capital computations in accordance 
with Basel II standard under the guidelines issued by the Central Bank of Nigeria. The guidelines require capital adequacy 
computations based on the Standardized Measurement Approach for Credit Risk and Market Risk while Basic Indicator 
Measurement Approach was advised for Operational Risk. The capital requirement for the Bank has been set at 15% and 
an addition of 1% as a Systemically Important Bank (SIB) in accordance with the guidelines.

The table below shows the computation of the Group’s capital adequacy ratio for the period ended 31 December 2022 as well 
as the 31 December 2021 comparatives. During those two periods, the individual entities within the Group complied with all 

187Notes



of the externally imposed capital requirements to which they are subject.
The Group and Bank’s capital adequacy ratio are above the minimum statutory requirement.

Group Bank

In millions of Naira 31-Dec-22 31-Dec-21 31-Dec-22 31-Dec-21

Basel II     Basel II  Basel II Basel II

Tier 1 capital
Share capital 15,698 15,698 15,698 15,698

Share premium 255,047 255,047 255,047 255,047

Statutory reserves 311,411 275,993 278,602 243,414

SMEIES reserve 3,729 3,729 3,729 3,729

Retained earnings 625,005 607,203 494,429 466,249

Non-controlling interest 813 - - -

Total qualifying Tier 1 capital 1,211,704 1,157,670 1,047,505 984,137

Deferred tax assets (18,343) (1,837) - -

Intangible assets (25,251) (25,001) (23,958) (23,542)

Investment in capital of financial subsidiaries - - (17,313) (17,313)

Unsecured lending to subsidiaries within the 
same group

- - - 14,343

Adjusted Total qualifying Tier 1 capital 1,168,110 1,130,832 1,006,234 957,625

Tier 2 capital 
Other comprehensive income (OCI) 72,923 99,002 53,731 45,622

Total qualifying Tier 2 capital 72,923 99,002 53,731 45,622

Investment in capital and financial subsidiaries - - (17,313) (17,313)

Net Tier 2 Capital 72,923 99,002 36,418 28,309

Total regulatory capital 1,241,033 1,229,834 1,042,652 985,934

Risk-weighted assets 
Credit risk 4,961,579 4,756,267 4,335,844 4,053,986 

Market risk 142,290 154,846 94,041 63,908

Operational risk 1,163,701 1,042,189 1,058,784 914,227

Total risk-weighted assets 6,267,570 5,953,302 5,488,669 5,032,121 

Risk-weighted Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR) 20% 21 % 19 % 20 %

3.7 Operational risk

Operational Risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate and /or failed internal processes, people and systems or from external 
events, including legal risk and any other risks that is deemed fit on an ongoing basis but exclude reputation and strategic risks. 
Operational risk exists in all products and business activities.

The Group has a broad Operational Risk management framework which defines the set of activities designed to proactively identify, 
assess and manage all operational risk components by aligning the people, technology and processes with best risk management 
practices towards enhancing stake holders’ value and sustaining industry leadership.

188

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



Operational risk objectives include the following:

a. To provide clear and consistent direction in all 
operations of the group;

b. To provide a standardised framework and 
appropriate guidelines for creating and managing 
all operational risk exposures; and

c. To enable the group, identify and analyse events 
(both internal and external) that impact on its 
business.

The Operational Risk unit constantly conducts reviews 
to identify and assess the operational risk inherent in all 
material products, activities, processes and systems. It also 
ensures that all business units within the Bank monitor 
their operational risks using set standards and indicators. 
Significant issues and exceptions are reported to Risk 
Management and are also identified by the independent risk 
function for discussion at the risk management committee.

Disaster recovery procedures, business continuity planning, 
self-compliance assurance and internal audit also form an 
integral part of our operational risk management process.

The Bank uses the following tools and methodologies in the 
implementation of its Operational risk Management.

Risk and Control Self-Assessment (RCSA) - This is the process 
whereby risks that are inherent in Business Units strategies, 
objectives and activities are identified and the e"ectiveness 
of the controls over those risks evaluated and monitored 
bank wide. The Risk and Control Self-Assessment process 
address risks and controls comprehensively. It incorporates 
the process for evaluating and managing all aspects of risk 
that is inherent in how and where the business is done.
Key Risk Indicators (KRI) - Key Risk Indicator is measures 
which indicate the risk profile of the bank and any change 
thereof. KRIs act as early warning indicators and are used to 
monitor and predict potential operational loss events. KRIs 
are used in conjunction with system of thresholds. When the 
threshold or tolerance level for any KRI is breached, it triggers 
review, escalation or management action. Risk indicators 
help keep the operational risk management dynamic and 
risk profile current.

Loss Incident Reporting – Loss incidents are reported by all 
business units using the Loss incident reporting template. 
The discipline of collecting loss data is not only needed 
to understand the dimensions of risk the Bank faces but 
also used to motivate sta" to consider and more actively 
control key elements of risk. The Bank-wide data collection 
promotes a dialogue within the Bank about determining the 

major operational risk exposures and reinforces more qualitative 
e"orts to manage operational risk within each of the business lines.

Operational Risk Capital Computation – The bank, based on Central 
Bank of Nigeria guideline, adopted basic indicator approach (BIA) 
in the calculation of its Operational Risk Capital adequacy. The 
estimated operational Risk Capital Charge is reported to the Board 
and management for capital planning and decision making.

Business Continuity Management (BCM)

In line with ISO 22301 Standards, the bank has a robust documented 
Business Continuity Plan. The primary objective of this plan is to 
protect the bank in the event of an undesired event in the form 
of fire outbreak, flood, theft or robbery, thunderstorm, unexpected 
breakdown of systems, networks, equipment, etc or any other 
form of disaster. This plan ensures that the bank recover from 
disasters resulting in the partial or total loss of IT infrastructure and 
applications to normal business operations, in a timely, e"ective 
and e!cient manner. The business continuity test is conducted at 
least once in a year. The process is driven at a committee level but 
ably championed by the Risk Management Group.

Operational Risk Reporting

Periodic Operational Risk report highlighting key Operational 
risk identified are rendered to the Board, Management and other 
relevant stakeholders for awareness and prompt implementation 
of mitigation plans.

3.8 Strategic risk

Strategic risk is a possible source of loss that might arise from the 
pursuit of an unsuccessful business plan. Strategic risk examines 
the impact of design and implementation of business models 
and decisions on earnings and capital as well as the organisation’s 
responsiveness to industry changes. Processes and procedures have 
been established to ensure that the right models are employed and 
appropriately communicated to all decision makers in the Group 
on issues relating to strategic risk management. This has essentially 
driven the Group’s sound banking culture and performance record 
to date.

3.9 Legal risk

Legal risk is defined as the risk of loss due to defective contractual 
arrangements, legal liability (both criminal and civil) incurred during 
operations by the inability of the organisation to enforce its rights, 
or by failure to address identified concerns to the appropriate 
authorities where changes in the law are proposed.

The Group manages this risk by monitoring new legislation, creating 
awareness of legislation among employees, identifying significant 
legal risks as well as assessing the potential impact of these.

189Notes



Legal risks management in the Group is also being enhanced by 
appropriate product risk review and management of contractual 
obligations via well documented Service Level Agreements and 
other contractual documents.

3.10 Reputational risk

Reputational risk is defined as the risk of indirect losses 
arising from a decline in the bank’s reputation among one or 
multiple bank stakeholders. The risk can expose the Group to 
litigation, financial loss or damage to its reputation. The Group’s 
reputation risk management philosophy involves anticipating, 
acknowledging and responding to changing values and 
behaviours on the part of a range of stakeholders. Accordingly, 
the following are the roles and responsibilities:

a. Board and senior management oversee the proper 
set-up and e"ective functioning of the reputational 
risk management  framework;

b. Enterprise Risk Management Policy/Strategy (ERSP) 
is responsible for supporting the Board and senior 
management in overseeing the implementation of 
reputational risk management framework; and

c. Corporate Communications is responsible 
for managing both the internal and external 
communications that may impact  the reputation of 
the Bank.

 The process of reputation risk management within 
the Bank encompasses the following steps:

i. Identification: Recognizing potential reputational risk 
as a primary and consequential risk;

ii. Assessment: Conducting qualitative assessment of 
reputational risk based on the potential events that 
have been identified as reputational risk;

iii. Monitoring: Undertaking frequent monitoring of the 
reputational risk drivers;

iv. Mitigation and Control: Establishing preventive 
measures and controls for management of 
reputational risk and tracking mitigation actions;

v. Independent review: Subjecting the reputational 
risk measures and mitigation techniques to regular 
independent review by internal auditors and/or 
external auditors; and

vi. Reporting: Generating regular, action-oriented 
reports for management review.

3.11 Taxation risk

Taxation risk refers to the risk that new taxation laws will 
adversely a"ect the Group and/or the loss as a result of non- 
compliance with tax laws.

The taxation risk is managed by monitoring applicable tax 
laws, maintaining operational policies that enable the Group 
to comply with taxation laws and, where required, seeking the 
advice of tax specialists.

3.12 Regulatory risk

The Group manages the regulatory risk to which it is potentially 
exposed by monitoring new regulatory rules and applicable 
laws, and identifying significant regulatory risks. The Group 
strives to maintain appropriate procedures, processes and 
policies that enable it to comply with applicable regulation.

The Group maintains zero tolerance posture for any regulatory 
breach in all its area of operations.

4. Critical accounting estimate and 
judgements

The Group makes estimates and assumptions that a"ect the 
reported amounts of assets and liabilities within the next 
financial year. Estimates and judgements are continually 
evaluated and are based on historical experience and other 
factors, including expectations of future events that are 
believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.

4.1 Impairment losses on loans and advances 
and impairment of debt securities issued 
by the Government of Ghana (GOG)

Measurement of the expected credit loss allowance for 
!nancial assets.

The measurement of the expected credit loss allowance for 
financial assets measured at amortised cost and FVOCI is an 
area that requires the use of complex models and significant 
assumptions about future economic conditions and credit 
behaviour (e.g. the likelihood of customers defaulting and 
the resulting losses). Explanation of the inputs, assumptions 
and estimation techniques used in measuring ECL is further 
detailed in note 3.2.10 to 3.2.17.

A number of significant judgements are also required in 
applying the accounting requirements for measuring ECL, 
such as:

i Input assumptions applied in estimating probability 
of default, loss given default and exposure at default;

ii Incorporation of forward-looking information;

190

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



Detailed information about the judgements and estimatesmade by the Group in the above areas is set out in note 3.2.10 to  
3.2.17.

The table below shows the impact on expected credit losses on lans and advances of changes in macroeconomic risk drivers 
and how credit losses respond to 10% decrease and increase in macro-variables. This macro economic variables are crude 
production, GDP growth rate ,exchange rate, prime lending rate and inflation rate.

31 December 2022

In millions of Naira 10% increase No change 10% decrease

Gross exposure 3,838,805 3,838,805 3,838,805

Loss allowance 102,921 103,129 117,335

The table below shows the impact on expected credit losses on investment securities of changes in discount rate.
31 December 2022

In millions of Naira No change 0.5% Increase 1% increase

Gross balance of Investment securities issued by the Government Ghana 202,448 202,448 202,448

Loss allowance (58,761) (60,939) (63,035)

4.2 Determining fair values

The determination of fair value for financial assets and liabilities for which there is no observable market prices requires the 
use of valuation techniques as described in note 3.5(c). For financial instruments that trade infrequently and have little price 
transparency, fair value is less objective, and requires varying degrees of judgment depending on liquidity, concentration, 
uncertainty of market factors, pricing assumptions and other risks a"ecting the specific instrument.

The Group measures fair values using the following fair value hierarchy that reflects the significance of the inputs used in 
making the measurements.

i) Level 1: Quoted market price (unadjusted) in an active market for an identical instrument.

ii) Level 2: Valuation techniques based on observable inputs, either directly - i.e, as prices - or indirectly - i.e derived from 
prices. This category includes instruments such as forward contracts, swaps etc. valued using; quoted market prices in 
active markets for similar instruments; quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are considered 
less than active; or other valuation techniques where all significant inputs are directly or indirectly observable from 
market data.

iii) Level 3: Valuation techniques using significant unobservable inputs. This category includes all instruments where the 
valuation technique includes inputs not based on observable data and the unobservable inputs have a significant 
e"ect on the instrument’s valuation. This category includes instrument that are valued based on quoted prices for 
similar instruments where significant unobservable adjustments or assumptions are required to reflect di"erences 
between the instruments. See note 3.5c for sensitivity analysis on unquoted equity investments.

4.3 Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities

The deferred tax assets and liabilities recognized by the Group is dependent on the availability of taxable profit in the foreseeable 
future to utilize the deferred tax. The Group reviews the carrying amount of the deferred tax at the end of each reporting period 
and recognizes an amount such that it is probable that su!cient taxable profit will be available which the Group can use the 
benefit therefrom.

In determining the deferred tax assets recognized in the financial statements, the Group has applied judgement in estimating 
the deferred tax recoverable in the foreseeable future. This involves the estimation of future income and expenses, and the 
consideration of non-taxable income and disallowable expenses in order to arrive at the future taxable profit / loss.

191Notes



5.  Segment analysis

The Group’s strategic divisions o"er di"erent products and services, and are managed separately based on the Group’s 
management and internal reporting structure.

The Group’s operations are primarily organised on the basis of its products and service o"erings in Nigeria, while the banking 
operations outside Nigeria are reported separately for Africa and Europe. The following summary describes each of the Group’s 
reportable segments:

(a) Corporate, Public, Retail Banking, Pension Custodial services and Nominee - Nigeria

 This segment provides a broad range of banking and pension custodial services to a diverse group of corporations, 
financial institutions, investment funds, governments and individuals.

(b)  Outside Nigeria Banking - Africa and Europe

 These segments provide a broad range of banking services to a diverse group of corporations, financial institutions,  
investment funds, governments and individuals outside Nigeria. The reportable segments covers banking operations  
in other parts of Africa (Ghana, Sierra Leone and The Gambia) and in Europe (the United Kingdom) respectively.

 Segment profit before tax, as included in internal management reports reviewed by the Group’s Executive Management, 
is used to measure performance because management believes that this information is the most relevant in evaluating 
the results of the respective segments relative to other entities that operate within the same industries. Inter-segment 
pricing is determined on arm’s length basis.

 No single external customer accounts for 10% or more of the Group’s revenue. The measurement policies the Group 
uses for segment reporting are the same as those used in its financial statements. There have been no changes from 
prior periods in the measurement methods used to determine reported segment profit or loss.

(c)  Segment reporting

 Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating 
decision maker.

 The board of Directors assess the financial performance and position of the group and makes strategic decisions. The 
board of Directors is the chief operating decision maker.

192

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



In
fo

rm
at

io
n 

re
ga

rd
in

g 
ea

ch
 re

po
rt

ab
le

 s
eg

m
en

t i
s 

in
cl

ud
ed

 in
 th

e 
ta

bl
es

 b
el

ow
. T

he
 ta

bl
es

 a
ls

o 
sh

ow
 th

e 
re

co
nc

ili
at

io
n 

of
 th

e 
am

ou
nt

s 
in

 th
e 

st
at

em
en

t o
f p

ro
fit

 o
r l

os
s 

an
d 

st
at

em
en

t o
f fi

na
nc

ia
l p

os
iti

on
 fo

r t
he

 re
po

rt
ab

le
 s

eg
m

en
ts

 to
 th

e 
am

ou
nt

s 
in

 th
e 

G
ro

up
’s 

st
at

em
en

t o
f p

ro
fit

 o
r l

os
s 

an
d 

st
at

em
en

t o
f fi

na
nc

ia
l p

os
iti

on
.

N
ig

er
ia

O
ut

si
de

 N
ig

er
ia

To
ta

l (
O

ut
si

de
 

N
ig

er
ia

)

In
 m

ill
io

ns
 o

f N
ai

ra
31

 D
ec

em
be

r 2
02

2
Co

rp
or

at
e 

re
ta

il 
an

d 
pe

ns
io

ns
 

cu
st

od
ia

n 
se

rv
ic

es
Af

ric
a

Eu
ro

pe
To

ta
l r

ep
or

ta
bl

e 
se

gm
en

ts
El

im
in

at
io

ns
Co

ns
ol

id
at

ed

In
te

re
st

 a
nd

 si
m

ila
r i

nc
om

e
45

0,
47

2
59

,5
11

33
,8

83
93

,3
94

54
3,

86
6

(3
,7

00
)

54
0,

16
6

To
ta

l i
nc

om
e 

on
 fe

e 
an

d 
co

m
m

iss
io

n
14

3,
06

2
9,

65
1

4,
51

5
14

,1
66

15
7,

22
8

(1
2)

15
7,

21
6

O
th

er
 o

pe
ra

tin
g 

in
co

m
e

49
,7

93
1,

79
1

(1
,0

62
)

72
9

50
,5

22
(1

5,
02

8)
35

,4
94

Tr
ad

in
g 

ga
in

s
20

1,
64

5
8,

69
4

2,
23

6
10

,9
30

21
2,

57
5

10
3

21
2,

67
8

To
ta

l r
ev

en
ue

84
4,

97
2

79
,6

47
39

,5
72

11
9,

21
9

96
4,

19
1

(1
8,

63
7)

94
5,

55
4

Re
ve

nu
e:

D
er

iv
ed

 fr
om

 e
xt

er
na

l c
us

to
m

er
s

82
6,

33
5

79
,6

47
39

,5
72

11
9,

21
9

94
5,

55
4

-
94

5,
55

4

D
er

iv
ed

 fr
om

 o
th

er
 b

us
in

es
s s

eg
m

en
ts

18
,6

37
-

-
-

18
,6

37
(1

8,
63

7)
-

To
ta

l r
ev

en
ue

84
4,

97
2

79
,6

47
39

,5
72

11
9,

21
9

96
4,

19
1

(1
8,

63
7)

94
5,

55
4

In
te

re
st

 e
xp

en
se

(1
53

,0
22

)
(1

7,
78

5)
(6

,4
32

)
(2

4,
21

7)
(1

77
,2

39
)

3,
70

0
(1

73
,5

39
)

Im
pa

irm
en

t l
os

s o
n 

fin
an

ci
al

 a
ss

et
s

(6
2,

02
1)

(5
8,

86
7)

(1
,3

22
)

(6
0,

18
9)

(1
22

,2
10

)
(1

,0
42

)
(1

23
,2

52
)

D
ep

re
ci

at
io

n 
ch

ar
ge

(2
4,

63
6)

(1
,5

09
)

(4
85

)
(1

,9
94

)
(2

6,
63

0)
-

(2
6,

63
0)

Am
or

tis
at

io
n 

ch
ar

ge
(3

,1
31

)
(3

14
)

(2
33

)
(5

47
)

(3
,6

78
)

-
(3

,6
78

)

Fe
es

 a
nd

 c
om

m
iss

io
n 

ex
pe

ns
e

(2
3,

38
0)

(1
,0

41
)

-
(1

,0
41

)
(2

4,
42

1)
-

(2
4,

42
1)

Ad
m

in
 a

nd
 o

pe
ra

tin
g 

ex
pe

ns
es

(2
76

,9
33

)
(2

2,
38

1)
(1

0,
52

4)
(3

2,
90

5)
(3

09
,8

38
)

45
4

(3
09

,3
84

)

Pr
ofi

t /
 (l

os
s)

 b
ef

or
e 

ta
x

30
1,

84
9

(2
2,

24
9)

20
,5

75
(1

,6
74

)
30

0,
17

5
(1

5,
52

5)
28

4,
65

0

Ta
x 

ex
pe

ns
e

(6
2,

11
7)

5,
69

5
(4

,3
17

)
1,

37
8

(6
0,

73
9)

-
(6

0,
73

9)

Pr
o!

t a
ft

er
 ta

x
23

9,
73

2
(1

6,
55

4)
16

,2
58

(2
96

)
23

9,
43

6
(1

5,
52

5)
22

3,
91

1

193Notes



In millions of Naira
31 December 2022

Nigeria Corporate 
retail and pensions 
sustanian services

Outside Nigeria Total (Outside
Nigeria) 

Total 
reportable
segments

Eliminations Consolidation

Africa Europe

Expenditure on non•current 
assers

71,501 3,259 398 3,657 75,158 - 75,158

Total assets 10,600,730 510,386 1,445,532 1,955,918 12,556,648 (271,019) 12,285,629

Other measures of assets:

Loans and advances to customers 3,735,839 90,043 223,953 313,996 4,049,835 (36,130) 4,013,705

Treasury bills 2,206,935 39,603 - 39,603 2,246,538 - 2,246,538

Investment securities 648,654 155,125 924,555 1,079,680 1,728,334 - 1,778,334

Total liabilities 9,378,927 451,703 1,313,009 1,764,712 11,143,639 (236,950) 10,906,689

Other measures of liabilities

Customer deposits 7,434,806 436,541 1,303,257 1,739,798 9,174,604 (198,951) 8,975,653

Borrowings 999,580 - - 999,580 999,580 (36,130) 963,450

In millions of Naira
31 December 2021

Nigeria 
Corporate retail 
and pensions 
sustanian services

Outside Nigeria Total reportable
segments

Eliminations Consolidation

Africa Europe

Interest and similar income 342,517 68,955 16,309 427,781 (184) 427,597

Total income on fee and 

commission

120,648 8,590 3,646 132,884 - 132,884

Other operating income 53,528 1,599 (1,101) 54,026 (16,432) 37,594

Trading gains 171,469 (4,447) 461 167,483 - 167,483

Total revenue 688,162 74,697 19,315 782,174 (16,616) 765,558

Revenue:

Derived from external 

customers

671,541 74,702 19,315 765,558 - 765,558

Derived from other business 

segments

16,621 (5) - 16,616 16,616 -

Total revenue 688,162 74,697 19,315 782,174 (16,616) 765,558

In millions of Naira
31 December 2021

Nigeria Corporate 
retail and pensions 
sustanian services

Outside Nigeria Total 
reportable
segments

Eliminations Consolidation

Africa Europe

Interest expense (82,723) (22,152) (2,102) (106,977) 184 (106,793)

Impairment loss on financial assets (56,167) (2,033) (1,732) (59,932) - 59,932

Depreciation charge (23,316) (1,701) (288) (25,305) - (25,305)

Amortisation charge (3,195) (312) (272) (3,779) - (3,779)

Fees and commission expense (27,975) (951) - (28,926) - (28,926)

Admin and operating expenses (228,877) (20,302) (9,996) (259,175) (1,274) (260,449)

Profit before tax 265,909 27,246 4,925 298,080 17,706 280,374

Tax expense (26,033 18,937) 846 (35,816) - (35,816)

Pro!t / (loss)after tax 239,876 18,309 4,079 262,264 17,706 244,558

194

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



In millions of Naira
31 December 2021

Nigeria Corporate 
retail and pensions 
sustanian services

Outside Nigeria Total 
reportable
segments

Eliminations Consolidation

Africa Europe

Expenditure on non-current assets 47,805 3,484 205 51,494 - 51,494

Total assets 7,901,589 688,040 1,218,814 9,808,443 (360,600) 9,447,843

Other measures of assets:   
Loans and advances to customers 3,099,567 109,003 176,954 3,385,524 (29,796) 3,355,728

Treasury bills 1,583,254 181,692 - 1,764,946 - 1,764,946

Investment securities 498,234 180,567 624,924 1,303,725 - 1,303,725

Total liabilities 6,825,424 564,897 1,103,832 8,494,153 (325,972) 8,168,181

Other measures of liabilities

Customer deposits 5,169,199 497,665 1,097,451 6,764,315 (292,261) 6,472,054

Borrowings 769,395 10,869 - 780,264 (29,795) 750,469

Group Bank

In millions of Naira 31 December 
2022

31 December 
2021

31 December 
2022 31 December 2021

6.     Interest and similar income
Loans and advances to customers 370,446 292,224 346,320 272,942

Placement with banks and discount houses 12,270 6,766 3,968 1,898

Treasury bills 43,609 40,426 32,972 19,520

Promissory note 1,332 1,344 1,330 1,341

Commercial papers 2,766 168 2,726 168

Government and other bonds 109,743 86,669 60,858 44,519

540,166 427,597 448,174 340,388

Interest and similar income represents interest income on financial assets measured at amortised cost.

Interest income accrued on impaired financial assets amount to N5,228 million and N4,667 million (31 December 2021: N6,505 million 
and N6,505million) for Group and Bank respectively.

7.     Interest and similar expense
Current Account 37,926 14,292 34,405 7,148

Savings accounts 32,150 16,653 31,885 16,348

Time deposits 52,634 29,377 38,269 14,061

Borrowed funds 48,747 43,044 46,391 42,276

Leases 2,082 3,427 2,069 2,885

173,539 106,793 153,019 82,718

Total interest expense is calculated using the e"ective interest rate method reported above and does not include interest expense on 
financial liabilities carried at fair value through profit or loss.

195Notes



8.    Impairment charge on !nancial and non-!nancial instruments

ECL on !nancial instruments:

Loans and advances( see note 3.2.18) 38,343 48,873 38,429 48,357

Investment securities (see note 3.2.18) 62,742 2,993 1,918 (90)

Treasury Bills (see note 3.2.18) (400) (781) (356) (281)

Other financial assets (see note 3.2.18) 19,037 7,781 19,033 7,789

Due from other Banks (see note 3.2.18) (649) 666 17 -

Assets pledged as collateral (see note 3.2.18) (180) (158) (180) (158)

Total ECL on financial instruments - - - -

Impairment (credit)/charge on non-!nancial 118,893 59,374 58,861 55,617

instruments:

O" balance sheet (see note 3.2.18) 998 784 (326) 784

Other non financial assets (see note 25) 3,361 (226) 3,361 (226)

123,252 59,932 61,896 56,175

Group Bank

In millions of Naira 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021

9.     Net income on Fees and commission

Credit related fees 6,609 9,451 1,406 5,294

Commission on turnover 1,165 1,613 - -

Account maintenance fee 41,557 31,390 40,860 30,867

Income from financial guarantee contracts issued 10,536 8,894 6,829 6,629

Fees on electronic products 45,739 37,470 43,275 35,443

Foreign currency transaction fees and commission 3,389 3,298 3,258 2,590

Asset based management fees 9,595 8,276 - -

Auction fees income 622 517 622 517

Corporate finance fees 1,691 186 1,691 118

Foreign withdrawal charges 15,551 9,129 15,535 9,129

Commission on letters of credit 8,541 8,603 8,303 8,322

Commissions on agency and collection services 12,221 14,057 11,699 13,251

Total fee and Commission income 157,216 132,884 133,478 112,160

Fees and commission expense (24,421) (28,926) (23,380) (27,975)

132,795 103,958 110,098 84,185

The fees and commission income reported above excludes amount included in determining e"ective interest rates on financial 
assets that are not carried at fair value through profit or loss.

Total fee and commission income recognised at a point in time amount to N107,982 million and N84,636 million for Group and 
Bank (31 December 2021: N91,291 million and N71,092 million) respectively while an amount of N49,235million and N48,840 
million (31 December 2021: N41,593 million and N41,068 million) was recognised over the service period.

196

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



10.     Other operating income

Group Bank

In millions of Naira 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021

Dividend income from equity investments (see note a 

below)

2,223 2,754 17,148 19,186

Gain on disposal of property and equipment (see note 

44(vii))

2,563 78 2,451 69

Income on cash handling 476 999 445 383

Loan recovery (see note c below) 5,030 7,975 4,426 7,616

Gain on disposal of equity investment - 251 - -

Foreign currency revaluation gain (See note b below) 25,202 25,537 25,320 26,012

35,494 37,594 49,790 53,266

(a) Dividend income from equity investments represent dividend received from subsidiaries of N14,925 million and N2,223 
million received from other equity instruments held for strategic purposes and for which the Group has elected to 
present the fair value and loss in other comprehensive income.

(b) Foreign currency revaluation gain represents net gain on the revaluation of foreign currency-denominated assets and 
liabilities. This also includes the e"ective portion of the gains on the derivatives designated in the fair value hedge of the 
foreign currency risk (note 3.3.3.1 and 11).

(c) This represents amount recovered for previously written-o" facilities. The amount is recognised on a cash basis only.

11.     Trading gains

(Loss)/gain on other trading books (1,325) 42,438 (9,238) 46,368

Gain on treasury bills FVTPL 214,508 127,613 210,932 127,556

Loss on bonds FVTPL (910) (3,232) (454) (3,119)

Interest income on trading bonds 405 664 405 664

212,678 167,483 201,645 171,469

Included in gain/(loss) on other trading books is a mark to market gain on derivatives instruments of N47.9 billion and N42.8 billion for Group 
and Bank respectively (31 December 2021: Group 42.6 billion and Bank N42.31 billion).

Hedge ine"ectiveness recognized in Trading gain comprises: Fair 

value hedging

FV gains on the derivatives designated as hedging instruments

- (spot component only)

40,632 - 40,632 -

- Losses on the hedged items attributable to the hedged risk (39,590) - (39,590) -

-Fair value hedge ine$ectiveness 1,042 - 1,042 -

197Notes



The e"ective portion of the fair value gains on the derivatives designated in the fair value hedge of the foreign 
currency risk has been transferred to other income to net o" the recognised losses on the hedged item attributable 
to the hedged risk (see note 10(b))

Group Bank
In millions of Naira 31 December 

2022
31 December 

2021
31 December 

2022
31 December 

2021

12.     Operating expenses

Directors' emoluments (see note 37 (b)) 5,444 1,663 5,154 1,362

Auditors' remuneration 1,065 1,060 600 500

Deposit insurance premium 21,747 17,273 21,747 17,273

Professional fees 6,413 5,347 5,738 4,458

Training and development 2,934 1,588 2,858 1,419

Information Technology 30,971 28,716 27,662 27,540

Lease expense 593 985 583 46

Advertisement 8,787 7,100 8,622 6,919

Outsourcing services 14,758 14,773 14,571 14,754

Bank charges 11,936 7,725 11,124 6,729

Fuel and maintenance 29,648 20,656 25,905 16,804

Insurance 2,258 2,347 1,991 1,990

Licenses, registrations and subscriptions 4,712 4,142 3,246 3,379

Travel and hotel expenses 2,987 2,628 2,637 1,417

Printing and stationery 4,137 2,742 3,133 1,960

Security and cash handling 4,784 4,766 4,467 4,265

Fines & Penalties (see note 42) - 4 - 4

Donations 1,697 4,450 1,670 4,372

AMCON levy 44,010 37,920 44,010 37,920

Telephone,postages and communication 
charges

9,709 7,189 9,323 6,625

Corporate promotions 8,230 4,698 7,999 4,551

Others 6,152 2,792 1,663 1,570

222,972 180,564 204,703 165,857

Lease expense represent the amount of straight line amortisation on short term lease in which the Group/Bank has 
applied the recognition exception. For the year ended 31 December 2022 an amount of N593 million and N583 
million for Group and Bank (31 December 2021: N985 million and N46 million) respectively

The Bank paid the external auditors’ professional fees for the provision of Non audit services.

The total amount of non-audit services provided by the external auditors during the year was N118 million. These 
non-audit services were for the following: assessment of risk management practices (N40 million), assessment of 
compliance with whistle blowing guidelines (N10 million) and review of the Bank’s corporate governance (N42 
million), ACL training (N6 million), assurance on the bank’s sustainability (N4 million) and professional service relating 
to the creation of a customer analytic portal for the bank (N16 million).

These services in the Bank’s opinion, did not impair the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.

The Group auditors did not engage in any non-audit service for any of the bank’s subsidiaries.

198

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



Included in training and development is a total 596 million which the bank paid as contribution to the industrial 
training fund.

Group Bank

In millions of Naira 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021

13.     Taxation

(a) Major components of the tax expense

Income tax expense 
Corporate tax 68,156 12,223 51,370 1,905

Information technology tax 3,026 2,626 2,940 2,546

Tertiary Education tax 6,775 2,716 6,595 2,598

Police trust fund levy 15 13 15 13

National agency for science and engineering infrastructure levy 735 643 735 643

National Fiscal Stabilization Levy & Financial Sector Recovery - 2,043 - -

Reversal of prior period over provision (6,513) - (6,513) -

Current income tax 72,194 20,264 55,142 7,705

Deferred tax expense:

Origination of temporary di"erences (11,455) 15,552 4,315 16,329

Income tax expense 60,739 35,816 59,457 24,034

Total tax expense 60,739 35,816 59,457 24,034

(b) Reconciliation of e$ective tax rate
Group Bank

In millions of Naira 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021

Profit before income tax 284,650 280,374 294,050 257,167

Tax calculated at the weighted average Group rate of 30% (2021: 30%) 85,395 84,112 88,215 77,150

Tax e$ect of adjustments on taxable income

E"ect of tax rates in other jurisdictions (889) (1,786) - -

Non-deductible expenses 35,802 40,208 17,658 34,303

Tax exempt income (27,207) (80,934) (26,734) (80,274)

Balancing charge 5,610 46 2,640 46

Tax loss utilised (146) (8,114) - (8,533)

Origination of Temporary di"erences (11,455) 15,552 4,315 16,329

Information technology levy 3,026 2,626 2,940 2,546

Capital allowance utilised (30,408) (21,298) (30,408) (20,787)

Tertiary education tax 6,775 2,705 6,595 2,598

Reversal of prior period excess provision (6,513) - (6,513) -

National Fiscal Stabilization Levy & Financial Sector Recovery Levy - 2,043 - -

Police trust fund levy 15 13 15 13

NASENI 735 643 735 643

Total tax expense 60,739 35,816 59,457 24,034

199Notes



Group Bank

In millions of Naira 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021

(c)  The movement in the current income tax payable balance 
is as follows:

At start of the year 16,909 11,690 14,241 9,117

Tax paid (24,247) (15,045) (7,728) (2,581)

Current income tax charge (see note 13a) 72,194 20,264 55,142 7,705

- - - -

At end of the year 64,856 16,909 61,655 14,241

14.     Earnings per share

Basic earnings per share
Basic earnings per share (EPS) is calculated by dividing the net profit attributable to shareholders by the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares in issue during the period.

Group Bank

In millions of Naira 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021

Profit attributable to shareholders of the Bank (N'million) 224,050 244,402 234,593 233,133
Number of shares in issue at end of the year (millions) 31,396 31,396 31,396 31,396
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue (millions) 31,396 31,396 31,396 31,396
Basic and diluted earnings per share (Naira) 7.14 7.78 7.47 7.43

Basic and diluted earnings per share are the same, as the Bank has no potentially dilutive ordinary shares.

15.     Cash and balances with central banks 

Group Bank

In millions of Naira 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021

Cash 85,437 84,077 66,067 55,899

Operating accounts and deposits with Central Banks 366,699 73,389 341,420 66,566

Mandatory reserve deposits with central bank (cash reserve) 1,668,919 1,250,208 1,614,217 1,194,512

Special Cash Reserve Requirement 80,689 80,689 80,689 80,689

2,201,744 1,488,363 2,102,394 1,397,666

Current 452,136 157,466 407,488 122,465

Non current 1,749,608 1,330,897 1,694,906 1,275,201

2,201,744 1,488,363 2,102,394 1,397,666

200

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



Group Bank

In millions of Naira 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021

16 Treasury bills 

Treasury bills (FVTPL) 1,243,038 824,222 1,243,038 823,891

Treasury bills (Amortized cost) 1,003,908 941,539 963,669 754,151

ECL Allowance on treasury bills (Amortized cost) (see note 3.2.18) (408) (815) (39) (395)

2,246,538 1,764,946 2,206,668 1,577,647

Classi!ed as:

Current 2,246,538 1,764,946 2,206,668 1,577,647

2,246,538 1,764,946 2,206,668 1,577,647

Treasury bills measured at fair value through profit and loss are held for trading. 
The following treasury bills have maturities less than three months and are classified as cash 
and cash equivalents for purposes of the statements of cash flows (Note 41).

232,218 315,795 232,218 230,213

232,218 315,795 232,218 230,213

17. Assets pledged as collateral
Bonds pledged as collateral 119,145 139,458 119,047 103,864

Treasury bills under repurchase agreement 135,536 253,334 135,536 253,334

ECL Allowance on assets pledged and under repo (18) (198) (18) (198)

254,663 392,594 254,565 357,000

Included in assets pledged as collateral for group/bank are treasury bills at amortised cost of N109,346 million and bonds at 
amortised cost of N119,047 million(31 December 2021:treasury bills N54,241 million and bonds 103,864 million). All other 
assets pledged as collateral for Group/Bank are treasury bills at fair value.

Some of the balances are restricted (see note 3.4.3c).

The assets pledged as collateral were given to the counter parties without transferring the ownership to them. These are 
held by the counterparty for the term of the transaction being collateralized. These assets were pledged as collateral to 
Nigeria Interbank Settlement System (NIBBS) N3.74billion (31 December 2021: N3.63 billion), Federal Inland Revenue Services 
N8.43billion (31 December 2021: N8.18 billion), V-Pay N47 million (31 December 2021: N45.46million), Interswitch Limited 
N2,247 billion (31 December 2021: N2.18 billion), the Bank of Industry (Nigeria) N31.88 billion (31 December 2021: N32.89 
billion), E- Tranzact N47 million (31 December 2021: N45.22 million), CBN Real Sector Support Fund (RSSF) N21.67 billion (31 
December 2021: N22.22 billion),CBN settlement clearing (31 December 2021: N14.78 billion), System Specs/REMITA N2.3 
billion (31 December 2021: N2.27 billion) and Financial Market dealers Quotation (FMDQ) N1.81 billion (31 December 2021: 
N17.62 billion), pension funds management companies, institutional investors and high net worth customers related to 
Zenith Bank Ghana totals N3.86 billion.

201Notes



Assets exchanged under repurchase agreement as at 31 December 2022 are with the following counterparties (note 31):

Counterparties
Carrying value

of asset
Carrying value

of liability
Carrying value

of asset
Carrying value

of liability

Group Bank

In millions of Naira 31 December 
2022

31 December 
2021

31 December 
2022

31 December 
2021

ABSA (see note 31) 51,492 46,340 51,492 46,340

Standard Bank London (see note 31) 130,770 63,456 130,770 63,456

182,262 109,796 182,262 109,796

Assets exchanged under repurchase agreement as at 31 December 2021 are with the following counterparties (note 31):

Counterparties

Carrying value
of asset

Carrying value
of liability

Carrying value
of asset

Carrying value
of liability

Group Bank

In millions of Naira 31 December 
2022

31 December 
2021

31 December 
2022

31 December 
2021

ABSA (see note 31) 113,809 84,922 113,809 84,922

JP Morgan Chase (see note 31) 50,477 31,808 50,477 31,808

First Abu Dhabi Bank (see note 31) 61,388 42,448 61,388 42,448

Mashreq Bank (see note 31) 27,660 63,739 27,660 63,739

253,334 222,917 253,334 222,917

Classi!ed as:
Current 142,905 253,306 142,807 253,306

Non-current 111,758 139,288 111,758 103,695

254,663 392,594 254,565 357,001

Group Bank

In millions of Naira 31 December 
2022

31 December 
2021

31 December 
2022

31 December 
2021

18. Due from other banks
Current balances with banks within Nigeria - - - -

Current balances with banks outside Nigeria 907,358 377,238 957,902 501,450

Placement with banks 395,528 314,730 174,969 16,661

ECL allowance (75) (724) (75) (58)

1,302,811 691,244 1,132,796 518,053

Classi!ed as:
Current 1,302,811 691,244 1,132,796 518,053

202

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



Included in balances with banks outside Nigeria is the amount of N45.02billion and N113.9billion for the Group and Bank respectively 
(31 December 2021: N23.54 billion and N85.97 billion for the Group and Bank respectively) which represents the Naira value of 
foreign currency balances held on behalf of customers in respect of letters of credit. The corresponding liabilities are included in 
other liabilities (See Note 29).  Some of the balances are restricted (see note 3.4.3c).

Group Bank

In millions of Naira 31 December 
2022

31 December 
2021

31 December 
2022

31 December 
2021

Due from banks with maturity greater than 3 months and 
restricted balances::

46,407 29,986 115,315 94,157

19.     Derivative assets
Instrument types (fair value):

Forward and Swap Contracts 49,548 52,874 48,525 53,473

Futures contracts 326 3,313 326 4,003

49,874 56,187 48,851 57,476

Instrument types (Notional amount) :

Forward and Swap Contracts 960,894 867,926 924,485 909,300

Futures contract 24,624 109,503 37,659 180,571

Total 985,518 977,429 962,144 1,089,871

a) Hedging derivative assets

he Group estimates the fair value of the hedge derivative instrument transacted with the counterparties (CBN) using the discounted 
mark-to-market technique. The Group has designated part of its swap contracts with the CBN as hedging instruments in order to 
manage the foreign exchange volatility in its Profit or Loss. See note 3.3.4 for the mark to market value of these hedge asset .

b) Non-hedging derivative assets and liabilities

The Group enters into currency forward contracts with counterparties. On initial recognition, the Group estimates the fair value of 
derivatives transacted with the counterparties using the discounted mark-to-market technique. In many cases, all significant inputs 
into the valuation techniques are wholly observable e.g with reference to similar transactions in the wholesale dealer market. See note 
3.3.4 for the mark-to-market value of these non-hedged assets.

During the year , various derivative contracts entered into by the Group generated a net gain which was recognized in the statement 
of profit or loss and other comprehensive income.

All derivative assets are current.

203Notes



Group Bank

In millions of Naira 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021

20.     Loans and advances 
Overdraft 450,649 439,459 427,453 419,219

Term Loans 2,982,808 2,522,278 2,720,843 2,278,613

On Lending Facilities 690,509 540,141 690,509 540,141

Gross loans and advances to customers 4,123,966 3,501,878 3,838,805 3,237,973

Less: ECL Allowance (see note 3.2.18) (110,261) (146,150) (103,129) (138,521)

4,013,705 3,355,728 3,735,676 3,099,452

Net Loans classi!ed as:
Current 2,133,065 1,456,094 1,958,733 1,376,248

Non-current 1,880,640 1,899,634 1,776,943 1,723,204

4,013,705 3,355,728 3,735,676 3,099,452

Movement in ECL Allowance as at 31 December 2022 is presented in Note 3.2.18.

Group Bank

In millions of Naira 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021

21.     Investment securities

Debt securities

At amortised cost (see note iii) 852,145 657,950 520,921 380,199

At FVTOCI 833,849 541,629 - -

ECL allowance (see note 3.2.18) (63,986) (3,766) (2,583) (666)

Net debt securities measured at amortised cost and FVTOCI 1,622,008 1,195,813 518,338 379,533

Debt securities (measured at fair value through profit or loss) (see note ii) 12,443 22,338 10,560 11,897

Net debt securities 1,634,451 1,218,151 528,898 391,430

Equity securities

At fair value through other comprehensive income (see note (i) below) 93,883 85,574 93,883 85,574

1,728,334 1,303,725 622,781 477,004

Movement in impairment allowance on investment securities is presented in Note 3.2.18

Classi!ed as: 

Current 101,339 53,960 77,887 21,476

Non-current 1,626,995 1,249,765 544,894 455,528

1,728,334 1,303,725 622,781 477,004

(i) The Group holds equity investments in unquoted entities which the Group has elected to carry at fair value through other 
comprehensive income. These investments are held for strategic purposes rather than for trading purposes see note 3.3.5.

204

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



ii. The Group and Bank debt securities measured at FVTPL comprise FGN bonds (31 December 2022: N12.44 billion and N10.5 
million respectively; 31 December 2021; N22.33 and N11.9 billion respectively).

(iii) The Group’s debt securities measured at amortised cost can be analysed as follows:

Group Bank

In millions of Naira 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021

Sovereign (Federal) 660,485 559,584 383,973 281,833

Sub-sovereign (State) 32,996 19,163 31,636 19,163

Corporate bonds 120,438 52,230 67,798 52,230

Promissory note 18,464 17,096 18,425 17,096

Commercial papers 19,762 9,877 19,089 9,877

852,145 657,950 520,921 380,199

22.     Investment in subsidiaries

The following table lists the entities which are controlled by the Group, either directly or indirectly through subsidiaries.

Bank
31 December 

2022
31 December 2021 31 December 

2022
31 December 

2021

Name of company Ownership interest % Ownership interest % Carrying amount 

Zenith Bank (Ghana) Limited 99.42% 99.42% 7,066 7,066

Zenith Bank (UK) Limited 100.00% 100.00% 21,482 21,482

Zenith Bank (Sierra Leone) Limited 99.99% 99.99% 2,059 2,059

Zenith Bank (Gambia) Limited 99.96% 99.96% 1,038 1,038

Zenith Pensions Custodian Limited 99.00% 99.00% 1,980 1,980

Zenith Nominees 99.00% 99.00% 1,000 1,000

34,625 34,625

205Notes



Ze
ni

th
 B

an
k 

Pl
c 

An
nu

al
 R

ep
or

t D
ec

em
be

r 3
1,

 2
02

2

N
ot

es
 to

 th
e 

Co
ns

ol
id

at
ed

 a
nd

 S
ep

ar
at

e 
Fi

na
nc

ia
l S

ta
te

m
en

ts
 fo

r t
he

 Y
ea

r E
nd

ed
 3

1 
D

ec
em

be
r 2

02
2

(b
)  

   
 C

on
d

en
se

d
 re

su
lts

 o
f c

on
so

lid
at

ed
 e

n
tit

ie
s 

31
 D

ec
em

be
r 2

02
2

Ze
ni

th
 

G
ro

up
In

tr
a-

gr
ou

p
 

tr
an

sa
ct

io
ns

an
d

 b
al

an
ce

Ze
ni

th
 

Ba
nk Pl

c

Ze
ni

th
 

Ba
nk

G
ha

na

Ze
ni

th
 

Ba
nk U

K
 

Ze
ni

th
 

Ba
nk

 S
ie

rr
a 

Le
on

e 

Ze
ni

th
 

Ba
nk

 
G

am
b

ia
 

Ze
ni

th
 

Pe
ns

io
n 

Cu
st

od
ia

n

Ze
ni

th
 

N
om

in
ee

 
Li

m
it

ed

Co
nd

en
se

d 
st

at
em

en
t o

f p
ro
!t

 o
r l

os
s

O
p

er
at

in
g 

in
co

m
e

94
5,

55
4

(1
8,

63
7)

83
3,

08
7

70
,7

85
39

,5
72

5,
79

0
3,

07
2

11
,4

70
41

5

Ex
p

en
se

s
(5

37
,6

52
)

3,
11

2
(4

77
,1

41
)

(3
9,

81
2)

(1
6,

65
9)

(2
,8

71
)

(1
,4

45
)

(2
,7

50
)

(8
6)

In
p

ai
rm

en
t c

ha
rg

e 
fo

r fi
na

nc
ia

l a
nd

 n
on

-
fin

an
ci

al
 a

ss
et

s
(1

23
,2

52
)

-
(6

1,
89

6)
(5

8,
74

9)
(2

,3
68

)
(9

0)
(2

4)
(6

3)
(6

2)

Pr
ofi

t/
(lo

ss
) b

ef
or

e 
ta

x
28

4,
65

0
(1

5,
52

5)
29

4,
05

0
(2

7,
77

6)
20

,5
45

2,
82

9
1,

60
3

8,
65

7
26

7

Ta
xa

tio
n 

(6
0,

73
9)

-
(5

9,
45

7)
6,

75
3

(4
,3

17
)

(7
09

)
(3

49
)

(2
,5

24
)

(1
36

)

Pr
o!

t/
(lo

ss
) f

or
 th

e 
ye

ar
22

3,
91

1
(1

5,
52

5)
23

4,
59

3
(2

1,
02

3)
16

,2
28

2,
12

0
1,

25
4

6,
13

3
13

1

Co
nd

en
se

d 
st

at
em

en
t o

f !
na

nc
ia

l p
os

it
io

n 

A
ss

et
s

C
as

h 
an

d 
b

al
an

ce
s 

w
ith

 c
en

tr
al

 b
an

ks
2,

20
1,

74
4

-
2,

10
2,

39
4

92
,2

46
16

3,
33

7
3,

75
1

-
-

Tr
ea

su
ry

 b
ill

s
2,

24
6,

53
8

-
2,

20
6,

66
8

22
,7

89
-

-
16

,8
14

26
7

-

A
ss

et
s 

p
le

dg
ed

 a
s 

co
lla

te
ra

l
25

4,
66

3
-

25
4,

56
5

98
-

-
-

-
-

D
ue

 fr
om

 o
th

er
 b

an
ks

1,
30

2,
81

1
(1

98
,9

50
)

1,
13

2,
79

6
63

,1
75

29
0,

32
1

8,
66

7
6,

02
3

76
3

16

D
er

iv
at

iv
e 

as
se

t h
el

d 
fo

r r
is

k 
m

an
ag

em
en

t
49

,8
74

-
48

,8
51

-
1,

02
3

-
-

-
-

Lo
an

s 
an

d 
ad

va
nc

es
4,

01
3,

70
5

(3
6,

13
0)

3,
73

5,
67

6
85

,7
64

22
3,

95
3

2,
51

0
1,

76
9

16
3

-

In
ve

st
m

en
t s

ec
ur

iti
es

1,
72

8,
33

4
-

62
2,

78
1

13
5,

91
2

92
4,

55
5

15
,7

62
3,

45
1

23
,6

91
2,

18
2

In
ve

st
m

en
t i

n 
su

b
si

di
ar

ie
s

-
(3

4,
62

5)
34

,6
25

-
-

-
-

-
-

D
ef

er
re

d 
ta

x 
as

se
t

18
,3

43
-

-
15

,0
17

3,
24

1
61

6
13

5

O
th

er
 a

ss
et

s
21

3,
52

3
(1

,3
26

)
19

3,
79

2
17

,2
48

77
3

30
4

31
0

2,
38

5
37

Pr
op

er
ty

 a
nd

 e
qu

ip
m

en
t

23
0,

84
3

-
21

4,
57

2
13

,0
23

1,
19

2
47

0
1,

31
5

26
6

5

In
ta

ng
ib

le
 a

ss
et

s
25

,2
51

-
23

,9
58

45
8

45
8

53
62

24
7

15

12
,2

85
,6

29
(2

71
,0

31
)

10
,5

70
,6

78
44

5,
73

0
1,

44
5,

53
2

31
,1

64
33

,5
01

27
,7

95
2,

26
0

206



31
 D

ec
em

be
r  

20
22

Ze
ni

th
 

G
ro

up
In

tr
a-

gr
ou

p
 

tr
an

sa
ct

io
ns

an
d

 b
al

an
ce

Ze
ni

th
 B

an
k

Pl
c

Ze
ni

th
 B

an
k

G
ha

na
Ze

ni
th

 B
an

k
U

K
Ze

ni
th

 B
an

k 
Si

er
ra

 L
eo

ne
Ze

ni
th

 B
an

k 
G

am
bi

a
Ze

ni
th

 
Pe

ns
io

n 
Cu

st
od

ia
n

Ze
ni

th
 

N
om

in
ee

 
Li

m
ite

d

Li
ab

ili
tie

s &
 E

qu
ity

 

Cu
st

om
er

 d
ep

os
its

 
8,

97
5,

65
3

(1
98

,9
51

)
7,

43
4,

80
6

38
8,

55
6

1,
30

3,
25

7
23

,8
31

24
,1

54
-

-

D
er

iv
at

iv
e 

lia
bi

lit
ie

s 
6,

32
5

-
6,

04
0

75
21

0
-

-
-

-

Cu
rre

nt
 in

co
m

e 
ta

x 
64

,8
56

-
61

,6
55

(5
45

)
56

4
44

4
29

1
2,

38
2

65

D
ef

er
re

d 
in

co
m

e 
ta

x 
lia

bi
lit

ie
s 

16
,6

54
-

15
,9

11
74

3
-

-
-

-
-

O
th

er
 li

ab
ili

tie
s 

56
8,

55
9

(1
,3

24
)

54
6,

34
7

11
,5

11
8,

97
8

65
5

1,
44

3
78

6
16

3

O
n-

le
nd

in
g 

fa
ci

lit
ie

s 
31

1,
19

2
-

31
1,

19
2

-
-

-
-

-
-

Bo
rro

w
in

gs
 

96
3,

45
0

(3
6,

13
0)

99
9,

58
0

-
-

-
-

-
-

Eq
ui

ty
 a

nd
 re

se
rv

es
 

1,
37

8,
94

0
(3

4,
62

7)
1,

19
5,

14
7

45
,3

90
13

2,
52

3
6,

23
7

7,
61

4
24

,6
26

2,
03

0

12
,2

85
,6

29
(2

71
,0

32
)

10
,5

70
,6

78
44

5,
73

0
1,

44
5,

53
2

31
,1

67
33

,5
02

27
,7

94
2,

25
8

Co
nd

en
se

d 
st

at
em

en
t o

f c
as

h 
#o

w

N
et

 c
as

h 
(u

se
d 

in
)/

fro
m

 o
pe

ra
tin

g 
ac

tiv
iti

es
 

1,
17

9,
12

3
(1

37
,6

09
)

1,
27

9,
75

9
15

8,
90

5
(1

42
,0

81
)

13
,6

19
1,

98
5

4,
22

6
32

9

N
et

 c
as

h 
(u

se
d 

in
)/

fro
m

 fi
na

nc
in

g 
ac

tiv
iti

es
 

(9
7,

60
6)

5,
32

3
79

,2
78

(1
4,

54
9)

(3
,1

02
)

-
-

(6
,0

00
)

-

N
et

 c
as

h 
(u

se
d 

in
)/

fro
m

 in
ve

st
in

g 
ac

tiv
iti

es
 

(3
63

,2
31

)
12

0,
21

2
(4

08
,1

65
)

(9
1,

33
1)

12
,3

44
44

1
1,

35
4

2,
25

1
33

7

In
cr

ea
se

 / 
(d

ec
re

as
e)

 in
 c

as
h 

an
d 

ca
sh

 e
qu

iv
al

en
ts

71
8,

38
6

(1
2,

07
4)

79
2,

31
6

53
,0

25
(1

32
,8

39
)

14
,0

50
3,

33
9

47
7

(8
)

Ca
sh

 a
nd

 c
as

h 
eq

ui
va

le
nt

s 

At
 st

ar
t o

f p
er

io
d 

1,
13

4,
51

9
17

1,
52

7
77

6,
57

4
12

5,
77

1
48

,2
66

1,
68

0
9,

08
4

1,
48

6
13

1

Ex
ch

an
ge

 ra
te

 m
ov

em
en

ts
 o

n 
ca

sh
 a

nd
 c

as
h 

eq
ui

va
le

nt
s

87
,9

54
-

88
,2

95
(3

43
)

-
-

-
-

2

At
 e

nd
 o

f p
er

io
d

1,
94

0,
75

9
15

9,
45

3
88

,2
95

17
8,

45
3

(8
4,

57
3)

15
,7

30
12

,4
23

1,
96

3
12

5

In
cr

ea
se

 / 
(d

ec
re

as
e)

 in
 c

as
h 

an
d 

ca
sh

 e
qu

iv
al

en
ts

71
8,

28
6

(1
2,

07
4)

79
2,

31
6

53
,0

25
(1

32
,8

39
)

14
,0

50
3,

33
9

47
7

(8
)

207Notes



Ze
ni

th
 B

an
k 

Pl
c 

An
nu

al
 R

ep
or

t D
ec

em
be

r 3
1,

 2
02

2

N
ot

es
 to

 th
e 

Co
ns

ol
id

at
ed

 a
nd

 S
ep

ar
at

e 
Fi

na
nc

ia
l S

ta
te

m
en

ts
 fo

r t
he

 Y
ea

r E
nd

ed
 3

1 
D

ec
em

be
r 2

02
2

31
 D

ec
em

be
r 2

02
1

Ze
ni

th
 

G
ro

up
In

tr
a-

gr
ou

p
 

tr
an

sa
ct

io
ns

an
d

 b
al

an
ce

Ze
ni

th
 B

an
k

Pl
c

Ze
ni

th
 B

an
k

G
ha

na
 

Li
m

it
ed

Ze
ni

th
 B

an
k

U
K

 L
im

it
ed

 
Ze

ni
th

 B
an

k 
Si

er
ra

 L
eo

ne
 

Li
m

it
ed

 

Ze
ni

th
 B

an
k 

G
am

b
ia

 
Li

m
it

ed
 

Ze
ni

th
 

Pe
ns

io
n 

Cu
st

od
ia

n 
Li

m
it

ed

Ze
ni

th
 

N
om

in
ee

 
Li

m
it

ed

Co
nd

en
se

d 
st

at
em

en
t o

f p
ro
!t

 o
r l

os
s

O
p

er
at

in
g 

in
co

m
e

76
5,

55
8

(1
6,

61
6)

67
7,

28
3

66
,9

60
19

,3
15

5,
08

8
2,

64
9

10
,5

21
35

8

Ex
p

en
se

s
(4

25
,2

52
)

(1
,0

90
)

(3
63

,9
41

)
(4

1,
65

5)
(1

2,
65

8)
(2

,4
34

)
(1

,3
29

)
(1

,9
63

)
(1

82
)

Im
p

ai
rm

en
t c

ha
rg

e 
fo

r fi
na

nc
ia

l a
nd

 n
on

-
fin

an
ci

al
 a

ss
et

s
(5

9,
93

2)
-

(5
6,

17
5)

(1
,9

54
)

(1
,7

32
)

(5
2)

(2
7)

8
-

Pr
ofi

t b
ef

or
e 

ta
x·

 
28

0,
37

4
(1

7,
70

6)
25

7,
16

7
23

,3
51

4,
92

5
2,

60
2

1,
29

3
8,

56
6

17
6

Ta
xa

tio
n 

(3
5,

81
6)

-
(2

4,
03

4)
(7

,9
72

)
(8

46
)

(6
51

)
(3

14
)

(1
,9

53
)

(4
6)

Pr
o!

t /
 lo

ss
 fo

r t
he

 y
ea

r
24

4,
55

8
(1

7,
70

6)
23

3,
13

3
15

,3
79

4,
07

9
1,

95
1

97
9

6,
61

3
13

0

Co
nd

en
se

d 
st

at
em

en
t o

f !
na

nc
ia

l p
os

it
io

n 

A
ss

et
s

C
as

h 
an

d 
b

al
an

ce
s 

w
ith

 c
en

tr
al

 b
an

ks
1,

48
8,

36
3

-
1,

39
7,

66
6

85
,4

98
12

1,
05

3
3,

82
6

28
6

22

Tr
ea

su
ry

 b
ill

s
1,

76
4,

94
6

-
1,

57
7,

64
7

16
5,

90
6

-
-

15
,7

86
5,

47
8

12
9

A
ss

et
s 

p
le

dg
ed

 a
s 

co
lla

te
ra

l
39

2,
59

4
-

35
7,

00
0

35
,5

94
-

-
-

-
-

D
ue

 fr
om

 o
th

er
 b

an
ks

69
1,

24
4

(2
92

,2
61

)
51

8,
05

3
39

,4
37

41
2,

50
9

7,
50

7
5,

99
9

-
-

D
er

iv
at

iv
e 

as
se

t h
el

d 
fo

r r
is

k 
m

an
ag

em
en

t
56

,1
87

(2
,7

36
)

57
,4

76
-

1,
44

7
-

-
-

-

Lo
an

s 
an

d 
ad

va
nc

es
3,

35
5,

72
8

(2
9,

79
6)

3,
09

9,
45

2
10

5,
42

3
17

6,
95

4
2,

39
6

1,
18

4
11

4
1

In
ve

st
m

en
t s

ec
ur

iti
es

1,
30

3,
72

5
-

47
7,

00
4

15
5,

82
4

62
4,

92
4

21
,3

10
3,

43
3

19
,3

35
1,

89
5

In
ve

st
m

en
t i

n 
su

b
si

di
ar

ie
s

-
(3

4,
62

5)
34

,6
25

-
-

-
-

-
-

D
ef

er
re

d 
ta

x 
as

se
t

1,
83

7
-

-
1,

65
4

86
95

2
-

-

O
th

er
 a

ss
et

s
16

8,
21

0
(1

,1
82

)
15

2,
32

6
13

,8
28

87
3

49
7

30
2

1,
52

3
43

Pr
op

er
ty

 a
nd

 e
qu

ip
m

en
t

20
0,

00
8

-
17

7,
50

1
18

,6
70

1,
56

5
82

1
1,

26
5

17
0

16

In
ta

ng
ib

le
 a

ss
et

s
25

,0
01

-
23

,5
42

57
7

44
4

88
65

26
5

20

9,
44

7,
84

3
(3

60
,6

00
)

7,
87

2,
29

2
62

2,
41

1
1,

21
8,

81
4

33
,7

67
31

,8
62

27
,1

71
2,

12
6

208



31
 D

ec
em

be
r 2

02
1

Ze
ni

th
 

G
ro

up
In

tr
a-

gr
ou

p
 

tr
an

sa
ct

io
ns

an
d

 b
al

an
ce

Ze
ni

th
 

Ba
nk Pl

c

Ze
ni

th
 B

an
k

G
ha

na
 L

td
 

Li
m

ite
d

Ze
ni

th
 B

an
k

U
K 

Li
m

ite
d

Ze
ni

th
 B

an
k 

Si
er

ra
 L

eo
ne

 
Li

m
ite

d

Ze
ni

th
 B

an
k 

G
am

bi
a 

Li
m

ite
d

Ze
ni

th
 P

en
si

on
 

Cu
st

od
ia

n 
Li

m
ite

d

Ze
ni

th
 

N
om

in
ee

 
Li

m
ite

d

Li
ab

ili
tie

s &
 E

qu
ity

 

Cu
st

om
er

 d
ep

os
its

6,
47

2,
05

4
(2

92
,2

61
)

5,
16

9,
19

9
44

8,
25

6
1,

09
7,

45
1

25
,5

93
23

,8
16

-
-

D
er

iv
at

iv
e 

lia
bi

lit
ie

s
14

,6
74

(2
,7

37
)

15
,1

70
2,

24
1

-
-

-
-

-

Cu
rre

nt
 in

co
m

e 
ta

x
16

,9
09

-
14

,2
41

-
27

6
12

7
27

6
1,

94
2

47

D
ef

er
re

d 
in

co
m

e 
ta

x 
lia

bi
lit

ie
s

11
,6

03
-

11
,5

96
-

-
-

-
5

2

O
th

er
 li

ab
ili

tie
s

48
7,

43
2

(1
,1

79
)

42
7,

87
6

51
,7

38
6,

10
5

97
3

1,
00

8
73

3
17

8

O
n-

le
nd

in
g 

fa
ci

lit
ie

s
36

9,
24

1
-

36
9,

24
1

-
-

-
-

-
-

Bo
rro

w
in

gs
75

0,
46

9
(2

9,
79

5)
76

9,
39

5
10

,8
69

-
-

-
-

-

D
eb

t s
ec

ur
iti

es
 is

su
ed

45
,7

99
-

45
,7

99
-

-
-

-
-

-

Eq
ui

ty
 a

nd
 re

se
rv

es
1,

27
9,

66
2

(3
4,

62
8)

1,
04

9,
77

5
10

9,
30

7
11

4,
98

2
7,

07
4

6,
76

2
24

,4
91

1,
89

9

9,
44

7,
84

3
(3

60
,6

00
)

7,
87

2,
29

2
62

2,
41

1
1,

21
8,

81
4

33
,7

67
31

,8
62

27
,1

71
2,

12
6

Co
nd

en
se

d 
ca

sh
 #

ow

N
et

 c
as

h 
(u

se
d 

in
)/

fro
m

 o
pe

ra
tin

g 
ac

tiv
iti

es
1,

17
5,

80
9

(1
40

,9
23

)
1,

27
9,

75
9

15
8,

90
5

(1
42

,0
81

)
13

,6
09

1,
98

5
4,

22
6

32
9

N
et

 c
as

h 
(u

se
d 

in
)/

fro
m

 fi
na

nc
in

g 
ac

tiv
iti

es
 

(9
7,

08
8)

5,
84

1
(7

9,
27

8)
(1

4,
54

9)
(3

,1
02

)
44

1
1,

35
4

(6
,0

00
)

-

N
et

 c
as

h 
(u

se
d 

in
)/

fro
m

 in
ve

st
in

g 
ac

tiv
iti

es
(3

60
,4

34
)

12
3,

00
9

(4
08

,1
65

)
(9

1,
33

1)
12

,3
44

-
-

2,
25

1
(3

37
)

In
cr

ea
se

/ (
D

ec
re

as
e)

 in
 c

as
h 

an
d 

ca
sh

 e
qu

iv
al

en
ts

71
8,

28
7

(1
2,

07
3)

79
2,

31
6

53
,0

25
(1

32
,8

39
)

14
,0

50
3,

33
9

47
7

(8
)

Ca
sh

 a
nd

 c
as

h 
eq

ui
va

le
nt

s

At
 st

ar
t o

f y
ea

r 
1,

13
4,

51
9

17
1,

52
7

77
6,

57
4

12
5,

77
1

48
,2

66
1,

68
0

9,
08

4
1,

48
6

13
1

Ex
ch

an
ge

 ra
te

 m
ov

em
en

ts
 o

n 
ca

sh
 a

nd
 c

as
h 

eq
ui

va
le

nt
s

87
,9

54
-

88
,2

95
(3

43
)

-
-

-
-

2

At
 e

nd
 o

f y
ea

r 
1,

94
0,

76
0

15
9,

45
4

1,
65

7,
18

5
17

8,
45

3
(8

4,
57

3)
15

,7
30

12
,4

23
1,

96
3

12
5

In
cr

ea
se

/ (
de

cr
ea

se
) i

n 
ca

sh
 a

nd
 c

as
h 

eq
ui

va
le

nt
s

71
8,

28
7

12
,0

73
79

2,
31

6
53

,0
25

(1
32

,8
39

)
14

,0
50

3,
33

9
47

7
(8

)

209Notes



Apart from Zenith Bank Pensions Custodian Limited and Zenith Nominees Limited, which are incorporated in Nigeria, the remaining subsidiaries are 
incorporated in their respective countries.

Zenith Bank (Ghana) Limited provides Corporate and Retail Banking services. It was incorporated on April 15, 2005 and commenced operations on 
September 16, 2005.

Zenith Pensions Custodian Limited provides pension funds custodial services to Licensed Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs) and Closed Pension Funds 
Administrators under the Pension (Reform) Act, 2004. It was incorporated in Nigeria on March 1, 2005. The name was changed from “Zenith Pensions 
Limited” to “Zenith Pensions Custodian Limited” on September 20, 2005. It was licensed by the National Pension Commission as a custodian of pension 
funds and assets on December 7, 2005 and commenced operations in December 2005.

Zenith Bank (UK) Limited provides wholesale and investment banking services in the United Kingdom. It was incorporated on February 17, 2006 and 
commenced operations on March 30, 2007.

Zenith Bank (Sierra Leone) Limited provides corporate and retail banking services. It was incorporated in Sierra Leone on September 17, 2007 and 
granted an operating license by the Bank of Sierra Leone on September 10, 2008. It commenced banking operations on September 15, 2008.

Zenith Bank (Gambia) Limited provides corporate and retail banking services. It was incorporated in The Gambia on October 24, 2008 and granted an 
operating licence by the Central Bank of Gambia on December 30, 2009. It commenced banking operations on January 18, 2010.

Zenith Nominees Limited which is incorporated in Nigeria provides nominees, trustees, administrators and executorship services for non-pension assets. 
It was incorporated in Nigeria on April 6, 2006.

There are no significant restrictions on the ability of subsidiaries to transfer funds to the Group in the form of cash dividends or repayment of loans and 
advances.

23.    Investment in associates

The Group’s investments under the Small and Medium Enterprises Equity Investment Scheme (“SMEEIS”) is in compliance with the Policy Guidelines for 
2001 Fiscal Year (Monetary Policy Circular No. 35). The Group generally holds 20 percent or more of the voting power of the investee and is therefore 
presumed to have significant influence over the investee. In instances where the Group holds less than 20 percent of the voting power of the investee, 
the Group concluded that it has significant influence due to the Group’s representation on the Board of the relevant investee, with such Board generally 
limited to a small number of Board members.

There were no published price quotations for any associates of the Group. Furthermore, there are no significant restrictions on the ability of associates 
to transfer funds to the Group in the form of cash dividends or repayment of loans and advances. The investment in associates have been fully impaired. 
Hence the carrying amount of the investment in associates is Nil as at 31 December 2022 (31 December 2021: Nil).

210

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



24.     Deferred tax balances

(i) Deferred tax asset

Group Bank

In millions of Naira 31 December 
2022

31 December 
2021

31 December 
2022

31 December 
2021

Unutilised capital allowances 32 15,057 - 15,100

ECL allowance on not-credit impaired financial instruments 21,149 11,017 6,132 8,914

Tax loss carry forward 6 (8) - -

Other assets 587 1,071 - -

Lease liability 2,898 2,325 2,898 2,325

Foreign exchange di"erences 2,701 - - -

Total deferred tax asset 27,373 29,462 9,030 26,339

Set-o" of deferred tax asset against deferred tax liabilities 
pursuant to set-o" provisions (see (ii) below)

(9,030) (27,625) (9,030) (26,339)

Net deferred tax asset 18,343 1,837 - -

(ii) Deferred tax liability

Group Bank

In millions of Naira 31 December 
2022

31 December 
2021

31 December 
2022

31 December 
2021

Property and equipment 17,296 16,861 16,553 15,989

Right of use asset 3,161 4,151 3,161 4,151

Foreign exchange di"erences 5,227 17,795 5,227 17,795

Fair value reserves - 421 - -

Total deferred tax liability 25,684 39,228 24,941 37,935

Set-o" of deferred tax asset against deferred tax liabilities 
pursuant to set-o" provisions (see (i) above)

(9,030) (27,625) (9,030) (26,339)

Net deferred tax liability 16,654 11,603 15,911 11,596

Group

31 December 2022

Movements in temporary di$erences during the year 1 January 2022 Recognised in profit or loss 31December 2022 

Asset

Other assets 1,071 (484) 587

Unutilized capital allowances 15,057 (15,025) 32

ECL Allowance on not-credit impaired financial instruments 11,017 10,132 21,149

Tax loss carry forward (8) 14 6

Fair value reserve - 2,701 2,701

Lease liability 2,325 573 2,898

29,462 (2,089) 27,373

211Notes



31 December 2021

Movements in temporary di$erences during the year 1 January 2022 Recognised in profit or loss 31December 2022 

Liabilities

Property and equipment 16,861 435 17,296

Right of use asset 4,151 (990) 3,161

Fair value reserve 421 (421) -

Foreign exchange di"erences 17,795 (12,568) 5,227

39,228 (13,544) 25,684
Bank

31 December 2022

Movements in temporary di$erences during the year 1 January 2022 Recognised in profit or loss 31December 2022 

Asset
ECL Allowance on not-credit impaired financial instruments 8,914 (2,782) 6,132

Unutilized capital allowances 15,100 (15,100) -

Lease liability 2,325 573 2,898

26,339 (17,309) 9,030

Bank

31 December 2022

Movements in temporary di$erences during the year 1 January 2022 Recognised in profit or loss 31December 2022 

Liabilities

Property and equipment 15,989 564 16,553

Right of use asset 4,151 (990) 3,161

Foreign exchange di"erences 17,795 (12,568) 5,227

37,935 (12,994) 24,941

The group’s deferred tax asset is largely attributable to Zenith bank Ghana, which su"ered a loss in the current year. The 
deferred tax asset principally arose from ECL allowance on financial instruments. The group has recognized all of its deferred 
tax asset as at 31 Dec 2022. The group, therefore, has no unrecognized deferred tax asset. The group will continue to assess 
the recoverability of its deferred tax asset and ensure that only amounts considered recoverable are recognized in the books 
and presented in the statement of financial position.

25.     Other assets
Group Bank

In millions of Naira 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021

Non-!nancial assets

Prepayments 9,803 9,626 7,363 7,717

Other non-financial assets 13,615 9,763 13,501 9,815

Gross other non-financial assets 23,418 19,389 20,864 17,532

less impairment (see note (i) below) (3,361) - (3,361) -

Net other non-financial assets 20,057 19,389 17,503 17,532

Other !nancial assets

E-card and settlement receivables 127,583 101,520 125,569 88,601

Intercompany receivables - - 542 458

Deposit for investment in AGSMEIS 53,747 40,888 53,747 40,888

Other receivables* 41,109 16,338 24,579 13,962

Deposits for shares - - 720 720

Gross other financial assets 222,439 158,746 205,157 144,629

Less: ECL allowance(see note 25(ii)) (28,973) (9,925) (28,868) (9,835)

Net other financial assets 193,466 148,821 176,289 134,794

Total other assets (Net) 213,523 168,210 193,792 152,326

212

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



Deposit for investment in AGSMEIS represents funds deposited with the CBN for future equity investments in agricultural, 
small and medium enterprises in line with the CBN directives.Other non-financial assets comprises of balances on settlement 
accounts such as: Witholding tax, revenue collection, sundry receivables. These assets are short tenured and are promptly 
settled.

*Other receivables comprises of mobile electronic funds receivable from customer.

Classi!ed as:

Current 157,545 127,322 139,324 111,438

Non-current 55,978 40,888 54,468 40,888

213,523 168,210 193,792 152,326

See note 3.2.18 for movement in impairment allowance for other financial assets as at 31 December .

(i) Movement in impairment allowance for non-financial assets

Group Bank

In millions of Naira 31 December 
2022

31 December 
2021

31 December 
2022

31 December 
2021

At start of the year - 226 - 226

Charge for the year (see note 8) 3,361 - 3,361 -

Non financial asset - (226) - (226)

- - - -

At end of the year 3,361 - 3,361 -

(ii) Provision matrix

The table below summarises the provision matrix of the Bank as at 31 December 2022. The loss allowance recorded by the 
other subsidiaries on their other financial assets is considered insignificant to the Group.

31 December, 2022 0-30 days 31-60 days 61-90 days 91-180 days Above 180 days Total

Receivables 124,077 555 145 1,813 24,101 150,691

Expected loss rate 2.35 % 4.71 % 7.07 % 100.00 % 100.00 % -

ECL 2,918 26 10 1,813 24,101 28,868

31 December, 2021 0-30 days 31-60 days 61-90 days 181-365 days Above 180 days Total

Receivables 84,602 278 840 1,806 5,223 92,749

Expected loss rate 3.20 % 6.40 % 9.60 % 100.00 % 100.00 % -

ECL 2,707 18 81 1,806 5,223 9,835

The receivables exclude the deposit for shares and deposit for AGSMEIS which are not subject to impairment by the simplified 
approach.

213Notes



Ze
ni

th
 B

an
k 

Pl
c 

An
nu

al
 R

ep
or

t D
ec

em
be

r 3
1,

 2
02

2

N
ot

es
 to

 th
e 

Co
ns

ol
id

at
ed

 a
nd

 S
ep

ar
at

e 
Fi

na
nc

ia
l S

ta
te

m
en

ts
 fo

r t
he

 Y
ea

r E
nd

ed
 3

1 
D

ec
em

be
r 2

02
2

26
. 

Pr
op

er
ty

 a
nd

 e
qu

ip
m

en
t

(a
)  

   
   

  P
ro

pe
rt

y 
an

d 
eq

ui
pm

en
t m

ov
em

en
t 

G
ro

u
p

31
 D

ec
em

be
r 2

02
2

La
nd

Bu
ild

in
g

Le
as

eh
ol

d
im

pr
ov

em
en

ts
Fu

rn
itu

re
,

!t
tin

gs
 a

nd
eq

ui
pm

en
t

Co
m

pu
te

r
eq

ui
pm

en
t

Ai
rc

ra
ft

M
ot

or
 

ve
hi

cl
es

Ri
gh

t o
f 

us
e 

as
se

t -
 

bu
ild

in
gs

Ri
gh

t-
of

-u
se

 
as

se
ts

-
Ai

rc
ra

ft

W
or

k 
in

 
pr

og
re

ss
To

ta
l

Co
st

At
 1

 Ja
nu

ar
y, 

20
22

36
,4

31
67

,8
88

24
,9

45
10

3,
90

8
40

,8
66

-
26

,7
60

27
,1

04
12

,6
00

35
,8

98
37

6,
40

0

Ad
di

tio
ns

2,
42

2
2,

47
5

1,
65

6
8,

14
4

5,
39

2
25

,7
04

8,
86

8
3,

77
2

-
12

,5
84

71
,0

17

Re
cl

as
sifi

ca
tio

n/
tra

ns
fe

r f
ro

m
 W

IP
(6

)
(8

48
)

1,
51

2
79

3
2,

46
2

-
67

9
-

-
(4

,5
92

)
-

M
od

ifi
ca

tio
ns

-
-

-
-

-
-

-
67

5
-

-
67

5

D
isp

os
al

s /
 w

rit
e 

o"
-

-
(9

81
)

(1
,0

35
)

(5
48

)
-

(1
,2

67
)

(1
72

)
(1

2,
60

0)
(3

3)
(1

6,
63

6)

Ex
ch

an
ge

 d
i"

er
en

ce
-

(3
,4

53
)

(6
79

)
(9

25
)

(2
94

)
-

(6
45

)
(2

,6
50

)
-

(4
39

)
(9

,0
84

)

At
 3

1 
D

ec
em

be
r 2

02
2

38
,8

47
66

,0
62

26
,4

53
11

0,
88

5
47

,8
78

25
,7

04
34

,3
95

28
,7

29
-

43
,4

19
42

2,
37

2

Ac
cu

m
ul

at
ed

 D
ep

re
ci

at
io

n

At
 1

 Ja
nu

ar
y 

20
22

-
10

,3
98

20
,9

50
78

,6
46

34
,7

27
-

20
,5

54
5,

86
7

5,
25

0
-

17
6,

39
2

Ch
ar

ge
 fo

r t
he

 y
ea

r
-

1,
35

4
2,

14
2

11
,2

64
4,

86
5

35
7

3,
60

1
2,

31
2

73
5

-
26

,6
30

Re
cl

as
sifi

ca
tio

ns
/t

ra
ns

fe
r f

ro
m

 W
IP

-
(8

1)
52

47
(1

8)
-

1
-

-
-

-

D
isp

os
al

s
-

(7
)

(6
80

)
(9

66
)

(5
09

)
-

(1
,0

58
)

(1
75

)
(5

,9
85

)
-

(9
,3

80
)

Ex
ch

an
ge

 d
i"

er
en

ce
-

(3
26

)
(5

49
)

(6
39

)
(1

49
)

-
(3

78
)

(7
2)

-
-

(2
,1

13
)

At
 3

1 
D

ec
em

be
r 2

02
2

-
11

,3
38

21
,9

15
88

,3
52

38
,9

16
35

7
22

,7
20

7,
93

2
-

-
19

1,
52

9

N
et

 b
oo

k 
am

ou
nt

At
 3

1 
D

ec
em

be
r 2

02
2

38
,8

47
54

,7
24

4,
53

8
22

,5
33

8,
96

2
25

,3
47

11
,6

75
20

,7
99

-
43

,4
19

23
0,

84
3

Ex
pe

ns
es

 re
la

tin
g 

to
 s

ho
rt

 te
rm

 le
as

e 
an

d 
lo

w
 v

al
ue

 le
as

e 
as

se
ts

 c
an

 b
e 

se
en

 in
 n

ot
e 

12
 a

s 
le

as
e 

ex
pe

ns
e.

Th
er

e 
w

er
e 

no
 im

pa
irm

en
t l

os
se

s 
on

 a
ny

 c
la

ss
 o

f p
ro

pe
rt

y 
an

d 
eq

ui
pm

en
t d

ur
in

g 
th

e 
pe

rio
d 

(3
1 

D
ec

em
be

r 2
02

1:
 N

il)
.

Th
er

e 
w

er
e 

no
 c

ap
ita

lis
ed

 b
or

ro
w

in
g 

co
st

s 
re

la
te

d 
to

 th
e 

ac
qu

is
iti

on
 o

f p
ro

pe
rt

y 
an

d 
eq

ui
pm

en
t d

ur
in

g 
th

e 
pe

rio
d 

(3
1 

D
ec

em
be

r 2
02

1:
 N

il)
.

A
ll 

pr
op

er
ty

 a
nd

 e
qu

ip
m

en
t a

re
 n

on
-c

ur
re

nt
. N

on
e 

of
 th

e 
Ba

nk
’s 

as
se

ts
 w

er
e 

fin
an

ce
d 

fro
m

 b
or

ro
w

in
gs

, c
on

se
qu

en
tly

 n
o 

bo
rr

ow
in

g 
co

st
 h

as
 b

ee
n 

ca
pi

ta
liz

ed
 a

s 
pa

rt
 

of
 a

ss
et

 c
os

t. 
co

st
.

214



Fo
r a

cc
ou

nt
in

g 
po

lic
y 

an
d 

ju
dg

em
en

ts
 o

n 
rig

ht
 o

f u
se

 s
ee

 n
ot

e 
2.

14
.

Th
e 

G
ro

up
 h

as
 n

o 
RO

U
 in

 re
sp

ec
t o

f l
ea

se
s 

th
at

 a
re

 y
et

 to
 c

om
m

en
ce

.

G
ro

up

31
 D

ec
em

be
r 2

02
1

La
nd

Bu
ild

in
g

Le
as

eh
ol

d
im

pr
ov

em
en

ts
Fu

rn
itu

re
,

!t
tin

gs
 a

nd
eq

ui
pm

en
t

Co
m

pu
te

r
eq

ui
pm

en
t

Ri
gh

t o
f 

us
e 

as
se

st
 - 

Ai
rc

ra
ft

M
ot

or
Ve

hi
cl

es
Ri

gh
t o

f 
us

e 
as

se
t -

 
bu

ild
in

gs

Ai
rc

ra
ft

W
or

k 
in

 
pr

og
re

ss
To

ta
l

Co
st

At
 1

 Ja
nu

ar
y, 

20
21

36
,0

87
64

,8
49

26
,3

66
98

,1
03

36
,5

90
12

,6
00

24
,4

64
24

,2
80

-
23

,9
39

34
7,

27
8

Ad
di

tio
ns

34
3

2,
39

2
1,

22
8

7,
64

1
3,

88
9

-
3,

51
1

73
9

-
15

,1
05

34
,8

48

Re
cl

as
sifi

ca
tio

n/
tra

ns
fe

r f
ro

m
 W

IP
1

65
3

(1
,7

58
)

1,
69

4
74

9
-

29
1,

80
0

-
(3

,2
36

)
(6

8)

D
isp

os
al

s 
-

(2
59

)
(9

33
)

(3
,5

33
)

(4
04

)
-

(1
,2

66
)

-
-

-
(6

,3
95

)

Ex
ch

an
ge

 d
i"

er
en

ce
-

25
3

42
3

42
-

22
28

5
-

90
73

7

At
 3

1 
D

ec
em

be
r 2

02
1

36
,4

31
67

,8
88

24
,9

45
10

3,
90

8
40

,8
66

12
,6

00
26

,7
60

27
,1

04
-

35
,8

98
37

6,
40

0

Ac
cu

m
ul

at
ed

 D
ep

re
ci

at
io

n

At
 1

 Ja
nu

ar
y 

20
21

-
9,

01
4

20
,5

63
69

,9
28

31
,1

95
3,

99
0

18
,9

62
3,

45
6

-
-

15
7,

10
8

Ch
ar

ge
 fo

r t
he

 y
ea

r
-

1,
36

2
2,

07
1

11
,9

31
3,

92
0

1,
26

0
2,

79
5

1,
96

6
-

-
25

,3
05

Re
cl

as
sifi

ca
tio

ns
/t

ra
ns

fe
r f

ro
m

 W
IP

-
16

2
(1

88
)

73
(2

7)
-

-
57

8
-

-
-

D
isp

os
al

s
-

(1
68

)
(9

13
)

(3
,3

02
)

(4
03

)
-

(1
,2

39
)

-
-

-
(6

,0
25

)

Ex
ch

an
ge

 d
i"

er
en

ce
-

28
17

14
42

-
36

(1
33

)
-

-
4

At
 3

1 
D

ec
em

be
r 2

02
1

-
10

,3
98

20
,9

50
78

,6
46

34
,7

27
5,

25
0

20
,5

54
5,

86
7

-
-

17
6,

39
2

N
et

 b
oo

k 
am

ou
nt

At
 3

1 
D

ec
em

be
r 2

02
1

36
,4

31
57

,4
90

3,
99

5
25

,2
62

6,
13

9
7,

35
0

6,
20

6
21

,2
37

-
35

,8
98

20
0,

00
8

215Notes



Ze
ni

th
 B

an
k 

Pl
c 

An
nu

al
 R

ep
or

t D
ec

em
be

r 3
1,

 2
02

2

N
ot

es
 to

 th
e 

Co
ns

ol
id

at
ed

 a
nd

 S
ep

ar
at

e 
Fi

na
nc

ia
l S

ta
te

m
en

ts
 fo

r t
he

 Y
ea

r E
nd

ed
 3

1 
D

ec
em

be
r 2

02
2

Ba
nk

31
 D

ec
em

be
r 2

02
2

La
nd

Bu
ild

in
g

Le
as

eh
ol

d
im

pr
ov

em
en

ts
Fu

rn
itu

re
,

!t
tin

gs
 a

nd
eq

ui
pm

en
t

Co
m

pu
te

r
eq

ui
pm

en
t

Ai
rc

ra
ft

M
ot

or
Ve

hi
cl

es
Ri

gh
t o

f 
us

e 
as

se
t -

 
bu

ild
in

gs

Ri
gh

t-
of

-
us

e
as

se
ts

-
Ai

rc
ra

ft

W
or

k 
in

 
pr

og
re

ss
 

To
ta

l

Co
st

At
 1

 Ja
nu

ar
y 

20
22

36
,4

31
57

,1
58

21
,6

31
10

0,
50

0
38

,7
95

-
24

,6
72

16
,7

61
12

,6
00

34
,6

77
34

3,
22

4

Ad
di

tio
ns

2,
42

2
2,

24
6

1,
17

7
7,

77
2

5,
11

4
25

,7
04

7,
98

6
3,

39
4

-
11

,9
37

67
,7

51

Re
cl

as
sifi

ca
tio

n/
tra

ns
fe

r f
ro

m
 W

IP
(6

)
(8

49
)

1,
48

8
69

8
2,

46
8

-
40

6
-

-
(4

,2
05

)
-

D
isp

os
al

s
-

-
(3

5)
(6

73
)

(4
3)

-
(9

91
)

-
-

-
(1

4,
34

2)

M
od

ifi
ca

tio
ns

-
-

-
-

-
-

-
67

5
(1

2,
60

0)
-

67
5

At
 3

1 
D

ec
em

be
r 2

02
2

38
,8

47
58

,5
55

24
,2

61
10

8,
29

7
46

,3
34

25
,7

04
32

,0
73

20
,8

29
-

42
,4

08
39

7,
30

8

Ac
cu

m
ul

at
ed

 D
ep

re
ci

at
io

n

At
 1

 Ja
nu

ar
y 

20
22

-
9,

42
9

18
,4

79
76

,1
79

33
,2

13
-

19
,1

85
3,

98
9

5,
25

0
-

16
5,

72
4

D
isp

os
al

s
-

(0
)

(2
8)

(6
27

)
(3

4)
-

(8
33

)
-

(5
,9

85
)

-
(7

,5
07

)

Re
cl

as
sifi

ca
tio

ns
/t

ra
ns

fe
r f

ro
m

 W
IP

-
(8

1)
52

49
(2

0)
-

-
-

-
-

-

Ch
ar

ge
 fo

r t
he

 y
ea

r
-

1,
13

2
1,

92
5

10
,9

24
4,

60
9

35
7

3,
23

1
1,

60
6

73
5

-
24

,5
19

At
 3

1 
D

ec
em

be
r 2

02
2

-
10

,4
79

20
,4

28
86

,5
25

37
,7

68
35

7
21

,5
83

5,
59

5
-

-
18

2,
73

6

N
et

 b
oo

k 
am

ou
nt

At
 3

1 
D

ec
em

be
r 2

02
2

38
,8

47
48

,0
76

3,
83

3
21

,7
72

8,
56

6
25

,3
47

10
,4

90
15

,2
34

-
42

,4
08

21
4,

57
2

Ex
pe

ns
es

 re
la

tin
g 

to
 s

ho
rt

 te
rm

 le
as

e 
an

d 
lo

w
 v

al
ue

 le
as

e 
as

se
ts

 c
an

 b
e 

se
en

 in
 n

ot
e 

12
 a

s 
le

as
e 

ex
pe

ns
e.

Th
er

e 
w

er
e 

no
 im

pa
irm

en
t l

os
se

s 
on

 a
ny

 c
la

ss
 o

f p
ro

pe
rt

y 
an

d 
eq

ui
pm

en
t d

ur
in

g 
th

e 
pe

rio
d 

(3
1 

D
ec

em
be

r 2
02

1:
 N

il)
.

Th
er

e 
w

er
e 

no
 c

ap
ita

lis
ed

 b
or

ro
w

in
g 

co
st

s 
re

la
te

d 
to

 th
e 

ac
qu

is
iti

on
 o

f p
ro

pe
rt

y 
an

d 
eq

ui
pm

en
t d

ur
in

g 
th

e 
ye

ar
 (3

1 
D

ec
em

be
r 2

02
1:

 N
il)

.

A
ll 

pr
op

er
ty

 a
nd

 e
qu

ip
m

en
t a

re
 n

on
-c

ur
re

nt
. N

on
e 

of
 th

e 
Ba

nk
’s 

as
se

ts
 w

er
e 

fin
an

ce
d 

fro
m

 b
or

ro
w

in
gs

, c
on

se
qu

en
tly

 n
o 

bo
rr

ow
in

g 
co

st
 h

as
 b

ee
n 

ca
pi

ta
liz

ed
 a

s 
pa

rt
 

of
 a

ss
et

 c
os

t. 

Fo
r a

cc
ou

nt
in

g 
po

lic
y 

an
d 

ju
dg

em
en

ts
 o

n 
rig

ht
 o

f u
se

 s
ee

 n
ot

e 
2.

14
 a

nd
 th

e 
ba

nk
 h

as
 1

07
 m

ill
io

n 
RO

U
 in

 re
sp

ec
t o

f l
ea

se
s 

th
at

 a
re

 y
et

 to
 c

om
m

en
ce

.

216



Ba
nk

31
 D

ec
em

be
r 

20
21

La
nd

Bu
ild

in
g

Le
as

eh
ol

d
im

pr
ov

em
en

ts
Fu

rn
itu

re
,

!t
tin

gs
 a

nd
eq

ui
pm

en
t

Co
m

pu
te

r
eq

ui
pm

en
t

Ri
gh

t o
f u

se
 

as
se

st
 - 

Ai
rc

ra
ft

M
ot

or
Ve

hi
cl

es
Ri

gh
t o

f u
se

 
as

se
t -

 b
ui

ld
in

gs
W

or
k 

in
 

pr
og

re
ss

 
(W

IP
)

To
ta

l

Co
st

At
 1

 Ja
nu

ar
y, 

20
21

36
,0

87
55

,2
01

21
,2

88
95

,1
51

34
,9

03
12

,6
00

22
,7

49
16

,3
52

23
,0

97
31

7,
42

8

Ad
di

tio
ns

34
3

1,
76

1
1,

09
4

7,
32

2
3,

56
1

-
3,

12
3

40
9

14
,3

80
31

,9
93

Re
cl

as
sifi

ca
tio

n/
tra

ns
fe

r f
ro

m
 W

IP
1

45
5

53
1,

55
9

73
2

-
-

-
(2

,8
00

)
-

D
isp

os
al

s
-

(2
59

)
(8

04
)

(3
,5

32
)

(4
01

)
-

(1
,2

00
)

-
-

(6
,1

96
)

At
 3

1 
D

ec
em

be
r 

20
21

36
,4

31
57

,1
58

21
,6

31
10

0,
50

0
38

,7
95

12
,6

00
24

,6
72

16
,7

61
34

,6
77

34
3,

22
5

Ac
cu

m
ul

at
ed

 D
ep

re
ci

at
io

n

At
 1

 Ja
nu

ar
y 

20
21

-
8,

33
3

17
,5

93
67

,9
11

29
,9

75
3,

99
0

17
,9

49
2,

59
7

-
14

8,
34

8

Ch
ar

ge
 fo

r t
he

 y
ea

r
-

1,
10

2
1,

86
3

11
,4

94
3,

66
5

1,
26

0
2,

42
8

1,
39

2
-

23
,2

04

Re
cl

as
sifi

ca
tio

ns
/

tra
ns

fe
r f

ro
m

 W
IP

-
16

2
(2

10
)

75
(2

7)
-

-
-

-
-

D
isp

os
al

s
-

(1
68

)
(7

67
)

(3
,3

01
)

(4
00

)
-

(1
,1

92
)

-
-

(5
,8

28
)

At
 3

1 
D

ec
em

be
r 

20
21

-
9,

42
9

18
,4

79
76

,1
79

33
,2

13
5,

25
0

19
,1

85
3,

98
9

-
16

5,
72

4

N
et

 b
oo

k 
am

ou
nt

At
 3

1 
D

ec
em

be
r 

20
21

36
,4

31
47

,7
29

3,
15

2
24

,3
21

5,
58

2
7,

35
0

5,
48

7
12

,7
72

34
,6

77
17

7,
50

1

217Notes



Ze
ni

th
 B

an
k 

Pl
c 

An
nu

al
 R

ep
or

t D
ec

em
be

r 3
1,

 2
02

2

N
ot

es
 to

 th
e 

Co
ns

ol
id

at
ed

 a
nd

 S
ep

ar
at

e 
Fi

na
nc

ia
l S

ta
te

m
en

ts
 fo

r t
he

 Y
ea

r E
nd

ed
 3

1 
D

ec
em

be
r 2

02
2

(b
) 

Ri
gh

t o
f u

se
 a

m
ou

nt
s r

ec
og

ni
se

d 
in

 th
e 

st
at

em
en

t o
f !

na
nc

ia
l p

os
tio

n

In
 m

ill
io

ns
 o

f N
ai

ra
31

 D
ec

 2
02

2
31

 D
ec

 2
02

1
31

 D
ec

 2
02

2
31

 D
ec

 2
02

1

Ri
gh

t-
of

-u
se

 a
ss

et
s

Ai
rc

ra
ft 

(s
ee

 n
ot

e 
26

)
-

7,
35

0
-

7,
35

0

Bu
ild

in
gs

 (s
ee

 n
ot

e 
26

)
20

,7
97

21
,2

37
15

,2
34

12
,7

72

20
,7

97
28

,5
87

15
,2

34
20

,1
22

Ad
di

tio
ns

 to
 th

e 
rig

ht
-o

f-u
se

 a
ss

et
 fo

r d
ur

in
g 

th
e 

ye
ar

 e
nd

ed
 3

1 
D

ec
em

be
r 2

02
2 

w
as

 N
3,

77
2 

m
ill

io
n 

an
d 

N
3,

39
4 

m
ill

io
n 

(3
1 

D
ec

em
be

r 2
02

1:
 N

73
9 

m
ill

io
n 

an
d 

N
40

9 
m

ill
io

n 
re

sp
ec

tiv
el

y 
).

In
 m

ill
io

ns
 o

f N
ai

ra
31

 D
ec

 2
02

2
31

 D
ec

 2
02

1
31

 D
ec

 2
02

2
31

 D
ec

 2
02

1

Le
as

e 
lia

bi
lit

ie
s

Cu
rre

nt
41

9
3,

40
6

24
2,

57
7

N
on

-c
ur

re
nt

14
,5

71
20

,6
96

8,
89

2
14

,1
31

14
,9

90
24

,1
02

8,
91

6
16

,7
08

(c
) 

Am
ou

nt
s r

ec
og

ni
se

d 
in

 th
e 

in
co

m
e 

st
at

em
en

t

In
 m

ill
io

ns
 o

f N
ai

ra
31

 D
ec

 2
02

2
31

 D
ec

 2
02

1
31

 D
ec

 2
02

2
31

 D
ec

 2
02

1

D
ep

re
ci

at
io

n 
ch

ar
ge

 o
f r

ig
ht

-o
f-u

se
 a

ss
et

Ai
rc

ra
ft 

(s
ee

 n
ot

e 
26

)
73

5
1,

26
0

73
5

1,
26

0

Bu
ild

in
gs

 (s
ee

 n
ot

e 
26

)
2,

31
2

1,
96

6
1,

60
6

1,
39

2

3,
04

7
3,

22
6

2,
34

1
2,

65
2

In
te

re
st

 e
xp

en
se

 (i
nc

lu
de

d 
in

 fi
na

nc
e 

co
st

)
2,

08
2

3,
42

7
2,

06
9

2,
88

5

Le
as

e 
ex

pe
ns

e
59

3
98

5
58

3
46

218



The total cash outflow of leases as at 31 December 2022 was N3,826 million and 3,255 million respectively (31 December 2021: 4,805million 

andN3,957 million respectively)

Group Bank

In millions of Naira 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021

27.     Intangible assets
Computer software 

Cost

At start of the year 48,353 35,609 41,654 29,747

Exchange di"erence (324) 246 - -

Reclassification from PPE - 68 - -

Additions 4,130 14,884 3,461 14,361

Write o" - (2,454) - (2,454)

Disposal (2,884) - - -

At end of the year 49,275 48,353 45,115 41,654

Accumulated amortization

Group Bank

In millions of Naira 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021

At start of the year 23,352 19,366 18,112 15,048

Exchange di"erence (123) 207 - -

Disposal (2,884) - - -

Charge for the year 3,679 3,779 3,045 3,064

At end of the year 24,024 23,352 21,157 18,112

Carrying amount at end of the year 25,251 25,001 23,958 23,542

All intangible assets are non-current. All intangible assets of the Group have finite useful life and are amortised over 5 years.

The Group does not have internally generated intangible assets.

28.     Customers’ deposits 

Demand 4,880,784 3,530,521 3,844,612 2,561,736

Savingss 2,717,049 2,489,340 2,673,518 2,301,379

Term 1,377,820 452,193 916,676 306,084

 8,975,653 6,472,054 7,434,806 5,169,199

Classi!ed as:

Current 8,975,653 6,472,054 7,434,806 5,169,199

219Notes



Group Bank

In millions of Naira 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021

29.     Other liabilities
Other !nancial liabilities 

Customer deposits for letters of credit 113,680 86,872 113,680 86,872

Managers’ cheques 19,614 18,279 19,244 17,707

Collections accounts 111,953 154,728 108,689 154,694

Unclaimed dividend 29,764 28,647 29,764 28,647

Lease liability (see note (c) below) 14,990 24,102 8,916 16,708

AMCON payable 1,908 3,817 1,908 3,817

Electronic card and settlement payables 107,619 60,829 106,268 58,000

Customers’ foreign transactions payables 30,979 8,653 30,975 8,653

Account payables 115,431 69,849 107,501 34,005

Total other !nancial liabilities 545,938 455,776 526,945 409,103

Group Bank

In millions of Naira 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021

Non !nancial liabilities 

Tax collections 5,765 5,339 5,503 5,003

Deferred income on financial guarantee contracts 2,507 1,206 1,926 1,186

Other payables 7,735 19,495 6,683 6,968

O" Balance Sheet exposures impairment allowance 6,614 5,616 5,290 5,616

Total other non financial liabilities 22,621 31,656 19,402 18,773

Total other liabilities 568,559 487,432 546,347 427,876

Classi!ed as: 

Current 556,023 474,070 539,225 413,624

Non-current 12,536 13,362 7,122 14,252

568,559 487,432 546,347 427,876

(a)      ECL allowance for o" balance sheet exposure
In millions of Naira

Bonds and guarantee contracts 1,054 43 59 43

Undrawn portion of loan commitments 863 1,215 863 1,215

Letters of credit 4,697 4,358 4,369 4,358

6,614 5,616 5,291 5,616

220

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



Group Bank

In millions of Naira 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021

(b)      Lease liability
This relates to lease rental for aircraft and properties used by the Group. The net carrying amount of leased assets, included within property 
and equipment is N21.1 billion and N16.1 billion as at 31 December 2022. (31 December 2021: N28.60 billion and N20.12 billion) for both 
Group and Bank respectively.

The undiscounted cash flow payments on the lease liabilities extend over a number of years. This is analysed as follows:

Not more than one year 1,252 4,561 857 4,311

Over one year but less than five years 8,572 19,531 2,921 19,226

More than five years 13,141 11,681 13,114 4,843

At end of the year 22,965 35,773 16,892 28,380

The table below shows the movement in lease liability during the year.

Group Bank

In millions of Naira 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021

As at 1 January 24,102 24,456 16,708 17,521

Additions 1,491 499 1,363 259

Reclassification 1,255 - - -

Lease Termination (4,011) - (8,640) -

Principal repayment (3,493) (2,802) (2,927) (2,007)

Modification 675 353 674 -

Interest expense 2,082 3,427 2,069 2,885

Interest paid (333) (2,003) (333) (1,950)

Foreign exchange di"erence (1,631) 172 - -

At end of the year 14,990 24,102 8,914 16,708

221Notes



Group Bank

In millions of Naira 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021

30.     On-lending facilities

(a) This comprises:

Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Commercial Agriculture 
Credit Scheme Loan (i)

32,893 43,631 32,893 43,631

Bank of Industry (BOI) Intervention Loan (ii) 29,772 32,266 29,772 32,266

Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) / Bank of Industry(BOI) - 
Power & Aviation intervention Funds (iii)

2,380 3,893 2,380 3,893

CBN MSMEDF Deposit (iv) 1,349 1,233 1,349 1,233

FGN SBS Intervention Fund (v) 126,917 136,605 126,917 136,605

Excess Crude Loan Facilty Deposit (vi) 74,007 83,030 74,007 83,030

Real Sector Support Facility (vii) 32,336 40,398 32,336 40,398

Non-Oil Export Stimulation Facility (viii) 11,538 19,593 11,538 19,593

Paddy Aggregation Scheme (Phase 2) Fund - - - -

Creative Industry Financing Initiative (ix) - 229 - 229

Maize Aggregation Scheme - - - -

Accelerated Agricultural Development Scheme (x) - 8,363 - 8,363

311,192 369,241 311,192 369,241

Classi!ed as:
Current

71,023 8,363 71,023 8,363

Non-current 240,169 360,878 240,169 360,878

311,192 369,241 311,192 369,241

(b) Movement

In millions of Naira 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021

At beginning of the year 369,241 384,573 369,241 384,573

Principal addition during the year - 14,482 - 14,482

Principal repayment during the year (59,470) (33,011) (59,470) (33,011)

Interest expense during the year 6,278 4,881 6,278 4,881

Interest paid during the year (4,857) (1,684) (4,857) (1,684)

At end of the year 311,192 369,241 311,192 369,241

(i) The fund received under the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Commercial Agriculture Credit Scheme represents a credit line 
granted to the Bank for the purpose of providing concessionary funding to the agricultural sector. The facility has a tenor of 16 
years with e"ect from 2009 and will expire in September 2025. The facility attracts an interest rate of 2% per annum and the Bank 
is under obligation to on-lend to customers at an all-in interest rate of not more than 9% per annum. Based on the structure of 
the facility, the Bank assumes the default risk of all amounts lent to the Bank’s customers. This facility is not secured.

(ii) The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) / Bank of Industry (B0I) - SME / Manufacturing Intervention Fund represents an intervention 
credit granted to the Bank for the purpose of refinancing / restructuring existing loans to Small and Medium Scale Enterprises 

222

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



(SMEs) and Manufacturing Companies. The total facility is secured by Nigerian Government Securities. The maximum tenor 
for term loans under the programme is 15 years while the tenor for working capital is one year, renewable annually subject 
to a maximum tenor of five years. A management fee of 1% per annum is deductible at source in the first year, and  quarterly 
in arrears thereafter, is paid by the Bank under the Intervention programme and the Bank is under obligation to on-lend to 
customers at an all-In interest rate of 7% per annum. The Bank is the primary obligor to CBN / BOI and assumes the risk of default.

(iii) The purpose of granting new loans and refinancing / restructuring existing loans to companies in the power and aviation 
industries is to support Federal Government’s focus on the sectors. The facility is secured by Irrevocable Standing Payment Order 
(ISPO). The maximum tenor for term loans under the programme is 15 years while the tenor for working capital is one year, with 
option to renew the facility annually subject to a maximum tenor of five years. The facility attracts an interest rate of 2% per 
annum payable quarterly in arrears and the Bank is under obligation to on-lend to customers at an all-in interest rate of 9% per 
annum. This facility is not secured.

(iv) The Micro Small & Medium Scale Enterprises Development Fund (MSMEDF) is an intervention fund established to support the 
channeling of low interest funds to the MSME sub-sector of the Nigerian economy. The facility attracts an interest rate of 2% 
per annum and the Bank is obligated to on-lend to SMEs at 9% per annum. The maximum tenor is 5 years while the tenor for 
working capital is 1 year. This facility is not secured.

(v) The Salary Bailout Scheme was approved by the Federal Government to assist State Governments in the settlement of 
outstanding salaries owed their workers. Funds are disbursed to Banks nominated by beneficiary States at 2% for onlending to 
the beneficiary states at 9%. The loans have a tenor of 20 years. Repayments are deducted at source, by the Accountant General 
of the Federation, as a first line charge against each beneficiary state’s monthly statutory allocation. This facility is not secured..

(vi) Excess Crude Account (ECA) facilities are loans of N10 billion to each State with a tenor of 10-years priced at 9% per annum 
interest rate to the beneficiaries. Repayments are deducted at source, by the Accountant General of the Federation, as a first line 
charge against each beneficiary state’s monthly statutory allocation. This facility is not secured. The fund is disbursed to the bank 
at 2% interest rate.

(vii) The Real Sector Support Facility (RSSF): The Central Bank of Nigeria, as part of the e"orts to unlock the potential of the real sector 
to engender output growth, productivity and job creation has established a N300 billion Real Sector Support Facility (RSSF). The 
facility is disbursed to large enterprises and startups with financing needs of N500 million up to a maximum of N10.0 billion. 
The activities targeted by the Facility are manufacturing, agricultural value chain and selected service subsectors. The funds are 
received from the CBN at 2%, and disbursed at 9% to the beneficiary.

(viii) Non-oil Export Stimulation Facility (NESF): This Facility was established by the Central Bank of Nigeria to diversify the economy 
away from the oil sector, after the fall in crude prices. The Central Bank invested N500billion debenture, issued by Nigerian 
Export-Import Bank (NEXIM). The facility disbursed per customer shall not exceed 70% of total cost of project, or subject to 
a maximum of N5billion. Funds disbursed to the Bank from CBN are at a cost of 2% which are then disbursed to qualifying 
customers at the rate of 9% per annum.

(ix) Creative Industry Financing Initiative (CIFI) is a scheme established by the Central Bank of Nigeria to provide long term and low 
interest funding to players in the creative industry. Areas of interest include Information Technology, Fashion, Movie Production/
Distribution and Music. Loans are disbursed to beneficiaries for up to 10 years at 9% per annum. The fund is disbursed to the 
bank at 5% interest rate

(x) Accelerated Agricultural Development Scheme (AADS) was established by the Central Bank of Nigeria to help states develop at 
least 2 crops/agricultural commodities in which they have comparative advantage. The fund is disbursed to the Bank at 2% per 

223Notes



annum. Each state is allowed a facility of N1.5billion at 9% per annum and repayments are made via ISPO deductions.

The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) further extended the 5% per annum interest rate on all intervention facilities for an additional year 
until February 28, 2023. The Bank on-lends to customers at 5% p.a.

31.     Borrowings
Group Bank

In millions of Naira 31 December 2022 31 December 2021 31 December 2022 31 December 2021

Long term borrowing comprise:

Due to BUNGESA 51,938 - 51,938 -

Due to KEXIM (i) 3,859 2,748 3,859 2,748

Due to AFREXIM (i) 30,943 65,936 30,943 65,936

Due to COMMERZ 49,064 - 49,064 -

Due to ABSA bank (ili) 105,677 84,922 105,677 84,922

Due to ICBC (Standard Bank London) (vi) 63,459 - 63,459 -

Due to Mashreq (iv) 124,209 63,739 124,209 63,739

Due to IFC (v) 116,909 49,863 116,909 49,863

Due to First Abu Dhabi Bank - 42,447 - 42,447

Due to CAIXA 151,200 - 151,200 -

Due to EMIRATESNB 16,493 - 16,493 -

Due to J P Morgan Chase bank - 31,808 - 31,808

Due to Standard Chartered Bank UK 67,869 10,869 67,869 -

Due to banks for clean letters of credit 52,253 398,137 74,550 427,932

Due to WILBENTRAD 33,790 - 33,790 -

Due to CITILON 36,207 - 36,207 -

Due to SUMITOMOBN 46,578 - 46,578 -

Due to ADMSTF 12,979 - 12,979 -

Due to ZENUK 23 - 13,856 -

963,450 750,469 999,580 769,395

The Group has not defaulted in the payment of principal or interest neither has the Group been in breach of any covenant relating 
to the liabilities during the year (31 December 2021: nil). The assets exchanged under repurchase agreements with counterparties are 
disclosed in note 17.

Classi!ed as:

Group Bank

In millions of Naira 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021

Current 846,540 724,548 882,670 743,474

Non-current 116,910 25,921 116,910 25,921

963,450 750,469 999,580 769,395

Movement in borrowings

At beginning of the year 750,469 870,080 769,395 874,090

Addition during the year 1,243,614 712,420 1,279,743 693,944

Interest expense 40,609 34,778 38,254 34,011

Interest paid (20,917) (41,325) (20,917) (40,788)

Repayments (principal) (1,135,414) (860,123) (1,154,340) (826,805)

Foreign exchange di"erence 85,089 34,639 87,445 34,943

At end of the year 963,450 750,469 999,580 769,395

224

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



i. Due to KEXIM(The Export- Import Bank of Korea)

 The amount of N3.86billion (US $8.4million) represents the outstanding balance from two (2) short term loan facilities of US 
$4.8m and US $12million, granted by KEXIM in May 2022 and June 2022 respectively. Interest is payable quarterly at 3 months 
Term Sofr+1.8% for all running obligations. Final repayments on these facilities are due in May 2023 and June 2023 respectively.

ii.  Due to AFREXIM (African Export-Import Bank)

 The outstanding balance of N30.94bllion (US $66.66million) due to AFREXIM represents the amount payable by the Bank from 
3year term loan, with a oneyear moratorium. The facilities are priced at 3 months LIBOR+3.34% per annum for $150m and 
LIBOR+4.34% per annum for the balance $50m and will mature in August 2023. Interest on the facility is payable quarterly.

iii.  Due to ABSA (Amalgamated Banks of South Africa)

  The amount of N105.68billion (US 229 million) represents the amount payable by the Bank on dollar repurchase facilities of 
US$50 million each granted by ABSA in June 2022and August 2022 respectively. Interest is payable quarterly and is priced at a 
fixed rate of 4.85% & 5.64%per annum respectively. The facility will mature in June 2023 and August 2023.

iv.  Due to Mashreq Bank

 The amount of N124.21 billion(US $269 million) represents the amount payable by the Bank on syndicated loan granted to the 
bank in April 2022 with Mashreq as the Lead Arranger, Bookrunner and Coordinator. Interest is payable at maturity, and it is 
priced at 12months Term Sofr+1.5%per annum and will mature in April 2023.

v.  Due to IFC (International Finance Corporation)

 The amount of N116.91 billion (US $250million) represents the amount payable by the bank on a 3-year term loan granted by 
IFC in two tranches of $150m & $100m in July 2022 and September 2022 respectively. Interest is payable semiannually at 6 
months Term SOFR+2.87% and the facility will mature in September 2025.

vi  Due to ICBC Standard Bank Plc

 The amount of N63.46 billion (US $135 million) represents the amount payable by the Bank on a 6 month repurchase facility of 
US$ 90 million & US$45 million granted by ICBC in August 2022 & November 22 respectively. Interest is payable at maturity and 
both deals are priced at 6month Term Sofr+2.75% per annum and will mature in February 2023 and May 2023 respectively

32.     Debt securities issued

Group Bank

 in Millions of Naira 31-Dec-22 31-Dec-21 31-Dec-22 31-Dec-21

Due to Euro bond holders - 45,799 - 45,799

In May 2022, the group paid down outstanding balance of the second tranche of US $500million eurobond. This eurobond was issued 
by Zenith Bank in May 2017 with a maturity date of May 2022

The Group has not had any defaults of principal, interest or other breaches with respect to the debt securities during the period (31 
December 2021: Nil).

225Notes



Movement in debt securities issued

Group Bank

 In Millions of Naira 31-Dec-22 31-Dec-21 31-Dec-22 31-Dec-21

At start of the year 45,799 43,177 45,799 43,177

Revaluation loss for the year - 2,491 - 2,491

Interest expense 1,860 3,385 1,860 3,385

Principal repayment (46,071) - (46,071) -

Interest paid (1,699) (3,254) (1,669) (3,254)

Foreign exchange 111 - (683) -

At end of the year - 45,799 - 45,799

Classi!ed as:

 Current - 45,799 45,799

Non-current - - - -

33.     Derivative liabilities

Instrument types (Fair value):
Forward and Swap Contracts 6,026 10,167 5,741 11,350

Futures contracts 299 4,507 299 3,820

6,325 14,674 6,040 15,170

Instrument types (Notional Amount):

Forward and Swap Contracts 229,332 226,471 191,737 257,536

Futures contracts 6,262 243,110 11,589 133,919

235,594 469,581 203,326 391,455

Classi!ed as:

Current 6,325 14,674 6,040 15,170

see additional disclosures in Note 19.

34.     Share capital

Issued and fully paid

31,396,493,787 ordinary shares of 50k each (December 2021: 31,396,493,787) 15,698 15,698 15,698 15,698

Issued

Ordinary 15,698 15,698 15,698 15,698

There was no movement in the share capital account during the year. The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends, 
which are declared from time to time, also each shareholder is entitled to a vote at the meetings of the Bank. All ordinary shares rank 
equally with regards to the Group’s residual assets.

226

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



35.     Share premium, retained earnings and other reserves

(a)  There was no movement in the Share premium account during the current and prior year.

Group Bank

 In Millions of Naira 31-Dec-22 31-Dec-21 31-Dec-22       31-Dec-21

Share premium 255,047 255,047 255,047 255,047

The nature and purpose of the reserves in equity are as follows:

(b) Share premium: Premiums from the issue of shares are reported in share premium.

(c) Retained earnings: Retained earnings represent undistributed profits, net of statutory appropriations attributable to the 
ordinary shareholders.

 
(d) Statutory reserve: This represents the cumulative amount set aside from general reserves/retained earnings by the Bank 

and its subsidiaries. This amount is non-distributable. The Bank’s appropriation is in line with BOFIA 2020 which stipulates 
that an appropriation of 30% of profit after tax be made if the statutory reserve is less than the paid-up share capital 
and 15% of profit after tax if the statutory reserve is greater than the paid-up share capital. In the current year, a total of 
N35.19billion (2021: N34.97 billion) representing 15% of Zenith Bank’s profit after tax was appropriated.

 
 Other Non-Nigerian subsidiaries also make appropriation which is based on their profit and in line with the requirement 

of their Central Bank.

(e) SMIEIS reserve: This reserve represents the aggregate amount of appropriations from profit after tax to finance equity 
investments in compliance with  the directives issued by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) through its circulars dated July 
11, 2006 (amended).

 The SMIEIS reserve was maintained in compliance with the Central Bank of Nigeria’s requirement that all licensed banks set 
aside a portion of the profit after tax in a fund to be used to finance equity investments in qualifying small and medium 
scale enterprises. Under the terms of the guideline issued in July 2006, the contributions were 10% of profit after tax and 
were expected to continue after the first 5 years after which banks’ contributions were to reduce to 5% of profit after tax.

 
 The small and medium scale industries equity investment scheme reserves are non-distributable.

(f ) Fair value reserve: Comprises fair value movements on equity and debt instruments that are carried at fair value through 
Other Comprehensive Income.

(g) Foreign currency translation reserve: Comprises exchange di"erences resulting from the translation to Naira of the results 
and financial position of group companies that have a functional currency other than Naira.

(h) Credit risk reserve: This reserve represents the cumulative di"erence between the loan loss provision determined per the 
Prudential Guidelines of the Central Bank of Nigeria and the Central Bank of other subsidiaries vis-a-viz the allowance/
reserve for loan losses as determined in line with the principles of IFRS 9.

 As at 31 December 2022, the Bank has made a cumulative credit risk reserve of N93.91 billion, while the cumulative 
amount made by the Group is N95.30 billion (31 December 2021: Group N21.85 billion and Bank 20.02 billion).

 
(i) Non-controlling interest: This is the component of shareholders’ equity as reported on the consolidated statement of 

financial position which represents the ownership interest of shareholders other than the parent of the subsidiary. See 
note below for the changes in non-controlling interest during the year.

227Notes



In millions of Naira 31-Dec-22       31-Dec-21

Movement in Non-controlling interest

At start of the year 1,144 974

Profit for the year (139) 156

Foreign currency translation di"erences (192) 14

At end of year 813 1,144

36.     Pension contribution

In accordance with the provisions of the Pensions Reform Act 2014, the Bank and its subsidiaries commenced a contributory pension scheme 
in January 2005. For entities operating in Nigeria, the contribution by employees and the employing entities are 8% and 10% respectively of the 
employees’ basic salary, housing and transport allowances. Entities operating outside Nigeria contribute in line with the relevant pension laws in 
their jurisdictions. The contribution by the Group and the Bank during the period were N3.89 billion and N2.98 billion respectively (31 December 
2021: N4.07 billion and N2.80 billion).

Group Bank

In millions of Naira 31-Dec-22 31-Dec-21 31-Dec-22 31-Dec-21

37.     Personnel expenses

Compensation for the sta" are as follows:

Salaries and wages 74,102 69,910 58,576 53,466

Other sta" costs 8,423 5,903 6,916 4,860

Pension contribution 3,887 4,072 2,983 2,797

86,412 79,885 68,475 61,123

(a)      The average number of persons employed during the year by category:

Number Number Number Number

Executive directors 6 6 6 6

Management 449 420 399 368

Non-management 7,622 7,091 6,295 5,924

8,077 7,517 6,700 6,298

The table below shows the number of employees, whose earnings during the year, fell within the ranges shown below:

Number Number Number Number
N300,001 - N2,000,000 257 80 - -

N2,000,001 - N2,800,000 61 1,819 - 1,739

N2,800,001 - N4,000,000 2,601 145 2,487 19

N4,000,001 - N6,000,000 683 1,106 456 985

N6,000,001 - - N8,000,000 717 1,164 518 986

N8,000,001 - N9,000,000 58 154 13 14

N9,000,001 - and above 3,700 3,049 3,226 2,555

8,077 7,517 6,700 6,298

228

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



(b)     Directors’ emoluments

The remuneration paid to directors are as follows: Number Number Number Number
Executive compensation 1,563 1,086 1,563 1,086

Fees and sitting allowances 602 568 312 267

Retirement Benefit costs 3,279 9 3,279 9

5,444 1,663 5,154 1,362

Fees and other emoluments disclosed above include amounts paid to:

The Chairman 39 38

The highest paid director 285 246

The number of directors who received fees and other emoluments (excluding pension contributions and reimbursable 
expenses) in the following ranges was:

Number Number Number Number

N5,500,001 and above 15 35 15 13

38.     Group subsidiaries and related party transactions

Parent:

The Group is controlled by Zenith Bank Plc (incorporated in Nigeria) which is the parent company and whose shares are widely 
held.

Subsidiaries:

The amount of N6,266 billion (31 December 2021: N5,568 billion) represents the total pension assets under custody held by the 
Bank’s subsidiary, Zenith Pensions Custodian Limited under the custodial business. Included in the amount above is N114 billion 
which represents the amount of the Group’s guarantee for the assets held by the subsidiary as required by the National Pensions 
Commission of Nigeria. Aside from the Guarantee on the asset held by our subsidiary, Zenith Pension Custodian Limited, the 
Group does not have any contingent liabilities in respect of related parties.

Transactions between Zenith Bank Plc and its subsidiaries, which are eliminated on consolidation are not separately disclosed 
in the consolidated financial statements. The Group’s e"ective interests and investments in subsidiaries as at are shown below.

Entity E$ective holding % Nominal share capital held

Foreign/banking subsidiaries:

Zenith Bank (Ghana) Limited 99.42 % 7,066

Zenith Bank (UK) Limited 100.00 % 21,482

Zenith Bank (Sierra Leone) Limited 99.99 % 2,059

Zenith Bank (Gambia ) Limited 99.96 % 1,038

Zenith Pensions Custodian Limited 99.00 % 1,980

Zenith Nominee Limited 99.00 % 1,000

229Notes



31 December, 2022

Transactions and balances with subsidiaries Receivable from Payable to Income received from       Expense paid to

In millions of Naira

Zenith Bank (UK) Limited 158,211 36,212 4,643 -

Zenith Bank (Ghana) Limited 24 9,968 6,897 -

Zenith Bank (Sierra leone) Limited 442 - - -

Zenith Bank (Gambia) Limited 796 - - -

Zenith Pensions Custodian Limited - 708 6,000 697

The income received includes dividend received from subsidiaries during the year.

31 December 2021

Transactions and balances with subsidiaries Receivable from Payable to Income received from       Expense paid to

In millions of Naira

Zenith Bank (UK) Limited 284,453 34,924 3,445 -

Zenith Bank (Ghana) Limited 1,451 116 8,247 -

Zenith Bank (Sierra leone) Limited 353 - - -

Zenith Bank (Gambia) Limited 803 - - -

Zenith Pensions Custodian Limited 4 708 6,000 -

Signi!cant restrictions

The Group does not have significant restrictions on its ability to access or use its assets and settle its liabilities other than those 
resulting from the supervisory frameworks within which banking subsidiaries operate. The supervisory frameworks require 
banking subsidiaries to keep certain levels of regulatory capital and liquid assets, limit their exposure to other parts of the 
Group and comply with other ratios. See notes 3.4 and 3.6 and for disclosures on liquidity and capital adequacy requirements 
respectively. The carrying amounts of banking subsidiaries’ assets and liabilities are N1,986 billion and N1,767 billion respectively 
(31 December 2021: N1,907 billion and N1,669 billion respectively).

Non controlling interest in subsidiaries

The Group does not have any subsidiary that has material non-controlling interest. 

Key management personnel

Key management personnel is defined as the Group’s executive and non-executive directors, including their family members 
and any entity over which they exercise control. Close members of family are those family members who may be expected to 
influence, or be influenced by that individual in their dealings with the Group.

Group Bank

In millions of Naira 31-Dec-22 31-Dec-21 31-Dec-22 31-Dec-21

Key management compensation 

Short term benefits 1,861 1,716 1,861 787

Post employment benefits 3,279 47 3,279 13

Fees and sitting allowances 602 375 312 267

5,742 2,138 5,452 1,067

230

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



Group Bank

In millions of Naira 31-Dec-22 31-Dec-21 31-Dec-22 31-Dec-21

Loans and advances to key management personnel

At start of the year 2,902 1,797 1,432 1,476

Granted during the year 445 2,167 310 -

Repayment during the year (102) (1,062) (50) (44)

At end of of the year 3,245 2,902 1,692 1,432

Interest earned 261 123 69 65

Loans to key management personnel include mortgage loans and other personal loans. The loans are repayable from various 
repayment cycles, ranging from monthly to annually over the tenor and have an average interest rate of 4%. Loans granted 
to key management personnel are performing.

Insider related transactions:

These have been disclosed in accordance with CBN circular BSD/1/2004

31 December, 2022

Name of company Relationship/Name Loans Deposits Interest 
received

Interest 
paid

Directors 1,588 3,298 69 -

Quantum Fund Management Common  significant shareholder/Jim Ovia - 10 - -

Zenith General Insurance Company Ltd Common   directorship/Jim Ovia - 1,026 - -

Cyberspace Network Common significant shareholder /Jim Ovia - 763 - -

Zenith Trustees Ltd Common significant shareholder /Jim Ovia - 7 - -

Oviation limited Common directorship /Jim Ovia - 3,497 - -

Sirius Lumina Ltd Director / Prof. Sam  Enwemeka - 1 - -

 1,588 8,602 69 -

Insider related transactions:
These have been disclosed in accordance with CBN circular BSD/1/2004

31 December 2021

Directors 1,692 2,699 60 15

Quantum Fund Management Common  significant shareholder/Jim Ovia - 18 - -

Zenith General Insurance Company Ltd Common directorship/JimOvia - 1,136 - 9

Cyberspace Network Common significant shareholder /Jim Ovia - 484 - -

Zenith Trustees Ltd Common significant shareholder /Jim Ovia - 12 - -

Oviation Limited Common directorship /Jim Ovia - 2,358 - -

Sirius Lumina Ltd Director / Prof. Sam  Enwemeka - 1 - -

 1,692 6,880 60 24

Loans granted to related parties are secured over real estate and other assets of the respective borrowers. Loans granted 
to related parties are performing.

231Notes



No life time impairment has been recognised in respect of loans granted to related parties (31 December 2021: Nil). 
During the year, Zenith Bank Plc. paid N795 million as insurance premium to Zenith General Insurance Limited (31 
December 2021: N2.23 billion). These expenses were reported as operating expenses.

The Bank entered into a lease contract in October 2017 with Oviation Limited. Oviation Limited has two common 
Directors with Zenith Bank. The finance lease agreement has Zenith Bank as lessee for a Gulfstream jet over a tenor of 
10 years with annual lease payments of N2.76 billion Naira. The lease agreement has been exited and a total payment of 
1.84bn was made during the year.

The Bank paid N3.33billion (31 December 2021:N3.89 billion) to Cyberspace Network for various Information technology 
services rendered during the year.

39. Contingent liabilities and commitments

(a) Legal proceedings

The Group is presently involved in several litigation suits in the ordinary course of business. The total amount claimed in the 
cases against the Group is estimated at N967 billion (31 December 2021: N143.5 billion). The actions are being contested and the 
Directors are of the opinion that none of the aforementioned cases is likely to have a material adverse e"ect on the Group and 
are not aware of any other pending or threatened claims and litigations.

In arriving at this conclusion, the Group has relied on evidence and recommendations from its internal litigation group and its 
team of external solicitors.

(b) Capital commitments

At the reporting date, the Group had capital commitments amounting to N630 million (31 December 2021: N1,930 billion) in 
respect of authorized and contracted capital projects.

Group

Break down of capital commitments 31 December 2022 31 December 2021

Property and equipment:

Motor vehicles, Furniture and equipments 191 811

Property 104 748

Intangible assets:

Information technology 334 371

629 1,930

(c) Con!rmed credits and other obligations on behalf of customers

In the normal course of business the group is a party to financial instruments with o"-balance sheet risk. These instruments 
are issued to meet the credit and other financial requirements of customers. The contractual amounts of the o"-balance sheet 
financial instruments are:

Group Bank

31 December 2022 31 December 2021 31 December 2022 31 December 2021

Performance bonds and guarantees 384,382 364,632 349,742 335,833

Usance (see note ii below) 276,481 195,354 276,481 195,354

Letters of credit (see note ii below) 363,355 554,486 279,791 398,605

1,024,218 1,114,472 906,014 929,792

Pension Funds (See Note iii below) 6,265,755 5,568,341 6,265,755   5,568,341

(i) 232

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



The transaction related performance bonds and guarantees are, generally, short-term commitments to third parties which are 
not directly dependent on the customer's creditworthiness. As at 31 December 2022, performance bonds and guarantees worth 
N7.5 billion (31 December 2021: N356 billion) are secured by cash while others are otherwise secured.

(ii) Usance and letters of credit are agreements to lend to a customer in the future, subject to certain conditions. Such 
commitments are either made for a fixed period, or have no specific maturity dates, but are cancellable by the Group (as 
lender) subject to notice requirements. These Letters of credit are provided at market-related interest rates. Usance and 
letters of credit are secured by di"erent types of collaterals similar to those accepted for actual credit facilities.

(iii) The amount of N6,266 billion (31 December 2021: N5,568 billion) represents the total pension assets under custody held 
by the Bank’s subsidiary, Zenith Pensions Custodian Limited under the latter's custodial business. Included in the amount 
above is N114.4 million (31 December 2021: N94.4 billion) which represents the amount of the Group’s guarantee for the 
assets held by the subsidiary as required by the National Pensions Commission of Nigeria. Aside from the Guarantee on 
the pension asset held by our subsidiary, Zenith Pension Custodian Limited, the Group does not have any contingent 
liabilities in respect of related parties.

40.  Dividend per share

Group Bank

In millions of Naira 31 December 2022 31 December 2021 31 December 2022 31 December 2021

Dividend proposed 100,467 97,328 100,467 97,328

Number of shares in issue and ranking for dividend 31,396 31,396 31,396 31,396

Proposed dividend per share (Naira) 3.20 3.10 3.20 3.10

Interim dividend per share paid (Naira) 0.30 0.30 0.30 0.30

Final dividend per share proposed 2.90 2.80 2.90 2.80

Final dividend paid during the year 87,952 84,808 87,910 84,771

Interim dividend paid during the year 9,419 9,418 9,419 9,418

Total dividend paid during the year 97,371 94,226 97,330 94,189

TThe Board of Directors, pursuant to the powers vested in it by the provisions of Section 426 of the CAMA 2020, paid an interim 
dividend of N0.30 per share and proposed a final dividend of N2.90 per share (31 December 2021: interim; N0.30, final; N2.80) 
from the retained earnings account as at 31 December 2022. This is subject to approval by shareholders at the next Annual 
General Meeting. 

The number of shares in issue and ranking for dividend represents the outstanding number of shares as at 31 December 2022 
and 31 December 2021 respectively.

Dividends are paid to shareholders' net of withholding tax at the rate of 10% in compliance with extant tax laws.

41.     Cash and cash equivalents

For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents include cash and non-restricted balances with central 
banks, treasury bills and other eligible bills, operating account balances with other banks, amount due from other banks and 
short-term governement securities.

233Notes



Group Bank

31 December 2022 31 December 2021 31 December 2022 31 December 2021

Cash and cash balances with central bank (less  
mandatory reserve deposits)

452,136 157,466 407,487 122,465

Treasury bills ((3 month tenor) (see note 16) 232,218 315,795 232,218 230,213

Due from other banks 1,256,404 661,258 1,017,481 423,896

1,940,758 1,134,519 1,657,186 776,574

42.     Compliance with banking regulations

The bank did not pay any fine or penalty during the year.

43.    Prudential Adjustments

Provisions under prudential guidelines are determined using the time-based provisioning specified by the revised Prudential 
Guidelines issued by the Central Bank of Nigeria. This is at variance with the expected credit loss (ECL) model required under 
IFRS 9. As a result of the di"erences in the methodology/provision, there will be variances in the impairments provisions required 
under the two methodologies.

Paragraph 12.4 of the revised Prudential Guidelines for Deposit Money Banks in Nigeria stipulates that Banks would be required to 
make provisions for loans as prescribed in the relevant IFRS when IFRS is adopted. However, Banks would be required to comply 
with the following:

(a)  Expenses for loan losses recognised in the profit and loss account should be determined based on the relevant IFRS. 
However, the provisions for loan losses determined under the IFRS should be compared with the loan loss provisions 
determined under the Prudential Guidelines. The di"erences between both provisions should be treated as follows:

(i)  Where Prudential Provisions is greater than IFRS provisions, the resulting di"erence should be transferred from the general 
reserve account to a nondistributable regulatory credit risk reserve.

(ii)  Where Prudential Provisions is less than IFRS provisions, the IFRS determined provision is charged to the statement of 
comprehensive income. The cumulative balance in the regulatory risk reserve is thereafter transferred to the general 
reserve account.

(b)  The non-distributable reserve is classified under Tier 1 as part of the core capital for the purpose of determining capital 
adequacy. 

In the guidelines to IFRS implementation, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) directed banks to maintain a regulatory credit risk 
reserve in the event that the impairment on loans determined using the CBN prudential guideline is higher than the impairment 
determined using IFRS principles. As a result of this directive, the Bank holds credit risk reserves of N93,911 billion as at 31 
December 2022.

Provision for loan losses per prudential guidelines
Bank

In millions of Naira 31 December 2022 31 December 2021

Loans and advances:

-Lost 74,968 16,656

- Doubtful 1,901 7,814

- Substandard 1,069 3,790

- Watchlist 96,484 99,109

- Performing 62,850 47,936

237,272 175,305

234

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



Bank

In millions of Naira 31 December 2022 31 December 2021

Impairment assessment under IFRS 

Loans and advances

12-months ECL credit 25,268 17,708

Life-time ECL Not impaired 34,341 26,671

Life- time ECL credit impaired 43,518 94,142

(b) 103,127 138,521

Due from Banks- 12 months ECL (c) 75 58

Treasury bills- 12 months ECL (d) 39 395

Asset pledged as collateral- 12 months ECL (e) 18 198

Investment securities- 12 months ECL (f ) 2,583 666

Other financial assets- ECL allowance (g) 28,868 9,835

Other non-financial assets (h) 3,361 -

O" Balance Sheet Exposures- 12 months ECL (i) 5,290 5,616

(m)=(b)+(c)+(d)+(e)+(f )+(g)+(h)+(i) 143,361 155,289

(n)=(a)-(m) 93,911 20,016

Reversal from)/transfer to retained earnings at year end (93,911) (20,016)

In millions of Naira Group Bank

44. Statement of cash #ow reconciliation

(i) Investment securities (see note 17 & 21)

31 December 2022 Investment securities 
(including pledged 

instruments amortised 
cost

Investment securities 
including pledged 

instruments at FVTPL 
and FVOCI

Investment securities 
(including pledged 

instruments) at 
amortised cost

Investment securities 
including pledged 

instruments at FVTPL 
and FVOCI

At 1 January 2022 757,851 685,135 483,199 97,471

Change in ECL allowance (62,562) - (1,738) -

Additions to Investment securities 559,128 200 206,085 200

Disposal of Investment securities (403,066) - (65,448) -

Unrealised gain from changes in fair value 
recognised in profit or loss

- (1,802) - (1,802)

Fair value gain/loss OCI - 1,507 - 8,109

Interest Income 113,841 - 64,914 -

Interest received (59,116) - (50,758) -

Foreign exchange di"erence 1,113 603 1,113 603

Balance as at 31 December 2022 (907,188) (940,273) (637,367) (104,443)

Recognised in cash flow statement - (254,630) - 138

235Notes



31 December 2021 Investment securities
(including pledged

instruments) at
amortised cost

Investment securities 
(including pledged 

instruments) at 
amortized cost and 

FVOCI

Investment securities 
(including pledged

instruments) at
amortised cost

Investment securities 
(including pledged 

instruments) at
amortized cost and 

FVOCI

At 1 January 2021 649,228 521,402 381,932 124,910

Change in ECL allowance (2,835) - 248 -

Additions to Investment securities 300,852 - 159,577 -

Disposal to Investment Securities (230,056) - (75,928) -

Unrealised gain from changes in fair value 
recognised in profit or loss

- (173) - (173)

Fair value gain/loss OCI - 3,372 - 5,599

Interest income 88,181 - 46,029 -

Interest received (47,834) - 28,973 -

Foreign exchange di"erence 314 524 314 524

Balance as at 31 December 2022 (757,850) (685,136) (483,199) (97,471)

Recognised in cash #ow statement - (160,011) - 33,389

Group Bank

In millions of Naira 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021

(iia) Treasury bills (Amortised cost) (see note 16 & 17)

31 December 2022

Treasury bills (including pledged instruments) at amortised cost as at 1 January (798,022) (535,673) (648,637) (351,511)

Change in ECL allowance (400) (781) 356 (281)

Interest income (43,609) (40,426) (32,972) (19,520)

Additions (3,060,163) (2,652,094) (2,968,565) (2,346,839)

Redemptions 2,833,003 2,449,816 2,679,567 2,056,995

Interest received 29,300 31,136 20,942 12,519

Balance as at 31 December 2022 989,891 748,022 950,021 648,637

(iib) Treasury bills (FVTPL) (see note 16)

31 December 2022

Treasury bills fair value through profit or loss (Including pledged instruments) as at 1 January 954,462 770,094 952,131 769,800

Unrealised fair value gain 129,402 86,644 129,281 86,393

Balance as at end of period (1,159,965) (954,462) (1,159,965) (952,131)

Recognised in Cash#ow (76,101) (97,724) (78,553) (95,938)

(iii) Loans and advances (see note 20)

31 December 2022

Loans and advances at 1 January 3,355,728 2,779,027 3,099,452 2,639,797

Changes in ECL allowance (38,343) (48,873) (38,429) (48,357)

Interest income 370,446 292,224 346,320 272,942

Interest received (342,562) (270,343) (298,466) (241,912)

Foreign exchange di"erence 125,432 67,679 124,357 67,679

Balance as at end of year (4,013,705) (3,355,728) (3,735,676) (3,099,452)

Recognised in Cash #ow (543,004) (536,014) (502,442) (409,303)

236

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



(iv) Customer deposits

Group Bank

In millions of Naira 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021

As at 1 January (6,472,054) (5,339,911) (5,169,199) (4,298,258)

Interest expense (122,710) (60,322) (104,559) (37,556)

Interest paid 116,053 58,785 101,000 36,019

Foreign exchange di"erences (134,652) (39,313) (108,216) (45,554)

Balance as at end of year 8,975,653 6,472,054 7,434,806 5,169,199

Recognised in Cash #ow 2,362,290 1,091,293 2,153,832 823,850

(v) Other liabilities (see note 29)

31 December 2022
As at 1 January (487,432) (703,292) (427,876) (599,464)

Changes in ECL allowance (998) (784) 326 (784)

Lease modification (675) (353) (675) -

Lease liability additions (1,491) (499) (1,363) (259)

Interest expense on lease liability (2,082) (3,427) (2,069) (2,885)

Lease interest paid 333 2,003 333 1,950

Principal repayment on lease liability 4,011 2,802 2,927 2,007

Foreign exchange di"erence (39,361) (8,330) (40,993) (8,159)

Unclaimed dividend received (1,117) (612) (1,117) (612)

Lease terminations 8,640 - 8,640 -

Balance as at end of year 568,559 (487,432) 546,347 (427,876)

Net cash movement in operating activties 48,387 (225,060) 84,480 (180,330)

(vi)       Pro!t on disposal of property and equipment

31 December 2022

December 2021 31-Dec-21 31-Dec-20 31-Dec-21 31-Dec-20

Cost (see note 25) 644 (6,395) (220) (6,196)

Accumulated depreciation (see note 25) - 6,025 - 5,828

Net book value (644) (370) (220) (368)

Sales proceed 3,207 448 2,671 437

Pro!t on Disposal (see note 10) 2,563 78 2,451 69

(vii)     Due from Banks (greater than 90 days)
31 December 2022 31-Dec-21 31-Dec-20 31-Dec-21 31-Dec-20

As at 1 January 29,986 179,244 94,157 179,244

Due to banks below 90 days - (666) - -

Changes in ECL allowance 649 - (17) -

Interest Income 12,270 6,766 3,967 1,898

Interest received (12,159) (16,297) (3,857) (11,429)

Foreign exchange di"erence - - - -

Balance as at end of Period (46,407) (29,986) (115,315) (94,157)

Recognised in cash #ow statement (15,661) 139,061 (21,065) 75,556

237Notes



Group Bank

In millions of Naira 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2021

(viii)    Other assets

31 December 2022
As at 1 January 168,210 169,967 152,326 159,625

Changes in ECL allowance (22,398) (7,555) (22,394) (7,563)

Foreign exchange di"erence 8,125 7,160 8,125 7,160

Balance as at end of period (213,523) (168.210) (193,792) (152,326)

Net cash movement in operating activities (59,586) 1,362 (55,735) 6,896

(ix)       Net movement in Derivatives
Derivative assets

31 December 2022
At 1 January (56,187) (44,496) (57,476) (41,729)

Balance as at end of year 49,874 56,187 48,851 57,476

(6,313) 11,691 (8,625) 15,747

Derivative liabilities
31 December 2022

At 1 January (14,674) (11,076) (15,170) (11,076)

Balance as at end of period 6,325 14,674 6,040 15,170

Recognised in cash flow (8,349) 3,598 (9,130) 4,094

Net movement in derivatives 2,036 8,073 505 11,653

  
Group Bank

In millions of Naira 31 December 2022 31 December 2021 31 December 2022 31 December 2021

(x)           Restricted balances (Cash Reserve)31 

December 2022

Opening Balance 1,330,897 1,411,422 1,275,201 1,370,619

Mandatory reserve deposit with central bank (1,668,919) (1,250,208) (1,614,217) (1,194,512)

Special Cash Reserve 80,689 80,689 80,689 80,689

Recognised in cash #ow (418,711) 80,525 (419,705) 95,418
(xi)   Interest paid

31 December 2022

Group Bank

In millions of Naira 31 December 2022 31 December 2021 31 December 2022 31 December 2021

Customer deposit (see note 44(iv) ) (116,053) (58,785) (101,000) (36,019)

Onlending facilities (see note 30b) (4,857) (1,684) (4,857) (1,684)

Lease liabilities (see 44(v)) (333) (3,254) (333) (3,254)

Borrowings (see note 31) (20,917) (2,003) (20,917) (1,950)

Debt securities (see note 32) (1,699) (41,325) (1,698) (40,788)

(143,859) (107,051) 128,805 (83,695)

238

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



(xii)  Unrealised fair value change

31 December 2022
Investment securities (see note 44(i)) 1,802 173 1,802 173

Treasury bills (see note 44(ii)) (129,402) (86,644) (129,281) (86,393)

Derivatives (see note 44(ix)) (2,036) (8,093) (505) (11,653)

Hedging e"ectiveness 39,590 - 39,590 -

(90,046) (94,564) (88,394) (97,873)

(xiiia)  Interest received from operating activities

31 December 2022

Due from other banks (see note 41(vii)) 12,160 16,297 5,858 11,429

Loans and advances (see note 41(iii)) 342,562 270,343 298,466 241,912

354,722 286,640 302,324 253,341

(xiiib)   Interest received from treasury bills and investment securities
3
31 December 2022 1 December, 2021

31-Dec-21 31-Dec-20 31-Dec-21 31-Dec-20

Treasury bills (see note 41(ii)) 29,300 31,136 20,942 12,519

Investment securities (see note 41(i)) 59,116 47,834 50,758 28,973

88,416 78,970 71,700 41,492

(xiva)   Acquisition of Right of use asset

31 December 2022
Addition to right of use (see note 26) (3,772) (739) (3,394) (409)

Lease liability addition (see note 44(v)) 1,491 499 1,363 259

(2,281) (240) (2,031) (150)

(xivb)   Additions to property, plant and equipment other than right of use

31 December 2022

Addition to property, plant and equipment (see note 26) (71,017) (34,848) (67,751) (31,993)

Addition to right of use asset (see note 26) 3,772 739 3,394 409

(67,245) (34,109) (64,357) (31,584)

239Notes



(xv)      Additions to investment securities

31 December 2022
Group Bank

In millions of Naira 31 December 2022 31 December 2021 31 December 2022 31 December 2021

Investment securities at amortized cost (559,128) (300,852) (206,085) (159,577)

Investment securities at FVOCI (200) - (200) -

(559,328) (300,852) (206,285) (159,577)

(xvi)      Lease Modi!cation

31 December 2022

Right of use (675) - (675) -

Lease Liability 675 353 675 -

- (353) - -

(xvii)      Uncliamed dividend received

31 December 2022
As at 1 January (28,647) (28,035) (28,647) (28,035)

Balance as at 31 Dec 2022 29,764 28,647 29,764 28,647

1,117 612 1,117 612

(xviii)     Lease derecognition

31 December 2022

Right of use- cost 12,773 - 12,600 -

Right of use-Accumulated depreciation (6,160) - (5,985) -

lease liability (8,640) - (8,640) -

(2,028) - (2,025) -

45. Comparatives

Certain disclosures and some prior year figures have been re-presented to conform with current period presentation.

46. Events after the reporting period

On 14 February 2023, the Group exchanged N123.6bln (GHS 2,675,754,659 ) of its existing Government of Ghana bonds for a series 
of new bonds with maturity dates commencing from 2027 to 2038 under the Ghana Domestic Debt Exchange Programme. The 
new bonds were successfully settled on the 21st of February 2023 and have been allotted on the Central Securities Depository. 
The e"ect of the exchange on impairment of the existing bonds at 31 December 2022 was duly recognised in the consolidated 
financial statements. See disclosures in Note 4.1

240

Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Notes to the Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2022



... THË ÏDËÅL WÅŸ TØ SÅVË FØR ŸØÜR 

Other National Disclosures

04



Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

In millions of Naira 31 December 2022 31 December 2022 31 December 2021 31 December 2021

% %

Group

Gross income 956,351 765,558

Interest and fee expense

- Local (132,589) (110,698)

- Foreign (76,169) (25,021)

747,593 629,839

Impairment loss on financial and non-financial instruments (123,252) (59,932)

624,341 569,907

Bought-in materials and services 

- Local (206,841) (167,921)

- Foreign (16,131) (12,643)

Value added 401,369 100 389,343 100

Distribution 

Employees

Salaries and benefits 86,412 22 79,885 21 

Government 

Income tax 60,739 14 35,816 9

Retained in the Group 

Replacement of property and equipment/ intangible assets 30,308 8 29,084 7 

Profit for the year (including statutory reserves, small scale 
industry, and non-controling interest)

233,910 56 244,558 63

Total Value Added 401,369 100 389,343 100

Value added represents the additional wealth which the group has been able to create by its own and employees e"orts.

242

Value Added  Statement



Other National Disclosures

In millions of Naira 31 December 2022 31 December 2022 31 December 2021 31 December 2021

% %

Bank

Gross income 833,087 677,283

Interest and fee expense

- Local (136,285) (65,532)

- Foreign (40,112) (45,161)

656,690 566,589

Impairment loss on financial and non-financial instruments (61,896) (56,175)

594,794 510,415

Bought-in materials and services 

- Local (204,704) (165,857)
- Foreign - -

Value added 390,088 100 344,558 100

Distribution 

Employees

Salaries and benefits 68,475 18 61,123 18 

Government 

Income tax 59,457 15 24,034 7

Retained in the Group 

Replacement of property and equipment/ intangible assets 27,564 7 26,268 8 

Profit for the year (including statutory reserves, small scale 
industry, and non-controling interest)

234,593 60 233,133 68

Total Value Added 390,089 100 344,558 100

243



Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

In millions of Naira 
31 December

2022
31 December

2021
31 December

2020
31 December

2019
31 December

2018

Group

Statement of Financial Position

Assets

Cash and balances with central 
banks 

2,201,744 1,488,363 1,591,768 936,278 954,416

Treasury bills 2,246,538 1 764 946 1.577 875 991.393 1,000,560

Assets pledged as collateral 254,663 392,594 298,530 431,728 592,935

Due from other banks 1,302,811 691,244 810,494 707,103 674,274

Derivative assets 49,874 56,187 44,496 92,722 88,826

Loans and advances 4,013,705 3,355,728 2,779,027 2,305,565 1,823,111

Investment securities 1,728,334 1,303,725 996,916 591,097 565,312

Investments in associates - - - - -

Deferred tax asset 18,343 1,837 5,786 11,885 9,513

Other assets 213,523 168,210 169,967 77,395 80,948

Property and equipment 230,843 200,008 190,170 185,216 149,137

Intangible assets 25,251 25,001 16,243 16,497 16,678

Total assets 12,285,629 9,447,843 8,481,272 6,346,879 5,955,710

Liabilities
Customer deposits 8,975,653 6,472,054 5,339,911 4,262,289 3,690,295

Derivative liabilities 6,325 14,674 11,076 14,762 16,995

Current tax payable 64,856 16,909 11,690 9,711 9,154

Deferred tax liabilities 16,654 11,603 - 25 67
Other liabilities 568,559 487,432 703,292 363,764 231,716

On-lending facilities 311,192 369,241 384,573 392,871 393,295

Borrowings 963,450 750,469 870,080 322,479 437,260
Debt Securities issued - 45,799 43,177 39,092 361,177
Total liabilities 10,906,689 8,168,181 7,363,799 5,404,993 5,139,959
Net assets 1,378,940 1,279,662 1,117,473 941,886 815,751

Equity
Share capital 15,698 15,698 15,698 15,698 15,698

Share premium 255,047 255,047 255,047 255,047 255,047

Retained earnings 625,005 607,203 521,293 412,948 322,237

Other Reserves 482,377 400,570 324,461 257,439 221,231

Attributable to equity holders of the 
parent

1,378,127 1,278,518 1,116,499 941,132 814,213

Non-controlling interest 813 1,144 974 754 1,538

Total shareholders' equity 1,378,940 1,279,662 1,117,473 941,886 815,751

* See note 43

Five Year Financial Summary 

244



Other National Disclosures

In millions of Naira 
31 

December
2022

31 
December

2021

31 
December

2020

31 
December

2019

31 
December

2018

Statement of pro!t or loss and other comprehensive income 

Gross earnings 945,554 765,558 696,450 667,751 630,344

Share of profit / (loss) of associates - - - - -

Interest expense (173,539) (106,794) (121,131) (148,532) (144,458)

Operating and direct expenses (364,113) (318,458) (279,974) (246,393) (235,829)

Impairment charge for financial and non-financial assets (123,252) (59,932) (39,534) (24,032) (18,372)

Pro!t before taxation 284,650 280,372 255,861 243,294 231,685
Taxation (60,739) (35,816) (25,296) (34,451) (38,261)

Pro!t after tax 223,911 244,556 230,565 208,843 193,424
Foreign currency translation di"erences (28,768) 8,485 - (8,498) 4,828

Fair value movements on equity instruments 8,109 5,599 16,295 13,870 1,459

Fair value movements on debt securities at FVOCI (6,602) (2,227) 1,981 518 -

Related tax - - (355) (66) -

Total comprehensive income 196,650 256,413 248,486 214,667 199,711

Earning per share: 
214,667 214,667 199,711

Basic and diluted (kobo) 714 778 734 665 615

245



Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

In millions of Naira 
31 

December
2022

31 
December

2021

31 
December

2020

31 
December

2019

31 
December

2018

Bank

Statement of Financial Position

Assets

Cash and balances with central banks 2,102,394 1397,666 1,503,245 879,449 902,073

Treasury bills 2,206,668 1,577,647 1,393,421 822,449 817,043

Assets pledged as collateral 254,565 357,000 298,530 431,728 592,935

Due From Other Banks 1,132,796 518,053 532,377 482,070 393,466

Derivatives 48,851 57,476 41,729 92,722 88,826

Loans and advances 3,735,676 3,099,452 2,639,797 2,239,472 1,736,066

Investment securities 622,781 477,004 333,126 189,358 156,673

Investment in subsidiaries 34,625 34,625 34,625 34,625 34,003

Investment in associates - - - - -

Deferred tax - - 4,733 11,223 9,197

Other assets 193,792 152,326 159,625 71,412 75,910

Property and equipment 214,572 177,501 169,080 165,456 133,854

Intangible assets 23,958 23,542 14,699 15,109 15,399

Total assets 10,570,678 7,872,292 7,124,987 5,435,073 4,955,445

Liabilities
Customer deposits 7,434,806 5,169,199 4,298,258 3,486,887 2,821,066

Derivative liabilities 6,040 15,170 11,076 14,762 16,995

Current tax payable 61,655 14,241 9,117 6,627 5,954

Deferred income tax liabilities 15 911 11.596 - - -

Other liabilities 546,347 427,876 599,464 386,061 223,463

On Lending Facilities 311,192 369,241 384,573 392,871 393,295

Borrowings 999,580 769,395 874,090 329,778 458,463

Debt Securities issued - 45,799 43,177 39,092 361,177

Total liabilities 9,375,531 6,822,517 6,219,755 4,656,078 4,280,413
Net assets 1,195,147 1,049,775 905,232 778,995 675,032

61,655

Equity 15 911
Share capital 15,698 15,698 15,698 15,698 15,698

Share premium 255,047 255,047 255,047 255,047 255,047

Retained earnings 494,429 466,250 382,292 302,028 238,635

Other reserves 429,973 312,781 252,195 206,222 165,652

Attributable to equity holders of the parent 1,195,147 1,049,776 905,232 778,995 675,032

Total shareholders' equity 1,195,147 1,049,776 905,232 778,995 675,032

Five Year Financial Summary 

246



Other National Disclosures

In millions of Naira 
31 

December
2022

31 
December

2021

31 
December

2020

31 
December

2019

31 
December

2018

Statement of pro!t or loss and other comprehensive income 

Gross earnings 833,087 677,283 595,921 564,687 538,004

Interest expense (153,019) (82,718) (102,111) (126,237) (124,156)

Other operating expenses (324,122) (281,223) (246,566) (215,037) (206,428)

Impairment charge for financial assets (61,896) (56,175) (37,237) (23,393) (15,313)

Pro!t before tax 294,050 257,167 210,007 200,020 192,107

Income tax (59,457) (24,034) (12,155) (19,688) (26,627)

Pro!t after tax 234,593 233,133 197,852 180,332 165,480

Other comprehensive income - - - - -

Fair value movements on equity instruments 8,109 5,599 16,295 13,870 1,459

8,109 5,599 16,295 13,870 1,459

Total comprehensive income 242,702 238,732 214,147 194,202 166,939

Earning per share: 

Basic and diluted (kobo) 747 743 630 567  527 

247



Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022Zenith Bank Plc Annual Report December 31, 2022

Financial year Nominal value of shares Number of shares Nominal value per share 

 (N) (units)  (N)

3 0 - J u n - 9 1  2 4 , 8 3 9 , 0 0 0 . 0 0  24 ,839 ,000 .00 1

3 0 - J u n - 9 2  5 4 , 4 0 7 , 0 0 0 . 0 0  54 ,407 ,000 .00 1

3 0 - J u n - 9 3  5 7 , 8 9 7 , 3 5 2 . 0 0  57 ,897 ,352 .00 1

3 0 - J u n - 9 4  9 0 , 0 6 2 , 0 0 0 . 0 0  90 ,062 ,000 .00 1

3 0 - J u n - 9 5  1 7 8 , 7 4 4 , 0 0 0 . 0 0  178 ,744 ,000 .00 1

3 0 - J u n - 9 6  2 4 2 , 8 3 0 , 0 0 0 . 0 0  242 ,830 ,000 .00 1

3 0 - J u n - 9 7  2 4 4 , 0 5 4 , 0 0 0 . 0 0  244 ,054 ,000 .00 1

3 0 - J u n - 9 8  5 1 2 , 5 1 3 , 0 0 0 . 0 0  512 ,513 ,000 .00 1

3 0 - J u n - 9 9  5 1 2 , 5 1 3 , 0 0 0 . 0 0  512 ,513 ,000 .00 1

3 0 - J u n - 0 0  5 1 3 , 3 2 9 , 0 0 0 . 0 0  513 ,329 ,000 .00 1

3 0 - J u n - 0 1  1 , 0 2 6 , 6 5 8 , 0 0 0 . 0 0  1 ,026 ,658 ,000 .00 1

3 0 - J u n - 0 2  1 , 0 2 6 , 6 5 8 , 0 0 0 . 0 0  1 ,026 ,658 ,000 .00 1

3 0 - J u n - 0 3  1 , 5 4 8 , 5 5 5 , 0 0 0 . 0 0  1 ,548 ,555 ,000 .00 1

3 0 - J u n - 0 4  1 , 5 4 8 , 5 5 5 , 0 0 0 . 0 0  3 ,097 ,110 ,000 .00 0 . 5

3 0 - J u n - 0 5  3 , 0 0 0 , 0 0 0 , 0 0 0 . 0 0  6 ,000 ,000 ,000 .00 0 . 5

3 0 - J u n - 0 6  4 , 5 8 6 , 7 4 4 , 4 5 0 . 0 0  9 ,173 ,488 ,900 .00 0 . 5

3 0 - J u n - 0 7  4 , 6 3 2 , 7 6 2 , 1 5 0 . 0 0  9 ,265 ,524 ,300 .00 0 . 5

3 0 - S e p - 0 8  8 , 3 7 2 , 3 9 8 , 3 4 3 . 0 0  16 ,744 ,796 ,686 .00 0 . 5

3 1 - D e c - 0 9  1 2 , 5 5 8 , 5 9 7 , 5 1 4 . 5 0  25 ,117 ,195 ,029 .00 0 . 5

3 1 - D e c - 1 0  1 5 , 6 9 8 , 2 4 6 , 8 9 3 . 0 0  31 ,396 ,493 ,786 .00 0 . 5

3 1 - D e c - 1 1  1 5 , 6 9 8 , 2 4 6 , 8 9 3 . 0 0  31 ,396 ,493 ,786 .00 0 . 5

3 1 - D e c - 1 2  1 5 , 6 9 8 , 2 4 6 , 8 9 3 . 0 0  31 ,396 ,493 ,786 .00 0 . 5

3 1 - D e c - 1 3  1 5 , 6 9 8 , 2 4 6 , 8 9 3 . 0 0  31 ,396 ,493 ,786 .00 0 . 5

3 1 - D e c - 1 4  1 5 , 6 9 8 , 2 4 6 , 8 9 3 . 0 0  31 ,396 ,493 ,786 .00 0 . 5

3 1 - D e c - 1 5  1 5 , 6 9 8 , 2 4 6 , 8 9 3 . 0 0  31 ,396 ,493 ,786 .00 0 . 5

3 1 - D e c - 1 6  1 5 , 6 9 8 , 2 4 6 , 8 9 3 . 0 0  31 ,396 ,493 ,786 .00 0 . 5

3 1 - D e c - 1 7  1 5 , 6 9 8 , 2 4 6 , 8 9 3 . 0 0  31 ,396 ,493 ,786 .00 0 . 5

3 1 - D e c - 1 8  1 5 , 6 9 8 , 2 4 6 , 8 9 3 . 0 0  31 ,396 ,493 ,786 .00 0 . 5

3 1 - D e c - 1 9  1 5 , 6 9 8 , 2 4 6 , 8 9 3 . 0 0  31 ,396 ,493 ,786 .00 0 . 5

3 1 - D e c - 2 0  1 5 , 6 9 8 , 2 4 6 , 8 9 3 . 0 0  31 ,396 ,493 ,786 .00 0 . 5

3 1 - D e c - 2 1  1 5 , 6 9 8 , 2 4 6 , 8 9 3 . 0 0  31 ,396 ,493 ,786 .00 0 . 5

3 1 - D e c - 2 2  1 5 , 6 9 8 , 2 4 6 , 8 9 3 . 0 0  31 ,396 ,493 ,786 .00 0 . 5

Share Capital History

248







ndPROXY FORM FOR THE 32  ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF ZENITH BANK PLC TO BE HELD VIRTUALLY VIA WWW.ZENITHBANK.COM/32AGM ON TUESDAY, MAY 2, 2023 AT 9.00 A. M.I/We, ………………………………… being a member of Zenith Bank Plc hereby appoint.................................................................................................................................................. ....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... as our proxy to act and vote for us and on our behalf at the Annual General Meeting of the Company  to be held via www.zenithbank.com/32AGM on Tuesday, May 2, 2023 at 9.00 a.m. and at any adjournment thereof.I/We desire this proxy to be used in favour of/or against the resolution as indicated below (strike out whichever is not desired).

Please indicate with “x” in the appropriate box how you wish your vote to be cast on the resolutions set out above.  Unless otherwise instructed, the proxy will vote or abstain from voting on his/her discretion.Dated this 31st Day of March, 2023
Authorized Signatory                                                 Name/Designation
Please sign the Proxy Form and stamp at the Stamp Duties Office and forward by return email to enquiry@veritasregistrars.com, veritasregistrars@veritasregistrars.com and michael.otu@zenithbank.com or by depositing it at the office of the Company's Registrars, Veritas Registrars Limited, 89A, Ajose Adeogun Street, Victoria Island, Lagos State not later than 24 hours before the time fixed for the meeting. The Company will bear the cost of stamping of all the duly completed and signed proxy forms submitted within the stipulated time.The meeting would also be accessible to all members virtually on the bank's website and our social media platforms. A member who is unable to attend the Annual General Meeting is allowed to vote by Proxy.

NOTE

st1.   To present and consider the Bank's Audited Accounts for the financial year ended 31  December, 2022, the Reports of the     Directors, Auditors and Audit Committee thereon.2.   To declare a final dividend.3.  To approve the appointment of the following Directors꞉  (a.)  Dr. Peter Olatunde Bamkole as Independent Non‑Executive Director  (b.)  Mr. Chuks Emma Okoh as Non‑Executive Director  (c.)  Mrs. Adobi Stella Nwapa as Executive Director  (d.)  Mr. Anthony Akindele Ogunranti as Executive Director
4.   To re‑elect the following Directors who retire by rotation at this meeting  (I)  Dr. Omobola Ibidapo‑Obe Ogunfowora  (ii)  Mr.  Gabriel Ukpeh  (iii)  Dr. Temitope Fasoranti 
5.   To authorize the Directors to fix the remuneration of the Auditors.
6.   To disclose the remuneration of Managers of the bank.
7.   To elect members of the Audit Committee.
8.   That Dr. Al‑Mujtaba Abubakar, MON, who has attained the age of 70 years since the last general meeting be re‑elected as an Independent Non‑Executive Director of the bank.
9.  To consider and if thought fit, to pass the following as ordinary resolution꞉  “That the remuneration of the Directors of the Bank for the year ending December 31, 2023 be and is hereby fixed at N30 million only” for each Director.





ENVIRONMENTALSOCIALGOVERNANCE

00000000